‘Right. Okay. Take Bright Tea first if you feel you can make allies there. If you feel you can’t make allies, take the inquiry first.’ Silverite sent, ‘Do you feel you could make allies among the adamantium? Because that’s who you’re going to be meeting. Them and the steels and a few others.’

‘I met with a Gemslicer by the name of Awir and we spoke of me adding ‘solving the Black Curse’ to my Worldly Path, since I’m already headed after a Wizard anyway.’ Erick sent, ‘I’d need to find out more about how Wizards rid dragons of their Blood Curse, though. I feel that those two Curses might be variations on a similar base, though I don’t know enough to be sure about that right now.’

Silverite was silent for a moment, then she sent, ‘Take Bright Tea first. Don’t spend more than 12 hours there. Don’t promise them the sun. Do be pleasant and smart. Do dress well, but nothing more than how you usually try to dress well. Excuse yourself for various mortal needs every two hours. Listen more than you speak and be humble even about your largest accomplishments— Follow King Alfonin’s lead— Ah.’ Silverite sent, ‘You can deal with these kinds of people so I’m not sure why I’m giving you this advice, but… Just be careful, Erick. And don’t promise them the sun! Don’t do that. And don’t come back to Spur until you’re done with your Worldly Path.’

Erick smiled. ‘Good luck with whatever is happening there; Poi still won’t tell me.’

‘I pray that you never know what is happening here until it is long over and we have saved ourselves.’ Silverite signed off, sending, ‘Safe travels.’

Erick turned back to Poi, sending, ‘I’ll talk to you later then? Unless other people are able to talk now? Is Jane there?’

‘Jane is… indisposed at the moment. Teressa is free. She’s standing right beside me wondering if you need someone— I’ll just let her tell you.’

Teressa’s voice came through loud and clear, ‘You need a bodyguard down there, Boss?’

Erick smiled wide at the obvious warmth flowing through the connection. ‘I’m okay, Teressa. Nothing to get too worried about. Oh! Got any stories about the wrought of Stratagold? You’ve probably heard of Sitnakov, haven’t you? I had to fight him and we came to a draw, but I’ll likely end up seeing him again sometime soon.’

Teressa strongly sent, ‘SITNAKOV! You’re meeting the Adamantium Wind himself?!’

‘Ah! See? If his name does this to someone in the know, then it’s no wonder he was pissed I had no idea who he was.’

Teressa just started laughing and laughing. Eventually, though, she started talking, telling a story of when Sitnakov eradicated a kingdom of soul eaters in the Wyrmrest mountains, north of the land now called the Wasteland Kingdoms. Of the entire book collection of Sitnakov Stratagold’s Stories of Soldiering and Slaying, which has been in reprint for 700 years. Of how he always joined the hunt when a great-wyrm was found, which was apparently a type of wyrm that was level 99 and held the power of an Ancient, but each one was different—

‘The last great-wyrm had to be 50 or so years ago.’ Teressa sent, ‘It was a Sand-Sky Wyrm which threatened all the sky giant lands as well as every city of the Crystal Forest. Truly massive thing. I don’t think Sitnakov has been very active since then… Yeah. He hasn’t been. Before my time, really, but my—’ A soft sadness came through, as she sent, ‘My mother loved his books— Oh. Shit. Uh. I gotta— It was nice talking!’ Her voice cut out…

‘Uh.’ Erick sent, ‘Is she okay?’

Poi’s came right in, ‘I think… Yeah, she got a vision. She’s talking to other people to make sure— I have to go, too— Wait. Kiri wants to talk.’

‘Oh good! I wanted to talk to her, too—’

Kiri’s voice came in, ‘Hey, Erick. I have to make this quick. I miss you and this would be a lot easier with you here, but I guess that’s not happening for a while yet. So I want permission to use the crown you made.’

‘That thing is still enchanted? The duration on [Luminous Trap] should have failed long ago.’

‘It did fail. The thing became unenchanted a while ago, but I have [Luminous Trap] and I could use the extra Stats, so I want your permission to take the base crown and recast the enchantments upon it.’

‘Sure. But also, you should learn how to make [Crystallize Diamond]. It’s a base spell. Didn’t I teach you that one?’

‘I’ve been trying to make the base spell but so far that has proven outside of my current capabilities, so I went with the third-tier variation and have failed five times now; 50 days of waiting, and I still haven’t gotten it right.’ Kiri’s voice was pained, but she tried to hide that pain.

‘I’m really sorry I haven’t been there. I did not expect this Worldly Path to take this long, but knowing what I know now, it might take even longer.’ Erick sent, ‘Go ahead and take that crown and make it your own. Good luck protecting Spur. It’s a big responsibility.’

Relief flowed through as Kiri sent, ‘Thank you, Erick. Yes. It’s a responsibility, but I can do this. Good luck with the Worldly Path.’

‘Good luck protecting Spur!’

Kiri sighed and laughed at the same time, sounding a lot better than she had at the beginning, then their connection dimmed, and cut.

Poi sent, ‘I have to go, Sir. Good luck with Stratagold.’

‘Good luck with your problems, too.’

The connection fully cut.

Erick sat upon his chair on Yggdrasil’s branches, staring out at the green canopy and the glowing white bark for a moment longer…

He had a few things to do before he pressed on, to Oceanside. One, was clearing out his aura for more precise aura work, and to Remake all the basic boosting Skills. Another was, now that he had Perfected Body from his protean species, he needed to create a high variable-cost-variable-absorption [Bloody Personal Ward]. Perfected Body was supposed to make one immune to all of the harmful aspects of Blood Magic, but Erick was definitely going to ask some actual immortals if that were a true thing that really worked like that, before he did it. Perhaps he could ask ‘for his daughter’s benefit’? It would be a true statement that would also apply to him, but other people didn’t need to know that. Maybe someone would try casting a Blood spell at him to test if he was asking for himself— Ah. He should just be wearing his [Sanguine Charm], anyway; that thing prevented all hostile Blood Magic and lasted 48 hours.

He cast that spell and affixed the red blood drop to his left wrist.

A trip to Archmage’s Rest would answer most of his questions about magic, and some of his still-developing questions about the release of magical knowledge into the rest of the world. While he was there he could fill out paperwork to become an ‘official’ Archmage, too—

Blast it. He should have asked Silverite about Archmage’s Rest.

Everything down here was too new.

Whatever. After Archmage’s Rest, Erick would prepare for the inquiry.

So…

Erick got up and decided to go ask around about ‘inquiry preparatory committees’, first. He’d stop by Tasar’s office, and begin his questioning there. Probably go with Tasar to Archmage’s Rest, too.

Yes.

This was a plan.

Erick hopped to it.
