“That’s the second time you used that phrase.” Tasar said, “I don’t understand.”

“The idea of ‘post scarcity’ is where the need for items is fulfilled, so people’s wants and actions and lives are filled with the pursuit of pleasure or intellect or something other than scrapping in the dirt for gold to pay for food, for example.”

Tasar thought for a second, unsure.

Erick added, “Giving [Duplicate] to everyone, for example, would transition society to post-scarcity.”

Tasar’s eyes went wide, and then she solidly said, “Oh, no. That would be a bad idea. Every time that [Duplicate] has gotten out into the wider world bad things have happened.”

“Well yes.” Erick said, “But that's an unequal distribution allowing for the exploitation of systems already in place, like one person making gold and crashing the local economy and then getting themselves and a lot of other people killed. I’m talking about, like, everyone who reaches level 75 gets [Duplicate]? Or maybe everyone who saves a hundred lives gets [Duplica— Ah. And I instantly realize that this would just incentivize rulers to cause wars, or whatever. Anyway. Imagine instead of Farmers, you had Duplicators— And I realize right now that this would cause Atunir to turn Dark again…” Erick asked, “Are the gods the reason we can’t have a post-scarcity society?”

Tasar took a moment to think, and then a moment longer to answer, unsure, “Why would we want to risk everything we already have to enact such a system?”

“Because new worlds aren’t going to have anything on them at all.”

Tasar stood a bit straighter, saying, “That is a very good point.” After a moment, she added, “One to think about.”

“I’ve thought about it a bit, but nothing too deep.” Erick said, “I suppose if [Duplicate] were handed out to every Mind Mage, or some other organization of honorable people, then that would be fine. Probably.”

Tasar eyed him. “Do you want to be in charge of such an organization?”

Her question was slightly barbed like many that came before, but only because she was worried. Worried over Erick’s goals, and his power, and his true desires. She believed him a highly competent liar, and he was gaining that skill, for sure, but Erick wasn’t lying about any of the important stuff.

Not much of the important stuff, anyway.

Erick answered with compassion, “I want to ensure that no village is ever razed by monsters or war. That every child gets an education. That the land is filled with life and people. That every single person can feel safe in the pursuit of their mundane or magical goals. That cities are safe from the predations of monsters or other evils, whether those evils are shaped like people or not. That the world is connected and that all good peoples can move freely and live freely, without overworrying about their lives or their livelihoods. Obviously I’ll never change reality itself, for monsters will always prowl around where there is magic, but I have a responsibility to use my power for the betterment of all, and so I will.” He added, “I don’t really care how these good things happen or the exact form it all takes in the end, but I know what I generally want out of life, and that is to make life better for everyone I meet.”

Tasar got a softness to her face and her shoulders that she didn’t have before. Her voice was quiet, as she said, “That’s quite a larger dream than my own.”

Erick asked, “So what do you do?”

“Logistics.” Tasar asked, “Would you like to see what I do? Or we could talk over dinner? When was the last time you ate?”

Had she really just asked that?

Erick semi-rapidly spoke, “Are you asking me out on a date?”

The second his words left his mouth he realized he had misinterpreted Tasar.

Tasar’s eyes went wide. “No! I mean…” She rapidly explained, “People need to eat so there is a culture of feeding the non-wrought we are with and generally making sure they’re comfortable— It’s rude to not take into consideration the needs of others and I know fleshy bodies need more than our metallic ones.” She added, “Not a date.”

Erick got over his own embarrassment as Tasar’s was more than enough for both of them. He smiled, and then his smile grew. “Okay. Yeah. Actually, I could eat. This is—'' He paused in remembrance of his first time talking to Anhelia, the front desk girl / information broker at the Mage’s Guild in Spur. “The very first time I spoke to a wrought looking for information, they took me to a place to eat and drink while we spoke.” Oh. “I accidentally flirted with her, too. Oh.”

Oh.

Tasar rapidly recovered from her rejection of embarrassment, giving a little sigh, and saying, “It was actually rude of me not to offer food before now, but we’ve been talking for several hours and it seemed like a good opportunity to ask if you were still comfortable. Wrought can talk with each other for weeks before we need breaks.”

Erick decided that teasing was the best policy. “What about poop breaks?”

Tasar leveled a glare at him, then pulled back, saying, “Those are accounted for.”

Erick laughed. “How!”

“The same way that I know you’re hungry; my mana sense tells me so.” With nonchalant grace, Tasar quietly announced, “I suspect you have at least 4 hours before you need to defecate, but I have been proven wrong before.”

Giggling loud, Erick said, “A [Rebound] of my own teasing! Okay okay! You win. Let’s go get something to eat— Wait a second.” A thought occurred. Erick looked to Tasar. “This means that Kromolok had [Duplicate]? He could have saved you on his own?”

“No one knows what Kromolok has. But he might.” Tasar said, “Kromolok had basically zero mana so he could not have saved both of us. We think that’s what the Darkness was trying to do; force a horrible decision upon him. Either through cannibalization of me to keep Sitnakov intact or the other way around or [Duplicate] of our bodies which… It's actually quite disgusting.”

Erick suddenly realized that he had offered Kromolok copies of his own metal, which was apparently disgusting. Well then. Just another thing to apologize for, apparently.

Tasar continued, “We didn’t even consider that we were interrupting your time with Rozeta until after the whole thing was done and we had time to talk in a calmer environment.”

“… Oh.” Erick said, “Okay.” And then Erick couldn’t help himself, asking, “What do wrought do for pooping? Is that a thing that happens? I didn’t even know wrought had organ-equivalents until I saw Kromolok reconstruct them.”

Tasar would have been blushing hard if she had fleshy skin instead of metal. “We certainly control it better than you types and I am very glad to know you cannot tell. Thank Rozeta you are not a Smith with Metal Sense.”

Erick smiled wide, laughing a little as he said, “Okay okay. Let’s go get some food and talk about nicer subjects.”

Tasar readily agreed, “Let’s.”

- - - -

In the world diner’s market, deep in the embassy, at a nice table in a nice restaurant which served all kinds of food, Erick sat across from Tasar. He had ordered fried chicken tenders and a salad and they would be arriving soon enough, while Tasar ordered the same for whatever reason; Erick didn’t pry much. It felt rude to speak of things like conspicuous consumption while other people sat in booths less than three meters away, listening in because they could not believe who had walked in and sat down beside them.

They were more or less in a private, public setting, so that framed the conversations that Erick chose to pursue. As the beer arrived, he restated the question that brought them here, “So what do you do? You said logistics, but what does that mean?”

Tasar nodded, then began, “In the Underworld, everything is either connected to someone or someplace else, which is connected in some way to a Geode, or some massive power on the Surface. There is no surviving down here on one’s own, though you do always hear stories about some elusive archmage or whomever carving a paradise out of the Dark and raising their own network of power out of the tunnels down here.

“Anyway. New places are popping up all the time, or people need to escape a collapse for any number of reasons. Monster surges or assassination or just general failures of a hundred different sorts can all lead to a bad end down here. What I’m getting at is people move around a lot.

“When everything is going right, usually those moves are to new areas where they need resources from other lands to make it in those new places. Usually what happens is that someone decides to break off from a city to found a new city, and they enlist Stratagold’s help, so we come in and make sure that their village or city can survive and that they have the tools to meet with others.

“Now where I come in, is if these people meet certain criteria to receive a Stratagold outpost, I help set up a t-station and get them connected to the local network. But that’s only a small portion of what I do.” Tasar said, “When I’m not working with Stratagold’s various independent city-states, I’m traveling and coordinating with Titanite, Navanaryst, Dimarald, or any of the other Geodes. A lot of coordination with Dimarald, actually. They produce much of the food down here, having a whole organization of archmages focused on that sort of thing.” She said, “But the average person never sees anything of what I do, since much of what I do is hidden behind treaties and other such high-security measures.”

Erick said, “I know barely anything about the Underworld. I’m still not sure why people want to actually live down here, but I suppose if there’s this much coordination… That explains a lot of it.”

“It’s quite easy to start a city in the Underworld. One of the absolute major reasons is that building and infrastructure down here is dead simple. Not like on the Surface where you need special materials to make anything over 20 stories.”

“… Oh. I hadn’t considered that.”

“Security is actually easier, too, since [Teleport] is so limited down here. Everything else is harder, though, but the Geodes are down here, so a lot of other people are down here, too.” Tasar said, “Anyway. Most people file the paperwork for a standard support package and then they receive the standard support package, but a lot of people aspire to get an inquiry, and if they can prove worthy of such support, then they get that support. We haven’t done anything on the Surface for the longest time because… Well. The Shades were only part of the problem. Too many wrought were getting assassinated for their metal bodies.” She shook her head, saying, “The Golds won’t even show themselves outside of the Geodes anymore, and we’re all poorer for it.”

The waiter brought their food.

Erick stuck his fork into the chopped, fried chicken, saying, “I didn’t even know there were golds. But… I imagine that with the Headmaster using [Duplicate] to make gold an actual currency instead of just metal that you can pull out of the ground… Did that make the problem better, or worse?”

“Ohh. Now that’s a question.” Tasar said, “The history of using [Duplicate] to ensure that the economy works is a deep dive into logistics. Are you sure you want to talk about that?”

Tasar looked very ready to talk about economies.

Erick decided that he would take that deep dive. “I know how we used paper money back home to make our economy work, but I would very much like a deep dive into how Veird’s economy works. Back home we had ten thousand different currencies, but only a few large ones, but here there’s this gold standard and [Teleport] can move people around for the best prices rather well— On the Surface, anyway. Down here I can understand price differences, but, like, one thing I noticed was that prices in Songli were better than prices in Spur. Was that because of Spur’s adventurers constantly harvesting rads from monsters, driving up local prices?”

With an infectious smile and much enthusiasm, Tasar began, “Now the reason for what you saw was manifold. First, Spur is a lot smaller than Songli, and comparatively everyone in Spur is rich compared to everywhere else for a thousand different reasons but adventuring most of all. Also people are lazy so some markets can inflate like that, but the Mage Bank works to ensure that prices are rather similar across the world through the actions of taking rads out of the economy in exchange for gold, and…”

Erick ate, drank, and listened while Tasar spoke her joy, talking about market forces and economics and trade between nations. He asked questions and Tasar happily answered, going off on tangents which led to her asking Erick questions about the economies of Earth. He gave half-realized answers, excusing himself for his limited knowledge in that area because it just wasn’t something he had to be concerned with until now. Tasar accepted his excuse but kept asking questions about the movement of people on Earth, so Erick spoke of planes and trains and trucks—

“And the cargo ships.” Erick said, “Great big ships 300 meters from stem to stern, carrying 4500 shipping containers each, as they motored across the world connecting everyone to everyone else. The whole world was connected by cargo ships; they formed the backbone of world trade, for Earth was very much a global economy.”

“You’ve used that word a few times, ‘shipping containers’.” Tasar asked, “What are they?”

“Oh! Those might be useful here.” Erick said, “Some guy a hundred or so years ago came up with the bright idea for uniform shipping containers that everyone used. Each one was basically three meters wide, three meters tall, and a little over 6 meters long. Practically all major shipping on Earth is standardized to that size, with every dock having machines that work in that size and strength. The shipping containers can even be put directly onto a train or truck and moved out to where they have to go, so no one in the intermediate steps has to deal with loading or unloading cargo, leading to a lot more security, and the major shipping is easier for everyone. Small items are still moved normally at the last mile, like always; either by hand or by smaller delivery trucks. But the middle is standardized for everyone. Makes everything much smoother than tying down individual boxes on a sailing ship, like I’ve seen the people at Portal do with their ships.”

Tasar sat stunned. And then she softly said, “That’s a good idea.”

Erick smiled. “Feel free to steal it.”

Tasar laughed, then said, “No. You’ll get credit.”

