Sitting cross legged on the beach, with his hands on his knees and his eyes focused on the waters before him, Erick’s aura wafted from his skin like a clinging, glowing mist. He flexed that mist, churning a small portion of it to clarity around his left shoulder, like pulling back a curtain of light, leaving thick air behind. Another twist flowed mana into that clarity, manually forming a well known spell.

A normal [Force Bolt] silently shot from his shoulder, impacting into the illuminated waters of Yggdrasil’s lake and sending a small splash into the air. And then Erick did it again. Sweat gathered on his brow as it had many times for the last two hours; his clothes were already soaked. He breathed deep. Then he moved on to clear several more spots of his aura, all at once, turning light to thick air, and then into Bolts which flickered out to slam harmlessly into the water. Normal Bolt, normal Bolt, normal Bolt. Sweat dripped. And Erick fucked up. The eleventh Bolt was brighter than the first ten, while the twelfth and thirteenth Bolt were made of Light; not Force. He had allowed his aura to cloud over with light again.

Erick sighed and relaxed. His light aura vanished.

Tasar, standing to the side, said, “That’s… a rather fast improvement for someone with your level of aura contamination.”

“I can cast ten thousand Bolts at once with [Greater Lightwalk].” Erick said, “This is a downgrade.”

“Aura control will always be a downgrade from Elemental Body spellwork. Aura control is never about power, anyway. It’s about clarity and understanding, which will allow you to go further with normal Script tier work.”

Erick asked, “You have Healing Magic? Yeah?”

Tasar side-eyed him. “… I am afraid to say yes.”

“Ophiel can handle it, then.” Erick nodded to his [Familiar] then bega—

“Wait. Wait.” Tasar said, “I got it. What are you going to do?”

“An adjustment of light all the way into Force. I might end up with Force erupting from my skin, but probably not since I’m not putting any mana into the working.”

Tasar nodded, once.

And then Erick flicked his aura on and held a hand up and began channeling mana through [Force Bolt]. With his other hand, he channeled through Mana Altering, listening for Force. He already knew what Force sounded and felt like, for Force was a neutral sound of solidness and clarity, but he was just making sure. Closing his hands, cutting off the channel, Erick hummed the Force he heard, starting the noise in his throat. He had never attempted this with his [Greater Lightwalk], and he had never had the idea to try this, either, but it should work with his Light-contaminated aura. Maybe.

Erick moved the sound of Force into his aura—

Waves of Force rippled out from his chest, shattering the light of his aura into curling, thick air as barely-there Force, like wild snakes, pushed away from every part of him, sending Ophiel into the air with a squawk. His clothes rippled like tendrils were reaching out from every part of his skin. Sand pushed away, scattering like he was a child throwing dirt—

Erick dropped a decimeter into the sandy beach and cut off his aura. His small crater slumped back onto him, but he pulled himself out of the dirt easily enough, scattering more sand as he brushed himself, saying, “The aura was clear, right?”

Tasar looked at him, concerned. “Yes. But the Light will come back, and transitioning to an aura of Force isn’t good, either. You have to go neutral, of which Force is merely a step in the right direction. But... Now that I realize that you can do this, I feel that you could probably transition through all the various Elements rapidly enough to understand what a ‘neutral’ aura would feel like. Fire and Stone might be dangerous, but no more so than Lightning or Magma.”

“… I don’t think I need to go through all of the Secondary Elements, too.”

“You might. If you have a better Familiar Form that can handle all of the oddities of this method then I suggest you use that form. We have steel slimes if you want one. They might prove useful for this methodology.”

Erick actually was interested, but not for the idea of taking in another slime form. “Steel, or platinum?”

“… Steel,” Tasar said, but she was unsure.

Erick suddenly had to ask, “Why are steel and platinum the same thing? They’re very much not the same thing at all. Steel can rust, for one. Platinum doesn’t rust at all. Why use the same Ancient Script word for both?”

“Ah. That’s what you mean.” Tasar relaxed a little. “It was a translation error in the creation of Ancient Script that other languages like Ecks don’t have. Once you go looking for small stuff like that you’ll see them everywhere. Like…” She switched to Ecks, saying, “There’s only two words for ‘blue’ in Ancient Script; Willpower-blue and Focus-blue. If I wanted to name a color between those I would have to qualify them with other directional variations that come off of the color wheel theory of mana.

“Remember when Riivo spoke of [Rebound] being taken out of Mana Altering and put on its own? That happened rather recently when it came to colors. There weren’t Ancient Script words for any of the colors made by the New Stats, until the Dark God made those colors and threw those runes into the Script.” She began interspersing her language with Ancient Script words that Erick had never heard before. “Now we have <Constitution> which is the same as saying ‘sunshine yellow’, but there is a color for that already in the Script, and we used to say <stone> but in a yellow sort of way. It’s a contextual language.” Tasar added, “You probably didn’t even notice since you used [Language Acquisition] and no one pays attention to the way language actually works, but the same thing is true for platinum and steel. They’re the same word in Ancient Script, but the one that turns to rust becomes <decay steel> while platinum remains <steel>.”

Erick realized a lot in that little bit of explanation.

After a moment, he said, “I didn’t think that the problem with Ancient Script was this intractable. I suppose that’s why it rhymes so well. The downside is that it’s a dead language.”

“I wouldn’t call it dead.” Tasar shrugged, saying, “But, yes. Growth and change are for other languages; not for the solid stone upon which all other things are built.”

Erick had another thought. “How is <Constitution> being received by your people? Do people use that word to refer to <yellow>?”

“Not at all.” Tasar frowned a little. “If you knew anything at all about wrought society you would not be asking a question like that. Would you like to talk about what to expect during Bright Tea when standing before the King, or what to expect in the inquiry?”

Erick decided, “If I’m going to be taking Bright Tea inside the city could we go inside the city? Before those things happen? I’d like to see it with my own eyes. I’m ready to go now.”

Tasar blinked a little. “Sure. We can absolutely do that. But right now? I would have thought you would have wanted to talk about [Gate] or any number of other topics before moving on.” Tasar softly said, “You can go slower, Erick. There’s time.”

Erick tried not to let his stress enter his voice too much, but it surely did as he said, “There’s no time to go slow, Tasar.”

“… Okay. Then I will be less polite about my words, and tell you that you must go slower, for moving this fast is incredibly rude to the vast majority of wrought society.” Tasar said, “We move on time tables of years, with disturbances to our daily routines taken as great affront.”

Erick frowned a little, then said, “Okay. I can understand that. Then… Tell me about Stratagold, first. Gate can wait.”

Tasar nodded, then she breathed deep, and began explaining, “Inside Stratagold you will see multiple types of areas and you’ll have no idea where you are unless you live there, or have lived there, and so I will escort you through so you don’t absolutely offend someone and ruin their day, or yours. I won’t have an international incident on my hands, please. A routine breaker is something that you must not become, understand?” She paused, looking to see that Erick understood. He did, though if he was being honest, he did not. He was already very much a ‘routine breaker’, though Tasar said the word like she was calling someone a ‘bastard’ or a ‘fucker’, so Tasar’s use of the word meant something more specific. Tasar continued, “The Geodes are lands where time stands still for a lot of people, and they like it that way. They walk certain paths every day and take pride in reading the same book for the last hundred years and...”

- - - -

Erick stepped away from the t-station into a land of light and crystal. For a brief moment he was back in Ar’Kendrithyst, stepping through the Crack the first time to see the lands beyond, for Stratagold was exactly like that, but with a different color scheme.

Spires of gold crystal with white striations rose up from indeterminable depths of light and wind to plunge into the sky of the same. Clouds flowed through some of those far away spaces, like mist carved up by the crystals, obscuring much of the further lands in soft white shadows. The spires themselves were dozens, or hundreds of meters wide, and shot through with housing and green spaces and all sorts of normal, everyday mainstreet-like areas of shops and houses. Roads of crystal connected every spire to every other spire. And as above, so it was below; Like stacked civilizations, everyone lived above someone, and below someone else.

And the people! So many people.

Mostly— No. Entirely copper people, now that Erick understood what he was seeing. Tasar had told him this was a copper neighborhood, after all. To be specific, it was ‘Copper Human Neighborhood 156’. The lands above were ‘Copper Human Neighborhood 157’, while down below was 155.

The burnished bright orange-gold coppers were the young ones, and they were in the minority, for at least 90% of people were some shade of green, with some people so aged they were almost the color of the Statue of Liberty; white green. Browns, like aged yet not-old copper, were almost as rare as the young ones. They were all technically immortal, but only a few people actually made it to ‘adulthood’, which Tasar had explained was 100. She had also explained that when a new wrought came into being they were both physically and mentally adults, but those young ones were not allowed out of special protection areas. Tasar hadn’t gotten into the breeding habits of wrought, though, and Erick hadn’t asked. He still wasn’t sure if wrought were like [Familiar]s turned real, or if there was sexual reproduction, but based on the fact that Tasar was both adamantium and copper, he guessed that there was some sex going on somewhere. That was just speculation, though.

Erick had left most of his Ophiel behind at the t-station back by Yggdrasil, ready to blip into this particular t-station the second they were needed. They didn’t seem to be needed, though he did keep one Ophiel on one shoulder, while Yggdrasil’s eye was on his other side.

Nothing bad had happened and nothing bad looked to happen.

Tasar had been on the level when she explained what would happen on the other side of the t-station transport.

And now, after noticing no subterfuge, Erick took full stock of his situation. Tasar had taken him and Ophiel to a t-station in her old neighborhood to show him how most Geode wrought lived, because some of what she had said was just too hard to believe. Tasar now stood beside Erick, gauging his reaction.

The t-station was positioned in a very out-of-the-way location, upon what looked to be an addition to the side of a small footbridge between two towers. Erick gestured to the nonuniform crystal where the t-station rested, and the uniform crystal of the path, asking, “You had to put an addition up to put this t-station here?”

“Correct. We could not disturb the routine.” Tasar said, “And this particular footpath isn’t used by anyone at this time of day, so we’re good with staying here to watch, for a while.” She rapidly began, “Now remember: don’t engage with anyone. Observe if you want, but don’t engage them first. Us talking here doesn’t matter, but actual approach and disruption does. The young coppers might come up to find out what we’re doing and that’s fine; you can talk to them like you would anyone else. But do not engage the old coppers. Do not stand in their way. Do not touch anything or move anything, and if you have to move something then move it back afterward. Mostly, everyone here should glance your way and do nothing. If they do engage, then be polite and try to end the conversation as soon as you can, unless you want to be culturally obligated to be stuck having the same conversation for all time.” She stared at him, saying, “And be polite. You are disrupting their lives just by being here and that is unkind. But you have ample reason for disrupting them…” She pulled back, saying, “We already had this talk... I am just worried. This right here is a rarity. But it’s… It’s a rarity that needs to happen.”

Erick simply nodded; they had spoken at length about what to expect, and Erick had already asked all the important questions he could think to ask. ‘Are wrought robots?’ was his major question, to which an explanation of robots was necessary, along with an explanation of the limits of computer language, before Tasar could finally answer that, ‘No, we’re not robots. We have souls and grow, but we grow deeper, like an indelible mark on reality; not like a tree, growing taller. Security and strength over expansion and absorption.’

Back in the present, Tasar repeated her major warning, “Geode wrought like their routine and overly disturbing that routine is a horrible offense. You might get a raging wrought trying to kill you if you disturb them too much, so don’t do that.”

“Right.” Erick looked outward, at the clean, efficient city. The spires of golden crystal were rather thick, filling up half of all space, but there was plenty of space to step into the air and avoid accidentally disturbing any routines. He turned to Tasar. “And no lightstepping?”

“Correct.” Tasar said, “One Ophiel on your shoulder is probably okay. Yggdrasil’s eye…” She frowned. She dropped the subject.

