“His house I think,” said Alden. “It was a quick invitation. Not a lot of details. There will be a terackerin.”

“What’s that?” asked Lexi.

“People can ride it. You should look it up.”

“I want to go to Esh-erdi’s house!” said Haoyu. “He knows me at least as well as Lute.”

“You owe us souvenirs,” said Lute.

“Lexi wants souvenirs, too,” said Haoyu.

“Lexi is fine,” said Lexi, heading toward his room. “Good night, you three.”

But he paused before he reached his door and turned back. “I didn’t say anything earlier because it was such a big day for your powers and Ignacio’s, but…I got a level-up message from the System this afternoon. It’s one of the common single level messages. A ‘choose a little something’ one, so the options aren’t anything spectacular, but I’ll probably spend all weekend staring at them and thinking. Maybe call some people for adv— ”

Haoyu crashed into him with a happy roar.

“No,” said Lexi, as his feet left the floor.

“You can’t keep your first level-up quiet! You can’t keep any level-up quiet.” Haoyu was bouncing him around.

“Congratulations,” said Lute. “I hope your Mind Writher grows longer.”

“That’s an option, but not for right now,” said Lexi. “Haoyu, why am I in the air?”

“We need to call your mom and dad!”

“I already told them. I’ll tell Kon tomorrow.”

“Let’s tell him now! We need to stay up all night picking your new talents!”

“I thought I’d at least try to sleep.”

“Social dynamic, Alden Thorn!” said Haoyu. “You can’t just stand there staring at Lexi when he tells you he leveled up! You have to pick him up like this and shake him and ask him why he didn’t tell us as soon as it happened! We could’ve all celebrated! Wanting to hide in your room after telling us is wrong.”

Lexi, Lute, and Haoyu all glanced at Alden.

I am just standing here, aren’t I?

“Congrats, Lexi!” he said quickly. “You should’ve told us earlier. You’ve been so dedicated that it’s no surprise. But this is great.”

“You don’t need to pick me up or shake me,” said Lexi, ducking so that his head didn’t hit the ceiling.

“But Haoyu said it was a social dynamic. I want to fit in.”

They paraded up and down the hall with Lexi for another minute or so. He looked pleased even while he was complaining.

******

“We’re young,” Alden said softly to Victor, who was padding around the edges of the room while he got ready for bed. “This is when we’re supposed to grow faster. A few levels a year while we’re in high school will make Lexi satisfied with his progress. So we’re all happy for him. Affixation isn’t scary.”

Stuart will make it. We’ll walk the same path. I’ll be lucky enough to have a very bad year catching up to him. And on the other side of those affixations, there will be something profound I can never lose.

He draped his sweatpants over the back of the chair.

I want what I imagine that’s like.

I even want the power, as long as I’m allowed to use it to protect what I love.

That’s wanting a lot. More than I’ve ever wanted before. Now that I’ve decided on the path of highest onus and reactivated the part of me that dreams, I’m afraid it’s getting out of hand.

If he could snap his fingers and build the perfect home, he’d have Stuart, everyone he cared about from Chicago, and all his new Anesidoran friends together under one roof. They’d celebrate Lexi’s new level, and he’d talk to some knights and Mother for advice. They’d eat meat petal. Esh-erdi or Lind-otta would offer to teach a spell, and Alden would put his learning cushion between Kibby’s and Stuart’s for the lesson.

There wouldn’t be chaos, if it was really perfect. I’d have so much time to just learn everything about magic and be with people I like.

Did some knights imagine the end of chaos? In a serious way, like it was an achievable goal they might live to see? The Primary was moving to take back a lost place, but how many places had to be taken back for them to really win instead of holding the error that was eating the universe at bay?

Does one more knight trying to join them make a difference at all?

I want it to.

“If only wishing really was having, right?”

He looked at his candle. He held his hands over it. The gesture that represented the felling of a small tree. A snap.

It sparked and lit.

That’s a long way from ending chaos throughout the universe. I’m not sure someone who just learned to abbreviate a kid-level spell is even allowed to fantasize about being a part of something that massive.

He let himself do it anyway.

******
