Solsburn kicked at the swords lying near his feet, sending them clattering. "I teach a swordsmanship class," he said. "You abandoned the swords."

"Swords are a terrible weapon to fight any of these monsters with!" Cale protested. "Except maybe the lesser wyrm, but then Leo wouldn't be forced to use magic, and the class is Sword and Sorcery."

Solsburn narrowed his eyes at Cale, as if not expecting to be called out. Then he grunted again. "Yes," he agreed. "So you pass. For now."

"For now?" Cale blinked. Solsburn simply pointed down the corridor that Syphus had rolled ahead on earlier. "Oh. I mean, it wants to test making spell cannons, which it shouldn't be doing anywhere near us."

"Agreed," Solsburn said. "So you pass. As long as the golem is unharmed."

"You know what, that's fair," Cale said. He was pretty sure Syphus would be fine; it wasn't like Sisyphus would allow his only contact with the outside world to get hurt. But he couldn't outright say that; he was pretty sure that the Named was keeping his presence mostly a secret.

Instead, he changed the subject. "So," he said. "Did you seriously follow us into the labyrinth just so you could do your test thing? I thought you professors were done making me prove myself."

Solsburn grunted. "Promised I would."

"Ah," Cale said knowingly. "And you're the type that never breaks a promise."

Solsburn leveled him with an unreadable stare. "And you are students. It would be dangerous alone."

"You've seen the rest of my classes," Cale said. "Danger's not that much of a problem for me. Besides, what about the rest of your class?"

Solsburn shrugged impassively. "They can wait. Patience is an important tenet of the sword."

"Is it, or did you just make that up?" Cale asked, eyeing Solsburn, who didn't respond. He paused contemplatively. "You know what, I think I like you. You have very simple priorities. Want to go out sometime?"

"Cale!" Leo said, sounding horrified.

Solsburn, on the other hand, still didn't react with much of anything; instead, he simply tilted his head slightly. "I have other priorities. But if you wish to hunt. You may call on me."

"Great!" Honestly, Cale mostly just wanted to get any kind of reaction out of the guy. That... sort of qualified? He wasn't really sure if he'd succeeded, actually. What did hunting even mean in his culture? "I'll keep that in mind."

"What the fuck just happened," Leo said, pressing a hand against his face.

Cale turned to look at him. "Are you asking about the flirting, or the weird clown thing running away from us?"

"Both!"

"Oh," Cale said. He grinned. "In that case, I have no idea. Isn't that just grand?"
