That settled it. Erin Solstice was no ordinary human, any more than Ryoka was. Ceria glanced over at the other girl. Ryoka was as tight-mouthed as a clam, and twice as tough to crack open, but Erin was far more easygoing and open. She was smiling as she gently patted the flowers into the soil.
“Erin. You um, don’t seem like you’re too normal.”
The girl paused, and frowned at Ceria.
“Thanks? Or wait, is that an insult?”
Ceria laughed and stood up from her pot, dusting off her hands.
“Hardly. You’re unlike any Human I’ve ever met, and I’ve met a few. You and Ryoka are completely unique though; where do the two of you hail from?”
The half-Elf moved to sit at a table as Erin frowned at her pot. The girl replied absently.
“Oh, I come from another world. Ryoka does too.”
Ceria kept walking and then tripped over the chair she’d been going to sit on. She crashed to the ground face-first, breaking her fall with both hands.
“Ceria!”
Erin dropped the flower she was holding, but Ceria was on her feet in an instant. The half-Elf gaped at Erin.
“You what? Wait, you and Ryoka?”
The girl looked panicked.
“Didn’t I say? I thought I told you! Wait—I told Krshia and Klbkch but—I thought Ryoka told you!”
She clapped a hand to her head.
“Oh no. Ryoka’s going to be so mad at me!”
 
—-
 
Ceria sat in a chair and let her head spin for a while. Erin hovered around her anxiously.
“I mean, it isn’t that big a deal, right? There’s no way back—not that I know of, and Ryoka and I don’t know anything special. I think. I mean, technology is really different where I come from, but I can’t build anything like Ryoka’s iPhone.”
“I can’t believe it. I just—”
The half-Elf broke off, shaking her head. The trouble was, she could believe it. It would be far easier to call Erin crazy, but it made sense, especially with everything Ceria had observed about Ryoka.
No wonder the other girl was so cagey. And here was Erin, as oblivious of the dangers as an owl on a summer’s day. Ceria sighed. Someone had to protect the girl. It should probably be her.
“I guess we’ve got more to talk about.”
“I guess. But we’ve got a lot to talk about anyways, right? Like these flowers—and those new skills I’ve got!”
“The skills. Right.”
At this point, the skills were one of the last things on Ceria’s mind, but the half-Elf reluctantly focused on Erin.
“Obviously the [Wondrous Fare] skill has to do with you making food for the faeries. I’m not sure about [Inn’s Aura], but it might just make your inn more attractive or something.”
“Ooh, that could be helpful. But what about [Wondrous Fare]? Does that mean I can make food only for faeries or that it’s somehow…magical?”
“Why don’t you try to make something and see what the skill does?”
“Right! Right…”
Erin nodded a few times and disappeared into the kitchen. Ceria sighed, and Erin poked her head back out.
“Wait one second. I’ll make you some crepes, and then we can talk okay? Magical crepes.”
Ceria nodded weakly. She had no idea what a crepe was, but she prayed it would take Erin some time. Her head still hurt.
And then the door opened and Ceria’s headache doubled. Pisces walked in. She knew it was him because she couldn’t see anything, yet she heard the footsteps.
“Pisces. Don’t tell me you’ve gotten in trouble with the Watch again?”
“Hardly. I’m just here to avoid unwanted attention.”
Pisces reappeared in an instant, and Ceria sighed. This was not a good time for him to show up…which was why she should have expected him.
Somehow he could always pop up at the worst possible moment. She was only glad he hadn’t heard Erin’s accidental admission. Ceria would be the first to admit Pisces wasn’t evil so much as annoying, but he had a habit of causing trouble. If he learned about where Erin was from—
“What interesting flowers. Are they magical?”
Trust Pisces to focus on the magic in the room first. Ceria sighed.
“Take your hands away from those. If you steal one, Erin will hurt you. They’re a gift from the Winter Sprites.”
Pisces immediately snatched his hand away and backed up.
“Those things? I thought even Miss Erin would know to leave them well alone.”
“Well, she didn’t, and they paid her in flowers.”
“Ah. Well, perhaps I will just have something to eat. Is that food I smell?”
Ceria closed her eyes as Pisces strode into the kitchen. She heard a shout, and the mage hurried back out.
“Go away! I’m cooking! And Ceria, these crepes don’t feel magical!”
“Perhaps I should try one to be s—”
Pisces ducked as a ladle flew out of the kitchen. He sniffed loudly.
“That was dangerous. I am a customer.”
“Not paying!”
“Must you hold that against me? Well, soon enough I will have sufficient funds to pay for my meals. I have enrolled in the Adventurer’s Guild.”
That made Ceria sit up in her seat. Pisces, an adventurer? It was almost as much of a surprise as Erin’s admission. She eyed him. He must have been very hungry to be so desperate.
“You can’t be serious. You’ll die on your first mission.”
He sneered at her.
“If you can do it, Springwalker, I see no reason why I can’t do the same. Of course, with my undead I will be able to accomplish much even by myself. Unless you’d care to join my party…?”
“Fat chance. And stop stealing food or Erin will hurt you. And if she doesn’t do it, I will.”
Pisces was pointing a finger into the kitchen, and Ceria knew he was using a minor levitation spell. He scowled, and Erin yelped as the crepe he’d been levitating dropped back down.
“Pisces!”
He raised his hands as the girl stormed out.
“Oh—should I mention this?—there appears to be a girl freezing to death in the snow a few miles north of here. I thought you might be interested.”
“What?”
Erin stared at him as Pisces explained. Ceria narrowed her eyes at her…acquaintance. Friend was far too strong a word.
“How do you know that? And why are you telling Erin? I’d have thought you’d want the girl to die.”
“I would, but Selys insisted I tell Erin. She believes Erin will rescue the girl.”
“Well—of course! She’s out there with no coat? How could they do that?”
Erin stared at Pisces and then rushed into the kitchen. Ceria heard scraping, and then Erin stormed out of the kitchen with a plate of crepes in hand. She shoved it on the table and turned to Ceria.
“I’ve got to go! I’ll be back in a little bit Ceria.”
“What? Erin, listen. That girl is a thief. She was exiled from Liscor for a reason. You can’t just—”
Erin stared at Ceria. There was something disconcerting about the young woman’s gaze. She was normally so amiable, but now her stare was serious and unwavering.
“No one deserves to die in the cold. No one.”
She turned.
“Toren! Where is he? Nevermind—”
She ran back into the kitchen and reemerged with a coat. Then Erin dashed out the door.
Pisces watched her go and shook his head.
“Too kind by far, that girl. For a child from another world, she is rather careless.”
Ceria stared at Pisces. He smirked at her, and then frowned when he realized she wasn’t taken aback.
“Ah. You know.”
“How do you know?”
“A certain conversation on that device of Ryoka Griffin’s. It was troublesome to copy the [Message] spell as I recreated it, but…”
Pisces shrugged. Ceria remembered him bragging about that bit of magic as they’d exited the ruins. She narrowed her eyes.
“And now you’ve just sent that girl off to rescue a dangerous thief.”
“Not dangerous so much as annoying at this point, I believe. Her magical items are gone.”
Ceria stood up, sighing. She walked over to Pisces and smacked him with her skeletal hand. He yelped as she glared at him.
“Idiot.”
“Come with me. Once we go and make sure Erin doesn’t get mobbed by those damn Gnolls and Drakes, we’ll talk. About you being an adventurer as much as anything else. I’m reforming the Horns of Hammerad.”
Both his eyebrows shot up. He looked at her skeletal hand, and then blinked twice when he realized it had been the one to strike him.
“Well. That is a new development. But you have no wand. And unlike me, you don’t have any Skills in that area.”
Ceria smiled grimly, and raised her skeletal hand.
“Oh, I can do magic. And Yvlon is—well, she’s got scars but she’s still got both arms. And so do I.”
She concentrated, and an [Ice Spike] formed in the air, hovering above her skeletal hand, ready to launch. Pisces’ mouth fell open slightly, and then he regained his composure. He smiled at Ceria, for once genuine, reminding her of the young man she’d studied with back in Wistram.
“Ah. How intriguing.”
 
—-
 
Someone knocked on a door. Someone else opened it. It was an ordinary scene, except that it was Val knocking on Magnolia’s door, and it was a maid who came to open the expensive double doors and lead him inside the vast mansion that was her home within the city of adventurers, Invrisil.
But Val was used to the routine, and so he charmed the maid as she put him in a large waiting room and went to summon the lady of the manor. Magnolia was unique in that way; normally a senior maid or butler would handle Val, but he knew Lady Magnolia talked to all Runners, not just Couriers when accepting their deliveries.
And this one was special. Val had been puzzling over it the entire way north and he was wondering what Lady Magnolia would make of it.
He didn’t have long to wonder. Lady Magnolia, the deadly flower blooming in the north and scion of the Reinhart house swept into the room, charming Val before he could charm her.
“My word, is it Valceif? I haven’t seen you in—why it must be two months at least! Please, sit, sit.”
Val did so, watching as Magnolia sat herself in the rich little room, and her maids joined her. Well, only one maid today. Ressa, the head maid inclined her head at Val and he nodded back respectfully. It had taken a lot of work to get on the prickly maid’s good side, but then, he’d tried to conduct himself as respectfully as possible in Lady Magnolia’s house.
For good reason. No one made an enemy of the Reinharts and didn’t pay for it in some way. For one thing, Magnolia was a far better friend than enemy.
And Val liked her. So he smiled as he reached for his belt and brought out a folded letter and proffered it to her.
“I have a delivery for you, as you might imagine, Lady Magnolia.”
“Really? A delivery? I hadn’t expected one—at least, not from you.”
“Well, it’s a favor for a friend. I’m told you know Ryoka Griffin—this letter is from her to you.”
The name didn’t even make Lady Magnolia blink, but Ressa’s reaction was more dramatic. The normally unflappable maid stirred slightly, and then Magnolia smiled.
“Now that is interesting. Pray, when did you last see Ryoka?”
Val shouldn’t have been surprised Magnolia knew Ryoka; he knew the local Runner’s Guilds loved to fulfill her requests and each Runner took turns doing the lucrative deliveries, but he was surprised at Ressa’s reaction. He smiled back, trying to be as open and honest as possible.
“A day ago. She was in an inn just outside of Liscor. She left in a big hurry, but she gave me this before she went.”
He offered her the letter, and Magnolia took it. Her eyes sparked with interest as she took the letter from him. It was a simple thing, yet Magnolia scrutinized it and Val felt she took something away even from that.
“A letter from Ryoka Griffin. Well, well. Now what could it be…? Ah. It’s unsealed.”
Lady Magnolia took out a small piece of parchment and unfolded it. She looked at it, blinked, and then laughed.
Ressa stood stock still behind her lady, but Val knew that she had read the parchment as well. Her face was stony, but Magnolia was laughing in delight. Val had to smile too. He knew what the little bit of parchment said by heart, now.
 
We should talk soon.
            -R.
 
That was it. No secret ink, no hidden message. Magnolia’s laughing turned to chuckles before she regained her decorum. She tapped the parchment gently with one fingernail.
“You’ve read this, I take it?”
Val ducked his head apologetically.
“It was my price for delivering it. I do apologize, but—”
“Oh nonsense! How clever of Miss Ryoka. A Courier must have his payment, mustn’t he? But I fear she hasn’t given you much to work off of.”
“Well, your reaction is quite interesting.”
“Isn’t it?”
Lady Magnolia twinkled merrily at Val, and he wondered how much this information was worth. The game of politics featured her as no small player, and any good courier knew to sell the latest tidbit as soon as possible before it grew stale.
Then again, secrets should be kept unless you wanted a dagger in your throat, and he had no desire to harm Ryoka. But she’d known what would happen when she gave him the letter because he’d asked, and so he was doubly interested in what Lady Magnolia would do next.
“Well, what should my response be? I suppose I could hire you—although Ryoka has gone further south, hasn’t she?”
No one knew how Magnolia learned her secrets, so Val didn’t even blink at her knowledge.
“Yes she has. But I’m afraid tracking her down would be something of a chore, even for a Courier. I could recommend you a good one who knows the area, though—”
“Perish the thought. It’s a needless expense. No, Ryoka will come north sooner rather than later. But I’m afraid she might be disappointed. Because my answer is sadly nothing.”
Lady Magnolia handed the letter to Ressa, and the maid made it disappear into her skirt. Val blinked.
“Nothing? Well, Ryoka did say you might have an unusual reaction.”
“I believe I would have—a week ago. But she was a bit too slow for once. Shall I show you what I mean? It may be interesting if you meet her again.”
“I would be delighted, but I fear it is unlikely I’d meet Ryoka again.”
“Nevertheless, I would be delighted to show you, if only to indulge myself. And I find it never pays to be certain of anything in this world. If you would be so good as to join me?”
Lady Magnolia stood up, and ushered Val towards the door. She led him through her mansion, filled with bowing servants and priceless artifacts to a large room. There she paused, and opened the door ever so slightly.
Val, realizing he should be quiet, leaned forwards. He found himself staring into a room expensively decorated as with every place in the mansion, but in this case, filled with sofas and fancy things to sit on. He thought one of the couches was called a ‘chaise longue’, but Val had seldom been this far inside a noble’s home.
