“Well... I’m not entirely sure.” Scratching my cheek, I sigh and decide it’s best to be honest. “Look, don’t tell anyone, but... I do this thing, where I like... suck up all the Spectres in the area. Oh, Spectres are, uh... they’re like free-floating evil spirits or something which whisper into your brain, drive people to madness, tell the Defiled what to do, and create Demons. Well, not exactly, but yea, I Devour... that’s what Yo Ling called it, or he called me the ‘Devourer’ rather, but same difference. Anyway I Devour up Spectres and turn them into Chi, sorta.” Technically Heavenly Energy, but there are intricacies I’m not equipped to explain just yet, so might as well keep things simple. “I have this whole system, with you know... degrees of Defiledness, and after your visit to the winery, you became a tea drinker. You know, sitting down to chat with the Spectres over tea and just one step short of inviting them to stay for all eternity?” I think I’ve lost him, but I might as well keep going. “Anyways, the important part is that by Devouring Spectres, I can keep people from going full Defiled, long as I get there before they’re invited in, because once they’re in, they’re impossible to dig out. Anyway, you were a tea drinker and attracting all sorts of Spectres, and I kept Devouring them as they came, but then you kinda... your brain shit out a Spectre, and I ate it.” Terrible explanation and a poor choice of words, but it’s too late now. “Anyway, even if you were full Defiled, which I don’t think you were, it was at most for a few seconds before I ate the Spectre. It was weird though, because you were a lot better after that whole freaky incident. I think birthing the Spectre was... cathartic for you, like it was made up of all your negative emotions, then you just... punted it out and I ate it up. Crazy right?”

...I am terrible at explaining things, but in my defence, I’m still trying to wrap my brain around the eight-hundred year old mad scientist whose books I have hidden in my desk. Also, I really want to meet Kukku, but I don’t want to be friends with him because chicken is delicious...

“A rare Talent which explains many of your accomplishments.” Having regained his composure while Jorani and I talked, the Abbot wears a sombre, unreadable expression as he studies me from head to toe. “Not without risk though, for Devouring the Spectres sounds no different from forcefully inviting them in. The Droplet of Heavenly Water you found in Sanshu no doubt chose you for this Talent, seeing you as a vehicle to deliver it Spectres to ingest. Without the Droplet to cleanse you, you might well have succumbed to the Spectres’ whispered lies and surrendered your soul to the Father’s foul minions, a most fortuitous encounter indeed.” Frowning, he adds, “You said you lost the Droplet following your Awakening in Nan Ping Bay, yes? Then how is it I sense none of the Father’s Taint upon your soul?”

“I figured out how to Purify Spectres on my own, with Spiritual Water.” Seeing the Abbot’s confusion, I launch into a lengthy explanation on the different types of Water and Chi combinations I came up with. Sadly, having lost my Natal Palace, it takes a few tries before I get the explanation right, because remembering the difference between Chi water and Water Chi is apparently too complicated for my mortal mind to manage, but eventually I get the message across. “So err, yea. Spiritual Water equals fake Heavenly Water, or at least the... well, Spiritual equivalent.”

“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.” There’s no confusion or exasperation in his tone, only patient curiosity. “Junior Brother possesses an inquisitive and analytical mind, but this humble monk believes you are taking a simple idea and inundating it with complexities, when you should be doing the opposite instead. Take the complex and make it simple, then all of life’s mysteries will become clear. No need for so many different terms to describe the same thing.”

Has he not been listening to my long-winded explanation? “...But they’re not the same thing. Water Chi is Chi mimicking water, or in short, Elemental Chi. Chi water, or Chi Tea, is Chi-infused water, which is different, you see?”

“Water Chi is Water Chi, regardless of what form it takes. Take the Heavenly Droplet for example. Whether it resides within your Core or without, is Spiritual in nature or Physical, it is still a droplet of Heavenly Water.” Smiling, the Abbot points at the teapot and says, “To simplify even further, when you place dried leaves and pour hot water into the teapot, you create tea. Whether one second has passed or an hour, the tea is still tea, and simply described as thin or thick tea, rather than given a new name depending on how many leaves you placed inside or how long it has steeped for.”

...He’s not wrong, and it explains why Ping Ping doesn’t care if she drinks Chi Tea or fake Heavenly Water, because they’re more or less the same. “Now that you say it, it does make more sense just to call everything Water Chi.” Not as informative though. Maybe I could give it a designation, like a number system, but that seems worse. About to jump onto a new speculation train, my enthusiasm fizzles away as reality rears its ugly head and I remember I can’t experiment anymore, on account of my shattered Core and whatnot. “Well... not that it matters anymore.”

“Junior Brother, do not be disheartened by your current plight.” Patting my shoulder, the Abbot’s reassuring smile does little to cheer me up, tinged as it is by his grief and misery. “While this monk knows not of a cure, the Mother always leaves a path to salvation, and this one will be happy to help where he can. For now, you should rest, as the hour is late and we’ve a long journey ahead. This monk fears Junior Brother would not survive a trip through the skies, so we must return to the monastery on foot, but fear not, for even though the monastery sits in inhospitable lands, Kukku can keep us safe without violence or bloodshed.”

“Hang on.” Slow your roll there, Abby Abbot. Jorani might’ve caved to peer pressure, but the promise of seeing a giant... rooster isn’t enough to make me join a brotherhood of eunuchs. “I can’t go to the monastery with you. See, I was kinda just drafted into the Imperial Army by the Disciplinary Corps and assigned to the front lines.” Jorani and the Abbot’s blank stares compel me to launch into another lengthy explanation about my conflict with Yang Jixing, and by the time I’m finished, the tea has long since grown cold. Unable to hide my yawns any longer, I fight to keep my eyes open and say, “Besides, I wouldn’t go to the monastery anyways. As grateful as I am to Ma... to your Senior Brother, I still don’t understand why the Brotherhood is interested in me, not to mention why you’d assign me to such a high rank.” The first among five Wisdoms, what a joke. Mila will hurt herself laughing when I tell her about it.

“This will not be an issue.” Holding his head up with pride, the Abbot’s confidence is almost infectious. “The laws of the Empire are no deterrence to the Eight-Fold Path, for we of the Brotherhood hold the Precepts above them. Should the Disciplinary Corps take issue with your absence, then they will have to come find you first.”

...I can’t tell if the Abbot is smart or stupid. “I’m not going to the monastery though. Even if I up and left, my problems won’t disappear. Jixing will still want Luo-Luo, which means he’ll just switch focus to my family instead.”

“Bah.” Waving his hand in dismissal, the Abbot says, “Were it not for Senior Brother’s untimely passing, you would have long since been swayed to our cause. This monk hoped that by convincing you, Senior Brother would also convince himself to return to the monastery, but alas, man proposes and Heaven disposes.” Shaking his head with a sigh, he falls silent for a brief pause before continuing. “Junior Brother, these mortal affairs are an impermanent distraction from matters of true importance. Remember the Four Noble Truths: life is suffering, and we suffer because of the three Desires, but there is a way to escape the cycle of suffering, and that is to live by the Noble Eight-Fold Path.”

Honestly, he lost my interest at ‘life is suffering’. I mean, life does kinda suck, but it beats the alternative. Even having experienced a form of life after death (at least... I think I died? Not sure.), I’m still not in any rush to see if I’ll get another shot at life after this one has run its course.

Unfortunately, the Abbot has built up too much momentum to interrupt and he continues with his preaching. “While the war against the Defiled is a grave and alarming tribulation, what concerns this monk is not the preservation of lives, but to ensure our continued existence in the cycle of Death and Rebirth, so that in time, all may have a fair chance at Nirvana. Senior Brother told you this himself, and you witnessed the Enemy’s power firsthand. This Anathema you speak of will destroy not only our physical bodies, but also our eternal souls, and in doing so, will overturn the scales of Existence themselves. Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.”

“...Yea that’s a real serious issue, but firstly, I have no idea what you expect me to do about it, and secondly, the problem is solved once we kill Zhen Shi, Zhu Chanzui, and a whole bunch of Defiled and Demons. If we tell the Legate about the eight-hundred year old monster leading the Enemy, then I’m sure he could round up a squad of Divinities to set forth and cut off the head of the snake, or whatever you want to call it.”

“Aii, such ignorance, such sin.” The Abbot’s visible disappointment is piercing and painful, but I’m sure he’ll lower his standards and will be less disappointed in the future. “You think the Imperial Clan does not already know? Zhen Shi was once an Imperial Scion himself, though the records of his true identity have long since been forgotten by the world at large. This monk has no doubt that the Emperor knows of Zhen Shi’s manipulations, and it is possible the Imperial Clan even has a hand in his actions, so exposing his existence will not be taken kindly. Such is the needless complexity of mundane affairs, so it is best to cleanse yourself of the red dust of the mortal world and focus on the Eight-Fold Path to Nirvana instead.”

Single-minded determination, thy name is Abbot. “I won’t leave my family to fight in my stead. Without force, there is no way you can convince me otherwise.”

Sighing yet again, the Abbot stands and bows. “This monk is overtired and overwrought, so he will not argue the matter tonight. This monk only asks to accompany Junior Brother so we might discuss this at a later date.”

“I’ll have to ask.” Not that I foresee an argument, considering what Mahakala did for me, but somehow I don’t see the decrepit, pacifist Abbot going out to seek vengeance against big poppa piggy. Keeping polite as I bid them farewell, I see Jorani and the Abbot to the door before explaining everything to Mom and Dad. Taduk and Lin have long since fallen asleep, so I quietly wake them both and send them home with Yan and Du Min Gyu before returning to my room. With too many questions swirling around in my head, I know sleep will be a long time coming despite my exhaustion, so I take a seat at my table and pull out the first volume of Zhen Shi’s notes once again.

Now that I know he’s alive, I have even more reason to read his notes, not just in hopes of finding a cure, but also to get into his mind and see how he thinks. Know thine enemy and whatnot, yadda yadda, or at least that’s what I tell myself. Deep down, the truth is, I see yet another beacon of hope ahead, and as horrific as it is, I can’t help but be drawn to the idea like a moth to a flame.

Zhen Shi took over Gen’s body, this much is clear now. What if I can do the same? Am I righteous enough to suffer in this crippled form when I could simply take over a new one?

...I want to say yes, that I can resist temptation, but my actions now tell me I’m not. If I could snatch up a new body, I’ve no doubt I would do it and justify it through crooked logic, but this knowledge is not enough to scare me away. At the very least, knowing how it’s done might teach me how to defend against it, because who knows whose body Zhen Shi will show up in next?

The first of many excuses I’ll make no doubt, but even I don’t believe them, not entirely. I’m sick of being weak, and if given the chance, why shouldn’t I steal Jixing’s body, or even the Legate’s?

Hang on...

Is this why Mahakala told me never to tell anyone, because the Imperial Clan knows it’s possible and fears it will be used against them? Do they know how to do it? If so, are we being ruled by an eternal body snatching monster from antiquity?

As always, a single answer leads to more questions and leaves me as lost as always, but at least now I have hope of finding more answers, though I doubt I’ll like whatever I find.

And yet, I’ll still run headlong towards the unknown. Courage or stupidity, only time will tell.

...

Probably stupidity, but I’m too stubborn to give up. Such is my life, suffering through stupidity without end.

Chapter Meme
