“Thank you. I might not get Elunath’s money back but at least I got revenge. Speaking of, I fear I may ask for your services again before this is done, if you allow it.”

“We will do it,” the tall Hadal said, yellow eyes glowing under his bald skull. “The others and I… we have decided.”

The masked hadals nodded. Some changed their masks to grim faces while she wasn’t looking. It was a bit disturbing how fast they were.

“We were made to be assassins. You gave us the chance to choose otherwise. Now our children may not have that choice. So we will do it. For this war, we will be your assassins.”

“You said assassins, not fighters,” Viv said, very carefully.

Now all the masks showed vicious smiles.

“Yes. We are coming out of retirement. I have murdered out of fear, then for money, then for fun. Now I will so my children do not have to.”

“Unless they want to,” someone said at the back.

“Alright,” Viv replied. “Okay. I wasn’t expecting this. Finally, a good surprise. Will you lead them, then?”

Two-Six shook his head, then he pointed a finger at Viv’s back.

There was a rustle of fabric, intentional, of course. She absolutely hated when he did that.

“Hello Irao.”

“I will lead my people,” the first hadal said.

***

It was the heart of winter. Outside of the large inn, the Baranese countryside slept under a mantle of snow. Icicles hung from roofs in crystalline ornaments that framed what Viv could see of the outside. There was no wind today, no cloud in a vivid blue sky lit by a pale sun. At this time, most families stayed indoors, eating congee, preserves, and preparing for spring by mending and knitting what they could. It was also the beginning of the greatest invasion the continent had ever faced, and a testament to the portal network that the meeting could happen at all.

Unfortunately, Viv was the only sovereign present.

“My Lady Queen Rosea of Baran regrets to inform you that between the weather and the ongoing conflict, she cannot afford to leave the army’s position near Siden.”

The Baranese envoy smiled apologetically. He was an older gentleman with a fine moustache and the build of a fencer. Viv remembered the city was pretty far to the north west, almost near the border with Helock.

“Ahem. Unfortunately, King Sangor has been called north due to pressing matters. He gave me a letter, and apologizes for not being able to greet his friend and peer properly,” an Enorian added.

Viv surveyed the room. Besides her, there were maybe two leaders from minor cities and everyone else had sent ambassadors. Helock and the Pure League were no shows. A part of her was sore and thought she would have more pull, but realistically she knew that it was cold and very few people understood why she would summon the alliance. Maybe she should have told them, but this was not the kind of news one sent by mail.

“Right. If everyone’s ready, let’s begin,” Viv said, taking the initiative.

A few people glanced towards General Jaratalassi who usually presided over anything military, but the old man was more than happy to sit back and relax.

“In order to better explain the situation, I have brought my new Prime Minister Bes who has a better understanding of the situation, as well as my general, Strategist Sahin, who would better answer any question you may have. Bes?”

The aristocratic envoy looked great in the Harrakan black uniform. He looked so great, in fact, that he might have been the obviously super evil antagonist shown at the top right corner of a movie poster featuring a band of plucky teenagers fighting an oppressive regime. He was pretty much the perfect dark vizier. Viv was considering giving him an enchanted purple scepter that could strangle people at range. It would be purple because purple looked evil. It was, like, evil overlady 101.

“My name is Bes. I was envoy to a city named Ravinport until a month ago when that city was captured and subjugated. I come to you bearing a warning, and I now serve Harrak, because I believe they heeded it.

“On the winter solstice, Vizim was fully conquered with the fall of the Sandsong kingdom.”

Consternated whispers filled the room, though it was clear a handful of envoys must have heard rumors.

“The conqueror is a man named Nero Oleander, Champion of Maranor, a man who seeks nothing less than the unification of mankind by force. He is on the sixth step of his path and leads an army of no less than eighty thousand warriors.”

This time, the envoys sneaked glances at Viv to check if she was pulling a fast one on them, but she was dead serious. Bes kept nailing the point home.

“This army will soon invade Param, the last independent continent.”

“Nonsense. A gigantic army? In winter?” a northerner scoffed.

Viv looked down at the Baranese envoy who was holding his forehead in dismay.

“So that’s why…” he whispered.

Silence spread to the room as the attention focused on him.

“We were not sure why Erezak the Tyrant would lead his army north. He is clearly preparing to receive the invader.”

“Empress Viviane, with all due respect, are you certain about those claims?” another northerner asked, and she was not surprised.

“I am dead serious. I was there, north. Surely you have heard of the Battle of the Grand Beach. I was in Vizim. I briefly fought Oleander though he was only on the fifth step then.”

“So he will really come? When?” the Baranese ambassador interrupted.

“Correction,” Bes said.

His soft voice broke through the din of protests. Viv was pretty sure it was a skill.

“He already landed.”

“What?”

“Already?”

“I will now leave the room to my peer, General Sahin,” Bes continued.

The lithe strategist stood up with ethereal grace. With controlled movement, he opened a map of Helock before carefully placing signs.

“Despite being mauled by the Nemeti, Oleander can still count on around a hundred and twenty warships, perhaps more, and obviously many more transports.”

“Not every ship can cross the Viziman Ocean,” a Zazas envoy said.

“With enough highly experienced captains, an armada this size could lead even a fishing boat across.”

“Not to mention the storm season just finished,” another said.

“We caught sightings of strange ships…”

“Unexplained occurrences…”

“I show you Helock,” Sahin continued, “because this is where Oleander has made landfall. He will use the winter season to funnel troops while protected by both Helock’s walls and half of Baran’s army.”

The attention now turned to the Baranese ambassador, who shook his head. At first Viv thought he might deny them, but it was merely his despair bleeding through.

“We suspected he might be waiting for mercenaries. This is… so much worse.”

“Will Helock truly bend the knee to a foreign invader?” someone asked.

“Well, they’re not here,” Viv remarked.

It could have been for other reasons but the narrative worked in Viv’s favor because King Erezak’s side of the civil war had also declined to send a representative. Viv wasn’t sure why they would waste an opportunity to mess with her. She could only assume they didn’t think it worth their time. As for why Helock might want a united mankind, the possibility of becoming the major Paramese port for a three-continents trading system might be playing a role. Sometimes, it was better to be the second man in the empire than the leader of a village.

“We must act then, no?” the Zazas envoy said.

As Viv’s ally, and the citizen of a coastal city, his people were among the first in line for the invasion.

“Unfortunately, we cannot,” Sahin explained.

He showed chess pieces on the map.

“Helock is well defended by its walls, geography, magical corps and griffon riders. Add Baranese knights to this and we have a mobile, elite force capable of defeating a larger group of invaders. They can easily raise militia and mobilize the city guard to massively increase their number. Fighting them will be an uphill battle, even if the empress takes the field.”

No one commented because they knew, by now, that she had reached the fifth step.

“I will add four reasons why attacking them now would be a bad idea. One, Nero is already here. We do know that he is powerful to the point only the empress is capable of facing him. If we attack and overextend and more of his men land while we fight, they can turn the tide of the war and crush us on the spot. Two, winter makes any movement of troops difficult even with functional portals, and you can be sure the alliance’s army will not be allowed to enter any portal near Helock. Three, we still do not have a casus belli.”

“Nero Oleander has yet to declare war on us,” Bes reminded them. “It is Helock’s right to welcome foreign soldiers on their territory.”

“Horse shit!” someone said “If they’re allowing invaders to land then I say it’s reason enough to call them traitors!”

“And I agree,” Viv said, “but you are envoys who deeply care about your nation. Countless nobles will use the excuse not to join the war should we break our own rules. I do not like this any more than you do. It doesn’t change the fact that this is how it will go.”

“And four,” Sahin finished, “Helock doesn’t really matter. All Nero needs is a port. Our own ships cannot even contest his in battle. We would be fighting one against four. If by some miracle Helock were to fall — and the chances are slim — nothing is stopping him from simply landing farther west. His Vizimans and Shadowlanders control the sea.”

That wasn’t entirely correct. Viv’s three destroyers were going to patrol the ocean and sink any poorly guarded convoy they came across. Nero was sure to try and get a steady stream of reinforcements heading south. Harrak was going to bleed that stream dry, but the main fleet? Even Harrakan cannons wouldn’t be enough.

“So what would you have us do?” Jaratalassi asked to cut the speculations short.

He aimed his question at Viv but she had Sahin reply.

“Our first task is to make the Paramese people aware they are being invaded, and to do so before Oleander’s flag flies over their cities.”

There were many nods, Viv observing the reactions with interest.

“The second priority is to gather the Paramese alliance for a decisive engagement. I suggest meeting near Siden on the fifth day after the Spring festival.”

The reactions were much more thoughtful, Viv saw. Even experienced diplomats like them couldn’t help but break the mask when sufficiently shaken. That was why Sahin had shamelessly lied. Viv had no intention to draw the army to Siden, nor did she expect them to follow her suggestion. It was too soon in the conflict, and the various kingdoms would sniff Oleander’s ass to see what they could gain before they realized he was out to grab absolutely everything. By then, it would be too late for many of them, but that was human nature for ya.

“Make no mistake,” Bes still said, the brave man. “Oleander will come to talk before he draws a blade. He will offer you terms. He will tell your nobles that they can regain control, and it will be the truth…”

The envoys frowned, surprised.

“At least for a while, but there will be conditions, and more conditions. You will be made to worship Maranor as your titular goddess first whether you want it or not. You will need to obey his trade laws, then his civil laws, you will have to welcome his inspectors and his taxmen. Your soldiers will be inducted in his armies until you do not even retain a house guard. Your opinion will be heard in your councils, and then ignored. And when you have nothing left, no more influence, no more wealth, no more military power, he will pluck you from your castles like a peasant plucks permon fruit from the vine, and you will have nothing to oppose him. Nothing. Absolute power doesn’t share and Maranor will tolerate nothing short of it. Remember this. Tell your people before it is too late. You fight now on your feet, or you will die later on your knees.”

What amazed Viv the most was the absolute conviction Bes exuded. This wasn’t a speech made to impress. It was Bes’ honest, undiluted opinion, and that was a skill. The taciturn aristocrat believed every word he’d said with a fiery zeal.

There were questions afterward, though they were mostly confirming Bes’ credentials. Viv managed to signal to Jaratalassi that she wanted to talk before he could leave, and they retired to a private room. Viv made sure to set a sound enchantment before they could talk.

“You know you could cast from time to time,” Viv accused as an introduction before handing him a bottle.

“Alcohol? I —”

“It’s Sahin’s herbal tea.”

“You must be in his graces if he’s agreed to share.”

Jaratalassi sat in one of the salon’s plush chairs, not too far from the dimly lit fireplace. Outside, the sun was already setting.

“I don’t cast because I want more options for strategist when I path up… I think I may do it once more before I die.”

“If you say so.”

“The interface understands. And I was never that good at it anyway. So, now that it’s the two of us. Tell me. How fucked are we?”

“It’s bad but not fatal. The issue is that Oleander already has Helock and half of Baran and that’s just the start, All the northern city-states all the way to the steppes will bend rather than face certain death. We can’t win a direct engagement before the continent wakes up, and the continent won’t wake up before it’s too late. So we’re going to force Oleander’s hand.”

“We are?” Jaratalassi replied within a chuckle. “And how will we proceed?”

