He pointed his Shapeless Tides toward the nearest Orichalcum wall. Part of him wanted to fight to show the Ascendant that he was no prey, that he was a Legendary Pathbearer who could contend with a god. But that was just pride talking. Pride and his ingrained need to brawl. I have to be smarter than that now. She’s not going to let me drain her like earlier, and her skills are too godsdamned strange. I need to get out of this fight before she accidentally kills me for good.

Just then, the Waif blinked into existence right behind him. Shiv nearly jumped out of his Vitae.

The Waif's eyes burned bright violet, and she stared right at him. Her head was tilted, and it was only then that Shiv noticed he was looking at an entirely different girl. She was far gaunter than the last one and had an enduring frown instead of a cruel smirk lining her face.

Suddenly, a sick feeling came over him as he considered a few horrible possibilities: Just how many Avatars did Daughter have? And were these girls willing Avatars?

What the fuck even is the Yellowstone Republic…

If he didn’t want to stick around before, it was doubly worse now. The Ascendant’s Intimidation Skill was grinding against Shiv’s psyche. He was probably more resistant than most, but that didn’t make him immune either.

He pulled hard in the opposite direction of his Inertial Overdrive, and Shiv hissed as he felt part of his hip get wrenched out of place. He fed that into one of his Biomantic mana-hydras as well. Once more, he really needed to improve his Multi-Tasking Skill. He wasn't capable of fighting at maximum capacity if he couldn't improve both his Toughness, manage his Inertial Overdrive, and gather more overflow tides at once.

A Legend wasn’t made a Legend by a single skill, but a concert of supporting skills allowing the Legendary Skill to operate at peak capacity. Every time he got stronger, the lack of these supporting skills grew more and more evident.

Multi-Tasking 27 > 28

His Vitae shuddered like a candle in a snowstorm. He was spending himself fast to stay unnoticed by the Waif, but she clung close to him with a curious expression on her face.

“What’s that, my Ascendant?” the new Waif muttered. She didn’t sound nearly as happy as the last one. “Oh. O-okay. I’ll keep following them. Whoever they are.” Her lip quivered, and Shiv felt the faintest connection form between him and the brown-haired girl. It was like wisps of air swirling between them, but the sensation was unmistakable. “I-if you’re out there, c-come out! Daughter the Deadly demands it!” She bit her lip and clutched a new, even more wicked dagger, the blade shaped like a snake in motion, with two shaking hands.

She was afraid. She didn’t want to be here. And she didn’t have a say.

Immediately, Kathereine was dethroned as his least favorite Ascendant. Shiv was coming for Daughter’s head for whatever sick, twisted shit they were doing to these girls. The last Waif might’ve been a little psycho, but the new one just seemed like a scared kid. She could be faking, but from the way her eyes darted about, like she was trying not to jump at every shadow, Shiv had a feeling she was genuinely terrified.

Psycho-Cartography: It’s likely also a deliberate tactic used by the Ascendant against you. The last Waif didn't die, so they were swapped out for a reason. They’re trying to figure out your moral limits. The last girl was more psychotic animal than human child. This one seems to be a victim, and we don’t have it in us to murder a kid with our own two hands. Or maybe that’s just what we tell ourselves. Whatever the case, we need to get out of here before Daughter deepens her offense. Get into the next cube and find a place to break contact or create a mana storm inside here.

He looked around for an easy exit, and he noticed how the gap left in the neighboring cube from the stream of soulfire earlier was growing even larger. Bits of Orichalcum dripped down as bright white slag, and Shiv pointed his Bladewand of Fire's path in the direction of the opening, and a dense thread of Pyromancy speared out from its tip.

Right now, things get messy.
