During this time, she also captured a great many of the Stranger's offspring, most of which were the Pinkies. The Pinkies were the most simplistic among the Stranger's spawn; they were barely more sapient than a hound or, more likely, the drone of a beehive. They resembled a mass of spreading fingers with a vertical slit of teeth in between. At their center was an eye born of abnormal Chronomancy that reverted time backward. The Pinkies also had an echo that lingered seconds into the past, and their main purpose was to capture individual people, to swallow them back in time and convert them into temporal fuel. They were also connected to Recollectors. In fact, without a Recollector present, the Pinkies were more feral than controlled.

However, the Pinkies were also exceedingly vulnerable to her stasis skill. The moment she used it on them, past and present collided. Their retroactive echoes slammed into their current bodies, and both proved to be about as durable as glass bulbs impacting one another at extreme velocity. Unfortunately, those ones dissolved before she could get any use out of them.

So she adjusted her strategy. Instead of using her stasis skill on them, she aligned them with a portion of herself trapped forever in the past, and that allowed her to get a glimpse into their minds. However, it wasn't a long glimpse, for even that frozen instant was like shoving a blade into someone's brain tissue, if said brain was made up of nerve endings. It took scant time for their minds to utterly fragment apart, unable to comprehend who she was now.

Now she stood as the eldritch nightmare to her mundane victims.

And gods was that satisfying.

As good as that felt, though, it meant that she couldn't fully exploit them.

She moved on to the Recollectors. Familiar with their kind as she was, thanks to the horrific and arduous battle against the one that had been contained within Gate Lord Confriga’s sword, she had a basis to work with. However, she also observed a few notable differences among the specimens she contained.

The first was that they were all possessed of different skills, probably depending on what they had taken from hosts they managed to consume on Integrated Earth or elsewhere. The larger Recollectors were more powerful, had more extended echoes of themselves lingering in the past, the longest of which extended thirty seconds backward, far more than the Recollector she'd faced at Gate Theborn. But they all shared a similar aesthetic: massive, ten-fingered hands with a spiral of eyes drifting toward a vortex at the center of the palm.

As Uva soon found out, they managed to last considerably longer when she hit them with her stasis magic. They remained frozen for an extended period, but it proved to be poison to them as well. With every passing second, another version of their past would crash forward, impacting the rest. They cracked and shattered, coming asunder like breaking icebergs rather than brittle glass.

That gave her the opportunity to delve deeper into the Recollectors’ echoes. She climbed all the way back to their past, and there she made a discovery that nearly cost her her life and revealed the true depths of this place. Upon reaching the final echo of a Recollector, she found herself not faced with utter oblivion, but rather an eye, one so vast it dwarfed celestial bodies by orders of magnitude.

Tens of thousands of spiraling irises, flowing in opposing directions as myriad-colored rivers of oil, made up its entire surface, but its strangeness ran far deeper. Its shape was non-Euclidean, with there being no one pupil; instead, every point of the eye was at once a source from which the concentric rivers expanded outward, allowing the entity to directly face every grain of existence at once while the rivers flowed over and through one another like an infinite mesh of fabric.

Each of the uncountable pupils, too small to even make out within the encircling, clashing irises, channeled a beam of distorted Chronomancy outward. The rays of tarnished gold reminded Uva of those cast by the sun when they broke through clouds, something she herself had only borne witness to once, yet had left a striking impact on her.

The rays cast by the celestial eye speared outward into the chaotic void in which it resided, each coalescing at differing distances, where they formed a Recollector or some other, distant spawn she couldn't recognize.

That impossible, all-facing eye, she guessed, was the Stranger, the source, the one that constantly birthed these eldritch fingers into existence.

It seemed that there was a running theme in the family of eldritch gods. They were all parasites to some capacity, and unwilling to let their children be autonomous. The Stranger, most of all, was estranged from all his young, but he watched them, he shaped them, and he poured his baleful essence and hate upon them like a panopticon. They simultaneously couldn't exist without him, and yet were formed by their father's very awareness.

And just as she gazed beyond the abyss, the thing beyond the abyss gazed back.

"Seeker, you come to me willingly."

The Stranger's words tugged on Uva's strands, causing them to vibrate like a spider web. Darkness crept through her Psychomancy; her mind nearly shattered. It was her stillness that spared her. She had the still aspect of her consciousness slotted in, a thing already embroiled by unparalleled trauma. And the Stranger made the mistake of trying to break that portion of her, not knowing that he was simply ramming his fingers into parted glass. That mutilated, sad part of Uva broke some more, but there had been little more than fragments left of her to begin with. What difference did it make that she splintered even more?

***

After the rest of Uva retreated, wiser than before and more wary, the Stranger also adapted. Instead of shifting his clearings, he began to shrink them, making them all so small that they were little more than dots. And soon, speckled throughout his wilderness were points of unmoving stasis. Points that Blackedge couldn't reside in.

Worse yet, the Stranger kept a closer eye on his lesser offspring, and as Uva reached into the various Pinkies, Recollectors, and Indexes, the moment she made any large alteration, they were sundered from the inside and made to come apart like shrapnel, damaging her layered consciousness and leaving Blackedge open to attack.

And thus was how the town nearly fell. Unprepared for the Stranger’s shift in strategy, her strings of Psychomancy tumbled into disarray, and her cocoon came undone, opening the town up to the ravenous swarms of Outsiders waiting outside.

By the time the survivors pushed them back, Uva reached a functional clearing, and she reshaped her cocoon, there were no more than 4,000 survivors left in Blackedge.
