

“The way you've been acting, the way you've been treating me; you're not the Lucy I fell in love with. Where's the strong and independent woman I admire so much? Where's your passion? Where's your joy?” Ren sighed. “You know what? I think you're right. I think... I think I fell in love with an ideal. I love the woman I thought you were, not who you actually are.”

Lucy looked at Ren in shock. “What... what are you saying?”

Ren smiled. “I'm saying, we both fell in love with what we wanted, not what was there.”

“But...”

“Don't you see? This is perfect.” Ren said. “We don't have to agonize over each other anymore.”

“But...”

“Now we can go back to being just friends, and my heart doesn't have to bleed every time I see your smile.”

“Ren!”

“Don't worry, it doesn't actually bleed. Those are just words I use to say how much it used to hurt.”

“U-used to?”

“That's what you want, isn't it? To only be friends again?” Ren asked.

Lucy nodded.

“Maybe starting over, or even going back to the way things used to be?”

Lucy nodded again.

“Then it's settled.” Ren said. “We'll go back to how things were before any of this stuff happened.” He looked at her with sorrow on his face. “I'm really sorry, though. I can't have friends coming in here whenever they want, especially without an invitation.”

Ren opened the business menu and removed Lucy's access. Her eyes widened as the little key disappeared from her neck.

“It's okay, though.” Ren said and held a hand out to her. “Come with me, please.”

Lucy took his hand without thinking and he pulled her to her feet. Ren led her out of the apartment and downstairs.

“Elerlyth? I'm just going over to the Housing District. I'll be right back.”

“Sure, Ren.” Elerlyth said and smiled.

Ren took Lucy down the street to the corner, and then up a block to the Housing District. He walked over to an empty lot, several spots away from the lone house in the district, and got a popup to buy a house. Ren dismissed it and pushed Lucy forward so she would get it instead.

“What are you doing?” Lucy asked.

“I'm buying you a house.” Ren said.

“You're what?!?”

“They come with their own spawn point, so you can have your own private one.”

“Ren.”

“Lucy, pick one that you like.”

She sighed and flipped through them, then chose the most expensive one. This should show him that I can't be pawned off! She thought, and a small portal appeared.

“How much is it?” Ren asked.

“15 platinum.” Lucy said, and grinned evilly.

Ren took out the money and went to put it in. Lucy grabbed his hand.

“What are you doing?”

“Paying for it.” Then Ren smacked himself in the forehead. “Damn, you're right.”

Lucy nodded and let his hand go. Yes, it's way to much to spend on a house!

Ren took out another platinum. “I nearly forgot the gratuity.” He said and dropped 16 platinum into the portal.

“No!” Lucy said.

“What?”

“Ren, you just spent 15 platinum for a house! A freaking HOUSE!”

“16, actually.” Ren said and grinned, then turned to see a large group of people coming down the street. “Here comes the crew to build it.”

When Jen was close enough, she started to laugh. “I'd hoped it would be you.”

Ren chuckled, and pointed to Lucy. “It's her house, actually.”

Jen nodded. “Gotcha.” She said. “I was going to ask you why you got the 'all the bells and whistles' model.”

“Well, she has expensive tastes.”

Jen grinned. “It'll be done in half an hour.”

“That soon?” Ren asked, surprised.

“It's all prefabricated.” She said. “We just put it up and nail it together.”

“Nice.” Ren said. “You must have a pile of pieces ready.”

“Not really. With that table saw you gave us, we've been ahead on all of our orders, so we can pretty much make anything right away.”

Ren smiled. “I'm glad it's working out for you.”

“It's getting a little dull, though.” Jen said. “Hint, hint.”

Ren chuckled. “I'll go and fix that right now.” He said and then ran down the street.

“Holy crap! Look at him run!” Jen said, surprised.

Lucy stood there in shock as Ren flew down the street and disappeared into the lumberyard. He's gotten really fast.

About 5 minutes later, Ren ran back to where Lucy and Jen stood.

“All fixed, sharpened and polished.”

“Thank you, kind sir.”

“You're welcome, Ma'am.”

“Ma'am?” Jen laughed. “Who do I look like? Your grandma?”

Ren laughed. “Sorry, that's how you're supposed to greet women in public in the Dwarven Kingdom, even if you know their names.”

“Is that where you've been all this time?” Jen asked, and Ren nodded. “Is it nice there?”

“It used to be.” Ren said. “I'm trying to make it nice again.”

“That's a lofty goal.”

“Not if you do it one step at a time, Jen.”

She nodded, and turned to Lucy. “Your key will appear when the house is finished.”

“Thank you.”

Jen laughed. “No. Thank you.” She said. “A platinum tip was quite the incentive to come over right away.”

Lucy pointed at Ren. “It's his money.”

“Fine.” Ren said and took out a black pouch. He tossed several handfuls of coins into it and gave it to Lucy.

“What's this?”

“An apology for things not working out.”

“You're buying me off?”

“That you would even think that...” Ren shook his head. “You know my motto, Lucy. Friends help friends when they can.”

Lucy nodded.

“I'm really glad we're back to being friends.”

“You are?”

“Yeah. Now I don't have to feel so bad about ignoring you.” Ren said to her surprised face. “Go buy yourself something nice.” He pointed to the coin pouch and turned away from her. “Bye.” Ren said and walked back to his business.

*

“What was that all about?” Jen asked.

“We broke up.” Lucy said as an explanation.

“That's no reason to treat him like that.”

“What do you know about it?” Lucy asked.

“Not a thing.” Jen smiled. “He's just a nice kid that Sally took under her wing, when he had nothing. Now he's buying his old girlfriend a house. A very expensive house actually; and not once did he say it was too much, or tried to convince you to get a cheaper one.”

Lucy looked back where Ren had gone and sighed. She looked at the coin pouch, equipped it, and gasped. There was 125 platinum in it.

*

Ren entered his building and Elerlyth was still standing there in the middle of the floor.

“Can your feeding wait for a little while? I have to log out and eat supper.”

Elerlyth walked over to him and took him into a hug. Ren's head nestled on her chest like it was meant to be there, and he sighed. She held him like that for a couple of minutes, not saying anything. She could feel everything he felt, though. All the swirling emotions coming from him brought tears to her eyes. She wiped them away and then leaned back to look him in the eyes.

“Of course it can wait, Ren.” Elerlyth said. “Go and take care of what you need to.”

“Thanks, Elerlyth.” He let her go and stepped back.

“Logout.”

********

Ren slipped off the VR headset and glared at Bonnie.

“Sorry, Ren. I called her and asked if she knew what was going on.”

“That was not your call to make, Bonnie.”

“Ren, she loves you...”

“Not enough to stay.” Ren said. “I assume you heard all of that?”

Bonnie nodded.

“Then I want you to remember something.” Ren said and slid out of bed. “It's not any of your business what I do in my personal life.”

“Ren, I was just...”

“None. Of. Your. Business.” He said, then went to the bathroom to take care of some other business. He came back out and Bonnie was still there. “With everything I've got going on, I really didn't need to deal with Lucy today.”

“I didn't think she would...”

Ren sighed. “I know I'm out a little early today, but can I get something for supper, please?”

Bonnie nodded and went for the door.

“Thank you.” Ren said and climbed back into bed. He took a deep breath and checked his email. There was the message from Elise Stanford stating that the cameras were now voice activated and hooked to the main servers, and that the other proposal was pending approval, but was sure to be a hit. He frowned.

What other proposal? Ren thought, and sent a message back asking about it. Only a few minutes later, he got another message and Elise told him about the television show proposal, and that they were just working out the soundtrack for the pilot episode.

A television show? About me? He sent off another email asking what it would be called, and how much he would be making from it. She messaged back that they didn't have a name yet, and Ren stared at the number of zeros on the proposal. Ren sent her the name of his business in the game, and asked if the money was the final price. She sent back that the name was perfect, and it connected with the game. She also said that the money was for the pilot only, and if the series was picked up, it would be much more than that.

Ren sat back and stared at the message. He took several deep breaths and calmed down. He sent a message back and said he was happy that she was so intelligent to have come up with the show idea on the spur of the moment like that, and thanked her for her hard work. She messaged back her thanks as well, and said she'd be happy to consult him about the show if it gets picked up. He responded that he'd be happy to help in any way he could, thanked her again, and couldn't wait to hear from her about it.

Bonnie came in with his supper and he ate in silence. That was the way it was normally; but this time, it was an uncomfortable silence.

*

Elise was nearly jumping out of her chair with excitement. He loved my show idea! She thought, then calmed down. I was worried that he'd fight the whole thing, and wouldn't let us use the footage. She closed her email and sat back. Quitting time. She thought, as the clock struck 6pm. She picked up the tablet and went home. I've got some Ren researching to do!

*

Ren finished eating and Bonnie took the tray away. When she came back, Ren apologized.

“Bonnie, I'm sorry. I over-reacted a bit.” He said and rubbed his forehead. “I'd nearly had her out of my mind, and now it's all right there in my face.”

Bonnie put a hand on his arm. “I'm sorry, too.” She said and smiled. “I was just concerned over how you've been behaving.”

Ren nodded. “Thanks, but I'm not morally corrupt enough to sleep with a mother and her daughter at the same time, and in the same bed.”

“But you were in the same bed with them.” Bonnie said.

Ren smiled. “It actually is possible for a man to sleep in the same bed with a woman, and not touch her like that.”

Bonnie chuckled. “You don't know a lot of men, though.”

“If you were here in the bed with me, I wouldn't touch you like that. Unless I had your permission, of course.”

Bonnie's eyes widened at Ren's admission. “Me... in the bed... with you?”

“That was supposed to be an example of my virtuous nature...” Ren explained. “...but, it came out as an invitation to sleep with me.” He said, and ducked his head slightly. “Sorry.”

“No, it's okay.” Bonnie said. “You're cute and all, but I like a lot of muscles on a man.”

“Bonnie! You're one of those people!” Ren said, and pointed. “You like men only for their body!”

Bonnie laughed.

Ren smiled. “Hand me the VR headset. I've got a feeding to administer to a patient.”

Bonnie shook her head. “You be careful around her, Ren.”

Ren nodded, and Bonnie helped him put on the VR headset.

“I'm keeping my eyes on her.” Ren said. “And a few other things.”

Bonnie snorted. “Very funny.”

Ren settled back in the bed and relaxed.

“Flow Login Start.”

********

Ren saw Elerlyth was still standing there, waiting for him. “You could have gone upstairs.”

She held a hand out to him. “I felt like waiting.”

He took her hand and she led him upstairs.

“Elerlyth, I'm... I don't...”

Elerlyth chuckled. “I think we should just cuddle for a while, if that's okay?”

Ren nodded. “That sounds great, Elerlyth.” He said, and unequipped his clothing to block Bonnie from seeing anything. Elerlyth stored her clothing as well and she climbed onto the bed. Ren took out a roll of fabric and made a quick blanket to cover them, and got onto the bed himself. Elerlyth opened her arms, and Ren slid in close to her. She wrapped her arms around him tightly and Ren snuggled down on her chest.

“Go ahead, Ren.” Elerlyth said, and he looked at her. “I know you want to.”

A single tear escaped the corner of his eye, and rolled down his cheek. “But... I...”

“It's okay.” She said, and lightly kissed his forehead. “Let it out.”

Ren's face crumbled, and he let the tears flow freely. He put his head down on Elerlyth's chest and held onto her tightly as he cried. A part of Ren's heart that Elerlyth hadn't felt before, burst open and her eyes widened. She tried to block some of it, but she wasn't prepared for the sheer amount of emotion coming out of him. Elerlyth tried her best to swallow it all; but it was too much for her ability to take and she drowned just as much as Ren did in everything that he felt. Her eyes flowed with tears as they were lost in the sea of emotions.

They both stayed like that for half an hour, before Elerlyth came back to her own senses and took control of her ability. It had leveled up several times while she was drowning, and she took several deep breaths. She closed her eyes and concentrated on her ability.

Come on, girl! Elerlyth thought. This isn't more than you can handle! Eat! Eat it all!

It took several minutes for her to get a handle on absorbing so much, but she managed it somehow and started to fill herself up. Ren started to calm down after that, and it was easier for her to manage. Elerlyth gasped as her ability leveled again, and went from Intermediate Level 9 to Advanced Level 1. It left a gaping hole for the emotions to dump into, and she drank down everything Ren was feeling. After another half an hour, the emotions slowed down and Ren sniffed a few times. He propped himself up on an elbow and took out several scrap pieces of cloth to wipe off his face. When he tried to wipe off Elerlyth's chest, she spoke.

“Don't worry about it.” Elerlyth said.

“Elerlyth... I just... my tears...”

“Ren, it's a small price to pay. You needed someone to hold you.” She smiled. “I'm just really glad that it was me.”

Ren took in a deep breath and let it out. “Me, too.” He said. “I could feel you taking it from me, just as if we were... you know.”

Her eyes widened. “You did?”

Ren nodded. “I don't know how your ability works; but it's great.” He said. “You know all those feelings I felt?”

