Elerlyth nodded for him to continue.

“They're still there, and I can let them lose again.”

Her eyes widened, and Ren grinned.

“Don't worry, I can deal with them easier now.” Ren reached a hand out and cupped the side of her face. “I came all this way to help you, and then you ended up helping me instead.” He smiled. “Thank you.”

“You just gave me the feeding of a lifetime, and you're thanking me.” Elerlyth laughed.

Ren laughed, too. “I'm pretty sure you could just poke my Lucy complex a bit and I'll gush it all out again.”

Elerlyth got a serious look on her face. “Ren, I might have egged things on a little bit today...”

“A little?”

She snorted a laugh. “All right, a lot... but, I did it because you needed to get it out of your system.”

Ren nodded. “Well, it worked.” He said. “Now that I think about it, how did you know Lucy went out to a bar?”

“I found out about it in a kind of weird way, actually.” Elerlyth grinned. “Stella's brother works at the garage I work at, and he told me all about it.”

“Why would he do that?” Ren asked.

“He thought I'd get off on knowing women still get drunk at bars, and sleep with random men.”

Ren's eyes widened. “What an asshole!”

Elerlyth laughed. “That's exactly what I called him!”

Ren laughed and he gave her the scraps of cloth to wipe her chest off. She started to move the cloth around, then glanced at Ren to see if he was staring at her chest while she cleaned up. He was still looking at her face, however. She finished wiping the dampness off and then lifted the blanket.

“My ability leveled to Advanced and I'm getting hungry again.” Elerlyth said. “I don't think you're in the mood to keep feeding me properly, though.” She put the blanket down. “I'm laying here completely naked in the bed with you, and no reaction.”

“Elerlyth.” Ren said.

She looked at him.

“I could just stare at you in the eyes and I'll get hard as a rock.”

“W-what?”

“It's not just your body that turns me on.” Ren said. “Chemistry doesn't mean purely physical.”

Elerlyth had a surprised look on her face.

“Want me to prove it?”

She nodded without thinking, and Ren got out of the bed.

“Where are you going?”

“Inside of you, in about 5 minutes.”

Her eyes widened as he stood there, and looked her in the eyes.

“You're a wonderful person, Elerlyth. You're both kind and smart.”

Elerlyth glanced down and saw Ren growing, and looked back at him.

“You can be a real bitch to those that piss you off, or hurt your friends.” He said and became fully erect. “But to your friends? You're the best thing that's ever happened to them.”

“Oh, Ren.” Elerlyth got a tear in her eye as she fed on the pure and innocent emotions he was feeling. There were no dirty feelings at all in them, even though she knew he wanted to have sex with her. She lifted the blanket and he joined her in the bed.

“Yeah.” She wiped the tear away. “You gave me proof.”

For the rest of the night, he kept giving her more proof that it was her he was having sex with, and not her body. She fed very well on everything that he had.

The next morning, they got out of bed and equipped their clothing. Elerlyth stretched a bit, and looked around.

“You really made all of this furniture?” She asked.

Ren nodded.

“Can you... can you make me something?”

“What would you like?”

“I really like that sitting table.” Elerlyth said, and blushed a little. “And the bed.”

Ren smiled. “I'll have to order the mirror, but I can make the rest easily.”

“How long...”

“About 20 minutes.”

“W-what?” She said, surprised. “Not a week or two?”

“A week? Maybe if I had to do a thousand.” Ren chuckled at her expression. “I make them one at a time.”

Elerlyth shook her head. “You're amazing.”

Ren smiled. “You're just saying that because I can go all night, and not get tired or have to stop.”

She rolled her eyes. “Yeah, that's why you're amazing.”

He laughed. “Let's go downstairs and I'll make the bed and table for you.” They went downstairs and sure enough, after 20 minutes, Elerlyth had a sitting table and a bed with a mattress ready. Ren told her to wait for a minute, and went upstairs and got the sitting table with the mirror. He gave that to her instead of the one he'd just made and she looked at him in surprise.

“Are you sure?” Elerlyth asked. “I don't mind waiting for the mirror.”

Ren nodded. “You're going to get more enjoyment out of it than I am, anyways.”

“Okay.” She stored the bed and the sitting table and walked over to stand by him. “Thank you.”

“You're welcome.” Ren said. “You've got 2 days to go before morning, so go out there and have fun.”

“What about guard duty?”

Ren laughed and pulled her down into a dip. “I've tortured you enough with just sitting here and waiting.” He kissed the tip of her nose and stood her up again. “Message me if you need my help.”

Elerlyth smiled and rubbed her abdomen. “I'm quite well fed, Ren.”

Ren chuckled, and put a hand over the one on her belly. “I meant with fighting or something; but, keep that in mind, too.”

“You'd help me with stuff like that?” Elerlyth asked.

“If I can, sure.”

She smiled. “I'll consider it.”

Ren activated Sneak and ran by her. When she turned around, he was gone. She looked around and Ren poked her sides.

“Yip!” Elerlyth let out, and jumped from surprise. “You ass!” She turned around and punched him in the arm.

Ren laughed. “You're not the only one with Sneak, you know.”

She put her hands on her hips. “Okay, you snuck up on me. Now get out of here, or I'll challenge you again!”

“25 platinum wasn't enough?” Ren grinned. “Do you need more that badly?”

Elerlyth snorted. “I don't know what to do with it all, so it's just been sitting in my coin pouch.”

“You could buy a better set of armor.”

“Are you kidding?” Elerlyth laughed. “This stuff is worth a fortune! I couldn't buy a better set if I tried.”

Ren grinned. “It looks awesome on you, too.”

“Yeah, you did a really good job on it.” She said and equipped it.

“Actually, I have something else that would look awesome on you, too.”

“Oh, yeah? What is it? A helmet? A super shield?”

Ren pulled out the see-through and lace outfit (with frills) he'd made the other day, and Elerlyth looked at it in surprise.

“Where the hell did you get that?” She asked, and took it from his hand. “It's so soft!” She ran it through her hands and looked at the lace covering the essential bits. They could be lifted and you'd see what was underneath. “Ren, please tell me where you got this!”

“It's a secret!” Ren said and grinned. “See you later.”

She stared at him and he walked to the door. “REN!”

Ren chuckled. “I made it, of course.”

Elerlyth looked at it, and then back at Ren. “Do you have anything else?” She asked as hope filled her face. He laughed and left the building.

Ren went over to Donan's shop, was greeted with a bone-breaking hug, and a hand that ruffled his hair. He apologized for not visiting earlier, and told Donan that he hadn't sold anything yet, but gave him 10 platinum for when he did start selling things. Donan tried to give it back, and Ren refused, claiming that he'd rather give a bunch now, rather than a few gold here and there over the next few years. Donan gave him another hug and pat on the head, then Ren left the shop.

He went to Sally's Shop next, and was also greeted with a bone-breaking hug. She tried her best to get him to stay and tell her all about his adventures, but he apologized and said that this was just a quick visit. He had to get back home before his fiance and her mother started to worry. Sally let him out of the hug and stepped back. She looked at him with an appraising eye, and smiled.

“I guess I can't call you my Student anymore.”

Notice!

You have lost the title: Sally's Student, and all related benefits.

Ren looked at her. “I'll always be your student, Sally.” He said and took her hand, bent over it, and lightly kissed it. “Thank you for setting me on the path.”

Sally blushed a deep red and waved a hand in front of her face. “Oh, dear me.”

“Are you okay?” Ren asked, and helped her to a chair.

“I'm fine.” She said, and smiled. “You're just a little too much for this old heart to handle.”

Ren's eyes widened and then he smiled. “If you were a few years younger, and I wasn't seeing someone...”

Sally laughed. “You've certainly gotten fresh while you were away!”

Ren grinned. “Yeah. I've had some things happen, and I might have picked up a bad habit or two.”

“You should be a bit more careful with the frail at heart like myself.” She said, then winked. “If you were a few years older, and I didn't love my deceased husband so much.”

“There you go!” Ren laughed. “You're only as young as you feel.”

Sally grinned. “You said this was a quick visit, so you have a reason for being here.”

Ren nodded. “I'm looking for outfits for a wife, bride, fiance, and probably just a general wardrobe.”

Her eyes widened, then she chuckled. “You're not looking for much, then.”

He smiled. “I really am in a bit of a rush.”

“Okay, come over here.” Ren followed Sally to her main workbench and she started looking through all of the patterns and things she had, then handed various things to Ren. He gathered them into a pile and waited until Sally said she was done.

“That's everything I have of what you described.”

“How much...”

Sally shook her head. “I'm sharing things with a fellow Tailor.”

Ren sighed, and looked through the patterns. He memorized them all, and then he looked at Sally.

“These are fantastic, Sally.” Ren said. “The cuts are impeccable.”

“You can take them if you want.”

Ren smiled. “No need. I've got them all up here now.” He pointed to his forehead.

Her eyes widened. “You've definitely learned a lot, then.”

He nodded. “I'll share a few of Lord Neram's works with you, if that's okay?”

“Sure, Ren.” Sally said, and her eyes widened at some of the things Ren drew out for her. “He... he was a Master Tailor, too?”

Ren nodded. “His wife gave me this.” He took out the Master Tailor's Sewing Needle and showed it to her.

“Oh, my.” Sally said. “You can repair clothes by touching them!”

“I've used it a lot.” He said.

Sally laughed. “I can imagine.”

Ren touched her dress with it. “Repair.” It glowed for a moment and then reformed itself and looked brand new. Sally looked at it and took several breaths. “I'm glad I'm already sitting down.”

“All right, I think I've given you a few too many shocks today.” Ren chuckled. “Thanks a lot for the patterns, Sally. I'll come back in a few days and share more of Lord Neram's work with you.”

“That would be great, Ren. Thank you.”

Running Quest Update!

You have spread the word of Lord Neram's work to a new land! People from far and wide will hear his name, and associate it with well made clothing.

Influence: +10,000

Notice!

You have gained Honor for increasing House Neram's Influence.

Honor: +1000

Ren dismissed the popups, then bought several bolts of cloth to replace the ones he used. He thanked her and left the shop. He ran back to his building and went inside. Elerlyth was nowhere to be found, so he went upstairs to the apartment and into the cabinet. He nailed it shut and stepped through the portal, then nailed that cabinet shut as well, and ran downstairs. He fed Princess breakfast, and summoned Teepo. Ren ate some food himself, and stored Princess' crate when she left it. He led her outside and locked the place up, then started to run.

I am so late! Ren thought, and kept running.
