“She's my Head of Security for this building.” Ren said.

“Ren, who is this stuck up bitch?” Elerlyth said, and thumbed her finger at Lucy.

“Excuse me?” Lucy said, angrily. “Who are you to call me a bitch?”

“Elerlyth, this is Lucy.” Ren said.

“YOU!” They both said together, and Elerlyth rolled out of bed.

“You're the one that...” They continued, then stopped to glare at each other. Ren turned his head to listen, and thought he could hear growling. He looked back at the two women, only a foot of distance separating them, and they hissed at each other. Ren's eyes widened.

“Did you just...”

Elerlyth stored her armor and smiled. “I'm going to take it easy on you, Blondie.”

Lucy scowled and punched her in the face. Elerlyth staggered back a little, rubbed the spot and then tackled Lucy into the wall. They bounced off the wall and onto the bed. Elerlyth jabbed Lucy in the gut and she grunted, grabbed Elerlyth by the hair, and yanked her to the side. They rolled off the bed and onto the floor. Lucy ended up on top and grinned. She let loose with another punch and Elerlyth moved her head, and Lucy's fist hit the floor.

“Ah, dammit! Stay still!” She said, and pulled Elerlyth's hair taught. “Got you now!” She punched her in the face and Elerlyth started to laugh.

“What level are you? 20?”

“I'm Level 36, thank you very muuuuuch!” Lucy said as Elerlyth bucked her off easily. She landed on the floor and Elerlyth grabbed her by the ankle and stood.

“I'm Level 85, toots.” She said, yanked hard and picked Lucy up from the floor, and flipped her onto the bed. Lucy bounced off and hit the other wall again. She landed on the floor and rolled up into a crouch.

“Oh, it's on now, you skank!” Lucy exclaimed and jumped at Elerlyth, taking her to the floor. They rolled around biting and scratching each other. Ren stood there, and he could hear 'raanrr' and hissing, then frowned.

What the hell is going on? He sat down and opened the help screen. What do I... fighting... fighting... After a minute of searching, he found out what was wrong. Son of a... Ren sighed mentally, and opened the business menu. He scrolled down the various options and opened the sub-menu under altercations, then unchecked the 'cat fight' option. It was set to 'on' by default. Ren shook his head, as there wasn't a 'stop fight' button. He closed the menu and help screen, then stood up as he concentrated on his Command Aura, then connected to his Screaming Terror ring.

“That's ENOUGH!” Ren yelled, and the two women stopped mid-roll and stared at him. Lucy had the end of Elerlyth's hair in her mouth, and her arms wrapped around Elerlyth's neck. Elerlyth had a hold of Lucy's arm and her teeth were digging in, while her legs had one of Lucy's legs pinned to the floor.

“Now let each other go. Slowly.”

Lucy spit out the end of Elerlyth's hair, then let her out of the death grip she was in; Ren saw a gleam in Elerlyth's eye, and spoke.

“Elerlyth.”

She took in a breath through her nose, then opened her mouth and sighed. “Aww, it was just getting good.” Elerlyth said, and let Lucy go as well.

Lucy snorted a laugh and stood up. “I was getting the upper hand.”

Elerlyth rolled her eyes and stood up, too. “I was playing with you, Barbie.”

Lucy frowned and then rubbed her arms. “Ren, what are you doing?”

“Yeah.” Elerlyth said and licked her lips. “That's a new flavor.”

Ren chuckled and let the Connection lapse. “It's something new that I learned yesterday.”

“Do tell!” Elerlyth said and sat on the bed.

“Later.” Ren said. “Lucy, why are you here?”

“What do you mean?” She asked. “You asked me to live here.”

“Yeah, I did.” Ren sighed. “You didn't say yes, we broke up, and you left my party.” He said and rubbed his face. “Did you even set this place as your spawn point?”

Lucy opened her mouth to argue, but she couldn't. “No.” She waved at the furniture. “You said you made all of this for me.”

“I said I made it from the descriptions you gave me, so you could have your dream bedroom.” Ren said. “We never even slept here.” He said. “I don't think me laying beside your phantom form counts, either.”

“You know you really hurt him badly when you broke it off with him.” Elerlyth said. “If he hadn't had Nathalia to grab onto...”

Lucy sat down on the bed. “I know. I...” She sighed. “I didn't handle that whole situation well.”

Ren snorted a laugh. “There's an understatement if I ever heard one.”

“Hey, I was hurting, too!” Lucy said. “When I dislocated your elbow-”

“YOU DID THAT?” Elerlyth hollered. “How... how could you!”

Lucy winced, and felt despair fill her.

“I told you it was an accident Elerlyth.” Ren said and walked over to the bed.

“You didn't say it was her fault!” She said, and motioned to Lucy.

“I'm not going to argue over who is to blame.” Ren said. “Me, Lucy, my body, bad luck, or whatever.” He sighed. “It happened. That's it. It's over.”

“You're going to be in a sling for weeks!” Lucy said.

Ren scowled at her, and concentrated on his Command Aura again. “I said drop it. I don't want to hear any more about it.”

Lucy took in a deep breath, let it out, and nodded.

“Good.” Ren said. “Now... why are you here, Lucy?”

“Bonnie called me.” Lucy said. “She told me about what's been going on.”

Ren closed his eyes and shook his head. “Thanks a lot, Bonnie.”

“What are you doing with a mother and daughter in bed?” Lucy asked Ren.

“Cuddling, of course.”

“You're not even going to deny it?” Lucy said, surprised. “You slept with a mother and a daughter at the SAME TIME!”

Elerlyth sat there and watched everything, drinking it all in. This is so great! She thought and savored all of the different flavors she was tasting.

Ren opened his eyes and looked at Lucy. “We've been friends for a long time, Lucy. Have I ever... ever... done anything for you to accuse me of something like that?”

Lucy opened her mouth to say that he did, but he didn't. “No.”

“So, why did you just assume I was having sex with both of them?”

“I don't know.” Lucy said and hung her head.

“It might be because she went home with some guy at a bar last week.” Elerlyth said. “She's looking for an excuse to get mad at you instead.”

Lucy looked at her in surprise. “How do you know about...” She looked at Ren, and he had a single eyebrow raised. She sighed. “I went out and got drunk, okay? I danced and I partied. I met that big burly guy that helped us at the mall that time, and I... I went home with him.”

Ren dropped his eyebrow. “Did you sleep with him?”

“No.” Lucy shook her head. “He could have, and I wouldn't have either known or cared, at the time.” She sighed. “The next morning, though.... oh, god.” She put her head in her hands and shook a little. “If Clint wasn't such a nice guy...”

“CLINT?” Ren exclaimed. “His name's Clint?”

Lucy nodded. “He drove me home, and was a complete gentleman.”

“Did he have a heavy southern drawl, almost to the point you can't make it out? A cowboy hat? Has a ranch?”

Lucy dropped her hands and looked at Ren. “How do you know all of that?”

Ren sighed. “I thought I was meeting people from all over the world; but apparently, the world is a lot smaller than I thought.”

“You know him.”

Ren nodded. “He's one of my friends here in the game.” He said. “I even made him new weapons, and he gave me a mount.”

“It could have been a lot worse then.” Elerlyth said. “She almost had drunk sex with your friend.”

Ren frowned. “Elerlyth, you're not helping.”

Lucy turned to her. “That reminds me! You poisoned him, and he fawned all over you! Now you're here with him again.” She looked back at Ren. “Has she been sticking you with her nails and using her venom on you?”

Ren shook his head. “She tries occasionally; but, catching her at it is kind of fun.”

Lucy's eyes widened. “You're serious?”

Ren nodded.

“Is she your girlfriend now?”

Elerlyth snorted. “You wish, Blondie.” She said and grinned. “That would make it easier for you to hate him, wouldn't it?”

“I don't want to hate him!”

Elerlyth laughed. “Liar liar, pants on fire.”

Lucy scowled. “Now see here...”

“He just feeds me all of the emotions he can muster.” Elerlyth said. “He's been nothing but loyal, considerate, and giving. He gives so much of himself... both willingly and freely... and you can't stand it.” She said and grinned. “You hate that it's with someone else, instead of you.”

Lucy's mouth fell open as she stared at Elerlyth.

“I'll wait downstairs.” Elerlyth said and stood up. “I'm sure you have things to talk about that you don't want me to hear.”

“If you stand under the apartment, my Aura will still reach you.” Ren said as she passed by. Elerlyth put a hand on his shoulder. “Thank you.”

She left the room and Ren sat down on the bed.

“So.” Ren said.

“She's right.” Lucy said. “I'm trying so hard to find a reason to hate you, to make our break up easier.”

“I'm sure I could tell you some things to make you hate me.”

“Don't.” Lucy said and put a hand on his arm. “Even if they're true, don't make things easier for me.”

“Lucy...”

“I... I love you, Ren... but... I think... I think I fell in love with the idea of you, and not who you really were.”

Ren closed his eyes. “Don't.”

“Let me finish.”

Ren nodded, and she continued.

“Taking care of you was all I did for years, and I loved it. You needed me so much, and I needed you. It wasn't... it wasn't a healthy way to start a relationship.”

He looked at her. “I know what you're saying.”

“Do you?”

Ren nodded again. “You're saying that if we'd met somewhere else, or anywhere else at all, you wouldn't have given me a second look.”

It was Lucy's turn to nod. “We spent so much time together, that feelings were eventually going to develop. This time it was romantic; but, it could easily have been contempt... or hatred.”

Ren sighed. “This is the 'lets be friends' speech, isn't it?”

Lucy smiled. “I'm trying to work towards it, yeah.”

“You know that never works, right?” Ren looked at her. “It's like... I'm sorry, you're favorite pet died. Let's have it stuffed so you can keep looking at it; but, you can never play with it again.”

“W-what?” Lucy said, surprised. “I've said 'lets be friends' to lots of... oh.”

“Exactly.” Ren chuckled. “How many of them have you talked to lately? None, right?”

Lucy didn't say anything.

“Yeah, being constantly reminded of what they can't have would surely make them great friends.” Ren said. “Every time I see you, I remember our lives together. I remember everything you've done for me. It's just too bad for me that you've convinced yourself that it's not enough to base a relationship on.”

Lucy sighed. “Ren...”

“Why would you come in here, acting like you did, if all you wanted from me was friendship?”

Lucy kept quiet.

“Yeah, Elerlyth is right. Despite what you say, you are trying your best to hate me... and all I ever did was give you everything I had.” Ren stood up. “I know you need time to sort out your feelings, and that's okay. You should know that it hurts me when I look at you, because I can't take you in my arms like I've always wanted to. Here in the game, I'm how I should be in the real world. This body is strong, and I can do anything I want in here.”

“Ren, I know it can be addicting...”

Ren laughed. “Addicting? Having a body I can run in for hours, instead of one where I can barely walk? Are you kidding me?” He took out a stone brick and passed it to Lucy. “Hold this.”

She took it and held onto it.

“Rub it with your hands. How does it feel? Rough? Coarse? Heavy?”

Lucy nodded.

“It feels real enough.” Ren said and took it from her. He held the brick with both hands, used Iron Grip on it, and crushed it into powder. “This isn't addicting, Lucy. I know it's not real; but, I honestly don't care. It's the most fun I've ever had in my life.”

She looked at him in surprise.

“I wanted to share all of this with you. I wanted you to experience it with me. I wanted to live the life I should be living in the real world. I really, really wanted the 'me' in here to be the 'us' in here.”

“Then do it.” Lucy said. “Do me, right here on the bed.” She said and stored her clothes, leaving just her underwear on and no bra.

Ren sighed. “Get out.”

“W-w-what?” Lucy asked, surprised.

“Put your clothes back on, and get out.”

“But... but...”

Ren concentrated on his Command Aura. “Lucy. Be. Quiet.”

Lucy clamped her mouth shut and stared at him.

“How many times do I have to tell you that I'm not like any other man you've ever been with? I'm not going to be like those assholes who treat you like dirt, just because you expect me to act like them.” Ren frowned. “I can't believe you thought I'd just use you like that.” He paced back and forth. “Do you hate yourself so much that you want me to treat you like trash?” Ren stopped pacing and looked at her. “If you're going to keep expecting me to do that, then I never want to see you again.”

“But... but...”

“GET! DRESSED!” Ren yelled, and Lucy equipped her clothes. “That's better.” He said and sighed. “Do you even care about how much you just hurt me with that little stunt? You give me another glimpse of heaven, knowing full well that I wouldn't... I WOULDN'T... do to you what any other guy would do, if you took off your clothes in front of them.”

“So... so you've moved on already.” Lucy said.

“You're making it pretty damn easy to.” Ren said. “The breakup, your message, leaving me alone in the game for months, then showing up here out of the blue, and now this whole conversation.” He scowled. “If you'd fought half as hard trying to keep us together as you are trying to keep us apart, I'd be groveling at your feet and licking your goddamn shoes.”

“You seem to be cursing a lot now.” Lucy observed.

Ren shook his head. “I was going to drop the f-bomb a few times, but I'm trying my best to keep things civil... which is really hard when you demean yourself by shoving your breasts at me.”

Lucy blushed. “I was trying to make a point.”

Ren laughed. “Oh, you made a point all right. 2 of them, actually... and they went right into my heart and tore it open.” He shook his head again. “I've thrown myself at an NPC because of you, and you know what? I love her. It's not the same love that I have for you, but it's love just the same.”

“Ren, she's not real.”

“Ha!” Ren barked a laugh. “Neither are you.”

“W-w-what?”

“The way you've been acting, the way you've been treating me; you're not the Lucy I fell in love with. Where's the strong and independent woman I admire so much? Where's your passion? Where's your joy?” Ren sighed. “You know what? I think you're right. I think... I think I fell in love with an ideal. I love the woman I thought you were, not who you actually are.”

Lucy looked at Ren in shock. “What... what are you saying?”

Ren smiled. “I'm saying, we both fell in love with what we wanted, not what was there.”

“But...”

“Don't you see? This is perfect.” Ren said. “We don't have to agonize over each other anymore.”

“But...”

“Now we can go back to being just friends, and my heart doesn't have to bleed every time I see your smile.”

“Ren!”

“Don't worry, it doesn't actually bleed. Those are just words I use to say how much it used to hurt.”

“U-used to?”

“That's what you want, isn't it? To only be friends again?” Ren asked.

Lucy nodded.

“Maybe starting over, or even going back to the way things used to be?”

Lucy nodded again.

“Then it's settled.” Ren said. “We'll go back to how things were before any of this stuff happened.” He looked at her with sorrow on his face. “I'm really sorry, though. I can't have friends coming in here whenever they want, especially without an invitation.”

Ren opened the business menu and removed Lucy's access. Her eyes widened as the little key disappeared from her neck.

“It's okay, though.” Ren said and held a hand out to her. “Come with me, please.”

Lucy took his hand without thinking and he pulled her to her feet. Ren led her out of the apartment and downstairs.

“Elerlyth? I'm just going over to the Housing District. I'll be right back.”

“Sure, Ren.” Elerlyth said and smiled.

Ren took Lucy down the street to the corner, and then up a block to the Housing District. He walked over to an empty lot, several spots away from the lone house in the district, and got a popup to buy a house. Ren dismissed it and pushed Lucy forward so she would get it instead.

“What are you doing?” Lucy asked.

“I'm buying you a house.” Ren said.

“You're what?!?”

“They come with their own spawn point, so you can have your own private one.”

“Ren.”

“Lucy, pick one that you like.”

She sighed and flipped through them, then chose the most expensive one. This should show him that I can't be pawned off! She thought, and a small portal appeared.

“How much is it?” Ren asked.

“15 platinum.” Lucy said, and grinned evilly.

Ren took out the money and went to put it in. Lucy grabbed his hand.

“What are you doing?”

“Paying for it.” Then Ren smacked himself in the forehead. “Damn, you're right.”

Lucy nodded and let his hand go. Yes, it's way to much to spend on a house!

Ren took out another platinum. “I nearly forgot the gratuity.” He said and dropped 16 platinum into the portal.

“No!” Lucy said.

“What?”

“Ren, you just spent 15 platinum for a house! A freaking HOUSE!”

“16, actually.” Ren said and grinned, then turned to see a large group of people coming down the street. “Here comes the crew to build it.”

When Jen was close enough, she started to laugh. “I'd hoped it would be you.”

Ren chuckled, and pointed to Lucy. “It's her house, actually.”

Jen nodded. “Gotcha.” She said. “I was going to ask you why you got the 'all the bells and whistles' model.”

“Well, she has expensive tastes.”

Jen grinned. “It'll be done in half an hour.”

“That soon?” Ren asked, surprised.

“It's all prefabricated.” She said. “We just put it up and nail it together.”

“Nice.” Ren said. “You must have a pile of pieces ready.”

“Not really. With that table saw you gave us, we've been ahead on all of our orders, so we can pretty much make anything right away.”

Ren smiled. “I'm glad it's working out for you.”

“It's getting a little dull, though.” Jen said. “Hint, hint.”

Ren chuckled. “I'll go and fix that right now.” He said and then ran down the street.

“Holy crap! Look at him run!” Jen said, surprised.

Lucy stood there in shock as Ren flew down the street and disappeared into the lumberyard. He's gotten really fast.

About 5 minutes later, Ren ran back to where Lucy and Jen stood.

“All fixed, sharpened and polished.”

“Thank you, kind sir.”

“You're welcome, Ma'am.”

“Ma'am?” Jen laughed. “Who do I look like? Your grandma?”

Ren laughed. “Sorry, that's how you're supposed to greet women in public in the Dwarven Kingdom, even if you know their names.”

“Is that where you've been all this time?” Jen asked, and Ren nodded. “Is it nice there?”

“It used to be.” Ren said. “I'm trying to make it nice again.”

“That's a lofty goal.”

“Not if you do it one step at a time, Jen.”

She nodded, and turned to Lucy. “Your key will appear when the house is finished.”

“Thank you.”

Jen laughed. “No. Thank you.” She said. “A platinum tip was quite the incentive to come over right away.”

Lucy pointed at Ren. “It's his money.”

“Fine.” Ren said and took out a black pouch. He tossed several handfuls of coins into it and gave it to Lucy.

“What's this?”

“An apology for things not working out.”

“You're buying me off?”

“That you would even think that...” Ren shook his head. “You know my motto, Lucy. Friends help friends when they can.”

Lucy nodded.

“I'm really glad we're back to being friends.”

“You are?”

“Yeah. Now I don't have to feel so bad about ignoring you.” Ren said to her surprised face. “Go buy yourself something nice.” He pointed to the coin pouch and turned away from her. “Bye.” Ren said and walked back to his business.

*

“What was that all about?” Jen asked.

“We broke up.” Lucy said as an explanation.

“That's no reason to treat him like that.”

“What do you know about it?” Lucy asked.

“Not a thing.” Jen smiled. “He's just a nice kid that Sally took under her wing, when he had nothing. Now he's buying his old girlfriend a house. A very expensive house actually; and not once did he say it was too much, or tried to convince you to get a cheaper one.”

Lucy looked back where Ren had gone and sighed. She looked at the coin pouch, equipped it, and gasped. There was 125 platinum in it.

*

Ren entered his building and Elerlyth was still standing there in the middle of the floor.

“Can your feeding wait for a little while? I have to log out and eat supper.”

Elerlyth walked over to him and took him into a hug. Ren's head nestled on her chest like it was meant to be there, and he sighed. She held him like that for a couple of minutes, not saying anything. She could feel everything he felt, though. All the swirling emotions coming from him brought tears to her eyes. She wiped them away and then leaned back to look him in the eyes.

“Of course it can wait, Ren.” Elerlyth said. “Go and take care of what you need to.”

“Thanks, Elerlyth.” He let her go and stepped back.

“Logout.”

********

Ren slipped off the VR headset and glared at Bonnie.

“Sorry, Ren. I called her and asked if she knew what was going on.”

“That was not your call to make, Bonnie.”

“Ren, she loves you...”

“Not enough to stay.” Ren said. “I assume you heard all of that?”

Bonnie nodded.

“Then I want you to remember something.” Ren said and slid out of bed. “It's not any of your business what I do in my personal life.”

“Ren, I was just...”

“None. Of. Your. Business.” He said, then went to the bathroom to take care of some other business. He came back out and Bonnie was still there. “With everything I've got going on, I really didn't need to deal with Lucy today.”

“I didn't think she would...”

Ren sighed. “I know I'm out a little early today, but can I get something for supper, please?”

Bonnie nodded and went for the door.

“Thank you.” Ren said and climbed back into bed. He took a deep breath and checked his email. There was the message from Elise Stanford stating that the cameras were now voice activated and hooked to the main servers, and that the other proposal was pending approval, but was sure to be a hit. He frowned.

What other proposal? Ren thought, and sent a message back asking about it. Only a few minutes later, he got another message and Elise told him about the television show proposal, and that they were just working out the soundtrack for the pilot episode.

A television show? About me? He sent off another email asking what it would be called, and how much he would be making from it. She messaged back that they didn't have a name yet, and Ren stared at the number of zeros on the proposal. Ren sent her the name of his business in the game, and asked if the money was the final price. She sent back that the name was perfect, and it connected with the game. She also said that the money was for the pilot only, and if the series was picked up, it would be much more than that.

Ren sat back and stared at the message. He took several deep breaths and calmed down. He sent a message back and said he was happy that she was so intelligent to have come up with the show idea on the spur of the moment like that, and thanked her for her hard work. She messaged back her thanks as well, and said she'd be happy to consult him about the show if it gets picked up. He responded that he'd be happy to help in any way he could, thanked her again, and couldn't wait to hear from her about it.

Bonnie came in with his supper and he ate in silence. That was the way it was normally; but this time, it was an uncomfortable silence.

*

Elise was nearly jumping out of her chair with excitement. He loved my show idea! She thought, then calmed down. I was worried that he'd fight the whole thing, and wouldn't let us use the footage. She closed her email and sat back. Quitting time. She thought, as the clock struck 6pm. She picked up the tablet and went home. I've got some Ren researching to do!

*

Ren finished eating and Bonnie took the tray away. When she came back, Ren apologized.

“Bonnie, I'm sorry. I over-reacted a bit.” He said and rubbed his forehead. “I'd nearly had her out of my mind, and now it's all right there in my face.”

Bonnie put a hand on his arm. “I'm sorry, too.” She said and smiled. “I was just concerned over how you've been behaving.”

Ren nodded. “Thanks, but I'm not morally corrupt enough to sleep with a mother and her daughter at the same time, and in the same bed.”

“But you were in the same bed with them.” Bonnie said.

Ren smiled. “It actually is possible for a man to sleep in the same bed with a woman, and not touch her like that.”

Bonnie chuckled. “You don't know a lot of men, though.”

“If you were here in the bed with me, I wouldn't touch you like that. Unless I had your permission, of course.”

Bonnie's eyes widened at Ren's admission. “Me... in the bed... with you?”

“That was supposed to be an example of my virtuous nature...” Ren explained. “...but, it came out as an invitation to sleep with me.” He said, and ducked his head slightly. “Sorry.”

“No, it's okay.” Bonnie said. “You're cute and all, but I like a lot of muscles on a man.”

“Bonnie! You're one of those people!” Ren said, and pointed. “You like men only for their body!”

Bonnie laughed.

Ren smiled. “Hand me the VR headset. I've got a feeding to administer to a patient.”

Bonnie shook her head. “You be careful around her, Ren.”

Ren nodded, and Bonnie helped him put on the VR headset.

“I'm keeping my eyes on her.” Ren said. “And a few other things.”

Bonnie snorted. “Very funny.”

Ren settled back in the bed and relaxed.

“Flow Login Start.”

********

Ren saw Elerlyth was still standing there, waiting for him. “You could have gone upstairs.”

She held a hand out to him. “I felt like waiting.”

He took her hand and she led him upstairs.

“Elerlyth, I'm... I don't...”

Elerlyth chuckled. “I think we should just cuddle for a while, if that's okay?”

Ren nodded. “That sounds great, Elerlyth.” He said, and unequipped his clothing to block Bonnie from seeing anything. Elerlyth stored her clothing as well and she climbed onto the bed. Ren took out a roll of fabric and made a quick blanket to cover them, and got onto the bed himself. Elerlyth opened her arms, and Ren slid in close to her. She wrapped her arms around him tightly and Ren snuggled down on her chest.

“Go ahead, Ren.” Elerlyth said, and he looked at her. “I know you want to.”

A single tear escaped the corner of his eye, and rolled down his cheek. “But... I...”

“It's okay.” She said, and lightly kissed his forehead. “Let it out.”

Ren's face crumbled, and he let the tears flow freely. He put his head down on Elerlyth's chest and held onto her tightly as he cried. A part of Ren's heart that Elerlyth hadn't felt before, burst open and her eyes widened. She tried to block some of it, but she wasn't prepared for the sheer amount of emotion coming out of him. Elerlyth tried her best to swallow it all; but it was too much for her ability to take and she drowned just as much as Ren did in everything that he felt. Her eyes flowed with tears as they were lost in the sea of emotions.

They both stayed like that for half an hour, before Elerlyth came back to her own senses and took control of her ability. It had leveled up several times while she was drowning, and she took several deep breaths. She closed her eyes and concentrated on her ability.

Come on, girl! Elerlyth thought. This isn't more than you can handle! Eat! Eat it all!

It took several minutes for her to get a handle on absorbing so much, but she managed it somehow and started to fill herself up. Ren started to calm down after that, and it was easier for her to manage. Elerlyth gasped as her ability leveled again, and went from Intermediate Level 9 to Advanced Level 1. It left a gaping hole for the emotions to dump into, and she drank down everything Ren was feeling. After another half an hour, the emotions slowed down and Ren sniffed a few times. He propped himself up on an elbow and took out several scrap pieces of cloth to wipe off his face. When he tried to wipe off Elerlyth's chest, she spoke.

“Don't worry about it.” Elerlyth said.

“Elerlyth... I just... my tears...”

“Ren, it's a small price to pay. You needed someone to hold you.” She smiled. “I'm just really glad that it was me.”

Ren took in a deep breath and let it out. “Me, too.” He said. “I could feel you taking it from me, just as if we were... you know.”

Her eyes widened. “You did?”

Ren nodded. “I don't know how your ability works; but it's great.” He said. “You know all those feelings I felt?”

Elerlyth nodded for him to continue.

“They're still there, and I can let them lose again.”

Her eyes widened, and Ren grinned.

“Don't worry, I can deal with them easier now.” Ren reached a hand out and cupped the side of her face. “I came all this way to help you, and then you ended up helping me instead.” He smiled. “Thank you.”

“You just gave me the feeding of a lifetime, and you're thanking me.” Elerlyth laughed.

Ren laughed, too. “I'm pretty sure you could just poke my Lucy complex a bit and I'll gush it all out again.”

Elerlyth got a serious look on her face. “Ren, I might have egged things on a little bit today...”

“A little?”

She snorted a laugh. “All right, a lot... but, I did it because you needed to get it out of your system.”

Ren nodded. “Well, it worked.” He said. “Now that I think about it, how did you know Lucy went out to a bar?”

“I found out about it in a kind of weird way, actually.” Elerlyth grinned. “Stella's brother works at the garage I work at, and he told me all about it.”

“Why would he do that?” Ren asked.

“He thought I'd get off on knowing women still get drunk at bars, and sleep with random men.”

Ren's eyes widened. “What an asshole!”

Elerlyth laughed. “That's exactly what I called him!”

Ren laughed and he gave her the scraps of cloth to wipe her chest off. She started to move the cloth around, then glanced at Ren to see if he was staring at her chest while she cleaned up. He was still looking at her face, however. She finished wiping the dampness off and then lifted the blanket.

“My ability leveled to Advanced and I'm getting hungry again.” Elerlyth said. “I don't think you're in the mood to keep feeding me properly, though.” She put the blanket down. “I'm laying here completely naked in the bed with you, and no reaction.”

“Elerlyth.” Ren said.

She looked at him.

“I could just stare at you in the eyes and I'll get hard as a rock.”

“W-what?”

“It's not just your body that turns me on.” Ren said. “Chemistry doesn't mean purely physical.”

Elerlyth had a surprised look on her face.

“Want me to prove it?”

She nodded without thinking, and Ren got out of the bed.

“Where are you going?”

“Inside of you, in about 5 minutes.”

Her eyes widened as he stood there, and looked her in the eyes.

“You're a wonderful person, Elerlyth. You're both kind and smart.”

Elerlyth glanced down and saw Ren growing, and looked back at him.

“You can be a real bitch to those that piss you off, or hurt your friends.” He said and became fully erect. “But to your friends? You're the best thing that's ever happened to them.”

“Oh, Ren.” Elerlyth got a tear in her eye as she fed on the pure and innocent emotions he was feeling. There were no dirty feelings at all in them, even though she knew he wanted to have sex with her. She lifted the blanket and he joined her in the bed.

“Yeah.” She wiped the tear away. “You gave me proof.”

For the rest of the night, he kept giving her more proof that it was her he was having sex with, and not her body. She fed very well on everything that he had.

The next morning, they got out of bed and equipped their clothing. Elerlyth stretched a bit, and looked around.

“You really made all of this furniture?” She asked.

Ren nodded.

“Can you... can you make me something?”

“What would you like?”

“I really like that sitting table.” Elerlyth said, and blushed a little. “And the bed.”

Ren smiled. “I'll have to order the mirror, but I can make the rest easily.”

“How long...”

“About 20 minutes.”

“W-what?” She said, surprised. “Not a week or two?”

“A week? Maybe if I had to do a thousand.” Ren chuckled at her expression. “I make them one at a time.”

Elerlyth shook her head. “You're amazing.”

Ren smiled. “You're just saying that because I can go all night, and not get tired or have to stop.”

She rolled her eyes. “Yeah, that's why you're amazing.”

He laughed. “Let's go downstairs and I'll make the bed and table for you.” They went downstairs and sure enough, after 20 minutes, Elerlyth had a sitting table and a bed with a mattress ready. Ren told her to wait for a minute, and went upstairs and got the sitting table with the mirror. He gave that to her instead of the one he'd just made and she looked at him in surprise.

“Are you sure?” Elerlyth asked. “I don't mind waiting for the mirror.”

Ren nodded. “You're going to get more enjoyment out of it than I am, anyways.”

“Okay.” She stored the bed and the sitting table and walked over to stand by him. “Thank you.”

“You're welcome.” Ren said. “You've got 2 days to go before morning, so go out there and have fun.”

“What about guard duty?”

Ren laughed and pulled her down into a dip. “I've tortured you enough with just sitting here and waiting.” He kissed the tip of her nose and stood her up again. “Message me if you need my help.”

Elerlyth smiled and rubbed her abdomen. “I'm quite well fed, Ren.”

Ren chuckled, and put a hand over the one on her belly. “I meant with fighting or something; but, keep that in mind, too.”

“You'd help me with stuff like that?” Elerlyth asked.

“If I can, sure.”

She smiled. “I'll consider it.”

Ren activated Sneak and ran by her. When she turned around, he was gone. She looked around and Ren poked her sides.

“Yip!” Elerlyth let out, and jumped from surprise. “You ass!” She turned around and punched him in the arm.

Ren laughed. “You're not the only one with Sneak, you know.”

She put her hands on her hips. “Okay, you snuck up on me. Now get out of here, or I'll challenge you again!”

“25 platinum wasn't enough?” Ren grinned. “Do you need more that badly?”

Elerlyth snorted. “I don't know what to do with it all, so it's just been sitting in my coin pouch.”

“You could buy a better set of armor.”

“Are you kidding?” Elerlyth laughed. “This stuff is worth a fortune! I couldn't buy a better set if I tried.”

Ren grinned. “It looks awesome on you, too.”

“Yeah, you did a really good job on it.” She said and equipped it.

“Actually, I have something else that would look awesome on you, too.”

“Oh, yeah? What is it? A helmet? A super shield?”

Ren pulled out the see-through and lace outfit (with frills) he'd made the other day, and Elerlyth looked at it in surprise.

“Where the hell did you get that?” She asked, and took it from his hand. “It's so soft!” She ran it through her hands and looked at the lace covering the essential bits. They could be lifted and you'd see what was underneath. “Ren, please tell me where you got this!”

“It's a secret!” Ren said and grinned. “See you later.”

She stared at him and he walked to the door. “REN!”

Ren chuckled. “I made it, of course.”

Elerlyth looked at it, and then back at Ren. “Do you have anything else?” She asked as hope filled her face. He laughed and left the building.

Ren went over to Donan's shop, was greeted with a bone-breaking hug, and a hand that ruffled his hair. He apologized for not visiting earlier, and told Donan that he hadn't sold anything yet, but gave him 10 platinum for when he did start selling things. Donan tried to give it back, and Ren refused, claiming that he'd rather give a bunch now, rather than a few gold here and there over the next few years. Donan gave him another hug and pat on the head, then Ren left the shop.

He went to Sally's Shop next, and was also greeted with a bone-breaking hug. She tried her best to get him to stay and tell her all about his adventures, but he apologized and said that this was just a quick visit. He had to get back home before his fiance and her mother started to worry. Sally let him out of the hug and stepped back. She looked at him with an appraising eye, and smiled.

“I guess I can't call you my Student anymore.”

Notice!

You have lost the title: Sally's Student, and all related benefits.

Ren looked at her. “I'll always be your student, Sally.” He said and took her hand, bent over it, and lightly kissed it. “Thank you for setting me on the path.”

Sally blushed a deep red and waved a hand in front of her face. “Oh, dear me.”

“Are you okay?” Ren asked, and helped her to a chair.

“I'm fine.” She said, and smiled. “You're just a little too much for this old heart to handle.”

Ren's eyes widened and then he smiled. “If you were a few years younger, and I wasn't seeing someone...”

Sally laughed. “You've certainly gotten fresh while you were away!”

Ren grinned. “Yeah. I've had some things happen, and I might have picked up a bad habit or two.”

“You should be a bit more careful with the frail at heart like myself.” She said, then winked. “If you were a few years older, and I didn't love my deceased husband so much.”

“There you go!” Ren laughed. “You're only as young as you feel.”

Sally grinned. “You said this was a quick visit, so you have a reason for being here.”

Ren nodded. “I'm looking for outfits for a wife, bride, fiance, and probably just a general wardrobe.”

Her eyes widened, then she chuckled. “You're not looking for much, then.”

He smiled. “I really am in a bit of a rush.”

“Okay, come over here.” Ren followed Sally to her main workbench and she started looking through all of the patterns and things she had, then handed various things to Ren. He gathered them into a pile and waited until Sally said she was done.

“That's everything I have of what you described.”

“How much...”

Sally shook her head. “I'm sharing things with a fellow Tailor.”

Ren sighed, and looked through the patterns. He memorized them all, and then he looked at Sally.

“These are fantastic, Sally.” Ren said. “The cuts are impeccable.”

“You can take them if you want.”

Ren smiled. “No need. I've got them all up here now.” He pointed to his forehead.

Her eyes widened. “You've definitely learned a lot, then.”

He nodded. “I'll share a few of Lord Neram's works with you, if that's okay?”

“Sure, Ren.” Sally said, and her eyes widened at some of the things Ren drew out for her. “He... he was a Master Tailor, too?”

Ren nodded. “His wife gave me this.” He took out the Master Tailor's Sewing Needle and showed it to her.

“Oh, my.” Sally said. “You can repair clothes by touching them!”

“I've used it a lot.” He said.

Sally laughed. “I can imagine.”

Ren touched her dress with it. “Repair.” It glowed for a moment and then reformed itself and looked brand new. Sally looked at it and took several breaths. “I'm glad I'm already sitting down.”

“All right, I think I've given you a few too many shocks today.” Ren chuckled. “Thanks a lot for the patterns, Sally. I'll come back in a few days and share more of Lord Neram's work with you.”

“That would be great, Ren. Thank you.”

Running Quest Update!

You have spread the word of Lord Neram's work to a new land! People from far and wide will hear his name, and associate it with well made clothing.

Influence: +10,000

Notice!

You have gained Honor for increasing House Neram's Influence.

Honor: +1000

Ren dismissed the popups, then bought several bolts of cloth to replace the ones he used. He thanked her and left the shop. He ran back to his building and went inside. Elerlyth was nowhere to be found, so he went upstairs to the apartment and into the cabinet. He nailed it shut and stepped through the portal, then nailed that cabinet shut as well, and ran downstairs. He fed Princess breakfast, and summoned Teepo. Ren ate some food himself, and stored Princess' crate when she left it. He led her outside and locked the place up, then started to run.

I am so late! Ren thought, and kept running.
