His confidence swiftly ran out. From the jump, the meeting with Nrorce was awkward.

The goblin eyed Randidly with naked suspicion when he arrived at the entrance to Nrorce’s farming compound. The proof of Randidly’s betrayal was in the pudding; all around the goblin’s base, flowers were blooming. The whole of the countryside, now fueled with the abundant Aether of the Alpha Cosmos, came alive.

Despite Nrorce’s suicidal desires, Randidly had saved the world.

Otters played in streams. Strange, copper-winged pigeons clustered on tree branches and cooed playfully at each other. Wild strawberries grew rampant across the hillside, their bright red color hinting at their tart sweetness.

Randidly rubbed his cheek rather awkwardly. Directly against Nrorce’s wishes, he had consumed the goblin’s homeworld in his Alpha Cosmos, preventing the world from wasting away with Nrorce as he succumbed to his grief. Not that Randidly regretted that decision; he was very confident, from the imprint of Nrorce’s daughter, that she would have wanted it. And in his mind, his true debt was to her. Plus, it was the right thing to do.

But standing in the face of the goblin’s sour regard was a bit uncomfortable.

Nrorce grunted and turned away, finally ending the painful stare. “Alright, alright. Enough of the tearful reunion. Come on in and harvest something fresh for dinner. I’ll be in the kitchen.”

Randidly blinked in surprise and then followed the goblin through the cracked tunnel into the farm. Obviously, the invitation had been to dinner, but were they really just going to have a meal together?

With no tirade? No slew of verbal abuse? No acidic diatribe that cataloged Randidly’s failures?

Looking around, Randidly couldn’t help but grimace; it was clear that the transition into the Alpha Cosmos had not been easy for the farm. Perhaps part of that was probably how near to stuffed Randidly had been at the time, but it might also be related to the significance of this particular place. Either way, the heavy walls were cracked and the intricate Engravings were shattered. Vines grew through the jagged ravines in the high walls and the farm had obviously gone wild.

However, Randidly was surprised to find that small central corners of the four farming quadrants saw hints of some use. When they had last spoken, Nrorce had been completely defeated and prepared to lay on his daughter’s old bed until he wasted away. When Randidly had left, he had honestly believed he would never see him again. And now-

Could his continued vigor be because I went against his wishes and saved the world? Randidly wondered as he gathered some fresh-looking peppers and onions from the overgrown fields. His lips twitched as the old habits of ripping out the weeds by hand came back over him. Without the walls in place, ambient images seeped into the plants, but he still restrained himself. ..perhaps he wanted to stay alive and spite me?

Randidly straightened and crooked a finger, rather than dwell on Nrorce’s motivations. Natural energy, without any associated images, gathered around his hands. His Grim Intuition gave him a perfect picture of the entire field around him. His tail swished around and around, as though stirring a cauldron. And when he had gathered enough energy, he unleashed it in a massive wave, obliterating the weeds and leaving the vegetables untouched.

Congratulations! Your Skill Motif of the Hungry Deep (P) has grown to Level 381!

I missed a huge aspect of this ability when I tested it in the shaft. Who knew it would be so useful for gardening, Randidly thought about his new Skillset with bemusement as he returned to Nrorce’s dwelling with an armful of vegetables.

While the fields had received some effort, all Randidly suspicions about the Nrorce’s fatalistic attitude were confirmed when he walked into the disaster zone that was the house. Flies buzzed above piles of rotten produce that had been allowed to lay exposed to the elements for too long. Vaguely damp-looking fabrics lay in clumped piles. Some frantic scurrying as Randidly entered into the threshold seemed to suggest that Nrorce wasn’t the only occupant of the premises.

Randidly’s lips twitched in distaste. He raised another finger, swirling it through the air. ...and pest control...

Congratulations! Your Skill Motif of the Hungry Deep (P) has grown to Level 382!

If Nrorce noticed Randidly’s scorched earth tactics for annihilating all the creatures that had entrenched themselves in his house, he didn’t mention it when Randidly finally entered the kitchen. The goblin examined the eclectic mixture of peppers and root vegetables that Randidly placed on the near-sacred, still spotless wooden food prep table and tapped his cheek. “Any of the livestock left?”

Randidly shook his head. “But I know where to find some quality meat.”

Nrorce made his most common expression: dubiousness. Rather than being reassuring, however, the familiar expression just made the interaction even more strange. “Soon? And it will be fresh?”

Randidly twitched. The longer they had these mundane conversations like the previous row hadn’t happened, the more uncomfortable Randidly had become. So instead of answering the question, he cleared his throat and said. “Alright, what the hell is this about? Why are you pretending like- like you didn’t donate your daughter’s Aetherium to save my life and immediately regretted it?”

For a brief moment, Nrorce’s features twisted into the rage and determination that Randidly remembered. But then, almost reluctantly, those emotions faded from his expression and he just looked tired. After scratching one of his floppy blue ears for a few seconds, the goblin said. “I heard about what happened to Helen.”

Randidly’s words caught in his throat. He swallowed very slowly.

“I get it,” Nrorce continued. “And yea, I hate what it cost to save you- but I also wanted to have dinner with you. Don’t overthink it, alright?”

“I won’t,” Randidly whispered. Then his stalled brain got back on track. He released a shaky breath. His hands opened and closed slowly. “But yes, I do know where to find quality meat that will be extremely fresh.”

Nrorce shooed him away, the vulnerable moment swept under the rug. Randidly turned away, already composing a message to Tatiana. Can you buy me a few quality steaks?

Yes. Her response was near immediate.

Randidly tilted his head to the side when no follow-up message came. His mouth twisted as he left Nrorce’s house and walked toward the wall. He inquired. Is something wrong?

Nah, just a bit- I had the weirdest hankering for meat this morning. As high quality as I could find. A bit aggravating to find out that it was a Skill activation without me noticing. But it is good to know that you are safely back from training.

Randidly left Nrorce’s compound and looked at the message for a long time. He thought about the loss of Helen. He then thought about the emptiness that he had felt when he sat with the Stillborn Phoenix and convinced the image to let the Unborn return to Devick’s side. Not to escape the curse they held, but to give them the freedom to choose. To not grip too tightly to companions.

He thought about loneliness. Then Randidly slapped his cheeks.

Actually, would you like to join me for dinner? Randidly said. See if you can track down Naffur and Miss Collins. You guys do so much to support me. I really think we should get to know each other better.

For the first time since the conversation started, there was a lull in responses. When her answer finally came, he could practically see Tatiana’s eyebrows rising. Well, well, well. Would you believe me if I say that even my Skill is surprised you suggested that? It’s very out of character.

Randidly ignored the twinge of guilt in his chest and opened a portal to Kharon.

*****

“Mmmm, can you feel that sunlight, little sis?” Actus Suprem Devick leaned back in her chair by the window and stretched her arms until her shoulder popped. She practically beamed. “Seriously, I have been in such a good mood lately.”

“Yes, it is indeed auspicious that you have finally been recognized for your talents,” Wick said woodenly. He seemed already quite used to Devick’s surprising insistence that she be complimented. Lady Iellaya inwardly applauded how easily the Commandant adjusted his attitude when his boss was around.

Especially now that she sat in his office near constantly. Her new post involved much less work than the pomp to crown her suggested.

But to even Lady Iellaya’s surprise, Devick waved a hand and a flash of irritation crossed her face. “Not that. I don’t know, it’s hard for me to describe… the feeling is slightly akin to scheduling a duel to publicly humiliate a sniveling whelp, only to forget about the date. Then, the day of, when I’m reminded of what is to come, the pure joy of thinking about killing him surges in my chest all over again-”

For a brief moment, a pure smile crossed Devick’s face. Then she shrugged. “That’s the feeling, but I can’t remember any duels coming up. Hmmm… Perhaps… a man?!? Perhaps I’ve touched on the threads of fate and at Don Beigon’s party I’ll encounter the love of my life?”

“Surely there is no man worthy of you,” Lady Iellaya added when Commandant Wick remained silent and thoughtful.

“True,”

Lady Iellaya shivered; when Devick spoke, there was something horribly dangerous in her voice. Madness unfolded into a thousand-legged insect of violence, bent on devouring the entire world. But as the Actus Suprem continued, Lady Iellaya wondered if she had just imagined it. “But still, a girl can dream, right? Ah, Wick, I’m guessing from your expression that you didn’t manage to complete your mission?”

Wick paled but bowed his head in surrender. “Unfortunately, Don Beigon insists on meeting you personally before issuing an invitation, despite your status as Actus Suprem-”

“Fine then. Let’s go introduce ourselves,” Devick said lightly. “Oh, Wick? Fetch me my chain, would you?”
