At least, Edmund would have to cross then, the Durnes could always just go back through the entrance and return to the dungeon at their leisure, leaving Edmund with his Solitude abilities to raise as many platforms as he needed.  As he turned back to offer that line of action, however, he noted the entrance sat closed, the way out barred for the first time since Edmund had set foot in the Eternal Depths.  Of course it was.  Liam would never allow someone to leave after pulling the lever, not before the timer had run its course.

He cast his gaze back out over the pit, analyzing the pattern before him and charting a course across it.  It’d be easy to make the last platform on windsteps alone, but the final third was too much a risk.  Edmund shook his head.  They could do better.  “Leave it,” he called to the Durnes, walking away from the edge.  “We’ll try again in a half hour.”

Lucius nodded, visibly relieved the magnetic field wouldn’t be getting any stronger.  He stepped away from the lever, leaned against the wall, and sank to the floor.  Priam joined him.

Edmund followed suit, keeping a few feet away from the twins as they soldiered through the field’s onslaught.  Edmund watched as a drop of blood fell from Priam’s nose only to splatter onto the floor in front of him and slowly inch across the room towards the pit.  He grimaced and shut his eyes.

The minutes dragged on.  Soon enough, Edmund’s own nose dripped with blood.  He didn’t bother wiping it clean as the magnets pulled it away for him.  He kept his eyes clenched shut, the pain in his head spreading to a throbbing soreness in his eyes.  His ears rumbled noise, his face flushed, and his joints ached as the magnets carried on their brutal assault.

Until they didn’t.

Over some twenty seconds, the air seemed to still and then quiet.  Edmund flicked his eyelids open, finding the world tinged red for a few horrible moments before Perseverance could reverse the damage done to his eyes.  He wiped a drop of blood from his tear duct.

The delvers sat in silence for a few moments, each recovering from the ordeal in their own worlds.  Lucius finally broke the silence.

“Well, that was unpleasant.”

Priam groaned.

“At least we know nine’s the limit,” Edmund said.  “Even if we could survive ’til the exit with ten, we’d be in no shape to fight.”

Lucius nodded.  “There’s a point where an extra place to stand isn’t worth how weak the air makes us.  I’m hesitant to even cross with nine.”

“What if we went ahead?” Priam offered.  “We can cross with as few as three platforms, then leave you behind to reactivate your Solitude buffs.”

Edmund shook his head and gestured at the exit far ahead.  “The door’s closed, and I’d bet it won’t open until we’ve all crossed.  If you’re just waiting for me at the exit, then I’ll only have my Solitude Aspects for the first two thirds of the floor, and I’ll spend the last third debuffed and alone against a floor balanced for a party of three.”

Lucius scowled.  “Can you jump further with your Solitude active?”

“Not directly,” Edmund replied.  “I’ll definitely resist the magnetism a lot better, as well as regain access to my most powerful ability.  What are you thinking?”

“I’m thinking we cross ahead of you, then you pull the lever until you get a pattern that concentrates the platforms near the end.  That way when you get too close for Solitude, you’ll have more room to work with, and we can come back and help you with any monsters that attack.”

Edmund blinked as he ran through the plan in his head.  It made sense, allowing him to only be weak when he had the most ground on which to stand.  He nodded his assent.

“It’s a devious floor,” Priam said.  “Your presence forces us to fight in a stronger magnetic field, and ours robs you of your Aspects, yet by design we have to either fight together, or turn on each other.”

“Yeah,” Edmund muttered, glancing up at the ceiling, “he’s an asshole like that.”

Priam cast him a questioning glance, but Lucius cut it off by affectionately smacking Edmund on the shoulder.  “No challenge too great, eh?”  He pushed himself to his feet and turned to his brother.  “Come, let’s make our crossing now.”

Edmund stood and watched as the brothers returned to the lever and pulled it only four times before settling on their path.  The magnetic field again made itself apparent, but to Edmund it felt as little more than a faint hum in the air.  The Durnes took off together, Priam but two steps ahead of Lucius as they vaulted from the starting platform.

They ran along the left wall, somehow arcing their path up along the vertical surface for several long strides before their altitude began to dwindle.  With a few feet to spare, they kicked off the wall to land gracefully on the first platform.  Thus far, they remained unhindered.

They didn’t linger, maintaining their momentum as they leapt across the chasm to the right wall to repeat the process.  The dungeon chose that moment to strike.

A ferocious caw echoed throughout the steel chamber as a winged figure appeared from a hidden hollow in one of the risen platforms.  It resembled a hawk to Edmund’s untrained eye, but its eight-foot wingspan didn’t match any bird Edmund had heard of.  Between its distance and the growing cloud of smoke arising from the caustic fluid with the Durnes’ departure, he could make out few of the creature’s details.

Its coat was brown and its talons sharp, its wing feathers tipped in some metallic substance.  Rather than being jerked about, however, it seemed to ride the magnetic field like a rising wind, its wingtips shifting around to optimize its motion.  Madness gave it a name.

Lesser Magnetivore Roc

The beast rocketed into the air on magnetic winds and dove for the Durne brothers at the peak of their wall-run.  It never reached its target.

As in all things, the Durnes attacked in perfect sync.  As one they leapt from the wall to meet the roc’s dive, swinging for the steel-winged bird with their bare fists.  Twin energies crackled about their arms as their punches struck true.  Bright white from Priam and impenetrable shadow from Lucius burst through the airborne roc, severing both its wings in a single moment.  The brothers’ momentum carried them through the now-plummeting bird, and they landed unharmed on the next platform.

Three jumps later they landed steadily on the other side, somehow halting their velocity instantaneously the moment their feet touched down.

“All good?” Edmund called to them from across the level.

“Go ahead!” Priam shouted back, no sense of excitement or exhaustion reaching his voice.

Edmund gulped.  He’d known the Durnes were higher level than he, though they hadn’t deigned to share how many Aspects they’d collected in their time before entering the Eternal Depths.  If the display they’d just put on was any measure, it was more than a few.

A part of him balked at their strength, at the idea of what it truly took to survive this far into the Depths.  Edmund himself had certainly been lucky his fair share of times, and Thrax knew he’d never have made it this far without Madness elevating him to power beyond his level.

For the first time since he’d watched those giant rats slaughter his party, Edmund felt weak.  He didn’t let that stop him.  Like then, he knew now how to deal with weakness.  However far he’d made it, however amicable his relationship with Liam seemed to have grown, he knew what he had to do.

It wasn’t luck or Madness that had gotten him this far.  It was resolve.  It was courage.  It was the determination to do what had to be done, the willingness to sacrifice all else in the pursuit of his revenge, the burning need to improve himself in any way possible to better face the challenges ahead.

Upon watching the true power the Durne brothers wielded, Edmund felt weak.

He reveled in it.  He reveled in the heights he might yet reach.  He reveled in his renewed drive to find and take every advantage.  He reveled in the opportunity danger prevented.

And he pulled the lever.

A platform arose on the chasm’s far side, just two grid spaces short of the exit.  He pulled it again.  And again.  And again.

Whether Liam had listened to their plan or luck simply shined down upon them, one by one the platforms rose in a roughly acceptable pattern.  Two seventy-foot gaps that spanned the chasm’s entire width stretched out before him, both at the chasm’s front half.  The other six platforms clustered near the end, offering him plenty of space to work once he got close enough to the Durnes to lose his solitude.

The platforms overwhelmingly kept on opposite sides of the chasm’s width, further elongating his path with useless zigzags, and one particular fifty-foot leap to the second-to-last landing gave him pause, but Edmund refused to risk a ninth platform.  Even from across the level he could see the strain on the brothers’ faces, and though Solitude and The Island reduced the magnetic field’s effect to little more than an annoyance, Edmund knew he’d lose their protection soon.

Eight would have to do.

Ready as he’d ever be, Edmund lined himself up with his first destination, took a running start, and leapt into the air.

The moment his body flew above the deadly drop, his sword and his satchel yanked him downwards.  A moment’s terror crossed his mind before, but a second later, the force reversed, and the metal on his person pulled upwards instead.  Before it could change yet again, Edmund Broke Through.

The ability sent him rocketing forward at a startling pace, its effects at first nullifying the magnetic field’s attempts to jostle him around before his altitude finally began to diminish and his steel equipment returned to its wild motion.  Edmund timed his first windstep with a downward swing, kicking off of solid air at the same moment as his gear pulled him back up.

He landed awkwardly on the first platform, nearly falling off the far side as struggled to break his momentum.  An unexpected upturn in the magnetic force nearly pulled him off the landing entirely, forcing Edmund to expend his second windstep horizontally to bring himself to a halt.

He paused for a moment, the twenty-five minutes remaining on the platforms’ life span an eternity compared to his cool downs.  His windsteps returned swiftly from a few moments on solid ground, but he’d need an entire minute before he could Break Through again.

The dungeon, seemingly unwilling to allow a single quiet moment, released another roc.

The beast announced its presence with a threatening caw as it swept out from under a platform ahead of him to begin its hunt.  Edmund launched a pair of Firebolts at it as it approached, the first missing and the second singing its left eye shut.  He conjured a Smoke Lash around his left wrist as the magnetivore approached, waiting for the beast to come in close so he could deliver the lethal blow.

His challenger’s mark had other ideas.

The image on his shoulder burned with its telltale tingling sensation as the roc cried once more.  No visible change came over the beast, yet at once Edmund felt its effect.  His heart pounded as the magnetic field around him intensified and his metal gear lurched towards the diving roc, threatening to pull him from the platform entirely.

Edmund leaned hard against it, just in time for the polarity to reverse and send him stumbling back.  As he struggled to catch himself, the beast swept overhead, its talons raking across his exposed scalp.  It came away with a talonful of blood and skin and hair.

Edmund spun as the roc flew past, cracking his Smoke Lash at its departing form.  The ethereal whip wrapped itself around the beast’s left wing, granting Edmund his opportunity to pull.

The roc corkscrewed violently through the air, plummeting several feet before it could regain control of its flight, but by then it was too late.  It was within Edmund’s grasp.

His right hand surged for the roc’s chest, his fingers weaving past its feathers to touch the flesh below.  That was all it took.

Lifeblood flowed like a river into his two fragments of the Crimson Hand, one putting it to work immediately to repair the bleeding gash on Edmund’s head as the other stored the crucial life-force for later use.  The roc cried out with a pitiful squawk, its bone-chilling caws beyond it as the weakness took hold.  Moments later it fell, lifeless, from Edmund’s grasp, plummeting to caustic liquid below.  Before even the dungeon could reclaim its corpse, the purple fluid dissolved all but the metal tips of its feathers.

Edmund didn’t stop for Perseverance or to catch his breath or regenerate his mana, the roc’s stolen life-force more than topping him off.  He simply counted down the remaining seconds on Break Through’s cooldown and scanned the wisps of smoke that arose from chemical pool blow.

The smoke seemed to concentrate in strange places, flowing in great arcs rather than billowing up as Edmund might’ve expected.  The further it reached from the floor the more freely it moved, but at spots it curved back down as if suddenly affected by the magnetic force.  He found that odd.  There should’ve been no iron in the smoke.

He paused for a moment to watch its pattern, noting it didn’t shift back and forth randomly, but followed a specific pattern of ups and downs for more complicated than he could fully fathom.  Edmund blinked as he realized its meaning.

The magnetic field had inverted itself, its direction simply changed throughout the room.  All he had to do was plot a route that weaved along the upward flows, and the invisible force would hold him aloft rather than tossing him about.

Once his Break Through was ready, Edmund took a running leap not directly towards the next platform, but at an angle from it.  The effect was immediate.

At once his metal gear pulled him upwards, adding crucial altitude to his jump as he soared through the air.  He used both windsteps as he flew, activating them at preplanned points to renew his altitude and adjust his direction to keep himself within the upward areas of the magnetic field as he traveled along it.  He landed gently on the next platform, managing over seventy feet of horizontal distance without even activating Break Through.  From across the chasm, he gave the Durnes a friendly wave.

From there, Edmund progressed slowly and deliberately, relying on the smoke’s outline of the magnetic field to chart his course over the pit.  He tried his best to plot out his windsteps ahead of time, but with the smoke as the only midair point of reference, Edmund knew his strategy would soon come to an end.

He’d made it three quarters of the way to the exit before everything fell apart.

