Her coffers overflowed with gemsAnd treasures most sublime,But no amount of gold could haltThe ravages of time.

Edmund fell backwards out of the entrance, landing hard on his backside upon a cool metallic floor.  The azure fox was nowhere to be seen.  Well aware of the rules about safety in entryways, Edmund’s first instinct was to open his constellation and view the upgrade to his sigil, but a familiar voice behind him took precedence.

“I’ll give him this; his entrances aren’t nearly as good as his exits.”

A pasty hand appeared in Edmund’s field of view, offering to help him up.  Lucius Durne’s voice accompanied it.  “As it should be.  Balance in all things.”

Edmund took the albino hand and pulled himself to his feet, turning to find the other Durne brother grinning at him.

“Is it hot in here?” Lucius asked, sweat visibly dripping down his brow.  “Why are you so hot?”

Edmund paled and pulled the swelter ring from his finger, deactivating the heat aura that somehow did little more than annoy the Durne brothers.  “Better?”

Lucius nodded.

“Get in a fight with that princess of yours?” Priam asked, clearly noting both Edmund’s clumsy entrance and lack of companion.  “A little lover’s quarrel?”

“Another member of our cohort, actually,” Edmund explained.  “Have either of you seen a demonic blue fox running around?”

Lucius shook his head.  “Can’t say I have.”  He turned to Priam.  “Didn’t Christopher describe something like that?”

“He did.  Something about a rare mob the Dragon’s Claws ran into.  They tried to fight it but it escaped.”  Priam narrowed his eyes at Edmund.  “You’re saying it’s a delver?”

“It acts like one,” Edmund explained.  “Travels floor to floor, fights monsters, even has a pact with a demon.  Doesn’t seem to collect loot, though, and I don’t think it earns Aspects like we do, either.”  He tactfully omitted that the fox had started as a regular mob before he’d dragged it down a floor, unwilling to yet share his unique relationship with the Eternal Depths.

“Sounds like a worthy foe!”  Priam beamed.  “One that may bestow a mighty prize.”

“Don’t,” Edmund said flatly.  “It’s powerful.”

“So are we,” Lucius said.

“At least powerful enough to breeze through enemies that slowed me to a crawl,” Edmund elucidated, “and that’s just a lower limit.  Thrax knows how strong it really is, not to mention fast.  Best case, it outruns you and escapes, worst case, it kills you both.  Don’t fuck with the azure fox.”  Edmund again left out that if they did manage to kill the thing, he’d stop getting upgrades to his sigil.

Priam misinterpreted his warning, leaning in to pat Edmund on the shoulder.  “You want it for yourself, eh?”  He grinned and winked.  “Don’t worry.  You saw it first, you get dibs.”

Edmund simply let out a breath and nodded, happy to let the Durnes believe whatever it took to get them to leave the fox alone.  A part of him worried he would have to fight the thing eventually, but he’d stay on its good side as long as he could.  Luckily enough, the Durnes didn’t press the matter, opting instead to change the subject.

“So how is that princess of yours doing?” Lucius asked.  “Last we saw you two you had some choice words for her father.”

“I wouldn’t know.”  Edmund shrugged.  “We wound up on different sixteenth floors, and now I’m here with you.  You’re just as likely to run into her as I am.”

“She must be some woman,” Priam said, winking in a way that felt just this side of uncomfortable.  “I don’t think I’ve met a single person I’d spend the rest of my life a fugitive from the crown for.”

Lucius elbowed him in the ribs.

“Except, of course, for my wonderful twin brother,” Priam added with a grin.  “But definitely not for someone who wouldn’t even party with me.”

“She wanted to,” Edmund said simply.  “I actually had to pull some strings to avoid it.  I work alone.”

“You hear that, Priam?”  Lucius turned to look at his brother.  “The man has strings to pull.”

“Unlike you, who’s a few strings short of a full lyre,” Priam teased in response.

Edmund sighed, less than interested in the brothers’ friendly ribbing.  If he was going to have to clear this floor without the benefits of Solitude and its confluences, he’d at least get something in exchange.  “How long have you been on this floor?  What do you know?”

“A few hours,” Lucius answered.  “We’ve worked out the basic mechanism and crafted our strategy, though it’ll have to change now there’re three of us.”

Edmund looked past the Durne brothers to take in the floor as a whole, his vision thankfully cleared of the ever-present smoke thanks to the dampening effects of The Recluse.  It was unlike any floor he’d ever seen.

They stood upon a platform of sheer metal, one clearly thick enough to not so much as vibrate as they walked across it.  The walls were of similar construction, plain and solid and without handholds or cracks or any such place to even consider hiding something.  Their only feature was a single lever off to Edmund’s left, presumably the mechanism Lucius had mentioned.

Straight ahead, the platform came to an end at a sudden drop-off, beyond which stretched a hundred-yard chasm between the delvers and the distant platform that bore the exit.  Unlike previous lethal falls that obscured themselves in darkness or clouds, the bottom of the level sat in clear view but ten feet below Edmund’s platform.  He might’ve considered hopping down for a look around were it not for the four-foot-deep pool of menacing purple liquid that filled the lower level like a basin.

He glanced back up to the Durnes.  “Any idea what that fluid is?”

“Not a clue,” Priam said.  “But we know it dissolves wood, fabric, and leather.  Seems to leave metal alone, and we both decided not to see what it does to living flesh.”

“Stay out of the purple goop.  Got it.”  Edmund nodded.  “And the lever?”

“That’s the trick,” Lucius said.  “Each time you pull the lever, a five-by-five platform rises up from the floor.  Pull it enough times, and you’ll have a walkway right to the exit.”

“And the catch?”

“It’s hard to describe,” Priam said.  “Do you feel how the air kind of hums?”

Edmund scowled and shook his head.

“You will soon,” Priam continued.  “The lower floor acts like a giant magnet, and each time you pull the lever it gets stronger in a specific place corresponding to the platform that raises up.  Every time it does, this humming feeling in the air gets stronger.  At about seven platforms, it starts dealing damage—damage to us at least.  Your tolerance could be lower or higher.”

Edmund nodded.  “So the trick is to cross the chasm using as few platforms as possible.  Is there any pattern they rise in?”

“It’s a four by sixty grid,” Lucius explained.  “Platforms rise at random with the condition no two can rise in the same column.  They stay up for thirty minutes before they fall again.  It’ll always eventually form a path to the exit, but unless you want to spend a few days re-rolling over and over again, we’ll end up with a few extra platforms.”

“Which begs the question,” Priam said with a wide and toothy grin.  “How far can you jump?”

Edmund opened his mouth to answer before realizing he didn’t entirely know.  “Good question.”  He shut his eyes to open his constellation, immediately directing his focus to his recently-upgraded sigil.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Azure Journeyman

The fourth step on the Path of the Azure Fox.  Increases agility.  Grants two windsteps.  Increases positional awareness.

Trailblazer bonus: Sharpens hearing.

“Perfect,” he muttered as he realized the change.  A second windstep was exactly what he’d needed for this particular challenge.

Lucius raised a pale eyebrow.  “What’s perfect?”

“Ability I have,” Edmund replied, keeping his answer vague.  “I can make forty feet with consistency, further if I use the skill I used to escape the guards on the fifteenth floor, but that’s hard to control and has a long cooldown.”  His eyes flitted back and forth between the two Durne brothers, trying to gauge their reaction.  Even without using Break Through, his two windsteps were more than enough to cross with only seven platforms, as long as they were spaced out well.

However, rather than shock or respect or any sense of being impressed by his mobility, a faint scowl crossed Priam’s face.  “We’ll have to take damage, then.”

Lucius sighed.  “It’s probably for the best we use an extra platform or two.  We’ll want additional space to maneuver in case the dungeon throws us a curveball partway through.”

Edmund blinked.  “Wait….  how far can you jump?”

Priam grinned and patted Lucius on the shoulder.  “Well, my brother here can leap fifty feet through the air, or a hundred if he uses the wall.  I, in comparison, can make it a hundred and two.”

Lucius batted his hand away.  “I told you my shoe was untied!  I could’ve made it a hundred and five if you hadn’t sabotaged me!”

Edmund’s attention withdrew as the brothers bickered over some competition they’d staged in the past.  It didn’t matter.  What mattered was that, for the first time since the first floor, he was the group’s weakest link.  That first time hadn’t turned out well for the others.  He hoped this would be different.

He walked past the talkative Durnes to peer over the edge of the platform, still failing to feel the hum in the air they’d mentioned.  Edmund did, however, note that as he neared the pit, the sword at his hip seemed to tug itself towards it.  He sighed.

Of course the magnets would affect his metal gear, the Durnes simply hadn’t warned him of it because they didn’t carry any metal gear.  Come to think of it, the Durnes didn’t carry much at all, armored only in boiled leather vests over loose-fitting cloth and wielding nothing but their fists.  They each wore a pack filled with what Edmund could only assume were basic supplies, but the pair clearly traveled light.  It made sense.  Judging by how far they claimed they could jump, mobility was central to their fighting style.

Still waiting at the platform’s edge, Edmund ran through a mental checklist of his gear, searching for anything that might’ve been affected by the magnetic field.  Most of his armor he could eliminate right off the bat, as his boots, leggings, rerebraces, and pauldrons all contained no metal whatsoever, being crafted of bone and rock respectively.  His crystal cuirass did have a layer of what looked like steel beneath the outer crystal, but short of abandoning the piece entirely, he couldn’t do much about that.

His bracers and shield both contained mithril, but as Edmund held them over the edge, neither seemed to feel the pull of the magnets, implying either the magical metal didn’t feel magnetism or at least felt it significantly less.

His helmet was another story.  The ebonsteel helm seemed to yank his head towards the pit with increasing force the further he lowered it.  Edmund removed the helmet entirely, opting to stow it in his satchel rather than allow the magnetic field to influence the movement of his head.

Next, he pulled out his rope and cut two short lengths from it.  The first he wrapped around his left thigh, securing his short sword at a second point of contact to keep it from swinging about as he moved through the magnetic field.  The second portion he used to tie his satchel to his waist, keeping it too secure to prevent it from shifting too much under the magnet’s influence.

The weight of his gear hung heavily as he turned back to face the Durne brothers, knowing he—and his equipment—would weigh them down.  He supposed between Solitude and The Recluse, they were already weighing him down in turn.  Edmund exhaled.  The sooner they cleared this floor, the better.

At Edmund’s signal, Lucius pulled on the iron lever seven times in rapid succession.  The reaction was immediate.

The air in the room went from dead still to alive with energy to seemingly tugging on Edmund’s very being.  The iron in his blood yearned for the pit below, both pulling him towards it and adding ever-increasing stress to his heart to overcome the external force.  His heartbeat raced, pounding painfully in his chest.

It hurt, but between War’s damage reduction and Perseverance’s health regeneration, Edmund felt he could’ve survived in the harsh environment for some time.  Thrax, if the Durnes’ presence hadn’t deactivated them, Solitude and The Island might’ve let him withstand several more platforms.

“How’s it look?” Priam called to him.  “Think you can handle it?”

Pulling his thoughts away from the effects of the magnetic field, Edmund turned his attention to the path ahead.  As expected, seven platforms had arisen from the caustic pool, the vile liquid flowing off them to reveal their metallic nature.  The first few maintained a promising separation, but near the end came three one after another, leaving roughly a hundred feet of empty air between the last platform and the other side.

Edmund supposed he might’ve been able to cross it using Break Through, but he couldn’t be entirely sure, especially judging the distance from so far away.  Worse still, if anything attacked while he attempted that particular jump, it’d spell certain death.  He turned back to the others and shook his head.  “Pull it again!”

Lucius obeyed, visibly gritting his teeth and activated the mechanism once more.  Edmund deflated as he watched the eighth platform rise directly in front of him, nowhere near the troublesome gap.

“Again!”

Lucius didn’t question him.  Again he pulled and again a platform rose, this time further out yet still not riding the hundred-foot gap.  Edmund’s heart throbbed harder still.  His head ached with waves of pain.  Nausea turned his stomach.  “Again!”

Lucius flashed a wide-eyed glance at his brother.

“If we raise another platform, we won’t survive the half hour!” Priam called.

Edmund paused as the point struck home.  Crossing now would be a terrible risk, one that could backfire in any number of ways.  Another platform might’ve been exactly what he needed to make his crossing if not safe then safe enough, but without enough health to survive the full thirty minutes, whether or not it rose in a useful place, they’d have to cross then.

