As he stepped off the second-to-last platform, the smoke faded from the room.  In that same moment, two great caws resonated through the air as a pair of rocs emerged behind him.  With over twenty feet of empty air between him and the next landing, Edmund didn’t dare look away from the narrow path he’d charted, even as the rocs bore down upon him.

The Durnes leapt into action, running at each other’s side across the final platform and into the air.  It was only then that Edmund noticed the changes to their faces.  They both bled from their noses and their ears as the force of the magnetic field wreaked havoc on their bodies, yet their eyes remained unharmed.  Instead, Priam’s eyes had turned milky white, and Lucius’s black as pitch.

As the brothers drew nearer, Edmund could feel his Solitude leaving him.  His heart pounded painfully against his chest as his head ached and his nose bled.  His challenger’s mark burned with energy as it empowered the magnetivores, and suddenly his body erupted in pain as now three conflicting magnetic fields fought to tear him apart.  He opened his mouth to shout an order, a warning, anything at the approaching Durnes, but no air reached his lungs.

Priam’s and Lucius’s paths diverged midair as they passed on either side of Edmund, each pulling back for a punch at their respective target.  Edmund craned his neck to watch them pass, eyes bleeding and wide with horror as a roc bore down on each of them.

Lucius cried out in pain.  Priam’s shout caught in his throat.  Neither completed their strike, their muscles failing them as they drew too close to the sources of the additional fields.

Edmund windstepped to spin midair, summoning a Smoke Lash in his left hand and raising his right.  He struck with both, cracking his whip across the first roc’s neck as a Blood Bolt pierced the second.

The Durnes and the rocs collided midair, the former’s momentum carrying the dying birds back and down until all four landed hard against Edmund’s last platform.  Edmund didn’t get a chance to watch them fall as his own motion carried off course and his metal gear abruptly yanked him towards the caustic pool below.  He windstepped a second time to readjust his course and Broke Through to rocket himself towards the final platform, passing over it entirely to land in a stumble next to the exit.

He spun to find the Durne brothers lying still on the penultimate platform, blood pooling around them.  Edmund cursed.  “Get up,” he growled through gritted teeth.  “Get up.”

The brothers didn’t twitch.

Edmund watched as the dead rocs dissolved to nothing, leaving only the wounded brothers on the five-by-five landing.  At least, he reasoned, that meant they still drew breath.

Edmund muttered a second curse as he realized they lay upon one of the first platforms they’d raised, and thus it’d be one of the first to return to the deadly pool from which it’d come.  The oppressive magnetic field wouldn’t lessen before then.  To make it back on their own, the Durnes would have to overcome both their injuries and the field itself.  Still, they lay unmoving.

Edmund’s hands burst into a flurry of motion, untying the various ropes and straps that attached his gear to his body.  He shed his satchel and his sword and his crystal cuirass, stripping every ounce of superfluous iron from his body.  Without his smoke to guide him, it was more a hindrance than a help.

He charged for the closest platform, jumping the ten-foot-gap with ease before maintaining his momentum and vaulting the greater distance.  He windstepped twice in the air to clear the thirty feet, slipping on the blood as he reached his destination.

With a breath, Edmund bent down to scoop up Lucius’s limp form, cradling him in both arms as he turned back to face the exit.  He leapt into the air and Broke Through, depending on the additional momentum to overcome the weight of a second body.  He stumbled on the second platform, but leapt off anyway, righting himself midair with a windstep before crashing down next to the exit.

He deposited Lucius on the ground and took a deep breath, wiping the blood from his eyes.  Allowing himself no more than a few moments to regather his strength before setting off once more.  He retraced his steps to collect Priam, Breaking Through one final time to cross the wider gap.  The moment he set an unsteady foot down on the exit’s landing, a chime rang out, and the air stilled.

Edmund breathed.

Long seconds passed as the pain slowly faded, his heartbeat slowed, and his head cleared.

Lucius was the first to wake, bolting upright as his own recovery Aspect took effect without the magnetic field to oppress it.  Priam shortly followed, mirroring his brother’s reaction almost identically as he returned to consciousness.

“It’s okay,” Edmund said.  “The floor’s cleared.”

“Thank Thrax,” Lucius muttered as he rubbed his eyes.  “What happened back there?”

“It was like the field’s strength grew tenfold out of nowhere,” Priam said.  Edmund couldn’t tell if he was exaggerating or not.

“It’s my fault,” Edmund said.  “I should’ve warned you.  I have this mark that empowers nearby monsters, and it made the rocs generate a field of their own.  When you two got close, it knocked you out.”

Priam scowled.  “You had no difficulty dispatching that first roc in melee range.”

“Solitude and The Island are really good at countering that sort of thing,” Edmund explained.  “Once you were in the mix, I only survived by keeping my distance.”

“You got us back to the finish line,” Lucius realized aloud.  “You saved us.”

“And it was my fault you needed saving,” Edmund said, offering a hand to help Lucius to his feet.  “Let’s call it even.”

“Better idea,” Priam said as he too took Edmund’s proffered hand, “let’s never do that again.”

The gurgle of moving liquid turned the delvers’ heads in time for them to watch as all eight platforms descended back into the pool.  The ending platform had no lever with which to raise them again.  “Looks like we couldn’t if we wanted to,” Lucius said.

A chest of shining red metal arose from the floor next to the exit, to which all three of the adventurers turned their attention.  Inside sat two leather cuffs, a dark metal spear, and a stack of three gold coins.  Before Edmund could even conjure a description for the items, Lucius and Priam each scooped up one of the cuffs.

“The spear’s for you,” Lucius said.  “The Depths knows we only take loot that comes in twos.”

Opting not to question how they’d come to such an arrangement, Edmund more than happily picked up the spear.  It bore a simple appearance, eight feet of sheer dark gray metal with a pointed tip.  It wasn’t until he read its description in the smoke that Edmund knew its true value.

Hyper-Magnetic Spear

Will activated.  Can be broken into eight segments and worn as armor.  Adheres even to non-magnetic surfaces.

Edmund scowled at the vague text before leaning his new spear against the wall and scurrying over to reclaim the gear he’d left on the floor.  He reequipped it all before testing the weapon.

He found he simply had to touch the weapon and think his desire to equip it for it to whirl into action.  It split itself into eight pieces, each levitating through the air to attach itself to him.  One piece each guarded his upper arms, forearms, shins, and outer thighs.  Between the spear tip itself and a secondary tip hidden in the way the segments interlocked, Edmund found himself with a brutally sharp point at the base of each of his wrists.  As he made a punching motion, the points surged forward, passing over the back of his hand to stab whatever he struck.

With a second thought the pieces leapt from his body and reformed into a single spear, which he caught as it fell to the ground.  Before Edmund could test his fancy new toy further, Lucius raised his voice.

“What’s yellow plus resonance?”

Edmund blinked at the reminder that most people hadn’t started with high resonance Aspects before he answered the question.  “That’s my mark, again.  In exchange for empowering the monsters, you get slightly higher-resonance Aspects and better loot.”

Lucius froze and shared a quick look with Priam before turning back to Edmund.  “How do we get one?”

Edmund shrugged.  “You ask nicely?”

Priam laughed and clapped him on the shoulder.  “We’ll have to do that, friend.”  He smiled.  “Thank you for sharing in this challenge with us.  It’s been an honor to fight by your side.”

“Just maybe give us a heads up next time before you up the difficulty,” Lucius added with a grin of his own.

Edmund grimaced.  “I am sorry about tha—”

“Worry not!” Priam proclaimed.  “There’s no challenge we can’t overcome.”

“Too true,” Lucius agreed.  His face grew serious as he met Edmund’s gaze.  “Good luck on your journey.  May you conquer the great dangers ahead and come out stronger on the other side.”

“You too,” Edmund said, wishing he had a more profound reply.  “Stay alive down there.”

“We will, we will,” Priam waved away his concerns and ushered Lucius towards the exit.  “Until we meet again, Edmund Ahab.”

“Until we meet again,” Lucius echoed.

Edmund waved with a stiff hand and odd sense of relief as he watched the Durne brothers disappear into the darkness between levels.  The moment they left, a cloud of smoke washed through the room, and Edmund welcomed its acrid stench.  He resented the weakness the company of others subjected him too, even as it made the atmosphere more pleasant.  He supposed it was a good thing he trained under such conditions.

Alone once more, Edmund berated himself for failing to warn the twins about his challenger’s mark.  Truth be told it’d slipped his mind in the heat of combat, a foolish mistake borne of his inexperience fighting with others.  As with all great mistakes, he’d make it but once.  At least nobody had died.  Yet.

Edmund shut his eyes and envisioned his constellation, opting immediately to form the confluence he’d foregone on the previous floor.  With a thought he selected War and Focus to form his newest Aspect.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Target - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 1 - Allows the marking of a single enemy as the target.  The target takes increased damage from all sources.

The Target, like The Tactician, rewarded crafting and executing a specific battle plan, though interestingly enough, The Target applied its damage bonus to all sources rather than just Edmund’s attacks.  He supposed that had to do with Solitude’s absence from his newest Aspect.

War, Elements, Obsession, Focus, and Madness all increased in level without any visible changes to their descriptions, but Perseverance gained an entire additional line of text.

Tier 1 Aspect: Perseverance - Gray Resonance

Level 9 - Gain health regeneration.  Gain greater health regeneration outside of combat.

Edmund supposed the upgrade would do little more than allow him to recover more quickly after a fight, but in situations such as the magnetic field that dealt ongoing damage even without any monsters around, it’d be a huge help.

Content with his upgrades, Edmund blinked away his constellation and turned his attention to the path ahead.  The Durne brothers had left his share of the gold—one of the original three coins—in the chest where he’d left it.  Edmund slipped it in his satchel, feeling not even a glimmer of excitement at holding more wealth than he’d ever touched.

His gear collected, his Aspect claimed, and with no way to retrace his steps and further explore the level, Edmund set his sights on the exit, on the next floor, on the challenges ahead, and stepped into the darkness.

Edmund Montgomery Ahab, The Crimson Hand

Aspects Unlocked: 18

Tier 1 Aspect: War - Gray+ Resonance

Level 6 - Provides a lesser increase to all damage dealt.  Provides a lesser decrease to all damage taken.

Tier 1 Aspect: Elements - Gray Resonance

Level 7 - Provides access to the Firebolt spell.

Tier 1 Aspect: Solitude - Red Resonance

Level 8 - Provides a greater increase to constitution while fighting alone.

Tier 1 Aspect: Perseverance - Gray Resonance

Level 9 - Gain health regeneration.  Gain greater health regeneration outside of combat.

Tier 1 Aspect: Madness - Prismatic Resonance

Level 13 - See beyond reality.  Touch the unreal.  Shape your world.

Tier 2 Aspect: Fervor (Madness and War) - Gold+ Resonance

Level 1 - Empowers the effects of Madness and War for each consecutive second spent in battle.

Tier 2 Aspect: Sorcery (Madness and Elements) - Gold Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Smoke Lash spell.

Tier 2 Aspect: Obsession (Madness and Perseverance) - Gold Resonance

Level 3 - Gain strength and agility for each consecutive day spent pursuing your obsession.  Gain mana for each consecutive month spent pursuing your obsession.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Recluse (Madness and Solitude) - Gold Resonance

Level 3 - Empower the effects of Madness while alone.  Lessen the effects of Madness while accompanied.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Island (Solitude and Perseverance) - Gray Resonance

Level 5 - Grants resistance to over-time effects while in groups of two or fewer.

Tier 3 Aspect: Focus (Elements and Obsession) - Silver Resonance

Level 2 - Doubles spell damage when attacking a single target.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Philosopher (Elements and The Recluse) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 2 - Question the concept of truth.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Rift (Madness and The Island) - Gold Resonance

Level 4 - Provides access to the Rend active ability.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Tactician (War and The Philosopher) - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 1 - Deal double damage when executing a pre-crafted battle plan.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Target (War and Focus) - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 1 - Allows the marking of a single enemy as the target.  The target takes increased damage from all sources.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Fissure (Elements and The Rift) - Silver Resonance

Level 2 - Provides access to the Magma Fissure spell.

Tier 4 Aspect: Rebellion (War and The Rift) - Gold+ Resonance

Level 1 - Grants resistance to mind controlling effects.  Deal bonus damage to enemies above your level.

Tier 5 Aspect: The Breach (War and The Fissure) - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Break Through active ability.

Delver’s Mark of the Challenger

Empowers nearby dungeon monsters.  Significantly increases the value of loot chests you open.  Slightly increases the resonance of Aspects you unlock.

The Crimson Hand

Grants minor resistance to piercing damage.  Bestows ownership of the Dread Gauntlet of Kor’Ilinesh.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Azure Journeyman

