Ren chuckled. “No, just healed.”

“Where did the fire go?” She asked, and looked around the room. “It blocked me in here and I couldn't escape.”

“I took care of it.” Ren said. “Can you stand?”

She nodded and Ren held out a hand to help her stand.

“I can smell smoke! It's still on fire!” She almost shouted, and Ren nodded as he pat her hand. “I came in here because you needed my help first.” He said. “I'll take care of the rest of the fire right now.”

She watched as Ren left the room and he absorbed the fire. Everything was damaged, but at least it wasn't burned away and could be repaired or replaced. He went back up the stairs to her, and saw she was standing there, in shock.

“It's all gone now.” Ren said.

“I know!” She exclaimed and started crying again. “I lost everything!”

Ren took her hand and led her out of the room. “I meant the fire.” He said. “Your home seems a little crispy, but it's still standing, so that can be fixed.”

She marveled at how little actual damage there was. “How... how...”

“Let's get you to a Safe Zone first.” Ren said. “You can worry about everything else later.”

*

Elerlyth ran for all that she was worth towards Ren's business. She saw one of the street torches fall over, and the fire jumped across the street and lit another house on fire. She jumped over the fallen post and ran up the street. She took the corner and was surprised to see that even though there was smoke everywhere, none of the buildings in the Artesian District were on fire. Elerlyth pushed that thought aside and ran over to Ren's place. She opened the door and was greeted by 15 people standing in the main room.

“Are you the... no, just another refugee.” A man said and sat down on the floor. “I hope the soldiers get here, soon. I'm starving.”

“You just ate!” A woman standing near him said. “If that boy hadn't saved us...”

“What boy?” Elerlyth asked the woman.

“That cute blond-haired boy.” She said and smiled. “He brought us here and gave us something to eat.”

“Where did he go?”

“He's out fighting the fire.” Selene said and rolled her eyes. “I can't believe how stupid he is, risking his life like that, and only for...” She looked around at the people, and stepped close to whisper to Elerlyth. “They're only NPCs. Why would he do that?”

“For the same reason he let you in here.” Elerlyth said. “He doesn't want to see anyone die needlessly.”

Selene looked at Elerlyth like she was crazy. “I could understand that for the players.” She said. “But... aren't the others easily replaceable?”

Elerlyth snorted. “Has anyone opened Mitchell's shop yet? No? Was he easily replaceable, then?”

Selene closed her mouth, and Elerlyth turned to go back outside.

“Where are you going?”

“I need to find him.” Elerlyth said. “He needs to know what's going on.”

“Just stand here for a few minutes.” Selene said. “He brings another one every few min-”

The door opened and Ren led a man inside.

“I know it's a little crowded, but it's the only Safe Zone I own.” Ren said.

“Ren!” Elerlyth exclaimed and took him into a tight hug. Their armor clanged together and Ren chuckled.

“That feels really weird with the both of us in armor.” Ren said as he hugged her back. “I'm glad you made it.”

“I came as fast as I could.” Elerlyth said. “You need to know something about all of this.”

Ren raised a single eyebrow at her, and she kissed it. Several people gasped, and Selene stood there with shock on her face.

“I knew something must be going on.” Ren said. “What is it?”

“It's a Fire Sale.”

“A what?”

“You know. A fire sale. As in, 'everything must go'.”

“By the gods, are you serious?” Ren said. “Who... who would do that to these poor people?”

“I don't know who ordered it, but there's several groups of looters waiting outside the West Gate.” Elerlyth said. “I can only assume that there's more at the North and South gates, too.”

“Dammit, I can't fight the fire and save people, and fight the looters at the same time!” Ren exclaimed. “There's only one of me!”

“There might only be one of you...” Elerlyth smiled. “...but you aren't alone.”

Ren's eyes widened for a moment, and then he smiled. “Oh, you are brilliant!” Ren said and kissed her. Several more gasps were heard, and Elerlyth reveled in the feelings of joy and appreciation Ren poured into her.

Good god, he's so happy! She thought as they kept kissing and she fed. They stayed like that for a minute, until they heard someone cough.

“Ahem.” Selene said. “You apparently have an idea?”

“Yes!” Ren said, after breaking the kiss. “I, as the owner of a business in danger, hereby grant a Quest.”

Selene's mouth dropped open again.

“I task you to defeat the hooligans that plan on looting the city, while the fire is being dealt with.” Ren said, as he got a popup. He typed furiously for a minute, then the popup closed. “You will earn XP and gold for every looter that you defeat, regardless of if you die or not.”

The players gathered together gasped. “We always lose XP and money for dying!”

“Not this time.” Ren said. “I don't know if you can get back here in time if you do have to respawn.” He walked over to the middle of the floor and placed a hand on it. A large glowing circle appeared on the floor, and was covered in ancient writing.

“This is a temporary spawn point, and is only valid for 2 days.” Ren said. “I'll even add a Running Quest, so that if the fire event part is over, you can still earn XP and gold for tracking down the looters later.”

“Geezus, can he do that?” One of the players asked.

“It's his quest, man. I think he's got a lot of leeway here.”

“Yes, before you ask, it scales. The more you defeat, the more you make.”

Two of the players high-fived each other.

“Do not kill innocents or townspeople.” Ren said. “Or an equal amount of XP and money will be forfeit.”

“No random killing. Got it.” One of the men said and took out his sword. “I'm not that high of a level, but I'm sure I'll take one or two of the looters with me.”

Ren grinned. “That's the spirit.” He said then looked around. “Who's going to accept the Quest?”

“Hold on.” One of them said. “You mean it's just us? No one else will get a piece?”

Ren nodded. “Right. It's all yours.” He said. “This is a Special Quest, only for those present.”

“Oh, man. This is going to be sweet!”

Another popup appeared, and Ren watched as 10 players joined the quest. He looked at Selene, and she sighed.

“Yes, I'll do it.”

The popup closed and Ren concentrated on his Command Aura as he grinned. “Quest runners! Line up!”

They did so, and Ren repaired all of their equipment and clothing.

“Good lord, you can repair everything!” One girl said, surprised.

Ren chuckled. “As a bonus for this Quest, I grant you a sword and a shield, to use in my name.” He went to each person and offered them a sword and a shield, and enchanted them with a glyph of the House Neram crest and 3 Antidark runes. Ren activated the enchantments, then spoke.

“Set your spawn point, and go out there to make those looters pay for doing this to you and the city!”

“Yeah!” They set their spawn point, and filed out of the front door.

“Ren.” Selene said and held out the shield. “I can't use this.”

“Oh! Right.” Ren said and stored it. “Sorry, I forgot.” He took out another sword, enchanted and activated it, and handed it to her.

“I... I wasn't asking for...”

“I can't let you go out there with only one new sword.” Ren smiled. “Plus, I expect everyone to sell them afterwards.”

“I can almost guarantee it for my party.” Selene laughed. “They can't seem to keep their hands on nice things when they get them.”

Ren held the door open for her. “Do me proud.”

Selene glanced at Elerlyth, then looked Ren up and down. “I'll think about it.” She said and went out into the night.

“Why didn't you accept the quest?” Ren asked Elerlyth as they stepped out into the street.

“I'm staying right by your side.” Elerlyth said. “You need someone to watch your back once the looting starts.”

Ren put a hand on the side of her face. “Thank you.”

“I felt some of those wonderful emotions of yours.” Elerlyth said and smiled. “You're really enjoying the whole hero thing.”

“I can't help it.” Ren smiled. “Helping people is awesome!”

“Then let's keep going.” Elerlyth said and took his hand. “There's a whole city for you to help.”

Ren grinned and they ran down the street, hand-in-hand, to find someone else to help.
