Custodium 8’s voice was razor-sharp and quiet, like Klbkch when he got angry. Garry stood, ignoring the sword trying to dig into his carapace. He gazed around the room.
“I am going to free these [Slaves]. And you will not tell the Grand Queen.”
Silence. The sword poked him in the back harder.
“You did not hear—”
“I heard you. You said what you think is going to happen. Then I said what was actually going to happen. Now, I shall validate my points.”
Garry raised a hand. A sword appeared on top of it, ready to swing.
“Do not move! We will—”
Garry snapped the enchanted sword with a crack and a flash of light that had Eisil diving under the bed. In the ringing silence, he dropped the half of the sword and spoke.
“Firstly. I do not believe in owning [Slaves]. I am against the idea. I am against the practice. I am against those who hold chains. And you should be too.”
He looked at Centinium 8, who stared at him and the other piece of his sword.
“What? You should not be able to do—my sword. mY sWOrd—”
He was getting angry, but Garry spoke louder over him.
“If you allow these [Slaves] in the Hives, Custodium 8, all of you, know that one day, you will regret it. You will be those [Slaves] in turn.”
That caught their attention. Another Custodium barked at him.
“Your logic is insane. These are meant to serve us.”
“In return for the Grand Queen’s money and funding to Roshal, yes. And Antinium. I heard the Silent Queen was unhappy about giving her Silent Antinium to Roshal. As [Slaves]. I assume that Workers and Soldiers were sent to Roshal as well for the same purpose?”
Silence. Some of the Grand Queen’s Soldiers had rushed here as backup when Garry had broken the chains. The Custodium glanced at them, then one spoke.
“We are not Soldiers.”
“Ah. That argument is classist, and I respect it not at all. But I shall address it!”
Garry lifted a finger and pointed it at the Custodium who’d spoken.
“You are not Soldiers. But how long, I wonder, until Roshal wants one of the best Antinium the Grand Queen has to offer? Are you all so irreplaceable that she cannot make another? In which case, which of you will it be? ‘Only the worst of us?’ What if she sends two? The problem with slavery is that it reduces everyone to a price. Some people just cost more than others, but everyone is for sale, from [Kings] and [Queens] to beggars. You think you have no price, but Roshal knows it.”
The Antinium were silent. Garry turned to look around.
“Only the Queens will not be [Slaves], and even then…perhaps. That is the first, logical reason why you will not tell the Grand Queen. The second is that they do not want to serve you. The reason the chains are there is because they would leave if they could. Oh, some will say they love you and they do not want to leave, but it is because they have nothing but fear if they try to run. That is the work of the system Roshal creates. It is horribly clever. But I think if you ask most of them…”
Garry knelt down and looked in Eisil’s eyes, and the boy was peering up at him, caution in his gaze. And a spark of something he was trying to hide.
“…I think I know what their answer will be, if they dared to give it.”
“Do not move. Eisil is a good boy. He will be fed here, and you—you will get them all killed. The punishment for running away is death.”
Custodium 8 was regarding his little friend, and Garry glanced up at him.
“I believe you care for Eisil, Custodium 8. And I think he might like you. As much as any [Slave] likes a master. I don’t know. I don’t know Eisil the [Slave]. I don’t particularly want to. I only want to do this. Then he can choose whatever he wants.”
The piece of the sword he’d broken gently sawed at the leather until the glowing magic faded. Garry pulled the collar away, and the boy gasped. Felt at his neck, then stood straight, terrified to move.
“There. He does not like what you’ve done!”
A Custodium spoke, and Garry rolled his antennae again. He was proud of the action and felt like it’d catch on with other Antinium.
“He does not know what to do because he is in the middle of an Antinium Hive surrounded by slaveholders with swords, you idiot. We will go to the Free Hive first. Then…I will find a way.”
He hadn’t actually thought his plan out that well, which Garry knew was a problem, but he had come here, seen the [Slaves], and thought of Erin.
Just like the bread for the villages, the rest was only a matter of doing what had to be done. The sword at his back reminded him of the rest of it, and he turned his head.
“This will not result in Eisil or the other [Slaves] being punished. Unless the Grand Queen finds out.”
“She will. You are insubordinate just as she claimed, Baker Garry.”
“I will trick her. The only way she finds out is if you tell her.”
The Custodium were getting angrier, and they closed in a circle around Garry, and more silver blades pointed at his chest. Custodium 8 snapped as Eisil scrambled away.
“Eisil, go hide. Why would we not tell the Grand Queen immediately?”
“Well, because you would be afraid she’d destroy you as worthless failures.”
Just for a second, the Custodium froze. They had only one weak point. One of them rasped uncertainly.
“Why would she do that?”
“Because you failed to stop me, a lone Antinium Worker, a [Baker], from freeing the [Slaves]. Regardless of the truth, if she found that out, do you think the Grand Queen would keep you? Or maybe she’d…replace you.”
It was a mean thing he knew he was doing. Paranoia. But he knew how they lived. He had been them. The Custodium shifted. One of them spoke.
“This all supposes we fail to stop you. A lone Worker. A [Baker].”
“Yes. I suppose that would be a critical flaw in my logic. How disappointing.”
The [Baker] stood there, an inch and a half taller than the average Custodium, and it was not much in the grand scheme of things. But he was broader-chested, and he just…looked bigger. The Painted Antinium were frozen along the walls, and Tersk II was hesitating.
This was clearly bad, but whose side did he pick? The Free Antinium? The Grand Antinium? He was about to draw his sword and challenge them all to a duel, since that seemed to be the most logical course of action, when someone spoke in his mind.
 
Tersk II.
My Queen?
Wait. Watch.
 
So he did, and in her chambers, the Armored Queen told a story.
 
——
 
“What was he like, my Queen?”
“Galuc?”
She bent over her desk, working with some tools, the skritching in the silence the only sound. Elsewhere in the Hive, things were occurring, and the Armored Queen was aware of them, but her focus was only on one thing.
An idea had come to her after Garry had visited her, so she had gathered up off-duty Workers, [Aspirants], [Squires], and had them sit in front of her. She told them a story.
“Galuc…he was not like you. He stood three times taller than a Soldier, and though he had the same body, a beetle’s shell, and four mighty arms, I never thought he could fall.”
Her feeler traced the image of him onto the paper. A round, huge beetle, fists carving out stone and rock. The Antinium tried to imagine him, and then gazed up at a statue that stood above even the Armored Queen as she whispered. A perfect image she had brought from Rhir. Never forgotten, not even a single detail missed.
“I only met him a few times. But he stopped for a young Queen. It was he who built the first Grand Hive. He who would dig tunnels in war, ignoring the enemy around him. He built, you see. He could war, but he did not enjoy it. That is why you, who bear his form, are ill-used. But there were times when he did fight! And when he did, they broke weapons on his shell.”
“How did he fight?”
They longed to know, and she paused. When she spoke again, the quill skritched again. Two quills. One was massive, and she used it to draw, just like the sculptures of the Centenium she had made. The other was hovering, dancing on the paper. Taking her words down. A Wistram product.
“…He would stop.”
“Stop?”
“Oh yes. He’d stop and pause, arms raised, and let his enemies make the first move. They would bite at him, claw, and spit acid, and he would stand there and endure it. To see their strength. Only after they had attacked would he lash out.”
A single fist swinging with all the force of his body, enough to crush an Adult Creler’s armor in a single blow. The Armored Queen murmured.
“He was strong beyond belief. Stronger than Wrymvr—he’d grab a foe and press them into the very walls and crush them that way if he had to. But mostly? He’d just wade among his foes, arms swinging, until they were at his feet.”
They were in awe of the image, a feat none of them could copy, and she shook her head.
“But this is not Galuc. The Builder was not a warrior. He told jokes. He would build for months, then return as the Slayer came home from one of his expeditions. He would listen with us all, as Klbkchhezeim related word of new threats and stories of strange things he had found on his wanderings. Of course, all Antinium would know it soon enough with the Unitasis Network, but Galuc always came in person. Each time, the Slayer would scold him. ‘Galuc. You waste time’. And Galuc would say, ‘I do not’. He would welcome each Centenium home, and if they died, he would stand sentinel until they had finished regrowing.”
An image of him was nearly done. The Armored Queen’s heart hurt as she held it up, and they saw it. But it was the first; she gave it to a little Antinum and began working on the rest.
“A story of Galuc. Let me see. Perhaps the one I was told. Galuc the Builder was the 11th of the Centenium ever made. Back then, the First Hive was the only Hive we had…”
On the page, the quill kept writing, and she had to change the language. Update it, but most of it she decided she would keep. When it was done, the Armored Queen’s mind calculated it might look something like this on the page:
 
A story of Galuc. Let me see. Perhaps the one I was told. Galuc the Builder was the 11th of the Centenium ever made. Back then, the First Hive was the only Hive we had.
First Hive? What is this?
Oh, forgive me. You are young.
You do not know so many things. I shall tell you: there once were many kinds of bug-people living under Rhir’s soil long, long ago.
They all came from the same place. A wretched place that created all kinds of creatures and spat them out into the darkness, but the bug-peoples were different. They had thoughts. They had desires.
But they were not Antinium. They warred and tried to kill each other in the dark, and a voice told them to build. To become the most dangerous, and then they would know their purpose.
Now, you see, among these many Hives of not-Antinium were the ones who would later on go to become the Antinium of Rhir. They began with a single Queen.
The First Queen of All. Unlike the other members of her species, she was the most gifted of her kind. She spun new kinds of warriors, drones, protectors and even others of her kind—Queens—but she realized that for all her skill, the other bug-peoples had Queens of their own. And each one could make creations almost as good as hers.
What should she do? Back then, only the Queens had real thoughts in their heads. So she decided to make something new: a being that could both think and fight. A new kind of creature unlike any other before it. To do this, she created a life and then another. Then thousands. Then many more thousands of thousands and wove them all together.
It took her an age to make and countless setbacks as the insect-peoples warred, but eventually, she found a way to combine the minds and beings of all the lives. Placing all their strengths into one form.
All their will.
All their intellect.
All of what made them—them.
That was how she made the first of the Centenium. A hundred beings. The ones you know, you call Klbkch the Slayer, Xrn the Small Queen, Wrymvr the Deathless, and yes, Galuc the Builder and so many more.
One hundred. One hundred beings who would never be copied again, not by any Shaper Queen after. Because even if they copied the form, they could not copy what made the Centenium special.
Most are dead now, children. They have given their lives in great battles. Many died before the Rite of Anastases was created. Some perished with the First Queen, but that is a story for later. Some were lost at sea. Some stayed at home, waiting for our return.
Home? Isn’t home here, Izril?
Oh, no. No, children. I have so much to tell you, but this is a story about Centenium and Galuc. So, first, let me speak of how he came to be. When she needed them most, the First Queen spun the Centenium into being.
First of all was Hirriec, the Conquerer. The greatest of all Centenium, perhaps. I do not know; it was at the dawn of our species when he was made. It was he who conquered so many other of the bug-peoples and brought them under the First Queen, not as servants but part of a new species who combined their best parts.
But it was also he who was first of the Centenium to die. Hirriec, who delved too deep and found the true threat to our species. He who rebelled against the First Queen after being corrupted.
That, too, is for another time…
 
On and on the story went, winding and filled with little anecdotes she remembered, but she recalled it all. All she had to do was gaze into the pink flames. And, the Armored Queen feared, it might be a long story.
But when it was done, she would have copies of this book made. Perhaps it would give to the Antinium the same thing that Garry had been trying to make.
Meaning. He was right in one way after all: she was still a soldier in a war. But they didn’t know the war or their past.
She would tell them.
The Armored Queen of Izril’s Antinium was often tired. Her body hurt. Despair had wounded her worse, and she had lost friends and heroes. Tried to rebuild from the very dirt. She was older now, and she knew this failing body could not last.
But she had scarcely felt more alive. Her chitin might crack and bleed, but at last—she had a purpose filling her again. Like the [Baker] who stood in a ring of broken blades, the Armored Queen followed her heart.
It would always lead her home. Thus, the [Chivalrous Queen of Memoriam] smiled as she told a story of her favorite Centenium and watched another story being told in his honor.
She wished Galuc could have met Garry. She thought he would have approved.
 
——
 
The [Baker] picked out a broken piece of sword from his carapace and spoke.
“Ow.”
That was the only sound in the silence. The Custodium were on the ground. The ones he had punched didn’t get back up, and the others were just gazing at their blades. They had broken on Garry’s shell.
