For answer, Wrymvr screeched at the Rocs in an approximation of their tones, and the mother Roc screeched back. He translated after a moment.
(She’s threatening me. Doesn’t want a fight. Wants bread.)
“My bread?”
This was entirely flattering. The mother Roc circled Wrymvr as he edged left, shielding Garry and the other Antinium. She pecked at a Shadowloaf, but stopped one of her children from gobbling the miniscule pieces of bread when they tried.
Wrymvr paused, then one eye on his body opened and gazed at Garry.
(They don’t want the black bread. They want bread that ‘looks like us’. Special magic bread. They saw you had it. Apparently, they recognize it.)
“Scaethen Bread?”
When had they seen him eating it? Then again, he’d been in the foothills and eaten it on his journey. But if they’d been in the High Passes—and he doubted anyone would be okay with these monstrous birds around—
Their eyesight had to be incredible! He fumbled in his bag of holding and then ran over to the wagon. He’d packed some Scaethen Bread for the [Slaves]. All told, he had only twelve loaves, a great deal of effort, but the mother Roc instantly made a pecking gesture. Garry would have put it down in front of them, but Wrymvr extended a feeler.
(Wait.)
“What? What for? This is what they want, correct?”
(Yes. Why are you giving it to them? This is ours. I am going to tell her to leave or I will eat her young.)
“Oh no you don’t! Don’t say that! Hello, Miss Roc Mother? I am not with him—”
Wrymvr began screeching at the Mother Roc, but Garry started shoving him, and shouting. The Mother Roc recoiled, staring at the two Antinium fighting, then screeched over both of them. Wrymvr stopped knocking Garry backwards with his legs and spoke.
(Interesting. She wants half. For her little young. If we give her half, she and her people won’t eat any Flying Antinium on their big flight home. Also, she’ll give you two feathers.)
“Roc feathers? I suppose Bird would flip out over them.”
Garry had no idea what he’d do with them, but he imagined a single feather from this giant Roc would make an entire outfit if you so chose. Probably very magical. And saving Flying Antinium lives was never a bad thing. He nudged Wrymvr.
“Say yes. I do not want to risk a fight, and you cannot protect us.”
The Centenium’s mental tone was grudging.
(…Maybe. I’d live, and you would. But I probably can’t chase off all of them. I’m demanding seven feathers, though. Even if they probably could kill half the Flying Hive.)
One mother Roc and two babies? Then Garry heard more screams from above and peered up.
“Oh. Oh my.”
Seven more Rocs were flying overhead, so high in the sky they seemed like regular birds, except for the titanic screams coming from them. They circled Wrymvr, and he buzzed his wings at them.
(Try it. Every magical monster with a language thinks it can’t die.)
He certainly intimidated the mother, but she began plucking a pair of feathers from her wings, then took two from one of her children and three from another. Wrymvr squawked at her.
(I don’t want baby feathers. Give me another big one.)
A huge glare—and she pulled a third from her wings. Wrymvr was clearly going to demand another when Garry kicked him.
“Stop antagonizing the giant birds. That’s a lot of them.”
(Don’t look so nervous. I won’t die.)
“You’re not the one I care about!”
(They’ve been here all year. This isn’t even half of them. They said they need the energy for the flight, but this old woman is just greedy for her chicks. They can use the sky islands for rest. Give her the bread if you’re going to fail at negotiating, then.)
Garry offered six loaves of Scathen Bread in a tiny pile before the mother Roc. They were small, but she instantly divided the loaves into two portions, and her children pecked up the loaves—and a lot of dirt—in a single motion. They seemed displeased, but the mother was quite happy. She cawed at Garry and then flapped her wings, urging her children skywards. She remained as Wrymvr translated.
(She says, ‘it’s good bread’. When you can bake big loaves, she’ll trade you more feathers for herself and her next offspring.)
He cawed back and received a peck to his body so fast that Garry heard the thunderclap of sound. Wrymvr rocked, spat several acid projectiles, and the mother Roc flapped her wings. The acid sprayed harmlessly in the wind—everyone but Garry had long since run into the tunnels to hide.
Garry wiped some acid off his face and turned to Wrymvr mildly.
“What did you say?”
(Ow. I just said it was unlikely she’d bear more children at her age.)
Garry had thought he was a sassy Antinium, but it seemed Wrymvr had a talent for annoying people. The Centenium casually hooked two more pieces of Scaethen Bread out of Garry’s pile.
“Hey!”
Wrymvr gobbled them down.
(My fee. Thank the annoying bird. She’s not leaving without one.)
Garry bowed to the mother Roc.
“Thank you for the trade, er, Great Mother Roc.”
She preened her feathers, seeming distinctly smug, and he sighed. Great. Another Grand Queen, just in bird-form. She shoved the feathers towards him as if the stuff that she grew was equal to his Scaethen Bread.
Maybe I should tell Bird about these giant red chickens after all. Eh…they’re people, however annoying, and I doubt she could kill them. Yet.
Wrymvr saw the mother beating her wings. She took off slowly, hovering in complete defiance of physics given her size, and then began to soar upwards. Warm air blasted them, and Garry realized—she was generating her own thermals!
Upwards, the Roc flew as her feathers flashed, and Wrymvr muttered mentally.
(Glad they’re leaving. They eat and poop everywhere, and the Hivelands are right next to the High Passes.)
Garry stood there solemnly, despite realizing that they had treated his kind like food.
“Where are they going?”
Wrymvr screeched up one last time, and the Roc screamed back. He fanned his wings as he took into the air.
(I’m seeing them off. I don’t trust them. But they said they’re going south. To the dry island. Home. They said everyone’s going to take back their home. A promise.)
He paused.
(Not sure what that means. I’ll have to look it up. Can’t have Rocs getting in the way of plans.)
“What plans? What home?”
The Centenium buzzed off, following the Rocs from below as they continued south, the trio joining the seven above. Wrymvr’s mental tone was faint now.
(You have your secrets, I have mine, Baker. Give me four more pieces of Scaethen Bread the next time you free the [Slaves]. No, wait, fourteen.)
He ignored the rock that Garry bounced off his underside and flew off, screeching. And then the migration was gone. Garry saw the tiny, tiny red birds in the sky flying south and put a few things together.
“Oh. That’s…concerning. For someone other than me.”
Then he went to collect the Shadowloaves and the four remaining Scaethen Loaves and told everyone it was safe to come out. When they emerged, the Flying Antinium visibly quaking, it was almost an anticlimax when Garry pointed his fingers.
“So. Rocs aside—what I meant to tell you all was that you are not going alone. I believe the help I’ve called for has arrived. Guides.”
“Guides? Non-Antinium? Who would escort Antinium and [Slaves]…”
Killtori’s suspicious voice lapsed into silence as a group of six riders on horseback trotted forwards. The leader swung off the saddle in a single motion, and the [Maid] with combat boots bowed to Garry.
“Apologies, Baker, but we didn’t have any confidence in warding off a Roc attack.”
“No, I quite understand. I doubt I could have done more than annoy them myself. You came quickly.”
Three [Maids], three [Butlers]. The Antinium and [Slaves] stared as Magnolia Reinhart’s servants bowed. They wore their silly outfits, but each one had a pack and seemed like they were veterans of something. Didn’t Garry hear that she enlisted former adventurers for her staff? The [Maid] smiled at Garry as she brushed at her hair, which had a curl of green amidst the deep brown.
“Our employer was quite amused by your request. Her exact words, I believe, were ‘I suppose I cannot refuse the harder request, but I wish he’d accepted the easier one.’ We shall escort this company to their destination and ensure they encounter the right groups.”
“…Demons?”
Every single one of the servants grimaced, and the [Maid] pursed her lips.
“I don’t believe I know any such horrendous individuals, Baker, nor would they be in Izril, let alone the New Lands.”
“Ah, double-speak. Forgive me, I don’t really employ it. So not Demons, and not ones that Magnolia Reinhart knows.”
The [Maid] seemed like she was dying to get moving, if only to prevent wincing half her face off. She bowed hurriedly to him.
“By your leave, Baker?”
“Let me say goodbye to them all first. And please, tell her ladyship I owe her some bread, since she has given me the most help with the least conditions. Unlike Wrymvr, that bastard.”
Garry shook a fist at the distant speck of the Antinium, and the woman smiled.
“Personally, I think Lady Reinhart doesn’t get enough appreciation, so it’s good you think of her that way, Master Baker. And if you could add some sugar or frosting to these magical loaves, I’m sure that would sell it for her.”
The Antinium smiled and promised he would, though he reflected internally that he didn’t have to appreciate his customers’ tastes to get along with them. But that was it.
Trust an ally. Not to deliver his bread, but people? The Worker stood there, waving, as the re-packed wagon became a rolling cloud of darkness that seemed to blend in with the landscape after a hundred paces. A moving shadow. He stood there, sighed, then stared distractedly at the feathers. The [Slaves] and Antinium had taken half since they were very, very useful, but they were so big they hadn’t been able to fit the rest into the Chest of Holding or the wagon. So that left four feathers, one of which came from a full adult Roc.
“Now what the heck am I supposed to do with these?”
Then Garry cast around and realized he’d forgotten to bring a backup wagon.
“And how am I supposed to get back without my wagon and its Skills?”
 
——
 
Runel and Pisca had to meet Garry after half a day of him running back towards the Free Hive with a handcart to qualify for the [Vehicle: Fast Travelling] Skill. Even then, it took ages for them to get back to the Hive.
Between writing a thank-you note, explaining to the Free Queen what had happened, and everything else, it was another long night before Garry once again woke up just at dawn in his kitchen, taking loaves out of the oven. And he had to admit—it hadn’t exactly been elegant or well-planned as his other actions.
But he’d done it. Sometimes, this was all you could do. Garry always did all that he could. Which was why, as a wagon rumbled towards the New Lands, on a long journey to safety and perhaps something new, the [Baker] kept working.
He felt like all he did was pack things these days. And buy Chests of Holding. Good thing Wistram kept selling them cheap; they’d actually delivered this one to the Free Hive, gratis. But he still had to haul the damn thing out of the Hive and into the Driver’s Guild after packing it full of bread.
It took a lot of trips, even with Runel and Pisca’s help, but Garry packed as much bread he could fit until the back of the glowing carriage made of mana and air seemed like it might explode from the inside.
Then he climbed into the driver’s seat, and two magical horses appeared in front of him. The [Baker] took the time to pat both and then glanced at the [Hostler] who’d come out to stare at him. He waved once at the [Drivers] and began to ride.
He didn’t need a door this time. He just rode off the top of the walls and over the water. The sleepy Watch shouted after him, and the Worker laughed.
Archmage Eldavin was good at enchanting. But the silly half-Elf had made the mistake everyone else had. Again and again, when were they going to learn?
The carriage flashed over the water as [Drivers] ran to spread the word. Not to the television stations; that would be wrong. Even if it was glorious, important—
Driver’s Guild code was to never put a fellow [Driver] in danger. The [Hostler] began to write an entry in his book, using a seldom-employed designation. He underlined the name a few times before he sent it off to the other Driver’s Guilds.
 
Delivery of Mercy — Undertaken by the Spirit of Christmas, Garry the [Baker].
 
——
 
On the carriage rolled, and a little Gnoll boy sleeping in a newly-founded village woke up for reasons he couldn’t understand. He pressed his nose to the window, then he raced outside, waving and shouting.
A figure in a red coat, wearing that iconic hat, waved at him. And he was big as could be, a twinkle in his eye, and he even flew, though he got so airsick he stuck to the ground most of the time.
The little boy waved his hands and believed. As the magical carriage flashed past, leaving a trail of water, the rider seemed to remember something and pointed.
Then the air shimmered, and a little green box wrapped with a bright red bow shimmered and appeared out of the air.
[A Magical Gift].
The little Gnoll boy caught it, and then the Antinium was surging over the Floodplains into the Bloodfields. He raced on, faster, faster, and then word was spreading.
Too late.
 
——
 
A few Drake [Sentries] posted well south of the Bloodfields had been cursing their boring duty they’d been assigned to ‘just in case’. They’d expected nothing but boredom given recent events.
Right now, one of them was screaming into a speaking stone at a confused, sleepy Watch Captain. The other was firing arrows wildly, but they just bounced off the magical carriage.
“It’s him! It’s him—Ancestors, raise the Walled Cities—he’s back!”
Then they dove as the glowing carriage flashed past, and a voice boomed like thunder.
“Ho, ho, ho! Merry Christmas, you little scamps.”
One of them raised a bow, and a piece of coal brained the Drake between the eyes. Garry sat forwards in his seat and started laughing.
The magical Antinium, the distraction, the living legend, giftgiver, and deliverer of food rode on. Wondering, all the while, what his [Innkeeper] was doing.
And his story continued.
 
[Baker of Presents, Gifted Chef Level 46!]
[Skill – Create: List of the Needy Obtained!]
[Skill – Create: Coal Obtained!]
 
[Deliverer Class Obtained!]
[Deliverer Level 8!]
[Skill – He Rode in Any Weather, Undeterred Obtained!]
[Skill – That Elusive, Untraceable, Unscryable Man Obtained!]
[Skill – …With His Two Horses (Unnamed, Freud) Created!]
 
 
Erin and Ulvama – Final 
