She yanked the tablecloth off the table they were sitting at so fast that all the dishes and drinks mostly stayed where they were. One did fly off and douse Elohi, but Ulvama blinked. She saw the [Innkeeper] shake the tablecloth out, then whirl it around her shoulders. And then, she pulled a chair out and—
Sat.
At first, the stained sheet of white caught the air, but as the figure knelt, one foot resting on the chair, the other stretched out, the fabric changed.
The dark of the night bled onto the white fabric until it was the same color as the sky above. A canvas that swirled—then caught fire as the [Witch] came to rest. A flaming cloak draped itself around her, blazing like the hat upon her head.
A witch opened her eyes as the Goblin’s tears stopped, and the flames rained down onto her cloak. She shifted, whirling it around her, and the cyclone forced everyone but Ulvama back. A hundred flames upon her robes, like a Great Witch of ages past.
“H-hey.”
Erin leaned over the table as Ulvama blinked, her eyes wide. The [Innkeeper] touched her hat, and gone was the biker, the woman with the flag. The witch of flames’ eyes shone as she spoke, looking Ulvama directly in the eyes.
“Don’t think you’ve seen everything. I have a hundred things to show you.”
She glanced down at the tablecloth dyed with night, pulled from the air itself, and blinked.
“Whoa. I didn’t even know I could do…this costume is just as good as my other one. But it’s missing…”
The silent [Innkeeper] needed something else. Ulvama’s tears were drying as the flames bathed her with light. Unconsciously, she reached down and pulled something out. Then handed it to Erin.
It was a long pipe. Erin’s eyes widened. Without a word, she accepted it, and her flames lit the pipe. She hesitated, then blew. Even if it was smoke, in this moment…
A glowing, yellow bubble the color of the rising sun emerged from the end of the pipe. Erin blinked, and the light illuminated her face as it rose skywards. She stared at it, then puffed on the pipe again, and another glowing bubble rose.
Then another. Her eyes fixed on Ulvama, and the Hobgoblin smiled. The enchanted pipe she’d asked for blew a stream of colored lights up as the witch’s cloak burned.
Then—Ulvama had forgotten why she was crying. And Erin stood.
“Hey. Can we talk? Privately?”
They cast around, but the audience was gone. Walking off, waving—suddenly no longer interested. Or rather, fascinated, but filled with a sense of closure. A feeling that whatever came next…they’d be real voyeurs for watching. Ulvama laughed, embarrassed, and Erin blushed.
“Geeze. I never got what was so interesting about watching people. Then I started an inn. But privacy, c’mon.”
Ulvama looked around and saw no one. Tentatively, she reached out, then put one edge of the flaming cloak over her shoulders. For some reason, she knew it wouldn’t burn her. She sat with Erin at the table. And then?
They spoke. For a little while.
 
——
 
“I’m sorry.”
That was the first thing Erin said after a long silence. Ulvama glanced at her.
“Me, too. I’m glad Garry lived. I’m sorry I didn’t…I was afraid you’d hurt yourself.”
“Yeah. Again. I do that a lot. I understand. It’s just—and I’m sorry for what I did. I just…I didn’t understand what I did that was so wrong.”
Ulvama bit one lip, and Erin glanced at her. Really looked at her, without glancing away like she usually did. Now, she studied Ulvama’s features, and finally, she saw it. Remembered how Ulvama had looked that day.
“Armpits. I really hurt your feelings, huh? I thought I was just teasing until…”
A claw traced a pattern on the table, and Ulvama felt the pain again, but it was like a thorn being pulled. She was relieved as she spoke. The honesty she didn’t want to tell Erin.
The image of the Mountain City [Shaman]…she imagined a silent Goblin sitting there, chewing on mud or something, and thought the [Innkeeper] would understand too.
“I don’t…feel proud of my body at all, Erin. I know it looks good. I know people want it. But it—sometimes I look at it, and it hurts. What you said made me feel like it was worth something.”
The [Innkeeper] digested this, then the flames on her hat and cloak died down.
“Oh. That’s what I did to you? I—I was angry because I saw Matha looking. I thought I was protecting you.”
“I understand. It just…does this look beautiful? I can’t tell.”
Ulvama touched her cheeks and turned her face to Erin. The [Innkeeper] studied her, eyes opened wide.
“I think you look amazing.”
The Hobgoblin offered her a wretched smile.
“Thanks. I can’t tell. Just what other people think. Sometimes, it feels good and I think I know what they see, and I like it. When I danced in front of the Fraerlings. But other times, it feels like they stare and see something else.”
“And I did that to you. I’m so sorry.”
“It’s okay.”
Erin hung her head.
“No. It’s not. I know what that feels like, Ulvama. I don’t really feel great about my body most times. It’s just there. Sometimes…”
She brushed at her discolored hair. Touched her wrists and neck.
“…Well, I don’t think it got much worse. But it’s not great. So that’s—yeah. Wanna talk about the other thing? I shouldn’t have—”
“I knew Tremborag raped women. I saw it happen. I didn’t stop it. He told me it was revenge. I just wasn’t brave enough to stop him.”
Ulvama put the words out and felt them like poison on her skin. She was grateful that Erin didn’t make an excuse. The [Innkeeper] just nodded.
“But you came for me.”
“One brave thing. I hurt more than I helped.”
“Maybe. But you saved me. That’s a start. I let down the first kid who ever found his way to my inn. I watched him kill himself because I never understood him. Toren. I don’t pay attention to things. When you talked about Garry like he was me, I got angry.”
Ulvama averted her gaze.
“He was doing the right thing. Did he free [Slaves]? Really?”
“Yeah, but I get it. The reason why you were upset. And the reason I got so angry was because…he was exactly like me. I just couldn’t stop him, Ulvama.”
Erin was staring at her, and the Hobgoblin nodded miserably.
“I know.”
“I’m…not a Chieftain, Ulvama. My guests at my inn aren’t a tribe. I can’t control them. I can only send them out, and if they die—I’m terrified. I’ll do everything in my power to help them, but I can never rule them.”
The Hobgoblin did not want to hear this. She gripped one knee, and her hand shook, and Erin saw, again, her tension and fear. But again, didn’t get it. This time, Ulvama saw that and spoke.
“I know, Erin. I know. But…the Chieftain keeps us safe. That’s how it works. They can’t always. But that’s how it should be. How it should be matters more than how it is.”
“Okay…but why do I have to be the Chieftain? Can’t I just be the [Innkeeper] and—and you be my guest and everyone be family and friends? I’ll do everything for them, the ones that matter. Why’s the word matter?”
“Well, when—”
Ulvama’s throat closed up. She swallowed, feeling her eyes sting. Her heart hurting. Then she forced herself to look at Erin and ask.
“When is it my turn to be Garry, Erin? To go out and do great things or die? To become your hero? I’m afraid of what you can make me into.”
The [Innkeeper] went still. Ulvama trembled. She wasn’t brave. At last, Erin rasped.
“I’ll never ask. I swear, Ulvama.”
“Is it something we become? So many…Rags, the Horns. Even Pebblesnatch. I’m afraid of what you bring out. I’m a coward. I can’t—I can’t do that.”
The Hobgoblin hugged her knees, and Erin shook her head, trying to deny her nature. The [Shaman] was afraid she’d just say that she didn’t do it, but after a long moment, Erin closed her eyes and thought. She spoke, eyes closed.
“I don’t know how to reassure you. I swear, I never ask. Not Moore. Not Halrac. But I need them, and…yeah. I guess—with Garry he saw what I was doing and did what was logical to him. Yet he never even asked for advice. He did it all, and I just happened to realize what he was doing. If I never talked to him, he would have done it anyways. I’m sure of that. He didn’t need me to succeed. He didn’t need the inn. That’s why I was so proud, Ulvama. So…relieved. He wasn’t me.”
“But he did it because he knew you.”
Erin was working through a puzzle in her head, and Ulvama’s frightened words made her smile. She threw her head back, and her eyes gleamed suddenly.
“Yes. He did. But you know what? It won’t be something you become, Ulvama. Or even I. And you know why? It’s because Garry’s better than you or me.”
The Hobgoblin stopped trembling. She peeked up at Erin, incredulous.
“Don’t lie. He’s not better than you.”
The young Human woman gave Ulvama a completely straightfaced expression of skepticism.
“Ulvama. I know what I am, and I know what I saw. He won’t stop. I mean it. Garry’s like…let me explain. He’s like—Pisces!”
She snapped her fingers, and Ulvama’s expression of disbelief grew larger on her face, but Erin stood up, spreading her hands as her cloak fell back on the table.
“Don’t give me that look. I’m the skeptic. I’m Pisces’ biggest fake-hater. But you know him. You saw what he survived. And what he’s becoming. He’s not just some Gold-rank adventurer. He’s not a genius [Necromancer]. He’s…Pisces. Do you think I made him?”
“…Well, yeah.”
Erin laughed out loud. She craned her head back and shook it, wagging a finger at Ulvama. Now, a true smile was on her face.
“I’ll take credit for it because I want some. But that’s a lie. What did I do for Pisces? I just fed him a few times and said something important once. Just once. Mrsha could write out a better motivational line over breakfast. It was he who remembered it. Change him? Make him into what he is? I just scraped off some of the dirt he wears, and he shone like—”
She was stretching her hands upwards towards the bubbles still floating up in the city. And she believed every word. The [Shaman] listened, the cloak wrapped around her for warmth. Erin sat down.
“I’m the innkeeper, Ulvama. I serve the people who change this world, and I guess I can change things, but I’m not as powerful as you think I am.”
Ulvama nodded.
“I’m the shaman, Erin. All I do is guide. I’m not mighty. I need someone to follow. I just…you scare me. I don’t think I can keep up with you. I was afraid. Afraid of believing in someone. Even you. I used to be a girl who could learn to fly. Now, I’m old, and I’m afraid of changing.”
“You’ve changed a bunch since I met you. I thought you were some jerk who ate all the time and kicked Mrsha.”
Erin turned to Ulvama and grabbed her hands. Ulvama blushed.
“I was. But my third life…did I tell you about lives?”
Erin shook her head, so Ulvama explained her life-theory, and Erin exhaled. Her gaze grew distant.
“If you’d have said that to me a while ago, I’d have said I only had one life. Because I didn’t want to change either. I’m sorry I brought you through all this.”
“No, no!”
Ulvama tightened her grip on Erin’s hands, trying to get her to understand. She shook her head rapidly.
“This is good, Erin. My second life was filled with regrets. I thought I wanted it, but when I followed you…it was the most scared I ever was. When I was alone in Baleros, I was terrified and the most unhappy. But it felt right. I’m afraid of change. But—but sometimes I want you to be the person who makes Pisceses and Garrys. Sometimes, I want you to turn me into that person. So I can leave the Hobgoblin who was alone and full of regrets behind.”
Erin’s face changed from a smile to pain, then fear.
“I—I don’t want to do that to anyone, Ulvama. I don’t want to control. Matha told me about her grandmother, Zinni. That’s not who I want to be either.”
“People come to you because they want you to help them, Erin. Ishkr stays because he chooses.”
“Yeah. Ishkr. Okay, I do change people, but you—no. I don’t want to force you to leave who you are. I want to help, but not that. Does that make sense?”
They were speaking in circles a bit. Desperate to get back to the heart of something she felt was the most important. Ulvama blurted out a random thought she’d had.
“Is that why you never put your [Boon of the Guest] on me?”
It wasn’t like Erin just gave it out, but even in the jungle of Baleros…Erin blinked and then glanced down at Ulvama’s legs.
“Huh. I guess…I didn’t. I think you’re right. I don’t want you to change, Ulvama. Not like that. But then—”
She glanced down at Ulvama’s armor again.
“This suits you. I think this is a good change. Ulvama…thank you for speaking to me. I know I apologized, but I’ve got to say it again.”
“This time is both our faults. Sorry.”
Ulvama whispered, and Erin took in a huge breath. Then another.
“No, it’s…I’m still not being honest. There’s something I’ve been avoiding, Ulvama. And it’s this. I—I don’t know how to say it, but you really bother me. When you poke me. And when you’re chummy with the Battle Hamster, and your armpits, even.”
The Hobgoblin’s mind went blank.
“Huh?”
“Huh?”
There was a faint echo. Erin hesitated.
“That sounds bad. What I mean is…it gets on my nerves.”
“Okay. The poking? I can stop.”
“No, not just the poking!”
Now, Ulvama was getting irritated despite all the goodwill they’d built up.
“If it’s just one thing I do, I can stop, Erin!”
“No, it’s everything!”
The [Innkeeper] threw up her hands and shouted, and Ulvama recoiled. Erin blushed and glared.
“Everything you do bothers me! I can’t get it off my mind. Yes, I was mad about Matha flirting, but she’s not so bad. But we were together before Dretonamis, and even though I was melting…it was us. Suddenly, you’re always hanging out with the damn Hamster, and he hisses when I get close, and that annoys the shit out of me. And you know why that is?”
The Goblin woman had not a thought in her head as she waited, open-mouthed, and Erin leaned forwards.
“It’s because…you’re too important.”
“Me?”
Ulvama was breathless, and Erin nodded, scrubbing at her hair, grimacing, frustrated.
“Yes. In the best way and…and worst. Back in the inn, I had plenty of people who mattered. Lyonette—I used to not really respect her, but now she’s, like, someone I’ll always listen to. I learned. I let people down, like Toren, or trusted the wrong people, but now I can tell who matters. I have a family. But you…you’re different. How can I explain?”
She got on the table and paced around in a circle.
