“Yes. So I understand. If so, the Antinium must prepare for even greater war. I do not know if we can win. Even a second such being would be more than we can hold. And we have held…since the First Queen fell. If she could not best it, then it will take a continent’s worth of Hives. Or perhaps levels. Yours rise, and mine have risen to levels that would place me well amongst Rhir’s Queens. I have passed Level 30, though it took me long to do so. It is not enough. Twice as many levels are not enough.”
Like him, she did not feel adequate. Garry sat in the Armored Queen’s presence and spoke until he realized that the Painted Antinium were waiting outside. Then he sprang up to introduce them, and the Armored Queen seemed genuinely regretful.
“I would speak to you for hours or days of the past, Baker Garry. But you have your task, and I mine. If only I could tell all Antinium thusly.”
He paused as he decided now was the moment. Garry bowed to the Armored Queen.
“With your permission, I will act on my own as I think I must, Armored Queen. It is true that I wish I could speak longer to you, but you are right. We are too busy to waste time, even on beautiful stories. But if you wish it, Klbkch found an audience for his tales. I think we Antinium…love stories.”
He hefted his book he had written, and the Armored Queen sat there thoughtfully.
“Act as you must, Baker Garry. Will you also be requesting stores of Armored Antinium grain? Some I may spare you. Not enough to feed Izril.”
The pink flames glinted as she smiled, and Garry bowed.
“I shall be happy to explain myself to you, Armored Queen. I am only doing as my class…no, my heart informs me.”
She lifted a feeler.
“I shall watch with interest then, Baker. Now, Painted Antinium. Break bread with me.”
 
——
 
What a Queen. Garry understood how she galvanized the hearts of her Armored Antinium. Combined with the fire, and these Antinium had a vision. A passion.
In fact, the Grand Queen’s gift to the Armored Antinium was probably going to land worst of all the Hives, because the Armored Antinium weren’t doing anything with the [Slaves].
Well, what did she expect? [Slaves] existed to be ordered around, and most Antinium had no orders to give. If Garry understood their class right, they were meant to be used, despite being people, and the Antinium’s roles meant there was nowhere for a [Slave] to fit.
The restless group that Tersk II was inspecting were visibly nervous, probably wondering what this Hive wanted of them, but Custodium 8 was giving Tersk a list of tasks they could be put to.
“They are aptly suited for fine manipulation work. Some have talents complimentary to this Hive, such as smithing, polishing of armor. Their Skills will prove efficacious.”
“I see. We shall utilize this asset from the Grand Hive, of course. My Queen wishes to inspect them. Some may serve her if they are not threats. Ah, Baker Garry.”
Tersk II turned, but Garry waved one hand, indicating they should go on, so Custodium 8 continued talking.
“The [Slaves] require non-standard feed for optimum performance.”
“How taxing. Will our [Knight]-foodstuffs do?”
“I believe so, though they have been instructed to inform their masters if nutrition or conditions are insufficient. They will fail to do so, otherwise. I shall now indicate [Slaves] of noteworthy level or ability.”
Then he did a curious thing. He beckoned forwards the [Slave] that Garry had noticed him helping walk. It was a Stitch-boy with a bandaged right foot, who stood timidly, staring up at Custodium 8. And the Custodium…patted his head.
“This is Eisil. He requires additional foodstuffs per meal, as he is still in development.”
“They do not come fully-grown? Very inefficient.”
Custodium 8 bristled and put a hand on one of his sword-hilts.
“He is very efficient at giving comfort. He also requires suitable cloth to repair his body, which is being procured.”
“Comfort. A mysterious notion.”
Tersk II definitely emulated his forebear in a lot of ways, and he peered down at the boy, who flinched, hid behind Custodium 8, and then gave a timid smile up at the [Knight]. He was innocent-looking, with huge eyes, and stuttered.
“I—I live to serve, master! Please tell me how I can help!”
“Hello. I am Tersk the Second. I shall indeed inform you of any ways in which you can help. What are your specialities?”
Tersk peered down, and the boy began to list his strengths, which mainly seemed to be caring for arms and armor. That made the Prognugator brighten, and encouraged, more [Slaves] came forwards, smiling at their new masters.
And Garry watched. He did not miss how some of them hugged their Custodium or even Antinium Soldiers, who were visibly upset as they stood back. It rather reminded Garry of how Antinium would get a puppy assigned to their barracks and fawn over the animals and get angry at Furfur for making sure the creatures had structure and discipline.
Only, these were [Slaves], so in a sense, they were even better than animals because they could talk and understand you.
The [Baker] stood there as the Grand Queen’s delivery of [Slaves] began to ingratiate themselves with their hosts. Then he saw a Drowned Girl appear to his right. She bowed deeply, and she had a long eel’s arm, humanoid but rubbery.
“Master Garry? I am Gilha, a [Cook], who served food for the Grand Queen. She has ordered me to learn from you and serve you. May I help you? You are the most incredible [Chef] I have ever met!”
She beamed up at him with such genuine admiration that Garry felt his heart lifting up. A few other [Slaves] came clustering around, and he saw Antinium smiling, Custodium 8 saying goodbye to Eisil, promising he would come and visit or that Eisil could come back to the Grand Hive.
“Master?”
Gilha drew closer and tugged on his apron. Her face shone up at him, and Garry turned abruptly and snapped.
“StOp using your skIlLs on me.”
The fluttering note of fury in his voice made all the Antinium stop smiling and swing around. The Custodium’s hands fell to their blades, and Gilha went tumbling backwards, bowing.
“I’m so sorry! I’m so sorry, Master, forgive me—”
She prostrated herself on the ground, but Garry was already standing back, a good dozen paces. Tersk II turned to him, confused.
“Baker? What do you mean?”
“Nothing. Excuse me, Tersk II.”
Garry retreated and noted how all the [Slaves] eyed him, then bowed their heads and did not approach. He felt at himself and wiped his hands on his apron. He felt…dirty. Like the Silent Queen’s clean gel being stained by something insidious.
They were using Skills. [Slave]-Skills. If Garry didn’t have his levels, he thought it would have probably worked on him. He tried to guess what Skills they were.
[Charming Smile]? [Master’s Affection]? Something like that. It was a very clever move.
Antinium didn’t use [Appraisal] spells, and even if they did, so what? These were probably natural Skills that most [Slaves] got in order to, well, survive. Garry thought to himself as he watched the [Slaves] being herded towards an area where they’d be quartered.
These might not even have orders. They may just be regular [Slaves] and a few spies were slipped in. The Custodium dealt with the spies, most likely. These are just…regular ones. To get Antinium used to them.
Just to be certain, he went to Custodium 8 and asked him about it. The surprised Antinium was watching his Stitch-boy go and replied.
“Yes. Some [Slaves] had magical brands or devices hidden in unique places. Each one was identified thanks to Centenium Xrn’s magic or made obvious. These ones are merely [Slaves]. We have [Appraised] them, Baker Garry. Shouting at them is also disruptive to their health.”
Garry ignored the glower.
“Yes, I’m sure it is. Well, I suppose that’s the best I’m going to get.”
He walked after the [Slaves], and Custodium 8 remembered he was on escort duty. In fact, a lot of the Custodium were following the [Slaves].
For Antinium like them, these free-thinking people were probably their only friends. Garry got that, and he was conscious of the Painted Antinium catching up with him, munching on the Armored Queen’s bread.
“Hey, Garry. Are we getting more supplies?”
“No. We’re visiting the [Slaves], Runearmor.”
“Oh. I thought Pawn didn’t like them.”
“I’m not Pawn. His bread is worse than mine. He can’t even bake.”
All the Painted Antinium halted, affronted, and Garry strode on. Runearmor hopped after Garry.
“Garry, Garry. We are all very impressed with you since you deliver bread. But even if you are Santa, you must take that back! Pawn is wonderful in every way.”
“He’s an Antinium, and so am I.”
“He is the best of Antinium! He was first to see the sky!”
Garry halted.
“Runearmor. I worked in Liscor just like Pawn. I left the Hive. We all saw the sky.”
“…I mean the real sky. Pawn is the one who invented our religion!”
“There you go. He’s great.”
“I sense sarcasm! I am getting angry, Baker Garry! Pawn is the only one of us who has had intimate relations!”
“Sure. The only one.”
The Painted Antinium glanced at each other, suddenly confused. Was Garry implying…? Runearmor stopped.
“Lewdquill doesn’t count! And Chesacre and Thaina! Pawn is—is—he and Lyonette were dating! He is a master of sex!”
“I don’t think Lyonette would agree with that. Also, this is not a metric that I find compelling. Runearmor, I’m not trying to offend your love of Pawn. I just don’t respect a lot of things.”
The silly argument had brought them into the holding pens where the [Slaves] were being chained up to the stone walls. They had beds, but the chains were, Garry supposed, traditional. The arguing Painted Antinium jostled around Garry, who shoved them aside as Tersk turned. The Custodium were shushing everyone.
“The [Slaves] require ample rest.”
One informed Garry haughtily, and he walked over to…Eisil was it? The boy smiled nervously and warily up at Garry and bowed, ready for orders. Garry observed that he had chains on his arms and legs that fed into one that went into the walls. And each one was linked to the same chain.
If one [Slave] tried to run, they’d drag the others with them. Was this standard for all…? No, he suspected you’d probably have magical collars and whatnot.
Actually. He peered at Eisil’s neck, and the collar looked semi-magic. Garry spoke over his shoulder.
“Question, Custodium 8. Are these collars enchanted with death-magic that kill the [Slaves] if they try to escape?”
All of the ones in the room flinched as Custodium 8 replied a touch anxiously.
“They are not. Those are expensive, and the Grand Queen was sure any runaways could be hunted down without the need for them. None have attempted to escape, aside from suspected spies.”
Well, where would they run? The Hivelands were hundreds of miles of empty ground with nothing to eat, and Antinium were everywhere. Perfect for Roshal to send their products.
Garry nodded and bent down. He inspected Eisil’s cuffs.
“M-Master? Can I do anything for you?”
“You can hold still.”
The Stitch-boy did that, and Garry took the link of iron in his hands. It clanked as Tersk II produced the key.
“If you require one of the [Slaves], Garry, I can unlock them for you. I shall do so.”
“Oh, I’m fine, Tersk II. Thank you.”
You remind me of Galuc. The Armored Queen had spoken, and Garry wondered if that was what Scaethen Bread did. The Flying Antinium, him…was it changing them to be like their true shapes? Or was it just what they wanted?
He did not know. He only knew that he needed what it gave him. Strength to knead. To climb a cliff. Garry’s four arms tensed as the boy looked down. Then flinched.
Clang.
The metal chain jerked, then went limp. Every head in the room turned. Then the [Slaves] shrank back, eyes wide, as Garry pulled the two loops of chains out of Eisil’s cuffs. He bent down.
“Hm. It could break poorly if I pull it too hard. This is better.”
This time, he bundled up the chains like it was dough and cracked it in a bundle. Fragments of chain link fell to the ground as Tersk II stared and the Custodium’s mandibles opened in horror.
“Garry. I could have unlocked the chains.”
Tersk II waved the key at him, and Garry knelt back down. His fingers—the boy flinched, but Garry just pinched the cuffs on the boy’s leg. He deformed the metal, then grunted.
“Okay, it was very symbolic, but I am risking injuring you. Key.”
Tersk II handed him a key, then watched Garry insert it several times into the ankle-cuffs. After a moment, Garry bounced the key off a wall.
“These don’t fit.”
Both he and Tersk II turned to Custodium 8, and the Antinium spoke.
“We were not issued keys to the cuffs of—Baker Garry, the [Slaves] are about to rest! You are damaging equipment!”
“Yes. Fingers it is. Hold very still, Eisil.”
“Master. This is wrong—”
The boy didn’t move as Garry pulled at the cuff with his fingers. One of the [Slaves]’ eyes bulged as Garry pulled the iron apart like someone peeling an orange. Then he was done with the other cuff, the bracelets.
When he reached for the collar, the room was silent as could be. The Painted Antinium were glancing at each other, but Garry was just feeling at the enchanted leather.
He just had to damage it, if there were no death-spells, but he couldn’t get a good grip. There was a soft rasp of metal-on-metal, and he spoke.
“Ah, your sword would cut this perfectly. Thank you, Custodium 8.”
He held out a hand, and Custodium 8 touched his back-shell with the tip of the blade instead.
“Baker Garry. You are freeing the [Slaves] of the Grand Queen. Regardless of her words, this action is not permissible. We shall inform the Grand Queen, but you shall desist. Now.”
The other Custodium drew their swords as one, and Garry turned his head. Tersk II reached for his blade in alarm.
“What are you doing? I am sure Baker Garry has a very reasonable…reason for what he is doing! You are in the Armored Queen’s Hive! Stand down!”
The Custodium hesitated, and every head swung towards Garry. He nodded.
“Thank you, Tersk II. I am, in fact, releasing Eisil and the [Slaves]. Then, I will go and do the same to the ones in the Grand Hive. I was going to do it last night, but it was late.”
He smiled at the Armored Prognugator. Tersk hesitated.
“Ah. That may be a probl—”
A sword appeared under Garry’s chin, and Runearmor reached for a mace and froze as a pair of swords criss-crossed his neck.
“Garry. You are also far less tactical than Pawn!”
“Baker Garry, you will step back and join us as we bring you to the Grand Queen. Now.”
