That was what defined them. Erin’s eyes shone like stadium lights, a hundred thousand watt stare of admiration. That was one of her powers. When she looked at you, you could believe you were the [Hero] of your own story.
That you could do…anything.
Garry’s Antinium eyes had no pupils, no irises to glow. But the light touched him and collected and twinkled. Even radiance itself was drawn to him and lingered for a while in his presence.
Both were broken. The [Innkeeper] watched Garry tapping his cracked fingertips together. His armored body was covered with cuts still tinged green. He saw her rub a hand over the discolored skin on her wrists. He gazed at a collar’s brand on her neck and knew he had done the right thing.
It did not make his life easier. The [Innkeeper] exhaled, and a gust of wind blew across the empty land. Garry whispered, his clicking voice like a dying clock.
“I cannot save them all. My heart hurts, Erin.”
“Yes. It’ll happen again, Garry. For every triumph, there will come a moment like this. A week. You’ll get tired of being beaten down. Even if you win and climb out of that pit once, the next time—you’ll wonder if it’s worth it the next time.”
His head rose like an ant in the middle of a flooding well staring up for the sky. And the narrator’s voice spoke to the lonely bug.
“…That’s not what scares me though, Garry.”
“What, then?”
Erin gestured at herself as her costume shifted, and the shiny leather crinkled. She did resemble some otherworldly traveller. A warrior ready to stride into an inn and lift a tankard high. Erin smiled, rueful.
“I’m afraid that I won’t do it again. Does that make sense? I know it sounds similar, but it’s not the fear that I’ll slip on the way up. It’s that I’ll never climb. I’m afraid that if I change, that’s what I’ll lose.”
He gazed at her, and whatever the [Baker] saw…he pushed himself up onto one knee and adjusted his hat. Then he clenched his fists.
“That is a good fear, Erin. But I have only begun my journey. I am not tired yet.”
Her words had stoked the fire in him that he kept thinking might have limits. However, if it did—he could feel it roaring. Garry did not need [Like Fire, Memory] to feel it. He turned to her and took her gloved hands so gently.
“I will do what I can. You, though, Erin? You look as scared as you did when Skinner was coming. I saw you playing chess and mastering that fear.”
She started.
“I do? I’ve been that afraid many times. But I always remember Skinner, and…I had forever to get over my fear. That’s almost how long it took, but I thought, after that—I’d never hesitate. Here I am, though. The concert’s practically starting, and I’ve been here. I guess I am afraid.”
He smiled.
“Tell me why, then. You? Afraid? You have been with me as I struggled. I did not have time for you. Explain to me why a Goblin scares you so much.”
She brushed her hair on her left side out of her eyes and glanced down.
“It’s silly. It’s on the tip of my tongue, but I’m afraid to say it.”
“Erin, you’ve never not been silly to me.”
“Hey! Rude!”
She blew out her cheeks and then laughed. Then she turned guilty again.
“It…it’s not about the smaller things. That’s all part of it, but I think I just wasn’t truthful. That’s it. That’s at the heart of all my problems. I’ve been dancing around saying things outright. Lying by omission. But I’m too much of a coward to say it outright.”
Solemly, he took her hands in his cracked grip and squeezed with all the gentle strength of a [Baker]. Garry looked Erin in the eyes as she shook her head. Then he scolded her.
“You have done a terrible thing then, Erin.”
She averted her gaze.
“Everyone lies, Garry. Or d’you want to tell me, here, that you like my pasta, even now?”
He laughed. A fluttering laugh and hugged her gently.
“I love your pasta, Erin. I just don’t believe you make it right.”
“You jerk. How are you so good at this place? Okay…but it’s hard. Sometimes, I tell the truth and hurt everyone’s feelings. The truth is searingly painful.”
This was also true, but the [Baker] pointed something out to her.
“Erin. Did you lie to me when we first met? Did you ever lie to Pawn? When he asked you what everything meant, if he was allowed to be himself—did you lie?”
She was shaking her head, because she really didn’t need him. He was just leading her to the conclusion she already knew. Garry continued.
“Nothing beautiful is ever born out of a lie.”
The young woman tilted her head, then snapped her fingers and pointed.
“The Order of Solstice! Aha! Gottem!”
He chopped her on the forehead.
“That was a lie made of truth. You made it true. It would not have existed without Brunkr or Rabbiteater. Let me try again. Do you want to make something out of anything less than truth?”
She was shaking her head ruefully.
“Now you’re making it seem too simple, Garry.”
“The best things are simple, Erin. Execution is difficult. As I have found. Just do not think that the truth should be basic. It should be a wonderful, scorching revelation.”
She tilted her head back and closed her eyes. When they opened, he saw something there that made him so incredibly jealous that he refused to tell her. He wanted to see what came next. But he couldn’t. So Garry turned away, and Erin stood up. Then she enfolded him with a hug and kissed him on the forehead.
“And you, my brave [Baker]. My lovely student. When will you stop worrying me?”
He grinned at her and adjusted the hat on his head.
“When I am higher-level than you, and then it will be my turn to worry about you and send you magical super-bread.”
“…You silly little fellow.”
“Hey. I am apparently very big and reminiscent of Galuc the Builder.”
“You’re always going to be my little [Baker]. Wish me luck?”
She let go of him, and the [Baker] turned, spreading his arms for a real hug.
“Only if you wish me luck as well.”
She wiped at her eyes, then reached for a bright red helmet. She hugged him and grinned.
“I never stopped.”
 
——
 
Then he woke up. The [Baker] kept working in his kitchen late into the night.
He didn’t know what happened next with her. That was okay; she’d find him later, and his imagination was enough.
There was so much of the world he didn’t know. So much he could not yet do. But this was all Garry did.
He loaded up a wagon with black loaves of bread and rode it back towards the Hivelands. He was so fast that he caught them slumbering in the tunnels. They’d come barely a quarter of the way to Liscor only to be told to turn around and leave.
“Your route will be south, along the Hivelands. You must avoid both Antinium and Drake eyes.”
“How? This is impossible. We are doomed.”
Custodian 8, Killtori, was standing with Eisil, and the boy was reflexively polishing some new swords that the Antinium had taken with them. But neither one seemed to know…who they were.
Good. They’d find out. In fact, Garry hoped they’d fight.
Fighting was good. It meant you were people with your own opinions. But he…he just hung his head as he had them use one of the emergency exits and ascended out of the secret tunnel.
“It will be hard, everyone. This wagon will shield you from the eyes of people watching from afar, but I cannot go with you.”
The Antinium—a mix of Painted Antinium, two Custodium, the [Slaves], and for some reason, a gaggle of Flying Antinium and Armored Antinium—turned to him. They’d just showed up.
Garry had the feeling that the Armored Queen might have sent some of her Antinium with the others. The Flying Queen almost definitely had not.
They clustered around the wagon, inspecting his bread, and the power of the Shadowloaves was indeed great. It not only created a semi-permanent cloud over the world, but it also dampened any seeing magic. And, it transpired, revealed cloaked Silent Antinium, who scuttled out of the clouds in alarm as their camouflaged bodies became visible outlines.
Garry put his hands on his hips.
“Exactly how many Antinium are following me and why?”
“Baker Santa Garry has book. We are Calby. Silent Queen allowed us to leave. If we report and level. We saw [Slaves]. She told us to follow.”
One of the Silent Antinium told Garry. He put out a hand and patted her on the head, then turned.
“You can come with me to the Free Hive. Or go with this group. It will be dangerous, those of you who go south. But no Queen shall rule you. The New Lands are the only safe place for you to go.”
“Master Baker, we will never survive the journey!”
One of the [Slaves] protested. He drew nearer, and Garry saw he was a Dullahan wearing ancient, rusted iron armor. He spoke in a low whisper.
“Let us beg Pallass for our kin’s aid. Maybe…Roshal will find us wherever we go. You have broken our chains like the Scourge of Roshal and the Death of Chains, but there is no safe place in the world for us. Not in Chandrar unless we fight under the King of Destruction’s banner or seek somewhere like Pomle, and there, Roshal’s [Assassins] find a way. There is only one place in the world that is safe.”
“I would not call Rhir safe, sir. The New Lands lack magic. Any tattoos or markings you carry will wither and die there.”
The Dullahan blinked, and then the old man adjusted his head, wincing.
“Roshal will pursue us with Skills. And these Antinium do not know how to travel or survive outside of their Hives. The journey from the Hivelands will be one thing, but after that? Even with a cart laden with food and this bread, we will never make it.”
The [Baker] nodded, and he gave the old man a guilty look.
“I wish I could go with you. But I am only one bug. I cannot save anyone with these hands. Not yet.”
He gazed down at his hands as they all stared at him, Antinium and former [Slaves]. A colossus standing taller than any of them. The image of a Centenium. But his bowed head, his regret—
That was also Galuc the Builder. The one difference between them had been that Galuc was never alone.
Never. Nor had Galuc thought he could do everything.
Well, Garry just didn’t think he could do everything yet. And he was not beyond admitting when he was wrong.
—They were standing in the empty, brown no man’s land of the Hivelands, along the edges where greenery found a way to survive amidst the cracked ground. To the north, the High Passes sat, a narrow gap into the north. Treacherous roads through the mountain range or past the Bloodfields and around Liscor.
Garry shaded his eyes as a little dot of movement broke through the silent landscape. Killtori drew his swords.
“That is no animal. Monster. Prepare for battle, Antinium.”
Painted, Flying, and Silent Antinium formed a defensive circle, and some of the [Slaves] searched around for weapons, but Garry held up his hand as the Dullahan man gazed at him.
“Not a threat.”
He was so focused on the moving dot that he didn’t glance around. Because Garry had expected the dots growing steadily larger, but he realized Killtori wasn’t staring towards the High Passes. The Custodium’s head was craned back, and his voice was uncertain.
“I respectfully disagree, Baker. It looks very threatening.”
Garry looked up—then flinched.
“What the heck is—”
The giant red bird landed, and the earth shook. Shadowloaves went tumbling along with everyone else as the massive bird, larger than even Wrymvr, swatted one wing out.
Three Flying Antinium buzzing into the air landed, wiggling in distress and clicking. A massive yellow beak stabbed the ground, cutting off a Silent Antinium charge, and one huge, green eye regarded Garry.
“[Devestating Ch—]”
A claw pinned Killtori to the ground, and Garry saw the bird flick its claw delicately as Killtori tried to stab the legs. His blades failed to penetrate the toughened skin, and then he was sailing past Garry’s head.
“Hold! Hold! Painted Antinium fall back!”
The Painted Antinium hesitated, but Garry’s shouting precipitated more quakes. Which were, respectively, a second and third bird landing next to their…parent?
Yes, they were a flock! And the two smaller ones were barely a quarter of the size of the first, but they had the same design.
A crest of red feathers and huge, orange beaks that Garry didn’t think were explicitly carnivorous, but were big enough to eat an Antinium with a single bite.
Size.
These were the largest damn creatures he’d ever seen in his entire life. And he realized they were not entirely red; they had more traditional white feathers, even blue and purple running down their wings. The parent-bird spread their wings now, and the wind gusts blew all the people except Garry off their feet. He shielded his face with his arms.
Not good. They’re super-monsters. They could rip everyone apart before he climbed on one, and he didn’t know if he could hurt…
The huge green eye of the parent-bird swung to him again as the bird tilted its head. And Garry realized…the magical bird was eying him.
Somewhat warily. He stood there, fists raised, as the two little birds cawed. The big bird was pawing at his wagon full of Shadowbread. Curses! Was it attracted to the magical food? Had he doomed them all by—
A screech in the distance made everyone flinch. The huge red bird took into the air as the little birds cawed in alarm. Then Garry groaned.
“Oh, great. Him again.”
But maybe this was fortuitous? A distant shape was growing rapidly larger, and the trio of red birds were suddenly wary as the mother—Garry thought it was a mother—took wing in alarm, screaming like a siren, a blast of sound that echoed off the distant mountains. He swore he heard more such calls, but she was banking her wings, flying and screaming warily at the figure approaching.
Wrymvr the Deathless. He landed in front of the wagon as well, screeching with his mouths, but his mental voice was contained, even amused.
(You are an interesting Antinium, Baker. Still not Galuc. Why are Rocs attacking you?)
“R-Rocs?”
Garry stared up at the gigantic birds, and he vaguely recalled hearing of the apex bird-creatures. The two baby Rocs were pecking at the Shadowbread, but hopping back as Antinium slashed at them. The mother landed again, spreading her wings and screaming at Wrymvr. Garry shouted back at the Centenium.
“I don’t know! This is something Bird would love, not me!”
(Must be the bread. Bird the Hunter would not enjoy these Rocs. They eat Flying Antinium in great numbers. The Flying Queen was bested battling them. They had an agreement to stay away, though. I have killed two.)
…Of course he had. Small wonder the mother Roc was nervous, but Wrymvr added after a moment.
(Communicating. Asking why she wants her babies to die.)
“What? Communicating? You can do that?”
