She hadn’t been forgotten. This time, someone had come for her, apologizing all the while for how long it had taken. The Named-rank adventurer studied the figures on the little scrying orb. They were very far off, but she, who had killed every levelling species in the world except one knew bodies. These were…new.
Wondering why the [Innkeeper] was dancing with Fraerlings, Tessa slept.
 
——
 
Battle of the Bands 4 would go down in music history. In world history, really. Certainly, it would later be credited for single-handedly jumpstarting Lemoste’s obsession with music and crafting.
Or perhaps that was also due to a certain [Innkeeper] and [Shaman] who had visited along with other noteworthy individuals, like Eurise the Explorer and Bowom the Slicer.
But that was history, and what they wrote of the group that had come here…
In the moment, Erin was high-fiving the ecstatic band and hugging Alack, then excusing herself to hurry around the concert grounds. The problem was—by now, every Fraerling not seated at the tables with food was forming a mosh pit, and she couldn’t even see her group.
She could sense where they were, but Erin didn’t want to shove people aside—and it was so hecking noisy that how were you supposed to have a conversation in…?
“Erin! There you are!”
Zemmy shouted and pulled Erin out of the crowd. Then she saw all the faces around her. Roja, dancing as Eurise sat grinning, and Zemmy and Mera jumped up and down. Bowom was pouring drinks for the Architects and magic-users grooving out and—
There was Ulvama. The two stopped as Ulvama sat up in her chair. Erin halted, covered in sweat under her rather hot outfit, and they finally got a good look at each other.
Ulvama was like some kind of swamp-warrior or a true Fraerling from the wilds. She wore a mask that curved down to form a heart’s tip at her chin and became a series of armored edges around the eyeguards. Like…a spiked beast. Two round circles armored with glass gave her the ability to see, and the mask was contoured to her face such that if she needed to, she could breathe an enchanted air supply underwater or in poisonous smog.
But it was the colors which made the mask pop at anyone who saw it. Purple spider’s fangs and slashes of green, making her eyes appear huge. The optical illusion ran across the dark purple armor she wore, which was covered in webs. A mesh between her fingers and, yes, under her armpits…bright orange, red, and darker blue ran over her armor.
Shamanic warrior armor. When she crouched and scuttled, she resembled some kind of freakish spider, enhanced all the more by the fangs and hilts of daggers sticking out from her armor. She looked spiky.
She looked like she had emerged from the deep jungles on a mission. A wild being of magic and mystery, but never primitive. Just unique. Proudly bearing symbols and a culture that no one understood but her.
Her hair was braided back, and it swung as her head moved up and down. Gazing at the [Innkeeper].
Erin Solstice’s face was covered by a motorcycle helmet from her world painted bright red, covered with glass. There was nothing but a black pane of one-way glass over her face. As if her features didn’t matter.
The rest of her clothing resembled a motorcyclist’s: a black leather jacket with a single chess piece on the back, a queen. Little studs of brass had been hammered into a shoulderguard on her right shoulder. And there were tiny icons running down the left side of the jacket, exposing a similarly dark undershirt.
Her leggings were, well, leather, but sufficiently pants-like to fall into many categories if they weren’t strictly jeans. And she had a white flag resting over her shoulder, but Ulvama’s eyes were drawn to the one bit of color.
Those little icons. The enthusiastic [Costumer] had been more than happy to make up a few more things for Erin, especially given how small they were. So the [Innkeeper] had asked for several…patches to run down one collar.
Badges. Of honor? Shame?
Icons that defined her.
A frying pan and an acid jar.
A crimson fang dripping with blood joined by five green hands at the center.
A skeleton’s face with purple flames for eyes.
A footprint in red.
A little yellow flower.
A howling Gnoll in white…
 
There was not enough space on her jacket for them all. But each patch seemed bright, as if they were the only things that mattered on the dark cloth. They gazed at each other, taking in every line of the other’s clothing.
This is what you chose to wear? Why? I want to understand.
The smallest of details. The gloves on Erin’s hands had silver fingertips. Ulvama’s armor had a central splash of gold. A glittering, beautiful color that was fake. The color of…pyrite. From that line of power, everything else flowed.
The [Innkeeper] had a kitchen knife sheathed at her hip. The Hobgoblin had embedded needles as sharp as Bowom’s scalpels in her hair.
Erin’s boots made her quite a bit taller. Ulvama’s boots didn’t have strings; you slipped them on and tightened straps, but she didn’t have shoelaces.
So many little details. The two stood there as people turned, admiring their costumes, seeing the two meeting and wondering, perhaps, if they were going to fight or who was in the right. Supporters, friends, curious people drawn to the duo despite the concert.
…Which had ended. Erin and Ulvama started when they registered the lack of sound as opposed to its presence.
At some point, while they looked at each other in silence, unmoving, the entire concert had come and gone. The recording was being edited, and then?
“Hey, Ulvama. Um. Can we t—”
“Erin! We did it!”
Elohi flung herself forwards, and Bowom raised his scalpel to stab. Roja held him back as Elohi and the Cats surrounded Erin, cheering.
And they hadn’t even won! It wasn’t about winning, it was about the Battle of the Bands 4—
Suddenly, all the bands were here, cheering for Erin, mixing with the fans who were shouting.
“Hey, Miss Goblin? Is that you?”
Ulvama had her own Fraerlings who wanted to say hello. Erin was shaking hands, getting hugs, trying to make herself heard.
“I, uh, this is great, guys! Congrats! Who won? Let me just—”
On the other side, Ulvama was trying her scuttling technique, but she nearly knocked over two excited Fraerling children who promptly climbed on her, and she held them so carefully as they reached for her mask—
Zemmy eyed one of the kids and slowly raised a foot. If he kicked just right, he reckoned he could send the kid flying without any damage—
“Excuse me, what are you doing to my son?”
A Fraerling woman was watching him. Zemmy hesitated. How was he supposed to punch his way out of…?
Eurise was sipping from a drink as he watched the two overly-popular women trying to break free of the crowd. Roja shouted at him.
“Eurise, c’mon, help!”
“They’ll get free eventually. Night’s long.”
She glared at him, and after twenty more minutes, Eurise had to admit—it might be difficult. And that was that. Bowom was being held back from doing Bowom things, and he eventually just stomped off through the crowd. People not falling asleep on the spot like [Restorer] Ginthe were talking excitedly, and neither Ulvama nor Erin could quite find an opening to get free. Mostly because the other person was busy, and in a few minutes, surely…
Well, that was the end of the night. Matha stood there, peering at the two who had come so close, but were so far. She closed her eyes and found one of the tankards of ale on the table. She slowly and deliberately poured it down her back, and as Eurise raised his brows, she turned the microphone on and spoke into it.
“Excuse me, everyone. I have just pooped myself. It is coming out at high-velocity. Please stand back.”
Every head turned. Members of the Battle of the Bands who had been familiar with Matha’s illness and just…everyone in general took one look at the brown stains dripping onto the—
It was amazing how fast the area cleared. Laughter, shock, a call for a [Healer]…and then Erin Solstice was alone. Probably because Matha was right next to her.
“Um, do you need a [Healer], Matha—?”
The [Raider] was bright red, but she rolled her eyes at Erin and jerked her head. And Erin realized Matha was embarrassed but lying…her eyes opened wide, and then Matha was stumbling out of the crowd as Bowom tossed a child skywards, and everyone ran to catch them.
There they were. Bowom ran off, and Matha spoke.
“Um. Hey, fancy you two being here! Let’s go, everyone! C’mon, Eurise, Mera, Zemmy! No arguments or I’ll poop on you!”
She stormed the table, and there were exclamations, shouts—the Battle Hamster had to be dragged off by Mera and Zemmy—and then Erin and Ulvama were sitting there.
Awkwardly. Mostly, because while Matha had cleared the immediate, ten-foot radius with her stunt…everyone had just vacated to adjourning tables and were turning to stare.
Though perhaps neither one even noticed. Erin glanced at the tablecloth and messy plates, and her stomach grumbled.
“Aw. I missed dinner. I haven’t eaten since lunch.”
“Me too.”
Between Ulvama’s goings-on with Bowom and her Dreamleaf ritual, the most she’d had was a leaf-edible.
Instantly, food appeared on the tables. Aphid meat nachos. Druid Wraps, licorice-dew drops—the two blinked. And then Ulvama fidgeted.
“I have a mask. Magic-casters made it.”
“Oh. Yeah. And this awesome [Costumer] made my stuff.”
“Mine is armor. For the journey.”
“Nice. Mine’s…well, I guess I could wear it. But the helmet’s really hot. I should take it off. One sec. Uh…it’s stuck.”
It finally popped off Erin’s head, exposing a sweaty face—and her new haircut. Ulvama’s eyes widened, and she stopped taking her mask off and shoved it back down over her face.
The [Innkeeper] misinterpreted the Hobgoblin’s actions. The one person she couldn’t read, aside from Eurise—she glanced down at her lap.
“Right. I’ve been a jerk. We were fighting. About Garry…”
“Oh. Yah.”
The Hobgoblin closed her eyes, and the silence between them grew heavy again. Ulvama hesitated.
“I forgi—”
“Don’t do that.”
A pause, and Ulvama nodded.
“…You want to talk? I think—talking is important. Is—is Garry okay?”
Erin shrugged as she picked up a Druid Wrap and sniffed it suspiciously. It was vegetarian, but [Druids] ate weird things.
“He’s on another delivery. And he just freed a bunch of [Slaves] in the Hivelands.”
“He what? Is he okay? If you need to check on him—”
A groan silenced at once. Neither one noticed. Erin glanced at Ulvama and shook her head.
“He’s going to be fine without me. I think he’d kick my ass if I bothered him. Hey…your outfit’s awesome.”
“Yah. You…dressed up.”
“Well, Matha encouraged me to do it. She didn’t make me. I just thought it was cool. Like Theillige.”
“Oh. This mask…it’s from my tribe. Not from my tribe. But same style.”
Erin smiled and brushed at her hair again.
“The Molten Stone tribe? I always wanted to know what that looked like.”
Slowly, the mask rose, and Ulvama’s features appeared. The Hobgoblin shyly handed Erin the mask, then picked up one of the aphid nachos and took a bite. Dipped it in some sauce.
“Whoa, it’s…cool. The armor, I mean. The nachos are tasty.”
Erin tried to put the mask on, then hesitated.
“This isn’t weird if I do it, right? Can I try it—”
The sight of the Human wearing the Goblin’s mask made Ulvama turn.
“Yah, it’s fine. Give me the helmet.”
She snatched it, and Erin took the mask off after a moment. Took a huge bite of the Druid Wrap and had to wash it down with the liquorice water. They were eating, but after a second—Ulvama glanced up.
“The banner.”
That was all she said. Erin reached out, and the banner on her shoulder planted on the ground. She gazed up at the white fabric hanging under the moonlight.
“Yeah. I guess I took it because…it matters. This does. I know that’s silly, but—”
“No. I see it. It’s you. Just like this is me.”
The [Shaman] indicated her outfit, and Erin paused.
“So it is.”
The most nothing statement in the world seemed to matter. At least, to them. Erin stopped eating as Ulvama gazed at her. And the [Innkeeper] closed her eyes. It seemed to all watching that she would have preferred to put the helmet on.
“Yeah. It’s not just a costume. It’s…not who I am. But it’s something. Theillige. The banner. I guess—that’s you. Funny. I never imagined it.”
Not Ulvama in all that armor. Yet it suited her. The same was true of Erin. The [Innkeeper] knew that this was where Ulvama deserved a compliment. Matha or anyone else could do it. But what did she say?
It’s nice?
It wasn’t. It was Ulvama. And that…
After a second, she realized that Ulvama’s crimson eyes were glistening with more than the light from the concert stage. Tears were running down her cheeks. Dripping onto the nachos. Erin froze up.
“Ulvama? What’s wrong…?”
“Nothing.”
Ulvama averted her gaze. But she was crying. Not just cool-crying either. Stifling sobs, hiccuping at the same time. Her nose started running, and she grabbed for a napkin, tried to hide her face.
Erin and the audience were speechless, then worried.
“What’s wrong? I’m sorry. I—”
“It not you. It not!”
Ulvama’s protest made one of the Fraerlings aiming a brick at Erin’s head lower it. The rest held fire—waiting. She wiped furiously at her eyes. And then she choked.
“It’s just that it’s you. I wondered and wondered, and that’s…you, isn’t it? I see it now. And…that’s good.”
“Right. But…?”
Surely there was a ‘but’. Ulvama hiccuped again and tried to make sense of it as Erin’s heart beat painfully.
“But now I know. I see you, and you see me. Maybe we’re disappointed. Maybe that’s it. Nothing else to know.”
Maybe there’s nothing in here but a monster or emptiness. Erin’s eyes widened, and she sat, speechless, as the Hobgoblin cried, overwhelmed by something she couldn’t fully articulate.
However, her words were an echo of what Erin had told Matha she feared. What if they had nothing left to show each other? If this one moment was it—
Such a silly fear. Such a true one. She had to reassure Ulvama, but how?
The [Innkeeper]’s head whirled, and no one had any advice for her. Eurise ducked behind Roja. Mera and Zemmy were holding each other, and Matha was standing there, stricken.
But Erin didn’t see any of them. Not a face in the sea of thousands. Just Ulvama crying. She gazed down at the clothing and then around. Then she focused on something and stood up. The [Innkeeper] reached down and performed an act of magic.
