This was a story about Garry the Baker. But it was never just about Garry, because he truly didn’t care as much about himself as the people he wanted to feed. A world of only Garry was lonely and boring. If this one happened to revolve around him in some way, well, he had never asked for that. Never sought it except to make his will manifest and do what he felt was necessary.
—On his first full day in the Hivelands, the most important Antinium in Izril awoke. Surely, he was the most important by some metrics.
Who else was more famous? Many had heard of Bird the Hunter, seen that dread Antinium standing on Pallass’ walls. Countless military figures knew of Xrn the Small Queen, Klbkch the Slayer, Wrymvr the Deathless—and the Grand Queen was the figure who represented Antinium power.
But every child knew Garry’s name. Television was spreading across the world; Garry’s delivery had been witnessed by more people than the total population who knew the history of the Antinium Wars.
That was, of course, only one metric. What about levels? Well, of Izril’s Antinium…Garry was the third highest-level. Only the Small Queen and Wrymvr outlevelled him, and neither had levelled this rapidly in this millennia.
What, then, of political influence? All these factors might put Garry near the top of Antinium hierarchy, such as it was—but how much sway did he have in the Hives?
Ah—well. To answer that, one only needed to observe the Grand Queen in her palace of the Grand Hive, sitting on vast, million-thread pillows gifted to her from Chandrar, ensconced in huge golden robes that had cost hundreds of thousands of gold pieces to tailor to her size.
All this luxury and the ranks of her Custodium, armed with Klbkch’s signature dual blades and Prognugator-class—and the Grand Queen was gobbling a massive, massive amount of pork roast.
“Garry. This—mm—cooking. It is unspeakable. Indescribable! Succulent and dripping. How—erp—how is it that I have not understood the magnitude of your genius until now?”
She was feasting and, perhaps, hadn’t stopped since last night. Garry bowed smoothly, speaking up to her.
“Surely some food from the Free Hive was sent to you, Grandest of all Queens?”
“It was, it was. But not of this quality! It tasted impeccable, but this—explain.”
He tilted his head and smiled up at her.
“Ah, well, it occurs to me, Grand Queen, that nothing you ate was fresh. Bags of holding still do not prevent food from going stale or spoiling in most cases. I purchased a very special Chest of Holding to bring this feast. I have also levelled. This? This is a [Feast of Delights].”
“What a strange, useless-sounding Skill. And yet I find it important; thus, we, as Antinium, benefit. Does—does the Free Queen eat like this all the time?”
A note of jealousy and annoyance entered the Grand Queen’s tone, and Garry bowed again.
“As a matter of fact, Grandest Queen, she has only partaken of it once.”
Mostly because she wouldn’t stop eating, and both she and Garry had regarded it as a monumental waste of food. But it was his Skill, and the Grand Queen brightened up at this.
“Ah, then I shall partake of it many times. Baker Garry, you truly are a valuable—mm, pass that gravy, Custodium 23—specimen of your Hive. I rescind my statements as to your objectionable independence. Indeed, I should declare you the Grand Hive’s Prognugator!”
“Is Xrn not the Prognugator of the Grand Hive, Grandest Queen?”
“Yes…but we can have multiple, and she is weaker and objectionably annoying at times. What—what is that you keep calling me? Grandest Queen?”
“Is that not how I should address the greatest of Antinium of Izril?”
The Grand Queen’s mood was rapidly rising, and she waved a free feeler at him.
“Yes! Yes, this is proper treatment! You understand! Grandest Queen. I like this. You, Baker Garry, are the finest work that the Free Queen has ever created.”
“Xevccha.”
“What? Gseuntheit, I believe it is said.”
“Her name is Xevccha, Grandest Queen. I believe that she informed you of this?”
She had, but the Grand Queen had completely forgotten the Free Queen’s name. Garry saw her freeze up upon her throne and drop a bit of meat into the platter. She began to get angry again.
“Her—name? Yes, I recall, but as I said—she was not permitted to take one. I do not have—ridiculous. You clearly do not understand, since you are also named, but this is not done, Baker Garry.”
He tilted his head.
“How so, My Queen?”
“Among Queens, one does not take a name lightly. When a Queen names herself, it is for a great deed. I do not—when did this happen?”
Again, he bowed smoothly.
“Surely, the Grandest Queen understands the Free Queen, Xevccha of Liscor, chose her name after her many deeds. I am sure it does not offend you, Grandest Queen, for the actions of Xevccha are your triumphs. And that you do not have a name is also fitting.”
All the Antinium and some of the [Slaves] watching Garry were turning from him to the Grand Queen. Only the Centenium and other Queens had ever spoken to the Grand Queen thusly. But this Free Antinium…
He seemed unto a giant. A full inch and a half taller than any Worker and broad-shouldered, such that even the Soldiers shifted, uncertain of who was stronger. And his hat. It was a tower of white with a floofy bit at the top, and it was not even his other hat.
He smelled of bread. He smiled like it meant something, and in the face of the Grand Queen’s wrath as she leaned forwards, he did not flinch.
“How is my lack of a name when a lesser Queen has one fitting?”
“Why, a lesser Queen such as Xevccha may have a name, Grandest Queen, but yours is surely one that can only be taken after the greatest of all deeds. The conquest of all Izril, perhaps? That everyone expects your name at due time means that we accept other Antinium, such as myself, Pawn, Xevccha, taking their names as small things before the great one. Like a leaf blowing before the storm, why would we pay it any mind? This is exemplified by the fact that the Free Queen’s name was not known widely or remarked upon until now.”
Garry held up a finger and spoke like a [Sophist], and the Grand Queen visibly relaxed backwards and put two feelers together.
“…Garry. I have not often said this, but the Free Queen truly has outdone herself with her Autonomous Antinium project. I congratulate her fully, and thus myself, on sending her to Liscor. Once again, I welcome you to the Grand Hive and proclaim you are a valued Antinium on par with any other Hive’s Prognugators! Let it be known across all Hives! Now—will you make more food for me? I suppose I should allow you to visit the other Queens as Anand did…”
She was reluctant, and Garry bowed once more.
“I would indeed like to visit the other Hives, Grandest Queen. But I will leave all the food I have prepared with you, and make more for each of the other Queens, by your will.”
“Ah, ah. Thus, the tribute is all mine?”
“At least a week of feasting, even at the rate you are eating, Grandest Queen.”
She clapped her feelers together.
“This is good. This is very good. And I have my new auxiliary-[Slaves] to send as well! You shall do this, then come back and cook more, and then, perhaps, I shall allow you to return to the Free Hive. But your foods must be replicated. Do you…require anything?”
He tilted his head.
“Perhaps some ingredients or foodstuffs, my Queen. May I have permission to sequester any resources or go where I am needed? If I come up with any desserts after perusing the Hive’s foodstuffs, I shall of course deliver it first to you, then to the other Queens.”
“Of course, of course. Two of my Custodium shall escort your group of Painted Antinium wherever you go. Now, tell me. What is the next course of most deliciousness?”
“I believe the bread pudding, perhaps, Grandest Queen? You may wish to sleep after some time.”
If the [Feast of Delights] didn’t knock her out from pure sugar content, the food coma would rapidly. The Grand Queen was moving slower, but she lifted a feeler and then?
Garry had the run of the Hives and the favor of the Grand Queen on his side. So, then. Who had more authority?
Wrymvr? Xrn?
Or Garry? After bowing and retreating from her presence, Garry began to explore the Hivelands. And what he found was something different than the place Anand had described.
The Hives were changing.
Just like him.
 
——
 
The Grand Hive resembled, in many ways, a palace. It had not been like this when Anand visited. But from the Grand Queen’s abode, the Hive had begun receiving shipments of marble and other stones from the Hives.
They didn’t mind sending it; marble was a weak stone, but the pathways of the stuff and decorations hung on newly-built walls? Garry passed by a hundred paintings of rather amazing quality before he realized what these were.
“Ah. These were looted from Drakes during the last two Antinium Wars.”
The Grand Queen had just ordered them taken out of the Antinium stockpiles, which he had realized were vast beyond compare.
He was touring the Grand Hive with some Painted Antinium as well as two silent Custodium. They weirded out the Painted Antinium. The group of eight were all high-level veterans of Pawn’s self-chosen people—not the best-of-the-best, but still pretty elite.
One of them, Runearmor, had kept trying to engage the Custodium in conversation, but they were weird and rude.
“You have very pretty paintings, Custodium 8. Do you have a favorite?”
“No. Painted Worker Antinium will keep moving.”
“My name is Runearmor. Do you have a name?”
“I am Custodium 8. Designation: Killtori. Is talking required?”
“…Not with you lot, clearly.”
They were closer to Autonomous Antinium than real Individuals like the Painted Antinium, which was weird. Also, the Custodium seemed leery of Garry and the Painted Antinium. More than one had requested a ‘Combat Training Session’, which meant a duel.
They were fast and quick with their blades, but mostly around Level 20 at best. Not that any of the Painted Antinium here were over Level 30, but when Runearmor had beaten one of the higher-level Custodium, the Antinium had stood frozen in place for a good twenty minutes.
That was when their insistence on using their Custodium numbers instead of names became clear: Custodium 8 meant that Killtori was the eighth strongest among the Custodium.
Eighth best. Thus, eighth most-loved by their Queen. Hence preferring that over names. The least well-ranked Custodium used their names instead.
How painful.
To Garry, it all made sense. The Grand Queen was an overbearing figure. The Custodium wanted to please her, and clearly, they had been made well and with a lot of resources. Each one was like Ksmvr had been, or a mini-Klbkch. But they did not understand their Queen.
They could have won her favor with words far more easily than their obsessive practice with swords. But they were not thinking outside the box. They were not even aware there was a box. Their world was a one-way track, and little in the Grand Hive would change that.
Until now, perhaps. Garry had not missed the [Slaves] who stayed predominantly around the Grand Queen’s chambers. They cleaned, served food to the Antinium, but mostly seemed to stand around nervously, trying to find work in a Hive designed to fulfill every need.
“Let’s see. These are the stockpiles that Xrn enchanted. Ah. That is a lot of food.”
Garry opened one of the enchanted silos deep in the Grand Queen’s Hive and stared down. And down.
And down.
And after a bit, down some more. Garry had heard of the massive monster-nests in Liscor’s dungeon, the four super-nests designed to disgorge enemy monsters without end, like the Shield Spider nest that his people had fought for so long.
Each silo was about that big. Maybe not as wide, but driven so deep he doubted any bombardment spell or even an [Earthquake] spell had hopes of hitting it—and that was before Xrn had enchanted everything to the nines.
It was loaded up with food. And things he recognized as being invaluable to creating more Antinium: a goo that was made of processed nutritional ingredients that filled the Birther Sacs, even the weird, spidery ‘data’ that told a Birther Sac how to make a type of Antinium like spools of intricate words made up of spider webs.
He knew all this because the Free Queen sometimes told him about it. To even the Custodium, the sight of the Grand Hive’s precious resources was sacrosanct. Indeed, Custodium 8 drew a sword and placed it out, preventing anyone from walking into the silo.
“This area is off-limits to all Antinium but the Grand Queen and Centenium Xrn herself.”
Garry glanced down at the sword hovering an inch from his stomach. He pushed the blade down with a finger.
“The Grand Queen has allowed me access to all of the Hive. I am sure she will not mind.”
Interestingly, the two Custodium did dissent here. Custodium 11, who had a scar on one shoulder, spoke in an irritable click.
“We have guarded this location from all threats.”
“Such as what? Insects?”
“No. The magic laid by Centenium Xrn kills all non-Antinium. Including monsters and insects. But some survive the initial spells. We have killed 8 [Slaves] of Roshal who entered this location. None of whom obeyed commands to halt and possessed high, undisclosed levels.”
Garry turned his head, suddenly interested.
“Ah, spies. How did the Grand Queen react?”
“She questioned Roshal, who apologized. Not a single one has survived leaving their designated areas. We observe.”
Interesting. Garry would have assumed that spies would have gotten the view of the Hives, but it seemed like they weren’t prepared for the watchfulness of Antinium, who would notice if you left your assigned areas.
Custodium 8 felt the need to add more details to improve their pedigree.
“We have also slain 25 Antinium who have entered this location.”
“…Antinium? Why would they enter here?”
“They were attempting to reclaim stored goods.”
This time, the [Baker] paused, and a silence fell over the Free Antinium until Runearmor whispered.
“Oh. They were hungry.”
“They were amply fed. They were Aberrations and slain.”
Custodium 8 saw Garry walk forwards and extended his sword again, but the [Baker] just walked into it, and it didn’t leave a mark on his body. The [Baker] turned his head.
“They wanted to eat something other than nutritional paste. Hunger takes many forms, Custodium 8. I am going to see what is stored here.”
“You are not allowed—”
“Take it up with the Grand Queen.”
The two Custodium wavered as the Free Antinium followed Garry into the silo. After a moment, Custodium 8 turned and began to run back the way they’d come.
 
——
 
