“I wonder what the Queens see in this.”
 
——
 
The Armored Queen of the Antinium had no frippery in her throne room. She was largest of the Antinium Queens. The one who had sacrificed most to birth the first Antinium on Izril’s shores, and Garry was wrong.
She was not most warlike. Merely the most dedicated to the cause she had never forgotten. He did halt when he encountered the giants.
They stood twice as tall as any Soldier, garbed in armor of their own, flanking the double-doors. Even the Painted Antinium quailed when they encountered the ultimate Antinium that the Armored Queen had created. Giant Antinium, meant to inspire dread in the Armored Antinium’s foes.
Walking targets. But these ones stood and regarded the smaller Antinium with more perception than most. They held two glowing braziers that illuminated the hallway as they swung a greatsword and greataxe down to block Garry’s path.
“Let the Baker enter alone. I will view the Grand Queen’s [Slaves] later. I shall welcome the Painted Antinium later. First let me see this Antinium who would feed a world of hunger. Enter, Baker Garry. I welcome thee to the Armored Hive.”
A voice boomed from behind the double doors, and the weapons dropped. No Queen had welcomed Garry to their throne room in advance.
As the doors opened, Garry walked forwards and found that the Armored Queen truly had taken to the image of knighthood. She sat in a room of polished grey stone, almost slick, so smooth it would not damage her abdomen as it dragged across the ground.
The clank of distant forges filled the air along with the smell of metal, but her chambers were quiet as the doors closed. The first thing that Garry saw were the statues.
The Armored Queen’s statues of Centenium past had been moved, positioned around the room where they gazed down, illuminated only by a single, hanging chandelier that held those same pink flames.
And a bookcase. An inert forge, where it seemed like pieces of armor were being fitted and altered. A vast reading desk sat with a gigantic magnifying glass, such that the Armored Queen could read the tiny books.
She herself sat on a pile of pillows of various colors, a giant, bloated Queen, her carapace visibly damaged from where the growth she had caused to her body had strained her form beyond its limits.
Nevertheless, she had sat upright to greet her guest, and one of her long feeler-arms was raised in a very Human-like greeting. Only, the greeting never came.
When she beheld Garry, the Armored Queen froze. As he walked forwards, head circling the room, she sank back against her pillows and reached for something. The Armored Queen pulled out a second light-source. A lantern hanging from a huge chain, like a flail, and the pink flame of glory bloomed. She held it up, still trembling, and whispered.
“Galuc? Is that you?”
The vision before her halted, and the Armored Queen realized no—no, it could not be him. He was far, far too small. And yet…
“I am not that person, Armored Queen. I greet you. I am Garry, the Baker. Who is Galuc, please?”
She was silent for a long while. Then the huge Queen rose higher and crawled forward until she loomed over him, but not with hostility. He realized she was kneeling, and her huge head dipped downwards, as if she were bowing to him.
“Rise, Baker. You are not Galuc. It was a trick of the light. But you…you walk in his shadow unlike any Antinium I have ever seen. You have his bearing.”
“I…do? Who is Galuc?”
The Armored Queen’s mandibles opened in shock and hurt.
“She never spoke of him to you? Galuc the Builder? He is the Antinium that every Worker and Soldier is derived from, though none can match his stature. The brave Antinium who dove into the sea that the Kraken who was destroying our fleet might be driven away. You…you are taller, despite being a Worker. How?”
She recognized his broader shoulders, the change in his height that was becoming more noticeable, especially after his delivery. Garry rolled his shoulders uncomfortably.
“I do not know. I eat a…special bread. Perhaps that is it? Armored Queen, I come bearing gifts. May I offer them to you?”
“Yes. Yes, of course. Be welcome, Baker. Sit. I have refreshments of my own to offer you.”
Rattled, she sat and lifted a tray that held water and a very rough bread. But Garry realized this wasn’t a lack of resource or creativity; the Armored Queen had the exact same for herself.
“I have attempted to bake it, to understand you, Baker. Your food is far superior.”
He ducked his head.
“I would be honored to eat your bread, Armored Queen. I have never consumed food made by a Queen of the Antinium.”
“…No. I suppose you have not. But in the days we lived in Rhir, it would not have been so surprising. Antinium do not ‘cook’ save to process foods, but we ate foods far more palatable, even so. If a Shaper Queen had heard of your class, they would have created bread for amusement’s sake if they had the time.”
With every word and action, she made him welcome in ways each of the other Queens had not. She had a chair for him, and when he sat and smiled, it was with true pleasure.
“Armored Queen, you speak of Rhir. The Free Queen has told me some stories of our kind, but even the other Queens are loath to speak of it.”
She placed a feeler over her chest.
“It hurts the heart. I believe that is the expression other species use, and it is apt. I have been studying books of [Knights] that I may understand what calls so many of my Antinium to the flame. Like the other Hives, mine changes. But the longer I gaze into this pink flame—”
She indicated the glowing flame of glory.
“—The more I remember the past. It was not so long ago. You say Rhir, Garry. I say: home. But the Antinium of the Hives of Izril do not know home. They do not know why we fight. I have realized this upon speaking to them, and it troubles me greatly. The Grand Queen insists we are ready for war. But I view the Free Antinium and my own as they gain their individuality, which is like the Antinium of Rhir. And I wonder: will there come a day when the Queens give orders that the Antinium they rule will not obey?”
That rattled Garry. Not because what she was saying was at all surprising, but because one of the Queens had conceptualized it.
“You…speak to a valid concern, Armored Queen. Wherein did this insight lie?”
“Stories of chivalry and valor. Terandria’s Humans. It seems that these [Knights] who ride about with honor and quests love loyalty. But the more they love it, the more often they raise arms against an unjust ruler. Does it not follow that if I emulate them, I should fear the very same end of monarchs?”
Her logic was impeccable. She spoke in a curious way, much like the Free Queen or Silent Queen, with that rational logic commingled with the hints of Terandrian customs that her Hive was adopting. Garry was fascinated, and he nibbled on her bread—which went quite well with some warm honey actually—as he spoke.
“Armored Queen, it is true that Antinium diverge. I am not like the Painted Antinium, and they are not like the [Crusaders]. But what I hope unites us, what I hope to give to the Hives, is…meaning. Be it in food or deed, that is what I see all the Queens striving for in their own way.”
The Silent Queen in her experiments towards perfection, the Flying Queen in her race for superiority. The Grand Queen desiring authority and prestige—and the Armored Queen’s aspiring [Knights]. Garry gestured at his bag of holding.
“The problem is that no one [Baker] can feed the world—yet. To that end, I have brought other gifts. This simple creation, for instance.”
He showed her the book he’d written, and she instantly brought it over to her reading station and paged through it.
“Curious. Ah, and you have written this? It gives meaning…yes. It may give meaning, like that flame. But this word you write. ‘Despair’. It is not good, it is not fitting, I think, that this word should be the one to capture the state of our Workers and Soldiers. There was despair in Rhir. But also unity. Joys and sadness when we were as one. We have lost that. This flame is but an attempt to capture that.”
“The Unitasis Network?”
Again, she surprised him by shaking her head and bending over.
“No. Community. A word I have had to learn, for it was never what I lacked. I did not know I was lonely until I read the word and it called to me. This is not how Antinium should live, Garry. Day after day, I look at my Antinium and am ashamed. Not of them, but how I have failed them. Mine do not know why we fight. They do not see a future or dream of it. They do not know what they have lost. They have never sung. And Antinium sing.”
There it was. Just for a moment, her voice captured an essence like that flame, and Garry saw how it had come to her. He stared up at her, and his mandibles moved.
“Armored Queen. I have taken a liking to you when I confess I did not think I would.”
“The same holds true of me, Baker. I thought your mission was pointless. You fed the enemy. Then I wondered what I would say if it were Antinium in their place. We did not come to Izril to make Humans, Drakes, or Gnolls our enemies. We have only one. If you would, speak freely to me.”
He bowed his head.
“In that case, Armored Queen—these [Slaves] that the Grand Queen has sent are a bad idea. They come from Roshal, who has attacked the friends and people I love. They will not make the Hives stronger, but the opposite.”
The Armored Queen sat back, judging his words, and then spoke.
“I have studied Roshal. Their methods I do not understand. It cost the Hives little to give them the gold and other objects they desired. But what they gave in return? If they are to be warriors, they are reluctant ones held only by magic and threat. If they are to serve, the same applies. By allying ourselves with this nation, we make enemies of Demons. And Demons were not our enemies in Rhir. We treated with the Demon King. We still may. I have expressed this to the Grand Queen, but I suspect she finds my advice…tiresome.”
More and more fascination. Garry leaned forwards.
“Can you explain that, Armored Queen? You knew Demons?”
“Of course. You may ask the Free Queen, but what do you wish to know?”
“Er…quite a lot. When did we make contact with Demons? Why are we friendly? I would assume we were enemies from the Antinium Wars book I read. Though I know it is inaccurate.”
She smiled and made a click-chuckling sound.
“Ah, that book was most amusing. I asked Xrn if she had helped it be written on purpose. It is a boon to us. So much of what it attributes to our cunning was desperation. We had no specialist-Antinium until the end of the first war, for instance. It cites we held them in reserve: untrue. When General Sserys bore down on us with an army, we fought with all we had. He did not expect Xrn or Wrymvr, but had he lived, he might have destroyed us. None of us were War Queens.”
“War Queens? I heard those were specialist Queens. What are you all, then?”
“Generalists. To call us anything like a Shaper Queen or War Queen…if even a single one of them had landed in Izril, we might have won the first war. The Centenium are strong, but they are first-generation Antinium, and after the First Queen passed, no Shaper Queen dared touch their forms. War Queens are the culmination of our skill over many, many more millenia. The best of them approach the Centenium in sheer combat potential, though they are not so wise or experienced in other ways. In the same way, Shaper Queens could have made more Queens and many more war-forms. But I digress. You asked about Demons? Hmm.”
She put a feeler to her mandibles.
“I was young, so I had a rudimentary understanding of our situation. I was in service to one of the War Queens who led our damned expedition. The Demons let us pass when we emerged. Well, we told them we were leaving and that they could stand aside or war with us. Their ‘Deathless’ were wounded, and the Demon King allowed us to go. The Blighted King was not so responsive when we sent him messages.”
“You overran all but the last wall when you left.”
“Yes. The ships were behind the second-to-last wall. We didn’t need the ones past the final wall. The Demon King wanted us to break them, but it would have taken too many lives, I think. Also, both kingdoms are necessary to contain monsters we have no resources to deal with.”
“But you could you have done it?”
“Yes. I believe we could have done anything had we not fallen to the sea, where we did not know how to fight. I believe it still. Izril is fighting novices and a form not specialized for combat.”
Not even Soldiers?
That shocked him, and the Armored Queen waved a feeler.
“I mean no disrespect to the Queens’ works. The Soldiers are certainly useful, but their base-form was not a combat-form. Even the Silent Queen’s Antinium are not combat-forms in my mind. She has created them, and done it well! But she would be first to tell you that no Antinium on this continent has a true combat-form. Not even Wrymvr, since his is constantly changing and not the product of deliberate design. If you ever witness an Antinium made for war, Garry…then you will understand. Galuc and his ilk were meant to carve out the Hives. Fighting did not become him. He was gentle. It was why you reminded me of him.”
Garry knew he had things to do, but she drew him in, and he realized she was a storyteller. For all he liked the Free Queen and had grown to be her friend—she was not good at stories. The Armored Queen? Was.
“Armored Queen, the Demons? When did they make peace with us?”
Another smile as she settled back.
“Ah, forgive me. I am lost in memory, and it does not hurt today. When did we make peace? Shortly after they appeared as a formal nation. The first ‘Demons’ were odd. The First Queen met them, and they were…the current body you refer to came far later, when they were an actual group. They attempted some hostilities, but both sides were recovering from the Creler Wars. One of the greatest and most devastating periods of fighting for the Antinium as well as the world. Shortly after their founding, however, we made contact. We have never sought their aid, though.”
“Why? Surely the Deathless could be an asset.”
“Perhaps. Perhaps they could. But in our experience, that-which-slumbers corrupts and turns all non-Antinium against us more often than not. To let something die in their presence is to see it become a weapon for another wave of created monsters. Only Antinium resist.”
She paused and grew silent.
“You understand that I do not name it. If the Free Queen has not told you…”
“She has told me enough, Armored Queen. The same threat has returned, and my [Innkeeper] fights it.”
