Garry noted Custodium 8 leaving, and when the silent Antinium came back, the [Baker] turned his head pointedly.
“She allowed me to stay.”
Dead silence. Neither Custodium halted him from touring the other silos. But they threw up a tremendous fuss when Garry started removing food from the silos.
“You are noT aLLowed to do that!”
Garry was hauling up bags of grain from one of the silos. It seemed the Antinium had either learned farming or just raided [Farms]. He pointed innocently to the bags.
“Take it up with the Grand Queen. Don’t worry, I shall inform her.”
That made the two Custodium freeze, and Garry walked past them and dumped more grain into his Chest of Holding. He helped the Painted Antinium carry it back to their wagon, then went to tell the Grand Queen.
 
——
 
“My Queen, I have removed one thousand sacks of grain from your silo.”
She had been snoozing off her food, but jerked upright.
“My what? My storage silo? That is for the war effort, Baker! We will sustain 600% output of Antinium for years if necessary to overwhelm Drake—removal of goods sets the Hive back!”
He bowed.
“I am sure the grain can be replaced, Grand Queen. But it occurred to me that I could make a wonderful dessert for you. Ice cream sundaes. There is a bread component to the waffle. As the grain is not difficult to replace, surely, I thought, you deserve such a rare and expensive treat.”
“Ice…cream? Ah, I have witnessed this on the televisions. I see, I see. A thousand bags? That is not difficult to—Custodium! I told you that Baker Garry could do as he pleased! Note the discrepancy and replace the food with fresh supplies. I await this dessert with great interest, Baker.”
“I shall prepare it at once, My Queen. Then visit the other Hives.”
The Grand Queen paused.
“Yes, yes, this is a good idea. Some of the Hives deserve it. Some. When you visit the Flying Queen, I will require a report on her progress. And ensure a good number of the gifts are allocated to her. That she knows I am favoring her, and that I await her reciprocity to the Grand Hive. Once…she has stabilized her Hive. Do mention that to her.”
Garry bowed as the Custodium shifted, gazing at him. With that, he guessed he was going to be able to make a lot of bread.
 
——
 
Before leaving the Grand Hive, Garry did take out the ice cream he’d brought with his supplies and added it to the ‘tribute’ for the Grand Queen. He packed it with ice and told the Custodium it should be served right away or kept frozen, then left them to deal with that.
In truth, Garry wanted to tour the other Hives. To see what Anand had seen and judge for himself before making any more moves. To that end, he left the Chest of Holding he’d filled with supplies behind and took the Painted Antinium and only his personal [Bag of Vast Holding]—with a few snacks—and began to march across the Hivelands to see the other Hives.
It was a lot of walking, which turned into jogging because Garry was trying to keep to his new routine. That cut the travel time, though the Painted Antinium had to catch up after an hour. It turned out that their weapons and armor made them even slower, and they complained Garry ‘ran too fast’ and for too long.
What Garry found was…interesting.
 
——
 
The Hives were changing. Put simply, it was that. But it was the Queens that led the change, or so Garry felt.
Not just the Grand Hive. He had assumed it was the influence of Roshal, but after visiting the next Hive, the Silent Queen’s domain, Garry realized it could not be.
—Or how else could he explain the almost pitch-black Hive, which was made of traditional packed dirt, but lacking the usual luminary moss? In fact, even the dirt was the blackest loam that the Antinium could find, making it impossible for him to see a thing, even with his low-light vision.
But the Silent Antinium saw. A duo of the fearsome, camouflaged Antinium materialized out of the darkness, skittering away from the Wand of [Light] he’d brought, and led him through corridors where Antinium with glowing eyes turned to him.
The Silent Queen’s domain? It was…pristine.
Austere. Garry gazed down at the strange, resinous white material clinging to the walls, the ground, which visibly darkened as he stepped on it.
“Kkch. Contaminants. I have, at last, recreated litv-gel or an approximate substitute. It has cut down on unwanted mold and micro-creature interference in projects by 88%. I welcome you, Baker Garry. You…you look different. What has the Free Queen been doing to your structure? She has not told me. I thought she would tell me everything this time.”
The Silent Queen was nimblest and smallest of the Queens, able to navigate her Hive freely. As such, she actually had the hugest corridors to accommodate her, but her workrooms were like an [Alchemist]’s dream.
Garry passed by silent, twitching Antinium being grown in more advanced Birther Sacs and presented the Silent Queen with a gift. He had come prepared; she barely glanced at some croissants and let her Silent Antinium fall on them and devour the baked goods.
Nor was she interested in the black liquid he provided, informing him that she had a hydrating gel that was being used instead of ‘water’—until he mentioned that coffee had caffeine in it. Then she drank a huge cup and instantly began demanding samples of coffee beans to isolate the compound she recognized as being analogous to—
“Czzrich! It is not very strong, but isolated? I could make an ampule. There is too much, too much to do, Baker Garry. It seems that I am the only Queen who devotes all of my time to recreating our work. I must work harder. You…what applicable Skills can you add to your food?”
“Very few you will find useful, Silent Queen. I do not wish to take from your work. I merely brought my gift and the Free Queen’s thanks for your profound efforts.”
She smiled at him, but guiltily, and rubbed her feelers together as she worked, grinding together ingredients plucked from grow-rooms.
“Xevccha speaks well, but you see an amateur working with base materials. Observe how I must grind and distill each resource? It is akin to scraping mold off stones to create your food.” 
Garry paused, but the Silent Queen was serious, so he coughed into one fist.
“That is how some food is harvested, Silent Queen.”
She turned, utterly shocked.
“Is it? How inefficient! My analogy was of quality, however. The variance in mold types that can grow on rocks.” 
“I worked in that sector before becoming a [Cook], Silent Queen. Only one batch in a thousand ever has to be thrown out due to the wrong mold germinating.”
She waved a feeler at him admonishingly.
“Even your dataset is revealing. What is the word in this language? 0.1%? Far, far too high. Antinium Shaper Queens do not work with such variances except under extreme duress. I am the only Queen to insist on standards! Mold grown on rocks. Not even in sealed chambers, no doubt.”
She mulled on this objectionable state of affairs before shaking her head briskly.
“Our food production is not my domain. I should, perhaps…no, too many projects. Too little time. At least discoveries are occurring again. I credit this gel’s production from a Runner who delivered nuanced information to Xrn last year. As well, the Free Queen supplying alchemical products.”
So the Free Hive had helped in this? Garry smiled, but the Silent Queen was still morose, for all her achievements.
“No tools. No techniques. Yet we create and create again—she is welcome. My work is useful. Have you observed Klbkchhezeim’s new form? If all Antinium were as he was, we would approach a fraction of our old strength. And even this is a mockery of his abilities.”
She paused, then rubbed her feelers together.
“I am told I ‘complain too much’. By the Grand Queen. You had gifts of sustenance for me, Baker?”
“I…yes, Silent Queen. Of the Free Queen’s appreciation to you. I also come with gifts of my own.”
“Oh? What, then? A book?”
The first Hive in which Garry trialed his book was the Silent Hive. The Silent Queen was dubious about the book, but a bevy of gifts made her change her mind.
Not the food, actually. She sampled more of his food, but the coffee really had been the only thing she liked.
“Pleasing sustenance is but sustenance. I can generate materials which stimulate pleasure sectors if I choose, Baker Garry.”
“Well, that’s one way to approach life, Silent Queen.”
Rather to both’s amusement, both Queen and [Baker] realized they had exact opposite classes and personalities. However, Garry had a good deal of respect for the Silent Queen given her support of the Free Queen. And whatever misgivings she had about his class with its silly ‘food preparation’ focus, he had a trick or two up his sleeves for dealing with surly Queens of any kind.
[A Magical Gift]. The moment he conjured a weird, eggsac-like container out of the air and blinked at the odd ‘gift’, the Silent Queen went nuts.
“What is that? What is—did you just create a vith-container out of nowhere?”
“I…yes? It was meant to be a gift, Silent Queen. But it normally comes wrapped like a regular present.”
This looked like, well, an egg. It had a black, weirdly hexagonal coating over it, and the Silent Queen practically snatched it out of his hands. She ran a feeler over it, and Garry saw the eggshell was, in fact, a box as the weird chitin layer retracted.
“T-this is filled with mkxx. Forgive me, the correct words are not translatable in this tongue. H-how? This is exactly the kind of thing I cannot create! I must store it, no, [Reverse Analysis]! To my labs!”
She was scuttling away so fast that Garry had to run after her to beg permission to read his book, and the Silent Queen turned at the door.
“What? A book?”
She rushed over to see his book and read through the short story of Calby in moments…then paused.
“This is a work of fiction. Utterly useless to my needs. You wish to read it…? Go ahead. If it motivates my Silent Antinium to level in any way, I shall entertain the Free Queen’s Autonomous Antinium project. Baffling, baffling. But your class…how many more gifts can you give me? How often?”
“I can now do one per day, Silent Queen, but I do not give them to the same person over and over. That reduces the value.”
“What about one Silent Antinium in my Hive every day? No? It does not work like…your class mystifies me, but I acknowledge its value. I shall consult about more such gifts later! I have work to do!”
She scuttled off in moments with some of her Silent Antinium helpers, leaving Garry with another Hive he had free access to. He wondered what mkxx did.
 
——
 
Then Garry read a story. He sat with Painted Antinium and Silent Antinium, having found a barracks where they were allowed to rest and perform small activities, much like the Painted Antinium’s barracks in the Free Hive.
This was not by accident; the Silent Queen had ordered experimental areas designed to replicate the Painted Antinium’s success; why would she not? But it might have still been a failure given her lack of understanding of her own Antinium’s feelings—except that some helpers had taken it upon themselves to furnish said rooms.
Even to add painting stations and Fortresses of Fluff. These were, of course, Painted Antinium.
Not just Runearmor and the bodyguards for Garry, but another group of Painted Antinium. Barely sixty in number; they consisted of a single [Priest] named Golden Bloom and a number of [Crusaders] and Painted Antinium to replace the band that had gone out with Anand—all of whom were presumed dead as only Wrymvr had returned.
They had painted those Antinium’s colors on the barrack walls. Garry understood there wasn’t much for them to do here, so they spent their time making more Painted Antinium in the Hives they were friendly with—mostly the Grand, Armored, and Silent Hives—and fighting monsters.
“It is very boring at times, Baker Garry. Not to mention lonely; we miss Liscor. I am cognizant that we are doing good work here. The Antinium Workers and Soldiers have no Pawn, but please request other Antinium to replace us when you return?”
Garry promised he’d talk to the Free Queen about this to Golden Bloom’s clear relief. He mentioned he hadn’t seen any Painted Antinium among the Silent Antinium; given their stealth abilities, it probably conflicted with their purpose. Golden Bloom smiled as the Antinium gathered around.
“Oh, their paint is only visible to their eyes. The Silent Queen generated it for us.”
That was kind of her. Yes, that was what Garry liked about the Silent Queen, even if he found her removed—she did not understand, but she attempted to aid in projects she deemed necessary. He nodded at Golden Bloom.
“It is my hope this book will allow you to read to Antinium in the Hives as they work. One question, though, Golden Bloom. Why did you decide to stay here?”
In the dark Silent Hive? The Grand Hive was far more central, but Golden Bloom just glanced at the two Custodium escorting Garry before whispering.
“The Grand Hive is less…pleasant. It is easier to be somewhere the Grand Queen is not thinking of you.”
“Ah, understood.”
“We would have gone to the Armored Hive, which is arguably even more pleasant, but we elected to stay in the Silent Hive instead, after a vote.”
“…Why?”
Golden Bloom gestured covertly at the Silent Workers, Soldiers, and specialists with their scythe-arms. All of them had a sleeker, more compact design, even the Workers, who were semi-camouflaged despite the reading candle Garry had lit. Golden Bloom whispered.
“Garry. My friend, it’s the one perk of being in the Hivelands. The Silent Queen’s Hive? They’re all ladies. We have been flirting with The Book of Carnal Intercourse nonstop!”
He waggled his antennae at Garry as the [Baker] gazed at him in silence. After a few moments, Golden Bloom cleared his throat and stepped back. Garry decided to read his book.
 
——
 
The Silent Queen found Garry sitting and reading his silly little story about Calby for the third time to Silent Antinium. And she did not understand.
“It is enjoyed? Good, good. I must determine the best use of this mkxx. I am almost tempted to synthesize it into a combustible form. But the potential uses in creating a limited-number of Antinium or reverse-engineering it…it is a pity I did not have some during the last two wars. I could have stress-tested Manus’ so-called impregnable walls.”
Well, that wasn’t concerning at all. Garry reflected that his gifts might be, uh…powerful, but as he addressed the Silent Queen, he had some satisfaction in her reaction as well.
