“Hey, everyone, I’m Elohi, and we’re the Deranged Cats! Our first song to win Battle of the Bands 4 is—21 Guns!”
The Fraerling girl shouted into the microphone to more cheers. She couldn’t be more than fourteen—well, she looked like a fourteen year-old Human girl to everyone watching.
It was just a matter of perspective. And Nrr was right: no Cara imitators had come close to the Siren of Songs, the Baroness of the Beat…because Cara knew the look, and music and she had the Skills and costuming to produce professional music.
The only group that could throw together an ensemble on Cara’s level or better would be…the Players of Celum, obviously. Ullsinoi of Wistram. The Lord of the Dance’s entourage.
And Fraerlings. Oh, and one more thing:
Erin had taught the excited bands all the songs she’d heard or knew of, and she had heard most of Earth’s top songs at least once, thanks to her music-loving father, Gregori. For a Battle of the Bands?
The Fraerlings chose only the best. The moment Elohi began to strum on the guitar, Nrr sat up. His exhaustion vanished, and he felt the white-hot surge of excitement.
This is it. He leaned forwards with everyone else as the view-count continued to spike, and Nrr didn’t even pay attention to it. The music was playing, and he was a vessel for his audience.
The only time he even glanced away from the Battle of the Bands 4 was when one of the other co-hosts charged into the room along with Channel 1’s Sir Relz—then Nrr was kicking.
“Get—off—my—show! This is my spot! This is my spot!”
 
——
 
The events in Lemoste had happened hours ago, then been packaged up and sent as an anonymous, untraceable recording to Wistram.
Just because it mattered. Just because, when Matha told the crowd this would be recorded and maybe broadcast, if only to other Fraerling cities, it gave everything stakes. It made the performers try harder, and as Erin thought to herself…
The more people who watched a musician, the more you levelled, right?
In a sense, the reactions of the nations worldwide were merely delayed, no less real.
And Elohi and the Cats blew a hole into that quiet night and brought everyone racing to the scrying orb.
Erin was sitting backstage with Matha; they’d missed the chance to sneak out around back, and Matha was biting her nails.
“Are they good? Are they good, Erin?”
She whispered, and Erin replied.
“No one’s got a lot of training. There’s lots of natural talent, but they’re essentially cover artists playing the songs. So the original song is pretty much being repeated.”
“So…?”
Erin stared out the crack in the curtains, smiling faintly.
“So, what sells the performance is how much energy and passion the bands have got.”
She watched as Elohi began to play the solo, throwing her head back, and the drums thundered. In the brief silence as the music came down for the finale—
The cheering was thunderous.
 
——
 
The name of the song also threw numerous kingdoms into chaos. From Erribathe to Fissival to the Blighted Kingdom, Earthers were going insane.
King Othius snapped at a sweating Nereshal.
“Find this ‘Elohi’ now. Is she an Earther? Are they all Earthers?”
His gaze was avaricious, and paranoid, as he stared at the recording. And Nereshal, who had under him the greatest [Mages] in this world, paused, swallowed, and said—
“We—cannot locate this individual, Your Majesty.”
“What? Is her name fake, then? Trace the spell! Find out where it came from! Use our agents in Wistram!”
 
——
 
The Blighted Kingdom worked frantically, and in Wistram Academy, even Archmage Eldavin had appeared to do some tracework on the recording lighting up the airwaves. Everyone waited as the old half-Elf peered at the air, eyed a complicated thaumatergic chart he was generating, and coughed.
“Yes…well, if I had received it…did you get a return address?”
He spoke sternly to the [Apprentice] who had accepted the teleportation spell. Then his eyes flicked back to the concert.
Just who could this be? Was this a taunt? Some kind of coded message? 
 
——
 
Iuncuta Eirnos was spilling a cup of tea over Commander Rozcal’s hand. The two Fraerlings were attending an officer’s night, and they stared at the group on stage.
“You don’t think…?”
The clothing looked very good, and it was made with advanced materials. But there were hints, if you looked closely. The stage was made of wide slats of wood when Tallfolk had much smaller ones because it was hard to find a tree that big. And some of the materials in their costumes…
Iuncuta snapped at one of the [Mages] nearby.
“—Find out who that is.”
“So we can yell at ‘em? Or ask when they’re doing the fifth concert?”
The Fraerling woman hesitated as the applause drowned out Matha for a moment, then a second band took the stage. She leaned over and whispered to Rozcal.
“Both, obviously.”
Secrecy was one thing, but everyone was watching this and celebrating it. Fraerlings loved privacy and safety—but they loved amazing things just like everyone. Whether Lemoste knew it or not, like Paeth, it was pulling the smallest folk out of hiding. With music and envy.
 
——
 
The second band who played after the Cats were representing the ‘olds’, the adults. They were, fittingly, Fallin’ Gnomes. Elohi made devil horns at her parents, who blew a kiss as they set up on stage.
Unlike the wholesome kid-rock energy of the last band, Fallin’ Gnomes were the all-black deathcore edgewarriors. Never mind their age; their drummer was wearing a mouse’s skull for a helmet. The four-person band had thought and chosen carefully for their opener.
They were playing In the End, by Black Veil Brides, which was a very fitting song for their aesthetic. Erin was smiling; Elohi’s parents were eating up the stage. They’d gone all out.
Fake blood, collapsible daggers—you could imagine the rest. And just think—this wasn’t the two top bands, but the average level of competition. Fraerlings were giving this their all, and Erin loved it.
You know what she’d love more? To be sitting with a Hobgoblin wearing a mask and maybe having a conversation, or at least, be not seeing this from backstage.
She whispered to Matha, who was rocking out to the song and air guitaring as well.
“Matha, I’m going to run around and join the crowd, okay?”
“Sure. Erin, this is a great idea! They’re going nuts! I can practically feel myself levelling!”
The crowd was hopping. Wait, was it cool to say hopping? Erin didn’t know, but she wished she’d gone to more concerts…
No. She wished she’d been this Erin when she was on Earth. And she wished she’d had Bowom, Ulvama, Battle Hamster, and yes, even Matha with her.
I don’t want to go back to my city of Grand Rapids as I was. I want to visit it again as me.
She felt almost like a key was turning in her chest. The rightness of this thought, this moment—she was adjusting her costume when it happened.
“Oh no. Oh no. Erin, help!”
It was one of the band members! Alack’s band—she forgot their actual name, but the oldest musician was grave as they crowded around someone on the floor. A [Healer] pushed into view.
“What? What’s going on?”
“The idiot ate a centipede without making sure it was dead! It’s been writhing around in his stomach and guts all evening!”
Centipedes were apparently very good at surviving, even when being actively digested, and one of their backup performers was down. It wasn’t a danger to his life, but the [Healer] flatly refused to say he’d be back in time to perform.
“Absolutely not! We need to operate on him, and everyone, even Bowom the Slicer, is here! I’ll get him out of here, but he won’t be back!”
“But—but our act!”
The lead singer was pleading with the [Healer], and the Fraerling woman turned.
“Can’t someone fill in for you? There are all those performers.”
“No one knows how to dance! It’s not hard, but we can’t just show them…”
Then every eye turned to the woman who’d helped them come up with the routine to begin with. Erin raised her gloved hands.
“Oh no. No, I can’t—”
She hesitated, because Alack was giving her a soulful gaze as he toyed with his new saxophone. Matha hesitated.
“You’re already in costume, Erin…and it’d be pretty cool. Ulvama wouldn’t expect this.”
Every eye swung back to the Hobgoblin in the crowd as Erin wavered. She blushed as she regarded them, helmet under one arm.
“But if I mess up—”
“Hey, Erin. Respect the music.”
The [Drummer] put a hand on Erin’s arm, and she groaned.
“This had better not become the world’s first movie. Argh! Okay!”
They were up next. The cheering grew louder, and Matha whispered to Erin as she called their names then dashed back inside.
“Thanks, Erin. Alack’s really nervous, but he’s practiced for this for two whole Battle of the Bands.”
The sax was a difficult instrument to learn, and the old Fraerling had been self-conscious from all the teasing. In fact…Matha was genuinely worried because the quality of performance tonight was blowing the sky off everyone’s expectations.
The greatest hits of Earth were coming out left, right, and center, and could Alack’s band compete? They weren’t, uh, as good as some of the other bands. Erin leaned over as Alack walked out and took his position behind the two lead singers.
“Don’t worry. Alack’s great.”
“But is the song good? You didn’t even remember the name.”
Erin grinned as her eyes flicked to Alack.
“I don’t. But if you want to play with the best…there’s only one song I know that has an amazing, no, epic saxophone guy.”
Matha’s brows rose. She smiled as Erin began to stride out to join the backup dancers flanking Alack. Then she flailed.
“Erin! Waitwaitwait, helmet!”
Erin had nearly gone out without her iconic helmet! Erin caught herself and jammed it on. Then she was just an awesome…she gave Matha a gloved thumbs up.
“Good catch, Matha!”
She strode out onto stage as Ulvama’s jaw dropped. But the song wasn’t about her or even featured Alack at first.
 
——
 
Technically, the song was named ‘Run Away’. Erin had helped come up with the choreography, by which she had shamelessly stolen the performance since, well, they were iconic and had worked, right?
That was why the first person to actually begin playing was a Fraerling who had a violin of everything. He was spinning around on an enchanted platform. Hence the need for a motion-sickness potion.
The other singer was a woman who was singing what had sounded like another language to a younger Erin, but was just accented English. And it was a good song. Strong, techno beats or something, with a trio of backup dancers. An old Fraerling in the center, a nimble young man to his right, and for some reason, a helmeted biker on the left.
 
—-
 
It was okay, but for Mrsha’s money, watching in The Wandering Inn, the other acts had been way better. No disrespect; she admired the old man’s clothing.
He had a sleeveless jacket on, exposing a bare chest and white chest hair, and long jeans or something close. And a saxophone which looked interesting; with the shades, she thought he was what Nanette kept trying to emulate with her silly clothing.
The weird biker-girl to the left made Mrsha think of Theillige for some reason. Or Rianchi, actually.
Definitely Earthers. She was up way past her bedtime, but no one cared; the inn was packed with people watching this non-Inn event with a lot of fun. She was turning to her mother when someone began choking at the table next to hers.
She thought Kevin was dying for a moment and began hitting him on the back to get the popcorn out, but the bulging-eyed Earther was gasping.
“No. No, it can’t be! It’s that song! It’s—epic sax guy!”
“Epic who now?”
Lyonette turned, and every eye focused on the center figure as the old Fraerling lifted the saxophone to his mouth, and the music receded and—
After a second, Mrsha’s head began to bob to the beat. Peggy gasped.
“Oh my.”
 
——
 
It wasn’t even a long segment. That was the genius of it. It was just that when he took center stage…Erin had told Alack it was all about energy. Hip thrust. Pelvic energy.
She’d done some demonstrations after a lot of persuading. The rest? Poise and pure aura.
How much aura did a seventy year-old Fraerling with a saxophone have?
He had exactly two short segments in the three-minute song. All the two backup dancers did was accompany him and dance along to the beat.
—The cheering was so loud and sustained that the band had to come back and perform the exact same song except with a twice-as-long saxophone break.
 
——
 
The Wandering Inn was applauding and debating casting their vote for best song of the night there and then. They’d completely forgotten this was a recording; Nrr was taking votes from his audience for best song.
Counterlevelling.
And this was all long after it had happened. Lyonette glanced a second time at the helmeted biker girl doing a second bow. She rubbed her chin, narrowed her eyes, then nudged Ser Dalimont.
“You know who that helmeted girl there reminds me of?”
“Who, Your Highness?”
“Ryoka. It’s quite like something she’d wear.”
Ser Dalimont narrowed his eyes at the bowing figure, then nodded.
“You know what? That is just like her, though she has boots on.”
“Maybe it is her. We should check. It’d be so typical of Ryoka to get mixed up in all this. She probably ran into a group of Earthers again and she’s dating a war-criminal from Earth or something.”
Then they went back to watching, and for once, it wasn’t about Erin at all. Nor about them. The inn drifted on, in those quiet days between wars. Rebuilding. Healing. But not, perhaps, peace as defined in some dictionaries as the ‘period of rest between this war and the next’.
A more positive peace this time. One could only dream.
 
——
 
In her room on the third floor, a Drake lay curled up, listening to the sounds of merriment from below. There was a scrying orb in her room, though not one she was watching the concert from. It showed her the common room, and every now and then, someone, usually the [Princess], would glance at her and ask if she was well.
Her name was…Tessa. She had been Shriekblade, which was who the Healer had wanted. But Lyonette had come for ‘Tessa’, and the miserable Drake had followed. She was not better.
—But it was warm here. She curled up under blankets and a heating stone placed under a little table, laying there as the world shifted around her.
