“Lyonette’s a good example. Lyonette I’ll listen to. I trust. I don’t agree with her all the time because she’s got her opinions, but she’s my person. You? You saved me from Roshal. You were there when I needed help. Somehow, it started with us dancing together, and then…no one knows me, sometimes. I hide a lot. But you see right through me.”
The things only Ulvama noticed. Just as she’d told Matha. Ulvama might not understand her mind, but Erin spread her hands and wondered if Ulvama could see her rapidly-beating heart.
“That’s different, Ulvama. You’re the only person who’s ever done that. It’s why you annoy me more than anyone. Why I listen to you, and—why we fight so damn hard, I think. It’s personal. You, me? We’re not just best friends. Lyonette and I are best friends. And so is Saliss, because I guess I’m that person who has multiple best friends, but you and I? We’re…something else.”
Ulvama nodded silently. Erin gave her an embarrassed smile.
“Look, I know I’m just saying all this. If I’m just that annoying [Innkeeper] that you’re stuck with, I—”
“No. You’re right. You…annoy me more than anyone else. I don’t cry for anyone. Not anymore. But you I cry over. You, and one other person ever, I want to tell the truth to always. But you make it so hard.”
The Hobgoblin gazed at Erin, and the [Innkeeper]’s smile was relieved.
“Well, that’s it, Ulvama. I’m gonna be jealous if you talk to other people. Because…no one else I’ve met in this world gets me. I hate it, sometimes. But I just want to hang out more.”
“Yah. Me…too. I just didn’t—didn’t think of it like that. Too complicated.”
“I know, right?”
The two were sitting in the empty concert hall, and Ulvama edged closer. There was liquorice on Erin’s breath as the [Innkeeper] stared into those crimson eyes. And Ulvama was drowning in a hazel glow.
“Ulvama, even if we get out of Baleros, I think I’d be fine being stuck together. But if you don’t want—”
“No. I want that. I do, Erin.”
“Oh. Awesome.”
Closer, now. And the [Innkeeper] reached out and hesitated.
“Can I touch your shoulder? I’ve been wanting to poke you back and touch you, but consent and stuff.”
“S-sure?”
Ulvama flinched a bit, but Erin rested a hand on her shoulder, then breathed out.
“Whoa.”
Yeah. Now, Ulvama was inches away from Erin’s face, and the [Innkeeper] seemed drawn forwards, hypnotized. They were closer now, and Ulvama’s eyes closed. Her heart—
Had it beaten like this since she was young? She felt a breath on her face, and the moment felt eternal. Immortal. As if the [Innkeeper] was trying to capture this forever.
But it was agony. A painful, blissful paradise hell. Worse torture than anything. Ulvama leaned forwards at last, and Erin?
Erin kissed Ulvama. Right on the forehead.
“…Huh?”
The [Innkeeper] landed another kiss, then hugged Ulvama so hard Ulvama lost all her breath—but she was already in mental lockdown. Erin rubbed Ulvama’s hair, then leapt up.
“This is great. Wow! I said it! I’ve never—I feel so much better.”
“Wuh.”
The [Innkeeper] jumped off the table and ran around it, speaking a mile a minute as the Hobgoblin sat there.
“And the tablecloth and your armor! Can I touch it? No, wait, we’re mutually respectful, right? Getting handsy feels weird, but—hey, this is an amazing day. I’ve gotta thank Matha and everyone! We should get back to them soon.”
She was red-cheeked. Ulvama noticed that, and Erin jogged back over to grab Ulvama’s hand.
“C’mon, let’s go.”
“To other people.”
“Yeah!”
“Now?”
Erin tugged.
“Yeah, c’mon, Ulvama. This has been an amazing heart-to-heart. You’re, well, you.”
“Someone closer than a best friend. Someone you want to touch and get jealous of. Someone who knows you more than anyone else in the world.”
Ulvama repeated those things just so it was clear. Erin nodded. She stared into Ulvama’s eyes, then blushed.
“All true. We don’t gotta spread it around. C’mon, let’s go. You can cheer up the Hamster I guess. I should make friends with him.”
Erin was suddenly very conscious of the time they’d taken and glanced around. The Hobgoblin saw Erin scratching at her head.
“Eurise, Roja, Mera, and Zemmy are all back at the house. Where’s Bowom…huh, he’s visiting—c’mon, Ulvama. We’d better get back or they’ll think we’re making out or something.”
She laughed, self-conscious, and the Hobgoblin rubbed at her forehead.
“They’d think…that?”
“Yeah. Like we’re gay. Not that there’s anything wrong with that!”
Erin hurriedly added. She glanced back at Ulvama and then reached out. Her fingers brushed Ulvama’s shoulder, then jumped away. The [Innkeeper] saw Ulvama glancing at her hand, and she whirled around.
“Wait, you know what? I have to pee. I’ve been sweating for ages, and this might be the one chance I get before more talking. Want to come with? We can be bathroom buddies.”
Ulvama watched Erin leap off the table and [Flutter Run] towards the public restroom. The Hobgoblin remained sitting there as the [Innkeeper] spun around, and she was full of energy, literally running on air.
“…No. You go without me.”
Her tone was the only thing that brought Erin down out of the clouds. The [Innkeeper] halted mid-run and whirled, suddenly concerned.
“I didn’t say anything wrong, did I, Ulvama? I can’t read you at all. Which is weird.”
“No. Nope. All is good. I just don’t need to pee.”
Ulvama forced a smile, and Erin beamed, oblivious. Then the Hobgoblin was left alone.
The empty concert grounds were very dark, illuminated only by a few residual [Light] spells on stage and the flaming cloak wrapped around Ulvama. She just sat, as if someone had kicked her in the guts.
Not sure if she should be hurt or…no. Erin Solstice was beaming as she ran into the bathrooms. A purple flame burned bright on her hat and the cloak. Ulvama touched it, then her forehead.
“So then why…?”
A few mental dots in her head began to connect. The Hobgoblin frowned as she put together something she’d been thinking of for a long time. Maybe…
She was no Erin Solstice, who could read everyone but Ulvama and Eurise with great instincts, but Ulvama was still a [Shaman] who had specialized in a different kind of interpersonal connection. The one thing Erin was bad at.
“No. That wasn’t my imagination.”
Ulvama’s eyes narrowed. She glanced towards the bathrooms and then half-rose.
“That stupid idiot—!”
She began to get annoyed, then furious, then gazed down at the purple flames. Ulvama’s eyes widened, and she put something else together. She sat down, suddenly, as her anger left her with a laugh.
“Is that it? Oh, Erin. Is that…you silly thing. You poor [Innkeeper].”
Her eyes opened wide with sympathy and a kind of twisted hilarity only a Goblin would appreciate. It made so much sense! Ulvama laughed, then kicked all the objects on the table off, spitting Goblin curses.
Then she ran to scoop Erin’s cloak off the ground. She swung it around herself and stood there in the silence. Anger, humor, and understanding.
“…You truly did belong right where you landed in this world, didn’t you? Among the Drakes. Silly woman. I wish…no. We met at the exact right moment. I think.”
For once. Ulvama closed her eyes, and she wrapped the cloak around her tighter, letting the blaze of a hundred lights warm her like an [Innkeeper]’s embrace. But Erin hadn’t managed to do quite that. So this would do. For a moment. Ulvama inhaled, and then when she exhaled, she laughed softly.
“Okay then.”
She knew what she had to do. Suddenly, it was all clear. The Hobgoblin cricked her neck and smiled as her own passions and excitement lit like an exploding [Fireball] amidst dry grass. She was perfect for this! She could—
For a moment, the Goblin’s teeth shone like a [Huntress] smiling at a white stag which had crossed her path. Then the smile faded. And Ulvama felt something on her forehead.
Her mask. All but forgotten…she took it off her head and gazed at the fierce little expression on the painted wood. A memory brought back to life. A little Goblin’s mask.
The wind blew softly over the concert grounds, ruffling her hair, and chased away the feeling in Ulvama’s chest. The surging huntress.
“No. Not like that. Then how?”
Then she was just as lost. Standing there, uncertain of how…until she gazed down at the helmet that Erin had put on the table. The [Shaman of the Old Ways] turned—
And stared back at a lonely Goblin crying as an [Innkeeper] noisily tromped into her camp. A pair of silly, Fraerling-sized explorers. She exhaled.
“Oh. My turn to find her and show her the land she’s afraid of. That she can’t even see.”
One step at a time. Like what it was, and should be. The grandest of adventures. As it had begun for them, in the darkest of cells, ever-upwards until they found that triumphant light.
Now it burned around her, a witch’s cloak of flames. Ulvama saw the path forwards, at last, and smiled. Then she laughed softly. And rubbed her forehead and put her hands to her cheeks, and they were red.
“So that’s what it was. It’s so simple.”
“Yeah. That means I have a chance, right?”
The Hobgoblin froze. She turned her head as a table rustled, and Matha poked her head out from under it. She was red-cheeked, highly embarrassed, having eavesdropped on the entire conversation. Which no one else had. Only a voyeur of the highest magnitude would…
Erin Solstice really had a one-track mind sometimes. She hadn’t even noticed Matha so focused she’d been on—Ulvama stared at Matha. The [Raider] beamed at her. She scrambled up and adjusted her messy costume.
“Just so you know, I’m also really interested in you, Ulvama. And if you two want, we could go for a throup—”
“Gyaaaaah!”
Ulvama kicked Matha in the stomach as hard as she could, and the Fraerling grabbed her stomach and fell over. Ulvama [Sticky Webbed] her to the ground and then ran off to find Erin. Annoyed, exasperated, and…delighted.
She’d found something out about the [Innkeeper] that no one in this entire world knew, including Erin herself. Matha didn’t count. The Hobgoblin wanted to be there when Erin realized it about herself.
It would make her third life completely different.
 
——
 
Erin sat in the bathroom in a state of much relief. For such a heartfelt conversation…why did the bladder have to intrude? But even afterwards, she fanned herself, then pressed her hands to her cheeks.
She was still flushed. The [Innkeeper] spoke out loud to no one in particular.
“Geeze, is it hot in here, or just me?”
She was going to remember that feeling on her lips for a long time. Heck, kissing people on the forehead was sort of cool. Who knew?
 
[Class Change: Dancer → Dancer of Advent class!]
[Dancer of Advent Level 14!]
[Dance – Phoenix’s Tango Learned!]
[Skill – Speed Dash Obtained!]
[Skill – Outfit: The Armored Biker Created!]
[Skill – Recreate My Iconic Look Obtained!]
 
[Shaman of the Old Ways Level 40!]
[Class Change: Shaman of the Old Ways → Mirmilin Es’hivule Sekururu Class Created!]
[Mirmilin Es’hivule Sekururu Level 41!]
[Bound Item – Mask of the Yellow Smog Tribe Assigned!]
[Skill – Spidercrawl (Web Fingers) Obtained!]
[Spell – Sigil of the Magical Beast Learned!]
[Skill – Child of Many Worlds Obtained!]
[Skill – Harmonized Magecraft Obtained!]
[Skill – Synchronized Shamanism Obtained!]
[Skill – Sympathetic Witchcraft Obtained!]
[Skill – Universal Faith Obtained!]
[Skill – A Tribe of Two, Worth the Weight of Thousands Obtained!]
 
“Huh? What does that…‘sekururu’? I don’t know…what does that mean?”
 
——
 
[Lovestruck Punk Level 14!]
[Skill – Dissonant Guitar Howl Obtained!]
[Skill – Advanced Leadership Obtained!]
[Skill – The Unspottable Voyeur Obtained!]
[Skill – Resistance: Bludgeoning Obtained!]
 
“Hey. That’s—well, okay.”
 
——
 
The end. A conclusion that no one quite expected, but changed everything. Classic…well, something. From there, the world moved.
Just like the [Baker], whose level only increased. Lemoste slept, and its inhabitants slumbered.
Some of them a bit too well. Like Restorer Ginthe and most of the medical staff in the local hospital, who’d finally taken a break for the concert. There was barely anyone awake there, and the poor Fraerling with the centipede in his guts?
Fine. Discharged a while ago, in fact. Barely a two-cut job. Remove the still-living centipede, sew. In, out, one minute. Damn thing had been alive despite being dismembered; the head must have been swallowed, and it reconnected the parts in the stomach. Fascinating regenerative properties, but the patient had been advised to chew more thoroughly.
That was an expert for you. And speaking of experts, of people who should not be forgotten or underestimated…how quickly they forgot.
Once upon a time, they had called him Bowom the Slicer. The [Mad Doctor] of Lemoste. Then had come the patient he had failed and his long exile.
Bowom stood in a room with a locked, enchanted door. A chair was under the doorknob, and it was covered with sealing spells. Windows shuttered. A bright [Light] spell gave him perfect illumination.
Scrolls were lined up neatly next to ampules of surgical liquids. He stood there as someone pounded on the door, but their voice was muffled. And everyone else was asleep.
“I’m sorry, Mieve.”
He spoke to the figure lying on the long table, who gazed up at him, unblinking. A smile on her face. She wasn’t asleep yet, but a single syringe of the liquid in his right hand and…
Scalpel in the left. He bent over her and spoke his confession. Because this long stay in Lemoste had given him perspective.
“Just so we’re absolutely clear, nod once for yes, disembowel me for ‘no’. Patient’s rights and consent and all that. Very important.”
She nodded once, still just smiling at him, and he went on as a sensation built in his chest. A long-buried one.
“Then, let me say it again. I’m sorry. I failed you all those years ago. I was a fool, a coward. I am so, so sorry.”
The one patient he had never been able to save, the victim of his work, stared up, and Bowom began to chuckle. It was deep in his throat, then came out of his belly, working its way up his abdomen. Louder and louder until it rang in the room, until it shook the very building.
Laughter. He forced the words out.
“I’m sorry—I didn’t go far enough. Heh. Hahaha. Ahahahaha—heeheeheehee—HAHAHAHAHAHAHA—”
Then he gently pressed the syringe into the tubes running into her body and began the operation.
So, the story was about a [Baker]. A Human and Goblin duo. Even a [Raider], in some ways. And certainly, a [Doctor].
