A number of her Silent Antinium scuttled after Garry, or rather, the book. Even when he handed it off to Golden Bloom for a re-read, they followed him, to the Silent Queen’s bemusement.
“I read and analyzed the contents of the book, Baker. What could it give my Antinium? It is a nonsensical tale without code, application, or function.”
“Perhaps, Silent Queen, it is that it spoke to them and not to you.”
She pondered this, rubbing her feelers together.
“Moments like this make me wish the Unitasis Network were all-encompassing and permanent instead of a limited send-recieve as we Queens can generate alone. It is lonely. We are so much lesser than we were. If it gives them something, let it be read, Baker. You have my gratitude. Someday, I hope we shall reclaim the might of True Antinium of Rhir. It will be beyond anything you have dreamed of.”
She smiled. The power to crack a Walled City. Creation of individuals as terrifying as Klbkch. That was the Silent Queen’s dream. What a thought. But Garry realized…that was the position of the Queens here. The Antinium who drove fear into Drakes’ hearts, such that a single one could throw a continent into panic?
It was nothing. Nothing compared to what had been.
 
——
 
The Flying Queen’s Hive was proof of that as well, but instead of being an obsessive laboratory and dark bastion, hers had changed into a flurrying frenzy of Antinium who leapt and dove. No one tunnel for them; her Hive had altitude to it. Antinium jumped off huge ledges in empty chambers, buzzing down into the right tunnels. Garry had to climb down walls of dirt as they flew past him, but there was plenty of light to see by; they hung from vast glowbulbs.
Too much light, really—but the light was there to frame…statues.
Images of Devrkr the Glowing and wild sculptures he was told were fearsome Antinium of old. Not made by the Flying Queen. They were sculpted by the Antinium of the Flying Hive, and they were the most individualistic he’d met.
Fifteen Prognuators introduced themselves to him. Each one of them had apparently risen to their rank by unseating ‘unfit’ Prognugators, and every single one of them had a unique limb or body part. They were not, in fact, traditional Prognugators at all—being made for the role—but like Pawn, they were Antinium who had attained Individuality by themselves.
Incredible changes, but the cost was literal chaos in the Flying Queen’s Hive, a sense of visible disorganization where Workers sometimes milled about, seeking orders because they’d had the wrong ones.
Experimentation without control. Expansion without limit. The Flying Hive thrummed, and not without reason; they’d been attacked by the other Hives multiple times, and the Flying Queen herself was visibly…nervous when Garry paid tribute to her.
She devoured the Turkish delight after checking it wasn’t poisoned and was mollified when he assured her the Free Queen had not sent him to harm her.
“These hostilities—regrettable! She did not find any Flying Antinium? The ones with flight-capabilities? Truly? What about the ones who aided you?”
“I have no idea where they went, Flying Queen.”
“Hm.”
She peered at him hard, and he wondered if she would call the obvious lie, but it seemed that for all her unique Hive, the Flying Queen still had little experience with an Antinium lying to her. She chattered as her Hive buzzed around her, bringing her reports.
“You visited the Silent Hive first? The Silent Queen and her new litv-gel. I tried it, you know. Too easily contaminated, too much waste in creating sterilized environments. So what if it was how Shaper Queens once did it? The variations in each gestation cycle can lead to incredible improvements! She’ll see. They’ll all see. Flight is within possibility! The rogue specimens prove that! I just need a few more to figure out what was done…not just that. I have a hundred different projects going at once. How did the Spiked-Projectile Test C%5 go?”
She turned, and one of the Prognugators scuttled over to whisper. The Flying Queen had proto-wings, Garry saw, and they buzzed.
“Krxsching tests. Reprocess. Try again with, um, 50% less isteh. Redesign firing ports.”
“Could the Antinium who failed not still be used, Flying Queen?”
The Flying Antinium Prognugator halted when Garry stepped in front of her, but the Flying Queen raised a feeler.
“What? No. Lifespans are measured in weeks. They don’t even have fully functional minds. Inefficient. Setbacks, Baker. You can see that sacrifices have to be made. Tell them that. The Solstice event? Regrettable, but victory was attained. And a Centenium has returned to us! Devrkr the Glowing!”
All the Antninium’s wings thrummed as she raised her feelers, and Garry saw a being standing above him—a huge, truly pillbug-shaped Antinium with glowing eyes and a body that was illuminated from within—staring down at him from a tunnel. The massive Antinium turned, and Garry addressed the Flying Queen.
“I would like to speak to Devrkr, if that is possible, Flying Queen.”
She twitched and spoke nervously.
“What? No. Impossible. Devrkr is very moody. Restless. Utterly loyal to me. You’ve seen him. Report back. No, wait. Leave more of this ‘sweet’ food. Very commendable, your work. I shall eat whatever you send. I wonder…can I use this in an experiment? Put this in Vats $44-88—”
She handed some Turkish delight to one of her Prognugators, and Garry turned, but the mysterious reborn Centenium was gone. He began to see why the Grand Queen was stressed. The Flying and Silent Queens were so totally opposite…
And whatever issues the other Hives had with the Flying Queen, it was clear that despite her social isolation, and her chaotic Hive, hers had a level of power that rivaled the Grand Queen herself.
At least, in theory.
 
——
 
Devrkr the Glowing had returned. Only, Garry was not allowed to see the mighty Antinium. He rather resembled a pillbug mixed with an alchemical experiment; he could apparently generate countless poisons or compounds in his body, and he was swifter than he seemed.
Garry knew this because he spotted Devrkr watching him several times as he toured the Flying Hive, telling his story and giving out gifts to the Flying Queen’s subjects. But each time Garry approached, the Centenium vanished.
“Is he…reclusive? What is he like?”
Garry turned to one of the Flying Queen’s Prognugators, and the Antinium instantly grew evasive.
“Devrkr is as Devrkr was.”
“Ah, are you old enough to remember him from before the First Antinium War?”
“I? No, I was created in the last two months. But Devrkr is the Centenium, reborn thanks to the Flying Queen’s wisdom! My body is proof of that. His secretions enable the Flying Queen to create Antinium of surpassing value. Even the Silent Queen cannot keep up!”
Certainly, this particular Flying Antinium had a weird, silvery chitin that he claimed was stronger than any other Antinium’s.
“It has survived attacks from the big red birds, Custodium blades, and even Wrymvr’s blow.”
“You sparred with Wrymvr?”
Garry was impressed by this, but the Flying Prognugator, Rittv, hesitated.
“He struck me once upon my request. I did nearly die, but I am proof of the Flying Queen’s genius! I unseated a traditionally-made Prognugator before me.”
The hierarchy again. Garry was impressed.
“How many more of your kind will be made, then?”
“More…? Just me. Devrkr only secreted enough of the compound for one group of Flying Antinium, and I alone survived my batch.”
“Can he not make more of the same if it is so effective?”
Again, Rittv revealed the weakness of the Flying Hive in the long pause.
“The Flying Queen is…uncertain as to the exact conditions that created my form, as well as Devrkr’s compounds. They are both attempting to replicate my success, as are the sub-Queens. It shall happen!”
Interesting. Devrkr didn’t know what he’d done? Or the Flying Queen couldn’t recall or reproduce her works. Then Garry caught onto something he’d heard.
“Sub-Queens?”
 
——
 
There were three Queens in the Flying Hive aside from the Flying Queen herself. That alone should have made the Hivelands explode with new Hives and redeemed the Flying Queen’s disgraceful conduct at the Winter Solstice.
However, she hadn’t introduced the Queens to the others yet. Which had the Grand Queen agitated. She probably suspected the Flying Queen was holding them back due to the infighting, and this was partly true, but the other reason the Flying Queen was holding them in her Hive was obvious to Garry.
Like Devrkr, the gifts of Kasigna had not been perfect.
“Hello, little Worker-Baker. I am Rebithia. Sub-Queen of the Flying Queen, most glorious and imaginative Queen of them all. What is this foodstuff you offer? Does the Flying Queen have more lessons for me? Her experiments in Batch &55 have not gone…ah, well.”
The Queen who called herself a fairly non-Antinium name was small! She was, in fact, barely ten feet tall, and she never stood at her full height; she crawled around like, well, an Ant-queen, only with the ability to sit, and with rather delicate feelers, she was tending to a Birther Sac with.
One look at her and Garry understood that the Free Queen and all the others had forced their growths on their bodies at great cost. This was what a regular Queen looked like: more of a worker like Octavia than some imposing broodmother.
They could lay eggs, and in fact, that was what Rebithia was doing; tending to eggs growing in Birther Sacs with additive compounds. But she was also entirely…wrong.
“Hello, Queen Rebithia. I have a present of cake, if you would like to try it…?”
She was delighted by the cake and devoured it after tasting a sample.
“Such a delicious thing! So wonderful. Oh. It is gone. Can more be made?”
When Garry revealed the recipe was easy enough, Rebithia excitedly cleared an area in the huge laboratory she was working in and mixed up some cake batter under his tutelage. She liked cooking so much, in fact, she called the other two sub-Queens over.
Prixima and Wixv were both eager, excited, and adoring of the Flying Queen. They were smart; they could memorize the cake recipe in moments, clearly knew how to make new Antinium, and had no problems with mobility.
And they had no recollection of Rhir whatsoever. Garry brought it up despite the watchful Flying Antinium, who were clearly here to make sure he didn’t learn anything that would harm their Hive’s reputation. But they couldn’t stop him whispering to the sub-Queens when they were building a primitive oven for the cake.
“Is this much like food back in Rhir, Queen Rebithia?”
She patted some clay bricks into shape and answered cheerfully.
“I do not know! The Flying Queen remembers much, but I was simply created at the Winter Solstice. She has bade us not to tell other Queens that she promises to introduce us to—once we know enough. I do not think Devrkr remembers much either. He often comes by. He is…sad.”
“But you are telling me, Rebithia?”
She clacked her mandibles, amused.
“You are not a Queen, are you, Baker Garry? Or Custodium. We obey the Flying Queen’s instructions perfectly! She would like to make more of us, but sadly, creating another of us is difficult. Very difficult. Prixima sacrificed a feeler, but we have made little of it.”
And that was the Flying Queen’s great weakness. She was a lot of potential, but her ability to carry through?
She had three Queens and a Centenium, none of whom were the legends of old. Garry left it at that as Flying Prognugators buzzed around him and herded the excited sub-Queens back to work. He weighed reporting this to the Grand Queen, but decided he’d play dumb.
At least the Flying Antinium loved his book; the sub-Queens didn’t understand it, but enjoyed the story, whereas Garry had to shoo off Flying Antinium who wanted to follow him back to the Grand Hive after he left.
Lonely Antinium, regardless of all the changes in the Flying Hive. He told the Grand Queen he was very impressed by Devrkr and the sub-Queens without revealing their weakness.
The Free Queen could make her decisions based on this knowledge, but Garry didn’t care for the Flying Hive one bit. Not the Flying Queen’s braggadocious nature and lack of follow-through. It reminded him a lot of the Earthers when they’d first come to Erin’s inn. And second?
…They looked like flies, alright? Garry hated flies in his kitchen. But that was how he found the Flying Hive.
As for the Twisted Queen, he’d heard stories. But he didn’t get to meet her; he never even got close to her Hive.
 
——
 
An earthquake had apparently sealed the Twisted Hive’s connection to the Grand Hive, and it had yet to be cleared. Which was fine; even the Custodium hadn’t exactly volunteered to escort Garry there.
Undeterred, the [Baker] had been marching over the dry, blasted surface of the Hivelands towards the Twisted Hive. He’d been told it had been meeting supply quotas from the Grand Hive, but that the Twisted Queen was even more silent than usual, although her Antinium had been less…odd of late.
He’d also been told by everyone, including the Grand Queen, that visiting her was not only a waste of time, but might be hazardous to his health—mentally, if not physically. Garry had been going anyways when he heard a tremendous thrumming of wings and a roar that had made all the Painted Antinium freeze.
Wrymvr the Deathless landed like a comet on the ground and knocked everyone except Garry backwards in a cloud of dust. His voice came from his many mouths as the being created of a dead Wyrm, the immortal guardian of Queens, spoke.
“Baker.”
(Baker Garry. Turn back. Twisted Queen does not desire to see you.)
His ‘voice’ came at Garry twofold, and his mental tone was far more eloquent than his verbal one, although it was still short, decisive. Garry lifted a hand.
“Hello, Centenium Wrymvr. I have come with gifts for the Twisted Queen. I greet you and have offerings for you as well.”
He made to walk around the Deathless and got the distinct impression he surprised the vast Antinium before a long claw-scythe extended and blocked his way.
“No.”
Garry pushed at the claw-scythe and then winced.
“Ow. That’s sharp.”
He pushed the arm down instead. This time, Wrymvr shuffled to watch Garry jog around his body. The Deathless leapt up—landed. Blocking Garry’s path.
“Leave.”
“I merely wish to see the Twisted Hive.”
Garry met the ‘eye’ pulsing at him through one of the gaps in the vast, armored body. Sixteen mouths buzzed at him as the Painted Antinium backed up.
“You. Annoying. Me.”
“We are very sorry, Centenium Wrymvr! We are going now, right, Garry? We must excrete rapidly!”
