Runearmor waved all four arms as Garry tilted his head. The [Baker] smiled at the Deathless.
“Can I offer you some Scaethen Bread, Deathless?”
He produced a glowing red loaf. Wrymvr accepted it into a gnashing mouth, chewed, swallowed. A gurgle ran through his body.
“Acceptable. Leave.”
“I would like to present the Twisted Queen with—”
Garry walked sideways, and Wrymvr scuttled left. Blocked him. Garry tilted his head again.
“Why is the Twisted Queen so insistent on not seeing me in person?”
“Dis-interested.”
“I am very interested in seeing her. The Free Queen has bade me deliver food for everyone.”
“I. Deliver.”
“I should do it myself.”
The two stared at each other. Wrymvr’s mind pulsed at Garry, a thought that was direct and almost…amused.
(Anand was not so bold. I am not a Queen, [Baker]. You have no value in war. Leave. We have no use for you.)
Garry dipped his head.
“I am aware. But I wish to see the Antinium of the Twisted Hive. The Queen I may take or leave. Excuse me.”
So saying, he put his four hands on Wrymvr’s side and pushed. One side of the Deathless’ body moved ever-so-slightly—and he put his right side down hard. He didn’t move.
Garry’s feet dug into the ground as the Painted Antinium and Custodium ran back, watching. The [Baker] pushed harder, and Wrymvr’s feet didn’t move. The two were silent as Wrymvr clicked from a dozen mouths.
—After ten minutes, Garry backed up. He jogged left. Wrymvr flew left. He jogged right. Wrymvr flew right. He pushed, and one of Wrymvr’s feet tore out of its anchor-hold in the ground.
At last, Garry stepped back.
“Hmm.”
(Strange [Baker].)
The two regarded each other silently. Garry adjusted his hat.
“I would like to see your Workers and Soldiers.”
Wrymvr’s mental tone was amused, but guarded.
(They are not being ‘mistreated’. Leave.)
“I could ask the Grand Queen to give me permission to visit. I am sure that might be…problematic for you.”
This time, Wrymvr scuttled forwards a few steps until he loomed over Garry, but his mental tone was light. Even playful.
(I could ask the Grand Queen how much grain goes into a ‘waffle’. I am sure that might be…problematic for you.)
Garry tilted his head. Wrymvr clicked in distinct amusement. The [Baker] folded his arms.
“I have your word that the Twisted Antinium are well?”
For answer, Wrymvr sent him an image of Antinium doing mostly Antinium-things. Harvesting insects, growing mushrooms and mold, tending to Birther Sacs—they looked mostly like Free Antinium with minor variants, but not the horrors that Anand had mentioned.
(New Antinium are only Worker-Soldier variants. No additional combat forms needed at this time. Desist, strange [Baker]. You are not Him.)
The ‘Him’ came with another image, regret, nostalgia, longing—and a certainty that Garry was going to start pushing his luck if he kept going.
Garry decided that was all he was going to get. He backed up, then began unloading his food for the Twisted Queen.
“Please share this in your Hive as you see fit, Wrymvr. Good day to you. If you would ever like to sample my food, please ask. Oh—”
He half-turned as Wrymvr began forming the food into a ball so he could fly off with it. Garry glanced back at Wrymvr.
“Tell me. You are one of the three Centenium remaining. Four, excuse me, with Devrkr. I have met Klbkch and Xrn. You three are different, high-level. The Queens seem industrious and loyal. Purely out of curiosity, how much does this resemble the Antinium that once were? I never asked Klbkch, but his stories make it seem very different.”
“Kzkch. Quantify question.”
Wrymvr rumbled as his wings beat, and Garry shrugged.
“Upon a scale of one to a hundred?”
The Centenium thought about it as he hovered in the air. All the Painted Antinium and Custodium peeked over a ridge of dried dirt, wondering if Storytime Wrymvr would appear to enlighten the world with his nostalgia. The Deathless of the Antinium spoke, just once, before he leapt into the air.
“Two.”
Garry craned his head backwards to watch the Antinium flying off back towards his Hive. He turned and shook his head.
“Well. No wonder the Centenium are so grumpy.”
He was trudging back when a faint voice spoke in his mind.
(They are grumpy. I am preparing. Keep distracting the Drakes, amusing, useless [Baker]. Anand was what we waited for.)
Garry spun on his heel and almost went running back towards the Twisted Hive, then caught himself. The Custodium were watching him. He trudged back the way he’d come, thinking.
Could it be? That did lighten his heart.
So did the final Hive, which he found he liked the most. At the end of his long day, Garry the Baker had one conversation he treasured with the only Queen he truly liked in the Hivelands, and he did a small thing with his hands.
 
——
 
The Hivelands were changing, varied, and vast, and perhaps, in the sea of Antinium, there were some who were like Garry, emerging or longing to exit the hole they found themselves in.
He didn’t know. Garry had given out food, and he would make bread to hand out, and he had asked for volunteers to read his storybook in the Hives he had access to; the Painted Antinium were only too willing to do that and preach their own ways to the Antinium they came across.
Garry was less happy about that, but he supposed a life as a Painted Antinium was better than not. He just disagreed that Pawn’s flock had all come to his point of view out of the pure, theological strength of Pawn’s arguments.
But then, what did Garry know? He loved Pawn like a brother, and if he didn’t get into debates with Pawn, it was just because the Free Hive didn’t need that kind of strife. Plus, he was pretty sure Pawn would curl up into a ball again if he lost.
Garry had a lot of opinions.
Garry saw a lot of things. But like a good [Baker], like a good salesperson, he didn’t share his opinions with his clients, who were everyone. He knew how to handle the Grand Queen. One did not survive Liscor’s streets, even in the Antinium’s district, without handling a few ornery customers.
“There was this Gnoll who’d come by and harass my storefront every day. He’d kick dirt at my stall, make rude comments, hassle my guests…”
He was relating the story to the other Painted Antinium as they walked, more slowly, towards the Armored Hive, which was actually one of the closest ones to the Grand Hive. But they were slow because the first shipment of the Grand Queen’s new ‘project’ was coming with them.
[Slaves]. They had on collars and, sometimes, bracelets and ankle-manacles which could be affixed with chains. Most were younger; Garry imagined the sea voyage would kill any older passengers, and they had probably been selected with physical fitness in mind.
What interested him was that the Grand Queen had selected the Armored Queen to receive the first selection of [Slaves]. That indicated the Armored Queen was most favored of the Queens—and that the Grand Queen wanted to win her over.
The second interesting thing was this: the [Slaves] were carrying some of the supplies they had brought. Cooking material, sleeping equipment like bedrolls, most of it so they could perform functions for their new owners. It was a heavy burden, and no less than eight Custodium and sixty Soldiers were accompanying the group.
And three of the Custodium were carrying supplies. A dozen Soldiers as well. In fact, a rolling cart was being pulled by two Soldiers, and several [Slaves] were sitting on it.
Odd. Garry noticed Custodium 8 was actually walking in the middle as a young Stitch-boy limped while holding onto his shoulder. The [Baker] kept his story going as they approached the Armored Antinium’s domain. Several armored Workers pointed bows at them, and one of the Custodium leapt ahead to make contact.
Patrols. Fortifications. Barricades of stone, which they passed by in increasing number as they headed towards the Armored Hive. The Armored Queen was definitely the most battle-ready. Garry kept talking as an Armored Prognugator came to escort them.
“Not just Gnolls. I had a Drake woman who hated Antinium and told me I was a monster every day for months.”
“That is very upsetting, Baker Garry. Did you call the Watch on them?”
Runearmor turned to Garry, mandibles open in surprise. Garry smiled at him.
“At first. It did not work and, in fact, only encouraged them. In time, I believe the Gnollish community informed my first harasser to stop bothering me. As for Miss Riclaw? I eventually got her to try some of my cooking. I befriended her.”
“After she was so mean to you?”
“Yes. Her son died in the first Antinium War. She had every reason to hate me. It took months, but she eventually tried my cooking one day and then told me she’d stop visiting me. I see her now and then.”
The Painted Antinium eyed each other.
“But she was very mean to you. And you said that the Watch was called on your store sometimes to inspect your food. And someone threw things at your stall at night. Was that not her?”
“It might have been, and I suspect so, yes.”
“Then you should take vengeance! As Erin did to Lism!”
Garry’s antennae rolled in a circle, much like someone rolling his eyes.
“Not everything is about victory or defeat or revenge, Runearmor. My point is that the Queens are much like that.”
“…How so?”
Egad. Maybe Pawn should send his Painted Antinium to enter the workforce more often. All they did was pray, train, and fight, right? Garry was pretty certain that if he’d just related the same story to Silveran or any Antinium who worked in Silveran’s Cleaners, they would have understood the metaphor.
He was getting more critical of Pawn’s faith. He had already been critical of the Hives, and…maybe he was becoming more independent in his way. Like Bird. But Garry had a lot to say about Bird too. If anyone wanted to hear his opinion on how Bird dealt with her emotions by shooting her namesake just because she was jealous of them being able to fly—
That was why it was silly when people called him ‘Santa Garry’ or said ‘Garry Christmas’. He’d take the name. He’d take the idea, but he was a deeply petty person with tons of flaws. Ask anyone.
Garry didn’t have high expectations of the Armored Hive after a full day of wandering around and understanding the Hivelands truly were in a state of peace as a holding pattern before the next war. A people trying to reclaim greatness. A sword trying to swing through a continent, only hampered by what it had lost.
That was why he thought the Armored Queen would grate most on his nerves. She was the most warlike Queen after all, wasn’t she?
Only…when Garry saw the entrance to the Armored Hive, he realized that she had changed as well. But what she had changed to wasn’t…
“Oh. Is that a drawbridge?”
Runearmor perked up when they came to a huge gateway in the tunnels. A literal gateway with a portcullis and everything.
And a moat. The Armored Hive was being rebuilt out of stone, but unlike the Grand Queen, they used plain stones, not fancy marble. Garry stared down at the moat as their procession walked over it. It was filled with nothing, because Antinium hated water, but that gate…that was a look. When they passed through the entrance and into the Hive, he got the style the Armored Hive was going for.
“Ah. [Knights].”
The Custodium and other Antinium turned to look at him and then at the rank of Antinium Workers practicing with swords in the ‘courtyard’ beyond.
Garry had run into Armored Antinium from the Hive before, but they had been more reminiscent of [Soldiers] wearing plate armor, like Tersk and Dekass. This armor struck him as a bit…fancier.
Maybe it was the helmets. The Armored Prognugator who had come to escort them had a working visor, which he flipped up to address Garry.
“Sir Baker, you have come to the first Keep of the Armored Hive. It is an experimental area meant to encourage levels as the Free Queen has done. Here, ye and yon company stand amidst warriors of valor. Behold the flame of the Armored Queen that lights this bastion.”
Even his modality of speech was fanciful. But one glance past the Armored Prognugator at the light source that was making this dark Hive as bright as the noonday and Garry just sighed.
“Oh. I must re-evaluate my preconceptions again. Silly Garry. Of all the Queens…I think Erin should meet and would like this one the most. I hope I shall.”
A huge brazier stood in the courtyard in which Antinium were training. It was being fed with coal and other burnable items now and then. An expensive, unnecessary addition to the Hive given that Aninium did not need the light. Or so the other Queens probably said.
But Garry understood. This light gave the [Aspirants] their vigor. It was responsible for the [Flametender] Worker’s class. It was why the Armored Hive had sent so many [Squires] to the Order of Solstice…and it changed the Hive.
The pink flame of Embraim’s glory burned high in the keep, towards the high rooftops above. Garry walked forwards as the Custodium and [Slaves] halted, mesmerized by this glow that touched something inside of them.
He saw Antinium kneeling in front of the fire, clasping helmets or using swords planted in the ground to rest. Garry gazed upwards and saw in the depths of that roaring flame a circle of bodies standing in front of an inn.
An [Innkeeper] playing chess with a Worker.
He shaded his eyes, and a smiling village of relieved Humans was in front of him—a team of silly adventurers standing over the body of an Adult Creler. He turned his head as someone came to rest beside him.
“What is your name, Prognugator of the Armored Antinium?”
“I am Tersk the Second. I bear the name of my honorable forebear, who fell defending our kin in the Free Antinium. I beheld this flame in the first minute of my waking. Is it not a sight to inspire all hearts and meaning, Baker Garry? I am told it first started in your city.”
Garry nodded absently.
“It did. I know the woman who held it first. It is a beautiful flame, Tersk the Second. But it is not my flame. I bake with flames; I do not live as one. I am glad it gives you some comfort. Tell me. How did it come to be here? Did an Antinium truly find Embraim’s lantern?”
Tersk the Second hesitated and put his helmet back on his head.
“Perhaps one did. Even now, more find his lantern and are trained, even if they are not sent to the Order of Solstice. But the flame came from our Queen.”
“Then she is a monster or a woman I would very much like to meet. Or both. But she shall be interesting.”
Tersk II twisted to gaze at Garry, affronted. But the [Baker] just walked forwards and stuck his hand into the brazier. He held a ball of glory in his palms and gazed into the heart of the magical fire for a moment, then gently closed his hand.
