Not without injury; he was bleeding from a lot of lacerations, but not deeply. The [Baker] turned and gazed at Custodium 8.
“You broke your swords in a mass training accident. Leave the [Slaves]—no, the people to me. Runearmor, take them out of the tunnels and wait for me. There are more in the Grand Queen’s Hive. A hundred and some, I think.”
Not many. But more would come. Runearmor protested.
“All of them? We could lie and say it was a tunnel collapse, but, Garry, all—”
“Runearmor. Remember when I delivered bread?”
Garry put an arm on the Painted Antinium’s shoulder, and Runearmor hesitated. Garry was looking very intense right now, and his eyes were shining again.
“Y-yes?”
“Do you recall when I fed only some of the villagers and did not feed the others?”
“…No. I don’t rec—oh.”
Leave it to me. Garry dusted off his hands, and Custodium 8 stared at his little friend, Eisil.
“But I liked Eisil. I wished to protect him and feed him. I…this is not fair. You say he is happier, but I will never see him again. I do not care if he is a [Slave] or not. I just want to see him happy.”
Garry put a hand on the Custodium’s shaking shoulder.
“That is the problem. You do not understand. I understand what I must do.”
He sighed heavily, but then he walked over to a wall and began to punch it. The Custodium glanced up, and Garry turned and smiled at them.
“Don’t worry. I have a plan. And I learned plans from the greatest planner in the world.”
He paused.
“She may not look like it, but she is.”
Then he punched the wall again, and it cracked and—
 
——
 
“Dead?”
The Grand Queen was not happy that evening, even though Garry had returned with the other Queens’ thanks.
She waved her feelers in the air.
“Two of my Custodium and all the [Slaves]? You’re sure?”
She cast around, and the other Custodium with their bright, shiny new blades gifted to them by the Armored Queen all nodded. So did Garry.
“And my Painted Antinium. It was a very tragic event, Grand Queen. A freak accident.”
“I hold the Armored Queen responsible for this! Her ineptitude—”
“It might have been Drake sabotage.”
That gave the Grand Queen pause.
“Really? Is she sure?”
“We cannot rule out the possibility, Grand Queen. How else could so many die in such a total manner?”
The vast Antinium grew annoyed at this. After all she’d done during the deliveries! But that was war. She folded her feeler-arms.
“…Even so, I will reprimand the Armored Queen for her negligence. Very well, I understand. Tell me you have prepared a suitable dinner.”
“In fact, my Queen, I have prepared the most delicious bulgogi you have ever eaten in your entire life.”
The Grand Queen was intrigued, but the huge, huge bowl of meat and the vast platter of red, dripping meats was so mounded up that she gasped.
“This amount of food…I may not eat it all in one sitting! Chef Garry, the taste!”
“Do note the fats and marinades, Grand Queen. In multiple flavors.”
She was in heaven. The Grand Queen gobbled down the food and the ‘rice’, of which there was also plenty. Garry had gone into the stores for this food, and she was complimenting him nonstop.
“I must have the recipe! I must eat more! What strange animal does this come from to make such delicious taste? Goat? Cow-things? Perhaps they can be cultivated.”
Every Queen needed this. Garry beamed up at the Grand Queen.
“Oh, this? I believe that bowl is Human. That one is Stitch-folk, and that one is Garuda, but we did not have many—”
The Grand Queen was nodding along and itching for another bite when she stopped.
“…Human?”
She peered at the red meat in one feeler, and Garry nodded.
“It was a lot of work, but I finished processing all the [Slaves] when I returned to the Hive.”
“I’m eating…Baker Garry!”
The Grand Queen unfroze, then glared at him. She opened her mandibles and snapped.
“You turned all the [Slaves] into food? This is unacceptable! They’re expensive!”
He bowed deeply to her.
“I apologize, my Queen. But they are very tasty, are they not? And surely they are not that expensive. Roshal would not overcharge you, and the Hives can pay for tens of thousands. I consulted a ledger on [Slaves], and this should only have cost around 700 gold coins at market price.”
She hesitated and took another bite because, well, it was too late now.
“Really? They assured me these were the highest-quality. I did have reservations about the price despite the catalog they sent…I believe it was altered from standing market values, but I accepted the ruse out of a desire to build relations. And these were a trial bunch. But between this and the Armored Queen’s debacle, I have none left!”
“Ah, but you do have a fine meal, Grand Queen. And plenty of leftovers.”
She considered this. Then took another scoop of rice. And another bite of meat.
“Baker Garry, I can see that you are a somewhat wasteful individual who does not understand fiscal value. But I forgive you, because the Hives are rich. In the future, you must consult with me first. Ah, but the taste—ooh, what is that?”
“Mustard. It goes quite well with Drowned Folk.”
“Ooh, delightful, delightful. Baker, I cannot stay angry at you. I will have to deal with this, but you have my compliments! Compliments to the chef! Now I understand the saying.”
He bowed again, begging her forgiveness for his error, which was really understandable in her view; Antinium ate each other all the time, and he didn’t understand the world like she did.
In the end, the Grand Queen ended up ringing one of her contacts up in Roshal and told them she was delighted with her batch of [Slaves]. When the eager, sycophantic person talking to her asked how the other Queens were taking them and if she wanted more, she told them yes.
“Regrettably, I have eaten all of them, but it is the duty of the rich to eat the poor, or so I understand from your culture.”
There was a choked voice from the other end of the line, then the Stitch-man quavered.
“Y-you ate them, er, Grand Queen?”
“Grandest Queen. And yes, of course. It may be a suboptimal use of coin to your sensibilities, but with correct marination…please inform Emir Yazdil that I would like more at reasonable market rates.”
The individual assured her they’d—they’d—well, he didn’t get to what they’d do as he ran off to tell the Masters of Roshal that there was a slight hitch with their latest partner’s understanding of [Slaves]. And that was all the Grand Queen thought of the matter aside from looking forwards to ‘leftovers’. She was only sad Baker Garry had to run back to the Free Hive, but he had promised to come back regularly and send his foods and bake more [Slaves] for her.
She was mildly surprised to realize he had made it all the way back from the Hivelands to Liscor in a single night, though. That was…fast. Did he have a travelling Skill or something?
 
——
 
Garry leapt off the wagon when he got back to the Free Hive, having actually beat the two groups of [Slaves] that Runearmor and Custodium 8 were leading back here. They weren’t even half the distance, in fact; given the extreme distances involved, only Garry’s Skill, [Vehicle: Fast Travelling], could allow him to make the journey in a single night.
He’d actually run forty miles before switching to the wagon, because he’d realized this was the ideal spot to do roadwork each day. A straight tunnel from here to the Hivelands with no one to interrupt him and no water or anything else to get in the way.
However, that was a thing for later. Right now he had a problem, and it was the freed [Slaves]. Garry called for someone to pamper the two panting mules who’d carried him all this way, then rushed into his Hive. The [Slaves]. He’d gotten them out of the Hivelands, which was step one, but after that?
Garry was mildly shocked his ruse had worked this well, actually. But, then, he got the feeling the Grand Queen hadn’t really known what to do with the [Slaves] anyways.
The Free Queen was a lot better at understanding the world, and she was not happy when he told her what he’d done. But Garry assured her he had a plan.
“I will find a place for them to go, Xevccha.”
She leaned over her Throne of Fluff, glaring at him.
“If Liscor is endangered by Roshal because of this, Garry…they cannot stay here. Roshal has tracking spells and Skills. Xrn warded the Free Hive, but some of these [Slaves] may not be content to remain free.”
“I know, I know! I have a plan!”
“Which is…?”
“Standby!”
She craned her head to see him, then turned to Runel and Pisca.
“He does not, in fact, have a plan. Does he?”
They shook their heads, and the Free Queen took a long, long sip from her boba tea.
“…He’d better level from this.”
 
——
 
Garry had to do a lot of research about [Slaves] and [Rebels], and he had no time. He needed a plan, a system, for the next time they arrived. The Grand Queen wasn’t stupid.
More to do. But his most important task right now was dealing with these freed [Slaves], and he realized the Free Queen was right.
“I can’t keep them at The Wandering Inn.”
That’d link them to the Hivelands, and besides, Lyonette didn’t need more pressure from Roshal on her. But where did [Slaves] go if not…
There were only a few places [Slaves] could go after being freed, actually. Garry rifled through some books he’d bought, then jogged over to speak to a worldly, knowledgeable Gnoll.
Yelroan gave Garry a look before he began his lecture.
“Is this something I should know about, Garry?”
“Er, not yet. But please, tell me everything you know!”
Yelroan, Lyonette, and Dalimont were some of the best people to ask about this sort of matter, having either positions or experience in worldwide affairs. Unfortunately, aside from legal methods, or being the King of Destruction, there was really only one spot that harbored [Slaves]. And freed Djinni.
The problem Garry had was how to get in contact with the Demons. He gave it his best shot.
 
——
 
“Hello, hello. I am looking for Silvenia, the Death of Magic?”
Asgra was cleaning up the seats in the [World’s Eye Theatre]. When she heard Garry standing in the center of the room, she stared at him, open-mouthed. He waited.
Nothing. Damn. She was warded. He went down the list.
“How about Czautha, the Death of Chains? She was actually higher on my list, but I believed Silvenia would be more willing to chat.”
Silence. Asgra was poking a finger in one ear. Garry sighed.
“Serinpotva, Death of Wings? Demon King? Damn.”
Erin’s Skill worked on almost everyone! Why couldn’t this have been last year, before people took precautions! He went pacing around, thinking hard.
Well, there were other ways. Right? Who had access to the Demons?
Garry didn’t know about Colthei, but he was educated enough to have a thought. There was someone in this very inn, in fact!
 
——
 
A little Sariant Lamb named Smallhoof was rooting around in Nanette’s rooms when Garry opened the door and slid in. The Sariant Lamb froze and tried to appear innocent; he’d replaced Nerry shortly after she’d vanished with Erin.
However, Garry was in a hurry, so he strode over.
“Excuse me. I know you are aware of what I am saying. Do you, by any chance, know how to get in touch with any…Demons? Preferably one of the Deaths? I am in rather a hurry.”
Smallhoof stared up at Garry. Then remembered to close his mouth. He began to trot out the door, and Garry followed him. The Sariant Lamb began running down the hallway, and Garry ran after him.
“Wait! I am not trying to implicate—I just want to talk to them!”
He was about to grab the Sariant Lamb when Rosencrantz saw the two running and asked Garry why he was chasing a little Sariant Lamb across the inn. Then Garry really did feel like Erin.
 
——
 
…And the problem with being like Erin was that sometimes, you couldn’t perform a miracle. Which he knew. As evening changed to dusk, Garry strode around the little room he’d been given in The Wandering Inn that he seldom used. He’d found a huge map in it and tacked a bunch of red string to various locations, but it was no good.
He saw no other options, and he was in a fury.
“No! It’s not right! It’s not fair! I should be able to protect them! Not this! Not—”
He turned back to the map, and the only conclusion stared him in the face. It was obvious, really.
There was only one place to go. Garry sat there and saw the arrow he’d plotted, moving south from the Hivelands, away from any major city. Then…west.
If you assumed Roshal could track you down, if you assumed you had to avoid civilization and—and that they could use spells to locate escaped [Slaves] via hidden magic or something, there was only one place in the world where they’d be safe.
The New Lands of Izril.
“But they will not be safe there. The odds of danger finding them or…”
Two Antinium could not keep that group safe. Even if more went, like Runearmor, and the [Slaves] defended themselves…Garry sat, head bowed.
“No.”
Should he have left them in their chains?
No.
But…his head came up, and he wondered if this was how she felt. Then, the [Baker] wished she would talk to him. That was of course when Erin Solstice called before her big concert.
 
——
 
When he appeared in her [Pavilion of Secrets], her beloved [Baker] was upset. He had black flour on his apron and hands, and he continued rolling a piece of dough even as he appeared in front of her.
“Garry? Are you okay?”
He glanced at her and stopped rolling the imaginary piece of dough.
“Oh. Erin. Your costume is very…interesting.”
“If it looks bad, just tell me. I think it’s stupid-looking and I can’t wear it, but Matha says it’s great.”
“Yes. She would. It suits you, Erin.”
The [Innkeeper] smiled at him, then it slipped with worry.
“I’m…are you okay? You seem stressed.”
“I have made a mistake, Erin. I am not in physical danger. I am not. I am baking bread.”
“Oh? What kind?”
“Shadowloaves. As many as I can. They will keep people safe. At least, until they spoil or are eaten. I will explain. Are you safe?”
She gave him two thumbs up and brushed at her newly-shorn hair.
“Safe as can be. But not the best. Um…I was going to call you for moral support, but tell me what’s going on first.”
So, they told each other about their day. The silly [Baker] and the crazy [Innkeeper] both thought that the other had the more interesting day.
But that was because both of them seldom paused to look in the mirror.
 
——
 
Two pots sat together in the gazebo, and one was young, the other just a tiny bit older. Erin’s hat was burning with a thousand flames.
His was red and had a little white cotton ball on the end. Both thought the other had a better hat.
