That night in Lemoste-Under-Cliffs, an [Innkeeper] and Goblin spotted each other across the crowded concert grounds heaving with Fraerlings, tables, food, and excitement as bands prepared to perform.
When they saw what the other was wearing, they halted, and their friends laughed and felt the moment in the air. The [Innkeeper] strode forwards with a marching band of musicians, like someone leading an army to war. A woman of great causes.
The [Shaman] hesitated, then crouched and scuttled forwards. A lonely warrior, a masked survivor who’d remembered she was still young. And she was followed by masters of magic, who lit up the sky, an honor-guard carrying her dignity.
At the side of the young Human was a [Raider], a rebel, a granddaughter, who cheered like the world’s greatest follower and supporter.
Behind the Hobgoblin strode a madman, a [Doctor], a genius who was determined to see something he couldn’t predict.
—Right in the middle of the two were the quartet of idiots who really, really hadn’t done anything much. An old [Explorer] and a younger one, who stared at the change that had come over the two, and a pair of silly [Brawlers] who held each other like the best of friends.
Whose hearts shook and, when they glanced at each other—they almost sprang apart, because for a second, they were afraid they didn’t look like comrades, but lovers. A line they couldn’t cross, because—Zemmy’s eyes flicked to the ground as Mera glanced at him and reddened—
You could never go back.
A hand held onto another a second too long. Mera leaned back as Zemmy raised a foot to kick. Then they were just sitting there, glancing left and right at the two processions winding towards them. Neither one said a word.
It wasn’t about them, anyways. The Hobgoblin’s eyes were wide behind her mask, and the [Innkeeper] was breathing hard as her motorbike helmet gleamed, hiding her expression.
They slowed, the [Innkeeper] almost tripping, the Hobgoblin freezing as Fraerlings turned to her. Gasping. They didn’t take their eyes off each other.
 
——
 
And you know what? This was a great moment to understand why the Battle of the Bands 4 was actually, in fact, the biggest Battle of the Bands to take place in Lemoste.
One might well think that Battle of the Bands 1, 2, or 3 would have a very good chance at being the best, and the fourth such event was not only passé, but banal at this point.
One would be wrong. You see, it all came down to a mixture of factors that Matha was loudly trying to explain to Eurise as Erin craned her neck, trying to see where Ulvama had gone.
They’d reached the table, but Ulvama had not. Erin had lost sight of her when a wave of excited Fraerlings had swept forwards to ask about the masks that Ulvama and the other magic-users were wearing. And Matha was shouting.
“It’s going to be huge, guys!”
“Bigger than yesterday? That was the third ‘battle’, right?”
Roja wasn’t quite glaring at Erin, but she had her arms folded, and Matha was excitedly shaking her head. Erin stood up on her tiptoes. Then sat back down, adjusting her costume. Which looked like—
“Listen! Here’s why it’s the best. Okay, you know how everyone was busy until now? That’s why the other concerts were, like—practice! Everyone’s here for this one. Plus, think about it! No one knew how to really play the first three times, but now?”
“Oh, they’ve had practice.”
Eurise shrugged. He was casting around as well, but he was receptive to this argument. Matha was nodding.
“Not just practice! Levels. Classes! And all the crafters got really excited for this one because, well, they have free time now that Lemoste has walls.”
It was true; you had the most participation, the most practice, the most competition, and…Erin was really happy for everyone. Really. But, uh—
Damnit.
She could feel the passion in the air. She wrenched her attention away from the crowd of people and turned to Matha. Reluctantly, but Erin had an idea. As Garry well knew, she was rather good at plans, and something occurred to her.
“Hey, Matha? I just had a thought. Everyone’s put a lot of effort into this except for me.”
“What? Erin! You’re all dressed up! I mean, look at what you’re wearing!”
Erin glanced down at her clothing.
“Yeah. But…well, this is huge. Just look at the Fallin’ Gnomes. Or Elohi and the Cats.”
She gestured at the nervous group preparing to go on stage, who the smart money was on—if Fraerlings had any money. They were coordinating with an [Illusionist], and another band with Alack and his group were talking to an [Alchemist]. Matha nodded.
“This is going to be super, Erin.”
“Yeah, well…maybe it can be even more super. I have a stupid idea, but…”
Erin shot a glance back at where a spider-Goblin had climbed over the heads of a crowd. She bit her lip. Then sighed.
“Can I borrow you for one second? I’ll be back, guys.”
Matha blinked, but then ran over to the stage with Erin as Bowom finally fought through the crowd.
“Back! Back! I have a scalpel! Dead gods, they don’t fear the scalpel. What is the world coming to? Where’s our [Innkeeper]?”
Eurise jerked a thumb over his shoulder, and Ulvama tilted her mask up to wave as Mera squeaked.
“Whoa! Ulvama! That’s a badass mask!”
“Where’s Erin?”
Ulvama was so nervous she jumped when someone punched her. She swore, whirling—and the Battle Hamster recoiled, then raised its fists. It hopped, ready to fight this freakish, masked—
“You silly hamster! It’s me!”
The Battle Hamster lowered its fists, then sniffed Ulvama all over and tried to headbutt her mask. She hugged it, and Roja broke in.
“Erin had an idea. She’s going to—”
“Of course she is.”
Ulvama sighed, and everyone grew tense, but the Hobgoblin just sat down, fanning her face. Then all the magic-casters were around them, and Ulvama fidgeted. Zemmy leaned over, staring.
“Whoa. Is that spider gear? It’s not Shield Spider. What type?”
“Dreamweaver. Do you like the—”
All the conversation was drowned out as a voice shouted from the magical speakers installed on the stage.
“Ladies and Gentlemen, we’re beginning in five minutes! Take your seats, enjoy the refreshments—and, er, let’s hear it for our performers!”
A cheer rose from the crowd, and Ulvama and everyone else joined in, clapping. But where…was Erin? What was she doing?
 
——
 
Backstage was chaos. Someone from Alack’s band was begging for a tonic.
“I need a potion for motion-sickness! Please!”
There were other voices shouting with all those last-minute emergencies.
“Does anyone have face-paint? I’m out!”
“Hey, where’s our [Mage]? We’re going up first!”
Matha was supposed to MC the entire event. Erin still wasn’t sure what ‘MC’ stood for, but she’d assured Matha it was important. But right now, Matha was wide-eyed, stuttering.
“W-wait, really, Erin? But that’s against all the rules. Everyone will kill you if you do that!”
That caught the attention of Vision Tiregal, who was singing backup in his own band. He came over, eyebrows raised, and Erin shrugged.
“I mean, it’s bad if it’s done live. But hey, you know what? This looks a lot like a scene from home.”
She nodded out the curtains at the cheering crowd. Erin hadn’t ever been backstage for a concert, but she added.
“I mean, everyone seems normal to me. Even as a silly Human Tallfolk. All you’ve gotta do is send it in, right?”
She waggled her eyebrows with that hint of mischief, of chaos. Matha glanced at Vision Tiregal as the [Mage] they’d found rubbed her hands together gleefully.
“Oh, I can definitely do it! But—but are we certain?”
“The Farspeakers will kill us.”
Vision Tiregal murmured and turned to Matha. The [Punk] stared at her feet, then at Erin.
“But everyone would see it?”
“Yep.”
“It’s so wrong! But wait, I’m a [Punk]! This is totally breaking the rules, right? No way. Erin, are you, like, some kind of ultra-[Punk]?”
Everyone stared at her, and the well-behaved, well-liked [Innkeeper] known mainly for her musical stylings and her feud with an innocent Hobgoblin developed a familiar twinkle in her eyes. She scrubbed at it furiously and slammed her bike helmet visor down.
“Aaah! Glitter in the eye! Matha, your hair is a nightmare! Anyways, yes. I have been known to cause chaos now and then, Matha. Whaddya say? If it’s really bad, someone will tackle us.”
Matha glanced at the others, then closed her eyes.
“Grandma is going to blow all her lids. Let’s do it.”
 
——
 
It was night in the rest of the world. And, technically speaking, the events of the concert had no real bearing until hours later.
Close to midnight, in fact, long after it had concluded and all that had been said and done had happened. What that was? Didn’t really matter.
The consequences of Matha’s actions were far more important in a worldly sense. And those particular consequences had a real bearing on a certain news segment on Channel 2 News, Wistram News Network.
It was late, and no one was really watching. The poor Gnoll whose job it was to man the newsdesk was named Nrr. A real Gnoll’s name, even if his parents had never so much as been outside of Pallass.
He was a [Camera Operator] and an aspiring [Reporter]. Drassi’s team had a lot of non-Drakes, unlike Channel 1, and this was his first time on air. He’d rehearsed a lot, but he’d still been disappointed to get the night-shift.
Unlike Colmet, who sometimes co-anchored or took over for Drassi, or the other top talent, he had to start covering these segments, and no one was watching, so he’d never get his big break! True, he’d gotten this far, and he was being professional.
“It, ah, seems we have more callers writing in about the Garry Delivery event. I’ll be reading them out as I report on the news as it comes in.”
Which was nothing. To fill the time, Nrr was taking user-submissions, be it messages to the desk or even submissions of their own events.
Wistram kept porting in things they got sent—it was expensive, and it was mostly royalty sending in utter trash, like King Perric of Medain’s recreation of his love affair with Ceria Springwalker and Yvlon Byres or something.
But he had to fill the void, so Nrr read a few messages that mostly rehashed the action from earlier. If only it had been just an hour later, he’d still get to cover the events—or Drassi would still be here, most likely.
All the action was done. He gloomily stared at a counter behind the camera. It read ‘1131’.
As in, by Wistram’s counts, 1,131 people were tuning into the broadcast. Which sounded like a lot until you realized that even in the evening, Channel 1 was pulling 15,663 viewers. Let alone a peak…!
The Gnoll was fumbling with a few recording crystals that had blinked into being in the magical box they’d sent. He was reading the labels. Wistram screened for anything inappropriate, but it was probably some [Apprentice] on the other end, same as him. This was the news, but he wanted it to be news. Nrr sighed as he read.
“Let’s see. I think we could fill the void with…Stitch-folk sword-juggling? Er, no. Something calming, maybe. Drathian tea ceremony?”
He shuddered. If he fell asleep at the desk, he’d never get to work again. Desperately, Nrr glanced up and then blinked. The number behind the counter as one of his fellow [Camera Operators] yawned had changed.
1170.
Oh? Not bad. Maybe a village was watching, though wouldn’t they count as one? Before even a moment had passed, Nrr saw the number change again.
1249.
Huh?
Then it blinked again.
1533.
Then—
2144.
The [Camera Operator] sat up a bit as the Dullahan registered the number climbing too. Nrr fumbled with his crystals. He saw a letter pop into his in tray, then another.
“Er, I, uh—folks, if you’re just tuning in, it seems like our audience is picking up. Let me just, uh, read this letter that came in. It’s from Lord Molen of House Terland?”
He tore it open and read it.
“It says, ‘get on with it’. Er, with what, Lord Molen?”
He looked around, then, since the staff were giving him shrugs to indicate no news had come in, he went to the recordings again. Maybe…
“Er, well, if you want to watch viewer submissions, boy, do I have—apple picking in Noelictus? Ergh! Wait, what’s this? ‘Battle of the Bands 4’?”
This recording note was attached to a rather small crystal that glowed as he picked it up. Bemused, Nrr turned.
“I don’t know if this is what we’re getting on with, but let’s give it a shot. You know, it’s a shame. There are plenty of Singer of Terandria imitators these days, especially with her tragic attack at sea—she’s still not been found or confirmed alive or dead, you know—but no one’s got her magic. Despite all the magic, ha-ha…”
He was dying on air. But when he glanced back again—
4561.
Nrr almost fell out of his seat. What the heck was…and then he saw the image appear on the screen behind him. One of the [Camera Operators] changed the overlay so the audience saw the image coming out of the recording, and Nrr was in a window in the right corner. And he saw…
“Hey, everyone!”
The voice that blasted from the recording was loud and filled with cheering. Nrr almost grabbed a remote to change the volume, but the sight of the Human woman standing on the stage, dressed in a glitzy rock-n-roll outfit covered with silver sequins and shining flames had a microphone, and she was standing on a huge stage.
Where is this? Terandria? 
The cheering died down as the image of Matha stabilized. It was very clear, and Nrr checked the recording. Who sent this…? He realized he was on-air and coughed.
“Er, seems like we’ve got a recording of some kind of outdoor event. Terandria, I think. I don’t know what—”
“Welcome to Battle of the Bands 4!”
“Battle of the Bands…four? I’ve never heard of—”
Matha’s shouting was louder than Nrr’s desperate attempts to give clarity to the situation. And she arguably did it better than he did.
“Tonight, we’ve got an amazing series of bands who are going to be playing their hearts out! Rock n’ Roll, pop, and more! I’m going to be calling each band in, so give me a huge cheer for—Elohi and the Deranged Cats!”
The cheering grew louder, and Nrr hesitated. There was good energy in this video, but he wasn’t sure if—
The sight of a full squad of young Humans dressed to the max in clothing he’d never seen before—torn shirt sleeves, trendy, modern-looking clothing, and even a bandanna on their lead singer—made him stop.
And their instruments. Nrr took his hand off the remote as the Cats set up a very odd set of drums and lifted familiar guitars of a style he knew had become popular only this year.
