As the days wore on, his tribesmen ranged outwards and found even more locations of interest, places Vithar kept in mind if this oasis should ever dry out, but each night, he marked the water’s high point with a cast off twig, and every morning, he found his marker immersed in water yet again. Water welling up from an underground source, the Ancestors explained, along with a detailed description of how it worked, but it was too complex for Vithar to grasp. Instead, he joined his tribesmen in setting up shelters from the sun, using what materials he had available, namely human bone and leather. The Ancestors were displeased, but only in an abstract manner, never once bringing the subject up or castigating Vithar for his actions, but he sensed their feelings all the same.

Strange. The Ancestors had changed so much and no longer pestered him to fight and kill, but instead urged him to build and create. In theory, Vithar wasn’t entirely opposed, as he was exhausted from so many weeks of travel and fighting, made weak by his long respite in the strange city of Shi Bei. As he reflected on his time there and all the luxuries he missed, the Ancestors taught him how to enjoy them anew, guiding him to the ingredients needed to make wine and spiced meat. The moon waxed and waned before the fruits of his labour were good enough to enjoy, and he celebrated this minor success by sharing tart wine and grilled skewers with all of his tribesmen, and he found much gratification in their enjoyment. The wine was weak and the meat from a herd of four legged beasts his tribesmen had hunted the day before, but with a little bit of effort on his part, he made the berries more palatable to eat and the meat a feast for the senses. The sense of accomplishment he gained from watching his tribesmen partake of his efforts rivalled the joy he found beneath the sheets with Asmani each and every night, and he wondered what else the Ancestors might guide him towards, here in these wonderful lands.

Then, one morning, he woke in his tent and found young Gen sitting in wait, legs crossed in the dirt and arms posted behind him while watching Vithar and Asmani sleep. “Oh good,” he began, a beat late as Vithar was already reaching for his axe. “You are awake. And here this Sovereign thought you might sleep until midday.” A flash of light sent pain lancing through Vithar’s fingers. Drawing his hand back with a hiss, he found his skin welting from Gen’s admonishing flame. “Reach for it again, and I will burn your hand to a crisp.”

Unlike his flames, there was no heat in young Gen’s voice, no emotion at all, merely a warning given without any vested interest if Vithar would obey. “My tribesmen?” he asked, wordlessly cautioning Asmani to do nothing as Gen cocked his head in genuine confusion. “They still yet live?”

“Of course they do. What reason does this Sovereign have to kill them?” Studying Vithar and Asmani with a curious gaze, young Gen muttered, “And so the mystery grows. You both have transformed much in so short a time, from lacking prospects to promising talents. So few of you outlanders are able to overcome a lifetime of indoctrination, so reliant upon your ‘Ancestors’ and unable to think for yourselves.” Shaking his head, he sighed and added, “But then, at least your flaws can be excused on account of circumstances beyond your control. In contrast, the people of the Empire celebrate their ignorance and brandish their chains proudly, slaves to a dog Emperor who cares only for what they can do for him, rather than the other way around.

“The Uniter is no different,” the Ancestors warned, and Vithar took this advice to heart.

“Why have you come?”

“Initially, to kill you and reclaim your tribesmen.” Again, the answer was delivered without emotion, as Gen continued to study Vithar like a curious beast. “But this Sovereign has changed his mind. Your warriors and the garos they ride are a most valuable resource, one this Sovereign is still yet unable to easily replace. You brought them away, and for this, you deserve death, but you are too promising a subject to waste.”

“And if I refuse?” A bad question to ask according to the Ancestors, who were already preparing Vithar to fight.

“Then you will die, and this Sovereign will install one of your Champions in your place.”

The boy was too calm and relaxed for Vithar’s liking, exuding confidence and competence far beyond his years, with none of the ragged edges he’d seen during the long trip south. The Ancestors warned him this was not the same Gen, but Vithar knew as much just by looking at him. A fair-featured young man, his fearsome metallic arms ended in razor-tipped claws, while his impenetrable armoured breastplate fit his body like a second skin, and in fact might well be one. Still, even Blessed as he was with Earth’s Fire, as Gen so loved to brag, Vithar believed he could at least injure his foe before dying and buy enough time for Asmani to deal a killing blow. “I rode for the Uniter once before,” Vithar began, preparing to will his bone battle-axe to leap to his hand and ignoring Asmani’s silent plea to stay his hand. “And all my tribe came away with were broken promises of bounty and bloodshed. A ripe land for the taking, we were promised, and now we have taken what will be ours.” Meeting Gen’s gaze without fear, Vithar sneered and said, “We will not ride again, not without purpose.”

Purpose they’d found here, in this blissful oasis, where his people were happy and free from constant struggle.

“Purpose you say?” Sitting upright with a smile, Gen slowly extended his clawed hand, and Vithar felt power coalescing within, but before he could act, the boy’s armoured Transcendents appeared at his side and warned Vithar from acting. “You seek purpose?” Gen asked, as Vithar’s eyes locked on the invisible struggle within the palm of Gen’s hand. “What better purpose than power? A limited resource, your garo riders are, so in trade, this Sovereign will bestow upon you a limited resource of his own, one arduously claimed from a most intriguing foe.” Without warning, the power surged into Vithar’s chest and filled him with the promise of strength and knowledge, the Ancestors returned in full force. Seeing his disbelief, Gen cackled and nodded. “Yes, yes, you feel it? Pure, unsullied Energy of the Heavens, severed and forfeited by the Devourer’s own hand. What you hold now is but a fraction of a fraction, taken by this Sovereign and bent to his will. Join me, and you will be rewarded with more to come, for our most problematic foe has now proven to be a treasure worth taking. With the Devourer broken and hiding, we will soon have him in hand, whereupon this Sovereign will unlock his secrets and discern his method of purifying Heavenly Energy, and in doing so, harness the power of the Heavens themselves. A secret,” Gen added, rather belatedly as the Ancestors pointed out, “This Sovereign will then share with you and yours.”

A lie, but Vithar didn’t need the Ancestors to say as much to him. Even then, he was sorely tempted. “I command the garos.”

“Yes, yes, the terms of our agreement still stand. The Commander directs your actions, but you are free to fight as you please if the mood so strikes you.”

“No.” Meeting Gen’s eyes, Vithar said, “I command all the garos. Not just my tribe, but all tribes. Chieftain of Chieftains, I will be, a commander of my people, as Gongsun Qi commands his.”

“More and more interesting, this puzzle grows.” Pausing to consider the offer, Gen’s eyes lost focus for a moment before regaining their clarity. “Very well, oh Chieftain of Chieftains,” he said, smiling as if laughing at some great joke. “Gather your people, and let us go.”

“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.”

Vithar and Gen both leapt to their feet, but the Transcendents instantly reacted, leaping at the hidden foe they only just discovered. It did them no good however, as a wide-eyed, scowling monk emerged from Concealment and dealt with both in a single blow. A gentle wave of the hand was all Vithar saw, as if the bald, robed monk was merely swatting a fly, but both Transcendents shattered at the touch before crumbling apart on the spot. Fearsome to the extreme, the fat, scowling monk took a deep breath and transformed before Vithar’s eyes, his exaggerated facial features melting away as his fearsome grimace turned into a relaxed smile, one so large it almost hid his narrow eyes. “If you and yours seek to leave, then this monk will not stand in your way, but he will not allow you to bring those who wish to stay behind.”

Shooting Vithar an annoyed look, Gen sighed and said, “So, the Brotherhood has already begun recruitment, right underneath the Chieftain of Chieftains’ nose.”

“We only seek to answer questions for those who care to ask them.” Fixing his gaze on Vithar, the fearsome, smiling monk said, “You have not yet come to question, but this monk sees hope yet. Your wine and grilled meat; you enjoyed the act of making them, and moreso the act of sharing. Have you not thought to question why?”

Because for the first time in Vithar’s life, he was a provider for his people, rather than a harbinger of tribulation. And yet... good feelings were fleeting and uncertain, whereas power was absolute, power young Gen had given him. “Questions need no asking or answering,” Vithar replied. “Only silencing.”

“Such pride, such sin.” Shaking his head, the monk sighed and said, “Very well then. We all must tread our own paths, for better or for worse, but any who leave with you, do so of their own free will, and nothing you or the monster you’ve allied with will change this.” The smile still remained, yet the monk’s demeanour grew dark, a subtle threat Vithar could only sense and not see. “So get thee gone, creatures of sin and transgression, but know that if there should come a day when you truly yearn for redemption, the Brotherhood will welcome any and all with open arms.”

Most of Vithar’s tribesmen left with him, but a good number stayed behind. Lingering to study their faces so that he might know which ones to kill, he couldn’t help but envy these faithless deserters. The days of peace were restful and enjoyable, but Vithar knew such a life was not for him, else he would have been born here, in these safe, happy lands. Then again, perhaps it was for the best. These runaways would only have weighed his tribe down with their weakness and doubts, so they were all better off parting ways here.

Forgoing all thoughts of vengeance, Vithar met Asmani’s gaze, and for once, the stubborn woman looked away, even going so far as to hide behind the smiling monk. Regret coursed through him as he grieved her loss, and he gazed one last time upon her protruding belly, growing with the first signs of new life. Nodding in farewell, he turned away and hid his smile, heartened to know at least some of his tribesmen might yet live on in these peaceful lands and try their hand at a life which he was not suited for. Perhaps Vithar’s child would grow up weak and spoiled, but it was not so terrible a fate if he or she learned to be happy and at peace as well.

“I will watch over them,” the Ancestors promised, only to be replaced by the more familiar Ancestors Vithar had grown up with, those pushing him to kill and slaughter. Whether this change was real or imagined, he still found solace in the promise and hoped for the best. Victory or death awaited him in the War against the Empire, but no matter the outcome, Vithar would never return here to intrude upon the quiet lives of his former tribesmen, nor would he allow anyone else to so long as he still drew breath.

This much, he would see done, for he was Vithar, Chieftain of Chieftains, Prime Champion of the outer lands.

Chapter Meme
