Everybody lies.

That was the truth as Hideo saw it, the Right View, as it were. Father, Grand-Uncle Juichi, Monk Eyebrows, Wisdom Vyakhya, each and every one of them looked Hideo in the eyes and lied to him, lies he accepted without thinking. More fool him, but they had to bear some responsibility for their lies too. How different would Hideo’s life had been if he’d known the truth all along? As a child, he wanted nothing more than to follow in his Grand-Uncle’s footsteps, so he put all his efforts towards this silly goal. Even then, there was a time when he wondered if he was truly suited for the Martial Path. Noble families were superior for a reason, because they produced powerful Warriors generation after generation. Although Grand-Uncle worked himself to the bone to establish the Mitsue Family as a power unto itself, there were always whispers about his weak blood being responsible for the lack of a proper Martial Heir, and thus dooming his family to a single, prosperous generation.

It was difficult to argue against the facts, namely how there were no outstanding talents in the second or third generations of the Mitsue Family. In his youth, Hideo had been unremarkable at best, the most talented Mitsue of his generation to be sure, but far behind anyone of note. All his hard work and effort won him no praise or accolades from the family, and in fact earned him the ire of his cousins, who were not so far behind that they couldn’t team up to beat Hideo down. The other children also made fun of him too, the son of a paper-pushing nephew who was not worth getting to know. Life was lonely and miserable back then, doubly so because Father was never around. Grand-Uncle always had a warm smile and big hug ready for Hideo, as well as candied treats stealthily hidden within his sleeves, but he was even busier than Father since he had yet to unofficially retire, and wouldn’t for another five years.

The timing was significant because that’d been around the same time Ryo Dae Jung was promoted to Colonel General. Hideo remembered it well, because there were many who believed Grand-Uncle was stepping back to give room for the new generation to shine and devote all his attention to raising a promising Heir, with rumours of a possible alliance through marriage between one of Juichi’s grandsons and Ryo Da’in, but nothing ever came of it. They’d all been fed a pack of lies and falsehoods, some perhaps even fabricated by Father himself. Grand-Uncle stepped back because he finally had an heir to replace him as the pillar of the family, and wanted to enjoy his last two decades of life in relative peace.

At least, this was what Hideo believed now that he knew all the facts involved. Father was no Ryo Dae Jung, but having seen him fight against multiple Demons unaided, Hideo wagered he couldn’t have been too far behind. Even if Father only recently became a Peak Expert in the weeks before he died, Mitsue Hiroshi would have still been considered a Rising Dragon of note, because Peak Experts were as rare as phoenix feathers and qilin horns when taking the entire Empire into account. There might well have been other factors which affected Grand-Uncle’s decisions, but he never shared them with Hideo, so all he could do was guess. His Father and Mentor, the two people closest to his heart, and they refused to ever tell him the truth. Back then, he’d been smitten with Da’in’s beauty, a woman five years older than he and the crowning gem of Central’s young beauties. This was before she revealed her fangs and soundly trounced Ishin Ken-Shibu in public of course, but as the rising Sword King’s daughter, she was still the most eligible young woman in all of Central even without accounting for her good looks. Hideo’s cousins had believed all the rumours and each fancied themselves the lucky husband-to-be, but he reckoned a union between Ryo and Mitsue would’ve been akin to planting a rose in a pile of shit.

Unless of course, he was the Mitsue in question.

He’d been thirteen years old then, and though he devoted almost all his waking hours to Martial Training, he was also utterly infatuated with Da’in, which his cousins soon discovered when they caught him writing her name with brush and parchment. Oh how they laughed and jeered, calling him a toad lusting after swans’ flesh and never once seeing the hypocrisy of their own statements. Back then, he still cared very much about his cousins’ opinions and wanted them to like him, so this left him in a dark mood for many days. Worse, he agreed with his cousin’s insults and truly believed he wasn’t good enough to match up with Da’in, that his talents were unworthy of her notice and that he was doomed to mediocrity. He was so disheartened, he even considered abandoning the Martial Path, though he refused to become a wastrel like his uncles. The next time Father returned home, Hideo inquired about his work and hinted that he would like to learn more so that he could help out in the future.

Hideo remembered the look on Father’s face, a strange, almost unreadable expression, but now he knew it for chagrin. Father didn’t want to lie to him, so instead, he asked why Hideo was showing interest, to which he candidly replied, “I have no talent, and thus no future as a Martial Warrior, so I thought it time to explore other options.”

At the time, he thought he’d been ready to handily admit it, but even saying as much brought tears to his eyes. He loved the Martial Path, but it did not love him, nor had the Mother seen fit to smile down upon him. There, at the dinner table, Father had taken Hideo aside and talked to him like a man grown, and he remembered it well. “Regardless of the path you choose,” Father had said, patting Hideo’s back with a smile, “There will be trials and tribulations to overcome. Some lives are easier than others, but we all have our burdens to bear. There are only a few blessed individuals each generation talented enough to excel without effort, but as for the rest of us mere mortals, we will have to rely solely on persistence and hard work. I understand this is not what you wish to hear, however, and know that you are frustrated for whatever reason, so take a few days, think your decision through, and I, your Father, will support you, no matter what path you wish to pursue.”

That was one of the few times Father hugged Hideo, a memory he cherished to this very day. There would be no more hugs though, not anymore, for he had thrown that life away...

Back then, Hideo thought Father was speaking about the difficulties of a clerical job, but now he knew differently. Regardless, going on his advice, Hideo took a short break from Martial Training and immersed himself in study and calligraphy. Three days later, he went right back to Demonstrating the Forms, if only to get away from his overbearing economics teacher who’d learned Hideo had more time in the morning for ‘much-needed’ lessons. Balance in all things, that was the lesson Father shared, and it was one which stuck with Hideo for years to come. Training like a man possessed did him no favours, and as time wore on, he found Insight from calligraphy or cloud-gazing almost as often as he did when training or sparring.

Father had all the answers Hideo ever needed, but he was always too busy to share them. In contrast, even though Grand-Uncle had already retired, he had no time whatsoever for his Terminal Disciple, save to criticize and assign more lessons. Perhaps the old man was truly trying to avoid spoiling Hideo as he’d spoiled his sons, but that was still no excuse. Spare the rod and spoil the child, but where was the love and affection Hideo so desperately yearned for? Family above all else, but what reason did Hideo have to defend a family who only barely accepted him? After emerging as a rising talent, so many hopes and expectations were piled upon his shoulders, a young man not even twenty-four years of age who was supposed to follow in the footsteps of Living Legend Mitsue Juichi and ensure the survival of his legacy, a hefty burden which was almost too much for Hideo to bear.

Correction. No almost about it, it had been too much. A single defeat was all it took to shatter his fragile ego, a defeat dealt to him by the hands of an ignoble, base-born traitor slave.

If Dastan Zhandos is a traitor, then what does that make Mitsue Hideo?

An inhuman roar emerged from Hideo’s throat as he surged to his feet, or at least he tried to while his bonds held him in place. Steel chains affixed to stone walls were not enough to hold him, and his anger took hold of him as he channelled Chi into his Domain. Seizing authority from the Heavens, he exerted his will and Honed his Domain –

His roar turned into a shriek as pain lanced through his body, pain emanating from across his back. Barbed wires raked across his naked skin as the monks took up a booming chant, their low, resonating voices shaking Hideo to his Core. Bereft of his Intent, his Domain retracted beneath the pressure of pain and foreign incantations, his authority slipping away and leaving him bound, tethered, and bleeding in the dark, underground cellar. “Release me,” he groaned, the pain robbing his voice of fire. “I’ll kill you! Release me!”

“This monk cannot do as you ask, Junior Brother.” Sending rather than speaking so as not to interrupt his droning chant, Monk Eyebrows applied the metal lash again. “The Razor’s edge, Junior Brother. Keep to it. You are dangerously close to losing yourself, and this monk is not yet ready to give up.”

“...But I am.” Too weak to struggle against his bonds, all Hideo could do was lie there and weep, wishing for an end which would not come as Monk Eyebrows dealt him blow after painful blow while chanting in an unknown language. It was not so painful as to unman him, not like the first strike had been, one delivered using some form of Martial sorcery that sent agony coursing throughout his body. In contrast, these subsequent blows were mundane and only mildly irritating, blunted by his calloused skin and perhaps even an unconscious use of internalized Domain. The reasons mattered not, or rather, Hideo cared not, because there was no point caring anymore.

His entire life was a lie. Why persist in this meaningless struggle?

Your father’s love was not a lie, and you persist because you still have hope.

The droning chant filled his mind and he found himself chanting along, his mind emptying of all doubts and uncertainties and leaving him only with the chant. Time passed, and he eventually noticed that the lash had long since stopped striking him, and his body was Healing unaided. The chanting had ended too, leaving Hideo empty and unfulfilled, but Monk Eyebrows was still there, lurking in the shadows behind him. “You claimed you were ready to give up, and yet here you still are. Such ignorance, such sin. This does not adhere to Right Speech, Junior Brother, to speak lies which might twist into truths, and thus will become your undoing. The mind affects the body just as the soul affects the mind, and the soul is affected by all we experience for it is the source of our being. Thus, the wrong Speech poisons the mind, which poisons the body, an experience which in turns poisons the soul. Watch your words and amend your thoughts, Junior Brother, for only you can lift yourself from this pit of your own undoing. Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.”

“You are a liar.” Hideo’s voice broke mid-sentence as tears spilled from his eyes, still unable to bear the pain of this betrayal. “I thought you were different. I thought you could be trusted. I thought you had the answers I needed, but no. You’re just like everyone else, and I will no longer believe your lies.”

“This monk does not deny he has not always been open and honest,” Monk Eyebrows began, moving around into Hideo’s line of sight. “However, this monk has never outright lied, only left out whole truths, truths you must arrive at unaided. This much is true; the Noble Eight-fold is the Path to salvation, Junior Brother, and this monk hopes you will join him in the journey. You only need find the will within.”

“There is no salvation, not for me. Not after what I’ve done.”

“There is no human being so stained by sin as to be beyond redemption, and true redemption is when guilt leads to good.” Despite his kind words, the shadows cast Monk Eyebrows in an ominous light. “You still hold to hope, Junior Brother, and hope can lead to salvation.”

But not the monk. In his misguided ignorance, he leads you towards damnation.

Turning his head away, Hideo closed his eyes. “Leave me alone.”

“Very well, Junior Brother. Rest, but not for long. Now that you know true suffering, you are ready to let go without losing yourself to the red dust of the mortal world. The memories are vivid and the pain fresh, but they will not have the same impact after a hundred days, and next to none after a thousand. If even this is not enough, then we will persevere until we discover what is, but worry not, for this monk will watch over your continued recovery, and together, we will see you through this tribulation.”

Time passed. Days, weeks, months, Hideo could not say. Every day, Monk Eyebrows would come down to check on him and Hideo would remember the betrayal. Worse, he would remember his own betrayal and relive them all in vivid detail. Day after day, he saw the joy turn to confusion and panic in Eri-Hime’s eyes, or the love and affection bleed out of his father’s dying gaze, or the distraught, defeated look in Grand-Uncle Juichi’s expression. Hideo betrayed each and every one of them, and he deserved to suffer for his sins, not to mention all the countless horrors he’d inflicted on so many nameless victims since.

