“The Razor’s edge,” Monk Eyebrows would whisper, day after day and night after night while beating him with the barbed lash. “The Eight-fold Path.”

“Balance,” his mind warned him. “The Path is limitless.”

Somewhere between the chanting, the beatings, the forced reminiscence, and inundation of misery, Hideo’s mind found clarity and understood what the Brotherhood was doing. By forcing Hideo to confront the sins of his past and all the pain and anguish which went with it, the monks were helping him strengthen his will the same way his skin toughened beneath the lash. A curious combination, but there was some sense in pairing physical suffering with mental, for as the Energy of the Heavens naturally healed his physical wounds, it simultaneously healed his mental ones as well. What reason did the Heavens have to differentiate between injuries of the mind and body? Pain was pain, and the Heavens soothed them all regardless of source or type.

As the weeks flew by, the pain of his memories faded away, replaced by the pain of his physical body. It was just like Monk Eyebrows said, the mind, body, and soul were all linked. Injure one, and injure them all, but the goal of this ‘treatment’ was not to Heal him, but rather break him down enough so the Energy of the Heavens could mend him anew and make him stronger than ever before, all without prompting. Such was part and parcel of the blessings of Heaven, the benefits one reaped from being a Martial Warrior. This wasn’t directly manipulating Heavenly Energy, but using it in a clever, indirect manner, which explained much of the Brotherhood’s practices. Inundated with physical pain and mental misery, this forced Hideo to adjust his mindset and adapt to a new, more stable state of Balance, one in which emotion had a lessened effect and therefore making it easier to traverse the Razor’s edge.

This is not the Eight-fold Path. The monk tells no falsehoods, but that is not the same as speaking the truth. His View, is not the Right View, and you know it.

No, it had to be the Right View. Yes, Hideo wanted to repent, but what of everyone else? Why should they escape without punishment while he suffered beneath the weight of his sins? Father, Grand-Uncle, his cousins, even the people of the Empire itself, they all shared some blame for what happened to Hideo. These monks were the true Brotherhood, the only ones brave enough to speak up, and for this, they were cast out. Still, Hideo held onto this nugget of wisdom provided by the Heaven’s above, for he saw sense in the logic. Monk Eyebrows could tell no lies yet still share mistaken views, so Hideo would have to judge the Brotherhood’s advice with open eyes and find the Right View for him.

The truth is what you make it.

The Mother have mercy on your soul.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Awash in the blood of his enemies, Vithar stood upon the battlefield and watched the cowards flee, yet there was no thrill or excitement to be had.

Today had been a good day, full of carnage and death, with lives sacrificed and many a powerful tribesmen joining their ranks, but still the Ancestors stayed silent and refused to grace Vithar or his clansmen with their wisdom. Glancing about, he saw his own doubts and reservations mirrored in the expressions of his tribesmen, all of whom relied on him for guidance even more in the Ancestors’ absence. Despite having just emerged victorious in a glorious struggle for survival, none of his tribesmen made ready to celebrate. Instead, they stood idle with weapons in hand while the dead lay where they fell and the dying accepted their inevitable fate, victor and defeated sharing the same slack, hollow expressions. There was no glory to be had today, no pleasure or accomplishment to be found, only empty uncertainty and vexing ignorance to reward them after a hard fought battle.

Though he would never show or admit it, he found the Ancestors’ absence terrifying in a way he never thought possible. All his life, they’d been there at his side, guiding him forward to power and glory, yet now that their whispers could no longer be heard, the silence was deafening. The only solace to be found was that it was not just him and his tribesmen, for Vithar had recognized the same hesitant uncertainty reflected in his enemies as they traded blows, both sides desperate to spill blood in hopes of garnering the Ancestors’ affections once more. It all began after the Uniter’s forces were handed a disgraceful defeat upon the fields of Central, which resulted in the Ancestors falling into disharmony with one another, but today was the first day they’d gone entirely silent. Vithar was not the only one to wonder if this was in part thanks to his faulty leadership, that the Ancestors spurned them because he led them away from battle, a question he saw reflected in every gaze he met. They remembered that it was his voice which gave the order to withdraw, against the wishes of many of the Ancestors, yet they forgot that his commands were wholly in concert with so many others, or even their own desires.

Now, after so many days of silence and struggle, they wondered if they had misheard or misremembered the disharmony in the Ancestors’ whispers, or if they had lost the Ancestors’ favour because they followed a Chieftain who led them astray. Their hesitance pained him so, more than their misplaced condemnation. If Vithar’s tribesmen even suspected he was the sole reason for the tribe’s apparent fall from grace, they should have banded together to subdue and sacrifice him in hopes of regaining the Ancestors’ approval, and he would have fought them off as a Chieftain should. Might makes right, as the southlanders would say, despite only rarely adhering to the principle, but for the people of the outer lands, it was a way of life. Now, Vithar’s tribesmen, warriors and hunters all, stood and stared like children bereft of guidance and direction, wholly lost without the whispers they’d become so reliant upon.

For years, Vithar had known he was different, if only for his ability to surrender to the Ancestors without losing himself in the process. The Ancestors’ then guided his actions while his mind retained control of his thoughts, and it was this singular ability which allowed him to become Chieftain at so young an age, while most of the tribesmen he’d grown up with became little more than crazed fodder. What’s more, his analytical mind allowed him to better uncover the secrets the Ancestors left ingrained within his body, improving his personal strengths and abilities so that he came to rely upon them less and less. In recent years, their voices only offered guidance while Vithar took care of most issues by himself, but he could feel their hunger every time he went too long without surrender. They ached to fill and become him, to take hold of his body, to feel the warm blood coursing through his veins and the heady rush of emotion it brought with it. They yearned to live again, even if only through him, but he resisted their efforts to claim and mould him into a Transcendent, for he still had a life yet to live.

But now, they’d abandoned him, all because he heeded the wrong side’s advice.

And you are better off for it. Their advice was never given freely or with the well-being of you and your tribesmen in mind. You know this for truth, because you have long since suspected as much.

The whisper shook Vithar to the core and he struggled not to show it, but as he cast a wary gaze to his surroundings, he saw that his tribesmen were every bit as shook as he, if not more. They too had heard the Ancestors just now, and Vithar was unsure what game the spirits were playing now, advising him and his people not to heed their advice. Dozens of his tribesmen broke down then and there, some going blank and falling to their knees weeping, other went mad and attacked their comrades, and even more simply screamed at the Heavens in wordless denial. All were quickly put out of their misery, action taken by the other tribesmen not out of mercy, but unwillingness to see their own thoughts made manifest in another.

The Ancestors’ had gone mad and forsaken their people. Vithar’s people. “Gather the prisoners and the dead,” he ordered, out of need to do something, anything, to keep himself from dwelling upon this most frustrating mystery. “Let us return.”

There was no need to bring the dead back, not here in the fertile southlands where there was food and water aplenty. Or at least there should’ve been, but it’d been many nights since his tribe had stumbled across an oasis, and truth be told, Vithar no longer knew the way back. Unwilling to return to the city, he’d kept the rising sun to his left and headed south for many days, but there was no end to these sandy dunes in sight, and they were too far in to turn back. No matter. His people could subsist on the blood of their enemies, drained from their corpses into waiting buckets to fill their empty waterskins. Alas, even if every member of his tribe worked day and night, the meat still turned before they could finish it all, or even cure it as the locals had taught them, smoked over fire and left to dry out beneath the harsh desert sun. It was supposedly the cold season now, but the heat was still almost unbearable, not to mention the bright sun beating down from above for most of the day. There was a time when he cursed the cold and darkness of his frozen homeland, but at least the former kept meat fresh for many moons without effort. As an added bonus, the frozen remains of his foes brought hungry scavengers to his doorstep, which was just more meat to consume for sustenance.

You don’t need to eat human flesh anymore. Even the Arid Wastes has treasures hidden everywhere.

Against his better judgment, he followed the guidance of this lone Ancestor, more out of desperation than anything else. Upon returning to camp, he ordered his tribe to pack up and move, an order they obeyed without enthusiasm, though a silent glare from his woman warned him of a blood-debt yet to be paid. Asmani was her name, one of the few surviving tribesmen he’d grown up with, and if he were to fall, she would most likely emerge as the new Chieftain, his equal in all ways save for his ability to surrender without succumbing. “Too many days of blood and meat,” she Sent, the words laced with warning and threat. “It leaves us parched and sluggish.”

And with limited time and options, was the unspoken part. Vithar shrugged. “Our enemies carried no water. We will endure. The Ancestors still guide us.”

Asmani did not respond, but he saw the doubt in her eyes. Perhaps tonight would be the night when she claimed leadership for herself, but after laying with her at night, he awoke come morning with life in him still yet, so she had yet to lose faith in his ability. As for Vithar, he had faith in the Ancestors and followed their instructions, believing there was no way they would lead him and his tribesmen astray again. Though no one spoke, as their journey progressed, he sensed an uplift in his tribesmens’ moods as they also came to hear the Ancestors’ guidance urging them towards succour and salvation, especially Asmani who heard more than she let on, yet never confided in Vithar about what they said.

Theirs was a partnership of mutual benefit, but there would come a time when that would no longer be enough. Not a day he looked forward to, but not out of fear, for she had been by his side for as long as he could remember, and he worried her absence would be as unnerving as the Ancestors’.

How long they travelled, Vithar could not say, but he lost no more tribesmen to bleak madness or exhaustion. One moment, the endless sands stretched out in all directions, and then he crested a dune and found a blessed oasis waiting in welcome just over the lip. The sight of so much water reminded him of his great thirst, but rather than rushing forward to slake it, he stopped and stared at the beauty laid out before him, and for the first time, envied the locals for having been born in these lush, green lands of plenty.

There is no need to kill and fight to survive. There are trials and tribulations aplenty, but the world provides.

Making his way to the oasis’ edge, Vithar knelt in the sandy, wet soil and lowered his lips to the water. The first sip soothed his aching thirst and filled his heart with joy, but he stopped himself short and rose up to gesture for his tribesmen partake as well. Normally, Asmani and his most loyal Champions would keep all others back while he remained vulnerable, but there was no sense in guarding against his own people, not today. “Drink,” he bellowed, and his tribesmen cheered, following his example and taking care not to taint this gift with their filthy boots and skin. When his thirst was quenched, he set out to scout the perimeter and found plants thriving on the shores, bushes bearing round, green fruits no bigger than his thumb. They were tart and left his tongue with a strange, tingling sensation, but there were enough to fill the bellies of every last tribesman and more, even without needing to catch any of the other animals who also relied on this oasis to drink.

Sated and full for the first time in recent memory, Vithar’s tribe settled in next to the oasis, close enough to partake of its bounty, but not so close as to scare off all other wildlife. It only seemed right, and he likened it to leaving meat out in the cold to draw in predators, a lure to bring wildlife in to kill. What’s more, he did something he’d seen the Chosen do every night, and set his people to dig a pit downhill from the oasis where the tribe could excrete their waste. Finding this jewel in the wild had been difficult enough, and he saw no sense in ruining it with careless actions.

