“I fought Enttiku and her grasp. I fought with all my strength and cursed her every day for every person whose eyes I closed for the last time. My potions delayed poisons fit to kill a king. I mended together fragments of bones. It was never enough. Every day, I cursed her just as I prayed to her. I even heard the voice of… you know of whom I speak. It offered enduring flesh but I refused it, because it was not survival at all cost I was seeking, but salvation. Enttiku never answered my provocations. She never chastised me. Every time I prayed I felt… empty afterward, but in a good way. Like a lanced wound drained of its foulness. She drew the fury out of me when I let her.”

He sighed deeply.

“I think I found the way when a man came asking for a merciful death. I tried to refuse him but he wouldn’t budge, and he wouldn’t get angry either. I think I already had my answer, but I needed to take one last step to accept it for myself. It was that man who gave it to me, with his incurable disease. He told me that death was not a failure. This is important and something I want you to know. Death is not a failure. It is an inevitability, but it is not a failure. When you finish a journey, you do not fail by reaching the destination and the destination of life is its own end. More often than not, that end comes too soon, but in the end, we must all reach it.

“My role as an apothecary is not to fight off death but to provide and improve life, even if sometimes it means ending it. That is why I fight to save a man from a heart attack even if he has only a month left to live. Every new dawn we see, every breath we take is one more beautiful experience we get to have before we take the final journey. Now, I am no theologist, so I cannot tell you what souls do after they cross Enttiku’s final gate. Hell, I don't even know if the experience we gather during our lives matters. I want to believe it does. Every extension of life is something I want to celebrate and if my treatment didn’t work, then too bad, but I will have tried, and I will live without regret. You cannot save everyone, Talan, even those you thought you might have. There is no purpose in thinking what ifs because you were, and still are, only human. Fragile. Prone to mistakes. You mentioned Ormin but you didn’t mention the others, those who still depend on you as their chaplain. You can be the glue that holds them together to face the good, the bad, and the ineluctable.”

Talan looked at the man in a new light because he thought he had an answer, then he frowned humorously.

“You’re not trying to turn me into a priest of Enttiku, are you?”

“All light gods bring something to the table. The order and strength Maranor provides helps to create the stable kingdoms we need to survive, so no, but I guess you got my point anyway.”

“I think I did. I think I was too focused up instead of… around. All that shit is beyond me anyway, but the men I serve with are not. I’ll be there for them. No matter what… no matter what, I will not give up and I will show no fear. No hesitation. If I can give them one more day, I will.”

The apothecary nodded and, this time, his smile was peaceful.

“We all extend lives in our own way. I have potions to brew, my friend. See you later, or see you on the other side.”

“And if there is a bar, I’ll meet you there.”

“It’s a deal.”

Willpower +1

That was encouraging. And he would need it, because the prince wanted to accelerate. With many wagons and stores destroyed, they had to reach Kazar as soon as possible or risk even more attrition. That was it. Do or die.

***

Somewhere back on the road, Viv climbed down from her horse in front of the savaged remains of Two-Six. The woman’s body had been sanctified not to rise again, but that was the only mercy she had been shown.

“I told her not to go,” she said.

It felt empty but she had to mention it, because it was not her fault and she was a bit of a coward. It was tactless, however, and she knew it. Viv breathed and settled her soul. It felt strange to control it to some extent, but now was not the time for introspection or prayer. She walked to the bereaved’s side.

“I’m sorry, Irao.”

“You are,” he acknowledged. He was looking at the Hadal woman with an expression that Viv could not read.

“Let’s get her down?”

“Yes.”

They worked in silence. Viv had brought a shroud and wrapped the body in it. One of Two-Six’s legs was missing, blasted clean off. There was spit on her tattered clothes. Once the body was secured, Viv looked at the Hadal leader with some circumspection. The man was so silent that it was difficult to read him, but she thought he might be sad. She would be in his stead. She decided to just give it a go.

“Do you want to go bury her?”

“No, I built a pyre. Follow me.”

It amazed Viv that the man had already set it up. It was a nice one, large and built in a tiny clearing that smelled of wild flowers. Irao carefully placed the body on and stopped then.

“I don’t know how to do a funeral.”

Viv pondered the question for a while before picking an answer she thought would help.

“My dad used to say that funerals were truly for the living, so we can grieve and remember. Just say something meaningful to you. Then… we can say goodbye.”

“She cared for us very much.”

Viv was surprised that Irao would speak so fast, then she was surprised that he would speak so much.

“Our first home is in Kazar. We didn’t have one before. We had hideouts. She said that we had to defend it.”

He paused for a while, so Viv waited.

“I held back because I didn’t want to be used. Sometimes, I find it hard to tell if I want something or if someone wants something and I have to do it for them. The child went forth because she thought she had to defend us. She thought she was alone. That she had to carry the future for all of us. That was why she didn’t fully trust your plan, because she could not trust me to act. Us. Her own family. I think I failed her. I think I see a way to make sure I don’t fail the others, and those who will be born soon.”

He turned to her and his eyes were still yellow and slitted, but they no longer disturbed her. It was just Irao. Her ex roommate. A bit weird and traumatized but ultimately someone who just wanted to live a life of his own choosing.

“I will not murder for you, or for anyone, but I will fight for you. The Hadals will be there in three days when the Enorian army arrives. I will be there too. I think that we will all be there. Everything will be decided then.”

“Thank you, as for me, I wanted to say that Two-Six helped save the kidnapped mountain folks before we took back Kazar. Thanks to her, everyone’s first impression of you guys was positive. She’s been a cornerstone between the Hadals and the rest of us for months and we all owe her a lot.”

Irao nodded, then waited.

“I think, if we’re done, we can light the pyre and say goodbye.”

“Okay.”

They stayed there for a while, then returned to the hidden, temporary trails made with black mana and the Yries machines. With the addition of the Hadals to her ranks, their side of the conflict was fully committed, Viv thought to herself.

“We’re all in.”

“Not yet but soon,” Irao corrected.

“Pardon?”

“Nothing.”
