“I used to hate it. But it serves no purpose to hate the snow. The cold. They just… are. You just… are. I see it now. When you took Kazar, we sent a young one with you. He witnessed… destruction. He said… that it was glorious. When he pierced the human walls with an Yries tool. I understand now. We cannot live without you… anymore. Not since we arrived in the deadlands. I picked a human. And I will work with this human. You. To keep our city. For vengeance. And for ideas.”

“Ideas?”

“You… are outlander. You see Yries machines and think weapons. We did not think weapons. We do now. And if you turn on us… we still have weapons.”

“I will not turn on you, Gar-Gar,” Viv replied. “I meant what I said. I will not attack people because of what they might do. Only trust will carry us all through the day.”

“You believe now. And maybe you will, later. So long as you do… you have us. Because we want to believe as well. You have our weapons.”

The Yries smiled, and it was not a pleasant sight.

“They are very good weapons, yes?”

Talan woke up to a noisy crash. He rushed out of his tent with fear, fastening his armor as fast as he could in the darkness of the pre-dawn night. Cries of alarm rang through the camp. Then, he heard the buzz.

When the fire wasps came this time, they came from every direction. There were no trees left for Eteia to burn, though she did manage to destroy some of the insects mid-flight. The rest of the hive warriors crashed on the camp in a swarm of embers, setting tarps and supplies ablaze. Two landed on Talan as he was stomping on a nearby fire. His breastplate stopped the first but the second landed on the elbow. The pain sent him to the ground, screaming for a while. The battle turned into a Helockian farce. He could swear he had extinguished the same drying underwear three times.

It took ten minutes for the last wasp to self-immolate. Eteia ran everywhere, catching flames in her fist as if it were paper to collect. No one died this time. No one managed to sleep again either. Once more, they waited for an attack that never came until dawn found them, tired and sooty. They departed mid-morning despite their exhaustion, with Talan once more in the lead. They were fully in the deepest part of the forest now. Small hills and tall trees played strange tricks with his perspective, and the questor remained vigilant, but they came upon few traps and none that contained sap anymore. It appeared that the Kazarans had run out. Not that it mattered. The damage had been done.

Talan adjusted his bracer for the fifth time. The company didn’t have nearly enough leather to replace the lost straps, so he had to make do with torn tarp. Many others were in the same situation. Between the sap and the wasps, few tents or cloaks remained intact. Even Bishop Ereon had a hole in his tabard. As for the champion, he had caught all the wasps on his gauntlets.

The prince was intact as well. He had stayed inside during the crisis, which was probably for the best since the opportunity was perfect for an assassin’s strike, Talan thought.

Yes, that was for the best.

The day went on, with the landscape changing into more of the same. There were the trees, the occasional bird, and the constant presence of those strange walls of altered earth. Talan had no idea what they were for since nothing had happened. He was relatively sure that they could not contain spells or traps. Perhaps they were an attempt at intimidation, a constant reminder that the witch was out there somewhere, watching. Making ready.

Nothing happened that day besides a monster attack. The beast was quickly dispatched by the champion and Ereon working together, and its carcass was butchered to provide meat for the men that evening. Talan went to bed expecting trouble. He was woken up again, in the darkness, by a horrid whistling sound. Put the armor on. Latch it. Draw sword. Get out. His mind flailed against fatigue when he came out and gathered his exhausted men around him, but this time nothing happened. The noise had come from a hollow ballista bolt. It had only been an elaborate whistle.

“Looks like they ran out of fire wasps as well,” one of the soldiers said.

“Good because we were running out of tents.”

Talan reached a certain sense of detachment the next day as they kept going and the ankle-snappers increased in numbers. There were still a lot of wounded, so many that Ereon had to stay with the moving infirmary. Everyone’s mana was running low, which was dangerous, but like the day before, the champion and Bishop Ereon slew the few monsters attracted by the column. The prince even came out with his sword and participated. They made a great show of exposing the carcass of a furry quadrupedal creature, cleanly beheaded. The prince stood by it, sword bloody. Talan was sure that the men appreciated his efforts but, to him, it felt farcical. Just a charade. If the prince wanted to make himself useful on his off time, he only had to visit the infirmary. Talan was sure that the man had more life mana than the average grunt.

A great emptiness filled his chest at that thought and he calmed himself down. Maranor’s faith required respect for power in the pursuit of power. Either he followed the prince or he deemed him unworthy, and thus a target. The goddess tolerated no middle ground. Now was not the right time to reconsider his obedience. Not in the middle of the woods. He would have time to do so in Kazar.

If they ever reached it.

It was the first time that the possibility of failure entered his mind, and he chased it away. The Kazarans were only delaying the inevitable. Even battered and hurt, the army was still over seven hundred battle-hardened, professional soldiers. They had proven themselves in Regnos and other places. They had trained for years in preparation for the civil war. It wasn’t something that a year of preparation could offset. Never.

Talan’s thoughts grew feverish as the day went on. They were almost past the heart of the woods, arguably the most dangerous leg on the journey. He could already see the trees return to normal proportions. They were so close.

Something cracked on both sides of the road.

The men immediately reacted and so did he. The slope led up and disappeared into a thicket of thin, white-barked trees. He just knew that something was coming from the rumble. Something heavy. One of the nearby bridger sergeants started to yell.

“Shit, don’t stay in formation! Spread out! Bombardment protocol!”

They obeyed with practiced ease and soon, Takan could see why. Enormous, spherical rocks were rolling down on them. The bridgers moved up to meet them. And dodged.

Talan did the same. The siege specialists knew what they were doing. He ran up to the nearest ball and swerved around the quickly accelerating projectile. There were not a lot of them but by Maranor, were they big. As tall as a man. Fortunately, they were all past him now.

“Watch your back!” a bridger told him, and he did.

The soldiers fared rather well. None of them had finesse below the third tier and it showed in the way they ducked and ran. By spreading out, the soldiers avoided running into each other but the danger was not gone yet. The rocks on the opposite slope were now climbing back up through sheer inertia. Some found each other in deafening shocks that sent boulders as large as torsos crashing to the ground. Others found wagons.

By some miracle, all four bridger earth casters were at the top of the formation that day. Quickly raised walls deflected or slowed the impending doom but for others, it was too late. Talan saw a food wagon turn to splinters, its contents smushed on the muddy ground. Then, a horrible thought hit him.

The wounded.

Talan sprinted with everything he had, ignoring the tiny voice in his head that said that he was too late and besides, powerless. The mobile infirmary stood in the middle of the formation. perhaps it had escaped destruction? He moved faster, until he saw a flash of grey light.

The back of the ambush had held much better. As he watched, a fire lance split a boulder in two while the champion swung his two-hander, stopping another completely in its tracks. Ereon had moved forward in an attempt to block the other side. He brandished a mace and screamed the name of the goddess.

For one breathtaking moment, the grey light of Maranor’s power silenced the constant rumbling as the bishop successfully punted the threat away. The tall veteran saw Talan jumping and smiled knowingly, but then the grin faded from his lips. Talan’s mentor gasped dreadfully and arched his back. Talan imagined more than heard a crack, then a blade emerged from Ereon’s mouth, coming from the other side.

The Bishop fell. Talan screamed. He ran. A shadow darted away, cloaked in black. It weaved between running bridgers with such ease that the experienced warriors looked like stumbling children. A voice sounded at Talan’s back, strangely loud in the chaos of the trap. It was princely and very, very cold.

“Do it.”

The slope exploded in front of Talan. The heat pushed him back and the men on it died a fiery death. He saw the shadow fall. He saw it die too. None of the soldiers around survived the blast but it, no, she, almost did, and when her corpse rolled by his side, he stared at a strangely intact face with gaunt yet elegant features. On her burned chest, he could spot the numbers two and six tattooed in black ink.

“Hadal monsters,” the prince said by his side. “So the witch will stop at nothing to delay the inevitable. She would go as far as allying with freaks. Well, I should not be surprised. Men, get that corpse on the spike so that our column may see the face of our foe.”

Talan wanted to see as well, but all his sight was taken by the body of his master, mangled below a scorched stump.

***

That night, five soldiers attempted to desert. The champion spotted them and the prince had them hanged by the gate for all to see. He talked to everyone of duty, of dying for the cause, of the importance of seeing things through. He spoke of those who had fallen and of their sacrifice, but it was wrong. Sacrifice implied choice. Eteia’s spell had given them none. They had been victims. Talan tried to tell himself that their deaths had been necessary but, this time, he failed. Bishop Ereon the brave had not died to kill but to save. His assassination should not have led to collateral damage, even if eliminating a Kazaran elite would save lives in the long run. It was the sort of calculation that treated people as figures on a piece of parchment. it was… unworthy.

The faith in Talan’s breast died out like an exhausted candle. He walked through the rings of tents to the infirmary to make himself useful, finding the apothecary there.

“Here to help?” the bald man asked. Talan realized that he could not tell the age of the man. He also realized that he didn’t know his name.

“It’s Massine. Nice to meet you, Talan.”

“I apologize.”

“And I understand. You are exhausted. You need rest tonight. Everyone is stable, I give you my word.”

“But…”

“No buts. Exhaustion leads to wounds and then where would that leave us? Come on, let’s have a cup of klod.”

They walked to the edge of the earthworks that were now erected every night despite the tremendous mana cost, and sat by a raised, sharpened log. The smell of ash gave Talan’s drink a peculiar taste.

“Are you alright, questor? You look… different.”

“Different bad?”

“Yes.”

“Having a bit of a crisis of faith right now.”

“That is problematic for someone on the path of a warrior priest.”

“It is, isn't it? It happens though. Bishop Ereon said that…”

Talan choked on his next words. Massine the apothecary patted his shoulders for the next minute while he cried a bit.

“I’m starting to wonder what’s the point. I promoted order, power, and obedience because I thought that it was the only way for humanity to thrive. Only by being united could we stop the monsters and aberrants. We could join in one glorious union instead of eating each other like rats stuck in a pot. But here we stand, one year after hostilities flared up, and no closer to unity. Worse, we’re actually falling apart. Thirty thousand corpses later and nothing has changed. I tried so hard. So fucking hard. But Ormin died and so did others. It’s all fucking pointess.”

More shoulder patting. For some reason, the gesture was both kind and respectful.

“I’m older than you so I could share my experience on the matter, if it helps. Otherwise, feel free to talk more. I find that it lightens the heart,” Massine said with a steady voice.

“No no, please talk. I don’t want to speak up my mind right now.”

“Very well.”

The older man pondered for a moment, then he started. In the distance, the sun disappeared behind charred trunks.

“I often asked myself this question, you know? As a healer. Why do people die after I tried so hard to save them? Why do they stop breathing when they have so much to live for? What sort of world do we live in when a young couple loses their child to a one-in-a-thousand freak accident while criminals retire unimpeded? I could not find an answer and so I fought, because I was angry.”

The apothecary rubs his calloused fingers together. His delicate hands were pitted with burn marks and scar tissue, though his nails were clean. Talan found an echo of his distress in the man’s bitter smile.

