“Twins live as twins, always, we’ll take good care of him—” Sarantuya chimed in.

“You were planning on stealing him away to the Ravine, you sneaky rats—!” Xinlai erupted, leaping to her feet.

And then through this escalating chaos, there was a knock on the door.

“Acting Lord Magistrate, the courier from Pale Moon Lake City has arrived,” came the urgent voice.

At that, all sounds ceased.

“Is it here?” Xinlai asked.

“Yes. It's here. Finally,” he replied, rising to his feet and walking to the door.

“What is here?” his father asked.

“The letter telling me about my replacement,” he replied.

There, as promised, was the official courier from Pale Moon Lake City. He signed, showed his identification seal, and then the man opened the package.

“Sir, I am to read this to you, and then read this again to the court in the next session,” the man told him.

The Acting Lord Magistrate nodded, hoping his successor would be able to build on the gains he had made. For all that it was stressful… he had done good work, and he wanted the best for the people of the city.

“By the power invested in our court by his Imperial Majesty, we, the government of the Azure Hills, do declare—the post of Acting Lord Magistrate shall be henceforth closed.”

He closed his eyes and nodded. Though there was an odd pang of sadness in his chest.

“And we do declare the position of Lord Magistrate of Grass Sea City will be filled—by the current Acting Lord Magistrate of Grass Sea City.”

The Acting Lord Magistrate paused, the feeling shriveling up and dying.

What?

“He will also, due to his exemplary conduct and great service to the Emperor and his subjects, be further styled as the Lord Protector of Grass Sea City, to further serve and defend this most important of His Majesty's holdings in the Azure Hills. The Most Honourable Lord Protector shall formally be invested on the morrow with the commencement of court.”

The courier rolled up the scroll and turned to the man standing stunned before him. He clasped his hands in front of him and bowed deeply.

“Allow this humble servant of the Emperor,” he said into the echoing silence, “to be the first to pay his respects, Lord Protector.”

“We pay our respects to the Lord Protector!” the other servants shouted, bowing deeply.

The room… was spinning quite badly.

But still, he managed to clasp his own hands, and give a short nod. “Thank you for your words. You honour me,” he got out.

He repeated this a few more times as people said their congratulations, then retired back to his room. In front of everyone still in the Magisterial Suite—his parents, Xinlai, An Ran, Lao, the twins, Rou Jin, Hong Meiling, and several Spirit Beasts—he walked right up to the nice bed, grabbed a pillow, and screamed into it.

Several minutes later, he put the pillow down, panting, and staring at the ceiling. Xinlai was holding his hand. An Ran had gotten him some water, and Narantuya was holding a pressure point that was taking the nausea away. Lao was hovering worriedly over him, along with Sarantuya.

What the hells?! But what about the carriage with the Lord Magistrate? he thought, still dazed and confused—before he looked up and saw his father.

A Lord Magistrate. Who was travelling in a large carriage with a cultivator.

… bastard of three fathers.

His father looked upon him. “The reward for good work is always more work, Lord Protector,” he said, not unsympathetically.

The Lord Protector of Grass Sea City let out a groan like a death rattle.
