“Right, I forgot myself; how could the honored Chosen of the Malefic Viper not be used to having someone licking his ass all the time?” Casper said sarcastically. “But, hey, if you’re into that kind of thing, I’m sure the Risen have plenty of men and women who would be more than happy to lick you wherever you ask them to.”

“No thanks,” Jake waved him off. “Besides, I’ve got a girlfriend now.”

“Oh, I see… wait, what?” Casper had to do a double-take as he stared at Jake.

“Details,” a voice suddenly came from behind Jake as the Unique Lifeform had teleported over with his projection.

“I thought we were talking about the new dungeon?” Jake said, raising an eyebrow.

“Yeah, yeah, that can wait,” Minaga waved him off while staring at Jake.

“I concur,” Casper agreed, also looking at Jake in surprise. “Wait, just to be clear, when you say girlfriend, you don’t just mean that you made a friend who’s female, right? It’s girlfriend as in girlfriend?”

Jake slowly nodded, now considering if perhaps this was a stupid topic to bring up in the first place. The relationship between himself and Artemis wasn’t exactly public knowledge, and Jake usually wouldn’t mention it, but he’d kind of just blurted it out without thinking much.

In his defense, Casper was one of the few people Jake had called a friend even before the system, and a part of him wanted to share the news. Minaga also being around was not something Jake had properly considered, though.

“I want to be clear, this is to be kept under wraps, and you two aren’t mentioning anything to anyone, alright?” Jake said, looking at the two of them seriously.

Casper nodded, seemingly understanding. As for Minaga…

“My lips are totally sealed,” he said with a voice full of sincerity.

“See, that doesn’t actually say much, seeing as you can just have some other guy who also happens to be called Minaga spill the news while you argue he had nothing to do with you,” Jake sighed, shaking his head.

Minaga looked hurt for a moment before sighing. “Alright, alright… I promise on behalf of myself and all the other mes in the whole vast multiverse and beyond, both past, present, and future versions in all possible realities. Should I lie or go against the spirit of this promise, may I be cursed to only ever be able to design underwater dungeons for the rest of eternity.”

“That… was a lot more serious than I thought it would be,” Jake muttered, having fully expected Minaga to just continue joking around; however, it appeared the Unique Lifeform had been way too easily distracted and had entirely forgotten about everything else but his curiosity regarding Jake's social life.

“I am serious,” Minaga said, not a hint of jest in his voice. “Now, stop stalling and spill the tea already!”
