Ren nodded and told her how he negotiated for the prisoners lives in exchange for hard labour for a year and a half, and then about some of the things they did during that time.

“Oh, my god.” Lisa said and lifted a hand to cup Ren's face. “You are a good man, Ren.” She said, and kissed him passionately. Denise and Stella didn't know what to say, because they thought she would react with outrage, just like they did. Lisa broke the kiss, and slid down slightly to tuck her head onto Ren's shoulder.

“Why are you okay with this?” Denise asked Lisa.

“Don't you see what he did?” Lisa asked. “He not only saved their lives, he stayed with them so that they couldn't have 'accidents' and be killed off while they served their time.” She said and smiled, then turned her head up to kiss his neck. “You were brilliant in how you negotiated so little time for them to serve.”

Ren smiled, and stroked the side of her face. “Thank you.”

“This is not going how I thought it would go.” Stella said. “Lisa, it's very dangerous for a mind to encounter the pocket realms like that.” She explained. “The brain can adapt to some things, but...”

“It takes some getting used to at first; but if you practice and take it slow, you can adjust to it just fine after the first month.” Lisa said. “At least I did, anyways.”

“WHAT?!?” Stella yelled. “Lisa, how...”

“I can't divulge game secrets.” Lisa said and tapped her temple. “The VR headset scans you constantly. Even if you say things in real life, it can be discovered in the game.”

“Like me telling Gloria that I loved Elerlyth.” Ren said.

“Exactly.” Lisa said. “It's not foolproof, obviously.” She said and smiled. “Little things can be slipped past; but, anything major that you think about a lot? It'll find it.”

“It's the preliminary scan when you log into the game.” Stella said, and understood what Lisa meant. “It compares it to the last time you used it.”

Lisa nodded. “It's not as effective for people that only play occasionally, because it's too much for the system to keep track of; but, someone like Ren or myself that plays it all the time?” She chuckled. “We have no secrets from it.”

Ren kissed her forehead. “I wonder if that's part of our connection with each other?”

“It's definitely a factor.” Lisa said, and her face flushed a little red. “It helps a little that you're so cute and cuddly, too.”

“Hey, isn't that supposed to be my line?” Ren asked her.

“You can still use it.” Lisa said.

“You... are... really... cute.” Ren whispered seductively to her, and she blushed. “Especially when you blush.”

“That's... not true.” Lisa said sheepishly, and covered her face with a hand, and Ren grinned.

“Hey, do you feel like going for a swim?” Ren asked her.

“Yes!” Lisa said, her excitement quite apparent. “Ah... I mean, sure. I could take a dip in the pool.”

Ren snorted a laugh over Lisa trying to act nonchalant about it. “I hope you brought a swimsuit.”

“I didn't.” Lisa said. “I brought three.”

Ren laughed. “Then hurry up and get changed so we can have some fun in the pool.”

Lisa nodded and carefully got up off of him, opened her backpack and took out the small bag from Jacques.

“The change rooms are there by the pool.” Ren said and pointed. “It's even got showers and a sauna.”

“A full service pool area?” Lisa asked. “That's so cool!”

“I know, right?” Ren said. “I'll grab my own swimsuit and be right out.”

Lisa looked out the patio doors, then back at Ren. It looked like she was trying to decide something. Ren was about to ask her what she was thinking, when she quickly leaned down and kissed him on the lips, then walked out through the patio doors just as fast as she could.
