He immediately decided to make a new Vitae golem. At once, he infused the golem with Gravitic Wrestler, Inertial Overdrive, Strider of the Unbending Path, and Vitality Drain. He groaned as he deposited a significant amount of vitality within the golem, but Shiv endured his growing weakness. It's gonna be worth it, he thought to himself. A flash of gold came from behind him. Shiv cursed and spiked himself and his golem downward. A chain of golden arrows cut by, a little too close for comfort. And the archer is getting more accurate by the second. The hell’s up with that? They better not be a Diviner too…

Shiv stared at his golem, and it looked back at him without any reaction. "Go for the Jealousy. Freeze time, go back in time, do whatever it takes, but slam against it and try to dig into its flesh before discharging yourself—Make sure you start breaking before you discharge," Shiv hastily added at the end.

The golem immediately moved. It shot out from his Creeping Void, a projectile of red, white, and gold leaping out of a sea of shadow. The Jealousy responded immediately. It swung one of its nunchucks, and a cascading bolt rushed towards the golem.

Fooled you now. Shiv chuckled under his breath. To his delight, he also saw where the Chronomantic archer was firing from. The golden arrow blasted up from a section of the city still swallowed in rubble. Shiv wasn't sure how that enemy slipped past his notice, and then he considered maybe they had already snuck in far earlier. We still don't know how they got inside the gate first. The golden arrow smashed into the Golem, breaking off fragments of red, gold, and white.

Shiv froze time as well. A Chronomantic field fused over his body, and he blasted toward the archer's last known location. He spiked himself fast, climbing to his top speed. He didn't need to know where the archer exactly was. No, Shiv had over 200 meters of Biomancy to work with. The moment he felt someone with Magical Resistance or the organic architecture of a Vulteg, he would cast himself back in time and slam right into them. As Shiv went for the archer, he saw his golem grind hard against the Jealousy's eye. The massive demon was being pushed through the air, but the Golem didn't make any headway in ripping through its flesh. This Jealousy's a lot tougher than the last one. Shit. Maybe I should have given it Deepest Edge as well. Next time.

Just then, his Biomancy field brushed against something, something with high Magical Resistance. There you are. He followed the pull of his Biomancy and found himself glaring into a partially crushed teleportation anchor sticking out from a landslide of rubble. No wonder I missed you earlier. Picked a pretty good hiding spot.

Shiv projected his Chronomancy back in time. He jolted two seconds into the past so he could make the necessary adjustments, letting out a groan of effort as he started spiking himself at an angle. Adjusting his trajectory was still a struggle, even with forewarning and a massively boosted Physicality.

A fifth of his temporal shell broke off then, and Shiv smashed into the damaged teleportation anchor. He crumpled some more, and he spiked himself even harder. The reinforced titanium tore. He caught sight of his enemy and found himself staring at an elf. Not a Vulteg, an elf. She wore an armor of pearlescent scales, and her bow burned bright with Chronomancy. Her eyes, however, were pulsating with violet energy. She was a Diviner—much to Shiv’s displeasure. Her bow was the Chronomancer in the equation, which was unfortunate for her, because now that Shiv found her, there wasn't much she could do to save—

An arrow burst through the back of Shiv’s neck and emerged out the front just as he slammed into the elf's body. Her form disintegrated. Shiv gagged as blood flooded his trachea. Confusion overtook him. He smashed deeper, tearing through the collapsing teleportation anchor, and found himself clawing into a landslide of trash and detritus.

The hells was that? Shiv thought to himself. He cast himself back in time. Another section of his armor broke away. He only had 20% of his temporal shell left. His wound vanished. As he rematerialized, he saw the elf standing high atop a nearby mountain of ruin. And she grinned at him. There was something odd about her form. It shimmered with Divination and Chronomancy mana. As Shiv's Biomancy swept over her, he didn't feel any kind of organic architecture whatsoever.

The hell am I dealing with? An illusion? Shiv glared at the enemy as he launched a bone drill at—and then through—her. The elf held out her hand, turned it over, and stuck two fingers out at him, taunting him. Shiv responded by blasting a stream of Vitae into her. The arrogant smirk on her face vanished as soon as the Vitae splashed around her form.

Now, Shiv smirked.

The elf made a mistake in taunting him. Though Shiv couldn't feel her biology, she still glowed with vitality. And vitality was something Shiv could drain. He began to siphon from her, even as the final bits of his temporal shell started peeling away. She wrestled against his Vitae, but he used it to hold her still. It wrapped around her like a chain of fluid adamantine. And that's when Shiv realized his Vitae was a direct upgrade for his cancer flail.

Whip Proficiency 8 > 9
