Kiri said, “Oh gods no! Don’t try to mess with [Cleanse]. That’s one of the first lessons they teach in Arcanaeum. I think I’ve said this before?”

“I’ve heard it before.” Jane said, “But so what? You can have multiple useful versions of [Cleanse], can’t you?”

Teressa said, “Probably don’t mess with [Cleanse]. It doesn’t happen in Spur a lot, but there's people who try it every so often. Mostly incani who really hate humans, or the other way around. Just last week, some incani from the Wasteland tossed a [Cleanse] over himself and clipped a human in the process. Half the guy vanished, instantly.”

Erick winced, as did Kiri and Jane.

Poi hummed disapproval.

Teressa said, “The human survived, thankfully. The incani was exiled and his blood taken to mark him as a permanent exile. Guy didn’t even act sorry. Said something about the Converter Angel, and how all humans were guilty.” She added, “That bit there almost got him executed instead of exiled.”

Erick hummed.

Kiri brought the conversation back from that cliff, saying, “They told horror stories in the dorms about people trying to work [Cleanse] into something more deadly. Those stories were like campfire monster stories. One day, the students were just practicing magic, and the next day they didn't show. Go to their rooms and what do you find, but a sphere of annihilated space, perfectly cut into the surrounding stone like someone had scooped out that part of the world.” She added, “And everything was perfectly clean.”

Jane giggled. “No way.”

“Yes way!” Kiri said, all serious, “It happens.”

Jane lost her giggle. “Okay. Well. Then never mind the mutated [Cleanse] idea.”

Erick thought about [Cleanse], and wondered about Elemental Destruction. There was something to that, wasn’t there.

Kiri said, “Anyway. Don’t mess with [Cleanse]. Much better to just burn down the trees.”

“Some of the trees just get angry if you try to burn them,” Teressa said, with a hint of dark humor. “And then they start clawing.”

- - - -

A small knock echoed from the door to the hotel room.

Poi was already there at the door well before the knock came, while Jane, Teressa, and Kiri were making themselves scarce in a separate room on the second floor. Erick waited in the center of the main room, down below. A pot of tea steamed on the table between a few chairs, while chocolate chip cookies sat cooling on a tray.

Poi opened the door, and said, “Welcome, Chieftain Yura O’kabil.”

“Hello, Mister Fulisade.”

The elderly orcol on the other side was dressed rather nice, in more or less the same silver robes of before, but with a wrap of white fur around her neck that draped down her front and back. To her side, stood another woman; the orcol-body of the Holy O’kabil, wearing her normal Mist Rabbit fur coat like it was a thin, draping cloud. O’kabil held a large, paper-wrapped package in the air to her side.

“Welcome, Holy O’kabil.” Poi stepped to the side. “You’ve been granted Prismatic permissions, Chieftain. Please come on in.”

Yura smirked as she touched the wall of dense air that delineated the threshold, and her hand went right through. She nodded, said, “Thanks for the invitation,” and stepped inside.

“Hello, Yura!” Erick stood up, saying, “Hello, O’kabil.”

Yura huffed a laugh, saying, “You’re right. He is cheeky.”

“I made some cookies for us.” Erick asked, “Have you tried the chocolate I made, yet?”

O’kabil floated the paper bag at her side as she strode past Poi, keeping in line with Yura, saying, “This is that Mist Rabbit comforter that was ordered.” She placed the bag on an empty chair, breathed in, then breathed out, seeming to relax. She said, “It was rude of them not to be done sooner and in line with my promises, but it is what it is.”

Erick nodded, saying, “I’m sure my daughter will love it. Thank you, O’kabil.” He gestured to the chairs, the tea, and the cookies, saying, “Please. Come. Sit.”

“Don’t mind if I do.” Yura took her seat first, saying, “The tea smells lovely.”

O’kabil sat down, saying, “Let us discuss the matter of the day, and then move on to the matters of the morrow. I will begin—”

Yura poured herself some tea before Erick could move fast enough, and then she poured him some.

“—by saying that the Arbors of Treehome are thankful for the quick response, and for the removal of the shadelings from the area—”

Yura brought out a silver flask and poured some potent-smelling alcohol into her cup, before breathing deep, and then taking a deep swallow from the flask. It was only after her slug of alcohol that she sipped the tea, and softly said, “Good tea.”

“—for it will be much easier to deal with those shadelings when they are somewhere else. We are all thankful for the removal of the Cult, and though we did suffer some loss of life and some unfortunate and unknowable betrayals in the process of that event, the loss of life was well below projected numbers.” O’kabil finished with, “Chieftain Peron has already received a broken jaw from Syllea for his role in turning your Worldly Path into such a confrontational event. We are prepared to offer recompense if you should fail in achieving [Gate], including a lifelong commitment to reconstructing that ancient magic through excavation of Gates in the Forest, and otherwise.”

Erick, tense, said, “I was wondering if Peron did that on purpose. So Syllea told him?”

Yura flipped a cigarette out of a small silver box, lit it with a spark of magic, and held it in her hands. Erick smelled blueweed. Yura said, “Syllea told him, and then when he brushed her off because he didn’t understand, she told him what the Worldly Path meant. And thus we come to the day’s events. I was only informed about what he planned while you were out hunting for criminals, yesterday. I hadn’t found out about what the Worldly Path actually meant until after the stars started falling. I finally managed to harangue O’kabil here into spilling some old secrets, after you ended the day’s minor war and sent Omaz off with a brand upon his soul.”

“We Arbors know more than you, which is not a fault, but a simple truth. We deemed the possible outcomes worth the risk. This is why most no one was informed until after the event.” O’kabil said. “It’s not often that Fate rushes across the land with as much of a boon following in its wake.”

Yura spoke with smoke on her breath, saying, “I would be enacting laws against allowing known Worldly Path people into Treehome, but I have been informed that doing so would likely draw more harm than good.” She took another drag of her cigarette. “For one, such a law would inform people of what the Worldly Path meant, and that would just get more and more people attempting to walk it.”

Erick reached over and opened the small box with his own blueweed cigarettes. He lit one, offering it to O’kabil, who took it. Then he lit another for himself. After a moment of everyone sitting there, just smoking, Erick asked, “Do you think it’s going to get worse?”

O’kabil said, “Teleportation magic was blocked in Ar’Kendrithyst, for Shadow’s Feast. You gained the Worldly Path Quest long before that day. Part of the ceremony for joining the Feast is learning how to walk with the magic. They even call it a Journey into Darkness.” O’kabil put into words a thought that Erick had considered but didn’t want to touch, as she said, “You started your Worldly Path well before you came to us, and it started with the destruction of the Dark Clergy. That was a momentous first step. A very large first step. Then, you came here, and destroyed the Cult hiding in our shadows. In both cases you rescued those you could, and damned those who deserved such an outcome. I would wish you good luck going forward, but Fate and Ritual has you in its grasp, and luck will twist you to its ends no matter how much I were to assist, just as sure as the gods do watch over us all. So tread carefully, and make good decisions.”

“Right now, I’m considering getting wasted on booze and drugs.” Partially sarcastic, Erick asked, “Is that a good decision?”

“Nothing wrong with taking a day off after you fundamentally shift the power of a large part of the world.” Yura said, “You could try a month, too. No rush.”

“I tried a Worldly Path that was just a vacation, but then this happened.”

Yura smirked, asking, “Did you, though? Did you, really? You came in here and almost immediately floated the idea of hunting a few monsters to extinction.” She added, “We can blame Peron for shifting your focus toward the Cult, but he’s not wholly to blame. Not with those first steps you took on your Path. Perhaps Peron was ensorcelled by your Path as well. We were all waiting on that stage for you to throw the day’s events at his feet, but it was a good thing you didn’t, for Peron was certainly ready to throw some facts right back in your face.”

Erick frowned, then he took another drag. He breathed out blue smoke, as he said, “I’d prefer less confrontation, but then there’s that Converter Angel waiting for me out there.”

“Don’t let that monster be your final step on your Path.” O’kabil said, “But first, there is the duty to discharge the promises made to us regarding the hunt of the Moon Reachers and Deathsoul Shrooms. Treehome needs a unifying event after the day’s attack, and such a hunt will be that unifying event.”

“And that won’t be yet another bad step?”

“Today’s events were not bad, Erick.” O’kabil said, “Acceptable losses, and a cleansing unlike any other. These were good outcomes.”

Reluctantly, Yura said, “Continuing with the plan to eliminate a few monster species is an acceptable risk considering the possible gains.”

“Very well. When are we going to start that?”

“A few days after the new year.” Yura said, “We need time to get the proper word out, to organize the hunt itself, and to control any problems regarding today’s outcomes. We’re considering anywhere between five to six days from now.”

Erick joked, “You probably had other things going on before I came here, eh?”

Yura said, “Taxes are starting up again, then there is a land distribution problem with a new family joining O’kabil. Some problems in our border with Steel-Branch—”

O’kabil continued, “Farming troubles in the south. Trade breakdown between the local Mage Guild office and the Enchanter’s Block regarding the value of rads and training—”

“A labor dispute between several young scions and some transient tribes. A problem with the Distributed Treehome Merchants, but the DTM is continually full of problems, so that’s not really anything new.” With a hint of anger clouding her voice, Yura said, “Always somehow pressing, too.”

“A case of variant parasite roaches in one of the apartment buildings. That problem seems to move around instead of actually being solved, and it has vexed me most angrily.” O’kabil took a long drag of her blunt, then said, “Then there’s that problem with a variant blueweed known as redweed circulating among the transient tribes to the south, hyping them up to unwarranted violence.”

Yura spoke with smoke on her breath, too, saying, “That redweed problem might clear up on its own. We’re pretty sure that the Cult was the main force behind that issue.” She added, “We do like to blame a lot of the problems of this world on the Cult, and they usually deserve that blame, but sometimes they don’t. We’ll know soon enough if we have to dig deeper into that problem if the redweed doesn’t disappear on its own.”

O’kabil said, “The usual, really.”

Erick nodded. Then he took up the small tray of cookies, and offered them out, saying, “Have you tried chocolate, yet? These are just sugar cookies with chocolate in them, but I have some bars of chocolate to try, too, if you wish.”

Yura smiled softly, as she took a cookie, saying, “Thank you.”

O’kabil also took a cookie, as did Erick. He took a bite of his first, as was probably custom, or something. He wasn’t sure. Yura and O’kabil only took a bite of theirs after Erick went first. And then Yura started in on what Erick suspected was her actual reason for coming here. The older woman pointed right at the record player, with its bright silver horn and felt-topped turntable.

“So what is that?” She hid her excitement by adding, “And these chocolate cookies are rather good.”

O’kabil took another cookie, but her eyes were locked on the shiny record player.

Erick smiled. And then he got up, grabbed the record player, and began explaining.

It wasn’t long after he demonstrated his creation by playing a record of the nonsense song that he, Kiri, and Ophiel had made, that Yura spoke of old bands that she dearly missed that were just not around anymore. She loved the idea of magic that did not decay, or rather, physical objects that did not decay, so she was in love with the record player. She had a few recording crystals that had lost fidelity over the years, and she wondered if Erick could solve that problem in a more permanent fashion. And could she get a record player, too? She could work on making [Control Machine] herself, or hire someone for such a task; those were just foibles in the idea of a record player to be managed.

Erick said, “Let’s try copying some music over to a record. Got a few crystals that you don’t mind wasting toward the attempt?”

With a gleam in her eye, Yura said, “I’m sure I could find something for a suitable experiment.”

O’kabil produced a crystal from a pocket, or more realistically, from plucking the crystal out from some other part of her Domain and then bringing it here.

