“Shadow slimes spawn around here, sometimes. We get them every day in the Shadow-shifted [Kaleidoscopic Radiance] room.” Zaraanka said, “But we’re not expanding that room. Maybe not ever.”

“Too controversial. We’ve already had people try to [Dispel] it on us, but we put up protections after that first attempt nearly knocked the thing out. It came back, though.” Mephistopheles said, “We got lots of time to talk about all of that, if you drop this necessity of being a Cultist out in the open. We do not need that around here.”

“Yeah, yeah.” Deckari said, “I can tone it down. I can hide.”

“Not hiding, Deckari.” Mephistopheles said, “Renouncing.”

Deckari frowned.

Toruke asked, “How did you even get past that Mind Mage? You’ve been in this longer than I have, by a long while.”

Mephistopheles said, “We heard about that, and I’d like to know that answer as well.”

“Mind Mages are usually the deaths of us,” Zaraanka said, “I’m surprised he let so many of us through.”

“He did label every single Cultist. That was no small thing.” Toruke said, “But you’re right. the usual killing didn’t happen.”

Mephistopheles said, “Slip is watching you guys. Be careful. If you’re staying in this, Deckari, I can’t be seen with you ever again. I mean that.”

“Me either,” Zaraanka said.

“Dark Gods, I didn’t know it was that bad. Yet another reason to formally leave the Cult.” Toruke turned to the younger orcol, saying, “Poi should have clocked you, easy.”

Deckari said, “Poi knew. He knew everything. Your guardmaster, Slip, even called me out, saying that he has me 'in his book'. He said that that way on purpose. But I’m no killer and I never want to be, despite the needs of the moment back there in that battle… And other times. I think he let me off easy.” He asked, “How’d you get through Treehome’s interviews, Toruke? I knew if I went that way, I was setting myself up for automatic failure.”

Toruke digested that, then said, “I got through the same as anyone who managed to get through. I had the good fortune to never have killed in the name of Melemizargo, and I plan to keep it that way.”

Mephistopheles said, “Then I might have room in my administration for you, Toruke.”

“Good. Thank you. I could use a job.”

Zaraanka said, “I could use some more people to hunt mimics, Deckari, but I can’t be seen with you if you pursue this path.”

“Fair enough. Maybe I’ll take up farming. Or help with those dungeons?” Deckari said, “But let’s go see Yggdrasil, for now. Or, should I go on my own?”

“Probably both of you go on your own.” Mephistopheles said, “Don’t get too close.”

Zaraanka said, “Be seeing you! And welcome back to Candlepoint.”

The room, which was not actually a room at all, dissolved into shadow and nothing, as the people therein departed, each already doing their own thing, in a different part of Candlepoint.

… Most everyone departed.

Melemizargo said, “That’s the one to watch.”

Justine, completely out of her depth but still treading water, said the only thing she could say, “Okay.”

“I have plans for him.”

Koyabez asked, “And what plans are those?”

“The only plans I’ve ever had: To expand the cosmos and to bring life and magic to all, of course.”

“That’s not as assuring as you think it is, old friend. Perhaps you should take a step back for a while. Center yourself around a few good mortals.”

“… Perhaps.” Melemizargo sighed, and the world sighed with him. “Perhaps.”

- - - -

Erick sat back in his chair in his hotel room to watch the light fade across the Forest to the north. Reds became purples, becoming dark blues, full of stars. The moons were out there somewhere, perhaps to the west, but they were out of sight, and not that bright. Though they were getting there. The only real brightness out there came from O’kabil’s pale silver light, and the light of civilization from the silver buildings down below, and from under the green canopies out ahead.

Treehome looked much the same as it had when Erick first arrived. Though the city had suffered a wide-scale attack, the Cult and the opportunists had been caught or killed. Very few actually got away, especially when Koropo asked Erick to help find those who had escaped, and Erick had obliged.

That was only an hour ago. Erick had just finished with that job.

He looked down at his hands. They were clean, but he imagined the blood on them, and that thought would not go away. So he grabbed a blueweed cigarette and lit the thing. It was not enough. So he put together a pot of soul-tea, and that helped calm his nerves more than anything.

Jane stepped next to him.

Erick smiled to see his daughter beside him. He offered her the blunt.

She took it, took a drag, then handed it back, saying, “This is pretty amazing, dad.”

He knew she was talking about something else, but he said, “It’s good blueweed, yeah.” To keep the conversation off of difficult topics, he barreled ahead, saying, “And that dress looks great on you. I think everyone took you girls a bit more seriously with those getups. I should have dressed up, too.”

“Hmm.” She sat down on a nearby chair, saying, “If you want to deflect, we can do that.”

“I’d like to, yes.” Erick said, “For now, at least.”

“… Okay. What do you want for dinner?”

“I want you to decide.”

“Then I’ll do that.” Jane got up, then went to the kitchen to look over menus, adding, “Don’t get too wasted!”

“Sure thing.”

What Erick didn’t say, though, was that even four of those blueweed sticks wouldn’t even take the edge off. Not today. Not right now. He was wired, frazzled, and a whole mess of other emotions that he barely could categorize, let alone understand.

So he let his mind wander while he waited for dinner to show.

He considered the spells he had seen today.

He planned out magic.

He wondered just how much he was going to be blamed for enabling Treehome to solve some of their long-standing problems. If it got bad, he’d talk with Silverite. She’d know what to expect, and he could trust her judgment, for sure.

… Maybe he should talk with her, anyway. She had been the Mayor of Spur for centuries, after all, and those centuries had been filled with powerful people. No doubt there were other archmages with similar problems—

Ah. No. That was probably untrue. Maybe in a small way, Silverite had experience with this, but even she hadn’t seen the destruction of the Clergy in her previous centuries. She had even tried and then failed to kill them all, herself.

Erick wondered if part of Silverite hated him for what he had been able to do, that she could not.

He let his mind wander again.

As he sipped his tea, he saw his soul heal, just a bit. It wasn’t much. He had certainly set back some of his healing, for sure. Maybe by a few days. Maybe longer. Long enough to plan some better spells to combat all that he had seen, and to make some better plans to ensure that he wouldn’t be used like this again...

But… But Erick liked being useful to others. He liked helping. He liked being that guy that solved problems, and maybe monsters and murderers were a bit out of his previous wheelhouse, but he was getting there. Had his desire to help led to some of the day’s deaths and side effects? Yes. Undoubtedly. But… But a lot of good was done, too.

Acceptable losses, perhaps?

Perhaps.

Erick decided he would continue to work with Treehome in the future, but he would definitely have a private conversation with Peron about his desire to throw Erick under the bus about the day’s events. Maybe Syllea would have to be present for that conversation, too. Maybe one more? But who?

Before he knew it, dinner had arrived.

Dinner was good. Great, actually. Much better than any other meal served at the hotel. Beef tips that melted in the mouth, with a red wine sauce made with berries and nuts. Small, savory muffins. Mashed root vegetables that were close to potatoes, but they were not potatoes. They were ‘whiteroot’. Erick smiled upon hearing of that vegetable. Sirocco Zago had spoken of white root back when Erick introduced potatoes. And now he finally got a chance to try them. They were good. A bit like a smoother, maybe glutenous potato. Lots of cheese in the white root, though, so maybe the taste was not genuine white root, but everything was better with cheese.

Kiri spoke of Koropo approaching her while Erick was hunting down escapees. Koropo had seen her Sunny, and asked after her capabilities. She had told him that Sunny was not at the level of Ophiel, but only because Kiri herself was not up there, either. Kiri offered to help clear out monsters, just like Koropo had been edging toward, and her help had been accepted. She would be worked into the system they came up with, when they came up with it. Sunny was ready for some action, for sure.

Erick was glad for that.

Jane spoke about that Kordon guy, the one who had escorted the three girls to the commune. He was apparently a higher ranked guard than others, with ample adventuring experience, and would likely also be joining the effort to clear out the Forest of Moon Reachers and Deathsoul Shrooms. Jane was eager to show him up again when she did the same. He barely understood his [Radiant Ash Body], though she allowed that perhaps she didn’t understand his Elemental Body, either.

“What would make a person want to get Radiant Ash?” Jane said, “I don’t understand that combination at all.”

Kiri said, “Shadow, Fire, and Light. For blending in to the Forest when you want, and for burning it down when you don’t?”

“He was good at that.” Teressa said, “Hid rather well when he wanted, and the incorporeality of Ash lends itself well to defense versus physical attacks. Most monsters are most dangerous due to their physical attacks.”

“Probably cheaper to use than [Prismatic Body], too.” Jane said, “But cheap is not powerful. The monsters could barely hit him, but he also couldn’t hurt them as much as he needed to, either. Now. If he were a [Polymorph]ed lava ooze with [Radiant Ash Body], then that might be something. Not enough adventurers do the [Polymorph] thing.”

“That’s because it’s disgusting, Jane.” Kiri smirked. “You’re an ooze or a spider half the time! Eww!”

Erick chuckled, saying, “I have a hard enough time being a light slime.” He shivered. “I keep thinking that someone will try and splat me for the Experience.”

“It’s not that bad!” Jane flexed her aura and armor appeared, like a ghostly imprint in the manasphere. She said, “And this [Mutable Aegis] means that I’m never without armor, so there’s little chance of anyone mistaking me for a real monster. And if they do, then I can just tell them to lay off. I’m getting better with adding vocal cords to my Familiar Forms.” She dismissed her coalescing aura.

Erick asked, “How is your Class going, anyway? Did you knock out all those quests you were talking about?”

“I have indeed!” Jane smiled. “Fully Classed up! I’m actually hunting for more Familiar Forms…” She looked to struggle with something for half a second, before just plowing ahead, saying, “While you were cleaning up the escapees today with Warchief Koropo Ikabobbi, some people from that District must have found out that I’m a Polymage, and they invited me to Ikabobbi’s ‘Polymorph Emporium’. It’s this exclusive place, and I think they’re trying to get in good with you, but, would you like to go see some monsters? Maybe you can find something interesting that’s not a little light slime? I don’t think they’ll have anything I want, and they’re certainly out of my price range, but they’re supposed to be the largest monster sellers on Glaquin with a lot of monsters with rare abilities. The only larger auction houses are down in Nergal, in Eidolon.”

“I can pay for whatever—”

Jane interrupted, “I don’t want you to pay. I would like to go see the monsters with you, though, if you want to go.”

Kiri offered, “There’s some nice magical history museums in Nosier’s District that would be nice to see, too. If nothing else happens, I think those would be a nice distraction, too.”

Teressa said, “My Auntie wants to cook for us again.”

Erick smiled. Then he looked to Poi, asking, “What’s your offer for cheering me up?”

“The Mind Mages have some therapists ready to go to Candlepoint, and here, if needed.”

Erick laughed. “That’s a good offer, too!” He looked around the table, saying, “But I’m okay, guys. Well. No. I’m not. But I will be. And this is fine. This is the world we live in, and the one we get to make better tomorrow through the actions we take today. This is fine. This is just what power means. I will eventually be okay with this, but… Thank you. All of you. Jane, Kiri, Teressa. Poi. You’re all looking out for me, but I have not done nearly enough looking out for you—”

“That is simply untrue.” Poi said, “And it’s weird that you think that way.”

“If anything, you need to try doing less, dad.” Jane said, “I agree with Poi.”

“Yes.” Kiri said, “Completely agree. Let’s do less, okay?”

Erick looked to Teressa, expecting something.

Teressa surprised him, by saying, “I appreciate the idea of burning down the entire Forest and starting over. I want to help with this however I can. It’d be like a [Cleanse] on a massive scale.”

Erick laughed, then said, “I do love that [Cleanse] spell!”

“Oh!” Jane’s eyes went wide. “Could you shift a [Cleanse] into erasing the Forest?”

