“I’m fine. I have students. I have a career. We built this company—I don’t want for excitement.”
“But you’re lonely.”
“Yes, damn it! Will you stop saying that? What does it matter? You don’t seem lonely and I know you don’t have anyone in your life!”
Foliana blinked at Niers.
“It matters because you’re you. You like people. You need people. I don’t. Someday I’ll retire. Go somewhere else.”
“Where?”
“Don’t know. Cottage in the jungle perhaps. Be alone. I don’t need people. You do.”
Niers grumbled. He flushed, kicked the chess board and upset a lot of Cave Goblins across the world, and then gave in.
“Fine. So what if I’m lonely? I have my opponent. I can find out who they are. I just choose not to. I don’t want to be spoiled. I want to have this and not have it ruined. Is that too much?”
He pointed to the chess board. The chess pieces were righting themselves on the board, which had flipped back over. Foliana shrugged.
“Not too much. But stop complaining.”
She began eating again and Niers realized he’d been talking to her all throughout their bath, and before that. And he’d brought up his mysterious chess opponent…well, a lot of times. He’d probably talked for at least three hours this time.
“Very well. I’m sorry.”
“Good.”
“And I will be able to play more games soon, you know. I had a new board and pieces commissioned. It took a while, but this new ‘Go’ game should be delivered to them soon.”
Foliana scratched her head. The game of ‘Go’ was sweeping across Baleros, in no small part thanks to Niers, whose love of the game had put a spotlight on it. It had even received attention from those who followed such things in other continents, although Olesm’s name had not been connected to the game. Niers had been inaccurately credited with creating the game. Again. And this time it wasn’t even his fault.
“It’ll take a while for it to arrive. But I’d bet half my fortune that it was my opponent who taught the game to this Olesm Swifttail to begin with. It’s too much of a coincidence. I know they’re in Liscor, or thereabouts.”
Foliana tilted her head.
“Why will it take a while to arrive? You hired a Courier.”
“Yes. But I had to prepare several fake boards, send a bunch of duplicate messages, you know how it goes.”
“Paranoid.”
“Not at all. I am being watched and this would attract a lot of attention. It’s a sensible precaution.”
“And fun.”
The Fraerling smiled.
“Immensely. I enjoy watching all the [Spies] and [Informants] scurry about and reveal themselves. And spreading gossip. I have a mind to send one of the Go boards to the King of Destruction. Although that might be too politically dangerous.”
“Mm. Send it to the woman with flowers.”
“Reinhart? She’d make it a talking point or use it against me somehow. Some people are too dangerous to play games around. Maybe I’ll send it to the Wistram mages. With itching powder.”
“Okay. And you’re not going to find out what the chess games mean? Or who your opponent is in Liscor?”
Niers hesitated. He visibly struggled with himself, and then scowled at the magical chess board.
“No. Not yet. But Liscor is on my watch list for other reasons. Here. Stop eating those noodles and look at this.”
Niers gestured to Foliana. Then he eyed the tower of chess pieces she’d built. He walked over and kicked the support rook out of place. The entire tower of chess pieces crashed down around him. Niers leapt out of the way as a pawn narrowly missed his head. The Fraerling breathed out shakily.
“Jungle rot.”
“That wasn’t very smart. You’re supposed to be smart.”
“Are you coming or not?”
Niers stomped over to his collection of maps. They were quite large and not Fraerling-sized, which was to say Foliana-sized. That was because [Cartographers] willing to illustrate a tiny piece of parchment with a needle were rare and because Niers didn’t mind the larger maps. He could walk over them and inspect them from every angle. The three-dimensional ones that were magical were even more fun.
A map of Izril was laid out on the table. Niers walked onto it and began pointing out details to Foliana. He had a number of pieces on the map. Pins and little flags with notes written on them. Small notes for Foliana, which meant big lists of details all in Niers’ neat handwriting.
“You know they have a Goblin Lord over there. And that there was that attack on Liscor from the dungeon. Well, I have news about the Goblin Lord and the dungeon.”
“Dungeon first. What’s new? Another attack?”
The Titan nodded.
“Something like that. I haven’t received another letter from that [Tactician] in Liscor. Olesm Swifttail, I think. Neither have my students. And reports are spotty—the Walled Cities are keeping a tight grip on things—but it sounds like something’s happening over there.”
“Monsters?”
Niers nodded. He walked across the mountain range that was the High Passes and stared down at Liscor.
“I’d bet my hats on it. A Gold-rank dungeon next to a city’s a recipe for disaster. And this one’s a vengeance dungeon by all accounts. I wish I could see it—”
“Go find your opponent while you’re at it.”
Niers ignored that. He studied the map and shook his head.
“It can’t be good. Especially since I heard a group of Gold-rank adventurers travelled from Pallass to Liscor via that door we saw. Amazing thing. That’s a useful treasure.”
“We have teleporter mages.”
“And that’s a powerful artifact that can do far more than just teleport, Foliana. I’d pay—no, never mind. I’d never get it back here without it being stolen, Couriers or no. That poor [Innkeeper] will lose it soon, if not to Wistram then to someone else raiding her inn for it. Where was I? The dungeon. Something’s going on. It could be like the one we found, you know.”
He looked up meaningfully at Foliana. She paused for the first time.
“If it is, they’re dead.”
“Probably. I just wonder how my opponent—no, forget it. Don’t poke me with that fork. The second bit of news that I can speculate on is this: the Goblin Lord’s been defeated.”
“Really? I didn’t hear that.”
Foliana didn’t pay attention to worldwide news. She relied on Niers to tell her everything, which was a wise move because Niers had a network of information that spanned the world. The Fraerling nodded.
“The reports are that Lord Tyrion Veltras—he’s one of the foremost [Lords] of Izril, one of the Five Families—assembled a massive army of Humans and assaulted them at a mountain. Here. And apparently he hired the Kingslayer’s team to help him defeat the Goblins. They chased the Great Chieftain and Goblin Lord out of the mountain and are pursuing them.”
“Oh. I did hear about that. One of your students was telling the others something like that.”
Niers smiled, for a moment becoming a proud teacher.
“Really? What did they say? I’d be interested in knowing who—and how good their analysis is.”
“Mm. It was the Lizardgirl. Nervous.”
“Umina?”
“Mm.”
“Good child. What did she say?”
Foliana tilted her head side to side as she thought.
“Goblin Lord’s on the run. Lost a big battle. Apparently the Human [Lord] is very good. At…fighting? Leading? Strategy?”
The Fraerling snorted. Trust Foliana not to remember nuance. He’d go ask Umina about her thoughts later. Make her paranoid about what he knew that she knew.
“With Elia Arcsinger demoralizing the Goblins and an army larger than theirs at his back? He’d better win every battle. That’s not skill, Foliana. That’s just good preparation. Mind you, he hasn’t engaged them yet. He’s running them away from their fortress. And that’s curious because I know the man.”
“During the Second Antinium War?”
“Yes. I met him briefly—he was younger—but I’ve been to a few gatherings. Always on Izril. He never travels. And I know reports of the man.”
“Does he like Damcli Noodles?”
Niers looked up.
“No. And I don’t think he has a favorite food. I didn’t care for him. He’s everything I don’t like about Humans. Well, about every species that has men like that, really. But he is a good leader. He can choose when to fight and he hasn’t engaged yet. There are a few reasons why that could be.”
Niers studied the map. He traced the speculative arrows he’d drawn leading away from the mountain and eyed the nearby cities. Invrisil, a section of the map he’d planted a big flag next to and written ‘Emperor?’ on in huge letters. Then he snapped his fingers and grinned.
“Ah. I see what he might be doing.”
“Fast. Sure?”
Foliana spoke around a mouthful of noodles. Niers nodded.
“It’s a good strategy. If it’s what I think he’s doing. I’d say it’s clever, too. It might work. And if it does…well, we might get some work in Izril if things go really poorly. Or well. Otherwise, we won’t be bothered. I doubt his enemies will notice it before it’s too late.”
“But you did. In seventeen seconds. Why?”
The Titan sighed.
“Because everyone’s an idiot? Or because I’ve seen this before. A variation, anyways. I keep telling my students that part of good strategy is just experience. Everyone tries the same little tricks without realizing they’re doing the exact same things over and over again. Depressing, really. And people wonder why I drink.”
“Because you’re an alcoholic?”
The Fraerling raised a finger.
“If the world was filled with an unlimited supply of any alcohol you wanted for a few silver coins, what would you do? There’s a reason why most Fraerlings who visit the city develop bad habits. You big people make things far too cheap for us.”
“Okay. What’s Veltras’ plan?”
Niers hesitated. He stroked his chin and wavered.
“I have a theory. But I’d rather not share it. Hold on. Let me write this down.”
He searched around and came back with a quill and ink. Foliana watched him scribble on a piece of paper, writing large so she could see it. Then Niers bent down and folded the paper. He handed it up to Foliana.
“You can open that in, oh, ten day’s time or so. And if I’m right…hey, stop that!”
Foliana was already opening the paper. She ignored Niers throwing his ink pot at her and read. She nodded, her tail moving a bit with interest.
“Hmm. Oh, makes sense. Hmm. Obvious when you think about it. This is good.”
“It was supposed to be a secret! I could be wrong, you know!”
Niers fumed. Foliana shrugged.
“Don’t think so. Sounds right.”
“Well, give it back. It’s no use now. I shouldn’t have written it down without warding it anyways. You could be scryed.”
“Good joke.”
“Even you could be. Come on.”
Niers held up his hands, but Foliana hesitated. She looked at the paper and then smiled slightly.
“Won’t. I’m going to show all your students so they’ll be really impressed. They’ll keep the secret, mhm. But be impressed.”
“What? Absolutely not! Give that back Foliana, right now!”
The Fraerling leapt surprisingly high, but Foliana stepped back from the table and that was that. She retreated to Niers’ door.
“Going to show them now. Bye.”
She faded from view. But Niers knew she was there and he saw his door open. He roared in fury.
“Dead gods damn it, Foliana! Give that back!”
She made no reply. She was moving and Niers had known Foliana for so long that he could vaguely guess where she was. And where she was going. He leapt from his table, landing lightly on the ground and raced after Foliana. For a small person his voice was very loud.
“Get back here! I could be wrong! This is my reputation on the line! Foliana! [Rapid Advance]!”
He charged after Foliana. She ran through the citadel, and Niers’ students and his subordinates and staff were treated to the Titan running after his commander through the hallways, furiously shouting at her. But Foliana didn’t slow. She ran on, smiling. And despite Niers’ escalating threats, he was smiling too. They were, after all, friends. So Foliana ran and Niers chased.
She was still naked.
