Ali stepped back out onto the open battlefield with all her casters and settled back into the steady rhythm of blocking Bone Spears and calling out the summons. With her new insight into how the Skeletal Wyvern’s magic worked, she could block much more effectively and the crazy headache she had earned earlier began to disappear. With a little more mental room, she began rotating her mages and shamans through the inspiration circles so that they would also have enough mana to last what was sure to be a very long fight.

As the last Piercer Scorpion collapsed heavily to the scorched stone floor, Malika turned her attention back to the darkness beyond the walls and sat to snatch a few moments of Meditation. While she waited for another summoned scorpion to appear, she reflected on the frustrating nature of this fight. Her role was certainly important, but… she sighed. Why does everything have to have that stupid regenerating bone armor? And to make matters worse, the boss remained flying high above the floor – far out of her reach. I should invest more into Soul Strike, she thought, at least then she might be more effective against the Piercer Scorpions in the future.

“Summon! Your side, Malika,” Ali shouted.

There!

Out of the darkness, a looming white and gray shape materialized. The heavily armored form stood motionless for a moment. Then it twitched and took off at top speed charging directly at one of the healers.

Oh no you don’t! Malika accelerated her body with a pulse of stamina into her Divine Step skill, reaching the huge monster in a second. She spun, lashing out with a kick that caught the scorpion right under the chin and she pulsed Soul Strike to enhance her power. It lashed out with blurring spears, forcing her to dodge backward from the vicious retaliation. She jabbed with her left, catching one of the spear limbs as it passed by her chest, and dodged backward just in time to avoid the blurring tail strike which kicked up shards of stone from the floor. She danced quickly backward, staying out of reach, and making the creature lunge after her. As soon as it was moving, she sprinted over to Mato in his restoration ring, luring the monster along behind her.

Malika stopped beside Mato, ducking and dodging the rapid strikes without retaliating, simply waiting. The huge Bear roared and swiped his claws across the scorpion’s heavy armor, his strike flickering with green mana. The instant the monster diverted its attention to Mato, Malika danced backward out of range, slapping Mato on the hindquarters, and topping him up with healing as she slipped away.

She found her spot and sat to Meditate once again, facing outward away from the fight to see the spawns better. The orb of light floating overhead suddenly spluttered and died, plunging this entire side of the battlefield into darkness, lit only by the runic circles and the distant flashes of lightning and fire.

“Calen, light’s out!” she shouted.

“Coming!”

The shaking through the stone beneath her told her that Calen would be bringing another scorpion when he came.

To her left, a few yards away, Ali’s Kobold Acolyte stood, white robes and yellow scales highlighted by the soft blue glow of the Inspiration circle, periodically casting his magic. It was a remarkable thing Ali had constructed – a way to regenerate mana faster in battle with a fixed magical construct. The Kobold’s magic shimmered a soft yellow-white, and every now and then, he would bow his head as if in prayer or meditation. That must be a skill of some kind, she thought, studying the way the shadows around the Acolyte shifted and flickered. Wait, what is that? Malika narrowed her eyes. It happened again, a shadowy flicker as if something invisible had passed in front of the blue aura. Quickly, she sprang to her feet and rushed closer.

She was halfway there when she heard several wet thuds and something dark splashed across the rune circle. Two lithe, midnight-black forms materialized from the shadows, bone daggers flicking and thrusting.

Shit!

“Rogues by the healers!” she shouted as she dove for the Acolyte in desperation. She arrived just in time to catch the healer as he slumped over. Desperately, she pulsed her Healing Mantra, but nothing happened. Fuck. She dropped the corpse and lashed out with a straight kick to the first rogue’s kneecap, hearing a crunch and a hiss of pain. She spun to her left and unleashed a powerful cross that clipped the smaller rogue on the side of his jawbone. She wasn’t about to let them withdraw and regain stealth, but the rogues both turned on her, unleashing a flurry of dagger strikes. With four flashing blades, she found herself hard-pressed to dodge everything, grimacing as she was forced to block the dangerous slashing blades with her hands and forearms.

Malika pulsed her Healing Mantra, closing her wounds. While she could dodge, and she didn’t have to worry about Ambush, she was still being heavily pressured by the two rogues. Not like she was going to die or anything – she could still heal, but she had a job to do. I can’t kill them fast enough. She glanced around. Soon another scorpion would spawn, and she would not be there to catch it.

Behind her, she heard Calen drawing his scorpion over to Mato and an idea suddenly occurred to her. Skipping backward, she lured her two rogues over to join the scorpions.

“Can you get these off me?” she asked.

Mato caught on to her plan instantly, raking both rogues with his claws and roaring his challenge. A few moments later, the rogues were busy attacking him instead.

“Good luck with those fireballs,” she quipped at the rogues.

Light bloomed out over Mato and the rune circles as Calen restored his magic. High over her right shoulder, she could see the glowing red of the firebolts rising to impact against the heavy bone plates armoring the wyvern’s skeletal body.

Just in time. Out beyond the light, a new white, armored scorpion began to move among the bone-encrusted bookcases, and Malika sprinted out to get it.

She collected the scorpion just in the nick of time, using a kick to distract it from trampling their one remaining Acolyte. Quickly, she dragged it over to Mato, depositing it in the kill zone, and dodged back out again once it was secured.

With a moment of downtime, she sat inside Mato’s aura and began to Meditate. Golden light flickered, glittery accompaniment to the heavy thumps and crashes of splintering spears. With one fewer healer in place, the fireball rotation they had practiced wouldn’t work. I think I can cover for the missing healer, she thought, but she would drain herself empty doing so. That’s a problem for later, she decided. Calen was already bringing the fourth scorpion and they needed to survive this first.

“Ali, go,” Calen said, calling for the magical barrage.

“I’m down a healer,” Ali objected.

“I can pick up the slack, which number was he?” Malika said.

“He was the second heal, right after yours,” Ali said.

“Got it.” Malika fixed her attention on the three remaining Fire Mages, careful not to get blinded by the ridiculous lightning strikes from the shamans. As soon as the first fireball shot out of the Kobold’s claws, Malika moved. Three steps, she sprinted in, slapping her hand to Mato’s back and pouring her healing magic into his burnt and slashed body. Just as quickly she dodged back out, barely avoiding the second explosion. The male Kobold healer had had this second heal in the rotation, so Malika dodged right back in the moment the second fireball detonated and healed Mato again. She dodged back out, a bit slower this time, getting her eyebrows singed off by the shockwave of flame from the third fireball. I’m getting tired. She took a breather while the female Kobold Acolyte healed Mato through the next fireball. The lightning bolts ripped through the scorpions, and they collapsed amid slowly dying gobs of flame.

“Hide!” Ali yelled, and moments later the deafening roar of the Bone Spear breath weapon hammered through her skull and shook her feet.

Thank goodness. Malika had used up most of her stamina and mana fighting the rogues and taking double duty to heal Mato. She sank to the ground in the now vacant Inspiration circle and meditated – hopefully, she would regain enough for the next round. She retrieved her only mana potion and drank it, just to make certain. She watched enviously as Ali deconstructed the scorpion corpses, wishing she could regain her stamina from dead monsters.
