Moore ejected the slide of blood from the microscope as Dyeda blanched, then cast a spell. He incinerated the glass slide in another container so thoroughly that not even glass remained, and then he cast another spell that seemed to destroy even the ashes. Not even the gas was allowed to escape; Moore turned away from the slide.
“Stage 4. Lock the mansion down. Airtight seal.”
“What was that?”
Dyeda shouted in alarm, but of course, no one could hear her. Mrsha was more focused on the doors leading out. They moved, slightly, and a ring of some kind of white material around the door shifted. Her ears popped.
“Lord Moore, you have twenty-nine minutes of air without spells. Is everything alright in there?”
A female voice spoke from some kind of advanced speaking stone. Moore touched a button and replied.
“I will cast more if need be. I am dealing with a Stage 4 individual, Chrysanthia. I need GC-blood teleported in. Give me 2,700 milliliters. Do not open this room unless I lift the lockdown myself.”
“Yes, Lord Moore. Will you require assistance? The hospital is prepared to send a full team—”
“I can handle it. Synthesizing the treatment already. I will update in ten minutes.”
All of this sounded sort of ominous. Almost as ominous as the growing feeling in Mrsha’s stomach and the certainty she had to get out. She began feeling around the glass unconsciously.
Moore? What was that? Was that my blood? What were those squiggling lines and the round stuff?
Moore was moving faster now; he strode and loaded up another syringe from the liquid. Two canisters, which he disengaged the needles from, and then walked over to the capsules where Dyeda and Mrsha stood.
It was at this moment when Dyeda projected a bunch of glowing words onto the air from the ring on her finger.
[Hello? Is this thing working? I can write with this! Please don’t kill us!]
Moore glanced at the writing and inserted the first canister into a slot on Mrsha’s capsule. The girl felt trepidation running up and down her spine, but Moore’s eyes were gentle as he spoke.
“No one’s getting killed, Miss Dyeda. I’m just—preparing a treatment. Hold on, this is the aerosol version of it.”
So saying, he went back to the beaker and kept working as a sealed box popped into the air and hovered there, caught in the middle of a spell circle. Moore took the box, opened it, and Mrsha saw red bags of liquid.
She strongly suspected it was blood—a lot of blood. So much blood, in fact, that she felt like it were, oh, an approximate amount of blood to what a child of her age would have in her body.
She didn’t like what was going on. Mrsha realized she was pointing a wand at the side of the capsule she was in and had nearly cast [Stone Dart]. She grabbed her wand-arm and forced it down.
Something’s very wrong. 
Moore, what are you doing?
“Just preparing a little needle. I just need one minute, Mrsha. You’re a bit sick, but don’t worry—”
The [Lord] glanced at her, and she saw the true concern in his eyes. Now, Mrsha felt like the skin under her fur was itching. The half-Giant whispered.
“You’re going to be just fine. It’s just a curse, Mrsha. Liscor’s nightmare. Every single trace of it has been eradicated across the world. I’ve cracked open research laboratories and erased every sample there was. You…you truly are from the past.”
What’s in my blood, Moore?
Dyeda was fumbling with her ring. It was she who was frowning and reading something. Moore chuckled.
“Nothing bad. It’s actually a separate problem.”
You’re lying to me. It’s in my blood. I have to get out. Let me out.
Mrsha wrote the last two sentences, then stared at the words. She knew she was ill with something bad. But where had that…
A brown eye shifted and stared at her, and she no longer saw the friendly half-Giant. A vast, monstrous figure gazed at her and he reeked of death. Death and hatred and—
She blinked. Moore was loading up another syringe with a different colored liquid, this one faintly glowing purple. Not much of the liquid—but he had prepared a bunch of different syringes. And—she noticed—injected them into one of the blood bags and shaken it up.
Moore? I’m scared. Let me out, please? Pretty please?
The girl wrote on the wall of the capsule with a shaking paw. Now she stared at the words and didn’t understand. Her mind was wrestling with something. She was afraid. Terrified. Something bad was here. He was going to kill her.
He’s not. What is…who’s saying that?
Moore didn’t reply to Mrsha’s plea. He worked even faster now, back to her, and the terror in her was making Mrsha prowl around the capsule, feeling at the places where it met the ground. She saw drainage vents in the top and bottom; too small to even insert a claw into. A glowing line of text drew the frantic girl’s eye.
[Aerosol. That means ‘airborne’.]
Dyeda wrote stealthily, using her w-Ring. She was reading a bunch of glowing screens, and her eyes narrowed.
[This is weird, Mrsha. Hold on, I’m looking up what ‘Liscor’s curse’ is.]
Her eyes widened as another screen opened, and Mrsha was panting now. No, don’t do it. She was feeling at her chest.
Squiggling lines. This wasn’t right at all. Her anxiety was going to make her scream. She was screaming, she realized, but she had no voice. She pounded on the capsule’s walls as Moore turned.
“…Ah, I made a mistake with the medicine. I’ll have to do it again. Damn. Later.”
He snapped his fingers and tossed aside one of the empty syringes, sighing.
“I’ll let you out, now, Mrsha.”
The half-Giant strode over, showing her his empty hands, and Mrsha’s anxiety faded. The girl gazed up mutely at Moore and half-shook her head before nodding eagerly.
Nononono—
The half-Giant bent down, fiddling with the controls on the capsule, and Mrsha felt her body relaxing. Then, Dyeda gasped.
[Liscor’s curse is from the dungeon? C-Crypt Worms? In the blood? What are—]
Moore spun. He hadn’t realized Dyeda had a connection to the world outside via her ring. His eyes opened wide in alarm, and he threw up a hand.
“No!”
Dyeda screamed as a wave of darkness enveloped her, but it was just a simple spell to obscure the text. Too late. Mrsha read the words, and dots connected in her head.
Crypt Worms?
She had an image of a red, fleshy worm that Bird said were common among the dungeon monsters. Erin had said Skinner was one. Crypt Worms were massive, horrible creatures who were smart and could lead monsters.
In her blood?
Tiny squiggling lines. She stared down at her paws, and they were shaking. Mrsha felt wrong. She felt horrible.
This place is bad. It’s going to kill me. We have to leave. This man knows about us. About Mother. Run, run, runrunrunrun—
Her body began hammering on the glass of the capsule. Mrsha felt herself jerk away from Moore as he reached for her.
“Mrsha, I’m not going to do anything to you. Ignore Dyeda, she’s a Goblin and an idiot—”
He knows. He knows! Mother! Mother! I can’t hear Mother!
She wasn’t thinking that. It wasn’t her. The girl felt her body curl up, hiss, then spit something red into the air.
Blood. Moore jerked back, and she saw he had gloves on. He reached into the capsule, hands open.
“Mrsha, I’m sure you’re just fine. Here. Why don’t I let you out?”
The girl knew he was lying. But whatever was in her wasn’t as clever. Mrsha hesitated, then smiled and cocked her head, opening her arms.
She didn’t see the little syringe Moore had hidden between his fingers until he grabbed her arm. Then, as she froze up and her blood began to shriek—he pressed the tip of the syringe into her veins and injected it. Mrsha’s eyes went wide, and she gazed up at Moore. Cold liquid entered her blood, and Mrsha felt cold, then heat rushing up her arm. She saw his triumphant expression, and Dyeda emerged, coughing, from the [Cloud of Darkness] spell.
“There. It should circulate your blood within minutes. Just hold still and—”
Mrsha felt a wave of heat blast up her arm. Then the anxiety turned to terror. It became agony. She opened her mouth and started screaming as she fell, thrashing at the ground, tearing at her arm. Dyeda backed away in horror as Moore whirled, cursing, and ran for another syringe.
“M-Mrsha?”
 
——
 
Pain. Horror. Fear. 
Mrsha writhed about, howling, shrieking, pounding on the glass, as whatever Moore had given her tore through her veins. Dyeda was screaming at Moore and writing frantically.
[You’re killing her! Stop, stop!]
“I’m saving her! This isn’t Stage 4. Stage 5? You shouldn’t have told her you knew! The parasites can think and hear what she hears. They’re going to try to escape. Or—”
Moore was a blur of movement as he tore around his desk. He spun when Dyeda cried out.
“Mrsha, no!”
The [Tattooist] saw the girl’s teeth buried in her own arm. Mrsha’s eyes were wide and feral—she tore open her own wrist, and blood splattered the ground.
The arm Moore had just injected. Blood ran from her wrist as the real Mrsha, Roots Mrsha, the girl, watched in horror. But she didn’t have control of her body.
She was bleeding, now. Bleeding from her eyes, her nose, from every orifice. Her blood was sick with something killing her—them—us. They had to flee! Mrsha’s teeth dug in further, and she realized she was going to bite her wrist off—
The half-Giant was there in a moment.
“Healing potion. Gravity restraints.”
He grabbed one and clicked it into place on the capsule, then hit a button. Red mist poured from the vents, and Mrsha jerked as she rose into the air, and her arms went wide. She twisted around, but couldn’t bite, and the mist…
Red mist was pouring down over Dyeda too, and Moore was speaking.
“Mrsha? Listen to me. I know you’re in there. Just hang on. I’m giving you another dose of the cure. The mist is going to kill off everything that escapes your body, do you understand? Stage 5. They’re going for…”
He found her neck, moving away fur, and injected the next dose there. The burning grew worse. Now, Mrsha heard the voices.
Tell Mother, tell Mother! Something is killing us! Tell her—why can’t we hear her?
She realized she was scrawling the words in the air with her wand. Moore had stepped away and was using his gloved hands to push something into her arm. He had to remove some fur to do it, then push a big needle into her neck. And another one on the other side. He was attaching it to a very complex machine that began to…pump.
Blood from the blood bags. And blood ran up the tube from her arm and—
Mrsha had seen the blood bank in Liscor, but this was far, far more complex. Blood was running out of her body, into the machine, and then blood from the central canister and blood bags ran into her body.
He was putting the new blood in her body? Why?
Because it’s clean.
Moore was speaking faster, trying to keep one hand on the still-thrashing girl.
“Stage 5 makes no sense. You weren’t even at Stage 3 if you came from ten years ago! The Flesh Worms only accelerate their growth if they think they’ve been discovered or their host is dying or isolated—”
Dying or isolated. The Palace of Fates. Roots Mrsha felt the pain getting worse, but now she saw it. Dyeda was writing.
[What is going on? It’s in her blood?]
Moore glanced at the writing.
“Yes. Not yours. Mrsha has been infected. It shouldn’t be this bad. I haven’t had to treat—they want to get out and infect both of us. But they can’t. And they don’t know what to do.”
[They? Who?]
Mrsha knew. It was the voices in her, the ones taking control of her. Moore was shapeshifting. He looked like a demon, a monster, a nightmare worse than an Old One. His lips parted, and she knew his hatred. Then he said the terrible words.
“The Flesh Worms. They’re her offspring, and they’re listening for their creator. But they can’t hear anything. Because she’s dead. I burned her corpse myself. The Mother of Graves is dead. Harm that girl and I will ensure you suffer.”
True terror suffused Mrsha, but it wasn’t her. She knew it, now. The Flesh Worms in her body were panicking. They’d tried to flee, and the red mist was killing them. The cures were hunting them down and murdering them, and every pump of the machine with Mrsha’s heart took more Flesh Worms away and cycled more treated blood into her body.
But Mrsha was just a girl. If she screamed. If she bled and cried and wept and hurt herself, Moore would stop this. Gentle Moore. He couldn’t bear to see her sick. And if she died…
The pain grew worse. Mrsha, the girl, now, felt a searing agony behind her eyes, all over her body, all-consuming as every nerve fired. They wanted her to beg, to plead, and her body was twitching. She began to thrash, despite the gravity spells on her, and saw Moore watching her, pain behind his eyes.
“Just a little longer. Just a little longer, Mrsha.”
Bite your tongue. Poke out your eyes. Scream and scream and—
Roots Mrsha thought of real Mrsha as her wild thrashing stopped. Real Mrsha was sick too. Not as bad, but she was out there somewhere. She’d told Roots Mrsha about the moment when Moore had held her.
What a beautiful moment. What a horrific one. The girl was floating in the capsule as red mist covered her fur. She appeared covered in blood. Dyeda, hands over her mouth, and Moore, were tensed. They feared the worst…but slowly, Mrsha sat upright. She floated as she crossed her legs, pretzel-style, and put her paws together, gripping them tightly.
The half-Giant [Lord]’s brows crossed together. He blinked at Mrsha, and then hurried over to a panel of lights and numbers. Dyeda pressed her hands to the glass.
[Is she cured? Mrsha?]
“Impossible. It’s a trick. I’ve—never seen someone do this. Except…”
Moore took a step back, eyes narrowed in suspicion and paranoia. He thought it was the Flesh Worms doing this, but that was where he was wrong.
It was just Mrsha. Her blood was writhing. Her hands were twitching. They wanted to shake, to revolt. But the girl just focused on the blood pumping out of her and into her. On the half-Giant’s face.
She refused to move or scream. Roots Mrsha took one, deep breath, then another. And she…
Stopped.
That was all. She stopped. Her breathing slowed, and she didn’t move. She refused to acknowledge the desires to thrash about. She sat, and they screamed at her.
We’re dying. WE ARE DYING.
‘Yes. I have been here before.’
The girl felt them jerking at her muscles, and she focused on her skill.
[Lesser Endurance].
Her body didn’t move. She sat there, then cupped her paws together and looked down. Moore blinked. He recoiled as a flame grew from between Mrsha’s paws. Almost, the half-Giant activated the anti-magic countermeasures on the cell, but then he saw the girl was just gazing down.
At the flames in her paws. After all—
