“Just look at me, Mrsha. Breathe. I swear to you, I will help you make this right. My mother…my mother often told me I was wrong. And she told me how to fix things. Sometimes, she did it for me, but she never helped me. I’m sorry. I’m probably bad at my job because I don’t know how it’s done properly. If I were better, you’d have trusted me.”
Now, her eyes were overflowing, and the girl looked up and realized Lyonette meant it. The [Fatebreaker Child] wrote with an unsteady scrawl on her notecards.
I messed it all up, Mom. You can get mad at me.
“Never. I’m so proud of you. No matter what, I will protect you, Mrsha. Remember that. I am always on your side. Please believe that, no matter what I do—even if I do scold you now and then!”
Lyonette laughed, hugging Mrsha to her, and some of the terrible cold and pain faded from the girl’s heart. She hugged back, hard, and peeked up.
She had needed to hear that. The girl took her mother’s hand, squeezing hard.
Thanks, Mom.
“Mom? I don’t know if I like that. What happened to ‘Mother’?”
My paw hurts from writing so much. I’m trying to save letters.
They were walking hand-in-hand then, leading the others forward, and Mrsha closed her eyes.
She could do it, now. Just a bit further. That reassuring hand was in her grip, and she wished she’d told her mother all of it from the start.
No, perhaps not. There were so many things she could have done, but this was enough. One hug, one quiet conversation to right the tumbling world, and a gentle hand in Mrsha’s.
She really did have a most excellent mother.
 
——
 
The [Palace of Fates]. Infinite viewpoints of what might have been.
The Faerie Flower roots, able to breach into Skills and alter reality.
Combine the two and you got infinite possibilities. The concept was simple, even if the explanation from Mrsha took time. How much each person got depended on who they were.
Yelroan was shaking with the implications by the end of the second sentence. Colfa was tilting her head until something ‘clicked’ at the end, and she bit one red lip, clearly not sure if she should take this all seriously. Ishkr’s eyes were sparkling with delight, Asgra’s with eagerness.
Rhisveri shook with emotions he did not wish to name. Visophecin’s blood ran cold, and Lyonette’s even colder with fear and concern.
Rose, typically, summed it all up in an annoying Earther way.
“Holy shit. Multiverses. This is so confusing.”
Someone interrupted, his voice flat. Taletevirion’s hands were shoved in his pockets.
“No, it’s very simple. This is a high-level Skill. We’re in it. It has the potential to ruin lives or do grand things. They always do. What level is this one?”
He turned to Mrsha, and she raised a card.
Level 70.
Even Adult Mrsha blinked at that one. Taletevirion grunted.
“Sounds about right. Okay. When people start dying, don’t count on me. You’ve already got this lot.”
He waved a hand at Visophecin and Rhisveri and walked off, hands in his pockets. Lyonette opened her mouth, then turned.
“Alright. I see what’s going on. The first thing we’ll do is find the, um, other Mrsha? And Rags. Then we’ll all talk, calmly, in the inn. Agreed? If, ah, older Mrsha doesn’t need to go home first?”
She clapped her hands and tried to sound authoritative. There was nothing wrong with Lyonette’s plan until her daughter raised a paw.
2nd Army is about to fight the Titan. If Rags isn’t back yet, we need to get her. Frankly, we should be backing Teriarch up or we’re all dead.
Everyone paused at that, and Rhisveri blustered.
“That damn fool can take on any foe. Aside from myself and Visophecin and Taletevirion, no one is likely to make a difference. I’ll monitor the situation and jump in to help. At least my magic’s still transferring to this place.”
That seemed reasonable, so Lyonette nodded.
“Mrsha? Why don’t you show us around? Start with the door where, um, Rags and yourself might be?”
“Yes, and where are these roots that let you enter the doors?”
Asgra rubbed her hands together, and everyone glanced at Mrsha. Dalimont saw Visophecin fail to react and Rhisveri adjust his stained collar too-casually. Dalimont widened his eyes at Lyonette, and she felt uneasy. Everyone gazed at Mrsha.
The girl held up a card.
I’ve hidden them. I don’t trust most of you as far as I can throw you. The roots stay hidden. You can talk, but first we get her out of here and Rags and other me back. Then you can decide what you want, and so will I.
She jerked a thumb at her older self, and Lyonette’s head snapped around to Ushar. Ser Dalimont grunted as he realized.
When she’d distracted him…Lyonette blinked. Mrsha had secreted away the most important aspect of this place. Worse, she couldn’t fault her daughter.
Duke Rhisveri, Visophecin, Asgra, and several other people standing in the crowd looked visibly disappointed when they heard that. Their eyes flicked to Mrsha, and the older Mrsha grunted in grudging admiration.
“Huh, that was actually sort of smart. Well, I don’t really care about other worlds. I’m from the strongest timeline. Come on, it’s this way.”
Adult Mrsha beckoned and walked off, and that was how they all began moving. Crazy, mad—Colfa’s lips parted as she saw the version of the [Palace of Fates] that Mrsha had experienced.
No one’s personal hallways manifested; Mrsha was concentrating hard to keep ‘her’ version of the [Palace of Fates] present.
Even so, armed with the knowledge of what might be, stratification rapidly occurred. Lyonette was glancing around, as if anyone might steal a root, and while the staff was largely on their side, all of them were grappling with the sudden idea.
If you could go into another world and talk to someone or even potentially save them…the Knights of Solstice were watching Visophecin and Rhisveri like hawks, and the two immortals were trying to play it cool.
It was Bird who spoke up, voice cheerful.
“I do not know what is going on. I never do until big things happen. This is the most tragic thing in Erin’s inn yet! I knew we could beat the [Garden of Sanctuary].”
She began to hum, and people laughed at that. Mrsha Prime, as Rose had dubbed her, walked in the middle of the group and saw the only other child fall into step with her.
Nanette. She was gaping around, eyes wide, and gave Mrsha a smile.
“No wonder you kept this hidden! Look at the mess it’s caused. I only wish you’d told me, Mrsha.”
She gripped Mrsha’s paw so tightly her fingers went white, and her eyes reflected huge, whirling orbs of desperate emotion. Because the little witch had realized the same thing Mrsha had. In reply, Mrsha patted Nanette’s arm.
I’m sorry. I knew it would matter to you. This is my responsibility. Please don’t hate me.
She pushed the girl back, forcing Nanette’s hand off hers, and hugged Nanette. The girl blinked and went stiff as a board. She stepped back—then glanced down.
Something was sticking out of the pocket of her coat. A brown little…her breath caught. Nanette turned to Mrsha, and the girl turned away.
Bathroom’s that way. I’m sorry, Nanette.
“I…I…”
The girl glanced behind her. She whispered.
“I forgive you.”
Lyonette saw Nanette hurry away, and her only comment was for Dalimont to make sure the staff watched over her. How many people noticed that little interplay was debatable.
Colfa said nothing, and she rested a gentle hand on Vaulont’s shoulder and squeezed as he opened his mouth. He went quiet. Duke Rhisveri and Visophecin, strolling at the back of the group, said nothing. Though after a moment, the Duke said—
“Over a dozen, or at least…it hardly matters.”
Visophecin nodded ever-so-slightly. He noticed Rhisveri slowing, deliberately trailing behind the others. The Lucifen subtly nodded towards the group with the two Mrshas, but the Duke just gave him a bland smile.
Like a snake, waiting to strike. The Duke stepped behind a marble fountain, spouting water in little rainbows as a fake sun shone rays through the marble palace. He paused to admire it; Mrsha’s vision of what a regal palace should be actually dovetailed with Calanferian architecture in some places. What a child thought was excessively royal turned out to be what some entitled brats decided to commission in reality.
Lyonette didn’t notice the Duke vanishing with the crowd around her. After a moment, Rhisveri rose from the fountain. Alone, he spun on his heel and nearly walked into Bird and Elia.
“Little rainbows. Ooh.”
Elia nodded in tentative agreement.
“They’re very pretty. I once saw a triple rainbow.”
“Did you? This is fascinating. It is not about birds, but I am willing to engage on this topic. Hello, Duke Rhisveri, you hop like a Garbichug Revolter.”
The Duke had, in fact, nearly hopped into the fountain in shock. He realized he was not the only person to have the clever idea of lagging behind to explore this place. A good number of people had just—walked off or gone exploring.
“Hey! There’s doors where I become Chieftain! Look—look!”
Peggy was dragging Yelroan from door to door, and he was whining at her.
“Peggy, I can really appreciate it, but I have a chance to ratify my mathematical theories with other mes! Think about it, I find a door that shows me a reality where I solved mathematical problems! I could revolutionize my entire field! Please let go!”
“Eh, isn’t that cheating?”
“It’s math. Never. I’ll credit, uh, other-me. Maybe I should find a door where the most qualified person solves the problem?”
Rhisveri rubbed his goatee, reflecting that he should have cast [Greater Invisibility]. But then he saw Bird and Elia were both watching him.
The Duke shuffled left, and their eyes slid left. When he tried to stroll past them, they followed him.
“I’m just, ah, using the restrooms.”
“Okay. And I am Bird. Hello, man-whom-I-do-not-know.”
“Duke Rhisveri, ally of the inn. I was with your [Princess]. I—wait a second, you were with me in the glade meeting!”
“Oh. So I was. But I do not know you. We have only survived near death once. Do not be overly familiar with me, please, until it is at least twice.”
The problem wasn’t that Bird was weird. It was that Bird reminded Rhisveri a touch too much of some of the other immortals, like Sophridel. The Duke flashed a pained smile.
“Er, well, I’ll bear it in mind. Do forgive me.”
“You are forgiven. He is very polite, Elia. I think we should keep him.”
The good Duke strode away at speed, passing by Ishkr, who was peering into doors with Numbtongue. The palace still didn’t change, proof that Mrsha was trying to keep hold of the situation, but it was beginning to shift down the corridor where Rhisveri saw Taletevirion wandering around. The marble turning to grass, the sun shining down on an open field instead of a vaulted hallway…
Rhisveri’s heart was pounding in his chest, and he had to stabilize his magical connection to assert more control over this stupid body. A door. He just needed a door with Dioname, Fithea, and Dame Eclizza. And everyone else…
How many roots?
The Duke wasn’t on top of his game. For instance, he only realized that Bird and Elia were following him when both of them walked into the men’s bathroom after him. Bird even tried to stand in the stall. Rhisveri whirled around.
“What are you doing?”
“Following you.”
“This is a lavatory! Get out!”
“But if I did that, I would not be following you.”
“Wh—why are you following me?”
Bird and Elia exchanged glances, and the Named-rank adventurer shrugged. Bird replied cheerfully.
“Because Miss Lyonette told us to. She said you might be sneaky, but I think she is not the smartest because you are very un-sneaky to me. Tessa was very sneaky.”
“I’m not doing anything wrong. I’m just looking around.”
Rhisveri cursed inwardly. The [Princess] was no fool! Of course, he’d realized that, but it was damned inconvenient! Bird pointed over her shoulder.
“If you would like to stare around, you can do that. Lyonette said you should be allowed to stare, and she will get you when she needs you. Come; I will introduce you to my brother.”
She led the Duke out of the bathroom stall and opened the one on the far end.
“Numbtongue, this is Rhisveri. Rhisveri, this is Numbtongue. He is different and no longer as fun as he used to be.”
The Duke met the eyes of a battered Hobgoblin with his pants down. Numbtongue was covered in bruises. He was also on the toilet and roared.
“Bird! Get out! Close the door!”
Bird backed out of the toilet stall and turned to Rhisveri. She gestured with her hands.
“You see?”
The Duke decided to leave before he was introduced to more pooping people. He strode out of the restroom and decided there was no help for it. Ishkr was glancing at him as he and some of the other inn staff looked about.
Well, I don’t have any roots. Let me just check and confirm my hypothesis. The Wyrm walked down the hallway, away from the Unicorn, the Hobgoblin, and everyone else. Bird and Elia, annoyingly, chattered behind him.
“So Numbtongue…I know him. Let’s see. He’s the one who was in a relationship with Garia and Octavia but isn’t anymore. And he has a cat?”
The half-Elf had flashcards, and Bird nodded.
“Now he is with Salkis, whom we do not like. I hope he has changed his ways after his brothers from an alternate reality beat him up.”
Dead gods, what a statement. Rhisveri couldn’t help but listen in—purely for clues, not because he enjoyed the gossip, and Elia glanced over her shoulder.
“Did you see the doors he was opening?”
“No. Are they sexy? By which I mean filled with sex?”
“No. It’s of him and his brothers.”
Rhisveri waited for an inappropriate or hilarious comment, but he didn’t get one. When he turned his head, he saw her mandibles were drooped. Water was leaking from the Antinium’s eyes.
“I am sad now.”
“Sorry.”
Elia apologized awkwardly, and Bird shook her head. She fanned her wings as her back straightened, and she turned her head.
“Do not be. Being sad for my silly brother is why I love him. I would rather be proud of him than angry. I would rather be sad for him than not know where he is. Someday, Elia, you will meet the real Numbtongue. Then you will know whom I speak of.”
They kept walking as everyone lapsed into thoughtful silence, and Bird kept glancing over her shoulder until she ran into a tree. She recoiled, and Elia Arcsinger blinked.
Without them realizing it, in the way dreams operated, or this [Palace of Fates], they had come to Rhisveri’s version of it. Unlike the other guests, there was no one theme. It was the most confusing palace yet—because it was multiple things.
