A new voice piped up, and Kevin saw it was Nanette. Everyone was surrounding Ryoka, and he saw she was wiping away tears.
She was crying. Tears were rolling down her face, and she looked mystified.
“Uh. What happened?”
Fierre turned to Kevin and indicated Ryoka, as awkward as he was. Garia was at least patting Ryoka’s arm, and Mrsha was trying to give Ryoka a handkerchief.
“Everyone was saying hi to Valceif when Ryoka exploded into tears.”
“I don’t get it. It’s not like I missed him that much. I’m not sad—I think? Fuck, it won’t stop! Give me that handkerchief; thank you, Mrsha.”
“Well, I’ll tell Valceif it’s fine. And try to stop Tyrion. He thinks he has a rival in love. Another one. Pellmia’s holding him back.”
Garia jogged for the door as Kevin stood there. He had an inkling of what was going on. Mrsha held up a card.
Ryoko, are you okay? Do you want me to punch Valceif in the nuts?
“No, Mrsha, it’s nothing he did! I’m fine—wait, did you call me ‘Ryoko’? That’s hilarious.”
Ryoka sniffed again and grinned at Mrsha, and the girl checked her writing.
Weird. Ryoka, why are you called ‘Ryoka’? Ryoko sounds more appropriate.
The Wind Runner laughed as her tears finally stopped flowing so strongly.
“Uh, no, Mrsha. Ryoka is a traditional Japanese name from home. Ryoko is…I guess it could be a name? Is this some kind of joke I’m not getting? You’re like the dozenth person this week who’s called me Ryoko. Nevermind; hey, Kevin, are you okay? You look terrible.”
“Not as bad as you.”
Kevin tried to deflect, mumbling, shoving his hands deep in his pockets. Ryoka gave him an expression of genuine concern as she came over.
“You really tore up Mrsha’s garden.”
“Sorry. I’m a bit—stressed.”
“About Ceria?”
He gave Ryoka a blank look, and she held up her hands.
“I’m not meddling! Fierre told me!”
“Hey! I just noticed—”
Ryoka lowered her voice.
“Ceria’s been mad as can be, and she keeps saying it’s your fault. You, uh, need help patching things up with her? Because she’s normally nice, but she can be mean when she’s angry. Plus, she’s a [Prankster].”
Kevin had almost completely forgotten about the way he’d stood up Ceria. He felt guilty and was trying to explain that it was his fault and he’d make it up to Ceria as Mrsha glumly began to try to salvage her damaged garden. The two adults heard a sharp exhalation of breath below them and glanced down.
Mrsha had frozen with one of the yellow flowers in her paws. The damaged bloom made Kevin step back guiltily.
“I’m really sorry about the flowers, Mrsha. I’ll help buy new seeds and plant them, honest.”
She shook her head and stared down at the flower she was holding. That was when Kevin discovered something was…off about the flowers he was so used to.
Yellow flowers, blooming on the hill. Normal, right? Right…except for the fact that these flowers were different today than the ones in Kevin’s memory. They were—not more golden, not brighter or even larger than before.
But when he blinked at them, they seemed to draw his eye. When Kevin turned right and left, they seemed to glitter, almost like gold pieces. The flowers reaching upwards for the sky had a presence where before they had just been—flowers.
“What the heck? Mrsha, your flowers seem—different.”
Ryoka noticed it at once as well. She squatted down and Mrsha tilted her head back and forth.
Forsooth, they are different! Look at them! They’re all special now! Kevin, what did you do? You kicked them into being awesome!
All the flowers were so changed, they realized. Everyone squatted down and began to inspect the curious little blooms. Kevin felt his skin crawling as he lifted a flower, sniffed—
And the world enlarged. Kevin flailed around and almost went tumbling down the hill until Fierre caught him.
“Whoa! You okay, Kevin?”
“Holy shit! For a second, I felt like I was shrinking—”
That disconcerting feeling vanished as Kevin tossed the flower down. He rubbed at his nose and turned to Ryoka, who was petrified.
“No one come near me! I’m not m—I was a giant for a moment! Wh—these are hallucinogenic flowers! They’re casting illusions on us or something!”
Everyone recoiled from the flowers at once. They backed up, peering at Kevin, but he was as bewildered as everyone else.
“I didn’t do anything, I swear! But these things are full of magic. And they make you see things? I shrank like I was Alice in Wonderland, Ryoka.”
“Opposite for me. Who the hell could have done this to Mrsha’s flowers? Why—Palt!”
Everyone groaned in sudden realization, and Nanette smacked a tiny fist into her palm.
“Let’s get him, Mrsha!”
They raced out of the [Garden of Sanctuary], shouting for that damn Centaur. Kevin almost followed when his mind reminded him of something.
Hadn’t the other Mrsha said something about her flowers being different? He glanced back at the flowers and remembered. The roots of these flowers were what let her enter other worlds. But our Ryoka is ‘Ryoko’ and the flowers are fake…
Except they’re no longer fake.
Kevin felt all the hairs on his neck rising. He strode for the door to the [Garden of Sanctuary], trying to remember what the other Mrsha had said. A drink. Something about a drink?
The yellow flowers bloomed innocently behind Kevin as he began freaking out. But that was nothing compared to…
 
——
 
The Grand Design of Isthekenous launched an immediate inquiry at the Second Edition. The response was slow and nervous, but concrete.
No, it hadn’t duplicated the Faerie Flowers. It couldn’t. They didn’t have a system entry like other objects.
The Grand Design knew that was true. It also knew that for reasons of <FAE>, Ryoka Griffin’s entry was appended as ‘Ryoko Griffin’, hence the naming mistake. It wouldn’t have made those errors, but the Second Edition had because it was new to the job.
…Only those errors were fixed now. The Grand Design began running a full-scale analysis on the Faerie Flowers. As far as it could tell, the ones in this alternate dimension were real Faerie Flowers, not duplicates.
The damn things were spreading? How—? Then the Grand Design began re-reviewing the history around the [Palace of Fates]. It noted how Mrsha used the roots to accidentally breach into the [Palace of Fates] and doors; the Faerie Flower roots could clearly breach dimensions and even Skills with unprecedented ease.
That was already a problem, but…the Grand Design followed its hypothesis. It left the world of the Winter Solstice behind. And it tried another door. It rewound time again so it could tell what the hell was going on.
Two Ragses meeting their future self. A [Hero] of Rhir…no wonder everything was so slow. The Second Edition had been forced to generate hundreds of them at exceptionally high levels. The world was so changed. And, while the two Ragses escaped death by the skin of their teeth, another Mrsha entered this world with the Goblin [Tattooist], Dyeda.
A Mrsha without a soul. The Grand Design watched carefully.
 
——
 
<Temporary Dimension: Alternate World 2 — “Ten Years Later”>
 
Dyeda and Mrsha ran through the door, shouting. Visma, an adult, trendy young Drake woman, shot to her feet.
“Aaah! Aaah! What the heck—”
She raised her ring like it was some kind of defensive weapon, and both Gnoll girl and Goblin shoulder-charged past her.
“Get help! We need help! The bad [Hero] is going to kill Rianchi! And Rags! And Redscar!”
Dyeda screamed in Visma’s face. Mrsha just ran for it.
Roots Mrsha, expendable Mrsha—she charged for the door and began sprinting down the slope on all fours, towards the city of Liscor in the future. She knew this was risky. She knew it was dangerous—there was a [Hero] with a double-bladed lightsaber-sword running around in the distance. She could see the flashes of lightning he was throwing off.
—It didn’t matter. She wasn’t the genuine article. She had to try to save Rags and the others. She barrelled down the hill as the vast, new walls of this foreign city rose above her.
They were covered with bright paint, Mrsha realized. Children’s drawings camouflaging powerful attack spells. The grey stone she remembered was replaced with bright, white tiles not yet stained with age.
Beautiful. As she ran towards the gates, Mrsha saw the things Dyeda had described, the pagoda buildings, the bridge of painted wood, the city of tourism and charms.
Not the Liscor she knew, not at all.
Dyeda caught up to Mrsha at a dead sprint halfway down the hill. The Gnoll girl was fast, but the Hobgoblin ran with all the speed of terror for her husband. They were so fast that Visma was barely at the door to the inn by the time they were at the bottom of the hill.
“S-stop! You can’t enter Liscor! You’re a white Gnoll, a white Gnoll! And you’re a Goblin! Stop! I’ll call for help, don’t—”
The Drake [Junior Reporter] screamed desperately as she tried to understand why a young Mrsha had just appeared in her inn. Then she realized she was speaking to two people who didn’t live in a time where phone calls were normal. They were used to having to talk to people face-to-face.
 
——
 
Mrsha ran through the gates in a blur of white. The [Guards] on the walls saw her and called down.
“A white Gnoll—?”
“Someone grab the kid before a Plains Gnoll sees. Hells, tell the Watch Captain—”
“Call the Watch Commander! Is that another damn Goblin!?”
The air was still alight with the battle between the [Hero] and the Flooded Waters tribe of the future. Pedestrians were staring uneasily at the skies, not at the two running figures.
Dyeda actually outpaced Mrsha as they came to the security-bridge with the archway gates covered in hanging charms. She raced under the first two arches, then heard a piercing wail from around her, and the air began to solidify as a jangle from a thousand charms overhead made her stumble and freeze.
“No! I need help! Please don’t—!”
She raised her hands, spinning, but the charms weren’t active because of her. The [Tattooist] saw a white Gnoll girl frozen in the air.
Mrsha was hovering, mid-dash, paws extended, running on all fours, with her kilt blowing behind her, an expression of alarm and surprise on her face. She was suspended in the air between the arches of the first gate—and every charm, every single charm was glowing red and shaking. Not jangling. Not chiming, but shrieking with an unearthly noise and pitch that Dyeda had never heard in her entire life.
All four gates were ringing the same alarm, and the thickness in the air was manifesting in the form of some kind of [Stasis] spell—Dyeda backed away in horror as the frozen Mrsha’s eyes darted right and left. That was the first second as [Guards] spun from their positions at the walls and at the entrance to Liscor.
Their eyes went wide with disbelief, then they drew swords and levelled spears, abandoning batons or other weapons. Someone began shouting.
“No! Not again! Sound the alarm! Sound the alarm—”
“A Doombringer? Lock the gates! Lock the damn—”
Then Dyeda’s ring began to speak, and the Goblin heard a voice—a familiar voice—speaking.
“This is Watch Commander Embria issuing an all-city notice! Lockdown! All citizens are to report to emergency shelters! Lockdown! An infested individual has been detained at the gates of the city! Remain calm and exit the area at once—”
The Gnoll hovering in the air behind Dyeda had no idea what was going on, and nor did the Goblin, but clearly, everyone else did. The reaction was immediate. The tourists, shop owners, everyone who wasn’t a [Guard] heard the alert and began screaming and running.
They didn’t grab their possessions. Stall owners didn’t pack up their goods. They just ran; Dyeda saw the [Talisman Seller] who’d first introduced her to the city vaulting his stand without even pausing to grab the money box. They sprinted away, and the Hobgoblin saw [Guards] running towards her. Towards Mrsha.
Some leapt off the walls, slowing with [Featherfall] spells, and they aimed their weapons at the girl as the gates slammed shut with a thunderous impact. Metal bars were falling from the sky—that same Skill again.
Dyeda had seen civilians fleeing a Goblin raid with less fear and horror than this. She had no time to run; she was surrounded by screaming [Guards] in a second, and someone pointed a wand at her. A bright yellow ray hit Dyeda as she tried to surrender, and she fell over on her back.
[Paralyzed], not dead. And the alarms kept increasing.
 
——
 
Warning klaxons were sounding all over the City of Charms, from the highest buildings, and some of the towers on the walls were glowing with spells.
Trained on their position. The little Gnoll girl at the heart of it all couldn’t move even if she wanted to; she could barely move her eyes. It felt like she was suspended in immovable jello; she was completely locked down.
But she could feel how much hostile magic was surrounding her, and she was terrified.
Is this it? Am I gonna die? They didn’t kill Dyeda or even notice her until later! Do they hate Doombringers that much in this time?
Then her rational brain asserted itself, and she wondered what was meant by—‘infested’? Mrsha saw something falling towards her out of the sky and realized that if Rags was in dire trouble, she was In Trouble.
The half-Giant hit the ground, and the world quaked. The water under the bridge rose into the air in a spray, and Lord Moore raised his staff in one hand. A diamond spear in the other. His face looked like a mask of war, and Roots Mrsha almost wept when she saw him.
That familiar expression of implacable rage on behalf of the innocent, the terrifying visage of the gentle half-Giant roused to wrath.
Some things never changed.
His arm drew back, and the muscles bunched as he turned to her, but the half-Giant’s arm never threw the spell. He saw her hanging in the air, and his eyes opened wide.
“Mrsha?”
His voice broke, and the half-Giant’s arm lowered. Then his brows drew together, and his dark brown beard streaked with grains of grey seemed to bristle.
“A trick? No—”
Uncertainty replaced anger, and he held up a hand as the Watch formed into a semicircle on both sides of the bridge, clearly ready to attack. Or be attacked?
It made no sense to Mrsha. She was one kid. Nor was she a [Strategist], but the Watch was organizing into experienced formations, as if they expected a thousand Mrshas to attack them all at once. Most were actually facing the gates, and she saw they were swarming with more soldiers or guards…
“Lord Moore, that child is infested! We have a Goblin—here!”
The half-Giant focused on Dyeda, and he pointed his staff at her. His eyes were darting to Mrsha, to the flashing sky.
“Is she infested?”
