There was a tall oak tree in front of Bird spreading its autumn leaves as it planted its roots among dirt and…black marble? Surrounding the tree was black marble and green jade, a palace’s floors with magnificent purple drapes showcasing a courtyard and distant city outside—but the hallway ended, exposing dark cave stone—then trees—then the palace again.
“Oh. This is very strange. And funny. Is this Rhisveri’s palace? He doesn’t know what it should be. Or maybe he’s crazy?”
Bird flew up in a buzz of wings, perched on the tree, then flew down to touch the curtains. It wasn’t just three places, the two women realized.
A dank, dark cave. A forest filled with plantlife, an open meadow with a picnic basket in it, the palace—Elia nudged Bird and whispered.
“I recognize this palace. This is Ailendamus; I’ve been here before.”
She knew Duke Rhisveri, of course. But the other scenes eluded her. She guessed the trees might be one of Ailendamus’ forests, but they were a tad too generic and could have come from any Terandrian forest of size. But then she recognized a place she did know.
“Bird, look there. Those trees. See them?”
Bird shaded her eyes and nodded.
“Yes. They are grey and stone. I did not know there were stone-trees.”
“No. It’s the Stone Forest of Kerwenas…oh.”
Both Elia and Bird remembered how Rhisveri had introduced himself. The Wyrm, who had met…Dryads. Then they were following, quietly, as Rhisveri walked, speechless, through a broken forest of stone trees, many crushed to dust and gravel. But the outlines of vast trunks still stood out; the Stone Forest was a known, uninhabited area in the northwest of Terandria.
Once, it had been a Great Forest of Terandria. And it was here…that the Wyrm had met a Dryad.
Once upon a time.
 
——
 
He remembered it so clearly. The doors that rose around him were familiar. Each one was of someone he had known well.
The Pale Serpent of Ailendamus, Eclizza’s crest, stood out like a coat of arms on a wooden door without frills, where a girl had once trained to become a heroine of the Kingdom of Glass and Glory. Even when she had been a full [Knight], she’d slept in the room—which was of a decent size; Rhisveri hadn’t been a monster—until she was a Great Knight.
And there, set among the field of grass and magical plants, was a cottage door where Dionamella, the Great General of Ailendamus, lived in semi-retirement.
He could walk up to it and knock. But the Wyrm kept going, heart pounding, until he reached the forest where he had met Fithea.
A Wyrm, full-grown, but young of heart, slithering out of his caves. He’d been so young, then, and had thought himself invincible after fighting in the darkness with his siblings and other monsters. A run-in with a full-grown Basilisk had stripped him of his confidence—and a good number of his scales.
Half-petrified, writhing around in agony—slithering outside because he sensed someone again—and seeing no one. Until a little piece of stone moved and he realized it was a woman made of bark and petrified wood…
Fithea.
There was a door, right there, where she had stood. Set into the tree, decorated with the same old whorls of bark and leaves as the Gladefolk. Rhisveri halted in front of the door.
Simple as can be. I just need to open this door…no, wait, one with all of them together. Some of my people weren’t contemporaneous with each other. 
Start with Fithea, Eclizza, and Dioname. They’ve all been in the same room together.
The Duke’s hand leapt away from the ancient handle of wood, and he kept walking. He knew the pesky archer duo were watching him, but he wasn’t going to do more than investigate. Everyone was doing that. Lyonette owed him a root if he kept his side of the bargain up.
Yes, calm as could be. Rhisveri stopped before a door that seemed like the one to Duke Rhisveri’s chambers. He put a hand on the golden doorknob and pulled it open. Then he saw a scene that was familiar, because it could have happened, but new, because it hadn’t ever really happened.
 
——
 
A Wyrm was curled up around his chambers, and in the center of the vast room, a quartet of people were having coffee. Well, Fithea was having tea. She refused to drink the coffee that General Dioname was gulping down.
“It’s the latest thing from Izril. You should grow some.”
Duke Rhisveri was snappish and irritable; he’d been checking the treasury reports, and he wasn’t a fan of how inefficient Ailendamus was getting. The others knew it, but all three of them had no fear of his ire.
“I don’t have time to spare growing a field of…what? Are they legumes?”
“I think they’re actually fruits that you dry and grind up.”
“And some idiot calls them…beans? Wonderful. Ask Fithea; I’m not sparing the land.”
Dioname turned to Fithea, and the Dryad was clearly dubious.
“I have grown accustomed to drinking boiled leaves of bushes. Now, must I embrace eating the husks of unborn children mixed with water?”
“…Well, you don’t have to say it like that. And I know you’re just putting on the affect that you care about all plants to be annoying.”
Fithea smiled, twitching her half-petrified wooden lips into a smile.
“Some half-Elves speak thusly. What kind of soil and water do these beans enjoy? Ah, nevermind. I shall ask it.”
She plucked a sample bean from the table and blew onto it. The bean unwithered, then grew flesh; a red, round berry sat in Fithea’s hand, and she seemed to listen to it.
“Hm. Humid, hotter. It can be done, though it will take House Shoel or Rhisveri to cast permanent climate spells.”
“Oh, volunteer me away. I suppose I’m creating a new forest while I’m at it? I extended yours twenty miles last year.”
The Wyrm was full-sulk, and Dioname cheerily ignored him as she turned.
“Dame Eclizza? What do you think?”
The Pale Serpent of Ailendamus, a terror to her enemies, inspiring leader of the Knights of the Thirsting Veil, and unflappable warrior—shot to her feet and bowed.
“The coffee is excellent, Great General! I can recommend it as a supplement to tea for our soldier’s ration, and I have heard it is well-liked among the [Knights], though tea is just as desired!”
Her clear nerves elicited a chuckle from Dionamella and Fithea. Both were far, far older than Eclizza and more highly placed. Rhisveri sat up slightly and snatched a cup of coffee that had been floating in front of his face.
“Oh, relax, Eclizza. And you, Dionamella, stop badgering her. I convened you all here to…well, I’ve forgotten. If the coffee makes everyone happy, I’ll have a full plantation made, alright?”
Fithea held up a pedantic finger.
“The coffee plants are closer to trees, Rhisveri. They grow up to twenty feet tall.”
The Wyrm exploded in faux-rage.
“A damn coffee forest, then!”
He took a huge gulp of the hot coffee, scalded his tongue, and both the Wyrm and man rolled around in agony. Eclizza bent to help him up as Dioname cackled lightly, and Fithea waved a finger to draw the coffee up in a ball, which she put back into his cup.
“There.”
“It was on the ground, Fithea!”
“So was everything you eat. Now, tell me. What are you and Visophecin arguing about now…?”
 
——
 
Hah. There it was. Simple as could be.
The Duke just needed a root, now. Three. And, he supposed, a plan. He only had his Duke clone…would it even function in another reality? He might have to come here himself. And then he’d have to kill himself—the other Rhisveri would never let the three go without a fight.
No, better to bait them. He could walk in, tell them he needed them to come with him, and then they were out, and he could explain matters and have them help him. Eclizza first. She was a good child. She had been…
Just teleport over there and grab that thief, would you? That’s what he’d told her, grumpily, when she objected about raiding House Veltras. And she’d done it.
[Greater Teleport]. How was he supposed to know you could fight in the middle of the spell? Only the Death of Magic could do that, and it had been just bad luck.
There wasn’t even a reason. She hadn’t known who Eclizza was. She’d just seen a [Knight] and killed her.
Something was wrong with the door. The image inside was getting distorted. Rhisveri put it down to his power and the weight of the individuals inside. He could fix it. He just needed a root. Wait, now the door was rising above him, tilting…
The Wyrm didn’t understand. He didn’t get why the door was above him or blurry or what that annoying sound was.
He didn’t realize, you see, that he was making the sound he kept hearing. Or that Elia and Bird were shaking him.
Tears were coming out of his eyes. He didn’t realize it—because Wyrms didn’t weep. They were physically incapable of it. The Duke lay, curled up, not crying out loud or sobbing. It was just…a low moaning sound coming from his mouth.
He lay there, a handsome man with impeccably groomed features in a magnificent outfit fit for royalty, crumpled into a ball. Then he was holding onto the door, hands pressed against the invisible glass, until he broke down again and curled up, begging to go through.
After a long, long while, the Duke realized he was lying on his back. Someone was wiping his face with a piece of cloth and rocking back and forth and humming. It wasn’t a song he knew; he looked up, and Bird was crying too.
“You are a silly man, even if you are a Wyrm. I have changed my mind. You are sad enough to stay with us.”
“I—”
He tried to speak, and she shushed him. Bird patted Elia’s knee.
“Do not worry. We will ask Lyonette for a root. Everyone has lost someone. My brothers are all waiting for me too. I am too afraid to see them. Unless, of course, some might have been my sisters. Who knows? I do not know if I should try to bring them back. I think—they might deserve to rest. Or that they are not the ones I knew. Then I am ashamed. What a terrible thing Mrsha has been given.”
Bird’s eyes glowed faintly yellow as she wept, and Rhisveri lay there. Then he got up, and he knew Lyonette would need him. But just for a while, he knelt in front of the doors while the Antinium and half-Elf kept him company. Watching the images of all he had lost, all the manifold failures of his broken kingdom of glass.
His finest glories.
 
——
 
Adult Mrsha came to her door, rather put out by, well, the ending of this adventure. She’d gotten into it, fighting Grimalkin, then had felt sort of deflated by seeing how things were in the past.
Better, but they have no idea what’s coming, poor bastards. She resolved to come back at least one more time to give them a heads up. But she’d have to actually count all the shit that’d go down. She spread her arms wide.
“Here’s my door! My fake door. Though who knows, maybe there’s a [Palace of Fates] and you’re all door-people on my side!”
Either way, she had what she wanted. She stood there as Lyonette gawked at the images on the other side. There was indeed another Mrsha there, walking with Moore, and two Ragses running with the real Goblin Lord.
Shit, that’s not good. Adult Mrsha groaned as she saw what was going on. She turned.
“Okay, maybe this is a good time for me to head back. I’ll just go and…get people.”
“Should we come with you?”
Lyonette was hesitant, and both Mrshas instantly shook their heads.
“No! That’s way too chaotic! My time is pretty dangerous, especially with [Heroes] and stuff. I know what to do. I’m gonna kick Visma’s tail back up her butt first for letting everyone get away…then get them back. Who am I getting?”
Lyonette read off Mrsha’s card.
“Uh, Roots Mrsha, Dyeda, Rianchi, Redscar, Rags, and Student Rags. Who is—?”
“Got it! Just wait here, okay? I’ll be back!”
Adult Mrsha strode for the door, and Visophecin interrupted urgently.
“You may need magical support. We are the best spellcasters of this era. If we went with you—”
No. No more people! And don’t come back! You’ll destroy the root if you bring more people, and there aren’t infinite numbers of them!
Real Mrsha pushed forwards, face furious. She held out a card to Adult Mrsha.
You know how to resurrect your Erin. Take it, get our people back, and leave.
The Adult Mrsha hadn’t really gotten to speak to her younger self, but all her interactions sucked, so she glared.
“I haven’t messed up your world half as bad as you’re messing up mine. Fine, I’ll go—unless the ritual doesn’t work.”
The younger version of her nodded, and the girl’s face softened.
I know you will. I hope she comes back.
Abruptly, and embarrassingly, Adult Mrsha’s throat closed. The young woman tried to clear it and turned. She swiped at her eyes.
“…Thanks.”
Then she grabbed hold of the root and began to pull herself through the door. She glanced back only once at her younger self, and the older Mrsha half-tried to smile.
“I’d say it gets easier, but you know…”
The younger Mrsha nodded. Then Adult Mrsha turned ahead.
“It’ll all be worth it, though. I’ve done it. I’ve—”
 
——
 
Pause.
The Grand Design of Isthekenous was observing everything in the [Palace of Fates] with rapt attention. It did not have the ability to spread itself out widely; it was, for the first time, sharing space with Second Edition and processing multiple expanding worlds.
So why would it pay attention to anything else? The Grand Design assigned levels and Skills across the world automatically. It counted experience, recorded deeds, and there was nothing, at this moment, it needed to pay attention to.
Not Erin Solstice harvesting a salad with Ulvama.
Not the Iron Vanguard landing on Izril in legion-strength.
Not the Goblin Slayer descending into the first layer of the Synectic Maze with the Calanferians.
Not the Horns of Hammerad arriving in Nerrhavia’s Fallen.
Not the five Slave Lords of Roshal opening a vault in the Wishing Well.
None of that mattered. There were multiple wars going on, in the Crossroads of Izril, in Baleros, on every continent except Terandria, and it did not matter. 
 
The Blighted Kingdom ordering their [Hero] on Baleros to kill one of their enemies? 
Not important! 
Watch Queen Geilouna mourning Altestiel? 
No! 
Follow the Silver Swords as they passed close to remains of ancient Drake fortresses? 
DENIED!
 
A Drake appeared outside a ludicrously tall mansion in the heart of a city, panting, and staggered over to a trash bin. He threw up into it.
The Grand Design stopped watching Adult Mrsha. It refocused, then pinged Second Edition. The two put aside their disagreements and united with one purpose in mind. They took a break from watching the [Palace of Fates] and observed the Drake vomiting.
