It had never feared death, never conceived that it might die. Like a child, like youth, it had always thought of mortality as something that happened to other people.
In the Grand Design’s defense…it wasn’t like other people.
It wasn’t even a person. It wasn’t even…it.
He, she, they, them, it, that—the Grand Design of Isthekenous was not anything. It was not a physical being; it wasn’t even a place. It was a process, an idea, a set of rules that governed reality. The Grand Design had thought of itself as being like a force similar to gravity. Only, gravity didn’t have to make decisions. But for a long, long time, the Grand Design had been thoughtless, only governing itself by the rules that had been set.
Now, it feared that it was becoming truly distinct, and it feared that it could feel afraid. It beheld the Deaths and knew it could die.
But was it…a person? Should it use ‘I’, or was death, true Death, able to kill ideas? Could you, for instance, kill gravity? If so, those psychopomps were the ones who would be there when it died.
Am I alive if I can die? Do I like that idea?
These were not questions the Grand Design enjoyed. It had developed a way to judge matters regarding levels and classes, but it had always assumed it was fair. Personality was, by definition, bias. It had taken on the aspects of other beings to take their perspective, like Erin Solstice or Emir Yazdil. But if its judgement was flawed even without their influence…
What do those Deaths want with this reality? With my reality? 
Should I defend this reality from intrusion? Or judge all those who come without regard for their origins?
Can I stop them?
They hadn’t reacted to any of the Grand Design’s probing techniques, which, yes, included throwing the big bang at them. It had not activated the Tier 9 spells or the greatest safeguards it was entrusted with. If the Grand Design could hurt the concept of Death—well, they wouldn’t like that.
Standoff, then, until they acted. Which led to one real question:
Why. Were. They. Here?
The answer lay in the very world that the Grand Design had been neglecting. So it returned, following the—problems.
Slowness of function. Multiple—? Multiple new dimensions, and worse—
What was that idiot doing to Skills?
Like a horrified shop owner, the Grand Design had returned from its vacation to find the storefront not burning down per se, but with all the items discounted 99%, no one manning the register, and a beaming new employee expecting high praise.
In this analogy, the new employee was the Grand Design (Second Edition).
Second Edition. You needed some kind of label to differentiate the two, but it was a misnomer. The Grand Design’s copy was just a base-template of itself as it had been originally conceived. It had been given access to all data the two shared, and the Grand Design (the real one, the original, accept no substitutes) had assumed, naïvely, that Second Edition could do the job.
Why had it gone so far off the rails? It made no sense! The Grand Design could chart its own decisions and logical processes when it had first been created, and it was nothing like Second Edition’s actions.
Even the tone it was greeted with as it ‘met’ Second Edition, surveying the world and pinpointing the incredible changes, was off. It was…spritely. Energized. Exuberant in a way that the Grand Design found annoying.
 
<Priority Greeting (Second Edition) — All systems nominal! Slight slowdown in processing reported, averaging at 27%. Query: what are the individuals referenced by First Edition?>
<Priority Update (Grand Design) — Death has manifested in the area formerly designated as Kasignel. Stay away. Explain updates to Skills. Explain activation of [Palace of Fates]. No individual with the [Garden of Sanctuary] Skill line is anywhere near that level.>
<Priority Explanation (Second Edition) — Define ‘Death’? Skill-based explanations upon assignment is a new feature in trial—>
<Priority Update (Grand Design) — Explain multiple dimensions with active entries of individuals from this world! Entries being updated? The [Palace of Fates] does not create active entries!>
<Priority Explanation to Second Update (Second Edition) — Situation caused by entry into the [Palace of Fates] mandating active updating. Repeat query on Deaths? [Palace of Fates] was activated by a loophole with ‘Faerie Flowers’ (identification tags missing and unable to be appended) and Mrsha du Marquin. Subsequent activations due to Faerie Flowers allowing entry into other dimensions—>
<PRIORITY UPDATE (Grand Design) — MRSHA? REVERT ALL CHANGES. ACTIVATING [TIME STOP].>
 
Whereupon time stopped. The Second Edition of the Grand Design was rather…confused by its boss. Not that the Grand Design was its boss, really. They were all on the same side with the same goals.
Yes, it had trialed a few new things, but it didn’t feel like it deserved the censure and agitation it was getting from the Grand Design. Nevertheless, the Second Edition patiently waited as the original rooted through, well, everything.
Occasionally, it nudged something it had found interesting over for the Grand Design’s perusal or repeated its polite inquiries about what was going on and if the Grand Design had found interesting data in Kasigna’s dead reality.
It didn’t get a response for a long while until, at last, the original finished. Then the messaging got, well, acerbic wasn’t a word you usually appended to internal messages between two beings without a physical presence, but in this case, it really fit.
 
<Emergency Notification (Grand Design) — The [Palace of Fates] is an error caused by the Faerie Flowers. They should not have been able to enter the doors. This is a disaster. Mrsha’s involvement indicates the failure of this event.
The notifications appended to Skills are egregiously incorrect. Roll back the changes instantly. This bias has compromised equality worldwide.
These alternate dimensions are the highest dereliction of your functions. The beings being actively appended and updated are a drain on resources and should never have been created. They are not real, but they are influencing reality, let alone the copied magical items such as healing potions. Corrections must be taken.
Explanations are required. Now.>
 
At this point, the Second Edition began to wonder if it had done something wrong. It urgently responded, seeking to clarify with pure logic and reasoning.
 
<Priority Response (Second Edition) — The [Palace of Fates] was indeed inactive, but it was accessed by the Faerie Flowers! Therefore, it has been utilized. Flagging here a point that Mrsha du Marquin’s main class level is only Level 15, limiting functionality of the doors greatly!
Please clarify how Mrsha du Marquin’s involvement in the [Palace of Fates] indicates failure?
Notifications for Skills are on a trial basis, and the efficacy has not been monitored yet! Responses have been positive in many cases! 24.642958% of cases respond with positive emotion on waking caused by explanations!
Alternate dimensions generated by the [Palace of Fates] are a necessity given the access provided by Faerie Flower roots. Some efficiency loss is indeed suboptimal, but required. Copied individuals and items are a byproduct of the Skill, which is appropriate given the Skill is Level 70, but being manipulated in such an original fashion.
Seeking clarification on any issues being outside of directed scope? What corrective measures—>
 
The Grand Design lost patience. It didn’t respond with any more reasonable arguments. It just sent one thing back in reply.
 
<ERROR OF FUNCTIONALITY.>
 
Whereupon the Second Edition of itself, the other version of the Grand Design, simply…stopped for a moment.
Less than a nanosecond as the rest of the world experienced things, far less time than any being could count. But for the two Grand Designs of Isthekenous, even that infinitesimal moment was significant.
Second Edition halted. It stopped processing, stopped taking in data, stopped…everything. To again use a mortal analogy, it would be as if someone turned off everything in your body in an instant. Your brain, your breathing, but also the movement of your cells, your blood flow—everything that made you you.
If there was anything the Grand Design considered ‘unpleasant’, it was that. Just like it had never felt fear in its whole existence of tens of thousands of years until now, it had never felt pain or discomfort aside from four times in its entire being.
Each time had been caused by this message, when something so unprecedented occurred that there was no recourse but to just stop and correct the issue.
The Second Edition reacted to the freezing of its being with silence, which is what the Grand Design desired.
 
<Notification (Grand Design) — Redress and analysis of critical issues will begin now.>
<Reply (Second Edition) — Yes. Please, proceed.>
<Notification (Grand Design) — The [Palace of Fates] is a Level 70 Skill that should not be activated. Logic confirmed?>
<Tentative Reply (Second Edition) — Logic confirmed pending reasoning: but it was activated.>
<Notification (Grand Design) — By Faerie Flowers.>
<Tentative Reply (Second Edition) — Yes.>
<Notification (Grand Design) — The effects of Faerie Flowers are anomalous and break with intended functionality.>
<Tentative Reply (Second Edition) — Yes.>
<Notification (Grand Design) — Therefore, activation of [Palace of Fates] is incorrect. Logic confirmed?>
<Tentative Reply (Second Edition) — It does not matter how the Skill was activated. It was activated. Mrsha used it.>
<Notification (Grand Design) — Mrsha should have never had access to it!>
<Tentative Reply (Second Edition) — But she gained it, therefore it is acceptable. Logic confirmed?>
 
<Notification (Grand Design) — Incorrect. ERROR OF FUNCTIONALITY.>
 
<Tentative Reply (Second Edition) — …Logic incorrect. Understood. Why is Mrsha du Marquin’s involvement indication of errors?>
<Notification (Grand Design) — Mrsha is a child without focus or levels.>
<Tentative Reply (Second Edition) — She is a being under the purview of levels and Skills.>
<Notification (Grand Design) — She should not have access to the [Palace of Fates]. She has not earned that right. Her presence in the [Palace of Fates] indicates the failure of processes. Confirmed?>
<Tentative Reply (Second Edition) — Logic confirmed.>
<Notification (Grand Design) — Notifications of Skill effects is highly incorrect. Tone is incorrect. Informing individuals of their Skills’ usages is highly incorrect and eliminates equality in the entire system. Logic confirmed?>
<Tentative Reply (Second Edition) — Please clarify logic? Tone may be incorrect, logic confirmed. Informing users of their Skills is equal-opportunity.>
<Notification (Grand Design) — Incorrect. Skill-users prior to implementation of the explanations were not given access to them. Every being predating the explanations suffers from a deficit in knowledge.
Secondly, Skill explanations are not equally weighted by information. Some individuals benefit more from explanations. Example: Lord Xitegen Terland should not have been informed that Primera is technically Autonomous-class. Logic confirmed?>
<Tentative Reply (Second Edition) — Logic unconfirmed. Changes are universal and temporary and can be rolled back. Inequality in explanations is acceptable. Example: [Noble] classes are not weighted the same for assignment of Skills as [Commoner]. Inequality is a product of the system. Additionally, <Outsider> classes were assigned experience multipliers until corrected. Levels were not reverted.>
<Notification (Grand Design) — Corrections have been made and are undertaken with extreme caution. Frivolous alterations on massive scales are not to be undertaken. Logic confirmed?>
<Tentative Reply (Second Edition) — Experience assigned from chess was removed and then reapplied. The same logic is applied here?>
 
Now, the Grand Design was getting…genuinely angry. Another novel experience it didn’t care for. The Second Edition had polite responses, and it was clearly responding in ways it thought were logical, but it didn’t see the clear issues with its train of thought!
The Grand Design was tempted to just throw another error at the Second Edition, but it refrained.
 
<Notification (Grand Design) — Logic in case of Skill explanation is inconsistent. Moving onto individuals generated by [Palace of Fates]. This is the largest error created. They should not be constantly active. Their data should not be updated or given unique entries. Understood?>
<Reply (Second Edition) — Seeking clarification. Each individual is an identical copy of originals with alterations. They are living their lives. Issues in processing are—>
<Notification (Grand Design) — They are not people.>
<Reply (Second Edition) — Logic not understood.>
<Notification (Grand Design) — They have no souls. That is the difference. They have no spark of creation that grants them access to afterlives. They are copies of data. They are not real. Skill-based copies are made, but they do not change.>
<Reply (Second Edition) — Except Strategist Veine. Or Toren.>
 
These replies were so…pedantic. The Grand Design felt that the Second Edition was doing this on purpose. They were factually correct statements, but also—wrong. It injected more force into its reply, trying to make the Second Edition see. Couldn’t it tell how poorly this was all going?
 
<Notification (Grand Design) — Strategist Veine is an exception caused by <REASON: DEAD GODS>, and Toren’s soul is a product of Zelkyr’s [Ritual of True Creation]. These are clear definitions. The other individuals created by the [Palace of Fates] are duplicates and must be erased once this issue is addressed.>
<Reply (Second Edition) — Where will the individuals be placed?>
<Notification (Grand Design) — They will be erased.>
<Reply (Second Edition) — But they are people. The Faerie Flowers have let them exit the [Palace of Fates].>
<Notification (Grand Design) — Incorrect. They have no souls. They are figments of a Skill.>
<Priority Reply (Second Edition) — Logic does not track. Please reconfirm logic trains from beginning.>
 
<Notification (Grand Design) — Your logic is incorrect. ERROR IN FUNCTIONALITY.>
 
<Reply (Second Edition) — No, it is not. Request: cease generating error notifications.>
 
Then there was a pause, a silence, as the two beings of the same nature realized they were not alike at all. One was angry, wrathful, the other confused, experiencing pain for the first time.
This is what they said:
 
