At the same time as Mrsha and Dyeda were talking to Lord Moore, a rather different scenario was playing out with the three Ragses hiding in the caves around Liscor. They were racing back to Liscor, to prevent much the same scenario as Moore feared.
All sides united, everyone on the same team, really. Indeed, the person most on the side of The Wandering Inn’s friends and family was already at his destination.
Pawn, the Bishop of the Painted Antinium, [Prophet] and preacher of the faith of the Immortal Sky, the teachings, life, death, and eventual rebirth of Erin Solstice, stood in the holiest of places for his people.
The inn. He didn’t approach the weathered building as if it were some long-lost building or dwelling he should crawl towards. It wasn’t as if he’d been gone for long. He’d been here just this morning, visiting Lyonette. When he wasn’t in the Hivelands or attending to the Painted Antinium’s affairs abroad, he was almost always here.
Today, however, was a special day. So the Antinium Worker did not merely stroll into the inn or teleport into Lyonette’s room.
He walked over the Floodplains. Where the Worker stepped, the sun shone down. The sky followed him.
If you glanced up, you could see it. A brilliant blue, vivid colors wending their way through vast clouds. A sky brighter and more intense than the regular sky.
The sky followed the Antinium, and people in the City of Charms could look and see it coming their way. If they listened, even from the walls, they could hear Pawn walking.
It sounded like a rainstorm of metal. The thump of hundreds of boots. The click of mandibles snapping together in prayer. It smelled like cinnamon and steel, oil and smoke.
They moved in a column, Painted Antinium bearing flags and weapons of war. Wearing armor ornamented with their identities, helmets shining under the daylight, decorated with feathers—bird feathers, bright and beautiful—or holy objects.
A piece of worn cloth, a splinter of wood preserved in amber. Or that curious amulet that was etched in the shape of an inn. The Painted Antinium marched. No force in this world, from the Five Families to Rhir, stood in their way.
Pawn knew his cohort could be…intimidating. He hadn’t even brought all of them, of course, just enough to force Rhir to back down. He’d intended to bring this group anyways, to allow Chieftain Rags to reach the inn safely—he’d just assumed she would be stealthier.
Meeting that spitting image of Redscar, of Rags, was a sign. It meant this day may well be the one he had dreamt of. If it was to be today—Pawn carried his simple club in one hand. Censer in another. A book in the third. He carefully adjusted the robes that trailed through the grass behind him and wondered if he should have gotten a hat.
He didn’t really like hats; they didn’t sit well on Antinium heads, but religious figures seemed to all like hats, both in Erin’s world and his. Pawn had created his faith; he could have decided he needed a hat.
No, the time for second-guessing mere appearances was long gone. If it was to be today, then he would go before the [Innkeeper] as he had always been: himself. Yet if it was not today, then Pawn would not agitate his followers unduly. They tended to scare the Liscorians when they grew excited or passionate, and Moore and Lyonette had asked Pawn to refrain from that.
On that note…the Worker turned his head, and the leading Antinium raised their heads instantly. His bodyguard was protective of him; they hated when he went to visit Lyonette alone, even though he pointed out reasonably he was as capable of protecting himself as they were. Plus, she hated them listening into their private time.
Pawn regarded the first [Crusaders] marching behind his bodyguard and spoke.
“Crusaders. Lower the reliquaries and temper your auras of faith. The time for battle with Rhir has ended. We approach the city of our Lady Light and the inn. Walk humbly.”
The largest Antinium in the front was a giant, eighteen feet tall, his body armored in rust-red Adamantium plate. He was The One Saved, one of the Armored Antinium’s creations, saved from his fated death in battle by finding the Painted Antinium’s faith.
Pawn had known him for six years, and the Antinium lowered the reliquary he bore; several Antinium stopped carrying palanquins on their shoulders and lowered them to waist-height. This, in turn, stopped projecting their effects so strongly, and the blinding light coming off The One Saved’s armor faded.
His halo did not. Pawn liked halos. He’d taken the idea from images of Christianity, just like he’d stolen the idea of home shrines from the Hindu religion. That way, those who were not of the Painted Antinium’s cohort could worship where they pleased, even if they might not make it to The Wandering Inn.
—His faith did have non-Antinium believers. They had spread wherever the Painted Antinium went without being forced into it by the sword. Pawn didn’t believe in that either. Erin would have hated someone converted to believing in her by force.
He found that besting the local object of faith, be it a [King], religious leader, or army was often enough.
The three interlocked halos over The One Saved’s head dimmed slightly, and Pawn waited as the Painted Antinium marched on. He coughed into one hand.
“Warforms.”
After a moment’s pause, a few members of his congregation visibly shrunk or transformed into their ‘regular’ selves with clear chagrin. Many could adopt the forms granted to them by their faith indefinitely.
But they tended to look a bit scarier. Pawn kept peering over his shoulder as Antinium bowed to him or clacked their mandibles in-sync with the others. Some were trembling; he realized it might have been their first time seeing the inn in the flesh. Though most, surely, had seen it many times.
The highest-level of the Painted Antinium had seen countless battles and bled on every continent in the world to bring Erin Solstice back; even now, some knelt and let the others pass by, then rose, overcome with seeing the inn. Others had brought gifts; most had, but Pawn would have to cull the gifts or expand the shrine around the bier again.
The passage of so many of the faithful was leaving ripples in the sky from Pawn’s Skill. It would remain like this for days thereafter, and he had been told that he might soon interfere with the flying aircraft that other nations were building.
Pawn cared little, but he noticed the flowers blooming around the Painted Antinium. Where they walked, the grass they trampled jumped back up in mere seconds after the last boots had crushed them, and his flock could quite literally leave a trail where they walked.
At least they weren’t growing Blue Fruit trees again. Pawn turned back forwards and heard a sound.
Dun. Dun. Dun! Dun! Dun—
“No drums.”
The beat of the drums went quiet. Pawn reckoned he had done all he could to make the Painted Antinium less intimidating. He completely ignored the fact that he had just stared down four [Heroes] of Rhir and an army of House Reinhart.
They were almost upon the inn, and Pawn held up a hand. The Painted Antinium stopped, and many knelt there. Pawn sighed. The fervor upon many Antinium meant that it was hard to get them to actually enter the inn. Even The One Saved refused to rise at once; he knelt, a fist clasped to his chest. And he was illuminating the area like a lighthouse again…
“The cohort shall enter Liscor, then visit the inn in sections as to not overwhelm either city or inn. We are early. The others are not here yet. [Paladin] Purple Smiles, bring the Painted Antinium into the city, and mind those new to the City of Charms. Meet me here in…yes, four hours.”
An Antinium strode past Pawn, his Truegold armor glimmering as he hand-signed to the others. All the oldest Soldier Antinium still could not speak, but it was a mark of great honor for them; they had endured the last ten years of battle well.
[Crusaders] and other faith-based classes rose to their feet and approached the City of Charms with almost as much reverence. They peered up as Pawn raised his arms.
“My faithful, you are entering holy land. Do not preach, do not cause trouble, and do not seek anything from those not of the Painted Antinium, even our own species. The day shall come when Liscor once again quakes, and until then, we shall light these skies with Her wonders. Remember: the tipping standard is set at 20%. Always tip above that margin. Amen.”
Click. Nine hundred and ninety-nine mandibles snapped together in unison. Then the Painted Antinium were marching towards the gates of Liscor, which were closed for some reason. Pawn had faith Purple Smiles would resolve the issue and turned back to the inn. He walked, more slowly, now, with a mere hundred members of the Painted Antinium.
“Oh, what wonders might take place today? The moment one of you sees Rags—tell me. If any seek to gainsay her or harm her, send them to hell. I shall be visiting Erin Solstice. Come lightly after.”
 
——
 
The process of making a pilgrimage to The Wandering Inn took place as Pawn slowly entered the inn, searching for Mrsha or Lyonette. His beloved [Princess], even if she wasn’t a [Princess] still, was gone. She must have been at her work still.
As for Mrsha? She wasn’t here, which bothered Pawn slightly. He would have assumed she’d run after the Goblins when she noticed them, or was she part of these strange happenings?
Should I request a miracle? No…patience. They are coming my way. Instead, he observed the [Crusaders] with one eye to make sure they worshipped properly.
Of course, they did. The first thing many did was look for a broom or produce nails and pieces of wood to repair the place. Those not so lucky as to do that walked the hallways or just stood, overwhelmed by this place.
But when their wonder faded, they did practical tasks. Sweeping dust, making sure the inn was in good order—no one lived here anymore, so Pawn had come up with a rather ingenious method of making sure the inn was maintained while answering the need for his people’s faith.
Every believer wanted a token of the inn, but if they took a fragment of the inn, however small, it would soon be gone. So instead, the Antinium hunted around for any rot or mildew, any boards that needed replacing or pieces of the inn to fix. It was old enough that sometimes it was required, and if it was, a board of wood would be levered up with the greatest care and replaced with a fresh one.
This had two effects. One, of keeping the inn standing, and the other was creating holy objects for the Painted Antinium to keep. A splinter of wood from this inn would often be encased in amber or something else and used as the holy relic of the believer who possessed it. Even dust, in a vial around a neck, from the inn would do.
It was not required for faith, but it was a guide, a medium by which one could focus their beliefs. More than one Antinium was praying over a table, and food appeared, food of the inn.
Faith worked miracles. The creation of food was one such thing out of the reach of magic in all but the most extreme cases. Faith could heal wounds or do impossible things—it had limits, of course, and there were things that magic or mundane technology were better at, but it was the inexhaustible resource of the Painted Antinium.
Pawn envied the new [Crusaders] their zeal. Sometimes he felt, if not old or tired, then…impatient. He knew it was his own failing, but he yearned for the day when this inn would come to life again.
Only this time, it will be no small inn. This place may remain, but we shall create a true home for her. It shall be…glorious.
That vision had sustained him this last decade. As he passed into the [Garden of Sanctuary], Pawn’s heart hurt, as it always did.
The hill frightened him. He would ascend it; he always did, but he walked slowly, up through the overgrown garden, thinking, not for the first time, that someone should tend it. However, it was also fitting, and Lyonette had refused his offer to permanently station guards here.
Up the hill, past the yellow flowers waving in overgrown grass, next to the still-growing Sage’s Grass, a fortune of it. Pawn passed by the sea of winking gold…and slowed.
“Hm? That’s different.”
He turned, suddenly and swiftly, and the Antinium entering the [Garden of Sanctuary] slowed as Pawn came striding back. The Worker knelt and gently lifted something upwards.
“This…what is this?”
The little yellow flower in his hand was not the ordinary bloom he remembered. It appeared much the same, but this flower was too innocent, if that made sense. Pawn could tell it held secrets. He raised the flower, wordlessly, as an Antinium rushed over.
“Bishop?”
“Do we have any high-level [Alchemists] or experts in herbology in our ranks? Summon them at once. This…this is new.”
“An omen?”
The Antinium’s voice caught as they beheld the flower, and Pawn straightened.
“Perhaps. Hm. Redouble the watch for Mrsha and the Goblins. But I think—”
His antennae suddenly flicked, and the [Prophet] thought quietly. Yes, he might be the leader of the faithful, but he had not survived these ten years by being the simple man of faith many took him to be.
He was straightforwards and full of his own zeal, but if he had no visible scars, it was because his faith healed almost all wounds. As for his own kind of cunning…Pawn gave orders swiftly.
“Halt the pilgrimage. Follow my orders exactly—”
The Painted Antinium surged to attention, but Pawn’s voice was calm and precise. Nevertheless, by the time the panting Visma returned from Liscor—
She found the inn was empty.
 
——
 
The Grand Design of Isthekenous found Pawn a tad bit…disquieting. His entire cohort was actually unnerving, and it tried to understand why. Then it realized—it was not immediately familiar with their levels and Skills.
Or rather, it was, but they had never, actually, appeared in such profusion or with such strength in its entire runtime. The Grand Design tentatively reached out to the other being it could ask about this.
 
<Query (Grand Design) — How many classes are newly created in this dimension?>
 
It got no reply at first. The Grand Design tried again. It felt…badly…about the way it had interacted with the Second Edition earlier. Guilty. Like it had made the wrong call in assigning a class or Skills.
It could have listed a million ways an apology could be made, but it did not feel it was in the wrong—yet the guilt remained. So it tried again, attempting to be cordial.
 
<Informational Query (Grand Design, First Edition) — How many classes are newly created in this dimension?>
<Reply (Second Edition) — Zero.>
<Informational Query (Grand Design, First Edition) — At all?>
