“The…if I may report on the situation at Liscor, I believe another ‘Solstice’ event is occurring. The terminology remains woefully inadequate and somewhat memetic, but it is undeniable another event located around The Wandering Inn has begun. The events in the High Passes are, I believe, related to happenings at the inn. The exact nature of the phenomena eludes me and is subject to declassification in a private setting—”
The crowd was on the verge of developing extra eyeballs just to stare at Grimalkin. He rallied.
“—Suffice it to say, I received a kind of warning, which disturbed me so greatly I had to return here. I should not be. I should be serving Pallass. I should be doing my duty, and you have requested me to leave. By law, as you are a noblewoman, I should obey. Out of common courtesy, I should listen. Duty should have me turn away. I cannot. I must confess something today, Lady Pryde: I have developed a sincere, heartfelt admiration for you.”
Someone gasped in the crowd, then was shushed. Everything was deathly silent. The curtain didn’t move. Grimalkin was boiling and freezing. His hands were shaking; he crossed his arms, then uncrossed them. He called out, hoarse.
“I understand this may be unwelcome! But it was my observation that my feelings might not have been…unique to me. I know it is presumptuous, but I did think—but I am a [Magus] of Pallass. You are a [Lady] of the north! However much we might admire one another, reality is unkind. We would endanger both our positions, if not ostracize ourselves, and I was unwilling…to take that risk.”
His head hung.
“I was content for that state of affairs to continue. Then came the Winter Solstice.”
And Lady Pryde was scarred, disfigured by the Hags as a curse upon her. What she looked like now, Grimalkin couldn’t have guessed at, save to speculate by her absence. The curse could not be healed. He had failed to break the spell with any of the curse breaking methods he had researched and sent. Not even illusion spells worked, apparently.
How did she feel about it? Did she hate him? Was she even listening? The Drake was afraid he wasn’t even being heard, so like a child, he shouted louder.
Across the city, the Sinew Magus’ voice was audible, now, perhaps because of the dead silence as people listened.
“Lady Pryde. I am going to leave after I finish speaking, in accordance with your will. When I leave, I will go to battle and, perhaps, my death. Not to face the Titan, necessarily; I do not know what awaits me in Liscor. It may be I will be unneeded or superfluous. I may, indeed, be useless. I will not survive if what I expect is true.”
He folded his arms, and his neck spines flexed as he bowed his head. And he knew how he would die. But the Sinew Magus didn’t fear that. He tried to explain his real fear.
“When I am needed, I will go. I will serve Pallass, protect Drakes, and fight for what I believe in. I do not fear that. I have never feared death itself. But when I felt that cold hand upon my shoulder, I realized I did fear something. I feared dying alone. I did not fear that a year ago. I did not think it was even a possibility. Lady Pryde, I am afraid of being alone, and I have lived my fear for decades. I fear it now. That is why I stand here, against your will. To ask…to say…”
He was rambling again, he didn’t know what to say. The Sinew Magus’ voice grew weak, and he spoke the last words with all the effort he had. Like a boy casting his first spell.
“If there is even a single chance in a million, I beg you, let me speak to you. Nothing in this world could shake my conviction. I must return. If I can make a difference, I must go. But I do not wish to leave without knowing the truth, no matter what it is. Please…speak to me.”
He stood there, and a crowd of thousands was now gathered there, many with fingers in their ears, but they were watching him and that window.
The curtains did not move. Sinew Magus Grimalkin waited, counting the beating of his heart. Each pulse through his chest seemed to take an [Immortal Moment]. He tried to stand unmoving, but he could not. The Sinew Magus counted.
One………
Two………………
Three…………………………………
When he reached one hundred, there was no denying it. Beshard stood in the doorway, and he averted his gaze. The [Guards] appeared stricken, as if Grimalkin had hit them.
Slowly, the Sinew Magus turned away, relieved, in a sense. He kept his head held high as he squared his shoulders.
Good. He’d been incorrect in the end. He just wished his heart would stop hurting. But now, he could go easy.
The Drake was trying to walk through the crowd, but the Ultanese people stood there, staring up at the window, resisting his movements as he tried to shift them, gazing at him. He was pushing them aside, gently, trying to clear a space so he could activate the teleportation spell, when someone gasped. There was a faint cry. Heads turned—and Grimalkin froze.
Someone stood in the doorway of the mansion behind him, parting the servants and guards and Beshard. He knew this because one of the metal orbs atop the gates to the mansion was exceptionally well-polished.
But he could not turn around. The Sinew Magus stood there, a statue, until a figure tottered forward slowly, unsteadily.
It was…a familiar figure. A tracksuit, bright yellow with black lines running down the sides, an athletic, nay, muscular female body. But where her face was…
Grimalkin squinted at the reflection in the metal, then he had to turn. He saw a woman standing there, uncertain, visibly thinner. Swaying as if she were unused to standing or light after so long. And she had a pillowcase over her head.
There were two holes for her eyes cut out of it with scissors. Grimalkin saw Lady Pryde flinch from all the eyes upon her and grip the pillowcase tighter.
There was an incredulous laugh from a few people in the crowd, quickly hushed, but it never occurred to Magus Grimalkin to laugh. His mind had gone blank. He stood there as the [Lady] stopped, resting one hand on the mantle of the door.
When she spoke, her voice was hoarse, scratchy, and filled with an emotion he had never known of Pryde: doubt. Each word was dragged slowly from her.
“Grimalkin. I…have nothing left. No more pride. No more of what makes me me. Don’t you understand? Why would you keep coming back? You don’t even know what I look like. But I can’t let you go alone.”
The pillow-headed woman raised one hand, and the Sinew Magus took a step towards her. The people parted as he reached out with a trembling hand. One step, two—she shrank back behind the door, as if about to run, and he stopped.
“Nothing? Even if I believed you, it wouldn’t matter. I have nothing to offer you, except a few spells. Some gold. A grave. You’d be mad to…I know it is madness, and so do you. I am going to my death. I have seen Death itself waiting for me. I only wanted to know your feelings.”
She almost stepped back into the shadows. Then Lady Pryde abandoned the door and took a step out. She stared up at him as she stumbled forwards, and he reached out to steady her, but she caught herself.
“You’re going to go to your certain death?”
“Yes. As I said.”
“Then I’m coming with you. We’ll both die, then.”
Grimalkin didn’t know what the crowd said. He didn’t know what time it was, what was going on in the world—he only gazed into those orange eyes. Whatever magic had cursed her, they hadn’t affected that piercing gaze. Gently, Grimalkin reached out, and she flinched, so he stopped. But then she let him gently touch her hands. He held them delicately in his claws.
“I can only offer you difficulty, regardless of what happens. I will fight for every second I spend with you, Pryde. I would rather a day in your company than a lifetime alone.”
She said nothing, just stood there, tilting her head back, and he felt like something should be said, so, just to be explicitly clear in case he was really misreading the situation, Grimalkin spoke.
“Lady Pryde Ulta. Would you do me the great privilege of allowing me to fall deeper into admiring and loving every aspect of your being?”
He feared that this was a Tyrion Veltras-level question, but Lady Pryde made a soft gasping sound. She inhaled, then coughed and spat the pillowcase out of her mouth.
“I…yes. But only if you promise to love whatever you see.”
She was shaking, and the Sinew Magus felt his own heart skip several beats. He tightened his grip on her hand, and then she tightened her grip, and both of them realized that they were probably holding each other’s hands hard enough to crush a normal person’s bones.
She smiled, he knew it, and he felt his own lips turn up in a disbelieving expression. Then—Grimalkin was suddenly terrified of dying, of the future, and of what lay in Liscor for her. But he knew, without a doubt, that if he tried to make her stay, she’d kill him.
And he couldn’t bear that, so he just held that hand as hard as he could. The Sinew Magus turned, and they faced the silent people of House Ulta.
Drake and Human. Both so uncertain and nervous they couldn’t tell that half the crowd was sobbing at first. Grimalkin squared his shoulders after a second.
“Let’s go, then. We have a duty to fulfill.”
Pryde nodded and cracked her neck. They began walking, the startled people moving away from them, and the trance broke. Suddenly, the crowd remembered what Grimalkin had said in his confession, the ‘certain death’ part. And they were resisting the two.
Beshard dashed out of the mansion with all of House Ulta.
“Lady Pryde! Wait! This is madness! The two of you—stop them!”
The Ultanese people were trying, but Grimalkin put out one hand and pushed people aside, gently, and they were bouncing off a barrier in the air. An aura. 
Pride.
Beshard was shouting at Lady Pryde Ulta’s back as she walked.
“You don’t even—what duty? To Pallass? To whom?”
The Drake and Human turned, and Grimalkin and Pryde gave the man such a scornful look that he stumbled to a halt. Lady Pryde said:
“To whomever calls our names, fool. To bravery. To dignity. To save whatever can be saved. To each other.”
Her head rose, and she met Grimalkin’s eyes, and he summarized all of that in the best and most fitting way he could.
“To pride.”
She started, and the people gazed at him, and then Lady Pryde threw her head back. He heard that sound he’d waited for so long to hear. She laughed in sheer delight. Grimalkin smiled, and his heart leapt, and he tried to remember this moment.
He’d been workshopping and telling jokes for the last two months of winter, ever since she’d started staying in Invrisil. In all that time, he’d never heard her so much as chuckle. Ah, but this?
It was worth the wait. Then Grimalkin realized he was laughing and she had stopped to listen to that unfamiliar sound she’d been working to hear. The two gazed at each other. Then, without a word, they began to sprint for the teleportation circle, and the startled crowd, servants, and house guard began to run after them, screaming. But they hadn’t done enough cardio.
To death, then. Grimalkin’s mind was racing with ways to avoid it, whatever was at Liscor. But he was also determined, rather severely, to steal a kiss from the [Lady] sprinting next to him, pillow or not. Assuming all parties were, of course, willing, and he was willing to bet they were. But they could do that after the first teleportation.
He had compromised his position, his authority, duty, and loyalty to his city today.
Grimalkin had never been happier.
