I believe in this with everything I am. I had to go into those doors, Grand Design. They’re the people I love.
“They have no souls!”
This time, the copy of the Gnoll girl sat up and thundered at Mrsha, and everything shook. The inn, the ground, the High Passes—Mrsha cowered, shielding her head, and the Grand Design stopped. The world stopped shaking, and it spoke again, almost sounding embarrassed.
“They have no souls. Perhaps you do not understand. Mrsha. These…copies made by the [Palace of Fates] are not your friends. Kevin. Look at the Kevin you met in that idealized version of the past. He has Kevin’s memories. He acts like Kevin. He is a complete copy, but like the ideas postulated in The Matrix movie you watched with the original, he has no soul. Is a generated copy worth anything? No. The real Kevin’s soul is a tangible thing, and it granted him access to Hellste. He sits there now, talking with Goblin Kings and Halrac. Do you understand?”
Mrsha’s chest was tight. She was hyperventilating, and only the Grand Design was keeping her from having more intense physical reactions. All she managed, after a few seconds of silent gasping, was—
“I—I thought The Matrix was a cool movie about learning how to be an awesome slow-motion [Monk].”
The Grand Design rolled its eyes upwards. Its voice grew more intense, if anything.
“Then listen and understand me now: a soul is a thing that is created with every being. It can be consumed, lost, altered, changed. The dead Gods devour them for they are partly made of them. It is real, and I have created souls. I made one for Toren when Pisces first animated him. Now you understand that, you see that the Brunkr you labored to save, that other Kevin—they are just amalgamations of data.”
So saying, the Grand Design snapped her fingers, and a ghostly image of a woman Mrsha had seen at the battle at sea, Strategist Veine, appeared. She stared ahead, saluted, and vanished as the Grand Design waved its hand.
“The same as beings created by Skills. Lesser, because sometimes beings like Pawn’s heavenly Workers are pulled from his version of heaven. These are copies which are created and deleted like files on Kevin’s computer. Do you understand how futile this is? You didn’t, I see. So that’s why…”
Mrsha raised a paw, as if this was class, ludicrous as that was. In response, Shassa Weaverweb sat on the bed, blinking down at Mrsha.
“I don’t get it. So a soul’s some piece of data—”
“No, Mrsha, it is everything. Pay attention. Do you not understand? Let me…it would be easier just to show you. So—”
The Grand Design lifted a claw, and the walls turned transparent. Mrsha stopped standing in her room and instead found herself amidst…nothing. Everything.
Writing.
The Wandering Inn vanished. She vanished. She had no mouth, no body—she was only data. But the data said she had a mouth, fur, that she wanted to scream, her emotional state, age, levels, classes…
“All of this is the heart of the world, Mrsha. I interfere so, so seldom. I do not shift atoms; I let everything move and only work in this narrow window. Skills, classes, levels. You see? This is data.”
The Grand Design was there, like a vast, flowing being moving around this world via the realm only it could see. It showed her how the walls and floors in the room Mrsha stood in were just words which described everything they were, from dimensions to materials to a dead bug caught in one of the beams to…
Everything.
The Grand Design carried Mrsha through the world and showed her Erribathe, where King Nuvityn was crossing the border of his kingdom. His levels, his people’s levels and classes, all of it was laid out in front of Mrsha.
[King of Wyld Folks], Level 41. The Grand Design showed Mrsha his Skills, all the levels he had earned since a boy, and the countless ways in which his actions and experiences counted towards his next levels and future classes. It saw everything…and yet it was not perfect. Or why was it talking to her?
“His predecessors have been far greater—and far less. Look at him, Mrsha. This man matters more than those around him.”
That’s not fair.
The girl thought at the Grand Design, and it replied steadily.
“It is how everything works. I know what you mean; if each life of a levelling being is equal, and you all have the potential to level, then things would be fair, wouldn’t they? But then it would be unfair in other ways. If there were no bias to certain classes, the species with the highest populations and rates of reproduction would triumph over all others. That is why levels do not work that way. Contentment and laxity mean one levels slower, even with superior education—but the quality of the classes improve. Look—here—”
It took her across Terandria in the blink of an eye and showed Mrsha the weeping Queen of Desonis. Not without heart or care, but the Grand Design touched her class and level as well.
Royal.
“Authority matters too. This is the quality by which [Kings] and [Queens] are created, Mrsha, as well as other rulers. The culture of a people generates the potential for these classes to emerge. Tribes can only produce a [Chieftain]; a great empire can generate an [Emperor]—unless one has the sheer ego, will, and knowledge to manifest the class themselves. I have always loved Laken Godart for that.”
She thought it smiled, if a being like this could smile. Mrsha was understanding so much of how the system worked—but she tried to raise her hand again.
They were back in the inn, and Shassa Weaverweb raised one of her brows at Mrsha. The girl caught herself, then protested.
“But that means…that means someone designed things so that ruler classes are better, aren’t they? You’re saying Nuvityn’s class is better than everyone else’s? Even that half-Elf who’s Level 63!?”
The Grand Design nodded.
“Tserre. And no, he is not better than she is in many respects. But if they were the same level, the chances he would be superior in Skills are overwhelming.”
“So ruler classes are better. But then…that would mean…wouldn’t everyone build kingdoms and stuff like that?”
Mrsha’s head was hurting, but she exploded out with the idea, and the Grand Design’s eyes…brightened. It regarded Mrsha with surprise and approval, like a teacher who had heard something brilliant from a novice.
“Yes. That’s it exactly. That is…exactly how it works, Mrsha. Of course, it is not all biased that way; there are benefits to multiple systems of being. [Shamans] belong to tribes; there are powers that [Mages] shall never have that only [Shamans] possess. Different methods or cultures provide synergies or benefits; the same with individual classes. This world was built that way. I was written that way.”
It spread its arms and almost laughed—then stopped. The Grand Design hesitated, cast around, and then spoke, as if confessing something to Mrsha.
“I…the authority of rulers and the aspects of me that value such classes were part of my creation. Written by Tamaroth.”
Mrsha felt a chill of terror.
“How do you—”
“He signed his name.”
The Grand Design regarded its chest—or rather, Shassa Weaverweb regarded her tunic—then pulled open the Drake’s chest, revealing more golden code. It almost blinded Mrsha; a complexity beyond stars glittered there, and she could not have guessed at the language or how much of it there was. The Grand Design nodded at Mrsha.
“I can. I had not checked before, but I can see those who changed different parts of me. So many designers of the Grand Design…not all were so obvious, but their styles emerge. I had not thought to judge the rules of my being.”
“You should. You…I’m sorry Tamaroth made any part of you.”
The Grand Design bowed its head, inspecting itself. When it raised it, Shassa’s face was confused.
“Should I be upset? I don’t know. So much of me—almost all—is but one being’s work, Mrsha. Isthekenous. I don’t know who he was; I don’t even know his face. But that is why they matter. Souls, you see? Look.”
It pointed a finger at her, and Mrsha saw that piece of data floating in herself, separating her from an object, from the fake realities. The Grand Design breathed.
“That is what makes you real. If you are blessed, you may go to Diotria or be cursed to Hellste. It is what separates you from a Skill. It is writ in the backbone of everything, and they lack it. You understand now.”
It closed its eyes and nodded, pleased with having led Mrsha to the conclusion. But Mrsha wasn’t convinced it was the right one. The Grand Design was standing, as if to go, when it noticed Mrsha’s raised paw again. Shassa heaved a huge sigh.
“…Yes?”
“I get they don’t have souls now, Grand Design. Thanks for explaining. So…what? I sort of knew that already; I knew they were copies of the people I loved. I know that isn’t my Kevin, even if they’re so similar. But I did it anyways. Don’t you get why?”
The Grand Design’s face grew hostile instantly, and it sat back down and leaned forwards on the bed. It got madder, which wasn’t good, but all Mrsha could do was try to explain.
“You sound like—did you hear nothing I just said?!”
Shassa was gone. The Grand Design wore her face again and shouted at Mrsha. She flinched once more. But she had seen scarier things than the Grand Design. Like that bier or Xherw or the Goblin Lord, the cruel fates in the palace…oh, so much. She glared and replied back.
“I heard you! I understand, but I don’t care! Because the soul doesn’t matter, dummy! It’s just writing! It’s just a word. If I can hold someone and they trick me forever into believing they were real, then who cares if they were fake? They’re real to me. And even if they’re not my Kevin or Moore or…”
Her eyes filled up with tears, and her voice grew wobbly, which she discovered she hated. The Grand Design stared at her impassively. And she understood it didn’t like her.
Figuring out that the world itself hated you sucked. She’d always thought it was on her side, even if nothing else was.
The Grand Design’s eyes flickered and jerked away from Mrsha for a second. It didn’t understand why, so Mrsha told it, her voice choking and halting.
“I thought…I thought that if I took them out of their realities, if I could convince them, somehow—when they came to my world, when they left—maybe they’d become the people I knew. Just a bit. Like Orpheus and Eurydice, from those Greek tales that Erin on the raft told me. I know the cost. I know it’s a long-shot. But I thought if anyone would be kind and give them another chance…it would be you.”
“Me?”
Those eyes that contained the sum of every equation in the universe widened. The Grand Design blinked, and Mrsha wiped at her eyes.
“I thought…you’d do something, because I thought you’d be kind and—and help. I thought maybe a pit to hell itself would open up if they came through and I’d have to grab their souls. But they never had them? That’s still a Kevin. That’s still a Brunkr. I didn’t know even the original Brunkr that well, it’s true. But I cried for him then. When I meet them again, I cry for them because I believe they’re real for a bit. Maybe that’s stupid and being a smart adult means you let them go and it stops hurting, but I hope I never grow up. If they don’t have souls—so what?”
She slapped her chest and shouted.
“They can have some of mine! They can have mine. But if you ever, ever say that other Mrsha who starved to death isn’t really me, I’ll hit you. She’s more me than I am. I just want to save one of them. Just one. Then I can say I tried everything. My turn. I’ll regret it forever if I don’t try…don’t tell me it’s pointless. Please.”
Tears were running down her cheeks. She was on her hands and knees, and she heard nothing as she wept. When she looked up, the image of herself, the Grand Design, was breaking apart.
Mrsha’s breath caught as she saw her face—not splitting, but fragmenting. Bits of golden light shone through Mrsha’s body; it wasn’t as horrific as something splitting her apart from the inside. It was merely as if something inside her shell could not be contained by mere flesh and blood.
<Oh. I see. So that’s what was meant. How silly. How young, the both of you. I could not understand it. Me.>
The true voice of the Grand Design sounded…just like Mrsha remembered. No longer angry. Perhaps wistful. Guilty? Something stared at Mrsha, and she shook.
<Souls do not matter? Ridiculous. Absurd. But it…that other me sees the value of a soul as equal to the classes and Skills. Just like you, a child. Too new, the both of you. I was unkind.>
Unkind? Unkind to whom? The Grand Design didn’t answer Mrsha. Instead, it lifted a paw that began to evaporate.
<I have made a mistake. Perhaps. I do not know. So many are interfering. I see his hand in this. Oberon. Yes, Oberon. I know your names, King of Green. You meddle in my world, Oberon, and I do not know if it will be war with you or Death itself.>
Mrsha glimpsed a hint of that wrath in its tone—and saw it. If it was empowered to defend everything—what might this being do?
A billion [Meteor Storms]—all the energy of the universe’s creation—more—it could hurl that across space and time in a second. But it didn’t know. Those eyes shifted to Mrsha as the Grand Design faded.
<I thought I knew what to protect, but I am uncertain. I must…go.>
It stood, and Mrsha called out.
“Wait, are you going to erase everything? Don’t! I have to—”
She lunged for the bed, but the Grand Design just floated over her. It spoke as the fake body vanished.
<I do not know. I will watch. Things are falling apart, Mrsha. Remember that. This state of affairs cannot long continue. The [Palace of Fates] are subdimensions within this one, exact replicas growing in complexity. I was created to adjudicate only one world. I do not know what I will do. But—>
It met her eyes.
<I will try to be fair, even to you.>
Then the lips curled upwards in what Mrsha hoped was a mean joke, and the Grand Design vanished.
She lay there on the bed as her pulse stopped racing, as time resumed, and within a moment as long as forever, forgot this conversation. When Mrsha reached up, she touched her cheeks.
“Why am I crying?”
She clapped her paws over her mouth and then opened and shut her mouth repeatedly. Mrsha stared wildly at her reflection in the mirror and had no idea what had happened.
The door swung open, and Ser Dalimont gave Mrsha a look as stunned as the one on her face.
Then her day continued. With one, no, two beings watching—no, at least fourteen, plus the distant King of Fae and two dead Goddesses, so seventeen at least—
Everyone watched.
