“No, Lord Moore—we’re double-checking—”
They were casting spells on Dyeda, even using their rings to project these weird beams of light that crisscrossed Dyeda’s body and made letters and numbers flash up in front of their faces. One of the [Guards] grunted.
“She’s got a ring on, but we’re bypassing it, and it wouldn’t stop the gates—no, she’s clean. But that girl is infested.”
Everyone drew back visibly, and Moore’s jaw clenched. Mrsha heard voices raised in agitation.
 
“Dead gods, dead gods, it’s happening. Is it just one?”
“A straggler, maybe? After all this time?”
“She’s right over the waterways—! If she infects the city again—”
“The water is treated! Quiet in the ranks! The Watch Commander is arriving!”
 
This time, the Watch Commander of Liscor didn’t fall out of the skies like Moore did, literally jumping across the City of Charms. Rather, a beam of light shone down, and a figure appeared where it touched the ground. Mrsha saw a dozen figures appear—Drakes and Gnolls even more heavily armed than their counterparts. And in the center of them a…red-scaled Drake that Mrsha recognized.
Wing Commander Embria, an adult woman. In a wheelchair?
She was holding a wand in one arm as she rolled forwards, and her gaze was sharp, but she had no…legs. And only one eye. She wore an eyepatch, and scars stood out on her red scales. Her eye was hard, and her face was tense as she pointed a wand at Mrsha.
“Lord Moore, the gates are locked down. We have sensor spells scanning for any signs of infestation. The Watch is sweeping inwards manually, conducting physical scans of every single citizen, but that’s for their peace of mind more than anything. Gate Captain, report! How many infested are there?”
A Human ran forwards and indicated a bunch of glowing screens following him.
“Watch Commander, our surveillance spells show no one else incoming—except there is that battle with the [Hero] and Goblins. But I just pulled the entire log of this gate, and aside from the Goblins—I cannot find more infested. We have eyes on the dungeon. But everything inside is quiet.”
“Keep me apprised. Evacuate any [Researchers] and security in the dungeon to safe zones. The moment you see anything in the dungeon, you have full authority to activate purge spells. Who…is this?”
Embria had finally recognized Mrsha, and her good eye widened. Moore spoke, his voice husky.
“Mrsha.”
Some of the Watch clearly recognized the name and gazed at one another. Embria glanced at Moore and shook her head.
“Impossible. This is a trick of some kind. Or…can they create fakes? I want full-scale scans. Send an alert to Wistram and the Walled Cities; I need our best [Mages] here now!”
Her voice writhed with distaste as she glowered at Mrsha. Moore, on the other hand, was glancing at Dyeda.
“Embria. This may not be a trick. I think…”
He hesitated, then planted the diamond spear in the ground and strode over to her. The two spoke, but they blurred as some kind of advanced privacy spell obscured their bodies as well as words. In the meantime, the Watch was still analyzing Mrsha and growing increasingly concerned.
“Multiple classes for a kid. Is this normal? Gate Captain?”
Several technical-looking members of the Watch crowded around, flicking through screens. One even had glasses that shone with miniature screens, and they squinted and stared at Mrsha and ran those glowing beams over her, but something was wrong.
“She’s got way too many levels for someone who’s only eight years old! And it says her name is Mrsha…this isn’t right. I know the real Mrsha. Re-run the appraisal spells. Can we get a [Greater Appraisal] spell in? Where the hell are those [Mages]!?”
More people were teleporting in, and Watch Commander Embria reappeared from behind the privacy spell. She held up a hand.
“Keep the civilians out of the area! I don’t care what Councilwoman Lyonette thinks she’s seeing—restrict access to the camera feeds. On the order of Lord Moore! Release those area stasis spells, but keep the personal one on her. Same for the Goblin.”
The Watch obeyed her commands, but with clear unease. Embria turned to Moore.
“I’ll give you half an hour before everyone will be demanding answers. You’d better be right about this, Moore.”
“I will remove the infestation to begin with. Lock down my mansion and post a cordon around it. Upon my head be it.”
The half-Giant was nodding at Embria. His eyes focused on Mrsha, and she felt a flicker of hope. Embria grimace-grinned.
“Already done. Prepare for teleportation! Get me a full cleaning crew from Silveran here. This is under information lockdown until I issue a formal statement, and I’ll have the badge of any idiot who says anything unnecessary, got it? What you can say is that we detained an infected individual promptly, swiftly, and they are being treated. Now, give me—”
Mrsha felt tingly. Some of the glue-feeling in the air vanished, but she still hung there, suspended, as Dyeda was picked up and placed next to Mrsha. The two remained in place, and then Mrsha felt like someone was plucking her up—she saw Moore studying her, and the same light engulfed him too.
Then they vanished, and at least in the future, [Teleportation] spells looked cooler.
 
——
 
Five minutes later, Mrsha decided that being in a futuristic sci-fi magical world sucked if you were the problem.
Not that she’d tried to bust out of the giant glass tube-thing she was in. It was like a giant alchemist’s vial, only capped at the top and bottom with metal and surrounded by a magical spell circle of some kind.
Now, Mrsha was no [Archmage], but she was pretty certain the entire goal of all this magic and glass was to keep her in and separate from the rest of the world. Dyeda was in a tube next to Mrsha.
Moore, Lord Moore, was standing at a weird, shiny workbench like an [Alchemist]’s laboratory, measuring powders into a beaker. The beaker was on some kind of stand that beeped at him and kept showing numbers.
Units of measurement? Unclear. The half-Giant had donned some kind of white coat as well as a weird mask and gloves, and he was moving with the same grace as Octavia or Saliss. Mrsha was fascinated; she had no idea Moore could ever be an [Alchemist]!
Every few seconds, that weird horizontal beam of light would shine down from an orb in the corner of the laboratory and run down Moore’s entire body. The bright blue beam would scan him head-to-toe, and a glowing computer screen on another desk would chime and flash a green check-mark up.
Mrsha understood the computers, though Dyeda was probably confused by that. There were a lot of screens in the room, combined with old-style alchemist equipment and magical paraphernalia. Some fusion of all three ideas into one place—but the computer seemed to interface with magic, at least.
Every time the computer chimed, Moore would turn and stare at the green checkmark and then continue mixing stuff up. Which suggested to Mrsha he really was concerned. She wondered what he’d do if he got an ‘x’.
She couldn’t do much in the tube; Dyeda was pounding on the glass, clearly trying to communicate, but it was predictably soundproof. After another half-minute of watching Moore pour some reddish powder into a mix of green liquid that he filled exactly up to a line on a beaker, Mrsha lifted the card in her paw a bit higher.
She kept pressing it to the glass of her capsule. She tapped the glass again, hoping he’d look over.
Excuse me, Rags is in danger. Please help her. Whatever I did, I’ll take responsibility for, but a [Hero] is going to kill my friends!
Finally, Moore paid attention to her, glancing over as that beam of light ran over his back again. He grunted a reply.
“I know. I can’t interfere. That [Hero] is Rhir’s attack dog. They have international immunity from countless laws, and Liscor will not fight Rhir.”
He’ll kill them. You have to help her! She’s Rags! I’m Mrsha!
The half-Giant of the future blinked at the card, and his eyes focused on Mrsha. They softened—then he swung around abruptly and placed his tools so he didn’t have to see her.
“Whether or not I believe you, there is nothing more to be done. The Tribe of Dreams won’t die from a single [Hero] assailing them. They’ve survived worse. I have already warned the only being who can intercede in time. He—Pawn—is on his way.”
Pawn? Mrsha was utterly confused. She remembered seeing him in the door earlier, but that [Priest] had just been in a relationship with Lyonette as far as she’d seen. Was he important enough in the future to stop a [Hero]?
Apparently so. Moore turned a switch on another little platform, and the beaker began to bubble almost instantaneously when he placed it on the stand.
“Two more minutes. I have several treatments, but a fresh dosage is the most efficacious. So. You’re from the past. Either that or from our memories. How, either way? Chronomancy? The greatest [Chronomancer] of our age was Nereshal of the Blighted Kingdom, and he’s dead. What’s your explanation?”
His eyes were serious when he glanced at Mrsha again, and she felt a knot of trepidation in her stomach. This Lord Moore was far more…perspicacious than the Moore of the past, and that included his diction.
Old Moore, the one she loved and had lost, was a gentle soul, an adventurer, timid and capable of great deeds and wrath, but still, ultimately, a Gold-rank adventurer.
This was someone who felt like both leader and alchemist, mage and warrior all combined. He seemed sure of himself where Moore had always been uncertain except about what truly mattered. Mrsha wrote on her cards while Dyeda felt at her own pockets, clearly wishing she had some cards and ink to write with.
I come from a Skill that lets me travel between worlds. I come from the past, just after the Winter Solstice in my time. In my world. We came here to look for things to help us. Well, I came because I saw that [Hero] attacking Rags. What are you going to do to us?
Another glance over his shoulder. Moore began mixing more stuff into the red liquid, turning it lighter. He seemed practiced at whatever he was making. That tension never left his body, though.
“Assuming I believe that—I don’t intend to hurt you. Quite the opposite. Though everything about this speaks of the old days. Perhaps that’s fitting on Mrsha’s birthday. Mrsha—have you seen Mrsha? My Mrsha, an adult of eighteen.”
He frowned, and Mrsha suddenly felt a pang of unease in her stomach. She had been feeling bad ever since she woke up. Nasty. Sick. She put it down to whatever those security gates had done to her, but she gingerly patted her stomach with one paw as she wrote.
No…But there’s a possibility she might have found her way into my world. Which would be bad.
He grunted.
“Why, exactly?”
Because she might mess things up or tell people in my world about the secret Skill? They’d use it for their own ends.
He let the beaker stand and mix; something was spinning in the center as the elements combined over heat. The half-Giant tugged at his beard.
“Logical. You don’t sound like the Mrsha I remember. She could write like an adult, but she was still a delightful little girl. A handful. But we can test that. I’ll need to isolate all the samples—[Pinned Message]. Samples in quarantine area 1. Destroy and cleanse work area immediately.”
A glowing line of text appeared and hung in the air around his head. It seemed incredibly annoying because it followed him around, but Moore appeared used to it. He strode over to the capsule, and Mrsha realized it had more effects than she’d thought.
For one thing, it let Moore phase a gloved hand through, even though it was solid as could be on his side. This wouldn’t normally be a problem, but he had a needle and scissors.
“I need a blood sample and hair as well. Hold out your arm and I’ll take it. It won’t hurt.”
Adults always lied about stuff like this. But because she knew this was important, Mrsha took a deep breath, held out her arm, and instantly went ballistic. She yelped silently and shouted as Moore poked her twice, took blood swiftly, and then transferred it instantly to another capsule.
“Sorry. I’m no good at drawing blood.”
That hurt like hell! Dyeda received much the same treatment, only it went better because Moore could see her veins and she was bigger. He placed both in capsules and began to analyze them.
What’s all this for, Moore? Moore?
“I’m just analyzing something. Don’t worry, Mrsha. This won’t take long.”
She didn’t like how he said that. That was the kind of thing you said to someone who should worry. That unsettling feeling in her stomach grew. It was the air, Mrsha realized. There was something nasty in the air.
It was a faintly dusty-spore smell, like a weird mushroom or something. Not cloying or rotten; it actually had a faint odor to it like oranges mixed with roasted mushrooms and a hint of peppermint. A pleasant smell—but it felt nasty.
She should get out of here. But of course that was stupid because she was in a magical container and something was wrong with her. Mrsha shook her head, focusing on Moore instead and pushing the feeling down.
This time, Mrsha did recognize some of the tools he used. One of the things was a microscope, like she’d heard Rhaldon describing to Erin. The rest…? He was speaking some kind of mumbo jumbo that she dutifully took notes of.
“I can run [Analysis] spells all day, but you can fool those. It’s harder to fool blood and hair samples. You’re no simulacrum. You could be an even more highly-advanced magical puppet or your companion…let’s see, it says ‘Dyeda’—could be. But you’re likely real.”
He grimly got up from the microscope he’d been surveying her blood with. Mrsha raised one paw.
Can I get a bandage? Also, how am I realer than Dyeda?
She felt the opposite should be true; she was the being from an alternate reality and Dyeda was not. Moore hunted around his laboratory, then guiltily shook his head.
“Just apply pressure, please. I’ll heal the wound after administering the cure. I know you’re real because—hold on, let me put this on a screen.”
He tapped a few icons, and an image popped up on a monitor. Mrsha saw a lot of, well, round, semi-transparent objects. Sort of like coins or…donuts? But without the holes. But that wasn’t what drew the eye. What drew the eye were the…squiggling lines in the middle of the round stuff. Not many, but they were there. And one was big—
