And just so it was clear, the Grand Design hadn’t made a mistake. It had let Mrsha say that last bit on purpose. Just that one sentence in the voice she had never had. It felt like it owed her that.
 
——
 
<Temporary Dimension: Alternate World 1 — “Better Days”>
 
It was now clear something was wrong in the inn. One look at Kevin’s haggard face had Lyonette calling for a [Healer] over his protestations. When she went to Erin about Kevin’s odd behavior, and the fact that Moore hadn’t eaten anything and some of the Goblins acting ‘off’, she got an odd reply.
“Just—leave them alone, huh, Lyonette? It’s a weird day. Yeah. Weird. I don’t know what to say, but…just wait, okay?”
That was so out-of-character for the meddling, empathetic [Innkeeper] that Lyonette instantly went to tell Numbtongue, Mrsha, Nanette, Bird, and everyone else she trusted to try to get to the bottom of another Solstice Event.
Which was ironic because the Winter Solstice was occurring today. And it was already looking to be a rather eventful day.
It began with guests arriving.
 
——
 
Even in the [Garden of Sanctuary], Kevin Hall could hear the cheering. He didn’t look up; he’d been kicking around the garden, swiping at the Sage’s Grass, stomping over flowers, even kicking the cocoa trees. He felt bad about it when he saw how much greenery he’d destroyed, but he didn’t really care.
Everything is fake, including me. The young man stomped down the hill of yellow flowers and Sage’s Grass, wondering what was going on. All the joys of the Christmas season were lost on him.
When he opened the door to the inn, Kevin recoiled from a white Gnoll girl padding along on all fours. His eyes went wide, and his heart stopped. Then he realized it wasn’t…her. It was just his Mrsha. She turned, blinking at him, as a young witch halted in her tracks. Nanette had a basket of candy-canes in her hands and a big, red ribbon in her hair. Mrsha had a green bow stuck to her head.
They were cute little Santa’s helpers today! Mrsha had on a red outfit, while Nanette had green, and they beamed at Kevin. He stared at them, then snapped.
“What the fuck is making that noise?”
He snarled and both girls gave him a faintly alarmed look. Nanette opened her mouth with a frown.
“That’s not a very nice way to ask, Mister Kevin. We’re getting more visitors for the Solstice party!”
Her reproachful look made Kevin feel bad, and he mumbled.
“Sorry. Who is it?”
“Couriers! Couriers, and I think Wall Lord Ilvriss is inbound on a Pegasus any moment now!”
Wall Lord Ilvriss? Kevin just stared at the girls as they exchanged a long glance and edged back from him. He’d forgotten…the young man stumbled outside and just stared in the way people did when they encountered the silly shenanigans Erin could get up to.
 
——
 
“Ho, ho, ho! Ho? Ancestors take it—how many ‘hos’ is it again? Osthia, hand me the bag of holding.”
Wall Lord Ilvriss was doing his damndest not to seem like a complete idiot as the flying Pegasus took him in a lazy circle over the city of Liscor. Snow was still falling on the houses below, and he saw Gnolls, Drakes, and Humans staring up at him.
They ducked as Ilvriss pulled something from the bag of holding that Shield Captain Osthia was holding and tossed it down like an alchemist’s flask. A beautifully-wrapped box with a bow on top hit the ground with a crack that made Ilvriss wince, sending a child and family running for their lives.
He modulated the next throw; a present hit a snowbank, and a Gnoll girl stared at it and backed away as she gaped up at him.
“It’s not a weapon! It’s a gift!”
Ilvriss shouted desperately as he hurled another box; it bounced off a wall, and he wondered how the hell he’d thought this was a good idea.
Show up for the Winter Solstice, I said. Make it something in the spirit of The Wandering Inn, I said. 
Reasonable events had led him here, Ilvriss swore. He had to come on Pegasus-back anyways. He had brought presents since he’d missed Christmas proper. Why not spread the joy?
It was just that in his calculations, he hadn’t thought of the relative force a wooden box thrown from on high had—Ilvriss hit a window with his fourth present.
“Shield Captain, make sure we pay for damages!”
At least some of the people below understood they were gifts, not weapons. A child was unwrapping the beautiful, lacquered box embossed with Christmas-y images, and he pulled out a custom-made soccer ball with clear delight. Another child reached for the box that had gone into the alleyway.
When the adorable Drake doll opened the box from the inside and crawled out, arms open for a hug, the Human girl ran, screaming.
Mistakes had been made. Ilvriss would have a postmortem on this event with Alrric. Hopefully one that did not include an actual postmortem. Ilvriss was trying to shout at the girl that the doll was friendly and not possessed when his Pegasus decided to defecate, adding a new present raining down from above that the Liscorian populace did not appreciate.
At least he had backup. A rather more grand Drake, wearing a red costume and a hat that suited him, swooped past Ilvriss. Nerul didn’t go for single-target throws. He opened his bag of holding and dumped eight presents on the ground here, sixteen there, and his voice was huge and booming and, dare Ilvriss even say it, jolly.
“Ancestors, Nephew! That’s not the kind of present you should be delivering! Ho, ho, ho, ho, ho, ho, ho! Grab the presents; they’re all straight from House Gemscale in Salazsar! Worth good money even if you don’t want them! Merry Christmas!”
That worked. Ilvriss had on the same outfit, including a white beard, but he was too thin and tall; he seemed like some kind of suspicious gaunt Santa-burglar who crept into houses. Nerul was a proper Drake Santa, and the children went running for the presents. Ilvriss relaxed a bit as he saw someone else hurling presents from her Pegasus.
Xesci the, uh, [Courtesan] who had found herself in his employment. Just how that happened was a very funny story, actually! He couldn’t wait to tell Erin…Ilvriss adjusted his beard, hoping this was at least on the news.
In fact, as he circled higher, he swore he heard cheering from The Wandering Inn and raised a hand to wave at them. He saw Mrsha running outside, that scamp. Waving and bouncing up and down.
Ilvriss felt this entire event had been worth it. He beamed, fumbling for her present—then realized she wasn’t cheering for him.
Ilvriss started scowling the moment he saw the rainbow.
 
——
 
The first wave was Couriers. Couriers plural.
The Moonlight Rider, Tritel, had put a red nose on his beloved horse, Ci. She really didn’t like it and gave him a galloping ride, kicking her back hooves into the air, jumping through the snow, but racing forwards in such a profusion of energy that it drew every eye.
She wasn’t the only one. Hawk had gamely put reindeer antlers on his head, but they kept slipping to the side. As for Salamani, he’d just decided a standard Santa outfit was the thing, but he kept conjuring magical illusions, a lightshow of Christmas lights around him.
Four Couriers, each leaving a path in the snow behind them, with sacks of presents they were about to shower all the good little children with. Way cooler than a terrorist Drake throwing presents from above.
They had, in fact, already left a trail of gifts from First Landing to Liscor, and all the Couriers were privately looking forwards to getting out of the damn snow and having a drink. But they had their best smiles on, and they ran or rode like fire.
You sort of had to when your leader was this motivated to show people a good time. The young man running in the front, doing backflips in the air and hurling presents at the children racing behind him, was leading the other four Couriers. And Valceif Godfrey had promised to kick anyone slacking on this job into tomorrow. If he didn’t do it, you knew his mother, Mihaela Godfrey, would kill you.
Valceif, the Courier’s Shadow, son of the famous Courier of Izril and Guildmistress of First Landing, Mihaela Godfrey. He might not have had his mother’s acclaim, but her son was quick and won his rank by keeping up with the fastest woman on Izril.
Plus, he was far better at dealing with people than Mihaela.
“Merry Christmas, courtesy of Desonis! There’s The Wandering Inn—run for it, lads! Tritel, deploy the teleportation scroll!”
Tritel hollered back.
“That’s lads and lady, brat! Here we go! [Shimmering Ride]!”
All the Couriers activated their showiest Skills and became a landlocked comet of snow that sprayed upwards, like an avalanche at their backs, a cloud of icy particles that took on green and red color as one of them tossed some powder into it. As they ran, circling towards The Wandering Inn, the winter air brightened behind them, and music began to play from a recording crystal that Hawk tossed down. Valceif glanced behind him, worried they’d messed the timing up—but no, it was perfect.
The teleportation spell from Wistram activated, and the first person to step through to the other side spread his arms like a performer on stage. Which, to be fair, he was.
Earl Altestiel of the Rains emerged to the Singer of Terandria’s pop songs, and dancing figures posed in place as he thoroughly upstaged Wall Lord Ilvriss’ Pegasus show. Mainly because he’d brought the Lord of the Dance.
And the Queen of Desonis.
Explosions of colored water turning to snow and more lights and music—Altestiel had watched when The Adventurer’s Haven had met The Wandering Inn and decided he could do everything better. To be fair, when you had Lord Belchaus and his world-class dancers, you could do it better.
They came towards The Wandering Inn in such a storm of excitement that they had people running out of Liscor to meet them and cheering, even though some of them had no idea who Altestiel was. The Earl of Rains and the Lord of the Dance came down that bridge made of water, a rainbow hanging over their heads, and the two girls going insane on the hill, Nanette and Mrsha, pointed in awe as the third notable figure emerged.
Queen Geilouna, the Sleeping Queen, was being carried on a giant, king-sized bed by an entire team of porters, and she sat up slightly as she yawned. Blankets and pillows were all about her, and her pets glanced around, irritated by all the noise.
Insanity. Chaos. Delight for the Solstice. Mrsha went running towards Altestiel, waving her arms and howling, as Ekirra, Visma, Gireulashia, and all the children of every species raced after her.
Erin Solstice was laughing from outside her inn, pointing at Ilvriss, then Altestiel, trying not to be the center of attention, and inside the inn, a very upset Fraerling was hissing into a speaking stone.
“No, abort, Fleethoof! We’re getting upstaged! Time it for midday, midday! Don’t shout at me! Just camp out for six hours and—no, don’t do it now—”
Drums from the southeast and more horn calls as a thoroughly cold and wet Centauress decided she was coming to drink some eggnog and get warm no matter what her boss thought was most impressive.
What a day to remember.
Kevin Hall eyed all the chaos outside and slammed the door to The Wandering Inn. He stomped back inside.
 
——
 
The other Mrsha had not returned. Neither had Rags.
Mrsha had promised to come back, but something was clearly…off. Kevin was one of the few people in The Wandering Inn; everyone, nearly everyone, had gone outside.
Except for Halrac, Moore—wherever he was—Headscratcher, and Pyrite. The two Goblins were having a spiced eggnog when Kevin stomped into the common room.
“Earl Altestiel?”
“Yeah.”
Kevin spoke shortly. Both Goblins nodded and went back to talking. After a second, Headscratcher peered up.
“Kevin, have you seen Rags…?”
“No. I covered for her when Niers asked where she was.”
“Mm. Good. Thanks.”
“Have you seen…?”
Two shakes of the head from them. At a far table, Halrac stopped chewing on breakfast and shook his head.
No one said a word. Dead men, all. Kevin felt this was all damn unfair. Why had only dudes died during the Winter Solstice? Well, maybe just guys at the inn. They hadn’t killed Ulvama! Or Erin! Just kidnapped them and put them on a ship…
God fucking damn it, death might have been better. Kevin felt like throwing up again, but he was too miserable to even do that.
“I’m going into the real garden. Not the beach. Let me know if anyone shows up. Anyone important.”
He stomped back to the one place that would be quiet with all the hubbub. Along the way, Kevin nearly tripped over a snoozing figure and realized someone else had missed all the chaos.
That old guy, Demsleth, was passed out at a table with a pointed wizard’s hat—if you made brown, travelling wizard’s hats patched over and worn with age—over his face. Kevin supposed some people could sleep through anything.
One of Demsleth’s eyes shone vividly blue as Kevin opened the door to the [Garden of Sanctuary]. After a moment, Halrac got up and went upstairs to check on a certain room where Lyonette slept.
Downstairs, an undead rat listened, but neither Dragon nor Necromancer had more clues.
Garden? Or that room? Demsleth got up as the first people burst into The Wandering Inn and pretended he needed to sleep in the guest rooms above.
 
——
 
Kevin Hall was kicking flowers when the [Garden of Sanctuary] opened. He stopped when his Mrsha gave him a flying headbutt to the back. She couldn’t hurt him in the garden, so it was more like a gentle tackle, head-first, but it scared him so much he leapt back in shock.
“Argh! What the hell—Mrsha, that hurts!”
She mimed punching and kicking him and pointed furiously at the half-destroyed swath of yellow flowers.
You pissbucket, Kevin! My flowers! How dare you destroy my life’s work!
“Mrsha, stop hitting Kevin! You won’t get any presents from Santa, remember?”
Santa’s weak-willed. He’ll give me anything I want!
Mrsha turned to argue with someone, but she did get off Kevin. Guiltily, he sat up. He knew the yellow flowers were Mrsha’s passion project; she kept growing them. But it was that or punch a wall till his knuckles bled.
“Sorry, Mrsha. Hey, what’s up?”
He observed something was off—Mrsha was standing there with Garia Strongheart, Fierre, the not-a-Vampire girl, and…Ryoka Griffin? The Wind Runner was covering her face, and Kevin heard a sniff.
“Sorry. Sorry. I don’t know what’s wrong with me. It just started, and I can’t…stop. Tell Val it wasn’t his fault. I’m serious, can someone check if something’s wrong with me? Did Saliss prank—?”
“Someone’s finding him right now. Are you sure you’re okay, Miss Ryoka? You seemed awfully sad there!”
