She was an [Emberbearer]. And this fire was hers. Mrsha gazed down at the glorious flame that Erin had once left with her. Just like before, she sat.
She was not the real Mrsha. She was Mrsha of the roots. The Mrsha who had starved, who had realized her own nature and tried to survive in the [Palace of Fates]. She’d dug dirt out, planted seeds, done everything she’d seen successful Mrshas do, and then…waited.
That was all you could do. To survive, she drank water and sat. Anything else wasted energy. Pacing wasted energy. Just sit…think…watch the infinite worlds of what might be and dream of the day you might leave.
And hold that ember of glorious fire. The Flesh Worms in her blood screamed they were dying.
She knew dying. She was Mrsha, the [Survivor of Starvation].
[Slow Metabolism].
The girl’s breathing reduced, and her eyes were half-lidded. She sat like an ascetic meditating, ignoring the dying Flesh Worms. They were begging her, now, making her feel sympathetic, happy towards them. Angry, sad…
Goodbye.
That was all the girl thought at them. Then she glanced up. She had no idea how long this might take—so she raised her wand, and Dyeda flinched. But Mrsha only wrote something in the air.
Dyeda? Can you use your ring and play me a song?
“A…song?”
Yes. Anything.
The Goblin fumbled with her ring as Moore half-turned. The [Tattooist] was slow, so Moore strode over to his computer and typed.
“I don’t know what…I’ll play this. There.”
A pop song began to emanate from the speakers. Mrsha recognized it; it wasn’t one of the Singer of Terandria’s songs. It was either made by people of this time or from a device from Earth. The female singer’s voice started soft, then rose, and Mrsha smiled.
That was it. The greatest secret of the [Palace of Fates] was not that you could see every glorious future and terrible fate. That wore out your soul.
If you were a child who sat and waited for the seeds to bloom, for a door to open, you could find a silly door and listen to music. A million songs from a million futures, each more beautiful than the last.
It’s a fine way to go. Finer than you deserve. Leave me. I will never let you hurt anyone. I’ll send your Mother after you, soon.
Mrsha blinked a tear of blood from her eyes as the will of the Flesh Worms broke. They fled or died, and the girl sat there. Only when Moore checked her, again, and ran a scan on her blood a dozen times did he finally speak.
“It’s done. You’re cured.”
He halted the blood transfusion machine, and Mrsha opened her eyes. She sat up as she floated down to the ground, and Moore reached into the cell to remove the needles from her veins. The girl felt at her wet fur, and then glanced around.
Are you sure? I want to be extra certain.
The half-Giant knelt in front of the cell, mouth opening and closing. Mrsha glanced at Dyeda, and the [Tattooist]’s hands were pressed over her mouth, tears in her eyes.
What? What’s wrong?
Had they done something to her face? But the half-Giant just shook his head. He hit a button, and the glass walls began to rise. He peered down at the girl and whispered.
“Nothing. You’re just such a…brave girl, Mrsha.”
She giggled at him. Silly Moore. She shook her head as she held up a card.
Erin’s the brave one. Not me.
The [Survivor] didn’t understand why he rocked back on his heels. But when he reached out and gathered her into the biggest, gentlest hug she had ever felt—Mrsha relaxed and closed her eyes.
Yes, it was worth waiting for moments like these. And now she knew the dungeon, the Mother’s secret. All of it worth it.
The girl lay there for a while as the Grand Design of the world watched her. The Grand Design of Hating Mrshas…witnessed her, and it watched as the Second Edition spoke.
It didn’t interfere. It didn’t have the right to.
 
[Class Consolidation: Survivor of Starvation → Survivor of Trials Class!]
[Survivor of Trials Level 18!]
[Skill – Resistance: Disease Obtained!]
[Skill – Purifying Blood Obtained!]
 
[Skill – Will of Steel Learned!]
 
——
 
A girl lay in a half-Giant’s arms, and he offered her cake. Cookies…soda, whatever her heart desired.
She only wanted to lie there, but she let him shower her with gifts. The Goblin helped, grabbing the choicest treats for Mrsha, but she just felt…better.
“I’m sorry. I truly didn’t think it had progressed so much. I assumed you were like the Mrsha I knew—or else I would have put you to sleep, brought you to the hospital, and cycled your blood. If they had panicked, they would have tried to kill you. You—were amazing. Do you want anything else to eat? Anything.”
The girl raised her head and chewed on a bite of ice cream cake. That redeemed the future a bit in her eyes. Also, the cure for parasites. She wrote a reply on a notecard as he cradled her.
It’s okay. But I do want something. Can you tell me a story, Moore? Tell me a true story about the dungeon.
The half-Giant’s eyes widened. He was holding Mrsha in his arms as the remainder of the liquid dried off Mrsha. Her fur was sticky, but she’d wash it—the half-Giant turned with her in his arms. He cast around, then found a chair, pulled it over, and sat there, head bowed. When he looked down at her, his eyes were lost.
His distinguished appearance, his high levels all melted away for a second, and she saw a tired half-Giant gazing wearily at her. He almost went to rub at one eye, but the mask prevented him. She slipped out of his arms, into another chair, and Moore clasped his gloved hands loosely together. He took a deep breath.
“It’s not a pleasant story. But you deserve it. This is a true story, Mrsha, the pieces of which we didn’t find out until long after it was too late. If you are from my time, you have to remember it, understand? Because you, Liscor, all of Izril is in danger if you don’t stop it. I cured you, but much of Liscor is already in peril. Perhaps not a great amount—how much has it spread, I wonder?”
Mrsha held up a card, rubbing at her eyes.
Ten years ago. That’s when I come from. How bad is it? No—explain it again. Flesh Worms?
The half-Giant blinked, looked her in the eyes, and answered with a grim smile. A bleak, pained expression that Dyeda had seen on so many faces of Liscorians. People who had survived something. Who had been there.
“Yes. Do you know what parasites are…? Think of leeches, but smaller. They are the same kind of thing, in a sense. You were infested with parasites, Mrsha. Little creatures so small they can’t be seen by the naked eye. In your blood. Those are agents, children of the Mother of Graves, who lived in the dungeon below Liscor. They can force you to do things against your will. In time, they will take you over completely and have you infect other people and bodies of water. That’s how they spread.”
Dyeda shuddered, and Mrsha remembered wells of stagnant water in Liscor’s dungeon. She nodded slowly. Raskghar feeding her water and monster flesh. Moore whispered.
“They’ll keep doing that. Until everyone and everything is infected. If they are left unchecked forever, they will begin to devour you entirely until all that is left is an eternal servant of the Mother of Graves. She intends to take over all of Liscor and as much of the world as she can by spreading her spawn in secret. She did it once.”
Mrsha’s eyes opened wide. She remembered tales from the Horns, the Goblins, of that city in the dungeon. That vast, underground city filled with scaleless inhabitants who attacked everyone that moved. And the pit below that led to…
Moore nodded in response to her unspoken question.
“Yes. She’s down there. Liscor was founded on the old City of Graves, the Walled City that was sunk into the earth for their crimes. It was reshaped into a trap by its mad inhabitants worshipping the Mother of Graves. A vengeance dungeon. But the purpose of the dungeon was not to just kill foes, but to delay them. Stalker, Skinner, Snatcher, an army of enchanted suits of armor, the traps, the monsters—all of it was to delay invaders long enough to fall victim to the real trap.”
She should have been horrified as he said it. But after feeling them in her…Mrsha recalled the Raskghars’ odd actions, and something else reminded her of the past.
Numbtongue once told me the monsters in the dungeon couldn’t see each other. I always wondered about that. Is that…?
The half-Giant was surprised, then smiled and nodded.
“Of course. That’s exceptionally intelligent of you. Yes, every monster in the dungeon is infested. That’s why they don’t kill each other; the Mother of Graves manipulates them all. Flesh Worms.”
It was so ridiculous. One monster? Moore had an almanac of parasites. He flipped through it, and she saw he had co-written the book. He held open a page.
His eyes were bleak, his hands so tight on the book the pages were warping. Dyeda’s eyes were wide open in horror as Moore spoke.
“We stopped her. She had eleven cities under her control when we set out; her plague spread so fast, and no one knew what was going on. Pallass had two-thirds of its floors under quarantine. It was Saliss who uncovered the cure after the Last Light found out what the cause was. Armies forced the Mother of Graves’ people back, but Liscor…we went to save Liscor.”
Who’s we…?
Mrsha knew. It all made sense. Moore whispered.
“Everyone who felt responsible. Many teams, but among them—the Halfseekers, Griffon Hunt, and the Horns of Hammerad. We had to fight our way into the dungeon. The entire Floodplains was hostile. Then we delved deep. Fighting. Dying.”
He looked away until a paw touched his arm.
Tell me. I have to know.
Moore’s hands trembled, and he almost turned away in pain, but then he glanced down at the girl who had rid herself of the Flesh Worms in silence. So the half-Giant spoke.
“—Typhenous died with plague on his fingertips, buying enough time for us to run. He killed so many of them—Jelaqua should never have come. They got into her body, ate her away. Then we delved deeper. Into the pit where she lay. The largest monster in the world.”
The image of the monster in the book was shaking as Mrsha felt at her body, imagined the little things squirming through her blood. The truth—like a puzzle she hadn’t quite thought of—was that figure.
A writhing, sinuous red shape, with long whip-like arms and terribly strong suckers on the end of them. Razor mouth, slithering body, and intelligence, true intelligence lurking behind those tiny black eyes set onto the scaleless snake’s body, the twisted earthworm given legs. Carrion-feeder, corpse thief, infestation. And a form infinitely bigger than all her children, lurking in the darkness and waiting.
Mother of Graves.
“Halrac killed her, and she killed him. When we emerged, Liscor was filled with monsters running wild. Free people. So many died, still infected, but we did it. That was the last day I remained an adventurer. The city was razed; what was left of it. Most of it had been broken down to make effigies for the Mother of Graves. But they rebuilt. Every stone was cleansed, every person tested again and again. That is who she is.”
The Mother of Graves. Her terrible plan. Her horrific nature, and the sacrifice of good and brave people to stop her. Halrac.
Always Halrac.
The half-Giant had tears in his eyes. He blinked them away, and wondered why the girl was still smiling.
Roots Mrsha was smiling, because she had seen the darkness. She had lived it.
Now, for the dawn.
 
——
 
Liscor, the City of Charms, ten years later was not Liscor anymore. Or rather, it wasn’t the city that Mrsha had gotten to know.
The beautiful, modern buildings, the charm-based infrastructure, and even the people were different. They had survived a terrible, continent-spanning disaster that had not yet occurred in Mrsha’s world.
Thus, for the first time, she was like a newcomer coming to Liscor and realizing that a war with a Goblin Lord had occurred outside the gates. An outsider peering into a city with pride and scars.
But he had been there.
Moore.
The last original Halfseeker alive was arguably in better shape than he had been as an adventurer. He wore custom, hand-tailored clothes, and he had a distinguished beard that smelled like wood bark and a magical staff any Named-rank adventurer would envy.
He was over Level 50, a landed [Lord] in the prosperous city of Liscor, which was truly a major city in the continent. Wealthy, too. As he sat, drawing more blood and confirming many times that she was cured, the half-Giant told Mrsha and Dyeda what had changed.
“I actually had to clear my mansion of the regular staff. I have as many as twenty people at all times.”
[Servants]?
He laughed quietly and with a note of chagrin.
“Servants? No, that’s—it feels antiquated. No servants. I have a cleaning team, some experts who help me keep in good shape and eating well—[Dietician], that’s a class. Even a [Personal Trainer] for fitness, [Aides] for my schedule, a [Mage] who keeps me abreast of magical developments, someone who can write announcements and correspond with other figures…”
“So [Servants] but a different name.”
Dyeda put that in helpfully, and Moore blinked and actually got slightly mad—his nose crinkled up before he smiled—and Mrsha sat there and wondered how many people were rude to him these days.
He was in splendid shape, but she wondered if the Moore that was a Gold-rank adventurer and couldn’t eat his fill all the time had been more battle-ready than this Moore. Certainly, one of them lived better. As if sensing her scrutiny, Moore changed the subject.
“Liscor is far more important than it used to be, you know. Everyone teleports these days, but distances still mean that goods and people funnel through the heart of the continent. The city’s expanded so many times. After we rebuilt, let’s see. One of the first things that went up was a magical barrier spell like the Drowned Folk have. No more rainy spring days unless you leave the city. We’re up to eighty feet on the walls, as you saw, and there’s talk Liscor could be a Walled City in time. Not that the Drakes want a half-Giant as a Wall Lord or so many Humans…”
He was inspecting the new slide of blood—just in case. Mrsha was clean on all the many scans they’d developed for Flesh Worms, but he showed her the inert bodies on the slide of blood.
“They’ll dissolve or be removed from your bloodstream in time.”
So I’ll eat them? Gross.
Mrsha made a face, and everyone agreed, but Dyeda raised a hand, only too-eager to change the subject. The Flesh Worms horrified her, and she’d had Moore test her multiple times as well, just to make sure.
“Question. Why would the Drakes make Liscor a Walled City? It’s not that big.”
Moore grunted as he switched to another test.
