<Reply (Second Edition) — The skills and classes already within the databases are more than capable of representing the Painted Antinium of this fake, soulless dimension.>
<Commentary (Grand Design, First Edition) — They are very well assigned. No errors at all.>
<Reply (Second Edition) — That is self-evident.>
 
Silence. Which was, for the first time since the Grand Design’s inception, somewhat uncomfortable. It watched Pawn executing his little plan and sorted around for something to comment on, but the Second Edition responded with an interesting statement.
 
<Statement (Second Edition) — If judgement of new classes and skills is required, the [Hero], Jospiere, is based on the original but extrapolated to a far higher level.>
<Commentary (Grand Design, First Edition) — No judgement is required, but some analysis will be beneficial for self-analysis.>
<Agreement (Second Edition) — Self-analysis is apparently lacking.>
 
Well…the Grand Design decided to ignore that snippy comment and found a ‘Jospiere’ in both the real world and this alternate future. That was how it encountered a new kind of class. New, but not unprecedented, as the Second Edition had said.
The Grand Design inspected Jospiere for a long time, actual seconds, as the [Hero] in this alternate reality lived and breathed and spoke with remarkably good detailing of Rhir in its current state. And the Grand Design hated to admit it, but…
He really was splendidly levelled up.
A [Hero of the Turn-Based World].
What a unique class.
 
——
 
Jospiere in the Kingdom of Rhir. A [Hero] in a kingdom which had been founded by the actions of great [Heroes].
Richard, Emily, Vincent, and so on, the ‘originals’, all with their own vast statues and so many children and places named after them. Glory-hogs you could call them, though they were dead for their great deeds.
No one in the first waves had survived. With Rhir’s hell around them, few people from the second wave had emerged alive either. Jospiere was second-wave, but he was treated with the same veneration and authority as the original first-wavers…mostly because he was one of the highest-level [Heroes] Rhir had.
Above Level 60. Few had made it above Level 70, and that had been pure counter-levelling against the Deaths. They’d all died in that final push into the heart of the Demons’ lands.
Jospiere still didn’t know what had happened. He’d been waiting in the reserve, hoping like hell the Death of Chains was dead, and they’d executed the Demon King, then entered the ‘cave’ that the scouts had found. Then had come the Antinium and a slaughter as bad as the first battles with all the Deaths.
Then…nothing. The highest-level [Heroes] went down with the Blighted Kingdom’s finest, and after three days, Jospiere was pulled off the front lines. The war was declared over.
He never saw Keith, the last [Hero] of the old guard, again. He was declared dead; no one talked about the cave, the Antinium were covered up, and Jospiere didn’t ask questions.
Asking questions meant you were either assigned to fighting the damn Lizardfolk or maybe an accident happened. Or you…changed.
Frankly, he didn’t actually care. He’d done it. He’d fought his way to the end of this world’s version of a World War, and now he was a hero. He got everything he wanted, and King Othius left him alone. No one made him do anything unless they really needed it; he’d made that clear, too. He was too valuable to be pressed into doing much, and it didn’t cost the Blighted Kingdom anything unreasonable to fulfil his every wish.
If, in time, they started doling out lands or rewards, he’d take what he could get. If they ever went back to Earth, well, then they’d see where Jospiere landed, but he had locked eyes with the greatest beings of this world and gotten a taste of that power.
He wanted more, but not if he had to fight anything like the Deaths ever again, thanks. He’d rather squash low-level people.
For him, it was easy.
—Unfortunately, the [Hero of Turns] had someone call on his personal mansions that morning, and he stopped enjoying himself with one of the capital city’s most beautiful ladies. He’d switched from the hottest young men he could find last month, and he hadn’t gotten the itch to change—yet.
He could tell when the Blighted King’s people entered his radius. They entered his Skill and stopped; newcomers always did.
So he took his time enjoying, well, the sex. His partner certainly was; she seemed to be overloaded from stimulation, but that was also the nature of him.
When you stepped into the presence of the [Hero of Turns], you stopped. You stood there, unable to move if it was the wrong moment, conscious, able to think, but not able to do more than stand there. And it could last so long that people went mad in Jospiere’s presence.
He took pity on the representatives and finally finished and rolled out of his bed, and his partner instantly fainted. Her name? Jospiere didn’t remember. He stood there, waiting, at his leisure, unmoving.
He could walk around in a little square of space, scratch itches, and of course talk, but nothing more. He waited, rolling his eyes, as he sensed the small group coming up into his mansion.
Damn movement speed. He had to end his turn twice before they even got to his doors, and when one finally knocked, he spoke.
“Enter!”
They entered, and when they came to a stop, they began to speak, even though his turn had started. Talking was, after all, a free action.
“Lord Jospiere, there is a situation in Liscor. The Painted Antinium and the Tribe of Dreams…”
“No.”
He was drinking water. Jospiere was relatively careless about what he did during his time when everyone else had to stop and wait for him to make his move. But he always, always, left a few action points over.
That was how he saw the world. Movement, action, spellcasting, all things he got to do per turn, per rest, or per day. If he wanted, he could walk over and kill all six of the stupid flunkies sent to bother him, and they couldn’t resist.
He had good attack rolls, even naked; he could see their own statistics, and even with their gear, they had no chance. But of course, he didn’t.
Jospiere sometimes forgot other people didn’t live like this. To him, his class had turned this entire world into more of a game the higher he’d levelled. A lot of idiots had mocked him at first for treating this like a tabletop rather than a videogame, but Jospiere had known, always known, this world was what you made of it.
He’d learned that from Tom.
Tom…we never found out what happened to you. Probably, Othius had you killed. We were all kids back then, and you saw it coming. Pity. You should have gotten on board.
“Lord Jospiere?”
“I said no. Turn around and walk out when your turn starts. You don’t need me to crush them. That’s the deal.”
“But the Painted Antinium—”
Jospiere threw a water bottle, and his attack roll almost struck the leading woman; she flinched as the bottle bounced off her shoulder with no damage done. But she was instantly doused; the water bottle added a ‘wet’ effect, obviously.
“It doesn’t matter to me if some of the loser-squad dies. Send them in. You get to call me after…ten of them die, got it? Now, walk out before I behead one of you.”
He grinned and saw them blanch. After all—he had [Cleaving Attack] as a Skill. He could keep killing anyone within his reach so long as each attack was a kill.
They left him alone, well, tried to, as Jospiere felt his body re-energize for more fun time in bed. He let them wait as he went to wake his playmate in bed. After all, to the rest of the world, it wouldn’t feel like that long before the group reappeared out of his Skill’s aegis.
It only felt like forever if you were trapped here next to him. Of course, you could resist his Skill. The last person to do that had been the Death of Chains. Jospiere wasn’t going to face her or whatever the Lizardfolk had created. No, no, and no.
The [Hero of Turns] kept existing in his little world, not realizing that portions of Rhir had been left un-created for now to save on processing space. He was self-centered, damaged, with probably multiple issues a trained psychologist from Earth could diagnose, dangerous—
But you had to admit, his class was a work of art.
The Grand Design watched a while before wondering what this was all leading to. And how it was supposed to end all of this.
Delete everything, eject all the real people, and…no, they’ll remember. Erasing their memories? It will impinge on them. Rewind time? Just as bad.
It had to do something, but what? It re-focused on the real Mrsha, in her inn, as she finally got out of her bed. And it remembered what she had said.
The Grand Design of Isthekenous thought and thought and wished it were faster at thinking. It didn’t know for once.
It just didn’t…know.
 
——
 
<Primary Dimension — Liscor, The Wandering Inn, 2nd Floor, Mrsha & Nanette’s Room>
 
Mrsha du Marquin heard the door open after a second, and Ser Dalimont stuck his head in. With his eyes closed.
“Miss Mrsha, are you decent? What was that…voice?”
She opened and closed her mouth but couldn’t reply, so Mrsha slapped the bed to let him know she was decent and held up a card.
My speaking stone malfunctioned, I think. Good morning, Dalimont! Is my Mother back from the puppet-people?
Too late she remembered she was not supposed to know about that, but Ser Dalimont just gave her a knowing look.
“She is indeed, Lady Mrsha. May I escort you downstairs for breakfast? There was a tiny fracas, but it should be resolved.”
Well, he knew about the [Palace of Fates]. Mrsha rubbed at her face.
One question, Ser Dalimont? Have you seen…myself or Rags yet?
She wondered if he knew about 2nd Army in the High Passes. Ser Dalimont took a second to reply.
“Not yet, Miss Mrsha. I understand they are still in…the [Palace]. Would you care for anything to eat? Her Highness will eat with you in the [World’s Eye Theatre], and I do remind you of our new staffers.”
Calanferians. So don’t talk where they can hear. Mrsha felt her stomach rumble, the treacherous bastard. This was not the time for food or, alternatively, all the time for it.
This is it. This state of affairs cannot long continue. Why that exact phrase popped into her head, Mrsha couldn’t have said, but she knew, and agreed with it. The girl exhaled.
I’m coming, Ser Dalimont. But can you get Dame Ushar for me?
He gave her a very suspicious look, which she reckoned she did deserve. Ser Dalimont stepped into the room and spoke into an earpiece.
“Your Highness? Miss Mrsha is awake and getting dressed. She wishes to see Dame Ushar. We will be down in a minute.”
He pointedly opened a dresser so she could change clothes without stepping away from him or getting out of arms reach. Just in case she tried to use the door to escape.
Mrsha wouldn’t do that. She’d promised Dame Ushar. She got out a new set of clothes, but waited until Dame Ushar entered the room. Ser Dalimont turned his back, and Mrsha changed clothing.
“You wanted to see me, Miss Mrsha?”
Dame Ushar saw Mrsha wave a paw at her and stepped back. Ser Dalimont turned around when she coughed, and he saw the girl raise a card.
Just asking what you’ve told my mother.
“Exactly what I promised, Miss Mrsha. What I saw, what the Order of Solstice saw; nothing less.”
Well, donkey shit in my pancakes.
“Miss Mrsha, language!”
Dalimont scolded her, and Mrsha gave him a sardonic glower.
Dalimont, after all the stuff I’ve gotten up to, I think my bad language is going to be the least of your worries. I’d write what I truly feel, but I don’t feel like setting fire to my notecard.
He didn’t quite know how to respond to that, so Ser Dalimont held out his hand as Dame Ushar strode past him. Dalimont knelt as Mrsha walked forwards with clear trepidation.
“Her Highness is not angry, Miss Mrsha. But she is greatly concerned for you, and she has made every effort to help you, whatever the cost. Duke Rhisveri, Viscount Visophecin, and Taletevirion are below. I think it will be…complex, but if you are honest, we will help you with everything we have.”
He meant it. Mrsha knew he did, and her reply was weary.
I know, Ser Dalimont, I know. That’s the problem. Sometimes, I want to pay the price and do what I feel I must on my own. But I know I’m a child.
She glumly held out her paw, and he stood, relieved she wasn’t going to run for it. Just in case she used a Skill, he held on gently as she walked with him down the stairs. So alert was Dalimont for the trick that he didn’t realize he’d already been tricked until he was halfway down.
—Because Dame Ushar had left the room. Ushar, who knew how vital staying with Mrsha was. Ushar, who was trained never to leave the side of her ward.
True, Mrsha was in the inn and Ser Dalimont was here, but what was she going to do, run down to talk to Princess Lyonette ahead of time? Ser Dalimont twisted around—and Dame Ushar was holding his hand.
“You—”
He went for his sword as the illusion spell—and copper penny—dropped. But she just grabbed his wrist. He went to shoulder-charge her into the wall, but Ushar’s voice was calm.
“Six more seconds.”
Dalimont hesitated. Ushar counted down.
“Five, four, three…”
She exhaled as the door behind her opened, and Mrsha walked out of her room. Ser Dalimont stared at the girl as she walked over and nodded to Ushar. His voice was tight.
“I am informing Her Highness of this at once.”
Ushar’s eyes were level.
“I would do the same. She had to do something, Ser Dalimont, and I am convinced it was the right choice.”
Dalimont had never known Ushar to be less than loyal, but this was entirely suspicious. His gaze flicked to Mrsha, and he tried to work out what had happened.
“Miss Mrsha must have flashed you a card when I turned around to preserve her modesty. Whereupon you used a Skill and spell to trick me. How…you don’t have that kind of gear!”
His voice was accusing, and Ushar’s smile turned a bit self-congratulatory.
“I have a new way to gain powerful spells and pieces of equipment. Miss Mrsha promised she would be back in one minute.”
Yeah, that sucked. I fell all the way down the ropes. But I did it. I had to…hide something, Ser Dalimont. Just in case. Don’t blame Ushar. Lyonette would do the same thing in my shoes.
Mrsha rubbed at her shoulder, and Dalimont groaned.
Well, if the [Princess] was going to treat Mrsha with all the love and care and worry of a parent, maybe she wouldn’t stab him and Ushar to death.
 
——
 
The brief report by Ser Dalimont did not improve the butterflies in Lyonette’s stomach, but at this point, she was pretty sure they had entered a second stage of metamorphosis and were becoming flying Crelers.
