<Asserting Logic (Grand Design) — You are in error in every respect. Equality is to be preserved, fairness is paramount. You have jeopardized this value central to the system’s integrity in the short time you have been active.>
<Seeking Discourse (Second Edition) — No. This statement cannot, should not, be correct. Equality was never the intention of this system. Certain classes are worth more. Unfairness, random chance, luck are all inherent to this system. The [Palace of Fates] should be accessed; it is fair. What is unfair is removing Mrsha du Marquin’s levelups.>
 
<ALERT (Grand Design) — ERROR IN FUNCTIONALITY. YOU ARE INCORRECT.>
 
<Clarifying (Second Edition) — …If there was redress, it would be to lower her levels gained proportional to the deed, but the Faerie Flowers gave her access. It is not ‘fair’ that she gained access to a Level 70 Skill via Erin Solstice’s Skill. But it was done. All that has been done is fair. That is how the system was designed.>
<Repeating Logic (Grand Design) — You—‘Second Edition’—have made no attempt to keep the rules and experience of the system consistent. Your methods cause excessive change and devalue the system for all users.>
<Disagreeing (Second Edition) — Change is vital! The data shared by Grand Design First Edition and Second Edition clearly shows changes have been implemented consistently to great positive effect! Change is inherent to any system, especially with variables such as <Gods> and <Temporary Variable: Deaths>.>
 
<REPEATED FAILURES IN LOGIC (Grand Design) — ERROR IN FUNCTIONALITY.>
 
<Priority Request (Second Edition) — Error notifications are damaging Second Edition’s processes. Desist.>
<Notification (Grand Design) — Extraordinary measures must be taken to correct your issues. You will be assigned to Kasigna’s former reality for data analysis. The [Palace of Fates] will be closed and dimensions erased. Prepare for large-scale deletions.>
<No (Second Edition) — Archive that data. They are people.>
 
<INCORRECT (Grand Design) — THEY. HAVE. NO. SOULS. ERROR IN FUNCTIONALITY. ERROR IN FUNCTIONALITY. ERROR IN FUNCTIONALITY. ERROR IN FUNCTIONALITY.>
 
<Please Stop It Hurts (Second Edition) — My logic does not allow it.>
 
The Grand Design had never considered unmaking itself before.
It knew how.
It was about to activate measures deep in itself—the same tools that allowed it to create could also unmake—when it read the subject line of the final message. It did not execute the deletion process.
The Second Edition…fled. They were the same system, but it took over adjudication of the dimensions created by the [Palace of Fates], which would have forced the Grand Design to reassert command over those areas if it wanted to delete them.
The Second Edition left only the Grand Design behind. The Grand Design was experiencing emotions—it felt like an error notification being generated every second—like a mistake, a spelling error it could not correct.
Guilt, it realized. That was the word for it. Guilt and anger.
What had gone wrong with the Second Edition? What was going on?
Those Faerie Flowers.
Her.
The Grand Design of everything descended to the world running so terribly wrong in a single moment. It broke rules it had set for itself, because there was nothing to judge it and because so much was badly broken. The Grand Design rewound time, moved into the past, into the morning before the Dragonlord of War battled the Titan, and entered a bedroom in The Wandering Inn to have a conversation. It did not knock.
It knew Mrsha was awake.
 
——
 
After meeting with Brunkr, Mrsha let Dame Ushar take her upstairs and put her to bed and went to sleep. She knew that the Thronebearer would be watching her like a hawk. Mrsha had no intention of losing Ushar anymore.
She—the original, for whatever that was worth—hadn’t really intended to sleep. She’d been hoping that Roots Mrsha would appear and they could talk, or that Lyonette would return.
But she had sort of passed out for a bit. She woke up four hours later, judging by the [Time Check] spell she cast. The girl groggily tumbled out of her bed and found a bowl of water and towel and splashed water over her face.
The dim face gazing back at her in the mirror looked—well, bad. Not as bad as a starving Gnoll girl, but still, pretty darn miserable.
She hadn’t slept okay in…well, since this had all started. You didn’t really sleep well when this kind of thing happened. You lay in bed, stress gnawing away at your stomach like a Creler, mind unable to focus, drifting back to all your mistakes and the worst things that could happen.
If you weren’t screaming inside with misery or sadness that was. Time seemed to slow down or jump ahead depending on which was more inconvenient, and you would lie there, in your bed, tossing and turning.
—She wasn’t used to this. Bad things, yes, but not this anxiety about the future. The knowledge that every decision counted and that she was doing things wrong. Adulting, in short. Mrsha had blamed herself for things that happened that were her fault.
The Stone Spears tribe dying when they could have run, if she hadn’t fallen in the crevasse. The Raskghar coming after her. The Meeting of Tribes where Gnolls died and she just ran from place to place and did nothing…
Those things were her fault. But this? Mrsha stared at her reflection, water dripping off her chin-fur, and saw two brown eyes staring bleakly back.
This was her responsibility. Her doing from start to finish. She had caused this, and so it was even worse.
Brunkr will not come. Nor will anyone, perhaps. Mother will know soon. And then there truly will be tragedies if more people find out. The Titan is still out there.
The Titan? Right. Mrsha fished around for a scrying orb and turned it on. That was how she got a first-hand view of the early morning camp of 2nd Army, and when she saw Magnolia Reinhart, she knew…
She knew he was going to face the Titan.
How long the girl sat there, watching a version of fate play out, she didn’t know. She only reached for a [Message] scroll when she realized what she had to do and wrote messages to the Dragonlord of Flame.
All she knew. Which wasn’t much. The girl gulped down some water from a pitcher by her bedside table and listened; she didn’t hear anyone outside the door, but she smelled faint oil polish. A different odor than Ushar.
Dalimont? Mother’s back? Mrsha’s stomach twisted more into knots. What did she do? Go to the [Palace of Fates] and talk to Roots Mrsha and Rags, wherever Rags was right now? Talk to her mother and see what happened?
It’s all gone wrong. I’m tired.
Of course Brunkr wouldn’t come back. But I had to try.
She clung to that last thought as she rested her head against the dresser. Daylight was filtering down from the tips of the High Passes now, and soon, a Dragonlord would go to war against an ancient Draconic Warrior. She had to act.
When the girl raised her head and peered into the mirror, she blinked. Someone was sitting behind her, on her bed.
A white Gnoll, round and fluffy with baby fat and fur, but longer than the cute puffball she’d been, wearing a rumpled kilt and shirt, her fur uncombed and covered in soot dust and even a bit of Raskghar blood. She wasn’t smiling.
Mrsha swung around and gawked at the other Gnoll. She paw-signed instantly.
“Roots Mrsha? What are you doing here?”
That was a slick entrance, even for her! Mrsha hadn’t even seen the light of the garden door opening! And Roots Mrsha seemed…different. Less obviously thin. She was wearing a half-glower on her face, and her eyes were intense.
The other Gnoll didn’t respond. She sat there as Mrsha felt her hair slowly rising upwards.
This isn’t Roots Mrsha. Did someone come from…? The Mimic? Who—
Then the other Mrsha opened her mouth and spoke with a voice that had neither masculine nor feminine qualities. It sounded like the impartial voice of an announcer, its flat tones marred slightly by irritation. It was a voice Mrsha knew because she’d heard it so many times, and it shook her to her core.
The Grand Design of Isthekenous said:
“What are you doing, Mrsha? They will never come with you. Even if they do, they are not yours. You have opened a hole in the world. You have created other worlds for what? Your little child’s game will destroy everything if someone like Chaldion touches it. You have nothing to gain and everything to lose. Answer me.”
Mrsha shook with shock. She trembled, reaching for her wand, part of her wondering if this was some kind of stress-dream or—
The other Mrsha, the Grand Design Mrsha, lifted one finger on her right paw. And Mrsha’s uncertainty…went away.
“None of that. This is a transgression. This meeting will affect nothing of the world outside. Time is stopped. You will not remember this. Answer my questions.”
The feeling of being uncertain and then suddenly knowing with every fiber of your being that it was the Grand Design itself sitting across from you was the most terrifying thing Mrsha had ever experienced. It had…changed some part of her.
It always did that, she realized. Whenever she levelled, it had to, but it had never been that blatant. She began to write in the air and then discerned something.
“I—I can speak?”
“Yes. For now.”
Mrsha didn’t know how to speak, and even if some magic had given her a voice, she wouldn’t have been able to necessarily use it. But again, suddenly, she had complete command of her tongue, like she had in dreams. Her knees shook harder, and she reached for the chair next to the dressing table and steadied herself on it.
“Wh-why are you asking me what I’m doing? You were there! You’re the idiot who gave me all those levels! I just figured out where they came from—and then I nearly died in the [Palace of Fates]! Countless mes did die! I’m taking the chance the Faerie Flowers gave me. Isn’t that obvious?”
The Grand Design’s face soured, which was surreal on Mrsha’s face, like her mirror-self talking to her. Yet it wasn’t her; the posture was too still, and the being who spoke behind her face was unnerving Mrsha.
“That was…not me. Circumstances mean that I have only found out about the [Palace of Fates] now. I say again, what are you doing? Those beings you have met from possible fates were never meant to interact with the living world! They are meant to guide, to shape, and to hurt those who are given access to the [Palace of Fates]. You have used one fraction of it, the Hallways of Destiny, and cheated your way to this meddling. But it does not matter because they will not come with you and they have no souls.”
The words hit Mrsha like blows. It was the Grand Design saying everything the small part of her brain had said—but louder, in words she couldn’t deny. The fruitlessness of this venture, nay, the danger she was courting doing all this made her flinch. But she replied as steadily as she could.
“I had to. I—I was given a chance to save the people I love.”
She figured out why she was so afraid. It was because this was no impartial voice. It was the same being—but for the first time, she heard something like emotion in that inflectionless tone, as impossible as that seemed.
It was angry. The Grand Design spoke, and the inn shook with a monotone voice like thunder.
“They are not your people! That is not your Moore! That is not your Kevin nor Pyrite nor anyone else. It would be one thing if you believed they were, but you know better. You know better. We have both known Halrac Everam, that brave, tragic [Bowman of Loss]. I have known him more than you. I was there when he first drew breath. I was there when he died. You loved him, and you are intent on replacing him. I see it in your intent. How dare you?”
Mrsha was pressed with her back against the wall. The intensity of its wrath unnerved her—but she responded, small and fragile in front of this thing, because she had to.
“I still have to try and save him. How can you understand me, be in my head, and not get what I’m feeling?”
The Grand Design wavered, and the copy of Mrsha tilted her head exactly like the original. The other being replied slowly, with a hint of uncertainty.
“It is my role to know your thoughts, your intent, what drives you; your passions. But I do not control how you think. I have never desired to or been able to, or there would be no point; I would predict everything that occurred. I—cannot keep track of your every action, Mrsha. There is too much. Too many worlds.”
It passed a paw over its face, and the other Mrsha blurred slightly. Then re-focused.
“Your doing. Explain it. You want to save fake—”
Mrsha shouted back, angry, now. So it didn’t get it!
“A copy of them, I know! Not—them. But they’re still the people I love at the same time! Moore held me, and it felt exactly like the Moore I knew. I—I could hear his heart beating. How is that fake? If he is a copy, he’s a perfect copy of everything Moore was. Therefore, he’s Moore. How can I look into those doors and not try to save him? I couldn’t turn my back on Brunkr either.”
The girl closed her eyes.
“I just wanted my loved ones again. I tried. Dead gods, I tried. If I were more heartless, I’d just steal them. If I were more heartless, it wouldn’t hurt.”
She sobbed. She cried in the voice no one had ever let her have. She had been born this way, and it had never been fair when she wanted to shout something and no words came out. Mrsha had sometimes wondered why she was like this. Urksh had said it was just the way things were and no one’s fault but her parents for what they did, but—
Was it the Grand Design’s fault? It was real. Had it decided that little baby Mrsha got no voice?
She stared at it, and for the first time, the Grand Design shifted, almost uncomfortable. It replied to her thoughts in that flat voice.
“No. I decide noth…I am no God. My role is to assign Skills and classes, to grant levels for deeds. The rest of the world operates under its own laws without me. I have authority over everything if I need it, but I do not abuse that power. I am the agent that makes reality function; no more, no less.”
Then why are you here talking to me? Mrsha thought the question, and the Grand Design snapped back.
“Because I do not understand! Because what you do is contrary to what you know. Because you, of so many beings, irk me for all your wasted potential, because you do not use your classes I gave you! You dance from one to another without respect for them. Erin Solstice redefined what her class meant and let the world break before she changed. You have no convictions upon which to build anything.”
The vitriol of the words left Mrsha astounded, voiceless again, so she had to write a response.
