He wiped his mouth after a second and straightened as people walking down the street recoiled from the astonishing sight. First, he had appeared here in a flash of magic, then hurled in one of the public trash receptacles? Better than on the street, but dead gods!
Their city was a city of manners, and more than one person instantly went to tell the Drake off. After all, they were a prideful people in House Ulta. But as the Drake straightened, revealing more and more of his extraordinarily muscled body, the citizens fell silent.
They knew him.
The Grand Design…knew this man. It could tell you how many muscles he had cultivated across his body, his inner fears, his own failings and triumphs. Who, after all, did not know Sinew Magus Grimalkin of Pallass?
He was not an impressive sight as he wiped his mouth and spat again. He was suffering from mana burn; disgraceful, but he had made it.
Teleporting from Liscor all the way to House Ulta was…not easy. Valeterisa had managed it with a bunch of [Mages] lending her mana, but she was also in possession of the [Long Range Teleport] spell.
Grimalkin was not. However, the Sinew Magus had observed Valeterisa activating her spell circles and had memorized the coordinates of almost all of them. Reverse-engineering the spell let him use her teleportation network, but the cost was immense. His unoptimized spellcasting had only carried him here with the application of half a dozen mana potions.
But he’d made it. When the Drake straightened, he beheld that mansion he feared. He’d been dreaming of it.
If you had never seen the mansion of House Ulta, imagine excess. Not excess in terms of gluttony, but pride. One of Lady Pryde Ulta’s ancestors had once commissioned a mansion made out of the tall fir trees that had filled Ultanese lands, near the salt mines that she had calculated would make her people profits. But the woman had declined to just chop down the trees to make a regular noblewoman’s dwelling.
Just cut the largest trees down and use them to frame the house. How big can you make it?
The [Builders] had taken that as a challenge. So the mansion was forty-nine feet tall, nearly twice as wide…and twenty feet deep at the longest point.
It loomed over every building in Ulta’s capital city. People called it ‘The Wall’, because, well, look at it. The mansion was so vertically tall that wind and erosion had threatened to knock it flat on its back multiple times over its long life. In response, later generations had built into the back of the house, propping up the front with more reasonably-sized additions, but The Wall remained.
It was everything that House Ulta was. Grandiose, fragile in some ways, ridiculously silly, and…Grimalkin took a breath.
Beautiful because of how flawed it was. He feared this mansion. When he had first seen an image of it, he’d laughed at the ridiculousness of it.
Laughed, oh yes. The Sinew Magus walked forwards, and the people stared at him.
“That’s the Sinew Magus? Why is he…?”
“Lady Ulta? But she hasn’t come out and—”
“Someone find Beshard. Run!”
Perhaps they intended to stop him. The Sinew Magus walked faster as the sunlight shone off The Wall’s windows. Each one was equally vast, giving the owners a view of the city below from every window. They should have been thrown open, but they had been shuttered, the blinds blocking all light.
Ever since the Winter Solstice. Grimalkin muttered to himself.
“I feared it. Ancestors, I used to tell Erin Solstice I was such a practical person. I insulted her for being ridiculous, impractical. I stood here, and even when I came in person, I could not enter. Of course, I wasn’t invited. But so what? I am no Vampire.”
He was muttering to himself—he never did that. Grimalkin walked, unsteady, and wished the [Innkeeper] were here. He imagined that now, of all times, she would be his greatest ally. So he spoke as if Erin were here, glancing to the side with such confidence that people watching him stared at the empty space, as if they thought someone was using an [Invisibility] spell.
“Why? At first, Erin, I laughed. I thought it was a ridiculous edifice and made a note to myself to see it before I died, thinking little more of it. I thought she was somewhat…ridiculous.”
His breathing was elevated, his pulse dangerously high. The Sinew Magus realized his breath smelled like vomit and tried to find something to wash his mouth with. All he had was water and a scent-destroying spell. For combat. He had so few spells, he realized, that were not…useful.
Nothing frivolous like a spell to make your breath better—he knew they existed. His classmates in Fissival had learned them while he studied. How he’d thought they wasted their lives, but he would have traded a Tier 4 spell for that Tier 0 cantrip now.
Values. He was a weapon. He had honed himself to become what he felt Pallass needed, to shape and protect it. That was loyalty. That was purpose.
Today—he had left Pallass behind. Told no one where he was going. Abandoned his duties, the clear threat to 2nd Army, all of it. Because someone had looked him in the eye and told him his future.
The Sinew Magus kept speaking as he strode up to the mansion. The doors opened, and a servant exited with a basket for the market. When she saw Grimalkin, she froze—her mouth opened, and then she disappeared inside the mansion with a shriek.
Perhaps they would stop him. If they did, what would he do? He didn’t know. The Sinew Magus walked as if he were going to war, and each step felt heavier. He grew more afraid, so he spoke to that image of Erin—he had no one else to talk to. He had many students, associates, acquaintances, all professional.
Grimalkin had thought being alone was natural.
“I thought she was a silly woman. Ridiculous. Egotistical. But I was glad of her enthusiasm, because it benefited me when no one else would give me credence. Even before the Wyvern attack, she believed in my work. What was that? You never realized?”
He opened the gate to The Wall’s front, and one of the people trailing behind him poked the air to Grimalkin’s right. Their finger passed through nothing at all. Grimalkin held the gate open for his imaginary [Innkeeper] and continued.
“—I never spoke of it. That would be discourteous. I just thought it. I’m not that blind, but perhaps I am. Because I didn’t see…and I didn’t behold myself. Strange. First I laughed. Then, after the Winter Solstice, I came here. More than once. I paid for an overnight carriage and stood here, invisibly. Then I came with Valeterisa, again. Two chances. I wonder if she noticed me the first time, and the second…I still couldn’t enter. I’ve been dreaming of this place, not every night, but for the last month.”
His head craned up to The Wall, and curtains jerked aside. Faces peeked at him; servants. Women, he realized, exclusively women. They pulled back, and he could tell a furor was growing inside the mansion.
But the Sinew Magus just looked to the highest window, two from the middle. The curtain there twitched, ever-so-slightly, but even with magic, he could not see if anyone was there. Yet he stared up at it.
“I am afraid. I wish you were here to push me inside, laugh at me, or open those doors. I regret every day I ever refused to help you.”
He turned and realized a crowd of people were behind him. An [Innkeeper], Mistress Keida, who had once served a band of Knights of Seasons. Townsfolk wearing tracksuits and seeming very fit, products of the new public gymnasium in their city.
Salt-loving maniacs. A [Farmer] riding a wagon pulled by a donkey, both of whom were staring at Grimalkin. He kept speaking; the terror welling within him was nothing to the social stigma.
“I thought I knew what I valued. Then the values began to shift. I began to question things after Ferkr, after I received orders I didn’t like. I deluded myself into thinking that I didn’t see the big picture, that I was unfit to lead. Perhaps I was right. But then I ceased caring. Only after that strange, arrogant, reassuring woman stopped showing up did I realize what had vanished. I have always doubted my actions. Questioned my strength. Sought to hone who I am, because I felt inferior.”
He raised one arm, covered with muscles, and even the [Bodybuilders] in the crowd stared in awe at the limits of the physical form taken to this extreme. Grimalkin gazed up, his voice rising.
“She never doubted her own worth. Or mine. Silly became charming. Charming became…and I stood there, despite seeing clear signs of what I thought was affection. Even now I doubt it, because I doubt anyone could ever fall in love with me. Yet she came to the Winter Solstice and suffered. I believe, selfishly, arrogantly, it was partly because of me. Now, here I am. I cannot go through those doors.”
He had halted in the courtyard where statues of former members of House Ulta’s family stood. Lady Pryde’s family. Heroes of the Sacrifice of Roses.
The last child of House Ulta was in that mansion, and the Sinew Magus studied the neatly paved stones leading to the mansion, some cracked with grass, but lovely, carried from the bottom of a riverbank and still faintly iridescent with flecks of minerals baked into the rocks.
It was like a bridge surrounded by Crelers in his mind, and his feet would take him no further. The Sinew Magus stood there as the doors opened and a dusky-skinned Stitch-man emerged.
Beshard, the [Javelin Commander] and seneschal of House Ulta. Not a lover of Lady Pryde, merely a trusted vassal. Grimalkin had searched it up.
His heart wavered as the man stepped forwards. His face was uncertain, and he bowed, flanked by a small army of the household staff.
“Magus Grimalkin. Your arrival is unexpected. I regret to inform you that Lady Ulta’s will has not changed. She…requests you leave, and thanks you for your concern. But she is taking no visitors.”
The Sinew Magus almost turned on the spot. Every bone of etiquette and responsibility in his body told him this was a refusal. But when he tried to turn, he saw that older Mrsha watching him. And the image of Erin…
And the faces of House Ulta’s people. They were not, as he had assumed, hostile. They gazed up at him with that sense of loss and hurt and helplessness that he himself had felt for weeks. But something else. Grimalkin saw Miss Keida kneading her apron together. She half-shook her head, and the Sinew Magus hesitated.
He turned back. Beshard could not meet his eyes, and he was a brave man, a veteran of Chandrarian wars. Beshard spoke to his boots.
“I—we thank you for your visit, Sinew Magus. But Her Ladyship’s will is explicit.”
The Drake swallowed hard and wondered what Erin Solstice would say. He cleared his throat.
“Did she—Lady Pryde—say that? Is it her will that I leave? Please ask her again.”
Beshard glanced up, then behind him, and the crowd of staff susurrated. One of them turned; the Sinew Magus stood there as more people gathered, and a silence grew.
His eyes were locked on that window, and again, he saw the curtains twitch. He thought he saw…a figure standing there before the curtains were yanked shut. It took only a few more seconds; a breathless young woman appeared and whispered to Beshard. The [Commander]’s face fell, and he called out.
“Lady Pryde Ulta requests you leave at once, Magus Grimalkin. And to refrain from returning, uninvited. She will correspond with you as needed.”
A soft sound rose in the crowd behind Grimalkin, but it was drowned out by the roaring in his ears. His head craned back, but the curtains of that window did not move.
“Now what?”
He said it out loud, and Beshard hesitated, but it was not to him Grimalkin spoke. The Drake cast around, desperately, and that image he had of Erin Solstice didn’t respond. His imagination for the creative aspect of things was not strong. Grimalkin didn’t know what she’d say, but oh, how he longed for her presence.
Not because she was some Casanova of love; quite the opposite. He could have wished for Lord Pellmia, petitioned the man for help, or even sequestered Menolit if he’d been thinking straight. No, he longed for Erin Solstice, because she was…like him.
If she spoke about love, about longing, about loneliness, he would believe her, as he always did. Desperately, the Sinew Magus closed his eyes.
“I don’t know what to do. I don’t know what I should do. I have clear orders. I have a duty. But here I am. I must…speak my piece. I must; you’re right. Whatever comes next, let it be said, and if it kills me, nothing shall stop me. That is the only way I know.”
His head rose, and his muscles, pectorals, biceps, trapezius, all of them, seemed to swell and flex. Grimalkin grew visibly larger, and the staff around Beshard backed up. Several [Guards], muscular as could be thanks to their new training, tried to form a defensive line at the doors of the mansion. But when they gazed at the Sinew Magus, they quailed.
He took one step forwards, and the flagstones cracked under his foot. Another—and the stones cracked again. Grimalkin sank to one knee—the crowd realized he was sinking slightly into the earth.
Under a weight, a Skill that crushed even his physique downwards. But the Sinew Magus stood straighter with effort, raising his chin higher. He did not take a step further. Instead, his chest inflated, and he spoke.
The same lungs which had once shouted ‘testicles’ across all of Pallass and exhorted his students inflated. Then, the Sinew Magus shouted, and the Humans around him recoiled and clapped their hands to their ears.
“Lady Pryde Ulta! I have received your last missive and thank you for the message!”
—ssage—ssage—ssage! The echoes of his voice bounced off the distant walls of the city. The Sinew Magus continued at the same volume, so loud the windows vibrated.
“I apologize for the rudeness of my visit! I well recall you had indicated you felt unfit to see any visitors, and I have done my best to adhere to your desires. However I—wished to see you. I feel as though the wounds inflicted on you by the Hag Queens of Aklat Vunn were my fault. I take responsibility for that battle. Your bravery, your sacrifice…I have struggled to put my admiration and sincere regrets into words. I know I have failed to heal your affliction. I—know it is why you turn away all visitors. I understand this. Yet I have come to say my piece.”
He could picture her, the flawless, imperious woman who always seemed to look down on anyone she beheld, self-important, and yes, beautiful. Aware of her virtues. Proud.
Pryde. The Sinew Magus’ throat was dry, and he coughed. But he had to continue. He was locked in a battle to the death, and if he retreated, he would bleed out. The problem was, he didn’t know what to say next, so he just spoke. He actually saluted.
