“Chrysanthia? I think our intruders are all cured, but I’m going to ask Liscor’s hospital to confirm all my findings. Please have them prepare a secured teleportation area, and remember, I want details kept quiet. Results are fine—no names or other details. Oh, and get me some illusion spells of a young Gnoll girl, eight years old. Make it chestnut fur?”
He glanced at Mrsha, then addressed Dyeda.
“As you can imagine, times have changed. Salazsar was nearly toppled by revolts, and Fissival was almost destroyed outright by rebellion and their war with the former Archmage of Izril, Valeterisa. I don’t recall when, but they lost a portion of the city itself…it will never fly again. Manus is still holding strong, as is Oteslia, but even Zeres suffered major naval defeats.”
“Huh. Good? I don’t like Drakes.”
Dyeda shrugged with true apathy for the Drake condition, and Moore shook his head.
“I would share that sentiment, but Izril has greatly suffered from foreign powers intruding. You saw how much of the north was conquered by Terandrian kingdoms…?”
I saw. Why did Ailendamus attack Izril, or Erribathe and other kingdoms? They’re Humans. The Five Families are, like, the only people they respect.
Moore scratched at his beard as more tests ran negative.
“Simple geography is my guess. Izril was by far the closest continent for Terandrians to attack. The casus belli at the time was the Five Families’ involvement in…the Dawn Concordat war? Damn, let me look this up.”
He typed on a computer, then half-swivelled to show Mrsha.
“You two, this is a personal computer. It’s a new device that stores information. This one is magically linked to Wistram, and it can show you news, images, anything you want!”
I know. I saw Kevin’s. What kind of videogames do you have on there?
Mrsha held up a card, relieved that here, at least, she wasn’t lost at sea. Lord Moore’s face visibly fell in a familiar way, and he stabbed moodily at the keyboard.
“Gods damned Earthers. I always knew Erin and the others were from another world, but I never inquired that much. They’ve made chaos out of this world. Alright…let me see. Dawn Concordat War…Wellfar and Veltras involvement…yes, that links to the Siege of the North. Ailendamus declared a punitive war following their victory over Kaliv in the Second Dawn Concordat War and absorbing Calanfer as a province. Then Ailendamus, Taimaguros, and Erribathe launch the invasion…there we are.”
He said all this and gave Mrsha the same vivid sense of surreality as the Mother of Graves revelation. However—again—pieces made sense. Her paw shot up.
Wait! Erribathe? Who led Erribathe into the war? They’re part of the Sleepy Three!
“Restful Three, and not any longer. It was King Iradoren. He’s still ruling from northern Izril. Not a pleasant neighbor, but he hasn’t managed to wipe out the Five Families yet. That’s why Liscor has to be careful. We have a strong army under General Olesm, but we’re still a minor power sandwiched between larger ones.”
Iradoren. Mrsha exchanged a knowing look with Dyeda, or tried to, because the [Tattooist] just had a blank expression on her face. Moore kept answering questions as Mrsha urgently asked what had become of Calanfer—
“The royal family? Lyonette was quite concerned, but I believe they were all subsumed into Ailendamus. Lesser royalty. Yes, they’re all ali—ah, well, Princess Seraphel passed away, Princess Vernoue died in a magical accident, Princess Aielef was a casualty of the second…”
He glanced up, and his face grew tired and bleaker.
“There have been many wars in the last ten years. The final war against the Demons took too many lives as well. Liscor’s former army as well as Watch Commander Embria were casualties of it.”
I saw Embria, though. She was alive. Just without…legs. She lost them there?
Moore was fiddling with the controls, distracted, avoiding her gaze as if it pained him to talk of it, and it probably did. She was the little Mrsha he remembered, now dredging up old wounds. And he had not even asked the real question, the one she could see burning behind his eyes.
Erin.
“She was the lucky one. Her entire company was nearly wiped out. It was a truly horrific war that cost too much, but it was won. The Deaths of Demons each fell with great difficulty, and afterwards, the victors became what you saw today: their [Heroes] are worldwide threats. Watch Commander Embria is a splendid leader of Liscor today. And Relc is still alive. I don’t know if I should ask him to come over or hide you away…Lyonette saw you on camera. A mother always recognizes her daughter, even if you’re too young.”
He was omitting someone. Mrsha saw Moore receive another message, which he glanced over at and nodded.
“The results from the lab are in. You’re definitely clean. Here, let me [Cleanse] you—do you want any more snacks? No? Let’s get out of this room, and you can have a proper meal. Though you need an illusion. Doomslayers will enter even Liscor to try to kill you.”
Another shitty part of this future. Mrsha let Moore cast the spell then blow hot air over her fur, and he gave Dyeda a towel too. He wanted to lead them from the laboratory, but Mrsha grabbed his leg. Moore jumped and gazed down at her.
“Dead gods, you really are that little girl from the past. The Mrsha of today barely even hugs me.”
He smiled, but the girl of the past gave him a level look that he had no memory of. A tired, weary one.
Moore, what happened to Zevara? I know it’s bad. But please, I have to know.
The half-Giant’s face froze. He hesitated, then sat down on a padded stool, and that terrible, blank expression came over his face again.
“The Mother of Graves sacrificed people before we could kill her. People of note; those strong enough to resist. Watch Commander Zevara was the last. There’s…a statue of her in the central plaza.”
His hands clenched together with such force that Dyeda stepped back; it was like the two could see the air visibly distorting around the half-Giant’s fingers. Mrsha felt a thrill of genuine unease. Moore was over Level 50. Like all beings of that level, he had become something far beyond regular people.
But when he looked down and lifted Mrsha up, he was still the gentle figure. More gentle, in fact, as if he knew full well how dangerous he was. Lord Moore hesitated. It was the girl who held out her paws and initiated the hug.
How he trembled. Lord Moore gently patted her head, and she felt him exhale long and hard.
She?
She did not feel the same crushing despair and joy that her other self had felt when she met the Moore from the past. Roots Mrsha felt like she was hugging a stranger, an uncle distantly remembered.
Oh, dead gods. What have we done? That same desperation in her, Rags, and Mrsha was in Moore’s own gaze. He held her up, inspecting her.
“You’re free of the Mother’s taint. She—she’s alive in your world. You’ve come here before her plans come to fruition, but she’s alive. It took all three of our teams sacrificing everything to reach her. And we were Named-ranks by then. But you’re here. Gods, this is impossible.”
Gods, he said. Another chill. The girl did rather feel like someone had yanked the carpet from under her feet. That sensation of—of the sacrosanct violated, of knowing something you shouldn’t, something momentous, was running through the three of them. Dyeda gave it a word, simple and to the point as Goblins could be.
“Cheating. We’re cheating. Now we know about the Mother and the dungeon…what happens next, Mrsha? Is this okay?”
She meant all of it. Her ring, this world of the future—the consequences. Roots Mrsha didn’t have all the answers. Other Mrsha had some, but the girl from another bad timeline only knew what she believed.
And it was this: Mrsha wrote on a card, then held it up. Her eyes shone with no brilliant, magical light, but simple conviction. Willpower that captivated the half-Giant and Goblin.
Is it okay? It’s more than okay. I’m relieved. Yes, Dyeda, we are cheating. Good. Everyone cheats; I’ve never seen a fair fight against Belavierr or the Plain’s Eye tribe or Roshal or anyone else. Now, it’s our turn. Let’s get that bitch.
Dyeda’s mouth fell open in delight, and Lord Moore blinked in astonishment as Mrsha pointed, writing with her wand.
Moore, can I have a fancy ring like Dyeda? Also—does that cure work on large bodies of water? Can we do a House Byres on the Mother of Graves by adding it to the wells? If you were going to send a cute, lovable, innocent-looking girl back to her world, how would you mess up the Mother of Graves’ plans best?
Her eyes flashed, and the half-Giant inhaled. Then his breath exploded in a sudden laugh.
“Hah! Hahaha! Of course! Of course, if you’d known half of what we did—the cure I gave you can’t be added to water. It denatures too quickly. But Liscor treats its water for the Flesh Worm larvae. Drink enough of it and you’d eventually kill all the larvae off in an infected individual. Who would that be?”
Elirr, any Gnolls who were taken captive by the Raskghar. And any Raskghar and Cave Goblins still alive. Shit. Cave Goblins.
Dyeda grew alarmed as well.
“Can I have that cure-stuff? Or how to make it?”
“It’s not easy to make—but I can certainly write the recipe and the ingredients. Give me one second! Chrysanthia, get me—!”
Now the half-Giant was tearing around the room in a frenzy of excitement, but he had one eye on the Goblin and Gnoll. Mrsha wasn’t done writing, either. Her mind was sparking.
She’ll never see it coming, right? She can’t read minds?
“Not unless someone is fully infested for at least a year. And she’s more like a—a voice in the back of your head, or so Lyonette told me. The Mother of Graves has to focus on a threat. Dead gods, you could kill all of her larvae in the dungeon if you managed to reach the wells. Maps…”
The half-Giant practically dashed out of the laboratory, voice booming through the mansion. When he came back, Dyeda stopped trying to unplug one of his laptops and hide it behind her back. As for Mrsha? The Gnoll girl was sitting there, head back, eyes closed.
Relieved. As if a great weight, a worry, had been lifted from her shoulders. She wrote a line of bright golden text in the air.
Lord Moore? The Flesh Worms must have driven anyone infected with them crazy, right?
“At the very least, they change your thoughts. You become more aggressive. More driven to procreate, and then to water. Infected individuals become sleepwalkers who spit larvae into the wells—why? Has anyone been acting like that?”
Mrsha smiled dreamily.
Only one. For my sake, Lord Moore, for the redemption of a brave, honorable adventurer, would you give me something else? I need an affidavit, a testimonial of what the Mother of Graves does to your mind. I won’t share it with everyone. But I need to have it to free a [Prisoner].
Dyeda had no idea whom Mrsha was talking about, but the half-Giant halted, and he breathed a name.
“Calruz.”
Mrsha nodded, and Moore went running again. When he came back with ink and scrolls, and official-looking documents, she just lay there. Dyeda patted at her worriedly.
“Mrsha, you okay? Did the cure make you sick?”
She didn’t feel different, and the girl reassured her.
I’m fine, Dyeda. Just relieved. We tried so hard, Mrsha and I. We didn’t know if we’d save everyone.
Her eyes were glistening with tears, and the girl began to hiccup. Her wand began to tremble in her grip.
It may not be who we thought, but at least we can save our Calruz’s soul. Then I need to apologize to him. And then, someday, he can sleep in a bed in The Wandering Inn with his two cute rats.
Her nose began to run, and Dyeda fumbled for a handkerchief and gently pressed it into Mrsha’s paws. She soothed Mrsha, rubbing her head.
“I don’t know who that is, but I think this is good.”
So the Goblin smiled, and Moore sighed. He finished writing and gazed down at the girl.
“I want to believe you’re real with all my heart, Mrsha. I still…I want to see this entryway, if I may. At the very least, I hope Pawn has rescued your Rags. That was her, wasn’t it?”
Mrsha blinked and nodded as she blew her nose. Moore rumbled.
“Good. Then I’ll give you everything I can, and quickly. We have to find our older Mrsha; everyone’s meant to gather at The Wandering Inn later today, anyways. We’ll hurry before our friends from Wistram arrive. Once you go through that door, never come back, understand?”
He lifted Mrsha up again, with urgency, and she blinked at him.
Why?
“Because Pawn wants to see Erin Solstice more than I, Mrsha. He scares me. He is over Level 60; a [Prophet]. That already makes him one of the most powerful beings in the world, but his Painted Antinium are the dominant power among the Antinium people. The Hives do not go to war anymore. His crusaders do. They have beaten even Rhir’s armies in battle. If he finds a way to Erin Solstice, I fear what he will do.”
Mrsha blinked—then wrote furiously.
But Moore! I didn’t tell you, but your Erin is still alive! She can be revived! I think—you could do it, if you had enough preparation! We figured out how to bring her back from the dead!
It would probably work the same, right? Or if it was harder because Erin had been dead longer, the magical technology of this world would surely make up for it. Mrsha expected Moore to burst into tears or a smile, but his face only became grave.
“If that is true, then leave the knowledge with me, Mrsha. I will do everything I can to bring Erin back. But the world she knew has changed and…the Painted Antinium are not hoping for a mere [Innkeeper], I think. Pawn would have her be a God.”
He said the word again, and Mrsha narrowed her eyes, but the…fogginess in her head, the way the word always turned into ‘dead gods’, didn’t exist in this world.
Because there was nothing in this world to keep the idea from spreading. Her eyes opened wide, and Moore rose. He snapped at a rather alarmed young half-Elf.
“Get everything in order. We’re going to The Wandering Inn! Where is Bishop Pawn now?”
“I—I think his Painted Antinium were disengaging from the Floodplains, Lord Moore. Without conflict! They were entering Liscor on a pilgrimage to The Wandering Inn, just like normal.”
Moore exhaled and turned to Mrsha.
“Then let’s hurry. Here.”
He pulled his ring off his finger and handed it to Mrsha, then turned to gather everything they needed to hurt the Mother of Graves. Mrsha’s eyes fixated on Moore as he began to speak. And she swore she’d bring a weapon back to kill the Mother of Graves.
On this, at least future Moore and she could agree.
This world didn’t need another God.
 
——
 
