“What did she do? Dame Ushar?”
Her voice—and trust—in the Thronebearer were cracking, but Dame Ushar answered simply.
“I cannot say for certain what she did, but please bear in mind I am caught between your interests and hers, as if I were forced to choose between Queen Ielane and yourself, Princess Marquin. In this case, I do remind you that I am caught between your, Mrsha’s, and Queen Ielane’s wills.”
“My daughter is not me or my mother, Dame Ushar!”
“No, Your Highness. She is your daughter, and I suggest that she can be as impressive as you, in her way. She did learn from you.”
That compliment worked slightly, so Lyonette just gritted her teeth as she marched back to the World’s Eye Theatre. Duke Rhisveri was rubbing at one cheek; she’d just slapped him for turning Demsleth to acid.
“It’s not like he’s dead. I protected all our interests. Visophecin, back me up. Visophecin?”
The Lucifen didn’t answer, mostly because he was trying to hack into the Thronebearer’s conversion with Lyonette.
“Enough. Tell me, Ushar, what did Mrsha do?”
Lyonette glanced at Rhisveri and Visophecin, and the murmur from the Thronebearer was cryptic.
“My thought is that she hid the one thing that makes the [Palace of Fates] more than a tragedy, Your Highness. Wisely, too, given our company. Ah, here we are—”
And then her daughter entered the World’s Eye Theatre. Lyonette spun, halfway down the steps, and spread her arms.
“Mrsha! You silly, lovely—”
She ran up the steps, and Mrsha smiled, or tried to.
Hi, Mom. Morning, Nanette. Hey, Taletevirion and you two guys. Who’s…that?
She looked down the stairs, and a young Gnoll woman got to her feet. Adult Mrsha stared at child Mrsha, and Lyonette realized that the Thronebearers…might have neglected to mention the most important detail of all this.
“Wow, I was short when I was eight. Hey, me.”
Adult Mrsha tried to appear cool as she brushed some toast crumbs off her front. Nanette got up with Ishkr, and Colfa and the staff stood around them. The young Mrsha began to shake. She trembled, from head to toe, and Lyonette tried to make her voice soothing.
“Mrsha? Mrsha, I’m not angry. I understand you…were doing the most responsible thing you could, I know! But as you can see, things are getting a bit out of hand, and I’ve been talking to adult—you—and—”
The other Mrsha was talking over her, unhelpfully, in the way a teenager was very good at.
“Hey, I haven’t done anything bad! I just came to save my Erin, which you get. I even shared some spells! If you want to know how I’m talking—”
She got no further because the younger Mrsha leapt from the stairs, and a howl, a howl of rage and despair came out of her mouth as she tackled her older self with all her weight.
The insane dive struck the taller Mrsha, and she staggered. She didn’t actually fall, which said something about her strength and coordination, but she stumbled—and when her leg moved back, she stepped right into the open door beneath her.
Both Mrshas fell into the door of the [Garden of Sanctuary] that opened in the ground. Lyonette shouted in horror.
“No!”
Mrsha had used Erin’s tactic! Everyone rushed forwards, but the door snapped shut—and Lyonette screamed.
“Mrsha!”
 
——
 
“Ow, fuck, ow, get off—what is wrong with you?”
They bounced and crashed down the hill in the [Garden of Sanctuary] before Adult Mrsha got the child off her. She was strong, a Silver-rank adventurer, but the girl was clawing at her, biting, attacking in a frenzy of emotion, and short of hurting her, it was hard to actually get her away!
How was she doing this? This was the [Garden of Sanctuary]! The older Mrsha didn’t understand—until she saw a statue opening its wings above them.
Another [Garden of Sanctuary]? How—
The little Gnoll girl bit Adult Mrsha’s arm and punctured flesh deep, eliciting a shout of agony. The younger Gnoll kept attacking, snarling.
Sanctuary was only for Erin’s garden.
When Adult Mrsha finally yanked the girl off herself, she had several bites on her, and then she felt a second door open at her feet.
“Aaah! [Barrier of Air]!”
She halted herself from falling a second time by conjuring a platform, and a wild kick from younger Mrsha made her recoil; she nearly backed into the open door again.
This little brat was trying to get her back into the [Palace of Fates]! To throw her back to her world?
“Not happening—I’m not going to—ow! Hold still—”
Little Mrsha produced a wand and began firing off [Stone Dart] spells! Swearing, the older Mrsha dodged them, tore the wand out of younger Mrsha’s grip, and got slashed across the hand with a [Thorn Paw]!
That was it. She snarled, dropped her younger self, and kicked her in the stomach…just as the door to the [Garden of Sanctuary] opened and Lyonette ran through.
“Mrsha!”
Adult Mrsha raised her paws guiltily and backed up as her younger self curled up into a ball. But the little Gnoll’s head came up, and she snarled. She got to all fours—then threw up.
The people running into the garden winced as the older Mrsha held up her hands as if she hadn’t just kicked Mrsha hard enough to make her vomit.
Everyone was entering the [Garden of Sanctuary], but they’d been delayed finding where the two Mrshas were fighting. Lyonette had figured out Mrsha’s trick, and now she and the inn’s staff were with the two. The Thronebearers were calling for older Mrsha to step back as more and more people joined them.
 
——
 
A self-important Wyrm was shouting at everyone running into the [Garden of Sanctuary]. He was waving a glowing finger, screaming as he charged after the two Mrshas. Control! He had to take control, he’d promised Lyonette! And that girl was the only one who knew how to use this palace!
“Stop! Stop! I am in control here! I’ll paralyze anyone who doesn’t whud—”
He slammed into the invisible barrier to the [Garden of Sanctuary] and sat down. Viscount Visophecin skidded to a halt, hands pressed to the barrier.
“I believe we need entry?”
He turned—and Taletevirion tossed him to one side and stormed into the garden.
—There was no one there. The Unicorn turned, and Ishkr beckoned from atop the hill.
“It’s another garden. This way—”
 
——
 
In Empress Sheta’s garden, the two Mrshas faced off, both injured; Adult Mrsha’s arm was bleeding, and the younger Mrsha was clutching her stomach.
“Hey, listen. We’re on the same side.”
Adult Mrsha tried to calm down her younger self. She saw the younger Gnoll girl wipe her mouth, tense—then jump into a [Flying Headbutt] attack.
Adult Mrsha didn’t remember that Skill! The [Fatebreaker Child] knocked her into the second door, and they fell into the [Palace of Fates].
This time, Adult Mrsha gave up on playing nice. She grabbed the younger girl and put her in a full chokehold in the air. A flailing Mrsha grew stiller as Adult Mrsha choked off her oxygen supply.
By the time Lyonette came sliding down the ropes so fast she got rope burns, Adult Mrsha had control of the situation. She showed Lyonette the still child, panting.
“Got her. Wow, she’s crazier than—”
Lyonette punched Adult Mrsha in the face and grabbed her daughter, tearing her free. Young Mrsha inhaled as Adult Mrsha stumbled backwards and felt at her cheek. She stared at the younger version of her mother as Lyonette hugged Mrsha, backing up between the two Thronebearers who landed with shields raised. The [Princess] clutched her daughter to her as she backed away from the older Gnoll.
“Mrsha? Are you okay, Mrsha?”
“I didn’t do anything! Hey!”
Adult Mrsha protested as the Thronebearers drew their weapons. Little Mrsha was gulping for air, and she glared at her older self. When she finally managed to write with a trembling wand in the air, it was this:
Leave. Now. I’ve been trying to do one shred of good. But you’re the disaster. If you have what you want, leave!
Her older self stared at the glowing words and felt her own temper rise. She recalled a story from Ryoka Griffin about how the Wind Runner had once beaten down her mirror image in the most satisfying battle of her life.
Right now, Adult Mrsha really, really wanted to give her bratty younger self a smack. But this world’s Lyonette seemed dangerously close to drawing her sword. The [Princess] looked about as people began sliding down the ropes or exclaiming.
“Let’s all calm down. Who’s here? Ishkr? Let in Rhisveri and Visophecin! Everyone stop fighting! That’s an order. Mrsha, this is you! She hasn’t harmed anyone…except for Grimalkin! Just calm down and explain things, okay?”
Order restored, even if Mrsha Prime’s trembling did not. People entered the [Palace of Fates], the corridor with the breach in the ceiling, and came in wonderingly. A lot of people, by the way.
Peggy, Rosencrantz, Asgra, Goldbody, and more of the staff.
Ser Dalimont, Lyonette, Dame Ushar, Ishkr, Bird, and last of all, Nanette.
The Order of Solstice and Numbtongue, used to what was going on, but visibly disconcerted by the strife.
Duke Rhisveri, Visophecin, and Taletevirion.
Vaulont, Elia, Yelroan, Rose, and Colfa.
Frankly, the only people not in here were Calescent, because he was making breakfast, Gemhammer on security, and Todi, who was not sure if he was upset about the lack of trust or relieved he wasn’t dodging Tier 6 spells today.
Of them all, Colfa val Lischelle-Drakle made Lyonette blanch the hardest. The Vampiress saw Lyonette’s reaction and pointed.
“I could leave. I just saw everyone running, and I…where is this place?”
“No, you might as well stay. Everyone stay here! This place could do anything! Mrsha, please, explain?”
Lyonette put the girl down, and Nanette ran over to check on her.
“Mrsha, are you okay? What—you dug this place up? The Faerie Flowers did this? What did you find?”
Nanette was trying not to sound accusatory or hurt, but that was pretty much the base state of a lot of the inn. Either upset Mrsha had kept this from them, shocked, incredulous, or apprehensive, in the case of some of them.
“Dead gods. This…is the biggest legacy Skill I’ve ever seen in my life. And this—wh—those are the Faerie Flowers everyone warned me about! How much danger are we in?”
Yelroan was as lost as everyone else. Rose was pinching herself.
“Ow. Fuck. Ow. This is crazy. This is crazier than the tent Skill! Well maybe not—”
“Everyone, silence!”
Lyonette’s shriek provoked a sudden quietus, and she pointed a trembling finger around.
“Ser Dalimont, secure everything! All the staff, Vaulont, are all under your authority. This is all under control. My control! We are going to logically and calmly deal with this—situation. After Mrsha explains herself.”
They all gaped at the girl holding her stomach, and Mrsha inhaled, exhaled. She glanced at Duke Rhisveri, who was staring at his shaking hands with confusion. Viscount Visophecin was trying to blend in with everyone else, but he jumped when Asgra tried to hold his hand. Mrsha gazed at Taletevirion, her older self, glowering, at Nanette, her mother, and then raised a finger.
Hold on, I’m gonna puke again.
This time, it was from stress.
 
——
 
“Stop. Give us a few minutes. Just a few minutes, alright? Please. Thank you.”
Lyonette stopped everything. She didn’t order everyone back; she just requested a moment with her daughter.
Mrsha was wiping at her mouth, and she squirmed when Lyonette found a handkerchief. They had to keep moving. They had to get older Mrsha back and—
Lyonette spat into the handkerchief and began to clean the sick off Mrsha’s fur. The girl stilled as she saw everyone was standing away from them. Adult Mrsha, the Thronebearers, the inn’s staff—
Just her and her mother. Mrsha didn’t know what to say. She avoided Lyonette’s gaze, but her mother didn’t seem mad.
That was the worst part. She wasn’t even doing the ‘I’m very disappointed in you’ thing that adults do so well. She actually seemed…
“You know, Mrsha. I think I’ve been wrong about desserts. Krshia always told me I didn’t understand how Gnolls looked. But when I look at the other you…I think you should eat all the dessert you want. Both of you. My mother always told me being thin was crucial, because it made us attractive. And if we wanted to eat more, we should change the standards for beauty. That was her way of trying to teach us the value of soft power, one supposes.”
Lyonette didn’t talk about Queen Ielane much. Mrsha wasn’t sure why she was bringing this up now. The girl wrote with a trembling paw.
I’m okay with not having dessert ever again. I’m sorry, Mother. Just let me send Adult Mrsha back, and we can make a plan. Okay?
“We’ll do that. And I want you to know that whatever you need to do, whatever you and Rags think is best, we’ll try to do. Alright? You won’t have me trying to take all this over. Let’s just get both of you back, and Rags…I mean, Rags plural. Then we can sit down, alright?”
Lyonette smiled and stroked Mrsha’s head as she inspected the girl’s fur. Mrsha held up a card.
The Titan’s out there. It would have been out there even without the [Palace of Fates]. That’s part of why I did this. This is my fault.
“Mrsha, I’m not going to scold you. I’m not angry.”
Liar. You can tell me how much I’ve messed up. Don’t worry; I know.
The girl would have accepted getting hit or spanked. She knew she deserved it. But instead, Lyonette just drew Mrsha into her arms.
“Mrsha du Marquin. Upon my mother’s crown and the inn and—Apista—I swear, I’m not mad at you. And I’m not going to punish you. You are my daughter. Sometimes you do silly, naughty things. But this? This…this is the scariest thing I’ve seen yet from Erin’s inn. The hardest. I was very upset and afraid for you when I didn’t know what was going on, but now?”
She gazed down at her daughter in her arms, who was getting too big to be held like this, and Lyonette’s eyes were glimmering.
“Scold you? Just tell me what you need, Mrsha. I promise, I’ll help. It’s not all on your shoulders.”
She wasn’t scolding Mrsha? The girl stared up at her mother, searching for the contradiction she knew was there.
I didn’t tell you because you’d want to make it your problem. I—I thought you wouldn’t understand.
The [Princess] laughed guiltily.
“I probably wouldn’t have. When I was warring with Nanette, I would have torn this away from you, locked it up, and forbidden you from ever coming here. For your own good.”
You would, but now it’s too big. And they’re here…
Mrsha eyed Visophecin and Rhisveri and the rest, and Lyonette put herself between them and Mrsha.
