Easily stopping the boy’s counterattack, Goujian sank down and sprang forward to deliver a punishing blow aimed at the boy’s midsection, one aimed to break his spine and end this farce once and for all. Cloud-Stepping in place, the runt narrowly avoided the attack by leaping over Goujian’s head, only to catch a backhanded blow to the shoulder for his troubles. Twisting about to control his descent, the runt put on an impressive display of acrobatics, but Goujian was upon him before his feet touched the ground to deliver a straightforward drop-kick to the chest. The air rushed from the runt’s lungs and his gasps were music to one’s ears, but his heels dug twin furrows in the hardened stone floor as he slid meters back and away. Unable to wholly control his retreat, the boy was forced to backflip in order to disperse the remaining force of the attack, affording Goujian the opportunity to close the distance with a standing vault. Whilst still in the air, he brought his interlaced fingers down in a two-handed smash, striking the runt’s raised shield and driving him down to his knees with an audible crunch. A second smash was blocked again, and the boy sank into the stone as if it were mud instead, his bones fracturing beneath the force of Goujian’s fury, but aside from a single muted grunt, the hateful runt refused to cry out in pain.

Driven to fury by his foe’s stubborn silence, Goujian howled in wordless rage while unleashing a storm of punches, kicks, elbows, knees, and headbutts. Weathering it all beneath his upraised shield, the runt struggled to get away, but Goujian would not allow it, battering his target from side to side and smashing him off balance every time he seemed close to recovery. Flesh ruptured, bones fractured, and organs jostled about, but the runt endured it all without a sound and refused to simply give up. Worst of all, no matter where he aimed, every one of Goujian’s attacks kept landing on the runt’s hateful shield, allowing this affront to Heaven keep his dog life just that much longer. “Why?” Goujian asked, speaking through gritted teeth while delivering a flurry of heavy blows. “Won’t. You. Die?”

Finally out of breath, Goujian slowed down every so slightly and allowed an infinitesimal pause to slip into his barrage of attacks, one that the runt took full advantage of. Emerging from the ditch he’d been beaten into, Falling Rain’s shield smashed into Goujian’s chin even as the glaive thrust towards his heart. The first blow rocked him back, but he still managed to grab hold of the crossbar and stop the more deadly of the two attacks, only there was no weight behind the glaive. Belatedly recognizing the distraction for what it was, he backpedalled away only for his leg to give out under his weight, for the hateful savage’s sword was now embedded in his ankle. Even as he fell, the blade tore itself free from Goujian’s flesh and returned to the runt’s hand, just as the firelight flickered to reveal him in all his glory.

One eye swollen and sealed shut. Jaw broken and unhinged. Nose smashed flat and unable to breathe. Arms bruised and fractured, but still usable. Ribs cracked, shoulders slumped, torso covered in black and blue, Falling Rain was battered and bloodied, but unbroken as he stood tall over his falling foe. “Haven’t you heard?” The boy Sent, even as he exploded into motion. “I’m the Undying Savage.”

The cave came alive with music as Falling Rain landed a whirlwind of blows upon Goujian’s body, and no matter how he tried to defend himself, his mind was too addled to adequately defend himself. Even though he’d taken great pains to shield his physical brain from concussion, the runt’s shield bash had contained no small amount of Reverberation which jostled Goujian’s brain until it bled. Healing it was only a matter of time, time the savage would not allow him as he tested Goujian’s every last defence with sword and shield. Eyes, throat, heart, belly, groin, and even his feet, not a single square centimetre of Goujian’s body escaped Falling Rain’s attentions as he returned what he received two fold. Though the blade was unable to find purchase in Goujian’s flesh, the pain was immeasurable as Falling Rain uncovered each and every flaw in Goujian’s reforged body. The skin beneath his fingernails. The bottom arch of his heel. The back of his knees. The base of his spine. The divot in his hip. Falling Rain tested all these areas with his weapons and set Goujian to howling, but so long as he remained intact, then this concussion would pass, and then he would have his -

Agony blossomed and Goujian’s vision went white with pain, only to clear up just in time to witness his right forearm hurtling up into the air, casting a spray of blood about the abode as it went. Raising his left hand in abject denial, Goujian watched as the boy’s sword clove through his fingers with one stroke, then carved off the whole hand on the return swing, only to slam down and pierce through Goujian’s knee and pin him to the ground. Plating, skin, flesh, and bone, none of it proved any barrier to Falling Rain’s weapons, and Goujian lay helpless before the Undying Savage, hoping for mercy he knew would not come.

“You’re too fucking tall,” the savage Sent, his upper lip curled in a snarl even as his jaw set itself, his injuries Healing so quickly they almost seemed like a trick of the eye, an illusion put forth to lull Goujian into complacency. “And too fucking fast too.” Extending his free hand to catch his returning glaive, Falling Rain flicked his wrist and took off Goujian’s unpinned leg at the thigh before the weapon collapsed in on itself, forming an oddly balanced sword that was almost like an axe in the way it was balanced, but the blade was the least of Goujian’s worries.

“How?” Goujian asked, unable to understand what just happened. “My Domain Plating... my Spiritual Heart... You shouldn’t have been able to cut me. Your blade should have glanced off my flesh and left you vulnerable to my attacks. This isn’t possible. This is impossible. I am the one Chosen by Heaven. I am the one who Seeks the Truth.”

“How?” Shrugging, the savage hefted his weapon and pointed it at Goujian’s head, leaving him staring down the hollow centre of an otherwise empty pipe. “Well, turns out, swords and Auras aren’t the only thing you can Hone.” A statement that made no sense, but Falling Rain did not seem interested in expounding on the matter, denying Goujian even this simple request. “As for the rest of what you said...” Narrowing his amber eyes, Falling Rain flexed his Healed jaw and spoke out loud for all to hear, as Chosen, Wraith, and Monk alike stopped to witness their exchange. “You called yourself the Bloody Confessor, claimed you were carrying out the Mother’s Justice, uncovering the Enemy within our ranks only to purge away their unholy taint, and now you dare declare yourself a Chosen of Heaven?” Spitting out a broken tooth, Falling Rain grimaced and snarled, “All lies you told yourself to justify the horrors you wrought.”

“I was misled and misguided,” Goujian stammered, wondering why he felt the need to justify his own actions. He still had his pride and would not beg for mercy, so better to hold his tongue and accept death with dignity. “I did what I thought was right.”

“The road to hell is paved with good intentions,” Falling Rain intoned, before jamming his weapon into Goujian’s mouth. “But you, you never had good intentions. You are a proud sadist, a power-hungry degenerate who gets off on pain and despair. I bet someone hurt you when you were young, someone you loved. What did they do, hm? No, don’t answer. I don’t care. You took that pain and decided the Heavens were unjust, so you would deliver your own twisted justice in their place. You told yourself you were doing the Mother’s work, but there is no justice in what you did.” Pressing his weapon deeper into Goujian’s mouth, his honed blade dug painfully into flesh without completely severing the nerves there. Squirming beneath the pressure, Goujian could do naught but suffer as Falling Rain continued, “Why else would you have picked Han BoLao as your successor? If it’s loyal Aspirants you wanted, there were plenty for you to choose from, but you deliberately took an innocent young woman and moulded her into a monster like yourself. You took her from her loving family and twisted her mind until she didn’t know right from wrong, and in doing so, you justified your own cause, because if you were wrong, then surely someone like Han BoLao would resist, right?”

Though he wanted to explain his thoughts and actions, to voice his regrets and contrition, Goujian’s words froze in his throat as a confluence of Heavenly Energy gathered around them. Power filled the strange axe-sword, power emanating from the palm of Falling Rain’s hand, and in his despair, Goujian knew there was nothing he could do to stop this. Helpless and afraid, he gave in to his fate as he gazed into his hateful foe’s amber eyes, glimmering from over top of his weapon. “For your countless crimes against humanity,” Falling Rain began, condensing the Energy of the Heavens into his strange, Spiritual Launcher until everyone present could sense the power it contained, “For BoLao, BoShui, Uncle BoHai, and so many more, I sentence you to death.”

Then the world exploded into pain and darkness, and Goujian knew no more.

Chapter Meme
