Ignoring the forlorn squeaks and mournful pouts from the Divine Turtle and formidable half-hare waif, Goujian steadied his breathing and kept vigilant watch on his cunning and treacherous opponent.

Physically, Falling Rain looked no different from before, a short, slender young man with bright amber eyes and a lean, sinewy frame. Broad shoulders and a slim waist made him seem even skinnier than he already was, and combined with the lack of fat on his face and body, Goujian found it difficult to properly gauge the Imperial Puppet’s true age in the flickering torchlight. At one moment, his transparent, guileless expression made him seem like a melancholic young teen, happy his ‘sweet wifey’ was able to leave safely, but heartbroken to watch her go. Then, the shadows shifted across his face as his gaze turned towards his foes and his gaunt, angular features took on a new cast, darkening to accentuate his cold, piercing stare while exhibiting a calm, controlled fury that hinted at wisdom and experience far beyond his years. There was no youthful impatience or nervous unease, not even when the Chosen made their presence known, marching in with weapons drawn and fanning out with precise discipline to cover the movements of the Concealed, Half-Step Divinity Wraiths shifting into position around them.

Movements which did not go unnoticed, for Goujian watched carefully as the boy’s eyes scanned about the room with cold, analytical efficiency and tried to hide his awareness to eke out every advantage he could in the battle to come. Were it not for the Wisdom warning him about Falling Rain’s ability to see through Concealment, Goujian might well have missed these tiny hints, a dart of the eyes here and a flash of recognition there, the devious runt hiding his canny thoughts behind a facade of forthright honesty. This was his style, not only in combat, but in politics as well, happy to play the fool and give his foes plenty of rope to tie the noose around their own necks before kicking the chair out from underneath their unsuspecting feet, but Goujian would not allow himself to be lulled into complacency.

Not just because he just saw the runt evade capture and bring the Behemoth down to one knee, which in and of itself was a formidable feat. Even Goujian wasn’t certain he could replicate this success, for the thin line between Half-Step and Divinity represented a vast disparity in actual strength. Also impressive was how the half-hare girl managed to divert the Behemoth’s arm, but allowances could be made considering the Ancestral Mammoth was only trying to capture Falling Rain as opposed to kill him, not to mention how the Medical Saint likely lent a hand. The waif’s silken scarf had to be a Spiritual Weapon, but he’d never seen or heard of a Spiritual Heart being woven into cloth. Combined with her superlative speed and agility however, Goujian was happy to see the half-hare waif leave, as she represented a variable he was unable to account for.

Even without her presence muddying the waters, he wasn’t as confident of victory as he would like. With twenty-seven Peak Expert Chosen and a dozen Half-Step Wraiths at his side, the enemy was vastly outnumbered, but the four guardian monks and Falling Rain were far too calm and confident for Goujian’s liking. Especially the boy, who flashed a smug and complacent smile mere seconds after the outer stone gates slammed shut behind the Medical Saint, a condition he agreed to far too quickly considering the vast disparity of strength between the two sides. Goujian would’ve thought Falling Rain’s only hope was to fight his way out and escape, but the runt’s relaxed posture and infuriating smile suggested otherwise, and he couldn’t help but reflect on Falling Rain’s earlier, laughable claim about how they were all trapped in here with him.

A claim which was no longer amusing at all...

Merely this much would not be enough to shake Goujian’s confidence if not for one mitigating factor, something even the Wisdom was unable to explain away. Whilst following the newly ascended Monk Dama to the Abbot’s hidden retreat, they’d all sensed the disturbance proceeding within, as a raging torrent of Heavenly Energy surged through the hidden confines of the underground cave to converge around the runt sitting in quiet meditation. The upheaval was similar to what occurred during Monk Dama’s unremarkable ascension, but with marked differences, namely in how the world seemed to come alive in the first instance, while Falling Rain’s foreboding presence threatened to overturn the Heavens themselves. There was no shaking of the ground or darkening of the skies, no howling winds or torrential storms, yet it felt as if a pall had been cast over all existence, one emanating from Falling Rain’s body.

Only then did Goujian understand why the Uniter called Falling Rain the Devourer, for what else would one call a man capable of consuming Heavenly Energy like so? This was not Balance, with the Energy of the Heavens surging into one’s Core, but Falling Rain consuming the power of Creation and Destruction against its will. Never before had Goujian experienced such a phenomenon, one akin to demonstrating Purity with near monstrous intensity, forming a whirlpool of Heavenly Energy that drew in everything around it until he feared the Chi within his own Core would burst out to happily join the growing deluge, one converging around the otherwise unruffled runt.

The upheaval lasted less than a minute from start to finish, but to Goujian, it felt like it went on for a lifetime, one that culminated just as his comrades moved into place around the runt. When Falling Rain’s eyes snapped open, his gaze seemed distant and unfocused, a look Goujian had seen many a time before on men and women lost to Insight, and for a moment, he feared they’d stumbled across an ancient monster hidden in human flesh.

Even though Falling Rain was unable to injure his foe, the fact that he managed to not only react to the Ancestral Mammoth’s movements, but also counterattack with some degree of success spoke volumes to the runt’s improved Martial prowess. According to Wisdom Vyakhya, Falling Rain was not yet a Half-Step Divinity, but he’d said the same for Monk Anand who’d handily defeated Goujian in single combat. The portly monk’s declaration sounded clearly in his mind, a confident affirmation which spoke volumes to all who heard it. “I seek the Dao.” A simple and concise statement that rang with the clarion call of truth and confidence, one that filled Goujian with boundless awe and uncertain apprehension. Could he say the same? Of course he could, but not with such faith and conviction. There was no doubt in Monk Anand’s mind that his Path was true, a feat few could ever hope to imitate. Who could truly say they held no doubts whatsoever? That they had every confidence in the path they took to get where they were? This was in essence a declaration of perfection, with Monk Anand stating he believed that every step he took along the Dao was indeed the correct one, and that he had no regrets to hold him back.

A bold declaration for a man faced with ignoble defeat, unable to shift his spade even a single millimetre beneath Wisdom Vyakhya’s weight, and yet, despite his dire circumstances, Monk Anand was still able to hold true to his Path. Goujian knew for certain he could not do the same, for even before witnessing Falling Rain’s astounding progress along the Martial Path, he had already uncovered a handful of doubts along his own Path. Why did the Wisdom wait so long before informing Goujian of his weaknesses? Had he erred in focusing too much on his body at the expense of his mind and soul? A part of him told him to trust his teacher and take matters one step at a time, consoled him saying that the body comes first because despite the complexity that came with refining his physique, refining the mind and soul was surely to be even more difficult. This was merely the beginning, and the Wisdom accounted for Goujian’s weaknesses by ensuring the tiger Rakshasa would protect him, so all he needed to do was overpower the runt and kill him before anyone could stop him.

However, there was a small part of his mind that simply refused to let this matter go. Why did the Wisdom wait so long before informing Goujian of his own flaws? So as not to affect his confidence? Or because he was merely a test subject meant to confirm the Wisdom’s unproven theories? Was this the reason why he refused to take Goujian as a Disciple? Though the old monk preached about the Noble Eight-Fold Path, his actions were those of a shrewd, duplicitous sinner, one who had an agenda all his own. Did he not instruct Goujian to kill Falling Rain, contrary to the Uniter’s orders? What of young Gen, who succumbed to the half-cat slave’s Aura? Why did Wisdom Vyakhya not have Rakshasa protect him? So as to remove a piece from the Uniter’s board no doubt, which raised the question of what would happen to Goujian once Falling Rain was dead and gone. Would the Wisdom protect him from the Uniter’s wrath, or was he to be traded like a sacrificed pawn in a game of chess? What of the massive surge of Heavenly Energy rushing into Falling Rain? What phenomenon could have caused such a thing? Even when forming his Spiritual Heart, Goujian had been unable to elicit such a reaction from the Heavens, and had to borrow Heavenly Energy from a bath filled with Spiritual Herbs, and Monk Dama’s ascension was far less awe-inspiring than this. Why did the Heavens favour Falling Rain so, instead of their Chosen Champion, Goujian?

“So,” Falling Rain began, jolting Goujian out of his thoughts. “Which one of you wants to come fight me first?”

The runt’s sheer arrogance nearly sent Goujian into a rage, especially when combined with his laid back posture and eager, expectant attitude, as if he were here to spar and learn instead of embroiled in a life and death situation. There he stood, with his glaive resting lightly on one shoulder and shield strapped to his arm which hung loosely by his side, seemingly without a shred of wariness or vigilance about him. An illusion of course, for Goujian saw the tension hidden by his stillness, his breathing so steady and measured it could only be forced. There was also the way his eyes never stopped moving, scanning the room with deceptive nonchalance, gauging his enemies and preparing a plan to deal with them in turn, a plan he shared with the monks beside him through a flurry of back and forth Sending. Yes, Goujian could feel their discussion taking place, a lengthy debate that was even now still ongoing, which was impressive considering how laid back the boy appeared. Even some Peak Experts were unable to converse through Sending without appearing constipated or distracted, but the runt made it seem as effortless as turning a hand.

So infuriated by the boy’s cocksure attitude and his own insecurities, Goujian only narrowly avoided running headlong into the runt’s cunning trap. “There will be no duels here today,” he said with a snarl, angry at himself for letting his doubts interfere with his judgment. “We are not here to spar. Surrender or suffer, the choice is yours.”

Had he accepted the challenge, the Chosen would then be forced to stand back and watch them fight, for their pride would not allow them to interfere. The Wraiths would not have been stopped, but it would be foolish to accept the duel with nothing to be gained. With the odds in their favour and no need to affect the enemy’s morale, why bother engaging in a duel without benefit? No, better to overwhelm their foes through weight of numbers and quietly kill Falling Rain in the chaos, leaving the Uniter no room for condemnation, not after the runt’s phenomenal display of Purity and subsequent demonstration of skills.

“Oh?” The runt asked, tilting his head in mocking question. “Are you claiming I won’t suffer if I surrender? That’s rich. I’d probably suffer most of all if I were captured, but I don’t intend to find out.” Uttering a soft sigh, he shook his head and added, “Well then, since no one wants to duel, then we might as well get this party started.”

At first, Goujian thought the boy was stretching his left arm or cracking his elbow perhaps, a quick extension of the limb before retracting it to take a defensive posture, but then he heard the unmistakable thump of a body falling to the ground behind him. Stepping aside on instinct alone, a rush of air passed by Goujian’s cheek as he caught a glint of metal from the corner of his eye, and only in posterity was he able to piece together the series of events. Upon declaring his intent, Falling Rain’s short sword launched itself from its sheath and buried itself into a Concealed Wraith, a sneak attack delivered without touching the sword itself. Goujian wasn’t sure if he simply missed seeing the weapon or if the clever boy had Concealed it, but it was easy to see the sheath sitting in plain sight now that attention had been drawn to it. After killing a Half-Step Divinity with laughable ease, the runt proceeded to Guide his sword towards the back of Goujian’s head, and while his inhuman reflexes allowed him to avoid injury, a cold shiver ran down his spine upon realizing how easily the boy had almost killed him.

Seeing his surprise, Falling Rain smirked even as his sword returned to its sheath, slotting itself back in as if possessing a mind of its own. “I am the Sword,” he mocked, while settling into a charging stance. “The Sword is me.”

