For the second time today, Goujian was sent careening through the air by a thunderous impact, and again, he blacked out for the space of a second. The boy’s fabled charge, one delivered through a combination of Mantis Balanced on Windy Leaf and Deer Pierces the Horizon. Apparently, Akanai of the Bekhai used this same skill to great effect against Gongsun Qi, and while Goujian hadn’t seen her unleash the attack firsthand, he couldn’t imagine anyone moving faster than Falling Rain. There was no delay between movement and attack, for the boy exploded into motion and appeared in front of Goujian faster than his enhanced eyesight could capture. Even his superlative instincts and heightened reflexes failed to alert him of the attack, one delivered head on without warning, and he feared he was no match for the runt anymore, not in single combat.

Thankfully, the boy’s charging thrust only did a negligible amount of damage to Goujian’s reforged physique, the benefits of Refining his body into a Spiritual Heart preserving his life yet again. That being said, negligible was not the same as nil, so Goujian circulated his Chi to Heal his damaged internal organs yet again while studying his opponent in action. The taste of blood welling in his mouth set his appetite on edge, but he kept to the Razor’s Edge and watched as Falling Rain engaged the Chosen in all out battle.

And held his own against an overwhelming number of Peak Experts.

There was nothing outlandish about the battle taking place before Goujian’s eyes, no incredible feats of strength or agile, death-defying movements. In fact, aside from the speed of the combatants, there was nothing remarkable about this exchange, the movements on both sides being practical, efficient, and rationally selected. Two Chosen flanked the runt, one executing Tiger Swipes the Rushes to sweep his halberd horizontally, while the other used his spear to slash diagonally downward in a classic performance of Bear’s Standing Fury. In response, Falling Rain blocked both attacks, one with his shield and the other with his glaive, nothing out of the ordinary at all except for the fact that all three combatants stood close to the pinnacle of Martial Strength. Despite knowing this in his mind, Goujian was unable to reconcile this simple fact with the scene before his eyes, for in this battle of Peak Experts, Falling Rain made his foes seem like tribal fodder to be killed out of hand.

After casually absorbing both attacks, the runt pushed back and the Chosen gave way, freeing up enough room for Falling Rain to bring his glaive about. The polished metal flashed in the firelight and twin sprays of blood erupted from the stumps of his opponent’s necks, two Peak Experts decapitated in one motion like stalks of wheat harvested by the scythe. Barely blinking an eye at this incredible feat, the runt pushed forward to catch his next foe off-guard with a back-handed performance of Gliding Wing, something Goujian had only seen once before, during an impractical sword dance he’d attended for the sake of giving a generous benefactor face. He remembered thinking that such a movement would never hold up in real battle, that a feint followed by a reverse spin was too easily read and countered, but Falling Rain made it look so natural and effective it was a wonder why everyone wasn’t using the movement in this manner. Again and again, the runt’s actions defied logic as he scythed his way through the Chosen lines, utilizing glaive, shield, and sword with flawless harmony to injure, maim, and kill his way to eventual victory.

That being said, while the runt was admittedly skilled, he was far from powerful enough to secure victory on his own. The Chosen were not his match in skill, speed, or strength, but only by a small margin that could easily be overcome through numbers and tactics. Alas, the runt was not fighting alone and had four Half-Step Divinity monks to guard his back, men who in another life, Goujian would have called his Senior Brothers. Not in the sense of the monastic brotherhood, but rather in how these four Warrior Monks were Mentored by Mahakala himself. The militant arm of the Brotherhood, as it were, guardians trained to put aside the Noble Eight-Fold Path and steep themselves in sin to better understand it. These four monks were no strangers to death, cold, dispassionate killers who cared naught for the suffering of their foes, for though they were sure to be denied Nirvana in this life, they shouldered this burden with pride.

Wisdom Vyakhya called them the Four Kshatriya of the Brotherhood, an ancient term for a caste of warriors and kings, which led to the popularization of calling them the Four Heavenly Kings of the Brotherhood, monks who saw no need to walk the Eight-Fold Path in order to ascend to the Heavens above. Unlike the rest of the monks, these four truly had no names of their own, each one referred to only by a cardinal direction when absolutely necessary. Warriors without pride or ego, they fought like gods as they dominated the battlefield within this enclosed cave, and Goujian marvelled before their mastery of the Dao.

North and West stood on either side of Falling Rain, at a distance that was neither close nor far. Brothers by blood as well as by vows, they fought with flawless coordination few could match. Despite standing at least fifteen meters apart from one another, they were able to combine their attacks in a way that almost defied common logic. North struck one Chosen and sent him stumbling into another, only for West to strike a third Chosen to bumble into a fourth, affording Falling Rain the opportunity to reap all of their lives with two consecutive swings of his glaive. Upon meeting stiff opposition on the left, West abruptly fell back only for North to take his place, who caught the Chosen combatants off-guard and smashed his way through their defences, while a similar scene unfolded on the other side. What’s more, every now and then North or West would release one hand from the spade and use it to deliver an open palm strike, one that pierced through the Chosen’s Runic armour and set them to bleeding from all seven orifices.

Powerful attacks and unparalleled coordination made North and West a force to be reckoned with, but the remaining monks were even more impressive. The youngest of the bunch, East, was the most talented of all, and it showed as the young monk used his reach to good effect from the rear. Every wave of his spade delivered shards of blue light into the ranks of the Chosen, who were killed from a dozen paces away by the luminous, razor sharp crescents. Chi, Domain, Honing, and Mother knows what other skills East used to kill from afar, and Goujian yearned to uncover the secrets behind his Talent, but even Wisdom Vyakhya was unable to unravel the mystery. Then there was South, the eldest of the four and also the heart and soul of the Four Heavenly Kings thanks to his unmatched speed and decisiveness. Whenever any one of his brothers or Falling Rain might falter, South appeared at their side, sometimes to kill and other times simply to delay so that his comrades might have time to recover. One moment, he stood on the left, blocking a killing thrust aimed at North’s blind spot, and the next he was across the room delivering an overhand smash to distract West’s would be killer. An invisible Deflection here, a deadly feint there, South’s contributions were the most subtle of the bunch, but undoubtedly the most effective as he set matters up for his brothers to succeed.

And these were merely all the actions Goujian was able to track and categorize in the three seconds it took to Heal his internal injuries and regain feeling in his limbs. North and West were seemingly able to attack using their voices as well, uttering monosyllabic shouts every now and then that made their foes freeze in their tracks. One or two Chosen fell to the ground dead without a single mark on their bodies, and Goujian suspected this to be East’s work, though he had no idea how it was even possible. Then there was South, who throughout it all never once lifted his focus from Goujian, the mere pressure from this formidable existence’s attention enough to make his body break out in cold sweat.

And of course, Falling Rain was still full of surprises, fighting tooth and nail at the forefront of the monks, only for his sword to inexplicably emerge from its sheath to claim the life of yet another Half-Step Divinity. The Wraiths were next to useless in this battle thanks to Falling Rain’s efforts, somehow able to not only spot the Concealed killers, but also inform the Four Heavenly Kings of their positions in real time while fighting for dear life. How could one man be so phenomenally talented in so many areas? Goujian cursed the Heavens for enabling the enemy so, for while this was no doubt a trial and tribulation to overcome, why did it have to come in the form of a hateful youth? Make it an old, experienced, venerable Peak Expert Warrior instead, and so much of Goujian’s antipathy would be assuaged, for then at least he could blame his inadequacies on his foe’s diligent practice. Instead, Falling Rain succeeded on mere talent and luck alone, an outrageous existence considering he was barely over twenty-one years old, and doubly frustrating considering he supposedly didn’t step foot along the Martial Path until the late age of twelve.

A thread of despair wormed its way into existence from within Goujian’s psyche, but he refused to allow it any purchase to take root. So what if the runt was talented beyond belief? Goujian was still his match, so it was time to put his pride away and treat this child like the worthy foe he was. As the Bloody Confessor, his Martial prowess had never been worthy of renown, but famed Peak Experts still trembled at the sound of his name, for his blade was guided by the Heavens themselves. Though the Imperial Clan succeeded in blinding him with their lies for a time, his eyes were clear now and his purpose set. Falling Rain must die, and it was Goujian’s mission to make it so.

Not because the Wisdom asked him to, but because Falling Rain’s existence was an affront to the Heavens. No one could be so phenomenally talented and lucky, no one, so it only stood to reason that his achievements were obtained through defiance of Natural Law, which explained what they all felt before arriving at the Abbot’s abode. The runt was an anomaly and aberration who threatened to overturn the Laws of Heaven, a heretic Goujian and the Chosen of Heaven were duty bound to kill, and kill they would, even if they all had to die in the process of delivering Heaven’s justice. His direction set, Goujian’s chest burned with the flames of righteous zeal and indefatigable purpose, just like they had in the days of yore when he Cleansed the provinces of the Father’s foul taint, and the Heavens responded to his wholehearted devotion. The Razor’s Edge buffeted him about in its wake, but he clung to sanity and found Insight within the tumultuous chaos, and with it, he would fulfill his Holy Duty and kill Falling Rain once and for all.

Casting aside his borrowed greatsword, Goujian deployed his Domain and compressed it down until it was barely past his skin, Plating his body as he once Plated the greatsword. There was no need to familiarize himself with the weapon, for as Falling Rain impudently stated, “I am the Sword” and “The Sword is me”. The end result was a doubling of Goujian’s physical resilience, his toughness unmatched and his strength increasing by leaps and bounds as he veiled himself in a Shroud of Reinforcement, one that emerged so easily he barely even had to think. Dropping to all fours, he settled back on his haunches and sprung headfirst into action, utilizing a Movement from a Form that had yet to be defined, the Frog or Toad Form perhaps, or possibly even the Cicada or some other creature. Where the movement stemmed from was not important, only that Goujian was able to use it to full effect, crashing headlong into Falling Rain with both fist extended to send the runt barrelling back into the stone wall.

Emerging from the cloud of dust before it finished billowing out, Falling Rain seemed none the worse for wear after their trade and responded with a powerful overhanded blow with his glaive. Crossing his forearms to block the attack, Goujian was delighted to discover that the boy was strong, but not oppressively so, and fast, but not impossible to follow. An error in judgment on Goujian’s part, for he had progressed so far so quickly, he had yet to acclimate to the reality of his new station. Here, at the Peak of Martial might, a single careless moment was enough for a foe to deliver half a dozen deadly strikes, so when Falling Rain opened with such an overwhelming attack, Goujian allowed fear to overcome logic and miscalculated the runt’s true strength as being above his own. It wasn’t, because while Goujian had indeed neglected his mind and spirit, his body was unmatched by any under Heaven.

