Down here, the land was green and blue with colorful flowers and a brilliance to the air that reminded Erick a lot of Ar’Cosmos, or fae gatherings, except this brilliance was gold and the ambiance was one of mortal powers and godly oversight. If there were fae here, then they were just a part of the gatherings, joining in the revelry with mortals, while gods of all sorts held parties and jubilation.

It was an eternal garden/jungle/mansion/high-class/low-class party.

Erick and Shadow popped into existence outside of a specific gathering taking place on hundreds of small islands that were only technically islands, but each one was only a meter from each other one, and the waters separating those islands was only a meter deep. Each individual island had people talking and laughing or listening to music or reading with each other, or sleeping in beds or doing any thousand of other activities. Erick imagined that the sleeping areas were the only quiet places, because otherwise there was a soft music in the air that was kinda lively, but not too lively. Erick looked across the large area from this taller, entrance island, and saw places where people were partying down. Other islands had orgies, because of course there were orgies.

There were always orgies when it came to gods.

And in the center of it all lay a grand golden island, raised higher than the rest. A muscular-dad sort of man with dark skin and wearing a toga of gold, reclined on a couch on the top center of that island, and though he did not shine like a sun, he certainly had that sort of aura about him. He laughed with what looked to be friends, as they all drank from golden goblets and ate food off of golden plates, as they spoke of this or that in obvious mirth.

That man was Cascadio, for sure, and Erick already liked the guy.

Shadow did not approve of him, scowling a little, saying, “He’s too bubbly.”

“What are his domains?”

“ ‘Portfolios’, when it comes to gods,” Shadow said, stepping down the stairs, onto the lush grasses of the entrance island of Cascadio’s cavalcade. Erick followed, and Shadow continued, “Gods have influence depending on how their worshipers recognize that influence here in this cosmology, so there is a lot of room for overlap of all types of gods, but we call those influences ‘portfolios’. In my cosmology there were major portfolios, of which there was only ever one of each specific kind. There was always more room for countless minor sparks of those major portfolios, though, and that system created avatars of the major gods. Sometimes those personal manifestations of the major gods were individuals granted power by the major gods, who then went on to become major gods in their own right, and other times they were attempted usurpers of the throne of the major god.” She waved a hand all over the place, saying, “All of this is so much different, though. Gods here are so much weaker… In an absolute sense.”

Erick stepped across a small river, only a meter wide, and set foot on a different rising island closer to the center of the Cavalcade. The entrance island was filled with the soft music of the Cavalcade, but this island was a raucous party and the music was loud and booming. Erick kinda liked it. Shadow kept up.

Neither of them said anything as they kept to the side of the large dance floor and what looked to be choreographed musical numbers… But Erick kinda wanted to join in. He even saw a spot for him, and one for Shadow, right between the main dancer there and those backups over there. The lead dancer winked at Erick, and Erick smiled back, while he also checked his Status. The magic of this place was ‘attacking’ him, but not really. The ‘attack’ was only 1 extra Health and Psyche per second, so Erick easily ignored it. A lot of people outside of the main musical number were ignoring the call to fill that void, too, drinking shots and eating food to the side.

Not a real mind bender. Just a call to party.

Erick stepped off of that island and looked down into the waters as he stepped onto the next island.

He saw flippers down there, below the deepest parts of the water. For a brief moment his mana senses fully worked and he saw Cascadio’s Cavalcade as a whole bunch of turtle islands, all swirling in sync around the main golden-shell island, with more turtles underneath the main flow, all swirling around the power that was Cascadio in the center. Those underwater turtle islands still had parties happening, too. It was kinda beautiful.

And then the simple riverlands and grass islands returned, and Erick was on the next island in the chain, listening to someone speak on a podium about the nature of Good and Evil.

… Erick wanted to listen to that, too.

Shadow moved right on along, easily walking across the edge of the lecture-hall-island, ignoring the talk up above.

Erick followed, softly asking, “So every island is a temptation?”

Shadow shook her head, saying, “No. That’s simplistic. Every island is a stepping stone. Once you have experienced what you want to experience you move forward to the next one, and in that moving you examine yourself and your goals and your whole nature as a living individual.” Shadow stepped onto the next island.

Erick followed.

This island was another party, and a lot more disorganized. Some guy handed Erick a drink and Erick smiled because it was a ‘Vivid Gloom’. The swirling black drink was filled with white flashes, looking exactly as Erick remembered. The first time he had one of these was from Mephistopheles at his Garrison in Candlepoint, back before Erick took that place over. Erick had his second Vivid Gloom courtesy of the Shade Professor Farix, at Last Shadow’s Feast, while the professor was mixing drinks and wearing a cock sock. Cascadio’s Vivid Gloom tasted pretty good, and Erick nodded at the man who had given it to him. That man just smiled and went back to dancing.

Shadow got her own drink which was absolute black. She sipped it, then said, “Cascadio’s Cavalcade is less of a trial and more of a cleansing. People are free to spend as long as they want wherever they want, and then moving in or out as they desire.”

“Cascadio seems like a pretty great god,” Erick said, “So why do you have a low opinion of him?”

Shadow hummed, shrugged, then stepped onto the next island.

Erick joined her on an island of people playing board games that were entire worlds. Little armies moved on little maps, but Erick looked too closely at one of them and he felt the map expand and his consciousness zoom in toward ground level, to a battlefield taking place in a wintry land under a distant sun, where people fought and died to unchained necromancy. Erick pulled back, away from the battlefield, to stand with Shadow.

Shadow glanced at him, then continued on. “I have a low opinion of him because I’ve been through all these stepping stones before, and yet we still have to go this way to reach him because he doesn’t allow people to simply speak to him unless they’ve gone through this path.” She sipped her drink of Darkness. “It’s all very elitist.”

Erick wondered about that. “… It has to be protective, too, right?” They stepped onto an island that was a lagoon with sandy beaches and people sunning themselves and playing in the surf and having sex under palm trees. The only sound was the sound of the waves and soft love-making, and it was wonderful. Erick moved on. “The people who get closer get to have actual talks with an important person, but those who get closer are also changed themselves in how they see Cascadio, and thus Cascadio gets to keep his interpretation of himself, himself.”

“True,” Shadow said, stepping onto the next island.

It was a land of silence and gentle prayer. There was no music, but the wind in the trees and in the tall grasses around the central pavilions certainly sounded like a kind of music.

Erick did not speak, and Shadow did not interrupt the meditation either.

The next island was a land of soft talking and coffee and hot drinks and morning foods under the rise of a new day after a night of love and connection.

Shadow said, “This is how all the bigger gods of this cosmology are. The small ones look to make rituals like this all the time, hoping that the good rituals catch on and that they stabilize themselves into the configuration they designed in their rituals. But this does not always work. The truly big gods always have different cultural interpretations of themselves, forcing them to split into new forms. Some gods try to force this split in a way they like when it seems they’re close to a cultural shift. Some gods just let it happen however it will happen. Some gods like splitting into new forms. For instance, it is thought that all gods of Trickery here are the same, but with different faces. If you talk to them they’d tell you that same story, too, unless they felt like lying to you.”

“Where does Cascadio lie on the small-versus-big scale?”

Shadow thought. She finished off her Darkness drink and tossed it in a bin. Erick finished off his Vivid Gloom and did the same. Shadow continued, “Cascadio is a… A proper god of this cosmology, I guess. He’s infinite, and yet not. I’d rate most gods a 1 to 3 on a power scale going up to 10, with the Darkness as a 10. Cascadio is a 2.”

Talk of Darkness as a god got Erick thinking about the Fractal Fairy. Thinking about them got Erick thinking about the glitter crystal that made up the Fairy and the Fae Enclave. Those thoughts led Erick to consider the Mark of the Fractal Universe sitting inside his [Telepathy]. Was now the time to talk of that?

Erick opened his mouth—

Softly, Shadow said, “No. Not here. Later.” They stepped onto the next turtle-not-turtle grass island, where people learned magics and secrets under the sun, all knowledge shared freely. Shadow tsk’d when she saw the island. “Well damn. Didn’t mean to step on this one.”

The island had moved without either of them seeing. It had been a place of people training with swords and spears and all sorts of other weapons, all of them wearing full golden armor. But now it was a library with personal tutors speaking softly inside sound-containment bubbles to students learning the mystic arts.

There was an empty desk with a teacher waiting, and on that desk was a book with fractal edges.

Shadow sighed.

Erick really, really wanted to sit down at that desk. His Status only showed a single extra point of damage on all of his Mana, Health, and Psyche, too. The enchantment here was rather weak. Erick could avoid this draw… And yet.

Shadow said, “I promise we’ll talk at length about that, Erick. Later.”

Erick forced himself to lose interest in the teacher with the fractal book. The teacher recognized this fact and did a slight, courteous bow. Erick bowed back, and then he went with Shadow onto the next island where music was happening, saying, “I’ll hold you to that.” And then he added, “And I’ll hold you to answering the question I asked in the beginning: What are Cascadio’s portfolios?”

Shadow rolled her eyes at him, then spoke over the music, “He’s ‘everything under the sun’. Life, is a big one. Light, is another big one, with a smaller focus on Fire. Revelry, which covers a lot of small things. Civilization. Truth. He shares ‘Truth’ with almost every other god, though, so that’s nothing special. His specific Truth is ‘True Teachings and Communication’. Cascadio’s an alright god, but he and I have some creative differences stemming from our histories.”

They stepped onto a more serene island where an old man spoke to a bunch of kids about life.

Shadow continued, “I feel that all of this sort of stuff is best made and found in the Dark. He feels that only through Light can anything good happen. He’s also decidedly Good. I’m rather neutral.”

Erick asked, “That’s just a variation on universes, though? The Dark is dangerous, but the mana ocean created by sapients was highly conducive to all life… From my understanding, anyway. Your universe is not at all like this universe, where life can only exist near sources of light and energy, and even then everything is highly dangerous outside of those spaces. The light here is itself rather destructive, too. Everything is violent here.”

Shadow shrugged. “Yeah. Like I said: We’re not enemies. We’re not really on the same side, though.”

The next island was a rehash of a previous island.

Erick was pretty sure that the tests were over with. His Status had stopped getting pinged for extra single points of ‘damage’.

As they walked closer to Cascadio, Erick asked, “Was your Painted Cosmology infinite at all?”

“Hmm… Well. It wasn’t really mine. I was just the creator. We’ll save that conversation for later, but as for infinity?” Shadow paused. “… Sort of. Yes. Less so than this cosmology. In my universe, infinity existed in the hearts of every person…. Which kinda touches upon that which I asked you to wait to discuss with me some other time.”

“Fair enough. I suppose that’s enough of an answer anyway to get to this next point: I’m pretty sure Nothanganathor sent his Sundering through infinity, and if there was any limit at all to the infinity of the Painted Cosmology then it wasn’t as infinite as this universe, so it was possible to Sunder yours through his propagative attack, but not this one... Or at least not using the same methodology.” Erick said, “I was wondering why the God Pact world survived at all, though. I assumed, before all of this, that the God Pact world survived because the gods kept it ahead of Nothanganathor’s [Infinite Malevolence], or whatever you want to call it. But it’s more like Nothanganathor was still farming Veird.”

Shadow thought on Erick’s words for a moment, then said, “He’s not allowed to kill that land until we know what caused the Sundering, so he’s going to be guarding it forever, or else he’s going to try to evade that executioner’s axe of him causing the Sundering by painting someone else as the Sunderer. That’s probably what he’s going to try to do to you.” She glanced at him, studying him as she said, “The Primal Lightning of the Sundering was white, according to all known first-hand accounts.”

“Yeah. I figured he’d try as much. He’s a white dragon, though. His magical signature has to be naturally white, right?” Erick said, “Perhaps Malevolence is just red because that’s what he Altered his Malevolence to be. Or it’s the other way around, and he made the Sundering white to throw off tracks.”

Shadow let out a tiny, relieved breath, smiling a little as she said, “All possible.”

