“Not everyone wants to ascend to Cascadio’s afterlife?” Erick asked Smalls. “What about you?”

Smalls smiled gently. “Maybe someday I’ll eventually join those who came before me in the True Cavalcade upon Cascadio, but for now, I am here, helping to guide those to His Glory in a way that they can understand. When I do ascend, though, and when I come back, I will probably be among the Mortal Cavalcade, perhaps serving drinks at the bars, or teaching scripture in the churches. That will hopefully be a long time from now. For now...” Smalls gestured toward the golden island and the glass cathedral around them vanished, opening the way to Cascadio’s central island and the sun god himself. “We thank you for your patience. Cascadio will see you.”

Erick walked forward and Shadow walked beside him. Together they crossed the small bit of water separating the church island of green grass from the golden grasses island at the center of the Cavalcade.

Cascadio stood upon a golden carpet, next to a golden recliner. Two persons of flame and light stood to the side, almost like servants, but they were more like fellow party-goers, happily moving some glass-and-gold-cushion thrones into existence and taking away the more simple chairs, while also setting out some more drinks and refilling Cascadio’s golden goblet with pure sunlight. The man himself was easily three meters tall, and Erick almost bloomed out to his usual height to match him, but that seemed petty, somehow.

Cascadio himself looked like a jolly sort of guy, with dark skin and wearing a gold toga and an easy smile on his face. He was muscular and fat, and he wore it well, moving with strong grace as he gestured to the chairs, saying, “Sit, new friends, and let us talk of possibilities and plans.”

Erick said, “Nice to meet you, Cascadio. I accept your invitation.”

Shadow nodded, saying, “Hello again.”

Cascadio nodded deeper than Shadow did, saying, “Hello again, Daughter of Darkness.”

They sat.

Cascadio opened with, “To get it out of the way: I will gladly help with your designs up the Waiting Room of Margleknot. I’ll act as your Guide, Shield, and Translator all, and not interfere in any of your personal lists of people you wish to reincarnate. I only ask that you bring back 100 more Good people of my choosing, that you consider expanding your soul-rescue-plan many, many times over, and that you consider building your expansion of House Benevolence in the Slaver’s Den. Of course, the Slaver’s Den would need to be fully eradicated for that to happen, but their land would give you plenty of space to make a new land of not-exactly-Good.” Cascadio added, “Or ‘Good-in-all-but-Name’, if you would prefer.”

Erick took a moment. He answered, “I see no immediate problems with that idea.”

Shadow said, “I’m good with wholesale slaver slaughter.”

“I would try to reincarnate them, Shadow,” Erick said.

Shadow shrugged. “Works for me.”

Cascadio smiled. “Excellent!” He reclined on his seat and drinks of liquid sunlight appeared as he said, “Then let us discuss many other topics of great import, from overall plans, to how I can help, and to ultimate goals.” He lifted his drink, saying, “To Infinity!”

Erick guessed that was the toast, then? He raised his glass alongside Shadow, and both of them repeated, “To Infinity.”

The liquid gold light tasted like nuclear fire, but nicer.

They got to talking.
