Erick scoffed. “Don’t tell me people actually believe that I caused the Sundering? I wasn’t even there.”

“The nature of legality in this world and all others is mostly a matter of power and usefulness,” Shadow said, trying not to be too hateful. “The shape of Nothanganathor’s counter-suit is pretty easy to see, though. Or at least the part before the actual fight begins.”

There wasn’t much more to say after that, because now they were two islands away from Cascadio and his personal gathering.

Shadow stepped onto the island right before Cascadio’s golden grasslands—

And in that step, the land ahead, which had been a tea ceremony, became an open-air temple with some clear glass walls and clear glass pillars holding up a nonexistent roof. An older male priest in gold drapery stood on a platform inside the glass temple, beneath a stained glass window made of all sorts of yellow crystal.

Erick followed Shadow onto that land.

The priest was a kindly-looking older man who looked right at Erick, asking, “Could I be of service, or at least delay you for a time while My God speaks with people who have come a very long way, and done a great deal in My God’s name?”

Erick easily said, “Yes. I accept.”

Shadow had been about to say something, both to Erick and to the priest, but she closed her mouth and said nothing.

The priest smiled and gestured to the glass floor ahead of him. Two grand, glass thrones popped up, and the priest sat down on a simple glass stool of his own, saying, “Your willingness to delay is appreciated. Please, come sit with me, and allow me the honor of helping you before Cascadio Himself sees you.”

Erick moved and sat down, saying, “Hello. I’m Erick Flatt, Wizard of Benevolence, here to see Cascadio about helping me to rescue Good people from the Waiting Room who are under Contract from Wraithborn, but in doing so, I’ll be turning them specifically not-Good, instead Benevolent. This is both to erase their Contracts and also to remain out of the Good/Evil war.”

Shadow had sat down while Erick was speaking. Now she reclined on her throne, her legs crossed, her arms easily taking her armrests, making her look like some sort of Dark Queen… Which was probably the exact effect she was going for.

The priest glanced at her, but focused on Erick. At Erick’s words, the priest took in a little breath harder than before, and then he smiled softly. When Erick finished, he said, “I’m Brother Smalls. Cascadio is very interested in this. Acts of good done outside of Good are acceptable. Do you have a list of names?”

Erick conjured a list from memory, taking mana and making a fake thing to then hand over. “I’d prefer if that list didn’t get around right now, which is why I haven’t handed over something real. Most of those names are taken from an anonymous source but the dossiers I got with those names all paint good pictures. I’ve also included a few tens of names down below the 87 that I’m rather sure about wanting to reincarnate, but those are a lot less certain.”

Erick left it there. His Lightning Path said all 87 of those names from the black book were all good names, but the 41 names beyond those 87 were all taken from various messages sitting in star-form around his gate at his house. Those messages had all stood out to his Lightning Path as ones to seek, and each one had included Erick’s Benevolence phrase, ‘For the good of all and every individual’. So there was a trick there, for sure. Probably a trick similar to the one from the black book.

And yet.

Even if all of this was some sort of trick, then the trick wouldn’t really last past [Reincarnation], for Erick was fine with resurrecting great evils and making them good people.

Four of the names on that list were great Evils. Specifically Evils which had sided with Good for one reason or another, and thus become liabilities in the eyes of Wraithborne, and thus a whole bunch of other shit happened that locked them into the Waiting Room for nigh-on centuries or millennia.

Shadow raised her eyebrows at the list. While Brother Smalls kept reading, his eyebrows and mouth doing dances of approval or worry or surprise, Shadow said to Erick, “You want to restart a Grand War with Wraithborne? Because that’s how you start a Grand Good and Evil War.”

“I hope,” Erick said, “That with enough restraint and altering of Good into Benevolence that a Grand War can be avoided completely. There’s more than enough Good to be done without trying to destroy all the Evils out there. And besides that, I’m trying to win Wraithborne over to Benevolence, too.”

Smalls listened, and then he held up the list, asking, “Where did you get the 87 original people?”

“I’d rather not say because then I’m pretty sure some people would get auto-Sundered. I’m almost positive that the person I received them from didn’t even know what they were doing, either, except in the vaguest of senses.”

“Ah.” Smalls frowned a little as he looked at the list again. “Yes. I could see that as a problem. I’m vaguely aware of everyone on this list due to my connection to My God, but I only know of a few people specifically, and Wraithborne would not want them back at all. Will this hurt your attempt to get them to switch from Evil?”

Erick said, “I’m honestly never expecting them to switch away from Evil until I get a lot more powerful or they find some tricky way to be Benevolent. Hopefully all of these people I plan to resurrect will sign on for expansions of House Benevolence and allow Benevolence to have a greater hand in Margleknot and the rest of this universe. In that way, Wraithborne might falter some. But maybe not. I don’t know what is going to happen there.”

Smalls nodded. Then he looked at the list, asking, “Are you aware that Yasmi Bloodgood and Aryear Zumgwyn are eternal enemies? Among the others on the list, of course.”

“Yes.” Erick said, “Yasmi on the side of Paradise Falls and Aryear on the side of Wraithborne, both of them gone 6,500 years and 6,300 years respectively. Of the history I learned, Yasmi fell to a Contract to allow her family to go free and Aryear created that Contract to be punitive, and then Witch Yasmi reflected that punitive action onto Aryear. The history before that is told in songs in bars, as far as I know.”

Smalls nodded as he listened. “You’re digging up rather old history and trying to make it work for you.”

“Correct.”

“Any plans on where to open offices?”

“Either the Mortal Lands or the Celestial Observatory. I’m not sure which, yet. The Celestial Observatory has the benefit of always being able to send out people on missions outside of Margleknot to help others, but then that’s the focus of everything. On the other hand, the Mortal Lands already has locations which connect rather well to Layer 1, which is always in need of help, and which keeps the focus here in Margleknot.”

“Not in some new location?” Smalls asked, “As a Father of Margleknot you might have already made a Sun, but surely you can create a secondary location for personal power?”

Erick smiled softly. “Yeah. I could. I even asked Yggdra— Margleknot as much, and he said sure. But the goal is to be with people, not to be a land apart, even if I could make that land apart really well. I fully expect the majority of our missions to help Veird and the remains of the Painted Cosmology and to fight Nothanganathor before we get to Margleknot stuff, though.”

Smalls nodded. He asked, “Do you have any larger desires for Cascadio, by coming here? Or is it just the Waiting Room assistance?”

“For now, it’s Waiting Room assistance.” Erick said, “But Veird does need a sun god after I kill the not-god currently inhabiting our sun. It would be a sun inside a sphere, like Margleknot’s sphere. I don’t know how that resonates with a sun god, but I assume that such a god would desire the sun to have some view of the actual cosmology around them. Not sure how such a thing would work out, actually at all. I’ve never spoken to a sun god before.”

Smalls contained his absolutely radiant excitement to as low of levels as he could, which was to say not much at all. He didn’t jump for joy, but it was a close thing. Shadow smirked as she saw Smalls react to Erick’s words. She also smirked as she saw Cascadio up there on the central island cough on his wine and then make a joke out of it to his parishioners. He was surely listening in.

Erick added, “But for now, we’re just looking for help with the Waiting Room.”

“Right right!” Smalls glanced over to Cascadio— He rapidly turned back, saying, “Um.” He gestured to the area encompassing them, saying, “This is all very important and Cascadio wishes to partake in this conversation right now, but his people come first, as always, and… Not to put too much of a needle in the eye of your plan, but while all of this is lovely and wonderful and even maybe possible, the probability of it happening as you wish is still rather low. As of right now.”

Erick nodded. “I agree.”

Smalls breathed easily… And then he said, “Uh. I need to entertain you for about another few minutes at least— Maybe just one!” He glanced back at Cascadio. He turned back to Erick and Shadow. “These things take time.”

Shadow inclined her head toward the central island, saying, “Yeah. That’s not finishing soon.”

One of the women speaking with Cascadio started on a story about her child, and all of them looked happy to hear it.

Erick said to Smalls, “I’d love another one of those Vivid Glooms if you got it.”

Smalls smiled, saying, “Excellent choice!” And then he picked the dark drink out of the air and handed it to Erick, the liquid sparkling with white light here and there as the drink moved around. Erick took the drink as Smalls asked Shadow, “Would you care for another Darkness Enthroned?”

Shadow glanced at Erick’s drink, then asked him, “Does it taste like it should?” She asked Smalls, “Is it made with shadow essence, or actual Darkness?”

“Tastes the same as I remember,” Erick said.

Smalls handed Shadow her own Vivid Gloom, saying, “Shadow essence that’s had almost all of its Light extracted. As per the original recipe.”

Shadow smiled and took the drink. She sipped it, paused, then sipped some more. “Pretty good.” She asked Erick, “Have you done much actual Dark Magic yet?”

“Accidentally, I think. Tried working with Shadows long ago, when I wasn’t nearly as educated or experienced, and I think I did some Dark work. Completely unsure, though.”

Shadow nodded and let that thread of conversation go.

Erick asked Smalls, “How would a sun god feel about being inside a big sphere, anyway?”

Smalls happily said, “That’s actually a very large philosophical topic! Suns are ‘suns’ because they are stars that support life. The more life a sun supports, the happier it is. Some stars are jealous, though, and would prefer their life to be completely their own, and those stars would be very happy inside a big sphere. Cascadio is not a jealous god, though he does see great benefit in being the only star that people see.”

“Ah!” Erick said, “I never thought of it that way.”

Shadow said, “A lot of people assume that suns care about other stars, but really it’s half and half, or some other divisor.”

“Quite right!” Smalls said, “Some stars like to view life from a great, great distance. Some like to actually support life. All stars, if they are able, go through a time in their billions of years of existence when they try to support life at some time. Sun gods are almost always… Well. Sun gods appear during a time when a sun is supporting life, and everyone worships them, so they’re almost universally narcissistic.”

Erick laughed.

Smalls smiled, saying, “Cascadio survived and passed from his original world so he’s mostly over that narcissism stage in a sun’s life. He would like to have a singular world to call his own again, though.”

Erick smiled. He asked, “Are stars actually sentient in this cosmology? Or are you speaking of something philosophical there?”

“They’re sleeping when life is not there to worship them and wake them,” Smalls said, “I would consider every star out there to be alive, but for the majority of those who would be asked this question the general answer would likely be ‘no, stars are not alive’.”

Shadow added, “Sunstars were categorically alive in the Painted Cosmology. So were moonstars.”

“Everything was alive in the Painted Cosmology, yes?” Erick asked.

The conversation lasted for more than a few minutes, and actually took a good 27, but Erick was only vaguely counting the time. The conversation itself was rather enlightening about a whole slew of small things that he never really thought about until then.

Eventually, though, the people talking to Cascadio moved on, bowing to their god, who anointed them with a fingerprint of light upon their foreheads. And then those people sighed out, turning to gold fire, to rise into the sky and join with a sun that briefly appeared overhead, like the most brilliant thing that Erick had ever seen. That sun was layered over with brilliant orange turtles made of fire swimming in the nuclear furnace surface. Every sort of lovely part of life happening all around Cascadio’s Cavalcade in these Nexus Gardens also happened up there, upon the backs of world-sized turtles that dove in and out of the sun’s surface, looking like a calm roil of solar fire.

“Huh,” Erick said, as the sun in the sky vanished.

He glanced around. Some of the people on the other islands were bowing toward the ascension, but not everyone, because not everyone on those islands out there was real… or at least not alive, in the usual sense. As the sun appeared, the truth of the Cavalcade had appeared. Many of the dancers and librarians and otherwise were beings of light and flame, only showing their true flaming nature under the brilliance of Cascadio’s true form overhead. Cascadio himself had become a being of golden light, as well. But as the sun vanished, everyone had returned to their mortal guises. Smalls had remained mortal the entire time all of that happened, though.

In that way, Erick had briefly seen that only 5% of the people in the Cavalcade were really here. The rest were likely returned from the greater party, to partake of this smaller, mortal-filled one for a while.

Erick had seen people meet with Cascadio and then move off of the golden island at the center, but this was the first time he had seen someone ascend to the invisible sun in the sky. Erick realized a few things at that moment.

