

-It is on the list of demands for truly peaceful coexistence, and even for any temporary alliance in order to face the Black Legion.-

If it depends on the second, the reprieve will be temporary as well.

-True…-

Tala grimaced briefly before she mastered herself and moved on.

Every member of their escort stole glances at the four who moved in the middle of the group, those following being less tentative, as made a bit of sense.

Still, they all seemed more focused on Lea than even on Tala or Terry.

Tala had warned Head Pareshti, but she didn’t know if he’d informed his populace. Hopefully, he’d at least told their escort of her nature.

Whether he did or not, they were professional enough to keep their thoughts to themselves in regards to the clearly odd girl—maybe a hue-folk, maybe not—with her gate in her head. Depending on the quality of their senses—and what they were focused on—she might register as either Bound or Refined—maybe both—due to the power of some of the scripts on her body.

The most construct-like parts of her might just look like magical implants of incredible power, at least that’s what the Constructionist Guild told us.

-Indeed. In this case, it is a bit of a curse to have such good perception that we cannot see or understand what lesser sight would tell us.-

Isn’t that the truth.

Regardless, the trip up through the interior of the town was uneventful, save Rane and Lea’s occasional question and frequent exclamations of wonder.

Their escorts answered each question with patience and obvious knowledge, leading to a pleasant little walk over all.

Finally, they reached a tightening of the curve of the stairs, leading up to Head Pareshti’s command room.

It was time to see if she could get some buy-in for someone of power.

-No pressure. See this as a practice run for Platoiri. He already likes you after all.-

Right, no pressure. If this fails, we have other options.

Tala smiled, took a deep breath, and started up the final stairs at Honored Brandgul’s direction.

The real work was about to begin.
