When his Lord, Yan Shi, as the Lord liked to call himself, told him to hunt the Phoenix Chick, he wasn’t surprised. The man was obsessed with the things.

He was harvesting their essence and doing experiments, all in an effort to come closer to reach their immortality. It was shallow, useless and so far, fruitless.

What did a human need to learn the way Phoenixes used to live forever, when humans were already at the pinnacle. The only thing above them were the Heavens.

However, while he questioned his Lord’s motives, he remained loyal. It’s been more than three hundred years since Yan Shi found Ye Mo abandoned at the edge of a village, and took him.

The Lord raised him like a son, even though he may have not realised that. While Ye Mo had not learned anything from his Lord, aside from what it takes to sustain a clan at the size of the massive Soaring Eagle Clan, he did learn a lot from other people.

One man that really influenced him was someone that was neither dead nor alive, or even man or woman for that matter. A specter whose form bordered on the physical, yet not.

Ye Mo had met him when he was twenty three, and made friends with the man. He didn’t care that he was undead, or grotesque. The young Ye Mo saw value in learning from such an existence, and learn he did.

For fifty years, he’d learned how to control Qi, how to cultivate, how to brew elixirs and concoct pills. Eventually, he learned how to harvest Death Qi.

The Lord found out, and instead of punsihim him, offered him a post as his assassin. Ye Mo took the offer without heistaiton.

More than two hundred years later, and more than a thousand assasinations later, he was now the most feared man in the clan, and possibly even the entirety of Heavenly Ginseng City. His Lord, Yan Shi, was first, of course.

Thanks to all the assassinations he orchestrated, and the full support of his teacher, and unintentional father figure, Yan Shi, he’d collected a lot of Death Qi and also gained an incredible understanding of the Death Dao.

It was complex, yet simple at the same time. Unlike Decay and Wither, Death was Death. It didn’t do anything besides Death, and in its most purest form, it didn’t exist. Pure Death was the abscence of everything, including Death itself.

Ye Mo still hadn’t fully grasped the concept, but the more he used it, the stronger he got, the more understood, and the stronger he grew. It was an infinite cycle of positive reinforcement, and he had every intention to cultivate it to the fullest extent.

“Sir, can I get you anything else?” A female voice brought him out of his recollection, and he raised his head to look at her. His face was barely visible through the hood of his cloak, and there was also a concealment technique activated at all times.

As a result, the only thing the sexy yet not sexy waitress saw was a pair of black eyes that had no pupil or iris.

The sight was creepy to say the least, and even though she didn’t flinch, she was clearly weirded out.

Ye Mo shook his head and looked at the still not finished mug of shit wine. Even the piss his donkeys made tasted better than that.

The waitress left, all too happy to not have to deal with the scary man. Ye Mo didn’t really care, as he had better things to take care of. For instance, tracking down a certain Phoenix who thought selling their feather to one of the biggest markets on the five continents was a good idea.

A smile pursed his lips as he took it out to take a proper look at it, feeling the insufferably dense Life Qi emanating off of it. It wasn’t exactly life, per se. Unlike his Death was Death, without type, without element, without nature, this Life was full of Yang, full of earthliness and mortal understandings.

As a result, while it was annoying to touch and look at, it wasn’t something that would hurt him. If the feather had come from an actual Life Phoenix or something similar, then he wouldn’t touch it with a ten li pole.

Thankfully, the chick leaving it behind was foolish, young and inexperienced, so that didn’t really matter. However, he felt something deeply unnatural from it, something he could have never expected to sense on a feather from a literal infant.

Laws.
