Though recently promoted to the lofty rank of Brigadier, Chen Hongji held no delusions of grandeur and understood the truth of his station. All of his recent success could be attributed to his willingness to adopt Falling Rain’s unorthodox, controversial, and shockingly effective tactics, no more, and no less. While Hongji made no effort to exploit their relationship, the connection had been forged, and since there seemed to be no stopping the new Minister of Finance’s rise to prominence, Hongji’s star had risen with him. Not much else had changed, so Hongji was still the same man he’d been all his life, the humble son of a farmer and a Martial Warrior of middling talent. So middling that he suspected he was the weakest Brigadier currently serving in the Imperial Army, though at this level, there were too many different variables to take into account to assign a precise value to strength.

Granted, Martial strength was actually the minimum requirement for advancing ranks in the Imperial Army, because not all Warriors were suitable for military command. Some never cared to bother learning mundane things like logistics or troop movements, so their rank never progressed beyond Major. There were plenty of lower ranking warriors who could best Hongji without much effort. Nian Zu’s famed fifty were all phenomenal talents in their own right, yet only a handful held a rank higher than Major. As for Hongji himself, he always possessed a knack for formations and tactics, which allowed him to further his career ahead of his more Martially talented peers, but intelligence only got you so far in the Azure Empire without strength or much-needed connections. For almost a decade, Hongji’s career had stalled at Colonel, a rank which was far from low, but it fell one step short of what many viewed as the gateway to the pinnacle.

Sinuji and Falling Rain had changed all that by breathing new life into Hongji’s previously inauspicious prospects, so he had fond memories of his service here in Fort Sinuji. Initially, the city had been chosen as the seat of Central Command on a much shorter Western Wall, but a supposed Defiled incursion put an end to those plans, though he suspected it was the work of a Divinity. The attack claimed the lives of every inhabitant of this once thriving border city, which led to a mad dash to complete the new border wall before the roving warbands and itinerant Demons broke through and made their way into the heart of Central. By some miracle of the Mother, the new Wall was completed in record time and the front and secondary lines held firm for almost two years now.

There were many factors which could have contributed to their effective defence, including Falling Rain’s fire-bomb scheme, his discovery of cast iron, the Imperial Clan’s generous monetary contributions, and more, but Hongji was no longer certain they’d kept the Defiled out of Central, so much as the Empire had been given a reprieve by their hated foes. Now, that reprieve had come to an end, for the Enemy had come swarming out of the West to attack several key forts all across the front lines. Making a concentrated effort to appear calm and in control, Hongji stood upon the mostly empty battlements of his home away from home and gazed out at the army of Defiled Chosen making ready for the assault. Their neat, orderly ranks were not the cause of his trepidation, nor was it the gleam of their burnished steel armour, with far too many marked in the blue and yellow patterns which indicated they were of the Runic variety. Thirty-five thousand infantry and fifteen thousand cavalry had held these Defiled off for days, and Hongji was confident he could fend them off for several days more, if not for this newest development. As he stood atop the war-torn battlements of Fort Sinuji, he watched a formidable host take to the field and once again knew despair.

Disciplined Defiled styling themselves as the Chosen of Heaven were an oddity to be sure, but also reassuringly familiar since they were so similar to rebels, which was how Hongji cut his teeth in the Imperial Army. Granted these rebels were more well-trained and well-equipped than the ones Hongji fought in the past, not to mention more numerous even without their tribal auxiliaries to bolster their numbers, but this wasn’t enough to make him despair. It was like playing chess at a disadvantage, a difficult, sometimes frustrating, yet ultimately rewarding endeavour, especially when matched against an opponent who needed the handicap. Hongji’s counterpart had yet to reveal himself or share his name, but he had a clear grasp of basic Imperial doctrine such as organized camps, clear communication, skirmishing lines and screening maneuvers. A talented novice, but knowing the basics was far from enough to wield this force of three-hundred thousand Chosen and six-hundred thousand Defiled as he pleased, always two steps behind when he needed to think three steps ahead.

Defiled were crazed berserkers who largely ignored pain and logic to close with their foes, so the hammer and anvil was plenty effective, but the Chosen? They had their erratic tendencies, but were trained in military doctrine, and this, Hongji could exploit. An over-stretched patrol led eager Defiled pursuers into a deadly ambush, while an opening on the wall funnelled opportunistic besiegers into a well-prepared killing ground. A collapse on one flank was actually a disguised encircling maneuver, and a crumbled section of wall held just long enough to topple over onto the unwary advancing attackers. Hongji went to great efforts to eke out every advantage he could in the past five days, killing Defiled in numbers sometimes twenty to one, but it was all for naught. Despite having a plethora of clever stratagems left in place and devious schemes to unleash, Hongji felt the scales of balance tipping against him today, as an elite squadron of Demons took to the field here in Sinuji.

Forty-seven grotesque, horrific nightmares here in the waking world by his last count, and this was assuming there weren’t more Concealed in the darkness, but even half that number was more than his forces could handle. Today marked a turning point in the war, an escalation made by the Enemy, and the Empire’s only viable response was to retreat and concentrate their forces wherever the Demons might follow. One in ten-thousand Martial Warriors would go on to form a Domain, an almost necessary tool in the battle against the Father’s foul servants given flesh. This meant he would usually only have five Domain-Capable Warriors in a command of fifty-thousand, but given Sinuji’s central location and past history of contention, Hongji had five times that number at his disposal, as well as a comparable number of elite private guards his soldiers and officers brought with them in their retinues. Matching forty-seven Demons in single combat might not be out of the question, but considering he lacked the authority to command almost half of those capable would-be Demon slayers in Sinuji, he was certain they would not willingly follow his commands. To make matters worse, not all Demons were created equal, so standard practice was for one Martial Warrior to engage a Demon while two Warriors stood ready to intervene and guard against ambush. With so many foul monsters taking the field, one to one was already out of the question, so Hongji could only pray these new Demons were not as disciplined and coordinated as the Chosen around them.

They were a diverse bunch, these Demons, which came as something of a relief, though Hongji would be hard pressed to say why. Disciplined Defiled were one thing, since many of them were likely former Imperial citizens of the Western Province, but the orderly, uniform Demons who’d accompanied Emissary Gen during his first ill-fated attack on Sinuji unnerved Hongji in ways he couldn’t entirely explain. A little more than a year had passed since he held these walls against those eerie, silent foes, and still he couldn’t shake the discomfort from seeing those identical black-armoured Demons stand guard around a Defiled brat, like witnessing wild wolves wielding bone-clawed boots or field rabbits adorned in horned stone helmets. It wasn’t disturbing in the sense that it was horrific and unrealistic, but because it seemed like such a logical and believable progression, one which heralded difficult times ahead for humanity.

‘Like a tiger given wings’ was the popular idiom, but perhaps it would soon become ‘like a Demon given armour’...

Even these standard, eclectic Demons were formidable enough, and as Hongji studied them from across the field, he soon became overwhelmed trying to imagine how to defeat them. Humanoid, bestial, insectoid, and more, they came in all shapes and forms with little rhyme of reason to be found. Some carried weapons, others fought with fang and claw, and still more had no discernible threats to be found, which made them all that more insidious to behold. One diminutive, obsidian Demon put Hongji in mind of a small child, with its head lowered and shoulders slumped like a callow youth terrified of the thought of battle, and he was troubled by the thought of having to dispatch a juvenile foe. Then its inhuman gaze settled upon him and he knew there was nothing innocent or guileless within those soulless orbs it called eyes, only the Father’s foul minion carrying out His mandate of death and destruction.

It shamed Hongji to admit he had minimal experience battling Demons aside from what he picked up in the last year, as rebels did not often have these foul creatures reinforcing them. Then again, the same could be said of most Officers of Central, given how the other provinces acted as a buffer to Defiled incursions and uprisings were put down hard and fast by the now traitorous Confessor, so Hongji turned to his young Northern aide for advice. “Major Xinyue,” he began, startling the lumbering Martial Warrior out of his daze while handing over a leather satchel containing his written orders. “I understand you saw action against Demons in Sanshu. Any advice you’d care to share?”

It took a moment for the barrel-chested golden-armoured warrior to recover from his shock, and another to formulate an answer. “This one did not do battle against Demons in Sanshu, but my honoured uncle, Magistrate TongZu did. He told me the best thing to do was put aside all preconceived notions of what you might face, and prepare for any and all eventualities.”

“Oh? How so?”

“Surprise is the killer here,” XinYue replied, growing in confidence as he spoke. “Take a moment to gawk at a Demon’s extra arms, enlarged gullet, Elemental Blessing, or what have you, and you will react that much slower. Whatever may happen, be prepared to act on it, for there is only one universal truth: a Demon will not hesitate to kill.” Breaking out into a wide, toothy grin which made him look ten years younger, XinYue added, “Or at least that’s what I’ve been told. I only faced one Demon, and that was with several bodyguards standing ready to pull my ass out of the fire.”

Taking a moment to mull things over, Hongji nodded and said, “Good advice. A wise man, your uncle, and I’m told he’s quite the capable Warrior himself. Led from the vanguard to retake his city, and even traded blows with the Spectre Yo Ling himself.”

“The stories may have been exaggerated,” XinYue replied. “Uncle is in better shape now thanks to the exacting standards of his new wife, but during the battle of Sanshu, he was three decades out of practice and too chunky to even fit into his armour.” XinYue was hardly in any position to call someone else chunky, but Hongji wisely refrained from commenting. Large though he might be, XinYue’s bulky frame was packed with solid muscle, to the point where his golden armour was bursting at the seams. “But what you’ve said is true,” the young warrior added, obviously proud of his uncle. “He fought and survived against the Spectre, and in his youth, they called him the ‘Unstoppable Golden Vanguard’, a name I hope to live up to.”

“You’ve done well enough so far, but if all goes well, there will be no vanguard tonight,” Hongji commented, glancing at the Chosen formation and the Demons amongst them.

“All the same, this one requests to stand at your side.”

“Out of the question.” Shaking his head, Hongji fixed the young Major with an authoritative gaze, and felt a measure of satisfaction at seeing the larger man flinch. Adoration was good, respect better, but you always wanted a small level of fear in your subordinates as well, since only a combination of all three would keep most people honest. Switching to Sending, he explained, “The irregulars are gathered outside the walls on the northern flank. You will join them with your retinue and ensure they keep pace and carry out their assigned tasks.” XinYue’s heavy cavalry would be of no use to Hongji for the time being, since a charge would leave them overextended and out of place with no forces following up to reinforce. Best save that hammer for a better time, but he could see his decision didn’t sit well with the young warrior. “You are the only Officer I can wholly trust with this,” he Sent, and nothing else needed to be said.

