XinYue was right, for the Demons wasted no time helping their injured comrade and Hongji’s skills were put to the test. The second Demon he faced almost took his arm off in their initial exchange, having somehow learned from its bestial comrade’s death. The third left rents in Hongji’s armour and grazed the skin below, a fortunate exchange until he realized its claws were tipped with venom. His blood burned as he fought with all his might, refusing to give up even a single millimetre of ground without making the Enemy pay dearly for it, but this was a battle the Empire was destined to lose. The Demons were frantically throwing themselves at Hongji and his comrades in an effort to secure a foothold beyond the flames, and their furious assault was all but unstoppable.

A good thing Hongji’s purpose was not to stop or kill all the Demons, but to delay them.

So much of military strategy revolved around containing these inhuman weapons of the Enemy, to the point where warriors of Hongji’s calibre and above were kept in permanent reserve even if things looked lost without them. A Peak Expert like Nian Zu could single-handedly turn the tides of battle, but his strength was the result of a lifetime of trials and tribulations. If Wraiths or Demons were able to ambush him during a moment of distraction or exhaustion, then there was no replacing a Living Legend like Nian Zu, so he and warriors like him needed to be carefully guarded and used only in times of extreme need.

Like right now, to hold back some forty-something odd Demons and keep them from charging into the withdrawing Imperial forces, which would turn an orderly retreat into a full-blown rout.

Seconds stretched into minutes as Hongji held the line, and all too soon he felt his strength and stamina wane, but still he fought on. The Demons were learning and adapting, seemingly no longer affected by the heat of the blaze and using the dazzling fire to hide their movements. Shadows danced within the writhing flames and surged out without warning. Three Demons emerged and worked in concert to claim the life of an Imperial Officer, only to retreat back into the flames before his comrades could avenge him. The gambit repeated a second time on the far right flank, but the Warrior there was fortunate enough to escape with only a single lost limb. Deadly if left untreated, but again, Hongji had prepared this and knew there were Healers waiting nearby. “Fall back!” he commanded, and his Experts obeyed, with two supporting the injured warrior and another two carrying away the remains of their fallen comrade. Leave nothing for the Defiled and Demons, not even their corpses, this was the Imperial way.

Content to secure the blazing courtyard, the Demons lingered behind while the rearguard fell back, but this was not the end of the fight. New Peak Experts joined them to take the place of the tired, injured, and fallen, and they faced off against the Demons while the evacuation continued. Wary now that Hongji had revealed the depths of his strength, the Enemy was testing to see how many Peak Experts were gathered here in Sinuji. Demons were powerful, but not invincible, and no competent commander would wish to squander so many valuable assets. Another failing of the Enemy Commander, for being too Imperial in his thinking. Were he willing to commit his full forces like a true Defiled Chieftain, he could very well deal a critical blow to the Empire’s strength here and now, but he’d been taught to conserve his forces as best he could. Not exactly a flaw, if one was an Imperial Warrior, but in a war of attrition, the Enemy could replenish their Demons far faster than the Empire could churn out new Peak Experts, which would all but guarantee the Enemy victory in the long run.

The blaze continued burning hot for another ten minutes, and then the Enemy Commander wised up and set his soldiers to throwing dirt and stones into the courtyard. At this point, time was limited, but the vast majority of Hongji’s forces were already out on the plains and moving at an easy jog towards the first checkpoint. Slow and steady, neither too fast nor too slow, that was the key to victory. The Defiled and Demons excelled in short exchanges, but long, drawn out combat would grind away at their strength and stamina, while clever rotations and management would minimize the effects on Hongji’s soldiers.

When the last soldiers streamed out of Sinuji, Hongji’s rearguard followed suit, Cloud-Stepping over the walls and onto their waiting horses. This would allow them some time to rest at least, or it would if the Demons had not immediately set out in pursuit, and soon they were fighting a mobile engagement which they were destined to lose. Only a half-dozen or so Demons had the speed to match horses, but even the best-trained horse couldn’t be expected to keep calm while being chased by these unearthly terrors. To make matters worse, their canny foes knew to target the beasts first to separate the Martial Warriors from their allies. Three horses screamed their last and their riders followed soon after, including a Peak Expert who counted amongst one of Hongji’s strongest. Ru Minsu was his name, an aged Patriarch of a flagging household who’d once been a prominent talent in Hongji’s youth, and he quietly vowed to look after the unfortunate hero’s descendants to the best of his ability.

“Permission to engage?”

Unable to decide if he should stand and fight or continue to flee, Hongji received a blessed Sending in his time of need. “Permission granted,” he shouted, unable to tell who had Sent the request, but at the moment, he would accept help from anywhere he could find it.

A blur of motion streamed past him and slammed into the closest Demon, the same ursine creature he’d already gravely injured back in the courtyard. A chittering squeak sounded and was echoed by dozens more, as roosequin mounted Experts emerged from Concealment and crashed into the pursuing Demons. That the Bekhai had warriors of this calibre was hardly a surprise, but what caught Hongji off-guard was the effectiveness of their mounts, Spiritual Roosequins who charged at the Demons and tore into them with unmatched ferocity. So at odds with their normal, playful mannerisms, Hongji was awed by this display of true bestial savagery, displaying a bloodthirsty viciousness which made the twisted Demons seem like a poor-man’s imitation.

Spiritual Beast and Martial Warrior worked in flawless coordination, not just with one another, but with their comrades around them too. One roosequin went for the legs, while another distracted the Demon, and their riders stayed on the defensive to fend off the Demon attacks. The kills were largely delivered by a single roving group of quin-riders, most wielding long spears which they drove into the fallen or unguarded forms of their foes. These well-practised and well-executed tactics allowed the Bekhai and their fearsome mounts to make short work of the pursuing Demons and return without injury. An ancient rider led them, a grizzled, amber-eyed grandfather Hongji knew only as Naaran, who had single-handedly dispatched four of the six pursuing Demons with superlative ease. “Much obliged,” Hongji said, saluting the Bekhai Peak Expert and trying to recall all the times he passed this incredible man with barely any acknowledgement.

Naaran accepted the salute with a stoic nod before fading back into Concealment, and the other Bekhai Experts followed suit before Hongji could get a good look at them. “We will be close by,” Naaran Sent, speaking in the halting, clipped tones favoured by the Bekhai. “Speak, and we will fight.”

Bolstered by the addition of these mysterious warriors, Hongji went back to overseeing the withdrawal. Another ten minutes passed by without incident, and he fought back the urge to order his soldiers to sprint for the Citadels, because he knew the Enemy was merely waiting for his soldiers to tire and their spirits to falter. Soon enough, the light cavalry arrived as expected, Chosen and tribesmen mounted atop lizard-like garos sprinting towards the infantry. Major Sun Qiang’s light cavalry moved in to intercept, and they fought a series of bloody skirmishes before fending them off. There was no time to celebrate however, for the gajashia mounted heavy cavalry arrived soon after, easily catching up to Hongji’s purposely slowed pace. This time, Major Alsantset’s roosequin cavalry took the field, and they dismantled their foes as they had so many times before, putting bow, spear, and roosequin to good work.

Almost a full hour after he gave the order to withdraw, Hongji’s forces finally arrived at the first checkpoint. Major XinYue was not waiting to greet him, as his orders had sent the good Major further east to prepare, but overall, Hongji was pleased by the Sanshu native’s good work. The Imperial Forces slowed as they picked their way through the flag-marked fields, but it was worth it to see the Enemy cavalry fall victim to the traps hidden within. Trip wires, caltrops, and spiked pits aplenty, all set up in preparation for this very day and assembled by Major XinYue and the irregulars, and cheers rose up from the Imperial lines as Defiled fell victim to their ploy.

It was here the Demons attacked again, hoping to stall the Imperial forces long enough for the Defiled infantry to catch up, but Hongji and Naaran’s combined efforts threw them back, but at no small cost. Four more of Hongji’s rearguard fell in the exchange, and seven were too injured to continue the fight, but whether they were inspired by the valour of the fallen or simply recognizing that Hongji’s rearguard was the key to their survival, more Experts and Peak Experts revealed themselves to offer their assistance, including Du Kang Bin, a student of Great Teacher Du himself, and the husband and wife Exarch pair, Bralton and Erien, looking ferociously savage in their tribal gear and body paint.

Those two living legends were enough to turn the tides of the battle, accounting for no less than five Demons between them in a single, brief clash and causing the Enemy commander to rethink his strategy. The Demons fell back and Hongji’s forces were more or less free to continue their retreat, especially once they arrived at a second field marked with flags which slowed the Defiled advance to a crawl.

There were no traps here, so the Imperial forces simply marched straight through, but the Defiled didn’t know this and were forced to follow in Hongji’s footsteps. Ordering his forces to pick up the pace, he waited until they were far enough away before once again setting fire to the plains. Hardly imaginative, but highly effective considering the Defiled couldn’t scour the areas between the first and second line of defences. However, since there were Imperial forces still travelling along the plains, this fire trap was again less than spectacular, but it killed a good number of riders and bought Hongji’s forces another hour or so of easy travel, so he couldn’t complain too much.

At the third checkpoint, he unleashed his devious surprise lying in wait for the pursuing Defiled, smiling as a series of dull cracks and muted thumps sounded off in the distance, followed by the low whistle of two-hundred smooth, rounded projectiles sailing through the air. Catapults were notoriously inaccurate, and he would never have risked targeting foes so close to friendly lines, but once again, he had to applaud Falling Rain for his genius. The lever action catapults were nothing special, but using concrete to create hollow, spherical ammunition meant the catapult’s accuracy was much improved at minimal cost. A half minute later, the two hundred catapults unleashed a second salvo, which was far too slow for Hongji’s tastes, but allowances had to be made. These were commoners manning the weapons after all, but perhaps now, Martial Warriors could be convinced to take up these devastating ranged weapons after seeing how effective they were against the Defiled.

Granted, they were still useless against Demons, and over-reliance on ranged weaponry could result in less Peak Experts emerging in years to come, but those were issues for another decade, issues which would never arise if the Defiled broke through into Central next week.

Six more salvos went off before the Enemy finally diverted its forces to silence those costly weapons of war. XinYue had orders to abandon them and save as many irregulars as he could, because like it or not, the catapults could be quickly replaced, but it took weeks of training for the irregulars to reach peak efficiency with those weapons, and this group was easily the best the Empire had to offer. Word soon arrived that XinYue had emerged unscathed, and Hongji breathed a slow sigh of relief, which immediately caught in his throat as scouts brought word of movement concealed by the darkness of night. Not to the west where the bulk of their pursuers lay, but approaching from the southeast without torch or lantern to be seen. A splinter force of perhaps seventy thousand Defiled moving to cut his soldiers off, but Hongji wasn’t certain if the Enemy commander had planned for this, or a roving band had simply stumbled onto this battle. Either way, this meant the chase would soon be at an end, and there was no choice left but to fight.

Another two hours... no, even one hour would have been enough to reach the final checkpoint, but alas, man proposes and Heaven disposes. Heart heavy and spirits low, Hongji raised his voice and said, “Battle lines. Form battle lines! Engage Enemy forces to the south-east!” This was their only chance now, to breath through the splinter force before their pursuers caught them in a pincer, but at least Hongji could do one more thing. “Major XinYue, you have the vanguard!”

