XinYue swelled with pride and saluted. “By your command, Brigadier.” The other Officers looked down on the irregulars, crossbow-wielding criminal commoners and saw them as nothing but a burden. They weren’t entirely wrong, but the irregulars still had their value, and had been kept in Sinuji long after all other civilians had been sent away. Currently, they were positioning themselves on the northern flank outside the fortress, ostensibly to fire their crossbows into the unarmoured mass of Defiled auxiliaries, but it was mostly to get them and their wagons out of the way. There was much grumbling about giving the irregulars wagons to ride while Imperial soldiers marched on foot, but there was no helping it. The irregulars wouldn’t last an hour marching at the pace the soldiers set, and even if they emptied every wagon in Sinuji, they could only carry a quarter of the soldiers stationed here. Besides, the irregulars weren’t entirely without use, and there were many tasks only they could do without squandering the strength of Hongji’s fighting forces.

Or impugning upon their Martial pride...

Seeing XinYue still standing there as if he had something to say, Hongji tilted his head and said, “Spit it out Major. Much as I’d like to stand around chatting all day, there are other matters which demand my attention.”

A bare hint of a wry smile took the bite out of Hongji’s reprimand, and XinYue visibly relaxed. “Yes Brigadier. This one just wanted to thank the Brigadier for the honour of serving under his command.”

“Think nothing of it. You came highly recommended by our mutual friend.”

It was only an offhand comment meant as a joke, but from his reaction, it seemed like XinYue hadn’t known Falling Rain had played a part in securing him this dangerous but career defining commission. The Sanshu Major deserved it, as he was a staunch warrior and quick learner with a bright future ahead provided he survived long enough to see it, but news of Falling Rain’s assistance seemed to over-burden XinYue greatly. “I thought...” he began before trailing off, only to shake his head and sigh. “That’s Falling Rain for you,” he jokingly exclaimed, “Even helping those who abandoned him.”

“Did you?” Seeing XinYue’s confusion, Hongji clarified, “Abandon him?”

“...I might as well have.” Slumping his shoulders once again, XinYue said, “I left his retinue when he needed my support the most, right after he was crippled.”

“You sought permission to serve on the front lines under your own command while he recovered from extensive injuries,” Hongji said, resisting the urge to roll his eyes. “Hardly the same as abandoning him.” XinYue did not strike him as the dramatic type, but bonds forged in the heat of battle were a strange and curious thing. There were comrades Hongji hadn’t spoken to in a decade who he would gladly lay his life down for, because that was the sort of thing comrades did, and XinYue served beside Falling Rain for the better part of a year. “Evidently, our friend sees things the same way. If you feel guilty, then apologize and make it up to him. No need to be overly harsh on yourself. Now see to your duties, but don’t rush. Slow and steady, that is the key to success tonight, slow and steady.”

With XinYue out of the way, the other Officers under Hongji’s command came into view, and he gave them all a similar amount of personal attention, something he’d seen Falling Rain do with the soldiers in his camp. He heard Colonel General Nian Zu did the same, and it amazed Hongji how effective this tactic could be. Even something as simple as remembering a minor, personal detail did much to endear him to the men, and they would need every bit of help they could get. Slow and steady might be the key to victory, but rapid defeat was all that awaited them if these Officers here were not up to the challenge, because a handful of Demons running unchecked amongst the lines would make short work of Hongji’s forces.

That was the most unnerving part of tonight’s battle, his lack of direct, personal control. Without Demons and Peak Experts taking the field, he was free to match wits with his opposing commander and eke out victory after victory from a disadvantaged position, all thanks to his superior schooling and experience, but now, he was out of his depth. Everything would go to shit if the Demons were given free reign, but the only thing he could do about this was pray his Demon Slayers were up to the task.

Spotting the Defiled auxiliaries working themselves up into a frenzy, Hongji retreated from the walls alongside his Officers and soldiers, leaving the battlements completely bare and unguarded. On his command, his soldiers set fire to the bales of wet grass concealed within the wall’s base, where hopefully the obscured flames and heavy smoke would give the Enemy pause. There was no oil being released underneath their feet, no caches of explosives scattered about the plains, but last year, Falling Rain had set these fields alight in a massive blaze, and Hongji wanted to remind them of it. The ruse wouldn’t hold for long, as the Enemy had gone to great lengths to scour the border clean of any tricks and traps, but while their hard effort saved the lives of countless Defiled, it also bought precious months of preparation for the Imperial Army, months they had not squandered. Today’s events had been planned down to the last detail, and Hongji only needed another night, no, maybe six hours, or even four, and so every second counted. If clouds of smoke bought him five minutes, then he would count it well worth the effort.

Marching double time to show the severity of the situation, Hongji retreated behind the courtyard walls and back to his people. Enemy Experts would be Scrying to see what he was up to, but all they would see was the bustle of soldiers moving concrete barriers into place and wagons out of the way before settling into formation for a fight. Major Sun Qiang was sallying out from the rear gates with his five-thousand light cavalry, which would lead the Enemy to believe there was some hidden means of quickly crossing over the deep trenches keeping the fort from being surrounded, a fact Hongji desperately hoped was untrue. The fighting would be bloody if they had to fend off the full force of the Enemy cavalry from the second they stepped foot on the open plains, so they needed time for the infantry to get out of the way and leave the Imperial cavalry with enough room to do their job. Especially Major Alsantset and her highly effective mounted roosequins, with their powerful longbows and pack hunting tactics, not to mention the formidable cattle-drawn chariots and accompanying riders who were already waiting on the plains east of Sinuji. Say what you will about bulls and cows being placid and docile, but even the bravest and craziest Defiled would panic when standing in the path of a stampeding herd.

Thus, their plans hinged on the Enemy commander being too incompetent to have built or brought portable bridges, but thus far, their luck had held out. Hongji still had countermeasures in place if they did have bridges, of course, but doing so would earn him a hefty butcher’s bill at the end, something he hoped to avoid at all costs.

The Empire would need every able bodied soldier to hold the Western Wall, and Hongji was not one to spend a single life more than necessary.

All too soon, the moment of truth arrived. Things were already in place and allies should have begun moving all across the front lines, so all that was left was to survive long enough to see those plans through to completion. Sadly, this task was not as simple as it sounded, but he gave the order regardless. “Withdraw,” he said, uttering the word without emotion as he projected his voice across camp. “Sinuji cannot hold, but we will fight on.”

With the order given, Hongji knew that the entire front line was lost. By morning, Imperial forces will have withdrawn to the second line, where larger, sturdier fortresses would allow them to put up a stauncher defence with more soldiers and Experts in one place, a plan set off by his decision to withdraw from Sinuji. It left a sour taste in Hongji’s mouth to give up so much ground to the Enemy, but there was no helping it. If the entire front line didn’t fall back together, then the Enemy could easily cut off and besiege any remaining Imperial forces, and while he understood the necessity of retreat, being the man responsible for making this decision would weigh heavily on his conscience for many years to come.

Assuming he survived the night, of course.

The order to withdraw was so unexpected, even the steadfast veterans under his command balked at the sudden about face, but the commanding Officers who’d been clued in beforehand had them jumping to obey. A good thing too, as scared soldiers could not be given time to think, else they could easily succumb to panic. Humans often stylized themselves as apex predators, but more often than not, they responded like scared prey. It took courage, discipline, and training to overcome the instinct to scatter and hide from a superior foe, but their only chance of survival was to follow orders, stick together, and pace themselves over the next few hours. Hongji had given them every advantage he could, but their fate was no longer his most pressing concern, because the Defiled had seen their foes withdrawing and were charging at the fort.

Almost a half minute later than expected, but he imagined the Enemy commander took the extra time to vent his rage and frustration instead of giving orders as he should have been. Defiled footsteps shook the earth as the horde howled in wordless fury at the thought of losing their prize, not just the wealth and rations tucked away on the well-laden wagons rolling out the rear gates, but also the flesh, blood, and bones of the soldiers climbing out and over the walls. There would be no staunch line of spears and swords waiting to greet the Defiled horde, only a row of unmanned concrete barriers with twenty brave Warriors of the Empire standing loosely behind them, their faces set with grim determination and their Spiritual Weapons at the ready.

This was the rearguard, and Hongji placed himself amongst them, not in search of fame, glory, or reputation, but because the lion’s share of his work tonight was all but over. Chu TongZu led from the front and inspired his soldiers to victory, so Hongji hoped his efforts here might possibly do the same. Brandishing his sceptre, which now that he thought of it, was a pretentious name for a long-handled mace, he watched the first Defiled auxiliary poke his head out from over the wall before turning to the Martial Warriors standing at his sides. There were no words to be said that would be heard over the thunderous charge and murderous screams, so he merely offered them a salute before turning back to meet the charge. One head became two, then ten, then a flood of Defiled surged over the unmanned battlements, as Hongji raised his Sceptre overhead and shouted, “Humanity will persevere!”

Which was the signal for Fire-Bird Tenjin to set fire to the courtyard from his perch above the rear gates.

As satisfying as it was to hear the screams of rage turn to shrieks of horror as the Defiled vanguard went up in flames, Hongji couldn’t help but lament missing out on seeing his first firetrap in action. Politics had kept him out of Sinuji during Rain’s ‘disgraced’ return to the front lines, where the young dragon set off a conflagration which claimed a half-million lives and had his work mistaken for the actions of a Divinity. This blaze was hardly more than a mere ember in comparison, easily kept back by the waist high concrete barrier, but it was the best Hongji could do considering the Defiled were so guarded against fire, and he even made sure to include a bluff beforehand, namely his little ploy with the smoke so that the Enemy would think themselves safe. Despite all his careful preparations, a handful of the foremost Defiled made it to Hongji’s rearguard and needed to be put down, including one unfortunate soul Hongji personally kicked back into the flames. All things considered, this was more of a testament to Defiled speed and tenacity than his ‘underwhelming’ firetrap, but a disappointing success was still a success, so he couldn’t complain too much.

Then the Demons emerged from the flames, and stalwart heroes of the Empire strode out to meet them.

Man and Demon did battle amidst the sizzling flames as Hongji unleashed his Aura and gave himself over to the fight. No surprise, no reaction, only action. Twirling his sceptre in his right hand to fend off a bestial Demon’s grasping claws, he gathered his Domain in his left hand and struck out with his palm. Even fully extended, his arm was too short for the attack to connect, so the bearish Demon paid it no mind. Perhaps it was his imagination, but Hongji felt as if the creature’s expression was one of surprise as his Domain took invisible shape in the form of an enlarged palm, one which separated from his physical hand and smashed into the Demon’s grizzled muzzle. The ethereal palm continued forward but the Demon refused to give way, still thrashing about in an effort to claw at Hongji’s throat. With a grunt of effort, Hongji pushed home the attack and was rewarded with a series of satisfying cracks as the Demon’s neck gave way and its head exploded in a mess of chitin and Ichor, but even this would not be enough to kill it. Taking no chances, Hongji booted the foul creature back into the fire, and allowed himself a single moment of satisfaction before taking arms up against his next foe.

