Troll Soup: a bowl of troll soup sometimes appears to be offered to the fish. If fed to the fish, it will become enraged and slap one or two of the adventurers before returning to its pond. It will feel like being slapped by a troll. Cost 30 DP.Nutritious Berries: A small but nice meal. The fish only eats so many before ignoring more. 5 DP.Honey from the Bees: An assortment of honeys can be offered. 20 DP

Divine Popcorn: A special food that appears rarely. If offered to the fish, the fish turns golden and blesses the adventurers with the orb and good fortune. Almost strong enough to cancel Waddle's curse. 50 DPThe Trophy of the Fishgeon: If one adventurer has any item won from a faction inside the Fishgeon, the fish of this island enchants it. 40 DP.The Stink of Vengeance: If on any threat level other than base, this fish's pond becomes a deep tunnel that transforms the fish into the Meguitar Fish. 50 DPDelta watched as mushrooms popped out of the soil followed by lush berry bushes that brought life to the island along with dripping hives of honey with a distinct lack of bees. Hidden between some rocks is a bowl filled with troll soup curdling the mana that came near it.The fish in the pond looked hungrily at all the offerings but they were formed well outside its reach. Delta felt a little sad so she built a secret little food dispenser at the bottom of the pond that would give it some snacks with no effects to get it through its hunger pangs.The fish wriggled and looked to be dying in an effort to convince Delta to hand over some honey or maybe some leftovers from Fera's kitchen. It was cute and pathetic, but Delta knew it was only faking it for the attention and food."I made you, I know you're acting," Delta said, her hands reaching for berries despite her words.Somehow, the fish's eyes began to shimmer and sparkle like a little puppy dog and Delta's steel resolve began to corrode.That was when Nu dumped the troll soup into the pond without any hesitation.Over the screams and the sounds of screens being slapped, Delta considered Fish Island a success!
