Erin stared hard at the golden substance bubbling and turning brown over the fire. It was cheese. Cheese, on top of a tomato sauce spread evenly over a doughy base.
With pepperoni. It had to be with pepperoni, or else there wouldn’t be any point, would there? Erin was a firm believer in pepperoni; she could take or leave pineapple and she refused to acknowledge anchovies.
These were the essential secrets of the universe, and this was the substance that made the world spin. Okay, maybe they weren’t essential, but they were pretty important!
“Pizza.”
Erin breathed the word, as she sensed the moment was now. She reached forwards and yanked the pizza off the metal rack over the fire, glad that she’d remembered to wear gloves this time.
“Pizza!”
It was glorious. Perfectly round, with a radius you could bite into with fluffy crust and generous toppings of both cheese and meat. None of the skimpy, bare-bones layer over the tomato sauce, thank you very much.
Erin slid the pizza onto the counter and grabbed a knife. She didn’t have a pizza roller, but it was easy enough to cut into the traditional eight slices. That too was essential; you couldn’t have unevenly sized slices, or someone might get stabbed.
It was done. Erin stared at her newest creation and felt her stomach rumble. But no, this wasn’t for her. This was for her customers.
As Erin swept back into the common room she enjoyed the sound of that word. Customer. She had some! But maybe that wasn’t the word for the people sitting in her inn. Hm. Patron? No, that sounded awful.
“Guest.”
That was a good word. Erin beamed as she sat her pizza down in front of the Drakes who eyed the food suspiciously. She didn’t know them, and that was glorious too!
She had guests that weren’t friends. It didn’t sound like much, but it was progress! For the last few days, Erin had been getting Gnolls, Drakes, and the odd Human into her inn, and not just her friends and Pisces. She was making money, and with her newest creation she was sure she was going to make even more.
“Is this…‘pizza’?”
One of the Drakes poked at a slice with a claw. Erin nodded proudly.
“Yup! It’s really good! As good as a hamburger. Try it; you’ll see!”
One of the three Drakes who’d come to her inn for lunch looked at his companions. He shrugged, and gingerly picked up a still-steaming slice. He blew on it a few times, and then nibbled it.
His eyes widened, and his tail twitched a bit. Erin watched his face and his tail anxiously. Drakes were like dogs, and Gnolls were even more like Dogs. They could lie pretty well, but their tails always gave them away.
“Hm. Lots of cheese. And chewy. Warm.”
He bit deeper into the slice as his companions watched expectantly. Erin held her breath. His tail twitched…and then began to wag!
Just a bit. But when the Drake finished the rest of his slice and reached for another one Erin knew she’d done it again. Or rather, copied it again.
“How is it?”
The Drake chewed thoughtfully and then nodded in satisfaction.
“Delicious. It quite suits our needs.”
Erin beamed, and the other Drakes nodded happily in approval. One picked up a slice, but rather than eat it, began to dissect it, examining the parts.
“Melted cheese, sauce…from a tomato? And rising dough. Extraordinary. But how delicious!”
The third Drake nodded. He wasn’t eating either, which was strange to Erin, but he also inspected the pizza with great interest.
“It seems easy to make. Simple recipe—”
“Tomatoes might be hard to come by. Not much call for them.”
“There will be. Put in an order and we’ll have enough.”
The first Drake nodded as he licked his claws.
“Cheese and sauce base—the meat is good, but I can see sliced fish being equally appealing. I’ll do a few prototypes.”
“Prototypes?”
All three Drakes froze and looked over at Erin. The second one gave her an unconvincing smile.
“W-well, we were just saying what an extraordinary recipe it is.”
“Oh. Um. Thanks? Are you some kind of [Cooks]?”
The third Drake nodded. He stood and extended a claw to Erin. She shook it, still not quite sure what was going on.
“Terres Hangclaw, at your service. I’m a [Chef] at the Dancing Drake in Liscor.”
“Oh, it’s very nice to—”
Erin paused as her mind caught up with what he’d said. She frowned at the third Drake, who cringed as the other two glared at him.
“Wait a second, what was that? You’re a [Chef]? Why are you here to—”
One of the Drakes hurriedly tossed down several silver coins on the table. His two companions rose and they gathered up the slices of pizza and retreated towards the door.
“Much appreciated Miss Human. But we’ve got to go. Don’t worry about the change!”
They practically dashed out of the inn with the rest of the pizza. Erin watched them go, mouth gaping.
“I’ve just been plagiarized! Again!”
She stared at the table, at her coins, and at the open door. She felt she should be upset, but they’d left a lot of money for one pizza. But they’d taken the recipe! …Which wasn’t hers. But it was still theft!
The door began to swing closed, but someone caught it. Ceria walked in, staring over her shoulder suspiciously.
“…Did I just see three Drakes running away with a bunch of food in their arms?”
“It’s called ‘pizza’ and they just stole my recipe.”
Ceria blinked at Erin. It was hard for the girl to explain, but the half-Elf got the gist of what had happened after only a few seconds.
“Ah, recipe thieves. It happens. The instant someone makes something worth eating, there’s always a huge race for other famous [Chefs] and [Cooks] to find out how it was made and improve on the recipe. I suppose it’s a sign of how well those hamburgers did that they were sticking around for you to come up with something else.”
“Yeah, but—!”
Erin gestured helplessly at the door as Ceria helped her gather all the silver coins. Ceria glanced out the door—the Drakes hadn’t yet made it to the city gates. They weren’t exactly fast on their feet, especially as they tried not to drop the pizza slices.
“Want me to hit them with a spell? I’ve got a pretty good aim.”
“No, no. I just wish I’d had a day to sell my food before it got taken away. I guess they’re going to earn a lot of money tonight.”
Ceria patted Erin sympathetically on the shoulder.
“If it helps, I think people will know where the food came from. Next time, you should only bring out the new stuff when it’s dinnertime. That way you’ll get at least one big crowd.”
Erin sighed, and Ceria offered her the handful of silver.
“Don’t worry about it. It’s not like they’re your only customers.”
It was true. Erin had been happy with her increase in clientele, but they still weren’t exactly the crowds that she’d seen in Peslas’ inn.
“I guess.”
She took the silver coins, and then hesitated. Erin looked over at Ceria and smiled, forgetting about her stolen pizza recipe for just one second. She’d been looking forward to this all day.
“Say, Ceria, I’m running low on silver. Can you exchange a gold coin for me?”
“No problem.”
Ceria reached for her pouch, and blinked as Erin handed her a shiny gold coin.
“That was quick. You shouldn’t keep your gold lying out.”
“Oh, I had one lying around.”
Erin smiled mischievously at Ceria. The half-Elf frowned but reached for the coin.
“Well, thanks anyw—”
Ceria paused and stared hard at the gold coin Erin handed her. Then her eyes slowly travelled over to one of the windows. There, the boxes full of faerie flowers were still blooming, golden and shining in the sunlight. Ceria stared at the gold coin, and then narrowed her eyes at Erin. The Human girl tried to keep her face straight as Ceria peered hard at her.
“A gold coin, huh? Well, I’m happy to accept one. Let me just—”
Ceria raised the coin up and tried to bend it with both fingers. She frowned.
“Huh.”
The half-Elf hesitated, and eyed Erin’s twitching face. Slowly, she raised it to her mouth and bit the gold coin. She eyed the faint marks her teeth had left in the soft gold.
“It tastes like gold, but—Erin. Is this an illusion or not?”
“It’s fake! Isn’t it so cool?”
Erin pointed to the flowers.
“I just figured out how to make them turn into coins like the faeries did! See, if I pluck it and say ‘gold’—”
Erin carefully broke a flower off by the stem and Ceria blinked. Suddenly, Erin was holding a second gold coin in her hand.
“That’s incredible, Erin. I didn’t even sense any magic. And these coins feel like gold—real gold too, not the partially gold coins we use.”
She frowned at the coin in her hand and hefted it slightly.
“It weighs the same, feels the same, tastes and smells…rot, that’s good magic. Can you transform the flowers into anything else?”
Erin shook her head.
“It doesn’t seem to work with other things, really. But the coin feels real for an entire day. Then it turns back into a flower in the morning.”
Ceria eyed the bed of flowers speculatively. The blooms were growing quite fast even in the winter, and already Erin had seen a few more shoots poking their head out of the soil.
“Looks like that faerie prank is more useful than it seems. Are you planning on doing anything with the flowers?”
Erin looked at her friend blankly.
“Like what?”
“Oh, I don’t know…use them to buy something nice, perhaps?”
Ceria rolled the gold coin between her fingers. Erin frowned.
“Why would I do that? I mean, they’d find out and it’d be stealing, right?”
Ceria coughed into one hand.
“I know a few Human shopkeepers that—rot, never mind. You’re too nice.”
Erin laughed. Ceria tossed the coin back on the table and folded her arms.
“But seriously, Erin. Those flowers might be useful, but your new recipes are just as valuable. Be careful about letting people run off with them, okay?”
Erin nodded meekly. She chatted with Ceria for a bit longer before the half-Elf trooped upstairs to rest and practice some spells. Erin sighed as she went back into the kitchen. She put the gold coin on a counter next to her silver ones and sighed twice as she stared at the empty pan.
Another day up, another day down. It wasn’t as if it had been a particularly bad one so far, it was just that Erin felt like she was missing something. Someone, perhaps. She wondered where Ryoka was. She missed being able to talk to her.
And as for the recipe…
Shaking her head, Erin flipped the coin into the air and caught it. It really was amazing. But it wasn’t useful. She plonked the coin back onto the counter. After a minute, she mumbled into the silence.
“Besides, I probably wouldn’t get away with it…”
 
—-
 
Halrac was in a foul mood, and he didn’t bother trying to hide it. Not that that was particularly surprising to his teammates—the [Scout] was usually grumpy at the best times.
But right now he was sitting in an inn, and contrary to most people’s preferences, Halrac preferred to be outdoors sitting in the rain or sloughing through mud than indoors. Part of that was because of the company he had to share.
Gold-rank parties were often highly selective as to the people they recruited. New adventurers went through a thorough vetting process, but even the best parties usually had their moments of friction.
In this case, friction was a daily state of being between Halrac, Revi, and Typhenous. Ulrien was their silent leader and usually didn’t get into their arguments, but Halrac made no effort to hide his feelings about his new teammates, and Revi and Typhenous were typical mages through and through.
“Calm down, Halrac.”
Ulrien said it, but Halrac had been adventuring longer than his Captain, and he’d known Ulrien back when the other man had been a Bronze-rank adventurer. Halrac glared at his Captain and moderated his tone only slightly.
“I’m telling you, we shouldn’t be here! It’s a waste of coin, especially if all we do is sit on our asses!”
Revi frowned at Halrac and Typhenous barely looked up from his spellbook. But he spoke in a bored voice.
“We don’t have much to do but sit while we look for someone to dig out those ruins. I don’t see what the problem is, Halrac.”
The [Scout] gritted his teeth.
“The problem is that we’re not doing anything while other adventurers could be getting the drop on us!”
He pointed out of their private room. Griffon Hunt had been seated in this expensive side room in the inn, ostensibly as a mark of respect for their rank and the amount of gold they were paying the innkeeper—but also he suspected, to keep them out of the sight of the regular clientele of Drakes.
“That damn Drake seems to delight in serving us all the local recipes. With what we’re paying him, we should be eating whatever we want.”
Revi raised her eyebrows.
“Then tell him to make your local specialty or whatever, Halrac. But stop grouching because we can’t find anyone to dig.”
“How are there no [Miners] in this entire damn city?”
“There are. But they’re all Antinium. If we hire them—”
Typhenous broke off as Ulrien shook his head and Halrac growled.
“I’m not working with those monsters. Besides, the Halfseekers have tried and had no luck.”
“Well then, until we either decide to call out some people from Esthelm or pick up a spade ourselves, I think we’re stuck here. Come on, sit back and have a pint.”
Halrac shook his head and stood up.
“I’ve had enough of sitting in that inn waiting for something to happen. I’m going to look for some [Diggers] or [Miners] again. I’ll be back tonight or tomorrow.”
None of his comrades stopped him. Ulrien went back to reading, Typhenous did likewise, and Revi made another attempt at downing the bottle of wine she’d bought. Halrac shook his head as he stomped out of the inn, completely ignoring the Drake innkeeper who halfheartedly tried to persuade him to sit and have a drink.
Halrac walked through the streets, avoiding the crowds and trying to find his way through the unfamiliar territory. That was another thing. He was a [Scout]; he could fight in cities, but it didn’t mean he enjoyed trying to find his way through streets where everything was written in the Drake’s language and incomprehensible to him.
He scowled as he passed by a group of laughing Drakes. They fell silent as he walked past, which only caused Halrac’s scowl to deepen.
This entire quest for the dungeon’s treasure – if there even was a dungeon – was pointless. He never should have let Ulrien talk him into this. Griffon Hunt was wasting time and money here when they could be doing good somewhere else.
Plus, Halrac hated this city. He didn’t like Drakes much. Halrac had spent too much time fighting them off-and-on over the years as a soldier to trust them. The same went for Gnolls, and as for the Antinium…
