Viv shrugged. Utilitarianism was an old theory, one with its limits, yet one she had studied in school. It at least considered the greater good as desirable. Compared to the average Paramese, she was downright progressive. The teacher seemed to appreciate that. The Academy valued the spread of knowledge and trained capable mages regardless of their origins. Deep inside, they wanted to make the world a better place for mankind. They were just not brazen enough to say it.

“However,” the teacher continued, and there was always a but, “I have a problem with your applied etiquette methods.”

She sat back into her chair, interlacing her fingers. Viv remained seated on her side of the desk, waiting. The exam was over. She was certain she had passed, although she was well below average. It didn’t matter much to her.

“Etiquette,” the prim woman said, “etiquette is codified respect. I have already mentioned it at the start of the class. The purpose of standardized curtises, bows, handshakes, baisemains, and all that pomp is to show respect. Only through etiquette can people of vastly different origin and social background mix without anyone taking offense. Wars have started over a misunderstanding, a perceived slight so great it could not be ignored. It has happened. It will happen again without etiquette. And the core of etiquette is respect. If you do not convey respect, if you do not mean that respect, no amount of perfectly angled head tilts will matter. Viviane, you ooze defiance.”

The witch shrugged. That wasn’t news to her.

“And here it is again. Deep inside, you don’t feel the need to express respect. I will give you a passing grade because our strict, Academy-defined rating criteria say I should but you will get a fail in the practical part and I will bar you from taking any diplomatic classes unless you fix that attitude. We work towards harmony here. My faculty has no room for hellions.”

Viv nodded and waited. The teacher smoldered in her seat like an old ember, which probably meant she expected an answer. Viv licked her lips and considered her words before leaning forward.

“Don’t take this the wrong way but… do you know who I am?”

That got her a raised brow and a bit more than a smoldering, but Viv didn’t let the woman ignite her temper with righteous fury quite yet. She had a point to make.

“I am currently the elected and permanent head of a freshly independent city, plus a few villages now, huddling at the edge of the deadlands. I represent those people to those who know about our situation. For all intents and purposes, I am the leader of a sovereign nation.”

“There are military bases in Baran that are larger than your entire domain.”

“And there are cities in my world with more people than the entire continent of Param. It changes nothing. I lead a group of people. Those people united against foreign aggression. We have fought, bled, and died so we would be free, and I carry those wishes and the burden of all this sacrifice even today. As their representative, any act of submission I perform is one Harrak performs. That is why, dear professor, I have played along with classes, I have learned the motions, but in real life, I bow to no one. I am Harrak, and Harrak has no masters.”

The teacher gave her a considering look.

“Will you bow to Elunath?”

“He and I have a contractual obligation. I will not sell out my adopted people to save my life. I will remove myself from the throne for the duration of my service if he saves me. In the meanwhile, I stand by what I said.”

The older woman conceded.

“I believe you. Nevertheless, I cannot accept you in my diplomatic classes if you cannot act as an envoy. For your own personal development, I would consider getting a private tutor on sovereign to sovereign rites. It might be useful if you do intend to keep your small city-state thriving and independent.”

“Oh, don’t worry. I know someone who is an expert at contact with other cultures. He is quite experienced.”

***

//I am not sure the timing is wise, Your Grace.

//I am currently searching for agents capable of participating in the expedition.

//However, I have yet to find a free agent capable of facing a necrarch.

“We already have one,” Viv said, grabbing a pin and leaning over the massive map in the Five Fishes basement. She shoved a few of them over the river Shal heading west, then south from the Enorian northern capital of Losserec-on-the-Lake. It stopped short of the deadlands.

“Sidjin has taken over Sterek’s contract. He will establish a network of teleportation gates two thirds of the way to Harrak and according to his contract, he can let anyone he chooses activate them so long as they are individuals. We will use the semester break to travel back to Harrak and get the one man capable of downing a full-fledged necrarch.

//Solar.

“Exactly.”

//Brilliant, Your Grace.

//However, are you sure he will accept?

“Yes, because I will offer him what he wants the most: his freedom from ruling Harrak. We both know he hates it.”

//But who will replace him?

“I will. You see, I can operate Sidjin’s gates. More importantly, I can make my own.”

//Your Grace, this is tremendous news.

//It means…

“That I will finish the gate network and link Helock to Harrak. Secretly, of course.  I will be able to travel from one to the other in a single day. It will take massive amounts of mana and I will be exhausted afterwards, but the next semester has frequent weeks without classes dedicated to practicals. We’ll make it work. But that’s not important. What’s important is that between Sidjin, you, Solar, and I…”

//We can take down a necrarch.

//It will require preparation and specialized gear.

//Leave it to me, Your Grace.

//You have done very well.

//Once more, my trust in you proves to be warranted.

//I shall look forward to adding its head to my collection.

“Solfis. Focus on the bigger picture.”

//The largest collection Nyil has ever seen.

Viv sighed and let it go. The golem was merely being facetious. She took the item he had prepared for her then left, not particularly pleased with her next destination.

***

“The minerals will save me some time, and there are a few rare ones in the lot. I will give you two years for the lot,” Elunath said. “I am rounding up.”

He had not even looked at the crate. Viv had felt the formidable aura of the man merely extend until it covered the container, withdrawing shortly afterward.

She opened her mouth to protest but the elemental archmage raised a hand to shut her up.

“And five years for the gravitite stone of unknown origin.”

Viv stopped and nodded. It was generous for what Solfis estimated would be ‘fair’. It rankled to know she was still basically paying for an option to buy, but it was still that or dying. Unless Solfis’ mysterious contact came though, which she was growing dubious of with every passing day.

“Six years nine months for the assorted supplies required for the spell. Well done on getting them, by the way, but you are still missing the most important piece.”

“The black mana core, I know.”

“See that you do not forget. I must be told in advance if you give up on finding one yourself. They do not grow on trees. If I am too late to acquire one…”

“I will die. I know.”

“It would be a shame to lose such a promising partner.”

The archmage lifted a nasty assassin dagger between two fingers. It was so dark it appeared woven from the night itself.

“Three days,” the man said.

Viv grumbled and grabbed it back. Maybe Irao would find a use for it.

“Thirteen years, nine months in total. Your current time of servitude stands at eighty years and three months. Was there anything else?”

“No.”

“No, sir. You will have to show deference when under my service so you might as well get used to it now. Before you see yourself out, there was one last question I had for you.”

“Yes?” Viv asked with circumspection. It was the first time the archmage had shown any interest in her.

“There are rumors of an anomaly roaming the bowels of the city, a bone construct of great power. You would not know anything about that, would you?”

“I know a little,” she answered noncommittally. The archmage would detect a plain lie.

“I would wave thirty years for a chance to examine its casing, if you can find a way. Don’t go after it yourself. It has proven to be quite lethal.”

“I’ll take that under advisement,” Viv replied, “was there anything else?”

“No. You may go. “

Viv locked the door behind her. Elunath could do it with an effort of will, yet he insisted on people doing it and doing it quietly as well. The man was compeltely anal when it came to manners.

At least, now she knew who had sent those bounty hunters after Solfis.

She wondered if Elunath would hunt by himself. Doubtful for one who seemed to care about their own well-being so much, but a girl could hope.

***

The morning was cold and windy for the first time this year. A gale from the sea carried droplets and the faint smell of iodine. The change of season was coming.

Just like a few other classes, dueling would finish early to allow students to focus on their most important discipline, namely the classes dealing with their chosen colors. The older classes would mix and match but the first years had their own category on account of their fights being uninteresting. In normal times anyway. This year, Professor Dirge had made an exception and chosen to display the final as an introduction to other matches. The contestants were, without surprise, Viv and Rakan.

“I feel strangely nervous,” the young Hallurian said, scratching his head. He had decided to let the thick black strands grow. Some of his kin kept the whole hairstyle complete with dreads and accessories while others shaved it off entirely, depending on how they felt about their cultural heritage. Rakan was exploring his options, which was good.

“There’s just a lot of experienced people here,” he sighed.

The rafters were filled with young mages and a few witches, many of them decked in heavy protective gear. The first day would be relaxed but as duels continued, the more serious contenders would move up. That wouldn’t concern Viv, however. She and Rakan were out no matter what. Despite controlled auras, mana seemed to dance, ebb and flow around the casters, painting an ever-changing riot of colors in her sights. The usual arena had been reinforced for the occasion with a few additional staff members and a medic on standby as well.

The two contenders walked to the arena when asked, then after a few short introductions they were left facing each other.

“You may begin,” Dirge said.

Spells exploded over the arena.

Viv raised two eldritch walls of the path of fireball, detonating it early while a downward burst saturated the area with black mana. Colorless javelins harried Rakan as she walked to the side, keeping her eyes on him. Her projectiles smashed against quickly alternating shields, then a massive burst of gray emerged from him and Viv knew her lungs would no longer draw oxygen. She released a burst of black mana in the air and disrupted the spell, the rest of which he had to drop when her bolts finally pierced his shield. He had another up before the following sound attack could make him throw up.

They exchanged more attacks with Rakan getting progressively overwhelmed. Viv’s increased mastery meant that she could weave and direct mana with a speed and grace even the gifted Rakan couldn’t hope to compete with, at least not yet. In desperation, he poured a vast portion of his remaining mana into a spell that looked suspiciously like one of Varska’s main lines. Viv had not seen him practice it before, and she suspected Ereska might have given the little twerp some advice. Pointy shards emerged from the ground behind him.

“Ballista.”

The hail of stone spears rose, then fell, but Viv was ready.

“Net.”

Black tendrils emerged from before her, slicing the projectiles into fun-sized bits. She grabbed most of those directly in front of her with an overcharged telekinesis spell and returned it to its sender. Rakan shielded his face with his arms as reflex but his stone shield held. Viv could tell he was on his last leg though.

“Blight.”

The darkness-infused cloud of nothingness expanded over the arena on Viv’s half. Rakan put all he had left into a front shield of various colors. He jumped in fright when Viv tapped on his shoulder.

“AH! Shit.”

She held an excalibur in one hand.

“Victory is yours,” he allowed.

Silence followed the short if intense display of battle prowess, then the spectators roared their approval. Feet and hands drummed on the wooden benches as was tradition across the continent. Words and comments surged across the crowd in quick succession. Rakan shook Viv’s hand then the pair stepped down the arena, receiving a symbolic ribbon from a smiling Professor Dirge. It wasn’t much but she appreciated the thought. The pair walked back to their rafters to drink some smuggled tea, watching the next duel with interest. That interest waned very quickly.

“It’s going to be amateurs for the next few hours, or at least very one-sided fights,” Viv said.

“I know how bloodsport works, Viv,” Rakan told her with a smile. “That said, impressive performance. You didn’t even have to use that stupidly strong ability of yours.”

“The instant teleport?”

“That. You just negated the skill edge for the entire assassination path.”

Viv frowned.

“Skill edge?”

Rakan rolled his eyes.

