“Ugh you are so good at some things I forget you can be entirely clueless with the basics. Skill edge, it’s, errr, a concept in the study of path, the interface and Nous’ legacy. I took it as an elective. How to explain. You know different paths have different specific skills right? Like heavy infantry have shield walls, archers have fast shots and cavalry have grouped charges?”

“I didn’t know that. I was informed asking was rude.”

“It is but those skills have been documented throughout the centuries. You know heavy infantry walking in a line with shields will have a shield wall, that’s their entire reason for existing.”

“That makes sense.”

“And within the confines of those skills, even a low attunement individual will accomplish feats they do not understand with some impressive mana efficiency ratio. In a sense, skills are a way for non-casters to specialize in very specific tasks they will excel at. The interface guides someone into achieving through effort and repetition what they could never do through understanding, whether that understanding comes from their intellect or their instincts. Our skills are mana sight and mana manipulation, or enchantment. Other paths will have ‘thrust’ or ‘rune inscribing’, skills with a much lesser scope but a greater focus. We are more flexible but it comes at a cost. However, you know why we are still more powerful in the end.”

“With time and effort, all becomes possible.”

“Almost. We also have more time, usually. Willpower and endurance are associated with longevity. Endurance makes the body resistant to the ravages of time while willpower negates the reality of its effect. You are looking at the mirror and say no, I look younger than this, and then to an extent, it works. Anyway, sorry, I could talk about this for hours. The point is, mages who survive have time to practice until they become so good at something, it is as if they had the skill for it.”

“And the instant teleportation is like that.”

“Yes. An assassin path staple, the shadow step or blink or whatever fancy name you call it allows them to close the distance then escape with their lives. And you have reproduced it with a spell. Perhaps you do not realize it yet but this is an extremely powerful advantage. I wish I had a high black affinity now, just so I could steal it from you.”

“Just find a way with colorless mana!”

“Sure just after turning Halluria into a fertile land of goodwill and abundance and also after I have eaten freshly cut permonn slices off the tits of Warlord Uton’s favorite concubine. Nothing insurmountable. Alright, now that I have buttered you up nicely, I wanted to ask when you intended to recruit me and if I could bring my sister?”

“Hmmm.”

That was rather abrupt.

“Now if you want,” Viv said.

“What are your terms? You know I owe you my sister’s life. I would still appreciate it if…”

“We don’t do forced labor anymore in Harrak. I specifically requested it.”

“... and people listened?”

“Yes, on account of me being the boss. I would have used more convincing arguments if I had to. Fortunately, Solfis listens to me and they know what he’ll do if I give him the go ahead.”

“What will he do?”

“Have fun.”

“Alright, enough about the monster.”

“Yes, my bad, you want a firm answer and I am wasting time. I can pay you to be the resident head mage. Most likely we will have mage candidates if not now then soon, statistically. They will need to be trained. There are enchantments in the walls, hunts to be done, beastlings tides to shred through. Research on imperial stuff. So many things, so little time. I can pay you, of course, and we always take on hunters.”

“Yes. I would love that. Especially teaching, I think I would enjoy teaching very much. Yes, that would be fine. I ask for standard pay for a mage of my rank according to Helockian standards. Unless you’re broke.”

“That might happen.”

“That’s fine then, we’re in this together. Do we need a ceremony? Do you have to place your hand on my head and everything?”

“We’ll make it official when I return. We are friends, Rakan, we’ll stay friends. I’m not the bossy kind. We work as a team or not at all. And I’m not putting my hand on your head because you are sweaty.”
