Right. I need to get out onto the ice and get to the middle. Then, I can open up the range and boost the power. Extend Aura should get me to 36 meters in radius. More than enough to sweep the whole thing if I’m in the middle. As for the slimes, they can’t have more than a hundred health or so, judging by the ones I’ve fought before. They might even have less. They’re smaller, after all. Also, this is fire damage, which Ice Slimes should be weak to. This is gonna be easy. Here we go.

Rain hopped down onto the ice, steadying his footing as the slimes skated for him. He relaxed his hold on Aura Compression slightly, extending it out to four meters. That would be enough to keep the slimes off him until he got to the center. He brought the power up until the damage read around 30 per second. If the slimes could cross four meters in less time than it took the aura to kill them, he’d just boost it further.

Immolate (10/10)

30-34 heat (fcs) damage per second to entities and environment

Sufficient damage causes ignition

Range: 4 meters

Cost: 10 mp/s

The aura formed a shell of warm, clear air around him, the heat melting the falling snow moments after it crossed the boundary. His armor shone with crimson light as the metal disrupted the mana flow. The ice beneath his feet started melting, his metal boots losing traction as the water spread across the surface.

He smiled as the first of the slimes entered his range. The moment it crossed the boundary, it burst into flame, just as the skill’s description promised. It lasted less than two seconds, its health bar vanishing as it went up in a plume of greasy smoke.

Oh shit, that might be a problem. I don’t think they’ll catch on fire once I lower the power, but if they do, I’ll have to stop and use Purify. One or two going up like that is fine I guess. There’s plenty of smoke over the city already from all the wood people are burning. A hundred of these guys on fire at once, though…yeah, people might notice.

He hustled for the center of the pool, his sore muscles protesting as he slid on the melting ice. At this level, Immolate was definitely an attack. He could feel the heat pressing in on him. It was tolerable only because he was just getting the blowback from the heated air, not the effect of the skill itself. It was somewhere around the intensity of a hairdryer at full blast, just coming in from everywhere at once. An unawakened human that he’d blacklisted would have had no trouble, though it would hardly have been pleasant. Rain missed a step, almost falling on the ice as he considered what would happen to someone who he hadn’t blacklisted. At 200 health, they’d be dead in seven seconds.

Yikes.

He stopped in the center, reducing the intensity further as he simultaneously deactivated Aura Compression. More slimes died as the aura swept over them, the icy blobs unable to cross the distance before succumbing to the low, yet steady damage. Looking up, he checked to make sure that the effect of the spell wouldn’t be too noticeable from outside. The walls of the bath were high, but not that high. The snow was being pushed back as the spell expanded, but it wouldn’t be obvious from a distance thanks to the poor visibility. The spell itself didn’t have a visual component; it could only be seen by the effect on the environment. It was most obvious with metal. The light was much brighter than what his armor was currently giving off, protected as it was by his soul. That wasn’t a concern in this instance. There wasn’t any metal around other than the sluice gate, which was out of range. He nodded to himself, satisfied. It should be fine.

He activated Extend Aura, using Aura Compression once more to keep the boundary within the pool. He reduced the intensity further, dropping it down to around 10 damage per second. There was no need to get carried away.

Immolate (10/10)

9-10 heat (fcs) damage per second to entities and environment

Sufficient damage causes ignition

Range: 26 meters

Cost: 9 mp/s

Hmm, I have around 5,000 mana left and it’s using 9 per second right now. Call it 10 for fast math. That means I have around 500 seconds to get to the other end. Plenty of time. I don’t need to worry about being efficient.

Nevertheless, he walked briskly, being careful not to slip on the ice. At this level, the aura wasn’t anywhere near strong enough to melt through the ice in any reasonable time frame. It was, however, plenty strong enough to cover the surface with a thin sheen of water that made it even more treacherous. Rain wished for ice skates as he slipped and slid along, feeling less like a skater and more like one of those rocks that they used in curling.

He started picking up speed. The slimes skated toward him, heedless of their own demise. Their health steadily dropped under the influence of the skill the moment they entered the aura. None came anywhere close to reaching him before dying. Fortunately, he didn’t need to deal with the smoke. At the lower heat level, they didn’t burst into flames, merely melting into puddles of a blue oily substance that spread across the ice. In addition to smelling horrible, the liquid reduced the friction even further. He traced a wake through the oily layer of filth, focused entirely on staying upright at this point.

All according to plan. He windmilled his arms, then lowered himself down into a crouch. He needed to kick off every once in a while, digging the edge of his metal boot into the ice. It worked well enough. It was actually somewhat fun. He lowered the intensity of Immolate further as he saw that the slimes weren’t making it anywhere near him despite his increased speed.

The last of the slimes died as he reached the end of the pool. He scrambled to a stop, managing to arrest his momentum before he slammed into the metal grate that blocked the water from flowing down into the sewers. From this close, he could see that there was an additional sluice gate beyond the grating that was normally raised to maintain the water level in the pool. It was lowered now, sitting at the level of the ice. He dropped Immolate completely and scanned for slimes, coming up with none outside of the sewers. The far end of the pool was out of range, but he was still pretty sure that he’d gotten them all.

He activated Purify, letting the spell start to work on the layer of oily slime that was coating the ice while he checked his kill notifications. The scent of urine and wet dog vanished. With a thought, he forced the system to give him a summary.

You have defeated [Ice Slime] x132, Levels 1-2

0 Experience Earned

Wow, there really were a lot of them. All in a day’s work. Oh, oops. Zero experience, probably because I’m at the cap. I should have unlocked a tree or two. Oh well. Not like experience is a problem for me.

“Well, I saw something new today,” Lamida’s voice came from the edge of the pool. Rain looked up at her. She looked, well, not amused. Perhaps slightly less stern. “Impressive. I thought you would fall.”

Rain smiled, then remembered his helmet, flipping up the visor. “Satisfied?”

“That was Immolate, was it not?” she said, looking at him. “Not at all what I expected. I’ve never seen anyone use it before. How do you deal with the mana cost?”

Rain shrugged. No way I’m telling her that.

“Alright then, keep your secrets,” Lamida said. Rain fought back a laugh, picturing a certain hobbit talking to a certain wizard. He flipped his visor down to hide his grin. Her tone had been anything but playful.

She turned away and walked toward the arch. “I’m leaving. Deal with the mess, then get one of the officers to check once you’re done. You can collect your reward from the Guild.” She paused as she reached it, looking over her shoulder. “We’ll be watching.”

A sudden crash of thunder tore apart the silence immediately after she finished speaking. Rain jumped. I thought the storm was passing…unless…she did that somehow. He looked at Lamida, but she was already gone. Thunder rumbled again and lightning flashed across the sky. The temperature slowly fell with the falling snow, no longer held at bay by his aura. Well, that isn’t ominous or anything.
