He looked at Rankin’s back as he worked. The old man was wearing the standard blue guild uniform. He didn’t have any obvious jewelry or signs of wealth to indicate what he was doing with all the money he was skimming from the guild. That I think he’s skimming from the guild, Rain corrected himself. I can’t prove it yet. No matter how I slice it, though, there’s got to be something going on here.

He looked around the shabby guildhall, then back at Rankin. He activated Detection, finding a small pouch of Tel at the man’s waist, but only after he boosted the power to sharpen the signal. Interesting. Staavo said arcane resistance would be one way to avoid things like Detection. I guess it extends to what you’re carrying. Anyway, there aren't enough Tel in there to be suspicious. He’s richer than me, but that’s not saying much. If he is embezzling the guild’s funds, he’s being smart about it at least…

“Stop hovering over my shoulder,” Rankin said, continuing his work. “You can look at the board once I’m done. There’s a special request for you, too. I’ll get to it in a minute. Go clean or something. That’s all you’re good for.”

Rain clenched his teeth. You know what? No. Fuck this. I’ve had it with every asshole thinking that they can just push me around. “Why should I?” he snapped. “If you’re not going to hold up your end of the deal, then I’m not cleaning a damn thing.”

Rankin laughed. “As if I care.” He pinned the last notice to the board, then turned to look at him. “You are an illiterate fool. Halgrave was right to throw you out. I’ve got no idea what he’s thinking, returning your plate. If I was in charge, I’d have never even let you back in the door.”

Rain strangled his angry response. There was no point to getting into a shouting match. He was already regretting snapping at the man. It made him sound like a petulant child, angry at not getting his way. He took a deep breath. “What happened with Lavarro was not my fault. I know you don’t think so, but that is the way it is. Halgrave and I have reached an understanding. I won’t cause any trouble for you if you don’t cause any trouble for me.”

“Fine,” Rankin said. “Now get out of my way.” He pushed Rain aside. The old man was strong. Very strong. Rain’s armored boots slid against the floor as Rankin shouldered past him. “Take a minute and see if you can find a nice quest with some pretty colors on the posting. I’ll read it to you when you’re ready, don’t worry. I’ve got your special request, too, cleaning boy.”

Seriously? Rain stared after the man. How do I keep finding these people? His mouth twisted into a malicious grin beneath his helmet. Okay, if you can be an asshole, so can I. It’s time to get petty. I’m still going to use Purify in here whenever I want, except now I’m adding in a rule. He opened up the blacklist for the skill. It was blank as he’d never seen a need to use it for this particular spell. He added Rankin’s name to the list. The rule is: ‘nobody poops but you’.

Rain pulled the door shut behind himself and stepped back out into the storm. The thunder had stopped, but the snow was still falling heavily. Thundersnow was something he’d heard of, but never experienced himself. The rumors of impending rank shift might have some credence to them, unless the odd weather was just a coincidence. There was also the fact that there were slimes in the baths. He’d been right in his guess that the Watch had requested his assistance with the issue. The request hadn’t specified exactly what they wanted him for, just that his Purification aura was required. The reward of 30 Tel was nice, but not enough to get his mind off what monsters appearing within the city might mean. If the slimes climbed up into the baths from the sewer, that’s one thing, but if they spawned there…

He increased the level of his climate control, fighting against a chill that had nothing to do with the storm. He tried to put it out of his mind.

In addition to the Watch’s special quest, he’d picked up two more postings: A generic quest for hunting slimes in the sewer, and a request to harvest a particular type of moss that grew down there. Nothing too strenuous. Still, he felt like he was pushing himself. He was still sore and hesitant to use his spells at a high intensity. What he really wanted to do was to sit down and play with the ring some more. He’d tried to get a display of his adaptation level, but the system had fought him. The resistance meant it was possible, but the system was unyielding when he pressed against it. What he was asking for wasn’t straightforward. It would have to wait until he recovered.

It was odd. He was dreading the walk through the sewers more than fighting the slimes themselves. With Refrigerate at rank 10 and Aura Compression allowing him to control the range, fighting them would be trivial. He was just hoping that whatever was lurking in the baths wasn’t another Mucus King. If it was, he’d have to come back later. He definitely wasn’t up to fighting something like that at the moment.

He activated Detection as he came into range once more. There were a bunch of signals coming from the bathhouse, but each one felt small. Smaller, even, than a regular slime. Unless there was something in there with the ability to avoid Detection, it looked like this was going to be an easy job.

Swarm slimes? Slimelings? Baby slimes? Wait, do monsters age?

He shook his head and lowered his hood before approaching the door to the baths. He wanted to be recognized this time. The guards at the door were barely visible in the driving snow, but they came to attention as he approached.

“Well, I’m here,” Rain said, coming to a stop. “What do you need me for?”

“You’re the purification mage, right?” said the officer on the left.

“Yes,” Rain said. “I received a request to come here, so here I am.”

The man nodded. “Inside. Speak to the sentinel.”

Chatty fellow. Rain shrugged and entered. The building was deserted, snow swirling in from the archway that led to the pool. The pool itself was in a large, open-ceilinged room. While it had high walls that screened it from the city, there was nothing to stop the cold wind and the snow from getting in. It seemed like a poor design choice for a city that got this cold, but he reserved his opinion. They probably had some way of draining the pool during winter months. If he were in charge, he’d have installed some heater plates under the water so the baths could run year-round. He had no idea how much something like that would cost, though.

Rain stared as he stepped through the archway. The pool had been drained halfway, the inflow from the river blocked. The remaining water had frozen into a solid sheet of ice. There were small blue slimes everywhere in the pool, each no larger than a football. They clung to the sides and squelched their way across the ice, leaving smooth trails behind them as they cleared the snow. He took a step back as three of them started moving in his direction. Well, this is a thing…

He was startled by a sudden flash of red light. One of the three slimes was blown away by a blast of flame. He looked for the source, spotting a woman in a red robe walking toward him. He recognized her.

“Sentinel Lamida,” he said, backing away from the slimes. They were slow, hardly a threat. His HUD listed them as Ice Slimes and they were only level one. “I have to admit, this isn’t what I was expecting.” He flinched as Lamida blasted another slime.

She raised an eyebrow. “And what were you expecting, exactly?”

Rain shrugged. “A mess or something. Why do you need me for this? Those don’t look dirty. They just look like little blobs of ice.”

Lamida stopped in front of him, crossing her arms. “They are as foul as any other slime, and besides, you aren’t here for your Purification aura alone. The main reason you’re here is for the other one. The one that got you your category three rating.”

Rain frowned. “That’s not what the request said. I feel lied to.” Damn it, they’re jerking me around. I need to get stronger so I can stop worrying about people playing games with me like this.

“Would you have come otherwise?” Lamida asked, raising an eyebrow. “Besides, they’re still slimes.” She launched another firebolt, leaving a sooty smear on the tile floor and sending chunks of burning slime everywhere. “There’s still going to be a mess when you’re done.”

Rain sighed. He’d known there were monsters in here thanks to Detection, but she didn’t know that. He didn’t want to reveal the fact that he could basically see through walls. Well, if they aren’t going to be straight with me, I’m not going to be straight with them. Time to fish for some information. “How did they get in here? They didn’t spawn, did they?”

Lamida skewered him with an expression colder than the driving snow. “No. They came in from the river.”

I’m…not sure I believe that. Even if they were in the river, how did they get there in the first place? That’s just moving the problem. He narrowed his eyes. “Let’s say I believe you. What do you want me to do?”

“Isn’t it obvious?” she said. “Clear them out, and do it without anyone outside of the building noticing. You can do that, can you not?”

Damn it. I mean, they are paying me, but still, this feels like a setup. Something is hinky here. “Just so we’re clear, I’m going to go in there and use an AOE skill to kill off all the slimes. I’ll keep it under control and I should be able to do it without damaging anything. It won’t extend beyond the pool. You said you’d punish me if I ever used the skill in the city, so I’m making sure we don’t have a misunderstanding before I do it.”

“Today, please,” Lamida said.

Rain shook his head. “Say I have approval to use the skill.”

Lamida uncrossed her arms. “Fine. I thought you were an adventurer, not a lawyer. You have my approval to use the skill.”

“Can I get that in writing?”

Lamida stared at him silently. He waited. You aren’t winning a staring contest, lady. I’ve got my helmet on.

“No. You cannot.” She held up a hand to interrupt his response. “There is another condition to this request that I have yet to explain. You are not to reveal the presence of the slimes to anyone in the city. There is a reason the request was phrased as it was. We don’t want this becoming public knowledge. I should not need to tell you why.”

Rain froze. “So they did spawn then. It is rank shift.”

“No,” Lamida said, staring at him like he was an idiot. “But it does not matter. If you can think that, so can others. We are not unaware of the rumors in the city.”

Rain shook his head. “That doesn’t make sense. If you were worried about people thinking this was rank shift, you would have just dealt with it quickly and quietly, not waited around. Using it as an excuse to see me use my skill is reckless.”

“I do not need to explain myself to you,” Lamida said. “We have our reasons.”

Rain shook his head. “No. Explain, or I’m leaving.” He was already in a bad mood from dealing with Rankin, and 30 Tel wasn’t enough to tolerate being jerked around like this. He wasn’t going to let her walk all over him. He’d gotten the measure of the Watch. Their rules were strict, but they stuck to them. It wasn’t like she would attack him or anything. I just hope I’m not wrong about that. She is silver, after all.

Lamida sighed, the first sign of any emotion from her other than frigid disdain. “Fine. I will admit that it was my idea and that it was not necessarily the best tactical decision. The slimes got in when the workers opened the sluice to flush the pool before draining it for the winter. If we had actual proof of rank shift in the city, we would not be hiding it. We would be organizing an appropriate response, possibly an evacuation depending upon the severity. Had you not responded by noon today, I would have dealt with it myself and just left the cleaning to you. Even if news of the slimes gets out it will merely be…inconvenient.”

Rain thought about it. I suppose I’ll buy that. I don’t particularly like the way she’s jerking me around, but it makes a certain sense. This job really is perfect for me. She’s just capitalizing on it to learn what I can do. Still, I’m going to be careful. No novas, even at low power. People would notice the cloud of steam. I’m worried about this causing a panic, even if she doesn’t think it’s likely.

“Well?” Lamida said.

Rain nodded. “Fine. I get to keep whatever they drop. Tel or otherwise.”

“Fair,” Lamida said. “Now hurry up. I’m regretting this idea more every moment. It’s bad enough that you made me wait this long. At least it looks like the snow is finally letting up.”

Rain nodded and walked through the arch, surveying the area to see what he was in for. It was dark because of the storm, but thanks to his enhanced perception, he wasn’t having any trouble picking out the slimes as they moved, leaving shiny trails of clear ice behind them. They’re like little Zambonis. They’re almost cute. They just need some anime eyes and we’d be set. He breathed in deeply through his nose. Nope, maybe not. They’re not nearly as bad as the ones in the sewer, but still. It smells like wet dog and urine in here.

The pool itself was rectangular, about the same width as an Olympic swimming pool, but twice the length. He turned, heading for the wall where the river normally flowed into the building. The inlet was closed by a metal sluice gate as Lamida had said. He kept back from the edge of the pool as best as he could, but some of the slimes still noticed him. They skated toward him across the ice, moving much more quickly than they could on the tile floor of the bathhouse. He heard wet plopping noises as they slapped into the near wall of the pool. After a brief delay, the first of them hauled itself up over the edge and started squelching toward him once more. He wasn’t concerned. He could keep ahead of them easily. His armor was still discharged, but he had no intention of letting them anywhere near him.

As he neared the sluice gate, he paused to look at the trail of slimes heading his way. He had a few moments to prepare. He opened up the skill card for Immolate. It was already active at a low level in the form of his climate control. That meant Channel Mastery at 1% of normal output and Aura Compression taking 17 meters off the range.

Immolate (10/10)

2-2 heat (fcs) damage per second to entities and environment

Sufficient damage causes ignition

Range: 1 meter

Cost: 0.5 mp/s

