[III Fighter(Kill an enemy 40 levels over you. Path of Iron perk obtained.)(0/50)]

[Cosmic Soul(Obtain level three different soul related skills before level 500, ascendant unlocked before level 500, and willpower over 250 before level 500)(0/500)]

[I Invincible(Take over 10,000 points of damage, with capped resistance in the damage type, and live)(0/250)]

[Fearless (Battle an enemy over 1,000 levels above you and live) (0/250)]

I selected the Fighter tree line, hoping for some easy bonuses. After filling out all the points in the tree, it didn’t disappoint.

Those that enjoy battle and live for it are strongest. Either you gain the discipline to become a master of it, or you simply feed an obsession. +3% to physical damage and physical damage reduction multiplier.

You are the latter. The act of war is narcotic for you, a therapy of sorts. While other people find peace in paradise, you find your center among a mass of corpses. +3% to physical damage and damage reduction multiplier.

Only there can you truly focus. Once you’ve seen the brilliance of battle, everything else shines dull by comparison. Even the brightest light dies down to a grim gray. +3% to physical damage and damage reduction multiplier.

That gray bleeds into life, infecting it with an overwhelming apathy. Finding purpose amidst that gray is as senseless trying to nurture a predator on bread. One day, they will need blood. +3% to physical damage and reduction multiplier.

One day, so will you. +3% to physical damage and reduction multiplier. +50% to physical damage.

This tree didn’t work out as well as the last one. The 50% extra physical damage wasn’t much in comparison with my 3000+ physical damage bonus. The multiplier added onto my other multipliers too, but it wasn’t multiplicative. Still, it was enough to notice. The tree menu popped back up again.

[Cosmic Soul(Obtain level three different soul related skills before level 500, ascendant unlocked before level 500, and willpower over 250 before level 500)(0/500)]

[I Invincible(Take over 10,000 points of damage, with capped resistance in the damage type, and live)(0/250)]

[Fearless (Battle an enemy over 1,000 levels above you and live) (0/250)]

This time I selected cosmic soul. It looked like it may help with the runic stuff I was focusing on. I only had 36 points left, so I put all of them into the tree. Before heading out on the mission, I had one other set of bonuses to finish.

One of the big trees I finished, Genesis of Potential, increased the amount of dungeon cores I could absorb. From 1/4th my level to half of it. That meant I had a couple of bonus cores to eat before we left. That meant talking with Kessiah or Torix to make good on the bonuses.

With that in mind, I walked through the camp. As I did, the eyes of soldiers bore into the back of my head. Most of the people here at the steel legion were just normal people before Schema came. They just assumed I was some interspecies monster. Kessiah and Althea on the other hand even formed little cults that almost worshipped them.

It was a strange feeling. In a way, I was more disliked and divorced from humanity than two aliens. I still wasn’t hated like Torix though. The steel legion utterly despised him. I couldn’t blame them either. He killed their leader, had them reorganize three times in three weeks, and worked them to the bone. I mean what else did they expect. He’s a necromancer. He needs his skeletons.

Get it? Cause he works them to the bone…Alright, yeah. Back to the story.

I wasn’t despised as much as I was feared. The title and blackened armor made me intimidating as fuck. I’m guessing that’s why no soldiers had even attempted walking up and talking to me this entire time.

That all changed as I walked over towards Kessiah’s tent. I was glancing at my status screen like I was holding a phone. Felt weird to look at it while staring straight forward, so I ended up bumping into a soldier who was passing by.

I didn’t mean to, but I knocked him onto the ground like I was a linebacker tackling him. I even dented a piece of his armor, and he dropped his rifle into a patch of mud. As I turned my head to glance at him, he scrambled onto his knees.

He pulled off his helmet before wobbling back onto his feet. He gave me a short salute, his messy brown hair and five o clock shadow making him look older than he was.

“I-I’m sorry sir. I should have been looking where I was going.”

Being polite, I pulled my helmet back, exposing my face. I gave him a smile,

“It’s no big deal.” I pointed at his rifle, “Is that a problem though?”

He glanced at the rifle, mud lodged in some of the mechanical parts. He picked it up,

“Uh, yes. But, I-I mean it’s not your problem. It’s mine sir.”

I put out my hand to him. He glanced around before handing me the rifle. His hands shook as he did so. I glanced inside the compartments, looking it over. Bits of grit where in the loading chambers, along with the barrel. Cleaning it would be a complete pain in the ass.

The soldier turned pale as I moved the gun around to view it. Testing my new runes, some ascendant mana flared into my palm. The runes glowed a bright crimson, making red light sheen off my armor. Using my palm enchantments, I pulled the grit from the rifle. Taking care not to mess with anything else in the rifle, I cleaned it with my telekinesis over the next few seconds.

I handed the rifle to him, the barrel of the rifle facing me instead of him. I figured it was politer that way. He took it from me, his hands shaking. I raised an eyebrow,

“What’s got you so scared?” I laughed, “Did you think I was going to shoot or something crazy like that?”

I glanced around. A group of people were standing in a circle around us. I was making quite the scene. The soldier glanced around, frozen in place. I rolled my eyes,

“What kind of guy do you take me for? You drop a rifle and then get killed…That’s crazy talk.”

Someone chimed from the group, “That’s what happened to the Sargent.”

With all eyes on me, I shrugged, “Think of that as a change in management. Torix needed an example. Your Sargent was the unfortunate victim of that example. Me though-“ I tapped my chest, “I’m not going to do something like that.”

I pointed at them, “If you fire at me, I’ll kill you where you stand.” I lowered my hand, “Anything else and I’m completely fine with it. I just want to stop Yawm. That bastard needs to die, and I’m the man to do it. Stand in my way, I’ll kill you too. Walk with me, and I’ll be your sword and shield. Remember that.”

Right in front of me, I tapped the brown-haired guy’s shoulder pad,

“Bumping into me is nothing to worry over. Relax and work hard. We’ve got a monster to kill.”

I walked off, leaving the group of soldiers behind me. Once they thought I was out of earshot, an electric whispering took over the crowd.

“He isn’t so bad.”

“And here I thought Jeff was dead.”

“Not such a bad guy I guess.”

Being in a state of perpetual fear must have taken its toll on them. Seeing a more human side to our group helped moral more than I imagined it would though. I walked through the camp, reaching Kessiah’s tent. I tapped on it, but no one replied. I frowned.

“You in there Kessiah?”

Silence was my answer. I unzipped the entrance, glancing inside. Messy as a garbage bin, Kessiah wasn’t inside her tent. I closed the door, the smell of half eaten food leaking out. I surveyed the area, noticing no one else nearby.

Thinking Torix had some dungeon cores, I walked up towards Torix’s house that he turned into a laboratory. As I neared by, Kessiah and Torix’s voices came into focus.

Kessiah whispered, “Are you serious? 30,000 health?”

Torix answered, “Even more. His health regeneration was over 10,000 a minute. Every stat across the board was inflated for his level. I never honestly believed we stood a chance against Yawm. Now, I do.”

“It doesn’t matter how tough the guy is. If Yawm hit’s him with the sentinel’s spear, he’s done for.”

“Daniel has already been sent to the eldritch and returned. He will survive what no other has survived.”

With an evil glint, Torix uttered,

“He will survive exile.”
