Then Viv looked up and saw a fisherman running from the opposite direction, back towards Helock, his discarded basket spilling his catch on the ground.

They were on a clock.

One of the thugs signaled Lim, who redoubled her effort. Viv felt the woman’s mana stir and so did Nagi, if his flinch was any indication. Lim was using a skill. Jin was the target. His entire face was now the color of a tulip while tears of rage welled in his eyes. He was almost ripe.

“Damn, you’re broke, small guy. Why is it you useless wastes of skin always burn all your money.”

Lim went farther, cupping Jin’s balls with her hands. That almost made Viv blush from the sheer audacity. That crazy psycho was molesting an assassin mage in broad daylight!

It was also, apparently, too much for poor Jin. He screamed in rage.

The thug behind him pushed him forward then ducked out to cover, and not a second too soon. A large blade of incandescent mane whistled through the air where he had been, leaving behind a trail of superheated air.

“Shit, poison delay,” Lim said

One of the stones embedded in Jin’s doublet shone brightly. Enchanted, no doubt. More blades emerged over the irate mage’s head.

“I’m going to enjoy this,” he said, face twisted in a rictus of rage.

And then, the most peculiar thing happened. One of his swords was undone, then another. Jin’s face fell.

Everyone else started to run. The passengers picked up the kid and raced away, which was fine. The plan needed them to be alive so they could testify. Viv stayed long enough to free the guard and driver so they wouldn't be caught in the fight. It wouldn’t have felt right otherwise.

The delay let her watch a true mage duel when it wasn’t fought across a plain from fortified positions. It was… different.

Viv’s control over her mana didn’t stop at her skin. Rather, she could manipulate it with extreme precision to a length of about her wrists all around her. This helped stop magical attacks. By contrast, Elunath dominated the entire room he stood in. Jin and Nagi were close enough to each other that the spells barely had time to form before a counter came from the other side. It was much less flashy than the other battles she’d seen unless one had great mana perception. And Viv did.

What she saw was two masters at work, striking and deflecting with blinding speed. Nagi used blue mana made slightly solid, somehow, to break the complex blade constructs while Jin kept attacking with increasingly violent flurries of shard, which bounced harmlessly on a sticky brown shield that seemed uniquely suited to stop that sort of impact. The pair was evenly matched, but only for a few seconds.

Jin was a specialist, a one trick wonder who relied on surprise and blinding speed to achieve his results. Nagi, however, was a prodigy. He quickly picked up on Jin’s technique, then simply used increasingly efficient ways to disable his efforts.

After ten seconds, Nagi was dissolving the blades before they could fully form. Jin’s face was a mask of despair. This lasted until his eyes rolled and he finally collapsed.

“Looks like the poison finally got the job done,” Nagi observed.

Viv didn’t say that Nagi could have just slammed him against the carriage and saved them a couple of seconds. The duel had been a masterful display of skill by the washed up alcoholic. Not just that, but he would need mana mastery at a high level to be that sensitive. Even Viv had failed to perceive many of the hints Nagi had seemingly picked on. And he had used concepts from two different colors. That was not just rare. It was extraordinary.

The man had talent.

“What are you fuckers waiting for!” Lim screamed from the underbrush.

Viv realized she and Nagi were standing in the middle of the empty clearing, alone save for the prone assassin mage. In the distance, the rumble of horse hooves thundered.

“Shit.”

The pair took off as fast as they could. They were dead last and Viv heard the alarm horns of mounted guards far back. Ok so the law here didn’t fuck around when they cared. Good to know.

“Quick, quick!” Lim urged them on.

The two casters had relatively low finesse and that would slow them down. Sonagi also wasn’t at his best. Still, the cart wasn’t far, and they were rolling away before long.

“Should we toss the coin?” Viv asked, wondering if they should remove evidence.

“Don’t give them more tracks to follow,” Nim replied venomously. “And if we’re caught, that won’t make any difference, I assure you.”

True, Paramese law enforcement didn’t need evidence admissible in courts of law.

The cart wheeled away, sticking to small roads and sometimes even beast trails for a while. There were no immediate sounds of pursuit so they took their time and had one of the ruffians scout ahead.

“Two mounted guards, keeping an eye on the crossroad,” he reported towards the end of the afternoon.

“Think they’re here for us?” Lim asked.

“In full armor? They are.”

“You, the witch. Come with me,” Lim told Viv in Enorian.

Shortly after, the two walked out on the street with shitty baskets and their faces covered with scarves. Two mounted guards soon popped out from behind a tall trunk. They wore chest plates, arm guards that went up to their shoulders while composite short bows rested in sheathes on their saddles. Small bucklers held loosely protected their flanks. They didn’t look like they were joking. Both of them were northerners.

“What are you two girls doing out here all alone?” one of them asked. “You’re from around?”

“From Drosek,” Lim said without stopping.

“Didn’t know anyone from Drosek housed a pale girl. Shouldn’t she be in Helock?”

“She’s my sister in law,” Lim said with a ghastly smile.

Viv and her kept walking. One of the guards spat to the side.

“Freaks.”

Seeing that the two women would not stop, the guards rode forward to block their ways with their mounts. That placed them in optimal range, so Viv didn’t hesitate. Without a word, she used a kinetic spell to pull both shields forward and down, destabilizing the riders. Despite the enormous strength, the two men still managed to grab their saddles and stay upright with superhuman speed.

“Hey, what the —”

Both needles sent by Lim collided with their upper lips. The poison traveled to their brains in a second, then they were both out. Incredibly, they didn’t fall from their horses.

“Good. You pull that one,” Lim ordered Viv in Enorian.

“Hope you didn’t kill them,” Viv replied.

“No. You steal, they let go. Sometimes. You kill, they hunt. You kill one of them? They burn your village down.”

“Oh same as back home then. Kind of.”

The highwaymen left the horses grazing on a small clearing with their riders still on their backs. Viv wondered if they would report the incident at all. If she were them, she wouldn’t. They reached the hideout without further issue.

Viv allowed the distribution of the stolen gold to everyone but herself, which made her somewhat popular. Not that the criminals under Solfis’ control would hesitate a second to shiv her if they thought they could gain something from it and survive the consequences. Still, they partied in secret until early dawn then made their way back to the city in small clumps. The walk back was conveniently boring, and she parted ways with Nagi near the entrance to the middle city.

“So it’s goodbye then. Err, glad it went well. Give Elunath a few good words about me, won’t you?” the man said. He had drunk his share throughout the night and Viv got the feeling he would keep going soon. It was, well, it was a terrible waste.

“Look, I have a question. You said you’re paid in silver at the arena?”

“Yeah. Fights with me are boring. Everyone knows what I’m capable of.”

“I would pay good silver for you to teach me and a friend of mine the fine arts of the duel.”

Nagi winced.

“Not sure it’s a good idea. I’m a pariah, yes? If you associate with me. You’ll make an enemy out of my enemies.”

“I think it’s safe to say I don’t have a future in Helockian high society so we’ll be fine. More importantly, I can feel your distribution. It’s pretty equal across red, blue, gray, and brown. And you have at least two concepts in different colors.”

“Hsssh!” Nagi urged, suddenly serious.

It only lasted for a moment.

“Ah, whatever. Not like people can’t guess. Yeah, so what?”

“I have a very talented friend with a similar profile, and we’re both looking to improve our dueling skills. Your help would be invaluable. As I say, I can pay you well and you wouldn’t need to be punched in the dick.”

“Any contract I take must be shared with my ‘benefactors’.”

“That’s no problem. They can send a goon to pick the coin out of your sad hands after we’re done.”

That got her a chuckle.

“Yeah, you know what? Why not? Let’s give it a try. Can’t be worse than getting pummeled by an indebted baker.”

Now Viv was curious. She’d have to visit the arena at some point.

And now they had a trainer. She wondered if it was Elunath’s plan? Maybe he was grooming young prospects to reach greater heights. Who knew with this man? In any case, that was good news.

***

Viv followed the fall of house Skaima from afar, mostly through hearsay and her roommate Ereska’s teaside gossip. The town was positively aflutter with the scandalousness of it all.

“We have no doubt the ‘bandits’ were highly trained operatives from one faction or the other. It was all well done. No casualties, which made Skaima’s excesses even more damning!”

If only she knew.

Well, to be fair, Lim was a highly trained operative.

“It’s the brand for the ruling couple. And they will get off lightly. But I digress. To be found using a hidden branch, why, it hasn’t happened since the Thernsent seventeen years ago! Hmmm. And it really shows how stupid that practice is. Who can hide a mage for two decades? Or for that matter, what sort of mage can maintain a cover for that long all while seeing what they’re forfeiting? You’d need to raise one with the perfect personality. Foolishness. No one can truly predict how a child will turn out.”

“That’s not what one of my teachers used to say.”

“Then she spent her career in ignorance,” Ereska sniffed. “And never followed up on her charges. Shameful. In any case, the Skaima are done for. Their rights as patricians have been rescinded by the council. The family will be split into categories for punishment and even their faraway cousins will spend the next fifteen years paying fines.”

“Even the unconnected ones?”

“There is no such a thing as an unconnected one. If you carry a noble name, merchants will look upon you favorably and your opinion will carry more weight, even if you never attend any family gathering. Helock will revert all of this. Such is our way.”

“Fair enough.”

“What do you think, as an outlander? Do you find our laws too harsh?”

Viv shrugged. She’d never really consider Paramese society as fair or unfair because she didn’t see any earth society as fair by nature. To be perfectly honest, she’d care much more if she were submitted to them a little more.

“Several civilizations of earth carried out nine familial exterminations. That means all your relatives going up and down, your cousins, your uncles and aunts, their spouses, your spouse, and your spouse’s parents.”

Ereska gawped, her tea cup frozen midair.

“Ah… Ah. And I thought our ways were merciless.”

“Humans are human everywhere.”

“So it would seem.”

This turned into a discussion into other outlanders who had visited, like the mysterious arcane biologists who had created the Hadals or the adventurer who had explored the Deadlands before her. The next day, classes resumed after a brief speech from the dean. Viv noted that the teachings would focus on warfare and self-defense, which coincided with a general mobilization of all kingdoms to face a renewed threat from the savage lands of Halluria. Apparently, Param was going to war, and the Academy would prepare its students for the inevitable showdown.

During the first magical class, General Jaratalassi informed her she’d be directly involved.
