Viv’s father used to say that criminals were not stupid. It was just that the police rarely ever got the smart ones. Viv intended to be smart.

Breaking the law around Helock was pretty much a death sentence if caught. There would be no slap on the wrist for a fake bandit attack done for a decent cause. The Paramese courts of law and their enforcers didn’t do extenuating circumstances. The only thing awaiting her would be a noose and possible torture before. Both Lim and Solfis expected the attention to shift quickly to Jin Skaima and his clan, but there would be a few hours when the guards would want to catch the daring highwaymen hunting so close to the city walls. They would get no mercy. Only higher ranking officers would realize this was a targeted hit, much later.

And so Viv prepared.

Lim procured disguises, which Viv wore before just to make sure everything was fine. They left the city to practice the maneuver on some empty road near the shore. Even then, Lim’s crime family posted sentries so no hunters or foragers could spot them and report strange occurrences. They left nothing to chance.

And if Viv thought the lack of cameras and overall low technological level would make her task easier, she was dead wrong. In the countryside, there was no such a thing as a stealthy escape. If she crossed a village, people would know and recognize a stranger in their midst. Foresters could find tracks. Locals knew all the hiding spots. There were always marauding bands of children to notice a campfire trail. No, every last aspect of the plan had to be carefully managed up to and including the escape vehicle (a horse-drawn carriage) and the hidey hole. At least Lim’s associates had skills to hide their tracks.

Then there was Jin Skaima himself.

Viv researched the man and she had to give it to Elunath, he might be an asshole but Skaima was much, much worse. It was nice for her to better the deal while ridding Helock of such a psycho. Jin Skaima used red and gray mana to form overheated blades of energy he used to slice at great speed.

Viv had mostly seen red mana specialists create fire, but obviously red mana could be conjured as such, the same way she called for black mana. That’s what Jin Skaima liked to do. He also liked to make those blades explode no matter who was around. Each of his hits came with an increasing amount of civilian casualties. He had even slain a child, though since the victim was poor, no one had made a fuss yet. Truly, Jin was a piece of shit that she would have no regret sending to the gallows. If that was how executions worked here.

Elunath had picked well.

The last problem was Sonagi, Nagi to his ‘friends’. The man was halfway competent when he was just in the sweet spot between sober and buzzed. Sober wouldn’t do, and drunk was worse. The dodgy healer who had brought him into a semblance of functionality had warned that the disgraced mage needed to be dosed with booze on the regular. Going cold turkey might just kill him outright.

It wasn’t that he was unwilling either. Viv could see traces of fear and hope in the scruffy, washed up mage. He had even bathed for the occasion. it was just that a week wasn’t enough to make up for months of self-abuse.

“How do you know Elunath, anyway?” Viv asked one afternoon that they were resting from another exercise.

“He didn’t tell you?” the man replied, guarded.

Then a moment later, he sighed.

“Not that it’s important, or that I’m important. Fuck, it doesn’t matter. You are looking at the winner of the Academy’s dueling club from 1306 to 1309, when I graduated. At your service.”

Nagi gave a mocking bow, sickly limbs extended with shaking grace. He had used the Helockian way of measuring time, proving him to be a native. Every kingdom measured theirs according to their own significant events so that was a mess.

Meanwhile, Viv was calculating. Most people stayed at the Academy for three years at most unless they intended to become researchers. Nagi didn’t strike her as a researcher. It meant that he had won every year he was there. Not just that, but he had gone toe to toe with third years as a freshman and Viv had seen third years top contenders during the demonstration matches. They were no pushovers. She had no reason to believe they’d been any worse during his time.

“Were you a free candidate?”

“Nope, I attended a prestigious school, sponsored by the Dorenean clan of practitioners. I was to join them as well.”

That meant he was the normal age, sixteen or so. Not like Viv, who was on par with the oldest students and brought to her dueling class years of knowledge and experience in killing people.

“Ok, I’ll bite. You were an extremely promising candidate. What happened?” she asked.

“What else? I got cocky. Helock likes magical might but it lacks tradition even more. And I didn’t know that. My mother was a washerwoman. My dad… well she couldn’t tell me.”

“Secret?”

“No, by oath. He paid her for sex.”

“Okay.”

“But I’m fucking up again, ruining the story. I killed another kid. He was a monster and he had it coming but he was connected and I wasn’t. So the duel was deemed illegal and, well. Yeah. Elunath saved my life so I could take care of my mom.”

“She’s still alive?”

“Yeah, she’s still alive,” he replied, a bit shocked. “Oh yeah, stupid. I talked about her in the past. No, she’s kicking. She just retired from washing. It’s a young woman’s job here. If you know what I mean. We don’t meet much. One of the demands from the bereaved family was that I pay the weregild. So I do. Every time I win in the arena, they take everything I don’t immediately donate to mom or drink down at the arena bar. Can’t even afford a fucking shirt.”

‘How much do you owe?”

“With the interests, should be… two hundred and seventy gold talents right now?”

Viv whistled.

This wasn’t a personal debt. Hell, it wasn’t even corporate bonds. That kind of money was government budget. Nagi would never get out.

At least not legally.

“Have you ever considered —”

“Doing illegal stuff? Hell yeah. Oh, maybe I didn’t mention it. They have my mother. She’s doing well for now, but they have an eye on her. If I escape or I stop paying or they find out I haven’t kept my nose clean…”

He mimicked slicing a throat.

“Course they’re giving me a break now since Elunath probably asked them nicely, but once we’re done here, maybe I’ll get a few nice meals and some new small clothes and it’s back to getting punched in the jaw by thugs for three silvers a pop.”

“Wait,” Viv asked, “you’re not dueling mages?”

“Course I am, but people pay more to see me get tossed around and I need to get my mom her third of the winnings”

He shrugged.

“It’s always the same. I beat mages, get beaten in matches where I can’t use my full power, then I drink. They like it. Like to see me win against cocky newcomers and then get beaten by an old, fat laborer here because he got caught sniffing his mistress’ dirty skirts.”

“Well, thanks for telling me your life story, I guess. So Elunath is keeping you under his elbow for redemption.”

“No, there will be no redemption. The enemy family is powerful. They do not forgive or forget.”

He shook his head, grabbed for the flask by his side and took a gulp under Viv’s dubious eye.

“Hey, it’s time. I needed a little pick me up.”

Eye-watering liquorous emanations burnt Viv’s eyes. It was ‘a drink for men’ as they say.

“Are you two done chatting? Time’s up,” Lim said.

The two stood up for more practice, but Viv was considering her options. Maybe Nagi’s value wouldn’t be limited to the current operation, after all.

***

Viv found an afternoon to relax with the time-honored tradition of shopping. This time, she would get herself a new armored robe.

With the loss of the skin suit and the robe Varska made, Viv was relying on hand-me-downs and borrowed gear. The following semester would require her to participate in field expeditions in the boonies, not to mention the raid in the deadlands. She needed an upgrade.

Only two tailors in all of Helock could build her the battle robe she wanted. It took her two separate letters of recommendation to get in, one from the medical faculty and one from Sidjin. She provided the spider silk which was the main component and it still cost her upward sixty gold talents, helmet included. It was a fucking fortune. Worth it, though, she hoped. The measurements and instructions took most of an afternoon to go through, during which she worked with a prim old couple, one the tailor and the other the smith. They were polite and professional. It would take a moment to get finished, but that was fine.

Finally, the time came to commit robbery, and she couldn’t wear her real gear.

***

Viv spent the night before at their hideout with Nagi, just to make sure he wouldn’t miss anything. It was clear the occasion was stressing him out and the rationed booze got drunk as soon as it was delivered. As for her, she dyed her hair and prepared a minor glamour she had enchanted herself on a piece of cloth, which would color her eyes dark. She would be using a small crossbow, a northerner cheap weapon. It was a piece of shit compared to the real Yries weapons of war, but it was perfect for unskilled people and lethal at close range. Lim checked and between this and some peasant clothes, she looked the part.

The group departed on their escape cart near noon disguised as transient workers from the coast. They looked ratty enough from a distance not to arouse too much suspicion. After hiding the cart in a prepared recess in the forest, they moved up to wait by the main road. The small group made sure to stay hidden and at a distance.

“Some guard paths have a way to tell an ambush is waiting,” one of Lim’s goons had explained. “We can’t get too close and you can’t look for too long or they might find us out. Then the crafty ones talk to the guards and they get a cut if we’re found and hanged.”

Now the time had come to wait. And wait. For the action. It was amazing how much warfare had in common with banditry.

The main thoroughfare followed the river Shal east towards Helock, and that was where they would be attacking. The bend they had selected was masked from the shore by a thick forest. There was quite a lot of traffic at that time, mostly distant villages sending in late harvests of fruits and tubers. Travelers came by as well, including a few apprentice mages with or without escorts. Nobles moved with a large entourage which forced the group to hide deeper. That was a point of failure of the plan. Viv had already decided that they would retreat if Jin Skaima’s carriage happened to travel near such a convoy. There was nothing they could safely or reasonably do.

Fortunately, it didn’t happen.

“Is that it?” Lim asked.

Viv was looking at a lone carriage bearing the crest of the family carrying Skaima home, which happened to be a fish. A guard and driver sat at the top of the box-like vehicle. It was also decently decorated while a few crates were carefully attached to its roof.

“That’s it,” Viv whispered.

She signaled Nagi who started casting. The packed earth and stone road in front of the carriage turned to mud.

The rest of the attack group was sprinting out of cover before the soil was done turning into sticky clay.

“Hey, something’s wrong!” the driver said.

The guard stood, grabbing a crossbow similar to what Viv was using, but he made the mistake of looking ahead while Viv and her companions were rushing from the side. The hardiest ruffians clocked the driver and swarmed the guard before he could even swing the weapon. Viv kicked it aside.

Two of the men busied themselves binding the guard while Viv kept an eye on the driver. The other two strong lads plus Nim and Nagi dragged the Skaima out of their carriage with practiced violence. There was a terrified teenage girl and a young boy, Viv noted.

The driver saw the girl cry and reached for his inner vest pocket, so Viv backhanded him using power to enhance her strength. He fell to the side with a split lip.

“Don’t,” she barked in accented northerner.

Even this had been practiced. Viv was starting to pick up the language, especially the street variety. She still couldn’t speak it though.

“Right, you know what’s happening,” Lim said. “Hand over your valuables and we won’t hurt you. Hey, pretty boy! You listening?”

The blackmailer snapped her fingers under the nose of a young man with sharp traits dressed in a rich doublet who fit the description of Jin Skaima. The children’s parents by his side were in control of their fears but Jin was positively fuming. Viv followed the exchange from the side while pointing her weapon at the now trussed helpers. It was impressive to see a master at work.

“What, the pretty rich boy wants to say something? What do you want to say, pussy? Extend your hand.”

He did not react, so she slapped him. Viv knew Lim must have already injected him with her poison to be so brazen.

“I said, extend your hand. That’s right, you useless little dog. Well done. See, you can follow directions.”

She grabbed a precious ring from his resisting finger and pulled quite painfully, then she looked him in the eye.

“Nice one pussy. Now drop your pants, I wanna see those pockets.”

Viv could hear him grit his teeth. One of the thugs slapped the back of his head while the other was very politely collecting the purse of the family but letting them keep their heirlooms.

Another look down confirmed that the guard under Viv’s supervision wasn’t moving. So far so good.

