The town hall summons that David had been expecting since Niala told him of the missing adventurers arrived a few days after Jordo's lesson.

They were now in front of Caleb, the dogkin mayor, and guard captain Ma-Ke-Lo, along with Leandro and Jordo. The mayor glanced at Niala, who hadn't been invited, but she had wanted to tag along, and David wouldn't have shown up without her anyway, which he let Caleb know with an unwavering stare.

The dogkin relented, sighing, as he motioned for Carole, his assistant bunnykin, to close the door to his office. Unlike the previous meetings they had at the town hall, she didn't take notes, instead moving to stand behind the mayor along with Ma-Ke-Lo.

Caleb looked at each of his guests in turn before clasping his hands on his desk.

“I'm quite certain you must have heard about the latest commotion in town, but to make certain everyone is on the same page, Ma-Ke-Lo will explain why I have invited all of you.” He angled his head toward the guard captain and gave a curt nod.

Ma-Ke-Lo took a step forward. “The dozen or so veteran adventurers that call Camp Last Chance their semi-permanent residence have been overdue to return for the winter season by a few weeks by now.”

They continued. “For context, in nearly all such previous events, where a camp did not return in time for winter, the cause was always mass fatalities. The reasons have been varied, and sometimes they were credible threats to the town, such as diseases or migrating beasts.”

They gave their audience a few seconds to grasp the situation. “As such, it is standard procedure to investigate the reason behind a camp's failure to return to town. We are certain you understand why we've called you here today, then.”

David and company glanced at each other before he turned his attention to Ma-Ke-Lo. “You want to hire us to go investigate. Why not send the guards?”

“Because our guards, while well-trained and professional, are not experienced Ruinland delvers, unlike adventurers. We have tried in the past, and the results were generally disastrous. Normally, we would hire a band of experienced adventurers to go investigate, but with the current missing camp being made up of the most experienced adventurers in this town...” They trailed off.

Leandro dipped his head. “You fear you would be sending men to their deaths, and judge us as superior in skills.”

Ma-Ke-Lo nodded, “Exactly.”

Caleb picked up the conversation. “The assignment would be simple, if dangerous; travel to camp Last Chance, figure out why they haven't reported, ascertain if the reason causes a risk to the town, and bring back any survivors you find. Compensation will be commensurate with the risk involved.” He offered and waited.

David frowned, “Could we discuss among ourselves privately?”

The major nodded. “Of course. Carole, if you could?” He said, looking at his assistant.

The bunnykin dipped her head, her long ears swaying as she did. “Of course. Everyone, this way please.” She said with a polite smile and led them to an adjoining room set up with a large table and a dozen chairs. As they sat, she brought a plate with a pitcher of water and several cups, before excusing herself and closing the door behind her.

It took a few seconds before anyone spoke, with Niala breaking the ice. “We should go find them, the missing people.”

Of course she would. David shook his head. “It could be very dangerous.” He offered, as if that was going to change her mind.

She looked at him, ears wiggling. “I know, but between you, Leandro and Jordo, is there anyone stronger in town?”

He sustained her stare, eventually sighing and turning to look at Leandro. “Jordo will accompany me whatever I say, and I don't think I'd be able to convince Niala not to come along-”

“That's right!” The catkin blurted out.

“...to come along if I'm headed into danger. That leaves you. What do you think?”

The veteran crossed his arms, leaning back into the chair. “I do not necessarily owe this town anything, and I am not lacking for money...”

David waited for the “But”.

“...However, there are a few things I could ask of the mayor, such as favours, and I have been meaning to go explore the Hungerwoods for myself. If we get to save some poor souls in the process, so much the better.” He turned his gaze toward David. “But what about you, boy? You made it sound as if you already decided to go.”

David nodded. “I do. Just like you, there's a few things I want from Caleb, and I want to find out if there really is a danger to the town, since we live here and all.”

Niala smiled, giving David a warm look, the tip of her tail swaying. He caught her gaze, but couldn't figure out what he'd said that had made her happy. He mentally shrugged; as long as she was happy, it didn't really matter.

David looked at everyone assembled. “So we agree to go find out what happened. Should we ask someone else to come?”

Leandro tilted his head. “Who do you have in mind?”

“Anaakendi.”

“The incarnation?”

“Yeah. She sacrificed herself to help protect the town. I think she'd come along, and I'd feel safer having a near-immortal along.” David explained.

“A valid point. I agree, we should ask her.”

With everyone in agreement, they stepped out and informed Caleb and Ma-Ke-Lo, both looking rather relieved at their decision. At least until they told them what they wanted as payment.

“You want a six-metre cargo cloth, a brewery exploitation certificate, a warehouse lease, and a freight auto-carriage.” Caleb listed, his tone flat.

David nodded.

“...That is... quite the ask.”

“Most of it will pay itself back in taxes. Think of it as an investment.” David offered.

Caleb stared down the courier, running calculations in his head. His nod was slow and uncertain. “I will provisionally agree. I hope this is all?”

“It is, for me,” David said, looking at Niala as he did.

She startled. “What? Me? But I don't need anything... If there are people in danger, we should go help them.”

The room remained silent until Carole had to suppress a small giggle. Caleb shot her a reproachful glare before sighing and turning to Niala. “Ms. Niala, if you need for nothing, then I can offer you a tax break on your business, or a flat reward in coin.”

“Oh, huh... if you insist, I'll talk it over with Linzy. I'm sure she'll have an idea.”

Caleb nodded and looked at Leandro. “What about you, Mr. Gustall?”

Leandro glanced at David and Niala before answering. “I would like to discuss this in private with you, if you do not mind.”

Caleb agreed and bid the others farewell, as the veteran stayed behind, a serious look on his face.

Only the mayor and Leandro remained, the large man having asked for both Carole and Ma-Ke-Lo to leave as well.

Caleb leaned back in his chair, observing his guest. “So, Mr. Gustall, what sort of compensation requires this sort of privacy?”

“I have three asks. Two of them would land you in a Royal trial if they were to come to light.”

Caleb narrowed his eyes, staring down the large man.

A few unsaid words were exchanged.

The Mayor straightened his back. “I can at least hear them. On my honour, what you say will die with me. What is it?”

Leandro hung his hands at his belt. “Firstly, Niala is a weaver.”

Caleb's eyes bulged out as he choked on his saliva.

*COUGH COUGH* “I- cough- I beg your pardon?”

“You heard me right.”

Caleb suppressed the last of his coughing. By Royal decree, he had to report this. To not do so was considered treason, and yet... he had sworn on his honour. The mayor bored a hole into Leandro with his eyes.

“I assume you wish for me to suppress this information, should it ever be known?” Caleb asked, his words iced over.

The infuriating man simply nodded.

“You ask a lot, Mr. Gustall. What if I were a less than honourable man who would go back on his word, as to save himself?”

“I am a good judge of character. Besides, if you were to do so, I would kill you.” Leandro informed the Mayor matter-of-factly.

Caleb noted the faintest of blue glow emanating from the man in front of him.

“...It is a good thing I'm a man of my word, then. What of the second pit-binding revelation?”

“You know that David is a Wardenfel, correct?”

The mayor nodded.

“And you know of the Azure Guards, and where their powers come from?”

“I do, and to some degree, yes.”

“David has more Azure Guard imbuements upon his body than anyone has ever had in recorded history.”

Caleb raised an eyebrow. “That is interesting, but I fail to see how this information would see me in jail.”

“Are you aware of the imbuements' limiting factor?” Leandro asked.

“If my memory serves right, it would be the amount of mana they consume, is it not?”

“That is correct. Now, consider that, as far as I can tell, David has an unlimited amount of mana at his disposal.” Leandro took a step and leaned forward. “And I do not mean a lot of mana. I mean unlimited. What does that tell you?”

Caleb needed a second to connect the two points. The resulting mental image left him grimacing.

Leandro leaned back straight, nodding. “I see that you understand.”

“This pit-bound town and its happenstances...” Caleb muttered before looking up at the veteran and sighing. “Very well, I will ensure this information does not leave the town, or at least, to the best of my abilities. What about your third, more mundane, demand?”

Leandro smiled. “That one will be easy. I have a friend coming over from Abassara, one of the lead researchers from the Institute of Arcane Sciences. I would like you to prepare appropriate lodgings and a laboratory for such a person.”

Caleb blinked. “Abassaran... wait, do you mean-”

“I do.” Leandro cut him off.

The dogkin stared pointedly at the veteran.

“That.” He said, his words dripping with acid, “may not see my head cut, but it is not a mundane revelation, Mr. Gustall.”

Leandro's smile turned full-toothed.

Anaakendi had readily agreed to accompany them, even refusing any compensation, stating that protecting the town was reward enough.

It was two more days before Ma-Ke-Lo visited them, giving them the official job posting, with detailed rewards, and briefed them properly on what was being asked.

Upon David's request, Karline had agreed to stay and help Linzy, as they would be gone for several weeks. Niala had spent the intervening time making sure the shop's stores were well-stocked.

And so, on the 23rd of winter, in the freezing morning bells, David, Niala, Leandro, Jordo, and Anaakendi departed from the north gates, heading north-west, toward the weeks-away adventurer camp.

Their procession north was punctuated by the cold and an occasional snowfall, but, thanks to Anaakendi's interference, the winds swirled around their group, never quite reaching them.

The forest was relatively quiet, many of its inhabitants hibernating or having migrated, and only a few bird songs filled the empty space between the trees.

A few packs of amarocks, those wolf-like beasts, prowled on the outskirts, but never tested their defences. The most they had to contend with was a Stone Raptor, which trailed them for a few days and peppered them with melon-sized rocks. On the third day, Anaakendi made a frustrated swooping motion, and a localized tempest carried the squawking beast into the distance.

Niala gave the incarnation a reproachful stare, which the old woman waved off. “Hush, child. I merely dusted the pest away. It will live.” She said, before muttering. “As long as it understands to keep away.”

At night, the three living beings retired to the portable shack that David and Niala had used, while Jordo and Anaakendi, neither affected by the weather nor the need for sleep, stood guard outside. The days were cold and draining, but the warm beds and meals they could prepare made the trip much less of a trial than it would otherwise have been.

They visited the adventurer camps along the way, hoping to see the missing people there. All they found were empty clearings, with goods and shelters packed up for winter.

They were, as far as they knew, the only living humanoids within a week's travel.

They began encountering several ruins, many of which Jordo was able to identify in function: guard posts, supply depots, remnants of small settlements, and so on.

The more interesting one was what he called a “Mana well”, the unassuming remnant of a small tower, with a few rusted antenna-like metal protrusions. Jordo informed them that they were only seeing a minor part of the installation, as it was an underground mana-collecting structure that went deep within the earth. If the entrance had not been breached, and he believed it hadn't, dozens of levels of arcane equipment were probably lying in wait for a greedy hand to collect them.

That is, if the installation had been properly sequestrated. He pointedly noted that unregulated mana wells tended to create twisting portals into the aetheric world, with raw mana pouring out and spontaneously stitching soul scraps together, giving erratic and violent life to whatever was closest.

Leandro had asked Jordo to mark the location, stating it would make a wonderful training environment.

It was two weeks after their departure, when they were within a few days of the camp, that they found something.

A scrap of clothing fluttering in the wind, jutting out of a small mound of snow, butted against a tree ahead of them.

Looking around, but not seeing or hearing anything, David looked at Leandro, who nodded back.

The courier walked up to the piece of cloth and pulled on it, but found that it was solidly stuck to something. He reached for the mound and brushed at the cloth's base, his eyes hardening when he saw what it was attached to.

A frozen corpse.

He couldn't see very well in the dimming light, and went to fish out his plaque for some light to...

Dimming light? It was just past noon...

He pushed himself back to his feet. It was getting dark, and silence had drowned out the sounds of the forest.

Hurrying back to his companions, David noticed Anaakendi's frantic expression, as she stared wild-eyed up into the sky.

He stopped and looked up.

It was a night sky, but it was incomplete.

There were no stars, or moon.

He turned his gaze to Niala and saw that she had remembered the same thing he did.

From Anaakendi's diary, the missing adventurers during the winter season, and how the beast had attacked under a blank night's sky.

From deep within the lightless forest, sounding like the crescendo of tortured strings, a mournful keening rang out.