Disturbed by the orc’s analogy and despite the overwhelming existential dread festering within, Adam’s mind focused on the [Path Evolution Required] text once more, and a new notification appeared before him. The System’s presence felt different. There was a sense of foreboding in the air, like he was about to embark down a road without light, without a clear direction. Adam Arrow had always been a creature of day; shadows and darkness were adversaries to overcome, and the unknown was something to discover rather than to accept.

But now he had no choice.

That fight had left him broken and altered beyond his understanding. Without a proper Path or functioning skills, he couldn’t go out looking for Shiv or Uva—and no matter what he felt, he wasn’t going to abandon them to their fates. Ultimately, that defined him as he knew himself more than anything. Responsibility. To his friends. To his people. To his family. To himself.

He wasn’t sure what the right thing even was sometimes, but he was going to try to do good as best as he could.

There were already enough bastards across Integration. The System rewarded them enough.

He just wanted the better angels to win for once.

He wanted to be one among the better angels.

He wanted there to be hope.

Faintly, his Shattered Star flickered to life behind his head. It blinked in and out of existence, but when it burned now, it didn’t bring with it an azure light, but a myriad of colors—and the faintest trace of incandescence besides.

Path: Archer [Path Evolution Required]

Path Evolution Initiated

Restoring Legend…

The Culturist looked past Adam and let out a quiet gasp of awe. “What?” Adam said, briefly distracted by the notifications. But then he saw it: his Shattered Star was fully ablaze again—but the broken pieces were beginning to rebuild themselves. The fragments spiraled around Adam and expanded by his sides, becoming something that mirrored a set of wings. At the same time, a halo formed over his head as the Shattered Star rose overhead, settling in place like a crown of celestial flame.

Domain Gained: Heroism
