Under most circumstances, trying to change a Path you already possess is an act of ontological suicide.

The Path one bears serves as the foundation to one's power, and it also decides what Skills one can build towards more effectively, as well as others you will never be able to reach. However, I am not one to accept limitations, and I have conducted a great many experiments when it comes to the alteration of one's Path.

Animancy alone is not enough. When accumulated legends are present within a Pathbearer’s soul, changing their nature requires a significant act of deviation or retro-continuity. I managed to achieve the change of a Path through exploiting eldritch magics. I have twisted the very fabric of time within a Pathbearer, resulting, of course, in them going insane and their soul promptly shattering into countless pieces. As the bits that still held onto their legend were pried in one direction, the other aspects I managed to control went to another.

This killed them, naturally.

But it was a good proof of concept that Paths at least could be modified.

With that as inspiration, I realized I didn't need to reconstruct a Path entirely. If I broke it down but kept the Pathbearer alive, I could rebuild it. I could shape it and sculpt its new foundations after I restored it and make it something new, something greater.

Just as Skills can evolve, Paths might be able to evolve as well. And the easiest way I have found to approach this is through a transplant. A shared moment between two Pathbearers, a point where both their legends connect in the form of a shared struggle, is taken, and then this fragment of the soul is transferred from one to the other, ideally from one far more powerful to one much weaker. With this, if I apply the right means, and if the recipient is strong enough, they can transform. They can become more than the broken thing they were.

Or can all go wrong and they will die again. But such is the cost of discovery. Science and magic demand sacrifice. Not mine, of course, but sacrifice. For a great many people, paying that cost is the most noble thing they can do.

—Udraal Thann, “Notes on Paths and Path Evolutions”

322

Hero of a Thousand Fates

Restarting Narrative Cycle

Commencing Season of Spring

Pain.

As the flame of consciousness kindled within Adam, his existence became one of ineffable suffering. His flesh and soul were a hive of misery. A cluster of thundering headaches exploded in the back of his brain over and over again, making it hard to hold onto individual thoughts. Groans slipped out from his mouth, and they died down to whimpers as His throat felt too raw to manage a full scream. Even incoherent, Adam instinctively knew that things were broken inside him. Critical things, delicate things, things that couldn't easily be put back together.

He wasn't sure how long he lay there upon the soft and fragrant soil. It could have been minutes; it could have been weeks. His awareness cut in and out as he drifted between the threshold of oblivion and the torturous hell of consciousness. Cold sweat poured down his body and matted his long, crimson hair to his face. His recollection of the world proved feverish; he barely remembered who he was or how he got here. At one point, he thought he tried to rise, but that might have been a dream too.

When he finally gathered himself enough to form any thoughts, he was face down in the dirt, drooling onto grass that was partly inside his mouth, babbling words that made little sense.

The pain never truly got better. But the misaligned pieces inside him drew closer. Even though every cell of his body still felt like it had been battered and broken, his mind finally managed something approximating a recovery.

Adam Arrow blinked and tried to roll over.

That proved to be a mistake. The moment he placed weight on his left arm, there came a terrible crack as something in his elbow splintered apart. He gagged, delirious from hurt, and he emptied his stomach right next to his head before collapsing onto his back again. Flashing sparks of flame danced before and behind his eyes as he stared up at the bright sky. With that image, he recalled something. An incandescence coming to claim him. He recalled an ocean of liquid fire rising up, the sting of his soul being devoured. He recalled—

Shiv!

Uva!

His eyes snapped open as memory returned to him. She had wrapped herself around him, shielding his body, using the Fae she'd hijacked and herself as an additional barrier. Shiv dove down, and he shoved something in Adam's mouth just before everything went bright. The Gate Lord couldn't really remember what it tasted like. The texture had been akin to paper, but the flavor... Well, it was hard to describe. It was hard to even fully grasp. Something had changed inside Adam. Something had changed as bits of incandescent shrapnel were cleaved free from the Watchtower’s conflagration. The pieces speared into Adam just as he was forced to swallow, and the last thing he saw of Shiv was him going Non-Sequitur, jumping free from his body, leaving only a Vitae clone in his wake.

A clone that was consumed by the divine fire.

Desperate strength combusted inside Adam and pulled at his bones. It didn't matter how much he hurt now, with the memory of his companions fresh in his battered mind; he rose like a man possessed, staggering to his feet with the help of his vector wings. Without warning, even worse pain ripped through him, and he fell to his hands and knees. Every time he moved, it felt like razor blades were splitting his muscle fibers open across their length and molten metal was coursing through his veins. But somehow, using his Reflexes Skill hurt even more. A paroxysm of torment tore through him, his wings nearly cut out in an instant, flickering like the skill wasn't working right.

Adam gritted his teeth and slowly worked his way to his feet, but felt his legs quiver as his power of flight cut in and out. He was like a newborn foal struggling to relearn how to walk. His body threatened to buckle. His mind refused to bend. And somehow there was enough left to his soul that it served as a proper tiebreaker. Adam stood; he didn't fall. He suffered, he endured, and he looked around, taking stock of his environment with his single remaining eye.

Single eye? Adam's thoughts were dull. His Seer of Horizon skill was still active, and so he could sense the world around him in vivid detail. At least that skill wasn't damaged, but there was a part of his vision that was missing. Seeing directly through his own perspective felt wrong. His depth perception was messed up. It took casting his perception out from his body via Seer of Horizons for him to regain full visual capacity.

“Bloody hells… Bloody… felling hells.” Adam cupped the right side of his face. He felt a hot patch of wetness there; it was still bleeding, his wound fresh. Evanescia had carved a trench into his skull, and the pounding ache throbbed with every heartbeat. But it told him a few things. The fact that his fingers brought him blood instead of a dried scab meant he hadn't been unconscious for that long. Being able to form those deductions also meant he didn't have brain damage.

Hah. Two small victories already. Adam tried to smile, but he just didn't have it in him. If I experience a third good turn, someone might just hop out of nowhere and tear my legs off before beating me to death with them. It was a cynical thought, but all too justified. The System liked using him as a pain puppet. He couldn't go long without suffering. The fact that his disfigurement didn't even traumatize him was telling. This was just another day in his life since that bastard with the raven helmet snatched him away right before his wedding.

I'm still alive, so I'll deal with it. Deal with my missing eye and whatever she did to my soul. Gods, it's like I've been dragged through a field of rusted kitchen knives…

Adam studied himself using his Seer of Horizons. Turning his Awareness around, he regarded the damage done to his body and especially to his face. There was an open chasm that continued weeping spills of red where his right eye should be. Adam sneered as he regarded his wound. He licked a bit of the blood streaming down his face and scoffed with annoyance. “She bit clean through my optical nerve. Who even does that? Hm. At least it's a clean wound. Probably. A Biomancer should be able to re-grow the eye without too much difficulty. A Biomancer like…”

Adam took in his surroundings once more. He didn't know where he was. A series of towering oak trees loomed all around him. It seemed like he'd found himself in a forest clearing. A carpet of dried autumn leaves blanketed the grass. Looking down, Adam could clearly see where he once lay: a patch of flattened green amidst the sea of brown and reds. He'd cleared quite a bit of space with his earlier thrashing. A gentle breeze crossed through the woods, and a phantom orchestra followed. A whistling of wind came first. The leaves rustled thereafter. Distant chirps and strange, slow heartbeats became the ambience.

“Where am I? And where are…” Though Adam strained his ears and nose as much as he could, he couldn't hear Shiv or Uva. He couldn't smell them. He was alone here. Aside from a few squirrels staring down at him from a branch over forty meters away, and more birds than he could possibly count, he was alone.

Or so he thought.

“Ah. You’re awake. Good. I wasn’t sure if I had done enough to preserve you from the coma.”

The low baritone of the voice vibrated Adam's bones. He was too used to being ambushed for any kind of startlement. Still, he closed his eyes, more frustrated than horrified with regard to his inferior stealth.

Adam turned to find the Culturist perched atop a branch, one far too thin to accommodate his weight. He was, for some reason, squatting with his arms folded behind his back, and he looked down at Adam as a mother owl would at her least promising chick. His stupid, feather-eared hood completed the image.

“How do you keep managing to do that?” Adam growled. “Just using your Legendary Stealth to intimidate your lesser, or what?”

The Culturist let out a soft laugh. “The answer is far simpler than you might assume. It is not the doing of some great Stealth Skill, though I do possess a passable one. When faced with someone with extremely acute senses, the goal often is not to avoid making any and all noise, masking your scent, and hiding from their gaze. Trying to make yourself nonexistent is a foolish goal, lest your name is Valor Thann. Instead, the goal is camouflage; for your target to notice, and then disregard you as part of the scenery.”

Adam studied the tree branch again. Instead of rushing through things, he spent a few moments contemplating what the orc had just said. A Legendary Pathbearer who had lived for centuries usually had countless skills that aided infiltration. Adam chose not to be overwhelmed by the theoreticals and focused on the most probable possibilities. “Did you come in as a gust of wind, or were you one of the birds on the trees, chirping away while shape-shifted?”

The right corner of the Culturist's lip quirked as he offered the ghost of a smirk. “The latter. My weight is still that of an owl.”

“Of course it is,” Adam rasped. An explosive headache made him clutch his skull. It felt like the center of his brain was on fire. The very act of thinking seared him to the marrow. But just as the attack came, it faded, and he found himself in control of himself once more. “Why… why always an owl?”

The Culturist tilted his head in curiosity. “That is the question you wish to know before all others?”

“That’s the question I want you to answer while I try not to black out. Some sound in the background might keep me grounded.”

“Ah. Well. It came as the result of a formative experience I had with my ten-thousandth Vaketh-Bakal. She was an Owl of Aviary, and was hunting me through the streets of New Albion. I was shifted and split into a swarm of rats and ravens while she adopted her namesake. It was… quite a battle.” The Culturist breathed out, reminiscing on better, bloodier times. “I was the better mage. My Tier was greater. My Awareness was sharper.”

“But she won?” Adam guessed.

“But she won,” the Culturist confirmed. “Because she knew the city. And she knew how to use the dark. And where my Awareness would have prevailed in any other circumstance, the scream of steam automata paired with the shadows gas by the Londium gas-lamps made the city her hunting ground. I died, and took a wonderful lesson with me into my next reincarnation. And I adopted some of her strategies over the next few cycles.”

“She killed you more than once, did she?” Adam taunted.

Suddenly, the Culturist stopped speaking. The Gate Lord guessed that he struck the orc’s nerve at first, but his Cognitive Therapy told him it wasn’t so easy. Moreover, Adam wasn’t Shiv. Where the former focused on staying sane, the latter was a mad bastard at baseline whose mind regenerated to a stable state regardless of what he did to himself, and so he could fully commit himself to being an emotional and psychological terrorist.

“No,” the Culturist whispered after a few seconds of silence. “I tried to learn from her. Honestly. Most people would have found that prospect pure madness. She knew what I was. I knew what I was. Orcs always fall to their most brutal desires. But she accepted me. She taught me. She recruited me, and we performed missions for her Faceless Majesty’s Highest Service. Those were good days. Good times. She was… wonderful.” The orc’s voice grew fragile. “I tried to love her. Genuinely. I… I think I did. And I think she loved me too. Truly. Despite what I was. Despite what I would inevitably attempt to do.”

