Suddenly, Adam's headache was a secondary matter. His mouth fell open. “...What? She fell in love with you?”

“I do not blame your incredulity.” The Culturist sighed wistfully. “It came as a surprise to me as well.”

Adam's face twitched. “How… Are you playing with me?”

“No. I thought she was playing a game with me. At first. But then she got us a pair of matching telepathic rings. That was more vulnerability than she offered anyone else. With who she was, it was more meaningful than it would have been for any other. For what greater expression of love could a spy grant?”

Adam was utterly speechless.

The Culturist changed into a normal sitting position, letting his legs dangle below the branch. “I slaked my desires elsewhere, and we pretended to be people for a time. I held the shape of an elven man, and she pretended to be herself. We ventured across Earth for twenty years. And they were good years. I kept the itch at bay carefully, and she remained open and honest with me constantly. And somehow we lasted.” Breathing in, he ran a hand across the side of his feathered cloak. “Toward the end, she made the cowl for me.”

But the System wasn’t one for triumphant love. There was something else coming. Something cruel. Adam could feel it. “So. What happened? You finally lost control? You lost to the itch?”

“No,” the Culturist said immediately, appearing almost offended. “I knew my limits. I was careful. I was prepared. Always. I knew what I am. She knew as well. We had our means.” Then the orc’s lips pressed together, and Adam could see a storm brewing behind his eyes. “Those twenty years were perhaps the best of my life. But the Challenger, though briefly amused by my cross-species dalliance, one day decided that he'd grown bored of my domestic bliss. And so another of my kind ‘found out’ about her and me. He was granted knowledge of my whereabouts. Without my knowing, he studied me. One day, when I was away briefly, the interloper came into our lives, transformed into my shape by a piece of equipment much like your friend's mask, and carrying a telepathic ring of his own. One that was given to him, meant to tap into unique Psychomantic mana frequencies. Something he used to complete his disguise. When I returned, I found her first. I found him after. I buried her. He is still alive. He has not reincarnated since.”

With that, the Culturist elaborated no more. Adam’s mouth was dry; he was torn between asking if the orc was okay and moving on to something else as quickly as possible. He couldn’t be sure the Culturist wasn’t still playing mind games right now, but something about the story felt… hopelessly real. The Culturist was different from most orcs, the Challenger was bored and cruel enough to do such a thing, and the outcome was bleak enough to be a believable ending.

Or he’s just using his charm on me. Damned orcs…

“You should look through your notifications,” the Culturist suddenly said. “I managed to preserve your Awareness Skill. It was practically the only skill I managed to fully preserve. The rest of your soul, however… I think you will need a Hero-Animancer to examine the changes. The damage the Usurper-Narrator dealt to your soul was immense, but the Deathless did something to you afterward as well. I am not sure if it is what he fed you, or the pieces of divine flame he severed and sent into your body as shrapnel. But you have been changed. The damage is the least of what you now face.”

“Changed?” The word left Adam as his heart ceased to beat. With a hollow feeling inside, he pulled up a flood of notifications that had been gathering in the back of his mind.

Skill Gained: [Error—Path Altered]

Skill Gained: [Error—Path Altered]

Skill Evolution: [Error—Path Altered]

Skill Evolution: [Error—Path Altered]

Skill Fusion: [Error—Path Altered]

Curse Lost: [Error—Path Altered]

Skill Lost: [Error—Path Altered]

Skill Lost: [Error—Path Altered]

Path Lost:

Archer

“Oh, fuck.” The sight of his mangled eye socket didn’t bother Adam one whit. The ruin of his soul—of who he fundamentally was—brought him close to emptying his stomach again. “No… No… I can’t… I can’t be…”

“Call upon your skill status,” the Culturist suggested gently. Adam hesitated. He didn’t know what he was going to see—didn’t know if he wanted to face whatever horrid truth was waiting for him. “It’s not all damage. There is something else. Something even I have not seen before. I would have consulted Legend Valor, but alas, I could only cross over to you because of our connection—and because I was no longer being blockaded by Evanescia’s power. I stabilized you as best as I could, but these changes are beyond me.”

Mustering his shaking courage, Adam drew upon an overview of all his skills. The text that greeted him tightened his insides into dense knots of stress, and left him in utter disbelief.

Name: Adam Arrow

Age: 20

Race: Changeling

Path:

Archer [Path Evolution Required]

Feats [2/4]:

[Error]

[Error]

Skills:

[Error]

[Error]

[Error]

[Error]

[Error]

[Error]

[Error]

[Error]

…

Seer of Horizons (Heroic) 200 [Skill Evolution Imminent]

[Error]

Blessings:

Hero of a Thousand Fates (Unique - Standalone) - Stranger from afar, come to this verdant valley of stories and strife to walk your own Path in defiance of greater plots or divine schemes. You bear a mutilated fragment of a Highest Power within your soul. You have survived the will of the absolute, and emerged whole despite them. The taint of the gods slides from you like water off stone. Walk your own Path, Hero. A fate all your own awaits at the end.

Curses:

[Immune]

“I don’t…” Adam licked his lips as he tried to process what he was seeing. “I don’t understand. I don’t understand.”

“I share your dread,” the Culturist said. At some point, the orc had descended from his branch to arrive beside Adam. “I Analyzed you several times. At first, I thought the state of your soul to be terminal, that you were certain to die. But then I managed to hold onto your Awareness, and I realized something else was at hand.”

“A Path… can evolve?” Adam breathed. His eyes were locked on a single line of text that defied everything he knew about the nature of his existence.

“Not usually. Not naturally. Not to my understanding.” The Culturist went down on one knee so he could better meet Adam eye-to-eye, though he still had to lean down. “Paths are decided when they are bestowed upon us—or determined through our deeds. Were you bestowed, or did you earn, Young Arrow?”

“Why does that matter?” Adam asked. He was still entranced by the [Path Evolution Required] text.

“I’m not sure it does. Fundamental to our existence under the System's purview as they are, the nature of Paths themselves is not very well understood. But I do think that it is important to know everything about how your Path came to be so that we have a guess as to what it might become.”

Adam swallowed. “E-earned. I earned.”

“Are you sure?”

“Yes!”

The Culturist let out a heavy breath. “Your Blessing. I’ve never seen it either. Nor someone with complete immunity to Curses. It is unprecedented. The kind of thing that might draw Udraal Thann’s attention. Or might be his doing as well.”

“No.” Adam shook his head. “If this was him, he would have told me. He already talked about what he was trying to do with my… my sister. He told me that he wanted me dead so that my father would take in Shiv. Godsdammit… I don’t understand.”

“Breathe,” the orc whispered.

Despite the animosity he held toward the Culturist, Adam listened. The orc may be a monster lurking inside his soul, but he might also be the only reason why Adam was still alive at all.

Better the monster you understand and know… Adam somehow managed a sarcastic thought. “Could this… could this have been done by Shiv? By Uva?”

“I suspect the former had a hand in things. You are likely still here because of him. But where either of your companions is is beyond me. Before you woke, reality fluttered in a rush of flipped pages as the seasonal loop restarted. Every dimensional pathway leading in was summarily closed off. But there is a difference in the air. There is more mana suffusing this realm as compared to before. Far more. And it only seems to be growing. I suspect that has something to do with the Deathless as well. I know not what the Broken Watchtower’s function is, but find it disquietingly possible that one or both of your fellow High-Favored have been given to the flames.”

“No,” Adam immediately snapped. He refused to accept that. “They’re not dead. I would… I would feel it.”

“Would you, now?” The Culturist’s voice wasn’t mocking, but inquisitive. “Hm. I would agree with your first statement. I do not think they are dead. But if they are truly alive and free of will right now is another question. A narratively bound Deathless is a very potent character to be trapped between the pages of a story. Or if the ever-building strife within him can be granted to the Fairwoods instead… Sister Mettabon would make that prize double at the least.”

“What about Evanescia?” Adam ground out. Rage and fear washed through him as he remembered the featureless Fae, how she sank her hand into him, ripping out his eye and inflicting herself upon his soul.

“Ah. The Usurper-Narrator. I glimpsed her through your memories when I was rebuilding your mind. I have not seen a trace of her either, and I have been wary. I doubt I can hide from her the same way I escaped your attention. If the powers she displayed thus far were any indication, she can possess anyone within the Fairwoods, and appears to be nigh-omniscient to all things within the borders of this dimension. But she has not come for us, and that tells us a few things.”

“She might still be unconscious,” Adam said. “Uva—she managed to claim the body of one of those Red Riding Wolves. She knocked Evanescia out.”

“That she did.” The Culturist let out a hearty laugh. “Quite the feat for our little burgeoning Seeker. But I do not think that is the reason why we are unharmed. The Usurper-Narrator is old and likely has contingencies against such things. After Uva struck her, she faded into the Fairwoods like she was a part of them. Since she has not come for you yet, she is either indisposed for some reason, unable to find you, or is watching passively.”

“But why would she?” Adam asked. “I can’t stop her.”

“We cannot stop her,” the Culturist corrected. “I suspect she would resolve me with little issue.” He noticed the look on Adam’s face. “This is not humility: She summoned the power of someone beyond Legendary-Tier. That Chronomancy Skill she used at the end was like nothing I could ever hope to muster. But she wouldn’t even need that. I would not be able to break out of her narrative cage as the Deathless did. I would become a prisoner immediately. And she is not the kind that leans toward mercy, considering what she did to your eye. That begs the question again: Why are we not being cast into the Flame?”

Adam crossed his arms and tapped his fingers against his bicep. “So. She doesn’t know where we are, or she is playing a game of some kind. Or… maybe we are already trapped; characters in her book.”

“A paranoia-inducing possibility, but why are you broken if such is the case? Why do I not remember being sacrificed to the Watchtower?”

And the moment the orc mentioned the Watchtower, Adam flicked through the other notifications and felt his stomach twist in pain once more.

Quest Failed: Stop the Usurper Queen from reassembling the Broken Watchtower.

Failure: Cedes complete authority over Seasonal Resets to the will of the Usurper Queen.

“She is not the kind to obtain a toy and not play with it immediately,” the Culturist said. “Not from her observed behavior. If my Psychology Skill’s simulation is accurate, she would have placed all three of you together on an adventure immediately to see how you react so she can better understand you, and find the right narrative to turn you hopeless and docile. Until you bend and fold to her artistic whims.”

Adam saw where the Culturist was going. “Well. That leads us down another question: Why can’t she notice me?”

“Perhaps due to your new and Unique Blessing. Perhaps it is what Shiv fed you still being active. Perhaps it is your new Path.”

“New Path…” Adam muttered, almost unable to accept it.

“You should try to evolve it,” the orc said. “You must. I understand you are scared.” He reached out and placed a large, warm hand on Adam’s back. A large, warm hand that covered his entire rear torso. “I understand. But I am here to do what I can to guide you.”

“And I am your victim, not hers,” Adam added wryly.

“No.” The Culturist shook his head. “The Deathless is my enemy and victim. My itch is dull now, but I will indulge using him if I can. I cannot promise I won’t harm you if the circumstances go sour, but I know which of you is to be cultivated through gentle labors, and which can be fed by fire and pain. You’re the vibrant, flexible, but gentle little flower in my garden. I must be careful with you. Somewhat due to Shiv, but mainly because your pain will inspire dark things in Valor.”

Adam stared blankly at the orc. “Culturist. Never compare me to a flower again. Please.”

“As you wish.”

