But the main one was: Had he just experienced sympathy for the Shades for their sympathy toward the people they had once known?

He had also just killed a man not an hour ago. Had it been an hour already?

There were too many problems with Shade society. Criminal organizations that used children for shields. People dropping to the ground and kowtowing toward Erick. Erick not receiving any flak for his, quite honestly, horrific abuses of power, what with the rampant searches and spying and violence he had done not too long ago. He might have only personally killed one guy, but if speaking was non-violent, and force was violence, pretty much everything he had done to end the threat against his family was pure violence.

Erick didn’t want to be that guy.

But he would have to be that guy, wouldn’t he? As Quilatalap spoke of the last artifact and gestured to the side, where four incani stood, Erick knew he would have to be rather violent toward the upcoming Converter Angel problem, too. He had gotten rid of the Breach Demon, after all, and in order to keep his neutrality in the Quiet War, and because he had already promised to help, he would need to take an active role in eradicating the Converter Angel. Erick felt the Silver Star on his chest briefly warm, and then cool, in time to his thoughts.

The four incani were four different colors. A red man, a magenta woman, a blue woman, a white woman. All of them wore adventuring leathers; rough clothes meant to protect from most easy threats, but easy enough to sleep in, while [Conjure Armor] went over them as needed. They didn’t look too scared to be in front of all these Shades, though. In fact, they looked rather… drugged out? Yes. That was it. The four of them walked as they needed to walk, glanced around as would anyone who needed to not step into something, and took their spaces on the platform like this was just another day at the office. No irregular heartbeat. No sweating. No concern for each other, either, save to not bump into one another. No concern for where they were. No recognition in their dull eyes.

Quilatalap introduced them. “From left to right, we have the surviving members of an unregistered adventuring team that was hastily composed of multiple factions. In their case, it was a union of noble adventurers, common adventurers, and merchant adventurers. There would have been ten of them up here, but when these four commoners heard what the others had planned, the party split. The commoners won.

“Technically, the party split after two weeks of being inside the Artifact Course, and though some people tried to bring them all back together, what the nobles and merchants wanted, the commoners could not abide. After the artifact was won, the commoners took action. And thus, the commoners survived.

“From left to right, we have Rexx, Idolizia, Caizoa, and Skorka. Assassin, Hunter, Juggernaut, and Cook.”

More than one Shade laughed, as more than one shouted out, “Cook?!”

Quilatalap let that interruption happen for a while, then he said, “Skorka here was the only reason they were able to last as long as they did. Her almost mythical-level of cooking Skills provided much needed buffs for the entire team. Skorka worked for one of the nobles they killed, and was instrumental in their solution to the dangers posed by those nobles, when she poisoned them all to death. She’s actually their highest level because of that. A level 88 Cook.”

More laughter.

Quilatalap did not laugh, though. Erick could tell this was just a job to him, that this was his end-of-year report. Sure, he tried to add in some mirth here and there, but he, himself, did not join in that mirth.

Quilatalap gestured to the screen behind him, and the four incani, saying, “And now, the item they won. You all know what it was, but let me refresh everyone’s memories.”

The screen shifted.

A four-pointed hunk of blackened metal appeared. It was a brooch, and Erick instinctively knew this artifact for what it was. His own pristine Silver Star pulsed cold on his chest, almost in confirmation. This was a Black Star, like the one Silverite had shown Erick, months ago. But this one was something deeper; something inscribed in the manasphere itself. Erick felt a tug on his heart as he gazed upon a piece of Peace, taken into the fires of war, and desecrated by the realities of life and death and ultimatums.

Quilatalap said, “The Black Star. This item is an ancient artifact created by a Paradox Wizard of the Old Cosmology, hundreds of thousands of years ago, when Koyabez was born out of the remnants of a God War and was just starting to gain power. At the time, Koyabez was a minor deity, and could not prevent this warping of himself.

“Because make no mistake, the Black Star is an item of violence. Of death. Of ending threats. Since then, there have often been arguments between the Black and the Silver houses of Koyabez, but they both survive to this day, for Koyabez has accepted this darker part of himself, along with this Black Star.

“The usual argument goes like this: In order to understand the Black House of Koyabez, you must understand that peace is only true when all sides play along, in true discourse, and true goals. Harmony and peace thrive when the problems are ones of operational concerns, and not ones of one side just waiting for the day that the other side lowers their guard, so that they can murder them all.

“When systems break down. When tyrants rise. These are the occasions where ending a threat is a more peaceful action in the long run, for in playing along with those who seek to undermine and destroy, for in allowing true harmony to falter and fall and to let the harmful dictators rise to the top, all you get is dystopia. All you get are people happily living in the dirt and muck, licking the shoes of those in power, never knowing what could have been.”

A Shade in the back called out, “Too bad you can’t use it against the Script!”

Another added, “I’d like to not live in the dirt, if you ask me,” to which a good dozen other Shades openly agreed, and another ten nodded along.

“What are their plans for the Converter Angel!” demanded a third.

Quilatalap looked at the offender, and said, “I am getting to that.”

Erick, meanwhile, experienced yet another moment of surrealism. His shoulders shook. He sat straight. His hands started to shake, in restrained anger, for how could these people not see that they were the ones in power? That they were the ones that needed to die? That—

Fallopolis loudly said, “They’ll never get it, Erick. Believe me, I’ve tried.”

Small conversations ended, when Fallopolis spoke.

Erick countered, “Some of them have to understand. It’s just...” The gathering was silent. The Shades watched him, while Quilatalap gave every indication of just standing back, and letting whatever was going to happen, happen. Erick turned, and faced the crowd. He shot to his feet, declaring, “You all have all the power in this world! You are the rulers, according to all your actions, and from what I’ve heard already! If you don’t like your lot in life, then it’s your own damn fault. If you don’t—”

A male Shade stood up from their table. Incani, white skin, motley suit of various blacks. Erick recognized him as Gora, the Shade of the Arena. Killzone had warned Erick about this one, but Erick had been aware of this guy well before Killzone spoke of him. Erick recalled what he knew.

Back when Jane was helping Yetta through her trial to kill Planter, Jane had escaped from the final fight with an antirhine golem. She raced away from that confrontation with several people in her shadows, but a Shade named Porter had tormented her, causing her to drop the survivors. The victims of that arena died. But in a stroke of luck, based on time and place, Jane had reversed the dynamic between her and Porter, and gone on to kill that Shade.

But Porter was tight friends with Gora. Porter had often blipped offending adventuring teams into Gora’s arena, and now that Porter was gone, Gora’s Arena was falling out of favor with the other Shades, for the nightly shows with captured, harried adventurers were much harder to have without those easily captured victims.

At least the victims of the Armory chose to go in there.

Gora said, “You speak like someone who has only ever known the mud and muck. You truly have no idea what the gods and the Script keeps from us. Of what they’ve conned the people of this world into believing.” He said, “You are living in dirt, and you don’t even know it! Shut your mouth and learn from your betters.”

He got a few nods from the crowd, but most eyes were on Erick.

“Are you immortal?” Erick asked, knowing the answer already. “You’re not. All you’ve ever experienced was life on Veird. The only difference between you and I is one of perspective. You see trash all around you. I see opportunities to clean up, and build higher, and plant gardens, and make friends. You’ve been raised on stories of power, and then you have the gall to whine about not having enough. I’ve been raised on stories of perseverance, and—”

Tania stood. She said, “Heavy points, all around, but we can have debates another day. I will cut this short. Gora is correct. This world was built to cage magic and Melemizargo; that was the goal of the Script Builders, and they succeeded, robbing us of untold futures among the other worlds out there, and with our God. Erick is also correct. Every single person in existence can always do better. They can do more. They can achieve efficiency. They can achieve perspective and wisdom. Both of you are powerful. Both are going places. But only one of you is using your power to light the way forward. The other is apparently a Void.”

Gora’s bright eyes went wide. He glanced to the side, looking to flee, only to see Bulgan standing right there, a full head taller than the Arena master. Almost all the Shades in the audience were staring at Gora, as the man looked left and right.

Looks of glee erupted from the gathered Shades, as they turned to Gora, and smiled, their mouths full of fangs. None of them held this look quite as well as Fallopolis.

Gora’s shoulders slumped. “Fuck you, Tania.”

Tania proclaimed, “If any of you are unhappy with your existence! If any of you think that the trials are too tough! That the reward is not good enough! Then perhaps you shouldn’t exist anymore.” She snapped her fingers at Gora.

Gora became gore.

Fallopolis clapped loudly, as blood and mess pitter-pattered from the sky, like red rain.

Queen asked, “Erick? A [Cleanse] please?”

Tania turned to Queen. “You have servants for that.”

Some red thing flopped from the front of Erick’s now-red robes and landed on the ground with a slap.

Like he was suddenly in a dream and nothing felt real, Erick turned on his [Cleansing Aura]. He had several of his Ophiel, all around the gathering, do the same. Almost on autopilot, Erick turned back to his seat, and brushed away a bone fragment from his chair. That fragment vanished into thick air before it touched the ground. As he sat down his red outfit returned to pristine white. He spoke an apology to Quilatalap, but his words were lost in the absolute torrent of thick air that spilled out from the gathering, like a tornado.

The entire congregation of Shades experienced his [Cleansing Aura], and just like what had happened with Fallopolis that first time, each Shade became the headwaters of a tsunami of thick air.

An Ophiel Erick had sitting half a kilometer out, also caught the sight of that torrent. From that perspective, the occurrence made Erick think of a massive explosion, but without the fire. Windows shook in the passing of that thick air. A few windows broke. Nearby potted plants fell over, and then rolled away. Thick air usually had no physical form or feeling, but in these quantities, it did.

When the minor storm finally finished, Erick said to Quilatalap, “Apologies for the interruption.” He muttered, “What even is that thick air, anyway?”

Quilatalap said, “The thick air of [Cleanse] is a complicated topic, best left for another time. Now. Could we continue?”

Tania was already sitting. She magnanimously said, “Of course. Continue.”

Quilatalap nodded, then gestured back toward the screen behind them, where the Black Star was displayed. He said, “The Black Star was the last resort of the Peacekeepers. It has always been locked up behind heavy wards, and heavy restrictions, when not in use. Some of those restrictions are self-imposed; this is a semi-sentient divine artifact, after all.” He gestured to the four incani still standing on stage with him, saying, “Rexx, Idolizia, Caizoa, and Skorka, passed these restrictions, and gained the trust of the Black Star. Thus they have won the right to use the Black Star against the Converter Angel sent by unknowns of the Greensoil Republic.

“The Black Star requires a goal and a certain level of conviction in order to activate. Once those measures are met, the Black Star does many, many things for the wearer.

“As for the lesser functions, the Black Star automatically [Greater Teleport]s the user out of traps. It provides nourishment and a healthy body. It protects against disease, parasites, and all sorts of environmental harm. It provides immunity from all forms of mind, soul, or body control.

“Its larger function is to provide complete and total protection to the user, when the user is in pursuit of their goal.

“As the Black Star is very much a divine artifact of the Founding God of Veird, there are only two other greater gods on Veird that are capable of overcoming this protection: Rozeta and Melemizargo.”

There were some minor ‘booo’s from the crowd at the mention of Koyabez and Rozeta, while Melemizargo got several small prayers; it all inexplicably seemed like a game to Erick.

“The greater function is thus: When the user declares a goal in line with the goals of the Black Star, the Black Star will point the way to those who would harm all. There is no way to obscure this function, and it works through all known systems of obfuscation. Back in the Old Cosmology, this function worked five worlds away from any world touched by Koyabez, and would have only been slightly off in its guidance past that. Here, on Veird, this function is absolute.

