Unhappy with Niece Alsantset’s assessment of Teacher Du and uncomfortable with the direction their one-sided conversation had taken, Song hurriedly finished her breakfast and escaped. Delicious as the food was, bringing up Du Min Yan left a sour taste in her mouth. Teacher Du discarded Song without a second thought, yet there were rumours aplenty of how he lost everything in adopting Yan. What did she have that Song lacked? Was it solely due to Yan’s Awakening, or was there something more? Though formidable, Yan’s performance on stage wasn’t enough to awe Song, not like Sister or Niece Alsantset could. Had she access to Teacher Du’s undivided attention for eighteen months, Song was certain she could have handily defeated both Wu Gam and Rain.

Why was the Mother so unfair to her children? What sin had Song committed to be treated so unjustly?

For the first time in memory, Song arrived at the training field and Mister Rustram wasn’t waiting with sword in hand to greet her. Unsure how to proceed, she stood in place and waited for her partner to arrive, eager to clear her mind and focus on practice. There were no complications when training with Mister Rustram, no need for conversation or polite manners, only an exchange of swords to their mutual benefit before going on their separate ways. It was exactly what Song needed, a simple, straightforward task to accomplish and distract her from wondering what could have been had the Mother seen fit to smile upon her.

“Lady Song.” Interrupting her thoughts, Dastan offered her a slight bow and said, “Mister Rustram regrets to inform you that since his Mentor demands his presence each morning, he no longer has time to train with your esteemed self.” Flashing what he thought to be a charming smile, Dastan continued, “He’s asked me to step in, or if you’d prefer someone else, you have your pick of the retinue.”

Oh? Happy for Mister Rustram but saddened to lose her training partner, Song nodded and followed Dastan onto the field. Mister Rustram usually chose a more secluded venue and Song approved his choice. As Teacher Du once said ‘Knowledge is a weapon more formidable than any blade’, and because the training field sat on the edge of camp, there were always strangers hanging about. A mixed bunch, everything from curious civilians, enterprising hawkers, and spies reporting everything they saw to their masters. Thus far, the makeshift fence, Imperial Decree, and general Bekhai distrust of strangers kept anyone from slipping in, but seeing how Rain’s enemies were bold enough to poison him in the Magistrate’s Palace, Song didn’t expect their cursory safety measures to hold for much longer.

To make matters worse, today’s crowd was larger than ever before, their numbers swelled by the attendants of minor nobles and rich merchants hoping to catch the attention of ‘Imperial Consort Falling Rain’. Some even went as far as shouting invitations and propositions in hopes they would reach Rain’s ears, while others recognized Dastan by his Runic Shield and clamoured for his attention. Though he feigned indifference, Dastan enjoyed the attention, his back straight and head held high while looking everywhere except at the crowd. That’s what gave him away, trying too hard to appear disinterested which only showed how interested he really was. Proving Song’s intuition correct, Dastan stopped close to the field’s edge even though there were plenty of others open areas for them to train in. The crowd moved in as close to the barricades as humanly possible and called out for Dastan’s attention, asking insipid questions like, “Will you challenge any of the other Hwarang?”, “Are you stronger than Falling Rain?”, “Is this (pointing at Song) your lady love?”, and other pointless queries.

Leaving him to answer their questions and bask in the attention, Song took her place and prepared for their match, her lips pursed in displeasure as he introduced her as ‘Lieutenant General Akanai’s Daughter’. Not that it wasn’t true, but he left out so much more. Song was also Daughter of Divine Blacksmith Husolt and sister of Mila, the true number one talent in the Empire. Worse, from the baffled looks directed her way, she realized at least some in the crowd recognized her green eyes and brown-furred cat ears which marked her as a half-beast slave from Central, shaming Mama and Papa alike. Although Dastan was also Oathsworn, few were privy to the fact and with how well Rain treated him, unless someone purposely revealed his status, no one would ever know his shameful secret.

Almost a quarter hour later, Dastan was still chatting with the crowd and Song had almost reached the end of her patience. Dastan wasn’t even an ideal training partner, the two of them too unevenly matched to do anything but spar. While sparring was a form of training, why spar with Dastan when she had Sister, Niece Alsantset, or even Rain to match blades with? In contrast, what made Mister Rustram an ideal training partner wasn’t his strength, skill, or insight, but because he constantly made mistakes. In identifying and correcting his mistakes, Song discovered flaws in her own style, an arrangement which benefited them both.

“Enough, enough, I’ve made my partner wait long enough.” Smiling as he turned away from the crowd, Dastan finally took his place across from Song, his body relaxed and lips turned upwards in a smug, self-satisfied smile. Dangerous for them to spar with Spiritual Weapons, but Song didn’t care to delay this farce for even a second more. After today, she would have an opening in her morning routine, for Dastan’s arrogance was far too much to stomach.

He didn’t understand how blessed he was to have a master like Falling Rain. Why did the Mother love everyone but her?

“My apologies, Lady Song. Whenever you’re ready.”

In response, Song’s saber hummed through the air as she opened with a downward slash, prepared to clash head-on with the Runic shield. While unsure if the shields worked the same way, she knew her Runic armour boasted an effect which dampened impacts and assumed the shield would do the same. Armed with this knowledge, Song intended to take advantage of the dampening effect to turn her slash into a stab, allowing her to end the match in an instant.

Except somehow, her saber cut through empty air as Dastan side-stepped and avoided the attack, his movements so fluid and nimble it almost looked inhuman.

Cursing her negligence, Song disengaged and stepped back to re-evaluate her opponent. How could she forget why the crowd was so eager to see him? Only yesterday, Dastan demonstrated his true strength by defeating Mitsue Hideo in a consummate display of skill and agility, a feat Song wasn’t certain she could replicate. What’s more, though she defeated him time and time again in the past six months, they used common training weapons in those spars. This was the first time she faced him with Spiritual Weapon in hand, and he seemed like a different warrior altogether. During their previous spars, he always seemed driven and impatient, recklessly diving into battle in hopes of victory, but no more. Today, he stood across from her a changed man, tranquil and composed with a joyful gleam in his eyes. What she mistook for arrogance was in fact childlike glee, enjoying the challenge for what it was worth without caring for victory or defeat.

Interesting.

Abandoning her preconceived notions of his strength, Song moved in to exchange blows and test this new Dastan, absorbing and analyzing his every moment as they circled the field. Back and forth they went and neither one took the upper hand, their match silent but for the stomping of boots and panting of breath. First ten, then twenty, then thirty exchanges without the clang of saber meeting axe or shield, and not for lack of trying on either part. On their forty seventh exchange, the ring of metal on metal sounded out as Song’s saber glanced off Dastan’s Runic shield, and she cursed her past self. The Runic shield failed to dampen the impact and her blade bounced off its surface, which meant the shield was inferior to her armour. Unfortunately, this also meant that if he’d responded with an active parry to her opening attack, the match would have ended after a single exchange just as she hoped, only with her defeat instead of his.

After more than a hundred exchanges, Song finally had a grasp on his movements. Wolf Form – Circling the Grass, Oriole Form – Rising Steps, and Snake Form – Slithering Pursuit, three different movements from three different Forms all focusing on footwork. While Dastan hadn’t exactly merged them into something new, he used all three in delicate harmony, making his constantly shifting movements unpredictable and erratic without sacrificing balance or poise. To control these strange movements, Dastan constantly shifted his centre of gravity by alternating Lightening and Stability at varying magnitudes. A difficult task even without distraction, but something Dastan accomplished in the midst of battle as easily as turning his hand.

When did he become so proficient at Chi manipulation? Was this the advantage provided by a Natal Palace?

Throwing everything she had into the match, their weapons rang out in an accelerated concert of steel. Stalking the Dragon, Swiping the Rushes, Reversing the Flow into Fanged Clutch, Song’s most trusted combination failed to find an opening in his defence, though it allowed her to grab hold of his shield. Wrenching it aside with an effort of pure strength, she leapt up and twisted her body in mid air before driving both boots firmly into Dastan’s exposed face. With a tuck of her head, she rolled across the dirt and came to her feet with saber at the ready, but the spar was over. Hands held up in defeat, Dastan said, “Mercy, Lady Song.” His smile bloodied but genuine, he clasped his hands and bowed in respect. “As always, I am awed by your skill and strength.”

After a moment of hushed silence, the shocked crowd burst into cheers and applause, delighted by the show of Martial skill. Breathless and ashamed, Song offered Dastan a salute and left, her feet carrying her away as quickly as they could without breaking into a run. Her winning move was something Mama had forbidden her to use, because the last time Song tried it, Rain struck her in the back of the head before she could turn. Judging by how quickly Dastan recovered, he also had time enough to lop off her head, but instead forfeited to spare her ego. Song believed she still stood at the forefront of her peers, but Dastan’s remarkable improvement proved her wrong. No matter what Mama claimed, without strength, Song served no purpose, so she had no choice but to condense her Natal Palace as soon as possible.

Only... she didn’t know how and Mama was too busy to teach her. What was she to do?

Two things were certain though. Tomorrow morning, she would return to spar with Dastan again, but not before telling Rain to take more responsibility for his pets.

Chapter Meme
