Waking to the warbling cry of the laughing birds, Song rose to greet the morning with a long, languid stretch. Still fast asleep beside her, Lin and Sister lay tangled in each other’s embrace while bears and wildcats snored peacefully around them. Even Jimjam, usually so anxious and vigilant, lay passed out on his side, his breathing heavy and belly swollen from last night’s bout with gluttony. Taking advantage of this rare opportunity, Song postponed brushing her hair and sidled over to Jimjam’s side, gently stroking his cheek and smiling as he slowly came awake. Eyes widening in surprise, he gave a small yowl as if to ask how’d she got so close. Rubbing his belly to appease him, Song checked his ears, gums, and paws for irregularities, a difficult task given Jimjam’s normal, apprehensive nature.

With a petulant huff, Jimjam closed his eyes and magnanimously accepted Song’s ministrations. When she finished, she couldn’t resist laying down beside the dramatic, overfed wildcat, stroking his neck and picking dried meat and encrusted blood from his fur. Sharing a yurt with Sister and Lin wasn’t so bad, especially with all the animals here to keep them company. Although Sarankho was always available for a hug, Jimjam rarely enjoyed cuddling and Aurie and the bears almost never left Rain’s side. Despite all this, a small part of Song still resented having to give up her private yurt, though mostly because she was certain the devious Luo-Luo would never use it.

When she heard Rain’s new concubine was an Imperial Servant, Song rejoiced at the thought of having someone to help care for Rain’s pets. As much as she enjoyed their company, grooming three wildcats, two bears, and twenty rabbits took too much time out of her day. Unfortunately, Luo-Luo’s naive outlook and duplicitous personality proved ‘Imperial Servant’ was merely a different way to say ‘spoiled noble’, expecting to be waited on hand and foot while reading into every word and gesture from those around her. Song had met plenty of women like her, a calculating social chameleon who changed personalities as easily as others changed clothes. With Lin, Luo-Luo feigned childish wonder and boundless delight, but with Sister-in-Law Sarnai, she behaved like a prim and proper lady eager to please her new husband. Given her deceitful and scheming personality, Luo-Luo had much to do before earning Song’s trust, but for now, the ‘Servant’ would be too busy winning over her husband to bother with anyone else.

As a plus, with an outlet for his lust, Rain’s lecherous ways might be constrained to Luo-Luo alone, leaving Song, Sister, and Lin all well alone.

That said, last night’s banquet was surprisingly enjoyable, Song’s first public event with her entire family. Mama’s and Sister’s dresses were beautiful, but Song could never bring herself to wear something so revealing, not by choice at least. No, a soldier’s tunic and trousers were good enough, with her comfortable Runic armour worn over top and her trusty saber at her hip. As last night’s poisoning proved, one could never be too careful when dealing with privileged members of nobility. Although Mama and Papa would never allow it, Song couldn’t forget all the social events she’d attended in Central after Teacher Du gifted her to Master Kai, nor how she suffered at the hands of those lecherous aristocrats...

Unhappy memories aside, when the Crier introduced Mama, Papa, Sister, and herself as one family, Song’s heart swelled with joy, and that was only the beginning. The beautiful decorations, the delicious foods, the relaxing ambient music, and the adorable antics from the animals, the night went perfectly until Rain collapsed from poison. Even then, seeing how he recovered without incident, Song marked the banquet as a rousing success. The nobles ate, met Rain’s concubine, and nobody died, a much tamer event than she’d expected. Rain rarely accomplished anything quietly, and even though someone tried to have him killed, his quick thinking, unsavoury solution, remarkable fortitude, and casual disregard for pain and death proved he deserved his new Imperial Peerage.

It felt strange approving of Rain’s actions, and although minor issues regarding negative public opinion might soon arise, Song couldn’t deny how impressive and effective his demonstration had been. After barely grimacing when Brother Baatar cut his belly open, Rain didn’t even bat an eye while the Medical Saint rummaged through his innards. Then, the second he finished Healing, Rain jolted up and joked about his empty stomach before devouring a full meal in front of his awed guests, a most appropriate, if crude, display of power and endurance. Though his new title kept him safe from harm, his actions would make even the most embittered noble think twice before offending the Bekhai.

A performance most suitable for the Undying Savage.

Having idled about long enough, Song hurriedly braided her hair and threw on her armour before carrying the sluggish bears and wildcats out to sleep in the grass. This way, Sister and Lin could rest uninterrupted, or more likely, not wake up to a stinky surprise left by the trapped animals.

Noticing a crowd of quins gathered around Rain’s door, Song headed over to see what all the fuss was about. As she approached, Rain’s door rattled and a muted, distressed chirp sounded out from within, causing all the gathered quins to respond in kind. Perhaps Mafu was trapped inside, though why Rain would invite a quin into his yurt on the eve of his marriage was not something Song wanted to dwell on.

What a perverted deviant... And to think, Song was starting to respect him...

Against her better judgment, Song pushed past the crowd of quins and unlatched the door. Far from the cheerful welcome she’d expected, she blinked in surprise as it burst open to reveal a snarling, unfamiliar, quin. Holding her ground with a snarl, she held one palm up in warning while the other hand rested firmly on her saber’s hilt. Cowing the defensive quin with her unyielding demeanour and silent threat, its anger subsided as it shifted from side to side, sniffing her palm and licking its jowls before letting loose with a plaintive whine. The poor thing seemed so distressed, Song wanted to reach out to pat its nose, but seeing its long, dagger-like fangs and obvious agitation, Song wisely kept her hands to herself. With the quin refusing to back down and Song unable to do so without possibly triggering its hunter’s instincts, she found herself in a stalemate. Where did this unsociable creature come from? Why was it inside Rain’s yurt? Was the quin’s antagonistic behaviour the result of whatever debauchery Rain partook of last night?

Thankfully, their awkward standoff didn’t last long as Mafu darted around Song, past the angry quin, and into the yurt, his tail lashing back and forth the whole time. Emerging a few seconds later with a quin pup nestled in his arms, Mafu ran off chittering with the adorable creature and left Song in bemused confusion. A second, fully-grown quin soon emerged carrying two more pups, giving Song a cursory sniff before taking off after the pup thief Mafu, squeaking up a storm as the pack followed in their wake. The angry quin also disappeared and returned with two sleeping pups, ignoring Song to run off and follow its mate.

Out of self-preservation and perhaps even morbid curiosity, Song stood at the doorway and peered into the dimly lit room. Asleep on the floor, Rain wore the same clothes Song had last seen him in, his bed never slept in and the new girl nowhere to be seen. Were Rain’s tastes so depraved that not even an Imperial Servant could stomach them? No, for all their talk of superiority and eminence, nobles were a sordid and degenerate bunch, so it was doubtful Luo-Luo’s training wouldn’t prepare her for the worst. Perhaps he sent her away because the poison and subsequent healing must have taken its toll on him, or why else would he still be asleep? Rain had many flaws but indolence could not be counted among them. Considering he’d been too tired to change his clothes, it’s possible Rain left his concubine untouched and unspoiled, a small mercy in Song’s mind, though Luo-Luo would certainly see things differently.

It still begged the question, where did Rain find a clutch of quin pups to snuggle with?

Her curiosity sated, Song closed the door and left Rain to sleep. Stepping into the rabbit enclosure, she smiled as the darling creatures stopped playing and gathered around to greet her, rearing up on their hind legs with twitching noses and hopeful stares. For some strange reason, Roc was also in the enclosure, hopping and flapping about to avoid the playful baby rabbits with an indignant look in his eyes, though too scared to attack with Mama Bun watching his every move. Annoyed by the repeated efforts to bowl him over, Roc hopped over to Song with wings outstretched in a futile attempt to take flight. Catching him mid-hop, Song brought him close to inspect for injuries but found him in perfect condition, his wings opening and closing without signs of pain or discomfort. Shaking her head in disbelief, Song let Roc perch on her shoulder as she fed and brushed the rabbits, all the while scouring her brain for ways to help a bird lose weight.

Only Rain could raise a bird too fat to fly. How did Roc even get back to camp last night?

With the rabbits all fed and Blackjack joining Roc on her shoulder, Song headed to their shared campfire and took a seat beside Niece Alsantset at her behest. “Little Rain is lucky to have your help,” Alsantset said, grinning as she passed Song a plate laden with food. “Otherwise, I fear we would soon have a rabbit rebellion on our hands.” Unsure how to respond, Song merely nodded and stared at her plate, eating in silence as Roc and Blackjack watched on. Though always warm and friendly, her half-tiger niece made Song feel inferior in every way, whether it be lineage, appearance, strength or skill. Confident and ferocious, Alsantset embodied everything Song hoped to be, yet feared she would never measure up.

Unperturbed by the lacklustre response, the older woman leaned in and whispered, “I saw you peek into Little Rain’s yurt. I wanted to do the same, but Beloved scolded me for being nosy. Tell me, how are the newlyweds faring?”

Swallowing her delicious mouthful of fragrant meat-bun, Song answered, “Rain slept on the floor in his clothes. Luo-Luo was not present, but he had a pair of quins and five pups keeping him company.”

“Tch.” Niece Alsantset frowned and asked, “But why? She’s so lovely, I’d have thought he’d exhaust himself f...” Noticing her children listening nearby, she changed her line of questioning. “Tell me, you were there when they met. Was he displeased with Luo-Luo? Is it because she’s so much taller? Or... Does Little Rain have something against full-blooded women?”

“Leave it be, my flower,” Charok admonished, shaking his head with a smile. “You know how he is with strangers. Even if she were the most beautiful woman in the world, Little Rain would still balk at accepting a stranger into his life. Remember when we tried to help him make friends? It did not end well for anyone, especially those poor children.”

“Those brats deserved it.” Crossing her arms with a petulant pout, Niece Alsantset defended Rain as always. “I warned them to play nice yet they still scared him with their cruel pranks.” Rolling his eyes, Charok said no more while Niece Alsantset stewed in anger. Scowling at Luo-Luo’s yurt, she lowered her voice to a whisper. “And here I thought the girl happy to join us, so tenacious and determined to win Rain’s affection. How disappointing, especially after Mama spent a fortune hosting a lavish banquet and Beloved worked himself to the bone preparing the feast.”

Uncertain why she felt the need to defend Luo-Luo, Song spoke without thinking. “Perhaps Rain sent her away.”

“You think her charms failed to catch Rain’s eye?” After a moment’s thought, Alsantset scoffed and shook her head. “Impossible. With her beauty and his lecherous personality, she’d only need to express a hint of interest and Rain would have torn her clothes off and...” Belatedly remembering her children again, Niece Alsantset coughed to cover up what she was about to say. “No, perhaps I misjudged her. Perhaps she’s like all the other nobles we’ve met, another lazy, spoiled brat expecting to be coddled and pampered. I gave her the benefit of a doubt, but her prejudice betrays her. Did you hear her yesterday? ‘Tali has the most impeccable manners’. Hmph. So surprising, because we Bekhai are manner-less savages in her eyes. She probably made up some excuse or another and Rain was too kind to press the issue.” With a mournful sigh, Niece Alsantset lamented, “Oh how I worry for little Rain so. Three wives and not a single one capable of caring for my little brother. I should never have let Yan leave with that old, doddering fool. Now there was a girl with a proper work ethic and eager to boot. I only hope she’s still interested else Little Rain is destined to become a henpecked husband.” With a mournful sigh, Niece Alsantset patted Song’s cheek and opened her mouth to speak, but thought better of it and held her tongue instead.

