“See that cloud ship up there? That’s one of my domains, and I can extend its influence a little, enough to reach down here. And in my domain, you don’t teleport unless I allow it.”

Jason moved his head to gesture behind McKean. Simon turned to see an expanding vortex of rainbow light where the portal had been. He scrambled away, stumbling on the rubble.

“Nazi scientist deal, Simon. Last chance.”

“Fuck you, Asano.”

Jason looked up. The cloud ship was an inverted pyramid, with a giant eye on each side. All four eyes were closed, until Jason tilted his head and one of them opened. Blue and orange light filled the shaft like floodwater. McKean fell to the ground and rolled into a sitting position. He watched as the light started disintegrating the rubble, dissolving magically reinforced steel and concrete like aspirin in a glass of water. He felt the shield around him tremble. He looked at Asano, now standing over him, unaffected by the beam.

Behind Asano, light from the still-expanding rainbow vortex clashed with the light from the cloud ship. Monsters were spilling out of the vortex, only to be swiftly annihilated by the energy filling the shaft.

“That’s quite a shield, Simon. Did you make that? You truly are a waste of potential. Unfortunately for you, this weapon is designed to breach shields the size of a city. When yours breaks, it’ll be all over. Do you have any last words?”

“Asano, you can kill me, but you’ve still lost.”

“Is that so?”

“Your grip on this planet relies on one thing: people believing that you’re invincible. I may have lost this fight, but I showed the world that a fight is possible, and that’s all they needed. Humanity won’t lie down for a tyrant. Not if there’s even a chance of rising up. I showed them that a chance does exist, and they will seize it. It might take generations, but humanity will rebel against you Asano, until they finally find a way to destroy you.”

Jason sighed.

“It would be nice if we had that kind of time. Goodbye, Simon.”

The beam surged and the shield broke. Simon’s body was disintegrated before he could feel the pain.

The music stopped.
