The last of the students filled in. No one sat near Rhys, but a few of them shot him uncertain looks, as if they weren’t sure if he should be there. Looking around, he was one of the younger disciples, but when he extended his mana, he wasn’t any lower tier than the rest of them. Sure, some of them were high Tier 1, and most of them had more mana than him, but it wasn’t as though he was ridiculously unqualified. They waited for a few minutes, chatting, before a hush abruptly fell over the crowd.

A young-looking lady swept in. Her dark hair was swept back in a stern bun, and her pale blue wide-sleeved robes were cut short, hanging no lower than the elbow. Underneath it, she wore long, skintight dark blue sleeves that covered the back of her hands in a V-shape, but left her palms bare. The hem of her robes reached about as long as a miniskirt would. Beneath it, she wore leggings that likewise came to a point on her feet, almost merging into her sandals. A dark blue fabric belt dripped with gold-and-blue-glass decorations, to match the slender but unnecessarily long gold pin that held her bun in place.

Rhys nodded to himself. That was a design. If he were still a cosplay builder, he’d be calling that female friend of his right now.

She thumped a heavy bag to the ground and approached a podium. The podium declared her name: Snr. Sorden Tagg. The podium stood beside a large cauldron with clear walls, so that the students could see inside. It looked as though it was made of glass, but there was no way something that large subject to explosive levels of pressure could be made of unreinforced glass. It was probably enchanted somehow.

“Get out your supplies. Today, we’ll be making a simple healing potion,” Sorden announced. With a gesture, she pushed mana into the brazier below the cauldron, and the brazier lit. The other students did the same, and Rhys followed along. Sorden drew huge quantities of herbs from her bag, tossing them into the transparent cauldron.

Rhys watched the herbs she threw in, then copied her motions. He didn’t know how to make a potion, and it wasn’t like he could sniff potion bottles to figure it out—or, at least, his senses hadn’t advanced to that level yet. The book’s instructions were less than helpful; they included obtuse references to techniques and equipment that the book itself didn’t explain. Honestly, he’d given up on making potions. It wasn’t a big deal, since Less is More meant he could sip the same potion for years, and he could scrape potions together to get more. Still, the more techniques he knew to create potions, the more likely he was to survive, so he figured, as long as the teacher was showing him the technique right in front of him, he might as well learn.

The other students winced at the quantity of herbs used to create the potion, but Rhys had plenty of herbs from the trash. They’d cost him nothing, so if the students were price-gouged on herbs, that was none of his business. Unless. He grinned to himself. He had lots of high-quality compost back in his heap, and plenty of disciples threw out rootstocks or stalks that he could try and grow herbs from. He only had a small garden right now, but if there was money to be made, he might as well expand that garden and make money.

His herbs were ragged and in much smaller quantities, but the power they exuded when he threw them into the cauldron was just as strong as his neighbors’ cauldrons as Less is More activated. Up front, Sorden chopped, mixed, and ground. All her motions were smooth and polished, with the quick motions of a professional who’d made this a thousand times. Many of the students struggled to keep up, but Rhys, who was used to the fast-paced beat of Straw’s brutal lessons, could keep up just fine. One herb after another joined the pot. Rhys was worried he might not have all the herbs he needed, but it seemed as if she’d taught the same lesson a few times this week, and he had plenty of copies of everything he needed from the trash.

The herbs melted under the mana-powered fire. Rhys felt their energy stirring, and called out to that energy. At the front of the class, Sorden gestured in a circular motion over her cauldron. The energies mixed smoothly together, blending into one energy.

Rhys started to stir the energies, only for them to immediately jolt and try to escape his grasp. Sorden had made it look so easy, but it was anything but. The herbs all wanted to stay with their own like-kind energy, not mix in. Extending his mana, Rhys gripped each bundle of energy and slowly smeared them together, pummeling them from the outside and forcing them to mix into one. It fought against him, but he refused to let it go. He pushed them all together, tightening the cauldron’s space so they couldn’t escape.

Without anywhere else to go, the energies melded slowly but surely. Even with all Rhys’ efforts, though, he couldn’t make them completely mix. He glanced at the front of the classroom.

Sorden gestured. The lid of the massive cauldron jumped into her hand, and she thumped it home. Putting both hands on the lid, she pushed down. The cauldron took the force she applied and pressed inward evenly from all directions. Inside the cauldron, the thick liquid compressed toward the center of the space.

Rhys copied her gestures. He pushed mana into the cauldron, and the cauldron immediately applied pressure inwards. At the same time, the lid pressed against his hands, trying to escape the pressure. Rhys strengthened his arms and pushed down with all his might, refusing to let the cauldron pop. With one hand, he reached out and closed one of the hooks down, then reached out to the other one and hooked it over the edge. The lid still struggled, but it was no longer Rhys alone who pushed it in place.

He wiped his forehead. He’d almost been one of those students with the lids embedded in the ceiling. If he hadn’t noticed the hooks ahead of time, he would have had no chance.

Inside the cauldron, the swirling, superheated, pressurized liquid started to destabilize. Rhys whirled and pressed his hands against the lid, once more carefully swirling the liquid. The potion quieted down, but only so long as he kept his active attention on it.

“At this stage, when the entire potion is melted down, pay close attention for impurities. Expel the impurities through cycling the pressure on the liquid. Remember, higher impurities mean a weaker potion, and more impurities that will build up in the body of the one who drinks your potion, whether that’s you or a friend.”

Impurities? I got Impurity Resist the other day. Rhys raised his hand. “What are impurities?”

Sorden squinted at him. After a second, she shrugged. “Impurities are tiny unnecessary inclusions. They occur naturally in almost all herbs, with the exception of some extremely rare, extremely high-quality herbs. Impurities build up in the body naturally, as one eats, drinks, and exists, and can also build up from excessive reliance on pills or potions. They can build up in your mana passages and impede the flow of mana. If you have too many impurities, it can even prevent you from reaching the next Tier. You can expel some impurities from your body, but it’s better to expel them from the potion before they enter your body.”

It made sense. It was kind of like plaque building up in one’s veins, impeding the flow of blood and ultimately leading to death, but impurities built up in the mana passages and led to magic-death. But at the same time… impurities sounded a lot like trash. If everyone ignored them and tried to expel them, didn’t that mean that everyone was throwing them out without ever looking at them for value? Interesting. Very interesting. Rhys could feel his excitement spiking already.

Trash also seemed to be a great source of impurities, since he’d gotten the Impurity Resist skill from it. He made a mental note to try absorbing some impurities and experiment with them later.

For now, he simply followed Sorden’s orders, cycling the pressure to the liquid. Tiny black dots oozed out of the clear liquid in the clear cauldron at the front of the room. They collected in the bottom of the cauldron, where a crust of black had already gathered. The potion condensed, boiling down. At the very last second before it burned, Sorden grabbed an empty vial from beside her, yanked open the lid, and made a pulling gesture. The blue liquid flew out and coiled into the vial.

Rhys fished an empty bottle from the trash out of his robes. He uncapped it. Following Sorden’s directions, he opened the lid and immediately reached for the liquid.

Too slow. The second he took the lid off, the liquid shot out, bursting into the air. Rhys turned, reaching up instead of down. He managed to grab a small quantity of the liquid and pull it into the vial, but the rest of it rained down on the classroom, bathing them in potion.

The children near Rhys shrieked. A few ran for it, or ducked under their stools. It was a successful potion, though, so aside from getting them wet, it didn’t hurt them at all. Rhys wiped his face down, a little drenched himself. It healed all the little cuts and scrapes on his body, but since he didn’t really need a potion, it didn’t do much.

“Never a dull class,” Sorden deadpanned.

Let the pressure out, then open the lid, Rhys noted for the future. But for all that, he’d achieved his objectives. He’d learned how to operate a cauldron, and he’d obtained some fresh potion for his efforts. Bonus points!

Alchemy 1

Class continued for another while yet, but since it was lecture, it wasn’t the most stimulating class of all time. When the doors finally opened, Rhys rushed out. But for all that he’d spent a lot of time, he’d gained so much for it. Two skills in one day, and a lead for future investigation. Two leads, including the garden. All good things for him!

He returned to his trash heap pleased with himself and set about building his garden.
