Sometimes, a moment is all it takes to change the course of a life.

Despite my resolve to save my beloved wifey, I cannot help but hesitate at the mere thought of surrender, a moment of unwillingness born from fear, loathing, doubt, and a whole host of other legitimate reasons. Putting aside the slow and grisly death which awaits me once I fall into Zhen Shi’s hands, giving up goes against everything I believe in, because despite having personally experienced life after death, I am unwilling to roll the dice again so soon. While I had a rough start and faced many gruelling trials and tribulations along the way, I love my life here and do not want to start anew before I’ve had a chance to see this existence through to completion. I have my wonderful parents who dote on me with love and affection without smothering me with their presence. I have a supportive sister and an understanding brother-in-law, as well as their two beautiful children to cherish and spoil. I’ve married two wonderful and passionate wives with a third soon to join us, and so many loyal friends and comrades who I can rely on. Then there’s all my sweet floofs who I absolutely adore, and I only just reunited with my faithful dog Buddy, even if he is merely a recreation based on half-remembered memories with a new name because I couldn’t remember his real one. What if I don’t remember any of these remarkable individuals in my next life? The mere possibility of losing these precious people and memories is enough to make my chest ache with grief, a loss I am not well-equipped to bear, and even though logically I know giving myself up is the only way to save the people around me, I still cling to hope and pray for a miracle to save me from my inevitable doom.

I mean... what are the chances that my next life will be equally amazing? Besides safety and security, I pretty much have it all, and I doubt the Heavens would be so generous the next time I cycle back around.

But what other choice do I have? My newly restored strength and newfangled Spiritual Heart are impressive and all, but the Enemy sent four Divinities here to get me. While my gut tells me Monk Bones is a formidable force to be reckoned with, I cannot imagine he’s strong enough to stand against his foes on his own, as the Abbot’s guardian monks and I are all too weak to take part in this conflict. Guard Leader has made herself scarce and is nowhere in sight, but I can’t blame her for her absence considering the odds stacked against us. Assuming he’s Concealed somewhere in the cave, Kukku’s abilities might be enough to even the odds since he was powerful enough to affect GangShu, but considering how familiar Vyakhya is with the rooster’s abilities, I doubt the traitor monk would have come here unprepared.

There are only two ways this whole thing shakes out. Either I give myself up and surrender to the Enemy, or they kill everyone present at the cost of maybe one Divinity, assuming Monk Bones is strong and decisive enough to sell his life dearly. Is he even a Divinity? I can’t really tell, because his... presence, for lack of a better word, pales in comparison to the Enemy Divinities. Yea, better just to go peacefully and hope they leave everyone else alone, because I couldn’t bear to live with myself if Lin-Lin should come to harm.

All this and more flashes through my mind in the blink of an eye, a fraction of a fraction of a second, but even this minor delay proves too much for my foes to endure. His limited patience already at its end, the tusked mammoth of an Ancestral Beast utters an expressive snort and advances upon me. Massive hammer resting over one shoulder, his free hand reaches out to grab me in clear contempt for everyone present. This is a man accustomed to getting his way in life, and seeing how his colossal physique makes even Nian Zu and Husolt look like scrawny runts in comparison, it’s easy to see why. Time slows to a crawl as the State of Enlightenment settles over me, yet even then, everyone’s movements are almost too quick to follow, with the mammoth actually moving the slowest overall despite closing the gap between us almost instantaneously.

In response to his aggression, Monk Bones moves to intercept, only to be stopped by the combined efforts of Vyakhya and the imposing willowy woman. There are no physical blows exchanged, but an invisible, metaphysical power struggle ensues as figurative sparks crackle in the air between them, leaving Monk Bones with no option but to hold his ground and defend himself. The other four monks are too slow to keep up with the Divinities, or perhaps they are unwilling to leave the fourth Enemy Divinity unchecked, because while he has yet to even look in my direction, the Western Warrior’s mere presence demands respect and vigilance.

Which leaves me standing behind Lin-Lin while an angry, behemoth of a Defiled Ancestral Mammoth charges towards us.

Or is he just a hairy Ancestral Elephant? What’s the difference between a mammoth and an elephant? Who knows. Now is not the time dude. Go protect your sweet, silly, amazing wifey.

Springing to action mere milliseconds after the Ancestral Mammoth, I fear I am already too late. His thick, massive arm is already past Lin-Lin’s head and before my eyes, too close for Tranquility to intercept while his body is too far for Unity to reach in time, even though I’m moving faster than I’ve ever moved before. That’s how long this big bastard’s arms are, to the point where his bare-handed reach is almost longer than my glaive, which is kinda ridiculous and not at all fair. Then again, even if I were able to hit him, I doubt my attacks would give him much pause, but that’s never stopped me from trying before. Since I can’t stop him from grabbing me, I give up on defence and focus wholly on the offensive, wanting, nay needing to land at least one good hit and make him bleed to keep his attention away from Lin-Lin.

The thought consumes me as my Will breathes new life into my actions, Insight guided by Visualization and Intent. A surge of Chi courses through my body at a moment’s notice, more alive and responsive than it has ever felt before, cloaking me in a shroud of Reinforcement to augment my strength from within and without. The former feels as natural as breathing, while the latter is new and exciting, yet not so out of place as to feel strange or unexpected, like wearing snug but comfortable clothes with a unique, cozy texture I’ve never felt before. With all my newfangled power, I execute Deer Pierces the Horizon, a Movement so familiar I could perform it in my sleep, but that is not all I have planned for my foe. From curling the tips of toes to the final push of my forearm, every micro-movement along the way is Amplified with little more than a thought, boosting my power even further. At the same time, a mono-molecular filament of Chi materializes around the blade of my polearm, whirling about the edge at speeds I can barely even comprehend, a metaphysical chainsaw that can cut through anything in existence. Then, as my thrust connects, I Amplify the impact and discharge a substantial serving of Reverberation alongside it, one that should pierce through whatever external protections the Mammoth Divinity has in place and shake him to his core.

All of this is only possible because I Refined my body into a Spiritual Heart, which afforded me a degree of control over Chi which I’ve never experienced before. There is barely any need for focus or effort as my Chi works with my body to fulfill my heart’s desire, allowing me to deliver a blow unlike anything I’ve ever done before, one so powerful not even Dad or Grandma could afford to take this strike head on. As for the Mammoth Divinity however, he merely grunts as Unity ineffectively glances off his chest and slips past his shoulder, unable to move even a single hair on his bared chest much less find purchase in skin or flesh, the impact gliding off his Domain like skates over ice. Barely noticing my most powerful attack ever, the Ancestral Beast’s arm forges ever forwards, covering my field of view and engulfing my head in the palm of his outstretched hand.

Or I should say almost engulfing, if not for a pristine, snowy-white bolt of silk holding him back.

As my eyes trace the familiar article of cloth back to its source, my mind fills in the previously overlooked details, all of which took place during the single moment of distraction while I was lamenting about how unfair this was. Looking oh so darling with her cheeks puffed and eyes narrowed, my sweet wifey Lin-Lin sprang into action before the Ancestral Mammoth even stirred. Flicking her ever-present scarf into the Divinity’s path of attack, she allowed the cloth some slack so it would get caught in her foe’s palm, only to wrap her scarf around his hand like a secured noose. Doing this as easily as turning her hand, Lin-Lin proceeded to then run in the opposite direction as if to match her dainty mass against the Ancestral Mammoth’s ponderous bulk, a hopeless confrontation if I’d ever seen one. However, rather than pulling her scarf taut to contest her opponent’s strength head on, my darling wifey stopped short, lifted one slim, delicate leg high in the air and arched her spine until she was bent backwards with her stomach facing the sky. Then, without missing a single beat, Lin-Lin twirled her body horizontally in place with inexplicable speed and grace while simultaneously pulling downwards with all her might, her movements so nimble and swift one might think she practised them day in and day out to achieve such natural mastery of push and pull forces. Despite all her efforts, her raw strength was no match for her formidable foe, and she knew it from the start, so instead, she set out not to hold his arm back, but to redirect his aim so that his grab would miss.

And miss it did, Ancestral Mammoth’s arm diverted aside much to his surprise, and his beady, black eyes widen beneath his rugged, protruding brow as he examines my sweet wifey for the first time. “Stupid stinky tuskface,” Lin-Lin shouts with a scowl, her neat and tidy braids still perfectly coiffed around her lovely little head, a dainty crown of hair for the regal princess of my heart. “I said you can’t have him. Rainy’s mine, understand?”

Close as the Ancestral Mammoth is, I can tell he doesn’t understand her words, nor does he seem to care. I can also see the thoughts flitting through his mind, and watch as his confusion turns to greed and he switches targets to capture my beloved Lin-Lin, with a look in his eyes which ignites my fury.

This fucking, big-eared, long-toothed bastard. Who does he think he is, lusting after my sweet, innocent wifey?

Fuelled by righteous anger and jealous wrath, I lift my right foot and slam it down into the mammoth bastard’s knee, unleashing a Mountain Collapsing Stomp like nothing I’ve ever unleashed before. Before, Amplifying the Resonating waves to build them up into a single, powerful strike felt like trying to work a battering ram by myself, not impossible, just difficult, exhausting, and time consuming to accomplish. I needed to start small with barely noticeable movements and slowly build it up into something substantial without ever losing control, but now, all that has changed. If I had to give it words, I would say it feels like there’s no resistance to slow down my efforts, as if friction and inertia no longer applies, allowing my Mountain Collapsing Stomp to go from zero to sixty in a split second after hitting the right notes, like nailing a hundred button presses timed to a complex melody in the space of a heartbeat.

As my bare foot makes contact with the side of the Ancestral Mammoth’s knee, it feels a lot like what I imagine kicking a solid, unanchored mountain of indestructible steel, but I succeed in shifting his knee a few millimetres which means the pain is nothing compared to the satisfaction of having made a Divinity falter in his steps. Enraged by my impudence, he bellows in a guttural tongue and turns about to unleash what appears to be a casual backhand, one powerful enough to kill with a touch. Taking a cue from my darling, beloved wifey, I raise Tranquility not to block the attack, but Deflect and direct it away from my vital organs. The resulting impact sends a jarring jolt up my arm and down my spine despite having avoided the brunt of the blow behind it, and I quickly sidestep to move behind my foe in case he decides to really follow through. If he tries, he’d have to twist about in place, and while I wouldn’t say it’d be difficult for him to do so, at least it would mean his attention is no longer on Lin-Lin.

For a little while at least. I can’t imagine it would take the Ancestral Mammoth long to kill me, but hopefully I can buy enough time for my sweet wifey’s guard to get her away from this death trap.

