There’s no such luck however, as the Ancestral Mammoth turns to face me and rears back to deliver a powerful head-butt, one that will undoubtedly smash my skull open like a rotten egg. Darkness fills my vision and for a brief moment, I wonder if death has finally come to claim me, until I realize I’m looking at someone’s back, someone who wears all black everything and is standing much closer than I am usually comfortable with. In this particular case, I am willing to let it slide, seeing how Guard Leader just placed herself between me and the Mammoth Divinity, and I offer a small prayer to the saintly woman who I didn’t think even liked me. A sad fate, to be pulped by an Ancestral Mammoth, and I would have much preferred if Guard Leader had instead taken Lin-Lin and run away, but the woman was never the sharpest tool in the shed, even if her loyalty and bravery are unmatched. My eyes widen in horror even as I take in what might well be her last moments, and to my astonishment, Guard Leader doesn’t balk or shy away, nor does she take this time to prepare her defences against her foe’s full-body headbutt. Instead, the veiled woman sways back and rockets forward in a preposterous move to match the Ancestral Mammoth’s headbutt with one of her own, and my stomach turns at the mere thought of the inevitably gruesome sight.

One which never comes to pass as Guard Leader’s veiled forehead connects with the Ancestral Mammoth’s, and to my great surprise, it is the latter who is found wanting.

Disappearing before my eyes, I spot the Ancestral Mammoth after following the sounds of a tumultuous crash back to the far end of the underground bunker, his sizable bulk embedded into the thick stone wall, one now covered in a web of crumbling fractures. Huffing as he pulls himself free, the formidable beast bellows in challenge as he stumbles about on two, unsteady feet, dazed by the direct clash while Guard Leader seems none the worse for wear. Unwilling to move out from behind her slim but dependable back, I cautiously lean to one side to make sure she’s not actually unconscious on her feet, only to have my breath stolen away by the sight of her dislodged veil listlessly fluttering down to the ground, revealing a gorgeous face with a petite, dainty nose, full, rounded cheeks, and a honeyed complexion complete with deliciously plump lips pursed in a frown.

“Insolent brute,” the beauty utters, and her glare sets my stomach aflutter even as our foes ready to meet her in battle. “You dare have designs on my daughter?”

Before she finishes speaking, my eyes have already moved to the top of her head, but rather than two stiff black hare ears sticking up from the top, Guard Leader’s snowy rabbit ears are long and droopy, with one falling to each side like twin locks of ivory white hair. Add in the twin nubby horns protruding from her forehead and the pieces fall into place, my heart soaring as I gaze upon what might well be Mama Bun’s future, an Ancestral Bicorn Bunny who is just oh so adorably beautiful. Quickly revising my estimation of the power levels on each side, my spirits surge as I’m overcome with an uncharacteristic bout of confidence and optimism. Two Divinities against four are still not the best odds, but things are looking half as dire as they were a few seconds ago, especially judging by the reactions of the other Divinities. The Defiled woman is still unreadable, and Vyakhya seems far too in control for my liking when presented with this unexpected development, but one thing that catches my eye is how the Ancestral Mammoth reacts, stomping his feet and smashing the wall with his fists in a fury, but never actually advancing upon Guard Leader. Though his actions make him appear furious and ready to fight, I recognize the bluff for what it is and realize he does not, in fact, want to trade blows with Guard Leader again, for he came out on the losing end once already and knows he is not her match. Even the proud and aloof Western Divinity can no longer hold his head high, and instead is now fixated intently upon Guard Leader’s actions, his fingers cracking as he slowly curls his hands into fists. That is not the gaze of a lecher beguiled by Guard Leader’s beauty, but rather one of a Warrior facing a worthy challenge, one he is unsure of overcoming with ease.

I wonder how long it’ll take Mama Bun to become this strong...

Hang on. Daughter? Doesn’t that mean she’s my Mother-in-Law? I knew she had something going on with Taduk, but who knew my teacher had it in him to bag himself a super sexy hottie waifu.

...

I probably shouldn’t say that about my teacher’s wife, but seeing how I’m already uncomfortably attracted to one Mother-in-Law, what’s the harm in adding another?

“Daring indeed.” Appearing at Guard Leader’s side with sweet Lin-Lin behind his back, my goofy teacher makes his presence known with his customary lack of awareness. If he could make his way here with Lin-Lin, then he could have brought her away instead, but alas, he’s too soft-hearted to ever leave me behind. Taking his eyes off the dangerous Defiled Divinities before him, Taduk offers me a warm smile and comforting pat on the head before adding, “Doubly so, for trying to take my student and future son-in-law at the same time.”

“Hi hubby,” Lin-Lin sheepishly greets me with a quick hug, her cherubic smile wavering with uncertainty as if unsure how I will respond. “You’re back, ya?”

Leave it to my wifey to be the first to notice, though I think Taduk saw through it as well. “Hi wifey,” I reply, wrapping my arms around her dainty little frame and marvelling at how brilliant she really is. I’m not jealous, or at least not too jealous, because my sweet wifey’s talents were never in doubt. It just so happens she shines much brighter than I thought possible, so it’s not her fault her accomplishments make me feel insignificant and inferior in comparison.

Tippity tapping around my feet, Ping Ping squeaks up a storm as if she understands what’s being said, voicing a warning to her foes while craning her neck to peer at my expression instead of keeping an eye on the danger at hand. Why Taduk brought her here along with him, I’m not entirely sure, because there is no way she is a match for a tried and true Divinity, not with how sheltered and gullible she is. At best, she might be able to distract one of them for a bit, but I don’t see her going toe to toe with an Ancestral Beast any time soon. A wave of nervous reassurance courses through me, and it takes me a moment to realize that those emotions didn’t stem from me, but rather from a friend nestled just out of sight atop my head. There, hiding in my tangled locks of unbrushed hair, sits good old reliable Pong Pong, terrified of the situation unfolding before him yet unwilling to abandon me just like my teacher and wifey.

Like I said, I have a great life here, and I doubt my next life could be any better.

“You!” The forgotten giant of a human reminds me of his presence by rudely pointing at my teacher, and I regard the sole non-Divinity foe inside the room with curiosity. No, hang on, that’s not true anymore, as there are at least a dozen presences hiding in the shadows, both in and outside of this room, as well as many more just standing in the first room down the hall. How I know all this, I can’t really say, but I can feel them lurking about just out of vision, as if I had an extra sense I can’t quite quantify, and while they are far less threatening than a Divinity, they still feel dangerous enough to be wary of.

Still unable to quite place where I’ve seen this bald, herculean figure before, I glower at him as he continues to point at my respected teacher. “What Medical Saint?” he asks, sneering to hide his trepidation. “You’re clearly the Territory Lord who chased me away from the Northern Wall!”

Shrugging with his customary careless ease, Taduk buffs his nails with obvious disdain and says, “I never claimed to be a Territory Lord. Your stench simply offended me, so I told you to leave, lest I grow tempted to break the treaty to kill a mortal who offended me.”

...Mortal? Territory Lord?

“Teacher,” I ask, my eyes wide with disbelief. “Are you a Divinity?”

Caught off guard by the question, Taduk sheepishly scratches his nose, struggling with so much dread and anxiety before he finds the courage to answer. “Yes, Rain my boy,” he admits, and it breaks my heart to see how much shame and contrition he bears. “I’m sorry I hid this from you, but I hide my true self from everyone, as people tend to treat me differently when they learn how powerful I am.”

“You have nothing to apologize for,” I whisper, resisting the urge to hug him lest our enemies take advantage of distraction. “I don’t care what secrets you keep, because you are still the same person regardless.” I feel kinda stupid for not seeing this sooner, but this doesn’t change anything about our relationship. He’s still my kind, lovable Taddy, so I extend a wisp of Loving Aura to make sure he understands it, and it’s both sad and gratifying to see him smile with obvious relief. I know what it’s like to keep a huge secret from the people you love, and it is not a pleasant experience, I’ll tell you that. Who actually knows about him would be my next question, because I somehow doubt Mom and Dad would be so cavalier when speaking to and about Taduk if they knew he was a Divinity.

Which I suppose was the whole reason he kept this particular detail to himself. Taduk wanted to have friends and confidants, not toadies and bootlicks.

“Hmph.” Sounding mighty smug for a guy retreating to the sidelines, Vyakhya gestures at the Ancestral Mammoth beside him while glowering at my teacher from across the room. “So, the Medical Saint is in fact a Divinity, and the Territory Lord of the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains his wife.”

“She’s not my wife.”

“My husband is speaking nonsense. Ignore him.”

The denial and cover up arrive simultaneously, as if the two of them have practised it many a time before. Though clearly put off by their curious response, Vyakhya powers through without question. “Regardless, it would appear we are now outnumbered, but how will you fare in battle while burdened by the mortal behind you? What’s more, you lot are trapped and without options, so out of respect for this monk’s Junior Brother, I will extend you the same courtesy I offered him. We are here for Falling Rain and him alone. We have no interest in anyone else, nor are we so willing to see the Treaty undone. Hand the boy over now, and we will depart in peace. Refuse, and you force this monk’s hand.”

Luckily, Vyakhya’s calculations are off and the sides are more skewed than he knows, because Ping Ping is not the only Turtle Divinity around. Pong Pong is here too, and he is far more formidable than she. By my count, that makes it five against four, with the ball in our court if things should devolve into violence, something neither side seems ready to embrace without reservations. Knowing my teacher is never gonna give me up, I stand tall and take control of the narrative before Taduk does something silly and tries to fight it out anyways. He might be strong, but he’s still the same person he was yesterday, one who cannot bring himself to harm a fly, much less a wily rodent whose taken to raiding his precious Spiritual garden. Somehow, I don’t see him flying off the handle to kill a Divinity, assuming he’s even powerful enough to do so, which means it’s best if we kept matters from escalating too far out of control. Still, even though I’m trying to moderate the situation, I can’t help but take the opportunity before me. “None of you seem to understand,” I growl, my voice deep and raspy. “I’m not locked in here with you.” Baring my teeth, I unleash an Aura of threat and menace while uttering, “You’re all locked in here with me!”

In the ensuing awkward silence following my poorly imitated portrayal of a meme I barely remember, I realize I’d seem more threatening if the Ancestral Mammoth hadn’t shrugged off two of my best hits without even trying. Maybe if I melted his face or something, then my statement would have more impact, but instead, everyone present is looking at me like I’m some sort of special, including my sweet wifey, supportive teacher, future Mother-in-Law, and the various monks on my side. At least Ping Ping and Pong Pong will never judge me, which is why I generally prefer the company of animals over people, but that’s nothing new. Inwardly sighing while presenting a confident facade, I mentally evaluate the strength of both sides sans Divinities and come up woefully short, mostly because of the bald body-builder standing by Vyakhya. The Wraiths and Chosen shuffling about outside aren’t really a huge concern, as I’m pretty sure me and the four guardian monks can handle anyone short of a Colonel General, but burly baldy seems more dangerous than everyone else combined.

Still, there’s nothing I can do but try, so I might as well give it my best shot.

“Since no one here wants this minor conflict to turn into a battle of Divinities, why don’t both sides take a step back?” Gesturing at the gathered powerhouses, I suggest, “How about we have all the Divinities leave together, and let us mere mortals deal with the rest?”

