Vyakhya’s smarmy smile makes my skin crawl with loathing and revulsion, but I keep it to myself as he silently nods in agreement. “Good, good,” he intones, and my contempt grows that much stronger, as I can see how similar he is to the Abbot, right down to the movements and speech patterns. “This monk was just about to suggest the same. In fact, we will retreat first, as a show of good faith, though surely you will not protest if we linger nearby to ensure fairness? After all, trust only goes so far in matters of this magnitude, and it would be best for all if we removed any temptation to skirt around the rules, as I suspect your protectors are wont to do.”

What is he even talking about? And why does Taduk have that look like when Lin-Lin catches him stealing her sweets? Much as I would like to question my teacher here and now, there are more pressing matters at hand, like figuring out why Vyakhya is so confident of success. Eyeing the four guardian monks who will likely stay behind, I try to catch their attention using subtle, non-verbal clues, only to attract everyone’s attention once again. I wish I knew how to Send, because that would make things so much easier. If only it was like radio, I could just transmit a message over the airwaves and -

Hang on. It can’t be that easy, can it?

Visualizing my message as if watching it play through sound equalizer software, I capture the acoustic wave I intend to pass along and deliver it through Reverberating Domain to the closest monk’s ear. “What do you make of our chances? I’m fairly certain I can kill the Wraiths lurking about before they can react, and the Chosen outside shouldn’t be too much of a problem, but I can’t get a read on the bald guy.”

My efforts are rewarded with a look of surprise as the monk in question responds, “Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo. Brother Rain is full of surprises, and this monk is pleased to discover this, but be wary of excessive pride, Junior Brother. The Enemy would not so easily withdraw if not for some scheme in mind, and you have failed to account for Rakshasa, who himself is no small threat.” Seeing my confusion, the monk adds, “The Spiritual Tiger, one tamed by the apostate Wisdom himself and is currently Concealed within this abode. If not for the formidable beast’s presence, it would be a simple affair for Kukku to consign all our foes to their slumber, but Rakshasa has long since learned to counter the rooster’s song of sleep, alongside various other forms of mental and spiritual attacks. The Abbot has made mention of your advancements in Aura, but it will not serve you here, not with Rakshasa to guard against it.”

...Shit. I was kinda counting on Aura to deal with the small fries. That’s how I drove off the Wraith ambush after all, but now I am no longer so confident about our chances. Still, I’ve already stepped foot into the proverbial tiger’s den, so I have no choice but to man up and face the music.

After some back and forth with Monk Bones, whose Dharmic name is Dama which means ‘Self Restraint’, the various Divinities finally come to an agreement. The Western Imperial and mysterious Woman leave the cave first, then Guard Leader and Monk Bones go next. The Mammoth and Vyakhya head out next, but the former Wisdom stops to exchange a few words with the bald giant who is busy limbering up with his giant greatsword. “Remember what I told you,” Vyakhya says, his tone quiet and conspiratorial to hold more meaning than the obvious. “Do not fail.”

How encouraging, but the bald giant merely bows with respect. “By your command teacher. Your student will return soon enough with the runt in hand.”

Runt? Is that what they call me? How rude. I am perfectly average height for a regular person. It’s not my fault every Martial Warrior in the Empire is supersized. Dammit, why didn’t I take the opportunity to bulk up while Refining my Spiritual Heart? Even as I give voice to the mental complaint, the answer comes readily to mind, though I’m unsure if it’s due to Insight or just general logic. I didn’t bulk up because this is the form I am most familiar with, and adding extra height, reach, or weight would take time to get used to, not to mention the fact that I was lacking the necessary nutrients and Heavenly Energy reserves to achieve such a change. I used up almost everything I had to Refine my Spiritual Heart, and if I’d tried to make any further adjustments, I’d have been stuck doing them manually instead of letting auto-pilot take over, which is why animals bulk up first, then Refine a Spiritual Heart, instead of skipping that first step like I did. Honestly, with my luck, if I’d tried to do more, I’d have screwed up somewhere and ballooned into a giant mass of tumours, which no one wants to see happen. I might’ve been able to pull it off if I did some in-depth studying of the human physique, but there are just so many ways things could go wrong. Nah, if I want to bulk up, it’d be so much easier to do it naturally, though I have no idea how to naturally increase my height.

Still though. Runt? C’mon now. That’s just hurtful. “Don’t worry about disappointing your traitorous teacher, baldy.” Matching his gaze, I refrain from radiating Aura and hope my natural presence is intimidating enough. “I’ll make sure you won’t live to suffer the consequences.”

“Long have I yearned for this day,” the baldy responds, his eyes burning with a familiar fanatical light, one I’ve seen in many a devoted Aspirant, including poor, pitiful BoLao. “The Medical Saint saved you at the Northern Wall, but now, your time of reckoning has come, puppet. Your masters cannot save you now, not here so far beyond their reach.”

...Uh, what? “That’s the second time you mentioned the Northern Wall, but I’m drawing a complete blank.” Scratching my head with a shrug, there’s no need for me to feign confusion as I genuinely have no idea who he is, I ask, “Who are you again? Are you someone from the Society? Did I kill one of your juniors or something?”

Baldy’s fury is amusing to behold, or it would be if he wasn’t so goddamned intimidating, so ripped even his muscles have muscles. “You dare mock me?” he asks, feeding me a direct line I am unable to resist.

“YoU dAre MoCK mE?” Parroting his words back to him in a sarcastic tone to show I do, in fact, dare, I add, “Seriously, have no idea who you are. I mean, you look sorta familiar, but I have a lot of enemies, so a little reminder would be helpful.”

To my surprise, the angry baldy seems to understand my confusion and clears his throat to hide his awkward shame. “Of course, of course, I have changed much in recent years, so it is only natural that you do not recognize this one.” Drawing himself up to his full, considerable height, the baldy pats his chest and Sends, “You will have the honour of dying by this one’s hands, so it is only right you die knowing the name of the man who killed you. Tremble and despair, runt, for I, Goujian will be the one to take your life, but know that your end will be quick and merciful, unlike the death you so handily deserve.”

The Confessor. No wonder he looks so familiar. “Oh,” I remark, doing my best to hide my trepidation, as I remember how fearsome and inhuman he was the last time I saw him in the Northern Citadel. It took the efforts of four Peak Experts to subdue him, and while I’ve progressed by leaps and bounds since then, without being able to freely abuse my Aura schenanigans, I’m not entirely sure I can win in a straight up fight against him. I suppose I could kill the tiger first, but I have yet to even lay eyes on the beast, and I can’t really bring myself to murder him out of hand. I mean, he might be a murderous floof, but he’s still a floof, and I would love to have a tiger for a pet. “So you’re the one who led BoLao astray.” Drawing courage from my anger, I narrow my eyes at the Bloody Confessor, a crazed maniac who put Mother knows how many innocents through a slow and torturous death, all for the sake of proving the existence of Defiled taint. “You also killed Twinned Dragon Jukai, my good friend’s Mentor, on top of your countless crimes against humanity. While the Empire might have justified your actions, know that the Heavens will never condone them, and with your death, I will lay to rest the multitude of aggrieved souls still haunting you.”

The words are no idle embellishment, for I can see the heavy cloak of resentment hanging from his shoulders, one woven by the Spectres of innocents he maimed and tortured in the name of foul justice. He feels it too, the weight of his sins dragging behind his feet, kept there by his inability to accept the errors of his ways. Though his mind appears firm and resolute, the madness in his eyes shines true, for this is a man deep in the throes of denial with no choice but to continue forward without ever looking back, because if he were to ever turn his gaze back to the sins of his past, he would not be able to stomach his guilt.

And he knows it, or at least part of him does, and he has nothing to respond with as Taduk leads a reluctant Ping Ping away, alongside Lin-Lin whose presence will hopefully escape the Enemy’s notice. Then again, given the prowess she displayed by Deflecting the Ancestral Mammoth’s attack, maybe Vyakhya will turn a blind eye to her escape and chalk it up as a win, since my sweet wifey is apparently a formidable force to be reckoned with. Thankfully, Goujian doesn’t even bat an eye as my wifey leaves, nor does anyone say anything about Pong Pong still hiding in my hair, and I stifle a sigh of relief as things are finally starting to go my way. It’d be best if we could win this fight without relying on Pong Pong, but I’ll take all the help I can get if things get sticky. I’m just glad the little guy is so adept at hiding, to the point where so many Divinities didn’t even notice his presence.

...Hang on. If Vyakhya was counting Ping Ping as a Divinity and didn’t notice Pong Pong, that only makes it four friendlies against four Defiled. Why did he say he was outnumbered then?

...

Wait. If Guard Leader is her mother...

...

Can rabbits and hares interbreed?

...

Holy shit. Is my sweet wifey a natural-born Ancestral Beast?

I have a lot of questions which need answering, but maybe I should focus on this minor matter of life and death first...

Chapter Meme
