Wounded but undefeated, Jianghong staggers forward, somehow staying on his feet as he’s carried along by the crowd, his tenacity and determination beyond compare. Narrowly escaping death with a twist of his head, the ruins of his left cheek turn my stomach, flesh, bone, and teeth torn away by the impact. His focus returns in less than a heartbeat, a repulsive half-snarl etched across his ravaged face as he slips back into the Defiled lines, retreating to lick his wounds.

Dammit. So close.

The world erupts into a cacophony of noise and the stench of death as Mafu crashes into the enemy, taking down three Defiled with sheer mass before coming to a halt. Reeling from the whiplash, there’s no more time to think as I hack and slash at the converging Defiled, wholly unconcerned by their dead comrades. Peace chops through helm and skull as Tranquility blocks a blow aimed at Mafu’s neck. My sweet, chubby mount chomps and tears through the Defiled line, clearing the way as he moves deeper into the press. In another deafening explosion of noise, our infantry piles into battle with a crunch of bone and metal, catching up to the speedy quins after what feels like forever, though it couldn’t have been more than a handful of seconds.

Like a whirlwind of death, Tursinai cleaves through the Defiled with her arm raised and chain sweeping away all before her, merely collateral damage in her hunt for the wounded Jianghong. Leading my Sentinels to follow in her wake, we open a massive hole in the centre, allowing the defenders of Sanshu to stream in and cut off the entire left flank of Defiled. It’s not always about sheer numbers, positioning in key. If you ever find yourself surrounded on three sides with your backs against the wall, then you’re gonna have a bad time. A quick glimpse back shows XinYue’s troops making short work of the isolated traitors, killing them beneath a storm of attacks from all directions.

My momentary distraction earns me yet another close brush with death, only blessed luck saving my skin as I Deflect the oncoming spear downwards, dispatching its wielder with Tranquility. Cursing my lack of helmet, I add it to the list while hacking away. Padded Runic helm with comfy straps. Padded, Runic, full-plate armour including crotch guard. Giant Runic Mech with weapons of mass destruction.

Tursinai pivots to the right and I lead my Sentinels close behind, following our bubbly, enthusiastic vanguard as she slaughters more Defiled than the rest of us combined, her chain reaping lives like wheat before the scythe. No longer holding back, Tursinai sits untouched atop her quin, her eyes showing a hint of madness as she tracks her quarry. With a rare moment to breathe, I pick out the Aura of a Defiled Champion on my right, locked in combat with Yimu, our commander’s face red with exertion. Unable to find the strength to replicate my Beyblade Aura, I draw on my dwindling Chi reserves and pierce through the Champion’s Aura with a single, tiny thrust, the damage healing instantly, but the momentary panic is enough to swing the duel in favour of Yimu. His saber smashes through the Champion’s guard and removes head from neck, ending the fierce struggle. Bolstered by their commander’s victory, Yimu’s soldiers renew the efforts and lay into the beleaguered Defiled, their blood lust fading as their numbers drop.

Blobby urges me to move and I respond without thinking, signalling Mafu to lunge next to Tursinai. Likely warned by Tenjin, Tursinai’s chain veers up and whips past my head, but there’s no time for regret as Bei appears inches to my left, her jaw unhinged as she lunges at Tursinai, though I now stand in the way. A blinding flash and rush of heat explodes to my right but I’ve no time to waste as I smash Tranquility into Bei’s fangs and thrust Peace deep into her chest.

The impact rocks Mafu to the side, his furry form tumbling away while Bei reels back, tearing my feet from the harness. With Tranquility clamped between her jaws and Peace jutting from her chest, ichor sprays from her grievous wounds coating my torso and dissolving armour and skin in the blink of an eye. The pain fades almost instantly, unable to even feel the pulsing fluid washing across my body. Horror wells from within as I gaze upon exposed flesh, oddly calm as I note it's eaten through my nerves. Though Blobby devours the ichor’s energy with greed, there’s only a single droplet of water working its way across my body, unable to cope with the gushing torrent of corrosive fluid fast enough to save me.

Dammit Blobby, and I had such high hopes for you. This is on me, I shouldn't trust quasi-sentient beings. My bad.

The chaotic battle around me fades away as I stare into the Demon’s face. Her translucent pink skin is both alluring and alarming, as if made from melted pink diamonds, yet hinting at writhing, fluid flesh beneath. For the first time, I notice Bei’s face, her real face, projected just under the Demon’s skin. Not a head, only her skin, stretched out in a grotesque mockery of her former beauty, her eyes wide with terror and mouth moving, speaking without sound. It only takes a few repetitions to parse her message, a single, short sentence, repeated over and over again.

‘I’m so sorry.’

The Demon falls to its knees and I fall with it, lacking the strength to stand. Bei’s eyes will haunt me for the rest of my life, however short it may be, trapped within her mind while the Spectres puppet her body, still tormenting her even after her surrender. The cool stone presses against my cheek, but the sensation is lost as the Demon’s ichor pools around my face. Even then, I’m unable to tear my eyes away from hers, wishing I could help. Death will not free her and she knows it, terrified of the eternal torment and misery to come.

The world goes dark around me, but I still see Bei’s unblinking eyes, pleading for aid. Channelling the last of my Chi, instead of healing my grievous injuries and keeping myself alive, I send it down my arm and into Peace, desperately searching for a way to free her from the Spectres.

What else can I do? I’m a sucker for a pretty face.

Chapter Meme
