I try to drop a second one on its head, but my eyes widen with shock as the spell refuses to come out. I ran out of mana. Hastily, I summon a construct to absorb to replenish my reserves, but it’s not fast enough. I can only watch helplessly as the bird raises its head, and, far too fast for a creature its size, brings its beak down directly on the others.

As much as I trust B’s defensive Skills, I have just experienced firsthand just how ridiculously high the bird’s stats are. To be able to tank my supercharged Spatial Slice and not even lose a wing means its Resilience is probably well over 50,000, and if its Power is anywhere close…

More than twenty layers of shields appear between the bird’s beak, and my heart feels like it stops as in an instant, all are shattered. The bird’s head slows, but not by enough as its beak continues forward, shattering the dome before reaching Chad. Chad pours what looks like his entire mana pool into his shield, reinforcing it, but the beak continues through and into his armor. And only once it reaches halfway through Chad’s body does it finally stop.

Chad slides back, his feet carving deep grooves into the ground as he screams with effort, but he stops just in front of A, barely holding the eagle back. As soon as the eagle retracts its beak, he collapses to the ground, blood pouring from his chest, and though he successfully blocked the attack, the eagle is unharmed, and winds up for a second peck.

B erects a new dome to protect the three from the elements, and starts conjuring smaller shields by the dozen, but even I know it’s futile. I just barely manage to recover my mana and summon two more Charged Spatial Slices, but as the black arcs fly toward it, I know they won’t be enough to stop it. Then, something surprising happens: Lauren appears.

Leaping from the eagle’s own shadow like a dolphin out of water, she brings a white-hot knife across its unprotected leg, cutting clean through with a single, swift motion.

The eagle lurches to the left, its cauterized stump digging into the dirt below. It tries to continue its pecking attack, but it’s so large that falling to the side brought it far enough off-target it doesn’t even clip the dome shield. At the same time, my Charged Spatial Slices dig into its back, cutting long bloody lines. It struggles back to an upright position, but it’s slow and unsteady, and Food Sense detects a small waterfall of blood falling from its beak, likely the effect of the poison. It’s heavily wounded, and its wounds aren’t healing like they should be, probably also thanks to the poison.

Still, it’s plenty dangerous, and though its eyes are unfocused, it winds up for another peck. At that moment, A finally makes her own move. Throughout the entire battle thus far, from the moment we stepped onto the island, she has been preparing, and now, her entire mana pool is concentrated into a single point directly in front of her, glowing like a miniature sun.

She grins wildly as she looks up at the eagle, now risen to the apex of its wind-up, and faster than I can blink, her attack goes off. The mana concentrated in front of her fires outward so quickly that I can’t even sense it before it’s already reached from her hand into the sky, boring a hole straight through the eagle’s chin and out the back of its head.

I have another pair of Charged Spatial Slices already on the way into its back, but before they even hit, the notification arrives.

[ You have slain Algon, the Storm, Tier 4, lvl 10 ]
