 him with a blink."Soon, I guess. They seem persistent," she said and presumed Billy was just eager to try his new form-"You want to eat their souls, don't you?" she asked bluntly. Billy smiled like a child caught with a snack he shouldn't have."Never, but if one of them accidentally falls down stairs, chokes on food, suffocates underwater, in their sleep, on thin air, and other normal events, I could try it to see what happens," Billy said smoothly."That sounds like murder with extra deniable steps," Delta said flatly."It's not murder. It's trimming the genepool," Billy argued."Don't get sassy with me, young man!" Delta warned, and Billy grinned, ducking into the shadows to wander off."Teenagers," Fera scoffed with a roll of her eyes. "Only one thing on their minds," she said as she retreated behind the bar to mix a drink."Sticking things into people?" Delta said with a sigh."To do as much as possible with as little effort as possible," Fera stated with absolute confidence."I can do better than that! 5000 squats, here I go!" Numb proclaimed and began to lower, then lift his body. Fera eyed him."He's going places, mostly into walls," she said gruffly and grabbed bottles. Delta noticed she had a lot more liqueurs now. Delta read a few of them, wincing at some and grinning at others.A black bottle with a silver claw on the cap was labeled 'Death Star Shot' with an image of an exploding star. It promised to 'kill you, then make you drunk.'Another contained a thick green spirit that was almost creamy. It was called 'Jellagon's Boozygone.' The label under it said that it was the only 90% alcohol that would not give you hangover but warned of sudden new employment upon awakening. There was a thick grimy bottle called 'Jeb's Feelgood.' A drink brewed from Troll Soup that had been filtered a dozen times over and then mixed with mint.It had a catchy jingle on the front.'Jeb's Feelgood! So good, you won't feel it in a few moments!'There was a new line of drinks forming, but only five of the wine bottles were in place, leaving seven empty slots. It wasn't hard to see the source.'Lion's Courage: Courage promised, wisdom is not.''Gem In the Eye: See double, good for food, bad for problems.''Coconut Crab: Tastes good and is not alcoholic. Crab supports you not drinking.''Read Bull: You're not drunk! You can read this, after all!'Horn Juice: Makes anyone interesting after enough sips.'Delta noticed that the shelf had a strange pipe system where tubes would connect to all potential twelve wine bottles and then mix them together in a container to drip into a single, final bottle. The bottle was there, and it was even labeled, even if it was empty.'Shooting Star: Only for those who have beaten the Fourth Floor. This drink is strong enough to grant minor wishes. Limited in supply.'Fera put a drink down, and Delta had been too distracted to see what she mixed."What is it?" she asked curiously, as it was a teal blue color and smelled of something sweet."'Duck Hunt,'" Fera said with a feral grin. Delta took a sip, and the tart flavor was almost hot at first, followed by a cutting cool aftertaste like a knife through the flames. She peeked at the system for the tooltip for this drink.Duck Hunt: This drink either makes you very lucky or very unlucky. You also have a chance to turn all rewards into knife versions of themselves until you leave!"I've also got this to sort out," Fera said as she slammed a sealed metal box onto the bar top labeled 'herbs from the secret garden.' Delta leaned away from it on instinct."Maybe don't open that?" Delta suggested. Fera shot her a look."The evils of humanity are already here, and hope fled a long time ago," she grumbled as she used a crowbar to pry the box open to reveal a dozen jars and species for Fera to cook with and turn into drinks.Most of them would either kill someone or make them a minor god, Delta guessed.Fera picked up a golden mushroom and grinned."Hero Burger," she rasped, and Delta shivered as something in her soul feared for the people who ordered it.Something in her just knew that the burger would not be so easily defeated by someone with only average guts.
