“You know I'm right, Chandler. You know this is wrong, you know it's all pointless. You know that Daughter is more like a rabid animal than an actual god. You don't need her; frankly, death might be a mercy for her.” Shiv filled his voice with power. Every word he spoke was like a pressure bomb going off in the air. The kneeling Gilman was blasted back into Harlock’s roiling darkness. The onslaught continued. Bits of Shiv were chipped away. More of him turned to ash, burned by the cognitive cost of sustaining an active defense. A black spear erupted from his chest and vanished before he could grab it.

“The will of the Ascendants is beyond you, Deathless,” the Councilwoman responded. “They are not yours to judge, and their fates are not yours to decide. The same cannot be said the other way around. You made a mistake coming here. Powerful and resilient as you are, you have done nothing but return yourself to our hands.”

Shiv tried to reply, but an invisible slash took his head off. He responded by creating a vertical mouth down his torso and continuing the conversation anyway. “No, I'm just here to have a conversation. When I'm done with this conversation, I'm gonna kill myself and leave. And I really don't think there's much you can do to stop me.”

Eldritch Physiology 65 > 68

Veronica let out a scoff. “I fear you need to improve your Memorization skill. We don't need to whittle down your body or mind when we can go directly for your soul.”

This disappointed Shiv. He knew what was coming. “Really? The soul-flu knife again? Look, if you haven't noticed, I'm not actually breaking anything or killing anyone. I seriously came here to talk things out so you can stop being a boil on Adam's ass.”

“Then you should have written to me privately, like a cultured Pathbearer, rather than a bull charging into a slaughterhouse.”

***

Harlock's embrace tightened around Anthony. The shadows danced, hiding him from sight, sound, and all other forms of detection. He was sequestered from the world, and the blackness was densest around his upright hand, shrouding a short dagger of faint, supple blue.

The House Representatives around him cried out in strain as they shaped a barrage of new spells. Every second, a beam, missile, or blast of some kind would sail out to strike the Deathless. They were chucking pebbles at a mountain. The Prismatic Guard, meanwhile, couldn't unleash their most potent spells, for they risked collateral damage. If the Deathless acted with the faintest modicum of foresight, Anthony would have assumed this to be a strategy on the boy's part, a means to protect himself from true danger. But he was a reckless animal—a disappointment in all regards. He was blessed with a Path beyond all the Paths, but like so many promising children, he betrayed himself with his foolishness.

And now an old man was going to open the throat of one far too young.

Worst thing about being heedless is that every day, every atrocity, every ugly moment becomes a cycle. Repeats. A strange feeling pulled at him. Anthony wondered if Veronica ever had these thoughts.

Slipping between twin automata who were unleashing streams of concentrated frost, Anthony twirled his blade and felt the presence of his god draw nearer.

“Stride forth, my Avatar. He will never see you. I will ensure it. Put an end to the Beyonder's mistake. He needs to be taught the folly of his ways. And if you can, finish the boy for good. You are due a proper reward.”

The old Councilman just chuckled. He'd known Harlock since the beginning, even before the degradation. The Midnight of yesteryear would have never suggested something so underhanded, but now he was nothing if not a creature of lies, subterfuge, and schemes. But he also saw lies, subterfuge, and schemes in every corner, within the hearts of every person. He yearned to overfeed himself on control—to make sure his Avatar was the strongest as well.

But Anthony wasn't a withered creature. Anthony had played this game for far too long, and he had failed. He had failed to create the utopia he yearned for. He had failed to stop his position from being usurped by a certain foolish girl. He had failed to even save his own pride. But he had also been spared. The only reason why he was still alive after all these years, among all the different councils he'd been on, was because of her. She wasn't a sentimental creature, but she did hold something in her heart for him. And Anthony felt much the same about the girl.

They weren't people, not really, not anymore. Even without divine degradation. But with each other, they were as close to being human as they could remember. Old histories, old memories, old stories, old songs, long forgotten by the children of the present age, lost even to their Ascendants, pitiable creatures who couldn’t even hold onto themselves.

Anthony wondered if they were going to look back on this day in ten years, fifty years, a century. He wondered if they would still recall the Deathless. He wondered if he could. He'd killed so many boys. Most of them he regretted killing. Few of them he remembered the faces of. Maybe this boy would stand out amongst that sea of corpses. But Anthony suspected he would blend in with the crowd somewhere down the road.

He didn't look quite unique enough to earn his own spot.

The air around the old Councilman hardened. His Reflexes ignited, spreading through his veins and infusing his muscles with a force beyond force. A path manifested before him, a lane that he would accelerate along—faster than pretty much anyone on Integrated Earth else could react. His Legendary Reflexes took time to charge up, but after a few seconds with a target acquired, there was no one quicker than he was.

His soul-mutilating blade grew bright with mana and high with song.

But just before he plunged forward, a sudden chill licked the back of his neck. Anthony spun and slashed backward without thinking, faster than speed, smoother than wind.

He cut nothing.

But the feeling was still there. His nape was wet. And there had been a presence, a mana signature, one he'd almost forgo—

“If you try to drag that blade across the neck of my disciple, then expect me to visit a fate far more unkind upon you, boy.”
