“Elton, where did we put that spool of arcanite thread?” Lydia asked. For some reason, it was not on the shelves where she expected it, and she hadn’t stuffed it into her storage enchantment by accident this time. That was never great, especially with Elton being advanced enough to need it now. She studied the shelves in the workroom, shelves stacked with thousands of gold worth of bolts of cloth, thread, buttons, laces, ribbons, and clasps. Many were so powerful, they had to be stored in specially warded containers lest they destroy the things around them.

“It’s beside the bolts of Frostweave that Hilda dropped off in the workroom, Ms. Avery,” Elton answered, in his usual blend of polite, formal manners.

She would probably have talked him out of it long ago, but she couldn’t deny it had made him a hit with many of their noble clientele. Especially with so many coming from out of town to sample their showroom in person. There had been a time when she had felt claustrophobia, constrained to Myrin’s Keep by rules, obscurity, and criminal syndicates, but that was something of the distant past now. Her ballgowns made waves at many of the most important events across the continent.

She turned toward the workroom when suddenly the entire building reverberated like a gong.

[Realm] Lirasia [Great Mother of the Deep Woods] has achieved divine ascension.

Lydia gasped.

“Would that be Miss Aliandra’s doings again, do you think?” Elton asked, hardly batting an eyelid at the momentous notification.

“Probably,” Lydia sighed, realizing her mouth had been dangling open and shutting it with a quiet click. She could hardly fault his blasé attitude; there had been many realm notifications lately, and Calen, and therefore Aliandra, had been involved in all of them. I wonder how people get any sleep? At least Elton’s nonchalant attitude had immediately calmed down several skittish customers who sheepishly returned to browsing the displays as if they’d been caught doing something slightly improper.

“Lirasia?” Elton asked. “She’s the Dryad, right?”

“Yes. Aliandra’s Aunt. She had always been kind and generous to me,” Lydia said. She prided herself as a halfway decent judge of character, and Lirasia had resonated well with her. Very level-headed and well-grounded. She had been saddened to hear of her death in that business with the rot dungeon, but Calen had explained the quest to restore her.

This is probably something to do with that. She finally stepped toward the momentarily forgotten workroom, and just as before, she was interrupted. This time, by a series of chimes and a dizzyingly potent surge of mana that nearly dropped her to her knees.

Grand Tailor of Refulgent Elegance has reached level 238 (+11).+110 attribute points.

She caught herself on the counter before she fell, but Elton noticed her misstep. “Are you ok, Ms. Avery?” he asked, rushing around the counter to check on her.

“Yes, I’m fine,” she said, collecting herself. “At least now we know it was definitely Aliandra’s doing. Why don’t you fetch me that Frostweave and the Arcanite thread – that’s been far too many levels for her in the last few days. She is going to need some upgrades. Also, bring my sketchbook, as this will probably take some time. Oh, and please send for Hilda, I’m going to need more of that higher-level fabric she was working on, and I need to know how much she has ready to go.”

“At once, Ms. Avery.”

His manners were as impeccable as ever, but her eyes dipped to catch just the tiniest skip in his step as Elton turned away. Aha! she chuckled privately. Got you.

Seth stepped over the strangely painted Troll corpse and reached for the prism of black stone that slowly rotated as it floated in the now-empty temple, right above the ancient altar.

Bind yourself as owner of the Meere Kada shrine? This action is irrevocable.

He shivered at the implications, but Ali had prepared him well. He dismissed the notification and immediately stored the shrine in his ring’s storage enchantment. In all, only about three seconds had passed since the final boss had been defeated, and he had stored the shrine.

To the best of their knowledge, the Blind Lich was still stuck in his Phylactery, courtesy of Azryet himself, but it was not something anyone wanted to take a chance on.

He let out a held breath and then pronounced his best verdict, “It’s safe.”

“Ok, good. Everyone, listen up. Distribute your points and make any last-minute preparations you need, and then let’s meet outside. Weldin will make a Town Portal to get home,” Lyeneru said. “I need to check in with the other team.”

All in all, this had proved to be an extraordinarily profitable excursion – particularly for him. In addition to all the class levels for fully clearing a raid dungeon, they had permanently removed one of the Blind Lich’s inexhaustible sources of undead monsters. Just as Ali had predicted, this dungeon had been turned into a Death Knight factory, and with forewarning, they’d been able to avoid the clutches of a most insidious trap.

He personally had gained enormously. The giant patchwork abominations they’d discovered in the lower levels had already proved their worth as tanks or shock troops – a gruesome undead created from a mutant form of two-headed Giant Troll. In addition, he had added a new kind of banshee, two ghouls, and he had several specter candidates in storage, which he intended to donate to Ali so she could manufacture them for him. I guess she’s going to benefit a lot, too. At least, his Eye of the Lich storage enchantment was filled to the brim with new Troll variants.

He stepped outside, one of the first to leave the temple, joining Lyeneru, who was studying the courtyards and fields below, many still filled with ranks of undead.

“Should we kill them?” he asked quietly.

“I don’t know if we would prevail,” she answered after considering their foe for a moment. “There are so many. Even with our strength, I think we might need battlements and support mages just to make a dent in all of that. See those bigger Wights at the back? Those are well into the second tier.”

“I can make five Death Knights now,” Seth answered, studying the forces arrayed below. His skill advancements had been good to him. “And several hundred undead all over level one hundred.”

Lyeneru turned, giving him an unreadable look for several long moments before she finally sighed. “Necromancers. No, Seth, even with that, I still believe we would perish. There are thousands down there. I think we should be satisfied that there will be no more coming after those, and allow Southport’s armies to whittle them down.”

“Fair enough,” Seth answered, unable to iron a touch of disappointment out of his voice.

Hopefully, Southport and the surrounding besieged cities would be able to weather this final surge. A better approach might be to lure these away from the beleaguered human settlements and break them against the wall of Ali’s bosses somewhere they could do no more harm, but before he could utter a word, a deafeningly loud gong reverberated through the entire temple, making the trees below shiver.

[Realm] Lirasia [Great Mother of the Deep Woods] has achieved divine ascension.

“Lirasia?” Seth exclaimed, his heart leaping within his chest.

“The Great Mother…” Lyeneru breathed at the same time.

“Ali succeeded!” he cheered. He had heard the notification for the Well of Divinity, as had the entire realm, and he assumed she would have returned to get the potion made. The notification seemed far more than he had expected, but it was clear the potion had worked.

An ominous moaning rose from the dormant undead army, and, as one, every monster in the courtyards and fields below turned their heads – if they had them – toward the north. An awful noise – the combination of roars, howls, groaning shrieking rose from the horde, and every last abomination that had spawned within the pit of Meere Kada’s desecration set off at full speed heading north.

“Um,” Seth said. “That can’t be good.”

When he glanced at Lyeneru, however, it was to see her wiping the corners of her eyes. She said, “Yes. We have work to do.”

He frowned at her strange expression for a moment before understanding finally dawned. That’s hope. She had denied it for so long, it was almost as if something had snapped within her.

[Realm] Lirasia [Great Mother of the Deep Woods] has achieved divine ascension.

Ryn yelped and jerked so hard, the pile of books laid on the desk before her toppled before she could catch it, spilling hours of work everywhere and sending her kobold helpers yipping and scrambling in surprise. That was – surely, a realm notification. She checked it a second time, then a third, shivering in disbelief. Lirasia! Oh, Lirasia! They did it!

It had been such a difficult quest, and she had only been involved in the research part of it. Her part had been hard enough; she quailed at the thought of what Ali had had to do to even reach the Wells, let alone fight the monsters along the way.

She pushed her chair back and got to her feet slowly, knees and back crackling from several hours of sitting in one position. Despite the pain, she found herself grinning like a maniac. Those friends of mine! Wow! Shaking some feeling back into her legs and ignoring the desecration of her precious books heaped on the floor, she slowly shambled across the carpet, approaching the small tea stand that had been sitting there for months, waiting for just this moment.

Now, what kind of tea will Lira want for her resurrection party? she wondered.

Byron sat staring morosely at his map, like he did most evenings these days. The fall of Thorel Moldur had cost them far more than he was willing to admit. At least, in public. Despite doing everything in his power, he had still lost both passes, but it had been the loss of Khuldar’s Span that had finally brought the full weight of the third undead army down on Southport.

It was just a matter of time, now. There was no way the battered battlements would be able to hold, not against that many. The mages were spent, and the shields had failed twice already today. And that was the brutal truth of fighting a Lich. Undead troops were always fresh, day or night – or even missing limbs – and they never stopped coming. Not just swarms of them. Torrents. Floods of deadly monsters. The Blind Lich thought nothing of spending thousands of dead to reap a single life.

How could flesh hope to stand against that?

Helios, please deliver us. He rarely prayed. Especially these last few weeks, but the forces arrayed on the map spelled their doom as clearly as if someone had sent him a letter by courier. He was out of time and options. He’d spent his forces well, but they were never sufficient, not for this. But as always, Helios retained his mystery. It wasn’t as if he had an actual prayer skill anyway – he would need to consult with a priest, and that would mean admitting there was no hope, completely destroying the morale of the entire beleaguered city.

Not that it will matter in a few hours. By morning, this will all be over.

Suddenly, an immense sound rang out, like a city full of bells had all been struck at precisely the same instant.

[Realm] Lirasia [Great Mother of the Deep Woods] has achieved divine ascension.

He bit his tongue in shock and then cursed at the pain.

Not exactly what I expected, he thought, wryly, but in the aftermath of the notification, silence fell. A silence he had not experienced since the beginning of the siege. The artillery magic rocking the foundations of the battlements ceased. The strange, sizzling cracking of the city shields repelling arrows and boulders was silenced.

Out of the silence, a strange swelling sound rose. A vulnerable but growing cry. Cheering!

Beyond curious, Byron sprang up out of his chair and rushed up the narrow stairwell, two or three steps at a time, hastily strapping his sword on at his waist. But when he emerged atop the battlements, his heart leapt with hope and joy.

The entire plains surrounding the city walls – so densely packed with undead for the last month that it couldn’t be seen from the battlements – was now, shockingly empty. All he could see was the rearguard of the Blind Lich’s armies vanishing over the northern hills, heading off to who knew where.

Thank you, Lirasia, whoever you are, he prayed, beyond grateful that he might sleep tonight with some confidence he might see the sun again tomorrow.

A strange peace settled in around him, high up there on the battlements. The chill breeze faltered and stilled. And then, out of nothing, a tiny glowing green wisp spontaneously manifested, flitting around his head a few times as if struck by a playful thought, before darting away.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
