She stared down at each person in turn, her emerald eyes serious.
“Firstly. You must never venture into the high parts of the castle or the lower reaches unaccompanied and even then, only with great cause. Dangers lurk within Wistram, ancient magics and spells and creatures called here and never destroyed. Too, the very enchantments keeping this citadel intact sometimes fray. Only a mage with true power is allowed into such places. Second. Some of the Golems here were made as I am, but most lack any form of intelligence and simply obey orders. Do not attack or obstruct them in any way or they may react unpredictably. Third. Anyone attempting to cast area-wide magics must first consult with I or an experienced mage. Unpredictable results may occur if a spell affects a wide area of the academy at once. Is that understood?”
She stared down at the students and then nodded.
“That is all. Follow me, and I will lead you to your rooms and give you your keys.”
She walked through the doorway and Calvaron indicated that everyone should follow her. Ceria, Pisces, and Calvaron slipped to the back of the group as the other students filed out of the room.
“I’m surprised she didn’t have more rules. Like, don’t kill other students or not to steal.”
Ceria whispered to Pisces. Calvaron laughed when he heard that.
“Those are also against Wistram’s rules, but Cognita was created in a different time. She only cares if you study magic, and she only tells you those rules so you won’t get killed by accident. We’ll tell you all the rules later.”
“Calvaron. Will you lead these students to the dining hall now or later?”
Cognita had paused before a doorway. Calvaron nodded.
“Put your things away and take a moment to relax. In fifteen minutes I will bring you all to our dining hall to eat.”
The procession moved on, Cognita led each of the students to a door and handed them a key, or a stone, or sometimes just whispered in their ears. Ceria was bewildered, but then she and Pisces were left.
“This room shall be yours, Ceria Springwalker. Here is a key to the lock. It can be picked, so be wary.”
Cognita handed Ceria a key made of iron. Then she turned to Pisces.
“The door to your room is spelled. Speak your name into the lock and it will open for you alone. Be cautious that you do not lock a companion within.”
She turned, and left. Bemused, Ceria looked at Pisces as he wandered over to his door and spoke into it. The door swung open and Pisces blinked at the inside.
“Why are the locks different? And why are the rooms different?”
Ceria found her room was wide and spacious, filled with an old four-poster bed and a mirror and dresser in her room. Pisces had a much smaller room, but for some reason his came with a balcony that extended outside. He and Ceria looked at Calvaron who only shrugged.
“Lots of people worked on Wistram, and each person had their own style. Some doors have locks, while others use magic or a stone as a key. You got lucky, Pisces; a balcony spot is pretty nice to have. I imagine you could trade yours if you wanted.”
“I believe I will be content with my lodgings. Ah, did you say there was food available?”
Calvaron laughed as Ceria tossed her belongings on the bed and turned the key in the lock.
“Indeed there is. Let me gather the rest of your group and then we’ll eat. No one can learn magic on an empty stomach, right?”
 
——
 
Ceria and Pisces stared up in the great hall of Wistram, craning their necks to see the ceiling.
“Are those mage lights permanent, or are they just temporary enchantments?”
Calvaron looked up. He was sitting with both mages at one of the tables, crunching down on a meal that was mostly carrot, but had quite a bit of beef. He popped a chunk of carrot into his mouth as he spoke thoughtfully.
“I’ve never really asked. My guess is that it’s like a lot of the lights in the castle. They can be turned on and off, but the enchantment remains. Mind you, most mages will toss up a globe of light if it gets too dark and leave it there for a few hours.”
“Or a few days.”
Ceria turned. Sitting across from them was a dark-skinned woman wearing armor. What was unique about her was that her head and said armor weren’t attached. She was spooning pudding into her head on the table. Calvaron seemed perfectly at home with this, but neither Pisces nor Ceria had ever seen a Dullahan in the flesh before. Her name was Beatrice, and this was about the third thing she’d said throughout the course of the meal aside from ‘Hello’ and ‘Nice to meet you’.
Ceria stared around the vast room she was sitting in as she cut into her steak. The great hall was filled with long tables—and short ones. Like much of the castle, it seemed like any furniture was used, and so she’d found herself and Pisces sitting with Calvaron at a low table on some couches, rather than the long tables with chairs most of the students were dining at.
This was probably because the lower table allowed Calvaron to kneel on the ground while he ate. Ceria still couldn’t quite focus on her food, though. The floating orbs of multicolored lights, the tables filled with all kinds of food—and especially the chatting, gossiping, laughing groups of every kind of species at every table was overwhelming her. She was surrounded by mages, and every few seconds Ceria would see someone cast a spell or illustrate their point with a cantrip.
“Stop staring, Springwalker. This food won’t eat itself and if you want seconds, you’ll have to eat fast.”
Ceria blinked at Calvaron, and then realized her steak was getting cold. She added some butter, watched it melt, and began scarfing the meat down.
Pisces was already eating as if he’d been starving. Neither he nor Ceria had the best table manners, but Calvaron and Beatrice didn’t seem to notice.
“Where’s all this food come from? Not magic, surely.”
“Hah! You think it just appears out of nowhere?”
Calvaron looked extremely amused. He pointed off to one side, towards the long buffet tables where they’d all collected their meals.
“Golems and [Chefs] do most of the cooking. Wistram hires the best, and what we don’t eat they preserve for another day.”
“It must be handy, having a bunch of constructs to do most of the lifting and work around here. I don’t know how you can deal with them so easily, though.”
Calvaron shrugged. He’d walked right past two of the huge, lumbering Stone Golems on the way here while Ceria and the others had walked as far away from them as possible.
“You get used to them pretty quick if you stay here. Beatrice used to hate all the enchanted armor around here. For two whole years she kept thinking they were other Dullahans and calling out to them.”
He laughed at Beatrice and she paused in feeding herself long enough to scowl at him. Pisces looked around.
“I appreciate that we are being fed immediately upon our arrival, but are you sure there’s no welcoming speech? No introduction?”
“Do you want one?”
Calvaron waited until Pisces shook his head.
“Most mages don’t care about new students. It’s only the Expansionists and Revivalists that are interested in making sure there’s a system, although every faction usually contributes in some way.”
“Expansionists? Revivalists?”
Pisces and Ceria exchanged a glance. Calvaron nodded.
“You’ll hear more about them soon enough. But Wistram isn’t one unified place. What you’ll learn quickly is that there are factions in here. Mages either band together or go it alone depending on their personalities.”
Ceria was surprised by that.
“So there isn’t a formal ceremony where we choose where we want to end up? I thought we’d be assigned to a group or…a faction or something.”
Calvaron laughed into his food and even Beatrice’s head smiled.
“Don’t be daft. Who’d be stupid enough to publicly announce which side you’re on? Not to mention that you can’t just put people into groups like that.”
He snorted and pointed at the new students.
“If you’re smart, you’ll choose wisely and tell no one at all if you do join a faction. Mind you, word will spread soon enough, but at least that way you’ll have a chance. And I hope you sell your loyalties wisely. It takes a strong mage to survive in Wistram alone, but better that than becoming a slave.”
He pointed down the hall, towards a small group of mages who were sitting alone. Their robes were clearly magical, and one was raising his voice and pointing at an illustration he’d conjured out of the air.
“See them? They’re Isolationists. They’d prefer that we stop accepting new mages into Wistram altogether, and have aspiring mages find their way here. It would weed out the casual applicants, true, but imagine how much business we’d lose!”
Beatrice scowled.
“Foolish. Wastes money.”
Calvaron rolled his eyes.
“Beatrice is a Revivalist. She’s part of the faction that thinks we should throw open our doors and usher in a new era of magic like in centuries past.”
“And you? What group do you belong to?”
The Centaur grinned.
“I’m undeclared, at least for now. I’ll probably join up with some faction or other, but I’m not important enough for them to start putting pressure on me yet. What about you, Pisces? Would you be an Isolationist or a Revivalist, given the chance?”
Pisces nodded to himself as he thought.
“Well, I am uninformed as of yet to all the nuances of the discussion, but my position would be—”
Ceria kicked Pisces under the table. He yelped and she glared at him. Calvaron laughed again.
“You’re learning quick, aren’t you?”
She was just planning to ask Calvaron about the different factions in Wistram when Ceria heard a sound. She turned her head and stared at one of the entrances to the great hall. A young man in disheveled robes burst into the great hall, shouting.
“Ghouls! They’re flooding the west hallways!”
For a second all was stunned silence, and then all of the new students started screaming. The young man fled into the hall, and then Ceria saw them.
Ghouls. They bounded out of the corridor, dead bodies leaping forwards with incredible strength and agility. Their eyes burned with unholy light.
She didn’t even pause to think. Ceria stood up and pointed her finger at the Ghouls. Without a wand she couldn’t cast strong magic, but she’d honed this spell until it was as deadly as an arrow.
“[Stone Dart]!”
A jagged piece of stone shot from her fingertips and caught one of the Ghouls in the chest. He stumbled, but came on. Ceria’s heart sank. Ghouls were far more dangerous than Zombies, and they were coming so fast! They’d be on top of the new students before they could flee.
“Stop screaming. [Ice Lance].”
Someone spoke up from behind Ceria. She turned her head just in time to see a massive block of ice shaped into a point shoot past her. The wind blew her hair and Ceria turned back to see the Ghoul she’d struck and three more had been smashed to bits by the spell.
“[Silent Sickle]!”
Another mage across the hall pointed without even getting up from his meal. One of the ghouls was sliced to bits by transparent scythes and another lost its legs.
“[Earth Cannon]!”
“[Invisible Arrow]!”
“[Slippery Floor].”
All around Ceria, mages pointed or waved their wands or used their staves to cast spells. The Ghouls practically disintegrated under the combined mass of spells until all that was left was a completely ruined floor as ice spells and fire spells created steam and sticky and slippery substances mixed on the ground or began to dissipate.
Calvaron laughed as he tugged Ceria back down into her seat.
“Nice spell, new student. But leave the fighting to the older mages, alright? We can handle ourselves.”
“Is that normal? The Ghouls?”
Pisces pointed to the remains of the Ghouls—a single hand and a few stains on the stone floor. Already a Golem was lurching over to the mess with a mop and bucket in hand.
Both the Centaur and Dullahan shrugged.
“It’s not usual that we get monsters that come as far as the dining hall, but accidents happen. I wonder how the undead got here? Teleportation spell gone wrong?”
“Dead corpses?”
Beatrice scratched at her head. It was more of a massage since she could scratch every spot at will. She pointed at the distraught mage who’d ran into the room.
“Probably an experiment with some bodies. Too much magic. Must’ve reanimated them.”
“True. I’ll ask later. Anyways, bear that in mind, you two. If you want to stay at Wistram, you’ve got to be prepared for anything. Sea Serpents are the least of your worries here. Do you think you can handle it?”
He looked both Ceria and Pisces in the eye. She hesitated, but then nodded with conviction.
“I’m staying.”
Pisces nodded. He swallowed a huge gulp of food and wiped at his mouth with a napkin.
“So am I!”
“That’s what they all say.”
Calvaron laughed with Beatrice, although she just chuckled. Then he grew serious.
“Unfortunately, I’ve got some bad news for you two. This year there are nearly twice as many prospective students as usual. I’m afraid that unless you’re over Level 20 or you’ve got some new spell or talent, you’ll be hard-pressed to pass the exam.”
He paused as both new students exchanged a dismayed look.
“Well, unless you have a patron to sponsor you.”
“A patron?”
“A high-level mage.”
Beatrice translated. Calvaron nodded as he crunched on another carrot.
“Someone who will vouch for your abilities. That would allow you to skip the exam altogether.”
Ceria eyed Calvaron.
“I don’t suppose you…?”
“Sorry, I don’t have the influence to help anyone. We’re all novice mages here. Only one of the teachers or one of the older mages can do that, and they don’t usually interfere with the exam. Plus, a lot of the ones assigned to teaching duty this year aren’t too happy.”
“Like Illphres. She’s angry.”
“Who?”
“The mage who cast [Ice Lance]. That’s her, over there.”
Ceria looked over and saw an older woman dressed in robes sitting with the group Calvaron had identified as the Isolationists. She was scowling at another mage as he spoke. Calvaron lowered his voice.
“She’s going to teach you some elemental magic. But ah, she’s…temperamental. She’s one of the best [Cryomancers] in the academy, though.”
“Is [Cryomancer] the same as [Ice Mage]?”
“Different names. Sometimes different specializations, but usually the same.”
“Oh.”
Ceria kept staring at Illphres. She’d cast a Tier 4 spell – [Ice Lance] in mere seconds, without even using a wand! Ice magic wasn’t Ceria’s specialty, but she was still impressed by the spell.
