“I suppose it is. But I want to defend myself. With my spells, I can’t do anything but run if I meet a dangerous monster.”
“I’ve never fought a monster before.”
Pisces said it as he sat against one of the ship’s walls with Ceria. She glanced at his rapier. It was nearly hidden under his bedding and Pisces hadn’t referred to it. Nor had he really told her where he was from. They were munching on the hard biscuits and salted cod that was their dinner. To Ceria’s surprise, the meal had even included cheese and butter for their bread. It was no feast, but this was better than the rough fare she’d expected.
“How many monsters have you slain? A hundred? Or do Bronze-rank adventurers mainly just act as backup for stronger adventurers?”
Ceria coughed lightly to hide her embarrassment.
“I’ve uh, slain a few monsters myself. But we mainly work in teams.”
She’d fought a few Goblins and cleared out any number of rats, but she could count the real monsters she’d fought on one hand.
Of course, that still put her far above the other new students in terms of ability.
“Astounding. Now, I know we can’t practice any magic while aboard the ship, but do you mind if I ask you a few questions about the efficacy of spells in combat? I know only a few such as [Frozen Wind], but I was wondering—”
Pisces broke off and Ceria looked up as they noticed some other people coming their way.
“Well, I heard Wistram accepted everyone, but I thought they drew the line at freaks and trash.”
A young man followed by a gaggle of other teens approached in the manner Ceria had come to recognize as the prelude to harassment. He stared down his nose at Ceria and Pisces.
“I am Charles de Trevalier, scion of my house. You would do well to address me with respect.”
He was wearing the rich clothes to match, and he even had a shortsword buckled to his belt. It looked like it was purely ornamental, but Charles rested one hand on it as if he would like nothing better than to unsheathe it should the need arise.
Ceria raised one eyebrow. She wasn’t intimidated by Charles, although she disliked him on sight. Moreover, unless he had quite a lot of levels in some combat class—which she doubted—she could put a [Stone Dart] through his eye before his blade even cleared the sheathe.
That made it slightly easier to listen to him speak.
“You—the one who was foolish enough to consort with the half-Elf. You would do well to stay away from such creatures.”
Pisces blinked up at Charles and frowned.
“I will measure her worth independent of any outside opinion, thank you. Moreover, I don’t understand why you feel the need to come here and insult Miss Springwalker to her face.”
His diction was actually more polished than Charles’. Ceria saw it took the young lord back, and saw him reconsider his next words.
“Are you of the lesser nobility? Or a self-taught common citizen? Either way, only a fool would not know how insidious and untrustworthy the lesser species are.”
Lesser species. Ceria gritted her teeth. Charles was talking about her as if she wasn’t here. Pisces glanced at Ceria and his lips thinned.
“I believe you should go. If your aim was to have me remove myself, you have failed. Kindly do not disturb us again.”
“Ingrate!”
One of the young men standing behind Charles called out. He stepped forwards, a hand on his sword as well. What was with all these students and carrying weapons? Didn’t they know they were here to become mages?
The other young man glared down at Ceria and Pisces. He pulled his sword slightly out of its sheathe so they could see the costly steel blade.
“You dare insult one of the high nobility? I should have your head for that.”
Charles smirked and Ceria cursed inwardly. She didn’t know the countless aristocratic houses on the continent, but that explained why Charles already had a crowd around him. His family was undoubtedly as rich as they were powerful; his companions must have already been trying to suck up to him.
She expected Pisces to back down or deflect the anger, but instead he stood up. He had the rapier in his hands.
“I do not believe we have done anything that warrants a threat. This is a place for mages, not barbarians with metal sticks.”
The young man flushed. He unsheathed his blade—clumsily, Ceria noticed. He held the sword towards Pisces in an uncertain grip.
But even that was enough to silence the rest of the other students below decks. A bared weapon was dangerous, and the sword the young man held could kill no matter how inexpertly used. Ceria clenched her fist. She felt the magic flow into her hand. She didn’t want to use a spell and risk being thrown off the boat, but if it was that or Pisces getting hurt…
It didn’t come to that. Pisces stepped back and unsheathed his rapier—quite a lot faster than the other young man had and with more of a flourish as well. Charles and his cronies stepped back as they saw the rapier, and uncertainty flicked in the sword-wielding youth’s eyes.
“I would reconsider any attempts on our persons. Note the blade, please. I have levels in [Fencer] and I will not hesitate to defend myself.”
The people around Charles backed up. He had his hand on his sword, but he was clearly unprepared for actual violence. He looked at the other young man with a sword and licked his lips before facing Pisces.
“You fool. Timor du Havrington is an experienced warrior who would cut you to bits. He has many levels in the [Warrior] class.”
Timor nodded, but his eyes were on Pisces’ rapier. He didn’t hold himself like a warrior.
“Lower your blade, peon.”
“Not until you do.”
“I’m a [Warrior] and a [Lord]!”
His voice trembled. Pisces sighed. He reached into his pocket.
“If you will not reconsider your actions—then listen.”
He pulled something out of his clothing. A silvery bell. It rang, a clear, high-pitched note. Once, twice.
Timor’s face went pale. He leapt back from Pisces as if the other young man had struck at him. He stumbled into Charles and the two nearly fell to the ground.
“Stay back! We’re both armed! Charles and I can take you on, regardless of your rank!”
Pisces held the rapier out calmly, facing sideways towards the two as Charles unsheathed his sword and faced him uncertainly. This had gone far further than Ceria had intended. She wasn’t sure what the bell meant, but she couldn’t let this continue. Ceria stood up.
“Back off. We’re all on a ship going to Wistram. If you start a fight you’ll get thrown off if the Captain doesn’t kill you himself. And if he doesn’t—I will.”
She raised her fingers and concentrated. Flames erupted from her skin and danced around her hand. Charles and his followers backed away as the other students murmured and pointed.
“We have magic too!”
A few of the other people raised their hands and produced sparks or flames from their fingertips. None were nearly as vibrant as Ceria. She held her fiery hand out towards Charles until she heard pounding feet.
“What are you doing on my ship!?”
The flames around Ceria’s hand went out as she saw the [Captain] storming down the stairs, roaring at the students with two brawny sailors at his back. In moments everyone was separated and he was shouting at both Ceria, Pisces, and Charles and Timor, ignoring the latter two’s complaints.
“I should toss you all overboard myself! You two are lucky we’re far from port, or I would put you ashore and damn the list! You, boy, put that away before I throw that blade in the sea!”
The Captain shouted at Ceria and Pisces as he sheathed his sword.
“We were defending ourselves.”
Pisces protested, but the Captain was too incensed to listen. He glared at Ceria.
“I won’t have any magic on my ship! Cast another spell and I will toss you overboard myself! And you two, start trouble or draw a blade and I will cut you down, lords or not!”
He ignored the outraged noises the two boys made and stormed back up the stairs. Charles and Timor hesitated, but they stiffly walked away from Pisces and Ceria with only a parting glare.
Ceria sat back down with a sigh, heart pounding.
“That could have ended far worse.”
“Or far better. He threatened to throw away my blade!”
Pisces grumbled as he sat back down with Ceria. He was still glaring over at Charles and Timor, who’d joined the majority of the other students and were laughing loudly and not looking at Pisces and Ceria.
“Well, you were threatening two of his passengers.”
“Only because they drew steel on us!”
Pisces was indignant. Ceria sighed.
“If you hadn’t stood up to them, they would have left us alone soon enough. Trust me, I’m used to it.”
The young man looked sideways at Ceria.
“I didn’t feel it was right, that’s all. We’re all aspiring to become mages, proper mages, that is. If we can’t treat each other with basic civility, we’re no better than ignorant fools for all our power.”
Ceria smiled at him. It surprised her more than it surprised Pisces. Here she was, getting along with a Human of all people. He grinned back at her.
“Well, I enjoyed the looks on their faces when you stood up to them. Thank you.”
Pisces blushed and waved his hand.
“It was nothing.”
Ceria smiled again. She pointed to Pisces’ pocket.
“What does the bell mean? Those two backed off fast when they saw it.”
His cheeks were still flushed, but Pisces shook his head as he hid the rapier back under his bedding.
“It’s a token used by duelists. It means I’ve reached a level of skill recognized among anyone who practices the same craft.”
“Oh.”
It was obvious that he wanted to keep that a secret, so Ceria let it drop. Pisces muttered to himself as he rearranged his bedding.
“I dislike arrogant nobles and the like intensely. I thought I would be rid of them, but I suppose even in Wistram wealth speaks.”
“We’ll see if it holds true in the academy.”
“I’m told that there’s barely anything on the isle other than Wistram Academy and a pier. I wonder if they import all their goods? How do they feed themselves?”
“They probably grow what they need with magic. Somehow.”
“Still. How many new students will be like us, do you think?”
“Don’t know.”
“And how many will pass the exam?”
Ceria was silent. The exam. It loomed in her thoughts, a vague, terrifying specter.
It was true that anyone with a bit of talent and enough coin could travel to Wistram. But staying there was far harder.
Twenty gold pieces was the price, but that only bought each student a month’s time to study in Wistram. They would be taught basic magic and be given the run of the isle, but after that month they would have to prove their worth…or be sent home.
It was extraordinarily expensive to live in Wistram if you weren’t a mage offered a scholarship by the academy. Students would have to pay hundreds of gold coins to study there, which was why most who went to Wistram hoped they could pass the exam and stay for free.
Wistram Academy was always looking for talented mages, so the exam was designed to allow students to showcase their talents. Anyone with a high level or better yet, some kind of unique spell or Skill would be allowed to study. It was what both Ceria and Pisces hoped to do; pass the exam and become full students.
But what the exam might actually be, and what they would learn in the time before then, neither Pisces nor Ceria had any idea. They had no idea what Wistram even looked like; it was in the middle of the ocean, and visitors to that isle were understandably rare.
Eventually, the light coming out of the portholes almost completely faded, and Ceria closed the one closest to her and Pisces so they could sleep. They still had another day and a bit to go, and she wanted to conserve her strength.
She slept soundly, until the storm began and rain began to pound the deck overhead.
 
——
 
It was a sea storm, the kind of horrific maelstrom that only emerged in the middle of the ocean. Huge waves battered the Errant Traveller as she sailed on through the dark clouds and pouring rain. Wind threatened to blow the sailors scrambling to lower sails and obey the Captain’s orders as the man himself fought with the waves at the head of his boat.
Below decks, the students huddled in fear, listening to the crash of the waves and talking in quiet voices. Ceria sat with Pisces, watching through the window as the ship would go up and then come down with stomach wrenching force.
“Are you sure this boat can survive this storm?”
Pisces shouted in Ceria’s ear. He was clutching his belongings as he stared out at the water.
“I don’t know!”
Ceria shouted back. She tapped the window.
“This is glass. The ship must be newer, so it should hold!”
“It had better! I can’t swim!”
“What?”
The idea that anyone couldn’t swim baffled Ceria, until she remembered that many Humans from Terandria lived inland and never saw a large body of water. Not that it mattered. Ceria had had ample time to learn how to swim over the fifty years of her life, but she was certain she wouldn’t last ten minutes in the frothing waves.
“We’ll be okay!”
And then, as if to mock her, Ceria heard the hatch leading above slam open. A sailor pounded down the steps as wind and water blew in. He shouted.
“Sea Serpent to the starboard! Stay below!”
The people in the hold began to scream. Ceria’s gut clenched in fear, but then the sailor was running towards her. He ignored the rocking motion of the ship as he seized her.
“You! Half-Elf! Do you have any spells that can fight off the serpent?”
Ceria stared at him, mouth open.
“Not a Sea Serpent!”
The vast monsters of the ocean were far more terrifying than those on land, at least in terms of size. A Sea Serpent was twice the length of a warship—and that was only on average. Bigger examples of their kind could take down an entire fleet. Ceria’s [Stone Dart] spell would be as effective against it as spit.
“Fine. Stay here and pray it loses interest! The Captain’s used a scroll to send for Wistram for help—maybe those damn mages will be able to do something from there!”
The sailor ran back up the stairs. Pisces turned a white face towards Ceria. She was already staring back out at the churning sea.
“There. There it is!”
In the distance, Ceria saw a rippling form scything through the water. The Sea Serpent shot out of the water head-first, a massive jaw and burning eyes the only impression Ceria received before it plunged into the water. Its serpentine coils followed it, and Ceria’s heart froze in her chest when she realized the creature was four times as long as the Errant Traveller.
“Does it see us?”
