He forced Acri a little bit deeper. Through the haze of significance, his eyes were fixed on the central working. He wavered for a few seconds but managed to endure. The exhaustion in his muscles had grown to become a constant agony. The steely Duty in his bones kept him focused but the sensation wasn’t comfortable.

Let’s carve open a road. The Homunculi Pursues Perfection. Singularity Engulfs the Finite. The First Tree Suffers Only Fealty.

For the second time, Randidly Ghosthound’s three images moved together without the benefit of Truth. Almost instantly, he could feel an improvement on the second cooperated. They ceased chasing the emotional resonance they had previously used to connect with one another. Instead, the images fixated on their purpose; they moved together with root, claw, and oblivion. The vicious Homunculus first, armed with the obliterating weight of a singularity.

Congratulations! Your Skill the Homunculi Pursues Perfection (GD) has grown to Level 1400!

Congratulations! Your Skill Singularity Engulfs the Finite (GD) has grown to Level 1361!

When the next wave of significance cracked and fell to pieces, Yggdrasil stilled the follow-up with an imperious glance. A brief period of stillness emerged between Randidly and Laplace. As it turned out, neither missed the opportunity.

Randidly took a step forward and fed more of the kinetic force into Lethal Tide of Izanami. It lived and breathed as it slithered around the confrontation, a living being with a steadily growing accumulation of destructive hate. It was a python, squeezing the two even more tightly together. Randidly cackled, feeling all the delicately balanced forces in the air around him.

Congratulations! Your Skill Motif of Unimagined Tolls (GD) has grown to Level 1496!

Congratulations! Your Skill Deviations Inevitable Machinations (GD) has grown to Level 1913!

Yet his foe was not idle, either.

Laplace produced a small charm and squeezed it within one of his fat hands. Ominously, a crack formed in the ceiling of the room. And instantly, Randidly felt the presence of the bloated shadow of Pine, looming above them all.

The Eternity offered Randidly a grin of its own. “Your existence is problematic. But which matters more to you; this pyrrhic quest of wounding me, or your little bubble of a universe?”
