Kiri whispered, “So you really did it, then? You did the Benevolent Dragon thing?”

Some blue boxes began to blink into existence before him. Reading them was the work of a microsecond, but while their contents and implications were surprising, they were nothing truly unexpected. Not really.

Erick focused on his direct surroundings. From the chairs set up in his room, and a few scattered bits of food, and a half-full pot of coffee over there, it looked like he had been unconscious for a while. A day? Maybe.

Erick said to Kiri, “Yup. I did. It was the best option of the paths laid down before me, and I can already tell it worked perfectly. I’m thinking of Kirginatharp and others right now, and I have no desire at all to go fight them, or take their lands, or anything like that. Plus, the notes from Rozeta said it was a success.”

Not a complete success, though. Not the way Rozeta had intended.

Poi said, “Ascendant Prime has measured you, as you requested. You have zero personality shift.”

Erick smiled at that, too.

“But still…” Kiri shook her head. She put on a smile. “I’m glad you’re okay, Erick. I’m also glad to report the kingdom has not fallen in your absence.”

Erick chuckled. “I can already tell that. I don’t even see any new construction on the shores of the lake. What’s it been? A day?”

“Two.” Kiri said, “The transformation was…” Her voice trailed off.

Poi said, “The transformation was rougher than Rozeta expected it to be, though you went through the worst of it with her. When she delivered you unto us she said to take care of you, and you should wake in a few days. We’ve been taking shifts. Jane is on her way back.”

Warmth spread through Erick’s heart. “I love you all, too.”

Teressa blushed. Kiri blushed, too. Poi just smiled softly.

Hearing that Jane was coming back, which meant she was okay, was the only thing he could not check on himself, so he was glad to hear that. He could even go back to bed if he wanted. At that moment he realized he still felt a little sleepy, so he almost wanted to lay back down, even though he had never really risen, but it was time to get up. And yet, he decided to stay propped up on pillows for a little while longer.

He had some thoughts.

Erick asked, “So does that mean that Jane found her sword?”

“She did not,” Poi said.

“Tell her I’m good, then tell her she can continue the search.” Erick said, “Last I heard she and her team were killing hidden Ancients down there in the dark. They should keep doing that.”

Poi said, “She will be thrilled to hear all of that, though she will want to speak to you directly. You missed her last communication.”

Erick briefly closed his eyes, still smiling, as he said, “I will be ready to receive her condemnation of this completely un-undoable decision at a time of her choosing. Make sure she knows that, please. There is no going back from this.”

Kiri asked, “Can I give you my condemnation, now?”

“Ahh! But Kiri! You are the apprentice, remember? Here’s a lesson for you: sometimes the gods want assurances of the future, and if you’re the best one to provide those assurances, then they stuff you with as much power as you can handle.” Erick added, “Apparently.”

Teressa nodded. “Apparent King.”

“Apparent dragon,” Kiri muttered.

“And also Apparent Wizard,” Poi added.

Erick smiled, then said to Kiri, “Go ahead and give it to me.”

Kiri breathed deep, then began, “You STUPID MAN! How could you endanger yourself like this! How could you endanger the kingdom like this! I’m out there turning the land livable and you’re in that House making people work together and now you throw this NONSENSE into the mix! Do you know how many dragon fights we’re going to get here now?! Even if you can put them down yourself…”

Kiri spoke for a while.

Erick listened.

Then he rose from bed and gave the girl a hug and told her everything was going to be okay. Kiri bawled on his shoulders, talking about how worried she was, and that dragons were dangerous, and how he was already a Wizard and that everyone was going to worry way too much about him and someone would probably do something crazy.

Erick listened again.

Jane’s words were rather similar to Kiri’s, when Erick finally got to have that conversation.

Jane was doing nice in the Underworld, though. Almost figured out a Prismatic Domain!

Not quite there yet, but she was getting there.

Erick went to the House next and caught up with Zolan about what had happened while he was gone. Thankfully, nothing much had happened at all. A lot of letters. A few meetings between offices to sort out some administrative tasks. A lot of normal meetings that Zolan had expected Erick to be there for, but which he had handled himself. There had also been quite a few anonymous questions and a few not-so-anonymous appointment requests from people who were obviously dragons.

Zolan said, “I know what it looks like when someone requests anti-Dragon Essence treatment from Oceanside, and I know what it looks like when those requests are probably from real dragons trying to sneak in and murder the Headmaster. I’ve seen dragons pull a lot of shit over the years, Erick.” He gestured to the 15 letters that sat on Erick’s desk, between him and Erick, saying, “Those are outright [Reincarnation] requests from real dragons, or threats and demands for Benevolence-transformations. That’s the kind of shit that the Headmaster would respond to with utter annihilation and consumption, because that’s what all those sorts of meetings would devolve into if those sorts of people ever openly appeared near Oceanside. In my time, the Headmaster had standing instructions to hand these sorts of letters directly over to the Dragon Stalkers, and for him to never be involved at all.”

Erick read over all the letters in a flicker of mana sense, Perception, and Intelligence quickness, and he was glad to report to himself that he felt nothing of the Curse which plagued Dragon Essence. If he had, he would have wanted to kill every single one of these people.

And if that had been a worry at all, Erick wouldn’t have even been having this conversation with Zolan right now, for Erick wouldn’t put himself into that sort of position, and Zolan wouldn’t have shown Erick these letters in the first place.

Zolan did not know that Erick was a dragon, though.

Only Erick’s family knew, and also Aisha. And Rozeta.

… Zolan would probably know soon enough, and maybe at the end of this meeting, but not right now.

Erick picked up one of the letters that didn’t quite fit what Zolan was telling him, though. It was a letter written on pale blue paper, inside an envelope of darker blue. “This one is from a dragon who has halfway escaped the Curse already, though she is also a lich from Quintlan. What do you make of this one?”

“One of the safer ones to actually accept a meeting with, actually. Zenipeq, the Ice Wraith Queen, is a rather stable force over in Quintlan, though she is a horrible necromancer who has [Stone Pathway]ed the way for others to follow in her steps, to drown the world in undeath as much as she could. Someone is going to try to assassinate her the very second you [Reincarnation] her, if you choose to do that, so be prepared. She’s probably going to be prepared, too, with guards of exceptional quality and loyalty.” Zolan said, “She’s a truly dangerous person to be around, but… Not much more than all the rest.”

Erick nodded.

He decided to tell Zolan about his new Status.

Zolan took it pretty well, though his heart did thump so hard that Erick thought it might pop out his chest, but Zolan was a young man. He handled it pretty well. He also swore not to tell anyone, which was never in any doubt.

- - - -

It had been a very long day, and half of a night.

And now, Erick was done with his kingdom until tomorrow. It was time to check those boxes and shore up some things. And so, nude and in his human form, the Apparent King of Candlepoint, the Wizard of Benevolence, the Head of House Benevolence, and now a Benevolence Dragon, sat cross legged atop a crook in Yggdrasil’s upper branches, surrounded by a very large Privacy. He was meditating a little; clearing his mind before he got down to his next task.

The sky was dark with night, yet all around was light.

Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye held in the air beside him while Ophiel sat around on Yggdrasil’s glowing white bark here and there, chirping in unsure flutes and uneasy guitar sounds. Yggdrasil’s eye didn’t look too happy, either.

Yggdrasil asked, “Are you still you, father?”

“I am,” Erick said, “There’s just more of me. Sort of like how you grow up, I guess I can grow up, too.”

“The Arbors said that people don’t usually get bigger than they already are.” Yggdrasil hummed, then added, “Aside from babies. You’re not a baby?”

“I am not a baby, and the lessons the Arbors give you are only true in most cases. You should always keep your eyes and senses open for all the information there is, Yggdrasil. Don’t only listen to authority, try to figure out your own thoughts based on your own experiences, too.”

“I know! They tell me that, too.”

Erick smiled. He opened his eyes. He was ready to confront his new self.

With a thought, Erick pulled up the first box of many to come; the letter from Rozeta.

Erick.

My father did some shit, because he is a shithead. The good news is that nothing is actually wrong. Everything mechanically works just as it should. You even got a new spell that should help you do your Benevolence-ing of other dragons rather well. That was unexpected, and I believe that you are the one that did that. Not my father.

You are a ‘Benevolence Dragon’ now, with all that entails.

Now for the bad news, and what my father actually did:

You will find out after you transform the first time. Do it somewhere that no one else can see. Also, never let anyone see your draconic form until you’re truly ready for that storm. It will be a big storm. Don’t ever bring out your horns, like the other dragons of Ar’Cosmos do. Trust me on this.

And now for some maybe neutral news:

I tried to give you a third [Paradox Shift] form, but that failed and I think it was because of you. I think you accepted this a lot more than I thought you would, and so your second form, the one you use all the time with the core, is now your base draconic form, too.

Your first form remains untouched.

And some good news:

Whatever other dragons you Benevolence should be more normal than you.

We’ll talk more whenever you wish!

For now: good luck with your kingdom. It’s going well.

Your kingdom and the basic security of it all should be a lot more secure, now that you are almost assassin-proof, what with [Unbreakable Form] stacking on top of your new reality.

Don’t go testing yourself against assassins, please!

-Rozeta

Erick dismissed that notification, breathing and exhaling a few times as he got ready for the next part.

And then he opened up the majority of his other notifications. He did not need to read the ones that said ‘[Spell] has been corrupted! Return to a Registrar to undo this!’, so he did not bring those up. He just read the important boxes in the order they had appeared. First came [Dragon Body], and then surprisingly, the upgrade to that one.

Dragon Body, Permanently Active, 0 mana

<absolute damage reduction 250>, <double range>, <double duration>, <massively increased healing effectiveness>

Assume a draconic form based on your nature, at will, gaining <massively increased range>.

Assume a new Familiar Form of any type you have experience with, at will.

Immortal.

Greater Dragon Body, Permanently Active, 0 mana

<absolute damage reduction 500>, <double range>, <double duration>, <massively increased healing effectiveness>

Assume a greater draconic form based on your nature, at will, gaining <massively increased range>.

Assume a new Familiar Form of any type you have experience with, at will.

Immortal.

As expected, dragons were fucking ridiculous. Erick already felt all of this new magic upon him the very second he had woken in that bed, hours ago and surrounded by most of his family. These magics weren’t even auras; they were just permanent effects, like Strong tripling his Health or Clarity reducing spell costs by half.

A few things about his new self stood out to him, though. That absolute damage reduction.

Dragons were highly resilient, yes, but Erick had no idea they were that resilient.

Of course, [Greater Draconic Body], which is the one Erick had now, since he had upgraded from the normal version during the course of his convalescence with Rozeta, had a whole bunch of carets. Those little angular brackets indicated stuff that was specific for the person who had that spell.

Other dragons probably had other numbers.

Normal dragons probably had double mana, or half mana costs, or whatever, and a little bit of absolute damage reduction. Fae dragons probably had something along the lines of ‘stronger illusion spells’, or ability to interact with Fairy. Carnage probably had a lot more absolute damage reduction, as well as damage bonuses. Death dragons for sure had massively increased control over undead creatures.

With that thought sorted, yet knowing he would need to ask other dragons for what they had, Erick felt that his absolute damage reduction was probably the only part of his own [Greater Dragon Body] that really stood out.

That, and that the ability was still called [Greater Draconic Body], and not [Greater Benevolence Dragon Body]. Erick had expected his [Pristine Benevolence] to join with [Dragon Body], and for him to only have one, but apparently that was not how it worked.

Erick moved on.

[Pristine Benevolence] had changed.

Pristine Benevolence, instant, super long range, 10 MP per second + Variable

You are a radiant new beginning.

May your influence be eternal.

Perfected Benevolence, instant, super long range, 5 mana per second + Variable

You are a radiant new beginning.

May your influence be eternal.

A new name and half cost, so not much of a change there. Still…

Erick held out a hand and Benevolence scattered from his hand like a splash of silent lightning, filling the air and touching upon Yggdrasil’s boughs. Green moss spread across the glowing white bark, surrounding Erick like a spreading carpet. That growth rolled right under his naked bum, lifting him off of Yggdrasil’s hard bark and setting him upon a much softer seat. Hmm. Somewhat unexpected. He had tried a very small jolt, but gotten a large one.

All of his magic was like that now. Dragons got size modifiers even outside of their big forms, and Erick was still in the learning curve of sensing how his magic worked.

