Erick asked, “That didn’t hurt you, did it, Yggdrasil?”

“Not at all! I’m big and strong!” Yggdrasil asked, “Why the green carpet, though?”

“I was kinda wanting something softer to sit upon.” Erick continued to watch as the green carpet slowly continued to spread across this small part of Yggdrasil, slowing as it reached about ten meters away in every direction. A few ferns lifted here and there, like spouts of darker green among the soft green. “And I wanted to test out this new [Perfected Benevolence]. It seems to respond a lot better than [Pristine Benevolence], in that I can purposefully choose weal or woe. But besides that it’s kinda slippery sometimes here on your bark, and for what comes next I didn’t want to slip off, or maybe hurt you with… whatever happens.”

Erick was worried about claws.

“Okay! I like it!” Yggdrasil said, “People on my roots at Treehome fall off sometimes. This is a good solution. I’m fixing myself now.”

Before Erick could say another word, Yggdrasil flickered with [Perfected Benevolence].

Greenery spread out across the top of every single branch, and across the top of every single root, all across Yggdrasil’s entire five-kilometer wide reach and his twenty-kilometer long roots. That was some fast growth. Faster than Erick had expected. Faster than Yggdrasil had expected, too. The big guy was still a very bright, glowing white tree, but about a quarter of the light of his trunk, branches, and roots, vanished beneath normal green moss.

“… If you don’t like that, Yggdrasil,” Erick said, “You can pluck it off of you with some [Telekinesis].”

“… I will try it out,” Yggdrasil said cheerfully, “Life is about trying things out!”

“It is.”

Erick looked over the final box.

Blessing of Draconic Benevolence, instant, touch, 10,000 mana

Transform the recipient’s draconic nature into one of Benevolence.

Reading that, Erick reaffirmed his concern over having a split between his [Perfected Benevolence] and his [Greater Draconic Body]. They really should have been combined into [Greater Benevolent Dragon Body], right?

… Erick was just delaying.

He was nude for a reason; he didn’t want to destroy his clothes when he transformed.

With a final, muttered, “I don’t know how Jane does this,” Erick opened up a part of himself—

Like the unfurling of an emergency life raft, and feeling like he had been trapped until that very moment, Erick felt his senses vanish and then come back from one blink to the next.

The crook in the branches of Yggdrasil was smaller. That was Erick’s first impression. Where before he had been sitting in the center of a roughly 25 meter flat space, now he was very much not.

Erick scrambled to stop from falling, his great big claws ripping away deep green moss as something slapped back and forth behind him and some unfamiliar weights pulled down on his back. Leather snapped and pressures assailed Erick from unknown angles, touching unknown parts of him. He yelped, and it came out like a roar, as he fell off of Yggdrasil, smacking a branch on the way down before he was able to control himself with Benevolence. He stopped falling.

He pulled his tail back from outside of the Privacy, like pulling back his butt.

Slowly, Erick ascended back to where he had been before, stepping upon his [Perfected Benevolence] like it was solid light. He did not sit back down on Yggdrasil, though. The spot he had picked on the big guy’s branches was not large enough for him anymore. Instead, Erick sat in midair, his butt and long tail softly moving behind him like he was a comfortable cat. He was not comfortable, though he tried to get that way. This was who he was now, and it was what it was. Erick jerked his shoulder blades and felt out his body, trying to understand how those things were supposed to— Ah. It works like that. Yes. Erick extended his wings like they were a second pair of arms, and then he pulled them back, and like he was folding his arms, he folded his wings around him, down his back and around his neck. It took him a moment, but he got it done.

He did not expect the wings.

Normally, dragons did not have wings.

Normally, dragons had long bodies, fifty meters long or more. Rozeta was like an endless river of white scales when she was in her element. Erick did have a long neck, though, which he had expected, and which he had gained control of rather fast; it was like having a normal neck, but longer.

Simple stuff, really.

Erick sat there, midair in his Privacy, like he was standing on a platform of controlled lightning. And he inspected himself, both with his eyes, and with his mana sense.

Yup.

That was him.

His hands were almost like hands, but they were more paw-like, with very large white claws. Erick had clawed Yggdrasil a little bit when he had fallen off, which he was ashamed of…

“Ygg—” Erick paused. That was too deep. Too loud. Almost like a roar. He tried to be quieter and barely succeeded, “Yggdrasil.”

“… Father?”

Erick modulated his voice further, “Are you okay? Did I hurt you?”

“Nope!” Yggdrasil’s white eye reappeared like a tiny dot within Erick’s sight. And then it got larger. “You’re bigger now! You sound like you and feel like you, but you do not look like you!”

“You can come out too, Ophiel. Sorry for scaring you. For scaring both of you.”

Yggdrasil said, “I’m not scared! You’re you!”

Ophiel had briefly hid but he was embarrassed about that. In order to outdo his brother he rushed out of hiding, each Ophiel puffing up to his full size, transforming from little, eye-filled piles of wings, into expansive earth-angels, with little eyes decorating them like jewels. Ophiel sang loud and clear in choral guitars at first, but then in happy violins.

And then he tried to find a place on Erick’s shoulder.

Erick did not have a shoulder, or at least not one that was for sitting. His wings covered both his shoulders right now.

Ophiel settled for sitting on Erick’s head, like a crown of white feathers among a crown of …

Well.

A crown of black horns.

There was no easy way to put this, Erick supposed.

He was a fully black dragon, except for his eyes, his claws, his fangs, and the inside of his mouth. He had wings, a tail, and a body like a typical western dragon, with a large chest and a tapered stomach. A body sort of like a greyhound?

Big arms to more match his human body, legs with two major joints, a clear propensity to standing on all fours, with a tail twice as long as his body and wings that spanned maybe twice his body length, and a neck that raised his head high above it all. Yup. This was a western dragon.

Erick did not even want to look at the more nuanced parts of himself, but he did, and they were what they were.

Overall, Erick looked like a smaller copy of Melemizargo, but instead of spreading darkness in his wake, Erick spread sparking white light.

He also had Ophiel sitting on his head, like a crown of feathers among all of Erick’s new black horns, chirping away in happy sounds. Soon, all the other Ophiel rapidly found a spot to stand atop their father, from Erick’s back between his wings, extending their own wings to try —and very much fail— to match him for size, to a second Ophiel on his muzzle, and more than a few on top of his butt, trying to make their way out to his swishing tail. Ophiel didn’t get very far along that swaying path. That insolent tail did not stop wafting back and forth, sending Ophiel after Ophiel flying back into the sky.

Ophiel kept trying, though, chirping in excited violins each time they got thrown.

Erick hmm’d.

This was going to be a problem.

“Yup.” Erick said, “Don’t think I’ll be doing this much at all.”

He transformed back into himself, scattering squawking Ophiels away as he shoved the draconic parts of himself back into a small box. It was not a comfortable fit. It was not fun. And he didn’t get it fully right the first time, either. But eventually he did.

Mostly.

As Erick stood there on the soft green grass he felt a weight upon his head. Not much of a weight. Nothing that he would have really noticed, except for he was specifically checking out all of himself to make sure he was in the right body once again. Which he was.

“… But I have horns.”

In a mirror to his draconic form, six small black horns, three on each side, started at his temples and then curled backward among his black hair, forming something of a small crown. They were highly noticeable. But! He could probably sleep with them on his head, if he wanted? It might be… comfortable...

… Wait.

That was the wrong thought, Erick.

No horns at all was the much better solution.

A few more adjustments shoved those horns back in the box. Hopefully they would stay there.

Erick conjured some clothes and went home.

- - - -

Erick reappeared in the main foyer.

In half a moment, as Teressa’s surprised voice came from upstairs, and Erick heard Poi groan from inside the library, and Kiri called out, ‘What’s happening?!’ Erick realized something very important. A few things, actually.

Poi walked out of the library and into the foyer.

Erick looked down at Poi.

Poi looked up at Erick.

Poi started, “I think you got—”

“Yeah I think I got the height wrong.”

Teressa appeared from out of the second floor hallway, eyes wide. “You’re bigger!”

Erick sighed, guessing, “It’s only, like, 215 centimeters, or something. You’re still way taller.”

Teressa said, “Let’s make all the doors bigger.”

Kiri rolled over in her bed, mumbling loud enough for everyone to hear, even though no one was near her, “Please no yelling for non-important things.” And then she went back to bed.

Erick asked Teressa, “You don’t like the doors? You should have just told me.”

“Well… I’m… telling you now?”

Erick said, “I’ll be back.”

He got it right the second time.

He also adjusted some problematic doors.
