She had dark brown hair swept back into a tight, twisty shape. Alden didn’t know if the thin bands of white hair mixed in were natural graying or decorative. The sleeveless, belted yellow garment that she was wearing was short enough he thought it was closer to a shirt than a dress. It seemed to have been selected to match the day’s chore. Her legs were coated in the substance she was working on, as if she’d needed to wade through it recently.

A few minutes after they’d arrived, she took a break from the project and walked toward them. Alden jumped up from the bench, and Stuart gave him an amused look.

Oh yeah, sure dude, he thought. Like it’s so unreasonable to be nervous about meeting a powerful wizard who’s married to the Primary and whose house you wandered through uninvited a couple of months ago.

And that wasn’t even taking into consideration any of the other things she might be thinking about him.

“Olorn Mom,” said Stuart, “I’ve brought my guest to meet you. This is Alden.”

When she plucked a cloth from the table and brushed it over her hands, the powdery white substance on them vanished without leaving a mark on the dark cloth. She looked at Alden the whole time. Her face was thoughtful. Her lips wore a slight smile.

But the examination went on for longer than Alden would have thought was normal for a “Mom, meet my friend” moment.

Maybe it’s right for her to carefully consider Stuart’s guest. We can’t go by Emban-art’h’s behavior. She wasn’t even officially introduced.

In the periphery of his vision, he saw Stuart’s hands start to fidget. “Olorn Mom, Alden and I have been experimenting with his skill. He did want to change clothes before meeting you, but I told him…”

She shook her head.  “Alden, you’re very welcome no matter what you’re wearing. Of course. I was just thinking about how you look more like a <<personality match>> for my son Kofa than for our Stu.” She dropped the cloth back onto the table. “I don’t even remember the last time he arrived at the house without wearing some of the forest on him.”

That’s positive, right? It sounds positive.

“It’s an honor to visit your home.” Upon saying it, he wondered just how flowery an Artonan invited to visit this place might get with the language.

It might really be impossible for me to overdo it, he decided.

“Stu was very worried for you. I’m glad you’re well enough that he feels as though attacking you with sticks and leaves is a good thing to do,” she said. “And I’m sorry about the trouble in your homeland. We will give our full attention to the reports when they’ve been completed.”

Alden wondered who “we” included in this case. Was she speaking on behalf of the family, the entire force of knights and assisting wizards, or an even broader group?

It might just be a nice thing to say under the circumstances.

“How is it affecting your schooling?” she asked. “You would normally have instruction today. Esh-erdi and Stu have said…”

As she continued, Alden learned that what happened when Stu-art’h had a half-day-long argument with all the important adults in his life was at least one of them started doing Alden Thorn research. Over the past day, the Primary’s wife had developed—and then satisfied—interests in Alden’s living arrangements, educational status, and the whole post-disaster situation. All as told by Esh-erdi, who had apparently been contacted and extensively questioned.

Alden wasn’t sure what she made of it all, but there was at least a smidge of judgment against human competence going on. She didn’t like that he’d been deprived of the opportunity to recover in the company of his aunt and trusted instructors. And she wondered why he hadn’t been assigned a live-in tutor as soon as he made it to Anesidora, to help him make up for his educational interruption.

I’m totally calling Thegund an “educational interruption” in front of Lexi sometime.

“Maybe we should assign you a mentor. There must be human Avowed who are qualified and currently without a class to teach. We could have one accompany you until you feel you’ve reclaimed your lost footing. Would you like that?” She looked ready to enact the plan on the spot.

Alden pictured a professional tutor being paid summoning rates for following him around and slipping in lessons while he was having breakfast or brushing his teeth. Possibly planning excursions for him every weekend like Dalat-orni was doing for Kibby.

“I don’t think I have a need for that,” he said, aiming for a firm demeanor so that she’d believe him and no surprise, person-shaped gift would appear at the dorms to thank him for the windfall and force him to catch up with his Anesidoran peers in math.

“He’s advanced compared to his classmates already,” said Stuart. Proudly and with the total confidence of an alien who knew one human and had observed a grand total of four class periods.

“If you change your mind, just tell Stu,” she said. “For now, I think I can give you something else that will help. Come with me.”

Alden followed her into the cottage, glancing once over his shoulder to make sure Stuart was trailing after them.

“I haven’t made these in several years,” Olorn-art’h was saying as Alden stepped carefully around a narrow, waist-high pot. “But I still have a couple, and I can’t think of any reason why one wouldn’t work for a human.”

She climbed onto a stool and reached up for one of the magic webs overhead. She bopped it with a hand, and it drifted a foot or so until it stopped against its neighbor. The collection of small jars wrapped up in the nets didn’t rattle.

Alden was so busy absorbing the fact that the webs he’d thought were steadily attached to the ceiling could float around, that he didn’t look to see what the woman was collecting from the patch of web she’d just uncovered.

“Here it is! Stu, your guest will like this, won’t he?”

At first, Alden was surprised that Stuart was being consulted about the trinket in her hand, but Stuart seemed to be seriously examining the offering. He took it, closed his eyes, and held it in his palm, running his fingers over it.

We must be doing a traditional thing, Alden decided. Maybe Stuart is supposed to make sure that gifts are worthy of his guest. Or maybe just the first gift?

He wondered if Emban-art’h was in trouble for offering him the flatseed candy without submitting it for an inspection.

With nothing else to do but wait, Alden studied the potential gift that had been plucked from the net. It didn’t seem nearly as overkill as a whole tutor.

It was a flat spiral shape made of what looked like mauve-colored clay. The outer tip of the spiral was dully pointed and faintly glowing. The material, and the fact that it was rolled thin as a wire, made it look fragile.

“This is a gift I hope my guest will enjoy,” Stuart announced, handing it back to his parent, who turned to show it to Alden.

“It’s a <<study aid>>,” she explained. “When it’s in your ear, it helps you to focus on the written or spoken word, making you more attentive to your instructors and assignments when your thoughts are busy. It will last for a season.”

“You put it in your ear when you want its help,” said Stuart.

Looks a little big to fit in an ear, thought Alden. It must be magically resizable like the spell rings I’ve worn.

He was happy that the gift was one he could accept without feeling like it was too much. A handmade magical school supply was very sweet and very Artonan and not very intimidating.

And if he didn’t like whatever it did, he could just not use it. It sounds helpful, though. I wonder if it will work on video lectures.

That one science teacher who could put the entire lecture hall to sleep within thirty seconds would be a good test subject.

“This would be a wonderful help,” he said. “I’ll recall the one who made it for me every time I use it.”

Olorn-art’h smiled. Stuart smiled. Alden smiled.

“May I place it in your ear? I have to cast a spell to make it yours.”

Alden agreed readily and pointed at his right ear.

I think this is a success, he thought as she whispered a spell. She doesn’t seem to hate me. Stuart seems happy. One family member down!

He felt Olorn-art’h’s magic brush against him. It was a soft sort of touch. A tap. He’d gotten a lot of practice pretending not to notice with Porti-loth’s spells recently.

And if they were going to notice something odd about me, they would have by now.

He suspected he was missing a ton when it came to authority etiquette between wizards. Kindergarten pat-pats he knew. Everything else…

The Primary’s wife finished whispering. Then, she grabbed Alden’s earlobe firmly.

Wait…he thought. Wait a second. What exactly did we all mean when I said she could put it in my ear?

******

“You didn’t realize she was going to put it through your earlobe,” said Stuart as they left Olorn-art’h to her work a while later.

“Of course I did! I said yes, after all.”

I did not. Who expects a sudden piercing as a present?!

“You gasped.”

As they headed back toward the relative safety of his stream-side guest cottage, Alden was looking down at the little box that held his new study aid earring.

His Father did the thing with the questions and the hands. Olorn Mom put a hole in my ear. And he’s got so many other family members. If we keep escalating like this, I won’t survive. What happens when I officially meet Evul?

“You know the hole is gone already, don’t you? It doesn’t last forever.”

“It’s gone?” Alden reached up to feel his earlobe. “It really is! It’s a magic earring!”

“…we told you that.”

Alden instantly felt better. He opened the box to look at the spiral. “It lasts for a season?”

Stuart nodded. “I’ve used them before. I hope you’ll find it helpful.”

“I’m sure I will. I go back to school tomorrow. Sort of. Most of my classes are cancelled or by video.”

“You could stay here another day if you wanted,” said Stuart.

“I do want to. But I should go back. I got annoyed with the head of the program and one of my teachers and swore that I would attend every gym class.” That meeting felt far away now. “Can I sleep here and leave early in the morning? Early in your morning.”

“Yes.”

“Thanks. What’s on the itinerary for the next couple of hours?”

“I think you should take a bath. You look like someone hit you in the face with a bunch of leaves.”

******
