There’s something about Argat’s statement, but I can’t quite place it until I review the timeline. Calling a halt to the sparring, I ask Lang Yi and his people to form up for inspection. Fourteen men and six women, all sweaty and breathless from the day’s training. Though lacking the sheer bulk of career soldiers, there isn’t an ounce of fat on their overworked bodies, made slim and sinewy from years of hard work and months of good food. Rarely do I see a patch of skin unmarked by lash or scar, the signs of their ordeals yet to fade but their eyes burn with impassioned fervour. Addressing them as a group, I ask, “None of you have experience in the military?”

“No, Great One.”

I’ve given up trying to change their form of address, it’s a lost cause. They’re surprisingly stubborn about the weirdest things. “Before learning from Jochi and Argat, none of you had ever found Balance before?”

“No, Great One.”

Hmm... To have so many people reach Balance in six months of training is impressive. Glancing at the handsome monkey brothers, I dismiss the notion it's due to their effective teaching. They don’t strike me as the patient, scholarly type, so how did they manage such great results? One or two can be explained by natural talent and luck, but twenty out of a total eighty? With the other sixty close behind? Impossible. “Demonstrate the Forms.” After watching them for a few minutes, I realize they’re far more skilled than they should be considering the bare minimum amount of training they’ve had. Calling Baledagh out of the void, I voice my worries and ask him to take a long, hard look at these new recruits.

“Not a spectre in sight.”

Baledagh’s answer isn’t surprising, but I have to be sure. “And you’re certain they were only Tainted and not Defiled?”

“Couldn’t have done anything about it if they weren’t.” Offering me a mental shrug, Baledagh asks, “Why does it matter?”

“Because even though they were never wholly Defiled, being Tainted might have... I dunno, improved their talents or something. An increase in... Chi sensitivity or an endowment of aptitude.”

“So? We knew this already, sort of. All Defiled know how to fight, it’s part of the whole murderous cannibal package.”

Baledagh’s starting to sound like me, which I'm not thrilled with, but I’ve other things on my mind to deal with at the moment. “Except that these guys are an argument against that. You don’t have to be Defiled to learn how to fight like a Defiled. If we can figure out how and duplicate it, then we could raise massive armies of Martial Warriors in record time.”

“Okay,” Baledagh says with yet another mental shrug. “So where do we start?”

“...No clue. Whatever, it’s food for thought.” When Baledagh devours the Spectres, maybe a part gets left behind in the Tainted, and that helps them train. Hard to say considering Lang Yi and his cohorts are the only highly Tainted people I’ve come across who were also civilians. Everyone else was a military or martial figure of skill.

With all these wild thoughts and half-baked theories running through my head, I spend the rest of the day and most of the night tossing and turning in bed, so much so that Aurie and Mafu each voice their protests. Giving up on sleep, I set up a bowl of water for my daily Elemental practice. While I’ve yet to succeed in controlling water, I refuse to give up. I’m so close to being an awesome mage, even if it’s merely a water mage.

I can do cool stuff with water... right?

...

Whatever, it’s better than nothing.

Immersing my hands in the water, I circulate my Chi throughout my body, guiding without directing, controlling without holding, moving without thinking. This power is mine to use so long as I hold it, and the water is but an extension of my body. There is no beginning or end, only a -

“Boss. Boss!” Shaking me out of my meditative trance, Ravil’s eyes hold an emotion I’ve never seen from him: fear. “You need to come see this.”

Leaving Aurie and Mafu curled up together on the bed, I step out of my yurt and close the door. “Okay, so what’s the big – never mind. Got it.”

Barely an arm’s length away stands the Guardian Turtle of Ping Yao, peering down its nose at me with its dark, beady eyes. Its hooked beak opens wide as it unhinges its jaw, stretching taller than I stand from foot to head. The fetid stench of rotten fish and spoiled meat fills my nostrils as it lets loose with an earth-shattering scr-

No, scratch that.

It’s more of a high-pitched moan, like a happy sigh or air leaking from a balloon. It's cute and totally doesn't fit its image.

Having said its piece, the turtle closes its mouth and settles down beside my yurt. Only now do I notice my lovely wifey laying atop of the giant turtle’s head, as if it were a quin or wildcat. “Hi hubby,” she says while clinging to its head in a full-bodied hug. “Which do you think's a better name, Ping-Ping or Yao-Yao?”

Chapter Meme
