Even with that limitation, she still had more than enough to work on. Her staff and a few other casting tools required quite a bit of finesse to use to their fullest extent, though the staff in particular was capable of nearly autonomous copying and targeting of spells. But the biggest category of work Stella had was in the realm of wizardry. All three of her new class skills pertained to it in some way or another. It granted a new dimension to her spellcasting, but it wasn’t like she had a detailed book of instructions, since the wizard's journal skipped over all of the basics. Ushia’s explanations helped, but they were more guidelines than spell diagrams.

Nathan found himself guiding her through it, helping Stella feel her wizardry and giving feedback on it based on what he’d felt from Badud’s grid. All of them had used wizardry in one way or another, and he remembered everything he could of their spellcasting and tried to communicate it to Stella. She likened learning the new magic to learning to write with her other hand, but made rapid progress incorporating it into her spells. With Nathan’s memory skills and intimate familiarity with Badud’s wizardry, it wasn’t dissimilar to her being tutored by the Questor himself.

Nathan’s own practice was less obvious. He didn’t have any new items beyond the adamantium dagger, and his new skills were hard to practice without a Questor-level target to point them at.

How can I improve?

Permanent Talent 1: Arcane Nullfield 9

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 7

Permanent Talent 3: Airwalking 8

Class: End of Magic level 995

Bottomless Stamina: 100500/100500

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 763

Limitless Focus: 7630/7730

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Tranquility 4

Inspiration 8

Impulse 5

Mystical Discernment 7

Forewarning 6

Arcane Insight 9

Evasion 3

Mental Vault 8

Veracity 3

Parkour 10

Visibility Control 7

High-tier Disguise 9

High-tier Battle Cry 4

Aura Control 7
