Okay, that was just cool. Ren thought as Princess came to a stop on a sheer vertical surface. She'd walked right up and didn't even have to stop. He thought in amusement, and then used his own Amulet of the Spider to get off the saddle smoothly, and made it look like he was climbing off as if he was on the ground. He pulled himself towards the surface of the metal and adjusted his feet to stand beside Princess. When he had both feet firmly planted on the metal of the giant's armor, he let Princess go.

Ren grinned as the giant's eyes widened at his 'normal' movement trick on a vertical surface. What Ren didn't know was, everyone else there had seen him do the move, too; and stared at him as he stood on the giant's chest as if he stood on the ground. Ruck crawled over to them and stayed at a good distance away to cover the giant with webbing if it was necessary, and then Riley and Stacy walked up the webbing and armor to stand on either side of Princess and Ren.

“I warned you.” Ren said. “I told you that if you came here, you would die.”

“You haven't killed me yet.” The leader of the platoon said. “When the Chancellor gets word of this...”

“What will he do?” Ren asked and crossed his arms. “Will he send more of you to be slaughtered?”

“You didn't... slaughter...” The leader stopped talking as he heard several men scream in pain, then nothing.

“As you no doubt just heard, the opportunity to finish off your wounded was just taken.”

“You rotten piece of-”

“Shut up.” Ren interrupted him. “What part of 'you'll die if you come here' didn't you understand?” He asked. “If, for some reason, I didn't cure these people... did you really think that you'd be safe from the Brain Arthropod Grub infection?”

The leader didn't say anything, and Ren sighed.

“Your Chancellor is a stone cold stupid idiot.” Ren said. “He did this whole thing on purpose, didn't he?”

The leader of the platoon kept his mouth shut and didn't say anything; but, Ren knew it was what he didn't say that was the most damming evidence. He didn't deny it.

“I'm tempted to just kill you right away and let the Chancellor wonder for a few days.” Ren said. “When you don't come back when you planned, he'll start to worry. It'll eat at him, and then he'll have to send someone else to see what happened.”

The leader of the platoon nodded slightly, and Ren grinned.

“You saw what happened, right? Most of you died long before I let you get this close.”

“Let us!”

“You saw what happened to him.” Ren chuckled and motioned to the completely buried giant soldier. “He'll run out of air in another minute or so.” He said. “I could have covered all of you like that, and you'd never even know what had happened. You'd only see a bunch of fireballs, a blanket of white, and then nothing but blackness.” Ren smiled. “I didn't do that, so you could see what only a fraction of a defense can do.”

The leader of the platoon laughed. “I heard those things when they stopped firing.” He said. “You're out of ammunition.”

“We are.” Ren said. “For about 20 minutes, until I gather up the bolts and reload everything.” He smiled crookedly. “I only found out about this attack 2 days ago. I didn't have time to make more than what you see.” He let an evil grin spread across his face. “I can make this many more by the time another platoon of you shows up to bother me.”

The leader stopped talking as he thought about it.

“Yes, I can also make more reloads for them as well.” Ren said. “You see, I didn't 'only' make these for the two days. I did lots of other things, just to fill the time before your attack.”

The leader didn't say anything, and Ren chuckled.

“So, you see... If I decided to dedicate some actual time to making them...”

The leader nodded slightly, despite his urgent need to deny the truth.

“Let's let the Chancellor know of your spectacular failure.” Ren said, and opened the messaging system. He sent a quick message off to Lara, the Sage of Ages, and explained what had happened and what was going on.

*

“You have got to be kidding me!” Lara said. “I knew he'd succeed, but... but...” She typed up a message in reply and asked why she hadn't gotten any XP for the battle. Ren sent her one back to tell her that it technically wasn't over yet, because he still had the leader of the platoon from the Guardians of the Land captured.

“Oh, no.” Lara said. “He's going to ask me to send a message to the...”

Another message appeared, and she sighed.

“Dammit, sometimes I hate being right all the time.” Lara said, told him she was going right away, and closed the messaging system. She got up from her desk in the Aurora Library, and went to her closet. This is not going to be fun. Lara thought as she went into her assigned space. I really hope they don't take it out on me.

Lara chose the Giant Kingdom from the drop down menu and stepped out of her closet into the Library in the Giant Kingdom. Just as before, the books no longer hid her door from view. The giant Librarian perked up as she saw the Sage of Ages appear.

“You're here!” The Librarian said and knelt on the floor. “Is it good news?”

“That depends.” Lara said. “Which side were you hoping would win?”

The Librarian looked at her with wide eyes, and then sighed. “Oh, no.”

“The Dreaded Foe says he has captured the leader of the platoon that was sent, and has... dispatched... the others.”

“Good god.” The Librarian said, and sat down on the floor. “I... what... what do I do?”

“Please send a message to the Chancellor to come here.” Lara said, and the Librarian stood up. “Tell him to bring the Far-Seeing Mirror, too.”

The Librarian nodded, and hurried out of the Library. Lara thought that was odd, because she always had a messenger to run errands. Out of curiosity, she peeked out around the corner of the Librarian's reception desk, and gasped.

The entire Library was empty.

*

Ren closed the messaging system and looked at the leader of the platoon. “I'm not sure how long it'll be, but a message is being sent to the Chancellor.”

The leader laughed. “He's not going to come and rescue me, or bargain for my life.”

“I don't expect him to do anything of the sort.” Ren laughed, too. “I gave my word that you would die if you came here, and I'm going to keep my word.” He said. “What I expect your Chancellor to do, is negotiate to stop me from unleashing the Brain Arthropod Grubs on him and the government.”

“WHAT?!?”

“Now that I know he knows all about the grubs, either he, or someone in the government that he knows about, is the one that's behind killing your own people.” Ren shook his head. “There's no way I am going to let this stupid thing continue.”

“By letting more of them infect the people?!?”

Ren laughed again as he walked down the giant's chest to the ground, then Princess and the dogs followed him. “There's lots of things that I can do.”

“But... you...” The leader shook his head. “You're a monster!”

“I'm the monster?” Ren asked. “Who's the one that led a bunch of trained soldiers across half of a continent to kill defenseless men, women, and children?”

“There's only one child.” The leader scoffed, then realized what he'd said and clamped his mouth shut. He felt the webbing get loose as it started to dissolve, and he tried to yank his hands out. He got one hand free, and as the other one was just about to pull free, he was hit by another mass of webbing that covered him up to his neck.

“No!” The leader exclaimed. I was so close!

“It shouldn't be long now.” Ren said, as he stood on the ground and looked up at the giant.

*

Lara waited patiently, even though she knew that hundreds of lives hung in the balance. She normally wouldn't be involved in things of this scale; but, considering all the things Ren has done so far in the game, it wasn't that surprising that she had gotten pulled into this whole mess, too.

The Librarian came back into the Library, and Lara ran back to stand by her door. She left it open, just in case she needed to make a quick getaway, and the Librarian came around the desk. She moved her chair out of the way, and knelt on the floor beside Lara.

“He'll be right here.” The Librarian said. “But... he's not... um... happy... right now.”

Lara chuckled. “I'd say that's an understatement.”

The Librarian nodded as the door to the Library was shoved open with a loud bang, and then the Chancellor was there with two Guardians of the Land as bodyguards.

“You don't normally need bodyguards to go outside.” Lara said, and the Chancellor frowned.

“These are dangerous times.”

“They don't have to be.” Lara said. “When you asked, I told you what needed to be done.”

The Chancellor waved her words away, and dismissed her advice just like that.

“Ignoring it won't make it go away.”

“Killing it will.”

Lara sighed. “How many times can I tell you the same thing? You can't-”

“Contact the Dreaded Foe.” The Chancellor ordered. “I will see him with my own eyes.”

“Did you bring the Far-Seeing Mirror?” Lara asked.

The Chancellor nodded to one of the guards, who took out the large mirror and set it beside the receptionist's desk. Lara walked over to it, and brought up her special spells and chose the appropriate spell for two way communication. She touched the mirror with both hands, imagined talking to Ren face-to-face, and poured nearly half of her Mana into it.

*

Ren received a popup to accept a video chat. A what?!? He thought surprised, and selected accept. I've never heard of anything like that in the game! A large window, nearly 10 feet square, opened up in front of him. Lara was there, the same size as him, and behind her, stood the Chancellor and two Guardians of the Land.

“He's the Dreaded Foe?” The Chancellor asked, and then started to laugh.

“Yes, it is I.” Ren said in the deepest voice he could muster, then frowned. “And I assume you are the idiot that sent trained soldiers to kill defenseless men, women and children.”

The pure hatred in Ren's voice sent shivers up Lara's spine.

I... I didn't know he... Lara shook her head. He sounds so mean! She thought, surprised.

“There was only one child.” The Chancellor said, then realized what he said. Lara turned to stare at him, and he sighed. “Dammit.”

Ren smiled and bared his teeth. “Yes, there was only one.” He said. “I sincerely hope that you'll be disappointed to hear that he's fine.”

“WHAT?”

“Your soldiers never made it to the camp, you pompous fool.” Ren said. “They are all dead, except for the leader of the platoon you sent.” He stepped aside, and a good portion of the battlefield could be seen through the Far-Seeing Mirror. “That huge pile of webbing has a soldier in it.” He said. “I'd say he's just about out of air.” He stepped back in front of the view. “The leader will be joining him soon.”

Oh, Ren. Lara thought. I'm so sorry.

“Go ahead and kill him.” The Chancellor said. “I'll be sending more men soon.”

“No, you won't.” Ren said. “What you're going to do, is stop your stupid plan to use the Brain Arthropod Grubs to keep political power in the Giant Kingdom.”

The Chancellor's mouth fell open in surprise. How does he know? “I have no such plan.”

Ren laughed. “I don't need a lie detector to tell that was the biggest lie you've ever told.” He smiled. “I don't expect you to admit it, so I'm going to tell you what I'm going to do.”

“Go ahead.” The Chancellor said. “Let's hear it.”

“One of these nights, when you're all snug in your bed... I'm going to slip one of the grubs into your ear.”

“You're WHAT?!?”

“You'll never know when it's going to happen, either.” Ren said. “It could be tomorrow night, or next week, or even next month.” He grinned as he saw the Chancellor's face drain of all color. “I should warn you, though. The people that have had them in their heads, actually do remember the things they've done.”

“That's not true!” The Chancellor said, and clamped his mouth shut.

“It is.” Ren said. “I have about a hundred witnesses to that fact.”

“A... a hundred?!?” The Librarian asked, and leaned back against her desk. “So many...”

“I'm keeping them fed and clothed, so they're fine for now.” Ren said. “I had reached out to the Chancellor and the government there to get aid, and then seek asylum for them.” He shook his head. “He sent soldiers to help them die instead.”

“How could you?” The Librarian asked the Chancellor, with tears in her eyes. “You... you told us... you were going to bring them back!”

The Chancellor glared at Ren. “You're messing up everything!”

“You have no idea what I can do to mess things up for you.” Ren said. “They don't call me the Dreaded Foe for nothing.”

“I'll see you hanged for this!”

“I'd slip right out of your hangman's rope, you ignorant fu...” Ren could clearly see the wide eyes of both Lara and the Librarian. “...ah... fool.”

Lara smiled, and the Librarian shook her head.

“Will you keep doing what you're doing and send more of your elite soldiers to die horrible and gruesome deaths, then get an unwanted brain hitchhiker... or... leave the refugees alive and send supplies until they can get back home?” Ren asked the Chancellor. “So, what do you say?”
