“What the hell?” The leader asked out loud as both he and all of his soldiers came to a stop inside the open end of an equilateral triangle made of iron that was 27 feet tall. Since they were only 25 feet tall, they couldn't see over the top.

*

Teepo! Ren thought as he renewed the Connections between his rings and cloak, and Teepo flew over to land on top of the wall. Ren took out the Wand of Ventriloquism and cast Magic Mouth on Teepo.

“HALT!” Ren said through Teepo. “The people you are chasing are under my protection!”

“Who the hell are you?” The leader asked, knowing the voice was coming from somewhere on top of the wall, but he couldn't see anyone there. Ren thought about the most menacing voice he could think of, and cast Magic Mouth on Teepo again.

“I... am the Dreaded Foe.”

“Ha ha ha!” One of the giant soldiers laughed. “The Dreaded Foe conjured a wall to keep us out! Hahaha!”

“Quiet!” The leader of the platoon said. “This wall isn't going to stop us.”

“It's not meant to.” Ren relayed through Teepo. “I'm just delaying you long enough for the refugees to get away.”

The leader shook his head. “They can't get away. We know where they're going.” He smiled. “We will get there and remove them as a threat.”

Ren rode Princess over to the wall to let his Fear Aura, that was boosted with two Screaming Terror enchantments, cover the soldiers.

“If you come to the camp, YOU WILL ALL DIE!”

*

The soldiers all froze as they felt an immense presence approach.

“What... what is that?” One of the soldiers whispered, and barely moved his mouth. “I'm so scared I... I can't move!”

The leader felt the same thing, and even though he had some experience with strong presences, he couldn't move, either. What Ren didn't realize was that the SPECIAL bonus doubled effects as well. The Guardians of the Land were suffering through a Fear Aura that was boosted by four enchantments of Screaming Terror.

“We... aren't afraid... of you.” The leader said, as he adjusted to the overwhelming fear. He took one step, and then another. The soldiers beside him saw him move, and they doubled their resolve. One of them took a step, and clenched his fists.

“You have been warned.” The menacing voice said. “If you come to the camp seeking death, you will find it; for I shall give it to you without question.”

A moment later, 4 Elemental Grenades made of Fire came over the wall, then 4 more every second for 10 seconds. They exploded when they were within 5 feet of the giants and covered 15 feet of area each. Since the damage of an Elemental Grenade was 12 to 16 at Intermediate, and was doubled because of the SPECIAL bonus, the 40 grenades would had caused 960 to 1280 damage to the giants if spread out over their whole group. It was unfortunate that the giants were gathered together so tightly, because each one was hit by no less than 5 blasts; and some had been hit by 8 and 10 of them.

The giants scurried out of the improvised trap to avoid receiving any more damage, and then the ominous feeling disappeared. The soldiers collapsed onto their knees, and some of them were tired from the exertion of just moving under such a powerful Aura. They had been fighting so hard to move through that Aura to escape, that when it was gone, they had felt both relief and shame.

“S-s-sir! Are we sure we should go through with this?”

“Quiet!” One of the others said and punched the giant in the face. “Never question the leader's orders!”

The giant rubbed his face as he stood up. “You just felt what I felt! How the hell are we going to fight through that?”

“We already did.” The leader said, and everyone looked at him. “We all took a step, didn't we? We all got out from under it's influence, didn't we?”

Most of the soldiers nodded, except for 2 of them. They had been closest to the wall and hadn't moved at all.

“No one is going to keep us from our duty.” The leader said and stood up. “We will follow the Chancellor's directive.” He said and charged forward into the iron wall. It was only an inch thick, so it crumbled from the impact and the leader fell to the ground. The iron had twisted and broken apart, and he took several deep slashes and gashes from the shards before the wall disintegrated. When he looked up, everything he could see was covered in a thick white mist.

*

Ren had emptied a wand full of Obscuring Mist behind the iron wall barrier and covered a good-sized area with them. He'd spread the 50 spells out and scattered them around, and tossed several steel squares to random spots and added the same scream he was using for the early warning system.

Stat Change!

Fear Aura (Mastered). Causes Fear instead of Awe in those around you. Current distance: 50 feet.

Notice!

Connection has lapsed.

Teepo had landed on his shoulder a moment later, and told him the giants had felt when the Aura stopped being boosted and were now getting up. Ren nodded and Princess took off at full speed, then Ren heard the iron wall being destroyed.

We got out of there just in time. Ren thought as they quickly caught up to the fleeing giants. Princess started to pass them, and several of the giants stared at him. “I've got some defenses around the camp!” Ren hollered. “I filled the trench with water, too!”

That wasn't why they were staring at him, however. Ren was still standing up as Princess ran, and they were amazed that he was keeping his balance as she rocked back and forth. He made it back to the early warning line, and deactivated several of the enchantments so that the refugees wouldn't activate them by mistake.

Most of the giants passed by quickly, but one lagged behind. Ren had Princess run over to the woman, and he recognized her. She had been the caregiver for the child giant, and Ren came up beside her. She was gasping for air as her gait started to falter. She had a harder time running because she had the child giant on her back. Ren concentrated on his Command Aura and spoke.

“STOP!” Ren hollered to her, and she was startled out of her trance-like state. She stumbled, and fell to her knees, and Princess stopped next to her. Ren hopped off of Princess, attached the cart to her, and told the woman to sit the child in the cart. He climbed back into the driver's seat, and used a Major Healing wand on the female giant.

“Go, Princess!” Ren said when the child was seated properly, and Princess took off with the child in the back.

“Sabastian!” The woman exclaimed, and reached out a hand for the retreating cart.

“I'm taking him to the defensive line!” Ren hollered to her. “Come on, let's go!”

The female giant caught her breath and nodded to him. She had regained a lot of her Stamina, even with that short of a break, and she used her Stamina to full effect. She quickly caught up to Princess and the cart, and paced beside them.

They really can run fast when they have to. Ren thought as he activated the early warning system. They arrived at the defensive line only a few minutes later. “Get ready to open fire!” He yelled to the dwarves as the cart came to a stop. The female giant picked the child up in her arms, with tears in her eyes, and stumbled over to the moat. Ren saw several of the giants were already in the water and they tried to walk across the moat. The water was up to their necks, though; so, Ren used the Wand of Spanning 4 times to make a 20 foot wide and 20 foot long bridge for them to cross.

“Go! It'll only last 5 minutes! Go!” Ren urged them, and the remainder of the giants walked across the temporary bridge. The ones in the water used the bridge as a guide and pulled themselves across the rest of the distance, then climbed out of the water. When all of the giant refugees were all across, Ren heard the giant screams from the early warning system and ran to the spot between two of the Ballistas so his Aura would cover both, and activated his Hail of Arrows ability.

“OPEN FIRE!” Ren yelled, and all of the dwarves pulled the triggers.

They had already taken the time to aim; so, they let loose with as many shots as they could. The two Automatic Ballistas within Ren's Aura shot the most, much to their surprise. Ren had neglected to tell them that his ability would produce 3 more bolts, and that the SPECIAL bonus would double that effect. For every 6 foot long bolt they shot, 7 bolts flew towards their target.

All of the dwarves traversed their shots across the group of fully-armored giant soldiers, and fired on full automatic. Ren watched as a hail of bolts arced through the air to come down on the attacking giants. No where near the full amount of bolts that were fired had hit the Guardians of the Land; mainly because they were swiftly moving targets. Of the 50 bolts fired from each Ballista from the first volley, they were lucky if even 5 of those had hit; but, even if only 10% of the shots hit, 5 shots times 7 Ballistas was 35 hits on giants that were too big to dodge such swiftly moving projectiles.

Ten of the 30 giants had been run through immediately and killed; and 5 more had been seriously wounded. They could still fight, but with a 6 foot bolt sticking out of your chest, you weren't an effective fighter by any stretch of the imagination. The dwarves switched places, and the Guardians of the Land were that much closer.

Ren almost laughed, because at this point, it was like shooting fish in a barrel. The two Ballistas within his Aura had chosen the same giant to take out. The two bolts fired were magically increased to 14 bolts, and they tore the poor man apart as if he didn't exist. All that was left was a large puddle of blood, and small pieces of metal, skin, and bone.

“Ooo.” Teepo said. “That had to hurt.”

“Aim for the legs!” Ren commanded, and Princess came over to him. He undid her cart and stored it, then looked at her. “Do you want to go it alone, or do you want me to come along?”

Princess took a moment, and huffed. Along, please. She thought to him. We will crush them!

Ren nodded and climbed up into the saddle.

“I'm out!” The dwarf at the closest Ballista said after taking out two more giants.

“Me, too!” The next one said after taking out three more. The sentiment was echoed for each machine, except for one. It was manned by the first dwarf who had taken a practice shot, and he was taking his time to aim and shoot the Ballista. Unlike all the other dwarves, he was timing his shots; he missed a lot, since the giants he was shooting at knew they were being shot at, and tried to avoid as much of the projectiles as they could.

“Princess!” Ren said as he used the Major Healing wand on himself to replenish his Mana, and she ran over to the only dwarf that had ammo left. Once withing Ren's Aura, the bolts were magically increased from 1 to 7.

“Hey, thanks!” The dwarf said, and turned his Ballista to full automatic. He moved his shots across the remaining giants, and took out another 3 of them and wounded 2 more, before he ran out of ammunition. “Good luck.” He said to Ren, and Princess took off at a run.

“Ruck! Riley! Stacy!” Ren yelled, and they three of them ran over to him and Princess. “Are you ready for this?” He asked them.

Princess brayed loudly, the dogs barked, and Ruck gave him a 'thumbs up' gesture. There were 4 unhurt giants left, and they looked very, very angry. Ren made the Connection between two Screaming Terror rings and his Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak, and activated the enchantments.

“Let's go!” Ren said and the group ran towards the last of the giants. His Dreaded Foe title came into effect as his Aura passed over the oncoming giants, and Ren shot Wall of Iron spells in front of them. It blocked the giant's view momentarily, and Ren used the wall spell again to make ramps up the wall he'd just cast. He felt Princess' exultation as she ran up the ramp, put her head down, and smashed through the top of the iron wall as if it wasn't there. She jumped at the end of the ramp and flew through the air; then impacted the face of the giant in front at the same time as the shards from the iron wall did.

The giant's face was pulverized from the impact, and he died instantly; long before any kind of stun or knock out effect could take place. The giant's head snapped back and broke his neck, too; so, if he'd somehow survived the high speed impact to the face, he would have died from a broken neck instead. Ren had the bridge wand ready and shot it between the giant they were on, and the next giant. The stone bridge formed instantly between the dead giant's back and the chest of the giant behind him; and it caught the dead giant before he could fall backwards from the momentum.

Unfortunately for the live giant that the bridge was now attached to, his forward momentum was canceled by the dead giant's backward momentum and they both stopped moving as Princess ran across the 20 foot bridge. She smashed him in the face with her horns, and Ren heard several bones break. The giant didn't die instantly like the first one, mainly because Princess had lost a lot of her speed; but, he was knocked unconscious and dropped to the ground still attached to the dead one by the bridge. Princess hopped off the bridge before it hit the ground and ran towards the next giant. The giant was encompassed in a giant fireball for a second, and then by a ton of webbing.

*

What the hell is happening!?! The leader thought as every single one of his men were systematically reduced to corpses. He had stopped running when Ren's Aura had covered him and his men, and watched helplessly as he looked at his remaining men. Two of them were seriously hurt, and the last had just been covered in fire and webbing.

A golden-armored ram had just run up the webbing somehow and slammed into, what he thought, was his soldier's head. The pile of webbing slumped down, and the ram ran back down the webbing and faced towards him.

“Ahhh!” The leader yelled as two vice like things gripped his wrists. He looked down, and much to his surprise, there was a tiny metal dog hanging from each of his wrists. He clenched his fists and was about to punch them, when they let go and ran away. The next second, the bottom half of his body was engulfed in a ton of webbing. He reached down and tried to pull the webbing off; but, when he dug his fingers into the mass of webs, they stuck to it and he couldn't move.

He watched as the golden-armored ram trotted over to him, up the mass of webbing, and then slowed down to a walk as it came up onto his armor. It stopped at the chest plate, and the leader stared at the little person that sat on the ram's back.

*

