While Ren worked on his Hold Breath Skill, he made a Connection between his Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak and his Screaming Terror ring. He didn't activate the ring, though. He wasn't trying to boost his Aura's Fear, all he wanted was to make the Connection and use the skill. After 2 minutes, he received a popup.

Stat Change!

Connection Level 7 (Beginner 0%)

I've had a few skills that were really close to leveling up. Ren thought, then continued to make a Connection every 2 minutes.

It took another half an hour for Ren to get Hold Breath up to Intermediate Level 1. Since it was a sub skill of Staying Power, it brought that up from Intermediate Level 6, past Level 7, and halfway to Level 8. The Connection skill was up to Beginner Level 8, too. He equipped his armor bodysuit for a second to dry off, and equipped his Travelling Clothes again.

The entire time he was grinding Hold Breath, he had constantly enchanted the gold; then crushed it, and repaired it. He brought Iron Grip up to Intermediate Level 5, Repair and Metal Repair up to Intermediate Level 8, and then received a popup for Enchanting.

Stat Change!

Enchanting Level 5 (Advanced 0%) - You can now use 5 runes per glyph

Damn, I forgot to count how many times I did it. Ren thought, then shrugged. Now, what else can I do?

Ren remembered to concentrate on his Fear Aura as he looked through his skills. Archery! He thought, and took out a springy tree. He cut it in three pieces, and made 3 normal-sized bows out of it. He used some Spider Silk String and attached it to the bows.

Stat Change!

Bow Making Level 5 (Beginner 0%)

The pieces that were left over from the springy tree were made into arrows, and Ren let the system fletch them because he didn't have any feathers. He got 10 arrows from each tree section.

Stat Change!

Arrow Making Level 5 (Beginner 0%)

I'm really tempted to keep going, but I have something else to level up first. Ren thought, stored two of the bows, sewed up a quiver and gathered up the 30 arrows to put in it. He walked over to stand a hundred feet away from the large giant target and drew the first arrow from the quiver.

Ren aimed at the knee of the giant cutout, activated his Hail Of Arrows ability, and shot the arrow. A Mana-generated arrow appeared beside it, and then another, and all three arrows flew across the distance to strike the giant cutout's knee.

Three arrows? Ren asked himself. No way! The SPECIAL bonus doubles that, too?!?

The first magic arrow cost 10 Mana to generate, and the second magic arrow was free; so, since it was coming from his Mana Pool, he could shoot just over 410 arrows before he had to refill his Mana Pool. He could get another 138 shots if he depleted his Mana bar as well. He shot 5 more arrows and received a popup.

Stat Change!

Archery Level 2 (Beginner 0%)

Hail of Arrows Level 2 (Beginner 0%)

Connection Level 9 (Beginner 0%)

They both must have been close to leveling up already, too. Ren thought, and shot off another 20 arrows. They were magically tripled, and he leveled up both skills again. He ran to the target and gathered up the arrows. He ran back to his position and shot another 20 arrows, then gathered them up and shot again. He had dismissed the other popups, but this one he looked at.

Stat Change!

Archery Level 5 (Beginner 0%). You can now shoot 5% faster. Dexterity +1.

Hail of Arrows Level 5 (Beginner 0%). You now produce 2 copies of any projectile fired within your Aura's area of effect. Mana cost reduced from 10 Mana per projectile to 9 Mana.

SPECIAL x2: Dexterity +1

The next arrow he shot produced 4 magic copies, and Ren grinned. He shot arrows for another 20 minutes, gathering them up and shot again 5 more times. He dismissed the level up popups until he received the popup that he wanted.

Stat Change!

Archery Level 1 (Intermediate 0%). You can now shoot 10% faster (total 15%). Dexterity +2.

Hail of Arrows Level 1 (Intermediate 0%). You now produce 3 copies of any projectile fired within your Aura's area of effect. Mana cost reduced from 9 Mana per projectile to 8 Mana.

SPECIAL x2: Dexterity +2

Ren was tempted to keep leveling it, but he figured it was better to get as many skills as possible up to Intermediate, and then he could level whatever he wanted.

Stat Change!

Fear Aura Level 9 (Expert 0%)

Hmmm, what's next. Ren thought as he gathered up the arrows. I can do Glass Cutting!

Ren ran over to the table he'd made and took out a piece of glass after seeing the skills were at Beginner Level 4. The piece of glass he had was a large pane. If he was careful, he should be able to level the skill up fast. He cut the pane in half, then each half in half again. Once the pieces were at a size that was easier to cut, He cut them into even strips a quarter of an inch apart. After he'd made 25 consecutive cuts, he received another popup.

Stat Change!

Glassworking Level 5 (Beginner 0%). You can now manipulate glass 5% faster.

Glass Cutting Level 5 (Beginner 0%). You can now cut glass 5% faster.

Ha! Ren thought. They're both now 10% because of the SPECIAL bonus and add together, since one is a sub skill of the other. He slid the thin pieces he cut aside and cut the next piece of glass. Since he was only doing straight cuts, and with his Fast Craft speed of 25% doubled as well, he went through the entire pane of glass in only a few minutes. Ren was still having a hard time believing how fast he was leveling up his skills from the Beginner stage, and then he got another popup.

Stat Change!

Glassworking Level 1 (Intermediate 0%). You can now manipulate glass 10% faster.

Glass Cutting Level 1 (Intermediate 0%). You can now cut glass 10% faster.

“Holy crap.” Ren said, and looked at the hundreds upon hundreds of perfectly cut pieces of glass. “I... I wonder...” He said, and turned the pieces of glass 90 degrees, so that the cuts he already made were across, and he used his cutting tool to score along a dozen pieces to make the long pieces of glass that were a quarter inch wide, into quarter inch squares. He did this several times, and when he was almost done of the last cut across a single handful of glass pieces, he received another level for each skill.

“No way.” Ren said. “Each one counts as a separate cut, even though I'm cutting them together!”

Happy to have discovered a really quick way to make a dozen cuts with only a single stroke, he proceeded to cut up all of the glass pieces. By the time he had finished cutting everything on the table into little squares, he had dismissed 8 other popups for level increases; and then he stopped and stared at the last one.

Stat Change!

Glassworking Level 1 (Advanced 0%). You can now manipulate glass 20% faster.

Glass Cutting Level 1 (Advanced 0%). You can now cut glass 20% faster.

“Wow.” Ren said, completely amazed that the more he did, the faster he got. “I bet Charles is kicking himself right now!”

********

“Goddammit.” Charles said when he received the scathing text message on his cell phone from the CEO's secretary. Even though he thought trying to fix the game progression when no one was in the office was a good idea, it had backfired spectacularly.

Not only didn't I delay Ren long enough for the attack to happen, the game for some reason gave him my SPECIAL bonus! Charles thought and shook his head. He had typed up a long explanation about the situation and sent it to the secretary; but, he wasn't sure why she was so mad. Right after he was hired, he heard the story about what had happened when the kid got stuck in the game, and how the tech department had handled it.

It was actually a smart idea. Charles thought. It solved the problem right away. I don't quite agree with the method they used; but, it gave me the idea to go in and actually fight him. He sighed. I know I hurt him a lot... but that didn't seem to make any difference.

The cell phone beeped and he read her response.

“Oh, come on.” Charles said. “He's not a 'valuable resource that should be protected'.” He laughed. “He's just a kid!”

Charles typed up an appropriate response and sent it. He received an immediate reply that threatened both his manhood and his life. He responded that it wasn't necessary to resort to threats, because he didn't break the rules at all.

*

“He is such an idiot!” Elise exclaimed, and typed up a message saying that it wasn't the rules that he broke, but the trust that Ren had in the game developers and the tech department.

*

Charles looked at her message and shrugged. He told her that his job was to manage the Giant update in the game, not public relations. His phone beeped again, and he decided he'd heard enough from her and turned off his phone.

I bet he's grinding like crazy right now. Charles thought as he climbed into bed and yawned. He really needed to get some sleep. Tomorrow was going to be a long day.

********

Ren hadn't been sure what to do with all of the glass pieces, so he had sewed up a sack and put them all inside and stored it. He had continuously made the Connection between his cloak and his Screaming Terror ring, and another popup appeared.

Stat Change!

Connection Level 1 (Intermediate 0%). You can now make 2 connections between objects with similar properties at the same time.

Ren went to the forge and took out the mold he'd made long ago for a raised platform ring. He poured out one and absorbed the heat from it. Once it was enchanted with Screaming Terror, he put it on the finger that didn't have a ring on it. He made a Connection between the two Screaming Terror rings and the Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak, and poured 4 more rings. He slipped off the 4 Protection rings from his other hand and stored them.

Now that all of the fingers on that hand were free, Ren enchanted the new steel raised platform rings with Screaming Terror, and put them on. He made a Connection between three of them, then made another Connection between them and the cloak. His Mana Pool drained slowly, and for 10 minutes, he kept making as Many Connections between all of the rings and the cloak as he could keep straight in his head. He started to get a headache from all the concentration he was doing, and trying to maintain so many connections at once.

Stat Change!

Connection Level 2 (Intermediate 0%)

Ren let all of the connections lapse, and sighed in relief as the pain in his head eased away. He thought about what to make next, then remembered the toy boat and how Nathalia had said it should be something else. As soon as he thought that, Princess ran by and he grinned.

That's actually a good idea. Ren thought, and opened the cart plan he had. He remembered that he had Princess' measurements memorized, because he had needed them to make her armor. He altered the cart pattern and added Princess to it, and then scaled it down to toy size. He saved the plan, and got a popup.

Stat Change!

Pattern Making Level 8 (Beginner 0%)

“Ha.” Ren said, then remembered he hadn't finished converting all of Thern Neram's old designs from the dwarf style to normal, and for the next several minutes, made slight alterations to the remainder of the plans and saved them. It only took 20 plan alterations to get to the next level; so, he kept going.

Geez, the last time I made patterns like this, it was right before I found the diamond mine. Ren thought. Of course, that made him think of Nathalia; and how he had fought so hard to not take her right then and there that night. He grinned at the thought, then again when he finished another pattern and another popup appeared.

Stat Change!

Pattern Making Level 1 (Intermediate 0%). You can now make your own patterns for things, and do not need to alter an already existing pattern.

Nice. Ren thought, and remembered the tiara he'd made for Lara. He had made that one without a pattern, and now he could make it a pattern so it could be saved. That also gave him the idea to alter it. Since the plan itself was quite tiny, he started making slight alterations to it and saving all of the variations. With diamonds, without diamonds, some diamonds, cascading gems, all big diamonds, all different sized diamonds, diamonds in patterns, a flat band with no holes, no curves, all curves, all holes, twisted like a pretzel, and anything else he could think of. He also did combinations of all the options he could think of.

Ren discovered it took 50 patterns to go up a level on Intermediate; so he made hundreds of alterations to the tiara, and thanks to his Fast Crafting bonus, saved a pattern about every 3 seconds. By the time 15 minutes had passed, he had 300 patterns done, and had leveled Pattern Making to Intermediate Level 7.

Now I really feel like I'm cheating. Ren said and chuckled, then shook his head. I have to keep going, or I'll waste it. He did another 150 patterns just because he could; and received another popup.

Stat Change!

Pattern Making Level 1 (Advanced 0%). It is now much easier for you to discover the patterns for things.

Notice!

Your inherent knowledge of how things are constructed has increased to an unprecedented point.

Intelligence: +5

SPECIAL x2: +5

Ren started to chuckle, and then he received another popup.

Stat Change!

Staying Power Level 8 (Intermediate 0%).

Aura (Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak) (Mastered). Causes a menacing feeling, and small creatures flee from your presence. Current distance: 50 foot radius

Ren snorted a laugh, selected all of the altered patterns he'd made of the tiara, and deleted them all.

They served their purpose. Ren thought, and looked around. The armor, shields and weapons that the dwarves had equipped glowed, and he shook his head as Enchanted Eyes leveled up to Intermediate Level 2.

Let's make some toy Princesses! Ren thought with amusement, and took out a piece of wood. Using the various tools that he had, and the pattern he'd made, it didn't take him long to carve out a really nice representation of Princess.

Notice!

You have unlocked a new skill: Wood Carving Level 1 (Beginner 0%). This sub skill under Woodworking allows you to carve things out of wood. Higher levels will increase the speed of carving, and the quality of the work.

Ren chuckled as he filled the mold for the metal parts of the wind-up engine, then made the wood cart to attach it to. He covered the working parts so you wouldn't get your fingers or anything caught in the moving parts. With the engine taking up so much room, he had to make the cart's sides a little higher so that you could still put things into the cart. He dyed the small wooden Princess to the right color, dyed the cart to a dark brown, then attached them together.

