Small wheels had to be made to put on the wooden Princess' front hooves, and then a small wooden block had to be attached to the inside of the cart for the button. Ren wound the key a couple of times, and set the toy on the table. The tiny Princess and cart rolled across the table quickly, and he caught it. Ren lifted it up and examined it with Identify.

Ram and Cart Toy

This exquisitely hand-crafted toy was made by Ren the First.

Ren used Appraisal on it, and it was valued at 1 gold coin. That's cool. He thought and stored it. He made another one and stored that, too.

Stat Change!

Craft Toy Level 4 (Beginner 0%)

Wood Carving Level 2 (Beginner 0%)

I only need to make two of them to level? That's crazy! Ren thought, chuckled, and made two more.

Stat Change!

Craft Toy Level 5 (Beginner 0%). You can produce toys 5% faster, and have learned a new recipe: Toy Train.

Wood Carving Level 3 (Beginner 0%)

Ren looked at the recipe for the toy train, and saw that it was only the main engine and one car. Rather than try and adapt the wind-up engine to fit the new recipe, he just kept making Ram and Cart toys. He kept making them, and dismissed the popups until he leveled up Craft Toy.

Stat Change!

Craft Toy Level 1 (Intermediate 0%). You can produce toys 5% faster, and have learned a new recipe: Rock Golem (Stuffed Plush).

Ren made two more toys, and leveled Wood Carving to Intermediate Level 1 and Woodworking to Intermediate Level 5, which increased the speed of Wood Carving by 10% and Woodworking by 15%.

Notice!

Your use of chisels and knives in carving wood has let your fingers become more nimble in their movements.

Dexterity: +2

SPECIAL x2: Dexterity +2

He looked through his skill list to see what else he could work on, and saw his Block skill under Shock Absorption, was pretty close to leveling up to Beginner Level 3.

No time like the present. Ren thought, and walked over to a couple of dwarves that hadn't picked a weapon to be the third person on the crew. As he approached them, they stood at attention and saluted.

“At ease.” Ren said. “This might seem like an odd request, but I need to increase my Block skill.” He said. “I'm not asking for a fight or a duel. I'm asking for you to swing your weapon at my shield so I can block it.”

“Permission to speak freely?” One of them said.

Ren nodded slightly.

“Are you crazy, sir?”

Ren chuckled. “According to some definitions, yes.”

“I expected you to deny it.” The dwarf smiled. “I'll help you, if you can stop making my skin crawl.”

Ren laughed because he had forgotten he was working on leveling up his Fear Aura. He switched his concentration to his Camaraderie Aura, and the dwarf relaxed.

“Thank you, sir.”

“Let's move over this way a bit, so we don't disturb the others.” Ren said and walked to the spot between the medical tent and the giant target.

“Ren, I'm going to fly up and scout a bit.” Teepo said. “It's getting close to the right time.”

Can you use Spot on things that far away? Ren asked.

“Sure.” Teepo said. “I should be able to see them with this much open space.” He chittered in laughter. “It's not like they can hide behind anything!”

Ren held in his chuckle, but Teepo felt his amusement and agreement, then took off to fly up a few hundred feet. Ren took out his shield and braced for the dwarf to attack after absorbing the Illumination glyph from it.

“Only aim for the shield. This isn't a mock battle or anything of the sort. You can use different swings if you want, as long as you hit the shield.”

The dwarf unsheathed his sword and readied himself. He swung his sword and Ren blocked it.

“Harder.” Ren said.

The dwarf smiled, did a little twirl with the blade, and swung it backhanded towards the shield.

“Better!” Ren said. “Can you go faster?”

The dwarf grinned and took out a short sword from behind his back and started to hit Ren with consecutive blows.

Stat Change!

Block Level 3 (Beginner 0%)

“Yeah! That's it!” Ren said as he watched his Block skill level up. They kept going for about 10 minutes, and the dwarf had to stop and rest. Ren took out his icebox and gave the dwarf a plate of food.

“Blah.” The dwarf said. “It's cold!”

Ren chuckled. “Sorry. Just a minute.” He walked over to the forge and stuck the plate inside. Using his Fire Manipulation ability, he directed the heat into the food and not the plate. It only took a few seconds, and he brought it back to the dwarf.

Stat Change!

Fire Manipulation Level 3 (Intermediate 0%)

The dwarf stared at him with wide eyes and didn't take the plate.

“The plate is still cold, if you're worried about it.” Ren said and tried to hand it to him.

“You... you just stuck your hand into the forge!” The dwarf said. “I saw it!” He took the plate of food, and then looked at Ren's hand. “It's not even burned!”

Ren nodded slightly. “I've been blessed by the Fire Deity.” He said. “Flames in all their forms can no longer hurt me.”

“By... by the gods...” The dwarf said, and ate some of the food. “This is delicious.” He said, but kept staring at Ren's hand. Ren took a small piece of food from the icebox and ate it.

Stat Change!

Rationing Level 3 (Intermediate 0%)

Ren chuckled at the ridiculousness of the situation, but he wasn't going to stop using it to his advantage. That would have been even more ridiculous, in his opinion. Upon reflection, he figured all of the dwarves needed a good meal, so he took out 20 plates of food and warmed them in the forge. Since the plates of food had different items on them, Ren had to constantly adjust how to distribute the heat. When he did the last one, he had leveled Fire Manipulation to Intermediate Level 4. He delivered the warm meal to each of the other 19 dwarves, and then went to the medical tent with the last plate.

“Knock, knock.” Ren said, and stepped inside.

“Ooo, food!” Deresdra said as she turned around from hanging up an improvised curtain. “Is that for me?”

Ren nodded slightly, and she came over to him and took it.

“Thank you.” She said, and stood there to eat it.

“You should have told me you needed to hang a curtain.” Ren said. “I would have come in to help.”

Deresdra chuckled. “Like you're not busy enough.”

Ren shrugged. “I'm just training, actually.” He said. “I received a fantastic bonus to my gains for the rest of the day, and I'm trying to use it as much as possible.”

Deresdra nodded slightly and kept eating. “I saw.” She said. “After your fake drowning...” She smiled. “...I kept an eye on what you were doing.” She tossed the last bit of food into her mouth and sighed. “That was really good.”

“I guess you must have missed breakfast.” Ren said and took the empty plate from her to store it.

“We left the mine before I could go to the cafeteria.” Deresdra said. “I'm glad you gave me something to eat.” She smiled. “I was almost at the point of scavenging.”

Ren chuckled, and left the medical tent. He ran around and picked up the empty plates, then put them in the icebox and stored it. He and the dwarf took their positions again, and they continued the Block training for another 20 minutes.

Stat Change!

Block Level 1 (Intermediate 0%)

Shock Absorption Level 7 (Intermediate 0%)

“That's good enough.” Ren said to the exhausted dwarf. He took out a Major Healing wand and used it on himself and the dwarf. The dwarf was still tired; but he felt a lot better, too.

“If you feel up to it, can you gently throw some rocks at me?” Ren asked the dwarf, and the dwarf nodded slightly. “Just toss them easily. I'm going to dodge them.”

The dwarf did as he said, and for the next 10 minutes, all Ren did was dodge rocks. The dwarf had started throwing them underhand, then as his Stamina came back, threw them overhand instead. Ren raised a hand up and the dwarf stopped throwing rocks.

Notice!

You have worked hard to avoid getting hit 100 times consecutively.

Dexterity: +3

Agility: +4

SPECIAL x2: Dexterity +3, Agility +4

“Thank you for your help.” Ren said to the dwarf, who nodded slightly and went back to talk to the others.

Stat Change!

Camaraderie Aura Level 5 (Expert 0%)

Ren thought about what could help him with Agility, and took out a pile of planks. He cut them down their lengths, and then cut them in half. That made 6 inch wide, 4 foot long pieces. He nailed 6 of them together to make a 6 inch by 6 inch post, and made 4 of them.

Stat Change!

Woodworking Level 6 (Intermediate 0%)

Nailing Level 2 (Intermediate 0%)

Saw Level 4 (Intermediate 0%)

Ren used an axe and chopped the bottoms of the 4 posts to make them sharp, took out his hammerpick and plunged the plow end into the ground to make a hole, then made another hole 5 feet away. After deciding that a square would be better than a line, he made 2 more holes to make the shape of a square. He stored the hammerpick, and took out a large hammer to put the posts into the ground about a foot. This secured them tightly, and left 3 feet above ground.

“Perfect.” Ren said, and climbed up onto one. They were just far enough apart that you couldn't step from one to the other, and you had to hop. He jumped to the next post and landed with one foot on it; then almost lost his balance. Luckily, his other foot touched the post and his Amulet of the Spider held him steady. Remembering that he needed at least 2 points of contact for the amulet to work, Ren jumped to the next post with his feet closer together. He landed slightly off-center, but since both feet hit the surface, he steadied himself quickly.

Ren kept jumping around the 4 posts of the square. He kept getting more adventurous as he jumped. He used two feet, one foot and a hand, one foot and two hands, and even once with only his hands. At one point, he had hung on the side of the post and jumped to the next one. After half an hour of jumping as many times as he could, and in as many ways as he could think of, he hopped down and stood on the ground.

I think that's enough for now. Ren thought. There's not much more that I can do.

Notice!

Because of your diligence in training at various tasks practically non-stop for several hours, and the excessive burden of weight that you carry, you have gained stats to reflect your hard work.

Agility: +5

Dexterity: +3

Strength: +8

Endurance: +6

SPECIAL x2: Agility: +5, Dexterity: +3, Strength: +8, Endurance: +6

“Ren!” Teepo said. “I think I see something!”

What is it? Ren asked. How far away?

“If I had to estimate, about 10 miles.”

Ren ran around to the dwarves and told them that something was coming; and that they were to hold their fire until he came back. He ran over to the giant target and stored it.

“Princess!” Ren yelled, and he heard her hooves as she approached from the side. She skidded to a stop right in front of him, and he gave her some food. She gobbled it down without chewing it, and Ren climbed up on her back after giving her an Amulet of the Spider.

Teepo! Ren thought, and his friend flew over and landed on his shoulder. “Let's go!” Ren said, and Princess took off towards where Teepo had seen something in the distance. He deactivated one of the early warning enchantments as he passed it, so it wouldn't activate when they crossed it's area of effect. They ran out about 8 miles, and Teepo took off from Ren's shoulder when they came to a stop.

What do you see? Ren asked.

“Giants.” Teepo said. “About 20 of them.”

Only 20? Ren thought, a little confused. What do they look like?

“Haggered.” Teepo said. “Like they've been running for a long time.”

No signs of armor or weapons?

“No, Ren.” Teepo said. “I think... I think these are what's left of the giants that left the camp.”

Oh, no. Ren thought to his friend. Go a little higher and try to see what's behind them.

Teepo went higher, and saw what was behind the giants. “You're right, Ren.” Teepo said, sadly. “They're being chased.”

Dammit. Ren thought.

“Now what do we do?” Teepo asked.

The only thing we can do. Ren thought, determined. We fight!

YES! Princess thought loudly, and ran as fast as she could towards the oncoming giants.

*

The plan is going perfectly. The leader of the platoon of Guardians of the Land thought. We only had to kill a few of them before they started to run. He smiled. We've been picking them off one by one since then. The soldier next to him threw one of his last spears, and the leader watched it arc through the air and it clipped a man's arm. The giant was jerked around from the force of the impact, stumbled, and fell onto his back and rolled several times.

“Ha!” The soldier said as he drew his sword. The Guardians of the Land overtook the fallen giant quickly, and the soldier decapitated the man with one swing. The man had tried to stand up with the spear in his arm, and the sword went through the handle of the spear just as easily as the man's neck. The body fell to the ground a moment later, but it was left far behind by that time.

“There's not many left, men!” The leader yelled, to encourage his men.

“Ha!” The soldiers yelled just as loudly in reply.

*

“Slow down so they can see me.” Ren said to Princess, and she slowed to a trot half a mile from the refugee giants that were running frantically towards the camp. Teepo had told him how the Guardians of the Land had dealt with the male giant, and Ren frowned at the unnecessarily brutal display.

Ren braced his hands, and then stood up on the saddle; with a foot on the front, and one on the back. He rocked back and forth a lot; but thanks to his Amulet of the Spider, he was in no danger of falling off. The Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak billowed out, and Ren enchanted his shield with Illumination again.

Ren switched his concentration to his Fear Aura, and made the Connection between two of the Screaming Terror rings and the Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak. He equipped his gold-colored armor, took out the Wand of Iron Barrier, and prepared to fire.

“Get to the camp!” Ren shouted at the refugee giants as they passed, then activated his Screaming Terror enchantments.

*

What's going on? The leader of the platoon asked himself. He could clearly see the people he chased as they deviated from a direct path away from his soldiers, and go around something.

*

“Now!” Teepo said. “The refugees are past your target point!”

Ren shot the Wand of Iron Barrier a dozen times, and used a wall 27 feet tall and 15 feet wide. It was only an inch thick at that size; but, that didn't matter at this point. It looked solid, so he made a solid iron wall in the shape of a big 'V', with each arm of it 300 feet long. It had taken 40 charges to do it, but it did it's job and covered the giant's view.

*

