It took a long while for Alden to convince his aunt he was fine. And that he didn’t need her to sleep with him and scare the monsters away like he was a little kid.

He must not have done a great job of it, though. When the bus dropped him off after school the next day, he found that his room smelled like someone had dumped a truckload of apple pie filling into it. He looked around and found the culprit quickly; it was a Christmas-themed fragrance dispenser, plugged into the wall and glowing hot pink.

I guess she wanted me to have a nightlight.

He wrinkled his nose but left it plugged in to punish himself for scaring her and lying about why.

He dropped off his bag and headed to the kitchen. He had a couple of hours of privacy at least. He opened a pair of overstuffed drawers Aunt Connie called the “Flat Stuff Place”.

The drawers were, indeed, full of flat stuff. Takeout menus, recipes, random Tarot cards, matchbooks, “I Voted” stickers, old credit cards, brochures, birthday cards, random school assignments, and more.

Alden dug through it all, looking for something he had seen in one of the drawers before. It had been a long time ago, but that didn’t matter. The flat stuff never got cleaned out. It only accumulated endlessly.

It took him almost twenty minutes, but he finally found it. It was a burgundy pamphlet describing the benefits of the dully-named “Anesidora Compassion Fund.”

It was a fund to take care of people who’d been injured during superhuman incidents. Alden opened it up to find a bullet point list of benefits, some he’d received himself.

Trauma counseling. The sorry-you’re-an-orphan-now scholarship money.

There was even an annual Victims of Villains retreat at a campground in New England. He couldn’t imagine a worse vacation, so he’d refused when Aunt Connie suggested they should apply for it.

Alden wasn’t interested in the pamphlet itself, but in the scrap of paper that was tucked inside it. There was a phone number and a message:

CALL ME IF YOU OR ALDEN EVER NEED ANYTHING

— H.E.
