Where a Tier 5 or under world would usually sit at a few hundred million, if not a full billion in the Empire, the Clans Tier 5 worlds typically housed half of that at most. It wasn’t so much population control as a result of the more family-based structure their societies revolved around.

A cultivator didn’t tend to have more kids than they could Awaken and with the scaling price, they typically kept their second generations to three to five children each of the generation following that trend only if they could support their children. Something Matt noted was that the cost of Awakening each subsequent human child scaled faster than for dwarves. Officially that was because it took additional resources to ensure children kept the bloodline, but looking at the math, he felt it was just an excuse to keep humans from over-populating the dwarves in the higher Tiers.

Matt also acknowledged that he was in a foul mood and knew he was being uncharitable.

Digging deeper, he looked into the Clans’ stance on dwarven population growth. Seeing how they handled that, he was surprised.

It wasn’t as draconian as he feared, but instead each dwarf who had a sufficiently potent bloodline was encouraged to have at least two children. Once they reached Tier 15, they were then encouraged to have more children, though spaced out over time, to add to the population without needing more resources. Immortal fertility rates ensured that was a slow but steady method of growing their populations. Some of the Empire records he had saved to his [AI] estimated there was a significant number of such Tier 15s who simply had as many children as possible.

As he expected, the per-child Awakening fee wasn’t paid by the parents but instead the Clans government. Officially it was still imposed, but the gifts they were given per birth always more than compensated for such, having been an amendment made a few generations after the Clans founding.

The empathetic part of Matt could understand the logic, but it still felt cruel to implement such a rule and then selectively remove it.

Looking further, it was one of the major talking points of the human equality movements.

Such movements weren’t banned; there were several halls even in the small city they were passing through, but rather they were treated as the fringe movements they were and mostly pushed to the edge of town.

The cynical part of him wondered just how many of the movement's higher echelons were actually dwarves.

Everyone knew every dwarf went through a process that sacrificed their human, or rather malleable, form, existing only in their ‘beast’ form, but Matt suspected there were some who simply never underwent such a process and instead blended into the human equality movement and then hampered its operations from the inside.

He was fairly sure there were ways to check if someone had a bloodline beyond spiritual probes feeling for the third cultivation core. He just didn’t know them off-hand and didn’t know if the movement's leaders knew of them and how they were able to be subverted.

Catching himself, he realized he had fallen into a very negative mindset that was far too reminiscent of the Federation.

For all its faults, the Clans had never tried to enslave the humans as the Federation did to beasts. That didn’t mean they were automatically good people, but it did mean he shouldn’t be considering how to help a movement whose main uniting factor was their species.

That conversation managed to ruin their mood for the next few days and it was only in their next delve that they managed to pull themselves out of their funk.

It was a rift they had been eager to delve.

The moment they entered, they were surrounded by shards of crystal, each uniform in size and shape but of varying colors and energy types, as well as a plinth.

The resemblance to the rift Matt had gotten the neutronium ingot out of wasn’t a coincidence.

The story behind the rifts was that a Talented aperologist had made the pair as part of an experiment, but whether that was true or false was lost to the passing of time.

Matt couldn’t be sure it was, but he could see it being possible. The rifts were similar enough and used enough of the same core ideas while coming at them from different angles he gave the theory some credence. He was just happy to get to inspect the rift. He couldn’t see anything about the intrinsic properties of the rift or how it was made but it had a presence, a metaphorical weight, to it that most other rifts, even its lesser cousin, didn’t.

This rift however was the more prized out of the two.

While the first rift was more of a choose your own enemies but had little other selective process beyond that, this rift gave the delvers far more granular control.

That wasn’t why the rift was so valuable or ranked so highly. That honor went to the rift's true uniqueness. At the end of the rift, there was a decent chance, estimated to be about one in five, that the item placed on the plinth would then replace the rift reward in a boosted state.

They had argued long and hard about exactly which item they wanted to use, but ultimately Zack and Allie won the argument by arguing that a combat item didn’t mean much to them. Rather, they should roll for the chance of getting a super Natural Treasure.

The main limit of the rift was that the item sacrificed had to be below Tier 5, which normally wasn’t an issue for items, but for Natural Treasures, it limited their options.

Or at least, it did for most people. As Ascenders, they were able to get their hands on nearly anything and Allie had done exactly that in preparation for this rift.

They had three attempts at the rift scheduled and three copies of a nearly unseen Two Pupil Stone.

The seemingly ordinary sphere or rock looked and functioned like an eye, except it had an incredibly minor future sight ability.

Normally, the eye went to seekers of all sorts, but with the Treasure being so low-Tier, its effects and scaling were nothing to write home about. It was similar to an [AI] trying to predict something, throwing a million possibilities at the cultivator, making it only slightly better than nothing.

Still, people clamored to use the item to either give themselves a slight edge or to hope they could be the one to develop the Treasure and find a way to make it useful.

The rift was one such way to make it useful and possibly the best one, so long as they could hit the odds.

After depositing the Two Pupil Stone on the center plinth and collecting the shards, they went to the first monster and found five shard slots in the crystal that encased the mini boss. Similar to its sister rift, this rift allowed them to shape the enemies they fought while empowering the boss and the sacrificed item via shards.

For a typical delver team, it was a harrowing balance of buffing the mini bosses as much as possible without exceeding their capabilities. For two teams of Ascenders, especially with Zack and Allie, they simply added the strongest shards they could, buffing the monsters to their limits.

Even with the monsters all being peak Tier 30 mini bosses, they needed to activate them one at a time, making it a controllable gauntlet rather than a typical rift where a fight could happen at any time. Matt, Liz, and Susanne kept the boss occupied in close range, while Aster debuffed the boss and the moment they managed to expose a weakness, Allie or Zack would land a devastating hit.

With Matt’s Concept, keeping their mana topped off each fight was simply a matter of doing the same thing over and over again until they killed it. From there, they gathered the shards it dropped, went to the next mini boss and repeated the process until they had cleared the rift.

The time-to-essence ratio wasn’t fantastic, but it was interesting and novel to feel out how the different types of shards modified the monsters. The shards had different effects and the effects could vary in strength but it was fairly well understood that the stronger the crystal, the stronger the monster, which resulted in a stronger final item should they be lucky enough to get it as a reward. That meant their choices simply ended up being to grab the five strongest shards that dropped from the previous mini boss and chuck them inside the next monster.

Sadly, they weren't lucky on their first run of the rift, and while they got the ever rare and valuable [Regeneration] skill as the rift reward, it just wasn’t that good for them. As they all already had the skill, and had it upgraded at that, or they just didn't use the skill. So they just tossed the skill in their ever growing for sale pile to be dealt with when they returned to the Empire.

Their second run, however, proved to be a partial success.

When Allie dissipated the reward distortion as it landed on their agreed upon silvery color, a single stone eye popped into existence.

Aster punched the air. “Yes!”

Matt instead scrambled with Zack to get the Natural Treasure and inspect it.

What they found was not what they expected.

The Two Pupil Stone had shrunk slightly and was clearly Tier 30, but its spirit was completely different. It felt empty, for lack of a better word.

While Matt was no professional appraiser, he was knowledgeable and experienced, which meant even if he didn’t recognize the item, he could usually puzzle the effects out.

Digging deeper, Matt grew more and more puzzled.

It almost reminded him of a structural framework without anything filling the item out, which made no sense when he compared the current Two Pupil Stone to its former self.

Zack reached out with his ghostly hand and plucked at one of the lines in the item, making Matt suck in a deep breath.

Not because Zack touched the item, but because of its reaction. Or rather because the item reacted before Zack touched it.

“Try changing your mind mid way.”

Zack reached out and, under everyone's scrutiny, pulled back at the last second. Unlike the first time, the structure of the item didn’t even flicker.

Liz leaned over Matt’s shoulder and asked, “That's cool, but what does it mean?”

Aster copied Liz on his other side asking, “Does it mean anything at all? Feels pretty on brand for an item that has or had future sight as one of its main powers.”

Matt met Zack's gaze, silently communicating before letting the other man speak. “I believe, and I think Matt agrees with me, that the item is in an incomplete or maybe proto state. When integrated, the person may be able to direct how the future sight manifests. At least, this is similar to how a Blank Elemental Crystal does so. The cultivator can fill the item with their mana as they absorb it, making it a perfect match instead of just a close one.”

Matt just nodded along before everyone's gaze went to the Natural Treasure.

It was rare for them to get something that was useful, let alone something that any of them could use.

Having already gotten a fantastic item, Matt said, “I’ll back out. While predicting things is useful, with my upcoming [AI] integrations and modifications, I don’t really need it and it might even mess with our current plans.”

Seeing the hungry looks on everyone's face Matt added, “Let me hold onto it and we can figure out who best can use this after its professional appraisal. It's Tier 30, so it's not like we need to absorb it immediately.”

Putting actions to words, he grabbed the item.

From there, they exited the rift and messaged Wun saying they needed a professional appraiser.

The monkey Ascender appeared next to them, rubbing his hands together. “Oh, let me see. What did you get?”

Upon seeing the eye, he had an appropriately jealous expression. “Super cool. I have no idea what it does though. Let's go check the locals.”

As it turned out, despite being a Tier 30 world, none of the appraisers could figure out what the eye did to any level of detail greater than Matt and Zack's assessment.

What was more telling was how all of the appraisers and their backing companies and local clan all offered to buy the Natural Treasure at exorbitant prices, the local clan even offering a Tier 35 Natural Treasure of their choice in exchange.

Not being fools, they didn’t agree and instead turned to the Ascender chat to both gloat and see if they had any other ideas.

Maya really wanted to get her hands on it, and even offered Allie an undisclosed reward if she teleported it over so she could inspect it. However, even she couldn’t give them any better answers. Though, she did offer quite a lot if they put the item up in a bet.

Sien then did the same but also came up empty handed, offering quite a lot as a counter bet, but that just made them all the more interested in using it for themselves.

Lila and Aiden both wanted to see it, but Allie refused to enter the Empire until their scheduled return, given that she’d get yelled at for breaching quarantine again.

What that really meant was that neither of them bribed her well enough.

Wun however had a suggestion, or at least a recommendation, of people who might be able to help.

In three more years, their next major stop was for lessons in Clans Domains. They had been offered modifications to their Growth Items but none of them were willing to allow a foreign Great Power’s craftsman such a close look, let alone getting their hands on some of their most valuable items.

So instead, they returned to the rift and ran it for the third and final time, hoping to get lucky.

They didn’t, but they did pull an [Armory of the Heavens], which produced glittering stars that could be formed into weapons, armor, attacks, summons, and other constructs at a whim.

With only a brief discussion, they decided to put it aside and see if Rah might be interested in it, given his whole fascination with the stars.

