“Don't thank me yet.” Donna said as she stopped in front of the fourth door in the hallway, that was identical to all of the other doors. “When lunch is served, then you can thank me.” She said, picked him up to hold him at head height, and gave him a quick kiss. “And you better thank me properly.” She said and put him down.

“I'll do my best.” Ren said as she opened the door, and he stepped into the drawing room.

“Well, well.” Lord Eric said. “I didn't think I'd be seeing you again for a while.”

Ren gave him a slight nod, and he returned it. “I've definitely been busy.”

“Running a county is no small matter.” The Finance Minister said. “The overhead for such a large area is quite the amount.”

“I'd like to talk to you about that.” Ren said. “Right after Lord Eric and I discuss something.” He turned to Lord Eric. “Can I borrow you for a quick private meeting?”

“Of course.” Lord Eric said. “I can always spare a few minutes for the Hero of Aurora.”

“Thank you.” Ren said. “I appreciate it.”

“Not as much as the people appreciated you paying to repair all of their houses.” Lord Eric said.

“That was you?!?” The Finance Minister exclaimed.

Ren nodded. “I couldn't let the townspeople suffer twice from a such an act of violence.”

“That was quite noble of you.” The Trade Minister said. “But you've put us into quite a pickle.”

“Why is that?” Ren asked.

“The taxes, of course!” The Finance Minister said. “We've been trying to raise taxes for years, and this would have been the best opportunity to do that.” He sighed. “Now, though...”

“What would you use the taxes for?” Ren asked.

“The same as they've always been used. Maintenance of the roads, wages for the soldiers... the usual things for running a Principality.”

Ren frowned. “Did the prices of things go up?”

“No.”

“Did you hire more soldiers because of the fire?”

“No.”

“Then what would all the extra money from higher taxes be used for?”

The Finance Minister was about to say, when the Defense Minister elbowed him in the ribs.

“Defense.”

Ren smiled, because he knew the Finance Minister was about to say 'for us', and he turned to Lord Eric. “Do you have a private room close by?”

“Right this way.” Lord Eric said, and led Ren to a door in the side of the room. “Gentlemen, I will be back momentarily.” He said and opened the door.

Ren went into the room and Lord Eric shut the door.

“What is this little meeting about?”

“Anabelle.”

Lord Eric smiled. “How is she working out for you?”

“All she does is sit on the couch and try to seduce me whenever she gets the chance.” Ren said.

“Isn't that great?” Lord Eric said. “It's nice to have a woman tend to your every need.”

“It would be.” Ren said. “If she wasn't ordered to do that by someone else.”

“She wasn't ordered to do any such thing.” Lord Eric said. “She agreed to do it and signed the contract, then had free room and board for years; in exchange for her services, of course.”

Ren looked at him with his head tilted slightly to the side. “I thought you gave her to me when you gave me the County.”

“I did.”

“I thought you did, too.” Ren said. “Until I found out that you still had her under contract.”

Lord Eric chuckled. “I didn't expect you to realize that.”

“Normally, I don't think I would have.” Ren smiled. “But when I gave her a platinum coin, and a couple of days later, she only had a few silver left and claimed she bought food with it...” Ren stopped smiling. “...even though you ordered that she was only allowed one meal a day.”

“We can't have her getting fat.” Lord Eric said, then sighed. “I knew I should have changed her orders about tithing 95% of her money.”

“Why?”

“She always made more money.” Lord Eric said. “I don't know why she was more popular than the other maids.”

“So, she didn't volunteer to serve me.” Ren said.

“No, she did.” Lord Eric said. “She jumped at the chance, for some reason.”

Ren nodded. “I'm glad.” He said. “You can give me her contract now.”

Lord Eric chuckled. “I don't think so.”

“Why not?”

“According to her, you're going to be paying her for actual work.” He said. “Why would I give that up?”

It was Ren's turn to chuckle. “Did you really think I'd be giving her any more money, after you stole 95 gold from me?”

“It was almost the amount of the prize I gave you after that quest.”

Ren stared at him. “You wanted me to pay that back?!?”

Lord Eric chuckled. “No, it was more of an investment.” He said. “Usually, it's an Adventurer that we can actually use; but, you surprised me with how much you actually did to help the quest.”

Ren shook his head. “You thought you were buying me.”

“He finally understands.” Lord Eric smiled. “We buy Adventurers nearly every day.” He said. “We send them out on ridiculous quests for a while, then we'll throw in one we actually need taken care of.” He said. “Like the quest you won.” He said. “We couldn't have that growing evil presence disrupting everything.”

Ren sighed. “So it's all a lie?”

Lord Eric laughed. “Of course not!” He said. “Do you know what this world would be like, if there wasn't any Adventurers around?”

Ren shook his head.

“A desolate wasteland. Everyone dead or dying. Evil run rampant.” Lord Eric sighed. “It's not wrong to make money while helping the people.”

“It is when you step on their backs to do it.”

“Come on, now!” Lord Eric chuckled. “It's not like that.”

“It seems like it.” Ren said. “You profit from their misery.”

“Not always.” Lord Eric said. “Between poverty and prosperity, is a fine line to walk.”

“So you won't give me Anabelle's contract?” Ren asked

Lord Eric shook his head.

“Can I buy it from you, then?”

Lord Eric smiled. “50 platinum coins.”

“Deal!” Ren said, grabbed Lord Eric's hand and shook it.

“What are you doing?” He asked. “I don't think so.” Lord Eric said. “It's 100 platinum now.”

“No, it's 50 platinum. You agreed to it.”

“No, I didn't.”

Ren grinned at him. “Are you breaking the deal?”

“There was no deal!”

“I asked to buy an item, you gave me the price, and I agreed. That, sir, is the definition of a deal.”

“No, I refuse.”

“I wouldn't if I were you.” Ren said. “Do you know what happens to deal-breakers?”

“You... you wouldn't!”

Ren laughed. “I was only going to publicly shame you for giving me a maid to use for sex and keeping all of her money for yourself; but if you don't complete this deal, you'll be spending a lot of time in your own jail cell, and everyone will know you don't honor deals.”

Lord Eric glared at Ren.

“What will King Alamast do, when he finds out?” Ren smiled. “Who do you think he'll appoint to run the Principality of Aurora while you sit in jail?”

Lord Eric walked over to the desk in the corner and opened one of the drawers. He searched for the scroll he wanted and closed the drawer.

“Very well.” He said and came over to hand Ren the scroll, who opened it and saw it actually was Anabelle's contract.

“Now, there's no other ones, is there?” Ren asked. “Did you have her sign anything else while under this one?”

Lord Eric took in a sharp breath through his nose, then let it out. “Damn you.” He said, and went back to the desk. He took out three more scrolls, and brought them over to Ren, who opened them and smiled.

“Oh, that's sneaky.” Ren said. “Because she agreed to the original contract, these other ones are perfectly legal.” He shook his head. “You should be ashamed of yourself.”

“You have no right to judge me!”

Ren laughed. “Of course I do.” He said. “I'm a Lord, remember? Who better to judge you than one of your peers?”

Lord Eric growled. “Hand over the money and get out.”

“Sure.” Ren said. “This might take a few minutes.”

He opened his coin vault and started dumping out copper coins.

“Wh-what are you doing?!?” Lord Eric asked as the copper coins flowed over the floor.

“I'm paying you.” Ren laughed and laughed as 50 million copper coins filled the room.
