“Thlere's only one farlm. Itsa mile thlat way.” She pointed to the only road out of the village.

Ren handed her a copper coin. “Thank you for your help.”

The woman stared at the copper coin as Ren and Elerlyth went back to the horse and cart. He let Elerlyth drive again; and as the cart turned around, Ren saw that the woman still stood there. She had the copper coin in her hand and stared at it like she'd never seen one before.

“I think you broke her.” Elerlyth commented as they left the village.

“I didn't mean to.” Ren said. “Copper is the lowest form of currency I have.”

“Imagine what would have happened if you'd given her a gold coin instead.” Elerlyth chuckled. “Her head might have exploded.”

Ren snorted a laugh. “That's always a possibility.” He said. “Everyone seems to react differently to money.”

“Not just money.” Elerlyth grinned. “We're both still wearing our fancy armor.”

Ren looked down at himself, then back at her and smiled.

“She wanted to get as far away from us as her legs could carry her.” She said. “We were just too fast for her to get away from to hide.”

Ren sighed. “I don't know if it was because we're new, or because she didn't want to talk.”

“Both, I think.” Elerlyth said. “I could barely make out anything she said.”

“I heard every word just fine.” Ren said. “I've had lots of practice with that kind of thing.”

Elerlyth let one of her hands go from holding the reins, took his hand in hers, and squeezed it.

“We're looking for Patty.” He said, and pointed to a small trail going off the road. “I'm going to assume that will lead us to the farmhouse.”

She let his hand go, and directed the horse up the trail. It didn't take long to get to the house, and they saw that a good portion of the field was harvested. Elerlyth tied the horse to the post there, and Ren filled the trough with water. Without thinking about it, he turned around and knocked on the front door of the house.

“Ren, no!” Teepo shouted. “I haven't scouted-”

The front door opened, and a beautiful blonde-haired woman stood there. Ren stared at her with wide eyes as the sunlight hit her hair just right, and it glowed like she had a halo.

“Can I help you, My Lord?” The woman said, and Ren's mouth dropped open in shock. A slightly older version of Lucy stood in front of him. If Lucy had had an older sister, this was exactly as Ren had imagined she would look and sound like.

“Oh, for fuck's sake!” Elerlyth said, exasperated.
