Took boxing lessons from Ryoka once. Punched magical Golems at the Archmage of Izril’s mansion. Fought with brother. Worked part-time as a [Watchwoman] (no actual combat), and at a [Butcher]’s. Vampire.
There was a discrepancy here that anyone could see. And this was with a child.
Something had to be done. Fierre worked on the issue while she went back to her job. Two more Runners, swapping secrets with an Information Broker who clearly thought she was some incompetent from the rural countryside…
She snapped at the overconfident man trying to look big and intimidating and scare her into giving up her wealth of knowledge.
“No, listen. One of us knows how to summon the Unmarked Coach. One of us has sixteen contact listings with major Gangs. You want that kind of knowledge? Come back with a thousand gold pieces per piece of information and then we’ll talk. Or give me something I want, not lists of data I can pay five silver for.”
She kicked the broker out. Fierre might not know how to throw a punch, but she was a pretty important Opener. Yeah…yeah…she stared glumly at her Iron Golem and spoke to it.
“I’m not that bad at fighting.”
It looked at her blankly. Even her Golem didn’t seem to believe her.
 
—-
 
In the end, Fierre closed up early. She couldn’t sit still, anyways. Her body was vibrating with energy thanks to the blood she’d ingested. A shame she couldn’t use it.
Also, a double-shame that she was Fierre the Opener, not Fierre the Adventurer because she couldn’t ask for a [Weapon Master] to train her or something without them wondering how she had [Greater Strength], [Enhanced Speed], and so on.
However, it occurred to Fierre that there was one person whom she could prevail on, who might not take her abilities amiss. Who had an actual, working knowledge of how to fight with Fierre’s best weapons—her fists and feet.
It was…
 
—-
 
…Not Ryoka. Fierre rapped on the bedroom door and a tousle-haired City Runner opened it.
“Fierre?”
Garia was still at her parent’s home. Alber was not. Fierre had heard from Wailant that the [Boxer] had fled the next morning after a single night there which involved eight boxing bouts against father and daughter.
Still, the Strongheart family was hospitable. Overly-so, perhaps. Fierre had eaten a second-breakfast despite only wanting to meet Garia.
“How can I help you?”
Garia yawned over her breakfast, but she grew excited as Fierre confessed her problems.
“You want to learn how to defend yourself? I can help! Mom, I’m borrowing the barn.”
Viceria Strongheart raised two resigned brows.
“Just don’t break anything. And don’t wake your father! He hurt his back brawling with that poor young man. If you see him, you owe him some food. Correct me if I’m wrong, but it seems to me like you dragged him here just to beat him silly—all without paying him.”
The [Martial Artist]-[Runner] looked a bit embarrassed. It was not the first time Garia Strongheart had seconded someone to help her train. Actually—Wailant kept abducting Numbtongue on his lonesome as well.
“I can definitely help you. I’m a [Martial Artist]—and I’ve been talking with some people in Pomle and Master Grimalkin. I know you’re fast and strong from when we sparred. I can definitely help! I’m free all day. Do you know where Alber’s staying? I should apologize.”
Fierre didn’t, but it wasn’t hard to look up and she promised to tell Garia when she swung by tomorrow. They headed to the barn, chatting.
“So you’re running deliveries around Invrisil?”
Garia jogged along, looking energetic in the daylight. Fierre was glad they’d chosen an indoor spot; even with hood over her head and clothing, she felt like she was already burning in the light.
“Yep! The Guildmistress of Celum actually recommended I go. I was super nervous, but she told me I’m at that level now! Me! Can you believe it?”
The Vampire thought about Garia punching Alber into the window yesterday and could believe it. If anything remained of the Garia that Ryoka knew, it was still a bit of an inferiority complex.
However, Garia’s nerves disappeared in her impromptu sparring ring. And it was Garia that Fierre realized she needed to meet.
“It’s not [Enhanced Strength] anymore. It’s [Greater Strength]. Even Dad was impressed. I’m getting all of the other basics, too. [Lesser Dexterity], [Enhanced Endurance]…you have the same, right?”
“Something similar. I got really lucky.”
“Me too. But Pomle’s people keep telling me that I need to change the way I fight. They like me practicing basic moves, but it’s all different at our level. I wish I could go there and learn from them, but at least I have [Messages] now!”
“Different how?”
The [Martial Artist] in training beckoned, an eager grin on her face.
“Come on and I’ll show you.”
This time Fierre took her opponent seriously. In the confines of the barn, the cows, two magical, some horses, and a pig watched as the two circled. Fierre crouched—then leapt to one side, almost on all fours like Mrsha! She blurred left as Garia yelped in surprise.
“You’re even faster—”
Fierre shot a punch at Garia’s side. Not as hard as she could. She was t—
Garia grabbed her, and threw her. Fierre once again experienced the joys of flight. The Stronghearts had a big barn. Garia winced as Fierre crashed into one of the beams and dropped, nearly thirty feet distant.
“Sorry! You’re okay, right?”
“I’m…fine.”
Her ego was bruised more than her body. Fierre charged back in—she punched twice, and Garia blocked both before sending her flying again.
“How are you doing that?”
Frustrated, Fierre threw up her hands. Garia pointed.
“Footwork. Listen, it’s all in what the [Martial Artists] taught me. Once you get to a certain point…”
…Everything changed. Fierre ended up sitting on some hay as Garia explained. All of her preconceived notions of combat were somehow right and totally wrong.
“When you have [Greater Strength], or even [Enhanced Strength], normal swords and stuff might actually hold you back. Sure, if you’re fast enough, keep doing the same thing. But—have you ever seen those massive swords some people use? The kind that look silly?”
“Greatswords? Zweihanders?”
Swords could get absurdly large or heavy. Even battleaxes, which surely weren’t practical, were the tools of high-level [Warriors].
“It’s because no one can normally swing them around quick enough to be practical. But if you can swing a ten-foot battleaxe and clear everything around you—why not, right? According to the experts I talk to, the problem is when normal people think they can copy that. Plus, the reason why weapons get larger is because sometimes you’re fighting giant monsters.”
“Right, right. But I can’t beat anything.”
Garia shook her head.
“That’s because you don’t move right.”
“I’m fast!”
Fierre was stung. The [Martial Artist] looked at her.
“But I’m just as fast, or nearly. And you run around. Here. Try to jump me from the side again. I’ll show you how I can keep up.”
Fierre did. She spun left—and saw Garia execute a simple turn. Three steps, and she had pivoted to face Fierre.
“Oh.”
Garia smiled as the Vampire finally got it.
“What the [Martial Artists] say is that you have to fight differently to use all your strength or speed. Like throwing you—that’s actually a bad idea.”
“How come?”
“I might be able to throw you fifty feet. You won’t get more hurt, though, and I’ve wasted time. If I throw you, I should throw you straight down so all my strength transfers. Stuff like that. Also though—even if you’re fast as lightning, footwork matters.”
This was the kind of thing Fierre needed to be taught. Ironically, the Vampire’s natural abilities were on par with a [Martial Artist]’s way of thinking. She wanted to spar more, but Garia had her practicing pivots and how to punch or kick.
“I had to start the same way. You’re welcome to come over as much as you want, though! I’d love to have someone to practice with at my level.”
It was not the great revelation Fierre wanted, but she accepted she had to learn everything about combat. She did feel like she had unleashed some of the nervous energy in her body, too, so after three hours of Garia-lessons, she promised to make this a regular thing and went back to the inn.
She still felt like all the blood she’d drunk had done more for her than just improve her body. Fierre had, by ‘cleaning up’ the blood-type experiments and taking some of the blood donations, drunk probably a gallon of people-blood yesterday.
And she could still go for more. Did she look at Garia’s sweaty neck and feel the urge to taste sweet ichor? Yes, but Fierre was always thirsty. Was she ashamed of that? No.
She had been thirsty her entire life. Now, she could finally drink. Fierre pushed open the door to The Wandering Inn after a twenty-minute delay, and saw the [Urban Tracker] and squad of Invrisil’s Watch waiting for her.
 
—-
 
“Two murders in Invrisil?”
Montressa looked unsettled—Bezale did not.
“There must be countless crimes per day. Why are we under investigation for the death of two common criminals on the street?”
“Just a hunch, [Mages]. Nothing personal. I track via scent. It’s muddled—but there’s a good chance the attacker came through here. I wish I’d gotten to the scene earlier, so I’m following all leads. May I speak to you one at a time? And then you, Miss…”
“Fierre.”
The Vampire girl’s teeth tried not to chatter. The Dog Beastkin gave her a nod.
He was a rare sight outside of Baleros. Beastkin, not Gnoll. Ishkr was eying him, and one could not help but see the more canine features, from the floppier ears to the different shape of the head and body. The [Urban Tracker], Jeck, was shorter than most Gnolls, slimmer, but he was an experienced member of the Watch they called in for murders.
It was odd they were working so hard on this murder, especially for two common criminals. Then again—Fierre had made another huge mistake in thinking no one would notice.
What do I do? What do I do? What do I do? I have to run. I can’t run, they’ll know! I don’t have any lying Skills or artifacts! Oh, dead gods. What do I do?
The Watch patrol accompanying Jeck was politely waiting in the common room while he interviewed Montressa, Bezale, and then Fierre, one at a time. They were the only people who’d been through to Invrisil. He’d done Kevin by the time Fierre arrived.
“Waste of time.”
Bezale grumbled as Montressa exited the room. It was ten minutes for her, and the Minotauress. Fierre was paralyzed.
If she ran, they’d know. She knew the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings were keeping watch, but they weren’t going to stop a Watch investigation.
She’d have to fight. If Jeck found out—they’d search her and know. She’d lie. Lie! And if she had to fight, she’d count on the Brothers to fight the watch patrol. There were only six. How strong was Jeck, though? He looked high-level.
She couldn’t read his level with her Ring of Appraisal, so he had to be strong. She wasn’t ready!
Fierre didn’t want…
“Miss Fierre? This won’t take but a moment.”
The Dog Beastkin smiled at her as the Vampire girl sat down across from him.
“Don’t be nervous.”
He was reading Fierre, eyes sharp, flicking to her face, her body—Fierre tried to act normal.
“I’m sorry. I just don’t interact with the Watch much.”
“Really? I would have thought an Opener at least knew Reizmelt’s Watch. We make use of your people’s services when we have to.”
She jumped.
“I—an Opener? I don’t know what—”
The [Tracker] sighed.
“Miss Lischelle. May I call you Fierre?”
She nodded dumbly. He knew her name, her identity—Jeck went on.
“If you’re worried about your profession, I’m just here investigating the two murders. Your class is not going to get you arrested.”
He eyed her as Fierre tried to relax and smile. She did a better job of it now; her heart was thundering, but she didn’t perspire. She knew how to lie. She had lied in plenty of encounters with the Watch and Gangs, in high-stakes scenarios.
Stakes, oh, slap me with sunshine. Why did I have to think about stakes?
She’d lied, but never about being a Vampire. And her guilt in this case was clear. He was going to use a truth spell and that would be that. She couldn’t stop that.
Was she going to have to fight? He had to have enchanted weapons. She couldn’t beat Garia.
“Just a few questions, Miss Fierre. We only need to cross you off our list of investigations.”
“Really? About the two dead men?”
“Exactly. If I can get you to swear on a truth stone you’ve never heard of them, no knowledge of what happened, and so on, I’ll be gone. Shall we begin?”
“I—of course. But this is the second time I’ve had to talk to an officer, you know. Don’t your records show that I’ve already been asked? The night it happened, actually.”
Jeck blinked. He rifled through his report.
“Really? By whom?”
“A Guardswoman. On the way back to the inn. I must have been close by the place…I think it was those two. Two men?”
What are you doing? You idiot! Idiot!
What else was she supposed to say? Lie—before he used the truth stone! She watched the Dog Beastkin check through his papers.
“I see. That’s…not recorded. Mixups happen. You’re sure you were investigated about this particular crime, Miss Fierre? Truly?”
He looked up. Fierre met his eyes with all the desperate genuine innocence she did not have. Jeck’s eyes felt like they were boring into her soul and uncovering her guilt. Did he have Skills? [Detect Guilt]? Why hadn’t she prepared?
Fool. This was how it all ended. So…stupid…
Her eyes burned with unshed tears. Fierre kept her mask up. She tried to keep her gaze from wavering.
They locked gazes for ten seconds. Then twenty. Too late, Fierre realized she had made another rookie mistake.
Keeping his gaze without blinking! One of the easiest signs of a liar! Blinking too much or not at all, idiot! Only Nagas and Dullahans do that!
This was it. She—she’d say she was an [Assassin]. He could verify that. She’d take her anti-appraisal ring off, claim…it would be a mess. However, she feared Jeck would ask too much and then she’d have to kill him and run, run far and fast as she could unless all of her kind was exposed…
Would Vaulont kill him for me?
All these things passed in Fierre’s mind at once. Her eyes burned. She couldn’t look away from Jeck. He sniffed the air. Fierre clenched her hands so hard her nails cut her flesh.
Why can’t you just believe me?
Her eyes…hurt…Fierre saw Jeck’s eyes widen. And then—
 
—-
 
