The door slammed open. The [Senior Guardswoman] on the patrol looked up, hand shifting to her sword. Jeck had warned her, confidentially, that this might actually lead to an arrest.
“Investigator?”
She used Jeck’s title. The Dog Beastkin stomped out of the room, and the Watch patrol readied themselves for…
“I’m terribly sorry, Miss Fierre. We’ll be on our way. Squad, with me.”
The [Tracker] grumpily marched them towards the door as the [Server], Ishkr, went ahead of them. The [Senior Guardswoman] leaned in.
“Did you find your suspect, sir?”
“No. And I want a word with the Watch Captain or whoever’s in charge of coordinating these things! It was a waste of time.”
“Sir?”
He growled at her, vexed.
“You idiots. Double-check where our other teams go! Someone already asked her.”
Oh. The [Guards] relaxed, looking annoyed or embarrassed or rolling their eyes. Jeck shook his head, and they erased Fierre and the inn from the possible suspects.
There was no chance Jeck had made a mistake. Of course he’d been using a truth spell in his interrogations. It was unthinkable that an expert [Urban Tracker] and [Watchman] like him would ever slip up. If he suspected Fierre or the [Mages] could break a truth spell, he’d have suspicions even with a pass.
Fierre was undoubtedly in the clear.
 
—-
 
Fierre had to use the outhouse, urgently, after the encounter. As she sat on the toilet, she had a few thoughts.
I need to watch out for people who can resist mind-effects like Ryoka.
And—
I have my mother’s eyes.
The power of Vampires had manifested. Not just her body’s superior attributes. Forget that. Her heritage had awakened. Fierre had gained the power that Colfa possessed weakly. Yet her daughter had all the strength denied to the silver-poisoned Vampires of the Lischelle-Drakle clan.
Eyes of Charm.
 
—-
 
Jeck let the patrol go after they returned to Invrisil. He filed a report and a complaint that would no doubt be ignored, and huffed out of the Watch House.
He met someone afterwards, just for a moment. It wasn’t an inconspicuous meeting. You couldn’t hide in a crimson leather overcoat, or with the flashy hat and manner of Delanay d’Artien.
“Well?”
The Emergency Runner was frowning. Jeck shrugged. The [Tracker] sniffed the air, coughing at all the scents.
“No good. Someone interviewed her first. Under truth spell and everything.”
Delanay’s face fell.
“You’re sure?”
“Am I a professional or what?”
Jeck snapped. The young woman had explained it all and he’d tested her with a truth stone. No signs of a liar there. He’d thought so, but it had been just the Opener class. He rubbed at his furred forehead as Delanay sighed.
“Okay, it was just a hunch. Damn. Sorry for wasting your time. I guess she’s off the list.”
“Favor for a favor. Don’t mention it.”
Delanay frowned. So Ylawes was twice-wrong. Well…it had just been a hunch. He thanked Jeck and offered to treat him to lunch. Fierre. Not a Vampire.
He’d been almost convinced he’d find something this time. But he never had. Oh well.
 
—-
 
Eyes of Charm. Not even magical wards could fully block it. You had to have strong willpower, according to the legends.
Of course, no one tried to use it to do more than win an uneven trade with a [Merchant] or convince someone they hadn’t seen you drink red liquid. Colfa was the strongest user of the Vampire power in generations and she couldn’t even overpower Ryoka.
Well, Ryoka might be a special case. Yet Fierre had just overpowered a Level 30+ [Tracker], she was sure of it.
With silver out of my veins, my bloodline powers are here! The powers of a real Vampire!
It was hereditary, bloodline powers. At least, if you were born naturally from a Vampire couple. You inherited mother and father’s powers. If you were ‘sired’ like Colfa had been by Himilt, it was up to chance, hence her mother gaining the Eyes of Charm, rather than the other powers of Vampire clans.
According to the stories, each Vampire was different, like each person was.  The powers they inherited or gained were stronger in some, weaker in others. But living memory didn’t provide specifics, only basic knowledge.
Bamer, for instance, liked high places and had no fear of falling. He was lighter than the others, because the primary strength of his clan had been flight in ages past.
At least Fierre knew her other strength. If everything checked out, she had inherited two powers. She stared at the blank mirror, wishing she could see her eyes and see if the ruby reds had changed when she activated the charming, hypnotic gaze.
Charm from her mother. From her father—the power of the Drakle Clan.
Her father took to the power of transformation. Not becoming other animals, but the ability to become…mist. Fog.
In legends, Vampires could fit through cracks in walls, ambush foes, becoming intangible, nigh-invisible. In the modern era?
Himilt could generate a bit of mist on overcast days when it already appeared. He could appear out of the fog like a ghost at best. Since she had been born naturally, she would have that too.
Fierre concentrated. Her head throbbed, already from the effort of activating her eyes a few times. Yet she felt it. The incredible energy of so much blood, the suppressed adolescence, the freedom of the pain of silver!
She was becoming who she was meant to be. A Vampire! Predator of civilization! Apex species! She was—
Her body strained. Fierre cried out with frustration. She—
Developed a nosebleed.
 
—-
 
Glumly, Fierre sat on her bed, exhausted after eleven more attempts. Nothing worked. She could apparently burst blood vessels in her nose at will, though. If she tried hard enough.
The irony of a Vampire bleeding was not lost on her. Exhausted, she flopped onto her back. She was so tired. She relaxed every muscle in her body, wistfully turned to mist, and sank around her bed.
Fierre appeared under her bed before she seeped through the floorboards. She shot up, rolled out from under the bed, and threw her arms up in the air!
“I did it!”
Relaxation, that was it! She had to push with her eyes, imposing her will, her desire! But mist? Calmness, letting herself drift apart. No wonder her father was so good at it! Nothing ruffled his feathers!
The Vampire girl danced in her room in The Wandering Inn, laughing, tears in her eyes.
Tears of joy. Her dreams were coming true. Like every child who had ever been born to their species, Fierre had dreamed that she would be the one.
That her cough would go, her sickness end, and her people be delivered from whatever was killing them. That she would live longer than sixty years.
That she would be a Vampire. Ryoka had delivered it to her. Her dreams were coming true. Fierre shout-whispered so no one would hear.
“I’m going to be the greatest Vampire of all time!”
So quietly even a Gnoll would not hear if the door was open. And the door was closed, the windows shuttered and blocked. Fierre was no fool. She danced past her mirror, invisible, and saw her room, no trace of her clothing or body which she had always, secretly, longed to see.
The grass.
The open door…
Fierre slowed.
It was true that she had barred all doors, locked them, and given no entry by which her secret might escape. She had just forgotten that it was this inn, where a single key opened all locks.
Or in this case, a door led to all rooms.
The trouble with friends was that sometimes they liked to pop in, unannounced. They liked to surprise you, which was a terribly inconvenient thing if you were an introvert.
Or a Vampire.
Also, little Gnolls, like the white-furred one staring at Fierre, and who had seen the mist-trick, tended not to have a sense of privacy.
Mind you, Apista could have flown through Mrsha’s mouth and back out of it at this moment. The bee nearly tried with Garia and Alber, who were delivering a Strongheart pie that Viceria had given Garia to share with her fight-friends.
Mrsha, Garia, Alber—Numbtongue was too far away on the hilltop to see or hear—but Ulvama was not. The Hobgoblin [Shaman] had her legs in the pond and was eating a frittata with her bare claws.
All of them had seen. Her transformation, heard her now very inadvisable shout-whisper. Fierre stared back at the stunned group.
They were all paralyzed with the shock of seeing mist turn into Fierre. Hearing…well, they didn’t even know what a Vampire was. They were stunned, nonetheless.
Except for Ulvama. The Goblin [Shaman] gave Fierre one look and snorted.
“Oh. Bloodbiters are back.”
She kept stuffing herself with frittata.
 
—-
 
Terror of discovery was a modern Vampire’s fear. Burned alive, staked through the chest, left to scream and die in the sunlight, hunted with silver—drowned in baths of garlic—
“You thought we’d do that to you?”
Garia was horrified. After some thought, Fierre had to admit it was a bit silly.
“Not you, but—people. [Knights] used to hunt us! There were wars!”
“We’re your friends, though. And I didn’t even know what a Vampire was, until I saw you! If I’m fine with Goblins—friends with them, even—do you think I’d try to kill you?”
The [Martial Artist] pointed out. Fierre hesitated.
Like Ryoka, no one was reaching for a stake. If anything, while Garia and Alber were unsettled and surprised by the revelation, Ulvama hadn’t even blinked.
Mrsha on the other hand? She looked up at Fierre with shining eyes.
Would a little child be horrified by a super-strong, fast predator who had fangs and could turn into mist? Or would a little Gnoll, especially one with white fur who knew what it was like to be different, think that was the coolest thing ever? Except for the burning in the sun thing.
Fierre was still hyperventilating. But her secret was held by four now, five if you counted Ryoka. And no one would tell. Not even little Mrsha, who understood the danger, perhaps better than Alber.
He was just looking at her. More intently than the [Fist Fighter]-turned-[Boxer] had ever really done. He had seen Fierre as someone he didn’t need to think twice about.
Now? Garia slapped her knees and Fierre jumped. The [Martial Artist] grinned.
“I knew it. I just knew Ryoka didn’t have normal friends! Er—sorry.”
She looked at Fierre. The Vampire laughed, despite herself. She looked at Alber.
“No one’s going to tell? Please? Not even other people.”
Garia, Alber, and Mrsha all shook their heads. Apista rotated horizontally in the air. They looked serious. Fierre felt something stir in her chest. Alber she hadn’t been certain about, but…
“How much?”
Ulvama rubbed two clawed fingers together as she put aside the tin. Mrsha darted over and pushed her into the lake.
Beavers.
Fierre looked at Alber. He just studied her, and then smiled.
“So that’s why you stayed at Madain’s inn.”
“Yep. Secrets. Everyone has some.”
Ryoka, Fierre—Garia in a way had her parents. Mrsha nodded. She had tons. She began to write some down to share.
“What about you? Are you a…related to a [Lord]? A [Magician]? Something?”
He gave it some thought. Alber sat cross-legged in the grass in the [Garden of Sanctuary] for a moment. At last, he opened his eyes and looked at Fierre.
“…I can fit six boiled eggs into my mouth at once.”
Fierre stared at him, and then began to giggle. Garia laughed and so did Alber, after a moment. Mrsha rolled around on the ground, until Ulvama picked her up and began dunking her head-first in the lake while holding her legs.
The secret spread. Fierre would be more cautious in the future. Probably. But she was learning, about herself, how to fight, how to be a newer Fierre.
Ryoka’s secret she kept. Nor would she make more mistakes. She would not hunt people in the streets, that was for sure, even murderers and criminals. She had a choice of how she wanted to embrace her heritage.
She was Ryoka’s best friend. A Vampire of honor. Fierre built around that. She would see what happened.
She owed her strange friend from Earth so much. And that was what Fierre concentrated on. Ryoka made enemies like other people passed water. Fierre would prey on no people.
But she’d drink Ryoka’s enemies dry. Down to the last drop.
