Ah, well. If it was a curse, he’d already peeled one off of Walter’s core. When Bast was willing to give him a look, he’d be able to deal with it easily enough. If it was something else, then he’d do his best to help his friend, whenever his friend was ready to show him. He shouldn’t worry about it too much. Everyone had secrets, whether they were shameful or merely embarrassing, and who knew? Maybe Bast was simply too embarrassed, or too wary, to show him his core. It was the innermost part of a mage’s power. Bast was right; if he interfered with the core in any way, he risked permanently harming or even destroying Bast’s magehood. He would never do such a thing—not even risk it—but hell, would he allow a first-time amateur to poke around at his core and try to figure out how to extract the impurities from it? Hell no! Not that he’d want such a thing in the first place, but even assuming he did, it was like letting your neighbor play brain surgeon. There was a reason neurosurgeons practiced for decades before they were set loose upon the populace, and in this world, messing with someone else’s core was just as risky—if not more risky—than brain surgery.

No, Bast’s complaint was completely valid. Honestly, if not for the sticky feeling at the back of his mind that something wasn’t quite right, he wouldn’t have doubted Bast’s excuse at all.

As Rhys considered all this, Bast lowered himself into a stretch, extending his left leg, then his right leg. He jumped in place a few times, then set off at a run, powering back nearly as soon as he’d left. He drew his sword and slashed at the air a few times, marveling at his own speed and precision, then laughed aloud. “Rhys, this is insane.”

“Huh? Is it?” Rhys asked, startled out of his contemplation.

“You have no idea. All these impurities have been subtly holding me back for years. I’ve been working on expelling them, but it’s a long, slow process. You just accelerated decades’ worth of effort into a handful of seconds. I could have spent years and years on trying to expel these! And look!” He struck with his sword, a blaze of robes and shining steel. “I’ve been struggling with that twist for months because my wrist had a subtle weakness in the bones, where impurities made my wrist click and weaken at that particular angle. Now, it’s no problem!”

“Happy to help.” Rhys smiled to see his friend so eager and excited. He hadn’t been able to see the finer points of the sword strike at all, let alone appreciate the mysteries and subtleties to the specific ways the sword twisted, but if Bast thought it was a huge improvement, then he was happy to hear it.

“Forget your plan. You should do this for everyone at the tournament! They’d pay hand-over-fist for this treatment!” Bast enthused, excited.

“Yeah, and then what? I’m fighting in the tournament, in case you forgot,” Rhys pointed out. He didn’t mind collecting everyone’s impurities, but the gains he could make from that were inferior to the gains Bast had made from his actions. True, maybe if he absorbed everyone’s impurities, he could overcome the boost he gave his opponents, but… boosting his opponents before battle sounded like a foolish move to him. He wasn’t in the business of throwing, thank you very much. He needed all the advantages he could get, not to give his opponents additional advantages. ‘I’ll wait here while you recover your strength so I can battle you at your full power!’—sure, he enjoyed those lines, and the overbearing attitudes of the characters that could utter them, but he wasn’t at that level yet. He was still in the scratching-and-clawing for every bit of strength he could muster level, where giving his opponents a moment of rest or recovering their impurities and giving them an advantage might mean he lost not just the battle, but his life.

“Oh,” Bast said, his excitement suddenly subdued. He looked at his sword, then, at Rhys, an apology on his face. “I shouldn’t have asked you to remove my impurities. I—”

“No, no. Don’t worry about it. We’re friends, first off, and secondly, any battle between us is your win, whether you have impurities or not.” Rhys wasn’t willing to fight dirty against Bast the way he was against other opponents; he respected Bast too much. As a result, he didn’t even have to think about who might win the fight between them. When it came to a clean fight, sword against Rhys’s trash skills, Bast won every time. Removing Bast’s impurities had moved the needle from 100% chance of victory to 110% chance of victory—in other words, it had changed nothing.

“Well… that’s true,” Bast said, breaking out into a grin.

Rhys shook his head at him. “Besides, think about it. You won’t let me touch your core. What competitor is going to let me enter their body and play with their mana passages right before the battle? Sure, if you advertise for me as the Sword Saint’s apprentice and vouch for my skills, I’ll probably get a few patrons, but not enough for their gains and my gains to be even.”

Inherently, taking impurities out of other mages gave Rhys little, and the other mages much. True, he got the super-dense impurities he needed to ignite the heart of a trash star, but he could get those from the rats if he needed to. And the amount of impurities he got from Bast was enough to ignite one, maybe two trash stars. That would improve him, he had no doubt about that, but it was a flash-in-the-pan improvement compared to Bast’s vast upgrade. For this to be worth it for him, he’d have to be able to collect the impurities from almost every mage in the tournament. Then he’d almost certainly be able to improve enough to be equal or greater to the improvement each mage got from his clearing their impurities. Any less than that, though, and it was a losing proposition.

“That’s fair,” Bast allowed. He nodded at Rhys. “Still, don’t dismiss this skill. When the tournament is over, it’s still a great way for you to make money. And as long as you choose the right clients, you should have a built-in protective net.”

“It’s true. I won’t forget it, but it isn’t what I need to do now,” Rhys agreed. Bast was right. It was a great moneymaking technique… as long as he chose the right people to target, so that once he cleared their impurities, they saw it as owing him a debt of gratitude rather than something that made him a target of kidnapping.

He clapped his hands and stepped toward his equipment. “Enough with all that nonsense!”

“Nonsense? You just revolutionized expelling impurities,” Bast pointed out.

“It’s time for the real deal. The true money-making goldmine of our era. It’s time… to make potato chips!”
