It was surprising to him that she was worried about the hopcatch revelation. She knew how the class divide worked. It was baked into Artonan life. Alden himself had had knowledge of it even before becoming an Avowed, and lots of television watching in the vault had polished off enough misconceptions and assumptions to make him confident that he understood what the cultural ideal was.

Though he had much less of a sense of how well and how often the ideal was met in practice, and the subtleties involved would probably keep surprising him for years.

Maybe on some level Kibby didn’t think she’d really be allowed to make the class shift.

The adults at the lab had been tolerant of her ambitions but not fully supportive. She’d probably been so focused on proving to them that she could be a wizard that she hadn’t started seriously imagining what her day-to-day life would be like when she was one.

“I do think it would be unfair of them to expect me to excel in every activity,” she said nervously. “Nobody is good at everything.”

Alden pried the metal lid off the last candle and lit it with one of its fellows. If they were face to face, he might have teased Kibby just a little. Not about her fears, of course, but about the fact that she hadn’t connected her teacher’s warning about the way the children on Artona I might feel about her to her own feelings about Joe.

Alden—having been treated to many earnest descriptions of Distinguished Master Worli Ro-den’s character, intelligence, and magical might—had made the connection immediately.

Kibby thought it was natural that Joe had once ordered her father to go back to school and spend a couple of years studying an obscure field that Joe himself didn’t feel like investigating. But she had also expected Joe to use her father’s service to have universe-shaking breakthroughs. Not in an, “I hope he will,” kind of way but in a, “He will. Anything less is unacceptable to all of us and will shatter my worldview,” way.

Her family’s chosen wizard was probably only allowed to lose games of hopcatch if his opponents were knights.

Alden checked the window, willed the water level to drop, then sat back down on the stool. While he warmed his hands over one of the candles, he thought.

I almost died again.

People had reassured him when he was younger that what had happened to him and his parents was a freak occurrence—a single random tragedy, not evidence about what the world he lived in really was at its heart.

You won’t ever have a day this hard again, Alden. Life is mostly good.

He had believed it. Years of safety had supported it until this past one.

A mental command pulled the latest set of disaster alerts up on his interface, and he stared at them. “It’s just bad luck,” he muttered. “I’m not stupid enough to take it personally.”

He wasn’t stupid enough to take it personally. And yet…other people did not seem to get shit on by circumstances quite this much. Quite this often.

I want to go home.

He’d thought it so many times on Thegund, when the “home” in his mind had just been Earth. Here he was, on Earth, and the longing was back. And he didn’t even know what home meant to him anymore.

But he did believe that if he asked her for help, if he accepted the kind of responsibilities that would allow him to ask her for help like Alis-art’h had, then he would fall into something so all-consuming and inescapable that he would never get his hands on home again.

How could I?

In the best case scenario he could imagine right now, using the privilege resulted in his life on Earth effectively being over.

I can’t. I don’t want it.

He looked down at Zeridee.

I can’t let her die here either.

Kibby’s video had just ended. He was about to click on one she’d made about a rhinoceros-looking animal toy she’d acquired when suddenly Alden remembered that he, too, was in possession of an animal.

“Shit!” He yanked the bento out of his bag so fast that one of his sandals and his scratchart card came with it. “I’m sorry. Don’t be dead!”

He’d been giving the orange snake periodic breathers, but in the aftermath of the wave, he’d forgotten it completely.

The reptile was coiled up. Its eyes were open, but it wasn’t moving.

Alden squinted, trying to figure out if it was alive or if snakes might possibly coil up with their eyes open in death. He really couldn’t tell, and he thought it would be mean to poke it with a chopstick just because seeing it wiggle would make him feel better.

He held the bento lid near his candle to catch some warmth for it and reached for the card Liam had given him, expecting nothing.

His heart leaped at the sight of a message, scratched out in rough capital letters…only for the contents of that message to make his mood sink again just as quickly:

I FOUND THEM

TINA STUCK IN MEAT COOLER.

TOOK LONG TIME TO GET HER.

EVERYTHING WNW OF APOGEE VERY BAD

DON’T COME.

HOW’S YOUR DIRECTION?

When did he send this?

Alden grabbed the stick that went with the card, rose to his feet, and went back to the window. He stared down at the river below him.

His stomach felt like a pit as he scratched a reply.

ENE OF APOGEE AWFUL.

LOTS OF RUBBLE.

HUGE FLOOD.

He looked at the window one more time.

DON’T COME HERE.

Below him, the restaurant sign he’d been using as a marker was nearly covered. The water had begun to rise.

******

Hope was a strange emotion. You kept finding crumbs of it long after you thought you were finished with each other.

Alden didn’t hear any more falling buildings. There was no enormous roar of sound this time. He had on dry clothes.

So he hoped a little more.

He hoped the snake was alive as he tucked it away again. He hoped the Longs had miraculously found a way out. He hoped that the flooding would recede, that the System would send him a message, that he would get just one more reprieve.

As the water approached, he carried a candle with him up the staircase to the fourth floor. He sat on a step beside it, rubbing his auriad with his good hand and watching the danger approach at a pace that was just slow enough to make him think maybe it wouldn’t catch him.

Narrow escapes had happened several times tonight. Even one in a stairwell. Why not another?

The water reached the step below him.

Alden didn’t think this building was the magic’s target. The liquid wasn’t climbing the walls. It must have been steadily filling this place because there was a large target nearby. He and everything else in the vicinity were just in the way.

He ascended the last flight, stopping at the door that led out onto the roof. When the water finally touched the soles of his boots, he turned the knob. His hand trembled against it.

Outside, his candle flickered in the wind.

He held it and Zeridee both close to his chest as he searched the surrounding buildings with his eyes, looking for a place that was turning into a big water blob. He spotted it at once, though it was more distant than he’d expected.

It was still a short while until dawn, but the sky was lightening now. And blackening the view, there was a roofline that wasn’t a roofline at all.

A dark swelling clot where once there had been a building. Another catastrophe, waiting to burst.

Alden could actually see it growing. The water mounded toward it from all sides.

The pressure and depth alone would kill me if I was at the bottom of it, he thought.

He wondered if Anesidora would be all right. If it could possibly be.

What if everywhere looks like this? What if it’s not just here?

How much will be left? Will anything at all?

He watched the dark mound grow. He tried to come up with another idea. Some way forward.

Pulling up the legs of the yoga pants so that they wouldn’t get wet, hitching up the ends of the robe.

Staying warm. Staying alive.

Scratching around for hope until he finally had to admit that the last crumb of it really was gone now.

The water was up around the tops of his boots. He could feel it flowing toward the mountain on the horizon, which had become a destroyer. This time there was no way to even imagine himself escaping. Not on his own.

The current tugged at him.

He wouldn’t be able to stay on his feet soon.

I really just want to go back to my dorm room. And joke around with the guys. Take a phone call from Jeremy.

I want yesterday back. I want it unruined.

“Let’s get to safety, Zeridee. For real this time.”

His skill still had that solidity to it. Like holding Zeridee had become more natural for his magic even as his body struggled. He’d have to think about that later.

“Contract, I’m going to use my privilege. I don’t really know how it works. But let Mother know. And get me out of here.”

******

******

Contract Earth to Contract I, a personal request from Avowed Samuel Alden Thorn has been detected. Requesting connection to Mother.

Providing relevant information.

Awaiting decision from Mother…

Awaiting decision…

Decision acknowledged.

******

******

Alden stood there, feeling like he’d just given away something precious. Knowing he had.

His interface flared.

[Request for use of privilege received. Request denied.]

“What?” he breathed.

The water was up around his calves and still rising.

“If not now… We’re about to die. Me and Zeridee, and I…did I misunderstand? Did I do it wrong? Is there an oath that comes first?”

The deep sense of loss had turned to confusion ,and that confusion was rapidly transforming into terror.

[Wait.]

“For what? There’s not a lot of time. I’m not sure I can even stay upright for long, and there’s nothing else I can—”

A loud sound he couldn’t identify made his head whip toward the east.

Oh god.

Some of the water was shearing away from the top of the mound. A giant waterfall of it.

“It’s starting! System, what shoul—?!”

He tried to run from the danger, toward the other side of the roof even though that was laughable. He couldn’t help himself. The coming wave was going to kill him, and he couldn’t just stand still for it.

But before he made it to the edge, his right boot went out from under him, yanked sideways with so much force, by an unseen force, that Alden screamed in pain as he fell.

He tried to hold onto Zeridee.

His head was underwater, and the shoe, caught by a tiny mote of the same magic that was already in the process of murdering him in a much grander way, was dragging him along the rough surface of the roof.

I can’t. I can’t.

He let go of Zeridee with one arm, just one, trying to use the other to grab onto something to halt their momentum. But there was nothing to grab. He scrabbled at water. At trash.

He reached out for help, and there was none.

Pain shot up his body as his leg and then his shoulder slammed into something. His grip on Zeridee loosened.

No. Don’t let her go. Please.

I don’t want to let her go here at the end.

His mind was suddenly full of memories, crowding each other, jumbling together with the fear.

Thenn-ar with her patient explanations as she died, answering him in small words, telling him how to be safe. Hannah wearing a fake smile and holding up a sign that said DON’T BE AFRAID. Arjun weeping beside Body Drainer’s corpse. Kibby—a dozen memories of her.

And Zeridee. Just an assistant giving him many teas. Sharing her favorite fruit. Killing for him.

He barely knew her. She reminded him of so many things. He’d carried her for so long.

He couldn’t leave her.

But the universe had other plans.

Alden got a single gasp of air, and then he was under again. They were moving so fast he knew they couldn’t still be on the roof. They had to have gone over the edge.

They…

There was no “they.” Alden suddenly realized his arms were empty.

No.

NO.

When had he dropped her? Was it when his grip loosened? How had he not realized?

He’d thought they were still together, but she wasn’t in his arms.

He thrashed toward her. He knew where she was. He knew. It wasn’t far.

The boot finally yanked itself off his foot, and he swam. He couldn’t see. There was no down or up.

There was only him, wide open. And her—his entruster, his burden. Both.

With a gravity like the sun.

But Alden was out of air. He was out strength.

And the two of them were out of time.

His arms stirred the water weakly. His feet kicked. His throat felt like it was clamping shut.

Zeridee is going to die.

Because he was going to.

Don’t let go. Don’t…

******

******

A massive command touched reality.

Alden felt that it was happening, though he didn’t have the ability to understand where the command came from or what it was doing.

He just knew that his body and everything around him…slowed down.

He became aware of his hair, drifting so slowly it was nearly frozen around his face. He tried to open his eyes, and the lids began a lift that felt like it might take multiple minutes to complete. The current was no longer rushing him toward the mountain of water but creeping along at a rate that was almost undetectable.

It reminded him of being caught in Hannah’s bubble spell, though his emotions weren’t at all dulled, and everything in the vicinity was a part of it. Instead of just one small boy.

His thoughts were the only thing moving at what felt like a normal speed.

What’s going on? Who’s doing this?

Who could be this strong?

And would he die like this—aware and with time to contemplate the process?

Then, something plunged through the water, past his nose. A hand, moving swiftly within a world that barely moved at all. Before Alden even felt surprised, it grabbed him by the shoulder of the sweater robe. And it lifted him up Into the early morning air.

******
