“Alas that my wild youth is behind me,” the Barge King mused to himself, lowering his hand before shifting his attention to Rain. “And you?”

Resignedly, Rain unlocked the catch of his visor, then raised it to reveal his face. Removing his helmet entirely would be too much. He couldn’t just resummon it like Ameliah could nowadays. “Rain,” he said, meeting the Barge King’s eyes. “Captain of Ascension. The three behind me are Jamus, Nails, and Emerton. You’ve already met Val.”

“There, was that so hard?” the Barge King asked. “And now it is my turn. Call me Captain Bakal. I’ll thank you not to use the moniker that my fellows have laid upon me in my dotage. I find it most distasteful, even if it is…apt.”

Rain nodded. “Captain Bakal, then. What do you want in exchange for releasing my friend?”

Bakal smiled. “There, that is better. I have something you want, and you have asked me what it is that I want. This is the way people of our standing should conduct themselves. I am relieved to see that you are a quick learner.”

“I am,” Rain agreed, relaxing marginally.

He really is right. Even with my visor open, hells, even using the wrong Ward, a single sneak attack won’t kill me anymore. With the accolades and the rings on top of my Force resistance, I’ve got just enough health to tank a hit at the damage limit. I made sure of it before I came down here.

Unbidden, his mind went back to the standoff between Halgrave and Lavarro in the Fel Sadanis guild. Neither of them had wanted to risk an all-out conflict either.

I’m not quite there, but to think that I’m operating on the level where I need to worry about breaking a city if I fight someone for real. This is going to take some getting used to.

“What I want is simple,” Bakal said, turning and walking back toward Val while gesturing for them to follow. “I want to live the remainder of my days in the garden that I have built, free from the excitement of my youth. I want to be able to live in peace without worrying about spies creeping over my walls or about the Empire trying to knock them down. I do not expect you to be able to do anything about the latter, but as to the first, tell me, why did you send a sneak creeping into my home?”

Having reached the hives as he’d been speaking, Bakal reached out and attempted to take Val by the chin. Val jerked away as best he could, with much grunting and clattering of chain. Hurriedly, Rain cleared his throat, making the old pirate abandon Val and turn back to face him.

“I sent him to gather information about you, nothing more. We’re new to the city, and we’ve got a lot to lose. I wanted to make sure you weren’t a threat to us.”

“And now that you have met me?” Bakal asked. “Do you call me a threat?”

“I suppose not,” Rain said. “We’d be happy to leave you alone, provided that you leave us alone.”

“Hmm,” Bakal said. “And I am to take you at your word? Say I release your foolish, information-gathering friend and let you go. What would stop you from returning here and attempting to kill me in my sleep?”

“The fact that we’re not murderers?” Rain replied.

Bakal laughed. “Good answer. But again, I have only your word of that.” He sighed, rubbing his eyes. “So troublesome. Perhaps an exchange, then, in good faith. There is something I need done, but I am not willing to leave my home undefended when Adamants are skulking about.”

Ameliah glanced at Rain, then looked back at Bakal. “What do you need?”

Bakal turned to her as he replied. “I loaned one of my Nature Mages to the Darkmane for her ship-building project, and when the Adamants attacked, she locked my man away in her vault for safekeeping. She died in the fighting, a loss I cannot say I am terribly upset about, but now my Mage is facing starvation behind a door that has thus far proven impenetrable. My crew has failed, as has that feckless idiot Thrast. You strike me as much more deserving of your plates, even if you are so painfully young. If you free my Mage and return him to me unharmed, I will return your sneak to you.”

“Sounds reasonable enough…” Rain said. “Is the vault in the city?”

“In the Darkmane’s manor,” Bakal replied, waving a hand. “Just ask someone for directions.”

Rain glanced at Val. “I suppose we could do that for you, but not if you keep Val strung up like that until we get back. It looks uncomfortable.”

“It sure is,” Val grunted.

“Hmph,” Bakal said, turning and using his incredible height to grab the chain where it had been hooked over the tree branch. With one hand, he unhooked it, then turned and lobbed Val and chain both toward Rain’s feet. “Take him. Payment upfront.”

Rain was so stunned that he didn’t attempt to catch him, and Val let out a startled squawk before hitting the ground face first.

“You’re just giving him to us?” Jamus asked over Val’s muttered curses. He stepped forward to help the bound duelist back to his feet.

“His whining pollutes the air,” Bakal said, motioning to one of his servants. “Get me another honeycomb from the hive on the end,” he commanded.

“You okay, Val?” Ameliah asked, placing a hand on his shoulder. “Here, let me heal you.”

“Thanks,” Val replied. “He’s a Hydromancer, if you didn’t know. He hit me with a wave out of nowhere. I took a bit of a pounding, but I don’t think he was trying to kill me. There, that’s good enough.”

Bakal sighed, then turned back to face them once more. “I am too old for this game, which is why I am here, not on the seas with the cowards that fled when the news began to sour. I no longer have the stomach for running around pointlessly.” He slapped his enormous belly, as if to punctuate that point. “Yes, I am just giving him to you. I see no need to further motivate you when we both know that you will do what I have asked. It is a quest. You are Guilders. Guilders love quests.”

Rain found himself smiling at that. “I think, despite our rocky start, you just might be okay.”

“Am I, now?” asked Captain Bakal, accepting the fresh honeycomb from his servant.

Rain nodded, feeling much better now that Val was safely behind him and Ameliah. “Provided, of course, that your Mage wants to come back to you and isn’t a slave or anything.”

Bakal smiled. “The Darkmane was the slaver, not I. Even in my youth, I found dealing in flesh a waste of time. Too much risk for too little reward. Isn’t that right, Tamin?”

“As you say, sir,” said one of the servants, who Rain only now had a proper look at. He was old like Bakal, but he wore his years much more openly.

A former crewmate?

Rain’s eyes caught the scars on the man’s wrists, only partially hidden by his tunic.

No, a former slave. Maybe both.

“You see?” Bakal said through another mouth of honeycomb. “We are all friends here. Now, if you will kindly remove the noisome rodent from my garden as you have promised, I have important business to get back to. Femar, see them out, then bring me a pitcher of wine and a braised lamb shank, I think, to enjoy by the pond.”

Turning, Bakal began walking away with his honeycomb, not bothering to see if his orders were being carried out. “Oh,” he said, suddenly stopping and glancing back. “Whatever else you find in the Darkmane’s vault is yours to keep, not that I think you’d agree to share, or even if you did, that you would give me an honest accounting.” He chuckled as he turned away again. “You Guilders. So ashamed to admit your greed. We pirates, at least, see no need to pretend.”
