Wren walked the perimeter at dawn.

Not surveying. Not counting or cataloging or engaging [Keen Survey]. Walking. The dressed stone beneath her feet, the ghost-elm perimeter to her right, the settlement's structures to her left. Four people's worth of morning: Theron's trowel already audible from the eastern channel, Brecca's breath carrying from the gathering hall wall, Hadley sorting provisions at the fire pit. The sound of four distributed across a space built for dozens.

The Vael resonance ran beneath her feet. She had been hearing it since yesterday -- not as a separate signal but as a quality of the ground, the way a surveyor stops registering the wind's direction and begins registering what it carries. It was in everything. In the dressed stone's response to her weight. In the ghost-elms' hum, which had a new depth that she could not have named a week ago. In the threshold stone's dawn vibration, which had ended three minutes ago and which this morning had carried the Vael's warmth from the first second to the last.

She reached the settlement's northern edge, where the ghost-elm perimeter met the escarpment trail. She stopped. She stood with her feet on the limestone shelf that ran north toward the ridge, and she did not think about what she was doing. She simply let the bond's awareness extend.

The triad ran through her -- threshold stone, prayer-notch, healer's house -- the cluster's chord, three nodes distinct and layered. The [Foundation Stone] signature hummed through the substrate. And beneath it, the Vael's resonance carried through the bedrock, through the geological formation that connected this settlement to the ridge to the escarpment to the basin floor.

She reached further. Not pushing. Extending, the way a plant extends a root -- slowly, along the path of least resistance, following the substrate's contour. The limestone bedrock ran north and east, continuous, unbroken. Her awareness traveled with it.

The Warden's Eye was there.

South of the settlement, in the basin -- a pool of still water with a Glimpsed bond and a [Reflective] trait that had been watching something to the south-southeast since the day Wren formed the bond. The signal was faint but clear. Not the compressed carrier note she had felt from Hearthstone at five miles' distance. Something better. The Eye's pulse-rhythm -- the slow, regular attention she remembered from her first visit -- reached her through the substrate with a quality she had not felt before.

It was carrying the Vael.

The land's resonance was propagating through the limestone bedrock beyond the settlement. The geological formation that connected Varethen to the Eye was a continuous path, and the Vael's signal was traveling it the way sound travels through a wire. The Eye was not just reflecting the Thornwild's surface. It was listening to the land's original voice, receiving the Vael through the same substrate that brought it to Wren's feet every morning.

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  DISCOVERY
  Bond-at-Distance: Vael Propagation
-------------------------------------------------------------

  Resonant: The Vael resonance propagates through
  continuous limestone substrate beyond Varethen's
  perimeter. The Warden's Eye (southern basin,
  Glimpsed depth) is receiving the signal through
  geological bedrock. The Eye's [Reflective] trait
  has been attending to this resonance since before
  Wren bonded it.

  Bond-at-distance range: confirmed functional at
  estimated 3-4 miles through substrate. Signal
  quality sufficient to distinguish individual
  resonance layers within the substrate.

  +50 XP
  +2 Surveying proficiency

  Cumulative XP: 2261 / 2573 (Level 6)
  Surveying: 76 (Journeyman)

-------------------------------------------------------------
```

Wren stood at the settlement's edge and felt the network's reach. The triad behind her. The Eye ahead. The Vael beneath, connecting them through bedrock older than any human construction.

---

Brecca went to the threshold stone in the afternoon.

Wren did not suggest it. No one did. Brecca finished her morning work on the gathering hall's north wall, ate lunch at the fire pit, and then stood up and walked to the threshold stone with the particular directness of someone who had made a decision before she knew she had made it.

Wren followed. Not close. Twenty meters back, at the edge of the clearing, close enough to see but not close enough to intrude.

Brecca stood in front of the threshold stone. The carried stone sat at its base, palm-shaped concavity upward. The east face was warm in the afternoon light, the limestone surface radiating the day's accumulated heat. Brecca looked at the stone the way she had looked at the gathering hall wall on the first morning of [Stone Listening] -- the way someone looks at a door they are not sure they should open.

She placed her palm on the east face.

Her body went rigid. Not the progressive tightening she had shown at the gathering hall -- shoulders pulling in, breath shortening. This was immediate. Her whole frame locked. Her fingers spread on the stone's surface and her arm straightened and her jaw clenched and she stood perfectly still.

She did not pull away.

Wren counted. Ten seconds. Twenty. Thirty. Brecca's palm stayed on the stone. Her breathing was shallow and rapid, the breathing of someone bearing weight. Forty seconds. Fifty. A minute.

Brecca's jaw unclenched. Her breathing deepened. Her fingers, which had been spread flat, curled slightly -- not pulling away, settling in. The way her hands settled into a joint she knew how to read.

"Four thousand years," she said. Her voice was rough. "The gathering hall is three hundred and it was heavy. This is --" She stopped. Breathed. "This is not heavy. This is deep. The gathering hall has layers. This has -- geology. The stone's own identity goes down further than the builders. Further than anything human."

"That is the limestone formation," Wren said from the clearing's edge. "The threshold stone sits directly on the bedrock."

"I can feel the bedrock." Brecca's hand moved on the stone's surface, reading it, the way she read walls. "And the builders on top of it. Their work is -- it is not like the gathering hall. In the hall they maintained. Here they -- devoted. This was the stone they cared about most. Every joint, every surface, every angle. The intention is --" She searched for the word. "Saturated."

"Can you feel the seventh band?"

Brecca's hand stopped moving. She was quiet for a long time. Her palm pressed harder against the stone.

"Yes," she said. "It is different from the rest. The builders' intention is even. Consistent. Someone who knew what they were doing and never checked. But the seventh band has a different quality. It is --" Her brow furrowed. She pressed harder, the way she pressed joints, reading through pressure. "Someone pressed this. The way I press. The way [Pressed Intention] works -- attention compressed into material. But the quality is --"

She pulled her hand away. She looked at her palm. Then she looked at Wren.

"I cannot do what they did. Whoever pressed the seventh band did it with a quality of attention that I do not have yet. My [Pressed Intention] is warm. Theirs was -- permanent. The way a root becomes permanent in stone. The stone did not resist. It received. As if it had been waiting for exactly that quality of hand."

Wren crossed the clearing. She placed her fingertips on the east face beside Brecca's hand and engaged Detail Notation. The merged reading -- Detail Notation through the Vael resonance, overlapping with Brecca's [Stone Listening] perception -- was the richest she had ever felt. Three layers of information, three modes of reading, converging on the same stone.

"The seventh band's reinforcement is directional," Wren said. She had not known this before. The Detail Notation was resolving information that her previous reading, before the Vael, had not been fine enough to detect. "It points. South."

"Toward what?"

"Hearthstone. The southern settlement. The central foundation there has the same quality -- the same intentional reinforcement. The System called it 'intention that exceeds construction.'"

Brecca looked south. Through the trees, past the ghost-elm perimeter, toward the land that was still held by corruption but was no longer silent.

"The builders were connected," she said. "Varethen and Hearthstone. The same tradition. The same --" She put her palm back on the stone. "The same hands. Not the same individual hands. The same quality of hands. A quality that was taught, passed down, practiced until it became the kind of certainty I can feel in the gathering hall walls."

She stood with her palm on the threshold stone for another minute. Then she removed her hand and looked at it. At the calluses. At the three weeks of accumulated contact that had taught her what stone could hear.

"I am at the beginning," she said. "They were at the end of something I have not started yet."

And beneath her palm, beneath the builders' devotion and the stone's four-thousand-year identity, the Vael sang.

---

The seedpods were doing something.

Wren knelt at the planting site -- western margin, limestone soil, the gathering hall's shadow providing the dressed-stone shade the seeds required. Three days in the ground. No visible change. The soil surface was undisturbed, the thumb-width depressions where the pods had been pressed still faintly visible.

She activated [Keen Survey].

The ten minutes resolved the site at a resolution she could not have achieved a week ago. The limestone soil's mineral composition. The moisture content. The depth of the dressed-stone foundation beneath the planting site. And at the depth where the seedpods sat -- thumb-width down, point-first in limestone dust and stream silt -- the first sign of activity.

The shells were softening. Not cracking, not splitting. Softening at the base, where the point met the soil. The embryonic root -- if ghost-elms had roots in the conventional sense, which Wren was not sure they did -- was beginning to extend. Not downward. Outward. Into the limestone soil, along the mineral grain, following the same geological structure that the mature ghost-elms' root systems followed when they formed the interlocking ridges around Hearthstone.

The substrate was not surprised. The limestone formation had held ghost-elm roots for centuries. These new seeds were being received the way a familiar word is received by someone who was waiting to hear it.

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  DISCOVERY
  Ghost-Elm Seedpod — Pre-Germination Activity
-------------------------------------------------------------

  Ecological: Three days post-planting, ghost-elm
  seedpods show shell softening and initial root
  extension along limestone mineral grain. Root
  orientation follows geological structure rather
  than gravitational direction. Substrate shows
  no rejection response — consistent with mature
  ghost-elm root integration observed at
  Hearthstone.

  +30 XP
  +2 Surveying proficiency

  Cumulative XP: 2291 / 2573 (Level 6)
  Surveying: 78 (Journeyman)

-------------------------------------------------------------
```

Wren sat back. The substrate beneath the planting site was not surprised. It had held ghost-elm roots for centuries. It recognized what was beginning.

---

Theron had reached the end.

Wren found him at the southern edge of the retreated strip, standing in the channel with his trowel at his side. The dressed stone ran south from the cistern in a clean line, the mortar joints visible, the craftsmanship consistent with the rest of the eastern network. And at Theron's feet, the dressed stone disappeared.

The line was sharp. Healthy ground on one side -- the retreated strip, three meters of soil that was darkening as its chemistry resumed, mycorrhizal filaments threading through the substrate. And on the other side: grey. Compacted. Held. The corruption's edge, drawn straight across the channel as if someone had laid a ruler on the earth.

The dressed stone continued under the grey soil. Theron had cleared enough to see it: the channel's blocks, the same size and shape as the ones behind him, extending south under ground that would not yield to his trowel. The corruption held the soil the way a fist holds a stone -- not with force but with completeness. Every grain in contact with every other grain. No air. No water. No passage.

"It goes on," Theron said. "At least another ten meters. I can see the edge of a block under the surface." He knelt and pointed. There, under the grey compacted earth: the corner of dressed stone, barely visible, the same limestone, the same joints. "The channel did not stop. The corruption stopped it."

He stood. He looked south. The grey ground extended beyond the retreated strip into the full corruption, where the trees grew too symmetrically and the soil held its silence.

"Fourteen days to the next pulse," he said.

"Fourteen," Wren confirmed. Day 54 minus Day 40.

"If the gap retreats again -- another degree, maybe two -- I can clear another five meters. Maybe reach the next junction."

"And if it is more than one degree?"

"Then I clear more." Theron picked up his trowel. The simple statement of a man whose relationship with the land was not mediated by the System but by the tool in his hand and the knowledge in his blood. "The channel was built to carry water. The corruption stopped the water. The pulse pushes the corruption back. The water will return." He looked at the trowel. "My job is to make sure it has somewhere to go when it does."

---

Wren opened her journal at the fire that evening.

*Day 40. Bond-at-distance confirmed: Vael resonance propagates through limestone substrate to the Warden's Eye, 3-4 miles south. The Eye has been attending to the Vael since before I bonded it. The land's voice reaches further than the settlement. +50 XP.*

*Brecca at the threshold stone. Four thousand years. She felt the seventh band -- recognized it as pressed intention, the same technique her class uses, but at a quality she cannot yet produce. "I am at the beginning. They were at the end of something I have not started yet." The reinforcement points south. Toward Hearthstone.*

*Seedpods: Day 3, shell softening, root extending along limestone grain. Substrate not surprised. +30 XP.*

*Theron reached the corruption boundary. Dressed stone continues south under grey soil. Fourteen days to the pulse. He will be ready.*

She paused. The fire was steady. Four people. Hadley was sketching something in his own journal -- the insect distribution, the species counts mapped to the shimmer's edge, the data he had been accumulating since his return. Brecca sat at the gathering hall wall with her palms flat. Theron held the counting rod, turning it slowly, his thumb tracing the older notches, still learning.

*Hearthstone marks: placed Day 27. Duration 30 days. Expiration ~Day 57. Seventeen days remaining, three days after the pulse. I need to decide whether to go back. The marks are the only detailed reading of the central foundation's seventh-band reinforcement. If they fade, I lose the comparison data. If I go, I leave the settlement for two days before the pulse.*

*Not deciding tonight.*

*Day 40. Original cycle: 17. Current: 18. The drift is one day. Fourteen days to the third pulse.*

She closed the journal. The Vael sang beneath the settlement. The Eye watched from the southern basin. The seedpods softened in the limestone soil. The channel waited for water. And four people held steady in a place that was learning, degree by degree, to remember what it had been.
