The first thing he heard was an anguished scream of an unseen adversary suffering from extreme mana strain. The first thing he saw was the shredded fabric of Dynamancy. The pitch-black mana that compelled gravity was no more, tears lining the sides of his spell. The pattern collapsed in on itself, and a rippling wave of force detonated against Shiv's body but curved around his pillar, displaced by his incredible Toughness. Rows of heavy wooden benches were turned to shrapnel. Sections of the stone walls collapsed. Obliterated plaster filled the air with smog and dust. Darkness enveloped the room as all candles were blown out.

All but the few placed upon Daughter.

Within the heart of the collapsing chapel stood the Deathless and three Assassins.

The latter were invisible. Shiv suspected they could phase through matter as well, seeing how the dust simply flowed through them rather than sticking to their bodies. But though they were unseen, intangible, and currently silent, he could still detect the faint glow that highlighted their organic architecture. It wasn't every day the Deathless felt impressed by his own Awareness.

Atlas of the Flesh Scryer 124 > 125

He struck all three enemies at once. Though they could phase through matter, every edge that lined his body hungered to bleed a soul. He sliced through what remained of the Dynamancy spell blanketing him, and then he cleaved into his first Assassin. A veiled invisibility was pierced. A howling shriek followed, as armor and flesh split open, offering a warm gush of entrails.

Yet the man's cry was cut off in an instant. Just as Shiv bit into the dense ball of gristle that was the Assassin’s mana fields, they vanished from sight and sense with a sudden pop. A bubble had burst around them, taking them somewhere else entirely.

Shiv tore into the second Assassin's arm, noting that their magical skills were far inferior compared to their comrade. He slashed wide, his right arm becoming an eruption of extending and branching blades. The mana fields surrounding the second Assassin were utterly eviscerated, and he tore deep into their soul, splitting skills where they lurked in that sea of delicious vitality.

The third Assassin was impaled. Shiv's skin had become a flowing cape behind his back. Yet at a whim, he commanded it to sprout jagged spikes of teeth from the ends. He missed his first step and then nearly smacked himself mid-fight for not growing eyes on his skin-whip. A ladder of irises erupted along that tangled length of tissue, and suddenly Shiv could see where his adversary was hiding. He performed a full loop and came around, slamming against their lower spine from behind.

Whip Proficiency 43 > 45

Eldritch Physiology 51 > 54

Yet as the second Assassin came asunder in a spray of minced pieces and vitality, the third was knocked aside. The last of the trio lost both their invisibility and intangibility upon being hit, and Shiv saw the gleam of crystalline armor. But not just any crystal. It was unmistakably arcanite, colored the same prismatic hues as that which had formed the alloy of Confriga’s sword. Valor had described the material as a sort of magical hyperconductor.

The surviving Assassin shot through a hole in the wall made by an earlier explosion. They drifted weightless, light as a feather and quick like liquid lightning. Partway through their retreat, they suddenly turned upside down and whipped out two wands; a series of spells were unleashed, each one a magical jab meant to keep Shiv off balance. Pitch-black fists fused with minor singularities flew toward him. They drew in bits of debris and dust, turning into twisting discs that crushed matter and built with pressure every passing second. Shiv felt himself drawn closer and used his Shapeless Tides to keep himself in place. But it was a struggle. Each of the singularities pulled hard, and the entire room began collapsing as entire walls, the ceiling, and all floorboards were ripped free from the large chapel.

But though the Assassin was a potent spellcaster, Shiv had developed a specialized skill, specifically meant to bring misery to those who thought range to be their ally. While his body remained pinned in place, his skin-whip snaked out, striking each of the singularities in rapid succession. His timing was impeccable, and a resounding clash followed. He felt the vectors of the spells merge, and he shoved them back the way they came.

But these singularities were also maelstroms of kinetic energy. Countering the first one with Return to Sender cost Shiv almost half his overflow tides. The next took even more than that. And Shiv realized three more spells had been cast while he was dealing with the first two, which he certainly didn't have enough Shapeless Tides to repel them without an extreme exertion of Bifurcated Processing.

An unfortunate consequence of Eldritch Physiology meant that when your mind burned from exhaustion, all of you burned, and your entire body suffered. Because each of you was all of you when your biology was recursive and nonsensical.

Not a big loss. I can survive being crushed into a pulp if it comes to it.

Shiv sent the first two singularities sailing back. They pulled an entire portion of the room away; the floor and meters of stone and concrete below were ripped up in peeling waves, and a clash of war and matter occurred as several of the incoming spells clashed against the ones returned to the caster. Shiv flung himself into the carnage a moment after his Shapeless Tides surged. All he had left were innate vectors, and already he found himself wrestling to keep stable. But the spells he sent back offered him some measure of relief. One collided with an incoming spell and detonated. A massive chasm of Dynamancy erupted, ripping the space before Shiv asunder. The other passed all the way through and struck the Assassin—before phasing through him without inflicting any harm.

Shiv's head exploded again. He stopped being able to hear and smell, but with all the eyes lining his skin, he could still see. And in a rare and ridiculous instance experienced by only a few, he witnessed how his own head was destroyed. A colossal ballista bolt emerged from a dimensional rift, impacting him in the back of the head. Its velocity was such that the air around Shiv ignited like oil kissed by a roaring flame, and every bit of stone, glass, wood, and more turned into molten slurry. It carved a clean path through Shiv's unstrengthened Pillar of Orichalcum, but when it finally struck something, it inhaled all the damage rather than exploding, leaving the chapel itself barren, but relatively clean.

As before, Daughter’s statue and all the candles lighting her remained utterly unaffected.

Eldritch Physiology 54 > 55

Shiv tried hunting this new nuisance with his Atlas, but realized it was pointless. It was a dimensional arrow. The shooter could be anywhere, and if they had some Awareness skill like Adam, they could very well be shooting him from another city entirely. The capital alone was a sea of stars, each glittering dot an organic being. He committed himself to chasing down the escaping Dynamancer-Assassin instead.

There wasn't much he could do about the unseen archer—

Feat Gained: Grudge-Tethered (Heroic) - Allows the Pathbearer to strike once at an enemy who has wounded them from any distance.

And just like that, things were different. The instant Shiv processed the notification, a crimson tether extended out from where his head used to be, crossing the vastness of space, curving up into the sky and beyond. He didn't just see the tether, however. He was the tether. He was connected to his enemy, and he could feel them from far away. And to say there was a gulf between them was an understatement. He was being fired at by someone in Fortress-City Diego. They were physically closer to where Lost Angeles had once been than the Capital. The connection between them was hard but brittle, and he would get but one strike before it shattered.

Good thing one strike is all I need. Shiv's skin-whip carved through the crimson tether, and the cut delivered by his Bladed Soul traveled along the Grudge-Tether into the offending Pathbearer. He felt them part from neck to groin just before the connection between them broke. Meanwhile, the rest of his body charged through the opening in the wall where the Dynamancer Assassin fled.

His quarry was quick, but Shiv was getting faster. His Inertial Sheath growled with aggression and hunger. Two more fist-sized singularities punched down; both missed. Shiv curved under and shot up into an arc, smashing through other bits of destabilized architecture while hiding behind the layer of still-present walls as he flanked the fleeing Assassin. They cast blindly, unable to track him through the carnage. Shiv, however, could see them clearly. They were a thing of flesh, blood, and meat, and they glowed bright as dawn amongst the waterfall of debris.

Shiv came at his target from two angles. His skin-whip lashed out from below—drew fire away from his actual body. As a series of gravity spells slammed down, knocking his whip aside, his actual form tore a gap into the damaged orphanage, and he came barreling out of the topmost floors just a meter away from the surprised Assassin.

This was when a barrage of other arrows hit him. They all traveled along dimensional vectors. He felt the faintest clench of pressure before they emerged. Against all odds, he managed to parry one using his whip—imperfectly. His Return to Sender skill didn't activate, but the projectile was knocked off course. Another two nearly hit, but Shiv stopped time. His Temporal Shell flared into shape around him, and it lasted long enough for him to get out of the way. A tidal wave of counter-Chronomancy erupted out from the shadow in front of him. It should have shattered Shiv’s time magic, but he avoided that by swapping his physical body with his Severed Shadow and going Non-Sequitur.

Then he finally had the Assassin. He tore through their arms with ease, shredding both limbs off at the elbows. He took the legs of his adversary right after, and then wrapped their body in a cocoon of Vitae.

His Severed Shadow couldn’t use the Eldritch Physiology skill. That required the presence of biomass to trigger. This allowed him to use his Bifurcated Processing to its fullest extent. As such, he suppressed the cutting aura surrounding his captured target and also took hold of their musculature using his Biomancy. A head of his hydra swept through them. He pinched their arteries until the blood flow ceased and their body went slack. All that happened in a blink. By the time he emerged from his Non-Sequitur state in a blast of white and red, his target was unconscious and halfway into his dimensional cape. Shiv's bladed heart flared bright as he carved an opening inside himself, allowing his physical and spiritual bodies to switch places once more.

Got one. Let's see if we can make that two. Where'd Bubble Assassin go?

Shiv scoured his surroundings—felt heavy blows tear through his upper torso and the left side of his neck. His Pillar of Orichalcum was being gashed open like it was tin. Then a storm of additional attacks descended. They were all dimensional in nature. But more than arrows greeted him now. Spells cast across space and time detonated around him; spheres of flame that burned flesh from within crawled into his physical shell. Every movement he made caused more of him to be shorn away by amplified friction. He made the mistake of turning. The oxygen in the air around him detonated like a bomb. He lost sixty percent of his biomass in an instant. This wasn't a matter that could be resisted by Toughness. The Pyromancy spell that afflicted him was among the most advanced he'd ever faced. And it worked well against his recursive biology.

It didn't matter that he could reconstruct himself if even the slightest movement caused him to fray. Resistance itself was turned into a heated blade, and Shiv into little more than salmon waiting to be peeled.

More spells hit him, each one a masterpiece of complicated shapes interlocked into dizzying patterns. The only reason he didn't unravel and die in an instant was because of his cutting aura. His very presence split mana apart and caused portions of the spell work to collapse.

But this didn't save him. It only delayed his inevitable fatality. And before he could even consider what to do, alarm screamed in Shiv's mind as a pitch-black bolt of lightning speared down from the heavens above, slamming into him with the force of a mountain flung from orbit, shattering his body and driving him hundreds of meters into the bedrock before he could even blink.

The totality of the orphanage was flattened in an instant by the overwhelming weight of the attack, but the destruction was kept caged as a weave of midnight electricity formed a cone around the blast zone. Shiv tried to cut himself free. He knew Halsur’s hand when he saw it—was stunned by how fast the Ascendant had reacted.

His astonishment doubled as the bolt of lightning didn't fizzle out after striking, but instead grew solidified like the trunk of a great oak and kept Shiv pinned deep below the ground, and then his astonishment tripled as a tar-black figure leapt out from the colossal lightning bolt as if it were a stream of water, carving bloody grooves into his body in a frenzy of cruel violence. Her voice was a piercing shriek. Her hand was filled with blurring steel.

Daughter the Deadly hacked and hewed with wild abandon. Jagged pieces of teeth and severed lengths of bone flew free from Shiv. He was more statue being defaced than a body being butchered. By the time his mind caught up enough to retaliate, there was little more than thirty percent of him left. He was mostly bits of torso with parts of a right arm and a skin-whip.

And using that skin-whip, he fought back.

