Daughter wailed like an incoherent banshee, her inhuman voice joined by the piercing shrieks of an enslaved child nested within her viscous filth. Shiv had no intentions of killing a child, but he also didn't want to depart without reminding Daughter why she feared him.

The tip of his whip, coated in streaming Vitae, struck Halsur’s black bolt that continued to leave Shiv pinned in place for Daughter to savage. It skipped off after leaving the slightest of dents in the massive trunk.

Shiv’s mind went blank with disbelief. The Supplicant had already been hard enough. Stabbing at an Ascendant's personal mana felt like he was trying to punch a hole through a fortress wall using a sewing needle.

But he wasn't the only one caught off guard. A thunderous gasp caused the very skies above to shudder. Shiv felt a flicker of something as a wispy trail glided down from the heavens. A drop of fear flooded the Deathless. Its taste was cold but true, paltry yet potent.

Halsur the Endbreaker hadn't been bled, no. Not nearly. But the blow had stung. And for an Ascendant that prided themselves on being unbreakable, even the faintest dent was a declaration against their invincibility. And that was as much a wound as anything else.

Shiv's tides pointed downward. He tore himself in half to escape the bolt of lightning. Daughter followed him in a berserker rage and failed to see his whip twisting behind her.

Or so Shiv assumed.

The nightmarish Ascendant dispersed into a spray of clinging oil that spilled over Shiv. Then true darkness followed. A familiar veil of all-consuming shadows spilled over the world, and Shiv could see no more, sense no more. Not even the vision granted by his Aegis remained active beneath Harlock’s dominion. And to make matters worse, Shiv felt himself get stabbed from all sides as Daughter's assault became an unstoppable whirlwind.

Even without ears, he could hear her howling, her voice metaphysical more than telepathic. She wanted him to die. She commanded the System to scream for him to die. Dozens of notifications loaded in his mind, and they all said one thing:

DIE, MONSTER, DIE!

Shiv's only response was to grow a mouth using his remaining biomass. A wicked grin expanded out from the center of his TORSO, and he laughed. He laughed just as he fell below his sustainable biomass threshold. He tried to turn what remained of him into an eruption of flicking blades, but his eldritch flesh combusted into ash.

Whip Proficiency 45 > 48

Return to Sender 144 > 156

Pillar of Orichalcum 352 > 367

Non-Sequitur 166 > 167

Inertial Overdrive 267 > 270

Eldritch Physiology 55 > 65

Shape of Monstrosity 155 > 161

Strider of the Unbending Path 183 > 187

This Severed Shadow of Blood and Bladed Soul 182 > 191

And so death greeted another of his bodies. But the whole of him endured and grew strong from the struggle of this demise.

See you sooner than you might think, Daughter. You and your mom both.

***

Back atop the Court Leviathan, the Severed Shadow hovered with a new prisoner within its cape. Shiv's true form gradually lost detail, with the red and white fading until it was little more than a silhouette once more. And like that, he resided, turning his focus to another one of his bodies instead.

This one was nearby and currently under Uva's sway. Within the Tutorial bunker, another one of Shiv's physical bodies drew in a sharp breath and found himself breathing in the crisp taste of autumn air.

"So, was your kidnapping successful?" Uva's voice sounded. She already knew. She was deep inside the Shiv's mind and weaving herself even deeper. But he really didn't mind talking to her.

"Bagged a pretty impressive Assassin. Don't know if they're that useful or not. Guess we'll find out soon. Daughter, Halsur ,and Harlock showed up pretty quickly—but the Inquisition and the Guard were ripping me apart even before that. Don't think I would have lasted that long even if my physical body had all my skills."

"But there is a quality to quantity and expendability as well," she replied.

Shiv grunted. There was no arguing about that.

He felt her finish fastening herself tight to the center of his consciousness. She was like a harness for his mind; where his Bifurcated Processing was found wanting when it came to controlling all his many physical bodies, her stacked mental instances allowed her to serve as a pilot where he could not.

An interesting thing about how Shiv's newly evolved nature reacted with Psychomancy was how he still only had one mind. This meant that Uva could tap into any one of his physical bodies, but when she tried to weave her physical form into his ego, she would emerge where his Severed Shadow was. This effectively allowed her access to his bodies without remaining in harm's way herself.

Together, they were far more dangerous than alone.

"Looks like our way into the Fairwoods is open," Shiv noted, observing the pulsating portal of the Slipgate in the cavernous metal chamber before him. "Time for us to take a trip, huh?"

"That is the hope. However, before we go, I must inform you that someone has made an attempt on your life. I think you might want to know that."

Shiv scoffed. "Yeah, lots of someones. I killed one of them, sent another one running, and have a third one inside my cape. Even managed to get a new Feat for dealing with all those annoying archer bastards who shoot at me from far away." He laughed darkly. "Adam's going to felling hate this one."

Feelings of unhidden disgust and envy emanated from Uva. "Vile as your Cancer-Tier growth is, Dear Brute, I was not talking about your fight just now. Rather, an aged woman came to visit the body we placed in the dorm room. I only discovered her presence after going through the memories of the comatose body."

She passed a specific thought into Shiv's mind, and he sighed in annoyance. "Well, I guess that explains why I tasted blood earlier. Godsdamn it, Magnolia. You just couldn't stay away, could you?"

"You know her?"

Shiv paused briefly. He had forgotten to explain all this to Uva in detail. "Not really, but, uh, Marcus Unblood got her daughter pregnant. So it's probably something to do with that."

"Ah, yes, Marcus: the crippled but extremely unfaithful and reproductively potent cover you have.” A long hum emanated from Uva. “Of course."

"Why do you have to describe him that way? It's giving me the creeps, Uva."

"Because it's true and I find it somewhat hard to believe and strangely amusing at the same time. Should we go deal with her first? She wounded herself substantially. One of her axes seems to have broken apart and struck her neck when she tried to take your head."

Shiv thought about that for a second. "Nah, she's not a threat. I doubt she's going to tell anyone about a failed assassination attempt on her part. No. We go on vacation. If she wants to try again, well, I guess she can be my guest. But I got a feeling she's going to stay away for a while longer this time. Anyway, go poke Adam. Make it as sudden as possible. Tell him we’re off to give a certain Bread-Knight back to his Court, and that he’s welcome to follow along telepathically if he has time."

Once more, a pulse of disbelief came from his girlfriend. “You do know that it is an act of hubris to ignore a potential threat.”

“A potential threat is Daughter and the Inquisitors. They managed to kill me. The Supplicant killed me. Magnolia is not a threat. Magnolia is a sad mother breaking herself against a giant that can’t be bothered to swat her. The System can go eat shit. She can take her swings, but if she comes back when I actually have time, the only thing I’m going to do is talk to her.”

“And then what?”

“Then we see if I can break strife itself and give her peace.” Sage of the Enkindled Heart shuddered in anticipation inside Shiv. “After all, what’s more powerful than being able to force mercy on anyone you want to give it to?”
