Guildmaster Zago asked, “Are you going to continue participating in my guild?”

Erick turned to her. “I’d like to. That’s the plan.”

She nodded. “Attend a basic class or three, at your leisure. Any topic you choose. Anhelia or Sizzi will be able to direct you further. We will continue this discussion at a later date.” She stood up, ready to leave. The privacy ward popped like a soap bubble.

Erick supposed that was good enough for now. He stood up.

Before Guildmaster Zago could get very far, Al called out, “Zago! They approved artillery spells.”

Zago stopped. A sharp, contained glee filled her face. “Really?” She eyed him. “Why?”

Al cocked his head. He asked, “Did you not tell her, Erick?”

“Not… really?”

Zago casually turned toward Erick, saying, “We decided to save the conversation for later.”

“Ah. Well.” Al gestured to an entirely black orcol. Black like living metal black. Black eyes, black fingernails. Black teeth. “Killzone arrived and set Liquid straight.”

The black orcol wrought, Killzone, wrapped a friendly arm around the much shorter steel grey dragonkin wrought, shaking the smaller wrought in a friendly manner, saying, “Shucks, Liquid does her best for everyone and it’s always great, but we had another death today. It’s time to pull out the big spells!” Killzone smiled at Erick, all black teeth and black eyes and black lips, with a twang in his voice. “I can’t wait to see what Erick there invented. Al said it was a basic spell, too! Heck. I might want to buy it next year, if’n it’s a good ‘un.”

Erick glared at Al.

Al shrugged at him.

Fine. Might as well debut in front of everyone, eh?

Zago smiled like a child given candy. Then the smile was gone, and she coughed small into her hand. She said, “May I see the spell beforehand, Mister Flatt?”

He called it up. The spell looked a bit different from two days ago.

Call Lightning 4, 1 minute per level, super long range, 500 mana

Prepare the sky to strike an area or object of your choice for <damage>. If used in an active lightning storm, Call Lightning’s duration is as long as the natural storm. Every lightning bolt called reduces the duration of Call Lightning by 1 minute, or a natural storm by <undetermined>.

Exp: 400/500

Specifically, it had gained 1000 experience, like he had cast it twice.

He willed the spell box toward Zago.

She read it. She read it again. She tilted her head. She said, “That’s… expensive.”

Killzone ambled toward them. “What’s it say?”

Zago moved the box to Killzone.

He immediately went, “Ooowee! That’s expensive. But that is a tier one spell. Basic magic. I’d recognize one of those anywhere. Congrats, Mage Erick Flatt.” His eyes glinted darkly. “Let’s go see it in action!”

- - - -

Erick joined Army Captain Killzone, Sewermaster Al, Guildmaster Zago, and several other people he had never met before, on top of one of the tallest buildings closest to the quarantined Human District. It had been prepared for the gathering of bombardment mages only 10 minutes prior, to deny the shadowcats an idea of what was happening. [Force Wall]s and [Wards] had been scattered around the whole thing, shoring it up from possible retaliation, denying entry points and shielding the vulnerable people on top. But if the cats or the wolves got up to the roof anyway, that’s what Killzone was for.

Looking out over the destruction, Erick did not understand how the shadow cats were still alive.

The Human District resembled those wartime photos Erick would sometimes see on the news; demolished buildings, smoking craters, rubble everywhere. Single walls standing tall, like silent gravestones over what had once been a thriving city. The streets of the Human District were barely visible amongst the destruction. All the trees that had existed were long gone, turned to ash or debris, it was hard to say.

As he stared, people moved around him, but Al stayed at his side.

Killzone said, “Can’t rightly see anything from this far away, can ye?”

Erick asked, “No one has telescopes? Why are we up here, then?”

“Tele… scope?” Killzone looked up at the air. “I don’t see that one. Telepathy, telekinesis… No telescope.”

Erick decided. “I need to get [Metalshape] and [Glassshape], don’t I.”

Al said, “Glass shaping is a part of [Stoneshape]. You can even do gemwork if you’re good enough at the skill, though that usually requires a tier 2 spell.”

Erick bought [Stoneshape] right there.

Zago stood to the side, silent, erecting a [Ward] of some sort. It was the second such [Ward] she had done; the first one was already set near the back of the roof, not giving any obvious clue as to its purpose. She finished, and a radiant violet glitter descended around her, before vanishing into the roof at her feet. She moved five feet away and started making another one.

Erick turned back toward the Human District. He asked, “How are the shadowcats still alive?”

Killzone answered, “They hide in shadow. There’s lots of shadow in rubble, and those darn cats target the stoneshapers first. We’re holding the quarantine line, but advancin’ is difficult. You can’t see ‘em now, but wolves lurk under alllll of that.”

Zago announced, “Fourth one is done. Al? Take whichever one you want. Erick? Come take this one right here.” She stepped out of the [Ward] she made. She looked out. “No one needs line of sight, correct?”

“Nope,” Al said.

An incani man, a dragonkin, and an orcol, all said variations of, “No, Ma’am.”

Zago looked at Erick, who had yet to take his spot in the [Ward] she had created. “Is there a problem? You don’t need line of sight, do you? Your spell description did not seem to require such a thing.”

Erick just looked down at the rubbled district. He had a few arguments against killing things, but all he could think of right now, was, “I don’t even have a target—” followed quickly by, “I think I might need line of sight.” He looked up. The sky was empty, like it usually was. “Not sure how this works...”

Zago frowned, then walked over to the leading edge of the roof. She began casting another [Ward], two feet from the edge.

Killzone pointed forward, but spoke to the nearby incani man, his voice strangely devoid of his twangy accent. “Prepare to take down the [Force Wall] for Erick Flatt and reestablish if necessary.”

“Yes, sir, Killzone, sir.”

Killzone nodded to the man, then he turned toward Al, “Just needin’ that signal from Merit, and you can begin at your leisure. Like Erick here said, I’m doubten’ we’ll have many a target before you can flush them out.”

“Done.” Zago stepped aside from her small ward. “In here, Mister Flatt.”

Everyone seemed to look at him.

Okay. Okay. Pep talk time, Erick. You can do this. They’re murderous monsters who have invaded your town. YOUR TOWN. Yes. You live here now. Look at the people around you. Yes. They’re looking at you. You gotta do this, because this is how things are done.

Erick stepped into Zago’s [Ward], and suddenly—

He.

Could.

See.

Everything.

“Frick! No wonder you guys never invented telescopes!”

His eyes weren’t a part of his body anymore. They were everywhere. He could see the pores on his own face. He looked past the walls of Ar’Kendrithyst and saw smokey crystal. He looked down into the Human District and saw shadow under the rubble a thousand feet away. He—

Zago pulled him out from her [Ward], saying, “I cannot believe that you immediately went looking for the monsters.”

Far below, in the center of the Human District, shadows were moving.

“They got spooked!” Killzone lost his twang as he shouted. “Give the signal from our end. Al! Do your thing! Everyone else: positions! Kill the bastards!”

An incani man beside Killzone shot something into the sky. It burst vibrant black. Four more signals followed all around the Human District, like dark fireworks, as Al stepped into Zago’s ‘eyeward’ in the center of the roof. The air shifted around Al.

Zago rushed to her own eyeward as a dragonkin took an eyeward for herself.

Killzone said, “When Al begins— There he goes. Erick? You cast your spell and do what you can.”

Erick was probably supposed to hop back into the eyeward, so he could aim better, but right now all he could do was watch as the ground shifted far, far below, on the edge of the Human District. He couldn’t quite see from—

Erick, feeling like an idiot, hopped back into the eyeward.

Now he could see what was happening down there. Somehow, in fits and spurts, the ground was flexing here and there, in 15 or 20 yard circles. Like some god touching the floor of the city and turning it into airy sand-water; rubble vanished into the ground, and shadows welled upward, into the light. The ground did not stay flexed into water in those small locations for more than half a second, but it provoked a massive reaction from the whole of the district.

Shadows leapt out of vanishing rubble, wolves and more wolves. Like a sea of darkness stepping into the light, the monsters were there. And Spur waited for them. All around the Human District were city guards, adventurers, and Jane too, standing with Savral, all of them prepared to fight the dark tide. The monsters yelled, and the city of Spur answered with a roar of their own, swords slamming against shields; the sound of a battle soon to be joined.

That horde was going to wash over everyone, including Jane.

Erick’s ethical problems against killing monsters vanished like water under a desert sun.

[Call Lightning].

The skill leveled to 5 as the sky darkened, 300 mana evaporating into the air— thank you, Clarity. Flashes skittered in the gloom above. Far below, the wolves howled. And still, the ground pulsed here and there, ridding the Human District of rubble and hiding spots. Whatever Al was doing, he concentrated his magic on the space in front of the quarantine line first, ridding it of ambush spots and exposing wolves to the front line.

And the front line noticed the new targets. Lines of fire, bursts of acid, pillars of light; magic of all kinds exploded in the densest parts of the monster horde. Smaller spells erupted like machine gun fire across the advancing enemy, carving holes in the darkness.

Killzone called out, “Fire at will, Erick.”

Erick picked a target. It was a writhing mass of shadow in the center of the horde.

Tracers of energy arced from the clouds above Erick, searching for its pair rising up in the center of the monster horde. When the two streams of potential met, the sky cracked at the connection. Energy followed paths of least resistance, chaining from one shadow to the next shadow, boiling blood and tensing muscles in ways they were never meant to be used. Bones broke under unnatural stresses. Nervous systems fried.

About 15 death notifications filled Erick’s vision, all of them for shadowolves, all 90%+ participation.

10 more notifications came in the moments after fireballs, and crushing squalls, and green rain, impacted the area near where the lightning had struck. Those were only 30% participation.

Erick struck again.

22 death notifications filled Erick’s vision. All shadowolves. More notifications came as the other bombardment mages followed his attacks.

He struck again.

7 notifications that time. More wolves. More follow up notifications.

The cloud above him was an airy thing, not much mass and not much there. It was still the size of a building, though. So ‘not much there’ was only true when comparing it to an actual thunderstorm. It had one bolt left.

He scanned for another target.

A peculiar nest of shadows stood separate from all the rest, except for tiny tendrils that linked it through the rubble all around. The shadow itself was just off center of an open space; it did not look like it was hiding, but it also didn’t look like a good target.

He stepped out of the eyeward, then stepped back in. He stepped out again, and pointed to the spot he was looking at, with the weird tentacle shadow. “Is that a cat?”

Killzone was right there, beside Erick. He ducked in and out of the eyeward. “It just might be.”

Erick sent the last lightning bolt at the thin mass.

You have slain Shadowcat B!

25% Participation

+794527 exp

Erick almost fell on his ass, but a dragonkin was there to help him stand. Erick muttered, “I got kill credit on a shadowcat. 25% participation. Almost 800000 experience.”

Killzone laughed loud, then asked, “How much damage did you do?”

“Uh.” Erick looked. “None listed.”

Killzone’s joyful mood turned serious. He nodded. He asked, “Got enough mana to do that again?”

Erick began meditating. “I will in a bit.” He looked up. Some of the cloud was still there, but without his spell active, it was dissipating in the winds above the city. Then he looked at his mana. Huh. He was pretty close to another 300 mana. “Three minutes.”

“Pull up the kill credit screen.”

Erick did so, then showed it to Killzone.

Killzone studied the little box. He dismissed it, then turned. “Anyone got another cat spotted?”

Al sighed out of his eyeward, shaking and pale. A pair of dragonkin caught him before he fell. Erick almost rushed over to the orcol, but Al was already collecting himself off of his rescuers, saying he was fine and thank you. No need to worry about him.

Killzone said, “Good work, Al. Battlefield is almost set.”

“I can go again in ten minutes.” Al said, “How’s the frontline doing?”

Killzone demanded, “Report, private.”

