An incani in an eyeward said, “Minimal casualties. Horde is probing toward the wall. They might be making a break for it through an unknown tunnel but Merit is there. Mog is shoring up her side opposite Merit. No problem areas reported. Frontline looks stable.”

Al said, “They’re not going through the sewer. I took down the sewer there the other day.”

Zago called out, “I found a cat!”

Killzone turned to Erick. “You’re up again.”

[Call Lightning].

A billowing grey cloud roiled into existence high above Erick, folding in upon itself, gathering charge and casting a gloom across the city. The cloud towered well into the sky, almost to the height of Ar’Kendrithyst’s walls. [Call Lightning] leveled to 6.

Call Lightning 6, 1 minute per level, super long range, 500 mana

Prepare the sky to strike an area or object of your choice for <damage>. If used in an active lightning storm, Call Lightning’s duration is as long as the natural storm. Every lightning bolt called reduces the duration of Call Lightning by 1 minute, or a natural storm by <undetermined>.

Exp: 100/1300

But it was the level 5 version of the spell that gathered in the sky above him.

Erick stepped into the eyeward to gaze upon the battle. Jane was doing fine. She wasn’t doing much, either, but she was doing fine back there in the front lines. Ah. Look at that. She saved that person’s life, killing that wolf before the wolf could—

Zago’s voice dominated Erick’s senses. “I’m marking the target now.”

Erick’s sight zoomed across the battlefield to a violet glow among a tangled string of darkness, woven through several downed buildings. Erick would never have noticed the tangly shadow if not for Zago.

Lightning struck. A kill message filled Erick’s vision.

You have slain Shadowcat C!

1% Participation

+31781 exp

Zago called out, “Kill confirmed. Shadowcat C dead.” She added, “I’m getting a [Premonition] that the last cat will not be controlling anything. It will try to run and hide, and I won’t be able to see it.”

Killzone said, “Probably right. Erick. Sweep up as many as you can. Don’t worry about the remaining cat. Help our troops.”

Al stepped back into his eyeward. The ground on the battlefield resumed flattening in spurts and spots, exposing more shadowolves with every remolding of terrain. Erick targeted the exposed monsters, careful to keep his lightning well away from the advancing frontline. He got 45 more kill messages by the time the last bolt from [Call Lightning] was spent, but like the last shadowcat kill, he was stuck at 1% participation.

He was kinda glad for that. He was starting to feel really sick. Not physically… Though maybe there was a bit of that in there. Mostly… Killing was not good. Even if they were monsters. Even if they were killers…

Erick was not cut out for this sort of thing.

He gave one last look to Jane and saw that she was in her element, killing monsters and keeping her people alive, before ducking out of the eyeward. He immediately fell to his knees, knocking away the hands that tried to help him up, rushing to point his head in a good direction before the vomit could come. And out it came. There was no stopping that. He puked until he had nothing left to give. Then he dry heaved, tears streaming down his face.

Oh, god. He was a wreck. This was not a good look for him.

He stood up, activated a quick [Cleanse], and tried to salvage his dignity in the eyes of the several onlookers who were staring at him, probably wondering what the fuck was his problem. Did he have a problem with killing monsters? With helping the city? What could have possibly caused this reaction?

Was he an idiot, or something?

Honestly, probably: Yes.

“Sorry. Not used to death.” Erick said, as he continued to meditate. “Really not used to this sort of thing.” He pointed around, “Prefer not to… Ah. Hmm. You know what? I’m going to meditate and see about getting ready for another one, if you need me.”

Killzone studied Erick the whole time he was going through his emotional and physical breakdown. At the end of it, Killzone said, “Good man,” then promptly went on to dealing with the concerns of the rest of the people on the roof. “How’s it looking, Zago?”

Erick relegated himself to a corner of the roof. He sat down and relaxed, saying hello to an incani and a dragonkin nearby who eyed him a bit too much for it to be normal eyeing. They stayed silent.

That simply would not do.

Erick asked them, “You guys kill lots of monsters?”

The incani frowned. “Yeah. We do.”

The dragonkin said, “The threat to our families will be gone because of people like you. Thank you.”

The incani relented, adding, “What he said.”

Erick felt… Not better. But… better.

. . .

An hour later, Zago announced, “Shadowcat A destroyed. We’re at the cleanup phase. I will begin marking targets now.”

Erick looked over the edge of the roof.

Down below was a mess. The Human District was marred with shadow corpses and people searching to make more corpses, and still Al did his magic, turning rubble into flat ground, flushing out more monsters. But without the cats, there was an observable change in the shadow horde. Some wolves moved like rabid animals, charging lines where there was no hope of success. Others ran, four of them, from a single advancing person. The horde was an unorganized mess, harried by fireballs and [Force Beams] and explosions of every color.

And then Erick saw another spell begin to spread among the shadows. A violet light, gentle yet sharply visible in the sun, outlined shadow after shadow. The spells and attacks from the people of Spur targeted those shadows. Some purple glows tried to hide, to shuffle through the front line and make it to the safety beyond, but those were cut down with extreme force.

Erick saw the purple glows try to escape, and could only think:

These things must hide everywhere. Spur is not safe, at all.

Another thought came.

People live like this?

Gradually, the purple glow outlined every shadow. At about the same rate, shadows fell to the blades and spells of the encircling frontline. Spur closed like a noose around the shadows, and now a different sort of problem appeared.

A spell from one side of the frontlines caught another spell from the other side, splashing magic across people who had strayed forward. But just like that, the potential problem went away, as all magic stopped. People started slaughtering wolves with swords and spears.

When the final wolf was dead, and the purple glow vanished, a cheer went up from the human district. Roars echoed across Spur. The battle had been won.

Erick was impressed by the whole thing, but mostly he was impressed by Al. The Human District was flat, save for a few low walls here and there that Al must have left intact on purpose. What sort of spell was that supposed to be?

He looked over to Al. The man was outside of the eyeward, his light brown-green skin looking lighter than normal. Erick walked over to him.

“So that was impressive.” Erick said, and Al smiled. “What the heck was that? Did you even leave any houses for me to [Mend] back together?”

Al chuckled. “I left some walls down there. You can make something out of one of them.” He stood up a bit straighter, stretching. He breathed deep, his chest expanding, muscles flexing under loose clothing. “Now what you did. That was impressive.”

Killzone suddenly loomed over them, saying, “Yes—”

“Fuck!” Erick took a half step away, holding his chest. He breathed. He calmed. “Sorry.”

Two soldiers chuckled nearby.

Killzone ahem’d, then said, “You killed two cats. By rights, you deserve a portion for the reward from the Kill Quest, twice over. Good work.” He turned to face Zago, who had also walked closer when Erick wasn’t looking. “Anything I should be worried about?”

Guildmaster Zago said, “Not right now, but [Purple Fog] will last for a day and spread to fill the rest of the city in hours. Any living thing with a rad in its body will begin to glow purple. I’m sure we’ll get a few false positives among the populace, so be aware of that and make adjustments as necessary.”

Killzone nodded. “That’s a useful spell. When did you create that?”

“A few years ago. Never had a chance to use it until today.” She looked down at the battlefield. “It requires a defeated monstrous enemy and Irogh has already warned me against extensive use. I’m barely this side of the self-propagating magic ban.”

“Good. I was worried about that.” The twang returned to Killzone’s voice, as he announced, “We’re good ta’ go. Thank y’all for coming and assisting with the defense of the city. Liquid n’ Mog n’ Silverite’ll figure out pay and such in the coming weeks. Whatever they decide. I’m not dealin’ with that.” He nodded, saluting the group with a quick, unprofessional double-tap of his fist on the center of his chest. The sound was like a blacksmith’s hammer striking an anvil. “Later!”

Killzone sauntered off. As he left, his soldiers took down [Force Wall]s from the air around the roof, then followed their captain down the stairs. Wind flowed across Al, Erick, Zago, and a few others. The scent of over three thousand monster corpses came to Erick, but the corpses were fresh.

The smell wasn’t all that much different than a normal day, to be honest.
