“Aisha has not started her school of magic yet,” Inferno Maw said. “You have started yours, and even if you do call it a simple ‘university’, you still teach basic magics. [Grow] and The Vegetable. [Watershape] and [Stoneshape] and Habitation. You might not teach Force Magic 101, but you do teach Adventurer’s Readiness, which includes basic Healing Magic applications. And you do teach Healing Magic in your hospitals. It would be easy for you to inform people that they can stress almost any Healing spell in specific ways and gain another Healing spell. Stress [Rejuvenation] deeper into the body and you get [Regeneration], transforming a pitiable heal-over-time into allowing one to regrow severed body parts. You should already be teaching this, and yet, normal Arcanaeum thoughts are to not teach this at all, except through the apprentice programs.”

All true.

And so, since Aisha was not actually doing her magic school, as Erick had asked her to do, Raingorl decided that he wanted to speak openly about many things. Just to see what Inferno Maw said. With the two of them working over Erick together, Raingorl might be allowed to take over—

A knock came at the door.

Inferno Maw scowled a little.

Raingorl turned toward the door just in time to see the iridescent steel woman herself, Aisha, walk into the room. Raingorl hummed.

Well that was unexpected.

Aisha looked from Raingorl to Inferno Maw, then she pulled up a chair, and sat beside both of them, saying, “I understand we’re talking about magical teaching?”

Raingorl said, “I suppose we are.”

“Fantastic!” Aisha said to the both of them, “I have already spoken to Erick because I thought this would happen soon, and now that we’re here, we have leave to come to some sort of arrangement where you, Raingorl, officially become the ‘High Chancellor’ of Candlepoint Arcanaeum, where you teach all knowledge, both mundane and magical, but where I have leave to deny certain subjects be taught. If those subjects and students do need to be taught —if only to prevent them from killing themselves— those students will be directed through the normal apprentice system. My office of Magic will be doing all of that apprentice system.” She asked Raingorl, “If this is okay with you?”

Raingorl was stunned. But only for a moment. “Yes. This is acceptable.”

That was…

Exactly what he wanted!

Inferno Maw had been worried, but now he grinned a little in decided pleasure. “A wonderful adjustment. In light of this new happenstance, I have about a hundred new things to discuss, if you are both amenable?”

Aisha nodded. “I have 4 hours scheduled for this. I feel it might be enough.”

Raingorl said, “Let us proceed.”

Inferno Maw began, “Let us restart this conversation, with a discussion of Elements to be taught. Let us start with Fae, Mystical, and Carnage; specifically.”

Aisha frowned a little. “Yes. Yes. Yes. I’m fine with taking these sorts of students and teaching the advanced forms of this magic, but I suggest that Raingorl leaves them out of the normal curriculum.”

Inferno Maw perked up. “Really? This is counter to the normal direction of the Arcanaeum Consortium. Usually Kirginatharp needs to personally clear when those magics are allowed to be taught.”

“Our King has widely displayed Fae Magic to all, for every single person he granted new life to was held in a [Fairy Stronghold] for a day. And then there’s Weald; everyone there knows what Fae Magic is, and that the Bands of Intent on Fae Magic are getting relaxed in a few years.” Aisha said, “And Erick wants everyone to learn all the magic they want to learn. Mind you, I know this will come back to slap him some day, but he wants to do it, and he will be personally cleaning up any messes made by his new world order.”

Inferno Maw’s eyes went a little wide.

Raingorl easily said, “I’m still not going to teach Fae or Mystical, but Carnage is acceptable to add to the list of accepted Elements.”

Inferno Maw moved on, “I assume that Benevolence will be taught by Aisha?”

“Probably people I tap for the job, but yes.” Aisha looked to Raingorl. “Yes?”

Raingorl agreed.

They moved on.

It was a productive conversation.

And now… Raingorl was the Head Chancellor of Candlepoint University and Arcanaeum—

Well. They’d have to get official accreditation on that last one before Raingorl started calling the mishmash of buildings he had an ‘arcanaeum’. That accreditation would be a canyon and a half to cross, but Raingorl felt he had wings.

He could cross that canyon, and with speed.

- - - -

Zolan had four staff members looking over some resumes from some new hires, while he was conducting an interview with a man who might form the backbone of a ‘Greater Candlepoint Sewermaster’s Alliance’, as they had over in Songli. Soon, Zolan dismissed the man, but ticked his resume as a possible hire. That particular applicant was a new Benevolence dragon who was moving on with his life, but he was not the ‘Al’ person who Zolan had known that Erick had transformed first.

‘Al’ was still in Spur, pretending to be a normal person, according to Zolan’s various informants.

… Zolan would have preferred Al for this sewermaster position, truly. But it was not meant to happen.

- - - -

Volaro ordained the introduction of ten new judges in the wake of the Dragon Exodus, and the creation of Weald.

He still had reservations of some of the new people from Gambler’s Rest, but they were all qualified from their previous lives. Those people from Gambler’s Rest might even become some of the best judges in this land, for this land was to have only one set of laws. Because of that, it was every judge’s duty to ensure that that set of laws was upheld fairly across all peoples.

That last part was tripping up a lot of the new arrivals not from Gambler’s Rest; the nobles who expected better treatment than anyone else.

Normally, Volaro would have made arrangements to keep those people happy, for most of those people were from Ar’Cosmos, but he was too busy to ensure such preferential treatment, and it was rather nice to simply look at the law and decide that if a commoner was fined 10 gold for stealing from the market, then a former noble would be charged the same. Such an act won him no friends among the formerly powerful, but that was just it. They were formerly powerful.

Volaro liked not having to suck up to them.

… Gambler’s Rest’s people were perhaps too happy with that particular decree of ‘the same law for everyone’, so Volaro let them remain at their own lands, for now, though he did pluck two of those people and put them in the main court, in Candlepoint. He needed help getting through all these cases made by the mad rush of refugees, after all.

Volaro hired a bunch of new inspectors, too. The judges were just for when the inspectors decried a new building and the creator of that building was not willing to budge.

‘What do you mean the stone walls on our 3 story house need to be at least 30 centimeters thick! I never did it that way back in the islands!’

Well, sir, you got exceedingly lucky back on the islands— Oh wait! Aren’t you a refugee from there, and your entire city was destroyed by crashing waves? Oh? Yes? I’m right about that, eh? I wonder why that happened to you? I wonder why your house and entire city fell to some simple waves.

Volaro didn’t say all that himself, to anyone. But one of the new judges had said that. Volaro liked that judge rather much because of that, though he would need to rein in that fiery young lady’s tendencies if she overstepped clear lawful lines.

But there had already been a few buildings that fell apart on their own, nearly killing the inhabitants, so some righteous anger in the courtroom was warranted.

- - - -

Quilatalap had seen quite a few [Reincarnation]s and [Blessing of Draconic Benevolence]s over the last few days, but only when he specifically asked Erick if he could watch. That man may have been a dragon and a Wizard, but he acted like a common civil servant on a deadly deadline, every single day; always something happening, and never enough time to relax. There was something admirable about that, but Quilatalap preferred a quieter existence. As for his own magical efforts in his quiet existence, he still had his bean-growing experiment going on, maintained by a little automatic skeleton magic, but he only checked on that when he wasn’t putting together all the rest of his life.

Erick had given him three buildings for his own use.

The first was his new home on Yggdrasil, which was quite nice. Well protected. Quilatalap couldn’t fault any of Erick’s spellwork, or any of his runic webs, and Quilatalap even had some really nice views of the Gate District from his porch. The nature of the house did disclose that Erick had probably seen Quilatalap’s similar home in Ar’Kendrithyst, back during Last Shadow’s Feast, or at least the one he allowed people to find. This was a little awkward since Quilatalap did not actually like that house.

When Quilatalap got a moment to ask Erick about where he got the design for the house, Erick said he had copied his own house, and then he asked if Quilatalap would have rather a cottage like the one he let Erick stay in with him, during Last Shadow’s Feast. Quilatalap would have actually preferred that, and so, Erick transformed the house the next chance he got. He even installed a little runic [Renew] station so Quilatalap could keep the house strong on his own, which was rather thoughtful; Erick had just forgotten to do that the first time.

But really, Quilatalap felt that Erick was probably just getting more comfortable with him.

The second building was a workshop like Erick’s own, inside another [Fairy Stronghold], but outside of any other district. It was a space for him to practice whatever he wanted. Quilatalap didn’t use that one much, but he appreciated the thought.

Mostly, Quilatalap was in the library. The public portion of the library was in the designated-Shade tower, occupying about four empty floors at the top. That public space was completely empty, too, but that was because Quilatalap was expected to fill it with whatever he felt like. Erick suggested ‘good books’, and then rattled off most of the books in his own library. They were all magic books.

And so, since Quilatalap thought Erick was heavily lacking in a great lot of basic magic books, that became Quilatalap’s first goal in setting up that space. Just the basic magic books, though. All the more devious ones would go into the private part of the library, which was maintained in a smaller [Fairy Stronghold] that was, once again, on Yggdrasil’s branches.

No one was allowed in Quilatalap’s library, by his own personal decree, by Erick’s decree, and by great big signs on the doors, but by the gods above, did people try. Mostly they tried to ask Quilatalap questions. Thankfully, he only had to repeat his Erick-given words that he was not teaching anyone anything, for any reason whatsoever, until they got clearance from all Overseers, and Erick himself. Only then, would Quilatalap even consider teaching the person.

And maybe not even then.

It was a rather moot point, anyway. Good luck with getting Aisha of Archmage’s Rest to approve of anyone. Ha!

Those people who kept attempting to talk to him got a [Nightmare Curse]. It would wear off in a few days, but those people were never able to look Quilatalap in the eyes ever again and they usually ran away screaming, so that was fine.

Goldie was a resident of the tower. Quilatalap did not try to shoo her away at all.

Goldie even offered to go on book-finding missions for him since she wasn’t doing much of anything else these days, except for the occasional guarding of Erick. Quilatalap was pretty sure she was lying (and vastly underselling) how much she did around here, but he wasn’t going to pry. He did ask her to stick around whenever she felt like it, though, because when she was around and visible, no one else was around. Quilatalap was not a hermit, but he also didn’t want people bothering him all the time, asking questions that he wasn’t allowed (nor did he want) to answer.

He was happy to talk to Erick, though.

He was happy to hear that Zenipeq had retaken Frostflower. She had been welcomed back in half-open arms, and then someone from Death Throne had tried to kill her through a good ten intermediaries, but she dealt with that rather handily.

On the sixth day after Erick started Benevolencing dragons, Erick asked if Quilatalap wanted to meet for some magic talk the next day. Quilatalap happily agreed. Unexpected, though, was the location of the meeting. Quilatalap never let anyone in his real workshops…

But Erick was different, he supposed.

Quilatalap strode down the center of a large warehouse space, high atop Yggdrasil’s boughs. He was in Erick’s real workshop. His surprise could not be hidden. Large stone boxes filled with dragon parts lined one side of the building. Raw metal goods sat on the other side; thousands upon thousands of tons of iron and steel and rarer metals, too. A whole block of platinum. A stack of gold bricks. Ingots upon ingots of silver. Almost all of those rarer metals were prismatically imbued, too. Quilatalap was having a hard time deciding which trinkets were more expensive than the rest. He was partial to the bones and scales, though, for obvious reasons.

They could be turned into quite a lot of fun things.

As though he was reading Quilatalap’s mind, though Quilatalap knew he wasn’t, Erick said, “You want some of those bones and scales and such? I have no idea what to do with them all, but I saw you eyeing them during those Benevolences. Or we could talk about what they’re actually good for, and we can make something with them together? Any sort of magical talking or doing is great, though; I just need a break. The kingdom is great! But I still want to do magic for as long as I— Well. I will probably have to have this conversation under a [Hasted Shelter] if we want to spend any actual time here sharing secrets.”

Quilatalap continued to walk down the center of the warehouse of fantasies, his mind abuzz with ideas. He turned a bit to Erick, looking down at a man who was only as small as he was because he wanted to be; like most dragons. And Wizards. And kings, too, sometimes.

Quilatalap asked, “Got anything you want to know, specifically? Because I sure got a list of my own.”

Erick smiled. “I do! [True Resurrection]. Why is yours real and Messalina’s is not?”

