Quilatalap nodded, then breathed in and out to give himself some time to think. And then he decided to just speak openly. “This is a complicated problem, that is not really that complicated at all. Do you know what happens to people after they die? Give me the long version that you know.”

“Sure.” Erick said, “Upon true death, when the heart stops beating and the brain stops firing, or when the core or rad is fully broken and unable to be remade, the soul sometimes leaves the body/core in a transposing sort of manner, not unlike a [Teleport], but not completely the same, either. In this, the most normal of ways for people to die, the soul has moved on to wherever the person had planned to and prepared for during their life.

“When a devotee of Atunir dies, their soul moves to the Golden Fields and Evergreen Orchards or similarly named place. There, they live out their days in bliss and harmony with Atunir, occasionally coming back to the world to empower the divine magics of Atunir; to spread Field and Fertility to her other parishioners.

“But most souls are not devoted to certain gods at all. Like animal souls and plant souls and monster souls. When these things die, they evaporate into their local manasphere as something akin to mana, but not really that at all. If one looks really hard with a mana sense, they can see souls in the very air itself, but usually only around great places of death, or where the mana swirls most solidly. In these locations, soul-stuff —not the original soul at all— can come back together and form naturally-rising undead, or elementals.

“Outside of specific gods, though, at the time of death of most thinking things —for those who have chosen not to move in any particular way— Phagar appears and offers choices, mainly two. A choice for an end to suffering; The End. A choice to attempt to move into the realm of a specific god; a path fraught with danger, but also one last chance at existence. There are other choices, like forgoing Phagar altogether and trying to piece oneself back out of the manasphere, but as far as I know the church tries to discourage this, though it is one of the ways to come back from the dead. Thinking undead sometimes come back to ‘life’ in this way, but they’re never who they were in life.” Erick thought for a second, then said, “I think that is… Most of it. Yeah.”

Quilatalap nodded. “That’s all basically correct.” He looked around, then said, “Let’s have a [Hasted Shelter] and a Privacy.”

In five short seconds Erick weaved magic like a true master, and Quilatalap sat across from a nice little table filled with tiny treats; cookies, a part of a cake, Erick’s coffee invention, and also his ‘soda water’ invention. Quilatalap smiled at the quick spread and made himself a cup of coffee, then took a slice of cake.

It was wonderful.

Halfway through his confection Quilatalap set down the cake, smiling a little bit, and said, “This is really good. You’ve got some good Cooks in the House, Erick.”

Erick chuckled a little, saying, “Yeah. I do. I haven’t had much opportunity to actually eat at Slipstream’s Saucery, but I order takeout all the time. Atalle says I have an open invitation whenever I want to show up and get a proper dinner, though.”

“If you’re looking for a reason to relax, I’d be up for a nice dinner. I haven’t eaten at a place like that in a long time.”

Erick’s eyes went wide. “Uh… Yes.”

Quilatalap smiled a little bit. “Good! I’ll hold you to it!

“Now about [True Resurrection] and [Resurrection] and all of that: Now you got everything basically correct about the degradation of a soul upon death. There are a few specific edge cases that need to be discussed, though. Like with angels and demons.

“When a person dies and they’re headed that way, they are transposed to Hell or Celes, and then, depending on if they were contracted with an archdemon, in the case of the incani, or pledged to the Celestial Host, for anyone choosing to be angelic, they get turned into a low level demon or angel. In these cases they keep their minds… Mostly. It’s sort of like your Benevolencing, actually. When a soul manifests up there their soul shifts in those directions; either Vile or Exalted.

“They’re still actually souls, though. When they’re up there on those moons, they are nothing but soulstuff in a world very similar to how the Old Cosmology used to be; malleable.

“I mention the angels and demons because they’re the easiest ones to bring back to ‘life’. The process for doing so is the same for both demons and angels, so I’ll focus on demons and you can extrapolate for the angels. When you cast a Vile ritual, calling out to Hell, you are attuning a part of space for any demon at all to step through. When they do step through that Rift-like pseudo-space, they transform the Elemental Vile into their own Demonic flavor, creating a body for themselves in the process. Their body will take from the ritual what it needs to make itself, so if you use a small ritual, you should only expect small demons. If you used a very large ritual, you could get a larger demon, or a bunch of smaller ones.

“This is the easiest way to summon a demon, though you never know what demon you’re going to get.

“If you attempt to summon a specific Demon, using an Elemental Demonic ritual, they could step through the space, or not. They are not compelled. You can do a compelling ritual, but you shouldn’t… Though you can form contracts with demons and they agree to be your slave for the duration of the ritual. This carries all the inherent risks of making a slave, though, so you’ll get the Slave Quest issued against you— Ehhh. We don’t need to go into that. Anyway. Elemental Demonic rituals can fail. You might have just wasted your mana, your time, and depending on the nature of the ritual, a whole lot of money.

“But the summoning of demons and angels is rather easy, because the souls have already done about 75% of the work for you.

“And now we get into the [Resurrection] ‘debate’. There are many facts to consider here, but I’ll give an overview, and you can tell me what you think.”

“Souls that actually move on to their true afterlife with a god cannot be brought back.

“Souls that become demons or angels or sapient undead can be brought back to life, in those forms. Not in their original forms.

“[Resurrection] is capable of bringing a dead thing back to a life, no matter where the original person went.

“[True Resurrection] does not work on those who have moved onto their true afterlife. It does not work on those who have transformed into angels or demons or sapient undead. It only works if the dead person has only been dead for a short while… Which can vary depending on many different factors. [Soul Stasis] magic is important for a [True Resurrection] to work properly. Otherwise you could just end up with a [Resurrection].” Quilatalap finished with, “And yes, it could be that you cast [True Resurrection], but the effect of a spell like that varies depending on many factors well outside of the casting of the spell itself.”

Quilatalap went back to eating his cake while he watched Erick digest all of that. The man was really quite cute when he was deep in th—

Quilatalap stopped.

His previous words came to him. ‘If you’re looking for a reason to relax, I’d be up for a nice dinner.’

He had asked Erick out on a date, hadn’t he?

And then Erick had said yes.

Rather quickly, too.

Quilatalap considered this. This was… this was fine. Yes. This was fine. Great, even! Or maybe it wouldn’t be, and that would be fine, too. Erick didn’t seem like the sore-lover sort of type. He had had that fling with that guy in the grasslands, right? And then moved on? Quilatalap had done that, too, here and there sometimes. So yeah. This was fine.

Quilatalap went back to eating his cake. He had moved on to the cookies before Erick was ready to speak again.

Erick said, “So reconstructing a soul, forcibly, through [Resurrection] and some sort of manasphere imprint of the body, does not actually bring back the original person, unless that original soul is already fully there. So [Resurrection] gathers soul stuff from the manasphere to make up the difference?

“My instinct is to say that you can use Time Magic to properly reconstruct any soul that has moved on, but then you would need to be in the location of that soul’s death, to reverse it back to a proper point in time when the soul was existent, and then freeze it in time, and bring that past death to your current time...

“Or, you could do some more extensive Time and Spatial magic to ‘gather that soul’ into whatever location you chose. You’d need clearance from Phagar to do that sort of magic, though.

“So if you didn’t have clearance from Phagar, then he would stop you from doing that Time Magic, and you would need to use extensive soul-preservation magic and it would need to be cast, preferably, before the person died… Oh. I know the difference.” Erick looked up to Quilatalap. “You have clearance from Phagar. Messalina does not.”

How does he do that!

“Once again, you astound me, Erick, and in so many ways!” Quilatalap smiled wide, laughing a bit. “Yes. That is the exact difference. I have clearance from Phagar for Time Magic, and Messalina does not.”

“But she has the [True Resurrection] spell?” Erick asked, flabbergasted. “I have not seen it myself but everyone else says she does?”

Quilatalap nodded. “Now this is a bit more tricky. Here.” He handed off a pair of blue boxes. They both read almost exactly the same. “First one is mine. Second is hers. Only difference is mana costs.”

True Resurrection, instant, known target, 10,000 mana

Bring a known target back to life.

True Resurrection, instant, known target, 25,000 mana

Bring a known target back to life.

“They’re nothing special as far as boxes go,” Quilatalap said, as Erick read, blinked a bit, and then dismissed the boxes. “Messalina got her [True Resurrection] through extensive Spatial Magic and Sight magic and Soul Magic beyond the norm. I got mine through normal Soul Magics and Time Magic. Messalina’s version does work. Most of the time. Don’t go thinking it doesn’t. She simply went through a lot more fields of magic to get there. But, by going through all those extra fields, things get muddy.

“I’ll give you an example:

“I built a solid road of steel across a canyon between life and death. Direct. Simple. Disembodied souls are very, very dumb, almost all the time, but I built lights and rails and the road is a kilometer wide. There’s even a gradient, so the soul will sometimes simply ‘slide into life’. If the soul is on the other side, it will come through. It is very hard for a disembodied, free soul to fail to cross that road.

“Messalina had no steel, or lights, or even designs for railings, but she had a lot of wood. She did what she could. She probably could have gotten a better version of her magic if she was at all personable with Phagar, but Messalina’s Truth is one of No End, and… Ah. Whoops. Listen to me. Giving away the Truths of others. If you could ignore that it would be nice.” Quilatalap waved himself away, saying, “I’m not giving Messalina nearly enough credit, but you get what I’m saying, right?”

Erick sat there for a moment. “… How do you know if the soul you put in the body is the one that is supposed to be there?” He rapidly added, “I mean. How does someone else check to see that the proper soul is in the proper body? Oceanside was doing a lot of that with my [Reincarnation], and I think I am starting to see the shape of what some of their tests could have been.”

Quilatalap had to laugh again. “Ah! Erick! I’m not sure which is more impressive. That you plowed ahead into the deepest possible part of the mana ocean without really understanding what was down there, and you survived, or the fact that you’re absolutely thriving all the way down here.”

Erick blushed a little bit. “I have a different skill set than most people… Probably.”

“You very much do, for Wizardry can explain a lot but not nearly this much.” Quilatalap grinned, saying, “I’ll go over all of it, for this is a very complicated thing that cannot be broken down into a spell formula of any sort. It’s more like a grand checklist, and some peoples’ checklists are larger than others’, because they can see and test more. Feel free to interrupt whenever.

“Let’s start at the easy level; the Status and the name therein. Not foolproof. Your own [Reincarnation] sometimes changes the name of the person. Most people failing to cast a proper [Resurrection] will have changed the name of the resurrected.

“The whole rest of the Status could and should be roughly the same, too. Same spells in their person. Same Stats. Etcetera. Not foolproof at all, because you can change a lot of this with your own magic.

“The presence or absence of godly magic is a big indication if the person is the same, or not. Your [Reincarnation] purposefully gets rid of this, though, so the people of Oceanside had to look deeper.

“The next easiest level is dependent on if you have a Mind Mage present who is willing to do a [Deep Scan] or other similar spell on the person. You can do it yourself if you feel confident, but an accredited and competent Mind Mage can usually do this a whole lot better than you. What they look for is memories pasted on top of other memories. Most false [Resurrection]s fail this step. 85% of them by my estimations, but I could be wildly off there; I don’t keep up on most world news.

“I’ve learned enough Mind Magic to be able to test [Resurrection]s, to see if they’re real or not. That 85% number is mostly from my own investigations.

“Your [Reincarnation] passes all these tests 100%. The people that go into that spell are the exact same people who come out… Mentally, anyway. They often get pointed in a new mental direction by the time your spell finishes, but that’s how it is with extensive soul and body magic.

“And then you have the esoteric methods.

“Specialized [Witness]es to peer into a soul’s past, to see if that soul was created wholly from the mana, or from the person that used to be there, or if the soul therein is the exact same as it used to be, but in a living body… Or undead body. You know.

