“Asking Rozeta for a [Deep Scan] to check. She’ll do it if everyone agrees and you pay the grand rad cost. That’s expensive, though, so most people don’t do that. Also, her judgments run a bit harsh, and final. She’ll give you a ‘yes’ if the soul is 100% the original. You’ll get a ‘no’ even if you got 95% correct. Now that is where this whole ‘debate’ truly started, because even I can only hit 100% when the person has died in the last hour, and they’re still physically near where they died.

“I do not agree with Rozeta’s criteria for ‘real’ or ‘fake’. No rational person does, because the soul is always in flux. The soul you are at age 10 is not the soul you are at age 20. You’re already 100% replaced by then! This shifting soul phenomenon is also responsible for why much of Quintlan is seen as ‘evil undead’. But that’s a different conversation.

“And then you got the other gods. If the soul prayed to any particular god, you can ask that god to check if they got the soul in their domain, or not. If they do, then the person on the ground is an impostor.” Quilatalap said, “There’s more, but I could talk about that all night long. How would you rather like to try some real necromancy yourself? You might be good at it!”

Quilatalap could tell Erick was thinking about ten thousand things all at once, and it was quite adorable, because he knew that Erick would come out of those thoughts with a bunch of correct ideas. Or at least mostly correct. He truly was a delight to teach.

And then Erick said, “I do want to learn necromancy, but maybe in a year or three. I actually have another, different question. Do you have a way to test the soul strength of a person? I’d like to know how susceptible I am to the truly dangerous magics out there.”

“Ah! I have a spell for this exact thing. It won’t do any lasting damage, but if you can feel it at all then your defenses are too weak. Here.”

Quilatalap threw a [Soul Testing Bolt] at Erick, right to the chest.

And it splatted like so much nothing.

Erick looked down at his chest. “Huh.” And then he looked back up at Quilatalap. “Okay. Yup. Nothing.”

“Good!” Quilatalap said, “If your defense were weak at all you would have taken about 10,000 False damage, or something like that. That’s the normal range for dragons and other such types. You wanna learn that spell, too?”

Quilatalap felt his own soul resonate.

He wanted to teach, too!

This was fun.

Erick grinned, his eyes glancing to Quilatalap’s soul, and then back to his face. “I think I do— Ah. Yeah. I do.” Erick blinked a bit, adding, “But. Uh. You want to know more about [Reincarnation]? I would prefer you learn that before I go around learning more soul magic.”

“I do! Absolutely.” Quilatalap asked, “I do have some starting places, if you’d be okay with answering those questions?”

“Sure? Where do you want to start?”

“Your [Baleful Polymorph] is amazing! You’re obviously using Benevolence to guide all the changes in that spell, but you have a deep understanding of living biological markers that rivals almost everyone—” Quilatalap corrected himself, “—that does rival everyone I have ever met. I’ve met a few odd mages here and there who might know what you know, but whatever they did know was lost to time, and death.”

Erick got a sudden far-off look in his face. His white eyes sparkled a bit, and then he came back.

… Quilatalap was briefly concerned, as Erick stared into Quilatalap’s entire being—

Briefly, Quilatalap was under the Focus of Time Itself.

It was not a truly uncomfortable situation, for Quilatalap knew what he was about, and he had experienced this sort of thing before, during other Grand Prognostication Events. Usually a person needed a whole entire ritual to do a GPE, but Erick was different. Benevolence was all about prognosticating terrible events, too, so…

Hmm.

Would it be a bad idea for Erick to teach him something?

Quilatalap was suddenly not so sure of himself—

“Okay. I’ll teach you.” Erick said, “This is all going to get out in 50 years, or something, as soon as proper microscopes and other such things are invented. I would ask you not to actually use microscopes or whatnot, when you go investigating what I am about to tell you, because I’m pretty sure if people see those sitting around you, and then you go ahead and start whipping out truly world-changing magics then—”

“Hold on,” Quilatalap said, “I have suddenly decided I don’t want to know. I’m not taking that responsibility.”

Erick looked at him, saying, “I think you should know, though. Just… don’t go spreading it around?”

“… I’ll think about that. I have different questions anyway. The Blood Magic stuff was only the most pressing, largest puzzle piece I was missing. I can figure it out on my own, and if I can’t, 50 years is nothing.” Quilatalap said, “I’d also like to know how your [Reincarnation] got put together, though.”

“Ah. That’s easier. So it starts with [Renew]…”

- - - -

In a space that was not truly real, Nameless One asked the question that had brought them all together, time and time again, “How do you fight an enemy that knows you are coming, from every direction you approach?”

Nameless Four said, “I am rather more convinced that you can’t. We tried three smaller ways to lure out the Unnamed’s capabilities, and all three attempts were [Scan]ed out long before they got anywhere near him.”

Nameless Seven said, “I am retracting my support.”

Seven vanished from the space as though they were never there.

Seven was never the most stalwart of them, anyway. Their loss was great, but the weak-willed might as well be culled now.

Nameless Nine said, “There is only one way to ‘win’ against him, and that is to wait for him to fall.”

“Won’t happen,” said Nameless Two. “Except… We could overwork him to death? Literally pile every problem on top of him until he is crushed by the weight of it all.”

A small chuckle filtered through the room.

Nameless Two did not chuckle. They said, “I’m not exactly joking. He wants to be a king of the world, so make him one. It’s not like any of us would lose personal power, though we would have to make reforms here and there.”

“… We’ll call that Plan Finale.” Nameless One said, “But on a more serious note—”

“Hold on a fucking second,” said Nameless Four. “Nameless Two is talking about treason to the group— Oh shi—”

Nameless Four vanished from the group.

Nameless Nine vanished soon after.

Nameless One, Two, Three, Five, Six, and Eight, remained.

And that was it.

… No one spoke.

And then Nameless One said to Nameless Two, “Fucking hell, Office of the Overseer minion, whoever the fuck you are; you ruined this for us.”

Overseer Minion shot back, “Screw you. As soon as Seven left like that this group was dead in the abyss, Bluite Geode minion. Not sure who you are either but I narrowed it down pretty far!”

Nameless one —Bluite Geode— sputtered, “I’m not from Bluite—”

“Oh yes you are,” said Nameless Five, “I’m from Songli and I’ve been tracking everyone here for a while now, trying to uncover all of you, and all the ones who left are definitely part of the actual problem. So this group doesn’t matter anymore.” They pointed, and named people, “Three is from Treehome. Six is from Dead Tide. Eight is from Eidolon. You, Eight, might actually be one of the Rockys, of Archmage Tenebrae’s creation.”

Eight laughed. “Yeah, I am. Obsidia, actually, and fucking hell! Is this group half-infiltrated— Over half-infiltrated already? Well shit!”

Six, from Dead Tide, said, “Let’s all meet at Candlepoint and put together our notes? I would like to find out who left us and track them down before they can regroup into another possible problem.”

Overseer Minion said, “Let’s meet in the House itself. I’ll have a room prepared. Ask the woman at the front desk for the Office of the Nameless Minion.”

Nameless Three, Treehome, said, “How about we talk here?”

Obsidia said, “I would rather us not talk in a compromised space. I will agree to meet at House Benevolence. See you soon.”

Obsidia left. Bluite followed, and then the whole space emptied.

And then Nameless Ten, the invisible one, looked upon the empty space, and departed. He didn’t think they were that well infiltrated. Maybe two or three operatives. But six! Crazy. Well, whatever. Nameless Ten’s own plans were still in motion—

Well.

‘Plans’.

More like ‘opportunistic strikes’ that could happen if—

Bright white eyes opened up in the Dark.

Nameless Ten fled, chased away by horrible, horrible laughter.
