That was right, she had a weapon. She held it up triumphantly and then began her search for food. Mice and squirrels were frequent finds, but they weren't her preference. Upon discovering a rabbit, she failed time and time again to catch it.

Given she had no means to make a trap and no ability to kill any of her preferred creatures, she considered mice only to realize she'd have to capture and skin over a dozen to even make a dent in her hunger. That was exceedingly more distasteful and energy inefficient than eating the centipede.

At last, she returned with armfuls of sticks she'd cut up with her pincer blade, which she placed in a small hole, away from the willow tree, recalling something about fire safety. She lined the fire pit with rocks from the riverbank and then lit the fire with the last of her [Elemental Breath]. The flames were strong and quickly consumed over half the sticks.

Stella panicked momentarily until the system reminded her to grab branches instead of twigs. After that was finished, she broke the centipede into cookable portions, placing those large, rounded pieces onto the rocks lining the fire pit. There, they could get cooked but not scorched.

How long do bugs take to cook?

[Answer: Several factors come into play, including heat, duration, size of the bug—]

Don't answer just to give non-answers, okay Eyeball?

[All Seeing Eye.]

Whatever. I'll just try it and see if it's done, it'll taste gross either way.

She let one of the portions cool in the grass and then picked it up and worked off the shell. The meat inside was a light pink, reminding her of what shrimp looked like when deshelled.

Stella took a bite fully expecting to hate what had entered her mouth, but pleasantly surprised to find the flavor was that of lobster and crab mixed together. It was a little slimy, but overall it was actually delicious.

Now all I need is some salt and pepper… Maybe butter too and some lemon?!

Stella devoured so much of the centipede that her belly was as round as a melon. She patted it with admiration, proud of her dragon-sized appetite.

She saved enough to ensure she wouldn't starve later, then snuffed the fire and by the time she had slept off her fullness it was evening.

Life in the forest so far is exciting and peaceful. But I don't want to live here forever. I want to talk to people and explore grand cities… And wear underwear, because it gets super drafty.

Stella decided to scale a tree. The process took her many feet into the air, and as she clung to a particularly wavy branch, she found exactly what she was looking for.In the far distance, past the edge of the forest, there were orange lights and tall buildings. Her enhanced sight allowed her to make out stone towers, wide archways, an impressive church, and a bustling stream that ran its way through the outskirts of the large town, the evening lights refracting brilliantly against the smooth surface of the water.

Despite its proximity, that life felt far away. Stella sighed.

How will I get into a city without being captured for my beautiful scales?

She idly ran her fingers along her tail, admiring the shining blue scales. It was like having natural armor, though it was a little useless to only have it on her tail.

[Answer: Shapeshifting is a natural ability for all Alpha subspecies. It is as natural as blinking.]

That's anything but natural!

[...]

Okay, thank you for the information. I will… Well, I guess I can put more effort into learning about my new body in general.

Stella wobbled, deciding to get down from the precarious branch she was perched on. When she landed back on the forest grass, she felt ready, fully prepared to begin training under the system's guidance. She squared her shoulders.

I'm going to live a long time. I better make the most of it and not just sit around in this forest! Now, tell me how to shapeshift and do other cool things like in anime!

[While I can inform you of common, natural abilities that occur in your species. I cannot inform you on how to train them effectively.]

Stella instantly deflated.

Great… Can you at least tell me how long I'll be a child?

Even if she could shapeshift, would that extend to changing her age as well? Looking too young was another issue she'd be pressed to tackle.

[Upon your next evolution, you will physically mature. Your evolutions will occur based on time and physical, mental and emotional advancement. The growth of Alpha species is fast until adulthood is reached.]

Stella was thankful that she wouldn't remain a child forever. Now she could just focus on getting stronger, which learning how to shapeshift would surely cover. And that, in of itself, would hopefully carry her into adulthood.

But what else could her new body accomplish? If she wanted to leave the forest without being swallowed whole, she'd need to find out.
