Alas, close was not good enough, not in matters of life and death. Jorani’s Spiritual Rope wrapped around the spear as intended, but even after pulling with all his might, he was unable hold the weapon in place as it moved to simultaneously take out Wang Bao, Lang Yi, and Dastan in one fell swoop. All three men took the impact head on, the haft cracking more than a few of the half-bandit’s ribs and knocking the other two Warriors senseless. Backhanding Chey’s staff as he turned in place, YuChun loosened his grip on his spear for all of a second, catching Jorani off guard as his Rope went slack without warning, only to fall victim to the hard tug that followed and pulled him off of his feet.

And there it was, six promising young talents who stood at the forefront of their peers, handily demolished by a Peak Expert in his prime with nary so much as an effort. Lang Yi came damned close though, and Jorani had to admit that it was satisfying to see, even as he tried to block out the image of the spear tip lancing towards his throat.

The world heaved under him before spinning end over end, and when he found his bearings again, he discovered himself being carried in Ral’s arms like a child too tired to walk home after a long and exciting festival. “You okay Jor?” the big guy asked, peering out from under his helmet with his wide, expressive eyes. “I would’ve caught you more gently, but I didn’t know he was gonna throw you this way.”

Which explained why Jorani’s head felt like he’d been out drinking the last three nights. Blinking the stars out of his eyes, he sat up and looked about, or tried to at least, and managed to utter a single, “Wha’?” before the urge to throw up almost overwhelmed him. Thankfully, he managed to keep the contents of his belly safely inside, and Ral understood what he was trying to ask. “Yer brother,” the half-dog unhelpfully supplied, before turning Jorani so he could look without moving his head. “You think he can win?”

None of what Ral said was whispered or even quiet, and Jorani saw the hint of a smirk come across Mataram Yuchun’s pointed features. “Your courage be commendable,” the traitor general began, looking down at Daxian whose spear was raised and readied in defence, standing halfway between Binesi and Jorani while preparing to defend them both. “But courage alone is not enough. You are no match for me, nameless half-rat, and I will not dirty my spear killing one as lowly as you.”

“I’m not your match, that much is true,” Daxian replied, and it was the most humble thing Jorani had ever heard the man say. “But you’re wrong about one thing.” Flashing his pearly whites in a grin that was damned near predatory, Daxian explained, “He’s not the strongest spearman of the North.”

“Never claimed to be,” came Binesi’s begrudging rebuttal, and only then did Jorani notice Wugang and Yelu Chi helping the mountain Warrior back to his feet.

“Oh?” Keeping a wary eye on the Warriors fanning out around him, it was clear that Mataram YuChun was no longer so confident in his chances here today, but his sneer lost none of its arrogance. “And who might hold that honour? I have heard tales of a legendary amber-eyed Warrior whose spear can pierce the Heavens, but I remain skeptical to say the least. What say you, Naaran of the Bekhai? Do you dare emerge from hiding to trade blows with YuChun of the Ten Thousand Spears?”

A neat little reversal there, throwing out a personal challenge to keep the Ascendants from joining hands to kill him. Keep in mind, the two most dangerous of the bunch were still hidden in Concealment, for few could match the Lord of Thunder Lei Gong and Tyrant OuYang YuHuan when it came to sheer killing power. Silence hung heavily over the battlefield for all of a second before a booming voice snorted in disdain. “Trade blows with you?” Naaran scoffed, as if someone just offered to feed him a giant bowl of steaming shit. “Against the Ten Thousand Spears, one of mine would be too many.”

Damn. The Bekkies were a quiet bunch who kept to themselves, which made it easy to forget how arrogant they could be. If Baatar or Akanai were the ones saying as much, no one would blink twice, but as far as Jorani could tell, Naaran was just a kindly old grandfather in charge of the bossman’s guard detail. A few chuckles broke out among the Imperials, for most had never heard of Naaran before in their life, and YuChun’s tanned cheeks turned an unsightly shade of deep red that Jorani had never before seen. The strained silence lasted for a few seconds longer before Daxian coughed and grinned, shaking his head as if to say YuChun had brought this on himself.

The grin disappeared as the Tyrant emerged from Concealment, her supple, voluptuous form still a sight to behold despite being maybe three times Jorani’s age. Mature was the word to describe her, gracefully aged to perfection some might say, and while he wasn’t exactly the type to lust after older women, there were few men who could resist the Tyrant’s allure. With spear in hand and sporting jewellery aplenty, the sensuous beauty shot Daxian a petulant look before turning to face YuChun. “I, OuYang Yuhuan, believe Little Virtue intended to set the stage for myself, though I dare not call myself the number one spearman of the North.”

Too furious to think straight, YuChun had no clever rebuttal to give and launched straight into an attack, and the two Peak Experts disappeared from Jorani’s sight. Just as he was about to heave a sigh of relief however, the world lit up in dazzling illumination that left him blind and blinking, only to recoil in fright as an explosion of thunder echoed immediately overhead. When the dark spots cleared and the world came back into view, Jorani’s stomach dropped out a second time as he found a second Mataram Spearman standing in the space YuChun had only just vacated. The new arrival bore a striking similarity to the Ten Thousand Spears, as well he should considering their relationship as father and son, for who could it be but the Mataram Patriarch himself?

Standing tall with his spear grounded and one hand behind his back, Mataram YuGan held his head up high and directed his gaze towards the Azure Sea. There was little known about him, for he was neither famed Warrior nor respected merchant, merely the head of a notable family in a province ruled by the Lord of Martial Peace. At least, that’s what everyone believed until he slew Ryo Dae Jung in the Central Citadel only a few months back, a single victory that took him from the depths of obscurity to the height of notoriety. Now, he reinforced his reputation as one of the fiercest Warriors of his generation by sweeping the field clean of all opposition, injuring Daxian, Lei Gong, Wugang, and Yelu Chi all in the blink of an eye and leaving them bleeding on the ground before him. It happened so quickly Jorani barely even had time to register the abrupt shift in momentum even after long seconds of silence, for all he could do was stare at the man’s unsightly black and gold armour. It wasn’t the jagged points or the lifelike veins protruding from the armours surface that was so disconcerting, or the almost inhuman and definitely Demonic form the overall armour presented, but rather something less distinct and definite. There was a fluidity to the darkness that didn’t seem wholly real, as if you could see it shifting and writing about just out of the corner of your eye, but when you focused on the movement itself, there was only immobile steel to be seen. The Empire called these abominations Half-Demons, for it seemed as if they were humans clad in a Demon taking on the form of armour, but Jorani was almost certain that wasn’t true anymore.

This was not two separate entities working in tandem. No, this was an unholy merging of man and Demon, a combination that went against the natural order of the world in defiance of the Heavens and the Dao.

The Mataram Patriarch offered no challenge, nor did he need to, for his actions spoke volumes of his intent. Naaran claimed Mataram YuChun unworthy, but could he say the same about the Mataram Patriarch? No one would believe him if he did, so there was no need for words between them. Appearing out of thin air, Naaran arrived with spear in hand and a scowl etched across his wrinkled features, seemingly more annoyed by the fact that he had to come out and fight than worried about the fighting itself. Now that was some confidence, and Jorani prayed it was well deserved, though after seeing how Baatar almost took Bai Qi’s head, the chances of a third possible Living Legend emerging from the Bekkies ranks were slim to none.

Seriously, how many talents could one faction nurture? Hell, the bossman alone was already too much, so what right did the Bekkies have to raise so many on their own?

Departing as suddenly as they arrived, YuGan and Naaran disappeared from sight, though the din from their exchanges soon drowned out the clash between Tyrant and Ten Thousand Spears. Gesturing for Ral to put him down, Jorani thought he’d finally found a moment to breathe when he discovered yet another new face across the battlements, a young, bald monk he’d never met before today, standing shoulder to shoulder with the gangly Monk Eyebrows and a handful of other monks who defected with the Old Healer. “Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo,” Monk Eyebrows intoned, pressing his palms together as he lowered his head in a bow directly at Jorani. “There is the one you seek, Junior Brother Yuanyin.”

“Hangman Jorani,” the younger monk proclaimed, his face twisted in disappointment. “He’s much... smaller than I expected.”

“As this monk already said, his value lies not in his strength of body, but in his strength of mind and spirit.” Offering a half-hearted shrug, Monk Eyebrows explained, “Not many are willing to listen to the Brotherhood’s teachings without already having been convinced, but he keeps an open mind and offers a valuable unbiased perspective, so as to better refine our Right View.”

That explained the strength of mind bit, but what’s this about strength of soul? Was that how Jorani resisted Kukku’s Dream Call, because he had a strong soul? Or maybe it was the trance he went into when the monks started chanting. Regardless of the reasons, Yuanyin did not seem impressed. “I misunderstood then,” he said, shaking his head in regret, “But I might as well kill him so long as I am here. It perturbs me to hear the Wisdom lavish praise on one so undeserving.”

...Well fuck.

Resisting the urge to look around for Monk Happy in a panic, Jorani steeled his nerves as Monk Eyebrows offered him an almost apologetic smile before bowing his head yet again. “So be it, Junior Brother. One cannot know the true burden of sacrifice without first knowing the joys of sin, so far be it for this monk to bar you from your Path. Go and do what you feel is necessary, and this monk will ensure none of the traitor Brotherhood will stand in your way.”

...Double fuck.

“Jor,” Ral rumbled, his tone low and filled with tension in a way Jorani had never heard from him before. “This monk is strong.”

“Yea, he would be, wouldn’t he?” Sending orders to Bulat, Ravil, Siyar, and everyone else with a Spiritual Rifle to take the shot as soon as they could, Jorani readied to fight dearly for his life. This was some real bullshit, just one super strong Warrior coming after another. Jorani was barely even a legitimate Expert of the Empire, having only Developed his Natal Palace thanks to his encounter with Kukku, but somehow, his area of the Wall attracted three generations of Mataram talents, and now he had to fight some rising dragon of a young Monk. Luckily, Jorani wasn’t one to fight honourably, so he flashed a smile and looked Yuanyin dead in the eye. “Well? Ye comin’ or not?”

The young monk drew his sword and prowled forward like a tiger stalking his prey, but after three steps, his movement stilled as five loud cracks sounded out as a barrage of bullets thudded into bare flesh. Reeling in place with an inhuman screech of pain, Jorani wholly expected the young monk to fall where he stood, but alas the Heavens were not so kind. Ruined features twisted with pain and hatred, Yuanyin lowered his head to reveal a face bleeding from five separate wounds, ugly grape-sized craters spurting out blood and bits of bone. The fact that he was still alive was already a miracle, with one eye and three quarters of his face rendered nigh unrecognizable, a pulpy mash of bleeding flesh and shattered bones that would haunt Jorani until the end of his days.

Then the young monk’s sword was upon him, and the true nightmare began, for Jorani realized that he was sorely outmatched in the first exchange, and there was no one around to save him.

Such was life, trials and tribulations, but now it seemed like it was Jorani's time to discover what came next.

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2
