Difficult to tell through the rope if Jorani snapped the man’s neck, stopping his forward momentum so suddenly like that, but if the quick stop didn’t kill him, then the long drop most certainly would. Bereft of the immediate commander, the charging elites slowed their charge and looked back as if wondering if they should retreat to check on their ward, but Jorani’s soldiers gave them no choice or quarter. The Enemy fought well and died hard, but he barely had a moment to bask in his success before spotting a second blue-armoured Officer arriving on scene.

Dastan dealt with that one in quick order, making short work of those elites with help from the surviving members of his former retinue. Where Jorani had to fight smart and sneaky, the former Warrant Officer turned slave only had to fight, and nine times out of ten, he’d come out on top without breaking a sweat. Now there was a Living Legend in the making, one worthy to stand alongside the bossman, the golden boy of the Golden Highland’s Coalition, Dastan Zhandos. He should be leading this retinue, not half-rat Hangman Jorani of Sanshu.

Shaking off this uncharacteristic bout of self-contempt, Jorani gave his all to the battle while keeping a clear eye on his surroundings. A third Officer arrived soon after, but Wang Bao dealt with him quickly enough, albeit in less domineering fashion than Dastan had. Theirs was a hard-fought battle, leaving the former Butcher bleeding from three wounds including one thrust that almost pierced clean through his eye, but he still won and kept the eye to boot. There might have been more Officers killed by Old Bulat, since Jorani remembered hearing shots ring out every now and then, but only three of those blue accented Champions had made their way onto the wall thus far. Even then, it wasn’t easy holding the walls, as the standard, black-and-red armoured Clansmen had more than their fair share of crouching tigers and hidden dragons scattered amongst their ranks. Jorani had long since lost count of the times he narrowly avoided death, and he’d feel a lot better about it if he could confidently say that he’d meant to do just that. Most of the time, it was sheer coincidence that kept his head attached to his neck, like the time he almost slipped and dropped down to one knee to stabilize and ended up avoiding a thrust he hadn’t seen coming. Or when that one Clansman let go of his spear to grapple Jorani instead, and ended up moving his shoulder into the path of his ally’s killing smash which would have cracked Jorani’s head open like a raw egg.

Proof positive that dear Mum above was looking out for him. Sure, She cared most about Her Chosen Son Falling Rain, but this was proof positive that She loved Her little Jorani too.

That being said, he wasn’t too prideful to know when to step back, so as soon as he felt it necessary, he ordered Dastan and Wang Bao to fall back and left Chey, Ral, and Lang Yi to hold the line. Ral cleared whole sections of the wall with every swing of his staff, while the buxom beauty Chey made for a deadly and enchanting sight, but it was the farmer turned Warrior who turned heads as he initiated a Movement Jorani had never before seen. It bore some similarities to the bossman’s favoured charge, yet was almost completely different in every way that mattered. Domineering was the only way to describe it, a thrust that started at one end of the battlements and ended at the other, with Lang Yi covering the distance in the blink of an eye and arriving with three corpses skewered along his Spiritual Weapon.

He’d come a long way from his humble origins as a fisherman and slave, and in another ten years, Jorani suspected Lang Yi might well become a Peak Expert himself.

Alas, that was ten years none of them might ever have if they all died here in Meng Sha, but Jorani shrugged it all off and focused on the positives, like the limitless access to freshwater from the Azure Sea. Here, he could drink to his heart’s content and dump the rest over his head to cool off, for even though winter was fully upon them, the days were still sweltering hot and damn near unbearable. From the back of the formation, he left Old Bulat to handle things for a moment while turning his attention to the sidelines, where clouds of dark arrows and bolts buzzed overhead before crashing into the massed Defiled encroaching upon either flank. The walls of Meng Sha went straight out into the water, meaning technically, the Enemy could just swim around the sides, but that was easier said than done. Not only were there powerful currents and unseen riptides to contend with, the blood in the water was drawing all manner of undesirable beasties to the shores, with more than one Defiled flailing about before disappearing down into the dark, murky depths.

At least Commander OuYang Min Jun knew enough not to waste limited ammunition on the armoured Clansmen, even the ones clad in basic steel. Bekkies and Protectorate longbows might be able to pierce mundane brigandine armour with a lucky shot, but the repeating crossbows of the Irregulars needed far more than just luck. Effective as they might be against your garden variety Defiled, the Mataram Clansmen were made of sterner stuff and were unlikely to be too put off by a storm of ineffective bolts and arrows. No, today’s battle would not be decided by the Irregulars, as the Enemy had come upon them too quickly to make the best use of their catapults, nor was the fate of Meng Sha in the hands of the common Imperial soldier. No, the outcome of today’s might well depend on Immovable Binesi and Mataram YuChun alone, for theirs was a battle for the ages.

Back and forth the two Peak Experts went, running and leaping across the parapets in a deadly back and forth dance. Their duel went along the whole outer edge of the wall, both moving faster than Jorani could truly follow, but even then, he desperately yearned to step back and commit the entire exchange to memory. It was so aggravating to be this close to a struggle of epic proportions and lack the time to take it all in, for regardless of the outcome, every man, woman, and child of the Empire will have heard of this duel by next week. Jorani was right here, but he couldn’t make heads or tails of who had the upper hand, meaning he’d have to wait to read someone’s stylized depiction of events to learn about the details himself. All he could see was their darting forms moving to and fro to the beat of their chiming spears, the ringing impacts so loud and constant it almost sounded like applause from a crowd wearing armoured gauntlets.

It seemed silly to put so much stock in a single match between Peak Experts, but morale was one hell of a double-edged sword. Should Binesi emerge victorious, then the Imperial soldiers would be emboldened by his achievements and fight that much harder to hold, while the same would hold true for the Mataram Clansmen opposing them. That was just how people worked, whether they be Imperial or Defiled, so there was a lot riding on the duel between these two famed Warriors. Of course, there were still stronger Warriors above them, namely the Half-Demon Mataram Patriarch YuGan standing in the crowd, though Jorani wasn’t sure if the Imperials had someone to match him. Commander OuYang Min Jun was even weaker than Immovable Binesi, so there was little hope from that end. Situ Jia Yang maybe, if he’d recovered from the wounds taken in Pan Si Xing, which wasn’t entirely out of the realm of possibility considering the Medical Saint was here in Meng Sha as well, but try as he might, Jorani couldn’t come up with a second name, as most notable Warriors were currently in Shi Bei.

One of the bossman’s hidden protectors maybe? Or his wives’ protectors hopefully, but keep in mind Mataram YuGan killed the Sword King Ryo Dae Jung in single combat, making it a tall order to expect a mere guard to match him. The veiled Guard Leader who punched her way out of a shark might be a candidate, but considering her general attitude and the fact that she had yet to take part in the fighting at all, she was more likely to take Lady Mei Lin away from the fighting should the worst come to pass. The only real contender Jorani could come up with was Monk Happy, who exhibited so much strength the Old Healer almost mistook him for a Divinity. Surely the portly monk was more than a match for Mataram YuGan, but despite disagreeing with their somewhat selfish views, Jorani couldn’t bring himself to ask them to fight.

They helped a lot in Pan Si Xing, not directly of course, but indirectly by pulling soldiers and citizens out of the fray and saving their lives in the process, which was already more than he ever expected considering the Brotherhood’s stance on non-action. Even now, there were monks still questioning whether they did the right thing and the unforeseen consequences of what might be, so Jorani was damned if he would demand more from them. They were healers and artists, not soldiers and killers, and no amount of strength in the world would ever change that.

A crash shook the wall and jolted Jorani out of his thoughts, only for his stomach to drop down into a bottomless pit as he gazed upon his worst fears. Broken and bleeding, the Immovable Binesi picked himself up off the ground only to fall back on his ass in defeat. Not without good reason however, as both hands were clamped over a gaping wound in his stomach, which were the only things keeping his guts from spilling out over his legs. Spurts of blood spewed out from between his fingers as the fierce spearman stared up at his foe, defeated in body but unbroken in spirit, yet courage alone was not enough to change his fate here today. The battle came to a crashing halt all around them as Imperial and Defiled alike parted aside so that Mataram YuChun could approach, separating so naturally it was as if they’d been compelled to move by natural law. Perhaps it was, for what lesser Warrior would dare stand in the path of the Ten Thousand Spears now, when even the Immovable had been forced to make way?

Throat dry and limbs trembling, Jorani desperately wanted to run over to Binesi’s side and drag him away to safety, but try as he might, his body refused to obey. It wasn’t Aura which kept him frozen in place, normal or otherwise, but just plain old fashioned fear, fear of death and fear for the future now that there was no one else to hold up the Heavens today. Though Mataram YuChun’s victory didn’t come without cost, the Defiled traitor’s wounds were minor in comparison. His left arm hung limply at his side and a thin trail of blood trickled slowly down the side of his face, but that was all aside from a few scrapes and bruises. In the span of a few steps however, YuChun’s bleeding wound scabbed over and his arm regained some small amount of function, though broken bones would take a little longer to set even with Panacea to help speed things along. And Panacea it most certainly was, for traditional Healing would progress more quickly without the natural signs of healing like scabbing or pus, and instead skip right over those intermediary steps to go right back to unmarked flesh.

First crossbow wielding Wraiths, and now Panacea using Peak Experts. It was almost comical how the Enemy was more willing to accept the bossman’s methods than the Empire itself. Downright laughable even, if it wasn’t so sad and frustrating as well.

““So this be the limit of Immovable Binesi, the supposed strongest spear of the North,” Mataram YuChun boomed, finally willing to have his words heard by all now that he held the upper hand. “Hmph. I once thought the North rife with talents, for how else could one Nian Zu collect fifty famed Warriors to his cause? I see now that it is only because the North’s definition of talent is far more lenient that the West’s. How disappointing.”

Binesi said nothing in reply, made no excuses or pleas for his life, for he was still struggling to stand and fight. Not because he saw a chance to turn things around, but because he refused to die on his back. A sight which was both inspiring and heartbreaking at the same time, but it was enough to spur Jorani to action. As Mataram YuChun drew his spear back for the killing blow, Jorani’s Spiritual Rope shot out, not to pull Binesi away to safety, but to restrain the traitor general’s weapon in hopes of buying even a moment for a miracle to take place. That’s all he had, a hope and a prayer, but even as he watched it all happen in real time, he knew his efforts were far from enough to change a single thing.

Thankfully, once again, he wasn’t acting alone.

Howling bloody murder like one of the Defiled themselves, Wang Bao leapt into the air with axe raised high, ready to bring it down atop Mataram YuChun’s head. Wearing a grin that made him look even younger than his years, Dastan circled around to the left with shield raised to threaten YuChun’s flank, his eyes filled with glee and bloodlust. Ral and Chey moved to intercept any oncoming Defiled Clansmen, though from the looks of things, Chey’s actions were a feint and she was looking for an opportunity to turn and strike YuChun from behind. While the rest of them were still moving in to position, Lang Yi’s attack had already arrived, his deceptively quick thrust missing YuChun’s neck by mere millimetres as the Peak Expert shifted aside at the last moment with eyes wide with anger and disbelief over how a mere unranked soldier could come so close to killing the Ten Thousand Spears.

