Much as Jorani would’ve loved to sit back and watch a battle between two Peak Experts at the pinnacle of their craft, the Enemy was not so obliging.

“Experts to the front!” he bellowed, still reeling from the thunderous clash between Mataram Yuchun and Immovable Binesi, one that had thrown him off his feet and shook him down to the bone. “We got company incoming.”

Not the most inspirational of rallying calls, but it would have to do, because there was a storm of shit about to fall their way and Jorani alone couldn’t block it all. Mataram Yu Kong was the Clan’s top young talent of his generation, a position that was up for grabs now that he’d died to a bullet from Old Bulat’s rifle. Every young and hungry Clansman was coming this way to prove themselves superior to their former rival, and no doubt also ‘avenge’ Yu Kong and receive whatever reward his furious father would bestow upon them.

There was a time when Jorani would’ve thought it a strange thing to see, a Defiled traitor mourning for the loss of his son, but his time with Asmani and her tribe taught him that the Defiled were not inhuman or unfeeling, just different enough that it often appeared that way. This wasn’t helped by the fact that it was easier to pretend they were monsters in human skin when it came to killing them in droves, but in Jorani’s defence, he’d never killed a Defiled who wasn’t trying to kill him first. As for these particular Defiled here today, a good number of them hailed from the Mataram Clan and passed for law-abiding Imperials until around three years ago. This made them both easier to empathize with and difficult to understand, for Jorani could not fathom how any sane and rational individual could justify allying with the likes of Demons and Defiled.

Then again, Asmani was plenty smart and sensible too, she just operated on a whole different type of logic. In the Empire, the strong thrive and the weak endure, but to the Defiled, the weak died so the strong could survive. Would the Defiled behave differently in a land of plenty? Even the Arid Wastes were full of life and succour compared to the frozen badlands Asmani hailed from, an unforgiving and inhospitable region where even the sun refused to visit for three-quarters of the year. Upon arriving at the Brotherhood monastery however, Asmani’s tribesmen quickly realized there was no longer any need to compete for limited resources and adapted to their new lifestyle with remarkable ease. What’s more, Jorani noted that their tribe was surprisingly harmonious in how they lived together, rarely ever competing over the best materials or locations. Probably because it was socially acceptable to settle minor disputes with duels to the death, which made for a surprisingly disciplined lifestyle overall.

You know, save for the constant threat of death and struggle for survival, but once you took that away, the Defiled were actually not too hard to get along with.

Now was not the time for philosophical musings however, as the first wave of Mataram Yu Kong’s would-be avengers were already upon him. What Jorani wouldn’t give for a wave of unarmoured tribals to sweep away with his Spiritual Rope, but the Mataram Clansmen were armed and armoured for bear with steel spears and durable brigandine, both Runic and otherwise. This of course sorely limited Jorani’s effectiveness since he could no longer reliably carve through the Enemy ranks with ease, but they weren’t the only ones clad in Runic armour. Wrapping a section of Rope around each fist, he darted in with head tucked and guard raised to engage the foremost Clansman leaping onto the battlements, idly wishing he had Old Bulat’s strength and mass to simply shove his foe off. Lacking that, Jorani had to resort to craftier means, namely blocking a bone-shaking thrust with his rope-wrapped fists before Deflecting the weapon aside and getting in nice and close with his foe.

It would’ve been better to Deflect the thrust before it hit, but the attack came faster than expected. The Mataram Clan’s reputation as the strongest spearmen of the West wasn’t for nothing, but Jorani’s foe was sorely lacking compared to Lang Yi and Lang Er. A one-two combination caught the Clansman clean in the jaw and killed him outright, but Jorani wasn’t entirely satisfied with his performance. The face was one of the few places left exposed by the Enemy’s bulky brigadine armour and plumed conical helmet, which quite frankly looked ridiculous up close. That didn’t make it any less effective however, so he needed to be faster and more precise than ever. Moving away from his first foe before the body hit the ground, Jorani side-stepped a second thrust that he didn’t even see coming, but sensed nonetheless, and his counter was already lined up and waiting for the man to deliver his chin straight at it. Blood sprayed and bones broke as his second opponent dropped to the stone floor like a sack of rice, but Jorani had no time to appreciate his working, already moving onto his next target and unleashing a flurry of unending blows that served as more of a distraction than anything else.

Because dire as the situation might be, he wasn’t fighting alone.

Dastan’s axe caught the distracted Defiled in the back of the neck. At the same time, Jorani’s Rope looped around the wrist of the Clansman aiming his spear at Dastan’s exposed flank, neatly carving through the mundane steel to render the weapon worthless. Neither man had communicated their intent to work together, but Dastan trusted Jorani to do what was needed even as he trusted Dastan to help. This wasn’t a rare event either, nor one limited to Jorani and Dastan, for Wang Bao was right there in the thick of things with them, alongside various stand-out Warriors from each of their crews. So many of their crew hailed from Sanshu, which meant they’d been fighting together for almost four years now, so they knew each other better than some of them knew their families. This was a camaraderie born in the heat of battle, and while Jorani would never invite Wang Bao or some of the others over for dinner, he knew he’d go running the second he heard any of them were in trouble, even if a hundred years had passed since they last met.

Chey, Ral, and Lang Yi were also here, holding back in reserve, ready and waiting to step up should anyone from the first line falter, while Ulfsaar and Neera were down on the ground below, sitting in their cattle-drawn chariots and ready to greet the first unfortunate foes who made their way over or around the walls. Much as Jorani would have liked to have their reassuring presence here on the wall beside him, the wedded half-bears pretty much operated like a separate retinue now, and the same could be said of Sai Chou and her bow-wielding Protectorate. A mixed unit was damned useful when operating individually out in the field, but it was better to break off into specialized groups when taking part in a large battle.

Mostly due to Jorani’s personal limitations, truth be told. If the bossman were here, or any other commander worth their salt, they’d be able to coordinate the various units more effectively, but Jorani lacked the ability to multi-task. To make up for this, he encouraged his under-commanders to exercise more initiative during battle and do as they saw fit, so long as they didn’t interfere with the overall unit cohesion. It proved wildly effective in Pan Si Xing, as they fought their way through the winding city streets, engaging the Defiled as they emerged from every crevice and shadow imaginable, and again once they made their way into the plaza which Jorani picked to make what he thought would be their last stand. Oh what a fight that’d been, so chaotic and confusing that he could barely tell his left from his right, but the bossman trained his people well, and they all stepped up to get the job done in Pan Si Xing with minimal direction or oversight. They blocked the doors and alleys while leaving a few easy paths for the Enemy to take, and then systematically slaughtered them on the way in. The roofs were seized and guarded without contest, and so too were the upper levels of each building, as the close confines of room-to-room fighting did not favour the Defiled who relied on overwhelming numbers to get the job done. It’d been some damn desperate and bloody work, but they pulled through in the end, and Jorani was confident they would do the same here in Meng Sha.

But even then, it might not be enough.

Fighting shirtless Defiled was no walk in the park, but it was a damn sight easier than tackling fully armoured Chosen. They weren’t just harder to kill, but they were also deadlier and more coordinated than what most soldiers were used to dealing with, fighting in groups of twos and threes instead of all by their lonesome within the crowd. Luckily, Jorani wasn’t one to slack off when it came to matters of command, no matter how much he wanted to in the days leading up to today. One of the first things he did upon being appointed commander of the Legate’s retinue was set up a standing appointment to not only spar with the more talented Warriors under his command, but also stage mock battles with Mister Rustram on the practice fields, and he made sure to never miss a single one.

The Mataram Clan taught their Warriors well, but the bossman was a better teacher who held his soldiers to higher standards to boot.

As the Peak Experts clashed overhead, Jorani calmly took control of the battlements below and fended off the unending Enemy offensive. Wave after wave crashed into his ranks, only to be cut apart by the staggered lines of his defensive checker-board formation, one only made possible here atop the battlements thanks to the forward-thinking architects of Meng Sha. Traditional battlements were built as narrow as possible, mostly to save on time and resources, but also to minimize the impact of the Enemy overrunning any one section of wall. Quartermaster General Cao Cuo and Grandmason Gawngjon changed all that here in Meng Sha and turned sections of the walls into whole fortified buildings, complete with wide, spacious battlements to fight atop of and narrow, easily defended staircases and corridors to fall back to should the worst come to pass. So what if the Enemy overran one section of wall? That didn’t mean the Imperials had to just give it up like that. No, if the Enemy gained a foothold here on the battlements, that wasn’t an end to the struggle, but merely a new beginning.

But until such a time, the checker-board formation held strong, and why should it not? This was yet another piece of tactical brilliance which sprung from the bossman’s mind after all. The premise was simple enough, to leave gaps in the defensive line for the Enemy to charge into before bringing them down through combined weight of attacks. Not only were they forced to deal with attacks from three sides, their overall offensive impact was blunted since the target of their aggression could safely focus solely on defence knowing they had allies to handle the offence on their behalf. What’s more, the checker-board formation also allowed the Imperial Elites to truly shine since fighting a series of small, relatively contained engagements was easier than engaging in one endless slog across the battlefield. It was a matter of pacing mostly, allowing them to step back and take a breath whenever needed as opposed to trying to conserve as much energy as possible in case a fearsome foe appeared. This proved most effective against the endless hordes of crazed, tribal Defiled, but while it still yielded satisfactory results against the Mataram Clansmen, they still took a fair bit more killing than your average Defiled tribesman or even Imperial soldier.

To say nothing of the fact that the Enemy had Elites of their own.

It didn’t take long for the first Champion to arrive, making his way over the wall with an escort of traitor Clansmen willing to die to keep him safe. The armour made this one stand out, the same black brigandine armour as always but accented in blue as opposed to the standard black and red, denoting this young man as an Officer of some sort. Experts at the very least, one with a Natal Palace and a Spiritual Spear which he pointed directly at Jorani. The entourage charged headlong towards him and he had only a moment to react, which he did by stepping back and releasing one end of his Spiritual Rope and setting it to twirl overhead. Picking up speed as he went, he built up strength and momentum before unleashing a wide, sweeping attack at his foes. The rightmost Clansmen raised their spears to defend, and the Spiritual Rope harmlessly smacked into their guarded stance to no effect. They were not his target however, for a rope was no spear or staff to sweep armoured opponents aside, but a flexible weapon which required a flexible mind to make use of. Wrapping around the raised spears of his foe, the rope travelled in a wide arc around the back of the Clansmen and veered unerringly towards its target, with just enough length to loop a single time around the blue-armoured Officer’s neck. It was oh so satisfying to see the arrogant sneer transition into wide-eyed alarm and apprehension, and Jorani allowed himself a small smile and a nod goodbye as he pulled hard. With the spears of his Enemies serving as a fulcrum, he launched the Officer directly backwards and off the wall from whence he came, and he’d never heard so satisfying a scream.

Mildly hurtful statement that was, he realized in retrospect, but given his record with women, not entirely unjustified...

