Ranthia was racing against the sun’s descent, but she also had a desperate need to stop thinking. As such, she tried to focus on practicing with [Divine Eyes in the Void] while she rushed across the wasteland on her way back to Spearpoint. There was a lot that she hadn’t learned about her Skill, which made it almost as great an attention sink as she needed it to be.

There were some odd quirks to the Skill. The [Divine Eye] (still singular) was allegedly fixed to the core of her being, but some unstated effect prevented it from jiggling up and down as she moved. Even her actual eyes did that—which wasn’t something she’d ever consciously taken note of until she realized the Skill behaved differently. Unfortunately, once she became aware that her vision from her actual eyes jiggled around while she moved, she couldn’t stop noticing it—which renewed the nausea that her doubled vision caused.

But she was acclimating to having doubled vision. The process was slow—oh so slow—but she tried to force herself to keep her eyes open while she danced through the barren, cold terrain. …She really should have brought her traveller’s cloak when she set out for her “scouting mission.” Meh, she could endure a bit of a chill, she had the vitality for it!

Roughly halfway through her journey to Spearpoint, Ranthia decided that she was ready. Getting used to having her vision doubled wasn’t tactically useful, but the great thing about [Divine Eyes in the Void] was she could move the Skill’s focus without moving her body! With dreams of never fearing an attack from behind ever again, Ranthia swung the [Divine Eye] behind her.

And immediately—without a whit of grace—faceplanted into the ground. Vertigo had overwhelmed her and left her retching and dry heaving, which meant she wasted a couple of precious minutes, unable to do much more than curl in on herself with her eyes—all three of them—firmly shut.

Okay, that had—quite clearly—been a bit too ambitious.

Ranthia forced herself back to her feet and started moving again, with only her [Divine Eye] providing sight. The Skill was strangely resistant to being ‘shut,’ to the extent that it took constant, conscious effort to do so. Her actual eyes, on the other hand, were easy to keep closed until the nausea finally left her.

Ranthia adjusted her blindfold and dusted herself off as best she was able while she returned to the speeds she’d been moving at prior to her collapse. At least she’d managed to bleed her momentum before she went down, otherwise her armor would have—

Wait, her blindfold! She could still see through it! [Divine Eyes in the Void]’s description made her assume every function of [Vision of the Void] had transferred to the free-floating Skill, but that wasn’t the case! With effort, she forced the [Divine Eye] to shut again and grabbed her backpack.

[Vision of the Void] had been able to see through its material before, yet when she tried to stare through it with her own eyes, all she saw was… backpack. That was strange. Clearly, her eyes still retained some capacity to see through objects, but it wasn’t anywhere near as potent as it had been. While [Divine Eyes in the Void] had already proven itself able to see through far more than she could before her Skills merged and evolved—it could see through almost everything except the metal safe box and the steel plating of her armor.

The sun wasn’t quite low enough in the sky for her to say if her night vision remained, but Ranthia could test that once she got back to Spearpoint.

Besides, with her nausea settled, her stomach started to remind her that she hadn’t eaten in over a day—which made it a lot harder to focus on her experiments with her second newest Skill.

The sound of battle no longer reigned over Spearpoint’s vicinity, but the area wasn’t any quieter. The base was gripped in the throes of the wildest celebration Ranthia had ever seen (or heard). The entrance to the base was all but undefended and the few legionaries that were stationed there lustily—as opposed to lustfully, though there was probably more than a bit of that too—greeted her and waved her through. There wasn’t even a [Healer] stationed with them!

The setting sun painted a dazzling flair of colors throughout the sky, but Spearpoint provided its own spectacle. A mostly nude young woman was the first to recognize Ranthia’s Sentinel badge and eagerly flounced over to shove a metal mug of beer in her general direction—cheering the entire time. From there, legionaries, vendors, and even a pair of dwarves continued to hand Ranthia food and drink as she tried to make her way through the densely packed crowds. By the time Ranthia finally reached an open gate to the inner fortress, she was struggling to carry everything that she’d accrued. The massive chunk of smoked dinosaur meat was delicious, but beyond that, she had a rack of dino ribs that were leaving a trail of sauce in her wake, four mugs of different beverages (three of which were alcoholic), a baked sweet, a cloth pouch filled with fried vegetable sticks, two mangos, a pouch of candy, an entire roasted chicken, and a pouch that was filled with…

Purple Flower. Seriously?! What kind of idiot hands a Sentinel a pouch of illegal drugs?!

For a second or two, Ranthia weighed her temptation to use [Chest of Experience] to try to figure out exactly who had given her that… Before she shrugged and tossed the pouch into the nearest pile of refuse. She was content to let the people have their celebrations; they truly deserved their moment of happiness and bliss. The Legions had been treated as if they were utterly expendable for Xaoc knew how long, but the war was all but done—and everyone deserved a chance to reaffirm that they were still alive. There would likely still be some death in the coming days, but the shimagu were undoubtedly about to surrender—assuming they hadn’t in her absence.

From there, they would find a path forward for coexistence with the shimagu—and a way to free their hosts. She just had to hope that it wouldn’t immediately be followed by a betrayal of their closest allies. Khazad had sent many of its best to them in their hour of need; she didn’t want to believe Remus or Night would betray that bond.

…Her mood somewhat soured, Ranthia chose to perch atop a (probably) empty crate while she attacked the food she had amassed. Darkness hadn’t quite fallen, so she had a precious moment. And if she was about to walk into another fight, she needed to be fortified—she’d neglected her body for too long already.

Ranthia’s hunger and thirst were fully sated—if anything, she was a touch overstuffed—by the time she entered the building that housed the Sentinels. …And whatever else the building was used for; she hadn’t exactly explored it.

She had never really formed a plan, but she needed answers. Her fears were still unfounded; all she had was a damning theory.

The best-case scenario was that Night had some in with the dwarves that had surrounded the King Under the Mountain and got the information… long before the man’s own kin did. The best-case scenario was basically wishful thinking, but assuming it was true, Night would correct her misunderstanding when she confronted him. He would likely be displeased, but she expected him to patiently explain before he sent her on her way to rest.

The worst-case scenario, of course, was that she was right and Night had personally murdered numerous people from both their own empire and their allies in pursuit of some twisted agenda. If she confronted Night and he attacked, the battle would be… interesting. Ranthia had a massive level advantage, but Night was still faster and stronger than she was. Yet no matter who won, the ‘victor’ wouldn’t emerge unscathed. …In all honesty, the most likely result would be a Pyrrhic victory for her—with Black Crow coming for her shortly after he harvested Night.

No, that wasn’t likely. Night would probably come to the same conclusion. If he deemed her to be a problem that he needed to remove, he’d… probably feign disappointment and patiently offer a reassuring explanation before he sent her on her way. And, at some point when she wasn’t expecting it, he’d strike while she was asleep or classing up.

……The best- and worst-case scenarios were identical, at least from her point of view. She had no way to know which was which! Worse, most scenarios would likely have a similar outcome. Unless Night inexplicably chose to read her in on his sins—or those of the empire, whichever was the truest culprit—she would walk away without a clue if there was a knife at her back.

Was [Divine Eyes in the Void] strong enough to overcome an immortal assassin’s concealment Skills? She’d briefly been able to completely see through the copper-haired elf’s Mirages, yet once the woman gained several levels in her first class, they reappeared. But the copper-haired elf had mostly out-leveled Ranthia, whereas Ranthia mostly out-leveled Night. Though Xaoc alone knew what the man’s class qualities were like…

But Ranthia was leaving one possible advantage on the proverbial table. Her third class had been ready to class up for a long time—and Ranthia finally had her answer for why it had suddenly started to level once she finally started acting like the [Priestess] she truly was. So long as Xaoc saw fit to offer her another divine upgrade—and somewhat depending on how many levels were awaiting her class up—she just might have enough stats and Skills waiting to change the dark arithmetic that awaited her if she made a wrong move.

Ranthia changed course and briskly followed the labyrinthian halls to the room she shared with Sentinel Grey—and by lucky fluke, she caught the drab woman just as she left the room, carrying a bundle of oversized scrolls.

“Grey! Great, I was hoping to catch you—I need a favor.” Ranthia wasn’t entirely used to forcing a sunny smile onto her Sentinel Grace persona—she just hoped the results were palatable.

Grey was definitely a potential co-conspirator—assuming Night actually was killing their own allies—but she was sunk if she started distrusting her own peers. Besides, no one had any reason to suspect anything amiss with her.

“Grace? I am in a bit of a hurry, so…” The grey woman’s displeasure at Ranthia’s timing was obvious enough.

“You can tweak this structure, right? I was hoping you could seal the room after I enter. My third class got the last level it needed a bit ago, and I’d love to go ahead and finally class up. Buuut, there’s no bar on the door and…” How was she supposed to keep an explanation quick and act unbothered at the same time?!

“Fine. Just go inside and I shall make the door impossible to open for a time.” Grey ordered.

Ranthia offered a grateful bob of her head as she stepped into the room and closed the door without visibly hurrying. Almost the same instant that it closed, the door turned grey (of course the woman’s Skills turned things grey) and Ranthia found herself unable to even lift the metal ring to try to tug the door open.

For the moment, she was safe and secure—she had to be.

She took her backpack off and wrapped her arms around it while she settled onto the bed she was using. And after a deep breath (or eight), she activated her class up before she could talk herself out of doing it.

“Not this class again.” Her guide was already grumbling from the first instant Ranthia manifested in her world within.

Not that she really blamed the other woman—herself, whatever—for having such a reaction. Her third class had consistently been… weird. The class updates for it undeniably had behavioral quirks. And her classes were represented by swords—‘behavior’ was not a trait that anyone wished swords to possess.

Unrelatedly, it was strange just how much she was already missing having access to [Divine Eyes in the Void]. But she never had access to her Skills while she was in the world within.

“Well, I guess we’ll see what happens? Begin the hunt, o’ master of this domain!” Ranthia wasn’t entirely sure why she was putting up a front of good cheer with her own guide—or with herself.

Which was probably why the woman—a practical twin to herself, clad in unfamiliar white-and-silver lightly armored garments—leveled a flat stare at her before she turned to explore the racks.

Ranthia took a deep breath… and found herself smirking when she reopened her eyes.

“That was fast.” Ranthia projected her words to make sure her guide heard, not bothering to mask her amusement.

Her guide whirled back to face her—and immediately spotted the two short swords that had materialized. Each blade impaled the counter, angled so they crossed one another.

“That better not leave holes in my counter!” The woman snarled at the nearest carving of Xaoc.

“Xaoc, she doesn’t mean it!” Ranthia hurriedly offered a quick prayer to her god to apologize for her guide’s—her own?!—blasphemy, glaring at her counterpart the entire while.

“I absolutely mean it. God or not, I will seek revenge.” Her guide promised.

…

Ranthia refocused on the swords—it just felt safer. Both blades had hilts wrapped in beautifully blue fabric—proof that they were sent by Xaoc—and had pommel stones of finely carved labradorite (Avyna had found her previous familiarity with gemstones wholly unacceptable) with beautifully iridescent sheens. But that was where the similarities between the two swords ended. The blade on the left was far more artistically wrought—with intricate detailing that evoked leaves, as though it captured a scene from a forest. The blade on the right was a standard-issue short sword like those the Legions of Remus used, specifically one made of dependable steel.

