The orb within the chief’s hand began to shake violently. From below, large circles constructed from mysterious symbols formed in a circular pattern. Walls of crimson energy shot into the air from the center of each pattern, trapping the chief within.

“Ah. You really think your little trick will work on me?” The chief raised his hand. “This is the difference between a Ground-level and a Sky-level!”

A massive pitch-black hand formed in the sky. Though it was closer to an insectoid claw than a human hand. Marina could feel the weight of such an object collapsing down even at its current altitude. Her knees shook under the pressure, but just as she was about to fall, Hecate grabbed her by the waist.

“We need to leave now,” Hecate said calmly before grabbing Mellie with her other arm.

The same pair of bone wings sprouted from Hecate’s back as she launched herself into the air, picking up velocity faster than the previous two times. Behind them, a large explosion shook the entire meadow as the chief’s power smashed against the crimson barrier. It was of no use at all. He continued to barrage the barrier with everything he had in reserve, but none of it was effective against Hecate’s Technique. Frustration quickly overtook him. He gazed at the three young ladies with hatred before letting out an ear-piercing screech.

Marina covered her ears, trying to fight off the painful noise, though the sound was somehow familiar to her, something she had experienced in recent times. She thought about all the events in the past few days, and a chilling thought struck her. The pitch was similar to that of ant screeches.

The sound soon dissipated after Hecate gained enough distance that the village was no longer visible.

“I want to bet money on whatever that was. It was not the chief.” Marina said.

“And you’d be correct, my dear.” Hecate agreed. “Or rather, that chief definitely does not belong with the Bee-ple.”

“Yeah, definitely not…” Mellie nodded.

Searching for a safe opening to the forest floor, Hecate descended.

“Hecate!” Marina was reminded of what had just happened. “I’m sorry…” She cried. “You lost your Authority for someone like me…”

“No, my dear, you had a splendid performance.” Hecate patted her on the head. “That was quite the show, well done.”

“H-huh…?” Marina wiped her tears.

“I did not lose my Authority. It was all just an act to buy time for such a complex Technique.” Hecate explained. “Because of you, my dear, I was able to complete the finishing touches.”

“I… I thought you were going to die, Hecate!” Marina yelled. “And this happened twice in just two days.”

“At least my dress did not get torn up this time, only some blood.” Hecate smiled.

“You fucker! I was so worried, and that is what you’re still thinking about?” Marina angrily blushed. “I deserve another apology.”

“Yes, my dear, I apologize for my carelessness.” Hecate gently caressed her hair. “Forgive me.”

“Fine…” Marina twisted her lips. “Am I crazy for thinking the chief might be an ant?”

“No, you are quite rational for thinking that way because it’s clear that he is indeed an ant.” Hecate agreed. “His grudge against me was definitely due to what I had done a day ago. On top of that, his scent when he used his Authority was quite similar to that Ant Queen I killed, maybe related even.”

“So Pollen Patch was managed by an ant this entire time…” Marina widened her eyes.

“I am not quite sure either. Perhaps there was a swap along the way?” Hecate said. “But one thing is for sure: none of the Bee-ple are aware, and all of them seemed to listen to the chief under all conditions.”

“What’s the plan then?” Marina asked. “He is essentially holding the entire village hostage.”

“Mm. I believe we should solve what is in front of us at the moment.” Hecate gestured.

On the other end of the clearing, Mellie sat still next to a tree. Marina couldn’t tell what she was thinking, though her expression was anything but positive.

“The wall might have just grown thicker this time.” She sighed.

“I wish you the best of luck, my dear.”

“Thanks.” Marina approached slowly. “Mellie, are you alright? Hurt anywhere?”

Mellie glanced away almost immediately. “I am fine.” She wrapped around herself tighter.

The chief’s actions were not what Marina had anticipated. No, not by a mile. Her intention was for Mellie not to be a part of this, and yet, she had landed in the center of this storm anyway. There might even be a possibility for Mellie to believe that the two of them left her to die on purpose. It was a bigger mess than the one she faced the day before.

“Mellie, listen… I—”

“Miss Marina. You did this to me twice now.” Mellie glared. “Is there any reason for me to listen to your explanations again?”

“Okay, Mellie, we had no clue that the chief was going to go to your house,” Marina argued. “I just thought that the two of us leaving would keep you safe.”

“Look at how that turned out.” Mellie refuted. “What do the two of you plan to do now?”

“I am not sure, but we can’t go back now.” Marina shook her head.

Burying her face in her arms, Mellie sobbed softly. “All these years of research and notes… all of the equipment that I have built…”

“I’m sorry.” Marina knelt next to her. “We’ll figure out a way, I promise.”

“How? The chief just randomly appeared to be an Authority Bearer that is even stronger than Miss Hecate.” Mellie questioned. “He won’t fall for the same tactics twice.”

“Worry not, I have a plan.” Hecate interrupted as she walked closer. “The chief is only Early Sky-level. And I am currently a Complete Ground-level. All I need to do is take that one small step.”

“Okay, I am new here.” Marina pointed out. “Can you explain what any of that means before continuing?”

“In a nutshell,” Hecate glanced at Mellie with uncertainty. “Authority Bearers are divided into ranks that measure their power. The starting rank is Ground-level, then Sky-level, Planetary-level, Stellar-level, Galactic-level, and finally Universal-level. Each rank is also divided into four sub-ranks: early, mid, late, complete. Going from one rank to another, one must fulfil their Authority with enough nutrients, which is where Authority Count comes in. It is the measurement of how much potential nutrient a creature may contain, though it may vary based on the consumer’s own Authority.”

“So… you have consumed enough nutrients to advance now?” Marina asked.

“Indeed.” Hecate nodded. “Though going from one rank to the next is much more difficult than sub-ranks and contains the risk of failure. For that, I will need the two of you to watch over me while I advance.”

“Right now?” Marina tilted her head.

“We can also wait until tomorrow when the entire village turns into ant food,” Hecate smirked. “Your wish shall be my command.”

It was really the only good solution for the time being: to defeat the chief and save the Bee-ple. But the risk mentioned by Hecate still worried Marina somewhat

“Hecate. You will be fine, right?”

“Worry not, my dear.” Hecate sat cross-legged on the forest floor. “I am not like the other Bearers, and I do not fail.”

“Anything in particular that the two of us need to do?” Marina asked.

“Don’t be too close to me. It is not the safest for those around me.” Hecate replied. “Once the ascension ritual begins, I will not be in a conscious state, but do not panic and do not come close.”

“O-okay.” Marina took a few strides back alongside Mellie.

Hecate smiled. “Good girl.”

With a swoop of her hand, hundreds of glitters poured from Hecate’s satchel; each shone like bright stars upon a night sky. Marina had seen them before; they were the source of a Bearer’s power that grants the authority to control the world around them. Hecate waved her hand. Each of the bright, marble-sized Authorities split into halves, revealing their pure Abyssal Energy within. The crimson, moon-shaped orb pulsed within Hecate’s chest, as if consumed by an unsatiating hunger. Hovering one hand above the other, Hecate pulled in the Abyssal Energy from the sparks all around her right into her chest.

A red flame ignited all around the vampire; even her pale skin was on fire. Marina gasped uncontrollably at the scene. It reminded her of the day they saved Mellie and how saving the poor bee girl was also to put her through hell. This felt to be the same. She couldn’t begin to fathom the amount of pain Hecate has to endure with flames of this degree.

“Miss Marina…” Mellie whispered from behind.

“Mellie.” She turned around. “Are you okay?” She saw the tears gather around Mellie’s eyes again.

“Is it true…?” Mellie sobbed. “That the chief was…”

“I’m sorry.” Marina wrapped her arms around Mellie. “Hecate and I will make this right. Everything will be okay.”

Behind her, a large tremor spread from where Hecate sat. A pillar of energy erupted from around Hecate straight into the clouds above. But despite the immense amount of heat radiating from Hecate, a visible layer of frost formed upon the grass as if fighting for control. The hot air that caused drops of sweat to roll down from Marina’s face was balanced out by the sudden coldness; an unusual balance of temperature was maintained.

Blue vines sprouted from under the frozen grass as buds of crystalline roses bloomed gracefully. The vines began slowly wrapping themselves around Hecate’s limbs, and then her torso, completely unfazed by the voracious flames. Their spikes pierced straight through Hecate’s white dress, into her flesh like a bed of nails.

“Hecate!” Marina rushed forward, but a hand grabbed her from behind. “Mellie, let me go!”

“No, Miss Marina!” Mellie shook her head. “Miss Hecate said not to go near her. It's dangerous!”

“I need to—”

The pillar of energy distinguished as Hecate let out a yelp of pain. “Ugh!” She gently opened her eyes, commanding the flames around her to rise into a new glorious height. The icy vines burned away to nothing under the immense heat. And as the flames died, at its center revealed a white, pale figure. Stunning as Marina had remembered, but the presence was much different.

Looking up at the sky, Hecate sighed. Within her eyes was not satisfaction, but sorrow. She warped into the air above; a powerful shockwave formed around her as a result of her speed. Around her, the trees shook violently as if bowing to their newfound ruler, but Hecate had no care for being a ruler of a kingdom. She was someone of no big dreams. Her only dream was to seek vengeance on all those who had wronged her, starting with the insect from this morning.