“You should have taken my hand.”
He heard it again. Again, and again as he fell.
Sinking into the depths. Something denser, deeper, darker than the waters engulfing him.
Things in the murk, tugging at him. Whispering.
On the Summer Solstice, Luan Khumalo met a stranger. He was offered a choice.
He refused.
The [Rower] from Earth, the Olympian, saw the flash of fire again. He heard his own voice, a scream. Burning followed by the cold embrace of liquid.
And darkness. Until only the voice remained.
A petulant ___, enacting vengeance. Luan struggled, but he was sinking deeper. And he was not alone.
Shadows circled him. They swam around his mouth, his nose, wriggling. Trying to get in. Speaking in tongues he could not hear. Frustrated, they dragged him further down.
This was death. He knew that. And death would be a kinder thing than being lost, consumed by the half-things, little reflections of what the man had been. They were the same. But where the stranger had been…intact…they were only fragments.
They terrified him, even so. So he did not breathe. For a little while, he waited to drown.
And then he realized he did not need to breathe. Because there was not only a lack of air here, there was a lack of need for it. Whatever surrounded him was made of the same thing as the Summer Solstice.
A time out of time. So he had hope. But he was still…
…falling…
The further down he went, the stronger they became. They were trying to burrow under his skin. He struggled, keeping them away from him. But his motions faded. His limbs grew weak.
There was no point to his strength. The body he had built out of hard work, his knowledge, acquired over countless years of practice, his ambitions, levels, Skills, all of it…was worthless.
He was vanishing down here. They all were. Luan realized it. That was why they wanted him. This was oblivion for everything.
But he was vanishing so much faster than they were. Luan looked up and had not the strength to climb. There was not even a single shaft of sunlight.
—Still, there was one last flash of color. Something followed him into the depths.
A flicker of gold.
He saw it shining as he stopped moving. His eyes fixed on the words. And there were only two.
 
Nandi, Lubanzi
 
Written on his arm. The man stared at it. And he remembered.
He had met her while training and dismissed her as someone who was chasing fame. After all, she had never so much as picked up a set of oars. She had no idea what sculling was, so he had thought she was disingenuous.
When they suggested joining him in kayaks, he had played along right until he lost his patience with his team flirting. He had set them onto a long trip, far longer than amateurs could handle.
Sure enough, everyone else had fallen away, giving up. But when he’d looked back, there she’d been. Determinedly paddling after him.
She followed him even here. He looked at her name. She would have jumped after him, like the time he had accidentally struck his head and been drowning, underwater, disoriented, having flipped over.
Two names. Dimly, the man heard a voice. It was his own. Coming to a slow conclusion.
 
I never got to hold my son before I left.
 
He hadn’t known. If he had…he’d been in the airport, heading back after an overseas training trip with his team. The South African hopefuls for the Olympics.
When he had come to the other world, he’d forgotten them both. Forgotten, as if war or the shock of another world was an excuse.
Never again. Luan stared at the glowing, magical ink of the tattoo on his arm. Lubanzi.
 
He wasn’t old enough to walk.
 
Something—whispered to him. Shadows tried to obscure the light. Give it all to us. Abandon this vessel.
No. The [Rower] moved. He flailed his arms. If he died here—
 
I will never hear him speak.
 
He began to climb. No—swim. How long he had drifted in oblivion, he did not know. But as he began to struggle, this otherness began to recede.
Cold liquid surrounded him. Suddenly, he did need to breathe. He felt water, pressing in, terrifying in the actual darkness, but reassuring because it was real.
Still, the shadows tried to pull him back. Luan swam upwards, lungs bursting. Light. He needed…
His world began to deteriorate again. Not because of the nothingness, but because of the real lack of oxygen. Luan realized he was deep underwater.
Deep. So far that while there was now the hint of light, it was so far above. Hundreds of feet. And he had no air.
He began to choke, swimming with all the strength in his arms. Bubbles passed him, but his limbs were leaden. An Olympian. The only one from Earth—but what use was that kind of ability without air?
Air. So sweet. Luan kicked his legs and couldn’t bear the pressure in him anymore. He opened his mouth.
Saltwater entered his lungs. He began to choke. At the same time, his ascent was making him dizzy. Nauseous. He was—
Flicker.
His consciousness shut off for a second. He had seconds left. He forced himself up another dozen feet. And then began to drown.
No. Not like this. Not—
His desperate flailing had no sense anymore. He’d lost track of direction. Luan’s last thoughts were that he was letting the golden light down.
And then he heard a real voice in the darkness. Louder than the whispers. Louder than his fading thoughts. It whispered to him.
“You are dying.”
This was so. The man couldn’t respond even if he wanted to. But suddenly—he inhaled. And thought resumed.
Yet his lungs were still filled with water. He flailed, but something…soothed him. The voice, not quite words, continued. And he realized it was a single message.
“You are dying. Accept salvation from the sea.”
He realized something was on his face. Circling his throat. Piercing his skin—but the pain was a lesser thing.
“Join us. Breathe the depths.”
The [Rower] felt something moving across his face. Half his body. Something had—found him—as he was drowning.
He knew what this was. The last gift to the drowning [Sailor]. The choice presented to the lucky at sea, or made voluntarily.
The Gift of the Drowned Folk.
Something was on his face, his throat, acting as gills. Some…creature…was trying to meld with him. Turning him into one of the Drowned Folk.
Half man, half sea creature.
Luan looked up towards the light. So far away. He began moving his arms and legs again as sense returned to his oxygen-deprived mind. He swam upwards—but the voice grew insistent.
Don’t move. He was causing the other distress and they had to be one thing.
Luan kept moving, ignoring the instinct to remain still. He felt pain. A shock as something suffered.
Stop! 
If the connection failed, both would die. Luan would drown, certainly. Yet—the man kept moving. He felt the water in his lungs turning to death again. What was he doing?
Didn’t he want to live?
The answer was yes. Yes, of course. But Luan kept swimming. He would have accepted any help rather than die. But a thought kept pressing at his head. Even now—the gold spoke to him.
Nandi. And my son. I never got to hear him speak.
“Stay. Live. Breathe the depths.”
I want to. I want to live. But if I do—he will never know my face. Will he even recognize me?
And the voice had no answer to that. So Luan swam. Ignoring the pain. It was just pain. The voice was begging, pleading, now.
“Join us.”
No. I want to be me.
Rage, then. Suddenly, the thing disconnected from his throat. He caught the last thought as he began to choke again.
“Then die.”
Never.
Alone, the man swam higher. And the light was growing. He had been given a second chance. He felt hands dragging him below. They had followed him.
He swam higher, though his lungs had long emptied of air. Shadows clutched at him. They whispered in his ears, half-remembered words. Broken pleas.
“I was your g…”
“…ship me…”
“…remember…please…”
They would rather he drown than go without him. And they had a pull. Luan fought, but he could not swim and resist them at the same time.
He was beginning to despair when one of the half-remembered things whispered in his ears.
“…regret…my blessing…”
Luan did not know what it said. But suddenly the grip of the shadows abated. And he left them behind, kicking, rising. Then at last, finally—
His head broke the surface of the dark waters. Luan vomited water, he coughed, drew breath. He breathed.
He lived.
The man treaded water for minutes, just breathing. Just…he looked around as the crash of waves drew his attention. One nearly engulfed his head. And he realized—
He was at sea. And his scull was nowhere to be seen. The damned [Bounty Hunters] who’d accidentally hit him with the [Fireball] spell? Nowhere to be seen.
And neither was the coast. Luan slowly turned in the waters. And he realized he didn’t see…Baleros.
His skin chilled. The [Expert Rower] looked around. Compared to the meeting during the Summer Solstice…the dark promises below, this was still better.
But only just.
How far at sea was he? Luan gasped for air, panicking. But then he had an idea. Now that he was able to do more than struggle for the surface, he kicked while his hands searched downwards.
Clothing—no oar, none of the items in the scull—but—
“Yes.”
He gasped with relief as his hands found the bag of holding. The most precious item in this moment to him. He reached into it, holding it above the surface. The waves were large, but they didn’t have the crest of deadly force of a storm.
Small blessings. And another was…he fished out the glowing compass, holding it so tight that the edges cut into his fingers.
A nautical compass. The friend of any [Captain] or person who ever risked the sea. He had never had to use one before. But he was no fool. Luan opened the compass and saw the needle swing.
There were no directions. No ‘North’, ‘South’, or any other superfluous icons. This was a compass enchanted to one purpose.
Land. It was meant to take someone only to the nearest body of land. In case he was ever blown out to sea or had to evade pursuers…Luan had never used it. He held his breath.
The needle swung as the magic activated. Searching…it pointed to the side. Held steady. Luan’s head turned hopefully.
There wasn’t anything on the horizon. Not even a shadow.
Despair engulfed him for a second. Still, he had escaped death. He had refused the gifts of the Drowned. He had refused the offer made on the Summer Solstice.
Oceans be damned if he would give up now.
Luan began to swim, following the compass.
 
—-
 
The first hour was easy. Luan Khumalo was a rower. He had trained for it and while swimming was not rowing, you tended to need one with the other. He could swim for as long as need be.
Or so he’d thought. Luan had never dreamed he’d be this far out to sea. He knew what other people had done, clung to rubbish or even buoys to survive.
But his scull was gone. There was nothing to hold onto and besides…if exposure didn’t kill him, the ocean’s predators would.
This wasn’t Earth. Sharks were a lesser concern to the hundreds, thousands of species that could kill a man. Luan swam. But he had one advantage and that was his bag of holding.
Inside of it, Luan had any number of things to stay alive with. Not least of which, after the first hour, he knew he had to ration:
Food. He had dried ‘energy bar’ substitutes he’d made up with Kirana’s help in the United Nations headquarters. Water, too! He gulped greedily from the canteen, then forced himself to stop.
Stamina potions? Even a few healing potions. And best of all—a flotation device.
Not an actual life-jacket. Luan had been going to invest in a ring to do the same, or best of all, a Ring of Waterbreathing which solved most problems. So he had no actual jacket. But as night fell, he improvised.
A waterproof blanket and pillow were some of the things he put in the bag of holding so he could sleep anywhere he wanted. He tied a knot with all four corners to make a rough sphere, catching air in the blanket, creating a buoy which he could cling to when he got tired.
He hoped he didn’t have to use it. But as the daylight faded, Luan had swum for five hours by his reckoning.
And he couldn’t tell if he’d made any progress. Nothing appeared on the horizon. Luan realized he needed the makeshift buoy.
The water grew cold. Luan, buffeted by waves and trying to cling to the buoy, did not really ‘sleep’. But he did pass out and wake. He began swimming as soon as he had energy left. Following the compass.
He did not despair the first day. Or the second.
Or the first week.
 
—-
 
He was rationing his food and water. It rained twice during the first two weeks, and he held up all the containers, even the bag of holding, his mouth open.
The waves grew stronger during the storms, though. Twice, they threw him about, threatening to drag him into the depths again.
He swam through it, clinging to the blanket at need. It gained two holes over the first week, which he desperately tried to plug.
Land never appeared. A vast shadow passed over him, once. Something tried to take a bite out of him three times. He fought them off by kicking and thrashing twice.
One time something appeared out of the water with barbs for a face and savaged him. It was half his size, but dense, and tore chunks out of him with each thrashing movement.
Luan killed it with the backup knife in his bag of holding. All but one of the healing potions went into that battle and he left the water bloody behind him.
Two weeks of swimming passed. Still, he followed the compass, despair on his tongue as his body weakened with each passing day of decreasing food, sleep, and water.
He might have truly given up, or at least, lost all hope. But Luan stared at the names on his arm. And though he saw no land, saw no relief day after day, there was one thing that gave him some hope.
 
[Swimmer Level 5!]
 
The first day, he gained the class.
 
[Swimmer Level 9!]
 
By the fourth day, he was able to lie on his back and rest. [Indefinite Flotation] was the Skill that let him ‘rest’, though a wave could still wake him with water engulfing him.
Two weeks. Then, as the third dawned, Luan heard the voice.
 
[Athlete Level 14!]
 
The [Swimmer] class had changed at Level 10.
Luan swam. Cutting through the water faster, tiring slower. His body was shriveled from ceaseless contact with the water. His beard, hair, salt-crusted, unkempt. A scar around his throat from where he had rejected the sea’s gift.
But the Olympian refused to give up. And then, at last—
He spotted land in the distance.
 
—-
 
It was a simple tale that engulfed Noa. A tale to break up the mundanity—and sometimes terrifying danger—of her watch duty.
Similar to many stories she’d heard. But it was better, realer, because it was happening. It was the story of a Human too stubborn to die.
