Hostage? Prisoner? Guest? Of Baleros’ most elusive species, even more than Gazers. Tiny legends, only one of which had ever been known to the larger world.
Little people.
Fraerlings.
 
—-
 
Not Drowned.
Not consumed by shadows.
Not lost at sea, or eaten by animals.
Yes, he had help. Advantages. A whispered kindness. Luck, coincidence. Even so, Luan Khumalo lived. Because he was the great athlete of Earth, and this world recognized that.
However, just as much as his Skills, from [Greater Endurance] to [Body: Water Retention], [Mana Conversion – Sustenance], and magical potions, there was something simpler at work.
He had something to fight for. Something, someone to fight for. Tattooed onto his skin in golden ink. His wife.
And his son.
It did not make any of it easier. The ‘magic of parenthood’ didn’t end the sunburn of weeks at sea, the crippling thirst, burning muscles.
But it was a reason never to give up. With it, he could live. Fight.
That was what a parent, a father, was supposed to do. In war, in times of crisis, provide, protect. Even if it cost themselves everything.
…It was easier to do that. Not easy, but easier. But what if—?
What if you couldn’t protect them? What if it was out of your hands? Your paws? All that you had, all that you could do—made worthless? Snatched away by fate, by chance?
By magic?
It would have been so easy if there was something to fight. Anything. Not just a monster. If there was a cost to be paid, he would have paid it in a moment.
Cruelty was a lack of something to hit. A lack of choice. Helplessness. That was far, far worse.
Rufelt, co-owner of Tails and Scales, one of the best bars in Pallass, had not opened his establishment in over a month. The noise of his carefully curated guests, laughter, arguments of a reasonable level, the smells of cooking, alcohol—memories.
He wished he were on Rhir and back in time. If he was, maybe he could have done something. If you gave Rufelt, a [Bartender] who had never served in any army, a stick and a choice to challenge all the Demons or suffer this present timeline? He would have taken his chances.
Because a father’s nightmare was Rufelt’s reality. He knew—they all told him the same thing.
“You couldn’t have done a thing, Ruf.”
“Don’t blame yourself. If Chaldion and all of Pallass’ protections couldn’t stop it—”
“You two will get through this. If there is anything I can do to…”
It felt to him like wading through a swamp of worthless platitudes, encouragement, sympathies. All useless, no matter how well-meaning, no matter who it came from.
The few voices that came through to him were from people who had been…where he was. He and Lasica. People who had lost children.
The Demon’s spell had attacked the entire world. Killing children. Not just Pallass. Every major city in the world. Sometimes only one person, chosen by…what, luck?
The Gnoll believed there was some greater, sinister plan at play. He had listened to one of the other parents trying to connect the dots. There had to be. Or else…what?
What was he supposed to do?
For him, there was nothing to fight. He had sent money to Rhir. But would he now grab a spear and enlist?
No. There was Lasica. He was no warrior, and the worst had happened. The future had been destroyed and there was nothing to protect besides her.
These dark days. They told him they would end.
The ones who knew told him the truth. It would not get better. But it would get further away. As if he wanted that. As if that would make it alright.
The comments that had driven Rufelt nearly into a homicidal rage had been the ignorant ones. Well, she wasn’t nearing delivery. What about that city that was overrun by Crelers?
If he had been able to calmly articulate a response, Rufelt would have said those kinds of statements were disingenuous to begin with. Of course he was not the only one suffering. Of course tragedy occurred every day. Yes, miscarriages happened for other reasons.
But never say that to me. Or I’ll kill you.
…He had Lasica. Remember that. Rufelt tried. He tried to not leave her to wallow like he would, made sure they had food, tried to…
Something was wrong. It was nothing he had done. Failed to do? He didn’t know. But their relationship, which had possessed ups and downs, rocks and smooth sailing like anyone else’s, but had been so good? An invisible wedge had been inserted into it.
Worse still, it was nothing she blamed him for. Not out loud, or even implicitly. It was just that everything had been shaken up. And suddenly they weren’t on the same page.
She was distant. When he wanted to talk, she did not. She sought other people’s confidences—her female friends, other mothers. But Rufelt wasn’t with her. And when he was, it lingered, unspoken. Or if he tried…
One month. One month, and Rufelt counted the days between shock, grief, fury at some of his ‘friends’ or well-wishers. Trying not to meet others. Sitting alone. Sitting with Lasica. Listening to the news.
Watching, angry without reason, as the world moved on. Resenting laughter. Attending strategy meetings, trying to make sense of the spell.
He should have been doing something. They were losing money. But neither he nor Lasica could bear to open the bar.
By the same token, he should be doing something. Making money, acting with a purpose for…
There were people that were recommended to him.
[Thought Healers]. Rufelt hadn’t really known the class existed. But this variation on [Carer], [Healer], was there for people who’d seen battle, adventurers. And parents.
He tried to get Lasica to go to one with him. He was terrified to go alone. But she resisted. She did not want to talk about…
And then had come the night when he’d found her burning all of the toys and things they would have used. He, Rufelt, would have saved each one. They’d fought, bitterly.
Now, today? It had been two days since Lasica stormed out of their home over the bar. Rufelt kept sitting at the bar. Waiting for her to come back.
He’d looked for her, but his nose wasn’t that good. He was sure she had money; she was probably staying with a friend. He’d asked one of the Watch Captains—Venim—to keep an eye out and the Watch Captain had told him this morning he’d checked on Lasica. But he’d refused to tell Rufelt where she was. Let her be, was the implicit statement in the Watch Captain’s words.
They should be together, though. At least he knew she was safe. Rufelt had some…some ability to affect his life, still. He slowly mixed together a drink.
That was what he knew. That was what he was good at. The Chaldion’s Eye? That was his invention. He put together four liquids, mixed them up.
Floating, pink little bubbles containing sour whiskey. He stared as they bounced in the cup. Then he threw the cup across the bar.
It didn’t even have the decency to shatter; everything was enchanted. Rufelt slammed his paws down on the wood, raised the [Bartender]’s aid—a club he’d never had to use in this bar.
He went to the shelves of alcohol to smash something. But he couldn’t bring himself to ruin his hard-earned collection. He wanted to, though.
The bar was so dark. But lighting anything was beyond him. Rufelt slunk around it, a shadow, waiting for Lasica.
In the end, he couldn’t bear to stay and left. Was that why Lasica wasn’t coming back?
 
—-
 
Outside was just as bad. Pallass could be dark since sunlight did not reach the lower floors in the shadow of the upper ones. But magical lights ensured that it was never dark enough. Rufelt felt everyone staring at him.
Everyone knew. He hurried away as some people called out to him. Their condolences made everything worse, didn’t those bastards understand that?
He didn’t know where to go. So he roamed the streets, looking around. Pallass, his home, had never seemed more like a cage to the Gnoll [Bartender].
Dully, Rufelt observed the City of Inventions. Always something new was going on. He had once said to a client that he would never grow tired of his city because he didn’t have to go anywhere to see what was happening!
It was still true, but it brought him no joy. Everything made him angry.
“Go, Renan, go!”
A cheering voice. A Dullahan sped down one of the grand staircases, on a skateboard. Cheering Drakes and Gnolls, the teen’s friends, poured after him. Rufelt had the urge to snatch the wooden skateboard, break it, and tell the Watch to arrest all of them. Or he’d do it with his paws!
Those idiots! Didn’t they think about what that skateboard could do if it hit someone? If that Dullahan idiot hit something at that speed? He started after them, but the [Guards] were already chasing the teens when he reached the staircase. The Assembly of Crafts had banned the ‘skateboards’, which of course only led the younger citizens to embrace it all the more.
He stood there, with more anger with nowhere to go. Then he heard a shout.
“Come see the Players of Pallass! Performing Elisial in the Crafter’s Theatre tonight!”
A [Crier] was passing out fliers with the new acting team that Pallass had assembled, trying to attract attention. He passed Rufelt one as the Gnoll walked past. Rufelt stared at it and saw two underlined names.
The Players of Liscor’s [Actors], who had moved to Pallass after being enticed to found this, with the Players of Celum’s blessing. He looked at the flier, crumpled it up.
How dare everyone be moving on with their lives. It seemed like just yesterday everyone was wearing white, and you couldn’t see another color on clothing. How quickly they all decided the mourning time was over.
Rufelt could have done this all day. Walked around, purely angry, looking for a confrontation. He’d done it last week.
He didn’t want to. He wanted to make a first step towards the future. But the [Thought Healer] had told Rufelt he needed Lasica to be part of that when he’d gone to her, shamefaced, alone.
Where was she? Rufelt sniffed the air, but he didn’t detect her smell. He wandered the 5th Floor, then the 6th, wondering if he should go to all of her close friends.
Venim wouldn’t tell him. Maybe the Watch Captain had been told by Lasica that she didn’t want to see Rufelt after the fight. Maybe…this was it? How could this be it? What had he done wrong?
Nothing. Everything.
In his quest for something to distract him, or meaning, Rufelt found himself going to one of the elevators.
“What floor, sir?”
“Eighth.”
He spoke quietly. He saw the Drake attendant glancing at him sidelong. Rufelt stared at the city as the elevator ascended. He had a thought.
The checkpoint to Liscor and The Wandering Inn didn’t see much use anymore. Everyone knew…
It had been such a tragedy. Rufelt had wept for Erin Solstice, the [Innkeeper], and thought it was the worst thing that could have happened. Then the Summer Solstice had occurred and he had been proven wrong.
He stood in front of the checkpoint, realizing he wasn’t on the list. But to hell with it. He approached the [Guards].
“I’d like to go to Liscor. Is…have you seen my wife, Lasica? The [Chef] of Tails and Scales?”
He had come up with the idea that Lasica had gone to Liscor, having anticipated he might look for her. The [Guards] didn’t know.
“We rotate by day, sir. You’re not on the list…”
“May I go through?”
Rufelt didn’t normally like to lean on any favors he had due to his fame or success. Today? He couldn’t care less. The Pallassian [Guards] exchanged a glance. They knew him. They had a quick conference, and the [Sergeant] gave the nod.
“We don’t know when the door will be open, Mister Rufelt. We could ask them to hold it—but you might be waiting for a long time. The inn is…”
Kel, the [Guard Sergeant], trailed off. Rufelt replied, face blank.
“That’s fine. I’ll wait.”
He stood there for nearly forty minutes, ignoring the looks. Lasica was beyond it. He was sure. There was an image playing out in Rufelt’s head.
A scene, a hope. Like a play of its own, he’d find her at Erin’s…grave. They’d make up. It would be better once he found her. He would find some closure with Erin, some hope in her, that she could come back and they could…
When the door opened, Rufelt started. He stepped through slowly.
“I…excuse me. Mister Rufelt, isn’t it?”
The Gnoll was younger. Ishkr. He’d opened the door to Pallass, but hadn’t expected anyone to come through. Rufelt looked at him.
He knew, too. Rufelt nodded slowly.
“Yes. Yes. Ishkr, right? Have you seen my wife? Lasica?”
“No, Mister Rufelt.”
The dream fell apart. As it did again and again. Rufelt looked around.
“Oh. Thank you.”
“I’m sorry. Can I offer you…the inn isn’t open, but we have something to eat, to drink?”
Rufelt realized Ishkr was eying him. He wondered what he looked like. He hadn’t bathed or combed his fur or…
“No. No. I’m fine, thank you. How’s the inn? Is anything…?”
“No, sir. Not much has changed since the Potion of Regeneration failed.”
“The potion of…?”
Rufelt hadn’t even heard about that. He listened dully, as Ishkr explained. Something in the younger Gnoll’s tone betrayed what he must have suffered. Hope lost again.
It was somehow comforting to know someone else was suffering. A bitter tonic. Rufelt hesitated. But since he was here—
“I’ll…check on Erin Solstice. If I may. Pay my respects.”
“Of course, Mister Rufelt. Do you need me to call the door?”
“No. I’ll take a walk and—I know how to get it.”
Rufelt’s vision had changed to him finding some inspiration and sharing it with Lasica. That was what was so wrong about hope. He kept having it, and losing it. Better if he didn’t believe things could be better.
And better if he had never come here. Rufelt did not realize his mistake at first. But the Gnoll had forgotten. He was in the main room of The Wandering Inn, taking something from the vast emptiness of the [Grand Theatre], almost relieved to be alone in a place like this that was not his bar. He was going over to the bar to…
…When he heard the scampering paws. Rufelt froze.
He saw a flash of white. Then, the little Gnoll raced around the corner of the hallway, panting, smiling.
Mrsha was running, fleeing the rolling, magical ball which was set to ‘tag’ mode. Selys’ present to her. She was having fun.
It was not her fault. But Rufelt took one look at her and recoiled.
Mrsha stopped when she saw Rufelt. She didn’t even realize why the Gnoll turned pale under his fur. Why he had to sit down. She stopped, grabbing the ball with her paws. She only realized why after a while. She’d forgotten about Rufelt. Then—she ran and hid.
