Thoughts of visiting Erin fled Rufelt’s mind. He lurched to his feet. To go. He brushed past Ishkr and went for the door to Pallass. He never met the [Shaman]; he fled The Wandering Inn and went back to Pallass. There was no magic for him here. No relief.
 
—-
 
In the days after her miscarriage—well, the weeks after—Lasica Feltail visited her mother. She visited her sister.
Rufelt would have been wrong to assume his wife was visiting her friends. Lasica was not embarking on a ‘wine and gossip’ night, or whatever her husband imagined. She, like he, had no time for people who had no idea what she was going through.
She did seek out people, female friends, family, to talk to. That she could cry with, take hope from. Reassurance that something would change, that this was not the end of the world.
It might be a Drake thing. Or a personality thing. Or just her family in general. Her sister was matter-of-fact about it.
“It’s a miscarriage, Lasica. A magical attack. But women go through it. Get over it and stop your husband from drowning himself in his own tears.”
Lasica had promptly thrown her cup of wine in her sister’s face. They’d fought, but tough love was still a type of love. In theory. Her sister had gone through it, too.
She was trying to put it in perspective. Rufelt…Rufelt wanted to process it together. Lasica needed to be alone, sometimes. That was why it was hard and he wasn’t helping. He did not understand.
…She supposed she was to blame, too. She wasn’t communicating. The fight—well.
She didn’t want to go to this [Thought Healer]. They’d get through this together. Lasica was going to go back tonight. They’d reopen the bar. It wouldn’t be easy—the first week would probably be hell. But the work would give both of them a direction.
They could cry into their work. This was not the end.
Lasica kept saying that. Pushing—perhaps too fast—to move along. What else was there to do? She and Rufelt grieved differently. Everyone did. It did not mean one or the other was right.
Herself? After the fight, Lasica had prevailed on her mother for a second time. She’d gone out and gotten properly wasted on rotgut drink Rufelt would have turned his nose up at, with two friends. It did not make her feel better, but she’d stayed at an inn for a night.
Not The Wandering Inn, but Pallass’ ritzy inn, The Noble’s Fancy. She would never, ever have gone to The Wandering Inn, even if it was…cheerful…to stay as a guest. She’d seen Erin Solstice’s idea of customer service and tasted her cooking. Now, she was heading back to her bar. Wondering if Rufelt had stayed there all three days.
That was Rufelt and Lasica. Not united; going through the same thing, differently. Trying to deal with something that nothing in their lives would ever have prepared them for. Searching for a solution to something that no one had ever solved easily if at all.
Perhaps both had forgotten the objective truth. That both loved the other. Or if they knew it, it seemed like a distant, uncertain truth. Shaken by themselves as much as anything.
It did not change the fact that Rufelt would have followed Lasica wherever she would have gone. Waited for her.
And that she would have never abandoned him. If they could have been certain of that, if they could just connect for a moment.
Perhaps it might be alright someday.
Hope for those days again. Lasica had a hood on, and cloak. Some of the [Guards] gave her looks of curiosity, but their Skills didn’t reveal criminality. She didn’t want to attract attention or false friends. She was walking down the grand staircase on the southern side; the 5th Floor, home to Tails and Scales, was her destination.
But the wrong side of Pallass. And there was at yet no horizontal elevator to take you across the city. Yet. The [Engineers] were talking about some kind of movable walkway, but that was just hypotheticals. They were surprisingly…confident…that it could be made, though.
Lasica could have used it now. She briskly walked, trying to think about buying groceries, what to say to Rufelt. Just—tell him to get to work. Just—don’t get engaged in talking about the fight. Move on, keep moving.
Someone called out to her, beyond the [Hawkers], [Shopkeepers], the [Crier] still trying to attract attention for the play tonight…Lasica had no time for any of it. She could brush all of them off, even Skills meant to entice her—as if any of them would work on her now—but the person’s voice was more insistent.
“You are Lasica, aren’t you? The [Chef]?”
“I am. Excuse me, I’m in a hurry. Not interested in shaking your hand or buying anything, good day.”
Lasica replied without even looking around. Unlike Rufelt, she was happy to be aggressively rude. But the person just followed her.
“I understand that. If I could have a few words?”
“Here’s a few; I’m not interested.”
The Drake still ignored the person. But this super-[Hawker] or…Lasica heard the voice again.
“I understand you’ve suffered a loss. I wanted to extend my condolences.”
This time, the [Chef]’s eyes widened. She swung around and confronted the person.
“Thank you, but I don’t want your—”
Her angry words were going to be accompanied by the verbal lashing of this woman’s life. Not physical; Lasica didn’t wave around kitchen knives, for all she had a few nasty cutting Skills. But she was not sparing with her tongue.
She halted, though. Because something was strange about the person who’d accosted her.
It was a woman. Gnollish, taller than Lasica, older, with grey in her sable fur. Beyond that? Lasica hesitated, because there was something so…average…about the woman that it was disconcerting. She was like a composite of Gnolls. No scars, no peculiarities at all to make her stand out in memory. No coloration of fur…
If this same Gnoll had gone to the city of Salazsar, a particular [Consort of Change], Xesci, would have recognized her. For all she was no Drake. The Gnoll smiled.
Or her lips moved.
“My condolences. I am told you suffered a terrible accident. Dark magic. You lost your child.”
“That’s…none of your business.”
The Gnoll tilted her head. There was something uncanny. All the words were there. But her condolence was more like a slap to Lasica.
“I believe it is. Such a terrible thing that happened. Your unborn child. Gone. Demons took it. You are grieving.”
“How dare you.”
Lasica whispered. That? That—hurt. Her claw drifted downwards, then balled into a fist.
The Gnoll was still…not exactly smiling. She kept tilting her head, regarding Lasica. And then, the [Chef] noticed something.
The street she was walking down was deserted, an oddity in Pallass, home to millions. Second? The Gnoll woman had sought her out. She knew Lasica’s name.
The scales on Lasica’s arms began to tingle. She took a slow step back.
“What do you want? Actually—I don’t care. I’m busy. Leave me be, or I’ll call the Watch.”
The Drake looked over her shoulder. The Gnoll woman spoke.
“I heard of your loss. I thought I should approach you. It is so, so very difficult for parents after a loss. I know it hurts.”
“Get away from me.”
Lasica stumbled away. Where were other pedestrians? The Watch? She looked up, and saw a Garuda in mid-flight. Flapping her wings as the Street Runner traversed Pallass in the distance.
But she was caught in the air. She was moving fast, but it seemed as though Lasica could watch her forever and the Garuda would still never reach her destination.
“I will not take your time. But I thought you should know, Lasica Feltail, that there are people who can help you in this dire hour.”
“If you’re talking about [Thought Healers], I don’t want any. Thank you, but if you’re using Skills—”
“I am not talking about them.”
Lasica knew it. She turned to face the female Gnoll. The woman spoke.
“There is someone who can make your pain go away, Lasica. Not help you deal with it. Not offer you potions or temporary relief. All your agony can be gone. And your husband, likewise. You two can be happy again. And. Your child can return to you.”
This time Lasica recoiled. She fumbled for her side. The wand Rufelt made her carry around out of overzealousness—she dropped it. She picked it up, cursing the woman.
“How dare you!”
“I am not lying.”
The Gnoll woman didn’t flinch as Lasica raised the wand. Lasica uttered the activation command—an impact spell struck the Gnoll in the chest.
She went stumbling backwards. But not flying as a normal person or [Thug] should have been. Lasica saw the Gnoll’s arms flail. Like a rag doll, she went over backwards. Then…got up.
The entire impact, stumbling fall, and return to her legs unnerved Lasica. The Gnoll woman picked herself up without pushing herself off the ground. Her legs planted on the ground; her waist and torso rose with incredible strength.
As if pulled up by strings.
“What—what—”
“I have come here to tell you this, Lasica. For you and all the other grieving parents in Pallass. But you are…extraordinary. One of the best [Chefs] in Pallass. The woman I speak of can help you. And for you, Lasica, she can deliver true happiness.”
“Woman? Who—who are you? Don’t get any closer! I’ll summon the Watch!”
The Gnoll woman did not advance. The half-smile on her face hadn’t changed even after the spell had hit her.
“No. I will not. I am not here to force you to do anything, Lasica. Just listen. She can help you. And if you summon her, she will restore all you have lost. Your child. Your relationship. Even the memory of loss, if you will it. As if it never happened.”
“No one can bring back the dead. My child is gone. Tell me that again and I’ll gut you like a fish.”
Lasica spoke, harsher than she intended. To this, the Gnoll…woman…only tilted her head again.
“Everything is possible for the right price, Lasica Feltail. Ask yourself only this: what would you do if it were possible to truly bring your child back? To have another chance? For you, I think she would work all her craft.”
“Who? Who is this person who can apparently do all this?”
The Gnoll woman watched Lasica backing away. She did not move. Lasica was feeling behind her, for the edge of this spell, this Skill. There had to be one.
“Look up her name. Look at history. You will find her if you want to. Her name is Belavierr. Think on it, Lasica. Whatever you wish—”
Lasica turned and ran. She burst out of the barrier and time resumed. The Garuda winged onwards. She whirled, panting, as a gaggle of Drakes came around the corner.
“And then I said—whoa!”
They recoiled at the drawn wand. Lasica turned, ignoring them, and aimed back the way she’d come.
At—
Nothing. The street was empty.
The Gnoll was gone.
 
—-
 
Of course she had vanished. And of course, Lasica reported it to the Watch.
She was not a fool. They took her seriously as well. Rufelt rushed into the Watch House as Lasica was making the report.
“Lasica! What happened?”
“Just a stranger. Rufelt. I…”
He embraced her without a word. And all of this should have been the first step. A scare—but Lasica’s refusal. Rufelt running to get her, them eating an actual meal in their home, around their table.
“You’re filthy. Have you eaten anything since I was gone?”
She whipped up a fast meal on the few items they had left. He grinned at her, looking lightheaded from hunger. She fed him, that silly Gnoll, and he agreed to talk tomorrow, about the bar. About…
Lasica was not an idiot. Strangers approaching you out of nowhere and offering you everything you wanted? She knew all the warning signs.
But that was the insidious thing. It was probably one of the worst sales pitches out there. And yes, Lasica knew the stories. And she had a strong will. And she’d told the Watch.
However. Curiosity was like hope. It gnawed on you.
She had to know, if only to refuse.
 
—-
 
The next day, Rufelt was running around, restocking the bar. Shopping for Lasica. Calling in their workers. Finding clients. Exasperated, she let him do it.
He was clearly glad to have a purpose. So was she. Normally, she would have told him to let her get all the good ingredients and stop hogging the workload.
But she let him do most of it. Because Lasica had to make one stop in her day. Rufelt didn’t notice, preoccupying himself with work. He did walk her to her destination, but he thought she had another purpose.
Looking up new recipes. And while it was true that Pallass’ Grand Library had them…
Lasica walked down lines of shelves. Telling herself this was stupid. But she had to see it. Then she could put aside the strange offer. Because nothing would change her mind.
Nothing…
There were many history books. She feared she’d have to search. But the name she’d withheld from the Watch, which she’d give them right after this, was easy to search.
Belavierr. The Stitch Witch of Terandria. Spider. Temptress. Threadbreaker. The Mistress of Strands.
She had so many names. Lasica’s scales tingled as she pulled out the historical book on one of the old monsters of this world.
The [Chef] ran the tip of her claw down stories about her. Sightings. Her list of crimes was legion. Lasica read, and the more she read, the more she was convinced.
A powerful [Witch]. A powerful, dangerous [Witch], considered immortal, responsible for war and atrocity. But still, a [Witch].
Not to be trusted. That was the point. The history book was clear. The [Historian] was no fool. He or she spelled it out: Belavierr made deals of a terrible nature. By contact alone she caused other people’s schemes to fail.
That was what Lasica had needed to see. Because she didn’t want…
“Puppet-children? Spells cast upon bereaved lovers?”
She shuddered. No. No, no false simulacra, no half-measures, terrifying, too-costly fake dreams. Never. The history book just reinforced her decision, quashing curiosity.
Belavierr had nothing Lasica wanted. Except maybe extreme spinal strength. Lasica rubbed her lower back after an hour of reading. She moved to close the book.
And then her eyes travelled a bit too far down the page. And an excerpt stood out to her.
 
…brought back to life…
 
Like a magnet, a spell, the Drake looked back. And she read the entry again.
 
The tribunal of the City of Zeres’ ruling was unanimous, if contentious. Whereupon it was confirmed that the Child, Meree Sailclaw, was brought back to life such that the best [Healer] could not claim she was a puppet, artificial life, and had indeed been subject to formal resurrection at cost to the Wall Lord and Wall Lady Me’na and Merul Sailclaw, the tribunal decided a formal execution of the Stitch Witch’s magic could not be carried out, for the child was innocent.
