However, the Serpentine Matriarch of Zeres overruled the tribunal’s findings and ordered the execution of all three. The Admiralty of Zeres was forced to oppose her; martial law was declared and the Serpentine Matriarch ordered Zeres’ army to enforce her orders.
In the ensuing battle, Meree Sailclaw disappeared, along with Lady Me’na. Merul Sailclaw was apprehended. However, he did not live to face judgment. He expired in front of the [Soldiers] sent to capture him. With his dying breath, Merul claimed he had made a second pact with the Spider and ensured his family’s safety.
That Meree Sailclaw was brought to life was the subject of debate for decades. But the evidence is clear: to the confirmation of the Archmages of Wistram, multiple [Healers], and [Sage] Yinelt of the era, she was revived at great cost. 
Meree Sailclaw returned to Zeres once to lay a final proof to the bargain for her life. She returned to visit her father’s grave sixty years since the inciting incident. The new Serpentine Matriarch ordered her executed, and it was carried out publically. The Stitch Witch’s warrant is still extant.
 
There was more. More cautionary tales. More words. Lasica sat there, not bothering to read more. Head blank. If she had not read that section. If she had closed the book a minute earlier, she would have been able to go on with her life.
But now she was caught in the Spider’s web. For all the [Historian] had tried, they had played into Belavierr’s plans by recording…history. Fact.
Now it was there. Lasica searched. She found, of course, all the other entries. It was far, far rarer. But she had done it more than once. It was no fluke.
She was shaking. The [Chef] felt it, now. A second wound, torn open. She had moved past it. Yet the hand dragged her back. Right to that night. Right back to hope and despair.
The book lay in front of her, enchanted pages resisting the tears. It had to be enchanted to survive so long. To faithfully tell those who wanted to know the truth.
Slowly, a hand closed the book. It replaced it on the shelf. Lasica stared at the table. The dark blue cloth. She looked up.
Belavierr stood in front of her. Her vast hat left her face in shadows. But her eyes—the orange and dark rings caught Lasica’s eyes.
The Stitch Witch looked down. And then she did smile.
