She was sure of it after the third day of staring through her spyglass. And her superior finally admitted she was right after the tiny, tiny disturbance became clearer to both. He breathed out at last.
“Dead gods. It is a Human out there. Same as you saw last week.”
He grudgingly passed the spyglass back. Noa smirked, but hid it as he glared at her. Ekrn didn’t like being wrong.
“He’s been swimming towards the coast for a week, you said?”
She nodded, eyes on the horizon. You couldn’t even see the tiny Human without help of the spyglass.
“That’s right. He must be a survivor of a shipwreck or something.”
Ekrn grunted, tapping his foot on the ground. Noa wanted to know what had been the accident; her immediate superior was less enamored by the idea of the Human doggedly coming their way.
“Wonder how he survived. Bag of holding and luck that nothing ate him?”
“Maybe. Or fish. It rained as well, so that’s water, food…”
As he mused, Noa danced from foot to foot. Her nice, new crocodile-skin boots, a copy of his, made her feel wonderfully secure.
“So what’s the plan, Ekrn?”
“Plan?”
He gave her a blank look. Noa wanted to know if they were going to send out a rescue party. Of course…his look told her that was a stupid idea. Of course they wouldn’t do that.
“Keep an eye on the Human. If he lives or dies, that’s up to him. Odds are a hundred thousand to one he doesn’t come this way of all the places he could land up. If he even makes it to shore. If he does…”
His expression was not a kindly one. Crestfallen, Noa watched Ekrn stomp off. She turned and kept watching the Human.
 
—-
 
Two weeks. Four by Luan’s count, when he finally neared the shores. He was moving faster now, and Noa’s sentry post wasn’t the only one that had called him in.
She was dancing as Ekrn watched, grimly, the Human coming to shore.
“Crazy bastard must have leveled. He’s moving faster than he has any right to without Skills.”
“He’s entering into the inlet. Ekrn.”
There was a river pouring out to sea; they had made their home along it, although further inland than was comfortable for access to the water. But that was out of necessity. Ekrn shook his head as he adjusted the bow on his back.
“Bad idea. If he had any sense, he’d circle in either direction.”
Noa bit her lip. She wanted to say that this Human had been at sea for at least two weeks, trying to reach shore. He had to be starving, and taking a few hours’ detour wouldn’t occur to him.
But Ekrn was right.
“Boss—can’t we do something?”
“No.”
“But he—”
“He’s a Human. You have your orders. Hold position. Let’s see what he does.”
It was callous. But it was survival. Even so, Ekrn himself looked a bit…disgruntled. This Human had survived what few did, swimming to their continent on his own power. And now—he was going to die.
Because he would have been well served staying clear of the river. The river of Baleros’ jungles was freshwater. And all manner of predators lurked there.
Carnivorous fish. Crocodiles. Magical crocodiles. Invisible leeches…saltwater was safer than freshwater in Baleros, so long as you weren’t in the range of the ocean’s worst predators. The oceans had far bigger monsters, but less density.
And the waters from the river? They watched as the Human sped towards shore, doing a breaststroke. Which switched into a desperate freestyle as he encountered what they knew was lurking there.
Piranhas. Or, to be more accurate, poisonous piranhas. Not a super-deadly toxin, but they made larger mammals swell up while being deadlier to amphibians around their size.
“Damn. He went right into a school.”
Ekrn had forbidden Noa from even shouting a warning, and she might have if she was alone. Grimly, they watched. The Human swam like a madman for the shore as they tore at him.
“He’s getting eaten alive! He’ll never survive!”
Noa danced, distressed. Ekrn’s eyes widened as he trained his spyglass on the Human, shouting, going for the overgrown beach.
“No, he is! Crazy Human. He’s chugging a potion as they tear him apart! He’s going to make it!”
Sure enough, the dark-skinned man stumbled onto shore, tossing the fish, some still biting him, onto the ground. He collapsed there. Noa was biting her fist, also newly-gloved in the crocodile skin.
Speaking of which…the man had all of a minute to rest. He looked back towards the water, uttered an oath both could hear even from their perch, and got up to run.
A crocodile twice his length followed him a second later. And it could move fast. It wasn’t the leaping kind that haunted Chandrar’s waters. This one was a Speed Croc. Which sounded cuter than it was. It could move under the effects of what was functionally a [Speed] spell for a few seconds and kill almost anything it got its jaws around.
It chased the man now, moving fast as it went after the bleeding prey. The man ran. Somehow, even after so long in the water, he had the energy to sprint for the forest.
Noa and Ekrn watched, amazed at the Human’s vitality. Right up until Ekrn began to curse. It wasn’t hard to chart the Human’s desperate course.
“Step on me, he’s coming this way! I’m taking the shot.”
“What? Ekrn? No!”
Appalled, Noa saw the [Sentry Leader] draw his bow and put an enchanted arrow to the string. She knew it had to be done with other species. But this Human?
He’d swum for two weeks! Despite knowing her duty, she grabbed his wrist.
“Are you mad? Let go! This is our job—”
“You can’t just kill him! It’s not an animal or monster—”
The two wrestled for the bow as Ekrn cursed her. He tore free and rose to his feet. But too late.
Crash. The Human ran through a border-trap. He shouted in pain as the tripwires unleashed one of the deadly traps. Noa had forgotten about them. She saw a tree explode, bark showering the man with splinters as the tree—one of the rare explosive varieties—detonated.
He survived even that. But he crashed to the ground, lying on the forest floor.
Ekrn and Noa stared down at him from their elevated perch. Noa was horrified. Ekrn rounded on her. The croc had lost the Human, but now a greater problem was facing the two.
“Well, great. He’s bleeding and attracting every hungry animal in a mile. Sound the rally-call! We’re in for trouble! I’ll have your Signim for this!”
He was leaping down even as Noa shakily raised a horn and blew the alarm. Yes, what had she done? The man was innocent. But if he drew Baleros’ predators—she drew her own bow and leapt down towards the man on the ground as the other sentries raced to her position.
 
—-
 
Luan heard shouting. The roar of battle.
It had to be a dream, of the first few horrific months of being on Baleros. When he’d met Ken, Aiko, Daly.
Geneva. It beat the roar of the ocean. And for all the pain…he felt solid ground underneath him. He could have slept happily. But the shouting grew louder.
Then, the first steel-toed boot struck him in the jaw.
“Get up! Now!”
A voice barked in Luan’s ear. He grimaced. The boot swung again. A vicious kick!
…It tickled. Which was odd, for steel-toed boots. It had hit him in the jaw, and the voice was loud. But there was one thing off.
Luan opened his eyes and saw the tiny boot swing back for a third kick. It was…about the size of the tip of his finger? He looked up as the man kicked him.
A tiny man, one foot high, bellowed at Luan with a voice that would have fit a man six times his size. He had a bow in one hand, and was blowing a horn in the other.
“Tallguard of Feiland! To me! You, Human, get up!”
He snarled at Luan. The man stared. He had to be dreaming. But no—the shouting grew louder. Luan looked around and saw dozens, nearly a hundred tiny people on the ground.
They were perched in tree branches, raising small shields or swords, many loosing arrows as the rest fought in clusters. And they were fighting…
A huge centipede, the kind that could take off one of Luan’s toes with a single bite, was slithering towards the bleeding man. Luan recoiled; it was a nasty bug!
To the Fraerlings, it was a gigantic beast, many times longer than they were, capable of sawing a man or woman apart at the waist with a single bite. They were loosing little arrows on its position; a Fraerling with an axe was hacking legs off.
That wasn’t the only one. A female Fraerling next to the one who had woken Luan up loosed an arrow.
A Scavenger Toad, all teeth, capable of a nasty bite and not a threat normally unless they tried to eat you when you slept by the hundreds, was hit by the glowing arrow. It shot into the huge, gaping mouth, and blew out its stomach as it tried to swallow the projectile.
Countless jungle predators were trying to eat Luan, following the blood. The Fraerlings were fighting a war in the underbrush. Luan tried to push himself up, but he couldn’t find any strength in his arms.
After the swim, the damned fish—and the crocodile, he’d spent everything he had. Then the tree had…exploded…
“Get up! Get out of here!”
Ekrn swore up at the Human, but he could see how injured Luan was.
“Sentry Master! Incoming from the flanks!”
A Fraerling on over watch barked. Ekrn raised the speaking stone and turned. He bellowed.
“[Clear Position]! Fall back!”
Fraerlings ran as the creature emerged from the undergrowth. The largest predator yet. Luan was fumbling for a potion—anything—but he was out of both. And he felt pain in every part of his body…he heard the frantic scream as Fraerlings spotted the creature. Noa lowered her bow, turning white. Oh no. One of the worst predators of her people had come calling. Ekrn took one look at the familiar, sinuous body, the long fur, the sharp teeth, tufted ears and tail, and shouted.
“Cat. Cat!”
This was no house-cat, but a smaller predator than a leopard—if only just. A scavenger-predator, who preyed on scavengers around dead creatures. Just like this scenario.
It’s fur was dark green-brown, perfect cover in this climate. Fraerlings took up defensive positions as Ekrn shouted.
“Hold your ground and take cover! Permission granted to use enchanted ammunition without limit! Prepare to use your Signim!”
The cat was tensed. It was able to pounce and it would tear dozens of Fraerlings apart each minute. Worse, it was fast, hugely protected, and it killed for sport. The first hail of arrows made it hiss. It dodged a tiny [Fireball], and then leapt.
It covered nearly a dozen feet and grabbed Noa. She swung her sword, screaming, as it tossed her up to bite in half or swallow with a single m—
Ekrn was aiming his bow at the cat-monster’s throat, enchanted quarrel ready to save—or mercifully kill—his junior. He heard a sound like thunder right next to his ear. Deafening. The force of air made him stumble.
Tschak!
The crossbow bolt went through the hungry cat-thing’s lower hindquarters. Luan lowered the bow as the animal yowled, and recoiled. Noa fell to earth, landing lightly given her size.
The cat bounded away, limping. The lesser scavengers scattered as the Human rose.
High—higher. Six times as large as the Fraerlings. They backed away, wary. One step could kill them.
“Take aim—”
Ekrn held up a hand. Luan looked around. At last, he spoke. Blood ran down his arms and legs from wounds. He was malnourished, parched.
“Fraerlings? I need…help. I’m…a Runner…”
“We don’t protect Runners or the tallfolk! Go! Leave our borders in peace, Human!”
Ekrn bellowed up at the man. He cursed. The Human had somehow stumbled onto one of the ‘Fraerling Villages’, the rare, hidden Fraerling settlements that few ever encountered. Of all the bad luck!
Luan tried to back up, but nearly fell over. Fraerlings darted out of the way.
“He’ll never make it, Ekrn! At least give him a potion!”
Noa. She was on her feet, arguing with her superior again. The [Sentry Master] cursed. He eyed Luan, half of a mind to demand potions, and shook his head. He pointed; Luan’s leg and arm.
Telltale signs of infection on both. Ekrn spat with a warrior’s cold confidence.
“Looks like the potions just accelerated the infection through him. He’s dead if he uses another. You hear that, Human? Get lost and find somewhere else to die.”
“I need…help…”
Luan rasped. He took a step and the Fraerlings raised their bows. Five shot arrows; he felt the sting of pain in his right leg.
“Hold fire! Aim for the eyes, but hold your fire unless it attacks, you idiots!”
Ekrn berated the younger Fraerlings. He pointed up.
“Human. We will kill you unless you leave. Keep our secret and we’ll let you go in peace.”
He was lying. Noa knew it. Ekrn expected the Human to drop dead within half an hour and wanted him far from the settlement of Feiland. She plucked at his arm.
“Can’t we at least try to tend his wounds, Ekrn? Bandage them, at least?”
“No. If he dies—can you imagine what a corpse would be like, so close to the city? Human…”
Luan was swaying. He could barely think. But he knew he’d never make it. Still—the Fraerlings would kill him if he didn’t go. Trapped, desperate, after all he’d gone through, the man did the only thing he could think of.
He began to stumble forwards. Ekrn bellowed.
“No, no—the other way! The way you came! Right, not left! Not that right! The other right!”
Luan heard him. But he turned left, nonetheless. The other Fraerlings began to shout.
“Not ahead, you large-footed idiot! Behind! Turn around! Turn around or—”
The man stumbled forwards, and they moved rather than be squashed. Too late, Ekrn realized what he was doing. He’d heard them and—
“Shut up! Don’t give him directions! He’s going to—”
Too late. Luan collapsed in front of the huge, oak tree that a double-wall of Fraerlings were guarding. He saw, at last, the tiny lights from the countless windows. The smoke coming out of some cunningly-concealed vents. The passageways in and out, and the tiny bridges far above in the foliage.
A Fraerling Village.
He passed out in front of the entrance. Ekrn was beside himself. He looked at Luan, at Noa, at the entrance to Feiland…and gave up. He threw his helmet onto the forest floor, ordered the Fraerling [Rangers] and [Sentries] to stand down, and began to shout orders.
“Cats and Crelers take it all! Get me an [Infection Healer] before he expires and we have to cart him out in bags of holding! Scent bombs! Someone get a [Hydromancer] for all this blood before we get an ant-colony on our asses! And get me the Bordermaster. He’s not going to like this one bit.”
He looked, almost admiringly, at the Human who’d called their bluff. And that was how Luan survived the Summer Solstice. When he woke, he was in another story.
