A groan went up from the people around Flos. They cried out, and the soldiers around the [Mage] raised a cheer. He turned, arms held high as they cried out in victory. Trey looked at Flos—
And saw the King was smiling.
She walked out of the air itself as the [Mage] was laughing in delight. Mars appeared, her form fading into existence, rather than out of it. The [Mage] hadn’t seen. He heard the cries of alarm too late. Mars ran him through and he stared at her, completely surprised.
“Now.”
Flos’ voice rose and he shouted as Mars spun away from the [Mage], raising her sword. Flos raised his and bellowed.
“For Mars and glory! To me!”
They ran forwards, shouting. And Trey was right behind Flos until they met the enemy. He saw the King riding towards Mars as she fought, surrounded by soldiers on all sides. He thought he saw Mars laughing. He knew Flos was.
 
——
 
They weren’t going to make it. Gazi slashed left and someone cut her on the cheek. She hadn’t seen it coming.
“Gazi!”
Maresar shot the person who’d wounded her. Her fingers were a blur as she nocked arrows and loosed in one motion. One arrow. Two arrows. Five…seven…each time she loosed, another soldier on horseback fell.
They were so close. Gazi kicked at her horse, but the animal was wheezing. It was at the end of its tether. She leapt from her steed and stumbled.
Someone caught her. Orthenon spurred his mount, his bloody sword in hand. There was the wild fury of battle in his eyes.
“What are you waiting for!? We’re nearly there! Run, damn you all! Run!”
They ran. Reim’s gates were in the distance. They were so close. But they were too slow. The enemy caught them at last.
 
——
 
Afterwards, Trey realized he was standing on the dead [Mage]’s body, a staff in his hands. He was panting. He had a deep, deep cut on one arm—if he looked he could see something like bone. The staff shone in Trey’s grip as he bled on it.
“I think it’s his. But I took it.”
He babbled at Teres when she found him, sword bloody. She stared at his arm and screamed for help.
Flos ran towards them and covered Trey’s arm with his, pinching the flesh together. That hurt and Trey told him so. But then Mars was running over, armor pristine, hair still blowing like an action hero. She didn’t even have a speck of blood on her. Not a bit. Trey found that weird.
“I have a potion. Here.”
She took a small bottle out of…somewhere, and uncorked it. Trey gasped as it was poured over his wound and then he saw the cut on his arm close. He blinked at Mars and then his head cleared a bit.
“Ow.”
“Are you injured anywhere else Trey? Teres?”
“No. I don’t think—no.”
Teres wasn’t injured either. Flos stared around the battlefield. The enemy soldiers were either dead or fleeing. Their [Commander] might have been among them—it didn’t seem to matter. Their spirits had broken when the [Mage] had been killed, and between Flos and Mars, they had carved up the soldiers.
Now Trey stared at Mars. Mars the Illusionist. The [Vanguard]. The most useless of the King’s Seven when it came to anything but war. But war…she was pretty good at war.
There was not a scratch on her. Not a bit. And no blood, although it was practically matted in Flos’ beard. It was a mystery that Trey was on the verge of solving. And then Flos solved it for him.
“Mars. You have my deepest gratitude.”
“I disobeyed your orders, my King. I wouldn’t have come, but I received a message from a certain son of a certain vassal you might know.”
“No. Venith’s boy?”
“He told me you were in danger. So I rode out against your command. I apologize, my King.”
She bowed to him. Flos laughed softly.
“I am a fool. Were it not for you, I would be dead, I think. And if the city still stands, this will be a victory on all fronts.”
“There were no other enemies nearby, which I found odd. So I took a horse—I left it somewhere so I wouldn’t get it killed.”
Mars was still smiling, looking as beautiful and sounding as nonchalant as ever. But she was surprised when Flos dismounted and came towards her.
“Mars. Enough modesty. You saved my life. I would look on your face now, and speak my thanks to my vassal myself. Your true face.”
She hesitated. Mars lost her usual swagger, and glanced at Trey and Teres.
“In front of them?”
“If you are uncomfortable, they will turn away. But I want to see you, Mars.”
Flos’ voice was gentle. Trey took hold of Teres’ arm, but Mars shook her head.
“No, I—they can—”
She hesitated, and then raised her right hand. She was wearing silver gauntlets, but she twisted at her ring finger. There was nothing there that Trey could see. And then—
The illusion vanished. Mars vanished. The tall, buxom redhead in silver armor vanished. A shorter figure, spattered in blood, grime, and wearing armor that was just grey stood in her place. She had a helmet on her head with the visor down. She wasn’t thin, and her breastplate could have been made for a man or a woman.
And then she took off her helmet and Trey saw a woman’s face. It wasn’t hideous—it was a bit plain, that was all. Mars had pale skin from lack of sunlight, and a few faint freckles. Her hair was brown. And her nose was a bit snubbed. She was sweating heavily. She looked down at the ground, rather than meet anyone’s eye.
And Flos bent and kissed Mars on the forehead. She went still. Her eyes were wide. And Flos kissed her again.
“My [Vanguard]. My beautiful vassal.”
That was all. Flos stared into Mars’ eyes and she looked up at him with tears in hers. By the time Tengrip came over, his broken hand splintered and the people began cheering, Mars was standing next to Flos with her illusion back in place, laughing loudly and waving to the people who cheered for her.
But for a second Trey had seen the truth. And it changed everything. He’d seen the ring she twisted to change her appearance, and remembered the brooch she’d given Flos. Mars was no good at magic. But she had a lot of magic on her.
Mars the Illusionist. And Flos turned towards her, looking at his vassal with pride that had nothing to do with looks. He held out a hand towards her and she grasped it.
“Come, Mars. You too, Trey, Teres. This was only one battle. It’s time to win another.”
 
——
 
They caught Orthenon’s army four miles from their destination. Venith saw the struggling lines of soldiers, trying to fight and run before the rest of the army caught up. They were on the verge of being overrun.
“Mother’s there.”
By his side, Calac was staring in horror at the endless sea of soldiers. He had probably never seen so many people in his life, and they were all the enemy. But Venith could close his eyes and remember greater armies. But his eyes were open now.
“It’s a trap. Not for Orthenon and the others. That army’s in the middle of his trap.”
“How? There are so many—”
Venith glanced at the city of Reim in the distance, the sixteen towers piercing the sky.
“I know what they’re doing. Stay back, Calac. Take the foot and archers to your mother.”
“But—”
“No arguments. You won’t die today. This—is my duty.”
Venith rode forwards. His retainers, his sworn friends and companions from another war, rode with him, shouting. They were a handful, but it was enough. Venith found his heart was beating harder, harder than it had beat for many years.
The soldiers had noticed him now. Venith saw a four-eyed stare, a gaunt man turning his head in disbelief, and a woman on horseback, more beautiful than one of Mars’ lies, staring at him. It was the only thing Venith had ever wanted to see. That, and one more face.
He raised his sword and shouted.
“In the name of the King of Destruction! Charge!”
His soldiers raced with him, cheering and broke upon the startled enemy. Venith rode into them, deep, cutting, slashing, blocking every strike with his shield. He heard a wild sound and realized it was coming from him.
He was laughing.
 
——
 
Flos and the small army of refugees reached the city. The King and Mars raced towards the northeastern gate. They saw the army fighting in the distance, and the soldiers running for the city with the last of their energy.
“Venith!”
The King cried out when he saw the man locked in combat, holding the enemy back. Gazi and Orthenon were riding back towards him, but it was Venith’s wife who turned first.
Maresar nocked one arrow and loosed it. She had a second arrow at the string in an instant. She loosed.
In Trey’s vision, two soldiers rushing towards Venith fell. One staggered and clawed at an arrow in his chest; the other fell soundlessly, an arrow protruding from one cheek. More arrows flew, and the people trying to kill Venith fell from their saddles.
“Retreat, you idiot!”
Mars shouted it from the battlements at Venith, as if he could hear. She turned to Flos.
“He doesn’t know about the plan!”
“Oh, but he does. This is Venith. He knows the nature of my city. He knows what we would do.”
Flos answered calmly, but his hands were gripping the stone so tightly Trey feared it might break. His eyes were on Venith.
His vassal.
It looked as if Venith’s thin line of soldiers might buckle and break at any moment. They were falling, but the last of Orthenon’s army was breaking away. Trey waited for Venith, searching for him amid the fighting. And then—
“There!”
A man was riding backwards, fending off slashes with a shield, several wounded men around him. He rode at breakneck pace towards the gates, his fresh mount outdistancing his pursuers.
“It’s time.”
Flos turned from the battlements, a huge grin on his face. He leapt down the stairs and Mars was by his side. They ran towards the gates, where an exhausted group of soldiers had collapsed just inside the city.
“Orthenon! Gazi! Maresar! To me!”
Flos shouted and the three ran towards him. Each one looked battered. Trey had never seen Orthenon looking so haggard, and even Gazi looked tired. But as they reached their King, their faces changed.
“It’s time. Form up the rest of the army.”
“Done!”
From his position, Trey could see more soldiers, fresh soldiers, standing at attention. They were ready for battle. But the army approaching Reim was enormous.
“We slew a number of their [Mages]. Most of their [Strategists]—couldn’t reach the artillery.”
Orthenon gasped at Flos as he drank from a flask. Flos nodded.
“They chased you here. That is what matters. They are too close to the city.”
“They’ll be right behind Venith and climbing the walls in seconds. It needs to be now, my King. Gazi—”
“I’ll do it.”
Gazi stumbled towards the stairs. Trey saw her climbing with speed towards him. Flos turned towards the gates and bellowed.
“Lower the gates!”
The portcullis began to drop. Shapes galloped through before it closed. Venith leapt from his saddle and hit the ground hard. He strode towards Flos.
“My King.”
“Venith.”
The man tried to kneel, but Flos seized him before he could. Flos wrapped his arms around Venith and hugged him to his chest. There were tears in Venith’s eyes.
“I do not deserve—”
“Do not speak to me of that! A [King] does not remember such things. You are back, my vassal. And now, let us put an end to this.”
“Yes.”
Venith stepped back lifting his sword and shield. Maresar joined him, and they stood together.
“Yes!”
Mars grinned and raised her sword and shield, shouting, and a thousand voices echoed hers. Orthenon raised his blade.
“For the King of Destruction!”
On the wall, Trey realized he was in danger when the first soldiers began firing at the walls, and more began pounding at the gates. He would have run or ducked, but a hand grabbed him.
“This way!”
Gazi pulled him and Teres towards the watch tower. She sprinted up the steps and the twins raced after her. They couldn’t see the soldiers, but they could hear an incredible din through the echoing tower.
“There are too many! We can’t hold them off!”
“That is not needed. We just had to get them to attack the city rather than stay away and lay siege from a distance.”
“Why?”
Trey shouted. He caught up to Gazi at the top of the tower. The half-Gazer was panting, but her four eyes were steady. She grinned and then pointed.
“Accuracy.”
There was something on the walls of the tower. Some kind of…drawing. Trey squinted, and then he saw, partially obscured by dust and filth, a symbol.
No…was it a rune? It was some kind of diagram, a circle, only each line was in fact made of smaller lines, writing that hurt just to look at. It wasn’t proper words. It was shapes. Meaning made into written word.
Magic.
Gazi slowly walked over and pressed her hand to the center of the diagram. Slowly, the runes lit up. They glowed faintly at first, and then began to shine. Yellow, the color of the sun, and then brighter still. They became searing white lines, tinged with gold. Like—
Lightning.
 
——
 
Uleth snarled as he screamed for ladders, battering rams, anything to break open the damned walls of Reim. The city’s walls were short, the defenders less than ten thousand in number. He would kill them all now—they had nowhere to run!
“Set up the damn trebuchets!”
He shouted at one of his remaining aides, a low-level [Tactician], before remembering he’d left all of his artillery behind in the chase. Even his foot soldiers were barely catching up, winded and exhausted from the run as they were. If they’d had [Strategists], they could have used Skills to reduce the effort of the chase, move faster. Damn Orthenon!
Lacking siege weapons, Uleth spurred his exhausted mount to one of his [Mages].
“I want you to blow down the gates! Now!”
“We’ll try, but it will take—”
“Do it!”
The [Mage] turned to the others, still panting from their ride and they began to link hands in preparation for the spell. Then one of them turned pale and pointed up.
“Someone on the castle walls is casting a massive spell!”
“What?”
“There! On the tower!”
Uleth spun. He couldn’t see any signs of magical activity—he could barely make out the top of the tower amid the gathering storm clouds. Where had his cursed clear skies gone? It wouldn’t save the King of Destruction though, nothing would.
“Kill the [Mage], then! Bring down that tower!”
Someone threw a [Fireball]. It burst harmlessly on the wall, as did the arrows of magic which failed to even damage the stones they struck.
“The towers are heavily enchanted! And the mage—it’s a Tier 6 spell! At least!”
Uleth felt fear worm its way into his stomach. He stared at the tower.
“Impossible. There are no powerful mages present. Amerys is at Wistram. She has to be!”
“No! It’s not one person. It’s—the towers!”
