“I could use a guide, and someone to talk to about the outside world, but I am fully capable of killing mimics on my own.” Ava said, “I heard that the people of this town are in danger from the rest of the world. How true is that?”

“Very true. There’s been constant attempts to kidnap shadelings, thinking that they know how the unique magical items were made.” Erick said, “Ophiel here has [Teleport Other]’d about a hundred people out of the city since five days ago, when I gained control. Only five today, though.” He asked, “Is there anything you need, to make your job easier?”

“Yes. But I’m going to get them myself.” Ava lounged on her bed, saying, “This city is going to be great, Erick. It will be a monument to beauty, and I will make it happen.” She smiled, and stared off into nothing, saying, “The more I think of it, the more I see this as an opportunity for something new. Something better than what came before. I have a new life. New options.” She laughed. “A lake on the surface of the Crystal Forest. That just doesn’t happen.” She added, “As long as we can defend ourselves from those who wish to take what is ours, we will have good lives; I promise you that. This city could be another Spur.”

Erick couldn’t help but feel some of her joy. “I think that would be great.” He said, “I’m here to help.”

Ava laughed, a tinkling chime of a sound, then she stopped. She pondered. She asked, “Do you know if the Jadescale Clan is still around?”

Erick ripped the bandaid off as politely as he could. “They are not.”

Ava sharply inhaled. “… Surely you have investigated me more than that.”

Erick said, “I know that they died out due to a cascade of failures, around a hundred years ago, or close to that. What was left of them moved to a different clan, and when the Jadescale city became a nest of shadows soon after, the Obsidianscales had to evacuate, too. They left their homeland and moved closer to the surface.” Erick said, “The Obsidianscales still exist.”

Ava listened. She stared off into the distance, her green eyes going unfocused. When Erick finished, she blinked. She said, “Thank you for telling me.” She looked out of a window, and saw night. She said, “If you’ll excuse me, I’m going back to sleep.”

Ophiel backed away, as Erick said, “I’ll see you later, then. Call out to an Ophiel when you want company for your mimic killing, but know that I’m also boosting Justine Erholme, the other person who succeeded in reclaiming themselves. I will have to stagger your appointments.”

Ava nodded, then laid back down, facing away from Ophiel. She pulled the covers over her body and breathed deep in her cotton cocoon.

Erick departed, leaving to find another person he needed to speak with.

Ophiel quickly scoured the town, looking for Slip. It wasn’t until Erick journeyed to the other side of the lake, to the western coast, far away from the town, that he found his quarry.

Slip sat on the stone railing that surrounded the water, hunched over, relaxed in his armor, watching the waves ripple under the wind, and glitter under the starlight. Candlepoint wasn’t even a glow on the horizon.

On Earth, the horizon was only about three and a half kilometers away. On Veird, that number was closer to 6.7 kilometers to the horizon. It was only when you got at least a hundred meters up, that you could actually see the entirety of Candlepoint’s lake, and the barest bit of the land beyond.

But here, just above the surface, next to Slip, it appeared as though half the world were nothing but water. It was a calm location, even with the maybe-Shade sitting here, staring out across the wind-stirred waves, with his bright white eyes. Erick watched with him, for a moment.

Slip broke the silence, “Damned violet eels. I really want to go swimming. And fishing.” He sighed, adding, “And sailing.”

“… Do you want a boat?” Erick said, “I could get a small one for you, though I have no idea what kind of boats there are in this world.”

Slip smiled. “Thanks for the offer, but I’m going to [Grow] the pieces and put it all together, myself.” He added, “But we could use some books on law enforcement, and city charters, and all of those things that make a city run. We got people from all over the world out there, all with different expectations of running a city. Now that Bulgan is gone, some people are doing blood magic. Some are doing necromancy.” He said, “I don’t know what to enforce.”

“Are there problems I can fix?” Erick asked, worriedly. “With the city, or with outsiders coming in?”

“Not yet, but there will be. Mephistopheles is doing his best, but his best is the best of a commoner.” Slip said, “The ones who knew how to do this properly are all dead.” He stared out across the water, saying, “I was following the lead of a man named Karoo, who was following the lead of a man named Judias. Judias died to Bulgan a week before the spidering. Karoo died to automatons in the spidering.” He said, “It’s only 10,000 people, but it’s 10,000 scared, hungry, angry, high level people.”

“I’ll look around for those books.” Erick moved ‘law research’ to the top of his ‘to-do’ pile. He’d have to get Silverite involved for that. He asked, “How are jobs and work and purpose, going?”

“We’re figuring it out. Got a few bakers working with the wheat farmers. Made some of our own loaves, today.”

Erick felt a flush of relief. It was small, but it was not nothing. “That’s good.” He asked, “So how’s the lake looking? Problems there?”

Slip waved his hand, saying, “Nah. No real problems. Just the eels. The mud flits are winning again, now that you killed those streamer eels and plugged the holes.” He said, “You could go down into the depths with your [Familiar] and look for the greater purple eels, if ya want. There’s bound to be at least one upstream. Somewhere in the mazes down there, past all the other streamer growths. I heard it could take a week to find the bugger, so no one’s expecting that.”

Erick gazed out over the lake. Would he have to do that?

Slip added, “But we’ll probably just reroute some of the waters down below and avoid the problem all together. That’s what people usually do. I talked to Ava about it for a little while, and she says we need some bobber worms and glow fish to fully seal the problem on this end. I doubt that’s all of her plan, but it was a good suggestion, and leads me to have high hopes for the woman.”

Erick smiled, though Ophiel gave none of that away. “Good. I’m glad to hear that, too.” He said, “If there’s anything else you can think of that you need, go ahead and ask. Ophiel will be around.”

“Sure thing, Erick.”

Erick nodded Ophiel, and left.

Mephistopheles had gone back to bed, so Erick wasn’t going to disturb him again. Valok was asleep in his own room in a house on the north side of the city, overlooking the farms. Daetrio bunked with others, in another room of that same house. A lot of the farmers lived together, for now.

There just wasn’t enough good housing in the city, but as Ophiel looked down from above, he saw the dark roads and the rubble of the destroyed parts of Candlepoint, and also the new housing, and new roads, and new lights, of the parts that people had managed to clean up. It would take at least another full ten days, maybe less, for the destruction and construction crews to fully repair the city. But even those repairs would be temporary things, at best. Temporary housing, temporary roads.

Rerouting water and getting fabrics for beds, and clothes, and all of the hundreds of smaller details that would make a city a good place to live…

That would take a year. Candlepoint, even before the destruction and by all modern sensibilities, was a hellhole. This shadeling city was not nearly as bad as the scant places Erick had seen over in the Sovereign Cities, but that was only because these people had had the spells to make livable quarters, to bridge the gap between destitute and surviving. But even so, some shadelings were still living on the streets. Some were bedding on sand, because it was slightly softer than stone. Gruel was still the common food served in the food kitchens, and though it was chock full of vegetables and some meat, yes, it was still whatever they managed to put in a pot and boil for twenty minutes, before a group of twenty needful people ate it all down.

These people were making something better for themselves, but it would take a long time for this place to resemble a real, living, working city.

With one final check over the city revealing nothing too problematic, Erick went to the fractal tetrahedron lightward he had created earlier, out in the middle of nowhere. The rainbow illusionary space still hung in the sky, a kilometer across and churning into itself, altering sight into odd directions, along prism-like angles. With the last of his [Shadow Conversion] buff, Erick threw out another lightward into the center of that folded space, creating a crystal splash of shadows a good twenty meters large, for no more reason than he imagined it would look pretty. He had been right.

The massive lightward would eventually fade from power, but for now, all that light and rainbow and shadow was a magical thing to witness, hovering there, all shifting and shimmering, with the stars above, and the orange sands below. There was a complicated order to the large lightward. When the disordered fractals got too complicated, such that a fourth of the tetrahedron was more like a hemisphere, than a prism, that whole side would blur together, and then pop, like a soap bubble, reverting a fourth of the lightward back to its basic triangular shape. And then it would start fractioning itself back into a complicated shape, while the same process played out in uneven measure across the whole light sculpture. Erick watched for a while, happy to witness the random beauty of it all.

Ophiel trilled as Erick got up from the couch. It was time for bed.

- - - -

Erick didn’t sleep much; he hadn’t needed to, ever since he got Rozeta’s Boon, for Recovery. He hadn’t dreamed in a while, either, because eight hours was just something that didn’t happen. That night was no exception.

Erick got up and made breakfast, feeling great. Pancakes and bacon went out to Poi and Teressa, who came to the kitchen at almost the same time. Justine came in halfway through the meal, and had her share.

Erick asked, “So I think I want to reinvent texting.”

Teressa scrunched her face as she got more pancakes from the pile, asking, “What’s ‘texting’?”

Smiling, Erick said, “I’m glad you asked! I’m imagining I’ll need to do some sort of [Telepathy] spell, but keyed to an auto-writing paper and pad, maybe some sort of table? Enchanted to numbers. Everyone can get a number, and then you can just [Telepathy] the number and it will write down your message on the paper. This way, you don’t have to contact people directly.”

“Sounds like Mind Magic,” Teressa said, looking to Poi.

Justine said nothing, but she too, glanced at Poi.

Erick looked to Poi, too, because the idea of ‘texting’ sounded like Mind Magic to him, too. The Mind Mages would likely have a great deal to say about such a device.

Poi gave a dismissive, “Eh.”

“What’s with that reaction?” Erick asked.

“Already invented, and they’re not that good.” Poi said, “Here are the problems of such a device: One, people would have to buy a variant of [Telepathy] to get it to work, and that’s a problem. Two, when they are invented, once people know your ‘number’, the machines get flooded with prank calls, either eating up your paper supply or your rads, and leaving you with nothing but a bunch of dick drawings—”

Erick laughed.

“—Three, you have no idea who sent you the message, since this magic device removes all accountability.” Poi added, “Which leads to even more dick drawings. Or death threats, or visually upsetting images. Or… Well.”

Teressa said, “Oh! That campfire story!”

Now it was Erick’s turn to say, “What?”

Teressa said, “It’s a spooky story you’re supposed to tell around the campfire, about how this mage invents a pen that lets him communicate with people back home. The whole thing hinged around paired pens, and then his family would write him messages and when he put his pen to paper, those messages would come out. What you’re supposed to do, is say that the mage is adventuring on a quest much like the one your group is already on—” With a small smile, she said, “There’s scary messages, and stuff like that, but the twist at the end is that a Moon Reacher is moving the paired pen and searching for your team. Then you’re supposed to conjure some silver fur and leave it on people’s bedding.”

Erick paled.

Teressa noticed, saying, “That’s exactly how it’s supposed to work.”

Erick frowned, “That is terrifying, Teressa. Why would you do that to your party?”

Poi harrumphed, agreeing.

Justine said nothing, but she looked to her meal a bit more intently.

Teressa defended herself, “What! It’s good to be scared sometimes! That was just an overview, and you got scared anyway? Let’s go camping so I can tell you some real good ones.”

“Ah.” Erick said, “So we’re never going wyrm hunting again, I see.”

Teressa laughed.

“But anyway! Texting!” Erick said, “What about text only?”

Justine spoke up, asking, “How do you make a pen write text only? You’d have to break it somehow, right?”

