“That’s easy.” Erick said, “An enchanted typewriter.” When he got two befuddled looks, and Poi’s frown, Erick elaborated, “A machine that writes specific letters, and specific letters only, with button presses. I suppose I could invent the printing press, too, but that seems like an extra step, and one I can skip, for now.”

Poi said, “Rozeta likes handwritten books and writers honor her by handwriting their works. She doesn’t accept works done by a machine.” Poi added, “And that actually circles back to another problem: automated writing isn’t honored by Rozeta.”

Erick went, “Bah! Why not? What do you get out of her approval, anyway?”

“To answer the first half: I don’t know.” Poi said, “But when you write a book or, to a lesser extent, transcribe a book, it’s like completing a minor Quest. Handwritten books, journals, cooking guides, all of that, can award you a point. If they’re especially good, you can get a Boon.” He added, “Though, actually trying for a Boon, as your goal, never works. The common event is that you publish a book and then a year later, when it’s a bestseller, Rozeta issues you a completed Quest that you can turn in for a point.”

Justine nodded. Teressa ate her pancakes.

Erick glared. The over-incentivized luddite-ness of it all! He said, “That’s ridiculous. You still have to type it all out with a typewriter—” He frowned. “But… I suppose you could just enchant a typewriter to automatically create stories. Oh. That’d be a convenient propaganda machine. Oh. Do some countries already do that? I bet someone already does that.”

Poi flippantly said, “You mean, like creating a machine that automatically measures the attitude of a group of people and then automatically creates stories that they will love, for the purpose of setting them up for something horrific five years down the line, with the machine’s increasingly purposeful memetic narratives that drive its readers to think a certain way?” In a way that was completely unsubtle, and the complete opposite of the meaning of his words, Poi said, “Of course that’s never happened.”

Erick argued, “Every single spell can be used for evil purposes.”

“True.” Poi said, “But you have to draw the line somewhere.”

“Well… That’s fair.” Erick said, “So no texting.”

Poi just shrugged.

“Bah!” Erick said, “Well I’m not ready to fight the Church to make reading more accessible—”

“Now that’s a weird argument.” Poi said, “Anyone with Script access can read. It’s a natural effect of Matriculation, if you couldn’t already read before.”

“… Oh.” Erick said.

Teressa said, “[Comprehend Languages]? Is that what it’s called?” She said to Erick, “I used the one you left me at Irogh, to learn Ancient Script.”

Erick smiled. “Good!” He asked, “Why’d you pick that one?”

“To be able to identify magic items that have been removed from crime scenes.”

“That’s a good reason.”

Breakfast finished, for everyone except Justine.

While Teressa began cleaning, Erick looked to Justine. “Ready to kill some mimics, today?”

Justine spoke definitively, “Yes.”

“How are you planning on doing it, anyway?”

“… The normal way?” She quickly added, “Decay Bolts.”

“… I thought you were a Light Mage?”

Justine faltered. “Uh. I was just a Light Mage to make you think better of me; I’ve been almost every Class there is.”

Erick laughed.

Justine said, “I was going to go Poison Mage this time, because it’s useful against almost everything, and because of the prevalence of [Cleanse] in almost every society, most people only see Poison Mage as a monster killing Class.”

Poi said, “The Wasteland Kingdoms won’t see it that way. They’re the nearest nation to Candlepoint, too.”

“One society out of hundreds doesn’t change what I’ll need to be when the whole world is watching.” Justine said, “Besides. When I go back to Candlepoint and when visitors see I’m a Poison Mage, they’ll think… They’ll think some complicated thoughts. But you are right. And the Kingdoms are right next door, which I believe is a good reason to choose to be a Poison Mage.”

Poi said nothing more.

Erick asked, “Have you considered Illusion Mage?”

Teressa spoke up, as she was putting away pans, “She’d get assassinated in under a week showing up with a Class like that. Too ripe for abuse and subterfuge.”

“I agree that someone would try to kill her,” Poi said. “But I disagree that it would actually happen.”

Justine said, “I did consider Illusion Mage, but I need something unoffensive. But I’m not an assassin. I’m a diplomat… ostensibly. Poison Mage is about as unoffensive as there is.”

“It’s just so weird.” Erick said, “Poison Mage as unoffensive? In my world, without [Cleanse] I think a Poison Mage would be a worldwide disaster. Especially if you can make some long lasting magical poison and just seep it into the water, or something.” Erick shivered. “Kill whole cities, that way.”

Poi said, “Your world seems terrible, Erick.”

Erick laughed. “It wasn’t all that bad!”

Teressa stood beside the stove, saying, “I agree with Poi. Every other thing I hear makes it sound bad.” She added, “And that reminds me: They caught the Blighter. It was some disgruntled employee fired from the bluemetal wrought, Kip’s —the rice guy— fired from his part of the Garden. She didn’t kill anyone, so all that happened was an exile.”

“Why did she do it?” Erick asked. “Why was she fired?”

“Stealing money,” Teressa said. “Nothing too untoward with all of that. Basic stuff.”

“Hm.” Erick turned back to Justine. “Is there any help you need with your Poison Mage stuff?”

Justine gave a small smile, then said, “No. I am capable of everything, myself, as soon as I can get some levels.”

Erick asked, “So you’ve been through a lot of bodies, right? How does the tiered magic work for that? Do you still have thousand day long cooldowns on spell recreation?”

Justine shook her head. “Nope. The Script followed my soul through each recreation, but everything I gained was left behind, each time I was forced into a new vessel. Most of those times were… Less than pleasant. I was only allowed to study magic and correctly create my own spells a handful of times. I’ve never managed anything castable above a tier seven.”

Erick smiled. “Tier seven is still pretty impressive! What have you managed so far?”

“Just some rudimentary spells.” Justine said, “Can’t make anything large inside the house.”

Erick stood up, saying, “Ready to go in ten minutes?”

Justine only had a stick of bacon left. She said, “Yes. That would be great.”

- - - -

“Wait a second,” Erick said, as he almost stepped away from the table. He turned back toward everyone. “When Syllea mentioned ‘book’ as an element… That means… You can just take a machine and enchant it with ‘book creation’? It can’t be that easy to make best-selling novels, can it? How the heck does that work!”

Poi said, “This would be a variation of the propaganda machine I specifically did not say existed. The Librarian does this. She takes a starter book and feeds it through five different magical tools, each the same, along with snippets of other source materials. What she ends up with is five different versions of the next book, one of which is liable to be decent. Wildly illegal in most of the world, but she does it to create new novels with her favorite characters.”

“Oh. Wow.” Erick said, “Okay?”

Poi said, “They don’t always work out, and the next novels from the actual authors usually turn out better. But, yes. This is the one of the most prevalent uses of the ‘Book’ Element.” He added, “Though not many can actually cast those spells.”

Teressa said, “I don’t even understand how ‘book’ is an ‘element’.”

Erick guessed, “Enforced by Rozeta? Or enabled by Rozeta?”

Justine said, “Probably. Either of those.” She added, “And those Book Makers are artifacts crafted from the souls of writers that journeyed to Ar’Kendrithyst, but who failed to please the Librarian. They’re not simple magic items.”

Erick shivered.
