//The Spider Queen’s gift would have taken over quite quickly, they still may.

//Leria succumbed because she could not wait.

//We must exploit this specific flaw.

//Force her to attack.

“Wouldn’t she attack no matter what?”

//Heralds typically ambush and harass their prey, sacrificing a great many monsters and beasts to wear them down.

//They will attack without stopping and finish with one last assault.

//They do this strategy every time.

//Because… it works.

//Octas can control and direct many monsters, especially spiders.

//That makes her the most dangerous dark god.

“Why did you even settle near a colony then?” Viv asked the alderman.

“There are many colonies, milady. Especially near the edge of the forest. It’s inevitable. And before you ask, no we could not burn it down. We only have a handful of people who could face forest spiders and live.”

//It is safer to ignore a colony and risk an attack than engaging and getting one.

//At least for the subjects of a backward, uncaring government.

“Ok whatever it’s too late anyway. So, to summarize, we face a herald who has access to lots of monsters, lots of spiders, and will throw them at us until she attacks with all she has. Correct?”

//Indeed.

Only Solfis nodded. Everyone else looked stunned or desperate. Even the unshakable Marruk stared at the pockmarked door between them, probably wondering if she should have cut and run after the prince affair. Viv could not really blame the poor thing. She was probably just staying out of a sense of duty.

“Alright, so we need to annoy her into attacking sooner. How should we do that?”

//By resisting.

“Vague.”

//You are the one with the flexible mind, Your Grace.

“Fair. So what can we expect that we would have to resist?”

//Regular attacks and insects making a nuisance of themselves.

//The purpose will be to prevent you from sleeping.

//I will help with this.

//Although it will be extremely energy-intensive.

“We were supposed to keep your energy reserve high for emergencies.

//This is an emergency.

//My apologies, your Grace.

//I advised this course of action.

“Ah whatever, with how things have been going, we would have been caught in the open by the spiders and then got lost in the Deadshield Woods anyway. So, how about fortifications?”

//We could not hold them.

“How about a circle then? To help against the inevitable assault.”

//That would be helpful, yes.

“We could act as sentries?” Romus suggested. He looked really eager to help.

//Anyone who stands outside is dead meat.

//Even Marruk would have trouble.

//You fleshbags would just become spider food.

“They can guard the inside and keep the two houses spider free?”

//This would help with a restful sleep.

//I will patrol tonight.

//But someone needs to stay in your room to make sure that no red hivers come to visit.

“What’s a red hiver anyway?”

//Their bites destroy the victim’s nervous system.

//Following which they will lay their eggs inside of the paralized creature’s abdomen.

//It is unclear if the incubator dies from exposure, choking, or being eaten alive first.

“I regret asking.”

“I, well, we can ask the women, but I got vigilance,” Romus explained.

Silence spread across the room and Viv got the distinct impression that the man’s offer was inappropriate. At least, the other villagers’ horrified faces seemed to indicate it.

//As shocking as the idea of a commoner looking over the sleeping heiress is, I agree.

//We must sacrifice propriety for safety.

//Romus knows better than to try anything.

//Do you not, fleshbag?

“I would never get out of line with our savior!” The man exclaimed, crimson.

Viv decided that she had a good feeling about the lad.

“Fine by me. We can alternate with Marruk.”

“I need to sleep as well. You’ll need someone to cover your back.”

“Alright then, we have the beginning of a plan. Solfis is night shift, Marruk and I are day shift. The villagers keep the two houses spider-free and safe. We set up a circle and use it as a base to defend against the final assault. Anything else?”

She-Who-Feasts-On-Squirrels-And-Gets-Much-Gold takes day shift too!

“Oh yes, thank you.”

Becomes She-Who-Feasts-On-Spiders.

“Please gods no.”

Tasty!

Eight times tasty!

“Oh no.”

Legs eight times tasty too! Less squishy.

“OH NO! Seriously, is everyone here eating spiders!?”

Viv felt the room.

“Forget I asked. Enough of this, bring me food and let me sleep.”

Solfis left to hunt by night, which worried Viv. Not that anything could take down the old bastard, but more about energy reserves. Recharging him by hand was time-consuming and extremely inefficient. She could not be expected to fight and do it at the same time, which meant that they were on a timer, kind of.

The villager’s hospitality proved to be much better than Viv expected. The alderman left her his room and gave Marruk a guest bed. A couple of craftsmen came and caulked the windows shut with resin, which gave Viv flammable ideas. The food she got was simple but earthy: freshly made bread that tasted of pine nuts, a porridge with bits of meat and spring greens, and a quarter of fruit in syrup. They also had a herbal infusion that was slightly bitter and reminded her of green tea. It had a calming effect. Eventually, Romus knocked and moved in.

Viv studied him a bit. He was rather handsome in a forrester kind of way, like the second wheel in a B-series romance. She didn’t like much that he was so subdued, with his back stooped and his eyes downcast. She understood where it came from though.

Viv had made sure she was relatively approachable in Kazar, and still people saluted her with reverence. She lived in a feudal society now, one that was not just backed by cultural norms and having food diverted to the nobility but by actual paths on top of it. Even the most hard-working militiaman would struggle to beat a knight to a standstill. Their path diverted the world’s magic to survivability while knights were the expensive high-impact profile, she thought. The Enorians seemed to have a true class consciousness. With this in mind, it was no wonder the poor villager felt so out of sorts. He was the gardener standing in the Victorian lady’s boudoir. Absolutely scandalous.

“Can I have some water to clean myself or is it too impractical?” She finally asked. They had rationed water so she hadn’t bathed properly in three days and it was getting more than a little uncomfortable.

“I can have a bath drawn, milady. We have an underground cistern.”

“Would that be fine?”

“Anything for you, milady.”

“Then yes. I’d love a bath.”

Fuck it, she could die tomorrow eaten alive by spiders. Gotta live a little.

The tall veteran left and returned with an actual tub, property of the alderman, it seemed. Viv was not really surprised. As far as she could tell, Enorians were pretty clean overall. Polite villagers succeeded each other bringing buckets of water and drapes to use as partitions. A few used red mana to heat the bath until it was lukewarm which was fine enough for Viv. The witch disrobed out of sight and the girls took her skinsuit and robe to wash. The bath was cool but blessedly clean, and she felt alive again. Meanwhile, Romus waited on the other side in embarrassed silence.

Now that Viv was clean, safe, and relaxed, she considered her options.

“Are you married, Romus?”

“Yes, milady.”

Well that was that. She might have entertained the thought of something if he had been single but she wasn’t going to wreck the house. From Romus’ sweaty face, it was clear that he was terrified. She decided to deflect before the poor lad got an aneurysm.

“That’s good, family is important.”

“Yes, milady.”

Still sweating. She had to remind herself that he might not be the most receptive to subtexts.

“I’m not going to ask you to do anything for me, if that’s what you’re afraid of.”

“Of course not, milady. I would never think that, that is to say, I would not dare think I am worthy.”

The relief was palpable. Viv felt guilty now. Worst thing is, he probably would have tried to pleasure her if she had requested it. She chased that idea away from her thoughts, disgusted at herself for even thinking it. The influence that came with power scared her. It felt too unchecked to her modern mind.

“But I do know how to massage feet, milady. I was taught by a lady from Vizim while I was serving on the wall. If it pleases you!”

Viv glared suspiciously, yet on Romus’ face she saw nothing but the scared, guileless expression of a man out of his depth and unsure of how to be helpful.

“Just the feet?”

“That is all I was taught milady. She was an exiled mage, enjoyed having men serve her but she would only lie with women. Strange customs, haha.”

“Indeed…”

“She, ah, requested aides. I was one of those she taught. Really strange person but amazingly powerful mage.”

“Well, you can tell me about it while you massage me, it sounds like an interesting story.”

The veteran looked at his own hands but Viv interrupted him before disaster could ensue.

“Do NOT spit on them, use oil from my bag instead. There. Good. Now what is this about a wall?”

Romus worked on her feet from ankle to toes with a level of expertise a professional spa would have trouble matching. Viv was sure he had a skill. He never hesitated in his gestures, and as he moved, his voice grew more assured.

“It’s the northern wall, the most recent of all. Have you heard about it?”

“Varska, that is, my mentor mentioned it but only in passing.”

“Helockian? Sorry, not my business. Ahem, yes three walls. The Deadlands one, the Hallurian one, and the Northern wall. So the Deadland walls is mostly the temple and the Hallurian one is manned by Baranese troops, but the last one’s the most recent and it’s a bit of a mixed bag. Foes are beastling armies and monsters. Folks from everywhere come to man it. My brigade and I were ‘volunteered’ there in exchange for Maradoc-knows-what. We were assigned this exiled Vizim princess. Must have lost one of their complicated power games. Weird people, those Vizimans. From across the sea. Like you, probably.”

“How long did you stay on the wall?”

“Five years. I became a veteran there and met my wife in Glastia, the frontier city. The wall separates the Northern cities plains from both the Kark steppes and the dense forests. No longer the Deadshield woods, you see? Those are warm, wet forests. Can’t breathe properly in there. You step in and you’re soaked.”

Sounded like jungles to Viv. She let Romus patter on, the sound strangely soothing. Once started, the man never stopped. He had seen plenty of beastlings, including shamans climbing the walls with their hordes of followers and monsters. From her perspective, beastling battles had been seen from above and been more of a game of chess. Prioritize the right target, time spells, and everything would be fine. From his perspective though, it was a brutal and merciless business. It stank, it was bloody, and although each beastling was no match for even a recruit, there were so many of them. Add to this that even the shittiest mending potion cost three months wages and every stone throw, every bite could lead to disaster.

“And they scream when they die. It sounds like children, you know? Just like them…”

Viv only heard the cacophony of battle and the roars of mighty spells. It could have been her if circumstances had been slightly different and she had been less gifted with magic. Or perhaps not. Perhaps she would have turned into a revenant within an hour in the ruins of Harrak, puking black blood until her last whisper in that throne room. Cold, naked, and alone.

“One night, we lost the entire outer perimeter in one battle.”

Viv pushed the ‘what ifs’ away from her mind before they could ruin the mood. Once Romus was done, he took position in a corner of the room and watched on. Outside, there were spiders but here it was warm and comfortable. The house smelled vaguely of pine and old wood. Arthur came to cuddle and she fell asleep in a bed for the first time since her flight from Koltis.

The morning brought a hearty breakfast among tired villagers. She had decided to join them and got the honored guest treatment. The children had taken to smushing spiders with great enthusiasm and there was a growing pile of chitinous corpses by the entrance, which was kept clear at all times. As soon as she was ready, Viv placed herself firmly in front of the door and pushed.

In vain, the thing was stuck. She watched with horror as white threads blocked the opening. Then, suddenly, the door opened wide with a sound like a torn shirt. Solfis appeared in all his glory. He looked undamaged.

Behind him, the town square was filled with vertical branches stuck in the ground, now bearing at least a dozen severed arachnid heads. Some of the grisly trophies were the size of bowling balls. They still dripped transparent ichor. A neat stack of legs rose to her waist.

Immediately, more tiny spiders crawled in, beaten back by shoe-wielding kids screaming warcries. Viv was too distracted by the rest of the sight, however. From roof to wall then from wall to wells and crates, every piece of wood, every open space, all of it was covered in a dense, white layer of webs so it felt that every inch of village was enshrouded. Not a single spot of color remained besides Solfis’ eyes and his victims.

“Oh fuck that. Fuck. That. ARTHUR!”

“Squee!”

“Please do not burn the village, milady!” Someone yelled behind, but Viv’s mind was taken over by the burning fires of purification. The village, nay, the entire forest must be purged of this evil.

