Arthur spit the tiniest flame and it made an expanding hole in the cottonous webbing. In fact, it did not stop expanding, like a droplet of oil expanding over a watery surface. Viv found the show aesthetically pleasing. Arthur thought the same because she spat a bit more. Not much, just a few embers to jump start the process.In a matter of seconds, the unholy layer was peeled off to reveal green grass and brown dirt underneath. It was neat.

“Yes, yes, disappear! Haaaahahahaha!”

//Your Grace.

“Oh sorry, got carried away. What’s going on?”

//You must take over the defense of the base.

//Although we cannot hold the village, the spell circle and houses must be kept clear.

//I prepared a suitable position.

“The one surrounded by forest spiders heads?

//Precisely.

//But there are stragglers that will undoubtedly stop your efforts.

//I will enter passive mode to conserve energy.

//I will be able to direct your efforts.

“I’ll handle the stragglers,” Marruk said as she left in turn, shouldering her flanged mace.

//Follow my prompts.

They went to work with the peculiar smell of burning spider nests in the background. Sometimes, the expanding flame revealed a ball of spiders which then proceeded to scramble and disperse. Arthur treated the whole experience like an open buffet, to Viv’s unending disgust. It was like that Lion King scene all over again.

Viv did her best to make a circle on the unequal ground. It was made more difficult by the many spiders moving around. Her cloak spell protected her feet and therefore the rest of her, but the vermin went for her hand every time she bent down.

“Would you need help?”

Viv looked up to see Romus and the hunter, looking around with their bows out.

“Well. Maybe? Can you set a fire around the circle to prevent the spiders from coming? Maybe with that resin you mentioned? I need spiders off my back. And do you have anyone who can manipulate earth?”

It only took two minutes for half of the village to come out, everyone dancing to squish the odd spider. The villagers had been unknowns to Viv, barely a parameter she had to take into account. She had seen very little of them, but now they came to help with a level of coordination and motivation she found inspiring. Under the alderman’s direction, men and women flattened the circle of packed earth using basic magic while teenagers rushed from grass tuft to grass tuft, pulling them out with practiced speed. She ended up with a perfect circle so smooth a road roller could not have done better. A circle of flaming resin came after, then again after that, the villagers were digging a trench they intended to fill with embers. Fires were started. The children were keeping an eye out for larger or weirder spiders just in case. Things were moving fast.

Viv was done with the outer shield layer when the unexpected happened. So far, Marruk and Arthur had been going over the village, methodically killing the larger things that had crept in and that the golem had not considered worth the energy expense. Suddenly, Arthur let out a terrified shriek and fell down. Something glued her wings shut. She crashed on the ground with a piteous shriek.

“Oh no you don’t” Viv screamed. Already Marruk had rushed over the captive dragonette who appeared to have no wounds except the one on her pride.

//We have incoming, Your Grace.

Viv raced forward. She could hear the heavy thuds announcing the approach of something ponderous, but she was finally free of her constant disgust and fear. It had been replaced by an old and comfortable companion: white hot rage.
