A softer, smaller, far more human voice slid underneath Longinus. And a memory came to him unbidden—no, more than a memory. A smaller portion of himself that had been hidden away for so long. The enemy god burning inside him became more like a candle flame, and lit something dormant inside Longinus. Something he hadn't been able to notice. Something that was sealed away.

What happened to me? I didn't want this. I didn't want to be this. I wasn't supposed to become this. I was more than some drunkard. I was more than a sex-fiend. I was… I rode for people. I was a knight once! I was a knight… I was…

But it wasn't enough. Whatever fire Roland bestowed was not enough. The voice was clenched away, and the hunger within the Wanderer took hold once more. “I'm not your bitch, Rand! But you're gonna be mine!”

And with the flex of his divine might, Longinus cast his adversary out and regained control of himself once more.

No, no, stop this. You were so close. We were so close to being free. We were so close to being ourselves again. We were so close. Inside, a voice sobbed. Inside, a man sobbed and found himself helpless to what was to follow. Roland, just finish me off. I don't want to be like this anymore. Give me peace. I know you; you're a good man, Roland. Just give me peace.

“You think you can come to where I live and take everything from me?” Longinus screeched. “You think that you can touch my kitchen, my slaves, my Avatar, and just fucking walk away?”

Tears ran down Longinus' face, tears that burned like streams of magma, and they spread across his body, fracturing the surface of existence and starting another transformation within Longinus. He began losing his sense of coherence. He shifted his lance and rammed it into his own forehead. The divine weapon was absorbed into his body, fused with it, and his body went from that of a centaur to a creature that was purely equine.

It had been centuries since Longinus was driven to this point, where the ravenous beast took hold, and the man became more distant than a dream.

“You'd better run now, you fucking cunts. You'd better run. Because I'm coming. I'M COMING TO RIDE YOU DOWN!”

The world began moving for Longinus, shifting him wherever he so desired. And in an instant, he was carried to where the rival god was hiding.

Longinus flickered and reappeared in place—with his horn pre-lodged inside the Deathless’ flesh.

The boy's eyes widened. His golden shell cracked. Blood poured out from between his lips, and Longinus thrust his horn in deeper.

“Well, would you look at that?” Longinus breathed with a feral chuff of hate and pleasure. He saw the divine flame burning inside the Deathless, and he understood. “Looks like Thaen did it—he made his little fuckbuddy an Ascendant too. And Roland took his own Avatar.”

Then the Wanderer’s inhuman expression twisted into a sadistic sneer as he licked his lips. “He should have chosen better.”
