Just a few seconds remain until the tournament, and I already feel the changes gradually applying to my body, messing with my constructs, unwinding them, and sending them haywire, further influenced by my much lower Constitution and the pressure of mana flowing through my body.

Almost without realizing it, I find myself inside my mental space. Once more in that never ending white room where I can’t tell where the floor ends and the walls begin.

There, only one thing exists. A black drape hanging on a wooden pole that does not seem connected to anything. Something I remember as part of the room I grew up in with Victoria.

I hear a giggle and notice small feet poking out from under it as the person behind the drape tries to hide. For some reason, that person, a child judging by the size of the feet, is missing one sock.

“Can you see me?” a young voice asks.

“A bit,” I answer.

“You truly must be a genius to have such great powers of perception.” The drape shifts, and a young boy walks out. He has black hair, and one eye is brown while the other is gray. Around his shoulders is an old, bleached out red blanket as he smiles at me. “The time has come.”

“Yes?”

“Yes. You don’t remember, but you were here before and asked me to hide the information that I will give you now. Then it is up to you to decide if you want me to keep hiding it or if you want to keep that knowledge for now.”

I stare at him, fragments of old thoughts surfacing. Oh… Sneakythaniel.

He tells me the information, and I fall into deep thought.

Then I make my decision and appear back outside, only to be greeted a few seconds later with another notification.

Congratulations on your 3rd year in the tutorial! The tournament preparations have been concluded.

Throughout the duration of the tournament of Earth’s tutorial, all Floor quests will be put on hold. The tournament will have a five day duration, and you can decide to participate or not.

More information will be given after entering the tournament floor.

Would you like to participate in the 3rd tournament of the Earth’s tutorial?

Yes/No

I accept, and appear inside, and the moment I do, I know I am truly fucked.

The healing aura and impossibility to die that existed here during previous tournaments is gone, and the pending body upgrade continues shifting my body, completely ignoring my careful planning that relied heavily on the tournament’s healing aura.

And that one sentence from the block of the notification I read confirms it further.

It is now impossible to die during the events. You will be healed and moved to the common area the moment your life is considered to be at risk.

Important note: It is now possible to die outside of the events.

A powerful force presses against my body, breaking it further, and I start activating Lily’s healing marks one after another, currently not even having the mental capacity to use thermal energy with all the chaos I’m handling. My mana, my thermal energy, and kinetic energy spread outward, causing people nearby to shout and rush away from the pressure.

My minds keep splitting and combining as needed while I take over and start modifying my preparations, which now feel so useless, and only a bit over half of them remain usable.

It takes only a few seconds, and all the generated mana and thermal energy become more and more unstable. The pathways and the cycling I’ve been using become much more difficult as new problems appear constantly and break just as quickly as I fix them.

I clear my mind and let a small part of it observe the area.

All of Earth’s participants have been placed on a single floating island, and opposite us floats another. The rest of the world is a pitch black void, with no ground below or around us. Just two floating islands in the darkness beneath what feels like a distant starry sky and a small sun above.

The other floating island must belong to the planet we’re about to face in this tournament, and they decided to test our reactions, because multiple attacks rise from their island and head our way.

POV Lily Chen

The area we find ourselves in explodes in a burst of mana, and a transparent red half figure rises into the air, tall as a building. It raises one of its arms high, and a large staff appears in its grip. It waves it swiftly, drawing inscriptions into the air, and a huge barrier forms to block the bombardment of attacks coming from the other floating island.

I look at it only for a moment before I rush toward where Nathaniel is. He is impossible to miss as his mana and thermal energy keep shooting into the air, and a huge circle has cleared around him with a few people from Hell difficulty stacking barriers to keep the pressure from killing the lower difficulty attendees.

I send a burst of [Disintegration] in front of me and carve a hole through the stacked barriers, stepping inside and slowing to a walk as I approach him.

Where I expected him to be in agony and barely alive after seeing that notification about the missing healing aura, he would seem to be the exact opposite. The earth around him is scorched, the air thick with mana so hot and sharp it’s damaging even my body. Most of his clothes are gone, long white scars tear through his body, tracing their way across his skin even as my healing marks close them.

But Nathaniel stands there tall and proud. There is not a single trace of desperation on his face, even as he hangs a step away from death.

The closer I get, the more my body is destroyed as the pressure and heat press against me. I doubt anyone else in Earth’s tutorial could survive this other than me.

His eyes turn toward me, but he doesn’t try to push me away or convince me otherwise, even though he sees my wounds. He trusts my decision and lets me make it. I know he would even if it were the wrong one. It is one of the reasons why… I shake my head and smile. He likes to say it, but all of us, here in the tutorial, have some serious problems.

My skin catches fire, and my hair and eyebrows burn off while my skin sizzles away, only to return in an instant as I heal myself as fast as the damage can form. I cannot even speak as the heat and pressure burn my vocal cords, but I force myself to smile at him, and he shrugs back.

Nathaniel reaches out his hand, and I touch it, sending my healing into him as I examine his body and begin working on the changes we need to make for all of this to serve its function.

I know he won’t let me help much, only enough for him to get a better grasp so he can handle the rest on his own.

We do not get much time. Barely a few minutes later, the red figure with the staff that was defending the floating island turns and towers over the barriers that the other Hell difficulty attendees have stacked here. It flickers and passes through, and with it, a man appears. And from the descriptions, I assume this must be Christoph.

His and Nathaniel’s eyes meet for the briefest moment before Christoph smiles. “Oh, so you know.” Then he turns to me. “Would you mind giving us a moment of privacy, young lady?”

Something presses against me and throws me away from them, placing me outside as Nathaniel and the man are surrounded by an impenetrable red barrier that blocks any view inside.

POV Nathaniel

Once Lily is gone, the difficulty rises, though I keep my composure. I stand here with my mana roaring around me and golden flames devouring the air, while it continues to feel like I’m trying to patch dozens of holes in a boat by stopping the water with my bare hands.

Yet it does not matter. Even if everything turns against me, I will not give up. I will keep moving forward, my focus set firm, and nothing in this world will break me. Nothing and no one.

Then I allow a smart part of my mind to turn to the man in front of me.

A spike of healing from a mark fixes my throat just enough for me to say, "Hello, Adrian."

He scratches his cheek and gives a brief smile. “I prefer being called Christoph, so why don’t we talk about it?”
