“Guilty!” Lord Lodur yelled, and smiled as Lord Faldihr seconded him. Lord Greentree sighed and continued the 'guilty' verdict. It was unanimous.

“Shall we go right to the sentencing?” One of the Council members said.

“Very well.” Lord Lodur grinned. “Ren of House Neram, I sentence you-”

“Hold!” A young voice said from across the chamber.

“Father, no!” A female dwarf said, and he pat her hand.

“It's alright.” He said and stood up. The dwarf looked to be about 30 years old, had a full head of dark brown hair that flowed down into a mustache and beard. You could barely see his mouth as he spoke.

“I was content to just sit here and let him take whatever punishment the Council would hand out.” He said. “But I can't, as his words have stung me to the core.”

“Who the hell are you?” Lord Lodur said. “What right do you have to speak?”

“I'm the Alchemist.” The young dwarf said, and gasps spread around the chamber.

“No way!” Teepo exclaimed, and Ren stood there in shock.

“That's not possible!” Fritz exclaimed. “The Alchemist is nearly 110 years old!”

“I'm still a hundred and ten.” The Alchemist said. “I just look like I'm 30.”

Fritz shook his head. “No, I don't believe it.”

The Alchemist pointed at Ren. “This man is both Honorable and truthful in his words.”

So that's why I didn't lose any more Honor. Ren thought.

“He burst into my lab and discovered me experimenting on his 'dogs'. Then he crushed my hands.”

“But... but you're using them to point!” Someone said, and the Alchemist chuckled.

“That's right.” He said. “I discovered a recipe decades ago, and I've been working hard the last 50 years to get the last two ingredients that I needed.”

“What recipe?” Fritz asked.

“The Legendary Elixir of Restoration.”

Everyone's mouths dropped open in surprise. It took several minutes for someone to speak.

“That... that's just a myth.” A voice in the chamber said, and the Alchemist shook his head.

“No, it's real.” He said. “Unfortunately, only one could be made.” He looked at his daughter, who smiled at him and took his hand. “I had intended to make it for my daughter; but no matter how hard I tried, it was taking too long to get the last ingredients.”

“What were they?”

“One was platinum.” The Alchemist said, then looked at Ren. “You left out part of your confession, young man.” He said and turned to the Council. “He'd left me more platinum coins than I'd ever seen in my life.”

“Why did he do that?” One of the Council members asked.

The daughter spoke up. “He said to take father away from all of this, and let him live a comfortable life.”

“How much?”

“With the purchase of half of my basic ingredients...” The Alchemist smiled at Ren. “...it came to 167 platinum.”

Everyone froze solid at the outrageous amount of money.

“With that and the 65 platinum I'd already gathered, it was enough to empower the Elixir.”

“What was the last ingredient?” Ren asked, curious.

“A good reason to drink it.” The Alchemist smiled. “You gave me one, so I drank it.”

“If you had enough money, can you make another?” Lord Lodur asked.

“No, thank the gods!” The Alchemist said. “I'd used up all of the rare ingredients it had taken nearly my whole life to gather.” He scowled at Lord Lodur. “Not that I'd ever make anything for you, anyways.”

“Get to the point!” Lord Lodur said, angry.

“If he hadn't done what he did, I wouldn't have finished my life's work.” The Alchemist said. “What he did was horrendous, and it was more painful than anything I've ever felt before; but, he should face punishment with the knowledge that I don't hold what he did against him.”

“I do!” The daughter said. “My father shouldn't have had to go through that!”

“It's okay.” He said.

“No! He could have just given you the money without hurting you.”

The Alchemist laughed and squeezed her hand. “He wouldn't have given me the money otherwise.”

“Yes I would.” Ren said, and everyone gasped, including the Alchemist.

“W-what?!?”

“Before all of this...” Ren waved to Riley and Stacy. “...if I'd known you needed the money for something so important, I'd have given it to you.”

“You're crazy!” Someone shouted, and Ren chuckled.

“I've been called that on occasion.”

“ENOUGH!” Lord Lodur hollered. He didn't pound the hammer, as they hadn't gotten a new stone slab for it yet. “Ren of House Neram!” He said and grinned. “I sentence you to 3 years of hard labor in the mines!”
