Quiet slumber encompasses my entire existence as I lay adrift in a sea of warmth and comfort, but the sweet serenity of peaceful oblivion is denied me for reasons unknown.

Perhaps it’s my anxiety and paranoia keeping my mind churning in nervous activity instead of idle and resting, parsing through memories of the last few days in a desperate bid to prove beyond the shadow of a doubt that the events I experienced were real rather than more illusions implanted by my insidious foe. More likely is that this is the price I must pay for overexerting myself, the aftereffects of Healing Dad’s ruptured heart after a steel bolt passed clean through it. A price I’d gladly pay a thousand times over for any one of my friends, family, or loved ones, but that doesn’t mean I can’t complain about it. Then again, this whole fugue state could also be a figment of my imagination, my semi-conscious and almost waking mind making me think I’ve been stuck in this purgatory for what feels like forever when in fact only seconds have passed, a slow start after a long rest like a car warming up in the winter.

Whatever the reason, the soothing nothingness I so desperately desire is denied me as my restless thoughts flit about that unsatisfying midpoint between sleep and waking, a dream of nothingness in which I only wish for existence or oblivion instead of this unhappy medium.

It’s like me before my morning coffee, or at least how I used to be when coffee was still a thing. Despite not remembering how it tastes, I miss that morning pick-me-up with all my heart, but even with the considerable manpower and resources at my disposal as Legate of the Outer Provinces, I have yet to find that elusive bean to grind into a powder and insert directly into my veins. A joke, just to be clear, because that’s not what you do with coffee, a fact I feel obligated to clarify in case my conscious self is paying heed to these subconscious ramblings. Then again, I doubt I could ever forget the wonder that is coffee, a love that has persisted from my last life to cross over into this one, despite having forgotten the faces of my parents and the name of my dog. Weird how the brain works, especially my brain, or so I would assume considering I’ve never experienced how another person’s brain behaves. Well, not entirely true, as I did take up the mindset of a different person to become someone else, the brave and courageous Baledagh who resembles the person I should have been, if I’d been born into this world naturally at least.

That’s the part of me I most love and hate, the memories of my past life. Though they’ve made me who I am today and are largely responsible for all my achievements, I wholeheartedly believe I would be so much happier without them, because then I’d be Baledagh in truth, a person who grew up in this world of trials and tribulations without the ponderous baggage of a past life to compare everything to. Much as I love the life I’ve made here, there are so many things I wish were different. I miss being able to sit down and turn off my brain as I watch stupid shows in the comfort of my own home, but more than that, I hate knowing I once could do exactly that, and instead I am left to languish in this technologically lacking world. The worst part is I don’t know enough about anything to directly drive progress along, as I am not a craftsman or artificer or even a proper researcher, but instead just a guy with a head full of vague concepts to pass along to others. I’m an idea man, and as anyone who’s done anything of note would know, ideas are almost always worthless. Sure, there are always stories about how one person took an idea and turned it into a multi-billion dollar company, but you never hear about the millions of people who had a brilliant idea and either did absolutely nothing about it or failed in execution. Survivorship bias is what it’s called, the fallacy of only paying attention to the people who made it big and forgetting the thousands of casualties along the way.

I suppose I’m not only musing about ideas anymore, as my thoughts have wandered into military territory now. They say that behind every Great General lies a mountain of corpses, but what most people forget is that many of those corpses might well have been potential Great Generals themselves. Let’s take my personal mountain for example, and think back on all the people I killed with my own hands. Like the bandits I killed after they attacked our caravan during the dead of night. Though I was years off from forming my Natal Palace, the memories of that fateful encounter are still fresh in my mind, for I’ve relived them time and time again. We’d already been attacked once that day, a failed ambush from an overconfident idiot wearing a wolf-pelt who had no business leading bandits, and my brief nap was rife with fresh nightmares of people I may or may not have killed with my bow from afar. This was way back when my mountain was merely a corpse pile of one, namely Gortan who I hated with all my heart and still feared despite having splattered his brains across the dirt several years ago.

And so, when it came my turn for nightly sentry duty, I started Demonstrating the Forms in a forlorn hope of tiring myself out enough to avoid a second round of inevitable nightmares once I laid my head down to rest again.

A rustle in the grass attracts my attention, my eyes drawn towards the sound even as I ready my bow and arrow. Metal scrapes on stone and I signal to alert the camp, while an unseen sentry looses an arrow at a bandit who I now know was closer than I thought at the time, within striking distance in fact. Someone was looking out for me, or more specifically, supervising me as I went about my life wholly ignorant of their existence, playing the part of guardian and warden both. It was years before I picked up on that fact, overlooked in the heat of the moment and all the nightmares which followed, but I am now a hundred percent certain I wasn’t saved by an idle sentry as I initially believed, and only kinda suspect that it could’ve been Naaran who pulled my ass out of the fire. Dad was out on patrol duty at the time, while Mom, Alsantset, and Charok wouldn’t have stayed hidden for the entire trip, not after what I went through in Shen Huo. It could have been Akanai or Husolt, or really anyone else, but somehow, I just have this inkling that it was Naaran. There’s a strange familiarity about him that I never really noticed until I stopped to think about him, a sort of unspoken understanding between us which I have no idea how it developed.

When I first became aware of his presence, I always kept an eye out for him, partially because I didn’t like having someone lingering about, but also because if I did have to have someone watching me from the shadows, I would rather it be him. That’s why I always nodded at him without meaning to, greeting him in a quiet manner like you would an acquaintance you pass on the street, to the point where the surly old man had to lecture me about giving away his presence and position. From then on, I still looked for him, albeit in a less obvious manner, not only to prove to myself that I could find him but also to reassure myself with the knowledge that he was there, and he never said anything about it again. Just like that, he’d become a sturdy pillar in my life, one shouldering the weight of the Heavens to keep it from crashing down on me, and I’ve since come to rely on him in so many ways.

And yet, despite spending so many hours of my life with him at my side, I’ve never actually sat down and talked to Naaran. I can sum up everything I know about him in two simple statements; he’s Dad’s old friend and rides a Spiritual Quin named Kharuul, who is a heckin’ big chonker with a sweet tooth to match Lin-Lin’s, and loves floating around in the shallows so the pups have a safe place to go back to when they’re still learning how to swim. Shit, I know more about his quin’s personality than the man himself, which just seems kinda rude and all. Does he have a wife, kids, and grandkids waiting for him back at the village, or is he an aged widower who volunteered for babysitting duty just to have something to do? What about siblings and nieces and nephews? Siblings... probably not, as there aren’t many amber eyed People still running about, though considering he’s Dad’s age, it’s possible any non-Warrior siblings would have already passed away due to old age. What about interests? What does he do when he’s not pulling double duty as nanny and bodyguard? Does he enjoy the opera, or is he as bored of it as I am? Does he play chess? Mahjong? Does he drink often like Husolt, or only on special occasions like Dad?

The big takeaway from all this is that I should get to know Naaran more, even though I feel like our relationship has developed like this because he prefers things this way. Maybe he’s as anti-social as I am and doesn’t want to be best buds, or maybe he thinks I’m an idiot and is only here out of pity for his old friend. Regardless of his reasons, I should at the very least invite the old man out for a meal or something, a gesture to show my appreciation for all that he’s done for me. Geez, now I’m nervous about having dinner with Naaran of all people, not sure how to bring the matter up. What’s wrong with me? Why do I so desperately want him to like me all of a sudden? Because it just occurred to me that he might not like me, and I would just hate that. It’s one thing to be a burden to my family, because they love me and suffer gladly for it, but being a burden to a stranger is another thing altogether. I mean, he’s been guarding me all this time and I don’t even know if he’s being paid for it, though I suppose he probably draws a salary as a Sentinel, right?

...

......

What was I thinking about again?

...

Right, the mountain behind me and the path I took to get here.

After Naaran saved my ass, I started firing blindly at sounds in the darkness, a move I now look back on with shame and regret. Thankfully I was on guard duty and thus supposedly standing on at the edge of the camp, which meant there shouldn’t have been any allies in my line of fire, but I never even considered that in the moment. What’s more, as this was a training mission comprised mostly of raw recruits, it wouldn’t surprise me to learn that Akanai had a team of hidden protectors helping her watch over her gaggle of noobs. Mother knows if some Peak Expert came close to taking an arrow in the heart, and I would never have been able to live with the regret, but I like to think I’ve come a long way since, though I still have a tendency to shoot first and ask questions later when it comes to taking action in the heat of the moment.

As I did back then, firing blindly into the darkness before drawing spear and shield to fight off my assailants, mundane weapons with which I had no bond to help guide my efforts, but my deadly training takes over. My shield slams into the first form I see, the distinctive crack of bone and gurgle of pierced lung telling the more experienced me that my foe was not only a commoner, he was also as good as dead from the first hit, but the younger, amateur me of memory didn’t pick up on the clues and wasted time stabbing a dying man without even finishing him off and sparing him the pain. The mistake leaves me open to three more assailants who charge in without fear, and my memories blur as I panic and fight for my life without ever being in any real danger. Luckily, even though one of the three is an actual Martial Warrior, he’s a bottom of the barrel chump whose only saving grace is being a little stronger than your average man, which is still a significant advantage over the spindly, malnourished fifteen year old me. Sixteen? I can remember the event clearly, but not how old I supposedly was, on account of having lived more years than I can remember.

Silly of me not to cherish this second chance at youth, but in my defence, I was still scrambling to learn how to survive and stand on my own two feet in this world of trials and tribulations.

The fight is messy and hard to watch when viewed through my recreated third person perspective, amateur hour all around. I luck out as my opponents run out of steam and step back for a breather, giving me the time and space needed to hurl my spear clean through the closest bandit, though in hindsight, I should’ve aimed for the Martial Warrior with the big two handed sword. A mundane one, thank the Mother, which I then proceed to smash out of his hands, but even unarmed he comes dangerously close to killing me as he tackles and slams me to the ground. A second slam threatens to knock me out cold, but then his friend fucks everything up by warning him to stay down. This tells me an attack is coming for my head, so I lift the tackling bandit into the arc of his friend’s sword and am rewarded with a cry of pain, though both bandits still yet live. With the Martial Warrior wounded and out of the equation for a few seconds, I scramble to my feet and face the last bandit, but fail to react in time and lose my shield and a chunk out of my shoulder for the trouble.

