With only one arm and an arrow to fight with, I capitalize on my opponent’s lacking battle sense and dodge as he charges into my range, jabbing him in the side, then the throat, only to continue stabbing as I watch the life drain out of his eyes with a twisted smile etched across my face. Fear and adrenaline, or my darker nature taking hold? No, I know myself better than that, because even though combat has me shaking in fear, the act of taking a life fills me with concerning glee. Unlike Fung, I have always and forever been in love with death and violence, for it represents a freedom I never expressed in my previous life. I was no soldier or warrior, just a mundane man in a world of technological marvels who only ever had to leave home to walk the dog and restock the fridge. I could have stopped after stabbing my foe the first time and given him a chance to surrender, or after the second and waited for him to bleed out, but instead, I kept stabbing his neck, chest, and abdomen until his blood covered my hands and he stopped moving, which was long after he was dead.

That is who I am. There is no denying it. Much as I love peace and tranquility, I yearn for conflict and bloodshed all the same.

A heady rush surges through me as I relish my kill, and I loom over the unconscious Martial Warrior who likely passed out from shock rather than his light injuries. For long seconds, I consider taking his life as he lays helpless before me, imagined it time and time again to try and sate my darker urges. Still lost in the surge of bloodlust, I move to retrieve my weapons with only a single working arm, and even after so many years have passed, I’m still not sure what I intended to do next, because I never had the chance to do anything before Mila appeared and stopped me from doing anything I would regret. Hell, I didn’t even think to start Healing until her scolding brought me back from the brink, as I was too busy staring at the other man, the one I’d killed. A young guy, early twenties and as ordinary as could be, with no physical markings to prove he was evil to the core, just a guy who turned to banditry to fill his belly. Was he a good man? Probably not. Does that mean he deserved to die? Debatable considering he attacked our camp in the dead of night, a camp filled with commoners and fresh-faced Sentinel recruits who were barely old enough to grow beards and boobs. Had he come across a weaker, less guarded caravan, the man I killed might well have raped and murdered to his dark heart’s content, but I don’t know that for certain. Maybe he only turned bandit because he’d been unable to find enough work to fill his belly, or maybe he’d been born into the life and saw it as his only chance for survival. All I know is that he could have run and left his Martial Warrior friend to die, but he didn’t. He, a mere commoner, stayed and fought, and for that, he died, while his friend lived and was brought to Shen Huo to serve out his sentence.

How is that surviving bandit doing now? Did he accept a deal and turn soldier to fight for the Empire in lieu of toiling away in a prisoner work camp? If so, it’s possible he’s a part of my army even now, burning with fervent desire to retake the West and throw back the Enemy from our lands. His friend, however, is dead and gone, with no chance of redemption in store for him, because I couldn’t control my fear and stabbed him sixteen times at point blank range and found it oh so exhilarating. That’s what haunts me most, not his dead face haunting my nightmares, but those accusatory eyes reminding me of the joy I felt in his moment of death, and the fact that I never even bothered to look at the first bandit I killed. I’ve always had a darker side, one I’ve tried to deny, but even Mila saw through my bloodthirst back then. I could have let that second bandit live, but I didn’t, and while I wasn’t exactly wrong to kill in that situation, I still wonder if I could have done things differently there, and what might have come of it if I did.

After that night, I had two more bodies heaped onto my mountain, but more would join them there soon enough.

I didn’t kill Dugu Tian Yi and his two horrific sons, but I was the one who brought about their downfall. Husolt killed DuGu Ang for daring to threaten Mila, but he only did so because of my conflict with his brother, Ren. Their father, Tian Yi, was already firmly aligned against Magistrate Tong Da Hai, but he might have won his match if I wasn’t sent out to infuriate him beyond reason. I’ve gone over every aspect of that duel countless times now, and Tian Yi was so unhinged he barely had control over his Chi, which was the only reason I managed to put up any sort of fight. Add in the fact that both duellists were forbidden to kill, and it’s no surprise he lost his temper when faced with the man responsible for his son’s death. As for Ren, even though I ran my sword across his throat, that was a mercy compared to what had been done to him already, three lives taken and a famed household ruined all because I was pushed aside in a crowd and couldn’t keep my drunk mouth shut.

Was their response to my disrespect justified? Of course not, or at least I don’t believe so, but I could’ve just accepted the shove and went on with my life, and maybe, just maybe, I’d have DuGu Tian Yi and his two talented sons here at my side to help me retake the West. DuGu Tian Sha was the pinnacle expert of his time, a Living Legend of yesteryear whom the Living Legends of today looked up to, and who’s to say his son Tian Yi wouldn’t have reached those same soaring heights? Alas, we’ll never know, because the DuGu family line came to an early end all because they had the misfortune to cross Falling Rain’s path. Three more bodies in the mountain, with so many more to come.

My merry band of cripples, sixty-seven strong at the start and reduced to a mere eight within a year of entering my service. At the time, I thought I was doing them a favour, but they probably would have survived longer on the streets of Shen Huo as cripples. Rustram, Bulat, Ravil, Silva, Pran, Saluk, Viyan, and Birca are all still with me, but the list of those I left behind is too long to go through in its entirety, and while time has eased the pain of their loss many still feature prominently in my nightmares. Cham most of all, a man who was a drunk and a ruffian, yet spent all his free time making toys to donate to the orphanage, because he remembered his childhood and how devoid of fun and games it’d been. He bled out in my arms and I couldn’t do a thing about it except watch the light fade out of his eyes. I couldn’t even offer him any comfort in his dying moments, as Bulat had to be the one to step in, and that failure hurts almost as much as losing the man himself.

Then there’s the bandits I captured and claimed for my own retinue, the former Mother’s Militia turned soldiers. I learned my lesson from my first group of cripples and tried not to get too close to them, but I still find myself looking for familiar faces who have long since died in battle. Like Awdar who I helped overcome his Spectres and addictions, or Jinoe, whose filthy mind came up with the dirtiest jokes which never failed to put a smile on my face, both of whom met their ends on the fields of JiangHu. I only found out weeks after the fact, two more names among so many that I added to my mountain without even realizing. Dastan’s retinue hasn’t fared any better, going from fifty talented elites to less than ten since they were forced to swear slave Oaths in Sanshu, all their lives lost in my name yet the survivors still see me as their benefactor.

Since Sanshu, my retinue has only grown in number alongside the mountain of corpses behind me. Even the heroes of the Iron Banner died to keep me safe. Cheery Mengu, fierce Khagati, and innocuous Kharnate all fell in Sinuji, and there is not a day I don’t wonder if they regretted their decision to join me. Each of them left people behind, siblings, parents, children, and in Khagati’s case, his beloved wife Yaruq, all to protect a cripple foundling they stumbled across all those years ago. Then there’s all the loyal Sentinels, reformed bandits, vagabond Protectorates, fanatic Aspirants, and brave commoners who have joined my mountain, so very many people and more added to the near endless litany of names which has long since gotten out of hand. There are times when I need to stop and think if someone I knew is still alive or long dead, which always leads to more grief and guilt, to say nothing of all the poor animals who’ve died too. Since coming to this world, others have paid the blood price while I reap the rewards, emerging time and time again to secure fame, wealth, love, and power aplenty while most of the people who helped raise me to such heights have long since been consigned to ashes in the wind.

Most days, I am happy with my new life here, but then I remember the price I paid and wonder if I am worth it, a question I cannot ask the fallen, and lack the courage to ask the survivors. Why did so many people have to die for me to arrive where I am today? How many more will die in my journey to force my ideals onto a world that will likely fight tooth and nail to oppose me? My crossbows, catapults, and cannons have been used to great effect against the Defiled, but will I be able to stomach turning those weapons of war against fellow soldiers of the Empire? Even after all I’ve done with the reputation I’ve made for myself, the Emperor would only need to issue a single Edict to reverse it all, as I doubt even Nian Zu would turn rebel to fight on my side.

That’s the power the Emperor holds, and I have no idea how he managed it. I once noted how the Empire has no real formal religion besides a disorganized yet communal worship of the Mother Above, but I’ve since come to realize it’s because the distant and absent Emperor fills that void in their lives. With his power, he might as well be a god to most in this world, an aloof authority figure who renders unseen judgment from afar. That’s why the Emperor renounces his birth name upon taking the throne, becoming the Emperor first and foremost to all, for it is more than a mere title, but a mantle of sorts, a head of state and religious icon both wrapped up in one. For as long as the Empire has existed, the Emperor has sat on the throne, and while the physical person may be killed and replaced, the Emperor persists so long as the Empire still stands.

Or at least that’s what I assume Zhen Shi meant when he claimed he would be the first to topple ‘the’ Emperor from his throne, as opposed to ‘an’ Emperor, though I’d be lying if I wasn’t concerned about the possibility the Emperor is actually an eternal, body snatching monster of antiquity, making me the bad guy in Zhen Shi’s heroic journey to overthrow the tyrant. Honestly, if that’s the case, I’d probably write this world off as a loss and head back to the mountains to live my life in peace, because fuck everything about that specific nightmarish scenario.

That’s the real problem I’m facing now, one of motivation. Zhen Shi’s adaptive responses to my tactics has got me second guessing about my chances, and now his words and tactics have me wondering if it’s even worth fighting him to the bitter death. If this whole war was truly part and parcel of some greater Imperial political struggle, then just what am I fighting for? The safety of innocents, but while defending them against the Defiled is simple enough in theory, I have no idea how I could even begin to protect them from Imperial machinations. Though I still yearn to save the West from the clutches of the Defiled, I no longer have the confidence to fight this out if the true Enemy is the actual Empire instead. I can slaughter Defiled without losing too much sleep because most are unrepentant monsters, blood-crazed cannibals who delight in the torment and suffering of others. It’s another thing altogether to fight relatively sane Imperials who wholeheartedly believe that I’m a traitor and apostate who threatens their Heaven-sent Emperor.

