For this reason, I yearn for sleep, because at least then I can stop thinking about my problems for a bit, but even this is denied to me in this time of lacking consciousness. The waking world is denied me because my body and soul are too weary from my overuse of Chi, to the point where even my Natal Palace is out of reach. All I can do is suffer my own company in this semi-conscious state and await my return to the waking or spiritual world. This might well be my own personal hell, because I am nothing if not ever critical of my own actions, and this downtime gives me plenty of time for scathing introspection, burdening myself with guilt and obligation like disgusting sugary treats which only serve to pack on unwanted fat. My mind makes a full loop as I ponder through the implications of my decisions and replay my life back in detail, wondering if I could have changed things by doing something, anything, everything different, or if I would have been better off dying in the camps. My mountain has more bodies than just soldiers I’ve lost, as I’ve also killed a good number of people with my own two hands. Some were deserving, and others just collateral damage, like the two young heroes of the Society Teng Wei Chuan and OuYang Yu Jin. I could have spared the first and was so bloodthirsty I never even tried with the second, killing two promising young soldiers serving at the Wall who might well have had many future contributions. Then of course there’s all the pursuers the Society set upon me and my family in the first place, though the only one I truly regret killing is Elder Ming’s unfortunate nephew Zhong Lang, who I could have easily spared, but didn’t because I wanted to send a message in blood to the people threatening my family.

A message which went largely ignored by most and ended up escalating matters even further, but even I can’t blame myself too much for that one. Alas, even then, I still feel bad about the kid’s death, especially once I remember how scared and helpless he was, but he came after my family, and I would sooner stand aside and watch the world burn than let my loved ones suffer any harm.

This is all of course without touching upon what might well be my greatest sin of all, beating Gen within an inch of his life and leaving him to stew in the humiliation simply because it made me feel better about myself. Sure, he brought it upon himself by assaulting Qing Qing like he did, but I was strong enough then to stop him without going so far. I lost myself to rage, then held myself back, not because I didn’t want to kill him in cold blood, but because I thought his life was so miserable it would be a mercy to take it away. How many have died for my pride that day? Too many to count, and they all belong on my mountain as well, to say nothing of sweet Qing Qing herself, who I failed in so many ways.

When I finally get tired of second-guessing my past decisions, I set my sleepless mind to fretting about the future and all the pain and torment lying hidden down my steep and seemingly insurmountable Path. Say I defeat Zhen Shi and drive the Defiled out of the West, a tall task to be sure, but one I am reasonably confident I can complete so long as I have the support of the outer provinces. What comes next? Resettling the West I suppose, and dealing with the fallout of Zhen Shi’s backers coming after me for ruining their grand schemes. I doubt I can count on Shen ZhenWu to shield me, as I will likely have long since served my purpose at little to no cost to him, meaning he will throw me to the wolves without thinking twice. I mean, even a blatantly Imperial attempt on my life couldn’t bring him out of hiding, and I doubt he cares if Miss Rou or her backers try to kill me a second, third, or fourth time, so long as nothing can be traced back to him. It sucks to even consider it, but it might be time I cut my losses and head home for the decade to let this whole kerfuffle play out. The people of the West will suffer, and will only suffer longer even if I succeed, because I’ve run the numbers and even combined, there’s no way for North, Central, and South to sustain the West without bleeding themselves dry. The West’s greatest natural resources are considered luxuries after all, making them an expense which the other provinces can do without.

That being said, I cannot see myself ever walking away from this conflict, not even if ordered to by the Emperor himself. I’ve experienced firsthand how the Defiled treat their slaves and seen what awaits them at the end, one at the bottom of a cooking pot if they’re lucky, and as the centrepiece of a macabre tapestry of flesh and blood if they’re really unlucky. That means that I need to step up my game in order to survive, to make it so Dad, Naaran, Binesi, and all my other protectors no longer have to put their lives at risk to defend mine. I almost lost Dad today, or however many days ago I fell into this coma, and I cannot bear the thought of actually losing him. Even now, I’m still not entirely sure if I saved him or if my brief chat with Lin-Lin was merely a figment of my imagination, a wonderful, pleasant dream to keep me from forcing myself awake and possibly doing even more damage to myself than I’ve already done.

I’m certain that’s the issue here, that this comatose trance is self-inflicted so I can take the time to Heal and recover from overusing my Chi. It happened after JiangHu after all, when I called upon the Energy of the Heavens to summon a storm cloud in order to shed all my earthly emotions, the actions of a frightened fool who only wanted to get away from it all. Even then, I knew that Zhen Shi had pushed me to sever my fingers in the dream world contained within his writhing cloak so he could get his hands on slivers of my soul, yet there I was delivering an all you can eat buffet of soul which I severed without thinking of the consequences. Most of it went out in the world to do what I myself could not, raising Irregulars to Martial Warriors and guiding wayward Defiled into the arms of the Brotherhood, but as I have already noted, there is a dark side which I do my best to ignore, so who knows what those most sinister of intents were up to? It’s possible a part of me sought Zhen Shi out in hopes of obtaining power and knowledge, or perhaps he knew enough to collect my severed soul the same way he collected my illusory fingers. I don’t know which one it was, but I’ve no doubt my actions in JiangHu played no small part in his newfangled understanding of my abilities, and I have no one to blame but myself.

It’s infuriating going up against an opponent who knows exactly which buttons to press to get me dancing to his tune. Zhen Shi has targeted my family before, but only through illusions, and not perfect ones either, like when he had Gen handle the details and the idiot not only forgot to account for smell, but also went to great lengths to feature Naaran in the death illusion instead of someone actually close to me. Now though, my enemy is targeting my family in real life, because that bolt was not aimed at me. Zhen Shi wanted Dad dead, and more than that, he wanted me to be there to see it, but he fucked up. Terrifying as it is to know my family is in danger, my fear pales in comparison to the sheer rage bubbling up from inside me, a smouldering pit of seething hatred that drives me ever onwards to see this threat removed.

Zhen Shi woke the fucking dragon when he went after my family. Fear has always held me back, but it has also been a large part of my motivations, for I always channelled my fear into reckless courage, fear which I will now use to destroy my foe. Not because it is the right or just thing to do, or because he’s a murderous bastard leading an army to overthrow the Empire, but because no one touches my family. Doesn’t matter if it’s Zhen Shi, the Legate, or the Emperor him-fucking-self. You come after my family, and I will not rest until I see you dead. That is my oath, my motivation, my conviction to this cause, one born of fear, anger, and the desire for sweet vengeance.

Forget being the hero. To protect the people I love, I would make a deal with the devil himself if need be.

Perhaps that’s the reason for my current plight, this state of restless slumber plagued by so many overactive thoughts. While my body and soul have both shut down to recuperate after being overdrawn and overworked, my mind refuses to follow suit in favour of ruminating on my darker emotions in a heated fixation on vengeance. In the months and years after leaving the slave camp, I dreamed of what I would do to the piggy guards if I’d had the chance. I’d force them to do all manner of backbreaking labours, then punish them for failing to live up to impossible standards. I’d vary the punishments of course, make them compete to be the least punished, because there is nothing more cruel than false hope. I would rip the nails off one piggy and tell him to smile for me, take the lash to another and comment about what a nice jacket he’d make, and simply deny food or water to a few others so they feel more fortunate than the rest. Gortan though? I had something special in mind for him, because he was the worst of them by far. His days would be filled with all manner of punishments as he failed at everything I set him to do, and I wouldn’t even bother making good excuses. He would serve as a living reminder of what happens when you anger me. He’d get the lash for being ugly and waterboarded for being smelly, then flayed and branded for good measure. At night when the piggies finished work for the day, I’d nail Gortan’s hands to the wall of their sleeping quarters, just high enough so he can almost rest easy, but too high for him to have any slack. In the morning, I’d wake him up with a boot to the ribs and Heal his hands so he can get back to work, on top of whatever other injuries he suffered the previous day, all so he could be fresh and recovered for a new day of abuse.

These thoughts have always been there in the back of my mind, but I’ve never given them free reign or indulged them too much, but here and now in this quiet period of introspection, I realize my hatred might well be the greatest obstacle to my path going forward. Fear controls me, and I control fear by turning it into anger and hatred, and fearful as I am, it means I also harbour a fair amount of the other two as well. How am I to find Balance when I yearn to subject my enemies to the pain and torment they subject upon their victims? Gen was a bully, so I bullied him, beat him bloody and made him feel weak and powerless. The Defiled turned a tiny village into a charnel house of horror, so I wanted to string them up on the trees and gut them while they still lived, to hear their screams which would serve as warning to the others of what awaited them should they cross me. The bandits sought to murder and pillage, so I thought it would be best to kill them then and there, because death was a better alternative to slavery, but I was wrong to do this. An eye for an eye sounds like justice, but as the saying goes, it also leaves the whole world blind.

This line of thinking is why the Purge nearly broke me, because not only were there atrocities being committed before my eyes, there was a part of me that understood the rationale behind it. How do you fight a foe you cannot see, one who whispers hatred into your heart and forces you to confront the darkness in your own heart? The Spectres are a plague upon humanity in more ways than one, and without medicine to treat it, the only solution is containment and eradication to keep this disease from spreading. Unfortunately, the source of this contagion can never be truly eliminated, for so long as there are humans and Heavenly Energy, there will always be Spectres to torment us.

Perhaps this is why some people are more susceptible to Spectres than others, not because they’re inherently more evil than the rest of us, but because they don’t know how to deal with the inner malevolence present in all humans. We are not a magnanimous race, but one driven by war and conflict, and without the Enemy to unite us, I’d bet dollars to donuts that the Empire would have long since fractured into dozens of warring city-states. Competition for resources is ingrained into our nature, because we are animals in everything but name, tribal creatures of strife and struggle that thrive on an ‘us or them’ mentality. Big Poppa Piggy wasn’t wrong when he called justice, honour, and integrity ‘false concepts made up by bored humans sitting safe and happy in their luxurious homes’. I even agreed with him and pointed out that that’s what made them worth aspiring to, because those ‘false’ concepts are what separate us from the animals, but the Spectres appeal too much to our animistic natures, for they are born from that same darkness good people aspire to overcome.

