We are human, and we are strong because we have human concepts, ones which separate us from animals. That’s what I said in response to Zhu Chanzui when he revealed himself in the Central Citadel, but while I still believe this to be true, I realize now that those false concepts are also our greatest weakness. Since honour, justice, and integrity do not come naturally to most, it will always be easier to give in to our darker desires than to hold ourselves above them, because that is simply human nature. Without the rule of law and threat of violent reprisal or punishment to keep people in check, society would fall apart in an instant, for relying on the good will of others alone is a recipe for pure disaster. There’s a good reason why anarchy, which originally was a term meant to describe a society without a ruler, became synonymous with chaos and disorder, for in the absence of a system of rules to adhere to and a means to enforce them, we would truly live in a world of might makes right where only the strong can survive.

This is the ideal that Zhu Chanzui aspires to, a world in which humans are no different from animals, perhaps because only then can he justify his lacking empathy and extreme debauchery while maintaining his self-image as a ‘higher being’. In the same way, I cling to the morals and ideals of my previous life because that is the only way I can keep myself from spiralling out of control in this new and terrifying world of trials and tribulations, yet one filled with freedom far beyond what any person should have. Both of us are deluding ourselves, but I realize now how close I was to the truth back then, when I traded words with the Ancestral Bristleboar in front of the entire Northern Citadel.

We are human, and therefore different from animals, but not so different as to require a completely different Path. Rather than separate the two from beginning to end and envision them as running parallel alongside one another, it would be more accurate to say that they start from different points, they are intertwined and interconnected in so many ways, as they would considering they are two Paths which lead to the same Dao.

And with that, the veil lifts on my mind as I find new purpose to follow the same path I’ve aspired to in this life and the last. I have the opposite problem of Zhu Chanzui, in that I care too much about other people and animals. I don’t want anyone to suffer, or at least not in my presence, because it bothers me so much I have trouble sleeping. That’s why I love solitude, because only then can I be free from other people’s issues. Once I learn there is a problem, I feel obligated to help out, not because it is the right thing to do, but because I am not comfortable seeing others in pain and misery. That’s why I’ve always wanted to be the hero, so I can feel like my obligation means something, because I sure as hell don’t enjoy helping people all that much. I don’t feed the hungry because it’s the right thing to do, but because I can’t stand to see starving children lining the streets around me. I wouldn’t lift a finger if those starving children were out of sight and out of mind, as evidenced by the fact that I haven’t made any efforts to expand my schools and orphanages outside of the North. Does this make me a terrible person? Of course not, because truly altruistic individuals are a rare breed, so rare my jaded self doubts if they actually exist. Regardless of my motivations however, I still strive to do good, hoping to leave this world which I’ve come to love in a better state than I arrived in, which is why I worked so hard to spearhead this campaign to free the West. So what if one or more of the Supreme Families is backing Zhen Shi? There are people suffering under Defiled rule, so my conscience demands I do something to stop it. Were I not Legate and merely a soldier, I would still yearn to fight in this war despite the odds stacked against me, because as a better man once said, the only thing necessary for evil to triumph is for good men to do nothing.

And while I am no paragon of virtue, harbouring so many dark thoughts and possessing a myriad of flaws, I know beyond the shadow of a doubt that I am inherently a good man, because if I wasn’t, I wouldn’t be so bothered by my conscience.

Having seen past the curtains of my own driving motivations, I understand there is no running from this fight and set myself to the arduous task of overcoming the unavoidable trials and tribulations ahead. Forget the Imperial Clan for now, because I don’t know enough about their goals to do anything about them. I’ll deal with their political machinations as they come, so for now, I only need to focus on Zhen Shi and the Defiled. I am outmatched in both strength and wits, and were I standing alone, I would flee for the North without thinking twice, but I have family, friends, and comrades to fight alongside, all of whom believe I can lead them to victory.

Fools one and all, to have so much faith in me, but thankfully, my greatest talent has never been personal effort, but rather my unprecedented ability to delegate. My purpose in this war is not commander and general, but figurehead and motivational speaker. Thus, to better play my part, I must continue to press forward along my unique Path for one simple reason. It’s clear that Zhen Shi doesn’t see me as a direct threat, but rather as a weapon he covets for himself, hence all the effort he’s been going through to turn me to the dark side. This means he sees potential in me that I have not yet realized, potential I now intend to unlock and use against him. The Abbot told me to stop being afraid of making mistakes and to just press forward, to Shatter the Void and only then focus on what comes next. For the longest time, I was unable to proceed for one simple reason, because I never could come up with a proper answer to one simple question.

Why do I seek strength?

Thanks to Zhen Shi, I now have my answer.

I want to be strong so I don’t have to be afraid anymore. Only with strength can I secure my continued freedom and ensure my loved ones are kept safe. Only with strength can I live my life according to my ideals, which includes changing the world for the better at the expense of the Imperial Clan and the other powers that support it. Only with strength can I stop living in constant fear, because while might does not make right, big-stick diplomacy is the best way to keep my enemies from taking everything I have for themselves.

That is why I seek strength, why I yearn to stand at the Peak of the Martial Path. Simple enough in theory, but now I understand that my goal is further away than I ever believed, because the level of strength I require to fulfill my desire is nothing short of unrivalled. Shen ZhenWu and Zhen Shi both saw through me with a glance, and they both warned me that the freedom I seek would be beyond what anyone could grant, for one simple reason. In order to remain unfettered from all conflict and struggle, I must stand above all others, Divinities and Emperors alike, and only then can I rest easy. A monumental task I have set for myself, yet in my hubris, wholeheartedly believe I can accomplish, because at the end of the day, regardless of how I disparage and denigrate myself, I believe I reincarnated into this world for a reason. What better reason than to become a true hero and a man who stands above all others? Stupid and corny as it is to admit it, that is the driving motivation behind most of my actions, my inability to accept a life of mediocrity.

I am Falling Rain, hero and soon-to-be Divinity, for I am finally ready to take the next step.

Course, I have to figure out how first, though I have some inkling suspicions as to where to look next. The important thing now though is to rest and recuperate, a luxury I know I can afford because there are taller shoulders to bear the burden for me, heroes like Dad, Nian Zu, Naaran, Binesi, Gao Changgong, Kuang Biao, and so many others. Chief among them all of course is my hero’s hero, my Grand-Mentor, Grandmother, and Mother-in-Law Akanai, who I thankfully had the foresight to appoint as second in the chain of command after me. Shuai Jiao, Zhen Shi, and the Imperial Clan can play all the games they like, but they will soon discover that she is not a woman to take lightly.

Hell, who knows. Maybe I’ll luck out and wake up to find Zhen Shi dead, the West freed, and the Emperor kneeling at Akanai’s feet to beg for mercy. Honestly, I wouldn’t even be all that surprised, because if anyone can do it, it’d be Akanai, Chief Provost of the People and the Herald of the Storm.

Chapter Meme

- End of Volume 40 -
