They hurried down the dark street, staying close to the buildings on their left, made the next turn they came to, and paused. Sweep strained for the sound of pursuit over the thudding of her heart. She heard no such sounds but was unconvinced that pursuit did not come. Soon they were moving again, but quickly they realized that neither of them knew where the inn was. Neither of them had been away from the church, much less to the inn. They paused again to discuss strategy.

“I think,” said Sweep between labored breaths, “that it’s a couple of streets down from the church.”

Temperance nodded. “So, where’s the church from here?”

The girls looked around. The street was dark. The buildings lining the street were unfamiliar. Little outside the church was familiar. Sweep, who had swept the front step of the sanctuary every morning and evening for years, and so had seen the buildings across the street, thought that they looked like shop fronts, but she couldn’t be certain. Not an hour outside the church, only streets away, the runaways were already lost.

Temperance took a deep breath. “Do you remember the kitchen garden?”

Sweep shook her head though it was dark.

“Cook makes us plant in little squares,” Temperance continued. “She uses lengths of cord and rope to make squares a pair of handbreadth’s across. Remember?”

“Sure.” Sweep said, hesitant, uncertain why her friend was going on about the garden.

“So, the ropes are like the streets. See, the streets are straight.” She gestured.

“Oh.” Sweep nodded. “So the planting squares are where the buildings are.”

“Right. So, if we walk along the streets and we make sure to walk around each square, eventually we’ll come across the street where the inn is.”

Sweep hugged Temperance as tightly as she could through the layers of clothes and heavy pack.

“You’re brilliant, Temperance.”

And though it was slow and nerve-wracking, it was a sound plan. By the time they found the lighted windows of a building proclaiming itself the Apple Blossom Inn, they were exhausted and footsore.

Sandy-eyed and watery-limbed, Sweep approached the lighted yard and the bustle of activity it contained. Dimly, she wondered how long she and Temperance had been systematically walking along the streets of Appledel, how long it was from dawn, and how many times they had passed this darkened building front and not realized it was the inn.

The gate to the yard stood open, lit by lanterns casting long shadows that danced and twitched and jumped about madly, lending an air of chaos. She watched the bustle for several moments, numbly, before Temperance nudged her and pointed. She pointed at a tall man with thick moustaches who oversaw it all. In the few moments she watched him, three people stopped to talk to him, and he sent them on further errands. This man was in charge.

“Well,” said Sweep, dispelling her reservations, “It’s this or go back to the Mother.” She hitched up her pack, ignoring the pain with ease of practice, and walked purposefully through the courtyard, ducking and dodging those running errands. Temperance stayed at her side but let her take the lead.

“Excuse me, sir?”

The man did not respond. A woman approached, and he looked at her expectantly.

“Roger, the young bay has a bruised hoof.”

“God’s Beard take the stubborn beast,” the man, Roger, cursed. “If he’s not harassing the mares or breaking the picket, he’s stalling our departure. God’s Wounds.”

The woman made a noncommittal sound. She had the expression of one used to such outbursts and was waiting for it to pass so the business at hand could continue. In a moment of muttered curses, it did.

“Can we sell the beast?”

The woman shrugged. “We can, but we still need a second horse to pull the third wagon. Either way, we’ll be traveling slowly until either he heals or we find another horse.”

The man let loose another stream of curses, and the woman weathered them patiently. Eventually, Roger said. “Is there anything else?”

“We’re ready to leave.”

“Finally,” Roger muttered.

The woman turned her attention then to Sweep and Temperance. Her gaze drew Roger’s attention, and Sweep hesitated. When she had strode across the courtyard, she had gathered her confidence. Now confronted with the man who spewed curses under a thick, black moustache, she was nervous again.

“What?” Roger demanded.

“We want to travel,” Sweep said, sticking close to the truth. “We can work. We can sew and clean and cook… well, Temperance can cook.”

“Bah!” he waved his hand at them. “I have no time for runaways. Go back to your mother. She doesn’t beat you half as hard as I would.”

Sweep doubted the accuracy of the man’s claim, but after having seen his temperament, did not doubt that he would be a strict and heavy-handed taskmaster. Sweep had hoped the world outside the church would be kinder, contrary to what the Mother claimed. It seemed a foolish hope now.

Temperance tugged on her sleeve. “Piety, come on, let’s go,” she whispered.

“Just a moment, girls,” said the woman. “Roger, husband, think on it a moment. We could always use another pair of hands willing to work. Saints know enough of our men are too willing to avoid it.”

Roger frowned at his wife. “I’ll not take on a pair of runaways. I don’t care if they can make silk from patches, runaways aren’t worth the trouble.”

The woman frowned right back at him. “You’re not thinking like a businessman. They don’t eat much and are already clothed. They’ll easily make up for their wages.” She smiled down at the girls.

Sweep was conflicted. Roger was clearly a short-tempered man and he’d already threatened to beat them. But he couldn’t be worse than the Mother, and the woman had mentioned wages. Sweep couldn’t decide if she wanted Roger’s wife to convince him or not. But when the woman smiled down at them, Sweep was struck with a sudden sense of unease.

“Oh,” Roger said, and he smiled. It was a smile Sweep recognized seeing on the lips of the Mother when she had thought of something particularly cruel. He looked at them “Well, I suppose we might find a place for you after all.”

“Actually,” said Sweep, “we’ve changed our minds.”

Roger’s face darkened, but he kept his smile as though it were frozen in place. He reached out to put a hand on Sweep’s shoulder. Sweep jumped back, pulling Temperance with her. The pain of movement was expected, had become a part of her, and she did not wince when it came. The woman, Roger’s wife, sidled around, trying to get behind them. Sweep and Temperance continued backward, angling to keep the woman from their backs.

“Now, dears, that’s no way to treat your employer,” she said.

Run for it, Sweep thought desperately.

As though she’d spoken aloud, Temperance broke into a dash, pulling Sweep behind her. But Sweep stumbled as the sudden movement jabbed pain from her back to her limbs, and she fell almost immediately. Temperance shouted. Sweep pushed to her feet, taking deep breaths and fighting her heaving stomach. With her bearing about her once again, Sweep looked up to find Temperance in the grip of the man called Roger, a trickle of blood evidence of a split lip. Roger’s wife stood behind Sweep with a cruel smile.

“Pardon me, master merchant, but you’re frightening my apprentices.”

The voice was deep. It carried across the courtyard and above the racket. It was polite but ominous, calm but commanding. Sweep didn’t dare turn to look at the speaker; she kept her gaze on Temperance, still fast in the merchant’s grip, trying to figure out how to free her. Whoever this newcomer was, she’d deal with him once Temperance was free.

The man who strode into view was Father Vytal. He seemed taller than Sweep remembered and far more menacing. His expression bore none of the kindness she’d seen on the night they’d met. He was clad in a charcoal-colored shirt and pants. A white coat with a high collar and golden scrollwork crawling up the arms was decorated with the scarlet and gold sunburst on either collar. The sunburst amulet hanging at his chest glinted in the light of the lanterns around the courtyard.

Roger the merchant was so impressed he released Temperance unconsciously. Temperance dashed to Sweep’s side, and together they watched the silent confrontation between cleric and merchant. Around them, the bustle of the courtyard had not abated and Roger’s wife was not in evidence.

Soon, Roger lowered his eyes, muttered something that was supposed to be respectful, and waded into the milling crowd without a backward glance, shouting orders.

Father Vytal turned to the girls. Temperance shrank back, but Sweep hoped to see the kind expression she’d been granted a week previous. She took a step forward. When she met his gaze, the grey-haired cleric did smile, just a little.

“Come girls, let’s get this sorted out.”

He led them back to the church through the dark streets of Appledel. At the front step, Sweep stopped and squeezed Temperance’s hand. Temperance stopped next to her. Father Vytal was at the front door of the sanctuary before he noticed the girls were no longer following. He looked back at them and raised an eyebrow in question.

“Yes?”

“We’re not going back, sir.” Sweep was pleased with the steadiness of her voice.

Father Vytal stepped off the step and sat upon it, heedless of the cold stone. He smiled though his eyes were sad.

“I wouldn’t ask you to. I need to do a few things and while I do so, you two should rest, for when I leave, I intend to take you with me. With your permission of course.”

Stunned, Sweep’s skin felt of pins-and-needles, like when she’d slept all night with her arm at a funny angle. She looked at him and said nothing. Next to her, Temperance stiffened and squeezed her hand. Though their gambit with the merchant had failed, Father Vytal was offering them another way out. She didn’t know what to say next.

“You don’t trust me, and I don’t blame you,” said Father Vytal. “Perhaps a gesture of good faith is in order?” He held his hand out to Temperance. “May I?”

Temperance squeezed Sweep’s hand, then let go and approached the well-dressed cleric. She gave a small nod. Father Vytal took her chin in his hand. With a gentle brush of his thumb, he wiped away the dried blood on her chin. Temperance gasped. She put a hand to her lip to find that it was no longer cut nor swollen.

“Thank you, sir.”

Father Vytal shook his head. “My name is Tristam, not sir.”

Temperance bowed. “Yes, sir.”

Sweep found her voice. “Where would you take us, if we agreed to come with you?”

Father Vytal stood and brushed at his pants. “To the High Temple in Kinswell. There, you could receive a proper education. Girls, I promise you, I am nothing like Willow. My unsubtle questioning this morning has revealed Willow’s methods of persuasion and discipline and which two orphans are the usual recipients thereof. I won’t allow it to continue.”

Sweep looked at Temperance who looked back at her. Temperance nodded and Sweep looked back at Father Vytal. “All right. We’ll go with you.”

“Excellent.” Father Vytal smiled. “I’m afraid your healing, Sweep, will take a bit more effort, and you should not be standing when I do it.” He sighed. “I know you two spent a considerable amount of effort running away, but I ask that you return to your dormitory for a few hours more.”

“Do you promise?” Sweep asked. “That you’ll take us away from here. That you intend to protect us?”

The cleric nodded. “I promise.”

“I mean it,” Sweep said. “You have to promise.”

“I promise. I mean it.” His expression was grave, the lines of his face deep.

“Because, it’s hard to know if you’re telling the truth,” Sweep continued. “You seem kind, but…”

Father Vytal knelt. “I promise you both, I mean you no harm and intend to take you away from this place to somewhere you can learn, prosper, and be happy.”

Sweep felt a weight settle about them, as though his words held power, magic, but at the same time, she felt a burden lift from her thoughts. She knew he meant what he promised.

• • •

The room was as it had been when they’d left it only hours before. Sweep had thought to never see it again. It was disconcerting to return.

“After I heal Sweep, you two should try to get some rest. It will be dawn in a couple of hours and I want to leave at first light.”

“But what if someone comes?” asked Sweep.

“No one will come. I’ll see to it.” He laid a hand gently on her forehead. His hand was cool and dry. “Now, this won’t hurt, but it might be a bit of a shock.”

She felt Father Vytal suddenly buzz with power, and the faint chimes sounded as though across a large, empty room. Then that power flowed into her. Fortunately, it didn’t come all at once. Slowly, the searing pain she’d put in the back of her mind cooled and faded. By the time Father Vytal was finished, Sweep was shivering and exhausted, lying face down on the bed, still bundled in several layers of clothes with a pack strapped to her back. Her back itched, but she couldn’t summon the strength to do anything about it.

Father Vytal was speaking. “She needs warmth and rest. You’ll watch over her?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Good. I’ll make sure no one bothers you.”

“Sir?”

“Yes, Temperance?”

“Why?”

Father Vytal paused several moments. “There are many reasons. A friend once told me that I do my best work while teaching young people. I haven’t had an apprentice for nearly a decade.”

“Why us and not any of the others?”

“There’s something special about the two of you. I don’t know what it is, but I can feel it.”

“But what about everyone else? If we just leave them here…”

Their conversation faded, as though they walked quickly down a long tunnel. Sweep didn’t hear if Temperance continued to question him because oblivion rose to claim her.

• • •

As she dressed again, she became more alert, even energized. Her back held only a dull ache, and she reveled in being able to bend and twist as she dressed. The knowledge that Father Vytal stood just outside the curtain, ready to take them away to Kinswell, made her at once hurry to prepare and savor the moment.

When they were both ready, Sweep pushed aside the curtain.

Father Vytal had changed from the formal clothes and fancy. Now he was in workman’s leather pants and a cotton shirt with a heavy coat bundled on the pack at his back. His sunburst amulet rested against his chest from a simple leather cord. He wore his confidence and authority like a familiar cloak.

Sweep bowed and folded her hands at her waist. “Sir, thank you for healing me.”

