Father Vytal made a pained noise. “Please don’t bow at me like that, Sweep.”

Confused, Sweep risked a glance at Temperance who seemed equally confused.

“Sorry, sir. How should I bow to you?”

Father Vytal shook his head. “You shouldn’t bow to me at all. I am not your master; I am not better or greater than you are. We are both people and we should be able to meet each other as equals.”

“But, Father Vytal, you healed me.”

“As you healed me, Sister Sweep.”

Sweep felt her fingers and toes go tingly and numb with shock. She heard Temperance gasp. Father Vytal had called her Sister, like she was a Daughter of God, and he claimed that she had healed him with a quiet certainty she couldn’t dispute. Her heart pounded in her ears and her cheeks went warm with the strangeness of it. Everything she’d been taught about the way of things, the way people related to one another, this man, this Son of God, was overtly rejecting. She looked at the sunburst resting on his chest just to make sure it was still there, for his words sounded like heresy.

“The Scriptures tell the stories of the Saints. You know them?” he asked.

“Yes sir.”

Father Vytal smiled, banishing the pained expression. “Many would have you believe that the Children of God, those sworn to His service, are born to a higher calling. But the teachings of the Saints tell us that no man is higher than any other. Saint Mary the Servant said, ‘Choice and deed set us apart. No one is born to greatness.’”

Sweep nodded. “But Saint Mary also said ‘Honor wisdom and kindness, for they are precious.’ We have understood that the Mother is wrong about nearly everything, and we had hoped that the world would not be as cruel as she claimed. You, I think, bear out that hope, sir.”

It took several moments and a deep breath before Father Vytal said, “Well. I am impressed.”

Sweep bowed. “Thank you, sir.” Temperance followed her lead.

“I’m not going to break you of that habit, am I?”

Sweep gave it a little thought. “No sir, I suppose you aren’t.”

Temperance nodded.

• • •

The Mother’s chambers were hot after the cold of the dormitory. Sweep stood next to Temperance, the two holding hands so hard it hurt but neither willing to release the other. Between them and the Mother was Father Vytal, and the two argued.

“You’re a foolish, addled old man chasing dreams and myths. You can’t even take care of yourself. What makes you think you can take care of a little girl, much less two of them? What are you going to do, take them trekking across the nation with you? What kind of life is that for a girl? And what about their education?”

The seven-hour bell rang, permeating the walls of Sacred Heart, and Father Vytal took the opportunity to interject.

“Willow, why are you so angry with me? What did I ever do to make you hate me so much?”

“You disrespect me by ignoring my title.”

“To me, you’ll always be Willow.”

“And that’s just it… Tristam. You’ve never thought I was good enough.”

“A title is not a measure of a person’s worth.”

“And what of a name? What of my name?”

Father Vytal shook his head. “This is because your mother named you Willow?”

“And you let her.”

Sweep glanced at Temperance, who looked just as confused as she felt.

The Mother Superior drew herself up, and her expression turned hard. “You cannot have them, Father.”

Father Vytal shook his head. “Willow, if it’s a question of authority, you don’t have any. If it’s a question of force, I will win. If it’s a question of right and wrong, I’m right, and you’re wrong. And what’s more, Willow, you know it.”

The Mother Superior stood with her mouth open, prepared to continue shouting, but no words came out. Her eyes widened considerably. The sudden silence, where before there had been anger, made Sweep aware of small sounds: the guttering of candles, muffled footsteps, and the muted babble of conversation far away.

“We’re leaving, Willow. Furthermore, you are under review. I’d always wondered how you’d gained this position. I suspected you traded on our shared name. Had I known what you’d used it for…” He shook his head again. “I’ll be sending a note on to Kinswell, detailing the abuses I’ve seen here.” Father Vytal turned and gestured to the girls to precede him from the room, but the Mother wasn’t finished.

“I demand compensation. If you’re taking two of my best workers and several valuable supplies, I demand compensation.”

Just before Father Vytal spun back to face the Mother, the girls saw his expression turn angry and frightening.

“Are you suggesting I buy them?” he demanded. “Slavery is illegal in Khulanty, Willow. And the supplies are property of the Church, whose council I’m a member of, as you well know. You should be ashamed. I saw the state of this girl’s back. There are scars. The only reason she can walk is because I healed her. If this is how you treat your best, I fear for the least of your congregation.”

The Mother took a step back, but was undeterred. “So that’s it then? You’ll spirit away two little girls to only God knows where over my explicit objections?”

There was so much he could have said. Sweep could see the set of his shoulders tense as though preparing to continue. But then he relaxed and said, simply, “Yes.”

The Mother Superior turned away. “Be gone then. You have overstayed your welcome, Father.”
