I raised a hand, "I've been thinking of where to go with powers lately. You know, for long-term progress. I've tried using primordial mana, and it hasn't worked at all. It's like I'm hitting a brick wall no matter who I ask. I figure that molding it into my best skills will slow those core abilities down."

Plazia sat backward, a throne of basalt forming beneath him, "Perhaps, but perhaps not. Knowledge is not so finite, Daniel. It shifts and changes depending on perspective and the angle of approach. This is why judging one's knowledge through a singular lens is foolish and shortsighted."

Plazia peered towards the hard floor, "In your situation, your talents expanded greatly with that armor of yours. You've become an anomaly, and primordial mana should come easily for your augmented mind. As for binding the golems together, that is a crossroad I recommend against."

I sat onto a gravity well, "Why, exactly?"

"It destroys their greatest strength - their individuality. Unlike my pawns, your golems carry their own minds. This unlocks devastating potential since otherwise, they perpetually drain you for maintaining them. Your skin and flesh and bone is cause for that, as you carry endless mana within your body."

Plazia steepled his fingers, "For you, amassing power should be derived internally, as it's possible. The unity of one gives cause for decisive action, and you're not from a species like the ahcorous or the ruhls. It is unnatural to disperse your mind like us. Primordial mana should be the perfect method for you, given your dimensional status."

I grimaced, "I really don't think it is. I don't know if you understand how much of a roadblock I've had with it."

Plazia leaned forward, "I am a master of that mana type, so allow me to decide. First, tell me what you know of Primordial mana...We'll discuss it. Holistically."

I started from my first experiences with the advanced mana type, moving up the rung of that memory ladder. I talked about the various perspectives I angled for it, the sheer number of tries at its manifestation, and the months of failure. Plazia soaked in the knowledge with an occasional nod. After I finished describing all of my pitfalls, Plazia leaned back on his throne. Plazia leaned against one of his hands,

"You already know primordial mana and how to use it."

I threw up my hands, "I sure as hell don't have a skill for it. I also can't get the mana to pop up no matter what I try either."

Plazia let out a laugh. The droning cackle continued for a while. In time, a bit of frustration leaked out of me, and I snapped, "What's so funny?"

Plazia raised a palm, the graphene plating gleaming. The hivemind took a deep breath before spreading his hands, "Let us try this. Dwell on your methods for primordial mana. Sink deep into its depths, and call forth the raging energy, a writhing abyss of control and creation."

I frowned, "Are you making fun of me?"

Plazia shook his head, "Verify if I am yourself."

Keeping guarded, I took a moment, thinking off all my knowledge about primordial mana. I instigated memories of wanting to build and create. Simple memories resurfaced, ones about building sandcastles or wooden forts as a child. At the same time, I calmed my mind down to a state of serenity, as I did for origin mana.

Into the vast, cool ocean of my mind, I dove. I dwelled deep into the waters where the rays of light no longer reached. I remembered the dead planet I traveled to. I recalled the creatures feasting on sulphuric pits on the ocean's floor, the dim stars, and the thin wind. A tremble raced up my spine as my own immortality weighed on me.

I'd await the stars dying, all other life gone. Drifting through the void in loneliness, I channeled this primal dread. From deep in my chest, I willed out a solution, a method of creating something worth living in. A spark flared in my mind, connections forming. They stormed out without stopping, and a flood emerged.

I gawked as a condensed blot of primordial mana formed in my palm.

My eyes widened, and I raised it up high. I shouted, "Ah hell yeah. I can't believe it. How did that happen so damn fast? This...This is incredible. You're the best teacher I've ever seen, Plazia." I turned to my side, "Sorry, Torix." I peered back at the mana,

"Hah. Wow. That was easy. Really easy, actually."

Plazia scoffed, "I taught you nothing."

I furrowed my brow, and the primordial blot wisped out of existence. Panic surged in my chest before I returned to my previous state of mind. As I did, the mana reformed with ease.

Too easily. It was as if I achieved some mastery of it already. I blinked, "Wait a minute...What's going on here?"

Plazia spread out his hands, "What is different about this place than everywhere else you've ever resided?"

My mind jumped to a dozen different possibilities before I leaned over. My eyes opened wide, and my jaw slackened. Plazia nodded, "That's correct, little one."

My surprise turned into anger as I seethed,

"Schema isn't here."
