Inwardly sighing, Zian grudgingly accepted this minor loss. So what if Rain took a larger share of the treasure? Zian was no greedy merchant obsessed with wealth. His share had all been delivered to his mother aside from a few choice gifts for Uncle Yang and Jukai. What need did he have for priceless paintings or pottery? In his eyes, only a buffoon with more coin than sense would pay tens of thousands of gold for a vase. With that much money, you might as well purchase something useful like a Spiritual Heart or Runic armour, which is exactly what he’d asked his mother to do.

Truth be told, and Zian would never admit this out loud, but he admired Rain’s work with his schools and charities. At least the cheated money went towards a good cause, helping those whose lives were impacted by the Defiled attack.

Thankfully, the roosequin pups remained outside as Tali returned with her brother, another half-goat child. So many different species of half-beasts among the Bekhai, it was obvious the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains hid a multitude of Ancestral Beasts, a disturbing proposition. No wonder the expedition to attack the Bekhai failed so horrendously, with not a single person escaping to tell the tale. He shuddered to think what might have happened if the Society had attacked in force.

Sharing the seat across from him, the two white-haired children stared with open curiosity while whispering with one another about his origins. Unaccustomed to dealing with children, Zian ignored them until Rain returned with a pot of tea, a box of baked pastries, and a pair of birds on his shoulders. After pouring four cups of tea, Rain added a large helping of butter to his own cup, much to Zian’s horror and disgust. “It’s not appealing or particularly tasty,” Rain said as he stirred his cup, “but I need the fat. Lost too much weight Healing myself these past few months, it’s really stunting my body’s growth.”

Drinking his tea in silence, Zian nibbled at the provided snacks and complimented Tali’s culinary skills. It wasn’t even a lie, the pastries were delicious, albeit too sweet for his tastes and a little misshapen. Regardless, his appetite fled at the sight of Rain drinking cup after cup of buttered tea, a travesty to both butter and tea alike.

After sending the children away and returning the birds to their cage, Rain refilled the teapot and left it to steep, patting his wildcat’s head as it grumbled in delight. “So,” Rain began, his eyes twinkling and bright. “I hear you’ve been sparring with Mila this past week. Eight matches and eight victories, how incredible. Young Magistrate Zian is truly a dragon among men.” His sarcastic tone left little to interpretation, but before Zian could reply, Rain asked, “Do you always bring two carriages everywhere you go?”

Oh good, the idiot noticed Zian’s intentions. “I arranged the second carriage for Lady Sumila after our first spar, although my efforts have thus far been ignored.”

“How kind of you, but my guess is your efforts weren’t ignored, only overlooked.” Shrugging, Rain added, “Mila is a smart girl, but incredibly stubborn. Once she makes up her mind there’s no changing it, no matter what else she sees. I thought something was off when she talked about your spars, but I didn’t connect the dots until I saw both carriages.”

What dots and what connections? After failing to puzzle through Rain’s words, Zian merely nodded and sipped his tea. Once it became clear Rain wouldn’t speak first, he asked, “Lady Sumila misjudged my intentions?”

“That depends. What are your intentions?”

Zian didn’t dignify him with a response. All he wanted was to test himself against Lady Sumila’s skills, he harboured no other improper or indecent motives for seeking her out.

...

Right. And tomorrow morning, the sun would rise in the west.

“I noticed something strange on our journey here,” Rain said, gulping down yet another cupful of buttered tea. “When you spar with Jukai, no one loses. You both draw your weapons and go at each other, but it always ends the same way, with you breathless, yet still standing. I don’t get it.”

“Is that so?” As if. He clearly knew Jukai was holding back to give Zian face.

“It is. I mean, why keep training with a man who obviously wants you dead?” Ignoring Zian’s surprise, Rain continued speaking. “I can’t think of any other reason for Jukai to go easy on you. Is face really more important than preserving your life? A single defeat can teach you more than a thousand victories, and I’ve been defeated more times than I can count.” Smirking, he added, “Many of those defeats were at Mila’s hands.”

Now he was bragging about sparring with his beautiful betrothed. Swallowing his anger, Zian understood Rain’s meaning. Saving face wasn’t as important as gaining strength, because with enough strength, others would be forced to give face. Exhaling slowly, he inclined his head ever so slightly. Smiling, Rain stood and headed towards the door. “I’m glad we understand each other. Personally, I think this is a great idea and My Grand-Mentor agrees. She even arranged a private sparring room for our personal use. We can swear an oath if you feel it's necessary, but what happens in the sparring room, stays in the sparring room. Agreed?”

“Agreed,” Zian replied as he followed behind, relieved to finally be able to spar with Sumila to his hearts content, without having to worry about face or reputation.

“Great.” Rain’s mood was oddly chipper for a man who just agreed to letting his Betrothed spar with another man. Didn’t he understand that Zian would now be in close, physical contact with Sumila? Such an intimate connection could lead to other types of physical contact, how could he not see this? Could it be Rain was forced into this betrothal by Akanai and didn’t hold Sumila in high esteem? Maybe he hoped she would fall in love with Zian and free him from his obligations. A blind fool is what he was to treat lovely Sumila so poorly, but one man’s loss was another man’s gain.

Blind to Zian’s thoughts, Rain prattled on. “Fung and Huu aren’t around, so with Li Song we have four for today, which is perfect. Since we have a 'young talents' theme going, I intend to bring Dastan in tomorrow. How about you ask BoShui to join us and even up the numbers? Then there won’t be anyone left out. A shame ZhiLan and Ryong went south, have you heard from them yet? Did they arrive safely?”

Missing a step, Zian blanched at the implications. No, no, he hadn’t thought this through, too focused on sparring with Sumila in private. Did he just agree to spar with his hated rival? And on a daily basis no less?

Only now did he understand the proverb ‘a life with love is happy; a life for love is foolish’.

Chapter Meme
