The morning of the would be feast we awoke early and gathered with the rest of the local families in an open area nearby to Sorren's home.

It was a party atmosphere as the men slaughtered the old ox and began the process of cutting the meat into cuts, several of them also setting up tables and the like for when all was readied. The women and girls started the long process of communal cooking, chatting idly as pots of meat and vegetables simmered happily.

I was paired with two girls named Sara and Lena, both about a year older than me. I'd met them a few times, and we'd played a bit when we were still toddlers, but as of late I hadn't had much to do with them, I was too busy with everything. It was a bit odd talking to those around my physical age, being so much older mentally, but I decided that I needed some friends, and this would be a good place to start.

"Are you excited about the food?" I asked, this got fervent nods.

"Yeah, I've never had beef," Sara said, "Oh, I had it once, it was yummy, kinda tough though," Lena added in.

"I think it is kinda tough, but it looks like we're roasting most of it with sauce, that should help," indeed most of the meat being cooked today was going in large vessels with a sweet sauce, a mix of honey, vinegar, tomato, and herbs, what one might expect from a standard barbecue sauce, guess that might be universal.

We alternated with tending the two pots we'd been set to and playing a game not unlike hop scotch, save that the board was circular.

Throughout the day people came by to talk. Even my brothers, they came together a few times. Rod seemed determined to awkwardly flirt with Sara's older sister Sandra. They were cute together.

Several other girls came by to gossip with Sandra after the boys had left, asking for opinions and the like on my brother, as well as a few more boys his age. The discussion on who was best was intense. Sandra's mother and my own were off in a corner too, huddled together in conversation. I couldn't hear much from them, but it would seem they approved of the pairing, or at least thought it was adorable.

These might have seemed like games to me when I first came here, but it was quite important. Our little hamlet was tiny, even the whole village wasn't that big, and the list of potential spouses was short. All that considered, it was quite possible that my big brother would be marrying the girl he was trying to chat up when they both came of age at eighteen.

Lunch consisted of mostly quick cooking foods, the only meat some that had been shaved thin, even then it was still a bit tough. The old beast had been ancient. It was short, but rather enjoyable on the whole, we even had some sandwiches of the meat, I thought they were a hit, but most passed.

After lunch Rod dragged John with him to continue his flirtations several more times, it eventually became a distraction. Mom solved this by filling up the ice cream churn and setting the two to work. I provided the ice, and with a bit of salt added to it, the two could use their overabundant energy productively.

The whole event could only be described as a miniature festival, and continued on until dinner. Which started with a series of toasts to the generosity of Sorren, and his toasts to the others who'd brought food as well. The food that night was the best I'd had since coming to this world. Slow cooking the meat was absolutely the winning choice, and whoever had made the sauce was an artist. My ice cream was the after dinner hit, mom got someone from every family asking how to make it, even old Mystien came by to check out the churn.

The sky was darkening as we cleaned up, our bellies full and joy on every face. It was as a few last jokes were being told that we saw him coming, a rider in some kind of official looking getup. All conversation stopped as he came near, not even getting off of his horse.

"Is this everyone who lives here?" asked the rider.

My father looked around, "Yes, it appears to be, something has happened?"

The rider nodded to my dad, pulling out a scroll as he did so, "Good, it'll make this easier,"

"Oye, oye," he intoned, his voice loud enough for everyone to hear.

"By decree of His Majesty Erik the Third, King of Bergond and Master of the Great Cities.

War is henceforth declared upon the Empire of Ermath. To suit our great nation on this righteous endeavor towards their destruction, every man between the ages of eighteen and thirty, excluding those with three or more children below the age of fifteen, is henceforth ordered to report to the appropriate officials for registration in the kingdom's military," with that he rolled up the scroll.

"Thus ends the official decree. The mayor would be who you would report to, he will be sending you off to Lord Hazelwood once that is done, that's who you should see. Volunteers outside of the required men will of course also be accepted," the messenger looked out over us, our whole group stunned to silence, "Be well," with those last words he rode off, leaving us standing there as night fell upon our happy little home.
