“It would be best to give advanced notice of that, too, if you can. Nobody reasonable is going to ask you to manage a wizard’s schedule, but if you tell people you’re on the way, we can stuff skeletons back in closets and present ourselves as well as possible.”

Alden was of the opinion that Esh-erdi would prefer to play with all the skeletons, but he agreed to try to text her if they had another tour.

“That’s all I have to bother you with, Alden,” she said at last. “Is there anything you wanted to talk to me about?”

“Not that I can think of.”

“Thank you for your time, and have a good day. Your MPE class might be rowdy this evening.”

“Rowdy?”

“Have fun with it.”

******

******

…but if you’re not sure about the rest of it yet, our heroes would still love to have you join them in their suite at Wrigley Field on a game day. Everyone always has a great time.

Please know that I speak for Skiff, Ursula Gotcha, Howl Hawk, and Sharon when I say we’re all glad you’re back on Earth, and we hope to get you back to our Chicago!

Looking forward to hearing from you,

Baxter Washington

Lead Hero Assistant

Department of Superhuman Affairs and Events

Alden was skimming the email for the fourth time while he stood in front of Garden Hall and directed the Nine-edged Son toward his favorite parking spot on the roof. They really are inviting me to come back home. Well…to come show myself off to the city a little.

He was trying to tamp down his excitement and think it over critically. Judging by this first email that had been sent weeks ago and a follow-up that had come just a couple of days past, there was no specific request they expected him to fulfill. Not one that they were telling him about yet anyway. In fact, Baxter Washington did a flawless job of making it sound like the whole trip was just the right and natural thing for the city and the hero team to do, no strings attached. After all, Alden had been whisked away unexpectedly. He’d missed the final months he was supposed to have saying goodbye to friends, family, and the famous Peanut—a giant outdoor sculpture that Baxter very seriously called More Than One World, even though Peanut was everyone’s favorite name for it.

But the trip’s not just for me. My name being in the news brings the Body Drainer massacre back into the news, which means if I wanted to risk ruining my day, I could poke around the internet and find a few people wondering why the Chicago heroes aren’t looking out for me now or talking about how I must hate them and the city.

Yeah…that does put it in perspective.

A picture of Alden enjoying a veggie dog at a baseball game with the current hero team was probably some kind of publicity bullet designed to lay that tragic zombie to rest.

The thought dimmed his eagerness. Only a little, but it was enough for more ruthless truths to skitter out of the corners where they’d hidden as soon as he’d read Baxter’s assurance that any trip arranged through his department wouldn’t count against Alden’s annual allotment of personal visits.

No trouble at all! Just a few forms exchanged and rules agreed upon with Anesidora, and he could hop right over and spend a week with Connie and Boe.

But while they might let him have a week that felt like a vacation, wouldn’t it really be more of a trial period?

Even though there were no specific terms for this proposed trip, Baxter did suggest some things Alden might like to do—a visit to his old school, joining Sharon for her Hour of Song, going on a training run with Howl Hawk, or getting a behind the scenes look at the making of a Skiff Says episode. It all sounded optional, this time. Not much pressure, this time.

There’s no reason for them to give me a next time if I’m not willing to perform. So even the first trip would have to be treated like…a job, right? If I don’t sing with Sharon or smile for a camera, if I don’t come across as likable, the opportunity disappears.

He felt nervous suddenly. He didn’t know why.

While he headed upstairs with his suitcase in hand, he tried to blame it on the obvious culprit. If you were nervous after finding out that someone wanted to take publicity photos of you, maybe you just hated the idea of being famous even more than you’d realized. It made some sense.

I mean, okay…so I don’t want to go back to my old school and have someone record me reminiscing about my locker combination. It’s no big deal, though. It’s still a huge win. I spend an hour walking the halls and saying hi to teachers with a film crew or whatever it is they want me to do.

And then they let me hang out with Aunt Connie for the rest of the day, right?

Boe and Jeremy can come. Sleepover, video games all night—I’ll crush them. I can get to know Brodie and question him about whether he stole cat food from me once. That needs to be resolved if he’s marrying my aunt.

It sounds fantastic. And all for the price of looking like I’m fond of superheroes I have no serious issues with and a city that I really do miss? That’s an amazing bargain.

He pushed opened the door to the apartment and strode in. Haoyu had made cinnamon oatmeal today, judging by the lingering smell and the dirty dishes. He and Lexi were probably in class unless they were watching video lectures in their rooms. But the robo vacuum was keeping the place lively as it whirred around on the kitchen floor.

Alden wheeled his suitcase to his room and heaved it onto the rolling chair so that he could unpack it. There was enough time for that. Then he’d throw on his uniform and head off to Engaging with the Unexpected.

He reached for the zipper.

I’ll just shove the camera-shyness down and learn to be more photogenic and bubbly. Do I have to be bubbly? Maybe not, but I have to be interesting in a good way. Enough so that people who see me hanging out with their favorite superheroes will feel like they want to see more of me doing that.

And in exchange for learning that trick and putting in some work…the work would be…I guess I’d have to actually do social media better. That’s the kind of thing publicity people would like. And like Principal Saleh says, I need to handle my messages. I should hire an assistant or a service for that. I’ll also have to come up with a bunch of smart answers for all of my sore spots and secrets if I’m going to be more in the public eye.

He stared down at his bag.

That’s a lot. I’m probably missing some other things. But in exchange, I’d get to…I just need to figure out when I could…

Shit.

That’s really going to be a lot.

The nerves were ratcheting higher, and thanks to his train of thought, he identified them correctly this time. The problem wasn’t camera-shyness, unfortunately.

“It’s going to be too much,” he said to his empty room.

Cultivating the right kind of popularity, leveraging it, and maintaining it—if it was possible, it would still be a part-time job. He wouldn’t have to go as far as someone like Winston, but it would be hours every week. Maybe hours every day.

And it might buy him Christmases and breaks in Chicago. It might buy him a life there one day. What if he did want that?

There was a chance to set it in motion here, and it was a chance he couldn’t make a serious reach for unless he was willing to let something else he was doing slide.

Like what?

He suddenly remembered Zeridee-und’h handing him a tablet and saying, “You are allowed to name two people. Their evacuation priorities will be changed to match your own.”

That’s way too extreme for a comparison.

But maybe it wasn’t quite as far off the mark as he might wish. Before the principal’s call, just a short while ago when he didn’t realize he’d been ignoring such a tempting and complicated invitation…

There was already too much for me to handle it all the way I’d like to, he admitted to himself.

He wanted to be a good student. He wanted to attend every class. He really enjoyed spending time with Haoyu, and he was getting worried about Lute, and he felt like he was worming his way into Lexi’s good graces. Natalie had texted to ask if this weekend would be a convenient time to go see the drudgery box restaurant together, and he hadn’t gotten back to her yet because he wasn’t sure he could carve out time for something casual and fun like that.

Somehow I went from finding things to keep me busy to having way too many things keeping me busy.

He was fairly sure the tipping point had been Stuart asking him if he could come over for a visit earlier than they’d planned, but another tipping point would have arrived if that one hadn’t. Alden would eventually have opened these emails, or he would have started getting summoned to the Triplanets. Something.

He hadn’t felt like he had too much free time in intake, and now he had so much more going on.

Too many worlds.

Here on Anesidora he had the possibility of some wonderful relationships. On Artona I, he had the Primary’s son, revealing truths about himself and weaving a friendship in the days before his first affixation. And on a moon orbiting Kimnor, there was a girl who was probably recording information about all the lab equipment she remembered, so that Alden would know if there was anything he could use to break free of that nightmare forever.

They had promised each other they would one day have matching tattoos.

She might change her mind when she’s older. Stuart will probably have tons of knight friends once they realize he’s going to succeed.

But for now it wasn’t like that.

I’m a registered Avowed. When I’m on Earth, Anesidora is…the only place where I’m guaranteed a place.

The two people he wanted to save the most if the planet blew up lived in Chicago. He saw, very clearly right now, that the hardest part of his choosing season was going to be choosing what he lost.

He realized he was squeezing the zipper pull so hard it was on the verge of biting into his finger.

Zippier, he thought, letting it go. That’s what Stuart called it. He made it by hand. I promised I’d get him some bananas.

He got dressed in his uniform slowly, wondering what he could do to hold on to every little piece of his life.

But by the time he left the dorms to head to Engaging with the Unexpected, he knew that even though he would say all the right things and pose for photos if it meant he could get an extra trip or two to Chicago in the coming months, he wouldn’t do everything he could to appeal to them. He wouldn’t carefully craft posts about the hero team, angling for more invites. He wouldn’t push back healing sessions with Yenu-pezth or visits to Stuart to accommodate events in his former home.

He would not give them his best, and so it was unlikely that they would find many uses for him after the initial dose of feel-good news about the lost Rabbit’s return had been digested by the people they wanted to see it.

It was a decision he felt mostly sure about and mostly sad about at the same time.

“Hey,” he said, when Boe’s face appeared before his eyes, “you picked up. I thought you’d be in class.”

Boe wasn’t even in school. He was in his room at home, putting on a coat. “I’m going to try to find a missing person. I heard on the news that a kid wandered away from home this morning. I don’t actually like my chances of success, especially since it’s an hour and a half away and I don’t know the area at all. But I’ve got ten people to save, so I figured it was worth a try.”

Alden smiled. He was heading down a busy walkway, so he had to remind himself not to say anything that would sound suspicious out loud. “That’s so cool of you. Seriously. ”

“I’m just going to wander around, hoping that lost kid emotions are easy to pick up on.”

“I know I can’t help from here, but can I watch?”

“Don’t you have class? Yes. If you want. Really, though, this isn’t going to be anything to look at. I think it’s very likely that by the time I get there, someone will have found the escapee or he’ll have headed back home on his own.”

“I hope so.”

“You just don’t want me to catch up to you. What did you call for?”

“Just to chat,” Alden said.

Not quite true. He had felt a need to ask Boe why Boe wouldn’t register and come live on Anesidora. For a second, he’d wanted a clear answer more than he wanted to respect Boe’s privacy.

But he couldn’t throw a search and rescue empath off his game.

“I want my cat back,” he said instead.

“You’re going to have to take that up with Jeremy.”

“I was just expressing my profound desire for feline company. Are you nervous at all? Do you need hyping up on your way to your destination?”

“I don’t think so,” Boe said. “How would you hype me up for something like this anyway?

“By telling you about how Sharon wants to sing with me.”******
