Chernom laughed, and it was louder than his whisper. He spoke in a volume that was more real, “I can’t believe that we actually have a wrought Wizard! And two of them! You had something to do with that, didn’t you?”

“I did.” Erick said, “With any luck, they’ll both come through this better than before, and be able to actually fight against the real enemy.”

Chernom looked at Erick. His voice was a normal volume, as he said, “Kosomov spoke about the real enemy some. Says his whole life was a lie.”

“Not a lie. A deception. Everyone was deceived. Even Melemizargo didn’t know what was happening, exactly.”

Moments passed.

“Am I a lie?” Chernom asked. “I don’t feel real.”

“You’re a Truth that has yet to fully manifest.” Erick looked at the man, and he was vaguely translucent, but as Erick looked at him, Chernom turned opaque, the silver vanishing under black densities. Erick saw his Lightning Path connect. He asked, “Want to help them be friends again?”

“Yes.”

Erick nodded, and then he spoke to the air, “Melemizargo? Rozeta? Can we get some cooperation going here, please? A reenactment and an enabling of Ascension?”

A moment passed in an eternity.

Erick imagined Melemizargo and Rozeta speaking in the shadows, and in the clouds.

Killzone and Sitnakov struck each other and separated as they had a hundred times since Erick started talking with Chernom, but each one was running on fumes and resons.

And then it was time.

A blue pulse pulled back from the battlefield, from the contact of the two warriors.

Killzone’s Script-empowered silver aura and all of his ‘[Fist Storm]’ suddenly failed. He reoriented fast. He managed to stay afloat. His conjured weapons did not. Fists pattered onto the ground like the final rush of a great rainstorm.

Sitnakov’s Script-empowered wind faltered. He did not manage to stay afloat. He hit the ground in a controlled crash.

The fight paused, for now.

And then Blue rippled away from the fight, twisting Genesis to rapidly create something real as the Script left the land, revealing a great land of white stone pillars with lines of gold all throughout. All of Killzone’s scattered metals vanished. The sky turned into more crystal towers. Up there, sky bridges connected everything to everything else, but down here, a blue river flowed between towers, between crystal shores laden with mosses and garden paths.

The participants in the battle were repositioned.

The Script would be back, but later, when the memory was done.

The memory was the set for a wedding, taking place at the bottom of the deepest parts of Stratagold. The wedding was not for today. It was some other day, in the near future. All that existed right now was a white arch of metal and a platform and some lightwards that marked out some seating arrangements. The chairs were nowhere to be seen. The tables that would hold the banquet were empty, without any table cloths.

Erick watched the memory from far away. He was alone. Chernom had relocated, too.

Chernom stood like an adamantium orcol wrought, stretching his black hands up and shaping some lightwards over the white arch where the ceremony would take place. He made light, and then erased light, forming letters and then erasing them, trying to get it right. He looked like Killzone, but there was a softness to him that did not exist in the man who would become Killzone. Chernom was an artist, making a series of triggering lightwards that would unfold and twist and then change as the ceremony went on.

Killzone set down on the ground at the end of the aisle that led up to Chernom. He still looked like himself, but also like Chernom, if Chernom were to hold himself in a completely different, harder sort of way.

Sitnakov set down to the far side, where he somehow ended up leaning against one of the giant white pillars.

Killzone and Sitnakov both had a surreal moment, because both of them knew that this was real, but also not.

Sitnakov stepped away from the pillar, his eyes going wide, as his body began to exude Air Mana. He was a disturbed breeze right now, for he was feeling disturbed himself. He had no Script-granted power at the moment, and though he had likely trained to fight in such a situation, considering dungeons existed for that exact reason, Sitnakov was still running on empty.

Killzone effervesced platinum, almost ready to resume the fight—

And then he locked sight onto Chernom, and his glow pulsed. Whatever was happening, whatever this was? Chernom was real.

Killzone’s voice cracked, “Chernom?”

Chernom turned, then scowled, though there was a hint of mirth in that scowl. He shouted, “Kosomov! You’re not supposed to be here before the ceremony. I’m still working on the designs.”

In a deep, soft sort of way, Killzone walked forward, speaking lines lost to history, “You could work on them for a year and still not be happy.”

“Yes yes yes,” Chernom said, rolling his eyes. “Done is better than perfect.”

Sitnakov spoke his part, “I still can’t believe I have to be out here chaperoning ‘The Artist’. This is supposed to be your job, Kosomov. This could have been avoided if you would have denied his proposal. You two could be gallivanting off into Rozeta knows what places, living in sin like is proper for adventurers.”

Chernom sarcastically said, “How droll for me to want to make Kosomov an honest man.”

“I’m glad we agree!” Sitnakov said, “So you can call this whole thing off, yeah?”

“Fuck off, Sitnakov,” Kosomov said, without any real anger, like it was a thing he said all the time.

Sitnakov pulled one of his swords out from his hip, saying, “Make me. Prove your worth as someone who can actually protect my brother, and not just as some hanger-on from Titanite’s impure Heavies, trying to get into real royalty.”

The air flickered with Darkness all around the ceremony grounds, far away from Erick.

Upon the hill where Erick stood, Darkness also coiled.

Melemizargo whispered to Erick, “I’ll show you how it’s done this time. You get to do the next ones.”

Erick nodded.

Killzone and Sitnakov didn’t notice the Darkness all around themselves. They didn’t notice Chernom eyeing the sky. Whatever spell had been cast, was slowly leaving the two of them. They eyed each other, and realizations came forward, all the way. They hated.

Chernom made a show of looking up and all around, trying to stick to the script of the past, “Where’d the light go?”

Killzone and Sitnakov glared at each other. To call what was in their eyes something as simple as ‘hate’ was to miss centuries of companionship and memories and fights fought together and stories that went on to get sung in bars, or written down by Knowledge Mages. And then a souring of all of that, all because of one horrible day.

Killzone glared at Sitnakov, “If you wouldn’t have been an asshole, talking about my heritage and driving me to fight, then maybe we would have noticed Melemizargo staring at our gathering.”

Sitnakov pulled his other sword out of his other thigh, to hold them both, as he said, “And if you would have been a better man, maybe I could have trusted you with my brother, betrayer.”

Melemizargo appeared out of the Darkness, looming above the battlefield, his wings and body and tail flowing around the massive pillars like a primordial ooze. He was an event horizon, upon which all the world collapsed into focus, and that focus was upon his face, directly above the ceremony space, his white eyes glaring down at the participants. He made a show of his white eyes focusing on Killzone, then Sitnakov, and then landing squarely on Chernom, though that whole action had passed in less than a flicker of time.

And then Killzone and Sitnakov noticed Melemizargo.

They noticed.

Erick witnessed the moment that Killzone’s entire being fractured with ancient pain, and then he focused.

Sitnakov had a similar moment of panic and then calm.

Chernom became a real person.

Melemizargo spoke his lines, “I prefer Titanite and Stratagold as enemies.”

And then Melemizargo opened his jaws and descended, his serpentine neck curling behind his head, wide as all the pillars all around. His teeth were the size of mansions surrounding an open hole in the world. He would devour, and never stop.

Sitnakov and Kosomov became as they had been, and so much more. Without looking at each other, Sitnakov knew to head high, which he did. He became a slashing tornado, aiming to clip Melemizargo’s jaws aside. Kosomov headed low, aiming right for Chernom, grabbing him in a tackle that brought him far away from the battlefield.

But Kosomov hit nothing but platinum illusion—

And then the illusion became real in a flashing instant.

Many things happened all at once. Erick did not catch them all, because many of them happened outside of his sight, for the very first thing to happen was an explosion of resons from both Sitnakov and Kosomov, obscuring most mana senses. Erick did what he could to adjust his sight to little portals he opened to directly view the land.

Killzone held Chernom in his arms, rushing the two of them outside of the descent of Melemizargo’s jaws. Chernom held an arm around Killzone’s neck as they flew, and he kissed Killzone on the cheek. Killzone smiled. He flashed platinum, and suddenly he was kilometers away from the battle, and he was no longer black. He was fully white and almost iridescent, and his entire body had stopped effervescing silver.

Erick was reminded of the Curse of Adamantium at that moment. That Curse is what turned adamantium black, because Melemizargo did not like ‘black’ being associated with ‘evil’.

Killzone slowed because he noticed the change, too.

Chernom kissed him again, and then patted his shoulder. “You can let me off here. Go save Sitnakov.”

Killzone held tighter, “I don’t ever want to let you go again.”

“Go save him, or I’m not marrying you.”

Meanwhile, on the battlefield, Sitnakov tore through Melemizargo’s jaw and out the other side. He came out covered in blood that rapidly fell away, along with all of the black of his own adamantium body. He turned pure white, too. Even his swords were white. He was amazed at himself for a moment, because he knew he shouldn’t have been able to hurt Melemizargo like that at all, and yet he had. He had dived into the jaws of death, and come out a few tens of god-teeth richer.

And also Ascended.

Melemizargo’s top jaw crashed into the ceremony space, but his bottom jaw was not there to close the gap. Instead of eating the whole ceremony ground, he merely broke part of it, and then he vanished back into the gloom.

Sitnakov laughed at the God of Magic, “You fucking bastard! I got you that time.”

Melemizargo was nowhere to be found, but several teeth and scales littered the area. His lower jaw simply wasn’t there.

Erick rubbed his own jaw, wondering if when Killzone had struck there, he had been trying to replicate what he had been unable to do oh so long ago. And he had, a little. Sitnakov might have done the most ‘damage’ to the God of Magic, but even Killzone’s rapid extrication of Chernom had broken several teeth. Both of them had saved Chernom. Killzone, by taking the guy directly out of there, and Sitnakov, by delaying the descent of those jaws by a half-second.

A moment passed, as Sitnakov hovered over the battlefield, and at the gore covering the ceremony grounds.

Killzone showed up. He grinned at Sitnakov, speaking in a drawl, “They’re gonna have to call ya the ‘White Wind’, now, ya fuck.”

Sitnakov turned and paused, taking in Killzone’s new look, his eyes going wide. And then he looked down at his own hands and swords. “… Wha—”

A blue wave collapsed inward, from far beyond Erick’s senses, down into the battlefield. The white pillars of Stratagold vanished as that wave rushed in—

A tiny blue box appeared in front of Erick.

Would you like a Wizardly Connection to the Script, Erick Flatt?

Yes / No

Note: This connection is optional.

“No thank you.” Erick added, “Maybe later.”

The blue box vanished, just as the entire battlefield ahead vanished; as though it never existed. The marriage grounds were gone. So were the teeth of Melemizargo.

The crater-marked battlefield did not come back. Instead, a continent of green grasses spread out ahead in every direction, both on the lower continent, and in the sky, on the upper continent. The light returned in the middle layers.

The land was at peace… But what about the warriors?

Killzone and Sitnakov stood in the middle of a field of flowers, beside a stream that had not been there before. Killzone no longer had the [Shackle of Memory and History] upon his wrist, but he was full-iridescent-white, so it was easy to tell him apart from Chernom. Sitnakov had no iridescence to him, but he was still full-white, too. Both of them were slightly crystalline. Both were different.

Most notably, Erick couldn’t mana sense them at all the way he could mana sense normal people, like Chernom. Chernom had a soft silvery cloud for a soul, which was more or less normal, but it was still in tatters here and there. He had just come back; of course there was soul damage. Sitnakov had a white soul that was dense and strong, and completely fake; normal souls did not look like that. He looked like a crystal on the inside, and the outside. Killzone was a void that was not a void; it was a space of mana that was completely indistinct from the normal manasphere. If Erick didn’t have eyes and rather extreme senses, he would have thought Killzone was an illusion. Killzone was rather adept at being soft and hidden when he wanted to be —he had been fighting Shades for 350 years, after all— so it did not surprise Erick that the man had Ascended like he had.

The two men looked at each other, and at the sky and the land—

And then Chernom, far away on a hill, waved and shouted. He looked like how Killzone used to look, but softer. Happier.

Killzone went to Chernom.

Sitnakov followed, though he purposefully lagged behind.

Erick allowed them several private moments of quiet words and hand holding, while Sitnakov desperately wanted to throw an arm around Chernom’s shoulders and have his own time with his brother, away from Killzone, but Sitnakov stuck with just a quick hug. They could be a family later.

Before they got too into it, Erick stepped through a [Gate] to stand among the three wrought, forgoing all introductions and simply asking a question he could already see the answer to, “You True Wizards are done fighting amongst yourselves, right? Training time is over. Nothanganathor awaits, and we need your swords and your fists.”

