“I am staying out of it.” Erick felt his Lightning Path connect, as he said, “I’m just gonna watch and make sure the world’s two newest Wizards don’t obliterate the world when they finally fight, like they’ve been wanting to for a very long time. You both used to be good friends, right? Knowing both of you, I imagine you talk best with your fists. So get on with it. I’m here to ensure nothing truly bad happens.”

The world stood still.

Killzone and Sitnakov stared at each other, and their thought tendrils stopped.

Erick floated backward. Chernom’s ghost glared at the guys, and then he floated away with Erick, the silver spectre shaking their head the entire time—

Sitnakov attacked at the exact same moment as Killzone pulled back, to punch the world.

Erick repositioned faster, to stand on the top of a mountain a good twenty kilometers away, just in time to watch as Killzone’s fist went forward, and the world whined in the passing, because Killzone wasn’t just punching with his fist.

The General of Spur’s Army transformed his kilometers-wide platinum aura into a giant black fist a good 500 meters wide, the immensity of it all crashing down on the Adamantium Wind, who responded with a whirlwind of slicing air that carved that fist into adamantium chunks. Black metal rained down on the countryside in pillars and slices each large enough to level several city blocks. That metal fell for a while, most of it headed down to the ground, but some went up to the second ground in the sky.

That had been a big attack.

Erick’s senses extended all the way to the battlefield and beyond, but still…

Erick calmly asked, “Rozeta? Can I get some numbers to know when I need to step in?”

It was a strange request, altogether antithetical to what Rozeta usually did in keeping people’s information private, but normal protocols failed when Wizards went to war.

Some numbers appeared in the air.

Killzone: 96% Health, 99% Resources, 80% Resons

Sitnakov: 97% Health, 98% Resources, 89% Resons

“Thank you.”

Sitnakov repositioned far to the right, the air churning with mirage-winds, the world whining as air sliced and then did more than slice. The very air parted as cleaving demands separated the space. Sitnakov was fighting with the very concept of severing, as he flew back to Killzone, repositioning—

A mirage-flash tore across the entire sky, all the way down and up into the ground of both continents, more than forty kilometers away from the fight. Stone flew from both lands, filling the sky with debris, as clouds and light tore apart in the middle. Sitnakov finished his strike far to the left, burying himself into a mountain that now had a great rent through the top part.

Killzone’s silver aura parted in the strike. Half of that silver aura vanished, but Killzone stepped out of the other half, completely unharmed. He had repositioned himself inside his aura. And now he flexed his fists, as though he was healing from gripping something he shouldn’t have tried to grip.

Killzone: 95% Health, 90% Resources, 85% Resons

Sitnakov: 96% Health, 91% Resources, 98% Resons

Their Health and Mana went down in that attack, but both of them gained resons? Erick imagined that must be because they were tapping into their real purposes in life? Perhaps this fight had been a truly long time coming. Sitnakov loved to fight, and so did Killzone. With that understanding, it was easy to believe that they had once been the best of friends. Looking at it now, they were little more than strangers deciding if they truly wanted to kill each other.

Sitnakov’s voice reached everywhere, “Always too fucking slippery, you slippery fuck!”

Killzone retorted, his voice twanging, “That’s gold coming from a hot shart of air.”

Sitnakov pulled himself out of the rent in the mountain and stepped into the air. He gripped both of his swords, and the air flexed around them—

Chernom stepped to Erick’s side, the silver outline of the guy turning a bit more solid. He said something, but Erick had no idea what he said.

In the distance, Sitnakov attacked with cleaving force, slashing his swords in an X, parting the sky into quarters. It was not nearly as big of an attack as that first one, but it struck Killzone head on. And yet, Killzone merely stepped out of the way, into the part of his silver aura that had survived and expanded far, far beyond the current battlefield. The entire sky felt a little bit platinum.

And then Killzone clapped his hands together, and two giant black hands, each the size of mansions, crashed together upon Sitnakov.

Sitnakov chunked those hands, and more black adamantium rained to the ground.

Killzone: 92% Health, 83% Resources, 84% Resons

Sitnakov: 89% Health, 76% Resources, 97% Resons

They were using resons now at a faster rate than they were accumulating them, but barely.

Chernom scowled, his features suddenly looking more lifelike. Erick couldn’t hear what he said, and he had no lips to read, but as he gesticulated, Erick imagined that he had said something like, “Look at those two idiots. They’re going to kill each other.”

Erick decided to say, “They won’t kill each other. I’ll rewind time. It will work at least a few times, before Killzone slips out of that power and Sitnakov follows.”

Chernom laughed silently, his chest heaving, a smile on his face appearing. The silver ghost said something and Erick had no idea what he said, for it was long and complicated. Perhaps it was commentary of a deep sort that only he and the two fighters would know—

And then the sky rang with a series of explosions that caused Chernom to pause, and a wave of pressurized air to cascade away from the battle. Erick protected his space from the pressured air. Grass and boulders tore up where he did not protect.

Sitnakov had pulled out some explosion magic of some sort.

Killzone’s voice in the wake of those explosions had lost some of its twang, “Finally getting serious?”

“As serious as your betrayal, face stealer!”

Killzone’s face contorted in fury. His voice was solid, now, as he said, “Fuck you.”

And then Killzone moved.

The sky turned to a hailstorm of black fists, each the size of Killzone’s own real fists. He rained down upon Sitnakov, but Sitnakov dodged the rain in a way he truly shouldn’t have been able to dodge.

Sitnakov became a storm of tearing forces. The noise was incredible. It was apocalyptic.

Chernom looked as though he was shouting to be heard, grinning as he was saying something that might have been, “I wonder who will win!” Or something like that—

Sitnakov had been chopping at fists, avoiding them all, when suddenly one of those fists turned into all the rest of Killzone, and Killzone punched Sitnakov’s head clean off.

Sitnakov’s entire body disintegrated as though Killzone had splashed away a water balloon.

The wind died.

Chernom screamed. He wailed. He crashed to his knees.

Killzone stared at his hands, horror dawning, as black fists fell out of the sky—

Erick didn’t need to see Rozeta’s notification that Sitnakov was dead, but that notification was there anyway.

Erick rewound time.

Killzone came in for the kill and Erick invisibly, intangibly, mostly just metaphorically, tapped Sitnakov on the shoulder from 22 kilometers away. It was a tiny touch. It was enough. Sitnakov saw Killzone and he repositioned, his swords swinging through Killzone’s body—

But Killzone was already gone, transitioned to another part of the sky. He tsk’d.

Sitnakov billowed with rending force, parting the sky in another explosion. Killzone’s storm of fists parted to the sides, metal flying everywhere. Sitnakov was the calm center of a paused storm, driving the platinum aura away, his voice a whisper that carried only to Killzone, but Erick still heard it.

“You tried to kill me, for real.”

“As if you weren't doing the same. You’re just bad at it. When was the last time you were in a real fight, eh? Maybe if you would have done more against real enemies then you would have been able to save Chernom.” Killzone said, “That was always your problem. Too much hero, not enough warrior.”

Sitnakov glared, the world threading into severing force all around him, as he said, “The only reason you survived exile for what you did was because you swore to die to the Shades. You failed to die. I will now be rectifying that error.”

“If you could have killed me you would have done so the ten times you tried to assassinate me in Ar’Kendrithyst.”

“I only tried to kill you three times. The other seven were you being an asshole.”

“Considering the first three times you found me were each attempts to kill me, then I was correct in trying to kill you back.”

Sitnakov flew forward, swords flashing through the sky, parting the light and the dust and the clouds, as he roared, “I never understood what Chernom saw in you!”

Killzone flashed platinum and dove forward, turning into a line of light that went right through Sitnakov’s left hand and part of his side. Sitnakov stumbled in the sky, wind dying, as he rushed to reorient. Killzone let him.

Sitnakov pulled himself together. “You didn’t deserve him.”

“I didn’t. I loved him anyway.”

Sitnakov suddenly Raged, his wind flexing Carnage red, the wind turning vibrant and cutting.

Killzone swept the wind with a swipe of his hand that turned into a thousand palms.

The fight resumed—

Sitnakov caught Killzone across the arm, slicing up the silver bracelet that was Chernom—

Chernom screamed at Erick’s side as he separated into two halves—

The guys panicked—

Erick rewound time.

“You didn’t deserve him.”

“I didn’t. I loved him anyway.”

Erick whispered, “Aloethag. Please take the Rage away.”

A Carnage voice echoed in Erick’s ears, “Sure. Sumtir and I wish to speak with you later.”

“Agreed.”

Erick had already had a few conversations with them about various war efforts and plans, but today was a big day, and plans would need to be updated. After Veird got two more high-tier Wizards, though… and maybe more. Could these two Ascend? Erick wasn’t sure, but he was pretty sure that Rozeta was doing something in the background to help them. Or at least she was going to do something, eventually.

Erick was sure he would notice whatever she did when she actually did it.

Sitnakov tried to Rage, but he just roared and attacked Killzone.

Killzone countered with a storm of palm strikes.

Five minutes of fighting and three rewinds later, and the guys looked pretty bad off, according to the numbers.

Killzone: 46% Health, 46% Resources, 25% Resons

Sitnakov: 35% Health, 41% Resources, 19% Resons

It wasn’t that surprising to see Killzone as a little stronger than Sitnakov, considering Killzone fought Shades for most of the last 350 years and Sitnakov was kind of a playboy. Still, their wounds were extensive, and Sitnakov wasn’t a slouch at all.

On the broken land to the left, a legless Killzone hovered in the air and flexed his silver aura to replace his lost legs.

Sitnakov was on the ground to the far right. He stabbed the stump of his right arm into a block of adamantium that Killzone had created through Genesis. Sitnakov flexed, and then he pulled out a freshly healed arm and another sword from that hunk of abandoned adamantium.

Sitnakov glared at Killzone, saying, “You’re good for making resources, but we don’t need two Genesis Wizards. Now let me cut off your arm and take my brother back before you fuck him up again, betrayer.”

Killzone glared, and this time the hate was real. He spoke softly, “I’ve known you as an enemy longer than I knew you as a friend. All cooperative diplomacy between Titanite and Stratagold stopped when the Dark took Chernom. Has it ever occurred to you that that is what Melemizargo wanted?”

“The Dark is a crazy fucking bastard. No one should take him into consideration when living their life.” Sitnakov took to the sky again, declaring, “But you’re a man who stole my brother’s heart and then his body, and now you’re trying to reclaim his soul. You have no right, Kosomov.”

The silver apparition beside Erick stage-whispered, “Technically I stole Kosomov’s heart, but Sitnakov never understood that.”

… Huh.

Erick didn’t react much, but he had a reaction, for sure.

Killzone and Sitnakov obviously did not hear, because both of them went right back to fighting.

Sitnakov used explosion magic that Erick had never seen him use before. The noise was incredible.

Killzone was getting serious, too, filling the air with fists and even a few feet, swinging at Sitnakov from all angles. Some of those limbs were massive, some were small, like bullets, and moving faster than sight could track. Killzone was moving about that fast, too, flickering around the battlefield, dissolving where Sitnakov exploded the sky and then reappearing with one of the fists trying to connect to Sitnakov’s head, or chest, or other parts.

Erick almost reacted largely to the sound of Chernom’s voice. It was so much like Killzone’s voice that Erick almost believed that it had come from Killzone himself. But that was definitely Chernom’s voice. Chernom was still a silver ghost, but he had a substance to him that was more than illusion.

Erick helped Chernom along, talking with him, “Sitnakov is rather hard headed.”

Chernom smiled and his face was Killzone’s face, or rather, it was the other way around. Chernom said, “I’m glad that Kosomov got my body. It’s nice to see me beat up my older brother some. I never could manage that. I was always the more artistic, magic guy.”

Erick raised an eyebrow. “You were? What kinda magic?”

“All kinds of stuff that wasn’t war,” Chernom said, soft as a whisper from three rooms away, as the sky ripped apart in explosions and screaming metal. “Organizational magic, which is really just the discipline of Book Magic. Light Magic, for Illusion work and artsy stuff. Pretty shit at it, though.” He laughed. “When I tried to sell it outside of Stratagold under a different name, I got no buyers. Not everyone goes for artistic nudes of people just being comfortable, or dancing at Bright Tea. The Bright Tea stuff didn’t get shown outside of the Geodes, of course. Maybe I should have tried more to get father to allow that, but he said no, and kings are kings.” Chernom looked up at the sky, at Killzone, saying, “Kosomov liked all of my stuff. He bought so much of it...” He sighed. “Gods. Look at how much better he is with that body! I could never move like that. That’s how a Son of Stratagold should be.”

Erick grinned. “Killzone is a pretty good Punch Wizard.”

