The entire black land of the volcano’s caldera turned from cooled, black obsidian, to rippled, almost-invisible glass. Erick stood upon that glass, looking down at the remains of a body that was not a body at all. It was missing too much to be called anything other than a collection of parts. What remained of the Goddess of Knowledge was broken crystal at every edge, almost colorless, all affixed in the general shape of a person laying on their back, with their hands at their sides. It was also easily half a kilometer large.

What remained of the Goddess of Knowledge was a finger, a foot, a pelvis, half a head which was mostly just the right eye. The torso, right shoulder, and left leg were the most intact; they were connected to each other, except for a break at the spine, just above the pelvis. Long, white hair lay draped under the remains, originating at what had been the head and then vanishing off into the mists far to the edges of the caldera. Erick imagined that the Goddess’s hair was the mist.

The Goddess of Knowledge’s right eye was open.

The depths of that dead eye glittered gold, even now, 1453 years after the Goddess’s sacrifice.

Rozeta spoke, “I accept the Mantle of Knowledge.”

Darkness flashed.

The Goddess below began to crumble, her body turning into motes of power that evaporated under the glass. She closed her eye. Though she had no mouth, Erick felt she was finally at peace, and that everything that had come before had been a torture—

Rozeta breathed deep, and the world flowed into her. Her white wrought human body gained something deep in that breath and she gained a few inches of height, as well. Her white pantsuit turned into something ever so slightly more elegant—

It was over.

That was it.

The Goddess of Knowledge was dead, and the Goddess of Knowledge lived again.

Rozeta breathed out. Rozeta’s eyes glittered gold; her right eye perhaps a bit more than her left. Rozeta blinked, and the discrepancy of gold glows vanished, both her eyes flickering brilliant before she blinked again and hid her power behind mundanity. And then she reached up and undid the clasp on her hair bun, her metallic white hair falling down into a soft flow of white, all the way down to mid-back.

Melemizargo said, “Welcome to true godhood, daughter.”

Rozeta did not answer Melemizargo for a moment. And then she looked up at his face, and said, “I expected more.”

Melemizargo hummed. “Acclimation will take time but you are already making this universe easier for me to understand. I suggest you appoint a few demigods before you take the full brunt of Infinity. Solomon can be Wisdom, but you should appoint Natural Laws, Magical Laws, Governance, and The Unknown.”

Rozeta winced a little as Melemizargo spoke, her eyes darting left and right as though the knowledge growing in her head was too much. Erick felt a spike of worry, both at Rozeta’s sight, and at Melemizargo’s words. If the original story of the Sundering was even a little bit true, the original Goddess of Knowledge had been catatonic from the influx of new knowledge from this ‘New Cosmology’.

But then Rozeta breathed deep. She calmed.

And Erick reminded himself that the original Goddess of Knowledge had surely already known of the Fractal Cosmology, and all those attendant facts. There was absolutely no reason for her to go catatonic at the beginning, except because that suited Nothanganathor’s plan.

Rozeta said, “I locked down my Knowledge base to a few ten-thousand side-realities. I’ll be appointing those demigods later to further solve the problem.”

… Oh. Perhaps the influx of knowledge actually did send the original Knowledge into a coma.

Rozeta said, “I did think it would be worse than this.”

Melemizargo raised a very large, scaled eyebrow. He looked closer. And then he pulled back, grinning. “Good work, daughter. I knew you could do it.”

“You didn’t, actually,” Rozeta said, perhaps a bit too harsh… And then she looked up at her father, and some of her earlier compassion came back. “… But maybe you did?”

“I am getting better, daughter,” Melemizargo said, smiling.

“Not to interrupt,” Erick began, “But did Nothanganathor notice this?”

“Yes yes. Work work,” Melemizargo said, fluttering away, into the shadows. “I’ll be watching.”

Rozeta said to Erick, “Yes. Nothanganathor noticed, but now I can truly solidify Veird and help several people Ascend.” She turned to Erick. “Will you please go and speak to Sitnakov and Killzone, now? I don’t want to weigh in too much in their personal lives; it will not be good for them. Phagar and I will work with Solomon now that this is the path we are walking.”

Phagar nodded.

“Sure. Congrats on a bigger mantle, by the way.” Erick asked, “So back to the previous question: What’s the deal between those two?”

“It would be better for you to find out from them.” Rozeta smiled. “And thank you. I… I have so much to do. I have to go now, too.” She vanished in a flicker of gold.

Erick chuckled at that.

- - - -

“I’m taking care of it, Erick. You don’t need to be here,” said King Alfonin Stratagold, standing with a few advisors on the side of the battlefield. Alfonin looked to Jane, standing near him. He said nothing, but his eyes said everything. He thought that Jane had called for him.

Jane’s eyes said everything, too, and then she actually said, “I didn’t call for you, dad.”

Erick said, “Oddly enough, I didn’t even know you two were here until I scoped out the place at the behest of another.”

Erick had stepped out of a portal onto a grassy hill on Sphere Six, The Warzone, in a spot somewhere over Nelboor, down on the Old Surface. This place was one of many battlefields that had raged between the Angels and the Demons ever since the Day of Genesis, when Solomon transformed Hell into Sphere Five and Celes into Sphere Seven. This land existed between those two ancient enemies, and it actually had two different directions of gravity because of that. Looking up, Erick saw a second continent in the mirror of this one, hanging overhead, instead of a sky. Everything between these two facing continents was lit up with an omnipresent light that flowed through the center of Sphere Six. Sphere Six was the only land like this, because both the land below and the sky above had needed a lot of water, ground, and just plain stuff, between the surface and the adamantium shells, so that people weren’t fighting directly on those shells. You couldn’t really damage adamantium at all, and especially not the adamantium that made up the Spheres, but having some extra dirt in the way of those shells helped to make things less worrisome.

Usually, this place was awash in spells and murder of all kinds, in screaming and killing and the clang of metal upon metal.

At least one thing remained constant; the sound of metal striking metal.

Killzone floated in the illuminated sky high overhead, far away. Erick estimated him at around 40 kilometers distant. He glowed with a silver presence that highlighted his black body.

Sitnakov hovered maybe 2 kilometers away from Killzone. He was surrounded by a mirage in the air; a density of air, really. Tendrils of thought connected him to Killzone, and their facial expressions were furious. This moment was a lull in the fight.

Erick wondered about all of what he was seeing, but most of his worries were about Sitnakov.

Killzone had ignited to Wizardry about a month ago, and here, right on Fated time, Sitnakov had managed the same thing.

Erick guessed, “Is Sitnakov an Air Wizard?”

Jane said, “Probably.” And then she fully committed to the fact that her father was here, and whatever she had been trying to avoid was suddenly out of her hands. “He’s been having trouble with this whole… thing. I’m sure you know.”

“I don’t know, actually. I make a point to stay out of people’s lives until it concerns the welfare of the many, or other similar situations.” Erick said, “And they’re communicating telepathically over there, so I can’t hear them, either.”

Jane paused. “… You don’t know?”

“Why is that surprising, Jane? I didn’t know the two of you were dating, either.” Erick said, “Found out about Evan and Zorik earlier today, too, but only because Ophiel simply had to tell me.”

Jane wasn’t sure what to make of that.

Alfonin Stratagold rapidly explained, “Killzone used to be a Heavy of Titanite, and his former shape used to be human, like all of the other adamantium nobility of Titanite. There’s a lot of them over there, so Killzone wasn’t high up at all. He was low nobility. His former name is Kosomov. He used to travel with Sitnakov and kill monsters together. Did that for a few hundred years.

“Kosomov and my boy, the Third Prince Chernom, fell in love, and Killzone was to be adopted into the family, by marriage. And then Melemizargo attacked before the ceremony, took Chernom, sundered him, then shoved Chernom’s dead body at Kosomov, causing a melding.

“Both of the boys have blamed themselves and each other to varying degrees ever since. Kosomov went on to become Killzone, and went on to Ar’Kendrithyst to die in battle, but that never happened, and Silverite managed to make him into a General.” Stratagold shuddered as he finished. “And that is something I hoped to leave in the past forever, but events conspire.”

Jane sighed a little.

Jane had known most of that, but not everything. From the looks on Alfonin’s advisors, hanging back, they all wanted to pretend that they hadn’t heard anything at all.

But Erick wasn’t going to pretend. Suddenly, a lot of things made sense. In an offhanded way, Erick also realized why the Geodes of Titanite and Stratagold have always had a rivalry/hatred going for each other, or they’d had a rivalry for around 350 years, which lined up nicely with Killzone’s arrival in Spur. Back when Erick had been scoping out places to put a planting of Yggdrasil, some of that rivalry had shown up.

A ‘melding’ was a thing that Erick had heard about maybe once or twice in his whole life, because it, like most things to do with the wrought, were simply not spoken of outside of the Geodes. Erick now knew why Killzone had his orcol-shape; the human-shaped Kosomov had been dying and Chernom’s body was there, and Melemizargo threw them together and Kosomov had taken in that adamantium to heal himself, resulting in the adoption of Chernom’s body-shape, because Chernom would have had a lot of adamantium to his body. The Third Prince would have provided the majority of the metal necessary to heal whatever wounds Kosomov had suffered in Melemizargo’s attack.

Also, the mental anguish of having your fiance murdered and all the political fallout and all of everything else that would have happened —and losing Sitnakov as a friend, too— would have probably caused a Change in Kosomov, causing him to fully adopt a different bodily form. Erick had seen that in the Daydropper incident, when that one wrought had been melting and reforming, turning into someone else as he gave an account of what had happened when Odaali was attacked and everyone died around him.

Also, Silverite used to have a man-shape when she first moved into Spur and became the Mayor. She proceeded to be a male Mayor for the next 750-ish years, but then the Shades wiped out 95% of Spur, around 115 years ago, and Silverite Changed into her current, female-dragonkin shape.

Erick decided, “Okay! Good to know. Thank you for the information. Now.” He opened a portal back to Stratagold’s Gate District, but he kept the sound and sight of this space invisible from that other end, where people walked around moving giant shipments through the Gates. “This has officially become Wizard business, and I aim to help both of them. Please leave the area. All of you.”

Alfonin stared hard at Erick, but his voice was harder. “They’re both idiots, but they’re good boys.”

“And if they can pull through this, they’re going to be the front line of the war.”

Alfonin nodded solemnly, resignation in his gaze. His advisors held more worried expressions.

The wrought left.

Jane stuck around for a moment longer to say, “Sitnakov doesn’t hate Killzone, but it will appear that way.”

“This fight has been coming for a long time; I understand that.” Erick tried not to be desperate as he said, “Please leave, Jane.”

Jane spared one last glance toward the sky, where Killzone and Sitnakov hung across from each other, like two black orcols, one rimmed in silver and the other surrounded by flickering winds. They were moments away from starting a Wizard war. Thankfully, Jane left through the portal, to the Gate District, where the people already there were dealing with the sudden, unexpected appearance of their king.

Erick shut the portal.

Erick breathed out in partial relief.

Confident that they were at least partially alone, Erick took to the sky and began floating forward.

The first thing to do was analyze what was happening.

Killzone was not alone. There was also a platinum version of himself standing in the air beside himself. It was Chernom’s ghost.

In contrast to the stoic, silent Killzone and Sitnakov, the silver ghost was saying things and gesticulating at Killzone and Sitnakov. It was also silent, of course; all [Silver Heart]-derived people were silent, until they actually found their voice. Once they did that those people came back to life rather fast. Right now, the only ones able to hear the person that Erick decided to call ‘Chernom’ were Killzone, and through Killzone, Sitnakov. Maybe.

There were [Telepathy] lines everywhere.

Sitnakov was surrounded by more than just cutting wind. He had a presence that was altogether solid. Like he was a bared blade. Sitnakov’s usual twinned swords floated in the air beside him, ready to be grabbed when he desired. They radiated danger, too.

The two men were 2 kilometers from each other. Chernom’s ghost was right beside Killzone, trying to convince him of something, but Killzone only had rage in his eyes for Sitnakov. Erick stopped maybe 500 meters off-center of their stare down. Neither of the guys looked at him. They were too focused on whatever [Telepathy] they were sending to each other.

Erick spoke up, “What a fine day it is to get out some aggression!”

The guys glanced his way.

Erick rhetorically asked, “Why not fight and get it over with?”

Sitnakov said, “Stay out of this.”

