Erick woke as he usually did; all at once, and with his senses unfurling across everyone and everything.

Quilatalap lay on the other side of the bed, the two of them sharing in the small warmth of each other on the rare occasion that both of them wanted to actually sleep. Other activities were more common. As Erick woke, Quilatalap woke up, too. The big guy smiled, showing off his big lower fangs, as he breathed deep and rolled over to Erick.

“Hey.”

“Hey.”

Quilatalap grinned more. And then he came in for a small kiss, and the two of them got up.

“What’s your plan for the day?” Erick asked, as he put on some glowthread robes. “I’m expecting more big meetings.”

Quilatalap dressed in his own clothes, which were not glowthread. Erick had wanted to give him some, but he wanted to make his own. He already had some glowthread spiders growing in ten different dungeons, and also in the Grand Benevolence Dungeon of Candlepoint. He had started to keep some real clothes here, though, in the cloud castle, now that the Red was removed from Veird and he could live outside of the dungeons.

The Red had tried to Erase him several times already.

As if Erick needed another reason to kill Nothanganathor.

Quilatalap said, “Still working on that reson-training dungeon.”

Erick chuckled. “I’m surprised you had any success at all.”

“The Dark isn’t the Fractal, that’s for sure.” Quilatalap said, “I managed to make the dungeon able to see my own resons, though.”

Erick paused. “Really?! That’s amazing!”

Quilatalap smirked, and allowed himself a blush. “I had to move a phylactery there, but I’ve started cultivating resons now.”

That was big news.

Erick grabbed Quilatalap in for a hug, holding him tight, saying, “Congrats!”

Quilatalap laughed a little as he hugged back. “This old lich can learn a few new tricks now and then.”

Erick waggled his eyebrows. “This calls for a celebration.”

Breakfast wasn’t happening for hours, anyway.

Erick put up a little [Hasted Shelter] to give them a bit more time.

- - - -

Erick entered the dining room and breathed in the scent of cinnamon pancakes. He smiled, and said, “I love those pancakes, Teressa.”

Teressa smiled as she set down a massive tray of cinnamon-swirl pancakes, her silver [Bracelet of Memory and History] glinting on her wrist, as she said, “I can’t believe I forgot about them. Dariok loves them too.”

A faint silver outline and an empty voice sat upon a chair to the side, next to Teressa’s seat. So far the only one who could see Dariok fully was Teressa, but she certainly saw him. Erick was pretty sure he saw some sort of smile upon Dariok’s ghost, though, at the attention that Teressa gave him.

Lenitha had taken to pretending that her father was alive and well, too, just as easily as Teressa had. She bounced in her chair next to the faint glow of Dariok, saying, “I love them more! Can I have ten?!”

“Soon as everyone else shows up, Lenitha,” Teressa said, as she sat down. “Can you help with the sausage, Erick? We sort of ran out.”

Erick easily copied the sausage patties on the table—

Poi and Rizala entered the room together, mind tendrils wrapped up in each other as they spoke of whatever. Poi joined the physical conversation, too, saying, “I’ll go to the store later.”

Variol, Rizala’s incani husband, walked in right behind them, saying, “I got that, Poi.”

“That works, too,” Poi said.

Rizala looked around… And then she ducked down, to look under the table. “Kenni, honey. You gotta eat at the table, sweetheart. Come sit in your chair.”

Kenni was a little older than Lenitha, but he was a dragonkin born of dragonkin and incani parents, so he was kinda really small compared to everyone else. He was whip smart, though. He said, “I am fine here, mother. I am playing monsters with Ophiel and this is the safe space.”

Erick smiled at that. He opened a tiny portal to Benevolence, only letting his voice through the opening, as he said, “Ophiel. It’s breakfast time. You can play later.”

Ophiel popped out of a different portal, saying, “Fiiiiiiiine.”

Rizala coaxed Kenni out from under the table, saying, “You can play later, too.”

Poi asked, “Quilatalap didn’t want breakfast?”

“Nope,” Erick said, “Too busy with the reson dungeons, though I am glad he decided to spend the night. I’m amazed that he’s making progress with resons at all, but if anyone can get that working, he can.”

Kenni said, “Quilatalap is a hermit.”

Erick laughed. “Yeah. He is.” He looked around. And then he opened a tiny portal to Yggdrasil at the lake, and said, “Breakfast.”

Yggdrasil’s avatar popped out of a portal. “No girls and boy?”

Erick smiled softly at that. “The more things change, the more they stay the same; the girls and boy are all doing their own things. I think Jane is with Sitnakov right now.”

Ophiel almost said something, blurting it out, but he stopped with his mouth open. He reconsidered. Erick looked at him a little bit. Ophiel pulled back.

“… Let’s eat!” Erick said, deciding to leave Ophiel’s trouble alone.

Teressa chuckled as she started dishing out breakfast, setting the very best swirled pancake in front of Dariok’s silver outline first, before moving on. Everyone helped themselves to the other stuff, as they wanted. It was delicious. Small conversations soon started about this and that—

“Evan is with Zorik!” Ophiel blurted out.

Erick froze, the bit of pancake on his fork dripping onto his shirt. He set down his fork and cleaned himself off, asking, “Evan is dating Zolan’s grandson? The paladin of Rozeta?”

Ophiel rapidly added, “Great grandson!”

Yggdrasil eyed Ophiel, then said, “It started 8 months ago, shortly after you came back. They’ve been circling each other at the House for a while now, but they went for it.”

Erick was kinda miffed to learn that his kids were in relationships without them telling him about it, but he moved on, saying, “Good for them.” He asked, “What’s everyone else up to, today?”

Teressa said, “Dariok and I are taking Lenitha to the movies.”

Lenitha almost leapt out of her chair. “WE’RE REALLY GOING?!”

Teressa nodded, beginning to say something—

But Kenni blurted, “I want to go too!” He looked to his mom. “Mom?!”

Rizala’s eyes went a little wide with a little worry, and then she put on a smile and said, “We’ll look into it, honey.”

Erick smiled to see the drama play out in front of him.

Breakfast was nice.

As for the drama of Erick’s own kids, Jane hadn’t spoken about it, but she was getting pretty serious with Sitnakov, from what Erick had heard; none of which he heard from Jane, herself.

Oh well.

- - - -

Erick stood upon a familiar black volcano caldera where mist flowed softly through the space. Rozeta and Phagar stood with him, but Erick wasn’t quite sure what this was about, and the mist was empty. It was just the three of them. They had called him here, but they hadn’t said much; just that they wanted to talk in an official capacity.

And so, Erick casually asked, “What’s up?”

Rozeta said, “There has been a development with the un-Sundering Project. Specifically, through a confluence of events, a person was ripped out of my Heaven.”

Phagar said, “And a day before that, Solomon brought back a person who had chosen the End.”

Oh.

Well.

… Hmm.

So that was a problem of a difficult nature.

When people died, a lot of different things could happen.

Most normally, when a person died, they usually went to a god of their choice, unless something happened along the way. Then, after a long time in that heaven, that person either remained themselves, becoming a paragon of themselves in that afterlife, or they chose to simply become one with that heaven; that specific god’s domain. It was like becoming a part of the god, but more like becoming a part of that mantle of godhood. The difference between being a part of the god’s domain or mantle was academic and religious, but probably more philosophical than anything. Becoming a paragon left a person as themselves, of course.

In the vast majority of other cases, where a person just didn’t care about an afterlife, or if they had no plans for after death, they went to Phagar, who shepherded them on to the afterlife of their choice, to see if they fit in with that afterlife, or they offered the person The End; a soft oblivion of eternal rest. Dead babies and children too young to understand anything usually ended up shepherded to Atunir’s heaven, to be reborn to parents wishing most solidly for kids, though that was mostly a ‘the same things used to make two different people’ sort of situation. It was not a [Reincarnation].

Phagar’s The End was a definite End, though, with the people who chose that End likely being those who had vehemently chosen the End. Phagar did not offer the End lightly, but it was always there, calling people to their ultimate rest.

Everyone had suspected that Solomon’s Un-Sundering Project was capable of undoing The End, and they knew it was going to be an issue, eventually...

And now that issue was here.

Erick took a moment, then said, “So he really can undo The End. That was kinda expected, eventually.”

“And now we are at ‘eventually’,” Phagar said, “I don’t mind immortality, but I am against pain, and the End is chosen by people who have chosen that for themselves. The person who chose the End was brought back by a great granddaughter who thought she was doing good, but the Ended person instantly chose the End again.”

Erick sighed. “So that’s bad.”

“Forcibly pulling someone out of heaven is not ideal either,” Rozeta said.

Erick said, “Pulling someone out of Heaven is… not ideal, either.” Erick paused in thought… And then he looked around. He looked back to Rozeta and Phagar. “Why are we here?”

Rozeta said, “Technically, what he has done is a blasphemy of the highest order, but we have bigger problems… Technically. And Solomon has already proven himself as an ally. If anyone else would have desecrated the afterlives of our people, then the Paladins would get involved.”

“Understood.” Erick said, “So let’s solve this problem.”

Rozeta nodded, her worries vanishing slightly, now that Erick had agreed to do something.

“Thank you, Erick.” Phagar said, “We want you to talk to him, and incorporate some sort of prayer into the working of his next iteration of this magic. A clearance-request, if you want to frame it that way.”

“… Sure?” Erick said, “I see no problem with that.”

… But if that was everything, then they wouldn’t be here, in this ritual space.

Erick asked, “But there’s a lot more?”

Rozeta said, “Sitnakov Ignited to Wizardry this morning, and we need you to talk to both him and Killzone before they kill each other.”

Erick’s eyes went wide—

Phagar said, “Ideally, if you work this confrontation right, then it is possible for both of them to Ascend to True Wizard at the end of it.”

“Which is what we will be hoping for,” Rozeta said, “Because I’ll pull the Script back from that spot and let whatever happens, happen.”

Erick focused. “That’s a lot. Now I actually do need to know what is going on with that relationship.”

Rozeta said, “We’re not done yet.”

“Today is a big day, Erick.” Phagar said, “Because we’re also thinking of asking Melemizargo to raise Solomon to God of Knowledge. It would solve a great many issues coming up with the Un-Sundering Project, and provide a better framework for all of that happening. He wouldn’t need to have prayer systems set up, and he could just act as the prayer system himself.”

Rozeta said, “With such a power, he could actually get Debby back and solidify his spellwork into a True Working of Divinity, as well as provide Veird with a God of Knowledge that would be able to directly fight against the Red’s anti-memetic effects.”

Erick’s brain broke a little.

And then he said, “Ah. Yes. This is a big day, I see.”

“Big day. Potential to be a catastrophic day. Lots of moving parts, and we’re only at the initial blush of the solutions to our burgeoning problems.” Rozeta said, “But we believe it might be a very good day. You might need to do a lot of Time Magic to get it all falling down in the correct ways, but maybe not.”

Phagar said, “It’s all connected. None of them know this is happening. But we’re here, because we’re hoping that Melemizargo will choose to show, and lend a hand. Depending on how he reacts, we will have to react accordingly.”

Erick looked around. “… Melemizargo?”

Shadows swirled.

Melemizargo halfway appeared out of the gloom, only really showing the whites of his eyes, as he said, “You would need to release the dead Goddess to me.”

Rozeta looked to her father.

A moment passed; eternal and deep.

Rozeta spoke with a voice that sounded almost like that of a lost daughter, asking her demented parent, “Are you really there, father? Are you really the Dark God that I grew up knowing?”

Melemizargo materialized more. “No. I am not.”

For the first time that Erick had ever seen the two of them together, Rozeta seemed both crushed, and actually hopeful.

“I am diminished, just like all that remains of the Painted Cosmology. I am barely myself on some days, daughter of mine. But I am still enough of a god to see this through, and to act as I should, especially for events as large as this. The only real question is if you truly believe Solomon is worthy of Godhood. He is, after all, born of me.”

Rozeta looked soft for a moment, like she wanted to believe, and so, when she spoke her request was deeper than her words, “He can’t have the Script, and yet he will try for that. Ask him not to take it from me.”

“He won’t try for the Script, Rozeta, because my goal in taking the remains of the Goddess is not to hurt you, or to damage what we already have. I would take the remains of the Goddess of Knowledge and make a Mantle of Wisdom for Solomon, to make him a demigod of you, for I would rather grant you the full power of Knowledge that I did not grant you at the beginning of our voyage in this Fractal Cosmology. I would enhance your Mantle of Ordered Knowledge into the Mantle of True Knowledge.” Melemizargo added, “But if you do not want this, then I will attempt to resurrect the Erased Goddess. All Solomon needs is to be a demigod, and that is easily achieved.”

Rozeta breathed deep. She closed her eyes.

No one spoke.

Rozeta opened her eyes—

