“We stone kin are known around the world as the best magic crafters, so no matter where I went people hounded me for magic items. Each request only reminded me of my failure. I secluded myself in this village to finally have peace. I started to talk funny so people would stop asking me to teach them magic. That’s why I don’t want you as an apprentice, I could never teach you properly. You should find someone else to learn from.”

Wow, that’s heavy. He reminds me of how I felt after the karhu attack, he needs someone to tell him it’s ok.

“That’s sad and all, but you’re the only blacksmith around and I really had my heart set on metalworking. You can melt metal, right?”

I stare at him till he answers.

“Ya”

“You know how to shape it, right?”

“Ya”

“Then you sound like a blacksmith to me.”

He looks genuinely stunned. Now that I have his attention, I can continue.

“I saw how beautiful dad's axe is. He swings it thousands of times a day and it never seems to chip. You made that without magic. That’s what I want to be able to do too. You still have all the knowledge of your kin, right? That’s what I need the most knowledge and a teacher.”

Standing up, I slowly walk in front of Del. “Del-Razen, please teach me how to be a blacksmith!”

I try to convey my will with my eyes.

A fire starts to burn in Del’s eyes, it evaporates the sea of pity he was stuck in. Taking a step back I watch my master rise from the bench.

“I, Del-Razen, will teach you all I can about blacksmithing; if you’ll take me as your master.”

With no hesitation I agree. “I Aaliyah, thank master Del-Razen for accepting me as an apprentice. I promise not to let you down.”

With those words Del looks the most invigorated I’ve ever seen someone before.

“Alright, let me grab some metal and I’ll show you how to fire the forge!” Del starts running towards his house.

“Wait, Wait…Wait!” I scream after him.

Stopping suddenly, Del turns around looking confused. I’m happy for his enthusiasm but there is something we need to finish first.

“We still need to finish cleaning Master Del.” I remind him about the rest of his work area that needs to be cleaned.

“You sure?”

I rub my eyes at his response.

This might be harder than I thought.
