Harker agreed. Fire was strong against the Untalented of course; everyone feared an inferno. However, it was famously hard to Descend past Third Depth. Unlike water, shadow, or even cold, fire was scarce beneath the Surface. The Infinite Sea carried all things within it, but you would have to carry your Talent with you and flames would not last long in the Depths.

Still, only days ago he'd have begged for the flame if it meant he'd have a proper Talent.

The girl with Eruption stopped, her hair flinging in her face as she faced the inn. "Oh! You're new." Behind her, the old stickjak wound down, its movements stuttering to a halt as all three fixed eyes on Harker.

"Hello." He slid into an easy smile. "I enjoyed seeing your training. You've all taken the mark?"

"Of course." The boy with Firebreath held up his hand triumphantly. Silver gleamed wrist to elbow. “We have been chosen."

"Anyone can take the mark, Sven."

"Well, sure, Anita. But only the best make it to the Travelspire."

The other boy, the one with Airstep, rolled his eyes.

Harker agreed, though he didn't let his affable expression waver. There was no need to make enemies here. "If you've taken the mark, why haven't you left yet? Threllsnacht was days ago."

Anita groaned, almost as dramatic as Sven. "It was, but these salted storms kept us stuck here.”

“That and the Aberrants," Airstep added. "They have been stirred up, and the mountain's not as safe as it once was. We are waiting on an escort.”

“Which I think is ridiculous." Sven put his fists on his hips. "We can handle a few Aberrants, and

“A few Tide-touched, sure. But Sea-maddened? Not even my Talent could reliably escape an Aberrant of that caliber.”

“There's only been a single report of that."

"I'll not risk it," Anita said. "I'd like to reach the Travelspire with all my pieces still attached, thank you."

"Where are you from?" Sven asked, clearly eager to escape getting ganged up on by the others. “Haven’t seen you around here before. Runnel?”

Anita smiled and shook her head. “Can’t be. We know everyone from Runnel around our age. What’s your name? I’m Anita Kell. This is Johan Riskle and Sven Yor.”

“Harker. I’m from up north.”

“Oh! Haver Hill? I’ve never been that far north. What’s it like?” Anita blinked and her smile brightened. “You’re marked too!”

Harker's smile stiffened, and he tucked his hand into a pocket, attempting to be casual, but it was too late. “Yes. I’ve been traveling since yesterday.”

“Through the storm?”

“Storm must have passed over. It’s been cold but pleasant enough.”

“Lucky.”

“What is your Talent?” Airstep asked.

Harker hesitated only an instant. “My mark says Accuracy.”

“Oh that sounds like an esoteric focus.” Anita nodded to herself. “Those can be quite strong.”

“Not like an elemental focus,” Sven said, clearing his throat.

“All Talents can be strong.” Airstep cut in. “It is entirely about how they are utilized.”

“Says the Major Talent,” Sven muttered.

Anita leaned closer, a smile on her lips. “Accuracy sounds strange though. Can I see it?”

What is this? Harker was confused as the girl batted her eyes. Is she flirting?

Of course she wasn’t. That didn’t happen to him.

“No, I’d rather save my Water for the journey—”

“You can wait for our escort,” Airstep offered. “You’d make five heading toward the Travelspire. Our escort could easily guard that few, and they’re set to be here by evening. It would be far safer that way…and would give you plenty of time to refine more Water.”

Harker shut his mouth. His instinct was to refuse, but that could be considered suspicious at best. He'd rather not entertain piercing questions. I shouldn’t have stopped here.

“Well, fellow Aspirant,” Sven tipped his chin up. “Since you got to see our Talents in action, I think it’s only fair we get to see yours.”

Harker glanced back to the inn and spied Stillwater’s annoyed expression. There was only one way out.

"Very well."

Anita cheered.
