Plazia flicked his hand, a portal appearing beside me. It showed a different skyline, one with two moons above along an orange desert. I opened my portal, allowing the mana from my dimension to disperse out. It siphoned out in a thin line, a cataclysmic wave ushering out. It reached far into space, the needle of explosive compression rippling clouds and tearing horizons. The force would've flooded the room, but I stood in the way of the portal. My body stopped the kinetic energy from blowing back into the room.

My skin melted and ruptured across a few points, but Plazia's portal held before becoming unstable. I closed my warp, spending the next few minutes letting portions of the energy drip out at a time. At one point, I tested it on a distant mountain, the desert landscape empty and devoid of life.

The thin line of energy sliced the mountain apart before blowing it up. It left patches of glass across the scenery. It singed dry brushes kilometers in the distance. The sheer absurdity of the energy source blew me away, but I also remembered what it may do if I aimed it at someone. Even from far away, allies could be devastated.

I shivered. Even an ecosystem or region may be disrupted at this point. Torix and Plazia ooh-ed and aah-ed with me at first, but they got bored after I began dripping the energy out over time. Torix silenced my disruptions using his magic even, giving me a measure of quiet. After getting the power out, I returned to my bubble.

I might make dozens of grimoires and laser people down in the future, but for now, I wanted to see what I just made. In the bubble lit by the primordial glow of my runes, I pulled out the grimoire. It was changed, a duality of the two mana types used to compose it.

On the one hand, the coal-colored tome radiated the power of quintessence. In its pages, it promised a bright future, one where growth came unbounded. If I gave it my all, it would do the same in turn, and I liked that. It gave me a general warmth that carried the same energy as quintessence.

After opening the grimoire, the primordial edge came out. I turned the pages, each of them like thick sheets of silver. They wiggled, each of them alive. On the same note, I no longer etched into the pages. Instead, I created a telepathic connection with the book. I envisioned a change, and the living silver molded into whatever I desired.

It worked as an extension of my mind, like downloading an app on a phone but in my head. It coordinated the runic markings, giving me an absurd nuance. It auto-regulated errors in the cipher, automatically editing in real-time. It even carried mental imprints for storing sigils if I wanted to reuse them.

If anything, this reminded me of using an obelisk or computer, but with a neural augment attached. I blinked, kind of stunned that it carried this potential. With it in hand, I recreated my endurance rune off of memory. It arrived, errors and all intact. The sigils smudged with imperfections, and the translation marred. It didn't even reflect my thoughts about endurance properly.

I took a breath, soaking in the primordial energy. I smiled at it, and crystals of the mana grew around me in my hidden sphere. I condensed the primordial aura around me and cracked my knuckles.

It was time to see what I could do.
