Viv was ready to leave the next morning in case the mercurial ruler of the waves changed her mind one last time. It didn’t happen though. What did happen was that a significant part of the population agreed to form a free city on the north-western point of Harrak, the place Viv had sailed by on her way here. Even more wanted to stay, however. Their lack of trust in Viv and any government in general wasn’t exactly a surprise, not on Nyil where enslaving entire cities was seen as a standard political move. That was fine by Viv. She was only surprised to see Renea among the ranks of those who would found the city.

“Many of them don’t know how to live off the land. We’ll need to work hard to make a new city out of nothing, far from the normal trade routes. Right now, the Azure Lady and her seaweed farm provide. Over there, we will need to scavenge, to hunt. They won’t know how to do it so far from their homeland. I can help.”

“How so?” Viv asked. “You were not exactly a trained scout.”

“Have you forgotten? Elunath found us among the poorest regions of the land. My family were coal makers. They were so poor, we spent all day hunting for mushrooms, root vegetables, insects; Everything we could get our hands on. I’m sure I can manage.”

“I’ll ask some of the Remnant’s scouts to join you with the first shipment of construction material.”

“That will help, yes. I think many of them would prefer to fish.”

Renea scratched her head. She closed her eyes and suddenly, Viv no longer had a mage, but a vulnerable young woman in front of her.

“I can’t get over what I’ve done. I’ve tried. I hope… this will help me. Give me a reason to… go on.”

“I will ask Abenezigel to come see you. He has helped the other girls, at least those who’ve wanted it. You are a victim as well, don’t forget it.”

“Why?”

“So you can talk.”

“Why are you helping me?”

It was Viv’s turn to sigh.

“Look, this world is harsh. It’s made me harsh as well, sometimes, but I’d still prefer if people could get a second chance. Maybe you could convert to Efestar as well.”

“What? Are you mad? The dark god?” Renea yelped.

Damn, this place really was remote.

“I have to bring you up to speed…”

Viv did so. She still couldn’t believe that she was acting as a missionary. At least she was on a first name basis with the big guy.

“Well… maybe.”

“You do not have to commit to anything.”

Renea hesitated. For the first time, she didn’t look so haunted anymore.

“I did not picture you as a helper.”

“Remember, I’m not in charge because I’m incredibly charismatic. I’m in charge because I’m very good at solving problems. Some of those can’t be solved through violence.”

“You give the impression of someone who favors violence, and so does your aura.”

“It’s all part of the bluff,” Viv said.

But that was a lie. She never bluffed.

“Well. Time for me to board.”

Viv waved the younger woman away. Her ship bobbed with the tide as the Azure Lady was slowly moving her island west. The trip would take months. Viv would be home by then.

She wondered how the others were doing. Maybe it was time to check up on Gale, see what sort of progress he was making.

⁂

Why was the morning sun so damn hot? Unseasonable weather. Even the light sea breeze coming from the west failed to refresh the village with the sun shining so vengefully. Shely stood to readjust her straw hat, groaning when her old back popped. Loud enough to make the dog look.

“I think someone broke through our front door,” her husband joked from across the cabbage patch.

“Har har.”

She returned to picking up veggies for lunch. There wasn’t much bread left either. She’d have to knead some more dough in the afternoon. Maybe make a pie. Cut it with that fancy metal knife her love had gotten her for her birthday! As she hummed to herself, a distant roar made her frown.

Her eyes traveled to the dragon’s peak, the lone mountain overlooking the village. That huge dragon was at it again. She wasn’t too worried though. He’d been behaving for a long time now, but better keep an eye out for things on fire.

“Someone’s messing with Old White Death.”

“You’re only hearing them now? Getting deaf as a haddock, darling.”

“Wish I couldn’t hear you sometimes. Where are they?”

“Over yonder.”

Shely followed her husband’s gnarled finger to distant shapes flying under the clouds. They were going slow so far, so it was likely just an argument for now. Arguments didn’t always end up in a fire, but the fact they’d picked the sea…

“What has he done this time?”

“Young Jora climbed up to the cave last week because old White Death wasn’t anywhere to be seen. Hoped the beast had bought it so he could loot the treasure.”

“Not a shred of sense in this lad’s pumpkin,” Shely spat.

“I know. It’s all his mother’s doing… but anyway, the cave’s stench was atrocious. There were swarms of flies over the carcass pile.”

“Sardanal’s mercy…”

In the outer blue, the two blue shapes hurled the first spells. One of them was larger but it immediately started to fly away.

“That’d do it.”

“Say, you who still have good eyes, wouldn’t you see if the Empress is there? I think I can feel black mana on the air. Always makes my scar pulse.”

“Give me a moment.”

Shely’s hat provided the shade she needed. It was hard to see with how fast the dragons were flying, especially when one of them appeared and disappeared all the time, but she did see a splotch of shadow on the smaller dragon’s back. The size of the black spell coursing the skies like burnt tracks on a meadow was just as big a hint.

“Yep, she’s here for sure.”

“Oh, he’s in trouble alright.”

“That reminds me, we’re almost out of fish sauce.”

Thunderous booms echoed over the village, drowning the distant sounds of high tide. A colorful splotch of spells roared through the air. It was pretty to look at, from afar.

“I’ve been thinking about getting into painting,” her husband said in a sheepish voice.

“That so? You’re going to buy the paint with what money?”

“I got a hint from one of them northerners, those who can make a house with two twigs and a piece of twine. Says you can make colors from flowers with some brown magic trick. You know I’m good at those.”

Shely nodded. He was indeed good at those, and a great gardener besides.

“Maybe you should start by painting our front door, aye? Old thing’s practically falling apart.”

“Deal!”

Shely frowned. She felt like she’d gotten trapped, maybe. The air suddenly flared above her, bright and even hotter. Dragon fire was exchanged with great rage far above them.

“Curse it. As if it weren’t sweltering already.”

“Just remove your dress,” her husband suggested.

She tossed a cucumber at his head, but he deftly dodged. She had trained him too well. He probably had a skill by now. She decided to head back in for a quick drink when a woosh of cold air hit her back like the kiss of winter.

“Aaaaaah that hit the spot.”

“Nooo my leaves! I just made a pile!”

“Hehe.”

Shely took a small break while her husband grabbed his rake with a grumble. The fight went on, fierce and vicious.. It was clear the big dragon was on the backfoot despite his size, at least from the way he screeched piteously. He was flying all over like a panicked finch with a hawk on its ass. The roars were mostly him. Full of bluster, that one. The smaller one was the one to watch out for. She was cunning and shrewd. Shely always thought cunning and shrewd could beat noisy every day, and here was the proof! Old White Death was giving a good accounting of himself though. Even she could tell his spells were much better than before. Now she wasn’t sure which one was which, while before his had been blotches of mana that looked like spilled milk. He was growing. Shame about the messy den though. Shely’s teenage children had learned the hard way that she wouldn’t tolerate no pigsties under her roof. You’d have thunk that the dragon would know better. Especially after last time.

“They’re really going at it.”

“I bet three iron bits on the small one.”

“Tch! Did you marry a fool?”

There wasn’t any doubt as to who the winner would be. They were just being nice because they didn’t want to kill each other, really, so the fight was taking a long time, but only a blind man would bet against the empress by now.

“It’s two on one. Not even fair.”

“There is no fairness when it comes to education,” her husband grumbled. “Old White Death was warned. Sometimes, when he flies overhead, it stinks of manure. It ain’t right smelling of old fish at thirty paces.”

They both shook their heads in disapproval.

“Looks like it’s ending soon.”

The two of them stopped for the morning. Shely brought her veggies in, then she returned with two mugs of chilled tea. Her husband grabbed his with a grateful expression.

“Oh, fruit of my eyes. You know how to please.”

She leaned against him. He smelled of flowers, of earth, and a bit of fresh sweat. It was a familiar and comforting scent.

“Look!”

The battle was coming to a close. Slowly, the empress and the gold snatcher had pushed Old White Death closer to the sea until he was barely cresting the waves. The empress and ‘Arthur’ split for a second, the sovereign hitting her foe with something that pushed him down. He desperately tried to climb just as the second dragon appeared right on top of him. She dunked him into the ocean. The two of them disappeared from view. An instant later, the empress grabbed something thick and square from a bag. She threw it down with yet another spell.

“What’s that thing she tossed? Couldn’t see it,” her husband said.

White froth bubbled around a flailing mass of wings, tails, and clawed appendages.

“It’s a large bar of soap.”

“Damn. They’re washing him in public?”

“Looks like it.”

Her husband shook his head.

“It’s a bad thing to humiliate a boy like that in front of the village. They have their pride.”

“How many times has he been told?” she retorted.

“You don’t know that. ‘Sides, it doesn’t matter that he’s wrong. It’s about leaving him some dignity.”

“It didn’t work last time. Maybe this time he’ll remember. Some folks don’t get the message until it’s burnt onto their asses with an hot poker.”

They bickered. It was an old argument between them, each armed with dozens of cases of nearby families that supported their opinions. Some kids had gotten right after a good correction, but others had soured like bad apples. The argument flared up until the gold snatcher and the empress flew towards the deserted den, their task done. Old White Death was nowhere to be seen. Shely would have shrunk back as well after such a thrashing.

The Imperial pair torched the cave’s surroundings. The top of the mountain smoked like an old volcano. There went the carcass pile. And maybe a treasure or two.

“At least he’ll smell better,” her husband said as a peace offering.

She discarded the old argument in her mind. All their kids were adults by now. It was a bit late to discuss raising them.

“Lunch?” she offered in turn.

“I’m famished… like a dragon!”

“You’d better wash your hands before you sit at my table,” she warned.
