It stinks. Ali wrinkled her nose. While it was in the right place, the lake was nothing like her happy memories. It was brown and green, and the stagnant water reeked. Within the murky depths, things stirred, leaving the surface feeling strangely alive – swirling and churning occasionally with no apparent rhyme or reason. She was certain it was full of those nasty-looking slime creatures, but the opaque water didn’t let her actually see anything – even her mana sight failed to reveal much more than swirling muddled colors.

More importantly, for now, the entire southern expanse of the cavern seemed to have been swept clear, with none of the dungeon mana filling the area with its oppressive darkness. Bones were still strewn everywhere, but it seemed that the water had disrupted everything sufficiently to carve out a sizeable clear area.

Easy for me to claim. Ali had no idea if the dungeon would try and reclaim the area, but she had to assume it was possible. Presumably, it had to somehow acquire the area in the first place. Does it use those crazy bone creatures? Ali wondered, recalling the enormous monsters of bone she and Mato had seen near the library, spraying liquid bone onto everything in sight. Or did it create the bone piles by making uncountable skeletons and sending them up here into the cavern? Now, if we could just get into the library…

“I’m going to practice over here,” Malika said, breaking the silence. “Don’t do anything too crazy.”

Ali grinned back at her. “I’m not about to undertake any new excavations. I think I’ll make some Kobolds to guard me first,” she said, earning an approving nod before Malika began to dance. Ali knew Malika was doing martial arts exercises, but her movement was so graceful that Ali would have happily watched her as if it were a performance.

Ali pulled out her Grimoire and began to summon Kobolds. With a few quick calculations in her head, she decided how much mana she was willing to reserve for the minions she would use to guard herself. And for the patrol job. Not really knowing what she would be facing, she decided to be quite generous. She already had two Kobold rogues – the one that had run all the way home and the one she had made to demonstrate her Grimoire for the Guildmaster. But her friends were right, more minions would make her more powerful and more effective on her patrol duty later. Her mana flowed, and her Grimoire shone out as a powerful beacon of light in the dark cavern as Kobold after Kobold materialized before her.

Rogue – Kobold – level 8-11 x4Warrior – Kobold – level 9-10 x2Your reserved mana has increased by +234.

Ali paused her summoning when she had six Kobolds standing before her. Her Grimoire and its randomness had seen fit to give her two of the green-scaled warriors and two more of her stealthy rogues. While the mana reservation for the four new Kobolds was shockingly large, it was still below the amount she had budgeted for to remain effective with her other spells.

One more should do it.

She channeled her mana into the Grimoire imprint, focusing her mind on the image of a black-scaled rogue. She had no idea if she could influence the choice, but the rogue’s stealth skill would make the patrol job up in town easier.

Soon enough, a Kobold materialized in front of her, but this time, something was very obviously different. She froze, heart thumping loudly in her ears as she stared into the glowing reptilian eyes set in the red-scaled face. A face that reminded her of the scent of brimstone and the deafening concussion of fire magic in tiny spaces.

Mage – Kobold – level 15 (Fire)Grimoire of Summoning has reached level 11.Your reserved mana has increased by +113.

“How may I serve, Ancient Mistress?”

His voice sounded raspy and rough, like that of a voice damaged by decades of too much pipe smoking without sufficient healing.

Ali gathered herself with a shake of her head, reminding herself that this was her minion and that he was not about to blast her with fire.

“You will all guard me while I grow my domain,” Ali said, speaking in Draconic, and turned to the laborious job of creating armor and weapons for her new minions. By the time she was done, she had a small pile of discarded crude daggers, unused tattered robes, and a worthless plate pauldron sized for a Bugbear that her Grimoire had decided on a whim to make instead of the items she needed. But Ali didn’t mind much – she had a fully equipped Kobold guard, and she was really excited – and even a little nervous – to see what the Fire Mage would be capable of.

Maybe I can use them to help clean up some of this mess?

Your proficiency with the Draconic language has improved.

It was a lot of mana reserved – at level fifteen, her Fire Mage had cost more than she had anticipated – but, by her calculations, she should still be able to summon any of her trees with the remainder, and she could always deconstruct debris to recharge her mana pool. Finally ready, she gave her Kobolds free rein to kill any monsters they found and began to grow her domain across the stream, planting trees and patches of moss and mushrooms fanning out quickly from her small outpost around the shrine into the freshly cleared space. Every time she created one of the Deathcap or Amanita mushrooms, she deconstructed it or gave it to one of her rogues, so that their mana wouldn’t impede the growth of her domain.

Her domain extended easily across the rushing stream, carried by the huge range of her trees. As it grew, toxic slimes began emerging from the water in twos and threes, presumably drawn by the dense mana she was emitting into the area. Ali ignored them, continuing her labor with her Grimoire to the backdrop of detonations and flashes of fire magic, and the chirping calls of her Kobolds on the hunt. Soon the air filled with a smoky haze and the acrid stench of sulfur.

As a result, Ali seldom needed to search for suitable material to deconstruct. Instead, she simply deconstructed the steady stream of slime corpses that her Kobolds left for her and any piles of bone or wood in her way. While the level-one monster corpses didn’t provide a substantial amount of mana, there were more than enough to keep her working continuously.

Imprint: Toxic Slime completed.

Great, now I can just slime the Goblins all around town. Ali quickly committed the imprint to her empty chapter and continued planting, hoping to reach the far lake shore by the evening.

***

“Wow, you’ve been busy!”

Ali looked up at the sound of Mato’s curiosity to find all three of her friends standing nearby surveying her work. She was close enough to the lake that her domain was beginning to draw slimes from there, too. Would that help restore the water? She hoped so.

“It’s time to head up,” Calen said. “Our patrol job is soon.”

“Ok,” Ali answered, hiding the rising disappointment that she hadn’t quite reached her goal. I’ll finish it later. Is it really evening already?

“You guys stay here and guard my trees and moss,” Ali told her warriors. “The rest of you come with me.”

“You don’t want to bring them all?” Calen asked curiously.

“I can’t hide the warriors in town,” Ali answered, pursing her lips. “The townsfolk are probably already scared of Goblins, right? I’m guessing a horde of armed Kobolds won’t be very welcome.”

“That’s probably true…” Calen said.

“Wait, is that a Fire Mage?” Mato exclaimed.

“Yes!” Ali answered. “My Grimoire just made it at random.” It had only ever produced one so far, so she couldn’t tell if it was rare because she had only deconstructed a few, or if it was due to the far higher level. Or maybe the class itself is uncommon or rare?

“You should bring the Fire Mage on patrol,” Malika said firmly. “It will be safer for you.”

“I agree. You can probably get away with it by telling anyone you meet that it’s a minion,” Calen suggested. “And it’s not that scary-looking.”

“Ok,” Ali said. She would have to trust her friends on this one. She tried, but for the life of her, she couldn’t imagine what the deadly Kobold might look like to someone who had never seen it flinging devastating Fireballs around a dungeon.

They checked in at the guild before splitting up into their assigned areas. Ali and Calen set off to walk through a quiet section of the town to the west of the guildhall that included a few main streets and a lot of twisting alleyways. There were quite a few merchant shops in their area, but everyone seemed to be off the streets now that it was dark, hiding behind barred and locked doors.

I probably look lost, Ali thought as she turned down a side street in the darkness of the night. Or like bait. The moon poked out from behind some clouds, bathing the street in a little tentative moonlight. For anyone observing them, they would see Ali and her robed mage walking through the alleys by themselves to the soft clicking of the Kobold’s talons. But Calen, with his uncanny vision and stealth, trailed her along the rooftops in and out of the shadows. She knew he had her back. And she had four Kobold rogues hidden from sight nearby. Even in the dark of the notorious streets of Myrin’s Keep, she felt safe.
