They blended together like a painting, each piece a part of a greater whole, and the energy flowing through the device could rival fusion reactors. It reminded me of Baldah-Ruhl's ritual many years ago. Even at that point, the complexity still seemed so distant.

Remembering that unnerving brilliance, I crossed my arms while inspecting the device.

"Somehow, I doubt I'll ever reach Baldag-Ruhl's heights."

Torix stood up from his work.

"We have his blueprints to learn from. Given our lifespans, we'll be able to devote centuries, if not millennia, to the project, and under the sheer strain of time, his secrets will crack."

"Kind of like this ritual?"

"This is elementary compared to that genius."

It was extraordinary for Torix to give someone the title of a genius. Whether I liked it or not, Baldag-Ruhl had earned it. Still, Torix closed the gap in their ritual magic since I first met the lich. He toiled on his magic and sorcery until it reached another zenith.

That's why I carried absolute confidence in the ritual despite not knowing precisely how it worked. Torix's innate ability was put on full display as he finalized disparate sections, turning a jumbled mess into a smooth machine within seconds. Doing another of his routine inspections, Torix stood straight.

"It's finished. This will work quite nicely."

I opened my status and sent messages to the relevant albony.

"Then let's get this show on the road."

After a few hours of waiting, we gathered the albony chancellors. Torix met them with his steely gaze, the lich's eyes sharp enough to slice someone apart. Torix also gave them an unsettling politeness, knowing the best position to show off the ritual and demonstrate its full effect. As he gave them seating above the ocean, I kept it afloat with a series of saturated gravity wells.

I stood to the side, glad not to be at the center of something for once. I floated over, hearing Torix talk to Alfonso. The lich gestured with his hand.

"It's a matter of necessity and convention. While my runic methodology elevated the patterns the skeptiles initially created, the core, fundamental aspects of their rituals belong to them. They are most certainly critical."

Alfonso gave the lich a sharp glare.

"Are you certain you're not giving false modesty?"

Torix let out a laugh.

"Modesty? I leave that for my disciple and Althea. Given my proclivities, I prefer a bit more showmanship than he does. You all shall see that soon enough."

Alfonso gazed at the water below them. Hundreds of meters down, life flourished in the sea, with the crystal-clear water hiding nothing from the albony. In the distance, the beautiful hues of orange and yellow dimmed over a sunset. They rivaled anything Earth could muster, the sheer expanse of the view giving it an all-encompassing majesty.

It was a quirk of Blegara. The natural humidity of the planet gave the air a kind of thickness. The light of sunsets and sunrises dappled off that humid air and the flowing clouds. Combine that with an uninterrupted horizon, and the arresting beauty stunned even the experienced chancellor.

Alfonso adjusted his monocle at the sight.

"This reminds me why we attempted to settle this planet in the first place. It's a shame what came of it, but that's to be expected given the management."

Torix interlocked his hands behind himself.

"If you're going to act without any moral qualms, you should've done so properly and to a worthwhile end. In that regard, the only thing worse than slavery is poorly managed slavery."

Alfonso raised his brow, the fur on his face ruffling.

"We weren't willing to sink so low as to use necromancy. Aside from that, I'll mention that I oversaw a free planet, one of the few within the Empire."

Torix turned to face his ritual.

"I've done my research on Olstatia. It's a world with a long history, certainly, and plenty of indentured servitude took place there."

Alfonso smiled.

"But not while I governed it. I kept it to trading only. Obolis always wondered why, but I understood that an excess of luxury dampens the mind. That's one of the reasons I was able to keep Olstatia as an economic powerhouse despite the rampant nepotism and crony capitalism. I ensured that struggle was embedded into the inner framework of the system."

Torix turned a palm, his words like knives.

"And yet your dubious policies have killed more allies than my undead magic has killed enemies."

Alfonso smiled, no joy in the expression.

"What's your source?"

Torix pulled out a piece of parchment from his dimensional storage

"Theodore Usarius's study on the impacts of indentured servitude and limited dispersal of dungeon clearing experts along with a variety of peer-reviewed meta-analyses."

Alfonso sneered.

"You listen to that biased bastard?"

"Enough to put action behind the knowledge I learned from him. For your sake, let's both hope that your treatment of your associates has improved since your time under Obolis. Otherwise, you'll deal with me."

Alfonso took a breath before recomposing himself. He gave Torix a slight bow.

"I will keep that in mind, your excellence."

Torix turned his head and glared down at him.

"Hm...You may call me Torix. Work hard so as to not lose the privilege."

They walked away, a slight smile of amusement on Alfonso's lips. As I hovered up, Alfonso turned to me.

"Though the respite from your moon is welcome, we must return to our work soon. When will this ritual be over?"

"In the next hour or so."

Another chancellor peered at the sea below.

"Where are the mana batteries stored for this incantation? Are they underground?"

I pointed at myself.

"You're looking it."

A shorter chancellor gulped.

"Is that, perhaps, safe?"

I shrugged.

"Hell, if I know.

As Torix finished getting the ritualists positioned, I jumped down and took my place at the center of the magical diagram. Though I mentioned not being the center of the project, I meant it in a metaphorical sense. Literally, I was right there in the thick of it. Why? My body was the primary conduit for channeling the mana since my dimensional fabric could contain the vast majority of the energy.

We would've used my own dimensional fabric for that, but it could warp the intent of the mana. I could as well, but I practiced to prevent that by allowing mana to flow through me. After all, I had plenty of time waiting for them to finish the project.

The process of shepherding mana reminded me of pulling it through myself for a simple spell. It was all about intention, and in this case, I could have none. Instead, I let it be. In a normal body, that kind of raw energy would've left a person ravaged. Given the sheer volumes of mana in this ritual, the person at the center would disintegrate.

Given my history, I wasn't concerned.

With everything in place, we began. Torix channeled mana, and it coursed through the ground. I offered his preferred energy, and pure dominion suffused the entire sea. Like a growing cloud of ink, it saturated the entirety of the gyroscope before Torix pulled the staff I made for him to his side. He pulled it over his head, and it siphoned the dominion mana into the runes.

The dark metal glowed, steaming bubbles erupting from it. The energy resonated in the water before unleashing a reverberating echo across the distant seas. It echoed back to us like the low rumbling of tearing metal and a whale's cry. I floated at the center of the gyroscope, generating and directing energy like an electrical conduit.

Torix directed it from outside the apparatus, his deft mana manipulation operating with his characteristic logic and fluidity. A composer of primordial forces, Torix manipulated everything into place, helping the skeptiles handle the building reservoir of energy. That power continued growing until the construct below the sea glowed bright as a second sun.

And Torix was prepared. He already channeled magic over the skeptiles' eyes, preventing blindness. The lich gave the reins to the skeptile as the mana pulled over the sea. They molded and tugged it into shape, forming the mind into something gentle. It drew from surrounding trees encapsulated inside many underwater terrariums.

It was strange to watch.

I'd made plenty of psyches while on L-7. However, they were mindless monsters tempered with force. The skeptiles took the opposite approach, sharing and constituting the formative memories of the giant. Each recollection they shared was one with gentle beliefs and coaxing kindness.

Above the water, a colossal, semitranslucent aura formed. It shifted in shape and composition before materializing as a wave. It continued amassing in size until a vast wall of water covered a patch of the horizon. Kilometers in both height and width, it was a biblical sight, an entity that could swallow mountains within its domain. It reached its peak size before accumulating energy. Pulling from the ritual, its mind came into being.

A simple, benevolent being arrived from the wave. Its eyes opened, the two orbs bright in the seafoam green wave. It blinked with a bright curiosity, turning to peer at the world around it. Wielding its body, it lifted two arms out of the waves. They kept the wildlife moving within, schools of fish shimmering in its depths.

A lattice of glowing lines expanded throughout it. As the sun set and darkness overcame all, the elemental's radiant energy enveloped everyone in a life-giving aura. The blue-green glow cast rippling shadows over the sea, but they lacked the menace of an eldritch. This wasn't something to be feared.

Its gaze was warm and calming, like a Sunday morning. Its water body was warm, like the hug of an old friend. As it drenched all near it in its being, it gave a palpable set of sensations. The aura felt like drinking a deep glass of cool water on a hot, dry day. I hadn't been thirsty in years, and the sensation of being quenched was both alien and nostalgic.

Torix took a step back, and his eyes turned yellow. He put a hand over his face.

"It's been centuries. Hah. I'd forgotten what it was to drink water. How bittersweet to taste it once more."

The albony gazed at each other, taken aback by the scale of the magic. The skeptiles kept refining the forces and flows of the elemental, and it continued to evolve. It took on a more defined shape, reminding me of a bipedal catfish with whiskers and fins to match. It gained abilities and began using them to return the land and sea to harmony.

After two hours of giving it mana, the metal construct below had melted into a pile of slag, and the evaporating water belched to the surface like hydrothermal plumes. I remained the single piece of the ritual circle that hadn't turned to molten goop. Well, kinda. My body glowed blue, and I held my form with gravitation instead of physical rigidity since I long ago liquified.

The pressure kept me solid as Torix ensured the skeptiles' focus. He granted buffs, motivational speeches, and corrections where necessary. Plazia's eldritch died in droves as they helped keep the energy flowing. They protected the skeptiles from the mana they directed, and the ancient shamans struggled to continue their deft work.

The elemental above wobbled, other pairs of eyes forming in its lattice-laden body. The benevolent eyes above fought them to nothing, and the albony above watched with a detached fascination. After two more hours of toiling, the elemental sent out a shockwave that coursed over the entire sea of Blegara.

The demonic eyes within closed, and only the benevolent master remained. It turned to the albony, the colossus towering above them all. It reached out, the albony leaning back in their seats. Many cowered at it, and they hissed out vitriol when it neared them. Alfonso stood up, and he reached out a hand.

As gentle as a mother holding its baby, the elemental touched Alfonso's palm, and as it pulled back, a dark pearl lustered in the albony's hands. Alfonso bowed to the elemental before the colossus turned away. Flowing into a dark sea, it left the ritual circle. It siphoned in the ambient mana around it, creating water, purifying the land of eldritch, and planting the seeds of life.

Blegara would be reborn.

I gawked at it from the depths, my body dimming as I cooled myself down. Even Torix marveled at the sight before he raised his hands. With a telepathic roar, he announced to everyone present.

"We have created one of Blegara's twelve guardians. All hail Poseidon, the Cleanser of Seas."

A chorus of cheers erupted as I lifted myself from the ocean's surface. Water evaporated off of me, and I grinned at Alfonso. He squeezed the dark pearl in his hand before giving me a resigned nod. I put a hand on his shoulder.

"Welcome to the team."
