Torix gazed into the sunset, making sure it glinted on his dark, metal frame.

"Of course not, but it makes for one hell of a line."

I rolled my eyes.

"Let's go fix a planet."

His eyes flared a bright blue.

"It's quite the novelty. I'm far more used to breaking them."

Several of his skeletal and decaying minions walked out of portals around him. They carried various waterproofed ritual supplies. Torix descended into the depths below.

"I'm quite looking forward to the new experience."

Chapter Begin

I dove in right after, and skeptiles, eltari, gialgathens, humans, and Vagni helped the project come together. A dozen inscription circles covered the seafloor, and skeptiles tested different kinds of spirit-making rituals. The largest of the circles spawned phantasms that decayed into what the skeptiles called demons.

The name fit. These wraiths siphoned the life out of an area, feeding on it to make themselves larger. Worse still, they laughed and cackled at the pain they caused, relishing in torture and excrutiation. Letting out a sigh, I washed Event Horizon over a pair of demons, and they evaporated.

Torix telepathically scoffed.

"So all you needed was assistance to polish the rituals?"

I frowned.

"I'm really hoping you can polish a turd."

Torix waved everything off.

"Unfortunately not. It will be thrown out with the rest of this detritus. Shameful, truly."

Torix channeled dominion with a wave of his hand and enveloped the entire expanse with it. Bursts of blue fire encompassed the ritual circles, leaving the area clear and clean. The shamans looked up at him, along with Plazia, whose glare was particularly menacing. As we landed, Plazia stood from a basalt throne.

"The lich has come wearing the flesh of his disciple."

Torix tilted his head.

"And I've arrived to see someone sitting upon a throne and creating trash before calling it a ritual."

Plazia tapped his throne with thrumming fingers.

"This magic isn't structured like other rituals I've participated in. It requires the creation of a mind surrounding a locus of mana. The menace of the mana destroys the consciousness's benevolence after expanding past a certain threshold, resulting in these deformed aberrations."

Torix put his hand up to his mouth, his jovial banter turning serious.

"I can see that. You'll need to employ stabilization measures to achieve any kind of reliable outcome with the ritual."

Plazia rolled his head on his neck as if bored out of his mind.

"Do you think we haven't attempted to do so? Stabilization measures result in the numbing of the created mind's ingenuity. The more stability we generate, the more the mind's power dims. This correlates with the mana's toxicity, resulting in an equilibrium where we spawn demons instead of the so-called spirits the skeptiles are aiming to craft."

Plazia's internal swarm thrummed the water around him.

"We can't be certain that the actual mechanics of the rituals will operate at a higher scale. The skeptiles haven't achieved anything beyond regional success, and even that is temporary. Something within the paradigm needs to change."

Torix's fire eyes flared bright.

"Then perhaps it's time to enact a dash of genius and ingenuity."

They stepped away, chatting about the intricacies of the ritual's dynamics. I let them get a handle on the situation while peering at my status for a moment.

The Living Multiverse | Level 34,281 (Cap: 46,000) | Current Influence: The Rise of Eden | Class: Sovereign

Strength – 732,063 | Constitution – 742,063 | Endurance – 1,139,147*

Dexterity – 495,436 | Willpower – 1,399,992* | Intelligence – 1,025,235*

Charisma – 534,648 | Luck – 689,704 | Perception – 390,879 |Awe - 65,295

Health: 32.8 Billion/32.8 Billion | Health Regen: 7.49 Trillion/min or 128.118 Billion/sec

Stamina: Infinite++++++++++++++++ | Ambient Mana 123,152 Trillion

Mass: 23.04 Billion Pounds(1.047 Billion Kilos~)

Height: 61'00 |18.59 meters | Actual: 13'9 (Infinity/Distributed Matter)

Damage Res - 99.783% | Actual: 99.835% (Infinity) | Dimensional Res - 100%

Phys Dam Bonus – 859.264 Billion% | Damage Bonus – 40%

The Rise of Eden - enhances base stats by 30%, increased to 40% to allies within aura's radius

Mana Conversion(Elemental Furnace Count: 14) - 602.2 Billion mana/min siphoned into runes and armor

I whistled underwater, bubbles flowing from my mouth. Every stat had improved, but a few made leaps and bounds. The most significant of which came from my mass, physical power, and mana. Since the last time I analyzed my stats, my physical capacity nearly doubled. That kind of explosive, exponential rise omened what was to come.

By now, each one of my steps carried the potential to quake the ground, raise the seas, or split the sky. In time, I'd crack entire planets and rive stars barehanded. Physical power wasn't the only rising stat. I passed the hundred billion mana per second mark. I could regenerate my entire body nearly four times a second.

In a pre-system Earth, I had around 750 mana regeneration each minute for every human, assuming ten billion people were alive. In all likelihood, I already had more mana generation than all of humanity, period. My golems and body could power entire planets easily, and I would hold enormous amounts of magic at my fingertips.

However, the surge of fulfillment came alongside a subtle and understated panic. The mana I relied on came from the Old Ones. How was I supposed to kill something like that? It made my goal of 20,000 years seem frivolous and short-sighted. I might need millions of years at this rate, and giving myself such a short time frame left me anxious.

Channeling that anxiety, I sat down in a meditative pose, and time crawled to a standstill around me. It dredged on, becoming a slog while I kept assimilating energy. It was strange. I lived in this insular, internal environment most of the time, and whenever I talked to other people, it was as if I rose above the water to breathe. Each time I dove under, I held my breath a little longer. I was terrified that one day I'd never rise back above the surface, and yet, the suffering and loneliness paid dividends.

I'd gained seventy levels yet gained enough stats for over 7,000. In that manner, I would toil for my guild as I created a body and mind that would challenge the Old Ones. It was a product of my time on L-7, my skills harmonizing into a hellish forge. Again, I dove into that fire.

After hours of sitting still, I pulled myself out of the depths of channeling. I walked over to Plazia and Torix.

"Are you guys done with the planning?"

Torix nodded.

"In the past hour, we constructed a new methodology for the skeptiles' rituals. Your golems shall act as catalysts to help filter some of the energy's volatility. Blue cores shall be supplied alongside the use of various botanical methodologies."

I hid my exhaustion behind a smile.

"Ah, you'll be making fruit trees then?"

A skeptile swam over, its form lithe and shaded an emerald green. It wore an eldritch leather set of swim gear, and various oils covered the surface to stop water from leaching into it. It telepathized to us.

"We've grown many filtration plants that can swallow the corruption. However, it will be challenging to scale up our production to the standard it needs to be."

I reached out a hand.

"What's your name?"

The skeptile grabbed my palm in both its hands and gave a slight bow.

"Yohetah. It is good to meet the savior of our kind."

I raised my other hand.

"Eh, you might be overselling me a bit. I haven't saved anyone yet."

Yohetah smiled.

"You are as humble as Tera has said. Then, we shall get to work in your name. For the Harbinger."

He swam off before Torix rolled his eyes.

"You'd think they worship you."

I frowned.

"The Vagni already do. I'm hoping that's relegated to only them."

Torix cackled.

"I see the standards for a god have lessened over the eras."

I gestured to myself.

"Apparently. Either way, let's get this show on the road."

Torix nodded.

"Certainly."

We began setting up parts of an enormous, palpably complex ritual circle. As we did, I learned quite a bit about rituals from watching Torix set it all up. I'd seen him craft one before whenever we gave him a new body, but I had lacked the prerequisite knowledge to absorb what really happened. With my now rudimentary grasp of the concepts, I could soak in some of the details, and those details told me a single story.

Torix was a prodigy.

He wasn't the kind of genius that couldn't explain their brilliance either. He was the kind that ushered in a revolutionary advancement within a given field while acting as its charismatic figurehead. As he explained each piece he used, the depth of his understanding became all the more obvious.

Torix's first reform was in how the skeptiles drew up their rituals. He categorized the process, turning the wild, hand-drawn circles into structured outlines. He called these runic lines, and according to Torix, they were integral. Apparently, if a ritualist didn't understand them, they weren't worth the chalk they used for their ritual spaces.

That importance stemmed from how essential runic lines were for the incantation's overall impact. If the lines crossed at the wrong points, the manas within would have a kind of friction. By rubbing against each other, they cross-contaminated, leading to far less stable magic.

As Torix explained, Plazia's rituals lacked this key component. While brilliant in his own way, Plazia's enchantments were more akin to Michaelangelo trying to paint out a computer's source code. It could be done, but there were far better methods available. Torix had mastered those better ways, and he served as a kind of evolution for the hivemind.

Instead of battling with his usual sardonic swagger, Plazia acquiesced all control of the project. Torix established that dominance nigh instantly, and he relished returning to an arcane pursuit. His rigidity and logically oriented mind, which had held him back when learning the cipher, now expressed its full might.

How he used those runic lines was a large part of that. Every pathway blended into the others without any bleed-through. The resulting synergy strengthened the ritual by leaps and bounds. His innovations didn't stop there. Torix took these runic lines and began the process of weaving them.

He explained it to me like one of the albony's tapestries.

In a tapestry, each thread was woven into a cord with a singular purpose and color. By taking that strand and binding it to other pieces, a larger picture could take shape. Eventually, with enough layering of different threads, those pictures could tell entire stories. That kind of nested complexity took place in Torix's rituals, and they left me dumbfounded at their intricacy.

Even Plazia, with all of his experience, wasn't able to fully comprehend them. It was like staring at a chalkboard that was smothered in an esoteric proof for a mathematical equation. While awe-inspiring and obviously difficult, I couldn't derive any meaning from it. My lack of understanding aside, I could feel the effects.

Even from basic tests, the revised rituals spawned much stronger, larger, and more robust spirits. Those preliminary tests exposed how much of an impact Torix's changes made, but the final touch that put the rituals over the edge was what Torix called runic pressure. I watched on as he mapped out his runes.

Torix wrote them as he telepathized to me.

"It's a simple concept. The mana flows of a ritual essentially create a kind of pressure on the runes."

I pointed my hand down one of the runic lines.

"It's like a river. As it gushes more water, it erodes the shore more and more."

"Precisely. We're weaving these lines so that the pressures they create help to harmonize the project instead of dismantling it. It's quite simple once you get a feel for the process."

I gawked at a ritual that had become far more complex than a circulatory system or circuit board.

"Yeah. Sure."

"The sensation you're experiencing is the exact sensation I have whenever I stare at your cipheric runes. They're nonsensical gibberish, yet they carry a meaning that's obvious even from a glance. It's simply not obvious to me."

I frowned.

"What? No way. My runes are still, to this day, awful. Even after all these years working on them, they're child's play."

The lich shook his head.

"As are my rituals."

I gestured at one of the lines.

"Are you kidding me? Look here. You're setting this line up so that the friction of this line actually helps to stabilize this other volatile flow. They end up stronger and more efficient without disrupting the meaning behind the project. That's like...Like making furniture without any screws, glue, or bolts. You're just fitting stuff together, and somehow, it sticks despite everything."

Torix's eyes flared white.

"I hadn't explained that process yet. I didn't realize you were paying such sharp attention."

I shrugged.

"I saw you use it earlier. It reminds me of some of my cipher work."

Torix finished another patch of the ritual.

"Perhaps one day you'll understand how to make these kinds of rituals by writing them in the cipher. It should result in more potency and permanence for all of them. Given enough time and an unshakeable onus, you may even exceed your progenitor by doing so."

I leaned back from the project, taking it all in.

"Beating Baldag-Ruhl? I don't know if it'll ever happen."

Torix laughed.

"Never is a long time, disciple, and stranger things have happened."

We continued our pursuit, grinding away at the process over the next two weeks. To help organize the project, we constructed a complex gyroscope as a platform for the extensive incantations. Composed of noncorrosive metals with a sphere at their center, every square inch of the model was smothered in runes aside from one panel at the top of the central orb.

