They weren’t bad options and the last one was especially tempting since if she could use it when her Dungeon was free of adventurers then it was basically a massive trap for any force that broke through the doors.The weird mix of good and bad news was neither her Guardgoyles or the Undead would drown since one was made of stone and the other... usually didn’t have lungs. Still, Delta imagined stone flesh would fare best if smashed against walls or each other as a flood rushed down with the force that would be bone-crushing as it was.Besides, this was only step one.She purchased the decoration and the flooding trap, not really wanting to cause monsoon season in her Dungeon with the first upgrade.The top of the waterfall groaned and rocks slid over each other loudly as the top reshaped itself into a form not too unlike Bacon above. Two jutting curved spikes emerged from a glaring round top with two black holes to give the illusion of eyes.After a second, both eyes began to glow eerily as a light within burned.At the same time, a dark void between floors formed right under where the pool basin emptied, showing where the water would be drained away to the third floor.She shot off, regretting she didn’t have time to admire her handiwork.Her Jungle was hitting so many tick boxes for a ‘lost monkey treasure’. Really, all she was missing was some dark and collected gentleman with a crow cloak and cane to walk about, talking to a camera that wasn’t there.Delta would get there.Renny’s circus was up next as she paused as a grand act of skeletons building themselves into a giant boney pyramid revealed itself to her as she floated through the flaps of the tent. Renny in his ringmaster uniform clapped his hands and the pyramid began to fall forward, bones shifting to turn from a straight edge into a sphere that began to roll over ramps.Renny turned, his painted ‘eyes’ seeming to lift at her appearance.“I know... it’s been a while,” Delta raised a hand as the bone ball collapsed into a pile with almost comical clattering and skulls landing nearby, only for them to jab and argue with each other on who literally lost their footing.Renny tilted his head and Delta could almost hear him like he was speaking aloud.“Not quite. Still issues, but I’m hoping you can help,” Delta admitted as the skeleton crew was sent away to clean their ribs and polish their skulls. Only the sleekest of bonemen were allowed in Renny’s circus after all.Renny bowed and sat on a non-existent seat as if something was there... causing something to be there. Ringmaster or not... Renny was a mime at heart, it seemed. Delta smiled as she mimicked him, sitting in the ‘air’. Renny applauded without a sound, praising her poise.First, she used the system in a way she didn’t really often do. A sort of descriptive dictionary for things that came into her Dungeon. It was mostly pointless because a sword was a sword and kids were pretty universal.Delta didn’t need the baby Dungeon book on what concepts were. It did... however, have a general information bank on anything Delta had personally encountered. She couldn’t use it to learn about anyone that came into her Dungeon or as a global search engine. It’s a shame since it would be nice knowing more about the kingdom, the world in general... like if hotdogs were invented yet!

Delta smiled as Renny tilted his head again.“Renny. I noticed your crew is a bit... bare-bones,” Delta said abruptly. Renny raised one finger at her wording then silently dropped it in defeat.“Let me see what we can do about that,” Delta announced and opened his contract menu... her finger trailing down the list, her smile growing as she read.Renny’s cheerful inkblot eyes mimicked blinking as she inhaled with a sharp intake of breath. Delta turned to him, opening her mouth to explain what was making her bounce in excitement. He leaned forward in anticip----Doctor was not an idle Guardgoyle,between testing the volatile nature of Troll Soup and how the very stuff seemed to even make Gutrots slow to grow nearby... and guarding the garden as there were a few rooms left to conquer,Doctor did not believe in idleness, too much to learn... too little to dissect or test unstable concoctions on. However, that was neither here nor there.His entire schedule was put on hold as someone walked into the garden. A strange creature, but one of Delta’s... if only by deal. A contract.Doctor only knew Jack as the other contract... they were truly interesting beings. A slow progression of free-will beings losing their soul to Delta, piece by piece until the entire thing was replaced by her Mana.The process was fascinating and Delta didn’t even seem to be aware she was performing high-level soul magic on five different beings... at the same time... flawlessly.It was a little intimidating if he was honest.The closest example he could use to put it into perspective for Vanguard was as if Delta was replacing every gear and tiny cog in a clock without ever opening it up and so gently, the clock didn’t even notice.Truly, if all Dungeons could do this... if they went wrong, the amount of damage they could inflict with contracts would be terrible. What would even happen to a soul if the Dungeon holding its contract went... wrong?According to the books in the library... Abominations broke the rules, to a degree the world began to turn sickly. Their monsters lose shape and structure, their rooms begin to glitch into space renders that would twist a man into a bloody mist, and their contracts...Doctor watched as the colourful ghoul walked to the secure door, eyeing it with its drawn on eyes.It held a cane in one hand which now had a large orange sphere for a pommel, slightly cut to look like a skull. The inner light cast shadows over the ghoul who leaned on it with calm assurance of a being who did not fear death.The ghoul was radiating energy that felt... mini-boss like, maybe more. The doors opened and phantoms tried to shriek out, some ambush left by the undead. They simply melted as the ghoul held up his new cane.Their souls tried to flee back to their leader, but the ghoul latched on to them dragging them back like fish on hooks.It became a tug of war between a dark purple bond and the ghoul’s energy. The clash caused the grass to wither and made the air become heavily tainted with death energy. Death energy felt like chocolate mint that was a bit stale. It was enough to give Doctor’s stony skin goosepebbles.The ghoul won since it was in Delta’s territory, boosted by her Mana, and the souls were snapped free and held like two fireflies around the staff. The ghoul released them, having no interest in eternally tormenting their helpless souls.There was a horrid wind that blew through the door as something powerful raged in the castle depths, angry at the ghoul for his actions. The ghoul merely inhaled as if the wind was delicious and his thin smile cracked up all along the sides to show his true mouth, a massive maw of black gums and drooling teeth.“What’s he smelling?” Dozer asked, and Doctor could almost sing at the idea of what the ghoul was going to be bringing back in large quantities.“Patients!” he cried, rushing off to see if he had enough makeshift beds and straps ready.
