Once she found them, she followed them, hoping to see where they might have come from, but unfortunately, in the few minutes she had, she found nothing. They seemed to be wandering aimlessly, and while they left very obvious tracks that she could have followed down, she couldn’t just abandon Sophie to investigate, so after a few minutes, she returned.

For some reason, though, the Crawlers were returning too. Around the time that Elise decided to return, she sensed the emotions of the Crawlers suddenly all shift to hunger, and they all started rushing back to the cave that Elise had found the dead Rock Crawlers in. At first, she was confused, but she soon concluded that they must have had some kind of tremor sense, and had sensed something nearby.

They were faster than Elise expected, and there were enough of them that it took her a while to fly past the group and get ahead of them, just in time to prevent them from reaching the room where Elise sensed Sophie’s retreating aether.

“Stop,” she commanded.

{Royal Decree} only reached the first few Crawlers, who stopped on a dime, causing the ones behind to crash into them. Elise would have loved to experiment more with her abilities, now that she finally had a group of 5th tiers to work on, but she didn’t have time. She needed to catch back up with Sophie and get back home before midnight.

Instead, she flew forward, activating {Royal Presence}, and commanding the entire group to stop moving. Once they had stopped, she used {Nature Mana Manipulation} to grow roots beneath them and dig in between the chinks in their shells, destroying their insides. It was rather gruesome, and it used almost her entire mana pool, but it was efficient. Under the pressure of her aether, they could not resist, simply standing there as the roots killed them.

Elise took a moment to appreciate that she had gotten a level for her efforts, then re-activated {Don’t Look At Me, Peasants!} and flew back after Sophie. When she caught up, she scared the half-elf girl half to death by reappearing beside her, then the two of them returned to the surface. Sophie was shocked to learn that Elise had actually been down with her the whole time, and even seemed a bit down after learning that Elise had curated her encounters for her. Elise felt a little guilty, but pushed the feeling aside as she had more important matters to worry about, like informing the University that there were 5th tiers in a 3rd tier zone.

However, when they reached the surface again, they found that someone else had already gotten the message there before them. And it was someone they knew.

“Samantha?” asked Elise.

“Oh, Eleanor, hey!” said Samantha, waving. “And Sophie! Bit of late night Dungeoneering, huh?”

“Yep,” said Elise.

“Did you guys run into those 5th tiers too?”

“Wait, you too?” asked Elise.

“Yeah,” said Samantha. “I was gonna push for Silver tonight, but then I ran into them and had to come right back out to let them know.”

She nodded toward the University employee who was currently scribbling something on a piece of paper.

“What about you guys?” she asked. “Sisterly bonding?”

“Something like that,” replied Elise. “I was just showing Sophie how to hunt.”

“Fun,” said Samantha. “Well, I should probably get going. Looks like I’m gonna have to re-plan my push to Silver, since this entrance is gonna be shut down for a while until they can figure out what’s going on. Have a good night!”

“You too,” said Elise.

“See you Monday,” said Sophie.

As Samantha walked away, Elise noted that the other girl had a sword on her hip. She hadn’t expected that. She assumed that Samantha was more like her, focusing on magic or aether than melee combat. That threw her previous guesses about what Samantha’s Class might have been for a loop.

“Excuse me, miss,” said the guild employee, drawing her attention away from the redhead. “You said you saw them too, right? Would you mind answering a few questions for me so I can add to my report?”

“Sure.”

Elise spent the next few minutes talking about the Greater Steel Crawlers, and helping the employee mark on the map where she had found them, then she and Sophie headed home.

The next morning, Elise found herself at one of Jelor City’s teleportation stations buying a ticket to Everspring. She had been building up questions for Oberon ever since her talk with Titania, and now that she had a free weekend, it was finally time to pay him a visit.
