Dishes clattered. Two men at the table behind them mused about what population size Earth could comfortably support with and without magic, and a woman gabbed with customers while she stacked jars of a new custom seasoning blend into a pyramid at the other end of the counter.

The television high up on the wall behind her was on one of the local stations, like usual.

“Should I have picked a different place?” Jeremy asked while he cut up a piece of Canadian bacon.

“Why? This is one of your favorite breakfast spots. And my sandwich is great. Alden’s missing out.”

Jeremy nodded. “Their school food looks good, though, doesn’t it? And he’s got that Dura Brute who’s teaching himself to cook. Haoyu.”

“Everything there looks good. An ugly Anesidora would wobble the status quo.”

“He’s got Natalie, too,” Jeremy said. “If he can persuade her to feed him again. And he sent me a link to an American-style diner he found that serves what he says are the best hash browns in the world.”

“Yeah. Well. He’s not eating there this morning.” Boe took a bite out of his Reuben that looked more like an attack against the sandwich than enjoyment. Dressing oozed around the edges.

“You’ve talked to him already today? I was going to call him later and tell him Kimberly’s decided on Michigan. I’m sure he doesn’t care where my girlfriend goes to college, but he pretends to. How’s he doing right now?”

“He’s being stupid and refusing to admit it,” Boe said shortly. “So he’s fine until the consequences hit, I guess.”

Jeremy developed a silent interest in his omelet that was eventually broken by Boe motioning for his pocket notebook and the pen clipped to the front of it. He slid it over, and Boe scribbled something in it before putting it back down between their plates. Boe gulped the new cup of coffee he’d been given while Jeremy read it.

“And…you’re mad about this?” Jeremy asked.

“Why wouldn’t I be?”

“Why would you be, man? It’s not like he’s doing something wrong.”

Boe’s mug clacked against the countertop. “Give me that again.”

He wrote something else. Jeremy spent longer staring into the notebook this time.

They’re not just wizards, it said. They’re generals.

When he finally looked up, he said, “So those are the kind of people he’s hanging around…?”

“You see why I’m perturbed.”

“I do.” Jeremy pushed the last bite of eggs around his plate, then set the fork back down without eating. “But also I don’t. Every time I hear he’s having fun, I’m relieved. Or…it’s not only relief, but it’s like, ‘Look at that. He can do something like that now and enjoy it? After everything that’s happened to him? Hell yes, Alden!’ I even get this rush from it sometimes. Especially whenever he’s doing something extra out-there.”

Boe stared at him.

“For real,” Jeremy said. “It started with ordinary stuff when I went to visit him. ‘Wow, Alden works out a lot now. He shops by drone. He likes pinball.’ And none of that is exciting, except yeah it is. Because I was so nervous to go see him in person. I thought he might be faking being okay on his calls.”

“He was.”

“I know. He wasn’t sleeping ever, and they were keeping him in a private room. But he was okay enough to talk, smile, and breathe. That was a lot at the time. Now it’s a couple of months later, and he’s flying around campus on a magic vehicle. He’s calling us to help him donate a ton of money to charities. Thanksgiving was the best. It was so funny that he got himself stuck in that situation. But what an awesome, once-in-a-lifetime situation, right? I watched him on a video while he was trying to get the turkey and that giant cornucopia to Matadero. People were waving at him out of their apartment windows, and he was waving back.

“He was so alive, Boe. Doing something that wasn’t just surviving. Making a memory he’s going to laugh about for years. Like this.” He tapped the notebook. “I’ve got a rush right now from the first thing you wrote. Seriously, look at what you wrote here, man!”

He’s spent almost two whole days on Artona I with Stuart, Stuart’s cousin, and their friends. Doing some kind of alien migration with them. He’s been partying and doing rituals, and now they’re reporting on someone they caught committing a crime.

“This is cool,” said Jeremy. “How is this not cool?”

“You don’t know everything that’s going on with him,” Boe muttered.

“I’m sure he tells you things he doesn’t tell me. But I think you’re worrying so much about what could happen to him that you can’t be happy when he shows signs of moving away from that…I think it was like a desperate survivor headspace he was in when he got back. It’s natural. He almost died. But it must be so hard to live in that mode. I hope he appreciates not dying by doing more stuff like what you wrote here. I hope he figures out who he wants to be now, and life lets him have it.”

Boe looked down at his partially eaten sandwich and pancake. “I get how you’re thinking. You’re right about some of it, but I’m not going to be happy he’s hanging around more and more of those…types of people…and getting so freaking attached to them.”

“Why?”

“Because they’re dangerous,” Boe hissed.

“He shouldn’t be attached to them because they’re dangerous?”

“Yes. Are your ears working?”

“They are. By the way, when are you coming over to help me fix that thing that someone broke in my bedroom?”

Boe’s shocked expression met Jeremy’s wince.

“I didn’t mean to bring that—”

“Don’t worry about it. It’s my fault, after all. So much of this shit that’s happened all damn year is obviously my fucking fault.” Boe was on his feet, grabbing his coat and scarf.

“Boe, nobody in the universe thinks that except for you. I’m sorry. I really just wanted to have breakfast with…you’re taking my macro notebook.”

Boe ripped out the page he’d written on and several below it and dropped the notebook back on the counter. “I’ll pay you back.”

“I don’t want you to pay me back. I want you to sit down and talk to me. Let me—”

“Done talking. See you at school on Monday.”

“Boe!”

He was already rushing toward the door.

A minute later, the woman who’d been stacking seasoning blend came over and looked at Boe’s plate. “Your friend left in a hurry.”

Jeremy swallowed. “Have you ever said exactly what was on your mind, and then the sound of it coming out of your mouth made you hate that you ever thought it?”

“God, yes,” she said, picking up the coffee mug that had been in Boe’s hand a moment ago. “Happens to every human being with a heart. You want a box for his food?”

******

******

******

Alden stood beside Stuart, who stood beside the executioner. All three of them looked down over the smooth wood of the balcony rail to the courtyard below. Olget-ovekondo was down there, kneeling on dull red tiles and breathing so hard that Alden could hear him even from this distance.

His brother had come with him and been forced by a command from Vill-ma into one corner of the courtyard after reading a message from their mother, who pleaded for mercy for her son and apologized on behalf of their family for his behavior. Which was more or less an admission that he had done it.

Now, the man just needed to admit it himself, and this would all be over.

“The strong may pull mercy from their pockets without noticing a loss,” Vill-ma said. “Be at ease, accused one. You kneel before the Artonan people, and we are strong. Will you tell me truths?”

They waited.

Olget-ovekondo had worn a beautiful gray coat, and a pair of the o’odee tendril feathers his family favored hovered over his back. Sweat or tears dripped down from his bowed head to leave small dark spots as they soaked into the tiles.

Alden reached up to surreptitiously wipe the sweat from above his own lip with the back of a finger.

This feels awful. And I’m scared the dumb, dumb person down there might do something wrong and literally lose his head. How is Stuart so calm?

Despite his earlier stress, Stuart seemed attentive and almost at ease now that this moment had come. His posture was upright but not tense. His fingers rested lightly on the railing, while Alden’s own were clenched.

“I w-would…,” Olget-ovekondo stammered. “I would like for the claim that I knew my actions might make the bors serve my family again in the future…that I hoped for that…it’s not the truth. I would have that claim unsaid.”

“There are many reasons to believe that was your intent. And it could be proved. But I am willing to remove that accusation from my calculation of your sentence if these two witnesses agree to unsay it. This is the mercy I take from my pockets.”

Olget-ovekondo looked up for the first time since he’d appeared in the courtyard, hope on his face. His brother, silent in the corner, slumped against the wall with relief.

“We will step back a pace out of your hearing,” said Vill-ma. “So that the witnesses may discuss this with each other.”

“Thank you, Executioner. However, I will not unsay what I have said.”

The brother gasped. Olget’s jaw went slack.

Everyone looked at Stuart.

He’s saying no? So fast. Okay. No mercy from the pockets. He sounds very sure about it.

Alden was glad he wasn’t a Brute. It would be so embarrassing to nervously rip this railing in half like a toothpick.

“Hmmm?” Vill-ma had some surprise in her voice, but it was mild. “Since that is the case, accused one, you may request verification of your honesty for this claim. Or if the second witness wishes to disagree—”

Alden thought he heard the wood beneath his hands creak, but it was a sound lost to Olget-ovekondo suddenly shouting, “Oh, wizard! My brother wizard! Is your belly stone, wood, or flesh?”

He crawled forward, hands lifting toward Stuart.

“Flesh,” Stuart said, still relaxed and unblinking.

“Then I hunger for your mercy! This is the only claim I will ask you to unsay. All the others are true. I will agree they are true. Think of the kindness of my family. Think of my mother and how she will suffer if I am away for too long!”

His voice echoed off the walls. When he was done speaking, there was no sound at all.

Alden was watching Stuart closely, and so he had a perfect view when the Artonan boy’s right eye—the iris rust-colored and encircled by a thin golden ring—turned aside from Olget-ovekondo and toward a spot at the end of the balcony where it seemed there should be nothing to see.

It was the first time Alden had ever seen Stuart split his vision. The eye returned to its starting position in a heartbeat.

“As I consider you now,” Stuart said in a voice just loud enough to be heard by all present, “I prefer to think of my own mother. And her suffering. I will not unsay anything.”

A moment passed, then Executioner Vill-ma tapped her black ring against the rail. “A second witness has already been recorded,” she said. “So if he wants to disagree with the first, there will be more of a process to go through before we move forward.”

Three people focused on Alden. Stuart didn’t.

And Alden realized he wasn’t nervous anymore. He could relax his own grip and his own shoulders. He could think past the immediate fear of seeing another person’s head roll. It wasn’t hard to speak clearly.

“I will not unsay what I have said.”

There were a few more things for Vill-ma to cover, but Olget-ovekondo’s life, as he’d lived it up until that moment, ended with those words. And the man knew it. He collapsed onto the tiles, his face hidden and his body shaking.

Alden watched him tremble then took a few steps back out of the spotlight to drink the tea he’d been given.

Behind him stood the son of people who’d suffered to protect others. Below him knelt someone who treated others like they existed for his convenience.

The glass in Alden’s hand was slick with condensation. The liquid inside was dark blue. This was the same variety of tea Ro-den had given him once. His brain tried to make that mean something, but really it didn’t.

It was just tea. Olget-ovekondo was just a tiny little man who’d done wrong. And people like Sina Stu-art’h and Alden Thorn had more important things to do.
