“Let him go, Ylawes Byres. I need him.”
Calac Crusland lifted his sword as the [Knight] half-pivoted, letting go of Trey. Tov and Goelv covered Falene with their wands.
“Calac! How did you get free?”
“Someone broke me out. Ylawes—”
“You tricked us.”
Calac didn’t shake his head. He just nodded.
“I swear, if I am freed, I will pay you your full due. More than I gave you.”
Ylawes’ face was a mask of frustration and anger. He watched Calac, and the [Lord] pivoted as Trey stepped back. Could he beat Ylawes without his shield? He clearly thought he could, and Trey looked at Falene as Minizi raised her sword again.
The Silver Swords faced Trey’s group, and Trey didn’t know if Ylawes would charge…until Dawil began to stir.
“Pointy? What hit me?”
Ylawes glanced at his friend. Falene bent, and the [Knight] cursed as all four young men backed up a step.
“Go! Go and—Dawil?”
He bent over the Dwarf. Dawil was looking around.
“My hatchet. It broke my hatchet. I…”
He was more concerned about that than anything else. Trey glanced back before he rounded a corner and saw the blade was snapped. Someone—that singing Golem—had snapped it while it was lodged in its body. He didn’t know why the Dwarf looked so anguished.
Calac didn’t wait to see if Ylawes would change his mind. He hurried Trey down the corridor.
“There you are. I thought Viltach captured you. We were coming to try and free you. Where’s Amerys’ key?”
“Calac? I thought you were captured! How did you get free? Amerys’ key—Viltach doesn’t know where it is! He switched the locks! I don’t know how to…”
“Shh! Shh!”
Goelv shushed the two, and Calac and Trey fell silent. The Gazer boy held up a four-fingered hand and pointed. Everyone rushed into a side room—just in time for them to hear shouting.
“Find the Earthers! Gazi Pathseeker is on the rampage!”
“Gazi—the Gazi—”
A group of [Mages] passed down the corridor. The four young men hid, barely making a sound, as Minizi raised her sword, looked at Trey, and lowered it. Goelv’s eyes were flicking left, right, up, and down, like Gazi’s.
“They’re gone. The Silver Swords are moving too. We must hurry! This way!”
“Follow Goelv. He’s the only reason we’ve gotten this far. We have to go to the Creler-murals, key or not. Where is Gazi? Everyone is talking about her fighting!”
Goelv led the way, followed by Trey and Calac, Tov and Minizi bringing up the rear. Trey spoke as fast as he could.
“I broke out of Viltach’s rooms. I snagged as many potions, artifacts, and scrolls—here, take some! And here’s a sword!”
He reached into his bag of holding and pulled out a longsword. Calac checked it.
“Better enchantment than mine.”
He didn’t switch blades immediately, but lifted it, cursed, and offered it to Tov.
“Need a sword?”
“Thanks.”
Trey looked at Calac. The [Swordsman] explained.
“Different weight and balance. I don’t trust myself with it, sorry.”
“Oh—right. How are we going to free Amerys? I think the singing Golem’s gone—”
“We have to try. At worst, we break her chains and just carry her out. We have to move, Trey. These distractions won’t last long! How did Viltach find out?”
Trey shook his head.
“He knew from the start. You?”
“Emirea. But Trey, she…wait. Wait. Did you not know about the [Pirates] either?”
“Pirates? What [Pirates]?”
Tov spoke up, his voice harsh with excitement and nerves.
“The Illuminary is raiding Wistram as we speak. That’s our way out.”
“The Illuminary is what?”
Calac looked at Trey.
“So you didn’t know.”
“Gazi told me we had an escape route, but that was all!”
The [Lord] nodded thoughtfully. For a second he had seemed reserved, but he nodded, relieved.
“Pieces within pieces. A plan within a plan. It’s clever. Just as you might expect. All we have to do is stick to our plan, Trey. Get to Amerys. We—what happened here?”
They rounded a corner. Goelv gasped, and Tov backed up.
The entire hallway was scorched black. Calac raised his sword, and Tov looked around, but there was only ash. Trey didn’t have to guess.
“They must have found Gazi. She must not have reached Amerys, or she’d have freed her by now.”
“Then we have to. There are Archmages coming here, Trey. Feor was held up by Doroumata, but the Drakes and Drowned Folk are abandoning Wistram. Goelv will take us through the maze. We have to fight the guards—four versus four.”
“Madness. They’re battle-mages.”
Tov whispered. Calac’s face was set.
“We have to try. We have more than just us and Lady Pathseeker, but we have to do our part. Maybe the [Pirates] can fight them? Or perhaps—”
He hesitated. Looked around at Minizi, running to keep pace with Goelv, striding ahead of them, halting, looking back in horror. Trey, staring at Calac, Tov, the Drake, the Drowned Man looking up, aiming his wand at—
“You lot really are a huge amount of trouble.”
The Ullsinoi [Mage] commented. He flicked his off-hand, and the dagger he carried plunged into Goelv’s back as he pointed a wand behind him. A beam of light flashed, and Trey went blind as it struck Tov, but he swung his staff up, and the Ullsinoi mage kicked him between the legs.
Trey doubled over as Calac shouted. His head went white with pain, and he curled up and heard Calac cry out. The Ullsinoi [Mage] listened to Goelv screaming in pain and then snorted.
He stomped on Minizi and looked around.
“Children are taken out, Galei. Have you or Viltach found her? I think we’ve got bait—”
The Drake stopped. He turned, lowered his claw, and murmured as Calac, on his hands and knees, looked up. Trey, through the tears in his eyes, saw the [Illusionist] throw up his hands, toss the dagger, and turn.
“No!”
He almost made it. He was in the middle of a [Flash Step] sideways when Minizi stabbed his foot. That was enough. The man had a chance to cry out, and he was a man, Trey saw.
No Drake, just a plainer half-Elf man, even a slight bit overweight from Wistram’s fine meals. That was his true body, and Trey saw it as Gazi leapt out of hiding along the wall and cut him from neck to ribs.
It was such a fast cut that Trey didn’t see blood until the man collapsed. Then his head and right shoulder lay, staring up at him, and Trey felt his bile rise. He felt at his neck, and Gazi turned.
“There you are.”
She croaked. Trey looked up and saw burnt, scabbed skin. The Gazer was toasted; her armor was still whole, but the one part of her he could see, her head, was burnt, and she was breathing hard.
“Lady Pathseeker!”
Calac scrambled up, but Gazi was already bending over Goelv.
“Poisoned blade. Antidote, now.”
She tossed Calac a vial, and he fumbled at it. Gazi strode over to Tov, dumped a potion on him, and looked at Trey.
“Get to Amerys.”
“Gazi! What about the plan?”
She bared her teeth.
“Ullsinoi is here. So is that Archmage. Get to Amerys and free her.”
Someone struck a gong nearby. The reverberation went through Trey. It went through him, his bones, the floor itself. Gazi spun. The gong sounded again, and Trey staggered.
“There you are. You won’t run again.”
A voice floated down the hallway. It was…Galei. The Centaur trotted down the hallway, looking far, far too calm.
Gazi lifted her off-hand and fired a spell through Galei, but the [Ice Spike] missed; the Centaur truly was an illusion. He trotted towards the dead Ullsinoi [Mage] and knelt. He looked down, then up, sightlessly. But he knew Gazi was there.
Her armor was ringing. The entire half-Gazer was…reverberating in space. As if the sound had coalesced around her and stuck to her like glue. Trey was sure any illusion or concealment spell wouldn’t work.
“Run.”
Gazi looked at Trey. He turned to Tov, Goelv, and saw Calac rise. The [Lord] looked at Trey and took off without a word, sword and wand in either hand. Trey ran after him.
Minizi halted a moment and looked at big-Gazi. The half-Gazer looked at her cute little imitation and then turned. She didn’t try to hide, but she did walk forwards, to keep what was happening next away from Tov and Goelv. The Gazer boy was still screaming; the broad-spectrum antidote must not have worked.
He went silent after a minute. Gazi didn’t look back at him. She found a hallway and placed herself there. Her eyes moved. One for the Ullsinoi [Mage]. Another for Galei.
Two more for Archmage Viltach. Her main eye moved, checking all her points as the Archmage stopped. Gazi put her back to the wall, but they had three angles on her. She saw Archmage Viltach aim a wand at her.
“I surrender.”
The Archmage hesitated for a fraction of an instant as Gazi lowered her claymore. He shook his head slightly.
“No, you don’t.”
She sighed, and he fired a wave of frost from his wand that turned the air to pain and deathly cold. Galei unleashed a triple-shower of needles which broke on the ceiling, showering down like deadly hail. The last [Mage] filled the air with sickles of cutting magic and a [Deathbolt].
Gazi looked around, eyes spinning. Her sword came up and she—
Her mind blanked. Where was the safe spot? Where was the—
 
——
 
The fighting behind Trey and Calac turned into a roar two minutes later. They stopped in front of the Creler-murals, and Trey turned back to see Minizi running after them.
“She’s Gazi Pathseeker. We have to use her sacrifice!”
Calac grabbed Trey. The [Sand Mage] didn’t argue. He looked at Calac, and they sprinted into the final part.
Amerys’ prison.
The two Gemstone Protectors were gone. Or rather, one was downed; it had been half-melted from the firestorm of spells that had struck it. The other was gone, and Trey saw no trace of it. The singer golem was gone, he knew for a fact.
The carpeted interior of the Mershi-lounge was torn up by the Golem’s tread, but that maze remained at the end of the hallway. Ghost-space. Trey Atwood glanced back, but Goelv was gone, and so was Gazi.
Even so, he and Calac ran at the maze, ignoring the ward spells, a dead run. Trey passed by the empty greenhouse and flashed past the taproom, brightly lit up—
“Now! [Magic Tripwire]!”
“[Sticky Webs]!”
The world exploded with light. Trey felt something trip him up, then a hammer punched him in the chest. He lay on the ground, immobilized, as Minizi and Calac both hit…what? Trey heard a triumphant laugh.
“We did it! Grab their artifacts! Someone subdue the Golem! We’ll imprison them for the Archmages!”
Trey looked up as the ecstatic voices broke out into a babble. He stared at Charles de Trevalier and the Libertarian [Mages] as he and Calac were stripped of gear and tossed into a magical prison. The Libertarians toasted each other with drinks, then sat back to gloat, interrogate the two young men—and watch the scrying orb of Reim’s fall.
One last hurdle.
 
——
 
“Archmage Viltach warned us there might be intruders. Well, we will not allow Archmage Amerys to be freed. Even Ullsinoi stands with us.”
The Libertarians let Trey stand. Calac sat; there was no point. He, Minizi, and Trey had nothing on them but their clothes. They’d even pulled Minizi’s mithril bones out.
They stood behind a gleaming barrier of magic, and what was worse, magical suppression spells. The Libertarians looked smug as they checked their spells.
They were rather like Viltach. When they had realized what was happening, and seen Gazi fighting Ullsinoi, the [Mages] had made a practical, selfish call.
They’d stayed put and prepared to ambush anyone trying to get to Amerys. There were no angry Golems, no [Pirates] or fighting [Mages] outside of here. They didn’t even bother tying the two boys up.
“Just keep the mana flowing. The magical suppression field is based on a two-to-one mana efficiency quota. Why, we could keep Eldavin himself suppressed, and another Archmage to boot!”
One of the Libertarians was lecturing the others. They nodded, and Trey looked at them.
Libertarians. Charles de Trevalier still hadn’t shut up.
“Chandrarians. I knew from the instant you were a man without honor. But you? Even you…‘Earthers’ cannot be trusted. That is what you are, isn’t it?”
He aimed a rapier, flicking it between Trey and Calac. Neither young man said anything, and a bell jangled noisily on the rapier’s handle. One of the older [Mages] rested a hand on Charles’ shoulder. He looked almost kindly at Trey and then at Calac with cool animosity.
“Now, now, Charles. That would be a greater secret of Wistram. Good that you know it; frankly, after tonight, I rather think we’ll all be deserving of the full story. I’ll arrange it myself.”
Charles glanced up at the older [Mage] and nodded. He lowered his rapier fractionally.
“Just so, High Mage Lallen. And I swear on the Trevalier name that these two will not go free. Nor Gazi Pathseeker herself if she comes!”
“Hear, hear! And I for Havrington!”
Timor du Havrington chipped in. The two were at the front of the group trying to interrogate Trey and Calac. The others had just sat back; the barrier kept them from the two young men as well as the reverse.
“So what else have you planned? How many co-conspirators are there? Tell us now and it might go easier for you.”
Another [Mage] warned Trey. The [Sand Mage] just stood there. He looked at Charles, Timor, the Libertarians, most of whom weren’t even close to battle-mages, and muttered.
“The idiots at the end. The idiots at the end got us.”
“What did he say?”
Charles and his friends bristled. Trey just looked at Calac. The [Lord] rose, and suddenly charged the barrier. The air flashed, and he recoiled and sat back down hard.
The [Mages] recoiled and then laughed at the two young men.
“What a [Brute]. How did you even get to Wistram? No wonder you were spies; you can’t have made it in normally. Any one of us could have stopped you; no need for a group.”
Charles sneered at Calac. The [Swordsman] cursed as he got up.
“Let me out, and we’ll see who could stop who. I’ll take you on with my bare hands.”
He glanced at Trey, and the [Sand Mage] stirred. He’d give Calac that fight—maybe. Charles bristled, but the older [Mage] who had cast the barrier and magic suppression spell was half-listening. He turned to a table and lifted a hand.
“Ah, ah. No falling for their provocations. I have sent word to the Archmages we have prisoners, but they’re busy. Archmage Viltach is capturing Gazi Pathseeker.”
“Capturing?”
“If he can, I think. Archmage Feor is moving to assist him, and Archmage Nailihuaile says she will come to ensure Amerys is safe.”
“That Lizardwoman would. Just so long as she knows who was here—we didn’t even need the inner guards!”
