Two more bolts. The first frost—then a bolt of lightning that blasted a reeling Feor—and turned to a wave of water that rushed around him.
It wasn’t even a good offensive spell. It was…Amerys looked at him.
“Is this enough magic for you, Feor? [Empower Spell]. [Grand Lightning].”
Her mana reserves! Viltach was an Archmage and could cast countless spells, but he’d been fighting Gazi and he used magic on a daily basis.
Amerys hadn’t cast a spell for—she was holding Feor down with one spell. She turned to Viltach and set herself. Amerys smiled.
“I’m a bit angry, Viltach. Now that I’ve greeted you, I can express that honestly.”
 
——
 
Amerys’ battle with the Archmages of Wistram sounded like thunder. Trey Atwood didn’t see it. He found Calac sitting where he had come to rest.
Three Libertarians were dead. Trey had thought it was more. The Quarass barely noticed. She had a broken collarbone and ribs.
“We are leaving. To the ships. Calac Crusland, stand. Amerys is freed.”
“My mother is dead, Quarass.”
The Quarass’ eyes glinted. She stopped as Calac knelt there, white-faced. Trey reached for his friend, but the Quarass was faster.
“Yes. Your father lives. Will you leave him alone? Or greet your mother’s shade?”
Calac jerked and looked up. Trey instinctively grabbed the amulet at his neck. Nailihuaile had not told him you had to activate it. The Quarass had. He wished the Archmage of Nagas just a bit of suffering for that.
It might have simplified so much. Or maybe it had led them to this point.
Calac Crusland looked up at the Quarass with pain, anger—and rose. That was what the Quarass did. She stabbed you in the heart to get your legs moving.
“With me. Watch for Ullsinoi. They will likely not trouble us—but perhaps.”
“They won’t take revenge for this?”
The Quarass grimaced as she felt at her ribs. She stopped.
“Someone carry me. I am about to puncture my skin.”
Trey hesitated, but Calac picked up the little girl. The Quarass spoke as they ran through burnt corridors, and Amerys’ duel continued.
“They could kill us. To what end? Amerys is free. They hold grudges, but they are practical. They tried so badly to hold Amerys because they did not want Flos Reimarch to win. Now she is free? They will hedge their bets against him rising to power.”
Trey just nodded. He felt…empty.
Relieved Amerys was free. Empty, as he ran down the hallway. He kept waiting for one last thing.
“Trey.”
He jerked and the amulet flared to life, but Gazi was leaning against a wall. Her armor was cracked; a noticeable line down the breastplate. The Quarass eyed it. Gazi five-eyed the Quarass, Calac, and Trey.
“You’re alive.”
The Gazer looked like someone had beaten her to hell and back with magic. She rasped.
“You did it. We must leave. Zecrew and her [Pirates] are fleeing Wistram. Cognita is here.”
The Quarass tilted her head.
“She is? I did not anticipate that. We go, then. Amerys will find us.”
“Will she kill the Archmages?”
Trey saw Gazi join them and realized someone else was there.
“Goelv!”
The Gazer boy was sickly, but he and Gazi picked up another, comatose young man and dragged him after them. Tov. The half-Gazer had rescued the two. She spoke to Trey, curtly.
“She might try, but I don’t think she can.”
“But she’s…”
“Weak.”
The Quarass finished Trey’s startled sentence. She glanced up as another roll of thunder boomed.
“Too weak to risk the magic it would take to kill either, I think. She is distracting them. But she will only batter them then join us. Too many defensive wards. They would have to lower their guards first. Archmages die in battle seldom. Off-guard is how I have killed most.”
Something about the way she said that and Gazi’s stare made Trey focus on the Quarass’ staff.
“Is that…?”
The girl just looked at him as she carried the Serkonian Lance. Calac said nothing at all.
Hallway after hallway. They passed by Golems, students and [Mages]. The Golems turned, and Trey saw a green-eyed stare appear in one of them.
“You.”
“We are leaving Wistram. Hold, Cognita Truestone.”
The Quarass spoke, aiming her staff at the Golem. Cognita’s green eyes bored into Trey’s, but she saw Gazi and the Quarass. The Golem hesitated and seemed to check herself, realizing her body was not Truestone, but fragile.
Another Golem’s existence.
“I will remember this, Troy Atlas. You have been marked.”
Her voice followed the group. Troy’s stomach lurched, and Gazi looked at him.
“You have paid a dear price for this, Trey. I will remember it too.”
“And I.”
“You tricked me. Gazi—you and the Quarass! You knew! I thought I had to do it alone!”
The Quarass looked at Trey calmly.
“Yes. You made a good plan. I was proud of it. But you are young. We will speak on it later.”
Trey Atwood wanted to punch the girl—no, the Quarass behind the girl’s face. Calac spoke.
“Reim is standing. Nerrhavia’s Fallen has retreated?”
The girl looked up at him, and her tone did not change. Her voice did not soften, but she spoke directly to him, like a [Commander] to a [Soldier].
“Yes. They have surrendered or fled. It is a great victory. Your mother saved you—and perhaps us all.”
He didn’t react, but he kept running.
Students. Mages. Golems. The students looked at Trey, and the monster ran. That was how they gazed at him. He had brought war to Wistram.
A part of him, a terrible part that was like Teresa, almost laughed. Almost relished showing them how easily it all fell apart.
But the rest of Trey was aching. Grieving. Remorseful. But…
I will change that idiot’s mind. Change Reim. The Quarass had heard Trey’s secret plan that not even Gazi or she had expected. She kept glancing at him.
“You have an ambition beyond even what I could dream, Trey Atwood. And it will be the harder of your two desires. Believe me.”
Her pale yellow eyes glinted. Gazi glanced curiously at Trey, and Goelv wheezed.
“I’m dying. Lady Pathseeker, I’m dying.”
“Keep running.”
“Yes, Lady Pathseeker.”
 
——
 
Rasea Zecrew was on board her glowing ship when the group burst from the gates of Wistram. The other ships were gone—or sunk. The detritus of a war covered the academy’s front, yet the [Pirate Captain] looked nervous.
“Get on, quick! The bastards nearly took us out, but they’ve stopped! I nearly left, promise or no, Quarass!”
The woman was the most antsy yet—even Orthenon climbing onto her hull hadn’t spooked her.
“What happened?”
“Fucking Golems. Giant bastards with beams like the damn crab!”
The [Helmsman] swore. The Illuminary was knocked up, but the guardian-Golems hadn’t wiped out the ship.
The Quarass alighted on the decks, taking charge in a moment.
“Archmage Amerys called off the attack. She certified you as guests. Cognita abides; there are rules. Barely. I believe she would rather prevent more of her Golems being destroyed.”
Rasea tipped her hat to the girl, looking her up and down.
“So here’s the new Quarass, same as the last one! Remember me? Nice to meet you again.”
“You do not change markedly, Rasea Zecrew. Set sail.”
The [Pirate Captain] hesitated, although the helmsman was already spinning the wheel.
“What about the woman we all came to get? Amerys? She dead, or didn’t we get her?”
“She will find us.”
The [Pirate] laughed, and the Illuminary shot from port. Trey Atwood saw them break through the rainclouds—into more rain.
It was stormy within and without Wistram, although the lightning was only falling inside the bubble, oddly. Suddenly, he collapsed next to the Quarass. Calac sat, head bowed, holding the bag of holding. There was something inside it for him.
“I’m on the Illuminary. I’m alive?”
A voice spoke. Tov jerked to wakefulness, looked up at Rasea, and nearly fainted. She laughed.
“Now, who’s this lad? Hello, my boy!”
He just gaped up at her. The [Pirate Captain] helped him up, whistled for the [Ship Doctor], a class Trey had never heard before.
The Quarass had, and she was telling him how to bandage her wounds properly. The [Pirates], male and female, were whooping; someone had breached a cask.
“Wistram’s finest! We’re drinking tonight! To Maresar, the [Bandit Lord]! To legends and, if she graces us, the Archmage of Chandrar!”
Rasea climbed one of the masts and raised her sword. Calac looked up at the grinning [Pirate Lady] with all the hatred in the world for her laughter.
“She is being respectful. In her way.”
The Quarass told him. He didn’t respond. Trey didn’t know what to say. He just lay there, as a magical bubble surrounded the ship and the rain stopped.
Such a jolly crew. The Illuminary’s [Pirates] were simple, uncomplicated, and Trey envied them. They thought this was a grand day. They had looted, fought, leveled, and made their mark.
Trey looked for Minizi. The little Lifesand Golem tottered over to big-Gazi with a healing potion in her hands. She handed it up, and Gazi took it.
She was smaller, now. She’d lost most of her upgrades but…Trey thought when he leveled, when he slept, and in the days to come, Minizi would be more dangerous than Viltach had ever made her.
Dangerous. War. Amerys would return to Reim, and Flos would probably go on the offensive soon; Nerrhavia’s Fallen, his biggest nearby foe, had suffered a massive blow.
Back to war. Trey closed his eyes. Was that all this was for? He saw light peeking on the edge of his vision and looked up.
The cheering and laughter slowed. Voices rose, and Trey opened his eyes.
In the dark sky of Wistram, a light shone. Not a star. Something brighter. Closer. It flew from the Academy of Mages, freed. Like a firefly made of shining magic itself.
It did not fly directly at the Illuminary; like two lights in the sea, one racing and leaping among the waves and the other soaring through the sky—Archmage Amerys rose higher.
Amerys, one of the King’s Seven. The Archmage. The lightning mage. The great warrior.
But that was not what Trey saw. He saw the woman fly up in a nimbus of light, and do a loop in the skies. Soar through the darkness, dive and skim along the waves, even dip into the ocean and out in a spray of color and magic.
He looked at her and saw the joy in her.
Free. They should all be free. She would keep her vow. He had to believe that. If for nothing else than because she had known it.
A beautiful sight. The Archmage flew after the Illuminary, and the vessel slowed. Rasea Zecrew, beaming, saluted Amerys as she alighted on the decks.
Barefoot, a bit battle-worn. Exhausted, but smiling. She looked at Gazi, the Quarass, and then found Trey. She nodded to him, then Calac Crusland.
“Gazi.”
“Amerys.”
The two looked at each other coolly, and Trey wondered if they would be like the other of the Seven when they squabbled. Then Gazi put out her hand, touched Amerys’ arm, and the Archmage threw her arms around her.
“Of all of them, I should have known you would never leave me behind.”
“We would all have gone. He missed you every day.”
Amerys’ voice was muffled.
“I will see him soon. Thank you. Thank you.”
Trey Atwood sighed. For legends, for freedom, for a change and just the next part of his life…he saw Rasea throw her head back and laugh—then slap the autograph-card out of her [First Mate]’s hands.
“Don’t ruin the moment, you idiot furball.”
“But [Captain]—I used to buy cheap shock-wands and pretend I was her!”
Amerys looked around. She swayed.
“Food. Food. I haven’t eaten in…aside from snacks. Food. Food, and tell me. And show me. And…and food?”
“Oi! Food for the Archmage! Get everything! Get the [Ship Cook] out! Where is that bitch?”
Rasea howled. A door flew open, and a figure pointed a finger at her.
“I am a [Saucier Sea-Chef]!”
The [Pirate] spread her hands and went to calm down the angry food-preparer. The crew bustled around Gazi and Amerys, just watching them. Trey realized Amerys was older than Gazi by almost ten years. She looked younger when she cast her great magics.
“It’s time. For better or worse—this will be my last war. We have much to discuss. Much…but show me Maresar’s son. Your armor.”
The Archmage was speaking to Gazi, leaning on her. The Gazer shrugged.
“It might be for the best. Here…”
And so it was over. Trey Atwood lay back. The deck was so…wet and hard and smelly and frankly muddy too. A [Deckhand], probably the most fearsome [Deckhand] in the world, paused as she swabbed past Trey’s face.
“You want a bed or something?”
Trey would love a bed. He would sleep, Illuminary at sea or not. Sleep…and then talk to Calac. Process what he’d done. Feel regrets.
Level up. Would he advance both his classes? Would Minizi gain something? He pushed himself up, halfway tempted to lie down and find out now. He saw Amerys speaking to Calac, who’d risen to bow before her.
Goelv, gazing at him and Gazi. Tov, eyeing the [Pirates]—Trey.
They gave him a strange look. The boy who had caused this all. His friends…aside from Emirea—that was, the Quarass.
“I thought you were my friend.”
Trey knew it was the stupidest thing for him to feel betrayed after all he’d done, but he told the girl that anyways. As she wrote on a [Message] scroll, the Quarass glanced up briefly.
“Am I not? You and I will see more of each other, Trey. Especially for what you intend. Both things. But we will speak on that later. You are the key to Germina’s future or death. All of you children are.”
He didn’t know what she meant, at first. But then Trey saw them.
Standing together. A handful.
Some of the Earthers had been captured. Some had gone with Doroumata, or fled with the Drakes. Where they went now? Trey didn’t know. But he did see something that was entirely Rasea Zecrew.
A [Pirate] stole everything, after all. She had her own morality; she had let the Drowned Folk go because of their truce, and even refrained from attacking the Drakes. She had even helped toss the Gold-rank team on their ship.
And she had found that last group of Earthers and taken them aboard. There were a handful of them. But the one who Trey saw first, who was staring at him…
Elena. The [Beautician] looked at Trey, her gaze not even fully betrayed. Not even sure what he was. Trey looked at her, and put his head down. Minizi patted him on the head, and Amerys breathed in.
“I am free. Once more, my [King]. And…”
She hesitated, closed her eyes, and spoke, the words that made Gazi look up at her old friend, Rasea Zecrew turn and laugh, and the Quarass close her eyes and think.
“Let all those who hold chains, beware.”
 
[Conditions Met: Plotter → Chaos Schemer class!]
[Chaos Schemer Level 16!]
[Skill Change — Prepared Signal → Plotter’s Network obtained!]
[Skill — Chaos Theory (Low-Risk) obtained!]
[Skill — Walk Out of Trouble obtained!]
 
