It was Gazi who had beheld the Quarass and seen a better plan. The King of Destruction had presented it to her thusly.
“I will send Trey, Gazi, and I think Calac or some others. But you will free my Archmage, Quarass of Germina. Not even Gazi will know where you are, and Trey will believe he is the only agent.”
“Cunning. Why would I agree, and why do you think I would succeed where your Seven would not?”
The King of Destruction snorted softly as he offered her a cup. She wanted wine but took goat’s milk for a growing body.
“You are the Quarass of Ger. Also, I think, you might relish the chance to take what you will from Wistram. As for what I can offer…name it. You could, of course, betray me, Quarass. Don’t think it hasn’t crossed my mind. But I believe you will not.”
Her eyes narrowed as she considered his offer. She could have always betrayed his trust later, so it hurt her not at all to go with his plans.
It was not hard to pretend to be a [Lady] from Terandria. Changing one’s skin tone was easy, and she had been Terandrian in past lives.
As an [Actor], a [Spy], an [Alchemist] especially…even as a [Mage], Flos was right. Gazi was nothing compared to the Quarass’ ability—if only she was willing to risk herself.
The tipping scales for her were simply three factors. The Serkonian Lance. Nailihuaile walked around with it so casually.
The second? Earthers. The danger of Earthers and what Wistram was doing. The third?
Archmage Eldavin’s warriors of the future, clad in metal armor. The Shield Kingdom’s ruler recalled a similar sight—only with Drakes. But it bothered her.
 
——
 
So, now. Reim could not fall if she was allied with the King of Destruction. Maresar’s death was regrettable, but the Quarass had told Khalid only to signal the counterattack once Nerrhavia committed fully.
She had laid a careful plan. Of course, Trey had made his own plans and the Quarass had hijacked them. Naili hissed as she saw part of it.
“My guards.”
The girl nodded.
“Asleep. I freed the boys. Ullsinoi was my opponent. And getting to Amerys.”
Even for her, it was difficult. But…the Quarass was taking command of the Serkonian Lance. She was fighting Naili for control, so she spoke as she stepped back. The Star Lamia wasn’t falling to her poison. She was swaying, barely upright, but her eyes were locked on the Quarass with slitted pupils.
“Give me my staff!”
She attacked with a shriek of magic. The Quarass planted the staff.
“[The Serpentine Shield of Queth]!”
The spell activated, and Naili’s eyes bulged as a pair of [Shatterbolts] splintered right in front of the Quarass. The girl didn’t flinch.
“How can you cast…?”
“I am the Quarass. I have been [Archmage] and great spellcasters of lives past. Seldom do I have the chance to employ all my magic.”
Passingly seldom. Archmage Eldavin had given her tips that would help every Quarass in the future. Who was he?
Naili attacked again, screaming, striking like a serpent, but the Quarass shielded herself, broke the spells, and let the poison do its work. Soon, the Star Lamia was lying on the floor, unable to move as her muscles gave up. Feverishly, she stared up at the Quarass.
“You won’t get away with this. I’ll remember this. Do you know who you’re crossing?”
The Quarass sighed. She walked around the Star Lamia, shaking her head.
“I have known the Archmages of Baleros, and many were more cunning than you, Archmage Nailihuaile. Most would not be foolish enough to threaten me as they were helpless. But even if they were not—I know. I do know you would bear a grudge. So.”
She planted the tip of the Serkonian Lance on Naili’s tail. The sharp tip—it could be used as a weapon as a last resort—pierced Naili’s scales. Instantly, the Star Lamia went still.
“You…you wouldn’t. I’m an Archmage.”
“Yes. One that bears a grudge.”
“I’ll forswear it!”
The Star Lamia shouted instantly. Her eyes turned to sudden fear. She looked at the Quarass, and the girl hesitated. Her lips moved silently and she peered at Naili curiously.
“What would you swear by? What would you do to convince me to let you live?”
“I’ll ally the Revivalists with you. I’ll give you artifacts. I’ll swear by Nagas and anything on truth spells not to go after you.”
Naili was panting. She was burning up with the damned pain and poison! This little—she’d swear.
Or she’d unleash every ounce of magic and vaporize everything in this corridor. Her teeth bared, her body arched—
And she felt a pain beyond the poison, beyond anything she’d ever felt, even Hydra venom, tearing up from the inside. She looked at the Quarass and saw those calm, cruel, impartial eyes.
She’d cast a spell. The Star Lamia shrieked.
“You—you! You—”
She still tried to cast one last spell. The Quarass shielded herself—but the impact of pure mana, the Archmage’s last attack, threw her back so hard she snapped a collarbone against a wall.
She got up, grabbing for the staff, and saw Nailihuaile die. Collapsing into a pool of acid. The Star Lamia had never intended to surrender.
The girl stared at the dead Archmage and then, limping, picked up her new staff. Using it as a crutch, she dragged a potion out of her pouch and hobbled onwards.
This was not over yet.
 
——
 
The Libertarians were fleeing. Running, fighting in a panic, but they were running. From one young man?
Yes. Yes, because he had an arrow, which he wielded like a dagger that pierced all barriers. That killed. They would have blasted him apart, even so, but Trey put his fingers together the moment he realized the barrier was down and cast one spell.
“[Karas Duststorm].”
The sand and wind blinded everyone, so spells flew as the [Mages] fought for cover. Calac was howling, charging them, stabbing—
And he was a [Warrior]. A warrior who had lost his mother.
Charles de Trevalier was going to kill him. The young man had his rapier out. His rapier—he thought of it like that. The bell dinged as the wind blew, and Timor raised a dueling sword. They both had wands, but they couldn’t tell where their friends were, so they hesitated.
“Charles! Charles, stop that damn bell! It’s giving us away!”
The [Lord] fumbled for Pisces’ bell, but too late. Both young men saw something coming at them through the storm.
A glowing light. Timor aimed his wand at it.
“Stay back or we’ll kill you!”
Was it Trey or Calac? Surely Trey—Charles hesitated as the light bobbed—then charged.
“Die!”
He [Flash Stepped] into the light spell and stabbed his rapier home. He felt the impact and stumbled backwards.
“I got him! I got—”
The storm cleared slightly, and Charles saw the Lifesand Golem rubbing at her head. The glowing decoy-sword she held overhead waved slightly.
Trey burst out of the sand from the side, staff raised. He spoke.
“[Light Spear].”
Charles jerked back. The spear went through Timor’s chest, and the [Lord] stared at it, greatly perplexed.
He had no speeches, no time left. He fell down, and Trey whirled. Charles dropped his rapier and ran as Minizi pursued him.
Death. Calac and Trey fought to kill. The Libertarians weren’t ready.
They ran. The young man turned to Trey as he collapsed. The [Sand Mage] looked down at Calac and saw the tears running down his face. So he bent down for a second, murmured to him, and called Minizi back towards him.
The two went onwards. Towards the maze. They saw a little girl waiting for them, and Trey raised his spear—then stared at the Quarass. After Maresar’s death, he was almost not surprised.
“You. You…all this time?”
The Quarass smiled like Emirea for a moment, then looked at him solemnly. Those pitiless eyes…Trey had never disliked anyone or respected them like the Quarass.
“Let us put an end to this, Trey Atwood.”
 
——
 
At the end of it, Galei leaned against a wall and laughed. He laughed as hard as he could, even as a clone of himself, a perfect illusion, galloped towards the Mershi-lounge.
He would not go himself. Ullsinoi had lost two of its number. One to Gazi…
The other to her.
“Enough. Enough. We tried being serious and it failed. That [King] is going to shatter it all again. We almost did it right. Almost. But we lost!”
The two Archmages looked at him. They didn’t get what was so funny. Gazi was curled up behind a shield on the ground—but she was just the distraction. Galei laughed until he wheezed.
Ullsinoi was so damn confident. But they had been betrayed! Betrayed! Defeated! Their maze? All the traps, the tricks? They’d lost, not just because they’d been outsmarted or out-sneaked.
They’d lost because they had been betrayed…by one of their own.
That was the damn problem with immortals. They should never have inducted her, even for a laugh. She never forgot anything. She made amazing plans.
They were going to burn Germina for this. Or maybe shake her hand. It depended on how Galei and the others felt. Right now? All he could do was laugh.
 
——
 
Nerrhavia Fallen’s army was breaking. First their [Supreme Marshal] died. Next? The ferocity and revelation that Germina had allied with Reim broke their confidence and added to the horror of trying to take the city.
The [Soldiers] didn’t look at it like a numbers game, because they still could have probably overwhelmed Reim and Germina together.
They looked at it as one of the numbers, and they saw their kin burning alive, saw the blood blade and their leaders fall.
That was when someone noticed the four thousand [Riders] coming from the north. It was unclear who screamed it at first, but rumor spread like wildfire.
“The Steward of Destruction is coming! The Left Hand of the King of Destruction is coming to slaughter us all!”
It just took a few voices, panic—and, of course, the sight of a single [Rider] streaking across the ground at the head of a small army of mounted warriors.
The look of the thing. It didn’t matter that Orthenon was confirmed in the north, countless miles away. The Quarass understood the hearts of men and women; she had been both children and adults and on the winning and losing side of everything.
It just took one [Swift Rider], a flag, and a group of Germina’s youths riding together to break the spirit of an army.
[Soldiers] began to flee—or threw down their arms and surrendered. And like a wave—
It was done. Nerrhavia’s Fallen broke on Reim’s walls, and Teresa looked around blankly. It was a glorious victory. But—she went to find Maresar.
Too high a cost. Too high, and it would have been wonderful but for that one cost to her.
 
——
 
So, like an afterthought, Amerys lay in her new bindings, wriggling slightly. She could move—a bit—but they had cast a sleeping spell and changed her lock.
She feared that boy’s attempts would fail. Especially when the announcement came and the wary [Guards]—four now—were joined by two more.
The Archmage of Lightning, the Archmage of Chandrar, the Calm Flower of the Battlefield—a name given to insult her—watched as they conferred, deliberating whether to join in the fighting.
Calm Flower. Why was it always flowers for women? Well, Mars got ‘the Illusionist’, but the point stood.
They were too smart. None of the guards went to help at first. That was, until they heard the Earthers were breaking loose. Then two Revivalists and a Centrist broke ranks after a loud argument.
Three remained. They conferred about the door and the maze—not to mention a quarter of all the Libertarians at some party or other. The [Battle Mages] watched her, and Amerys waited.
“Ullsinoi changed their maze. Only they can get through. And there’s the door. They’ve got Gazi the Omniscient cornered.”
Yolv, the Dwarf, murmured to the other two. The Naga nodded, and one of Viltach’s Libertarians choked up on the staff she was holding. They were trying to raise the other [Mages] for news.
Rasea Zecrew was in Wistram. Amerys’ neck was tingling. She had heard stories—from Naili mainly, to gloat—about how she’d beaten Flos. But a [Pirate]…?
Gazi? Gazi hated bad plans. Amerys had a suspicion, but she waited. The [Mages] were watching the war in Reim, and she was checking their expressions when someone reached the magic door.
They went through the maze only Ullsinoi’s people could crack. They came to the door, the one that had sealed off the passageway and in their grand plan, their scheme amongst a scheme—
The Quarass blew the door down with magic.
All three [Battlemages] opened up with spells. One came back straight at them.
[Chain Lightning]. No…red lightning that created smoke. A rolling orb Yolv saw and projected a barrier around—
Someone good had come to save Amerys. The Archmage watched. It was…three against one. No! Three against two? Low-level spells and sand were flying through the air. Then a little Lifesand Golem charged forwards, got blown to pieces by own of Yolv’s spells, and the Dwarf shouted.
“Troy! No! Don’t do this—”
He hesitated—a spray of sand burst against his shield, and he ignored it. The Libertarian went down, choking, as a pellet of gas she hadn’t noticed finally took her out. The Naga swayed, and Yolv’s anti-poison charms fought it off.
A girl and a young man charged the [Mages]. They ran into killing spells. The girl had her own barriers. The boy?
His amulet flashed, and a scintillating cage rose around him. It ate three Tier 4 spells as the Dwarf swore, and the boy created a [Light Spear]. A powerful artifact. Amerys wondered where he’d gotten it.
The girl, Emirea, had the Serkonian Lance. But she was not the [Lady]—Amerys’ eyes widened as she saw the removed makeup.
Trey grappled with Yolv. The Dwarf dodged the [Light Spear], cast a force-spell at close range, and blew Trey off his feet. The Naga and Quarass fought in a close-range spellcasting duel. One was mature, had levels, and had a far larger mana pool.
The other was the Quarass. And she had the Serkonian Lance.
Yolv knocked Trey down and pinned him. The boy stabbed at him, and the Dwarf grunted—his barrier spells went out.
“Troy…”
He was too merciful. He just held Troy down, a knee on his back, suppressing his magic as he went to draw a bead on the Quarass.
It was sand. Amerys grinned as she saw the Lifesand the boy had thrown at the Dwarf slowly coalescing. A little figure swung itself out of Yolv’s beard—and hopped onto his face, covering his nose and mouth.
The Dwarf choked and cast spells wildly as the Lifesand Golem suffocated him. The Quarass ended her duel with a paralyzing spell that knocked the Naga out—but not before the Naga struck the girl into the ground with a barrier-breaking tail slap.
Trey Atwood staggered up and looked around. The Quarass, the guards…he saw Amerys, and there they were again.
