Rasea grabbed the line, and, with a running start, took off. The semi-elastic rope swung her upwards, and she arced back, like someone on a swing. Cessic stared up as Rasea swung higher, flipping upwards like an [Acrobat] to land on one of the higher walkways in the entrance hall with a few of her crew.
“Wh—what? What’s happening?”
Wistram had [Pirates]. And they were just here for the fun of it all.
 
——
 
The primary choice of spell for the average [Mage] or student was [Light Arrow], [Flame Arrow], or another bog-standard arrow spell. Not a disarming spell like another magical academy.
Disarming spells were hard. You had to literally interfere with someone’s personal magical aura, yank something out of their grip—you could more easily cast [Force Arrow] and put them on their ass.
Higher-level [Mages], especially the duel-loving ones, used tricks like [Oiled Floor], and against Golems, they pulled out [Ice Spike], [Stone Fist], and all the other most common spells.
However, [Fireball]? [Acid Orb]? Let alone other Tier 4-6 spells? There were few flying in the air, even if the [Mages] could cast them.
This was not a killing ground. The Drakes were replying in kind, although most were using higher-grade bolt spells and attacks meant to subdue their opponents non-lethally.
Ullsinoi was the exception, of course, but the other one was…
The Golems.
Trey had gone through three more encounters, two of which had been peaceful; the students hadn’t even recognized him one time. The other time, he’d exchanged [Light Arrows] with [Mages].
“[Light Arrow Cascade]!”
Trey hurled more arrows down at the [Mages] shouting and throwing spells back, and caught nearly six on the [Light Barrier] he’d raised. He kept running, and more spells burst on the barrier, but neither he nor his opponents were hurt. If you couldn’t blast through the other’s shields, it was just a lightshow. And they didn’t want to kill him.
Golems on the other hand—
Trey came to a big intersection and saw a real battle taking place.
“[Lava Orb]!”
“[Blue Bolt]! [Blue Bolt], [Blue Bolt], [Blue—]”
“[Wall of Stone]!”
A glob of molten stone hit one of the giant Golems in the face and began melting through its body. Another kept trying to advance as blue bolts of magic hammered it in the chest. Someone else tried to make a wall of stone, but Trey saw the Golems advancing.
Three Golems versus nine [Mages]. The one struck by lava collapsed, and the other two, a serving Golem and one of the laborer types, had been in full-retreat. It was unclear whether they’d even been fighting. Still, the [Mages] had heard about the Golem attack, and they were fighting on their end.
Trey saw the Golems in retreat suddenly stiffen. The serving Golem’s body was female and cracked all over from the [Blue Bolt] spell. Her ceramic head swiveled around on her neck, and the other Golem, one of the odd brickwork giants, turned.
Both their carved eyes were not like undead, who had a ghostly light in them. The Golems were perfect representations of their material, sometimes like statues come to life.
So why were their eyes glowing…green? The [Mages] hesitated in casting spells as Trey felt an ominous chill run down his back. Also—they were clearly amateurs, because now was the time to cast all spells or run for it.
The serving Golem whirled. She ducked a [Blue Bolt], dodged sideways as another [Lava Orb] came her way, and vaulted the [Wall of Stone] rising up. The other Golem punched through the wall like a movie.
Only, a movie failed to capture the fact that the sheer shrapnel of exploding stone lacerated one [Mage]’s chest, eliciting a panicked shriek. The serving Golem did a spinning leap around a spell, grabbed the wand-arm, twisted it up, and broke it.
Trey saw the carved porcelain face turned to wrath and the punches—three of them he could see. So fast, and into the face of the [Lava Orb] spellcaster, who dropped.
She was among the other [Mages], and he saw what looked like a martial arts move—a palm strike to the side that probably broke ribs, a leg sweep—right before the other Golem reached out and slapped a [Mage] in the face.
A giant brick hand slapping someone, even lightly, was enough to down the Dullahan. The last four [Mages] tried to run, but the Golems were on them. The serving Golem looked up, saw Trey running for it, and…spoke.
“You will regret what you have wrought, Troy Atlas.”
He knew that voice. Trey ran faster. Minizi froze as Cognita—or the Golems embodying her will—chased after her. She raised her sword—
And the serving Golem’s knee crashed through her face. The Lifesand Golem fell, headless, and the serving Golem regarded Minizi as she tried to pick herself up.
“Your master has your loyalty. But he is not Zelkyr.”
The Lifesand Golem stabbed the serving Golem in the leg. The Golem staggered—performed a high-kick that sent Minizi tumbling backwards, and tried to go after Trey.
The Golem tried to hobble forwards and realized her leg was too badly damaged to keep moving. It was breaking, even trying. Cognita spoke in her voice.
“Repair yourselves. Do not let yourselves be destroyed.”
An odd thing happened. The brickwork Golem stopped and nodded. His eyes lost that green sheen, and so did the serving Golem’s. She stepped back as Minizi grabbed her sword and stumbled away. Cognita was no longer there, and the serving Golem let the brick Golem pick her up and carry her off.
None of that stopped Trey from sprinting down the corridors, breaking every personal record, heedless of the pain in his chest. That didn’t compare to the terror in his soul.
Cognita was in Wistram. And she was not happy.
 
——
 
Depth Mage Doroumata was singed. She walked away from the banquet hall with three of her daughters.
Feor did not follow her. The Depth Mage linked up with her last daughter and looked at Elena.
“Where are the Silver Swords?”
“They ran into a Golem.”
“One Golem?”
Doroumata scoffed. Her daughter licked her lips behind the veil.
“Mother. It was…singing. The Silver Swords volunteered to keep it at bay.”
Doroumata paused. She glanced down the hallway.
“Avoid it. To the ship. Now.”
“We only have a handful of Earthers…”
The Shadeward looked over her shoulder and shook her head.
“We will not have any if we linger, or a ship. We have been tricked. Go, now!”
She led the Earthers at a striding pace down the halls of Wistram. Not at a run; she was sweeping for spells ahead of her. Because of that, she held up a hand and stopped—just as Rasea Zecrew skidded around the corner.
“Whoa!”
The [Pirate] put her sword up. Doroumata aimed a wand at her chest. The two recognized each other.
“Shadeward Doroumata!”
The [First Mate] swore. Doroumata’s daughters recognized them and aimed their wands at the [Pirates].
“Hold on! We’re not here to tangle with the Drowned Folk’s [Mages]. Hold on! Truce!”
Rasea Zecrew shouted. Doroumata hadn’t unleashed any spells either. The two regarded each other.
“Truce?”
Rasea held out a hand to Doroumata, a wary but fearless smile on her face. The [Depth Mage] eyed her balefully, but nodded.
“Truce. Go.”
She put up her wand and began to stride past Rasea. The [Pirate] eyed the Earthers with confusion. Her Gnoll [First Mate] muttered to her.
“Doroumata’s not a [Slaver]. What’s with the Humans?”
“Maybe another breakout. Remember everything. Secrets are worth as much as artifacts. Let’s…”
Rasea glanced ahead of them as her crew checked in with their other groups looting around the entrance hall. She frowned, glanced over her shoulder.
“…What’s that sound?”
The [Pirate] turned and saw Doroumata striding back the way she’d come. She was firing void magic as she went. The Earthers went running the other way.
“What is that? What is that thing?”
“Run! Shut up and—”
Elena was shouting at the others. The Illuminary’s crew turned in just in time to see a Golem appear.
Well…six Golems. But the main one was obviously the one with all the eyes. They weren’t even sure it was a Golem at first. It looked more like flesh than stone. And it was singing.
The Golem had multiple arms, too, and it was still holding onto the remains of Ylawes’ shield. It pursued Doroumata as the [Depth Mage] strode back. The [Pirates] raised their weapons, but Rasea eyed the Golem.
“Back it up, boys. They’re Golems.”
The [Pirates] smartly stepped into a side-room. One noticed a bunch of improvised musical instruments from Earth and nudged the others.
“Grab them.”
“What? They’re musical instruments—”
“I like music. And I’ve never seen this stuff. Grab them or I’ll stab you in your sleep. We’ve got room.”
“Fine, but you’re holding the chest!”
They looted the room while the Golems passed by. The singing Golem kept following Doroumata; Rasea poked her head out of the room.
“Damn, some of those Golems are good. And I heard Cognita flew the coop. Alright, back to work.”
The [Captain] wasn’t here to pick just any fight. She went strolling out of the rooms with her crew…just in time to see one of the Golems glance over its shoulder.
It was a plain Golem. More like a wooden marionette. But the way it looked over its shoulder, rotating its head a hundred and eighty degrees?
That was unnatural. That was too…intelligent. The Golem with jade-green eyes stopped. Then it walked backwards.
Something interesting about Wistram’s Golems was that they came in every form. Centaur to even, rarely, Minotaur, humanoid variations being the most common examples.
Never Drakes. This Golem was fashioned like a male half-Elf. But it spoke with a woman’s voice.
“You are intruding into my academy.”
Rasea spun backwards lightly. Setting herself. She raised her sword, tilting her head.
“Now what’s this? A Golem that speaks? Who’re you?”
“I am Cognita. Leave or die, Rasea Zecrew. You and your crew are not welcome here.”
The Golem spoke, and Rasea’s smile flickered. One of the crew swore.
“Oh shit—”
“It’s just a puppet, boys. Allow me.”
Rasea stepped forwards before she even finished speaking, her sword snaking out to stab the Golem in the chest. But the surprise attack failed. The Golem twisted sideways, brushed the sword back with its fingers—and came in with a spinning backhand.
“Whoa! Scatter!”
The [Pirates] moved away, giving the Golem space, but it was fast, and everyone was a target. More than that? Rasea slashed, and her sword was one of the most feared on the sea. She lopped off the Golem’s arm.
It didn’t care. The Golem dodged her second cut and a crossbow bolt by kicking off the floor. Midway up, incredibly fast, it twisted, and the wooden doll kicked off the ceiling and smashed one of the [Pirates] flat.
The Drake hacked at the doll as its hand wrapped around her throat.
“Get it—”
Her voice cut off as the others hacked at the Golem. Rasea shoved one of her people back and beheaded the Golem.
“There. Get—”
It was still strangling the [Pirate]. Rasea’s sword moved. She lopped the Golem’s hand off and someone pierced the Golem’s Heart.
“Now—”
The hand was still strangling the [Pirate]. Rasea reached down and broke the wooden fingers. The choking Drake’s windpipe was half-crushed.
“Dead gods! What was—”
“It’s dead.”
The Centaur [Arbalist] shot the wooden Golem twice more through the Golem’s Heart. The Drake gasped as two of her buddies dragged her up.
“That thing fought hard!”
“That wasn’t the Golem. That was Cognita Truestone. She’s got some moves.”
Rasea glanced at the Golem. She smiled at the others—then the back of her neck tingled. Something began to ring faintly.
[Dangersense]. Rasea turned her head and muttered.
“Ah, Kraken’s tits. This job might be harder after all.”
Three Golems in maid outfits—sculpted onto them, not a Wistram design choice—were walking down the corridor. All three’s eyes were glowing green. Rasea pointed at them.
“Lads?”
“Aye, Captain?”
Rasea calmly pulled a vial from a wrist-holster. She tossed it down, and red smoke filled the hallway in front of her—then hardened. The Golems began smashing through, and she pointed.
“Run that way! Grab everything, and if you see a Golem, avoid it! And someone find me our employer!”
Things were getting a bit…complicated. [Pirates], [Mages], Earthers…they were all starting to realize there was one group who was going to take this in the long run.
The Golems.
They had to get what they came here for and go. So where…Rasea had a contract, and given how it had been set, even she was unlikely to want to break it. But break it she would if her employer were late. She wondered where she was.
 
——
 
He was almost at Calac’s rooms when a hand grabbed him.
“You.”
Trey Atwood wasn’t injured. Much. He had cut his own cheek open and been affected by passing spells twice in magical firefights, but he had not bled for his cause.
He saw the consequences of it now.
Ylawes Byres was injured. He had grabbed Trey, a sword in hand. Falene was kneeling over Dawil.
“Wake up, Dawil. Wake up—”
The Silver Swords had lost a battle. The walls were cracked in two places, and Ylawes’ armor was bent from a terrific blow. The [Knight] looked at Trey.
“You’re the King of Destruction’s agent. You used us. Where are the children?”
His grip was tight on Trey’s arm. The young man looked at the Dwarf; he seemed to be just unconscious. Trey hoped he was.
“Heading towards the ships. You should leave too.”
“Leave, and let you do what? Free the Archmage? Let that warmonger start more wars?”
“I am not going to argue with you. My sister is with him. I need to—”
Falene looked up as Trey raised his staff. She pointed, and his arm went numb as a green arrow struck it. Minizi ran forwards and tried to stab Ylawes in the leg; her sword skated off his armor. The [Knight] bared his teeth at Trey.
“That [King] is a monster.”
“I have to do it. Don’t make me fight. I don’t want your team to be hurt.”
Trey had a scroll in his other hand. Ylawes saw it, and Falene’s staff was raised. The Silver Swords looked at Trey, and the [Knight] hesitated. He could run Trey through, perhaps faster than the boy could activate the scroll.
Would he? He knew what Trey was going to do, but kill him in cold blood? The [Knight] looked Trey in the eye.
“Tell me why. Is it your sister?”
“No. It’s a promise he and I made. And something else. Let me go, Ylawes. Please.”
Trey’s grip was tight on his spell-scroll. Minizi lifted her sword and felt it.
A terrible, even frightening resolution. The Lifesand Golem looked at Trey nervously and shuddered again. What was that feeling?
There was more keeping him going than just a promise. Ylawes hesitated—and someone rounded the corner.
