Galei turned, eyes sweeping over Timor and grinning with amusement as he aimed two wands with each hand. The Centaur whirled and blasted as a figure leapt out of the smoke, but the Gazer’s armor took both spells. Needles rained down, but Gazi blocked one that splintered towards her face with a gauntleted hand. The rest bounced harmlessly off her armor, and she slashed, cutting the Centaur’s leg off.
The blood of the blade cutting through artery and bone and the Centaur’s silent scream as he jerked against the wall, fountaining it, made Timor try to shield his eyes. Gazi began to swing down—then hesitated. She stared at Galei and dove as a wall of fire consumed the air behind her, the smoke dog, the dying Manticore summon—
Galei’s illusion vanished as Gazi blurred down the hallway, touching a scroll at her belt. It flashed green with motes of yellow, and she vanished. Timor saw two [Mages] advancing after her, wands raised—
“Aaaah! Aaaaaaaaah!”
The young [Lord] from Terandria ran screaming into the Libertarians’ party. One hand was cut up, streaming red. The others didn’t even notice at first.
“Timor, I say, you gave me a start! What is it, did you find Riev…”
Charles de Trevalier looked up, saw Timor’s face of pure terror, and stopped uncertainly.
 
——
 
Gazi Pathseeker’s eye spun left, up, detonated a spell mid-flight, and her claymore moved in a complex pattern.
No sword dance.
No blademaster’s art.
Just following the path it needed to save her from dying. She had no true skill with a blade to claim—not like Mars or Orthenon. She was a better warrior than almost any you would find, but her style was her own. A calculation like any [Mathematician] might find beautiful because of how logical, practiced it was.
Deflect the stream of deadly acid with the flat of the blade, move your left arm—slice the tracking spell along its length there, it will splinter, but glance off your armor instead of cutting your face. So the blade must block the flash of light—one eye is blinded, the others see a [Shatterbolt] coming towards my side. My armor shudders, but it holds.
They are surprised, but that is my opening. I flick the dagger down, and the seal explodes, releasing a furious summoned beast. No—this one was contained. Drathian magic.
Of all the monsters, an Eater Goat. One of the two [Mages]—where is the Centaur? He is the most dangerous—instantly lances it with a needle-spell through the neck.
He doesn’t know that the goats will come for him until they are in pieces. This one lunges, and it goes to bits. Some kind of slicing barrier.
Still, it gives me an opening, and I charge them, my sword coming up to parry a spell, but I cannot parry the air itself. One of them throws what might be a pure explosion of mana at me as I lunge. I bring up my hand—it still burns my skin.
Healing potion. But first—I see it with my main eye and no other. A figure aiming a spell at me. I roll, even if my hair catches fire and a pit opens under me.
“Such fun.”
Is that what he says? Galei—I am on my feet. [Standing Roll]. I have to watch every Skill.
Calculate. One mistake and I die. But I can block almost everything—if only there weren’t three. If only they were not so good and did not cast spells that cannot be blocked or dodged even if I see them.
Still. I activate a scroll, and a barrier catches the second blast of fiery air as it roils around me. Each opening for one of us is a chance for the other to die. I toss my artifact taken from Germina’s vaults themselves at the figure, and he curses—vanishes. I do not look at the floating sigil with any of my eyes. The two [Mages] across from me cry out because it is trying to write madness and death into their very brains through their eyes. I charge, and they teleport.
They’ve predetermined safe-locations. Damn. But then I hear, through the silencing spells, someone dispel [Pealina’s Veil of Hush] and a shout. A Tier 3 spell comes down the hallway and I grin, block the lightning with my sword, and feel it earth.
The lesser [Mages] enter the fray. I think I can hear Ullsinoi cursing.
 
——
 
The first [Mage] burst through the smoke, ran onto the tip of Gazi’s sword, and screamed. The Libertarians backed up, and the Gazer swept an arm around the neck. The woman wasn’t cut—badly. But she used the [Mage] as a shield, swirling her to face her real foes.
“That’s—that’s—”
Someone cast a spell right at Gazi’s back. It bounced off her armor. Or no…that wasn’t exactly right. Magic wasn’t rubber, mostly. But it…refused to pierce the armor. Like it was Adamantium or one of the greater metals.
The Gazer stared into the hallways of smoke. The woman was shouting, crying out—the other [Mages] were aiming at Gazi uncertainly. She was a mother for goodness’ sake! That monster—how was she here? How was—?
“Don’t be fools.”
Gazi’s head twisted to the side, and the Libertarians froze, staring at her and the hostage. Then they realized she wasn’t speaking to them.
The first pin-point spell flickered across the hallway so fast Gazi barely twisted her head in time to avoid it. She blocked another one and cursed, stepping behind the female [Mage]. A spell blasted past the woman’s cheek, tearing it open.
“Stop! Stop!”
Who was fighting Gazi? Heedless of her hostage, they were shooting spells—one went straight through the shoulder of one of the teachers, and he stared blankly at the hole in his shoulder before starting to scream.
Gazi abandoned her hostage, seeming to realize Ullsinoi would rather kill her. Instantly, both the Libertarians and Ullsinoi opened up but then—
She vanished.
Not with a spell. With some Skill. Gazi faded out of the world, seeming to go right through a wall. One of the high-leveled Libertarians ran over to the woman who collapsed.
“You idiots! Who’s out there?”
“Stay out of our way.”
A calm retort from the air. Galei, leader of Ullsinoi as far as anyone knew, trotted out of the air. He looked straight past the Libertarians, who instantly began shouting at him. He cursed.
“She’s not bad.”
Another [Mage], a Gnoll with a staff of all things, appeared next to him, shedding a concealment spell. He wiped at his brow.
“She’s not bad? I didn’t come here to risk dying. Let’s get an Archmage.”
“Hm. Agreed.”
“We’ll—we’ll fight with you!”
A [Mage] spoke up. The two Ullsinoi [Mages] glanced back, surprised, and Galei took the cigar out of his mouth. He flicked it down, picked up another one, and shrugged.
“Your loss. We’re not going to protect you. But we could use some shields.”
The Humans didn’t know what to say to that. They hesitated and wisely hung back. Ullsinoi’s three [Mages] turned and multiplied, like ghosts stepping out of their real bodies. A small army. A kill-team, spreading out in search of Gazi. The half-Gazer had vanished, but with neither side able to kill the other, the advantage was to Ullsinoi.
An Archmage was on the way.
 
——
 
Two Archmages were on the way. When Nailihuaile heard of the Earther breakout, Gazi’s appearance, and the Golems on the rampage, she looked like she might have an apoplexy.
The Star Lamia’s eyes bulged, her body contorted—then, mindful of the Revivalists watching her and her captives, she caught herself.
“Who’s handling Gazi?”
“I am. I will link with Ullsinoi.”
“In that case, I’ll fight Fissival and the Drowned Mages. I told you we should have backed Eldavin’s vote to exile them!”
“Archmage Naili, now is not the time.”
She was in a linked call with the other Archmages. Viltach was headed to battle Gazi, and much luck to him; Naili’s scales prickled at the idea of fighting one of the King’s Seven. Here? Even with Ullsinoi as back up, no thank you.
She began sending [Message] spells to the Revivalists, telling them to get out there, restore order, and capture those Earthers. It was a safe bet; Naili didn’t think the Drakes were stupid enough to kill. Doroumata and her weird daughters? Perhaps. But the Star Lamia would bet someone else’s life on that.
“Beatrice. You’re with me. Contact the five best spellslingers and tell them to find me.”
The Star Lamia’s eyes were narrowed. She was going hunting. Feor was speaking to Viltach.
“If you lure Gazi close to me, I will join in the fighting. However—the [Mage Lords] and [Depth Magus] Doroumata are—”
There was the sound of a thunderclap or the air exploding, and he broke off.
“—rioting—”
It sounded like a three-way battle was going on around the banquet hall. Verdan Blackwood broke in, breathlessly.
“What is going on? I came under attack the instant I left my quarters and heard the notification! Three Drakes jumped me.”
Viltach’s voice cut in.
“Are you alright?”
“I’ve dealt with them. I’m finding students and [Mages] and sealing them into safe zones.”
“No, go on the offensive! The Earthers are leaving, and we have Gazi and Fissival and the Drowned Folk all trying to take what they can! Pick a target!”
Naili argued, but Verdan ignored her.
“I will reclaim zones of Wistram. The Golems are not attacking anyone who avoids them.”
That old, cowardly idiot. Naili’s tail lashed. She turned to Beatrice and hissed.
“Get me my team. We’re striking the Drakes first—then we’ll see to the others. Viltach, is Amerys guarded?”
“My Libertarians should be occupying her area, and no one has breached the maze. Although, I fear…they might have attacked the Melodin-class Golem.”
“Did it…kill them all?”
“No. But it has fallen back. The Golems are all moving in concert. Someone—she is directing them.”
Naili liked that least of all. However, it was clear that Amerys was secure, and Gazi was being countered for now. Which meant the Earthers were priority #1. She turned and nodded to the other Revivalist [Mages].
“Post a two-[Mage] guard on the door. These boys are paralyzed, but it’ll wear off. Bind them with a simple spell, but don’t let them leave.”
Two Level 30 [Mages] bowed to her. Naili turned, and the other [Mages] looked nervous as they followed her—but then remembered the last person in the room and turned.
“Emirea. It’s very dangerous outside, so perhaps you should stay here?”
The young [Lady] jumped. She’d been trying to tend to Tov, who was glaring and slightly bloody; he’d hit his head when he went down.
“H-here, Archmage? But Gazi is here…”
She had been terrified out of her wits by the Gazer, hence her decision to tell Naili about the plan. The Star Lamia smiled, but she was glancing down the hallway.
“Here is safest. You stay with my guards—keep her safe! Barricade yourselves inside if the fighting gets here—Emirea, I will reward you later. I have to go.”
The girl could do nothing but nod. The two [Mages] moved towards the boys as the girl looked pleadingly at Calac, who was glaring at her.
“I’m sorry. I’m…”
 
——
 
I’m sorry, Elena.
Trey Atwood thought the words. By now, it would be a mess, and he hoped the Earthers would get to freedom. Each side was serious—the problem was that there were multiple sides.
He hadn’t expected everyone to keep shut about the breakout, either. He’d had a suspicion it would be Aaron who told one of the Archmages what was happening—he had some kind of mysterious benefactor—but perhaps not?
Either way. Viltach had gone, and Trey was trying to get up.
Minizi, come to me and help!
The Lifesand Golem had achieved her mission. However, she was currently a Golem in the middle of a firefight. Calac was captured with the others. Trey cursed. He should have seen it coming.
That means the guards are still awake and protecting Amerys! However—he was most worried about Gazi. Gazi, alone, facing every [Mage] in Wistram.
This was a nightmare! He had to move! Did they run or try to get Amerys?
They had to try. He knew the Drakes and Doroumata were outnumbered, but the [Mage Lord] could probably fight an Archmage for a time, and so could Doroumata. They would never get another chance.
So Trey had to move. He tried to rock himself in the chair, knock himself out of the Rune of Paralysis that Viltach had drawn. Trey could sense it, just below him, but it was locking down everything.
His magic, his body…but not his Skills. Nor Minizi. Viltach had left Trey alone in his quarters. The young man wondered where that damn key was. But the problem was, he had underestimated a smart man.
And a smart man made precautions. Maybe the key wasn’t in his rooms. Trey strained to move a finger and couldn’t. He thought he burst a blood vessel in his eye.
“Minizi—”
A little noise made Trey’s eyes widen; he could still talk and even move his head slightly. He turned to the door and heard a thump.
“Minizi! In here! Get me out!”
The Lifesand Golem had made it. He thought she had lost some of her upgrades; she had certainly lost some of her sand-mass—about 11%—but he could easily replenish it with his blood. He heard an energetic thump on the door.
“Just open the door, Minizi. Open the—”
Someone rattled the handle, and Trey’s heart sank. Viltach had locked it, obviously.
“Can you squeeze through the cracks? Or…”
For an agonizing minute, Trey heard nothing. Viltach’s rooms were so well-insulated that he didn’t know what was happening in the rest of Wistram. Minizi was exploring the door for openings. Weak points. A window?
These were an Archmage’s rooms. Maybe she could infiltrate through a crack in any other [Mage]’s rooms, but Viltach’s?
After a minute, Trey heard a whumph. Then another soft thump as she tried to use her head as a battering ram to break down the door. He closed his eyes.
We’re doomed.
His [Plotter] class had more Skills—none of which applied to escaping. Trey bit his tongue, hard, and stared at the door. Give Minizi a year and she might break down the door with her face. If only she could get in! Calac was in trouble. They were bringing down Reim’s walls.
Teresa.
He tasted blood, he was biting so hard. Trey stopped—then felt at the cut in his mouth with his tongue. He frowned.
“Wait.”
He had an idea. Trey Atwood hesitated, but he had once felt the Quarass cut his throat. That terrifying emptiness, the pain and sensation of dying…
She had been right, that damn old-young ruler. It was an experience that made other things easier.
Deliberately, Trey found a chunk of his cheek. Minizi had gone silent outside, perhaps sensing what he was doing. Trey hesitated—
Then bit hard. He felt a searing flash of pain and nearly cried out.
“Mgh!”
He spat blood onto the plate, table, and Viltach’s carpet. He was definitely bleeding. Why did it hurt so much? Trey kept spitting blood as it pooled in his mouth. But he was staring at it. Trying to use…
