They were coming through the gates. Over the ladders on the walls. Reim’s soldiers were shouting Maresar’s name, but…
He would be there at the end. She would ride down with him and see what Trey always talked about. For the end or a miracle—
She wanted to be there.
Aside from one man standing at a breach, every [Soldier] was falling back. The only reason the [Soldiers] did not charge Venith Crusland was because they looked at him, a [Lord] bereaved, arrows snapping in midair before they could even touch him. The [Soldiers] were not fools.
They did not want to die.
 
——
 
Bast’s 14th took the walls once more, and this time they were one of a hundred points breaking.
“Reinforcements! Reinforcements!”
A [Captain of the Line] was shouting. If she could close her eyes and put her head down…she would level.
It wouldn’t be enough. She swept a sword down and beheaded her opponent, but there were six for every [Soldier] here. More were coming. She looked over her shoulder and saw—to her disbelief—reinforcements.
Every [Soldier] who could stand was committed. To saving Lord Venith’s life, to holding the gates as the first chariots charged in. So who…?
She saw a pale-faced boy, barely nine, struggling up the walls with a decrepit man holding a club. A veiled woman, possibly a mother, holding a spear.
“No. Not you.”
The [Captain] calmed down, despite the fire in her blood. She looked at the massed civilians and saw more groups headed towards the wall. She actually put out an arm to stop them, walking backwards.
Even the Nerrhavian [Soldiers] hesitated for a second. They had eyes; they saw their next opponents coming up the stairs and hesitated. The little boy looked up, his eyes focusing on the soldiers. He dropped the shortsword he was holding.
Bast’s 14th saw him raise his head. The boy had a thin bone flute in his hands. Was he a [Piper]? No, it wasn’t quite a flute. He looked at a [Soldier], and his cheeks puffed.
A faint sound. One of the [Soldiers] made a sound. Then…dropped. One of his friends caught him, and she saw something strange buried in his cheek.
A feathered…dart? A tiny little—
Thft. Thft.
Two more puffs and two more [Soldiers] fell over. They stared at the boy and then saw him change targets. Someone raised their shield, and the blowdart pinged off the metal.
“Attack—”
The next words were a gurgle as the veiled woman swept something up from her robes and clicked the trigger of the crossbow.
The bolt went through an armored chest at nigh point-blank range. Bast’s 14th saw another of the civilians calmly draw a curved dagger, a strange, angled blade, a kukri, and sweep it across the first face.
A spear stabbed, and one of the civilians dodged in a blur and threw something into the face of his attacker. Flames. The screaming Stitch-woman clawed at her face, and a kick sent her over the walls.
What was that? Reim’s soldiers put up their blades for a moment as more figures wearing cloth clothing covering all but their eyes or children took the walls.
An old man with a bow looked down at a group of [Soldiers] climbing the ladders. His cold stare met the eyes of the boys climbing.
“[Piercing Shot].”
Eight figures loosed a single arrow each. The [Assassin] lifted his bow and spoke into a stone at his wrist.
“Wall secured.”
 
——
 
The first chariots were coming through the north gates, and the shield line was braced in a desperate attempt to block the charge. The whooping [Chariot Riders] saw the first chariot’s lead driver and passengers jerk.
Dozens of arrows feathered their bodies, and the chariot slid, crashing and overturning, as the poor horses went down first.
[Assassins] on the rooftops. They threw down scrolls, and the next chariots slammed into the first, the barriers forming a wall of wreckage. Warriors struggled to get out of the crashed vehicles—just in time to look up and see the first bottles of exploding oil land and set them ablaze. The others kept loosing arrows as Nerrhavia’s charge came to an abrupt stop before it had begun.
 
——
 
What was going on? Teresa Atwood’s smile wavered. She looked towards the gates of Reim’s palace.
They opened. Slowly, the two broad doors revealing a ruler. Just as promised.
But it was not the King of Destruction. A far, far shorter figure wearing a veil strode through the gates, flanked by a tall, beautiful lady with a green tint to her skin, dark veins—a [Highborn Lady] that Teresa recognized. If changed.
Vaitsha Zectiou followed the little figure as she stopped at the top of the hill. As Trey, the scrying spells, and the people focused on her, the little personage raised their arm.
Then they said it. The civilians running towards the walls abandoned their disguises. The [Assassins] standing on the walls, the warriors raised their voices and screamed that famous name.
“The Quarass!”
The—? Nerrhavia Fallen’s [Soldiers] didn’t understand what they were hearing at first. But then the roar came louder, from her people.
“The Quarass of Germina!”
Down the hill she came, at a run. A blade in hand. Her sworn protector followed, and they headed towards one of the gates as Germina’s hidden soldiers revealed themselves.
The Quarass? Teresa stared at the little figure wearing a veil. She looked at the palace. But that meant—
 
——
 
[Assassins] took the walls. A group of Cotton-[Soldiers] looked up and saw a strange figure, carrying…was it a bucket and a ladle?
Nonsensical, like a [Cook] with a pot of soup. Until the figure flicked the contents of the ladle at them and they realized it wasn’t water or soup.
It was…burning water. No—the flames burst on their armor and clung to them as the warriors shouted and tried to knock it off. But it just spread. Flaming…slime? Flaming—
“Fire! Fire!”
The Stitch-folk panicked, screaming, trying to put out the flames that wouldn’t end. The alchemy-bearing [Assassin] continued spraying them with fire, setting them alight, burning them in their armor.
[Fireballs] were exploding around the walls, and another figure wearing a strange suit of cloth set themselves alight. They ran at the first [Soldiers]—
“[Full Body Throw].”
And threw them. The [Soldiers] touched the burning figure and started to catch fire themselves. The panicked [Spearmen] stabbed at the grappling expert as they lunged, trying to set them all alight like tinder.
 
——
 
The Quarass! 
The [Supreme Marshal] was horrified as he heard the shouting. He saw the fires shooting down from Reim’s wall and knew it was her.
Only she was that cruel. She didn’t fight like the King of Destruction. Her [Assassins], far fewer in number, sowed terror as much as trying to kill the enemy.
Fire, fire! And Nerrhavia Fallen’s army was surging at the walls. This was what the Quarass had been waiting for.
A commitment. The chariots at the gates were being sniped from above, his prized warriors being slaughtered.
“Pull the ranks back! Pull back!”
The [Supreme Marshal] roared around the panicking command. They had to regroup! Germina would pay for this. They had to…
The [Strategists] and officers not attacking the city were in a flurry, trying to shout orders at each group, address the sudden attacks. They barely noticed one of the serving girls drop her tray and reach for something.
The [Slave] ran at the [Surpreme Marshal], and he noticed the motion, twisting, fumbling for his sword—
His [Bodyguards] ran the [Slave] through. The command reeled back from the glaring eyes, the gasping lips.
“The Quarass—”
“Assassination attempt! Order every officer to watch themselves! That—that damned woman! Inform the capital the Quarass has fully sided with Reim!”
The [Supreme Marshal] staggered back, nodding at his guards who stabbed the [Slave] again. She was grinning glassily at him. The [Supreme Marshal] snarled at her, as if she had wronged him. His [Slave].
The young woman gurgled as she died. She was still…smiling.
“The Quarass can set us free. [Death Spell—”
The [Supreme Marshal] looked at her and then went pale. He leapt with a scream as his [Bodyguards] shouted and—
 
——
 
The [Soldiers] marching towards Reim were staring at the fire from the walls when they heard the explosion. They whirled, looked back in horror, and pointed.
[Firestorm]. The spell engulfed the [Supreme Marshal]’s tent, raining blue fire down around them. Nerrhavia’s forces, in disarray, stared at their burning command and saw Reim launching its counterattack.
 
——
 
The Quarass had sided with Reim! The little figure fighting with sword and shield, inspiring her people to greater ferocity, greater terror—
Nailihuaile was shaking with frustration. Why now? Why…
“There’s a group of [Riders] coming from the northwest, Archmage. The [Strategists] are all reporting a force of cavalry. Barely four thousand strong. Nerrhavia’s Fallen is—wavering.”
Beatrice was keeping abreast of the rest of the battle as it happened. Naili snapped at her.
“Shut up! Don’t talk to me about strategy! We’ll bombard them with spells ourselves if we have to! Where is Troy Atlas? If I need to, I’ll put a wand to Amerys’ head and threaten the King of Destruction myself!”
The Gazer was fighting Viltach and Feor. Naili slithered faster as her bodyguard of Revivalists kept pace. Troy Atlas, that Earther—
She came across two fallen young men and stopped for a second. Tov was breathing, but scorched badly—yet a potion had saved his life. Goelv?
“Dead?”
One of the [Mages] bent down. It was Beatrice who asked; Naili didn’t even care, but she slowed to let them check. How had they gotten free?
“Alive. Barely.”
The Gazer’s eyes were all moving around randomly, rather than rolled up. Disconcerting. Eerie, even to someone who had met Gazers. He was definitely unconscious, but…
“Help! Help!”
A young voice screamed through the hallway. Naili snapped her staff—the Serkonian Lance—up but relaxed as she saw who it was.
A terrified [Lady] ran towards them, screaming.
“He’s killing them! He’s killing them all!”
“Emirea?”
One of the Revivalists turned, and the others stopped as the [Lady] threw herself towards them. Her dress was torn, and someone had blackened one of her eyes.
“What happened? How did they get free?”
Emirea was sobbing.
“Calac—he’s killing them! He has a Naq-Alrama dagger, and he’s—help! Help, please!”
Tears rolled down her cheeks, and she was shaking uncontrollably. Naili cursed.
“That [Bandit Lady] or whoever…keep clear of him. With me.”
“What about—Emirea, let go, let go, please.”
She was clinging to one of the [Mages]. Hysterically shrieking. Naili eyed her and suspected she’d been taken hostage. Those damned idiots! She hissed, but mindful of the girl, jerked her head.
“One of you take her somewhere safe!”
“No, Archmage! They hurt me last time! Please, take me with you!”
The girl instantly turned and grabbed at Naili’s lower half. The Star Lamia really, really did not have time for this! She smiled and tried to prise Emirea off her.
“Emirea, it’s dangerous. I—fine, come with us if you must! But stay behind me. I’ll shield you. Let go of my staff, please? That’s the Serkonian Lance. It doesn’t like people who aren’t its owners.”
She jerked the relic back; Emirea was clinging to it like a monkey. A bit worried, in fact.
“Beatrice, get her off. It will attack her.”
It was a relic of her people, after all. Beatrice bent down and winced.
“Ow! Lady Emirea, don’t scratch me! I…”
The girl clawed at Naili, and the Archmage yelped. Her nails were sharp! She lost her patience, hysterics or not.
“That’s it. Someone grab Emirea and put her in time-out. Just pull her off and—huh?”
There was a faint thumping sound. Like…a head hitting the floor. She looked over her shoulder. One of the two Dullahans had collapsed. Naili stared dumbly at him; his head had rolled off his body. Then she saw Beatrice sag and fall flat.
“Beatrice? What—wh—”
Attack! Naili spun, or tried to with the weight on her staff. She cursed, abandoning it. Her head felt…fuzzy, all of a sudden. She spun left, right, and saw another Revivalist choking, foaming at the mouth.
“Poison.”
Naili whispered. One of her Nagas was last to slump over. Someone had poisoned a Naga? Nailihuaile…
Felt a creeping sensation running down her scales. Her mind had fuzzed, but she put together the pieces instantly. After all…who could it be? She turned and saw a little figure wiping at her face.
Her tears had run down her face, and her eye was black and bruised, but when Beatrice had tried to grab at her, she had accidentally smudged…Emirea’s skin?
The little [Lady] brushed at her cheek, and Nailihuaile stared at the dark, sand-bronzed skin, not the pale, Terandrian features of a [Lady]. The little girl kept wiping and more of the false makeup came away.
“How did you…? That’s my staff. You can’t hold my staff.”
The Star Lamia looked dumbly at Emirea. Or whomever this was. The little girl calmly lifted the staff, and her eyes glowed. The Archmage of Baleros choked as she saw the staff activate.
“I have disguised myself ten thousand times and fought your kind and every other, Archmage Nailihuaile. I have prepared myself for every occasion. Twenty-one lifetimes ago, one of the Quarasses of Ger visited Baleros and asked to hold the Serkonian Lance. Just once. I did not know if this day would ever come, but I have laid every plan and contingency.”
The little girl’s voice changed. The Archmage heard old, even wearied tones. Immortality, scraped out of countless mortal lives.
The Quarass of Germina looked at the Archmage. The Star Lamia looked dumbly at the orb.
“But the Quarass…”
The little girl smiled thinly. She gazed at the small, veiled figure of a little child who could well be the Quarass since they were vaguely alike in height. Children all looked the same from afar. And Khalid, her [Champion], was fighting with sword and shield well enough as Vaitsha protected him.
Enough to inspire her people. She hoped he would not die, or Vaitsha. Maresar had already given up her life.
“Enough. All plans eventually must come to action or fail. I have what I want. The King of Destruction will have his Archmage.”
The Quarass gently touched the Serkonian Lance, and Nailihuaile’s eyes bulged as she swayed in place. The ruler of Germina looked at her and smiled without a hint of mercy or regret.
 
——-
 
It was about plans. When Flos Reimarch had first known he would free Amerys, he had not known how to make his plan work.
Oh, he had surely seen Trey Atwood’s talents, but the King of Destruction was also canny enough to know throwing one boy—even with an ally or two—against Wistram’s cunning was a fool’s errand.
