There was one thing Viltach had underestimated. He had indulged Trey’s hobby, even found mutual admiration in it, but he didn’t understand the true power. Even Trey didn’t fully, but he was beginning to.
Even in an Archmage’s rooms, even with other powerful magic…
Lifesand…found a way.
[Create Lifesand Golem].
The blood on the table drew together. It began to solidify, like time was passing and it was congealing. Yet the blood began to shift. Morphing into…
Sand. Red-rust sand, and then a head rose out of the sand. Two raised arms. A tiny, tiny figure, even smaller than a Fraerling, rose, growing the more blood Trey spat onto it.
A miniature Viltach rose, stretching—then hopped off the desk. Minitach scurried over to the chair, pulled himself up, and as Trey waited—leapt and punched the Rune of Paralysis.
“Gah!”
The miniature explosion made Trey jerk and crash into the table. Mini-Viltach disappeared as the rune interacted with his Lifesand body in an unfortunate way. But Trey was free!
The first thing he did was grab a healing potion and heal the cut in his mouth. The second thing he did was lurch over to the door, yank it open, and let Minizi rush in. The Lifesand Golem stared up at him and then collected the remains of the Lifesand scattered around.
“What happened to you?”
She had scorch marks; someone had torn out one of her mithril ‘bones’, and her gemstones were cracked. Minizi wordlessly looked at Trey.
Stuff.
Trey shook his head. He looked at Minizi and found his heart was racing. He looked out the door and spoke.
“Calac’s captured. We need to rescue him. Gazi’s in danger, and we have to free Archmage Amerys. The Archmages are fighting. Plus Ullsinoi and every [Mage] we run into.”
Minizi drew her imitation-claymore. Let me at them, boss! Trey eyed her.
“…Right. We have to move. Calac…we need Calac.”
Not because the [Lord] was that much of an asset compared to Gazi. Trey just couldn’t bear to leave his friends behind. Not to switch one prisoner with another. How were they going to overpower [Mages] twice his level, though?
Trey was a Level 26 [Sand Mage] from Eldavin’s tutelage. He was also, now, a Level 13 [Plotter], and one could argue his magic was better than his level indicated.
None of that meant he could easily best Wistram’s experienced [Mages]. Trey searched around for his staff…then hesitated as he stared around the room and realized where he was.
Viltach’s…workshop. And personal quarters. And…Trey hesitated and looked at a cupboard filled with private potions, racks of ordered, neatly noted scrolls, and the artifacts Viltach made to sell. For some reason, what he was going to do next made him almost as guilty as everything else he’d done.
Minizi was inspecting a chip in the mithril claymore sadly. A Golem had smashed it into a wall. She looked up as her creator walked around the room—then beckoned her over.
“Minizi. Leave that. Take this.”
The Lifesand Golem indignantly waved her sword—then looked up, saw what Trey was offering her, and instantly dropped her imitation-claymore. She took the shortsword with the gleaming red edge on the blade and pressed a little sigil on the handle.
The sword burst into flame. Minizi stared at the burning sword and then saw Trey stuffing scrolls into his belt pouch. She kicked the mithril claymore aside. It was blunt, anyways.
 
——
 
Gazi Pathseeker hid from her pursuers, eyes darting in every direction. She saw a tracer spell coming her way and avoided the sensor-spell that looked like a glowing bird.
However, her main eye flicked up and spotted more spells moving through the walls. Her eye.
Her eye. She had one power, unlike the others of the King’s Seven. She had her eye, and she had been born with this advantage. Even…bred for it.
Gazers’ eyes were placed unpredictably. On their hands, different parts of their head—with unpredictable levels of power and effects. Gazi, though—she had been an experiment to combine the best functions of their eyes.
Roshal. Her main eye was powerful, and her levels, her training—had all gone to further that. She had not earned her eye like Mars had her skill in battle. But she had been born with it.
I have still practiced to earn my name. Of all the King’s Seven, including Amerys herself—Gazi had known she was best placed for this mission.
Her eye focused, and one of the tracer spells two hallways down abruptly flashed. Instantly, her pursuers changed, moving towards the location warily. One blasted the air with fire, but found nothing.
She was two hallways over.
Seeing through walls—Trey called it x-ray vision. She could also use her eye to focus. Paralysis was what Gazers and Medusae were known for, but that was simple, inefficient. Gazi could…manipulate magic. Even disrupt other spells from afar.
“Our sensors are all triggering. She’s doing it somehow.”
Gazi heard the frustrated voice as she slipped away. There was some irony to this battle. She counted three Ullsinoi [Mages].
Or one. But it seemed like three. Yet they had illusions, their own powerful cloaking spells and not [Greater Invisibility] alone.
The worst was the Centaur. Galei. His illusions were real. They could cast spells; they even bled. She thought she could sense a tiny bit of uncertainty in the fake ones, but he could avoid her eye to some extent.
However, they were also having trouble finding her. [Scout] versus [Illusionist] was an odd matchup. Gazi was not prepared for a spell she could not see through.
They were not used to being unable to locate her except through actual vision. All their sensor spells she could disrupt, but not [See Invisibility]. So they had to search—manually—for her.
[Bound Spell: Invisibility]. A function of her [War Scout] class from her [Infiltrator] days. Gazi could become invisible twice a day for free, and she could use spell scrolls, of course, but that was like being naked in front of Ullsinoi.
However, their lack of sensor spells meant they had to spot her with their eyes. So the [Mages] warily moved through corridors, flooding them with clouds, trying to blast the air with fire or other magics to reveal her.
Gazi? She carefully extended both hands, planted her legs on the wall, strained, and performed an aerial planking maneuver over the head of one of the Ullsinoi [Mages], supporting herself from wall-to-wall with sheer physical strength.
Don’t look up. Don’t look—
He looked up. Gazi dropped on him with a sword, beheaded him, saw the illusion vanish, and threw a spell scroll.
[Wall of Stone].
“That hallway, there! She just killed my decoy—”
Spells blasted the wall of stone to chunks, but it bought her the time to leap into another hallway. Gazi saw a window, leapt through it, and slapped one hand to the outside of the wall.
[Suction Grip].
She began scaling the wall upwards as the [Mages] followed. She had to get out of their planned area.
A powerful magical aura was headed her way. An Archmage. Gazi kept climbing, saw fighting on the floor above, and grinned in relief. Good! Golems and Drakes fighting [Mages]. She could lose herself among—
Her hand touched a patch of stone, and she realized too late something was wr—
Gazi teleported straight back into the room she’d been in, an old art-room by the looks of it, with enchanted materials for paint and canvases with multiple dimensions and so on.
She had no time to admire the magical, baroque artwork of aeons before. An alarm began ringing.
“She just tried to scale the outside. On me.”
Galei’s voice. Gazi focused on that—then the thing that had appeared just in front of her. A small, red pinpoint of glowing light. Appearing in the air, condensing, rather, into something so tiny…her eye focused on it, and she swore and leapt.
The orb detonated and blasted the art room as the Gazer felt something kick her into the wall. Her hair and face were on fire. She grabbed a potion and smashed it over her face, glass and all. Then she got up and ran.
She had to trust. Trust they were making progress. Trust Trey! Trust…Gazi looked out the window.
Their escape plan. She had never told Trey how they were getting out of here. She froze as a new spell raced down the corridor. Absolute frost—Gazi threw herself left before Viltach’s spell hit her, but her armor was freezing cold.
“[Frostbody]!”
She cast the spell and her skin avoided frostbite—just. Thank goodness for that spellbook. Gazi started running again.
Who had put it there in that handy block of ice?
 
——
 
[Mages]. Sometimes, it felt like they were cheating. She knew, knew and had seen that was wrong. They trained and learned and grew differently, that was all. She had tried learning magic seriously once, and she could cast a Tier 3 spell.
Maresar had felt like her head was exploding each day. She’d suffered migraines and nosebleeds—the kind she had never known you could have. She knew magic was not easy and they paid their own price.
Even so. When she watched a man or woman raise their hands, point, cast [Fireball], and lay waste to an area—it seemed unfair to her. She raised her bow, sighted, performed a dozen calculations she could never explain about distance, angle, wind speed, and even the weight of her own arrow and draw of her bow—and loosed.
Even drawing her bow was difficult. Her arms shook with exhaustion. How many arrows had she loosed over the course of the siege? Today? At least a thousand today alone.
A woman died, her spell uncast, choking on her blood as it went through her lungs. Maresar turned, plucking another arrow from her quiver.
Looking for another [Mage]. They were the greatest threats. If only Reim had a powerful one. They had Level 30 [Mages]. But if only…
How many arrows was that? A thousand?
No…she was no [Rapid Fire Archer] in a perfectly controlled space. She dodged and wove, but how many arrows per minute? She could put out thirty in rapid succession…but sniping? Let’s say three on average. Three every minute.
Three times sixty is…Maresar heard a ringing sound and looked up. It ran through the ground. A hammer on an anvil.
Someone’s doom. She saw a [Sniper] taking aim at her. [Eyes of the Bandit Lord] saw your direct enemies, even in battle.
Maresar loosed another arrow and saw them dive.
A hundred and eighty. Times eight hours? One thousand four hundred and forty. Not far—
She leaned back as an arrow streaked past her face. Maresar loosed a second arrow and saw it hit…and saw the woman stumble and then dive away from a third arrow.
Enchanted armor. The arrows that flew towards Maresar screamed—piercing, barbed, and poisonous. Maresar had no enchanted arrows left herself. Brave children were picking up enchanted arrows fired at Reim that hadn’t detonated and ferrying them to archers. She had no arrow…
Save for one. Maresar reached up for a worn, little leather bag hanging around her neck. Her bag of holding. She drew one final arrow and hesitated.
A jagged tip. A terribly-made arrow; the arrowhead was poorly balanced because it wasn’t made right. Because it wasn’t an arrowhead but a piece of Naq-Alrama steel. Maresar hesitated in that split-second of indecision.
Do I loose it? Or kill a [General]? 
Hesitation was what killed you. A third arrow came towards her, and the [Bandit Lord] realized—she heard a voice.
“Maresar!”
Teresa Atwood. The [Bandit Lord] turned, saw the young woman slash the arrow in two. Both pieces went flying past the two women and exploded. Maresar lifted the Naq-Alrama arrow, but the [Sniper] was gone. Fled. She put the arrow back in her bag of holding and turned.
“Good save.”
That was it. She took aim again, and Teresa grinned proudly. She was wavering, but she had the battle-light in her eyes. Adrenaline; she couldn’t feel her wounds or how tired she was.
“It’s ending. They’re fighting at the north gate. The breach—we’re losing.”
Maresar nodded.
“Yes.”
Her eyes went to the north gate. Searching for the one figure she could always find before he found her.
Venith Crusland. He…wasn’t there. Maresar looked around. Had he fallen?
No. The [Lord] was riding towards them on horseback. He dismounted fast and hard, and the horse wheezed with exhaustion. It actually lay down as Venith climbed to the archer’s tower.
He looked worse than the horse.
“Maresar. Teresa.”
He was gulping down stamina potions. The [Lord of Battle] had stepped back—to survey the battlefield. He looked at the north gate, then the breach in the walls.
Again, that peal of sound rang out. Plaintive. Loud, but…Teresa’s eyes shifted towards it.
“Nawal. She’s doing something.”
“She’s forging steel amid blood.”
Maresar looked at the young woman standing at the anvil. She exchanged a glance with Venith. They…had seen the like of this before. The [Lord]’s weary head turned. Teresa shook her head, and her face lost its shine for a second.
“I told her to run. I told her to forget her debts.”
“She is a [Smith] of Clan Tannousin. She was brought up every day of her life to serve her clan. Some bonds are deeper than blood. She is a proud woman. She failed.”
Maresar felt at the arrow again. Venith Crusland nodded. He stood there, and Teresa spoke again.
“We’re going to lose.”
She looked at the two adults, and Maresar hesitated. Venith shook his head.
“Not yet.”
“Not yet?”
Teresa could count and see the Nerrhavian reserves and Reim’s. Venith just met Maresar’s gaze and turned back to Teresa.
“When Flos Reimarch takes the field, it will be over. There is hope. If there were not, we would surrender. I would. Maresar. What news from Wistram?”
“Nothing.”
The [Bandit Lord] had been listening. Surely…surely they would know the danger, but she heard nothing. Calac, alone amongst [Mages]…
Teresa looked up as that ringing anvil sounded again. Like a moth drawn to a flame, she began to head towards it.
“Nawal. I have to see what she’s making.”
“She’s sacrificing herself. Stay clear.”
Maresar warned Teresa, but the young woman didn’t listen. Venith turned to Maresar.
“Is that what that sound is?”
He hadn’t seen Nawal from his position. Maresar pointed her out, and Venith stilled.
“It might be a mighty weapon. But she is using blood—and that is not Tannousin’s way.”
The [Bandit Lord] watched Venith’s face. The [Lord] looked at his wife, and he saw the unspoken question there. He shook his head.
“That man.”
He looked at the palace, and they remembered the first time they had met. Meeting and forging a respect after Maresar’s capture and…
Slumber. Waking. Venith’s anger.
“That man has demanded too much of Reim and its people. Of Chandrar, endless war. He asks us to run a thousand miles, arm-wrestle giants, and tear down walls with our own hands. He wades through blood.”
