“A battlefield one. He always said adventurers didn’t fall for the tricks a [Soldier] does.”
Calac ruefully rubbed at his shoulder; he’d lost fairly badly. That shield-flick trick only worked on someone who didn’t have an arm like stone.
“A level difference. I apologize for my surliness. I…am not in the best of tempers.”
Ylawes flushed guiltily. In truth, he felt poorly because he had been rightfully angry a few days ago. Angry at his friend, Falene, angry at himself for not joining the raid with the Horns…and angry they were here, rather than Chandrar.
Then he’d learned his sister was alive, well, and didn’t want him rescuing her. So he was trying to be angry without a reason. Angry, in fact, because he didn’t have a reason to be angry anymore.
It was odd for Ylawes to lose his temper like this to begin with. Righteous anger was one thing. This made him guilty, but Calac was polite, a good distraction, and they settled to talking about the differences in warfare, adventuring, and when they learned both were [Lords]’ sons, about that.
Calac met and talked with Ylawes for the next week, to the point where he, Dawil, and Ylawes began having drinks at one of Wistram’s bars. The young man was canny and only brought up a special quest with a hefty, hefty monetary incentive after five days.
Even so, Falene had rightfully argued that they’d tank their reputation with Wistram. She was a Centrist, the odds were against them, and a plethora of other reasons. Calac and Trey wouldn’t even have considered it, Gold-ranks or no, except for one thing:
Gazi Pathseeker had briefly observed Yvlon Byres, and she had ventured in Izril long enough to know the Silver Swords’ reputation. More than that? Calac put it to Ylawes Byres, Dawil, and Falene like this:
“They are children who wish to leave. Wistram will not let them, and is that any better than keeping them as prisoners forever? Hostages? Worse?”
If you just happened to know Yvlon Byres had just been unfairly imprisoned, or that Pisces was a [Slave]…and Ylawes Byres was an upstanding [Knight] who practically represented Terandrian ideals. Falene had begun drinking before the [Knight] even articulated his response.
 
——
 
Never let it be said the Silver Swords were known for taking the smart, practical quests. They were in the thick of fighting, as Earthers began to run past the Gold-ranks engaged with the Golems. Ylawes hesitated, putting up his sword, and he saw the giant metal Golem take one look at Julian unwisely ducking between the two fighters—
And step back.
The [Knight] and Golem stared at each other as a group of Earthers ran past, shouting, and then got back to the fighting. Dawil, meanwhile, had dove to pick up his axe.
“Grandfathers, I feel bad about this—”
He hacked the Golem down from behind one kneecap, and his hatchet went straight through the enchanted metal. Dawil jogged past Ylawes.
“Lad! Falene’s in trouble!”
He raised his axe to throw, looked at the [Mages], then cursed and lowered it. Ylawes ran forwards and shouted.
“[Shield of Valor]!”
A giant, glimmering shield took over Falene’s barrier, and she staggered back. The last Earthers exited the room. Elena and George—but the [Mages] were advancing, and the steel Golem walked towards Dawil, shielding its face as he turned with the axe raised.
“Cut them off! They’re all running! Tell the Archmage—”
The Silver Swords saw the [Mages] were shouting at each other. Ylawes looked over his shoulder and heard shouting from down the corridor.
More [Mages]. Feor had prepared multiple groups. The [Knight] cursed and backed up.
“Falene—distract them! We have to run!”
“The others—”
Elena didn’t get a chance to finish the sentence. Falene raised her hands and spoke.
“[Flashbang]. [Noxious Fumes]. [Gust of Air]. [Ink Spray]. [Oiled Floor].”
“Oh, come on—”
One of the [Mages] got a chance to complain before they were deafened, then covered with stink and ink. Some of the smarter ones simply advanced, shimmering barriers protecting them—then slipped on the oiled floor. A few kept going, chasing after the Silver Swords and the Earthers with them.
“You stole that spell from Ryoka!”
Dawil panted as Falene ran. She didn’t dignify that with a response. Wistram [Mages] didn’t steal. They innovated. Ryoka’s spell just happened to be a bang rather than shriek and slightly brighter.
 
——
 
Other Earther groups weren’t so lucky. Saif lifted his airsoft gun and fired a round of bullets. They bounced off a magical shield as a [Mage] raised his brows.
“I don’t see what the problem is. How did you all manage to lose to this thing in the testing chambers?”
“If they’re magic-piercing bullets it’s a cause for concern. Put down the gun, Saif. You all, stop moving.”
A Centaur waved his wand at the group of eight. Saif turned.
“Go, I’ll hold them—”
“[Stun Arrows].”
A few blue arrows flashed from the Centaur’s wand and the Human man’s and hit Saif in the chest. He went over, and the man chuckled.
“Alright, enough. We have you. You won’t be punished much—but enough’s enough.”
“You thugs! You—you tyrants! You jack-booted bastards!”
Caroline shouted at them. The Centaur eyed his hooves.
“I assume that’s an Earth-insult. Listen, young woman. We’ve been very kind and patient, but enough is—argh.”
“That’s right. Wait, what did you say, Clempt?”
The [Mage] turned just in time to see a giant, shadowy hand pick him up and drag him screaming into a similarly giant, shadowy void. His scream was cut off, and the Earthers stared in horror as a wall of shadows roiled in place.
Then, after a second, it spat out both [Mages], unconscious, and morphed into a familiar [Mage] wearing all-black and a dark veil.
“This way. The ship is waiting.”
One of Depth Mage Doroumata’s daughters beckoned the students. They hesitated, and she stepped forwards.
“We are prepared to take you away from Wistram. Come with me. Hurry. The [Mages]—”
She spun, and a ward of darkness flashed around her, catching two dozen arrows of light. Not the glowing orb someone rolled towards her feet, which exploded and tossed her into a wall.
The [Depth Mage] crumpled as someone chuckled.
“I knew it. Ullsinoi to Galei? We’ve got a breakout. Tell Naili and Viltach we’re in trouble.”
A grinning figure stopped, inspecting the downed [Depth Mage] as she tried to struggle up. She raised a wand, but he blasted it out of her hand.
“[Mages]. Even the Drowned Ones never expect alchemy. Hands up, all of you. No—on second thought, [Sleep Mist].”
The Minotaur [Mage], an oddity that might be an illusion in itself, blew a handful of dust over the Earthers. They coughed and tried to retreat as the [Depth Mage] pointed her hand. She blew the dust away, but the Ullsinoi [Mage] aimed a wand at her—
—And someone kicked him so hard he screamed, two ribs broken, turned into a writhing Dullahan, and collapsed. The Earthers and [Depth Mage] both looked up as the flying kick carried the third [Mage] into view.
“[Combat Sorceress] Hezile in Hallway 12B! Earthers located! Backup requested!”
A Drake stomped on the Ullsinoi [Mage]’s back, then covered both directions with a wand. She advanced, as Doroumata’s daughter played dead. The Drake eyed her, pointed a wand, and blasted Doroumata’s daughter into true unconsciousness.
“With me, all of you. We’re getting you out of here!”
“Wh—who are you?”
Saif was sitting up, although his lower body was paralyzed. Eun and Xiang helped him up, and the Drake glanced over her shoulder as two more Drakes stormed down the corridor.
“Fighting on Hallways 11 and 51. We need another route.”
“On it. Golems are hostile, repeat, hostile.”
The three Drakes surrounded the Earthers, ushering them forwards. Eun stared at them.
“Are you our escape?”
He stared at Doroumata’s daughter, and the [Combat Sorceress] looked surprised. She was noticeably more fit than the other two Drakes, and she wore a different Walled City’s emblem on her armor—as opposed to their robes.
“That’s right. This is a joint force from the Walled Cities—”
“Led by Fissival—”
One of the Drakes added unhelpfully.
“—Providing you all shelter and sanctuary, as agreed. Where is Troy Atlas? Where are the others? That announcement…”
“We don’t know!”
The two Fissival [Mages] cursed, but one of Grimalkin’s combat apprentices wearing Manus’ badge nodded.
“Then you’re with us. Move out! Overlap your barriers around the group, and watch for invisible targets! [Sand Spray]!”
She blew a fine veil of sand down the corridor, and the Drakes followed.
“You don’t give us orders. We know perfectly well how to—”
“Shut up.”
 
——
 
There were Drakes joining the breakout as well as Doroumata’s daughters! Indeed, the ships at Wistram’s harbor were in a state of confusion as a Drake [Captain] chartered for the breakout saw a ship rising from under the sea and braced for fighting.
Drowned Folk answering Doroumata’s call didn’t hesitate. They opened up on all the ships at the dock with spells, aiming at the ships to scuttle them, burn sails, and stop any pursuit. A four-way battle between Wistram’s [Mages], the Drakes of the Walled Cities, the Silver Swords, and Doroumata’s daughters was in full force.
Glorious chaos. How had it happened? That clever boy. He had negotiated with Doroumata, of course, but he was arguably even more clever in how he persuaded the Drakes.
 
——
 
“Um, is it Mage Lord Ollempus? I was hoping for a private word? Um…about the plan.”
The Drake from Fissival was surprised that anyone wanted to talk to him. He was indeed one of the [Mage Lords] of Fissival, the City of Magic, one of the great magical powers of the world.
Not that anyone would know it here. Especially with the way the Drakes were treated—and especially in light of the revelation with the Gnolls.
Had he known about it? No! The [Mage Lord] felt like this was a disaster. Could he convince anyone, even the other representatives of the other cities? Absolutely not.
The fact that someone had sought him out was so surprising, the Drake stared at the nervous young man shifting from foot to foot for a good ten seconds before he coughed.
“Of course. What is this about…”
He realized this was one of them. Grimalkin’s Earthers, who no one could get near without an inconvenient half-Elf or someone else blocking them. This was an opportunity, so the Drake smiled, remembered Humans hated seeing teeth, and realized he was off to a bad start.
“Privately, Mage Lord? It’s about the…thing.”
“Er, of course. [Sphere of Anonymity].”
The Drake was a good spellcaster, after all. Level 46. One of Fissival’s best. A fitting representative, close to an Archmage in terms of levels, and again, treated like dirt.
He was also not Mage Lord Ollempus and was fairly sure no Mage Lord was named Ollempus and that this young man had his name wrong. But Troy seemed to think he had the right person.
“About the breakout, Mage Lord. I talked with the others, and they agreed. But it has to be in four days. We can’t prepare sooner.”
The Drake stared at Troy and did a double-take, which he turned into a huge cough.
“The b—of cour—right. The breakout. How many of you…? No, er, I’m fully prepared. But I’m not Ollempus.”
He had the wonderful experience of seeing the Human’s face turn dead white, and the [Mage Lord] hurried to reassure Troy.
“But I am on your side! You must have spoken with another one of us?”
“A—I—”
“It’s perfectly secret. What’s this about?”
He led Troy to his rooms, and the young man explained the plan—which he’d agreed to with an ‘Ollempus’. The [Mage Lord], whose name was Ascoden, incidentally, cursed as he tried to figure out who it had been. Illusion spells were a thing, but the important part was that one Walled City was trying to snipe all the Earthers!
“We were all informed, don’t you worry, young man. And we will be ready. Free passage, and, yes, we will not hold you like Wistram.”
He made the boy the promise; the High Command would agree, he was sure, especially since they had almost nothing otherwise, although they were looking and investigating odd reports.
Ascoden then went to report to Fissival and his fellow [Mages] after Troy had left, only for [Spell Brigadier] Ssolys to storm into a meeting with all of Manus’ Drakes and accuse him of a secret escape plot.
In the end, all six Walled Cities agreed, no matter who had arranged what to begin with, this needed to be a collaboration. They made plans, set up a diversion, and—
 
——
 
—And a young man’s [Plotter] class levelled up three times that day. So here they were, Drakes, Drowned Folk, adventurers, [Mages], and Golems, in the biggest tossup fight where no one knew what the others were doing.
All a distraction. Masterfully done. The only problem was that as clever as Trey had been…he was up against the pranksters of Wistram.
And they weren’t laughing. Then again—neither was Gazi Pathseeker.
 
——
 
If the fighting in the corridors leading towards the main hallway of Wistram were filled with flashy, low-level spells mostly to block or subdue each other, there was no such restraint in the mid-level hallways around the Creler-murals and the Mershi-lounge.
Mind you, the partying Libertarians didn’t even notice at first. Only when one of them, Timor du Havrington, walked out to find Rievan did he see the magical firefight going on.
A hallway of glowing, black flame stretched across his vision, so hot it was burning everything non-enchanted from the heat of it. Shimmering waves of heat rose amidst equally dark smoke, choking out the light. Timor heard nothing, and realized his own voice, his shout, was lost.
He saw five arcing spells and thought they were basic arrow spells at first—till they crashed against a wall and began to splinter into smaller arrows which rained down like needles. One needle struck him, and he staggered backwards, trying to yank it out of his arm—
The blade of the thin piece of magic cut up his entire hand before it vanished because it had no single edge to grab. Timor ran back as he saw a figure slowly walking through the black fire. A huge hound made of smoke itself, eyes burning with embers like sparks, sprang and tore into a howling Manticore, a summoned beast, which dissipated as a lance of the same too-bright orange arrows pelted it and lanced it from within.
