Slowly, the young man walked into her cell and met the Archmage’s eyes. He had found the key to her mask, but none of her shackles. Even so, he unlocked her mask, and she snapped at his fingers.
More as a joke than anything else.
The boy didn’t smile or react. He just looked at her. He breathed, in and out, the remnants of tears in his eyes. Exhausted, battered; he had thrown it all at this plan and moment.
“Archmage Amerys? My name is Trey Atwood. The King of Destruction sent me. I came to set you free.”
“Why did you come?”
Amerys looked at him, so curiously. She understood Gazi. She even understood what had to be the Quarass, swearing in another language as she felt at her ribs. She could understand a child of Reim or follower of the King of Destruction.
But why Trey Atwood? She also didn’t know how she’d be freed; she was shackled, and while she could have cast magic in this cell if her bindings were off…the enchanted cloth now had a damned Adamantium lock that Viltach had claimed a Level 50 [Rogue] couldn’t break.
Trey Atwood wearily knelt. He met Amerys’ eyes and looked her up and down. Not in a lecherous way—more like someone trying to understand something. See…some quality that was seldom revealed on appearance alone.
“Flos asked me to. That’s not why I did it, Amerys. I told him to go to hell—I even thought so, even though he promised me that he would help me in a great way. By destroying A’ctelios Salash.”
“He keeps his promises. He rewards loyalty. But…that isn’t enough, is it?”
Trey shook his head.
“My sister is with him. But that isn’t my reason either. I’d rather knock her over the head and carry her off, or take her to Khelt. She’s getting worse with him.”
“I could help with that. I could change this war.”
His face didn’t move markedly.
“I know. But I knew what I’d do. Kill people. Make them suffer. And…lose friends. Maresar is dead.”
Amerys’ eyes flickered.
“Maresar Crusland?”
Trey nodded. He watched her face. The Archmage, for a second, debated lying and pretending to great emotion, but the truth was it was a distant blow.
“I’m sorry. I knew her, but I have been captive here a long time. Will you…free me, Trey Atwood?”
“I would be a fool not to, after all this time.”
The Archmage waited, but Trey held his ground.
“…Amerys. I thought and thought about why I might free you. The resolve it took to do it. I’m here to free you. And I will. If you do something for me.”
“Name it.”
Aah. This was it. Amerys smiled in relief, because she hadn’t known why. The boy—she couldn’t even speak to him directly on his visits, but she had worried because she hadn’t known if he had some great loyalty or desire. Now, Trey reached into his bag of holding and put something on the ground.
A simple little object. A truth stone. He looked ruefully at it.
“I hoped it would work in here, but I guess not.”
It was dead in the magic-suppression field. Trey shrugged, flicked it away, and looked at her.
“I only have your word, then. Can I trust you? Do you…keep your promises?”
Amerys’ green hair was tangled as she raised her head. She had had dreams of great vengeance, wrath, rejoining her [King]…but at some point she had just dreamed of running her hands through her hair. She looked at Trey so longingly she wanted to scream.
“Yes. Free me, and I will do what you want. Give you what you want. I will not forget this…what is it?”
What would he ask? Something craven and dark? Ask for a gift? For control? Ambition? Her hand in marriage? Ludicrous or twisted—she would agree to be free for many things.
The [Sand Mage] took a deep breath, and a little Lifesand Golem came to stand by him. One look at it and Amerys was sure he didn’t want her. She almost laughed—but Trey fixed her with a calm gaze and spoke.
“Archmage Amerys. If I free you, swear by the King of Destruction, by Reim and your magic…that when you are freed, you will fight for Flos Reimarch. You will serve him and do everything to support him—and end slavery within his kingdom and every land. Until the day it is outlawed, until he changes his mind…fight for every person in chains against their will, even if he stands against you.”
Her eyes opened wide, and the Archmage stared at Trey Atwood. At last…at last. She saw the color of his soul.
So Amerys raised her head, considered Trey’s words seriously, and all they meant, and then nodded. So that was his great plan.
“I swear.”
Trey Atwood sighed. He bent down, and the arrow of Naq-Alrama steel cut her bindings. Not the lock. Amerys gasped as the little arrow snapped and the magic flared. The anti-magic metal screamed and broke, disintegrating.
Amerys looked up—
And she was free.
 
——
 
Gazi Pathseeker had her hand on her claymore. She looked up, lying on the ground, panting.
“Will you capture me or kill me?”
She croaked at Viltach. The Archmage hesitated. He looked at Feor as the half-Elf watched her warily.
“Either option will end this. Must end this war. Viltach—”
Gazi blurred. She leapt—and they hit her with spells. She curled up but kept dashing on all fours, like an animal.
“She won’t quit until she’s dead.”
Viltach spoke, in that too-calm voice of someone who had made up his mind. Gazi swung around, eye shining, and Feor nodded. The Archmage of half-Elves raised his staff—and hesitated.
His fingers shifted and Viltach froze. His head turned slightly, and Gazi saw the blood draining out of his face.
The Gazer’s mad grin turned into a smile. Feor’s lips moved.
“That…that’s…”
They were in the banquet hall. [Mages] watched from afar, like the first time Eldavin had come to Wistram. The two Archmages slowly swung around.
Gazi saw the hair on Viltach’s head lift. The carefully groomed hair…rose into the air. She felt it.
Static.
The overturned tables and broken plates, cutlery, began to vibrate. The metal…began rising off the ground. Feor said not a word. Viltach groaned.
“It’s over. Rhir’s hells. Dead gods.”
He searched for a greater epithet. Feor slowly projected another barrier around himself.
“Elves’ remorse.”
What a strange oath. The Archmage of half-Elves was breathing quicker as Viltach glanced at him. Viltach swung around, looking about. Then he noticed Gazi was gone.
But neither man went after her. They stood, back-to-back, eying the other hallways leading into this room.
By now, the other [Mages] had noticed the charge in the air. One of them whispered.
“I feel lightning magic in the air.”
Someone looked out the window. A storm was brewing. Wistram’s bubble of calm was changing, and rain and winds were beginning to pick up.
“It’s her.”
One of the [Mages] muttered. The younger students glanced at him, but everyone else knew exactly who it had to be. Their heads turned to the two Archmages who were casting barrier spells.
“[Greater Lightning Ward].”
“Put it on me.”
Viltach hissed at Feor. The Archmage hesitated and then cast the spell. Feor looked around.
“Where is Galei?”
The Centaur was gone. And—as Feor watched—one of the older Council-[Mages] calmly and deliberately cast a spell.
“[Levitation].”
Everyone turned, wondering if the [Mage] was going to fight—they saw the Selphid float upwards, yank open a window, and fly out of the banquet hall. Another [Mage] cast [Invisibility]. More began to leave.
“Libertarians—”
Viltach looked around uncertainly. Feor snapped.
“Centrists, to me! Stand together!”
But no one came. Some of the [Mages] drew together rather than run.
“She’s one Archmage. We’ve got two here and she was locked up for…she’s only one woman.”
This was true. And the Golems were led by a green-eyed presence, who had restored order with the threat of violence to anyone who attacked her. Feor turned to her.
“Cognita—”
“I am restoring order with the [Pirates] and last outsiders. Do not bother me.”
The Golem turned her head to stare at him. The Archmage looked at her.
“Amerys is free.”
“Yes.”
The Truestone Golem’s proxy looked amused. Feor hesitated.
“Then…?”
“I see no reason to intervene in a dispute between Archmages of Wistram. Golems. Clear the area. Protect any students, I suppose.”
The Golems began to evacuate the room as well. The [Mages] ran. Viltach hesitated.
“My rooms…”
Feor just stood there. They wouldn’t make it.
The charge in the air was reaching a peak. Bits of electricity were zapping between hovering pieces of metal. Even with their ward-spells, the Archmages felt it.
It was one element. They had greater electricity wards.
But they also hadn’t…fought…Amerys the first time. Three Archmages had ambushed her.
This time…
She was coming for them.
“Amerys! You have a mission, and this will be a costly battle for the both of us! Let us negotiate or go our own ways!”
Feor raised his voice, projecting it into the hallways. He sounded bold, a force of power negotiating with an equal.
Gazi, hidden, cloaked, and drinking healing potions, could have told him how stupid and fruitless his bartering was. Her main eye was locked on one point. She was counting down.
Eight…seven…four…one…
Amerys appeared in the banquet hall so fast that the flash of lightning beat both Archmages’ bound spells. They fired, a series of ray-spells, a comet, a flare as a wall of fire erupted.
All far too late. Even Gazi couldn’t predict how Amerys would move.
Because she was lightning. She drifted into the room at a speed only Gazi could see. Head angled slightly to one side, almost as if she were sleepwalking. Barefoot—a sleepy walk from a woman whose muscles were atrophied from lack of use.
She left a trail of blue lightning in the air after her. At a speed beyond eyesight, she stepped through the world, leaving a trail of static and electricity. She swayed, coming to a halt in the visible world, and Feor and Viltach whirled. Their spells loosed harmlessly at her trail.
Amerys swung around, like a swaying zombie, and one eye opened.
Bright yellow, like the core of a lightning bolt. Her green hair was brighter, now. It waved around her, magnified by the static. The Archmage’s robes were a brilliant cloud pattern. Sky-blue and silver like clouds, mixed with red, the color of Flos’ hair.
“Amerys.”
Gazi smiled. She saw the Archmage look at her. Dreamily. Amerys breathed in as Feor and Viltach hesitated, spells on their fingertips.
They had never seen her fight directly. Quarrel, yes. But they didn’t walk battlefields. She did. Surely they had seen recordings, heard tales.
Amerys lifted a hand like a dancer. Her left arm, crossing her chest and arching back, like the curve of the moon. Her other hand extended outwards behind her, and she swayed, rotating her body around.
The world turned to lightning. A bolt of it came down from the ceiling and blew the two Archmages back.
Feor’s barrier flashed, and the lightning struck him, but he was warded against it! He was warded against—
His barriers evaporated underneath the spell. The half-Elf felt a force throwing him. Viltach popped out of the air to the left. He looked rattled; both [Mages] were alive, but their barriers had shattered. The electricity wards weren’t working.
“No one can resist my lightning. Hello, Gazi.”
Amerys threw her head back as Feor fired eight of [Valmira’s Comets] at her.
“[Two Hundred Arrows of Stone]!”
Viltach filled the air with lesser spells instead, focusing on rebuilding his shield. Amerys tossed her head back and her hair crackled. Each strand became the inverse of a lightning rod.
For a moment, some strange creature with crackling eyes and hair like a stormcloud flashed—
Then the bolts were travelling across the ground, leaping and striking Viltach, Feor—and blowing everything else around her to bits. Gazi ran for cover. She’d almost forgotten how much damage Amerys did to everything. She could take Feor and Viltach on her own. Where was Trey?
The eight [Valmira’s Comets] missed Amerys. Her counterattack frazzled Feor, and he looked around for her.
Amateur. He was an Archmage of Wistram, and he stood still like a tree. Amerys was a war-mage. She reappeared in another odd, slanted step as the spells passed her by harmlessly.
“Amerys—”
“Stop talking and get her!”
A wave of fire flew from Viltach’s hands. Feor threw all his magic at her as well. If she would dodge—then tracer spells! An orb of magic, like an Earther’s landmine, floating slowly after her but which would never—
Amerys charged them. Viltach had already cast [Haste]—Feor hadn’t because the self-enchantment spell was interfering with his other enchantments.
Viltach saw Amerys’ entire form glow and then elongate in a blur. Again, her entire body became more like a Lightning Elemental—or a woman made of energy.
She moved and crashed into Feor. No spells. She just hit him and carried him straight towards a wall.
Like Eldavin but—
The sound Feor made when he hit the wall made Viltach check if he were dead. The Archmage was surrounded by a magical, glowing shield, panting—and dazed. Viltach looked around and saw a glowing form coming straight at him.
“Dead g—”
Amerys saw him brace, triggering his spells, and swung past him. She skidded, angling her body like a sprinter, and flicked across the gap; she couldn’t turn easily. But she hopped onto Viltach’s back as he loosed a Tier 5 spell harmlessly and looked around.
No perspective. No reflexes.
“Tag.”
She poked his barrier on the back. Viltach screamed, whirled—and Amerys flickered away. What had she done? What had she—?
His barriers were all against energy and lightning magic. Some were against all forms of harm, but he knew Amerys as a lightning mage.
Silly man. Amerys reappeared, floating, arms stretched like she was lying on a bed of clouds above. Flying.
Below her, every piece of metal in the room took aim at the target she’d painted on Viltach’s shields. Forks, knives, candelabras—they came at him in a metal storm.
Feor was getting up, dazed, muttering one of his Tier 6 spells or some ritual as if he were an artillery mage, not on the front. Amerys dropped. She actually lay on the ground; her body was so weak. Feor was confused.
He looked at Amerys, lying like she’d collapsed. As if that meant she was harmless. She looked at him.
“[Grand Lightning].”
A Tier 5 spell flashed and struck his shields. Feor threw up his staff, rebuilding them. Amerys rose, like an odd zombie. She flung out a finger.
“[Burning Grand Lightning].”
A bolt of it blasted past Viltach and set the air on fire. He threw up his hands, backing away. The woman alternated fingers.
“[Frozen Grand Lightning]. [Transformation of Elements]. [Grand Lightning Tidal Wave].”
