“I am Lord Venith Crusland, vassal of the King of Destruction. In the name of Flos Reimarch—I honor Clan Tannousin’s debt.”
His voice rang out across the battlefield. Venith Crusland took up his sword in both hands and turned. He saw Nawal’s eyes widen and thought, even across the distance that separated them, he could hear her gasp.
The bloody blade cried out for a second. It tried to stop him—but Venith swung through the coat of blood. He struck the core, and his sword broke.
So did the metal inside. It twisted, the slightest chip taken out of it—then the blood bubbled. It twisted, breaking free of the binding and quivered, as if it were alive. Venith stepped back—
And the blood of thousands simply collapsed in a wave of crimson. It spread across the dry soil outside of Reim’s walls, flowing past the boots of [Soldiers] who turned, officers and warriors, as the people on the walls and below them looked down.
They looked at Venith too. Why had he done that? Nawalishifra, the officers turning to look at Venith like a fool—they could not understand. What had he done? That fool. That utter idiot had thrown away a glorious weapon—Reim’s last hope. For a second, it had created a gap in the enemy’s onslaught. Even the [Archers] had put down their bows and run. Why?
The [Lord] looked back at the woman standing there with bow in hand. She nodded at him, and he looked back at the [Smith]. Lying there.
Still alive. Her bond with the sword was broken. Venith pointed at her.
“You are no longer Nawalishifra of Clan Tannousin. Your every bond has been paid. You have fulfilled your vows. Be free of your debts, to kin and honor.”
Two confused eyes. Before unconsciousness claimed her, Nawalishifra looked at Venith, uncomprehending. As if her life had ever been worth less than a sword.
Venith knew the feeling. When she picked up that hammer again—
She would walk higher on her long journey.
“Perhaps even as far as Drevish and all the others went. They will make this land’s future. Not me.”
The [Lord] felt light. He turned back and saw Silk-warriors standing there. A double-line of men and women with enchanted blades.
Their leader aimed a partisan spear at Venith’s chest. His armor was enchanted, immaculately made, and Venith saw a feathered helm, a dangling lover’s trinket—a locket—from the tip of the spear.
He reached for his shield, but he had cast it down. He lifted his sword and saw it was a scorched piece of metal snapped at the hilt.
The [Lord] tossed the blade down.
“Will not one of you offer me a sword?”
He turned to the warriors in front of him, a hand held out slightly. Beseechingly.
Nerrhavia Fallen’s soldiers looked at each other. Not one moved. They offered no blade to the [Lord], but they did toss their pride down. The [Spearmaster] advanced, and Lord Venith Crusland sighed.
 
——
 
Trey Atwood pressed his hand against the barrier. He was bleeding, and the blood turned to sand, but the sand helplessly moved against the barrier. Minizi was punching it.
Calac Crusland did nothing. He was just staring at the image in the scrying orb. He had gone still.
“It’s on a delay. Five minutes, I think.”
The [Mages] were looking at him. They could read his name without his warding stones.
Calac Crusland. Lord Venith Crusland stood unarmed in the gap. Calac watched him, and touched a little bag of faded leather. His face was so blank…
He never blinked.
 
——
 
Gazi Pathseeker was grinning. She was not happy.
A smile was just an expression. Like tears, it was something you showed people. She raised her sword and parried a spear of lightning. She swung around, pivoting, and let a pillar of stone punch her across the hallway. She hit the ground, rolling, more spells striking the ground.
“Don’t let her do that again.”
“[Deathbolt] failed. Switch to other spells. What is her armor made of?”
The [Message] spells flitted through the air. Words too, on speaking stones.
She could read the [Message] spells. A Centaur aimed two wands at her, and she threw herself sideways. She cried out in pain as her shoulder exploded into fire.
“She felt that.”
Still, the half-Gazer scrambled up. When she whirled, her eye forced a bolt of lightning to explode mid-arc. She thought her Skills.
[True Gaze of the Gorgon].
The spells flying her way winked out. One of the Ullsinoi [Mages] screamed, a layer of stone on her skin. But alive—her magic protected her. The Centaur grimaced, and the Archmage’s wards flashed and exploded.
Two dozen ward stones burnt away. But Archmage Viltach remained. He aimed at her, and the [War Scout] breathed.
[I Moved Like Thunder].
A thunderous roar. She vanished, skirting down a hallway, around the next, appearing in a blur. Not to run. Nor hide. She had to buy them time.
Instead of running, she stopped, lifted her sword, and grinned wider.
[They Feared My Name].
Distract them. The Archmage striding towards Amerys’ cell whirled. His fake white beard moved as he lifted his fingers. So much magic—
The first of [Valmira’s Comets] was easy to dodge. She cartwheeled away from the next, made another explode with her eye. Her sword pierced a third—and Viltach flung a stone, which unfolded into a spell she couldn’t dodge with Galei’s twin [Shatterbolt Storms] aimed at her face.
The Centaur, panting, lowered his wands as he saw the [Web of Magnesis] catch Gazi. The Gazer looked back at Viltach, and the Archmage nodded at Feor. The Archmage of half-Elves was preparing his great spell that even Eldavin had struggled against.
[Valmira’s True Comet Storm]. Galei sniped from the side as both Archmages filled the hallway with fire. He never saw the Gazer woman beg for mercy or surrender. She just smiled, suffering. She had known worse. She slid across the ground and finally lost her grip on her claymore. She shielded her face with her gauntleted arms and felt her armor crack for the first time ever. Her skin was far weaker.
Even so, she bought them another minute. Another minute. Another…
 
——
 
The first arrows landed around Venith Crusland as he threw himself behind a shattered block of stone. He reached for a blade, but they were all broken or submerged under blood. He looked up as a spearman charged the gap, a glittering tip aimed at his heart.
The [Lord] looked up, teeth bared, struggling. Struggling, in this last moment. Just a little longer and those gates would open. And—
The spear wove towards his heart, and Venith heard the air scream. He heard a whistling sound—an impossibly large thunk—and a cry.
The [Lord of Battle] looked up—and saw the [Spearmaster] stop, mid-lunge, and look in confusion at the weapon sticking out of his chest.
A sword, the hilt of it rammed all the way through his ribs. Venith stared at the sword blankly.
Where had…his head rose. He saw a figure standing in a tower raise her hand in salute.
Maresar. Venith reached for the sword, almost laughing. What a shot! What a beautiful…
Out of the corner of his eye, he saw the figure look up. A cloud passed over Venith’s head, and he slowed, turning.
Four hundred flaming arrows tore through the sky. Each one launched by an artifact of war. Four hundred arrows as the [Bandit Lord] raced for cover.
Only one touched her. That silver arrow, loosed from a [Sniper]. It streaked across the walls and struck her through the side.
Venith Crusland saw it, forgetting the [Soldiers] charging the breach. He saw the dark-skinned woman, the [Bandit Lord]—stagger. She reached for the arrow buried in her side and looked at him.
Venith’s heart died.
 
——
 
Maresar Crusland stood there, swaying, as her tower burned. Slowly, every head turned to her. Fleeing citizens of Reim. Her fellow [Soldiers].
Her husband. She saw it all. Saw the triumphant [Sniper] she had missed. Saw Nerrhavia’s army roar and charge as the [Supreme Marshal] beheld the end.
It was all there, stretching out before her. A vast plain of understanding. A single second—she tried to breathe, but her lungs had stopped.
The [Bandit Lord] stood there and looked at it all. Peacefully. With every regret in the world. She spoke, and her voice carried itself across the winds. It echoed from every building and roof, in every ear.
“I have repaid every debt I can. Every home I despoiled, every life I ruined…”
Maresar felt at her side. Death had its hand on her shoulder, but she was granted the right of everyone who had walked her path. There was no wrath left in her heart. She had to tell them. Maresar licked lips bloodied and wet.
“I will pay them again if I have but the chance.”
There was no air left in her lungs. The woman felt her legs collapse under her. Her head lowered, and she felt herself going.
She had no breath. But still, the last words came to her lips. The [Bandit Lord] raised her arm and tore the arrow from her side. She raised it to her bow.
“[Share My End].”
An arrow curved through the sky. For the first time in her life, Maresar did not aim it. She did not even watch it land, striking the fleeing woman in the same place, the same death.
The [Bandit Lord] was reaching up to her neck. She fumbled at the object. The right of her class. Her long list of sins…she held something to her chest and whispered.
“My son. [Inheritance of the Bandit Lord].”
The bag hanging around her neck flickered—and vanished. For a second, she saw Calac’s face, staring like his father’s, angry—then confused. She smiled.
What a glorious last…
 
——
 
The woman crumpled. Nerrhavia Fallen’s army was silent as Reim—for one moment. Then they cheered.
Maresar the [Bandit Lord] was dead.
“Charge! Take the city!”
Heedless of the towers, of the rest, the legions swarmed closer. This was their moment of triumph. They came through the gaps as another gate fell. Chariots racing ahead of infantry.
The [Soldiers] went through the breach and found a single [Lord] there. He stared up at that burning tower. When he turned back to them, his face was blank. He brought his sword up and down like a Golem, like a machine, and chopped through a shoulder and chest. Someone raised their shield to block, and he crushed the arm and body.
The first Silk-warriors vanished, and the Hemp stopped again. They looked at the [Lord] standing there, and his aura was wrath. He said not a word, and they backed away.
Then he shouted. Then he screamed and wept and lashed out. A blind, deaf man, heedless of death or pain. Looking around as shadows fled around him. Searching for something to stop him from feeling. He could not find it.
 
——
 
Maresar was dead. Trey Atwood was weeping. The [Mages] looked at him, some sneering at his tears. Others were somber, but then the [High Mage] was puzzled.
“What was that last Skill?”
The little bag around Maresar’s neck…the scrying spells had zoomed in so far they had seen it vanish.
A little leather bag of holding. One of the [Mages]—Timor—frowned.
Hadn’t he seen it? It looked so familiar. But where…
The young man turned and looked over his shoulder. He saw a [Lord], a boy, a son, holding something in his hands.
A bloody leather bag.
But they had taken all his possessions. Trey stopped weeping. He looked at Calac Crusland, then at the scrying orb.
It was on a five minute delay. One of the [Mages] hesitated. Something had changed about the air in front of the two boys.
“Where…where did the magic barrier go?”
She waved a hand in the space it should be. The field, too.
Calac Crusland said nothing. Like his father—he looked at the scrying orb. Then down at his inheritance.
He held a piece of wood in his other hand. A thin shaft of wood…tipped with a glimmering piece of Naq-Alrama steel. Calac looked up as the Libertarians turned and saw what he was holding. He gazed at his mother’s gift, up, with lost eyes at Trey and then around at the hateful world without her.
Then Calac went insane.
 
——
 
An army charged across the ground towards the gates. A ruler stirred within the palace.
Maresar was dead. What came next was earth-shaking. Grand acts and battle and desperation and more death.
But, for a moment…a figure turned away from the scrying orb. She looked away from the battle.
“Halt the army.”
The people around her were confused. The Siren of Savere raised her voice.
“Halt the army. Now.”
Ceria Springwalker looked up as Revine Zecrew stood upon her golden palanquin of water. The Siren looked around, as [Rogues] and [Bandits] stopped marching or laughing or watching the battle. She gave one order.
“Open the stores. Fetch me a keg of the finest. Open a barrel for everyone.”
 
——
 
The words were repeated in Izril as well. The laughing, merry, hidden gathering of young [Lords] and [Ladies] had a number of others.
Rough folk, not nearly as well-off—at least in rank. They rubbed shoulders here. Equals, even if that was only the lie they said.
The Bloodfeast Raiders respected no heroism. They had nothing invested in Reim aside from entertainment. So a laughing [Lady] looked at the strangely-silent man.
“Why? That was—”
He reached out and grabbed her shoulder. The man’s grip was so tight his fingers were white. She gasped in pain and reacted, reaching for her side—but the room went quiet as the [Bandit Lord] whispered.
“Raise a glass.”
Confused, the Bloodfeast Raiders looked at him as someone poured a mug. The contents didn’t matter.
Fine wine. Rotgut. Fermented juice or water.
Whatever they had at hand. The Siren of Savere halted her army. The Bloodfeast Raiders looked at their leader and heard the same words.
Revine looked at the scrying orb. Rasea Zecrew looked at her crew, stopped fighting, and drew a flask from her side and lost her smile.
This is what they said:
 
“Raise a glass for a murderer, a thief and a knave.
A [Bandit], a [Pirate]’s gone to their deserved grave.
Now listen, for their seat’s open for another bastard’s ass
One of twelve the world over, the rarest noble’s class.”
 
Eleven men and women. The oldest [Bandit Lord] toasted the second most ancient to fall.
 
“Someone’s met the headman’s axe or gotten their just reward
Laugh if you hated them or go searching for their hoard
Spit upon their graves or swear they’ll be avenged
If you care not at all, go on your merry way and laugh.
But first—”
 
They tipped the cups up and drank.
“—raise a fucking glass.”
Then they laughed, or cursed her name. Or turned away and said nothing more. That was all she would ever get, and more than they ever asked for.
A tribute to the fallen [Bandit Lord].
 
——
 
Teresa was crying. Weeping as well. She stumbled back up the hill, towards the palace.
For Maresar. For the end. For the loss of that precious blade that could have changed it all. She was excited, too, so she was smiling behind her tears.
