Maresar nodded. She looked at the palace and wondered when it would be. When that ruler would emerge. Soon. Another hammer blow rang out, that pitiful tolling.
“But he brought peace. For one year, after we took Chandrar, I rode through the lands I savaged as a [Bandit Lord]. I rode across country and land, and I heard no drums of war. I saw no [Raiders] nor starving people or monsters.”
Venith nodded.
“Yes. And though his faults are innumerable—he has never asked us to sacrifice ourselves for him.”
The two looked at each other. Maresar nodded. She lifted her bow, and Venith began to descend through the streets of Reim. Walking tiredly.
How she envied [Warriors] and [Mages]. Maresar lifted her bow and put another arrow into the sky. Ten. Waiting. Buying time for…
The hammer sounded again, like a voice of metal counting down.
 
——
 
Trey Atwood ran into his first enemy not two hallways out of Viltach’s rooms. He saw a [Mage] turn, wand raised, as she and a gaggle of older students formed a circle.
A dead wooden Golem was smoldering in front of them. One exclaimed when they saw Trey.
“Another Gol—no. Over here!”
They waved, and Trey hesitated. He reached for his belt pouch and backed up. The [Mage] waving at Trey frowned, and the Drake shaded her eyes.
“Wait a second. Is that…”
One of his classmates in Eldavin’s lecture classes poked her head out of the group. The Garuda with pink feathers on her face spotted Trey, pointed.
“Troy! Over here!”
The other students turned. Half seemed to recognize him as a friend—the other half glared at him.
“The King of Destruction’s agent.”
Kelaw, the Garuda student, did a double-take and then recalled Viltach’s announcement.
“Troy Atlas.”
One of the Drakes breathed. Instantly, half a dozen wands rose. Trey froze—and the students stared at him. He braced himself, staff raised, as Minizi raised her sword and triggered the fire enchantment. The students looked at him—and one raised a hand.
“Are you really the King of Destruction’s servant?”
The young man hesitated. The words—[Karas Duststorm]—were halfway out his mouth, but he choked them back.
“—Yes?”
“No Ancestors-damned way. That was an Ullsinoi prank. It had to be.”
“From Archmage Viltach?”
The students began arguing. Kelaw gaped at Trey.
“Archmage Viltach said you—you, Troy? Worm guy?”
“Hey! Did you cause all this?”
An angry fourth-year Drake pointed a wand at Trey. The young man raised his staff.
“I’m on a mission for Flos Reimarch. If you fight me, I’ll have to defend myself. Don’t make me do that, please.”
The students looked at each other. There were about eighteen of them, one Trey, one Minizi. If it came to it—Trey was going to run around the corner and let Minizi eat eighteen spells. He remembered Naili’s amulet, but he had a feeling he was going to need it later.
However, the students just conferred quickly, and then one of them called out.
“So you’re really the King of Destruction’s agent? Someone said Gazi Pathseeker is in Wistram. Is…she?”
“Yes.”
“No way.”
An excited babble broke out, but the fourth-year Drake held up a claw.
“We’ll let you go. If you tell us something.”
“…Like what?”
The young man did a double-take. The Drake stared at him as if he were stupid.
“Something…important. Something from the King of Destruction.”
Trey Atwood just gaped at the gaggle of students. His mouth moved wordlessly for a second, then he spoke.
“The Emperor of Sands murdered Drevish and sent his head in a block of ice to the King of Destruction. That’s one of the reasons why he awoke.”
Gasps. Someone dropped their wand and began fumbling for a piece of paper to write that down.
“That’s a huge secret!”
The students looked at each other. The Drake lowered his wand.
“We see you—we get another secret.”
Trey backed up wordlessly. He saw them staring at him like an exotic pigeon that had flown into their window or something and turned and ran.
No one cast spells after him. He heard them debating, but…Trey remembered the conversation he’d had with Calac.
 
——
 
“Let’s not involve Gazi in it if we can. You know, most people here aren’t evil.”
“I know. They’re our enemies, though. If we have to fight—I will.”
Calac Crusland looked miserable as he thought of it. Trey shook his head.
“Maybe we won’t have to.”
“Not one?”
The young man amended his statement.
“The guards—perhaps. But even if we get found out, the students? [Mages] like Telim? They’re Wistram. We’re two guys, not Gazi.”
Calac’s eyes lit up. He thought about what Trey meant and nodded. Unless it was a monster, would Telim go for a kill-spell? Trey thought of his fellow students.
“Unless they think they’re in danger—we won’t be.”
 
——
 
Even so, they were outnumbered. The Earther-distraction was one thing, but Nailihuaile was right. Wistram’s [Mages] could prioritize. Gazi and Earthers. Two threats alone, with the Golems as a random variable.
Wistram Academy was in chaos. But it was not out-of-control. Yet.
The problem was the levels. Nailihuaile slithered down one corridor, pushing back twice her number of Drakes with her five best Revivalists plus Beatrice. She knew how to concentrate power.
Mage Lord Ascoden and Doroumata could punch with Wistram’s best, and Doroumata was currently giving Feor and his [Mages] a hell of a fight in the banquet hall. Dark void spells were opening everywhere as he threw light magic at her.
There was one last card to play, however. And it wasn’t Trey’s. Gazi had never answered Trey nor Calac on how they were going to leave Wistram.
Arrangements had already been made. Which begged the question, if you really thought about it.
Would Gazi Pathseeker really trust some random [Captain] in a ship with her escape once they freed Amerys? Of course, Amerys could fly, but there was no trusting she could just pick up the others and run.
Even if Gazi had a ship—who? Who was just going to sail into Wistram’s harbors?
Doroumata had her Drowned Folk ship. It was named Sorecue. Its crew had the honor of escorting Shadeward Doroumata, and they had held anchor for months. Watching Gazi just as she watched them.
Right now, the Drowned Folk were fighting on the docks with the other [Sailors]. Drakes hunkered over the balcony of their ship, loosing arrows and throwing spells at the Drowned crew.
“Who are these Drowned Folk? Get the Earthers on board!”
“To me, folk of the sea! The Daughters of the Shadeward require our aid!”
The [Captain] of the Drowned Vessel saw one of Doroumata’s daughters racing out of Wistram’s gates with a gaggle of Earthers. Drowned Folk [Sailors] charged down the gangplanks, clashing with other [Sailors]. One group of Earthers ran towards Doroumata’s ship—another group appeared on one of the balconies overhead.
“There. To the ship!”
The [Combat Sorceress] pointed. Saif hesitated.
“But we’re all the way up—”
The Drake looked over her shoulder. Both of Fissival’s [Mages] were backing up; a dozen Revivalists were advancing, overwhelming their magical barriers.
“Just run. [Featherfall].”
Then she kicked Saif over the balcony, and he went screaming downwards—then floated slowly to the earth. The other Earthers jumped with the spell active, and the Drake-chartered ships sailed along the perimeter of the island, shouting for them to get on.
“Stop those ships, by order of Archmage Feor!”
There were five non-Drake and non-Drowned Folk vessels in Wistram’s port. The [Captains] had watched the breakout with uncertainty, but two were [Storm Captains].
When they got word of what was happening in Wistram, they made up their minds fast. Drowned Folk and Drakes or Wistram’s favor? Easy choice.
[Storm Sailors] and [Depth Sailors] were fighting each other on the dock. Zeres’ Drakes were fighting with aplomb onboard their vessel; the other Walled Cities’ representatives fought with less grace on the water.
Five versus two. One of Doroumata’s daughters was throwing dark magic around, but they were outnumbered.
“Tell [Mage Lord] Ascoden we need him out here now, or we won’t have a ship to get out!”
The [Captain] was shouting. Two ships were boxing him in, throwing grappling lines to tether them together and board from either side. A [Boarding Crewmate] expert leapt across the gap, landed on the deck next to the steering wheel, and the Drake pointed at him with a claw.
“[Get Off My Ship]!”
“Oh sh—”
The [Boarding Crewmate] sailor went flying into the water. The [Captain] drew his sword and looked around, teeth bared. Then he stared out towards the bubble of calm that surrounded Wistram.
His eyes narrowed.
“What is that light?”
Outside of Wistram, a storm was brewing. The sea was choppy and the waves growing higher as night fell. Storms at sea. It would be a trial even if they left the harbor, and the rain was sleeting down.
However, something was moving out there. A bright light amid the waves.
Reinforcements? More enemies? The [Captain] watched as his crew fought. It was too bright to be a ship’s ordinary steering light. A radiance of the kind that illuminated the waters for hundreds of feet in every direction.
Shining through the ocean. His scales began to prickle as he had a sudden suspicion. The [Captain] swore.
“Combat mages?”
“What?”
A Drake snapping spells off from her wand looked up and saw the [Captain] point.
“Get ready. We’ve got…[Pirates].”
The Drakes turned, and one of the [Storm Captains] angling his vessel for a ram with the reinforced blade-prow on his ship looked left. He paled.
“That’s…”
A ship was coming through the waters. It surged through the waves like a bobbing lighthouse. A brilliant yellow light, but not the light of a sun. More like a lantern at night. A glowing hull. There was no mistaking it now, and while the bubble of calm surrounding Wistram let none of the roar of the storm outside in, it did let in faint…voices.
They were singing. As they did. And that ship was moving so fast. Like a glowing fish, surging through the waters. The entire hull was glowing.
That was what Calac realized as he stared out the window. The [Lord]’s lips moved. He knew that ship.
“How…?”
But why was it here? The vessel broke through the bubble of calm, and at last everyone could see it. A strange, semi-translucent hull with a lurid, yellow-green glow. A woman with the same glow coming off part of her body—the Drowned part—was steering the ship herself, a sharp smile across her face. A fearless, mad grin.
Captain Rasea Zecrew and the Illuminary sped towards Wistram. The same ship that had humbled Flos Reimarch in Medain.
They didn’t move with the speed of wind or oars; they rode a wave, moving so fast the other [Storm Captain] was still turning when they crashed into his ship. And his ship was the one whose wood buckled as the Illuminary’s crew boarded them.
“To arms! To the halls of Wistram! Let’s go, my lasses and lads!”
The [Pirate Captain] swung across the decks and locked swords with the [Storm Captain]. She planted her feet, and, swords locked, rushed him to the edge of his ship and pushed him over the railing. The surprised crew saw a Gnoll swing over to their ship—followed by a leaping figure.
A Centaur with two crossbows clattered onto the deck, hooves skidding, and fired both crossbows. Two [Sailors] fell, and one of the Illuminary’s ship-mounted weapons fired.
Doroumata’s daughter saw the ballista bolt coming towards her and raised her hands. The bolt vanished into the [Void Shield], and she backed up.
“The Illuminary is here, Mother! Move the ship!”
She shouted at the [Depth Captain], and he instantly obeyed. The Illuminary’s crew flooded the first ship, and the [Storm Captain]’s crew locked blades with one of the most feared, highest-leveled [Pirate] crews in the world.
Briefly.
Calac Crusland saw Rasea, her anglerfish-half glowing as brightly as her ship, charging down the docks, followed by four dozen of her [Pirates].
“What is she doing here?”
Tov, the Drowned Man, stared out the window, just as awed.
“I heard the Illuminary had been hired, but no one knew why. She’s…that madwoman. She’s storming Wistram.”
Rasea Zecrew was headed straight for Wistram’s gates. Then, Calac understood. Then he saw the plan.
If you were going to breakout, you hired the world’s fastest ship. And someone who had no problem with offending Wistram.
Yes, she’d been hired by Wistram, but so what?
 
——
 
Rasea Zecrew paused as she stood before the gates of Wistram. Her crew halted behind her. She raised a hand, and her first mate growled.
“Cold feet, Captain?”
She turned her head, a manic grin on her face. The same smile she’d had when she attacked Flos and the Minotaurs.
“Cold feet? Me? You could dunk me in Cenidau’s waters, and I’d come out steaming. Look at it, boys. Wistram.”
She spread her arms and took in the citadel. Rasea Zecrew spoke, turning to her crew.
“No [Pirates] have sacked Wistram for over eight thousand years. It was worth taking her money just for this. King of Destruction’s Seven or not…this is our entry into history.”
Her crew cheered. They had her crazy smile. If you knew Rasea—it wasn’t about money alone. It was about this.
“Into the halls of Wistram!”
The [Pirate Captain] laughed and charged through the doors, enchanted sword raised. Her crew stormed in after them.
“What th—”
The first [Mage] who met Rasea got a fist to the face and went over. Rasea saw one of her crew stop to grab the stave, battle-spellbook, and then try to remove the belt, bag of holding, and [Mage]’s robes.
Everything was loot! That gold statue? Loot! Golems? Loot! Wands, robes, spellbooks? The [Pirates] grabbed everything in sight. The confused [Mages] weren’t their targets—their gear was.
Even so, a Centrist tried to stop them and got two crossbow bolts through his legs for the trouble. The second [Mage] that Rasea met was a terrified Lizardman. He raised his wand, and she flicked it out of his hand.
The Lizardman, Cessic, stared up at the glittering tip of Rasea’s sword. He froze—and she grabbed him, yanked his bag of holding off his belt, tossed it to her [First Mate], then kissed him on the mouth.
“Haha! It was worth waiting all this time for her job!”
She laughed then pushed Cessic away. The [Mage] stumbled away as one of her crew threw a rope up.
“[Anchor Line]. We’re up, [Captain]! Where are we bound?”
“Find me a library. Once that Gazer gets here, we’re away. Until then—grab everything!”
