“Be respectful. And remember, there is still fighting in the rest of Wistram. Most of it towards the entrance, though. So! [Silence] spells up and wands out. Anyone sees someone coming this way, let us know. The scrying orb should be off, incidentally.”
The [Mage] looked pointedly at the orb sitting on one of the tables. As well as the drinks some of the [Mages] were quaffing while they waited. Trey looked up as a young woman protested.
“But [High Mage]—I think Reim is about to fall!”
Calac looked up as the [High Mage] turned, and the Libertarians looked from Trey and Calac to the orb. Trey’s heart squeezed, and he saw the [High Mage] hesitate—then nod towards the table.
“…Bring it over, then. And turn up the volume so we can all hear.”
“Let them hear it, High Mage? But—”
Charles began to protest, but High Mage Lallen gave him a cool stare, and the [Lord] hesitated. The man turned and looked at Calac and Trey.
“They risked everything. They might as well see how it ends.”
Slowly, the orb was brought over, and Trey and Calac looked at the scrying orb as the minutes passed. Trey looked into the orb and saw Nawalishifra’s last creation. Calac Crusland?
His parents.
 
——
 
Rain fell. Or so she thought, at first. Rain was a glorious thing. Water was precious.
But like Chandrar’s mirages, it was just a bitter illusion.
Arrows fell instead. A shower so dark it did turn the world into one of shade. She looked up and thought she saw a thousand birds.
Then they struck the ground, the anvil, and her. One volley of arrows, and then another. The [Smith] felt an impact on her shoulder—lifted her hammer.
She had to finish her work. She could die then.
Even if they struck her brain. Even if they riddled her full of holes—she had to finish her sword. Her vow.
Yet Nawalishifra felt only the burning pain of one arrow. She lifted her hammer again, brought it down, and the ripple ran through the blood.
They were watching her. [Soldiers]. Warriors on either side. The blood pooled around her. The foul steel was covered in it, yet it seemed as though, each time Nawalishifra raised her hammer, there was even more of it covering the steel.
She had hammered it flat, even without fire. Breaking the metal. Yet it was taking a shape. A bloody…
Sword. Each hammer stroke was far too long apart. Nawalishifra raised the hammer high and brought it down with all her might. She was used to such meter and measure…but this took all her weight and strength. It felt as if part of her ran out with each blow. And it did.
She bled, and the red formed the core of this blade.
More arrows. They sounded like a distant roar, like a giant made of clouds howling as they came towards her. Again, Nawalishifra waited, resolved to raise that hammer until she was done.
But they never struck her. So she raised the hammer again and brought it down and now the entire city shook, or so it felt. A ringing blow through her hammer into the ground.
Perhaps he heard it. The King of Destruction, sitting in his palace, waiting to see the end of it. Did he raise his head?
Was it time? He would surely sally forth at the end.
He did not come. But as Nawal lifted the last blade and saw the blood ripple as the mockery of smithing rose—a third volley flew down. She saw enchanted arrows now—and then a flicker.
The [Smith] looked sideways with eyes that lacked everything except will. Even so, they widened slightly.
Someone cut the air with a one-edged enchanted sword. It looked like one motion, cutting across the air and back. She put her entire body into it, and the arrows split midair as she slashed through the shafts, cleaving a gap in the hail of arrows for herself and Nawal.
Teresa Atwood pivoted, and the two young women beheld one another. The girl with a sword was smiling broadly, her eyes as alight, even delighted, as Nawal’s were empty.
Three arrows stood out in her armor, and she was bleeding around them. She had shielded Nawal with her blade art. Three times. She staggered slightly as Nawal’s head rose.
A girl who had everything she wanted. Or at least, this. A sword and a Skill. A momentous day.
A new class.
The [Blade of War] turned. No [Swordswoman]. Nor [Blademaster], nor [Soldier]. Not a warrior or adventurer. Turned and performed the sword art again, as Nawalishifra went back to her work. With no meaning other than this.
An edge of death, swinging so sharp she might cut herself. Teresa Atwood saw Nawal lift something up.
“Aah. Aha.”
She muttered. The arrows were poisoned. She fumbled for an antidote, grinning blearily. But she stumbled towards Nawal.
“It’s beautiful, Nawal. It’s the most beautiful thing you’ve ever…”
Nawal said nothing. The [Smith] looked up and beheld the core of her blade.
Pure steel. A purity of steel you got only from reforging the metal again and again. Wearing away the excess, the impurity, wasting it, in truth. She could have made a dozen blades, two dozen, four dozen, from the metal she had burnt into scale and ash.
She had always known it was worth it for what she made. Art.
This? This…was that beautiful bar of pure steel. One that could become Naq-Alrama steel in time with a thousand other preparations.
Crushed. Beaten into broken pieces by a hammer. Pulverized into worthless metal and turned to slag by blood and dirt.
Worthless. Yet in defiance of that, she had hammered it in the very outline of a sword. If it held together, it was only because the blood had acted like a glue.
That was her blade. The former [Peerless Magical Smith] looked up and beheld the end of her class. She had tossed away her love of metal. Would it ever come back now she had betrayed it?
It didn’t matter. This dirty blade…that was not what Teresa was looking at.
It was the blood. Nawalishifra held up the blade to the sky and felt not the bite of metal scraps and blood on her hand.
Her grip was solid but…wet. The air rippled, and a red blade’s edge ran downwards like water. Nawalishifra had made steel that looked like it flowed as if it were water.
This? This was a blade of liquid. Yet sharp—so sharp it sliced the anvil as she lowered it.
The sacrificial metal was surrounded by blood. It formed a sword around its wretched core. A sword too long to be practical, dark red. Opaque and horrible.
A sword of blood.
That was all. Yet Nawal laid the blade on the anvil, and it did not collapse. She stepped away, raised her right hand, and looked at her wrist.
A thin line of red stretched away from the sword as the [Smith] staggered back. A…trail of her blood.
She and it were connected. But the sword was more than her blood. It was the ichor of the fallen. The price of so many bodies and lives taken.
The pooled crimson on the ground stirred. A perfect moat of it around the anvil. Slowly…rising upwards. Globules of red floating upwards and joining the blade.
It did not grow with the mass of the blood but seemed to condense it. Heavy. It was already filled with the lifeblood of many bodies. It was so heavy—but as light as the mere metal inside of it.
Heavy on the soul, light on the hand.
The [Smith] stared at it. She had never been more ashamed of a work in her life. She was not relieved—but there it was.
“A blade such as you have never seen, King of Destruction. With this, I fulfill my promise.”
The [Smith]’s face was pale under her veil. She raised it, but it was so covered with blood that she let it hang. She looked around.
“Now only a hand to wield it.”
The arrows fell no more. The archers had tried three times to kill the [Smith] in vain. Yet they had slaughtered the people at the gap. A roar of massed voices filled the air, and Nawal looked up.
Nerrhavia’s horde came for the gap, and there was no one to stand there. The end of Reim came. Civilians with weapons held in trembling hands looked towards a line of shining armor marching at the gap.
What a merciless sight, for this cursed continent of dust and blood. What a pathetic blade to leave for my legacy.
She regretted it. Nawalishifra weakly raised her hand to break the blade, but the red string pulsed, and she slowly sat down. She had given it all for this blade. She should never have made it, even to redeem her honor and clan.
She regretted it all. She tried to pull herself up but just lay there, connected to the blade. The weapon lay on the anvil, and someone went to pick it up.
“What a beautiful sword. For a fitting moment.”
Teresa stumbled forwards, eyes locked on the sword and the [Soldiers] beyond. She went to pick up Nawal’s regrets. Nawal looked at Teresa’s wide smile.
Then the young woman’s face turned confused, and she fell down. She reached for the arrows sticking out of her armor.
“Ow. Ow, I…”
She reached up for the blade longingly. She tried to climb up, but someone gripped her leg and held her back.
“Not you. Not you.”
Nawal held Teres. The young woman’s face twisted into confusion. She looked at the weapon, turning her head to Nawal and speaking almost plaintively.
“It suits me.”
“I know. That is why.”
Teresa looked so puzzled, as if she didn’t see it. How well one went with the other. Too well. They would never let each other go.
For Trey, Nawal clung to Teresa. The young woman tried to haul herself up the anvil, touch…but she couldn’t.
Slowly, her eyes rolled up in her head, and Nawal looked at her blade.
It had to be held. Held, and used. Or it had been made for nothing. She regretted stopping Teresa and did not.
“Tyrants die.”
A voice rang through the air. A massed chorus turned into one tone. They were chanting as they came. Nerrhavia’s glorious hordes. The last men and women staggered upright, saw what was coming, and wavered.
Into that gap, alone, a man walked. He strode down the street, as fast as he had flown to this spot—suddenly slowed. A figure who walked with all the time left in the world.
He paused by the anvil, and Nawal locked eyes with him. Lord Venith Crusland looked down at what she had made, and she saw the knowledge of how dirty and wrong this blade was in his eyes.
So she smiled as he picked it up. The [Lord]’s arm rose with the weight of the damned’s blood. The toll of a battlefield. He tossed his shield aside to carry his burden with two hands.
“Reim is not lost. Hold your positions. This dream is more than you or I. Now I have picked up my blade, I will pursue it until the end. I will hold this position alone.”
He turned to the others, and no one spoke. The [Lord] walked into the gap, and the charging [Soldiers] hesitated.
They saw a Human man who had ridden by destruction’s side. Just a man, armor battered, weary as could be.
Holding a sword made from blood.
He did not warn them. Venith Crusland uttered no vows. He stood in the gap and waited for them to come to him. The [Lord of Battle] said nothing.
They knew what he was. The [Soldiers] hesitated. Their officers shouted at them and called upon Skills and threats. Some of them went down, pulled down by their very troops who turned and ran.
Others did not. For gold or glory. For bravado or to take that blade—to see the end of this war—for every reason that was theirs alone, they charged into that gap.
The blade of ichor had no edge to break, so it cut through armor and flesh without end. It had no weight on Venith’s arm, but it fell with the weight of all the dead’s blood, crushing guards. It was long, growing, as long as a lance. Light as a feather.
Nawal could see it rising and falling. Feel as every drop added itself to the blade. She would know where it was anywhere in the world.
That little line of red hung in the air. Her fate and the sword’s intertwined. Pulsing with each beat of her heart.
The beating of blood was growing dim. Nawal lay there, bitterly watching as Venith held that ground.
An army came at him. Arrows struck his armor, and spells passed his guard. But his blood…the [Lord] looked down at the sword and paid the toll in someone else’s blood.
Silk followed where Hemp fled. Warriors with beautiful blades and faces traced dances of art in the air and died without a sound. The defenders of Reim looked down where a single point held back Nerrhavia’s great army.
In his palace, the King of Destruction stirred.
One sword. One magnificently broken blade. Nawal tried to smile, she truly did. But she couldn’t.
She wasn’t proud of it. It had been made with nothing but loss. It was nothing but suffering, a mass of it weighted together. Death, a void of it trying to drag everything else in.
But it is done. 
They were breaking. Silk, despoiled by crimson. Only pride kept them coming, and that was snapping. Nawal’s eyes fluttered, and the line of red slackened.
 
——
 
Lord Venith Crusland had known blades like this before. Blades worthy of legends. Terrible, cursed instruments forged with hate and glorious metal.
He had seen them break and used and kept until the final hour by people who prized them more than their own lives.
Never had he held one until now. His arm was burning from the fighting, he felt each blow he took, but he did not bleed. But it was so heavy.
Heavy with the weight of the [Smith]’s regrets. Heavy…sucking him into it.
Yet they were dying. He saw the fear in their eyes as they backed away. The [Lord] felt invincible. He wanted to charge into the enemy army and scatter them.
It took all of his might to look away. To look back.
A woman stood on a platform, bow raised, staring at him. His wife. Maresar watched Venith, and he gazed at her. Yes…his heart remembered to keep beating. He regained something.
He looked back. Tracing a thin line of red, almost invisible, in the air. To its source.
That young woman, lying on the ground. She was still alive. The blood kept flowing from her to this blade. She was looking at him, a bitter expression on her face.
The final work of Clan Tannousin’s last [Smith]. A weapon to turn a battlefield around. To win a war. He knew that.
We will have to feed it with every battle until it grows so hungry it will devour us all. But for a time—it will reap that harvest faithfully. 
A sword made of a dying girl’s regrets for a sin that was not hers. The [Lord] raised it higher, looking at it.
So beautiful? A ruby-red blade reaching towards the sky, hungrily trying to cut the firmament itself and lick at the ichor of stars. Venith Crusland beheld what it had been made from. Tarnished steel. Broken pride.
He nodded. The [Lord] planted the blade in the ground in front of him. Nerrhavia’s [Soldiers] stopped their flight, and Nawalishifra’s head rose.
Venith Crusland unsheathed his own sword. The blood-blade seemed to quiver in the fading sunlight, a red sky to match its nature. The [Lord] looked up at an army vast beyond counting, his enemies.
Then at the [Smith].
