The siege was almost over. There was a gap in Reim’s walls. A gate had gone down, and [Soldiers] were flooding the breach.
Of course, they were dying. A [Fireball] spell cast by a Level 30+ [Battle Mage] sent bodies flying. Screaming. Fire that Stitch-folk feared.
In such narrow confines, the attackers had to run into lines of spears and area-of-attack spells, not to mention hails of arrows. Only Skills, the press of bodies, and fear of their officers’ wrath kept them moving, and the promise that this would mean glory, gold, and an end to fighting. Their morale held—mainly because the waves of [Soldiers] going in kept marching into the breach without seeing what had happened to the last group.
Like a series of hovering moths, the individual divisions kept moving towards walls, climbing ladders, entering breaches. The trick was to move them around the walls, so they had no idea the breach they were sent to was a killing ground, unlike the groups who’d been staring at the carnage.
From the position of Nerrhavia’s command, it was an acceptable loss. All they had to do was overwhelm the defenders. By holding the breaches, they had to take from existing fortifications, and they were outnumbered. These two gaps were the first weak links. Open another, and everything would be on a needle’s edge. Four breaks in the wall? Six?
Then it would be over. 
Now was the time for plans to be executed. So the command tent was abuzz with officers demanding to lead the first charge in. One excited [Artillery Master] was pointing at the north wall where the gate was breached.
“I have, [Supreme Marshal], a Scaied-designed hwacha. Imported and redesigned after purchase from the Drathian isles—a true masterpiece from the first wars of conquest under the foul King of Destruction himself. It would be supreme irony to use it. Allow me the offensive. I will launch four hundred enchanted arrows and destroy all who stand before us—perhaps even clear the way to the palace itself!”
“And I shall execute a Heron’s Strike on the breach, here. I have two hundred jump-capable warriors who will strike past the walls and break their lines. I petition for a Burning Spearstorm maneuver via friendly-fire Skills.”
Another [Major] was begging to lead a charge with his brigade. They surrounded the [Supreme Marshal], who, sensing the end was nigh, had abandoned all luxuries and was standing at the command table.
Mind you, his servants still entertained the guests, but the officers had forgone alcohol and other drugs today and yesterday, knowing they would need full use of their faculties.
Now was the time for plans. To be clear—the plan up till now had been to send the Hemp in. To do just this—mainly because the officers were keen on surviving their assaults. Far better to be known for striking the decisive blow rather than the opening offensive that would fail.
And it would fail, with those terrifying veterans and Reim at full strength. The lightning towers the Architect had set up had inflicted a terrible toll. So had the defenders. At last, though…
“Peace. Each one of you will be granted the autonomy you seek, and my plan of battle stands. What news?”
The [Supreme Marshal] turned as one of his [Strategists] begged an audience.
“Great Supreme Marshal—the primary breach under siege. Something is developing there.”
Instantly, the scrying spells, maps, and entire war room refocused around the breach. The officers winced to see the [Soldiers] engaged in a bloodbath with Reim’s defenders, but it was plain to see they were wearying. Civilians had begun to take up arms, but only a few.
“I see nothing wrong. What is the matter?”
“There is a…young woman. Behind the lines. There.”
The officers peered at the scrying orb, frowning. The [Supreme Marshal] stared at the image of Nawalishifra as she stood there.
Hammering on an anvil, bloody, dirty, a vacant yet intensely focused look in her eyes. Like a dreamer trying to hold onto what she saw as she woke.
“That is indeed unusual. What…is that a hammer and anvil? [Appraisal] spells?”
The [Strategist] bowed.
“Too far. But we have identified that as a [Smith] of Clan Tannousin. Their last smith. She appears to be…forging something.”
The officers began to mutter to each other.
“Forging something in the open? I heard Tannousin was mad—weren’t they disgraced?”
“I thought they were.”
The [Supreme Marshal], on the other hand, took one look at Nawalishifra, then the bloody ground, and turned to the [Strategist].
“What is she doing?”
The woman licked her lips.
“We don’t…know, [Supreme Marshal]. Few of our officers near the front are reporting back, but some claim the blood is—moving. We can hear her hammering. She looks ill.”
She did indeed. The [Supreme Marshal] wished the scrying orbs could zoom further. He was tempted to step outside his tent for a clearer view with another artifact, but Maresar the [Bandit Lord] had sniped three officers already. She had Naq-Alrama arrows, shards of the stuff.
Magic-piercing missiles. Even the poor, broken fragments were good for one death. So the Stitch-man stayed put. He looked at the [Smith] hammering, and his cloth-skin chilled as he watched the blood.
“It’s…pooling around her. She’s covered in it.”
It seemed impossible for someone to be that bloody unless she had rolled about in the gore. Now, the [Smith] stood in a circle of red. The [Supreme Marshal] looked up.
“A high-level [Smith] who uses magic—a disgraced [Smith] is standing in the middle of a blood-pool and creating something.”
“Yes, [Supreme Marshal].”
The general of Nerrhavia’s Grand Army looked at the other officers.
“Kill her.”
“She is by way of being a civilian in theory, Supreme Marshal.”
The man tapped his beringed fingers nervously on the map.
“That may be so—do it. She is making something, and every story in every dark hour tells me we must not let her finish it. Tell every archer unit on that side of the walls to kill that [Smith].”
He began sweating slightly. Because he had brought an army with the express intention of rolling over Flos’ army, stand or not. What the [Supreme Marshal] feared most was an attack from Takhatres or another of the Seven.
Or some last-ditch Skill, some grand sacrifice. He did not like this one bit. Still, it was one [Smith]. He turned to the [Artillery Master].
“Send your hwacha forwards.”
“But it’s a relic—”
“You were so eager a moment ago! Do it! I want the walls down and the city taken tonight. Send word to all legions—once we have multiple breaches, the army will end this now!”
Take the city. Flood them before the King of Destruction could pull out some trick or Skill. The [Supreme Marshal] saw his people hurry away and waved at a [Slave] to bring him a drink. He grabbed it roughly.
[Slaves] for serving staff. If Elucina could have seen him…
But Stitch-folk forgot and fell so far. And as their siege drew to its conclusion, another plan was falling into place in Wistram.
 
——
 
There were a few rules about planning covert operations, be it great heists, assassinations, betrayals, or anything else.
The first was assuming your plans would somehow twist or fail in some way. Another was secrecy; the more plotters, the more danger. Failure was baked into a true plot’s design. Not the expectation or desire for it, but preparation for failure itself.
The last, which many understood but few could do—was the mentality of it. Ruthlessness. Even cruelty. For a plan like this to succeed—you had to be ready to hide among people you might even come to like. To smile and kiss someone with a dagger. To do whatever it took.
Trey Atwood’s plan had failed, in part. He was captive of Archmage Viltach. Gazi the Omniscient had been found by Ullsinoi. Calac Crusland and his friends had been betrayed by Emirea and captured by Nailihuaile.
Yet parts of his plan were working. Even now, Golems and [Mages] were fighting each other. Or rather, the panic caused by one Lifesand Golem had turned into a kind of magical riot against the Golems. An excuse to demolish them or simple panic from seeing a serving Golem stab a [Mage]?
That was one thing. But then the Golems started fighting back. They hunkered down behind powerful, armored Golems, serving Golems picking up mops, tools, even chairs or tables, and advancing on terrified [Mages]. Subduing them…usually without much harm.
It added to the chaos, but it had been ordered by the true mistress of Wistram, Cognita Truestone, even if she lay a continent apart.
Had Trey known about that? Had he planned not only to incite the [Mages]’ fear but also counted on Cognita and the Golems refusing to suffer in silence?
If so, clever boy. It didn’t end there, either. That night, as Viltach announced Trey’s attempt to free Amerys, and the Golems and [Mages] fought, a second group began to move.
“Go, go, go! Get to the docks! There’s a ship there!”
George stood at one of the doors to the Earther-only passages, ushering a stream of people out like he was a paratrooper and they were deploying. Elena glared at him.
“George, shut up and stay quiet! Everyone, just get to—”
“There you are. Halt, in the name of Archmage Feor!”
The first Earthers exiting Aaron’s secret rooms froze as a trio of [Mages] suddenly dropped their invisibility spells, aiming wands at them. Two Golems, both made of steel, tromped around a corner, and the [Mages]—who hadn’t gotten the memo about there being Golem attacks—aimed their wands at the Earthers.
“Oh no!”
Sidney screamed, and Sang-min lifted a wand just in time for one of the [Mages] to blast him off his feet with a gust of air. He landed hard on his back and shot Elena in the back. The Earthers devolved into chaos, half fighting to get back into the room, the other half raising their hands or making a break for it.
“Don’t move! Or we’ll—damn it. [Sticky Web: Wall of Binding]!”
A [Mage] cursed and cast a variation on the spell. A wall of thin web, far more nuanced than the basic spell, appeared to catch the students and let the Golems grab them. It was halfway up, and Basil was fighting to stop everyone else ramming him into them, when the web-spell shimmered and abruptly faded away.
The thick strands of greenish silk turned to gossamer light and dematerialized into motes. The [Mage] checked his wand.
“Huh?”
“Someone just—”
Falene Skystrall poked her head out of the Earther rooms, aimed her staff at the [Mages], and snapped.
“[Stone Fist], [Light Cane: Extended Materialization], [Flare Firefly], [Water Jet]!”
The three [Mages] saw four spells flying their way. A fist of stone, which punched the [Mage] who cast [Sticky Webs] out of the air, a brilliant flare of fire, and a jet of concentrated water.
The half-Elf went down. A Garuda flapped backwards, cursing, but cutting both firefly and jet in half. The Lizardwoman looked around.
“Where’s the [Light C—”
A simple cane like a shepherd might use appeared from behind her, hooked one leg, and yanked up. She hit the ground with a scream, and the last [Mage] swore.
“Falene! You traitor—”
The Garuda dove with a shout as a bolt of lightning, jet of fire, and spray of sand followed the first spells. These [Mages] weren’t Ullsinoi or the [Battle Mages] guarding Amerys. Falene stepped out of the rooms and glared over her shoulder.
“We’re already made. We’ll have every Centrist in Wistram coming down on us—my faction! I told you this would be a disaster!”
“Pointy, shut up!”
For a moment, it wasn’t clear who she was shouting at. The Golems, who had watched the [Mages] go down embarrassingly fast, were still moving to block the students without harming them. One, a steel mask on its face, like some gentle giant nine feet tall made of steel, hesitated as it reached for Basil. The [Smelter] was shielding Sidney, who was screaming. The delicate fingers paused—and then the Golem swung as hard as it could to the left.
Towards an invisible patch of space which cursed, raised his shield, and blocked the Golem’s punch.
Ylawes Byres appeared, shedding the invisibility spell, and Dawil gave up their sneak attack as well. He threw the axe which had given him his class, and it cleaved through half of the second Golem’s face. The Golem lurched back as its face fell, but it started swinging its arms blindly.
“Stay back!”
Ylawes’ sword went up, and he slashed along the steel Golem’s arm. He was rewarded with a gash, but the Golem was big. He and Dawil started trading blows with the Golems.
This was not how their escape was supposed to go! Falene was moaning as she traded spells with the Garuda, who kept retreating—right up until reinforcements came running towards them.
Eight [Mages] opened up the instant they saw Falene, and the half-Elf shouted.
“[Forcewall]!”
A barrier appeared, and she felt her mana reserves evaporate as it blocked a dozen spells. The half-Elf backed up.
“Ylawes—”
Anywhere else she would be the undisputed best [Mage] around. A Wistram graduate, a [Battlemage] accomplished even by her peers’ standards. Not every [Mage] could walk into Gold-rank class, even if they graduated Wistram.
Here, though? They were all Wistram graduates or students! And the Golems weren’t even Gargoyles—they were magical creations, and one was punching so hard that Ylawes could barely block each blow with his shield. Not because it was bigger, heavier, or stronger than a Troll—but a Troll didn’t throw a haymaker with a [Martial Artist]’s posture and snap-twist at the waist, a full-body rotation!
Some [Mage] had programmed the Golems to fight. Wistram was hard-mode. It was stupid-mode to try and break anyone, especially Earthers, out of this place!
Why had they done it? Falene cursed.
 
——
 
Calac Crusland, or ‘Carn’, met Ylawes Byres in the one place the scowling [Knight] could be found, even angry as he was.
And that was the practice area for people who used swords or weapons, at dawn. The [Knight] was moody, training by himself, but Calac had a way with fellow warriors he lacked with words.
“You’re Chandrarian.”
The [Knight] observed after the two had a quick bout. Not a duel, just an exchange of sword blows. Calac nodded.
“No shield?”
Ylawes rubbed at his arm. Calac had an odd style that tended to try and go under his shield or around his guard—a quick flick that would twist up and take your sword hand off in battle.
“My father uses a shield. I could show you how he fights?”
“Hm. Fine. Thank you.”
Calac lost the next three bouts; it was a Gold-rank [Knight] versus a [Swordsman]-[Lord] who hadn’t even consolidated both classes. Even so, Ylawes was impressed.
“Your father must be a gifted [Warrior]. That shield-hook where you tried to move mine aside to stab me—that’s a risky tactic.”
