"I see you understand," Sternkessel's voice echoed out of nowhere, calm but severe. Cale glared up at him briefly.

"You could have just told me," he muttered. "But yes, I do. And we're fixing this."

"Cale," Leo said carefully. "What's going on?"

Cale let out an aggravated sigh. He was silent for a moment, storming along the hallway like he didn't intend to explain a single thing, but eventually, he spoke. His voice was carefully controlled, like he was trying to stop himself from erupting all over again.

"You already know this, but you can't just reach across the Great Realms without basic protective magic," Cale said. "It's a stupid thing to do. Even if all you're doing is domain magic, if you're designing an anchor that draws from another realm, you're basically casting a fishing line out into the Abyss. Yes, you'll find your target, but you're going to catch a whole lot of inter-realm detritus along the way. That's going to mess with the effects of your magic, which is bad enough on its own, but it also means you're going to bring everything you caught along the way back with you."

He gestured furiously. "Think about it," he said. "The Inverted Spires don't match Loomweaver architecture. You two don't even recognize the architectural style, do you? That's because they caught a lost fragment of a different realm entirely and dragged it back with them. Their magic wasn't designed to do that, so it collapsed as soon as this chunk of land could materialize and brought them all with it.

"And if that weren't bad enough, they caught something with it," Cale said grimly. He pointed up at the tapestries above them, which now depicted almost exactly what he was saying. There was a depiction of the Inverted Spires on one of them, except this time it wasn't inverted at all, being dragged through the space between the Great Realms.

And caught at the bottom, nearly invisible, was something dangerous and formless. They depicted it as nothing more than a swirl of green thread, pulsing beneath the Spires.

"So they break off a piece of a realm—or capture a piece of a lost one—and it acts like a planar net, catching and dragging along one of the many Abyssal Ones along with it," Cale continued grimly, to a sharp gasp from Damien and a wide-eyed stare from Leo. "Except adult Abyssals wouldn't get caught by something this ridiculous. Adult Abyssals don't flinch when a mortal being looks at them, even if their control over reality still gets slightly disrupted. So what do you think happened?"

"They caught—" Damien swallowed, his tone almost unbelieving. "They caught a baby Abyssal?"

"They caught a baby Abyssal," Cale snarled. The center of the spiral was in sight now—it was a large, circular room, with an empty hole set into the center of it. Like a well, except the depths of it were pitch-black, and corroded mana flowed out of it like water. "And you know, if that was all, it would have been fine. A sufficiently motivated mage would be able to find a way to send it back to the Abyss. But the Loomweavers? Oh, they got scared. Like mages always do when they meet something from outside the Great Realms."

There was a spark of genuine disgust in Cale's voice. Both Damien and Leo winced at it, looking slightly uncomfortable, but Cale wasn't done.

"So they bind it with domain magic," he said, gesturing to one of the final tapestries hung around the final room. It depicted the Loomweaver elders as heroes, capturing and corralling something unknowable with their domain magic. The green thread had grown into something larger and snakelike, with eyes beginning to emerge from its body, but golden circles kept it contained. "They make it their guardian. They use it to keep themselves safe and create a beautiful paradise here for themselves, away from the rest of the world, with stupid little rules like 'don't step on the grass' and 'don't break the windows.'"

"Oh," Damien said softly.

Cale exhaled, staring at the hole in the ground. "What they did was the equivalent of a magical lobotomy, do you understand?" he said, his voice quieter but no less intense. "I might not have encountered this specific case of it, but I've seen magical bindings like these. It enforces thought patterns. It tells you what you can think and when you can think it. And the Abyssal they bound is allowed to think only one thing: it must enforce the rules.

"So it sits there, at the bottom of the paradise they've carved out for themselves, and all it can think is that it needs to enforce the rules. The rules are good. It needs to punish anyone that breaks them. Over and over and over, and—"

Cale's voice broke slightly. He turned back to look at Damien and Leo. "Do you know what an Abyssal One is?" he asked.

"I—" Damien started, then shook his head, looking uncertain.

"They're creatures that live in the Abyss," Leo said. "It's not a species, just a name for anything that gets left in the Abyss when its parent realm gets lost or destroyed."

"Right," Cale said. There was still an edge in his voice. "So most of the Abyssal Ones are the last of their kind. They aren't evil, but they can't live in any of the Great Realms anymore. Their very presence corrupts things and breaks the laws of physics and the rules of magic. They are exceedingly powerful, but also incredibly broken, and..."

He trailed off for a moment, his eyes distant. They seemed almost wet. He blinked a few times, then shook his head.

"It doesn't know what's happening to it," Cale said. "They got it so early it couldn't even grow its own mind. It has to enforce the rules and it has to punish, but it doesn't know what that looks like. It barely understands the idea of a punishment, let alone something as complicated as domain magic. But that's all it knows, because it's all the Loomweavers use, so it tries. It copies. It guesses. It thinks it's supposed to use domain magic, so it mimicks that, and it doesn't quite get it right. It doesn't know the difference between a beast and a domain, for example, and the two things get a little bit mixed up. But it keeps trying and doing its best, because according to its binding, that's what rule-enforcers like it are supposed to do."

Cale sighed, the anger suddenly draining out of him. For a moment, he just looked tired and pained. Sad.

Damien hesitated, then walked over and pulled him into a hug, draping his cloak around them both. There was a half-second in which he almost pulled away before he simply sagged and let it happen.

After a moment, Leo joined them. "You care a lot about this," the minotaur observed quietly, but there was no judgement in his voice.

"I suppose I do," Cale muttered. He forced himself to pull away, taking a few steps closer to the hole. "You don't have to follow me, but I need to fix this. I need to free this thing and send it back."

"Can you do that?" Leo asked. Cale nodded.

"I think so. But it'd be easier with some help." He took a deep breath. "Sternkessel, can you get Flia, please? She's another Astral Wing student."

"You are sure you wish to do this?" Sternkessel asked.

"Don't ask that question like you didn't bring me here specifically so I could do this," Cale grumbled. "Yes, I know. It doesn't know what's happening. It's going to try to fight back. But we can make this work, I'm sure of it."

"I cannot guarantee your protection," Sternkessel warned. "I will have my hands full with the students."

"That's fine," Cale said. "I don't need it. But get the kobold here. I think we're going to need them, too. And Damien?"

Damien looked at him, clearly worried. "What is it?"

"You want to heal with your magic." Cale's tone softened slightly. "I think you're discounting all the ways your aspect can still help people. Whatever this thing is, it's bound by an incredibly powerful domain, but we've seen that the domain is impermeable to decay mana. So..."

Tired as he was, Cale managed a small grin. "Make sure you pay attention, because I think it's about time I show you what decay mana can really do. I've been itching to try out [Decay Bite], anyway."
