A sharp aura burst from the swordsman as he unleashed a tremendous slash into the swarm. It amounted to nothing. The few thousand thorns that were torn apart were but a drop in the bucket, and their sacrifice provided much-needed fertilizer for the next generation to sprout. Even when adding the other attacks, it barely slowed down the tides.

A few of the Sealbearers finally had enough of their ill-fated adventure. Two tried to break ranks and flee toward the realmgate. While currently deactivated, they were betting their lives on there being a way to activate the pathway from inside the building. The plan didn't hold much hope as far as Tavza was concerned. She'd siphoned off all the energy she could get her hands on to activate the Rapture Curtain. The battle would already be over before the realmgate had gathered enough Miasma to operate.

Two mysterious gates appeared out of nowhere to block their path. Swarms of vines poured through to pull them inside, like ghastly hands dragging their victims to the afterlife. The gates closed, and the victims were gone forever. No, not completely gone. Tavza could vaguely sense flickers of death in the depths of the tangle. Had the two been deposited in the middle of the swarm?

The detached, almost academic dissection of events became all too real when a gate silently opened just before her. From it emerged a single vine distinct from the writhing mass in the sky. Tavza restrained the impulse to lash out at the unknown entity, instead allowing herself to be pulled through. A brief bout of desolate darkness, then she was standing outside the barrier.

There was no doubt about it; she had just traveled through the Void. Tavza's mind spun at the ramifications, but there would be time to examine what she'd been through later. Another gate appeared a few hundred meters away, from which a bloodied Zac emerged. His signature axe was nowhere to be seen, yet she'd never felt such threat oozing from her companion.

Instead, Zac grasped his own severed hand. Just as he emerged, he pushed his hand against his severed stump, and tendrils of flesh swiftly reattached the limbs. Meanwhile, the many scars covering his body were closing up at a visible speed. Tavza could imagine the despair of their opponents upon seeing such a sight. This man was unkillable, unstoppable.

And now they were pincered between two superior forces and a still-expanding tangle of bloodthirsty vines.

A sudden twist broke the standoff. Usoro Kavriel, the traitor, blurred into action, cramming something into the withered Eidolon to his left. Its incorporeal form almost collapsed in a puff of light. The ghost reformed a moment later, but it was leaking ectoplasm. It was dying, its soul dissipating into its surroundings.

"Lords! Don't strike!" Usoro screamed as he broke ranks in a desperate attempt at survival. "I've been working undercover, I have infor—"

His words were cut short as a blade dripping with killing intent almost cut him in two. Usoro narrowly survived, but he'd been stranded in the no-man's-land between factions. Tavza glanced at Zac, who'd used his right hand to form the fractal blade. It was impossible to miss the unnatural state of his aura, yet Tavza did nothing to contradict his actions. The fate of Usoro Kavriel was sealed the moment he appeared next to the enemy.

Before she could finish the job with a streak of death, Usoro's entreaties turned into a high-pitched shriek. His body twisted and expanded far beyond its natural form. It clearly wasn't the work of Zac's skill. Sensing something amiss, both she and Zac released a barrage of attacks to reduce Usoro Kavriel to nothingness.

No, not quite nothing.

At the Draugr's center was a small candle burning with an eerie green sheen. It floated untouched by the aftershocks of the attacks and the darkness of the Abyss, proving its extraordinary nature. Despite that, neither candle nor flame triggered any unease or danger in Tavza. She looked over at Zac, seeing his befuddled expression as he inspected the candle.

A light sizzle from within Zac's pocket provided the answer in the most horrifying way.

"NO—!"
