Travelling by rickshaw was an exhilarating new experience for Song. Though she’d seen them many times in her travels, she’d never been allowed to ride one, usually forced to choke on dust and dirt while following behind on foot. Never in all her dreams did she imagine such a simple method of travel could be so breathtaking and intoxicating. Sitting high above the ground, she watched the autumnal hues blend together as the quin-drawn carriage zipped along the road. The cushioned seat and spring-fastened carriage absorbed every bump and jolt while the wind coursed through her hair, lending a sublime atmosphere to the journey as if she were a deity from on high travelling through this mortal realm.

How many simple pleasures were hiding in plain sight, formerly denied her due to her status?

The chubby bear cubs shared Song’s enthusiasm, heads hanging over the sides of the carriage with tongues and scarves flapping in the wind, parsing through and enjoying the myriad of scents. Likewise, Lady Mei Lin leaned so far over the side Song worried she’d tumble to her death below, hanging onto the hare-girl’s scarf and belt with an iron grip. Neat braids and furred-ears trailing behind her, the elegantly dressed young lady lifted her hands in the air and shrieked with laughter, hollering with such joy for life it filled Song with both cheer and worry. So pure and innocent, there was something about Lady Mei Lin which made Song want to steal her away and safeguard her from this world’s sin and corruption.

Breathless from laughter, Lady Mei Lin fell back into her seat and squeezed Song in an embrace. “Thank you Li-Li,” she said after regaining her breath. “That was so much fun! Daddy never lets me do that, he’s always worried I’ll fall and crack my head.”

Blinking in bewilderment, Song nodded and wondered if she should keep Lady Mei Lin inside the carriage from now on, struggling to choose between her new Master’s bliss and well-being. Unaware of her inner conflict, Lady Mei Lin grinned and fixed her hair and clothes, shifting and twisting in her seat to a silent rhythm, too happy to sit still. “And thanks for coming along. Even though Tanna is there waiting for me, Daddy doesn’t want me travelling alone. This is gonna be so much fun, after we finish the errand we can go shopping!”

Though still unsure what this mission entailed, Song replied, “This one is at your command, Master.”

The rote reply earned her a pout. “Not this one, but Li-Li, and not Master, but Lin-Lin.”

“Yes Lin-Lin, Li-Li obeys.”

The pout deepened and was joined by a crinkled nose and puffed cheeks, Lady Mei Lin expressing displeasure at Song’s conduct. Far from worrying her, the sight warmed Song’s heart, charmed by this most adorable of masters. “Hmm... so tricky,” Lady Mei Lin muttered, rubbing her head on Song’s arm. “It’s so difficult not to give orders... Okay, ignore the last order. You can call me whatever you want Li-Li, but I’d be really, really, really happy if you called me Lin-Lin. All the time, even after I give Mi-Mi back your necklace, ya?”

Unable to refuse her pleading eyes, Song nodded and answered, “Yes, Lin-Lin.” It was a small thing which brought Lady Mei Lin great joy, though Song couldn’t understand why she insisted on using childish pet names.

Though without an order, Song couldn't bear to refer to herself as 'Li-Li'.

“Thank you Li-Li.” After another hug, Lady Mei Lin pulled out Song’s chain and sighed, studying the necklace and its shimmering purple gemstone in the light. “So pretty but so terrible too. How can someone bear to force such an ugly Oath?” Tucking the chain away, she smiled and reached up to pat Song’s head. “Don’t worry Li-Li, you’re with us now, ya? You’re Mi-Mi’s real sister and since Mi-Mi and me are like sisters, it means you’re my sister too. We won’t let anything bad happen to you ever again.”

Naive, but well-intentioned, so Song merely nodded instead of pointing out her fallacy. So long as the chain existed, it could be taken away. The Bekhai had already done so much, Song couldn’t possibly ask them to permanently burden themselves with her existence. No, she would have to earn it, like she earned her place in Mama Akanai’s family.

Which was now Li Song’s family. The thought was enough to fill her with warmth.

It still felt so surreal to have a mother and a master who was also a sister. Mama Akanai treated Song so well it made her feel guilty and undeserving, working extra hard so not to disappoint her new family. At today’s lunch, Song had been so uncomfortable watching Master set the table, only Mama Akanai’s warm but firm hug keeping her in her seat. Master seemed in such a foul mood of late, waking later than normal and grumbling more often than not, and Song was at a loss to help her.

It was all that damnable Zian’s fault, brazenly using Master to hone his martial skills before humiliating her time and time again, shamelessly declaring victory in their spars despite his obvious inferiority. The difference in martial skill would be soon forgotten and the world would only remember Situ Jia Zian’s eight consecutive victories over Sumila of the Bekhai. There was nothing Master could do in reply short of throwing aside all face and asking someone with an Aura to shield her during their spars. Were it not for Master’s explicit orders to stay out of it, Song would have damned the consequences and set fire to the arrogant princeling’s quarters in his sleep.

At worst, Mama Akanai could turn over Song’s chain to face justice, where she would freely admit the crimes were done of her own volition. Death was a small price to pay for this last blissful week filled with familial love and affection. Even Papa Husolt, frightening as he appeared, was a kind and gentle soul, though she still felt uncomfortable in his presence.

Her mind knew he wasn’t at fault, but she still couldn’t help it. Men with power over her made her nervous, such was life.

Their journey soon came to an end as the quins slowed to a stop. At the side of the road, a multitude of tents and pavilions stood where a bustling impromptu marketplace sprang up every night. Though the rickshaw was eye-catching and expensive, none but bravest of thieves would even think of stealing it away. Well-groomed and well-dressed in their blue silk shirts, the two wagon-quins made for an endearing sight until they bared their teeth and flashed their claws at anyone who strayed too close. Compounding the threat was Song’s naked quin Erdene, wiggling in the grass to cool down after the long run, carrying five-hundred kilos of wildcat in her cart all by herself.

Perhaps later Song could purchase a shirt for Erdene and something for the wildcats and bears. Rain was too miserly, providing nothing but scarves for his pets despite all his newfound wealth. Jimjam would look darling in a tiny vest and hat, and even though he hated wearing them, he’d come around to it in time.

Giving the temperamental wildcat a vigorous scratching to distract him from his scarf, Song followed Lady Mei Lin deeper into the forest and the busy marketplace, the crowd giving way for Jimjam and Sarankho. All manner of items were on display to be sold, from expensive bolts of silk to bales of hay worth a fraction of a copper, while men and women haggled and bargained to make the most of their coin. In light of the outbreak at Sanshu, measures were taken to guard against Defiled infiltration, meaning any unrelated persons were barred from approaching within five kilometres of the Wall. Thus, a group of enterprising individuals organized this roadside bazaar here at the edge of the boundary, catering to the needs of every common labourer or highborn aristocrat still stationed at the Wall.

Keeping an eye on the unsavoury elements hidden in every shadow, Song fondled her saber’s hilt, daring the thieves and pickpockets to test her. Eager to try out Mama Akanai’s personal suggestions and corrections, Song was willing to lower herself to fighting crooks if need be, but Jimjam and Sarankho were reason enough to scare the scavengers away. A shame, but it made Song’s task easier. While bold and adventurous, Lady Mei Lin displayed no evidence of martial training.

Not to say Lady Mei Lin was a helpless damsel, no far from it. Though her talents lay in hunting and healing as opposed to fighting, her skills in archery, herbalism, and Lightening could easily be turned towards darker uses, like tracking down escaped prisoners or firing poisoned arrows from on high before escaping across the treetops. Each person tread their own way upon the Martial Path, so who was Song to say Lady Mei Lin’s approach was incorrect?

The thought of the delightful Mei Lin working as an assassin or bounty hunter put a smile on Song’s lips, an absurd and nonsensical fancy. She was the daughter and student of Medical Saint Taduk, what cause would she have to risk her life so foolishly? Even so, Song admired Lady Mei Lin's tenacity and courage, the pampered girl’s sweet smile never slipping even under threat of death, whether it be at the hands of Society or Defiled. Difficult to do for one untrained in combat, she’d won Song’s respect within days of their meeting.

“Tanna,” Lady Mei Lin called, easily hopping twice her height to see above the crowd. “Tanna, over here!” In flawless coordination, the crowd parted before them, unwilling to get between the wildcats and their destination. Tanaraq grinned as Lady Mei Lin dashed into her arms, sharing a sweet greeting as if parted for years instead of mere days.

“Little imp, your hubby is a harsh taskmaster,” Tanaraq declared, flashing Song a warm smile. Though they weren’t too familiar, Song knew Tanaraq from the journey home from the Society. Having just lost her husband, the former Khishig still had the presence of mind to treat Song warmly. “I agreed to run his school and orphanage but he’s running me ragged with all his errands and assignments.”

“Sorry Tanna,” Lin replied, head buried in the older woman’s chest. “It’s just for a little longer, we’re still trying to figure out who we can trust. You can come back to the Bridge after we find someone, ya? Rainy didn’t know there’d be a travel ban so we had no choice but to start  this second school out here. There’s lots of orphans whose parents used to be soldiers or labourers, it's not right to let them freeze and starve.”

“Silly girl, don’t take my words to heart. I’m just venting off steam, I’m happy to help. Gives me something to do besides sit around on my ass all day. Come, let me show you what we’ve done.” After a short walk, Tanaraq straightened her back and gestured into a clearing, her voice filled with pride. “This is the start of something wonderful. Eighty wayward souls and more to come, so you tell your hubby to hurry and send more shelters. Clothes aren’t a problem, we’ve more than enough coin to buy all we need, but three teachers and guards aren’t enough. I’ll need more helpers as the crooks are sniffing around, thinking us an easy mark. I have a list of things which...”

As Tanaraq and Lady Mei Lin worked out the details, Song stayed close and studied the clearing. Men, women and children were all scattered throughout the clearing, busy with chores and games. Most were injured, with bandages and splints aplenty, wounds taken either in the line of duty or while evacuating the Bridge. The curious bear cubs ambled about, followed closely by their protector Jimjam. The inhabitants skirted away whenever the animals approached and seeking to allay their nerves, Song recalled the animals with a whistle before treating them to a snack, apples for the bears and jerky for the wildcats.

A scrawny boy of perhaps ten years approached, feigning bravery even as his knees trembled. “Can I pet him?” he asked, eyes never leaving Jimjam’s prone form. “Is it safe?”

Song nodded. “Yes.” Safe as can be at least. They were still wild animals and prone to irrational actions, but Rain was oddly adept at correcting unwanted behaviours like resource guarding. “Come, crouch in full view of Jimjam. Make no sudden movements and extend your hand slowly, stopping short to allow him to examine you. If he ignores you, then wait, lest he thinks you’re here to steal his treat.”

It took several minutes of patience, but after finishing his jerky, Jimjam sniffed the boy’s palm and chuffed once before glancing away. “Go ahead,” Song said, watching the wildcat carefully. Lady Mei Lin would be unhappy to see one of her charges mauled and truth be told, so would Song. Gingerly stretching his arm as far as he could, the boy ran his fingertips through Jimjam’s fur, his cautious apprehension slowly melting into a smile.

Seeing the young boy’s success, other children slowly gathered to pet the animals under Song’s careful instruction. Though the bears were happy to run and play, Jimjam closed his eyes and tolerated the children’s attentions while Sarankho avoided them whenever she could. Next time, it would be better to bring Aurie here, the wildcat runt much friendlier than his siblings. These children deserved a little happiness.

“Ah, it’s good to see you smile child.” Tanaraq’s voice shook Song from her stupor, turning to see the older woman grinning with delight. “Was worried you’d forgotten how.” Blushing, Song glanced around in search of Lady Mei Lin, but Tanaraq gestured for Song to follow. “Come sit, little Lin is gonna be here awhile, there are injuries to treat, documents to look over, and coin to manage. All this charity work isn’t cheap, especially since Rain seems intent on ending slavery by buying every last slave in the North. Madness I say, but the boy has kind intentions.”

The smile on Song’s face grew a little wider as she sat next to Tanaraq, listening as the former Sentinel introduced the children one by one. For all his faults and vices, Rain was a kind, generous man, seeking to help those less fortunate than he.

It was almost enough to balance out his many other flaws.

Almost.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Glancing around the empty suite, Akanai felt a twinge of unhappiness. During lunch, the room had been full of life and laughter as they shared their meal, yet now she sat alone in the gloom, eating dinner with no one to keep her company. Her husband was hard at work helping repair the defences while Song and Lin were still out doing errands for the boy. One a newly adopted daughter and the other the closest thing to one, they both held a place in her heart.

However, she’d known those three wouldn’t be back in time for dinner. It was Mila's absence which caused Akanai such worry, the little red-head missing despite her complete and utter lack of responsibilities. So strange, Mila had always been full of ambition and enthusiasm, always seeking her Mama or Papa out for new tasks to carry out, but ever since returning from Sanshu, she’d been abnormally sullen and dispirited. Gone was the eager young woman hungry for advancement, replaced by a scowling little firebrand whose eyes lit up in fury every time Akanai suggested she resume training.

Mother above, she would rather face a dozen Demons naked and unarmed than risk sweet Mila’s ire. Akanai almost suspected Mila had been replaced by an imposter, someone who merely looked and sounded exactly like her. The girl had always been a difficult child but oh so sweet, eager to pursue strength and knowledge no matter how difficult or painful her training became. Even when Akanai was in the wrong, sweet Mila never held it against her, happily forgiving her Mama without question, but now? That same, sweet Mila idled away her time in bed or lazed around town, ignoring the Defiled threat knocking on the Empire’s doorstep. True anger simmered beneath the surface of her surly distemper and even if Akanai were a hundred times braver, she dared not receive it.

Who would have thought that she, Akanai, Lieutenant General of the Imperial Defence Forces, Chief Provost of the Sentinels, Hero of the Empire, and Herald of the Storm, would one day balk at the thought of confronting a mopey, sullen, teenaged woman?

What brought about this change in temperament? Perhaps it was Song. Though Mila had begged all her life for a little sister, Akanai found it difficult to balance her duties while raising one child, much less two. Now that they’d formally adopted Song into the family, could it be Mila found the reality less pleasant than imagined?

Or maybe it was the boy’s absence as little Lin suggested. A girl’s first love was a complicated beast, capable of swinging her mood from surging affection to raging jealousy at the drop of a pin. After many months in close quarters, to be so readily abandoned couldn’t be siting well with Mila. Prodigious though her strength might be, it was of little use defending her against heartache.

Another possible culprit was Zian, though Mila should know better than to take the sparring losses to heart. Evidenced by his need to use Aura to achieve victory, the arrogant young man was only superior to Mila in age. That disgrace could make a spectacle all he wanted, but anyone with eyes could see Mila was the more talented of the pair. Still, this was a perfect opportunity to use Zian as a whetstone, honing her Martial skills against an admittedly formidable opponent, yet the silly girl ended today’s spar in a handful of moves. How foolish could she be? Mila had nothing to lose and everything to gain by making the match last as long as possible. Why Zian continued to challenge her at the cost of face, Akanai could not say, but she knew better than to look a gift horse in the mouth.

Letting loose with a heavy sigh, Akanai sipped a spoonful of soup and grimaced. She’d waited too long and the food had gone cold. Enough, she decided leaving the meal uneaten as she left the room. No more agonizing over what might be and letting sleeping bears lie as her husband would have it. Time to damn the consequences and face Mila head on.

After all, she was a reasonable and sensible girl who could never hate her loving Mama.

Right?

The ride to the boy’s lodgings felt like the longest journey Akanai had ever taken, perspiring in spite of the cold autumn wind. Knocking to announce her arrival, she waited a full three seconds before striding in, just in time to catch the full force of sweet Mila’s glare, delivered while lying in Rain’s bed. Sweet Mother, is the boy’s absence truly responsible for her foul mood? Perhaps she should order him back and have him train his people in town. Resisting the urge to wince, Akanai pretended to study Rain’s lodgings, surprised by how warm the interior was even without a fire. The temperature made her feel like she was sweating buckets, it was absurd. “You missed dinner,” Akanai began, immediately regretting her choice. Too accusatory, as if blaming the girl. “I have yet to eat, shall we dine at a restaurant?” Better, not perfect, but better.

“No,” Mila replied, her tone dull and listless as she settled into the blankets. “I’m not hungry.”

Choking back a sigh, Akanai patted sweet Atir as she greeted her patriarch, aged Kankin still fussing over his brood as he groomed her fur. If only people were so simple.

...

Well, why couldn’t they be?

Sitting on the boy’s bed, she stroked Mila’s hair and asked, “Daughter, what troubles you so? Be honest, Mama is here for you.”

And so, with a single question, Mila’s walls came crumbling down. “Mama,” she asked, her tearful voice no louder than a whisper. “I don’t know what to do anymore.”

It hurt to see Mila so miserable and wretched, but as Mila explained her internal struggle, Akanai couldn’t help but laugh out loud. “Oh sweet foolish daughter, this is why you’ve been in a foul mood? Because the Emperor abandoned the Western Province?” Soothing Mila’s hurt look with a gesture of apology, she smiled and Sent, “Hear me, my sweet, silly daughter. I was much like you once, hungering for fame and glory. I too wished to be a Hero of the Empire, and like you, I discovered the title worth less than a mouse’s fart. Over fifty years ago, I was summoned to the Central Province to receive a medal denoting me as a Hero of the Empire.”

“YOU TOLD ME ALL ABOUT THIS, MEETING THE EMPEROR’S REPRESENTATIVE WHO BESTOWED UPON YOU A TITLE.”

“All true, but now I will tell you the parts I left out. That trip was supposed to be my first step towards fame and an illustrious career, but instead, it caused me to abandon my dreams and withdraw from the Empire.” Sighing, Akanai gathered her thoughts before continuing. “I was so excited to receive my title, to stand beside other great warriors of the nation. The Emperor’s representative presented me the title, Herald of the Storms, for wherever I appeared, a storm of arrows would fall and silence my enemies.” Looking Mila in the eye, Akanai said, “Think about it child. What problem do you see?”

“...NOTHING MAMA.”

“Silly girl. The Empire holds the bow in contempt, the weapon of a peasant and coward. The title was given to mock me and accompanied by a chorus of laughter and derision. Never mind how I turned back 50,000 Defiled with a mere 3,000 archers and 9,000 soldiers, the results mattered little. All those puffed up nobles cared about was face and it irked them to have a ‘filthy half-beast savage’ outranking so many ‘real’ talents. They couldn’t take my rank away, the Emperor had already spoken, so instead, they mocked and marginalized my achievements. They called me a liar and claimed I exaggerated my deeds for fame and glory. To make matters worse, they sent warriors to kill me on the journey home, and though I returned with my life intact, many of my comrades did not, comrades who fought and survived against the Defiled. In my anger, I rejected the Empire for it rejected me, abandoning plans for fame and fortune in favour of a quiet life at home with family and friends. To put it lightly, it was not a popular decision.”

“THEN WHY DO YOU STILL FIGHT MAMA?”

Smiling at her beautiful, freckled daughter, Akanai answered, “Because the pup still thirsts for glory and bloodshed. Because your betrothed has a penchant for getting into trouble. Because for the first time in history, the Father’s minions have banded together to destroy us all.” Gesturing for Mila to sit up, Akanai wrapped her in a hearty hug before speaking aloud. “Never once have I forced you along the Martial Path, for it is a thankless pursuit. The Emperor abandons the West as one severs a rotting limb, sacrificing the few for the sake of the many, and I believe the decision correct. Should the Defiled break through here then there is no doubt in my mind we would share the West’s fate. Such is life my daughter, trials and tribulations, a struggle without end. How you meet the struggle, with spear and shield, hammer and anvil, or what have you, is your choice.”

Mila’s brow furrowed in thought and Akanai’s heart ached. So young to make this decision, but these were dark times. Abandoning the West left a sour taste on her lips, but who’s to say the Western Bridge wasn’t taken through treachery like Sanshu almost was? Or worse, what if there’d been a breach in the Treaty? If the greatest servants of the Mother and Father clashed in battle, they would lay waste to the world around them. If the worst came to pass, then Akanai could only pray the damage be contained to the Western Province.

No matter what, the West was lost. May their souls rest in the arms of the Mother.

“Mama.” Mila’s voice brought Akanai out of her thoughts, seeing her daughter with clear eyes and pursed lips. Nodding once, Mila declared, “I still want both. I will be a Peerless Warrior like Mama and a Divine Blacksmith like Papa. It doesn’t matter if I never find fame or glory, but I will defend the People and my family with my life, as you would.” Wiping her eyes, Mila took Akanai’s hand and gestured towards the door. “Sorry for making you worry Mama. Let’s eat dinner, I’m starving.”

Chest swelling with pride, Akanai followed Mila out into the streets, happy to have her cheery daughter back with the fires of ambition burning bright once more. “I've good news,” she Sent, keeping her smile in check. “The first shipment of Spiritual Hearts will arrive tomorrow afternoon. Your Papa is hard at work preparing to receive them. I wager he'll have plenty for you to do in the days to come, but I'll not ease up on your training.” Seeing Mila's eyes light up with greed and desire made all the years of hard work and sacrifice seem like nothing in comparison.

Despite all her lofty titles, the one Akanai took the most pride in was Mother of Sumila and Li Song.

Chapter Meme
