Then, another memory from their previous interactions came back. She had been less than perfectly respectful toward him before on some slight matter, and he had taken her arm without seeming to use magic at all.

This time, she saw the attack coming.

It actually wasn’t magic. It was purely an exercise of authority, honed to a razor edge and executed upon someone who was fully under his aegis.

But Tala wasn’t, not any more.

There was the suggestion of the sound of a blade ting-ing off a heavy chain, and Tala’s nets of reality iron chains rattled both stone- and starward of the hold’s superficial, small ripples traveling through them back toward her.

One of the links had been deformed, almost severed, but she repaired it immediately with barely a thought.

Still, that wasn’t as much of a victory as it might appear.

The man had been able to wield the mere fact of his position in the city to physically damage the manifestation of her aura and authority without the use of a physical medium of his own.

She had to remember that, despite her considerably increased power, this man was still not someone to trifle with.

She swallowed at the implications while at the same time trying to understand exactly what he’d done and how. It seemed that she had a lot that she could learn, if she could find a way to do so.

For his part, the man’s eyes widened in obvious surprise on his side as well, if due to the deflection rather than the nature of the attack.

Most in the room wouldn’t have heard anything, but Eskau Pallaun clearly had, as had many of the Pillars of the various Houses. Most wouldn’t know or really understand what they’d heard, but a few were looking at Tala with new eyes, mixes of fear, confusion, and curiosity clearly churning within them to various degrees.

Tala gave a tight smile, straightening her back just a bit. “I think that you have mistaken my position here. I am something of a City Lord in my own right, if a relatively new one. I am not invading, but I am also not submitting myself to you, here.”

His nostrils flared, and he stood. “Then you will not be entering my city. All gated with any control over their power are to be collared, this is the law.”

Tala arched an eyebrow, then shrugged. “If that is indeed the requirement, I suppose that you may collar me if you want, but it will be rather useless.”

It was his turn to blink in confusion, a frown creasing his brows at her seemingly abrupt change of position. “You will be collared?”

There were ripples of confusion through the other guests as well.

Tala nodded. “I see no point, but if it is a requirement?”

She left the rest unsaid. He held out his hand to the side, and one of the collars snapped into his grip, opening of its own accord. “Approach then, so that we can move past this oddity.”

Tala smiled, striding forward, Terry remaining with Eskau Meallain even while Eskau Pallaun moved over to the group with the House of Blood.

The man came down from his throne, meeting her at the foot of the dais, putting the collar around her neck in a quick motion, as if expecting a trick.

He seemed to relax once it was sealed in place—a spark of authority acting to meld it into a single piece—turning and climbing back to his throne, clearly not having understood at all.

Tala grinned. “See? Useless.”

He turned once more, just in time to see her grip the collar—one hand on either side—and pull, shattering the metal and releasing the two dasgannach in a blaze of magic.

The nearest attendees gasped, pulling back in horror as the living curses flowed across her.

Tala’s smile only grew.
