

Bean, true to his nature, was more in tune with farm life. He had no such hesitation.

“No!” he shrieked.

Before Kairon could even react, Bean grabbed the appendage, and pulled upwards. A beetle the size of his head screeched as its shell covered frame was exposed. Snarling, Bean turned the giant bug over and drove his knee into its squishy underside. Greenish blood and goo oozed out, soaking his lower body.

Heaving, he let the dead oversized bug drop to the ground. It landed with a sickening thunk.

Kairon took a moment to absorb what just happened. The sudden appearance of the bug, Bean’s violent reaction, and the creature’s very sudden demise.

Taking a deep breath, he turned to his farm manager.

“Bean… What was that?” he asked delicately.

“Bug! Bad! Taste yucky!” he said. “It eat root. I seen!”

“That is why you killed it? Because it hurts our plants?”

“EATS plants! Stupid bugs. Think theirs. I teach otherwise.”

“This is the first I’m hearing of this. When did you start seeing these… bugs?” As he asked, Kairon prodded the very dead, shelly insectoid with his staff.

“Last week! Ew!”

Another imp came up beside them, took one look at the bug, and spat on it. “Bad!” it agreed, before walking off with a bushel of ashroot. Its chittering receded as it made its way back to the city to stash its harvest.

Meanwhile, something tickled at the back of Kairon’s mind. When Kairon first came to this world, he’d asked the imps to gather resources. His instructions weren’t great, but they’d listened. And more than a couple had unrooted beetles. He, of course, had them discard the insects and forgo harvesting them again.

But those beetles… Were they the same species? Had his corruption altered them?

They had the same onyx black skin and shell as this one, even those same horns. And there, on the shell, the same splotchy mark of grey. But they were hardly the size of a claw tip. The one Bean had just killed was absolutely massive in comparison. Bigger than a head. And this was just the beetles on the upper surface. If corruption was being pushed downwards, from both his domain and the invasive weeds, and the beetles were impacted by it like everything else seemed to be… then it gave to reason that the most impacted species would be deeper.

Just what exactly was underneath all that soil? Beetles, nutrients, water, even rocks and ore. The more corruption, the more change.

“Bean. Sometime soon, we’re going to have to dig a hole. A really, really big hole. I want to find out just what all this dirt is hiding.”

“Dig!” agreed Bean happily.
