Tabitha again shakes her head. "That would be a waste of my time. I would get the same experience from leveling one of my stronger combat skills. Plus, it would further my combat potential more than picking up a hobby. Besides, combat is where I excel."

Well, I couldn't argue with that.

Reaching over, I flip our skewers before they start to char.

“You’re young, incredibly so,” Tabitha reminds me. "You're fifteen and already at level 75, no matter how impossible that sounds. You probably get a lot of experience from the many skills you level, but I'm here to tell you it will eventually slow down. Of course, you can supplement your experience gain through crafting, but eventually, you'll know what it's like to hit the experience wall.”

"It's why I was happy when it was decided Master would lead the invasion of Olebert, and I was assigned to come along. I need as many combat opportunities as I can get, or I risk falling behind and losing my genius status, bringing shame to Master Pacore. So you could imagine my displeasure when we easily trampled Olebert's forces.”

“Then why have you been letting me divert us? I ask. "Surly now is the best time to earn experience."

“Master assigned me to look after you,” Tabitha straightens her back and replies like a soldier repeating their orders. "I will not let harm come to you for my own gain. You confirmed the bird was alone, and I was sure I could defeat it; that is the only reason I risked fighting it.”

That’s…. wow. Tabitha has done so much for me, and still, she's willing to put my safety over her own goals, despite how it troubles her.

“Maybe we can try fighting a few more beasts while we’re here?” I try to offer, but Tabitha just continues to smile at me.

“That wouldn’t be wise. Even for me, the beasts here are becoming increasingly challenging to face. I want to see the heart of the forest with you, but after that, we must leave and head back to the village. Understand?” Tabitha waits for me to respond, so I can’t pretend I didn’t hear her later.

"I understand," I reluctantly reply.

"Good; now, how is the food doing?"

“Almost done,” I pull one of the skewers away from the fire to check it.

"My skill says it's good enough to eat," Tabitha informs me like that automatically meant they were done.

“It’s still a little raw,” I know this because both Cooking and Gourmet told me to leave it over the flames for a little longer. But at least I knew it was cooked enough to be edible.

“Do you think we’re close to the heart?” I ask Tabitha for her opinion after a brief silence between us.

“You would know better than me,” she lazily comments, but her expression quickly hardens. “The mana is growing increasingly thick, so we should be at least close. It's already higher than I'm used to in Scholl's magic-dense regions. You would think Olebert would be stronger with access to such a prime hunting ground,” she sighs disappointingly.

"You would think," I chuckle, sharing her sentiments.

I now felt like I understood Tabitha better than I ever had before. Of course, I was aware of the ridiculous amount of experience points I would need to level going forward, but to hear exactly how hard it was for others to level, especially from someone as talented as Tabitha, really put it into perspective.

I was incredibly blessed and needed to be aware of that fact from now on, especially in no small part to the cheat skill Soul Devourer.

Maybe I could find a way to help Tabitha level, as hard as that sounds? Unfortunately, we were on the tail end of our trip, but maybe we could do this again sometime.

All I knew was that I wanted to help her, so I would, anyway I knew how.
