Serithe nearly knocked the potion vial over as she pulled her hand back, but caught it before it spilled. They both looked at the Oracle.

Luke didn’t understand quite what she said. Something about someone dying. Themiel dying?

Luke let out a low growl.

“There are other paths, of course,” the Oracle said nonchalantly as she sat up and grabbed the vial from Serithe, then tilted her head back to drink it.

“Oracle, but these paths…” Serithe said. “How likely are they?”

“They could be either very likely or not likely at all, depending on some things,” she admitted, dangling the now-empty bottle between two fingers as her purple eyes seemed to examine it. “Tell me, how familiar are the two of you with chess?”

Themiel glanced to the square board in the middle of the table. “I… understand the basics. I cannot say that I’m very skilled.”

Serithe cleared her throat. “I had played regularly with my dormmates when I was studying in my ward. I would say I’m average.”

The Oracle nodded as she reached toward the board. She picked up the tallest of the white pieces and stared at it between her fingers. “I was a birth transmigration, but I still remember much of my last life and world. It was a dark world. The air above the surface was toxic, so only strange creatures like the darkest of this world's monsters could live up there. Though we had machines which harnessed energy from the sun to make life more livable as we built our cities underground.”

She set the vial down next to the chessboard with a clink. “This game. I was surprised when I first saw it in this world. I wondered if it exists in many other worlds. But in my last world… Xanathu… we had some other peculiar machines. They could… Hmmm, how to explain it. Well, there are machines that can do mathematics instantly, among many other things. But Serithe, imagine you’d never have to calculate the ratio of a mixture yourself. If there were a machine to do it for you. Instantly.”

“Instantly…?” Serithe blinked and cupped a hand under her chin.

“Yes, and so long as you put in the information correctly, its calculations would be precise, and it would never make a mistake.”

“That would be very convenient, Oracle.”

“Yes, they were quite convenient. But the machines could do so much more than mathematical calculations. They could also play games, such as chess, nearly perfectly.”

“A machine that plays games?” Serithe repeated, seemingly completely baffled by the idea.

“Indeed. And near perfectly, at that. They would be just about impossible for a regular person to defeat no matter how good they were without exploiting some already known weakness in the machine’s data… The machine’s knowledge, that is.”

“How can a machine have knowledge?” Themiel asked.

“I’m afraid I’d be ill-suited to explain the specifics. But just imagine it was something like the System, but the people of my old world had a little more control over it, and it wasn’t omnipresent as the System of this world is.”

Luke looked from Themiel, to Serithe, to the Oracle.

I have no idea what any of this means!

The Oracle nodded. “Of course, using such a machine to aid you in a game would be cheating, but it was a great tool for studying the game. You could go back through a finished game and identify the precise wrong moves you had made. By assigning a numerical value to the advantage or disadvantage of either side, these machines could be very precise and when that numerical value dramatically shifts from one side to another, you know someone had done something wrong.”

As the Oracle spoke, she began arranging pieces on the board.

“Essentially, the machine could see the future of the game,” the Oracle explained. “However, technically, anyone can see the future in this way. It is just that a non-machine mind is slower, less precise, and practically, they cannot see as far.”

She finally stopped arranging the pieces and sat back. She had taken most off of the board, but left about eight clumped near each other, both black and white.

“Serithe, what can you tell me of this position? White is next to act.”

Serithe stared at it for a moment, her eyes moving around. Luke watched her closely, still wondering what all of this was.

“It’s a mate in three, Oracle,” she answered.

Themiel seemed to examine the pieces even more intently, until finally nodding as if he understood something.

“If the player playing white is wise enough to calculate this position, they would already know they have won,” the Oracle explained. “Or in other terms, that person can know how to bring about a certain future. But, just because this position is on the board, it isn’t guaranteed that future will come to pass. For example…” She reached over and moved one of the tiny pieces up a square. “The mate in three is now gone. If played well on both sides from here on out, it will be a drawn position, but the future is never certain until it actually happens.”

“Why are you explaining this, Oracle?” Themiel asked.

“To give you an idea of how my power works. The world is far more complex than a chessboard, but I like to think of all things in this world as pieces, and imagine moving them around. Doing so, I can begin to see what ends might come about. But the real world doesn’t have simply two players, it has billions, and any one of those players could make an unexpectedly foolish or illogical move and throw off the future that is to come. Well, within reason. I don’t think there is much a peasant might do to topple an empire, but I’d imagine an advisor who has the potential to poison a king, or conversely, an apothecary who chooses the wrong antidote, would have much pull over fate… Do you understand what I mean?”

“I… think so, Oracle,” Serithe answered.

She nodded. “There is only so much time in a day, and this power tires me greatly. Trying to see the future of a peasant is unlikely to bear any fruit. There is always a chance, of course. Maybe that peasant’s son will become a soldier, become unexpectedly skilled, and change the course of a key battle. You never truly know.”

She smirked.

“Or a goblin for that matter. Logically, you would never expect a goblin to alter the course of the world. But then again, there could be one out there that might. Still, I would exhaust myself looking at the paths of every goblin and human peasant. No, my time would be better spent focusing on kings and those around them to see how fate might change.

“I see…” Themiel said.

Her eyes moved up from the board and onto him. “This power is far more useless than most of our people believe. It is not as though I can change the future just because I’ve seen it. If a volcano is to erupt, then what can I do to stop it? Perhaps I could get the word out about this possible future. But what if it is on the other side of the world? Would anybody believe a letter written from a distant nation, or even believe that I am who I claim to be, and will they listen regardless?”

“I see the dilemma, Oracle,” Themiel said.

She smiled. “I thought you would.” She began moving pieces back onto the board, putting the white pieces on one side and the black pieces on another. “When I look at your paths, Themiel, I see many divergent branches. It is really because of Luke, I believe, that your fate has come to be so tangled, yet so significant. Truly, your futures diverge as much as if I am looking at a king.”

“Is Luke truly so important?” Themiel asked.

The Oracle finished placing the pieces in their proper rows. “A king is significant not because of who they are as an individual, but because of the number of pieces that move around them. Luke is much the same. The Verdant Empire and the Bloody Peaks seek him, our own people fear what he might become, and this family of Hell Hounds includes a transmigrator who not only has the potential to amass incredible power, but the motivation to do so.”

The Oracle let out a low hum, moving the pieces once again, this time moving a single white piece, then a single black piece in turn, and so on. “As I see the future, I cannot change it directly. What I can do is move you, Themiel, because you can move Luke, and because Luke can move the transmigrator. Yet, I must be cautious, because as I move you, I might move you to your death.”

Luke noticed how Themiel tensed, and when he looked at his master’s face, he thought he knew why. That is the face Themiel would always make when thinking of his friend who had died, back on the night when he had saved Luke from the Red Faces. Luke looked across the table to Serithe, who was making the same face, though she tried to hide it as she looked away and covered a hand over her mouth.

The Oracle, however, held that faint half-smile as she continued moving pieces on the chessboard, her purple eyes much more focused on that than the people she was talking to, and casually mentioning the possible deaths of.

“I suspect the last Oracle saw the same tragic futures I do now. The mass destruction that may move across this world,” the Oracle explained. “Though, it was a longer time ago, and therefore it would have been less clear to her. All she likely knew for sure is that the Bloody Peaks Tribe would be responsible. That they would set things into motion. I do wonder what she said to the High Council that made them act so recklessly as to attack the Bloody Peaks the way that they had. What was the plan? To annihilate the entire tribe?”

She placed one of the pieces down extra hard and scoffed.

“So foolish. Even if they succeeded, it is not as though it would have prevented the Hell Hound transmigrator from being born into this world. Anything else could have moved her, rather than the Bloody Peaks. The last Oracle saw death tied to the Bloody Peaks, and told this to the council, who jumped to a foolish decision. And thus, our people lost a senseless battle. Senselessly lost so many lives on both sides and created a hated enemy. This is the lesson I take to heart when I speak of my visions. Because if I say the wrong thing about the wrong future, fools will make rash decisions in their attempts to prevent it. It is such a great irony.”

She let out a breath. “Yet, if I do nothing, I already know the end will have little light. So Themiel, I now wish to move you.” She suddenly looked up from the chessboard, locking eyes with him. “Head north, to the cursed city. I will not tell you what to do once you get there, but merely to follow your heart, and make friends, not enemies.”

Themiel blinked. “The cursed city? What could I possibly find there?”

“I just told you all I will. But if days pass and nothing significant happens, don’t return here. Instead head for the Black Pyre, as that is where the paths may converge again.”

“The Black Pyre?” Serithe repeated, her hand falling away from her mouth. “Oracle, that region has been forbidden for centuries. And to send Themiel alone.”

“He won’t be alone,” she answered, and turned her eyes to Luke. “He’ll have Luke.”

Luke’s ears folded back as all the attention turned to him.

I still don’t understand anything they’re talking about! he thought as he whined. Themiel was quick to pat his head, which stopped him from getting too anxious.

“He is why I came here. He had an Epic evolution. I was not expecting that,” Themiel said.

“You’ve been training him well. He’s already level 16 at his young age. It is not so surprising that he’d likewise earn a powerful evolution. Not to mention you’ve been training him against undead.”

“But an Epic evolution?” Themiel asked.

The Oracle leaned forward, studying Luke again. Her eyes passed over his thicker shoulders and dense fur around his neck, before lowering to his darkened claws.

“Rarity does not always directly mean power,” she said. “It means potential. A Common path is straightforward and easily understood. An Epic path has more room to grow into something unusual. To be harnessed in strange but powerful ways.”

Luke puffed out his chest. He still didn’t understand all of this, but he felt like they were all impressed with him.

Themiel must be telling them how great of a hunter I am!

Themiel ran his fingers through Luke’s thick fur. “I worried about bringing him to the High Council. They were already fearful of him, but he is already growing faster than anyone expected.”

“That is another benefit to you leaving,” the Oracle said. But then, her eyes turned to Serithe. “I am sorry. The last time I moved one of your friends, they didn’t come back alive, and it may be so again. If that comes to pass and your heart turns toward betraying me, I won’t blame you.”

“Oracle! I-I would never…”

The Oracle smiled, not responding to that, but instead turned her gaze back to Themiel. “Leave tonight, Themiel. Cursed City first, then the Black Pyre. And remember. Friends, not enemies.”
