Embria shook her head. Her tail angrily lashed the ground, and Relc avoided it. He followed her as she marched down the walls.
“Right, right. Well, it was worth a shot. So what did they tell you?”
“To do my duty.”
“Which is?”
“Classified. If you were part of the army, I could tell you.”
Embria shot a glance at Relc, and he sighed.
“I’ll pass. It’s probably just ‘hold the walls’. ‘Drakes don’t run’. ‘Liscor stands in the face of adversity.’ How’s that?”
She hesitated, which made Relc think he’d gotten it close. There wasn’t really much that High Command could tell her anyways. Embria turned away.
“I’m going to do my duty, Father. I wish you’d do yours.”
That stung. Relc glared at his daughter’s back.
“I’m a [Guardsman]. When the time comes, I’ll be up on the walls, same as you.”
Zevara would see to that. Relc imagined fighting with the damn trebuchets throwing rocks. Humans with siege weapons! It was bad enough that they knew how to throw magic. Now they could toss rocks? It was the end of the world.
“You should be a [Soldier].”
“Kid, let’s not do this—”
“No. You should be!”
Embria spun and poked a claw into Relc’s chest. He paused and saw a [Guardswoman] patrolling towards him swing around smartly and walk the other way. Embria stared up at Relc, and he remembered a little Drake begging for war stories and asking about her mother. When had that look of admiration turned to contempt? Right before she’d enlisted in the army, that was when. All those years ago. Embria glared up at Relc, and he tried to meet her eyes.
“You were a hero, Dad. You were one of the greatest [Sergeants] we had. Everyone told me that you were the one they called on to hunt down enemy commanders. You were so good they awarded you a weapon worthy of a commander and gave you a name!”
“Yeah, well, it’s an okay spear. And the name’s not that great—it’s actually sort of an insult—”
Embria ignored Relc’s mumbling.
“Why don’t you want to join the army? Is it because you’re afraid?”
“Of dying? Sure.”
“What about your fellow soldiers?”
Relc shook his head.
“Those guys? They’re great. But what’s the point of fighting, kid? To win a war? To earn Liscor money and make the High Command proud? For what? I fought in the Second Antinium War because the Goblin King was about to destroy everything. I fought the Antinium for the same reason. But fighting other Drakes? What’s the point?”
“What about Humans?”
“What about them?”
Embria ground her teeth together. She hissed at Relc.
“Don’t play dumb! They’re coming to destroy Liscor.”
He folded his arms.
“Right. And where’s our army? Down south around Oteslia, that’s where. Who’s defending the city? A hundred of our soldiers and thousands of the Watch. Including—guess who?”
He jabbed a thumb at his chest. Embria flushed.
“If they’d known—”
“You said it. They didn’t. The army’s not a glorious defender of the Drakes, kid. It never was, even when old Sserys was in charge. It was a mercenary army. One of the best, sure, but just mercenaries. I don’t regret leaving it. And I’m not going back, so can we drop it? Just tell me why you wanted to see me, and I’ll get out of your spines.”
Embria stared at Relc. Then she turned away.
“Fine. It’s just a matter of courtesy. Here.”
She fished in her belt pouch and pulled something out. Relc blinked as a folded envelope appeared in front of him. He accepted it gingerly.
“What’s this?”
“You have to know what it is. You haven’t been away from the army long enough to—you can’t have forgotten. We’re about to go to war. Get it?”
Embria glared at him. Relc just looked blank. His daughter ground her teeth together.
“It’s a will.”
“A—”
Relc’s stomach dropped. He stared down at the letter and saw it was addressed to him. Embria nodded curtly.
“It details my possessions go to you in the event of my death. I—had to update it. The other soldiers have filed their wills as well. It’s standard practice to send them back on the eve of a big battle.”
“I know.”
Relc spoke mechanically. He stared down at the letter, recognizing the neat handwriting. He began to open the letter, and Embria snatched it back.
“Don’t open it! It’s in the event of my death!”
“Oh, right. Sorry, kid. I won’t open it unless you, uh, die.”
She handed him the letter back. Relc stared at Embria. She looked at him and then threw a salute.
“I have to get back to my duty, Sergeant Relc. Until we meet again.”
“Sure. I mean, yes, Wing Commander.”
Relc threw a salute of his own. He watched Embria turn and march away. Her back straight, her posture proud and unwavering as she snapped at a slouching [Guardswoman] to stand up. For a second, Relc wished she’d turn around, if only to insult him some more. Then he looked down at the letter and opened it. He read what was inside and looked up.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice was polishing the counter of her bar. She did it mechanically, noting how quiet the inn was. The adventurers had followed Ilvriss, Zevara, and the others out of the inn in the morning. They’d been assigned to defend the walls or parts of the city and had decided to check out the spots while continuing to move the door further south. Just in case.
In case of what wasn’t said, but the implication was Liscor falling and everyone dying. Erin tried to imagine it. She looked around her inn and then down at the clean counter. What was she doing? What was the point? If this inn would be rubble—and it would be if the Humans started lobbing rocks at the city or the Goblin Lord’s army came this way—what was the point?
She should run. Run, and get Lyonette and Mrsha. And Krshia, only, the Gnoll had said she was going to stay and fight. So was Selys. The [Receptionist] had told Erin she wasn’t leaving.
“Grandma’s not budging, and if she’s staying, I’d better stay with her to make sure she doesn’t fall asleep. Besides, reinforcements are on the way, right?”
Reinforcements are on the way. Liscor will hold. Everyone Erin had talked to said something like that. The city wouldn’t fall, and the Goblins and Humans wouldn’t take it. Because…well, because it couldn’t happen. They didn’t talk about numbers or the odds. In fact, they quite deliberately avoided mentioning those crucial details. But Erin had heard Olesm talking, and she knew what the score was.
It was quiet. So quiet that Erin could hear the voices outside. It was just a few voices, but they were loud. Shouting, even. She recognized a few of them and went over to the window.
Numbtongue was standing on a hill next to Headscratcher and Shorthilt. He was speaking loudly to one of the new Goblins. Redscar? Yeah. They were debating something. The Goblins were talking, all of the leaders. The five Redfangs were part of that group, as were Noears, Poisonbite, Spiderslicer, and Redscar. And they were deciding something. Every Goblin in the Floodplains was gathered around them. Erin was sure, fairly sure, that they were deciding what to do now.
Run or stay. Or hide in the dungeon, maybe. It wasn’t an easy choice. There was a limited amount of space for an army this large, but they were outnumbered by the Goblin Lord’s force and the Humans. The Drakes were heading north, and the dungeon was…the dungeon. No good answers. Erin saw Numbtongue finish speaking and then Redscar reply. The Goblins outside hung on every word.
“What’re you going to do, huh?”
She looked out the window and then heard a sound. Erin turned and saw Mrsha staring at her. The little Gnoll had come through the door from Liscor before it had been carried off. She’d leapt through, not wanting to be apart from Lyonette despite the Goblins. And now she was stuck in the inn until Erin went into Liscor. She stared up at Erin. And so did a little Goblin with a big hat.
Pebblesnatch was in Erin’s inn, peeking out from the kitchen. She’d recovered her prized hat, which had somehow ended up on Garry’s head last night. Unlike the others, she hadn’t gone outside. She was…afraid. She’d stayed in Erin’s warm kitchen and the young woman had let her. She could understand Pebblesnatch’s fear. The Goblin and Gnoll looked at each other warily, and Erin saw Apista buzzing around the flowers.
No Lyonette. She was in Liscor getting some food since the Goblins had cleaned Erin out of everything. It was expensive; food was at a premium due to the impending siege. Still, Erin had money to burn. There were no Horns or Halfseekers. They were in the city. It was just Erin and an army of Goblins outside.
“What’s going to happen?”
Erin asked the question out loud, but no one responded. She heard a sound from outside and turned. The door opened. To Erin’s surprise, Relc ducked into the inn. He grinned at her and waved.
“Hey! Lots of Goblins out there, am I right? Scary bastards. Whoops, there’s one here too. Hey, I’m not here to pick a fight.”
He raised his claws as Pebblesnatch backed up. Erin stared at Relc. Why was he here?
“Why are you here, Relc? I thought you hated Goblins.”
“Yeah, I’m still not keen on them. But I, uh, was in the neighborhood. On a walk, y’know, and I thought I’d come by.”
The [Guardsman] grinned at Erin unconvincingly. She raised an eyebrow.
“A walk, huh? Well, can I get you a drink?”
“Ooh, yeah! I forgot you have drinks! I’ll have—”
“Here.”
Erin poured him an ale. Relc blinked at it but drank it down willingly. He sighed.
“That hits the spot. Remember when you didn’t have any alcohol? Instead, you had that blue, sweet stuff. Those were the days.”
“They were.”
Erin leaned over the counter. Relc grinned at her and waved at Mrsha. The little Gnoll didn’t know him well enough to come over. He relaxed, the picture of sloth, but Erin detected something else from Relc today. She looked casually at him.
“So why did you come here?”
“Me? Well, like I said, I was in the area…”
Relc avoided Erin’s gaze. He was playing with something. A letter, opened and folded up again. Erin eyed it.
“Okay. Well, can I help you with anything else? Food?”
“Nah, I’m good.”
Now that was surprising. Erin blinked at Relc. He just smiled at her. He stared out the window.
“Lots of Goblins. That reminds me of old times too, right? Except there’s more of them.”
“Yeah.”
Erin said the word with finality. Relc’s grin slipped.
“Right. I’ve, uh—look, it’s not that I think this is your fault.”
“Glad to hear it.”
The young woman picked up the dust rag and swabbed the counter. Relc coughed.
“It’s just that you tend to do weird things—and I was thinking—well, it’s sort of like the Face-Eater Moth attack. Or Skinner. Or that time you rescued Ceria from the dungeon and then we all got our tails kicked by that jerk, Gazi. And you poked her in the eye. A Named Adventurer. I mean, it’s sort of like that, right?”
“I guess?”
Erin looked blankly at Relc. Why was he bringing up the past? The painful past, come to that. Relc hesitated.
“So the Goblin Lord’s coming here. And the Humans. Damn Humans. Hate them. Ugly fleshbags, am I right?”
He grinned at Erin. She frowned.
“Yeah? Well, I don’t like the fact that they’re coming to Liscor either. Or the Goblin Lord. He sounds like a jerk.”
“Exactly! So…can you do anything?”
“About what?”
“This.”
Relc waved a hand in the air. He looked at Erin.
“You know. Something. Do your Erin thing. Make things work out right. Can you…can you help?”
He looked at Erin and lost the air of false cheer he’d come in with. Erin stared at Relc and slowly shook her head.
“I can’t—I mean, there’s nothing I can think of. That’s an army. I don’t—I don’t know what anyone can do.”
Relc’s face fell.
“Right. Of course not. It’s just that I thought—well, hey, it’ll work out, right? Drakes don’t run. The walls stand and all that. You’ll be fine. I’ll be fine. You should come into the city, though. No telling what’ll happen when…when…”
He lapsed into silence. Erin nodded. The two stood there for a while. Relc finished one mug and then another. Erin listened to the Goblins arguing outside.
“You sure there’s nothing?”
Relc looked up at Erin at the last. Hopefully, questioningly, searching for something. Anything. But Erin didn’t have anything. She shook her head. And soon after that, he left. Erin was left staring out the window. At the Goblins.
 
——
 
“When you breach the walls, I will teleport my Chosen into the battle. They must not be seen by witnesses. I will time it so they arrive within minutes of you taking the walls. Use them against the Antinium, Bea especially. Venitra will be suited to ambush attacks when Tyrion tries to capture the walls. As for Ijvani—she has yet to respond. Never mind. I will send some other undead instead. Wraiths, perhaps.”
Reiss stared blankly ahead as he rode his undead shield spider. He was approaching the pass leading to Liscor. His army, his tribe, marched around him. In silence. They watched their leader as he spoke to his master, a figure unseen. But that didn’t matter. They read his body language, listened to his voice.
“Yes, master.”
“Another thing. I have a…student who is currently residing in Liscor. He and I have exchanged brief communications. I would see him survive the battle.”
“A student?”
An image flashed into Reiss’ mind. The Goblin Lord’s heart beat faster at the sight. His master’s will wrote itself into his mind.
“Keep him alive if possible. He is promising.”
“Yes, master.”
Reiss stared at the image, burning it into his memory. Another rival. Another doomed soul. He felt a pang of fear. His master used and discarded potential candidates constantly, whenever he found someone who attracted his attention. Perhaps Az’kerash sensed it, because his mental tone grew reassuring.
“He is skilled. Adaptive and sharp, for all he is a beginner in the craft. A touch too arrogant, and his ideas are foolish. However, that is one failing in a gifted mind. But make no mistake. Seize Liscor and you will be first of my students, my faithful apprentice.”
“Yes, master. I will take the city.”
“Good. Then I will contact you when the moment is upon us. Prepare yourself, my apprentice.”
And then he was gone. Reiss sat back and looked around. His tribe looked at him. He was the Goblin Lord, and they were his people. Only, they were not the same in his mind as they had been a few days ago.
Some of them weren’t his. They were…Rags’. Tremborag’s Goblins. He had taken them. He had betrayed Rags. He had killed Pyrite.
