The big Hob was moving now of his own volition, but his face was pale. At first, he hadn’t been able to even sit up. And his heart had kept starting and stopping until Ulvama had cast a charm on him. The [Deathbolt] spell had sapped Pyrite’s energy even with the magic stones he’d eaten. Now he could walk, but he was weak.
“Chieftain, we going there?”
One of Tremborag’s former lieutenants pointed. Rags squinted at the pass opening up ahead of them and nodded. That way led to Liscor. Ahead of them, she could see a vast host marching towards it. The Goblins eyed the Human army apprehensively. They were behind the Humans, trying to catch up. None of them were quite clear on why, except for Rags and Pyrite.
“Can’t catch tribe. Why go that way?”
Ulvama grumbled as she stared at the Human army. She was tired and unaccustomed to walking and not afraid to say it. For Rags’ part, her gratitude on seeing Ulvama had long worn thin. The small Goblin glared at the [Shaman].
“Must go to tribe. Must get to Liscor!”
“But why?”
“Find Erin. Stab Reiss. Get to tribe.”
It was all Rags could think of. Ulvama sighed, but didn’t argue. Rags was Chieftain, and strangely, none of Tremborag’s Goblins questioned it. Pyrite muttered something, and both female Goblins looked at him.
“What you say?”
“Chieftain, what happens when get there? Fight Reiss? Run?”
“Don’t know. Just keep walking.”
Pyrite grunted. Ulvama looked scornfully at the huge Hob.
“Pyrite is slow. Could go faster without him.”
She seemed to be holding a grudge. Rags poked her in the side, and Ulvama yelped. The little Goblin glared.
“Going fast enough. Pyrite weak.”
“Can he fight?”
The [Shaman] looked challengingly at Pyrite. The other warriors marching behind them looked at each other. The Hob who’d been entrusted with Pyrite’s axe shook his head. They didn’t question whether Pyrite could fight. He’d cut down so many of Reiss’ warriors that they’d been too afraid to even loot his body.
For his part, Pyrite just looked at Ulvama and shrugged, though it cost him to do so.
“Am tired. When fighting starts, I will have energy.”
That was all. Ulvama nodded reluctantly. She cast her eye to the sky and the bright, spring day. It didn’t feel like a day for war. She raised her fingers and pointed.
“[Sky’s Blessing].”
Rags looked up as Ulvama’s fingers and skin paint glowed. Suddenly, the air felt fresh and invigorating, and it felt like she was marching with the wind at her back. She stared at Ulvama and then at Pyrite. The [Shaman] looked away from both of them.
“March faster, stupid Hob.”
Pyrite smiled. So did Rags. The Goblins walked on. Rags tried not to think about what would happen when they got to Liscor. She told herself she’d deal with it when it came, but the truth was she was too late. Reiss had won. Whatever would happen would happen without her there. And she feared the worst.
To take her mind off of that, she looked at Pyrite. At Ulvama. They were both Tremborag’s Goblins, at least, they had been at one time or another. She looked at Pyrite.
“When did you leave Tremborag mountain?”
He blinked. For a second, she thought he’d avoid the question, like he sometimes did, but the big Goblin just sighed. The time for secrets had long since passed. Now he just looked embarrassed and tired.
“Long time ago. Very young Goblin. I was…five? Had a fight with Greybeard. Greydath. Decided to leave. Start my own tribe. Become strong. Become Goblin Lord.”
The other Goblins gaped at him. Pyrite shrugged, flushing a bit.
“Stupid. Young and stupid. Thought it would be easy. So I made tribe. Made big tribe.”
“Goldstone Tribe?”
Rags was confused. Pyrite shook his head.
“No. Other tribe. Called it—uh—Mountain Fierce Warriors Tribe.”
He looked ashamed. Rags stared at him, and Ulvama sniggered. Pyrite scratched at the back of his head.
“Didn’t work well.”
“Why?”
He shrugged again.
“Had Hobs. Trained warriors. Had thousands of regular Goblins. But—stood out. Picked too many fights. Humans came. Destroyed tribe. Nearly died. Learned…learned Chieftain is not as good as Goblin Lord. Not nearly. So gave up. Became wanderer. Formed other tribe eventually.”
“But didn’t try to become Lord?”
“No. Not again.”
Pyrite shook his head heavily. He looked at Rags.
“Too much. Greydath—Reiss—Lords are too much.”
Overwhelming. Rags remembered what Greydath had said. Reiss had beaten Pyrite, even though he was a [Mage]. And Greydath—she nodded soberly.
“Much. But good to try.”
She heard a snort from Ulvama. The [Shaman] glared at her.
“Don’t need Goblin Lords! Why do stupid Goblin Lords and males fight all the time? Garen, Reiss, Greydath—stupid! Should just live in tribe.”
“Like Tremborag?”
Rags sneered. But Ulvama did not. She looked longingly back north. Tremborag’s mountain wasn’t even in view, but the other Goblins did too.
“Stupid.”
The little Chieftain informed Ulvama. She got a glare in return.
“How do you know? That was our tribe. You didn’t know it.”
“Saw enough. You did bad things.”
“So what? They did bad things to us.”
Ulvama snapped at Rags. She took a deep breath.
“You don’t know. You don’t know me. We were happy there. Sex, food—we had what we wanted. Tremborag was great Chieftain. Humans deserve pain. We do bad things to them? I am Human and Goblin.”
“You mean, parents were…”
Rags stared at Ulvama. The Goblin glared at her.
“Mother was Goblin.”
“Oh.”
The other Goblins stared at her. Pyrite just sighed. Rags searched for a comeback. There wasn’t one, really. But it still didn’t change the things Tremborag’s tribe had done. It changed nothing—but it explained everything. She shook her head.
“Still. Still.”
“You don’t know.”
Ulvama looked down at the ground. Rags glared.
“I do. My parents die too. Big Drake—Relc—kill them. Cut off heads. For present.”
The other Goblins looked at her. Rags told the story of how she had thrown rocks at Erin, trying to get some food. And then how the Drake had hunted her parents down, leaving only her alive. And then—
“—And then, he give to Erin. To her. But she didn’t like.”
“Didn’t like the present?”
Pyrite and Ulvama stared at her. Rags nodded. The two looked at each other, and then they and the other Goblins all burst out laughing. They roared with laughter, and Rags did too. They had to laugh at that story. It was laugh or cry. Or curl up and stop moving.
They went onwards. Following the Humans, telling stories. Tragic stories, happy ones. The happy ones were so rare, but Rags had more than her fair share. At one point, she caught Ulvama looking at her. It was strange, but she and the [Shaman] did get along. True, Ulvama flirted outrageously with Pyrite in ways even Rags could pick up on, but they were…alike. In ways that Rags hadn’t known until now. It was actually pleasant to walk with her. She wasn’t an enemy.
“What?”
“When you said Goblins live in circles, what did you mean?”
The little Goblin scratched her head uncomfortably.
“What I said. Goblins live in circles. We kill Humans. Humans kill us. Repeat. Bad thing. Can’t keep doing.”
Tremborag’s Goblins exchanged glances and nodded, losing their cheer. They had seen the end of their circle in Tremborag. And yet—Ulvama shook her head.
“But what do we do? If Humans kill Goblins, what can we do? What other way is there? We run and die? We fight and run? We are hunted always.”
“I know. But there must be other way. There must. Or circle always comes around.”
Rags insisted. She didn’t have the answer, but she knew it was true. After a second, Ulvama nodded.
“So Chieftain is looking for something else? Something that is not circle?”
“Yes. Like square.”
“Or triangle?”
A Hob suggested. Another smacked him on the shoulder.
“Squiggly thing better.”
“How about line?”
Rags grinned, and she caught Pyrite smiling. They looked at each other, walking along, and for a second, they forgot they were marching after the Humans, after Reiss, that they had lost their tribe. Then they heard a howl and looked ahead.
Someone was coming. The Goblins froze. Was it Humans? No, that was a Redfang howl! Rags’ heart beat faster. She looked up and waved her arms as she saw a group riding hard towards them. They were headed past them, towards the High Passes! Had some Redfangs survived? She shouted, and the other Goblins shouted as well. The distant riders spotted them and adjusted their course. Rags was grinning, and so was Pyrite—
Until they saw who was leading the Redfangs. The Goblins froze, and Ulvama screamed a warning. The Hobs and Goblins moved in front of Rags, grabbing at weapons. Pyrite tried to lift his battleaxe. But on the forward rider came. He was leading barely more than a dozen battered Redfangs. They had cut their way north past the Humans somehow. But though he was accompanied by only a fraction of his tribe, though he looked haggard and lost, there was still no mistaking him.
Garen Redfang drew up in front of Rags, his Carn Wolf panting. He stared down at the tense group of Goblins. And his eyes found Rags. The Redfang’s Chieftain stared blankly at Rags. Then he nodded.
“Hey.”
 
——
 
He had lost his tribe. He had been rejected by his warriors, old and new. He had confronted his team. And now he had nothing left. Garen Redfang stood with Rags as his warriors, exhausted and wounded, just lay down on the ground. They had ridden through magefire and hails of arrows. But somehow, incredibly, Garen had survived. Rags looked at the burns and fresh wounds on his body and wondered if he’d been trying to kill himself. If he had, he’d failed.
The two stood together. Pyrite and Ulvama watched Rags anxiously and stared suspiciously at Garen, but the Redfang Chieftain didn’t offer Rags any harm. He stood, looking blank and tired. Diminished. Rags stood with him, listening as Garen spoke of what had happened.
“So you go to High Passes?”
“Maybe.”
Garen stared past Rags. His Carn Wolf was lapping at some water being poured out of a flask. It was injured, but it had carried Garen all this way. Rags stared at the wolf as well and shook her head. She looked at Garen.
“You lost tribe.”
“Yes.”
He hunched his shoulders. Rags pointed towards Liscor.
“You betrayed team.”
“Yes.”
The Hob bowed his head.
“You betrayed me. And Reiss.”
“Yes. Yes.”
Garen closed his eyes. Rags stared up at him and then sighed.
“You are stupid.”
She saw one crimson eye open a crack and glare indignantly down at Rags. The little Goblin was unperturbed.
“You are. Stupid. And bad traitor. Bad Chieftain. Bad brother. Bad everything.”
“Can’t do anything about it.”
Garen gritted his teeth. Rags kicked him. This time, Garen roared and made a fist. The Goblins tensed.
“Do you want fight?”
“No!”
Rags glared up at Garen. He relaxed slightly, but he was still furious.
“Then what?”
“Why are you running away? Why always running?”
Rags stared at Garen. He looked confused.
“Tribe rejected me. Nowhere to go. Halfseekers will kill me.”
“Yes. So why running? Why run?”
“Because nothing to stay for.”
“Except tribe. Except old team.”
Garen opened his mouth. Rags shook her head. She had it now. She looked at Garen.
“You betray. Always betray, you say. But it was you. You betray and betray. And then run away. But that is the problem.”
She pointed back, towards Liscor. Garen followed her finger. Rags spoke quietly.
“When you betray, you should stay.”
“And do what?”
“Fix things. Try. Be loyal. Be good.”
Garen looked back the way Rags was pointing. He looked at her. For a moment, he hesitated and she hoped—but then he shook his head.
“Too late. Far too late to make things better.”
He walked towards his Carn Wolf. It whined as it got up. Rags shouted at Garen’s back.
“Not too late to try! Never too late! Otherwise you run forever!”
She saw Garen look back once. And hesitate. But then he got on his Carn Wolf and rode away. North and west. Towards the High Passes. Rags scuffed at the ground as he rode with the last of his Redfangs.
“Darn.”
She was really hoping he’d give her a ride.
 
——
 
Goblins ran. Humans retreated. Adventurers fled the city, or prepared to. But Drakes didn’t run. That was what they said, anyways. But Relc had been part of more than one withdrawal, and it looked like running to him. General Sserys’ iconic line was just that, a line. Drakes ran all the time. Relc Grasstongue just wished that was an option here.
He marched up the stairs to the battlements of Liscor’s western wall. Normally, Relc didn’t make the climb unless he had to, but today he was looking for someone. She wasn’t hard to spot. Embria’s red scales stood out, even among the other Drakes. She was beautifully striking. Much like her mother, although her mother had pink scales. Just went to show that Embria got the best of both her parents. Her looks from her mother, and her talent with the spear from her father.
It was all he had to give, really.
Relc walked towards Embria. Normally, he avoided his daughter. He had the feeling she was disappointed in him. It was a hunch, made stronger by all the times she said he was a disappointment to his face. Besides, whenever they spoke, it always went back to the army. She wanted him to reenlist, and Relc wouldn’t. Not again, not ever. He was sick of war. And he wished it hadn’t come to Liscor.
He heard Embria speaking as he approached. She was using a rare artifact, a gem with the ability to communicate her words to a speaker across the world. It was limited in magical power, and it broke when it was out of mana—plus the distance mattered, so he guessed this was an important call. No guesses to who it was with. Relc edged over, and Embria looked up, glaring at him to be silent. He nodded, and she spoke into the stone.
“Yes, sir. Absolutely. We will do our part. I swear it by the walls…yes, sir. Wing Commander Embria out.”
She lowered the mana stone. Relc noticed it was beginning to disintegrate. It was nearly out of mana. He coughed as Embria lowered the stone.
“You talked to High Command?”
“I just had a conversation with them, yes.”
Embria turned to face her father, her posture straight, her face severe. She stood tall, as if to make up for the lack in height. Relc slouched to accommodate her, which only made things worse.
“So what’s the plan? Are they sending a huge army to rescue us? Come charging up north with the others?”
“Don’t be stupid. They’re on contract. They can’t move if they wanted to. And they were too far away to get here no matter if they’d started right when we learned what was going on.”
