Tyrion grimly adjusted his plans, thinking through how the door could be used against them. They had to seize it. Jericha cleared her throat.
“There are two other missives that may require your attention personally, Lord Veltras.”
“Speak.”
“The first is from Lady Reinhart—”
“Ignore it. I told you, I am not in the mood to bandy words with her.”
The [Mage] nodded quickly. She licked her lips nervously, an unusual gesture.
“I understand that Lord Veltras. But this latest [Message] is—is not like the others.”
“How so?”
Tyrion looked back at Jericha. Magnolia had been sending him messages nonstop, urging him to halt his campaign, to turn back or take a different tack. Ever since she had learned what he was doing. She was resourceful, he would give her that. But he could not be swayed. All of her power lay in influence, gold, and political power. He had direct military might, and there was nothing she could do to stop him.
Or so he’d thought. But the look on Jericha’s face told him that his unflappable aide had been disturbed. She spoke slowly.
“This latest [Message] was—addressed to me, Lord Veltras. Magnolia Reinhart mentioned me by name and issued a…warning if it was not delivered. The contents are quite extraordinary.”
The scion of the Veltras House tensed. If Magnolia threatened Jericha or his servants—he forced himself not to give into emotion.
“Repeat it, then.”
“Yes, Lord Tyrion. The message from Magnolia Reinhart, omitting the introduction to me, reads as follows: ‘To Tyrion. I see you are set on your course, despite my warnings and urgings to the contrary. It seems you have placed your faith in war. I, however, think you are a fool of the highest caliber. Your plan will not succeed. Do not force my hand or I will take steps both you and I will come to regret to stop you. Sincerely, Magnolia Reinhart.’”
A silence followed Jericha’s words. The [Mage] looked at Tyrion. He frowned.
“Take steps…there is no way she could halt this army. Is she intending to provide more aid to the Drakes?”
“She already leaked the information of the trebuchets to them. It is hard to imagine what she could do.”
“Assassins, perhaps. Double the night sentries and keep a close eye on the food. Aside from that—ignore her messages. But report any ones of similar quality to me.”
Tyrion saw Jericha nod. He put Magnolia out of his mind. He could not be stopped. Not by her or anyone. Liscor burned in his mind. It had to be taken. He would see victory in his lifetime or put the wheels in motion to end this millennia-long war for dominance with the Drakes. He would have vengeance.
A final time, Jericha interrupted Tyrion.
“Lord Veltras. You have a message from your estates. Ullim reports that your sons are growing restless. They are inquiring about your absence and growing unruly.”
For a second, all thoughts of war and plans vanished from Tyrion’s mind. He twisted in his saddle. Ullim was his [Majordomo]. Tyrion had entrusted the welfare of his sons, Hethon and Sammial, to him. They were boys, too young to even become squires. Well, Hethon was not, but he wasn’t of the right temperament for that life. And Sammial was too wild, yet.
“What is Ullim doing? I told him to keep the boys in care.”
Jericha ducked her head.
“Yes, Lord Tyrion. But the issue isn’t—if you’ll permit me to speak freely, I believe it is that the two are simply lonely. The boys miss their father. That’s all.”
Tyrion stared at Jericha until she flushed and looked down. He blinked. When he had grown up, his father had been dead. Dead and buried, a casualty of the plots of the Reinharts. And the two were…? He felt a moment of regret and wished their mother was there. She would have known what to do. She would have been there. But she too was dead.
And that had led him here, in part. Tyrion turned forwards, forcing himself to put the past out of his head.
“Tell them I am on campaign. They should know what that means. If all goes well at Liscor, I may have time to return. I will attempt to make time. That is…all.”
“Yes, Lord Veltras.”
There was a pause as Jericha relayed the message. Tyrion stared ahead at the Goblins as he rode. He tried to keep thinking of Liscor, keep replaying the battle and its innumerable permutations in his head. But he was distracted, now. By Magnolia, damn her, and his sons. He couldn’t help but wonder what she was doing. She was a thorn in his back. Some day, he would have to pluck the thorny branch from which she grew. Burn the Reinhart estates to the ground. But they were a dangerous, difficult weed, and she was the worst. Why didn’t she see the danger of the Drakes? Why was she opposed to him?
Lonely. Tyrion bowed his head for a second. Then he forced himself up. He couldn’t waver now. And Magnolia couldn’t stop him. No matter what she did.
 
——
 
“Well, he hasn’t responded. So I suppose it’s come to this. Ressa, prepare my riding dress, will you? It’s time to put our plan into action. Oh dear. No one will be happy about this. Tyrion least of all.”
Magnolia Reinhart sighed as she sat in her parlor with a group of [Ladies], all of whom could be considered her closest friends. They sat with her, sipping from tea or sampling biscuits. Noblewomen all, each a fair flower of the realm. As dangerous as any [Lord] in their own right.
They were Lady Bethal Walchaís, fiery and beautiful. Lady Zanthia, old, tough as steel and demanding. Lady Pryde, for whom the name was as fitting as it was insufficient. Lady Wuvren, of whom the [Bards] had once sang songs about. And still did. It was said that an Archmage had drowned himself after being rejected. It had actually only been a [Star Sorcerer] of course, but you know how people exaggerated such things.
Those [Ladies] and a few others. Magnolia Reinhart’s inner circle. The people she trusted explicitly. Her army, in truth. Tyrion Veltras had his forces, and they could raze a city in a day. Magnolia Reinhart could move mountains with hers.
Hypothetical mountains. Mountains of stubbornness, fear, and self-interest. The [Ladies] could alter the fate of the continent through politics and words. And it was for that reason Magnolia had gathered them. Although the Lady Reinhart feared that words wouldn’t be enough this time. It was time for action, and terrible action at that.
“My friends. It seems Lord Tyrion has declined to speak with me yet again. Or even snap back. He is set in his course, and so we must be set in ours. The time is upon us. Before we leave, have you any objections to my plan?”
The [Ladies] looked up. Lady Zanthia pursed her lips, and Bethal tilted her head back. It was Wuvren who spoke up first.
“You do know that he will never forgive you, Magnolia? Even if your attempt fails? You’ll risk the enmity of the entire north, for what? To stop him from seizing Liscor?”
“In order to stop a war, I’d gladly make enemies of my peers, Lady Wuvren. I only ask whether you are ready for such a task. It must be done. If we enter another war of centuries, we will fall to ruin.”
Magnolia looked at Wuvren. The [Lady] nodded.
“I suppose it is, at that. Well, I will do my part, though it may be a mistake.”
That was enough for Magnolia. She turned.
“Lady Zanthia, you had a thought?”
“Only that we may all be dead ere a few months pass. But I acceded to your leadership, and I won’t speak against it. But when you strike, do it at the right moment.”
The old woman fixed Magnolia with a gaze that even the [Lady] had a hard time meeting. Magnolia resisted the push of Zanthia’s will and smiled. It was always a test with her.
“Of course. I will wait for the opportune moment. As one must. But we must neither be too slow nor too quick.”
“A [Lady] is never early, or so the saying goes.”
Bethal laughed lightly. Magnolia smiled as some of the other [Ladies] sighed and rolled their eyes. They would have taken Bethal’s presence more easily if Thomast had been there, but husbands, bodyguards, and everyone except for Ressa had been barred from this most august of meetings.
“Yes, Lady Bethal, I have heard the saying too. But I’m afraid that while a [Lady] is never early, she is quite often late. Let it not be so this time. Do let me know if you run into complications. As for the rest—we have a day to move into position. Reynold will take you to your destinations.”
The [Ladies] nodded. They stood up, smoothing dresses, chattering lightly. And their eyes flashed brightly. They were no strangers to hard decisions or war, if it came to that. They had lived through multiple wars. Lady Zanthia had lived through more than a dozen. And they were ready to do what it took to stop another one.
But the cost. Oh, the cost. Magnolia closed her eyes as they left. This would be a problem. Damn Tyrion. He had forced her hand. But it could not be war with the Drakes. Better to throw all of the north into chaos, first. Better that. She sighed—and realized she wasn’t alone.
Ressa was there of course. She was always there. But Lady Bethal had remained on the couch. She looked up at Lady Magnolia.
“Magnolia, explain something to me.”
“If you insist, Bethal. What is it?”
The Lady Walchaís studied a sugary biscuit and made a face. She stood up slowly and looked at the map that Magnolia had provided the others—marked in several spots, purely as a conversational topic.
“Lord Tyrion Veltras is certainly going after the Drakes with a passion. Is it just that he hates them? As a people, I mean. Or is it something else? I feel as though I should know, but I don’t pay attention to the affairs of the realm as much as the others.”
“You don’t pay attention to anything but your husband, Bethal.”
The woman flashed a grin at Magnolia.
“True! So what was it? I feel like it was related to his wife.”
“It was.”
“Ah. She’s dead, isn’t she?”
“Tragically, yes.”
“Luckily.”
Ressa muttered as she cleared the table. Magnolia stomped on her foot, or tried to. Ressa dodged. Bethal paid no attention to the two of them.
“Yes. I met her once. I can see why you wouldn’t want her around. But you didn’t have anything to do with her death, did you? It was—a fall. But there was something suspicious about it. Was it—”
“Yes, Bethal. It was the Drakes. Or a Drake [Assassin]. Lord Tyrion found the dead body of a Drake and his wife. A tragic scene. I believe Sammial, his youngest, was not six years old when it happened.”
“Oh! So it was recent?”
Magnolia sighed. Sometimes she wanted to smack Bethal across the back of the head. But that would start a fight, and Bethal was quite adept with knives.
“I have no doubt you received an invitation, Bethal. Yes, it was recent. I think Tyrion Veltras always had designs on taking the fight to the Drakes. But since his wife’s death—yes.”
“And how does he know it was the Drakes who killed her?”
“Because the [Assassin] was hired by them.”
“And how does he—”
“Because I told him, Bethal.”
The woman turned. Magnolia met her eyes, and her voice was cold. Ressa looked up.
“I told him. When he rode into my estates and begged the one favor he has ever asked of me, I told him who sent the [Assassin]. I told him the truth and made sure of it myself. That Drake was sent by the Walled Cities. Hired in Zeres, funded by their money, agreed upon by the other Walled Cities. It was them.”
“Oh.”
That was all Bethal said. She looked away, and Magnolia shook her head and sipped from her sugary tea. Regrets. It was a bitter taste on her tongue, for all the sugar. See what the truth did? See how mistakes added up? Oh, how she wished she could turn back time. But it was done.
“So that’s the reason? All of it? Or have I missed something else?”
Bethal stared at the map. Magnolia shook her head bitterly.
“No, you have it right. For his wife, he would wage war on an entire species. For one death, he would burn all of them in fire.”
The Lady Walchaís shook her head.
“It seems natural to me. If Thomast died, I would find his killer and make them suffer for all eternity. If a Drake sent by the Walled Cities killed him—I would do exactly the same.”
She looked back, smiling at Magnolia, but the look in her eyes reflected that promise. Magnolia sighed, and Ressa shook her head.
“You two are alike in that, Bethal. But mark my words: I will not allow war. I will not allow Tyrion to drag down this continent for his own selfish reasons. He alone does not control the fate of Izril. And I have at least one trick up my sleeves to stop him.”
“Well, since I am part of that trick, I’d better tell Thomast.”
Bethal sighed lightly. She turned and nodded to Ressa.
“It’s been fun, Ressa. Until we next meet.”
She walked from the room. Magnolia stood there, sipping from her tea cup. Then she raised it.
“Throw that and I will be upset.”
Ressa spoke behind her. Magnolia lowered the tea cup and looked at her [Maid].
“This is an unfortunate situation, Ressa. It will be messy. Even with this, he might go forwards. And if it happens that way—”
“War?”
“Oh, terrible war.”
Magnolia sighed. She looked down into the dregs of her cup, at the sugar and tea gathered there. Then she shook her head.
“I hope Erin Solstice is alright. She lives right next to the city, doesn’t she? Funny, I’d heard of her attempts to protect Goblins. And now an army is marching on her. If only she had more time, perhaps she could have made a difference. But I fear that this isn’t a matter of Goblins any longer.”
“You think she could have made a difference?”
“Perhaps she has. Perhaps. Time will tell. The Antinium, Goblins, Liscor, she may make a difference there. But in a war, what can one person do?”
Magnolia turned to Ressa. The [Maid] raised one eyebrow. She tapped Magnolia lightly on the chest and looked pointedly at her.
“Everything?”
And the Lady Reinhart smiled a touch sadly.
“Not alone.”
 
——
 
Rags walked alone. Not alone in the sense of physical presences; she was surrounded by several hundred Goblins. Hobs, regular warriors, Pyrite, and Ulvama. But alone in the sense of her tribe. She could feel them south of her. But they were far distant, and she was too far behind.
They were marching towards the High Passes. Towards Liscor. The mountains loomed ahead of them, and the Goblins were footsore and weary. They’d barely paused since they’d begun walking this morning. Only today had Pyrite recovered enough to move. Until now, they’d had to drag him on a makeshift sled, and that had been excruciatingly slow.
