“It’s too early for this. Lyonette! Can I get some water?”
She waved her mug. Ylawes frowned at her.
“This isn’t a joke, Yv.”
“I’m not saying it is. And I’m not going, Ylawes. I’m staying with my team.”
Yvlon looked back up at Ylawes, scowling. Her brother grimaced.
“So you’ve said. But your captain doesn’t seem capable of making up her mind.”
“Hey, I’m just—”
Ceria protested weakly. Yvlon stood up.
“We’re going with Erin. We’re not leaving her behind.”
“I’m making up my mind too!”
Erin shouted from the kitchen. Ylawes looked at her and shook his head.
“I understand that, and it is a noble cause, Yvlon. But be realistic: Liscor is about to be attacked, and when it is, both you and I will be in grave danger. Our only chance is to go north now. Persuade your captain, bring Miss Solstice and the others.”
“I have a name you know, it’s Ceria—”
“Why don’t you go and let us decide what we’re doing, Ylawes? If we go north, we’ll go north. But we’ll do it with our team. You can leave.”
Yvlon folded her arms. She wasn’t wearing her armor, but her metal armguards and gauntlets were more or less permanent fixtures now. They covered the…modifications Pisces had done to her arms. And the damage.
“I won’t leave without you.”
The [Knight] snapped, his brows crossing with vexation. Yvlon sighed.
“I’m not a child, Ylawes!”
“But you are my sister. If Father learned that I abandoned you—”
“This isn’t about what our father would say! And what I do isn’t your problem, Ylawes.”
“It is. I can’t let you risk your life any further. We’re going, and you are coming with us. This isn’t a discussion.”
“No, it really isn’t.”
Yvlon stared at Ylawes’ face, exasperated and annoyed. It was always like this. He was always in charge, and she was sick of it. She stared past Ylawes at his teammates.
“I’m not budging. I’m a grown woman and an adventurer in my own right. You don’t give me orders, even if you are Gold-rank. Just go, Ylawes. What does your team think of this? Falene? Dawil?”
The half-Elf shrugged her slim shoulders.
“I follow my team captain, Miss Byres. And I happen to agree that you and your team are being quite foolish. It falls to us to keep the less-experienced out of harm’s way.”
Ceria rolled her eyes. Yvlon looked at Dawil. The Dwarf hesitated.
“I can’t say I’m pleased, lass. But your brother has a point. There’s a fine line between stubbornness and suicide, and you’re pushing both. Why not leave?”
Because it would mean being saved by Ylawes. Yvlon scowled. She didn’t want to say it, but that was why. And because Erin wasn’t going. That too. But mainly the first part.
“It’s my choice. I’m a Horn of Hammerad, and we aren’t budging.”
She looked at Ylawes. The [Knight] blew out his cheeks and looked around. Griffon Hunt, the Halfseekers, Gemhammer—the other teams of adventurers who were waiting in Erin’s inn, taking turns moving the door further south—stared at him. He hesitated and then shook his head.
“This discussion is over. Yvlon, if you won’t see reason, we’ll have to take you by force. Come on—”
He reached for her arm. Yvlon backed up.
“Don’t, Ylawes.”
“Be reasonable. Don’t make me force you.”
“You? I’m not six anymore, Ylawes. You can’t pick me up and carry me.”
“If I have to, I will.”
Again, Ylawes grabbed at Yvlon’s arm. This time, he seized the metal vambrace. Yvlon gritted her teeth. She pulled, but Ylawes was strong.
“Let go.”
“Don’t resist. Your arms are fragile.”
“Then let go.”
Yvlon yanked, and Ylawes nearly stumbled. He let go, afraid of damaging her arms. Yvlon felt fine. She backed up as Ylawes looked at Ceria.
“Please talk some sense to her.”
The half-Elf got up slowly. So did Pisces and Ksmvr. Ceria looked uneasy, but her expression firmed as she looked at Yvlon.
“We’re not going yet, Ylawes. And Yvlon’s one of us. If she doesn’t want to go, you have to respect that.”
“He is doing this for her own good, Ceria. I’ve pointed out the obvious to you as well. Why won’t you heed reason? We are both half-Elves—”
Falene scowled at Ceria. The [Ice Mage] rolled her eyes.
“And that makes us kin, right? Forget it. You can go, but if you try to take Yvlon, we’ll—”
“What, stop us?”
The tone of Falene’s voice was frankly disbelieving. Yvlon felt a surge of adrenaline and anger as the [Battlemage] looked from her to Ceria. Pisces folded his arms.
“You would do well to reconsider any threat, Miss Skystrall.”
“Yes. We are completely and legally able to defend ourselves with lethal force. I think.”
Ksmvr nodded. Dawil raised a hand.
“Hold on, you two. Falene and Ylawes aren’t suggesting—”
“Yes we are, Dawil. Ylawes, take your sister. I have had enough of arguing.”
“And I’ve had enough of you two trying to order us around.”
Yvlon reached for her sword. Ylawes stared at her, and his hand went to his hilt.
“Don’t be a fool, Yvlon!”
“Then back off.”
“I can’t. Why are you being so stubborn when I’m just trying to help you?”
“I. Don’t. Want. Your. Help! I never have!”
Yvlon snapped at Ylawes. She drew her sword, or tried to. The blade was half-way out of the sheath when Falene pointed a finger at her.
“[Binding Cords – Iron]. Ylawes, take her!”
A series of thin metal cords erupted from her fingertip and wrapped around Yvlon. The [Wounded Warrior] shouted in outrage and fell back, struggling. Ylawes stepped forwards, and a wall of ice sprang up.
“Don’t do this—”
Ceria warned Ylawes, but Falene pointed her staff again. The ice shattered as something struck it, and Ceria stumbled back. Pisces made a noise of outrage. He lifted his hands, and flames burst from them, aimed at Falene. Ylawes surged to block them, and the flames burned harmlessly around his shield.
“Is it combat, then? Should I aim to incapacitate or kill, Captain Ceria?”
Ksmvr drew his shortsword and raised his dagger. Falene bound him with the cords spell as well.
“Stop! Stop, you featherbrained nitwit!”
Dawil roared at Falene. He shoulder-charged the [Mage] as Ceria raised another ice wall. Yvlon was struggling as Ylawes bent to grab her. She tried to kick him, and he tried to pull her up, but he had miscalculated how heavy she was—and how hard it was to drag an uncooperative person single-handedly. Pisces drew his rapier, and Ylawes turned towards him. The [Knight] drew his sword, and Yvlon shouted.
“Ylawes, don’t!”
Pisces and Ylawes faced off as Ceria aimed her wand at the struggling Dawil and Falene, who were shouting at each other. Ylawes narrowed his eyes, and Pisces lowered his posture. The two hesitated—and an arrow embedded itself in the table next to them. Both dodged back and turned.
Halrac lowered his bow. The other adventurers were on their feet. Ylawes turned to them and then twisted. He blocked a whirling frying pan, and the cast iron pan clattered to the ground. Erin lowered her hands.
“Darn. That never works anymore.”
“Don’t interfere.”
Ylawes snapped at Halrac. The [Scout] aimed his bow at the [Knight]’s chest.
“That’s not your decision to make. Let your sister go, Ylawes. She’s an adventurer, and so are you. You don’t get to order her, family or not.”
“That’s precisely why—”
Ylawes’ face flushed. Bevussa folded her wing-arms, looking annoyed.
“I’ve seen enough too. This may be a family matter, but it’s turned into a Gold-rank team fighting a Silver-rank one. Enough. Falene, put down your staff. Cast a spell and we’ll all attack you. This is stupid and pointless.”
The other adventurers nodded. Typhenous pointed his staff at Falene. The half-Elf hesitated and lowered her staff reluctantly. She glared and then doubled over. Dawil had kicked her hard in the shins. The Dwarf looked at his two teammates and shook his head.
“You idiots. I told you they’d never go. Listen to the other Gold-ranks.”
“I can’t just—”
Ylawes swore as Dawil kicked him in the shins, hard enough to go through the metal armor. The Dwarf glared up at him.
“You want to carry your sister off like a damsel in distress? It didn’t work the first time you tried it, and it won’t work now. If you want to give it a shot, I’ll scrape you off the floor when the other Gold-ranks paste you to it. Otherwise we’re done here. Idiots.”
He stomped away. Ylawes stared at Dawil, his teeth set, and then looked around. He stared at Yvlon.
“Sister, please think about this.”
“I have. I’m not going, Ylawes.”
Yvlon folded her arms. Ceria hesitated, looking at Ylawes. The [Knight] breathed in and out, slowly, trying to keep calm.
“Then what will you do? If Liscor falls—”
“I’ll go with my team. If Liscor falls, we’ll take Erin south.”
“But the Drakes—”
“Are not your concern. We’ll survive, Ylawes. But I’m not going to follow you.”
“I see.”
The [Knight] looked pained. And hurt. Yvlon’s own chest stung a bit as he straightened. He had come all this way for her. But she’d never asked him to. He turned and looked around again, then at Yvlon. Then, at last, he shook his head.
“I thought—”
He never finished the sentence. Ylawes just turned and walked out of the inn. Falene looked at Ceria. Pisces made a few rude gestures.
“Remember we offered you a chance. We are leaving Liscor.”
She swept after Ylawes. Dawil was last. The Dwarf tugged on his beard, looking close to swearing. He stared at his teammates as they walked out the door, then looked around. His voice was somber as he spoke.
“I’m sorry about that, friends. But it seems like we’re going.”
“North?”
Halrac queried Dawil. The Dwarf nodded.
“North. We’ll try to avoid the Goblin Lord. But we’re leaving the city today, unless my teammates have other plans. It’s been a pleasure.”
“It has.”
Bevussa nodded at him. Revi waved a hand hesitantly. Yvlon, the iron cords disappearing as Falene’s spell ended, sat up. She looked at Dawil. The Dwarf looked tiredly at her. Erin stared at the Dwarf, aghast.
“Wait, you’re going? Just like that?”
Dawil shrugged and smiled ruefully.
“I’d like to say goodbye. But those idiots are storming off. Hey, wait for me!”
He turned and roared out of the door. Then he looked over his shoulder. There seemed like so much more he wanted to say. But the Dwarf just turned.
“Farewell. Let’s all meet again someday.”
And then he was gone. Yvlon stared at the door. She stood up slowly.
“He’s going? Just like that?”
“Did you want him to stay?”
Pisces sat at a table and watched as Ksmvr sat up. The Antinium looked around and sheathed his weapons, looking ashamed.
“I have been of no use. I am worthless.”
He sat down too. Ceria closed her eyes and breathed out slowly.
“Damn. Are you sure it’s for the best, Yvlon?”
“Yes. I wasn’t going to go with Ylawes anyways. He was always like that, giving me orders. It was just—”
“Just?”
The others looked at her. Yvlon shook her head. Her eyes went to the closed door.
“It was just that he came all this way and did so much for me. Because he was worried. And I never said thank you for that.”
The others looked at her. Yvlon wanted to run to the door. But she held still. One of the adventurers who’d watched everything unfold uttered a curse.
“Humans.”
Yvlon glared at him. The Drake met her gaze and looked away. Erin stared about.
“Well, that sucked.”
No one argued with that. The adventurers sat in silence as Lyonette brought Yvlon some water. Then the door opened. Yvlon looked up. Was it Ylawes, back again?
No. It was Olesm, Zevara, and a host of the City Watch. The adventurers froze as Zevara stepped into the inn through the magic doorway. The Watch Captain looked around.
“Hey, Zevara. Olesm. Can I get you an—”
The Watch Captain forestalled Erin with a claw. She looked about the inn, and Yvlon saw her focus on the sleeping Goblin on the floor. She nodded to one of the [Guardsmen].
“Secure the door.”
A few of the Drakes and Gnolls moved to the door. The adventurers watched, growing more and more nervous. Then Yvlon saw a pair of [Guardsmen] she recognized walk through. Klbkch and Relc took up positions by the door. And another pair of Senior Guards walked through as well.
“What’s this about, Watch Captain?”
Keldrass stood up. He eyed Zevara. The female Drake looked at him and spoke.
“We know you’re trying to leave Liscor.”
The adventurers paused. Olesm cleared his throat.
“By Drake military law, all adventurers in or around Liscor must come to the city’s defense in times of crisis. Dereliction of duty is a treasonous offense.”
“You can’t conscript us. This is a war. We’re not part of it!”
Revi folded her arms. Zevara glanced at her and shook her head. She addressed the Drake teams from Pallass.
“This is not an option. You must stay in Liscor. The city needs your strength to hold the line. As Watch Captain, I order you to remain in the city. And to ensure that is so, I am confiscating the door. As we should have done from the start.”
She gestured. A pair of Gnolls grabbed the magic doorway. Erin stared.
“You can’t do that.”
Zevara looked at Erin.
“I can and must. This is a matter of security—”
“Hold on. You’re not taking that door.”
Halrac pointed at the doorway. Zevara turned, and the Watch braced themselves.
“Stand down.”
“You stand down.”
Revi glared as she cracked her knuckles, not quite pointing her wand at Olesm’s feet. The Drake gulped. Zevara didn’t blink.
“We are taking the door. If you try and stop us, we will—”
“Do what? Arrest us? There are thousands of Goblins between the inn and Liscor. And us. You’ll never make it.”
Zevara looked at Revi and then past her at Erin. The [Innkeeper] looked blank and then backed up a step.
“Hold on…”
The adventurers looked at each other as the City Watch edged towards the door. Halrac cursed as he slowly drew an arrow. Zevara waited, daring them to make the first move. Olesm gulped. Relc and Klbkch, who’d set themselves up near Zevara, were braced. Relc was chanting under his breath.
“Bar fight! Bar fight! Bar fight!”
No one else said a word. The stalemate drew out and out until the adventurers and the City Watch heard pounding footsteps. Then Ilvriss hurtled out of the door.
 
——
 
Some days, he forgot what Periss’ face looked like. It was unbelievable, but so. Some days, he forgot the sound of her voice. Already, memory was failing him. But he had sworn an oath. And he remembered the drink Erin had given him. Part of him wanted to taste it again, to sink into the past. But he recognized magic, and he understood the addiction of drugs.
