It had to be done. But it was so not-Goblin that the echoes of the betrayal lingered on. The Goblins moved as Reiss directed them, but more like undead than Goblins. They were…silent.
“Snapjaw.”
Reiss sent the order for his lieutenant. He had to tell her about his master’s new plans, or the adjustments, rather. In truth, Reiss just wanted someone to talk to. He saw Snapjaw ride slowly towards him. Not as quickly as she usually did. And when she appeared, the metal-toothed Goblin was hesitant.
“Snapjaw, why are you hesitating?”
Reiss looked at her. The female Hob gulped.
“Is it you?”
The question rocked Reiss back in his seat. He stared at Snapjaw, and she colored. But the question lingered on. Is it you? It is really you, Reiss? Or is it the Necromancer, using you as a puppet?
Up till now, Reiss had been sure it was him. Despite everything. His master’s voice was just a mental connection. The being that was Reiss was undiluted. But he remembered the moment when he had struck Rags with a spell and wondered. Was it him? Was this desire to take Liscor him? Or was it his mind being influenced?
“It’s me.”
He said it out loud, to reassure Snapjaw as much as himself. It had to be him. He had sacrificed so much, this desire meant more than anything. It was…he shook his head.
Osthia had spoken to him. Tied up, gagged so she couldn’t spit. But she had tried. She had begged him in the moment when they’d spoken.
“Don’t do this. Please.”
He couldn’t answer her. Reiss bowed his head. He felt haunted. By betrayal, by doubt. The shining city in his dreams seemed dark and the road ahead long. But nearly. They were nearly there. He looked at Snapjaw.
“Are you with me?”
“Yes, Lord.”
She said it automatically. But she did not say his name. And Reiss wondered. He wondered as he stared down at his reattached hand. At the headless Shield Spider, rotting. At the silent Goblins, marching. And he knew he would have his answer tomorrow. Come what may. There was bitter relief in that, at least.
 
——
 
And then it was done. Erin stood outside her inn and saw the decision as it was made. She saw Headscratcher look down, Redscar sigh, and Spiderslicer turn away. Noears looked mildly relieved, and Poisonbite looked like she didn’t know what to think. She waited for one of the Redfangs to tell her. In the end, Headscratcher did it.
“We go.”
He pointed south. Erin nodded. That was it. The Goblins had debated, and they had chosen. By the slimmest of margins, they had decided not to stay or hide or fight. It was a practical choice.
“Should fight. Goblin Lord coming. Goblin Lord betrayed. Should fight.”
Redscar growled as he stomped past them. Erin looked at him and then at Headscratcher.
“You’re all leaving?”
“Now. Tonight.”
Headscratcher nodded. He looked at Erin and gestured to the inn.
“Will bring door. When get back, can come visit? Or teleport? If run from city in door, we find and protect.”
The awkward gallantry made Erin smile. She put a hand on Headscratcher’s arm and squeezed.
“Thank you. But you guys just find somewhere safe, okay? There are Drakes heading north. Don’t get attacked.”
“We won’t.”
Headscratcher nodded. He and Erin looked at each other. It was time for goodbyes. She hugged him without a word, and he hesitated, then hugged her back. The other Goblins came over, and Erin said goodbye to each one.
“Take care. Get a new guitar.”
“Don’t drink too much from that wine cloak, Rabbiteater. It’s bad for your teeth. I think.”
“Don’t sharpen your sword too much. There’s more to life than swords, you know. Like…maces? I dunno.”
“Good shooting. I’ll say hi to Bird for you.”
The five Redfangs shook Erin’s hands or hugged her or spoke a few words. Erin wanted to say a lot more. And she would. They weren’t going right now. But it felt too rushed. Too inadequate. She walked back into her inn as the Goblins began organizing, packing up.
They were going. And at least she was at peace with that.
“Good. It’s good. This isn’t their fight. This isn’t their problem.”
Erin spoke to herself in her empty inn. She stared out the window and then looked north. The empty Floodplains waited. Soon, they would be filled with Goblins and Humans and death. Still, she couldn’t picture the war entirely. It couldn’t happen. It shouldn’t happen.
And she wouldn’t let it happen. Erin’s hands slowly tightened into fists. She stared out the window and felt something rising in her.
“It can’t go down like this. I won’t let it. Goblin Lord? Humans? Why can’t we talk about it? Why can’t we stop? It could happen. It might happen. Someone has to try.”
Even if it was a risk. Even if it meant dying. Erin turned. She looked around blankly and then ran upstairs. She came down with a bed sheet.
“Darn. I’m going to need thread, a pole—can I get Selys to stitch for me? Heck, I’ll do it myself if I have to. What do I say? What do I do? What if they shoot me?”
For a second, she paused and stared down at her hands. Erin closed her eyes and breathed out slowly.
“Someone has to try.”
She began to work. And perhaps it didn’t matter. Perhaps one person could change nothing. But when everything teetered on the brink, one person’s actions did matter. One [Innkeeper], perhaps. Or the little Gnoll and Goblin who watched from the shadows. And who had heard…
Everything. And that night, things happened. People marched and plotted and things got into line just so. More or less how it was expected to happen, but with some key differences no one expected. And the next day…
The Goblin Lord’s army arrived in Liscor.
