“Lexi totally wanted to hit someone with Writher,” said Alden. “And he got Mehdi. And Mehdi’s too stubborn to leave their course, so he’s just hobbling around in there…hoping for I don’t know what. It’s all good. I swear.”


Lucille was rounding the track’s second curve when she suddenly stopped going forward. Her feet were still moving, but each one of her bounding strides went absolutely nowhere.


Yep, there it is, thought Alden.


She stopped and stared down at her boots.


Alden ran over to join her. Her cheeks were wet with tears. She was one of those people who got really red and puffy when they teared up. He could sympathize.


“I’m trapped,” she said in a thick voice.


“You are. Thanks for finding that for us.” He smiled. “Want me to throw you a rope or do you want to bust out of it by overwhelming it with super strength? I bet you could. One really forceful jump.”


“Why are you so nice to me?” She was scrubbing at her eyes again. “You should be mad.”


“People make mistakes while they’re trying to figure out their powers. Would you be mad if I made one?”


She was still looking at her boots. “They’re just going to attack me again,” she said. “As soon as I get back in the gym. I’ll just mess up again.”


“They should really focus on their own course instead of risking more attacks,” said Alden. “So maybe—”


She shook her head furiously. “I heard Marsha say it to one of them on my way out. That she’d just let Winston keep…that maybe it would make me learn a lesson if an A took me down over and over…she was mad I wouldn’t fight her the way she wanted in Superlatives last week.”


Marsha’s some kind of battle freak. They need to turn the gym’s realism settings all the way up and see if that sobers her ass.


“I think it’s fine that you want to figure out how to take people down without killing them. I think it’s good for you to practice that in whatever way works best for you. Maybe it’s different than how I would do it…I don’t really know…I’m not in your shoes. But this is class. Class is for practice. I’m at this school because it’s an educational facility, and honestly I find it tedious how almost everyone else seems to think it’s a magical dick measuring facility instead.”


She finally met his eyes. She looked a little alarmed.


Alden shrugged. “I hope Winston does attack you again. Because I actually want to educate myself. I’m curious to see how a Rabbit should fight a Speed Brute. So if he does, let me deal with it.”


“Um…”


“What? You think I can’t?”


“No! I’m sure you can!” Her eyes were wide.


“It’s not the end of the world if I can’t. I’ll try it. If I get hurt, you’ll carry me over the finish line with your Brute strength. If you get hurt, I’ll tie you up in a bunch of rope and carry you over the finish line with my magic. Right?”


She hesitated. “Right?”


“By the way,” he added, “I saw someone ripped in half by a Strength Brute once. It was gruesome. It probably saved my life. I really doubt Marsha has more insight into the matter than you or I do, so definitely don’t listen to her opinion on how you want to handle your rank and class.”


He pointed at her. “Now break out of that puny trap and run. Fast. Despite everything I just said about dick measuring, I don’t want to lose to such an awful team. Catch me before I get back to the gym.”


He turned to go. About ten seconds passed before he heard a grunt followed the sound of boots hitting the pavement hard, as if the owner had landed from a particularly forceful jump.


******


“You’re sure you don’t want us to come back that way for you?” Haoyu asked. “Or just me. We should really leave Jeffy in the water.”


“We’re fine,” said Alden, crawling through the pipe behind Lucille. A blade of torn grass fell off the bottom of her shoes. “Let’s stick with the two and two plan for now.”


“Is that good with you, Lucille?”


“We’re fine!” she said. “We’ve got this.”


“Pause for a sec,” Alden told her. “Let me prep something before we exit the pipe, while the other team can’t see us.”


“What?”


“I brought something special for handling our faster classmates. I didn’t expect I’d actually get to use it.”


Nobody ever asked the Rabbit to go on the attack after all. There were much more qualified people.


Nice of Winston to make himself such a nuisance, he thought, pulling more of the blindingly yellow paracord free from his supply of it.


******


******


Winston Heelfeather concentrated on every part of his body. The way the balls of his feet rested on the ground, the tension in his spine, the twist of the sickle in his right hand, then his left, then his right. Tossing it with Avowed grace was what he was going for, but you couldn’t always tell how it looked until you’d seen the footage.


He did the smile. One of the fans called it his “looks could kill” smile. It was a little one. But confident.


Already beat an S twice, the caption would say. Do you guys think I’m brave enough to try it a third time?


Presence. Was. Everything.


Well, no. Power was better. But he had an A to work with, so he would work with it.


There were some A’s who were more famous than S’s. Hotter, funnier, cooler.


He would be one of them.


They’re coming out of the pipe.


When to take her? What would look best?


Not when she was on her knees escaping from the pipe.


Even though Winston wasn’t allowed to show the actual moment he killed her because of the rules about sharing images of other students, sometimes the video watchers really analyzed his movements. Those overzealous fans might notice the angle he approached his victim from and realize he’d been going for someone on the ground.


Bad look.


He wished he could have one more attack. Just one more. Three times for the only S in the class besides Kon that Marsha didn’t want to fight herself…and then one for Alden Thorn.


That guy needed to be taken down several notches. He was getting so much attention for having a cute face and a fucked up story. For being the stupidest class and dropping a plate full of vegetables and singing about freaky alien birds that ate each other. Winston’s fans wanted to know more about him.


Maybe I should go for him after all.


No. Focus on what mattered. Alden could go around polishing alien silverware and dropping carrots on other freckled orphans; eventually, it would stop being novel and people would forget him.


It would go that way. It was just logic.


What mattered was Winston building himself and his image. His legend.


He watched Lucille emerged from the pipe. The rest of her team was at the other end of the course. She was scared to hit people too hard, so she was a sitting duck.


Through the fire, he decided. The ice was getting thin. The melting water, a few flames—it was going to look great.


“Hey! Have you got another speed boost for me?”


Max was lurking around Winston. Winston didn’t know why. Someone who ran at purely human speeds should be booking it down the course so he wouldn’t hold the rest of them up at this point. But since he was here…


“You’re going to attack Lucille again?” the B-rank asked. “She's got Alden with her. Better watch out.”


Winston narrowed his eyes. “Are you being funny or something?”


Max glanced toward the other team. Alden was coming out of the pipe, a length of that fluorescent yellow rope in his hand.


“Sure,” said Max. “I happen to have just one more speed zone. Tell me where you want it, and down it will go.”


******


Parachute cord was a type of kernmantle rope. Smaller inner strands were held together and protected from breakage by the woven exterior sheath.


The outer sheaths came in lots of different colors, including shades so bright they almost hurt your eyes. The inner strands in most of Alden’s paracord collection were white. The floor of the gymnasium was also white.


The possibilities were obvious.


But just in case, he’d taken it a step farther. Some types of paracord—mostly meant for survivalists—had neat things inside them apart from the plain white core. Wires, fire starter strands, even fishing line.


And it took no time at all to get at the stuff; you just grabbed the end of whichever interior strand you wanted and pulled. It came right out, inch by inch, foot by foot. Before they’d left the pipe, Alden had pulled some of his fishing line out.


When he straightened it all out and preserved it, he had a very obvious paracord line several feet in length with an even longer, but much less obvious, strand of fishing line sticking out from the end.


Winston came for them as soon as they were on their feet, so quickly that Alden barely had time to admire his new tool. The speedster blasted through the melting fire obstacle, his feet shattering the very thin layer of ice left on the floor. He was moving at freeway speeds.


At that speed, most people couldn’t see strands of transparent fishing line.


It turned out Winston Heelfeather couldn’t either.


Alden thrust the cord out, turned his wrist just in time to get it positioned parallel to the floor between the fire obstacle and Lucile, and then he felt the impact on his authority as Winston clotheslined himself and fell backwards. The other teen hit the floor hard, grabbing at his neck, a shocked expression on his face.


Just that fast, it was over.


Alden let his skill drop. Winston running into had almost fatigued it the rest of the way anyway; Alden had pushed farther than he’d meant to.


Other Avowed directly striking the preserved object seem to hit harder than equivalent non-Avowed forces.


That kind of thing wasn’t an unknown phenomenon; he just hadn’t had a lot of personal experience with it.


Magic clashing with magic. Authority vs. authority.


Winston had winded himself. He was still staring up at the ceiling in astonishment.


“All right,” said Alden, stepping around him and hurrying toward the next obstacle before it could turn into an inferno. “So that’s done. Lucille, my skill’s gone. I’ll have to rely on you and Haoyu to get me past the weights and over the wall.”


“Did you guys just take out Winston?” Astrid called. “What was that?”


“I’m pretty sure Alden just decapitated him,” said Haoyu.


“Let’s win now,” said Alden. “I want to go eat Filipino food.”


******


******


The race ended with Lucille crossing the tightrope over the finish line. The bell rang, and an instant later, they were all smiling, half the drama of the past twenty minutes forgotten in an instant. Astrid started doling out hugs to every one.


“Beautiful land moves!” she shouted in Jeffy’s ear, pointing toward the other team’s course. “Look what you accomplished.”


In their water tank, Max was floating peacefully on his back. And Marsha was upside down, her legs kicking wildly in the air as she tried to dive. And failed.


Her glaive was at the bottom of the tank. She’d thrown it down there, no doubt planning to pull herself toward it that way, but it seemed like she’d overused the ability.


“Maricel said she was prone to overworking herself and running out of gas,” Alden said. “Guess it happened.”


“Who would’ve thought a life jacket spell could be used to defeat people?” Haoyu sounded amused as he watched Marsha struggle. “It must be pretty strong. She’s not getting anywhere.”


“If you cast it eight times you can make a tract—a really heavy truck float,” Jeffy announced. “I practiced it before I left home.”


“It’s good,” said Alden.


“You beat Winston,” Lexi said.


“Yeah. I kind of wanted to save that trick to try on Klein. But this was a worthy cause.”


Marsha kicked her feet so hard one of her shoes flew off, but she kept right on bobbing in the water like a cork.
 
 
 
*
