128*******
 
 
 
From the very beginning, there was something ugly about it


Alden’s team was missing a core piece. They were worried, nervous, and not sure what they were supposed to be doing now that all of their plans had been upset. And the personalities of their opponents added an additional element of tension that hadn’t been present in any of the previous matches.


The members of Team Vandy/Marsha who had been grim from their earlier losses suddenly felt like they had a chance. Maricel’s absence put a couple of them in a much more optimistic mood. They were excited by the fact that they wouldn’t be going up against one of the class’s most powerful students after all, and they were too self-absorbed to hide it.


Jerkasses, thought Alden, surfacing in the water tank and gulping in a few breaths before he grabbed a third float and plunged downward again.


Vandy had been upset about Maricel, of course. They were on their way to being friends if they weren’t there already. But Marsha…


Alden gritted his teeth and kicked furiously toward the bottom of the tank, shoving the float ahead of him.


Even if Maricel hadn’t gone missing, even if he and his team members weren’t all a little anxious for her, he still thought they would have struggled in this race more than they’d originally expected.


There’s something brutal about these guys, and the fact that they have no clear plan of their own fucks up all of our attempts to make plans that counter them.


Case in point: the game was around halfway through, and Alden was currently doing Jeffy’s job. That hadn’t even been on their radar as a backup backup scheme.


Things had been weird like this the whole race, starting from the second the other team hit the gym. It was more like they were forcing their way down the course instead of running it, trying to keep up with Marsha, who was so hellbent on getting first attack that she practically carried the class’s one and only Vocal Brute to the finish line and tossed him over it.


Alden’s team hadn’t been lagging too far behind despite everything. They’d decided to send Astrid and Njeri over the line first to give themselves some attack options, and Alden had just finished putting the two of them, along with Jeffy and Reinhard, up on top of the wall when the other team’s bell rang to announce that Marsha had earned them the right to attack.


“Okay,” Haoyu had said. At that time, he and Lexi had taken a position on the floor at that end of the weights with the intention of forcing incoming enemies to confront them rather than running through toward the people on the wall. “Let’s be wary. The smart thing for them to do would be wait until they had two attacks available so that they could…or not. Here she comes!”


Marsha had run straight at the two of them, thrown her weapon into the air high over their heads before she reached them and used her reverse recall to fly up toward it, gaining enough altitude that Writher only managed to sever an aglet from one of her shoelaces as she passed. She and the polearm—in spear form—hit the floor on their side of the course hard enough that she had to be at least slightly injured. But you wouldn’t have known it from the way she sprang up again and dashed for the wall, where Alden was standing at the base. Even if he had been fully rested and holding a large shield, he wouldn’t have been foolish enough to think he could take an S-rank Meister’s strike dead-on. He didn’t want to lose the use of his skill for the rest of the game, so he opted for death.


Or he opted for what would have been his death if Marsha was a player who cared about winning more than her own personal agenda.


Alden dropped preservation on his paracord, and flung a temper sphere at her as she approached. Because why not try everything? Then he dove under the tip of the spear and at her knees as she reached him.


His first thought was, I can’t believe I managed to grab her before she stabbed me.


His second was, Oh God. It’s like I’ve grabbed a bear.


Marsha didn’t even stumble. She just plowed right through him and over him, which didn’t count as an attack on her part since he was the one who’d thrown himself in front of the freight train and she’d made no move at all to injure him. Alden rolled across the floor, gasping, and looked up to see Marsha scaling the wall with another toss of her spear.


Reinhard shot her twice, going for injuries rather than kills because an injured Marsha was way better for them. She had one dead arm and one half-functional one when she leaped past him and into their tank.


To attack Jeffy. In the water.


She probably could’ve taken out Astrid and Njeri, who were also in the tank right then, with one swing. She could’ve taken out Reinhard or Alden as she passed. Instead, she took a ton of injuries, let a very confused Jeffy drag her down to the bottom of the tank, and then attacked him after she was on the verge of drowning. For what was basically a murder-suicide that managed not to violate any rules.


Killing yourself was a no-go, but being reckless in your pursuit of a target wasn’t.


Jeffy was upset in the immediate aftermath, but it really wasn’t his fault. None of them had given him advice on what to do if an enemy came into the tank with him, and the last thing he’d heard Reinhard shout through comms was ‘I’ll make sure not to kill her.’ So he’d wavered, not sure what the right thing was. That skill of Marsha’s that released an invisible strike had speared him in the chest.


“That was insane,” Astrid said after it was over. “If she had to take out an S, why didn’t she go for Lucille first?”


Lucille was on the ground at the frozen fire obstacle, guarding Everly. She was a much, much easier target than Jeffy.


Reinhard was angry with himself. “I should’ve shot her lethally. I could have. We just agreed to go for injuries, and I thought arrows to the shoulders would be plenty—”


“It’s fine,” said Haoyu. “Shake it off, everybody. Especially you, Jeffy. That was basically a wasted attack for them since Marsha’s going back to start, too. Look how annoyed Vandy is.”


Vandy did look very displeased. She was sitting up on her team’s monkey bar obstacle, brow furrowed and talking fast.


“Don’t worry so much,” Marsha responded on her way out of the gym. Her voice was loud enough to carry. “Their team only has one S-rank with Maricel gone.”


At the time, Alden wondered, rather naively, if she’d misspoken. But no. The next several minutes had shed light on the matter.


Marsha, who seemed to have an interest in taking down other S’s that bordered on obsession, didn’t want to bother with Lucille. On her next attack, she took on Jeffy again, before he could make it back to the water. That time he was ready, sort of, and managed to grab hold of her and chant something as he “died.”


“What the hell was that?” she’d asked when the spell did absolutely nothing obvious. “What spell impression did you take?”


“That’s not going to work on her,” Reinhard had said with a groan. “With her skill…why didn’t he just punch her?”


He was struggling a bit with the fact that he couldn’t successfully attack over there himself. High winds were such a good counter to arrows that it wasn’t worth wasting a shot, and he would be confining himself to defensive shooting.


Their next best attacker would have been Maricel. In her absence, they were going with an unusual combination.


When they’d earned their first two attacks, Lexi crossed over to the enemy course with Everly. His job was to use his one attack to protect her from whoever tried to interfere with her while she cast her slick ice patch over the ramp that led up to the area where the tonne and half-tonne weights had to be dropped.


It was Everly’s most powerful spell, and the ice it created was a bit more arcane than the sort humans regularly pulled out of a freezer. She’d used it a few times versus Instructor Klein, and the stuff was a menace. There was no running across it, only sliding, and it resisted melting and destruction. The other team would have to cajole Marsha into using her weapon to break it up if they wanted to get weights up the ramp again.


The hastily-developed plan went well enough. Everly got the ice down and got away. Lexi got killed but managed to wrap Writher around Mehdi’s arm and fling him skyward first.


Everything was going well enough if Alden compared their team’s progress to the other’s. The race was just chaotic, difficult, and increasingly bitter.


As he headed down into the depths of the tank with yet another float, the world went quiet except for the sound of Astrid and Haoyu encouraging everyone through comms.


They were doing their best to counter the negativity and confusion with good attitudes and constant callouts about what was going on…which couldn’t be that easy to keep track of since Vandy had, at long last, gotten fed up with Marsha. After that last risky assault on Jeffy had carried the polearm-wielding Meister right past juicier targets once again, Vandy had started trying to direct the team without any further regard for her most zealous teammate’s attacks.


Instead of letting Marsha run in a third time, she’d taken her own shot and blown Reinhard right off the top of the wall with a powerful burst of air. He’d survived the long fall with such a heavy movement restriction that Haoyu had had to come carry him to the finish line.


Vandy deciding not to let Marsha have her way by working around her seemed to have blown any last remaining crumb of team cohesion apart. It was a free-for-all over there, with some of the group thrusting toward the finish line with almost zero help and others waiting for the sound of the bell to claim the next attack.


“They’re losing,” Haoyu called. “I know it’s stressful right now, but just remember that the way they’re playing is going to make them lose even if it is making our own strategies…kind of useless.”


He’d pushed Reinhard over the line a while ago, and now he was heading to pick up Everly and move her through the course. With Vandy having proven herself willing to attack, they had to take her into consideration as well now. The higher, more precarious positions like the rope climb, the bars, and the top of the wall could become death traps.


Haoyu had a spell impression that made him less likely to be knocked off his feet by blows. He seemed a little sheepish about it because it was a much weaker version of talents his parents had. But it was strong enough to help him resist Vandy’s wind, so he’d be making sure Everly didn’t get taken down on her way to the finish.


“Lucille, are you good?” Astrid called. “You’re sure you’re fine to move the weights one more time for Jeffy to come through when he’s done running track?”


“Yes,” she said softly.


Under the water, his feet hooked under one trap to keep himself submerged while his fingers flicked open the catch of another, Alden winced. Even that single word reply sounded downtrodden.


Lucille had launched herself into Marsha’s path to protect Jeffy from that last assault. She’d made it there in time with an explosively powerful leap, but then her tackle and the toss that sent Marsha back toward her own course had been…rather gentle. Especially for an S-rank grabbing and throwing another S-rank.


Gentle enough that Marsha had managed to complete her swing and kill Jeffy for the second time.


Gentle enough that Winston Heelfeather had seen it and suddenly decided he could get in on the offensive action, too.


His team’s Object Shaper was over there on their course quietly turning all of the miscellaneous objects he’d brought into very sharp miscellaneous objects. He’d done the same on their last run. He seemed to want to attack people with them, but he never got around to actually doing it so maybe it was just his way of staying out of his more aggressive teammates’ paths.


When their bell rang for the fourth time, Winston had snatched up a wind chime that had been turned into something more like a razor sharp sickle. He’d ordered up a speed zone from Max, run at Lucille, dove dramatically across the floor, and sliced her calf.


Now she was moving the weights with a bum leg, she sounded like she was near tears, and Winston was watching her like a hawk, clearly hoping he’d get another shot.


“Vandy’s sending Max back out to the track again,” Astrid reported. “He’s jogging that way.”


“This is so stupid,” Lexi spat. “It’s like trying to figure out what a bunch of over-energized toddlers are going to do with their superpowers next.”


Max was doing what he’d sworn he would do and following instructions. Everyone’s instructions. And because his team had nothing like organization since Vandy’s break with Marsha, people were countermanding each other all the time.


Vandy would send Max out to the track to lay down a trap; obviously she thought that her team should’ve been using him that way from the start. Then Marsha would catch on and order him back because she didn’t want him to take one of her attack slots. Or Winston would call him back to lay down another speed zone in front of him, ostensibly so that he could attack faster or run back and forth through the fire. Alden was sure it was really so that he could run as fast as Finlay while he put on a cool expression for the camera.


