As a result, Max was spending half his time running back and forth uselessly and the other half casting spells that benefited one or two people for very specific tasks. Someone had had the bright idea of telling him to lay down a bunch of the float zones under the monkey bars, so that nobody would die if they fell off. So that spell impression was now completely gone if Alden’s count was right, and there was no benefit unless somebody on their team spontaneously lost grip strength on their way across that one obstacle.


Now Haoyu was asking Jeffy if he wanted to use his land moves on Max, since they were both about to pass by each other outside and Max was unlikely to escape from an S-rank who gave chase.


As long as it doesn’t take him too long, Alden thought. Even though he was much, much slower than the Aqua Brute, he was still working steadily here to keep the obstacle cleared so that they could send Everly through without waiting for Jeffy to trap all the floats.


I was not supposed to have to swim this much. There was no permutation of the plan that called for me being the team’s swimmer. He gasped in some more air and went back to it.


Everyone was doing their best around all the madness. He was proud of his teammates for not getting too flustered with the state of things.


He kept going through it all in his head. It was more important to keep a mental image of their positions in mind when he was down here where he had no way to see them.


I’m in here doing my job and staying safe from attack unless Marsha decides she’d like to spearfish for a B-rank. Astrid, Njeri, and Reinhard are over the finish line. Lucille is still pushing through the weights for us; she’s the best for it even if she is limping. Jeffy’ll be back in the gym in a minute. Haoyu and Everly will make it to me right ahead of him, and I’ll pull them all up.


Haoyu had helped himself to Reinhard’s bow and used it to shoot arrows into this side of the wall above the tank so that Alden could climb back up to the top when it was time. Reinhard had been officially unconscious and therefore unable to complain aloud without getting in trouble, but they’d gotten some indecipherable mental texts from him that probably meant something like, “How dare you play with my bow, you swine?!”


He didn’t mind people touching the arrows, but he was a little precious about the bow.


The current plan, which was the dozenth they’d had in as many minutes, was for the final six team members to head over the finish line in two groups.


First would be Everly and Lexi.


Then Haoyu, Alden, Lucille, and Jeffy wouldn’t cross until they were all together. The four of them should be able to tackle every obstacle on the course, even if one of them was knocked out by an assault and had to be carried.


They weren’t even going to bother trying another attack after Everly and Lexi were over the line. They were just going to run for it and get this mess over with.


“I got Max!” Jeffy said excitedly. “I grabbed him and did the spell. Do you think he minded?”


“I think Max has given up on minding things for the day, Jeffy,” said Astrid. “Now hurry back here! Alden is doing your job at ten percent speed.”


Not long after that, Alden got word that it was showtime for him and he pulled himself out of the tank. He heard an all-too-familiar soft sploosh sound behind him as he climbed the few wobbly arrows up to the top.


One of the floats had come free of its trap and would have to be put back.


Breathing hard, he made it to the top of the wall. Lying flat on his belly so that any surprise attacks from Vandy would be less likely to knock him off, hair dripping in his eyes, he looked over the edge to see Haoyu, Lexi, Everly and Jeffy below him.


“Hi there,” he said.


“Your skill’s okay, isn’t it?” Haoyu asked. “Should we go up all together to save you from having to use it for longer?”


All together was, debatably, riskier this late in the game, with attacks more likely to come in as the other team gained more finishers of their own. Alden getting knocked off the wall while he was lifting the four of them could result in kills and crippling injuries for half the team at once.


“I’m fine. Let’s do it two at a time to be on the safe side.”


“Lucille,” Astrid called from where she watched at the end of the course. “Be sure to shout if you see Vandy making shaping gestures.”


Now that everyone was through the weights for what they hoped would be the last time, the injured Brute was bringing up the rear and serving as their watcher. She was up near the ceiling, clinging to the platform at the end of the bars, her strength ensuring a good grip that would keep Vandy from trying an assault on her. As soon as Lexi and Everly were over the finish line, she’d slide down the steep diagonal beam to join the final four in this section of the course. Alden would pull her up.


And then we can wrap this up.


He tied a large loop into the end of a length of cord and lowered it, preserving just before he reached the floor almost fifty feet below him. He pulled Everly and Jeffy up. She gave him a tired smile. “I’m ready for this one to be over with,” she said, then she splashed down into the tank with the Aqua Brute. Alden pulled Lexi and Haoyu up, feeling anxious the whole way.


But they made it to the top, too.


Lexi dove into the water. While Jeffy dragged him and Everly toward the bottom, Haoyu crouched beside Alden, recast his spell impression, and grabbed the back of Alden’s gymsuit in a firm grip.


“I call this my anti-wind move,” he said quietly, eyes shifting from Vandy to Lucille and back.


“I appreciate it. Death by falling is no fun.”


“Sorry you had to swim the whole race.”


“It’s fine,” said Alden. “Jeffy got to do his thing. I’m looking forward to seeing the results of it.”


In truth, he was getting pretty tired. Speed swimming was exhausting anyway, and doing it with floats trying to drag you back to the surface the whole time was a lot harder.


Now Lucille was coming down the beam, using the slide-grip-slide method they’d all settled on.


[She’s cry eyes.] Haoyu sent the mental text to Alden privately. [No talking.]


It was true. Lucille had been getting more vocal toward the end of the race against Febri/Shrike earlier, but now she’d almost totally shut down. No matter how many encouragements Astrid sent her way, she seemed to be hanging onto herself by a thread.


[She’s angry with herself,] Alden replied.


The team wouldn’t be this far along without Lucille. Even if all she did was the weights, it was a huge benefit. The damn things took so much time and combinations of at least two people for the rest of them to move.


But Lucille had missed chances to take out enemies that another person with her abilities wouldn’t have missed, and she was obviously very aware of it.


[I was afraid Reinhard was going to say something to her about it,] Alden admitted. [He looked so pissed after she soft-balled Marsha. But he let it go.]


[Good team,] said Haoyu.


Max ran back into the gym with a totally blank expression on his face; either he’d actually succeeded in putting a trap out there for the first time since the obstacle courses had started or he’d been re-summoned by some team member who wanted to use him stupidly. Alden watched him hit his knees and head through the tube. When he emerged, he laid down what had to be one of his last speed zones inside the fire obstacle to get through with the minimum possible movement restriction.


“Do you think Max trapped the track?” Haoyu asked, narrowing his eyes. “They’ve got an attack. So he could have.”


The enemy bell rang again


It’s annoying that they have two more players than us. Then again, given their complete inability to get along, maybe more wasn’t merrier in this case.


Lucille hit the end of the beam and limped toward them.


Though it’s not really limping by a normal human measure. More like strength-infused one-legged bounds, that put her at the base of the wall in moments. Alden had the cord preserved and waiting for her.


“They’ve got at least one attack for sure now,” Haoyu said. “They need to take it. Vandy could try to knock Lexi off the tightrope, or Marsha looks like she—”


“Winston!” said Alden, spotting the speedster as he blitzed across the boundary between the two courses. Once he’d done that, he was the official attacker for his team for one turn. “Lucille, grab on! Let me get you in the air!”


She hesitated.


Alden thought it was because she wanted to try it. To fight back. All she had to do was hit Winston in the leg, and he was done for. The game was over. Everyone knew it.


But she hesitated, and you couldn’t do that versus people who’d been shaped by the System to be fast.


Alden thought Winston Heelfeather was a nasty, shallow piece of work, but he did move like a speedster.


Like his stats are telling reality itself he has the right to move through it quicker than the rest of us.


It had been a half-developed concept in Alden’s mind until right this second, a slightly different perception of foundation points he’d been arriving at after his last talk with the System and after watching his classmates do so many amazing things over the past weeks.


It’s easy to forget when the power looks physical instead of mystical, but there it is, he thought grimly as the wind chime sickle Winston had stolen earlier flashed across Lucille’s throat. Winston’s using every bit of his magic, and Lucille’s scared to use all of hers.


She leaned against the wall below him and Haoyu, a devastated expression on her face. Winston’s attack hadn’t pushed her back even a step, but his aim had been true. Alden was sure she’d just gotten a death notice.


Winston paused and looked up toward a drone with a winning smile on his face, and Alden’s hands made a judgment call before his brain had caught up with them.


He snatched the bag full of unused temper spheres off of himself and shook his whole supply of them out on top of Winston’s head.


“Put that on your website,” he muttered, as Winston yelped and ducked, zipping back to the safety of his team’s side so fast that it was clear he imagined himself to be under a much more serious assault than he actually was.


“If you hadn’t done that, I was about to jump on him,” said Haoyu.


“From fifty feet up?”


“I almost definitely wouldn’t die. But he might. If I hit him. Bit embarrassing if he dodged, though.”


“Shake it off, Lucille!” Astrid called. “No big deal. You’re the fastest person we have. If you hurry, Everly’s freeze might still be in effect on the fire box when you come back through.”


“That’s right!” said Njeri. “Get back out there. We’re almost done.”


“S-sorry!” Lucille said, wiping her eyes on the back of her sleeve. “I’ll hurry!”


Alden was relieved she was still moving. He’d been afraid for a second that she was going to give up.


“Aw man,” he said as he watched her go. “The track…”


Haoyu looked at him. Then he groaned. “Max.”


Alden nodded. “It could be trapped. Assuming they gave him time to do it before they summoned him back. It probably is since Marsha isn’t running over here to stab something. He must have used that other attack they earned for it.”


“Lucille can probably bust through. It won’t hold an S-rank for long.”


“It might delay her for just a minute though,” Alden said. “We don’t really need a delay, and…”


And he was worried about how she’d react to enduring yet another mishap. Even such a small one. Repeat failures felt really bad. They felt even worse when you knew forty other people were watching you and judging you.


“Permission to depart, Co-captain?” he said.


Haoyu’s lips twitched a little. “Yes. If you want to.”


“Yes!” Astrid agreed.


Alden nodded. “I’ll run with her and make sure the trap isn’t a problem. If you stay here with Jeffy…well, it’s better. Two of you to watch each other’s backs. And Lucille and I will do the same. Nobody alone. More flexibility. Here.”


He slapped his cord down on top of the wall. He had a couple more pieces long enough to get himself and Lucille up here if Haoyu couldn’t hold the post until they got back.


“Five minutes left,” said Haoyu. “Plenty of time.”


On his way out of the gym, Alden saw Winston pointing at Max and then at the ground in front of himself demandingly.


******


Since Alden hadn’t died, he didn’t have to run the track three times before heading back to the gym. He was just going to hang out and make sure Lucille didn’t have any trouble.


But when he got out there, he saw she was already having trouble. She was really crying as she cleared hurdles one after the other.


“It’s fine, Lucille,” he said, standing at the edge of the track. The sun was getting low in the sky. “I slept through half of our first run. Remember? You could die three more times and you’d still accomplish more than I did that race.”


“I’m r-ruining it for you all.” She overshot a hurdle by at least a yard and landed hard on the other side. “I w-wanted to fight b-back, but I’m not good at guessing how hard I can hit when people come at me fast.”


“Understandable. Nobody’s mad. Nothing’s ruined. We’re still going to win because they’re a shit team.”


“I’m sup-posed to be our most powerful fighter. Especially with Maricel gone. And Vandy countering the arrows. I’m letting you all d-down. Lexi had to defend Everly. Haoyu—”


