Rubbing my temples like I have a headache, I hide Luo-Luo’s bewitching figure from my eyes. “Relax, I’m not sending you away or anything. Look, we’ll figure it out as we go, all right?” I can’t afford to offend the Legate, especially now that I understand the value of his gift. I’ve been made pseudo-royalty by affiliation, which is a big deal to most people. It just so happens I don’t care, which might be exactly why the Legate gifted Luo-Luo to me. He gets to be seen as open-minded and generous for rewarding a savage so highly, while not having to worry about me abusing the privilege.

Holy shit... What if that’s why the Legate is being so nice to the Bekhai? He can afford to empower Akanai and the others because unlike more ambitious nobles of the Empire, he knows the Bekhai will give up everything they’ve gained and go back North when the war is over. It’s an optimistic view of the future, but I bet he’s been doing the same with other factions of the Empire, trying to keep the balance of power in place no matter what the outcome. By favouring the smaller, insular factions, the Legate not only ensures they’ll stick around to defend a foreign land, but he also makes the other, more powerful factions work harder in hopes of a similar reward.

I doubt that’s his only reason either, but I gotta say, it feels pretty good to be the golden child.

Relieved by my assurances she won’t be discarded out of hand, Luo-Luo immediately sets to work endearing herself to my inner circle, likely realizing she won’t get anywhere without their approval. Watching her out the corner of my eye as I try to get some rest, I marvel at how easily she makes friends with everyone, an accomplished socialite in her element. Lin is easily won over by simply calling her Lin-Lin, my adorable wifey blushing at the overly-familiar and childish designation, while Mila takes a little more effort. Sadly, it doesn’t take long for Luo-Luo to figure Mila out, soon realizing my fiery-haired betrothed loves flaunting her knowledge, especially about things near and dear to her heart like her forging talents. Li Song is even easier to charm as Luo-Luo promises to play a game of chess when they’re done brushing the bunnies, lending a hand by keeping track of who still has yet to be brushed without interfering with Li Song’s enjoyment.

Shit. I guess Li Song does count as one of my future wives, though it’ll undoubtedly be a frigid, loveless union of convenience.

Luo-Luo’s tricks and games come so naturally to her, it leaves me suspicious of almost all her actions. Is she truly as she appears, a serene beauty eager to please, or does she harbour ulterior motives? Does she believe Ping-Ping is a Divine Beast or is she putting on a show for the stupid bumpkins? Is her respect for Alsantset and Charok real, or is she faking it because they’re my family? What about Tali and Tate? Is everything as it seems and she thinks they’re adorable, or is she inwardly cringing because she’s forced to hug two ‘half-beast mongrels’? Is she asking about the rabbits’ names because they’re cute and fluffy, or because she knows I care and wants to feign interest?

Most importantly, how does she feel about being a concubine while Mila and Lin are the legal wives? The Empire makes a big fuss about wife hierarchy, putting great emphasis on the official wife while treating secondary wives and concubines more like servants. Does it upset her to be placed beneath two (or more) women? What if she’s harbouring thoughts of usurping their positions? Happy wife, happy life, but how am I supposed to deal with a power-hungry noble from the east?

Truth be told, all this is conjecture, but I don’t want Luo-Luo around for mostly one reason. I could say it’s because she’s too phony, too tall, or too beautiful, or I could claim it’s because I don’t trust her and have too many secrets to hide. Hell, I could even blame it on my antagonistic nature and claim I don’t like being told who to love, but even if I put all that aside, I can’t bring myself to like her. She’s just too... perfect.

Yea, I know, horrible right? She has no discernible flaws, whatever will I do? It seems petty, but it’s true. She’s beautiful, intelligent, and can play more instruments than I can name, a pleasant and accommodating young woman who seems wholly comfortable in her unfamiliar circumstances and willing to make the best out of a bad situation, which is unnatural. Any normal person in her situation would freak out, but she’s handling it like just another day, all unperturbed and nonchalant. It’s weird and I don’t like it.

Besides, I like women with flaws, because people are inherently flawed. Lin’s adorable lethargy and carefree attitude, Mila’s passionate jealousy and excitable nature, Yan’s vulgar contentiousness and independent nature, those qualities are part and parcel of what I love about them.

...Shit.

I love Yan.

Damn it. I’m the worst betrothed/hubby in the world. At least I’m not in love with Li Song too, though it’s utterly adorable watching her interact with my pets... No, bad Rain. Stop it. Get your libido under control. Haven’t you figured it out yet? More women equals more problems! You should’ve stopped at three wives!

With all these gloomy revelations bringing me down, I grab Inky’s cauldron and head over to the beach to watch the rest of the festivities, knowing Akanai will head up next. Ping Ping and the girls all follow along behind me, chatting like they’re the best of friends. I don’t get how girls make friends so quickly. I don’t even chat that much with my friends. Then again, I couldn’t even if I wanted to, Fung’s usually too busy, BoShui is all fan-girly, I have this weird power dynamic with Dastan, Zian still pretends like he hates me, and Huu ghosted me months ago.

I miss having Baledagh to chat with. This sucks.

On my way through camp, I notice the black-armoured guards who escorted Luo-Luo here still standing where we left them, though the Imperial Messenger is nowhere to be found. “What are they still doing here?” I mutter under my breath, just as an excuse to hear my voice.

Luo-Luo, ever the opportunist, seizes the chance to open a dialogue. “Where would Lord Husband like them to stand instead?”

Though she’s handling things better than I expected, Mila’s sullen glower makes my heart ache, wishing I could be the man she deserves. It’s stupid, she’s an incredible warrior and brilliant blacksmith, she shouldn’t have to share a husband with so many other women, and same goes for Lin and Yan. To this end, I respond to Luo-Luo more sharply than intended. “Stop calling me Lord Husband, my name works just fine.” Whoa back it up. “You can order them around?”

Hurt and confusion etched across her lovely features, Luo-Luo nods and explains, “These soldiers are a part of Luo-Luo’s dowry, three-hundred and sixty members of the Imperial Death Corps here to guard her honour. Speak your orders and they shall obey.”

Nice. More soldiers and Imperial ones at that. The Legate was right, I do like my gift.

Chapter Meme
