Seth did know the drill – he had already learned the hard way not to fight it. Sullenly, he followed Conrad out of the cell and into the next room where he was made to stand up against the thick wooden door with his arms outstretched. His heart thumped in his throat, all his previous fatalistic calm vanishing at the prospect of violence.

“Obedient today. Good.”

It was not like he had a choice. He had been beaten unconscious several times and he wasn’t even sure how many days he had lost. This kidnapping operation did not spend any money on healing or potions for their prisoners. In fact, Seth had been shocked that they had ignored his blight, telling him it was his responsibility to get a good class and whoever bought him would pay to have him healed. If they knew how bad it was – how close to killing him – they would probably not have been quite so nonchalant about it.

“Time to warm up my arm, ey?” Conrad declared.

Seth winced as the first dagger whipped past his ear, nicking it, and drawing a little blood. He stared at Conrad as he picked up a second dagger – the thug would beat him if he closed his eyes, too.

“Looks like my aim is good today,” he said, letting out a guffaw, before throwing his next dagger.

One dagger thumped into the wood between his legs. The next struck under his left arm. The third pierced through the palm of his right hand. Seth screamed, unable to hold it back even knowing he would be hurt for making a noise.

Conrad just laughed and threw the next dagger, punching through his shoulder just under the collarbone. Seth collapsed in a heap on the ground to the sound of Conrad’s cruel laughter.

“Get up, you worthless piece of shit, I’m not done practicing yet,” Conrad said.

Through the haze of pain, Seth heard a pure chime sounding in his mind.

You have gained the class Undead Commander.Undead Commander has reached level 1.+10 attribute points.You have gained an affinity for Death mana.

Oh no… The class had unlocked, the seed of death Alexander Gray had sowed within him had finally bloomed, and with it, Seth felt a powerful surge of chilling energy coursing through his veins.

He shivered uncontrollably, but the notifications spilled out like an avalanche of dark fate.

You have gained the class skill Summon Volatile Wraith.Summon Volatile Wraith – level 1Mana: Summon a Volatile Wraith to attack your enemies. Duration: 15 seconds. Recharge: 5 seconds.Death, Minion, IntelligenceYou have gained the class skill Raise Skeleton.Raise Skeleton – level 1Requires: Corpse.Mana: Summon a skeletal warrior minion. Reserve: by level.Death, Minion, IntelligenceYou have gained the class skill Raise Zombie.Raise Zombie – level 1Requires: Corpse.Mana: Summon a zombie minion. Reserve: by level.Death, Minion, IntelligenceYou have gained the class skill Eyes of the Damned.Eyes of the Damned – level 1You are attuned to death mana. You can perceive with the senses of your minions. Higher intelligence allows you to use more sources of perception simultaneously.Death, Minion, Intelligence, PerceptionYou have gained the class skill Curse.Curse – level 1Mana: Curse your enemy with one of your known curses.Known Curses: Amplify Damage.Death, Curse, IntelligenceYou have gained the class skill Undead Commander.Undead CommanderUndead minions gain additional armor and magical resistance.Mana: Sacrifice an undead minion to gain its health and mana over the next 30 seconds. Recharge: 5 minutes. Death, Minion, Mastery, Endurance, Wisdom.

Seth groaned, trying to roll over. All of a sudden, his mana twisted, and a pulse of dark energy shot out, crawling across the room like a black nova ball of lightning.

Curse has reached level 2.

“What the fuck!” Conrad yelled as a twisting knot of darkness settled within his body. “Necromancer!”

Conrad started to sprint across the room with a dagger raised in his hand, fear and murder in his eyes, but the eerie power caused him to lurch and stumble against a worn, bloodstained wooden bench.

“No… no… this can’t be happening…” Seth whispered. I don’t want to die.

Somehow, there was a part of him that had failed to accept his fate. A part that was barely stronger than his loathing for Alexander Gray and the terrible gift he had left him. Necromancy was evil, but he still didn’t want to die.

He raised his head and stared at the eerie phenomenon. Dark wisps of a miasma billowed out from his own body, and within the chest of his charging captor, the dark tangled knot of a curse twisted and writhed.

Fumbling with inexperience, Seth shoved mana at the first skill on his list. He hadn’t even had the time to read it. A translucent shadow appeared in the air before him, half there and half not. Seth recoiled at the wrongness of it. With a shriek that echoed through his bones and sent fingers of ice up his spine, the thing flew out and bit Conrad, passing right through the arm he raised to protect himself.

Conrad screamed with bloodcurdling pain and lashed blindly at it with his dagger, but the monster of shadows barely rippled as the blade passed through it and emerged from the other side.

It bit him again.

Seth shuddered; an urgent need to scream rising in his throat, but instead, he cowered in the corner, shivering from the pain and the horror of whatever he had just unleashed upon the world. He stared, aghast, at the one-sided fight. Conrad flailed about with his dagger, terrified to the point of incoherence, unable to hit whatever it was while it simply swooped around his head, darting in rapidly again and again. And every time it touched him, he screamed in pain.

Suddenly, the monster stopped in mid-air. A rapid shiver pulsed through its ethereal form, briefly flaring with darkness. Then it exploded; a silent blast of black light. Conrad dropped, his head bouncing off the ratty rug. The dark energy swirled back toward Seth, and to his intense surprise, the dagger wounds on his hand and shoulder began to close.

You have defeated Thug – Human – level 3.

In the distance, muffled shouts percolated down to his hearing. The sounds of his kidnappers raising the alarm, and the thudding of boots running across the floor overhead.

Shit. How could this day get any worse?

No doubt Conrad’s screams had been heard throughout the building. He scanned the skill notifications for his class, desperate, now, for anything that might save him. In his cursed class list, he found something. Three things to be exact. Raise Skeleton, Eyes of the Damned, and Curse.

Sick to his stomach, trying desperately to ignore what this would mean for him, he cast Raise Skeleton. He targeted Conrad’s corpse lying on the ground, unleashing a ropy tendril of black mana that rushed to fill the dead flesh and, just like Gran, the skeleton shifted. It tore itself free from the clutches of the freshly dead flesh with a spray of blood and gore that painted the walls red.

Seth retched in the corner, but there was no food left in his stomach.

Warrior – Undead Skeleton – level 1Your reserved mana has increased by +8.

In trepidation, he looked up to find the dripping skeleton standing silently in a gruesome puddle. The loud footsteps reached the stairs outside.

“What are you doing? G… get the dagger…” Seth yelled at the awful thing, his voice cracking under the strain.

The skeleton turned slowly, and then walked over to the dagger and picked it up, its feet making clacking sounds as the bone struck the flagstones.

Seth turned away, trying to avoid looking at it. Instead, he pushed open the heavy wooden door, staring down the poorly lit corridor to the stairwell at the end. He reached his hand around the edge of the door and summoned a Volatile Wraith – the strange spirit creature of death mana that had killed Conrad.

The unearthly screech echoed loudly in the hall as the thing shot off toward the stairs, and Seth closed the door, activating Eyes of the Damned. He could tell he could use his skeleton, but he chose the Volatile Wraith instead, and suddenly his perspective lurched sideways.

He was in the dark corridor, zipping around the corner and flying up the stairs with unearthly speed. Everything around him was a monochromatic haze, illuminated with a strange, flowing, creepy light – almost as if he wasn’t quite here in the realm of the living. The walls, the floor, the corridor all seemed gray and washed out, and every now and then something flickered just outside of his vision, but when he tried to see what it was, it just seemed like the corridor.

Do I have enough mana for this? The thought suddenly crashed into his mind. He had never used mana for anything except Identify before, and now he was spending it without thinking. Think, think, think!  If he didn’t get control, he wasn’t making it out of here alive. Quickly, he pulled up his status to check, but to his surprise, it was not his own status that he saw in front of him.

Race: Undead SpiritClass: Volatile Wraith – level 1- Touch of Death – level 1Mana: Attack doing Death Magic damage. Range: Touch.Death, Intelligence- Volatile Detonation – level 1Explode, consuming all remaining mana to do Death Magic damage to everything around you. Range: 3 feet. Trigger: Death.Death, Area, Trigger, IntelligenceAptitudes- Mana (Affinity): Death- Incorporeal: Immune to physical damage, attacks ignore armor- Life Drain: Critical strikes cause Life Drain instead of Critical Damage- Damage Absorption (Racial): Death damage is absorbed as healing- Immunities (Racial): Poison- Vulnerabilities (Racial): +50% extra damage from Holy- Unstable: Dies after 15 secondsAttributes- Vitality: 1- Perception: 4- Intelligence: 6- Wisdom: 6Health: 10/10Mana: 60/60

He stared at the status sheet in shock, when suddenly, several figures careened around the corner into view, each glowing with a strange light in the gray world. He saw a flash and Seth’s vision snapped back to the room behind the closed door. Screams echoed from down the hall.

Three of them.

“You’d better be tough,” he muttered to his skeleton as he hauled on the heavy wooden door. “You go first.” Seth crept through the doorway into the dimly lit hallway, making his skeleton go in front. As soon as he was through, three of his kidnappers appeared at the far end of the hall brandishing various swords and daggers.

“Get him!”

“Don’t let him escape.”

“Kill it!”

His skeleton did not need to be commanded, it turned and broke into a shambling, awkward run down the hallway, gripping the dagger with its finger bones. Three sets of eyes widened as the men clearly realized the peril.

Seth’s heart hammered in his chest as he tried to fold himself into the wall.

Focus, he told himself. He had his plan – rudimentary as it was – and he needed to stick to it. Curse… He had no idea how it worked; he had used it instinctively against Conrad the first time, but now he fumbled awkwardly with his skill. Come on, come on… Barely a moment before his skeleton reached the charging men, his skill flared with mana and a searing pain burned down his right arm. A dark writhing ball shot from his hand and down the corridor, settling upon the first assailant. The thug flinched, earning himself a dagger in the gut from the skeleton. Seth gulped and cast his Amplify Damage curse on the next attacker while they flailed with swords and shouted in fear.

It is terrifying, he agreed, watching the skeleton stabbing at them. Various sword strikes cracked against the gore-splattered bone, sending splinters flying. But his skeleton ignored the damage, taking several skill-assisted strikes before one of its hands went flying into the wall in a shower of bone bits. The loss of the hand didn’t seem to have any effect on the skeleton, but Seth couldn’t rely on just the slow-moving monster anyway. He summoned another Volatile Wraith, finding the scream to be just as jarring as the first time. But it shot off at high speed to bite his foes.

He glanced at the skill description quickly and summoned a second one. They seemed to be limited only by his available mana and the speed at which he could cast them. Just like a fireball? A twisted, evil fireball that bites people’s souls before exploding. He grimaced, but he couldn’t afford to hold back.

With a dark blast, the first wraith exploded in a flash and a pulse of twisted energy. To Seth’s surprise, his skeleton’s hand began to grow back and the splinters and chips along its arms sealed over. The second wraith exploded, and this time the pulse of dark energy returned to him, healing his wounds a little more, as one of the kidnappers collapsed.

You have defeated Thief – Human – level 2.

Seth cast Raise Skeleton on the corpse. A second skeleton rose, ripping itself out of the corpse, it showered the two remaining kidnappers with gore and then turned to face them. Weapons clattered to the ground as both remaining kidnappers screamed and fled.

Your reserved mana has increased by +8.

“Go after them!” Seth whispered and summoned another Volatile Wraith to run them down. Waiting till the hallway was clear, he followed along, stooping to pick up a sword on the way.

By the time he scaled the stairs, the door was open and there was no sign of the kidnappers anywhere. All he could see was the darkness of the alley outside.

Cautiously, he emerged from what seemed to be a decrepit old warehouse in some rundown part of the town and glanced about. It seemed they had been using the abandoned building as cover for their kidnapping operation. Not a soul could be seen in the deserted alleyway, but the night sky was beginning to lighten, and he knew dawn would not be too far off.

And people.

He needed to avoid people at all costs. I’m a Necromancer now. His eyes came to rest on an iron grate set into the stone pavement. With no better ideas, he crept over to it and tried to lift it, but he wasn’t nearly strong enough.

“Lift that,” he commanded, pointing. His two skeletons immediately walked over and pulled the grating up. Handy, he thought, glancing at the two skeletons that seemed to obey his every whim. Just like him…

He was alive – although he wasn’t quite certain that was the best outcome anymore. He stared down the dark hole with the rusty iron ladder. Is this my life now? Do I want to stay alive like this? Seth rubbed his arms, but the skin felt all wrong.

It doesn’t matter, this blight will still kill me. Although the pain had diminished with his new class, he could still see the dark tendrils of its miasma billowing off of him. At least I can get off the streets. That way, he could avoid killing anyone when he turned into a zombie. Any more people, he corrected himself, realizing he had just killed two people with skeletons and undead wraiths.

