He slowly descended the rusty iron staples into the darkness of the sewers, taking his despised and feared death magic and skeletons with him.

Malika sat cross-legged on the stone slab overlooking the waterfall in the mountains above the town of Kezda. Her eyes were closed, and she was meditating while following the guidance of Rezan as he instructed her in the appropriate forms. The icy mountain air, the sound of falling water, and the fine spray on her face all helped to calm her mind. Her body and soul were recovering, still very weakened, but her maximum life, mana, and stamina were slowly returning to normal under Rezan’s expert guidance.

He had said they would have returned to normal on their own over time, now that she had awakened her bloodline, but this way was safer and much faster. Malika welcomed the serene environment and the opportunity to learn from the elder’s wisdom and the deep well of his experience. Her initial impression of him as a harsh taskmaster dispensing teaching with his fists and feet had rapidly fallen away as she discovered his kindness and patience and the powerful desire to help the people he could.

“I think you’re ready, Malika,” Rezan intoned, his voice soothing and calm. “Slowly reach outward and let your mind connect with your senses. Do it carefully and stop if anything is painful. I will watch your energy.”

Malika breathed deeply, as she had been taught, holding her mind calm and in the meditative state she had been cultivating under his guidance. She let the prickle of anxiety and the fear of anticipated pain fall away as she tried to connect with her senses. She took another slow, deep breath and continued.

In the darkness of her mind, with her eyes closed, a spark of light flared. It was right in front of her as if it had always been there, simply waiting for her to notice it. As her energy flowed slowly around her body, the light brightened and clarified, pulsing softly. Curiosity rose within her, pushing the previous anxiety away. Light surrounded the pulse and it too slowly clarified into the form of a human, sitting cross-legged.

Rezan Jin. She knew it was him without even opening her eyes. The pulsing light within the center of his chest was the energy of his heart. The light surrounding it was his muscles and body. He was circulating his energy throughout his body in an even flow, appearing as white light that glowed within him under her magical sight.

“I see you,” Malika said at last.

“Good,” he said. As he spoke, she saw the energy flickering around his lungs, throat, and mouth. He raised an arm and she saw the energy flowing through the muscles making his movement possible. “Expand your awareness, now, to include Hala, Basir, and yourself,” he instructed.

She found it to be an easy task, her awareness expanding naturally as she willed it, and new lights entered her sight. Rezan’s disciples were clearly visible, their light not nearly as powerful as his, but steady and clear behind and to either side of her. Her own energy was visible to her also, a little trickier to observe because of the point of view at the center of her sphere of awareness. She watched, entranced, as the movement of her body was conveyed to her mind as a delicate dance of light.

Slowly she opened her eyes, finding that her sense of his energy was still visible, overlapping naturally with her mundane sight. Hala and Basir were still visible by their energy even though they were behind her and not visible to her eyes.

“In a day or two, you should be recovered enough to learn how to use it in combat,” Rezan said.

Soul Sight has reached level 2.

The notification sent a peal of relief rippling and echoing through the otherwise calm surface of her mind. Not for the skill level itself, but for what it represented – her bloodline was truly healed, and her skills could finally grow. And with her newly awakened bloodline, and the bonus from her aptitude, the precision and range with which she could see had both dramatically improved.

Soul Sight – level 2You can see the flow of energy (stamina) all around you. You can sense hostile intent. You can anticipate the physical movement and attacks of your opponents. Range: 45.3 feet.Soul, Bloodline, Perception, Wisdom

She puffed out her cheeks. It’s a new start.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
