Ali flew down the ventilation shaft, growing ivy and creepers along the way before heading out through the ruined city toward the library. It wasn’t necessary to reconnect her domain through the shaft given that it flowed up through the library and out through the cavern she had given to Lira, but after having had the bulk of her domain destroyed by disconnection once already, she felt safer having the redundant link. After all, she had wiped out half the Ruins of Dal’mohra dungeon by deconstructing the giant bone spire in the center of the library and disconnecting the top from the bottom half of the domain. The top disconnected section had just collapsed, causing a moderate dungeon-break of the remaining Kobolds.

Besides the giant Elder Tree growing up through the center of the library and spreading its branches throughout the upper forest cavern, she hadn’t claimed much of the ruins yet. All she had was a thin trail of moss and mushrooms following the path they had taken through the city, glittering like a giant slug had wound its way between the ruined buildings. Or like the mana trails of Naia’s dungeon. I need to visit her again.

Besides that, it was dark – that was the overall impression she got as she flew over the ancient, dusty, bone-encrusted stone ruins. Almost all the light came from her tiny golden mushrooms, shining like glitter along the narrow moss path, her barrier magic, and the Luminous Slime she was carrying with her.

She turned the issue over in her mind, trying to figure out what she wanted to do. She was loath to make too drastic of a change here – both from the enormous effort it would take and also, she admitted to herself, because it held so many sentimental memories for her.

But I should do something, she thought as she flew through the doorway into the upper level of the library.

Her thoughts were suddenly interrupted by a blinding flash of light and searing pain as something sizzled across her face. She screamed, tumbling off her barrier and cracking her head against the cold hard stone as everything went dark.

Instinctively, she snapped a spherical barrier into place around herself and struggled to blink as her Kobolds screeched and chirped in alarm. All she could sense in her sudden blindness was the mana from her Fire Mage shooting a firebolt, and the holy magic her Acolyte immediately sent her way. A sudden, intense beam of mana appeared, and her Kobold mage let out a piercing screech. She felt him hit the ground through her Martial Insight.

Fuck, I can’t see a thing. Suddenly reminded of her unusually potent perception skill, she spent enough mana to slam her awareness into all three of her minions, and images of the library abruptly flickered through her brain.

She gasped at the sight of her own ruined face seen from the eyes of her Acolyte. Something had burnt a line across the bridge of her nose and both eyes, leaving only blackened flesh. Her struggling Fire Mage glanced in the opposite direction and out in the atrium, hovering below one of the enormous boughs of the Elder Tree, was a glowing disk of undulating light about half a meter in diameter.

Coruscant Ray – Elemental – level 33 (Light)

The monster’s orange-red spine glowed intensely as its main attack powered up again. Fuck! My barrier is worthless against that. Instantly, she realized just how exposed and vulnerable she was trying to hide inside her transparent bubble.

Desperately, she grasped for the only thing she could think of – the heavy stone of the floor. It warped and flowed in response to her will and magic, rising from the ground to create a wall of stone.

With an audible hum and a blinding flash, the ray fired again, this time striking her hastily constructed defenses, leaving a glowing trail of mana-infused slag as the potent light magic melted part-way through the stone. Ali didn’t let up, pouring more and more mana into her Domain Mastery, reinforcing the mundane barrier between her and the monster, and drawing her Kobolds in behind it.

Ali took a breath, feeling the pain ebbing away as her Acolyte’s gentle magic healed the grievous wounds to her face and eyes. She blinked as her vision returned. Her Fire Mage popped his head out, snapping off a firebolt before ducking back as the Coruscant Ray returned fire.

Keeping herself mostly behind the wall, she peeked her head out to look, and then immediately ducked back as the ray turned toward her. Stupid, she thought, trying again, but this time using her Kobold instead. The ray still hovered out there, near the trunk of the giant tree, below the enormous branch that stretched out overhead – a branch that reached to the bookshelves on the wall by the library doorway. Suddenly, an idea popped into her head.

“Go,” she said, forming a detailed image of what she wanted and sending it to her Luminous Slime. It was a complex idea – for a slime – and she had to override its desire to face the intruder. “Yes, I want you to go the other way,” she told it. It wobbled and blobbed its way over to the doorway, emoting frustration that she was making it run away. But she held the image of her instructions firmly in her mind, and as soon as it got to the doorway, she made it climb, just like she had seen Naia demonstrate. And just like back then, the slime scaled the sheer stone wall with the same ease she would have walking on a paved road. Up and up it went, until it reached the outstretched branches of the tree, brushing up against the wall.

While her Kobolds engaged the ray directly, she sent her slime along the branch until she could see it lined up just above the flying light elemental.

“Drop,” she sent, and it did. The rush of its primal excitement filled her as it landed directly on top of the Coruscant Ray with an audible plop. Pseudopods of glowing semi-transparent slime shot out of the creature, grappling with the enemy ray as it engaged. They weaved and swooped erratically, the ray struggling to keep flying under the extra weight of the slime. With a reckless disregard for its own safety, the slime extended more and more pseudopods as it enveloped the ray with its body.

Ali closed her eyes right before the slime unleashed its dazzling light magic, warned by her senses still connected with her minion. She could feel the body of the ray growing hot through the slime’s membrane, and it blasted its devastating magic from inside the slime’s body. But the slime was partially transparent, also a creature of light magic affinity, and the potent ray of light refracted through the slime, blasting out in a chaotic spray of beams, striking the walls and floor in all directions.

Ali dove for cover behind her wall of stone.

Still connected to her Acolyte, Ali realized she somehow knew the attack had damaged her slime, but not nearly as much as she would have expected. Curious at the strange sense, she focused on her Acolyte and suddenly she realized she could see its health – and the health of the ray.

Is this Life Sense? Healer’s Sight?

The ray fired again, filling the library with brilliant beams of light, taking almost twenty percent of her slime’s health. The Acolyte channeled her magic into the slime, and Ali watched, fascinated, as the slime’s life began to replenish, regrown under the influence of the holy spell.

The ray’s health continued its slow decline, consumed by the acid within the slime enveloping it, giving Ali plenty of time to study the surprising new perception skill she had found in her Acolyte.

It’s slow, she realized. Her slime was winning because her Acolyte was healing it, but the two light-affinity monsters both seemed highly resistant to each other’s magic. As the ray began to falter, Ali summoned a barrier to catch the struggling pair while she continued observing using the senses of her minions from behind the cover of her wall. The familiar chime sounded. Ah, there it is.

Ali checked quickly.

You have defeated Coruscant Ray – Elemental – level 33 (Light).Domain Mastery has reached level 16.Martial Insight has reached level 28.

A ripple passed through her slime as it reverted to its normal spheroid-blob shape, bouncing slowly on her barrier out in the middle of the atrium.

“Aliandra, are you ok?” Lira’s voice carried across the space to her as her aunt emerged from the giant tree. “I heard a scream.”

“I’m over here,” she called out. “I’m fine.” … now. She flew her slime back to safety and flattened her wall back into the floor. “You told me monsters would be attracted to the mana, but I had no idea. My forest was full of zombies and skeletons when I got back, and now this elemental came in from the jungle down there.”

“I’m sorry, Aliandra,” Lira said. “This is all my–”

“It’s not your fault,” Ali answered before she could even go down that path. “I was surprised, that’s all.” It had not occurred to her that the jungle had two spawning pools and that they had left the door open, connecting it with the library. The library which was now the densest part of her domain mana. Thousands of wisps and glow bugs had been drawn in through that open doorway by the scent of her mana – she should have expected something more dangerous.

“I’m not strong enough to close that door,” Ali said.

“I don’t think I am either,” Lira answered.

Briefly, Ali considered summoning a Forest Guardian and swapping her Empowered Summoner buff to strength, but she decided she would rather keep the intelligence boost for now – she had a lot of work still to do. “I’ll wait for Mato to get back. This is… frustrating.”

Lira nodded, “We’re new at this. It’ll come.”

In the meantime, Ali flew down to the ground floor, bringing her minions with her just in case and trying to keep from glancing over her shoulder every other breath, and constructed a barrier to block the entire doorway, attaching it to her domain mana. Then she summoned several Kobolds and a couple of Scalding Slimes, giving them orders to guard the library from intruders. She sent the slimes climbing the great tree, hopefully, to take advantage of a similar drop strategy to the one she had just used. It wasn’t a perfect defense, but it should do for now.

“What about the second level?” Lira asked.

“Good point,” Ali said. Flying creatures could get through there, and those included Wyverns, bats, and the Coruscant Rays that annoyingly ignored her barriers. She blocked off the second-level doorway too. Even though the rays could theoretically shoot right through it, at least they wouldn’t be able to enter.

Oh, they can get up to the top level too, she suddenly realized, recalling the giant hole in the northern part of the upper city level. It presumably connected all the way down to the jungle level. This is trickier than I thought. If the monsters had access to the upper city ruins, they could use the ventilation shaft to access the forest cavern. She blocked off the upper doorway with another barrier and decided that would have to do. She had some minions to protect her while she slept in case something got through the long way.

Your Undead Blight has increased to 84.

Seth groaned and rolled over, inadvertently squashing his face on the cold stone flagstones of his cell. It was freezing cold without even a blanket, and he was starving, bruised, and battered from the unwanted attentions of his bored captors. There was even an unhealed stab wound on his arm from when Conrad had ‘missed’ during his dagger-throwing practice.

Out of all his kidnappers, Seth hated Conrad the most. He was always bored, and whenever he was on guard duty, he would pick on him, or one of the other prisoners he knew were kept in cells nearby. And he loved pain – so long as it wasn’t his own.

His cell was entirely bare other than himself and the small tin bowl containing a foul gruel over by the doorway. But as hungry as Seth was, Conrad had relieved himself in it, and he wasn’t quite that desperate yet.

Besides, he was going to die.

The undead blight he had caught during his forced servitude to Alexander Gray had consumed almost eighty-five percent of his maximum health now, and he had just over two weeks before it claimed him. He grimaced at that thought, but no matter how bad his current situation was, it was nothing compared to that compulsion collar.

For a while, he had dreamed of infecting his captors with the blight and enjoying their surprise, but when it had finally happened Conrad had just retrieved a glowing green potion and drank it, continuing business as normal.

I wonder what they’ll think when they find my animated corpse in here?

If the undead blight didn’t kill him, the specter of his horrific natural class still loomed over him like a dark cloud. If that unlocked, he would be hated across the kingdom, driven away at best, and at worst killed on sight for having committed the crime of necromancy. It was rather ironic though – the kidnappers kept forcing trials on him, hoping to trigger the unlock of a class that would fetch them a substantial price. He wasn’t about to tell them the truth.

He found he didn’t much care either way, having been forced to come to terms with the inevitability of it. On the bright side, either death would save him from being forced into a class of his kidnappers’ choosing and sold into slavery for the rest of his life. I think there’s something wrong with me… shouldn’t I be terrified? He wondered again about the lingering effects on his psyche of being subjected to Alexander Gray’s torture.

Despite his uncannily calm acceptance of his situation, he instantly tensed at the sound of heavy boots on the stairs, having quickly learned to identify who they belonged to. There were some muffled voices as the guard changed, the clanging of locks and doors followed by the sound of dragging, and then finally the heavy wooden door to his cell block opened with a bang. The metallic clicking of iron-toed boots approached, scraping against the hard stone.

“Now then, you are the last of this batch. It’s time for practice,” he announced, and Seth instantly confirmed his fear. “You hear that, blight boy? It’s your lucky day today!”

Conrad.

“Don’t you need to help me unlock a valuable class?” Seth croaked. Anything to delay Conrad. Although it was not likely to slow him down at all.

“Oh, but I am! I’m going to teach you a very valuable class: Target.” He laughed at his own stupid joke, opening the iron-barred door to Seth’s tiny cell. “Come on, you know the drill. All you morons unlock Laborer or Farmer anyway, and Hawkhurst doesn’t pay too much for those.”

