“Sure, what did you find?” she asked, and then gasped as Aliandra’s storage enchantment flickered and something appeared before her. It was a crystal that exuded a malevolent dark mana of a kind she had only seen several times in her life. “Where did you get Pit Lord blood?” she asked.

“I had to kill one,” Aliandra said. “Well, I killed two of them actually, and now I can make them. Is this useful?”

“I can make you ink from that, but I would caution you to use it carefully. It has the power to corrupt whoever you use it on. I will not make this ink if you intend to use it on people,” she said firmly.

“I was planning to use it to tattoo some of my demonic minions,” Ali said. “Is that a reasonable thing to do?”

“That should be fine,” Teharissa said, summoning a pewter bowl so she didn’t have to touch the crystal. One that she would be fine with destroying afterward.

“I have this, too,” Aliandra said, and again the storage mana flickered. But this time, Teharissa stopped, transfixed by what she saw. Hovering in front of Aliandra’s form was a vial of something that shone with an unbelievable radiance, filling the world with brilliance and light, and a soft, gentle pulse that warmed her even from a distance. Shot through all of it were flecks and streaks of the blackest night, dark even against the blindness of her sight. A darkness that promised oblivion with even the faintest touch.

“What is… that?” she gasped.

“This is the blood of the dragon god Azryet,” Aliandra said.

“How…”

“I asked him,” Aliandra said, as if that were a simple thing to do.

“And he let you?” she gasped.

“He did. He said his class protects him from the misuse of his blood. How much do you want to make ink from this?”

How did this girl gain the trust of a god? There must be a story behind it, but just as clearly, Aliandra had experienced something traumatizing. Her light and rapid answers, avoiding details, told Teharissa far more than Aliandra was letting on.

“I will not ask for anything,” Teharissa said, finally regaining her voice. “Just the opportunity to work with it will be more than enough.” She stared at it still, unbelieving. But she chose to ignore her curiosity; now was not the time.

If it were as Aliandra had said, simply using her skills with such a potent reagent would likely open many locked paths for her, and drive her skill evolutions and advancement in ways that were simply unheard of.

“Are you sure?” Aliandra asked.

“Oh, yes,” she said, still a little breathless. “I will make it immediately.” And with that, she began unpacking all her apparatus and equipment – her best equipment.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg

https://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
