“Four domain abilities,” Ali announced, listing them for Calen to write in his notebook. Retaliation Trigger was expected, but simultaneously, the most interesting. She had expected the domain magic skill to be affinity-based like so many of her other skills, but this one had given her a skill-based retaliation. Interesting. Glancing through the description, she confirmed that it would only work if her chosen minion had the Tree Stride skill, so she wasn’t learning anything new. Still, so many new possibilities.

“Lira’s specter must have been a separate boss, then,” Calen mused.

“I guess so.” It was a simple explanation for the missing domain magic skill, but it fit well with Ali’s observations of the fight. Lira had always said she did not have a combat class, and so, she had likely not picked a boss enhancement for herself, or it had manifested unusually, leaving the Treants as the final boss in the dungeon. Either that or Lira’s legendary world magic had ended the fight by ripping her soul out and depositing it into the acorn phylactery.

That probably counts as dying, Ali concluded, but they had not gained a notification for her death either, just like when Lyeneru had killed Nevyn Eld above the Temple of Aman Rak.

Variant: Malevolent Lirasian Oak added to Imprint: Tree.

The tree imprint was very welcome – she wasn’t certain if she would use it yet, but she knew someone with a pen and notebook who would be itching to hear about its skills.

New Domain Enhancement level (Champion) learned.Champion+4 Domain Magic skills. x15 to Health, Stamina, and Mana.x15 to mana reservation cost.x3 damage multiplier.Domain area restriction.Respawn capable. Domain Enhancement

“Oh, this is nice, would you look at those multipliers?” Ali murmured as she took in the new enhancement. She studied the Champion level Domain Enhancement skill for a few moments before sharing it with Calen and the others.

“Your skill is ridiculous,” Lyeneru said.

“What do you mean?”

“My entire life has been devoted to prying secrets from dead dungeons and the dusty pages of old tomes and scrolls. I can’t tell you how many ancient trolls or hermit elves I’ve tracked down in forgotten caves and ruins just to pick their brains for information that might save lives. And then you show up and just read off the monster skills and dungeon abilities like it’s the easiest thing in the world.”

“You’re annoyed that she can read the skills, Lyeneru?” Vivian said, raising an eyebrow. “You realize that notification means she can make Champion bosses now?”

“It’s unfair,” Lyeneru grumbled.

“Wait till you meet Azryet,” Ali said, getting a completely unreadable expression from the night elf. She was a dungeon, and yet even she was still processing the long-term implications of some of the things she had learned from her short encounter with the dragon god.

“Is it safe now?” Mato asked, walking up to join them, having reverted from his tree form after ensuring the corruption had been eradicated.

“Yes,” Ali said, holding the acorn out to him. “Can I ask you to look after this? It’s heavy, and I can’t store it.” If anyone understood how precious the tiny acorn was to her, it was Mato.

“Of course,” he said, taking the acorn carefully, his eyes filled with reverent sadness and what looked like a tiny defiant spark of hope. A spark Ali resonated with at the deepest core of her soul. The tiny thing vanished from her mundane sight in his large, gentle hands, but even with it hidden from view, she could still see the intensity of the mana burning within it.

“And the dungeon?” Vivian asked.

“The Blooming Rot dungeon is gone,” Ali said. “I have absorbed all its mana. There won’t be any more monsters and dungeon breaks, so we can begin restoring the town.”

“Thank goodness for that,” Vivian said. “Ok, everyone. Let’s pack it up and get some rest.”

“Malika, can you let Cael know we’re done?” Ali asked.

“Sure thing,” Malika said, shimmering and vanishing as she stepped off into the Spirit Realm, and a few seconds later, Ali felt the release of the cloying pressure of the suppression array.

As Weldin resummoned his Town Portal closer and the adventurers started slowly trickling through the shimmering dislocation in space to be whisked above ground for some much-needed recovery, Ali opened her notifications, quickly skipping past the slew of kill messages for summoned monsters, until she reached the important one.

Your group has defeated Malevolent Lirasian Oak – Ancient Treant – level 207 (Nature / Death) x4Dungeon of Knowledge has reached level 157 (+7).+70 attribute points.

Only seven. Malika and the others had earned nine, and some of the adventurers were boasting upward of fifteen levels for the ridiculous fight, but Ali had started at a significantly higher level. Likely, her gain was appropriate for her level. She scanned through the skill increases with tired eyes.

Arcane Insight has reached level 89 (+4).Arcane Recall has reached level 46 (+2).Barrier has reached level 85 (+4).Grimoire of Summoning has reached level 57 (+2).Sage of Learning has reached level 69.Martial Insight has reached level 93 (+2).Empowered Summoner has reached level 74 (+4).Identify has reached level 30.

She didn’t have the energy to do anything fancy. She spent five points on vitality, three on endurance, and two on dexterity. For her core attributes, she allocated eighteen to perception, twenty-two to intelligence, and twenty to wisdom.

That should do it. What a day. Tomorrow… the acorn…

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
