There’s no way I’m sticking my hand out of the skiff while there’s a literal feeding frenzy going on, one growing in size right before my eyes. Eating and swimming don’t really go hand in hand, and Ping Ping isn’t the neatest of diners, so there are plenty of scraps to be fought over. More intriguing is how diverse the gathering is, as even after long minutes of watching I’m still spotting new and different creatures in the mix. Understandably, most are fish, fanged, ferocious creatures with all the telltale markings of a predator, equally happy to dine on Ping Ping’s scraps as they are with murdering their opportunistic peers. Though I can only make out indistinct shapes beneath the blueish-blood, dark ink, and frothy white waters, the sheer size of these creatures are enough to warrant caution,.

Even Mama Bun is smart enough to move away from the skiff’s side to hop into Guard Leader’s lap. Clever girl.

As terrified as I am, eventually, my eyes grow tired and last nerved goes frayed from watching for danger, and a quiet acceptance settles over my mind. It’s not the absence of fear or a resurgence of courage, but something different altogether, more of an... equilibrium than anything else. The fear is still there, prevalent as always, but mute apathy has also settled in. There’s nothing I can do about the dangers swimming beside us, so why should I even care? If they try to eat me then I’m powerless to stop them, reliant on Taduk, Guard Leader, or Guan Suo to save my scrawny ass. Likewise, if they don’t want to eat me then there’s no point worrying about them. Fear is there to tell me if its time to fight or run, but here and now, I can’t do either, so what use is fear?

With that in mind, the tension melts from my shoulders and I sigh in relief. Staring out into the waters, I let my focus wander and watch the continued struggle between scavenger, predator, and Ping Ping with growing interest. Though varied and diverse, the gathered scavengers work together to fend off the predators, right up until a chunk of squid flesh floats in their general direction. Then, all chaos breaks loose as the scavengers descend upon the morsel and the predators seize the opportunity to strike. Men die for wealth and fish die for food, their lives are an unending struggle against hardship and misfortune. I suppose I should be glad I didn’t reincarnate as a fish, since at least I don’t have to worry too much about food or finding a safe place to sleep. In comparison, my worries seem excessive and absurd, for when isn’t someone or something trying to kill me?

I find this reassuring, though, again, I don’t know why.

The waters churn and creatures die, though a select few emerge victorious through skill, cunning, or dumb luck. An eel darts around a fat fish to evade the killing bite of a long-nosed lizard predator, who in turn gives up on the eel and rips into the fatter fish instead. A scaled, chitinous creature reveals the depths of its cunning as it leads a predator into Ping Ping’s waiting jaws, escaping unscathed with a large bounty to devour alone. A smaller, angular fish doesn’t bother trying to secure any squid for itself and instead turns its attention to stealing scraps from the many predators lurking about, its mouth always nibbling away at some morsel or another. To these sea creatures and so many more like them, this is just another day in which they risk their lives to fill their bellies and survive.

Trial and tribulations indeed. No wonder animals are more in tune with the world. Their lives leave little room for anything else, but I’m not convinced the secret to controlling the Energy of the Heavens lies in oneness with nature. If struggle and survival are all that matters, then it means the Defiled are closer to the truth than the Empire, which just feels plain wrong. There has to be more to it, something beyond mere survival, and that’s what Ping Ping is searching for. She followed me to Nan Ping for a reason, and its not Blobby, or at least, not just Blobby. The stupid droplet has been gone for awhile now, but Ping Ping still drinks the water I feed her and still stays close to my side. The question is, why?

And then it hits me. Not the answer to why Ping Ping is so affectionate, but why the scenery of the Azure Sea feels comfortable and familiar. If I block out the sky and stare at the waters, it’s almost like I’m back in my Natal Palace, with Blobby holding back the shifting shadows which were the Spectres I invited into my life. That’s why I could find Balance enough to Hone my sword or Reinforce my body, but faltered every time I tried to step into my Natal Palace. Fear kept me out, fear of the unknown and fear of facing my mistakes. Will the Spectres be in there, waiting to greet me now that Blobby is gone? Will seeing the room I made for Baledagh be too painful to bear?

Knowing me?

Probably.

If the Spectres from before haven’t come back, I bet there’s a fresh batch of them shitting all over the mental landscape, and what can I do about them without Blobby? As for the room, I’ll probably want to destroy it in a fit of pique, because that’s easier than facing the truth. Hell, I destroyed most of my Natal Palace, lessened myself using the Legate’s words, because I didn’t want to look at anything that reminded me of the cozy, happy life I ruined by being too weak to reject temptation. It’s not Baledagh’s fault I was almost exiled. It’s mine. I succumbed to the Spectres. I allowed myself to be Tainted. I drew on their strength, believed in their lies, let their anger control me because it was easier than being afraid. Only my loving family’s staunch support kept me from being exiled, the same loving family I almost brought disaster down upon.

Will I learn from my mistakes?

Probably not.

I’m not strong enough to resist temptation on my own. I’m a coward at heart, one who will do anything to survive, even surrendering to the Spectres if the need arises, because deep down, I don’t believe in the dichotomy of good and evil. Take the feeding frenzy beside me, for example. Are the predators evil for killing their prey? Are the scavengers evil for stealing what others worked hard to earn? Is Ping Ping evil for not sharing her bounty? If only things were so simple.

Like Fung said, Balance isn’t about morality, so why would there be a ‘right’ and ‘wrong’, a ‘good’ and ‘evil’ when it comes to Heavenly Energy? Power is power, simple as that, and morality only enters the equation when talking about what is done with said power. Ping Ping doesn’t share, but she doesn’t wantonly murder more than she can eat either. Same with the predators, killing just enough to be sated before leaving on their merry way. In this same vein, who’s to say one can’t make use of the Spectres power without going full cannibal murder hobo?

And oddly enough, I think I know how.

Leaning over the side, I gaze into the murky depths and steel my resolve. Reaching down, I bring handful of water to my lips and drink up, belatedly remembering I have a water skin as I try not to gag on the fishy, metallic taste. Soldiering through the horrible experience, I close my eyes and feel the cold, disgusting liquid settle into my belly before moving onto the next step. Stepping into my Natal Palace is easy as breathing now that I’ve identified the problem. No, that’s not true. I’ve always known the problem was fear, but I still let it control me. I can’t do that anymore. Fear is a tool, and I must use it well.

Looking around the small room with its comfortable bed and stylized ceiling brings a pang of raw anguish, but this time, I let it wash over me instead of rejecting it outright. Even though he wasn’t real, he was real enough to me, so why shouldn’t I grieve him? Another time though, right now, there’s work to be done. Stepping out of the room, I gaze deep into the abyss and find the Spectres staring back, just as I expected. I can tell they’re not to blame for my crippling depression, for they lay dormant and silent for reasons unknown. It’d be nice if I could blame all my problems on Spiritual Parasites, but truth be told, I make plenty of problems for myself as it is. Depression is real, and it’ll take hard work and time to get through it. There’s no magical pick me up to fix everything with a snap of my fingers, but if the Spectres do start yammering away, I’ll need a way to deal with them, one which doesn’t rely on Blobby who goes running off wherever it pleases.

The water in my belly seeps into my Core, not the physical water but its spiritual essence, which winks into existence in my Natal Palace. Feeling cheeky, I snap my fingers and the water surges out into the abyss, sweeping up those dormant Spectres and washing over them, dissolving and merging with them. What’s left behind is neither good nor evil, Defiled nor Balanced, just pure, unsullied Energy of the Heavens, the very power of creation sitting in the palm of my metaphysical hands.

It’s so simple, I don’t know why I didn’t think of it earlier. Blobby is a drop of Heavenly Water, but what is that exactly? Assuming it works the same way Chi does, then Blobby is probably Heavenly Energy mimicking the properties of water. If I can’t rely on Blobby, then why can’t I make my own version of Blobby using Chi, since Chi is just Heavenly Energy in a different form?

I think.

Probably.

Whatever, it worked, sorta. Confidence. Another one of my issues I need to work on, but one thing at a time. Today, I create quasi-Heavenly Water, tomorrow, anti-anxiety medication, then we’ll see what we can do about confidence.

Chapter Meme
