“I think with your skills and the density of the mana down in that cave, it has a chance of working,” Eliyen answered. And it will confirm if she is a dungeon for certain. Not to mention that if they could grow them, they would have access to incredibly potent reagents for some rare elixirs now that she had a steady source of mana-purified water. The Minor Precognition potions she could make from the Mystic Bluebells were highly sought-after tanking potions and would fetch a tidy sum if she could figure out a way of getting them to the right markets. Lesser Clairvoyance was just icing on the cake. She could obviously make Elixir of Lightning Resistance from the Arc Lilies, but it was the Rapid Striking haste potion she was betting on. Not to mention the number of things Alchemists could do with her lightning tinctures meant she would have a reliable buyer in Morwynne Fizzlebang.

“But they’re so rare and expensive,” Basil objected, his hand shaking as he held the tiny packets of seeds.

“I think it is worth the experiment,” Eliyen answered. If it helped unlock his class problems, that alone would be worth the cost. If she succeeded in seeding the dungeon and securing a source for these flowers, she would easily make the cost back many times over. Forcing a smile onto her lips, she joked, “Don’t lose them down a sewer, now.”

He clutched the packages to his chest, “No, never!”

Eliyen sighed. Even her attempt at levity had just fallen flat. “Look, you’re my apprentice and we need to find you a way to grow, Basil – literally and figuratively, if I may be so blunt. I really think this is for the best.”

“Ok,” Basil said, finally relenting. “But why Common Red Poppy and Forest Daisy, then? They don’t have any use or value as ingredients.”

“Aliandra admired those from my garden, so I thought it would be a nice gift.” He didn’t exactly look happy, but he was no longer actively morose. Eliyen was certain, now, that this plan would work. She just had to convince Aliandra, which should be easy, and Vivian Ross, which seemed much more challenging.

She turned finally to the paper and the letter of introduction she needed to write.

Ali was in good spirits as she left the guild with Basil in tow. She had spent much of the morning with Ryn, discussing books over tea and cookies, and when she had returned to the guild, Basil had been there waiting for her – a lovely surprise.

The worries about negotiating a deal with Eliyen had been hanging over her head, but she hadn’t had the time to think about it much since she had returned from Naia’s dungeon. She had been so relieved when Basil had come with a generous offer already prepared. She would get a small cut of any potions or elixirs that Eliyen and Basil made with water harvested from her lake. There was a provision for Basil to plant some varieties of wildflowers in her cavern which, if they grew properly, she should eventually be able to learn. He was also on the hook to source any interesting plants for her in the future, provided the agreement was still active. It was a clause that Malika had said might be a little too vague, but Ali decided she trusted Basil enough for it to work. I already got my Blue Mana Grass from him. Mato is good, but Basil has a class for this.

“And so, I joined the guild,” Basil finished explaining, proudly showing off his new guild ring. The plan was supposed to help Basil with his class problems, but he hadn’t mentioned exactly what the issue was. By his obvious anxiety when he mentioned it, and the fact that he was still level one, she had to conclude it must be a serious issue. The letter he had shown her explained that Eliyen wanted him to try his skills in the mana-rich environment of her domain – which was simultaneously a technically detailed explanation, and one that told her nothing about the problem, but Ali was happy if their agreement helped him too.

Ali led him down the brand-new staircase she had made that morning using her barrier magic, replacing the rope leading down from the rockfall into the cavern. It had been a trivial matter to attach the individual barrier stairs to her domain, fixing them in place in the air. She had yet to encounter any limit to how many barriers she could make in her domain, and certainly, the glowing spiral staircase had been quite easy to construct.

“The lake glows!” Basil exclaimed in awe as they arrived in the forest cavern. “What are those shining trees? And… are those new mushrooms? You have wisps here? You have to tell me everything! Uh –” spots of color leaped into his cheeks at her answering smile “– please? I don’t mean to be a bother or anything.”

“You’re not.”

Ali flew him down to the bank of the lake, and their excursion turned into an impromptu tour of her new light-affinity plants and the lake itself. Ali happily agreed to let Basil collect a few of her new mushrooms and some of the Glow Moss for him to experiment with later.

“What will you need to plant your garden?” Ali asked. She had been overjoyed when Basil mentioned Eliyen had sent him over with an assortment of wildflower seeds. As much as she loved her trees and mushrooms, wildflowers would add a beautiful injection of color that the cavern currently lacked.

“A spot that’s not in the way? Perhaps a small alcove or a sheltered spot near the water?” Basil looked around. “It might be nice to have one of those trees nearby to give it light.”

Selecting a rocky outcrop near the river where it flowed into the lake, she carved out a ten-meter-wide alcove filled with sand. Her new and powerful Domain Mastery skill made the job quick and easy, and she copied her previous efforts, buttressing and fortifying the edges with terraces of rock and stone from her Grimoire imprint. Once she was done, she created a couple of Radiant Larch trees encircling the space, as if it were a natural clearing in a pine forest.

A bright yellow glowing forest.

Domain Mastery has reached level 7.

Ooh, that will help. “How does this look, Basil?”

“This is perfect,” Basil said, examining the space. “Do you have any preferences for what I grow? Eliyen made some selections she thought you’d like, but some of them are probably things she would want as an herbalist.”

“Whatever you like,” Ali answered. She was just happy she would be getting some flowers. If Eliyen had selected them, they would likely be beautiful, even if they were functional too.

“Well, this space will make a cozy garden,” Basil said. “I’ll do my best.” He knelt in the dirt and got to work.

The packets and containers of seeds he produced were meticulously labeled. His mana gently reached out toward the ground as he began to prepare it with some of the tools he had brought. He laid out the garden, choosing several different areas for each species, and then began planting the seeds. Rather than displacing her domain, the delicate tendrils of his nature magic seemed to work with her mana to achieve their results, as if it was subtly nudging her domain to assist him.

“Your magic looks very gentle,” Ali told him, earning a shy smile from the boy, as he continued his work.

Finally, Basil stood up. “If this works, the plants should grow quickly. Perhaps check on them tomorrow?” Gone were any hints of anxiety and stress when he had discussed his class, replaced with what Ali thought might be cautious optimism, or even a little flicker of hope, and a happy grin at being able to create a garden for her.

Before Ali escorted him back to the guild, they stopped by the lake and made sure he filled up on the mana-purified water he would need for Eliyen’s potions.

***

Ali woke with a start to the sound of several chimes going off, and the bright light of her Grimoire manifesting on its own.

What? It had never done that before. She scrambled up to a seated position, finding that her Grimoire was simply floating in the air waiting for her, open to a blank chapter. What’s going on?

Hurriedly, she checked her notifications.

Imprint: Common Red Poppy completed.Imprint: Forest Daisy completed.Imprint: Mystic Bluebell (Divination) completed.Imprint: Azure Cornflower completed.Imprint: Arc Lily (Lightning) completed.Imprints merged. Imprint: Wildflower completed.

How?

It took a few moments for her sleep-addled brain to connect the messages to Basil’s work from yesterday. Riding a rising sense of excitement, she skipped out of her tent, summoned her floating disk, and flew off into the forest cavern to check on the garden. When she swooped in over the alcove that they had carefully prepared, the bare soil had vanished, replaced with a garden of flowers in full bloom. Each section Basil had planted had sprouted overnight, bursting in a chaotic riot of different colors, and yet all seeming to somehow fit within a grander pattern, a property of Eliyen’s garden she had so admired. There was a grassy section with white and yellow daisies and another with a sea of red poppies. A circular patch of Azure Cornflowers contrasting the red, and off to the sides, patches of softly glowing bluebells, and sparking lilies.

It's beautiful! I love it!

Amazed, she stared at the overnight flower garden. Her domain mana flowed through the plants as if she had created them herself. Several of the flowers were even emitting their own unique mana.

Is this the result of Basil’s skills? She still felt that she didn’t fully understand her own complex magical abilities, but having her Grimoire react to add a new imprint without needing her to deconstruct anything was so far out of her expectation that she was still struggling to figure out why it had even worked. Or is it because they grew from seed in my domain?

She alighted on the ground and stepped up a little closer to examine the flowers, recognizing the small patch of poppies Eliyen had in the corner near the gate, and the little yellow daisies nestled up against the oak tree she had on her path. Except, with the advantage of abundant space, her garden had many more flowers, covering a broad area with color.

This is curious, she thought, stopping in front of the patch of bluebells. Her domain mana was filtering into the plants in the usual way, but it was being transformed into strange wisps of deep violet that shimmered and shifted.

Mystic Bluebell – Wildflower – level 5 (Divination).

Divination? Now that she saw it, she was suddenly reminded of the feel of Ryn’s class mana. Her friend had a potent arcane affinity, but she had a similar secondary affinity with divination that had fascinated Ali. She studied the swirling mana for a long while, wondering what Eliyen had been thinking to offer this flower. Divination was extraordinarily rare, and whatever this flower was, it was probably a highly sought-after crafting component.

Ali walked over to the other side to examine another curiosity. Small groups of lilies had sprouted, softly glowing with the silvery-white mana of her shamans. Every now and then, tiny little arcs of electricity would flicker, coalescing and crawling along the lilies before dripping to the ground and dissipating in a shower of tiny sparks. Ouch. Pity the person who tries to pick those!

Arc Lily – Wildflower – level 3 (Lightning).

She pondered the unexpected imprints for a while, before opening her Grimoire and recording a new chapter for the wildflowers. It was clear that Eliyen’s selection had been masterfully chosen. She had provided a beautiful array of flowers that Ali immediately fell in love with, and she must have seen it as an opportunity to use Ali to grow something difficult that would benefit her herbalism craft at the same time.

Oh – she’s using me! Massaging her stomach as the realization seemed to slither around in her gut, Ali considered the implications – it did seem in character for the scheming Wood Elf – but Ali found that she didn’t mind being used like this. I’m getting the better end of the deal. She had only wanted something pretty, and Eliyen’s selections were all perfect. The potential benefit of growing and selling the flowers was well above and beyond what she had asked for – and cooperating with Eliyen’s scheme would benefit her, too.

Whatever the explanation was, they were all gorgeous and it was with a rush of excitement that she returned to their camp and began to explore her new flowers by making them fill in little gaps among the moss and trees.

Basil sat bolt upright in bed with a start and no small amount of panic, the sound of his notification chimes going off constantly.

He glanced around anxiously for any clue to the source of the commotion. All he found was the quiet darkness of his room in the middle of the night. Eliyen was out in the garden, as usual.

Everything seems… normal?

With no small amount of trepidation, he opened his notifications.

Dungeon Herbalist has reached level 3 (+2).+20 attribute points.Domain Cultivation has reached level 3 (+2).Dungeon Flora has reached level 2.Adventurous Collector has reached level 2.

Basil stared, stupefied as he read through the notifications nestled there in his mind-garden. The shining words gleamed brightly, and the climbing roses were already twining through the letters, blossoming with new growth and fresh buds. It took him a few moments to even realize that these were notifications about class and skill increases – his new class and skills.

Did I level up? I did!

A surge of happiness and excitement made his heartbeat quicken as he began to understand the significance of the notifications.

I don’t have to replace my class! If that was even possible. But he was most certainly no longer stuck at level one.

But… what does this even mean?

His class was a dungeon-related class, that had been the entire problem in the first place, and the main reason why Eliyen was mad at him. He couldn’t level up because his class required that he earn his experience in a dungeon. The thought percolated through his still sleep-muddled mind for a few moments with a sense of rising alarm.

Ali’s in danger! That cavern must be a dungeon!

He sprang from his bed and rushed for the door, slamming it open. “We have to help Ali!” he shouted to the surprised Eliyen. “There’s a dungeon down there! She’s in danger!”

He looked at the calm face of Eliyen as she just sat patiently – as if waiting for something. Like she did when he was being particularly dense with his studies, and he had missed something obvious.

Puzzled, he paused and took a breath, and his mind caught up. He had watched Ali excavate the flower garden in minutes, and she had created all the trees around it. Stone and rock had flowed like water to her whim and design. It had been her mana he had sensed so strongly in the forest cavern.

