“Ali… is the dungeon?” he whispered, barely able to vocalize the thought as the terrifying realization suddenly sunk in. “That’s why you wanted me to try my skills in her forest.” Everything Eliyen had set up suddenly made sense – the offer of the wildflower garden, the choice of rare dungeon plants, joining the guild, his class…

Eliyen smiled a small smile and nodded at him. “I hope you also realize why you cannot tell anyone about this?”

He opened his mouth to speak and then shut it again. What will happen to her if people find out? He didn’t have to answer his own question, he knew the answer, and it wasn’t a pleasant thought.

“You cannot tell her you know either.”

That took him by surprise. “I trust her.” Whatever she was, Ali had been kind to him; she had even helped save him from those Goblins. He owed her his life.

“She seems to be honest and straightforward,” Eliyen said. “But anyone knowing her secret is a real risk to her life. And she must know that.”

Basil shifted uncomfortably. I don’t like this. The implications gave him the chills. Would Ali really kill me to keep her secret? He couldn’t imagine that from the kind Fae he knew, but then again, he hadn’t known she was a dungeon all along.

Eliyen paused and gave him a significant look.

“You are level three now. You have just demonstrated that an alternative path exists for your development. Allied with a cooperating dungeon, you could advance quickly. I would still recommend resetting your class in favor of a more normal one, but there is a real danger of wrecking your advancement permanently. In the end, it’s your choice. You must decide how much you trust Aliandra because you will be dependent on her to level up – at least, until you gain enough strength to stand on your own. At least as a member of the Adventurers Guild, you will eventually have other options to level with them when they delve into other… less friendly dungeons.”

Her voice softened a bit. “I have never seen such cooperation between an herbalist and a dungeon. I must admit I’m curious to see what could come of it. It’s a big risk, but I will support whichever decision you make.”

Eliyen is right, it is a huge risk.

Basil sat with all the conflict and uncertainty in his heart for a long while. Not being able to ask Ali rankled – it made him feel like he was using his friend. However, his thoughts kept returning to the happy smile he had seen on Ali’s face when she showed him her new tree, and when he explained he could grow flowers in the garden, and he knew what his choice would be.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
