[Meteoric Impact]. That was only a sixth-tier spell, but its effect was amplified with distance. Cale snarled—if that hit his [Gravitational Crux], the resulting explosion would likely obliterate everything around them.

"Stop!" he bellowed.

The Red Knight seemed to notice the same thing. It canceled its spell at the same time Cale cancelled his, and they stared at each other, Cale breathing heavily.

"I wasn't expecting you to actually stop," he admitted after a moment.

"I would not want this fight to end early," the Red Knight responded. "Shall we continue this dance?"

Fuck. Cale remembered that line, too. He was so damn close to remembering. He could practically feel the working over him trembling in its attempts to stay whole, and he had no intention of letting it recover. In fact, he needed more—he needed the Red Knight to sling everything it had at him, and the more they fought, the more he knew it was holding back. It was enjoying the fight and wanted it to last, which meant it wouldn't go all-out against him.

Cale couldn't afford to allow that if he wanted to break the working. He especially couldn't allow it if he wanted to break it free from its compulsion. But he didn't have a spell that could evolve compulsion-breaking magic, and the conditions on a compulsion usually meant breaking it naturally was—

Cale paused.

[Ten Tongues of Vesuvius] had been a rather odd spell, come to think of it. It was a restraining spell with a minor emotional component, and he would have to hold the Red Knight down for far too long for that secondary component to break the compulsion.

But maybe Vesuvius hadn't meant to give him a spell to break the Red Knight free. Maybe it was just a hint about something else in his repertoire.

Cale glanced at his spell list again.

"You'll avoid my apprentices, right?" Cale asked. "No matter how angry you are?"

The Red Knight paused and eyed him warily. "It is a matter of honor," it said. "I do not strive to hurt those I despise through the ones they care about. What would that make me?"

"Good," Cale said. "I'm sorry about this, but in my defense, I think you could really use a little self-reflection right now."

Then he took a deep breath and—hoping against hope he wouldn't regret this— cast [Taunt].

Damien understood on some level that Cale had experienced a great deal of pain throughout his lives. He had noticed the way the man kept looking up at the tree as if it was about to fall and crush him. There was a weight to his gaze, like just the appearance of the tree brought out more memories than Cale knew what to do with. There were regrets there, Damien knew; regrets that his friend hadn't quite come to terms with.

He was no stranger to that kind of regret, even if he suspected the scale of his own regrets paled in comparison.

The Verdant Flame burned steadily in his palm. His understanding of it had advanced, but not enough for it to reach the next tier and not enough to loosen Angus's soul enough for healing; for that, he needed just a glimpse of understanding as to what Cale was, and the cosmic role the human played in the cycle of souls. Without him, the cycle was incomplete.

What in the world did that mean?

He didn't even know if the cycle he'd glimpsed was true for all souls in all realms. For all he knew, he'd only glimpsed a fraction of the cosmic truth. It was likely that the true picture involved gods, angels, demons, and Monoliths.

None of that mattered to Damien, for the moment. He needed to understand how the Verdant Flame related to souls, so he needed a single pillar of cosmic truth.

"Cale's still fighting outside?" he asked quietly. Flia shot a worried look at the doorway and nodded, and Damien let out a breath; he wouldn't be getting any help from Cale, then.

That was fine. From what he'd seen, when a person died, their soul returned to a rushing, torrential river that seemed to encapsulate infinity. That river cleansed those souls, in a way, causing the vessel to dissolve and releasing the soul's essence into its waters before redistributing it through the Great Realms. Damien had no real sense of what that involved, the sheer scale of it too large for him to grasp, but he was certain there were distributaries further along the river. The power would split and split again, until it touched on each and every one of the realms.

Except there was a problem with that, wasn't there? Damien turned the problem around in his mind, frowning suddenly. There was a similarity here with what Cale had said about leylines and dungeons. Dungeons were the way magic balanced itself throughout the Great Realms, he claimed, which meant the flow of magic was distinctly one-way, moving from the most magically powerful realm to the least.

Unlike every other soul, Cale—and the enormous power he carried with him—wasn't broken down by this great river of souls. He remained a constant, skipping down the river until he ended up in one of the realms. He was immune to decay magic, and likely soul magic as well, meaning his very existence was likely of critical importance to the river and its distribution.

And if his theory was right and there was a relationship between the way this river flowed and the way magic trickled down through the realms, he could find his answer through a different question: What happened to the balance of magic when Cale Cadwell Cobbs entered a new realm?

The answer was immediately obvious. That realm would now stand at the peak of its magical potential, which meant the entire pyramid of magical distribution would be turned on its head. That random factor would allow magic to move throughout the Great Realms constantly instead of eventually equalizing, and would—very, very slowly—allow all the realms to eventually learn about one another.

If the river of souls followed similar rules, then Cale's very existence served to do the same. As he reincarnated in new realms, they would cause the river to shift, changing the distribution of souls and allowing new people to experience new things, rather than every soul eventually gathering at the end of the river.

The Verdant Flame brightened in his palm. Angus's soul fragments, which hadn't previously reacted to his magic on anything except the smallest scale, finally began to shiver; the hardened, scarred pieces of essence softened, ready once more to be put together.

That was it. Damien let out a breath, staring at the softly-glowing ember that represented a cycle he hadn't even known existed. Cale was somehow responsible for the way the Great Realms balanced themselves, not only in the distribution of magic but in the way souls moved through them. Doubtless it wasn't the entire picture, but for the first time, Damien thought he grasped a fragment of Cale's truth.

He wondered if he knew. Cale seemed to deliberately avoid information about who he was, in some way; he took everything in stride, but there were things about his past he refused to even think about. Damien wouldn't have been surprised if there were puzzle pieces Cale had never put together simply because he didn't want to.

Those were questions for later, though. He had what he needed. The Verdant Flame had changed in some fundamental way, and Damien could see multiple messages about the Legacy's level growing in the corner of his vision. He ignored them for the moment, his thoughts still lingering on Cale and that river of souls.

After this was done, he was going to need to get Cale into a serious conversation about exactly what he'd done so long ago that haunted him so deeply. Damien was starting to suspect the man was hurting himself with his secrets.

For now...

The Verdant Flame poured out of his hands and into Angus's soul without burning it. Scarred-looking fragments softened slowly but surely under its warmth, and after a moment, Damien straightened and took a step back.

You have learned [Warmth of the Verdant Soul]!

"Your turn, Syphus," he said softly. He didn't take his eyes away from Angus's soul, now glowing a faint green. Syphus rolled up beside him with a nod.
