The name [Ten Tongues of Vesuvius], Cale quickly learned, was a bit of an understatement. Which made sense for a tenth-tier spell, although he would still have been more than satisfied if it had simply created ten particularly mana-dense fire whips that wrapped around the Red Knight to restrain it.

Instead, what happened was that an aperture to the elemental realm of fire opened up in front of him. Thick coils of blistering flame whipped viciously forward, moving in a way that reminded Cale of the one time he'd fought an elemental hydra. Those things were much tougher than their flesh counterparts, in large part because they didn't have nearly the same constraints—their heads could coil and twist through one another, and they used this to their full advantage, moving unpredictably amid a volley of magic to ensnare and consume their victims.

His new spell was no different. Each coil of flame reared up, twisting through one another, then launched themselves at the Red Knight at a dizzying pace. To its credit, the Red Knight didn't flinch, even in the face of a tenth-tier combat spell. It waited for the last possible second, then snapped its sword forward with a flash of mana that cut through the first and second tongues that tried to grab hold of it.

The third forced it to hop backward, and the tongue crashed into and burned the grass before dissipating at a quick, backwards thrust from the Red Knight's sword. Cale watched closely, admiring how clean its movements were. Its fighting style was efficient, and its blade was imbued with a Law fragment he didn't recognize. It used the overwhelming nature of its Law to overwhelm and suppress the spell without wasting mana.

When the fourth tongue came, it leapt to climb on top of it and meet the fifth and sixth tongues head on, cutting through them in a whirl of bladed fury. It was only then that the remaining tongues managed to ensnare it—Cale had carefully hidden them beneath the one the Red Knight was standing on, then took advantage of the fact that they were technically incorporeal to have them burst through it, catching the Red Knight off guard. Each tongue snagged on then yanked on each of the Red Knight's limbs, suspending it in the air.

It wasn't going to last, of course, but it was enough for Cale to get a feel for the spell. His mind raced. He hadn't been sure about the Gift's phrasing of "inflames the target's passions," at first, but that portion of the spell was essentially an emotional amplifier.

That made it potentially dangerous for most targets, but emotional amplification was also an effective means of breaking someone out of a compulsion. Considering Vesuvius's name was in the spell, there was only one conclusion: Vesuvius was both watching and trying to help.

That was significant. If this fight was important enough that even elemental gods like him were keeping an eye on it, then there was something bigger about the Red Knight that he was missing. The spell he was given was either a key or a clue, though he wasn't sure which.

Cale needed to figure out what it was he was missing, though doing it in the middle of high-level spell combat was going to be challenging. He was used to using his barriers, not casting spells.

Still, no time like the present. He gritted his teeth and started on a second spell before the Red Knight broke out of his first one. The tongues wouldn't last long enough to have an effect this early in the fight; the Gift took time to evolve each spell, so he would need to overlap his casts to receive each effect in time.

The next spell he evolved was a simple enough choice. He needed a physical leg up for this fight. The Red Knight was enormous, which wouldn't have normally been much of a concern if not for the amount of magic he could feel physically imbued within its body. It was going to be strong and fast, likely faster than he could react to. Most of the time he relied on his barriers to deal with mages that were faster than him, but, well, those weren't exactly reliable at the moment.

A self-enhancement spell of some kind, cast at sixth tier. At seventh tier and above, enhancement spells began to include transformative effects, which were often qualitatively better but also required time to complete and adapt to. No matter how much the Red Knight wanted a good fight, Cale doubted it was going to wait there while he underwent a dramatic transformation sequence.

There was only one option there, either way. He cast [Basic Physical Enhancement].

Mana overload detected! Attempting to compensate...

Adjusting spell construct...

[Basic Physical Enhancement] has evolved into [Blistering Physique]!

[Blistering Physique, Level 1] [Sixth Tier (Unique), Active] [1.0e24 Mana]

Enhance your physical speed and reaction time to match that of a voltsnipper.

By the time his new spell finished casting, the Red Knight had also completed what looked like a ritual conjuration spell. Fragments of a ritual circle formed out of pure mana broke apart, then reformed into a blade of what looked like pure, crystalline ice. The Red Knight tilted its head, and the sword flew out to saw imperiously through the remainder of the [Ten Tongues of Vesuvius], working remarkably quickly through the tenth-tier spell.

It took a bit of work, but those spells should have been opposing elements. Cale narrowed his eyes and took a step back, using his senses to examine the sword carefully. Vesuvius was trying to tell him something important. What was it? You could learn a lot about a mage by the spells they used and the power they could employ; the Red Knight was using something that not only felt familiar, but was reinforcing it with the power of a Law he didn't recognize.

Cale knew every one of the Monoliths, even if he didn't get along with all of them. The only way he wouldn't recognize a Law was if it was new or if the Law itself was under the effect of some sort of memory spell, and what he was feeling didn't seem new at all. In fact, it felt very, very old.

A memory spell it was, then. And if that was the case, he would need to use this fight to break it.

Memory magic was unreliable at best, and Cale was harder to affect with it than most others. After his first few experiences with it in particular, he began adjusting his barrier to account for most low-tier attempts to mess with his magic and to have it alert him to higher-tier attempts. He'd also gone through a whole training regimen with a monastery of mind mages to notice when his perception or attention was being involuntarily shifted away, so he was very practiced when it came to that sort of thing.

Even that didn't make him completely immune to it, though. Magic was a vast and ever-expanding field, and there was one type of magic that Cale knew there was no defense against—likely a lesser version of whatever had been used on humanity. Some variations of memory magic couldn't be directly defended against because they operated on the realm rather than on the individual, effectively convincing the realm itself to forget about someone or something.

If that had been cast on a Law, which were constants throughout the Great Realms, then it would have to be either nineteenth- or twentieth-tier magic, depending on whether it also affected the Outer Planes. Frankly, if someone had cast twentieth-tier magic without him knowing, then he would need to deal with them regardless of the karmic backlash involved. In fact, a threat capable of casting twentieth-tier magic likely inverted the karmic calculations.

But that wasn't what was important at the moment. What was important was that a spell of that level would have been a massive undertaking—an enormous, grand ritual that convinced reality itself to forget about a Monolith.

And grand magic like that, Cale had learned, had cracks.

It was possible to coax the Great Realms into forgetting about someone, certainly. It acted almost like a mid-tier obfuscation spell applied to every layer of reality, all at once. This was almost never necessary—most beings only existed within a single realm—but for those that weren't, it was an option. The thing was, that spell traded range for effectiveness, and even if the Realms forgot about the person, it didn't necessarily forget every single related detail.

The spells they used, for instance. Once a spell was made, it was added to the Source, and the Source could not forget itself. And if Cale could coax enough different spells out of the Red Knight, scrutinize them enough to build that feeling of almost-familiarity up and up and up, he would shatter the part of the spell that hung over him. Possibly the entire working, in fact. It could go many ways.

Alternatively, he could attempt to break the compulsion on the Red Knight, forcing it to remember itself and accomplishing the same thing. Likely he would need to do some combination of both, weakening the twentieth-tier magic before shattering it.

All this to say he recognized the spell the Red Knight was using to free itself, and that recognition triggered a subtle resonance in the magic surrounding them. The spell was [Zero Blade], an otherwise simple name for what Cale had to admit was an incredibly dangerous combat spell, in the right hands. It was a conjuration spell that manifested what might have seemed like a simple blade, but was capable of cutting through all four major components of its target at once: their life force, their mana, their soul, and their flesh.

No doubt that was the reason it cut so easily through the [Ten Tongues of Vesuvius]. Cale would have whistled if he were capable, which he wasn't, because he was almost immediately forced to dodge away from it as the Red Knight cut free from the last of the tongues and launched itself at him, [Zero Blade] in hand.

Thankfully, [Blistering Physique] kept him out of its range. There was no chance that his barriers would be able to block it while they were in this realm overlap. Even if they weren't, he would need to fold a twelfth-tier equivalent barrier just to block it.

Cale couldn't help it. He grinned, and the Red Knight grinned back.

It gestured. The [Zero Blade] fractured—its essence used to fuel a different spell, Cale noted absently, which itself was incredibly advanced combat magic—into a hundred daggers of blazing heat. [Sundagger Comets].

In his memories, he saw a laughing figure practically dancing through the air as their sundaggers flew with them, a fight and a performance all at once. They used the daggers as platforms, leaping from one to the next to make their way through the sky. The Red Knight wanted to do the same, Cale noticed, but didn't quite have the same freedom.

Instead, it launched those daggers toward him in a volley of fiery streaks.

"I'm trying to analyze your magic, you know," Cale complained, barely dodging each one. "You remind me of an old friend."

"I am afraid I cannot afford you that time," the Red Knight said, sounding genuinely regretful. "You are a fascinating opponent. Perhaps you could strike back instead?"

"I need to expand my options, first," Cale countered, but there were a lot of those sundaggers, and while he was busy dodging these, the Red Knight was in the process of casting another big spell. Cale frowned, flitted through his list of options, then cast one that would hopefully deal with the rest of the daggers.

Mana overload detected! Attempting to compensate...

Adjusting spell construct...

[Create Impulse] has evolved into [Bia's Hammer]!

[Bia's Hammer, Level 1] [Eighth Tier (Unique), Active] [1.0e27 Mana]

Wield the power of the goddess Bia, striking all targets with mystic force.

Cale could feel the massive, invisible hammer that descended out of the sky as the spell completed, swinging straight through his own body and slamming into the swarm of daggers chasing him. Several were smashed apart instantly on impact, but the majority of them simply shot in the opposite direction, right back toward the Red Knight.

It laughed in what appeared to be genuine joy, then gestured, cutting off its own spell; that wasn't enough, considering how much mana it had already invested into it, but it simply snatched the closest sunless dagger out of the air and began parrying each one that came close to it.

Parrying wasn't quite the right word, though. It was absorbing each dagger, using the rhythmic strike of each parry to construct a mid-combat ritual meant to suck the life right out of him. Cale cursed. That was a line-of-sight ritual, though, which meant the counter would have to be—

Mana overload detected! Attempting to compensate...

Adjusting spell construct...

[Lesser Shadowstep] has evolved into [Shadowblend]!

[Shadowblend, Level 1] [Sixth Tier (Unique), Active] [1.0e24 Mana]

Merge with the shadows themselves, reappearing in any other connected shadow within a radius of forty kilometers.

Well, not quite what he was going for, but that was the consequence of not having high enough shadow resonance, he supposed. Plus, he wasn't really going to complain about getting what was essentially a form of teleportation. He'd wanted a form of teleportation for ages.

Thankfully, grasslands meant that pretty much all the shadows around him were connected. [Shadowblend] let him drop instantly into the grass. The Red Knight whirled around instantly, and he could feel its mana sense bleeding into the shadows, trying to track him down. Cale responded by flickering between ten different spots, buying time as he pushed his mana into a different spell.

Mana overload detected! Attempting to compensate...

Adjusting spell construct...

[Pebbleblast] has evolved into [Pillars of Psamathe]!

[Pillars of Psamathe, Level 1] [Ninth Tier (Unique), Active] [1.0e28 Mana]

Create massive pillars of sand to strike at an opponent.

The spell description was an understatement. Cale watched from the shadows as an entire tower of scouring sand burst through the grass, almost like a portion of Utelia had been spontaneously brought over into the pocket realm. The Red Knight gestured, forcing its remaining Sundaggers into a blazing barrier beneath it; the sand melted into a platform, but the spell continued with pillar after pillar, launching it farther and farther into the sky.

Cale knew better than to celebrate. There were spells that benefited from that amount of height, and one of them was coming. He cast another spell.

Mana overload detected! Attempting to compensate...

Adjusting spell construct...

[Orb of Earth] has evolved into [Gravitational Crux]!

Oh, dammit. This was what he got for not having enough Earth resonance to fix the outcome of the evolution. He didn't even need to read the spell description to know what it did; a tiny orb of earth had formed, but it was pulling him toward it, reorienting him to its surface. Far above, the Red Knight was speeding down like a comet.

