Wiloza was used to being brushed off in certain social situations, but she was a little irate at being brushed off here, after being given such horrible prognostications. She composed herself and stood, though, and carefully said, “I will be following up on this prognostication.”

“We will as well. Would you like to be informed of that followup?”

“… Yes.” She had not expected Miss Rednail to offer that so freely. “Thank you.”

“Good day, Archmage Tidewalker.”

Rednail took her leave.

For a long moment, Wiloza stood in the room, unsure exactly the depth of what had just happened. She understood the prognostication already; that wasn’t the problem. But prognostications were unreliable. What really worried her was the fact that Rednail just up and left, like that.

This whole event was like walking along the bottom of the ocean, back in the old days, looking for a monster that had been terrorizing the locals, and instead finding a crack in the Surface that led all the way to the Underworld itself.

Wiloza shivered at that memory.

An attendant from House Benevolence walked into the room, asking if Wiloza would like any other services from House Benevolence, and offering assistance from the House for any of her possible varied needs. He also handed over a transcript of the meeting.

Wiloza took the transcript, saying, “Nothing right now. I must be off. I must also comment that this visit was a lot less horrible, and a lot more horrible, than I imagined it would be. I will be coming back soon for clarifications of the Grand Prognosticator’s words.”

The attendant nodded, then offered, “Would you like a personal [Gate] back to Storm’s Edge? The Wizard is able to provide, if you desire.”

“… Sure. Honestly I assumed he would be too busy for me, too—”

In a flashing instant, a [Gate] opened up on the side of the room. It was wreathed in white lightning, exactly as an uncontained [Gate] was supposed to look. On the other side was the blue stone road that led to the Castle.

“… Well then!” Wiloza said, surprised yet again. And then she walked through. “Such prompt service.”

And she was back home. Just like that. Honestly she was rather glad that she didn’t need to meet the Wizard directly to get a [Gate] back home. This was rather nice.

The attendant said some more farewell words and the [Gate] closed behind her.

Wiloza strode forward, to the Castle, with a great deal of new thoughts on her mind. Her first order of business was with Rodrygo at the check in station. The Mind Mage Liaison had been the Regency’s contact with the Mind Mages for the last several years. Rodrygo continually surprised Wiloza with just how fast and how knowledgeable he could be, when he chose to be.

Sometimes, though, he was less than forthcoming, which was a continual frustration, but understandable.

Except in this case. He was very forthcoming.

“What do you mean they’re already in the dungeons!” She checked the clock on the wall. “It’s barely noon!”

“They got approval an hour ago. I was not part of that discussion, so I cannot tell you more than that. There are other issues for you to deal with, anyway.” Mind Mage Rodrygo spoke, projecting his minor amount of authority into his voice, “Since you requested that prognostication as part of the Regency/House agreements, a copy of the prognostication has already arrived in the Regent’s office. Regent Augustive Glorious Tidewalker wishes for your presence at your earliest convenience, which means now.”

Ahh. Dammit.

That Damned Wizard was probably involved in this shit show now, wasn’t he. They had managed to keep him away from the Regency for so long, at Sininindi’s request and at everyone else’s desire as well, but now… For him to break propriety so damned easily—

“I thought it would be a simple prognostication,” Wiloza said, exhausted, while the transcript of her meeting with Prognosticator Rednail held in the pockets of her robes, where a Privacy kept them in confidence. She was going to speak to the Regent at her own convenience, after she had a chance to speak with Miss Silver and to oversee the Aroidos first, but now those simple folded papers felt like an anchor dragging her down far faster than she expected to sink. “That Damned Wizard. No wonder he was so ready to [Gate] me here—” She shook her head. “Forget it.” And then she walked through the magic-checking archways, setting them off— “Bah!” she said, stepping backward, as she took out her badge of office and set it on top of her robes. She went through the detecting archways again, and this time there was no noise.

She went straight to the Regent’s offices, muttering about how everything used to be so much simpler.
