“But let us not dismiss the learning opportunities, either; for you are correct that I appreciate those a lot more than I care for the money aspect of all of this. The Water Dungeon I plan to make will teach people how to navigate oceans and survive underwater. True [Waterbreathing] could become a commonplace spell; and I don’t mean the one where people put a bubble of air around their head and keep it [Cleanse]d, but one where people can naturally breathe water with just a bit of aura control and proper Elemental Air and Water usage. Particle Magic is also a possibility for learning [Waterbreathing], too, for the Goddess Sininindi desired that I make this dungeon a place where people can learn to truly defend themselves from whatever might come in 90 years, or more.

“For instance, the vast majority of the world still doesn’t know about aura control, and that is another thing I wish to fix. While your current Force-aspect dungeons are doing their most to make that happen, they could be doing more. I would help them do more, as a dungeon master.”

Soltic watched as Aroido almost had a rebuttal—

But Everbless’s tentacle [Familiar] poked at Aroido’s head, and became visible to mana sense. It was a thought tendril. Everbless was speaking with Aroido right now, and everyone could see that, if they bothered to look. Most people bothered to look.

Aroido said, “Pardon me, I must accept this call.” He looked to the air and started talking to Everbless. Soltic tried to catch his half of the conversation, but the man employed some sort of throat-aura-control magic, so his natural vocalizations when mentally talking were simply not there; it was almost the same thing Soltic did. Aroido’s eyes did go wide, though, in some sort of surprise by what Everbless was telling him. And then he spoke more to Everbless, with the [Scry]-eye/[Familiar] of the world tree growing agitated and relaxed and giddy and hateful, and then back to simply talking, in turns. After a full minute of talking, Everbless’s tendril retreated, and Aroido turned his attention back to the room, to Vanya. “You’ve been approved for the change of Dungeon 6. You’ll be read in on how the dungeon functions properly in the next few hours. We can begin work sometime tomorrow.”

Vanya breathed deep, smiling brightly as she said, “Thank you, sir!”

“Yes yes. Maybe when you see how unstable the whole system currently is, then you will not be thanking me so profusely.” Aroido explained, “The first thing you should know is that the 80% tax we put on the dungeons is there because we recycle that material back into the dungeon, in order to increase the number of delvers with promises of big money. We’re only able to actually support people taking maybe 50 gold per delve.”

Jarod, Glariol, Guildmaster Larro, and Soltic were still in the room, so perhaps this wasn’t that big of a deal for them all to know? Seemed like a big deal to Soltic, though. According to the faces of Jarod and Glariol, they somewhat guessed at this reality, though they were not sure until just then. Larro knew, but the guildmaster had hopes for the future.

Vanya softly exclaimed, “That’s somewhat believable… Now that you have said it and based on what I have seen.”

Aroido huffed a laugh. “Most places subsidize their dungeons due to how they rid our world of monsters, but the rate at which Storm’s Edge does it is a poorly kept secret. Maybe you can change all that Miss Vanya.” He stood. “Now! Everyone out! Except for Miss Vanya and I. The rest of the secrets to speak of are for her ears only.”

“I would ask for my man, Soltic, to remain,” Vanya said, “He would be helping me with some of the dungeon work.”

Aroido looked to Soltic, then said to Vanya, “He can come back into the room in ten minutes. This first part is for your ears only.” He shook his hand at the door. “Everyone else out! No need to wait around, either. This is going to take hours. Mister Cross, please remain outside the door.”

Larro stood first, saying, “Welcome aboard, Miss Silver. I’ll be looking forward to speaking with you about specific additions to the dungeons later.”

Jarod and Glariol left next, the two of them saying a few small words of encouragement, and then Soltic left. They closed the door behind them, and the nobles bid Soltic farewell, and he did the same to them.

And then Soltic waited outside the [Privacy]-shielded door, hoping that he wouldn’t need to do anything drastic to salvage whatever might be happening behind that door. Time slowly ticked on, and Soltic’s mind filled with worst-case scenarios, of needing to kill and evaporate and change the nation of Storm’s Edge, if they did even the smallest thing against—

The door opened.

Vanya was alive, and safe, and she was inviting him back into the room.

Aroido stood where he had been standing before. Everbless hovered behind the man like he usually did. And as the door closed behind Soltic, Everbless changed. He became visible. Red tentacles, red eyes, a wet sort of look to him.

Soltic stared at the floating thing.

Everbless said, “Hello.”

Soltic said, “… Hello. Uh. Archmage?”

Since archmages were the ones with [Familiar]s, Soltic felt his words were adequate for his cover.

Everbless chuckled. “I’m not archmage! Not yet!”

Aroido smiled a little, saying, “This is Gold Taker. He’s also the dungeon master for the dungeons. He’s also Everbless, but that last little bit of information will leak away from your minds, thanks to the Intervention on both of you.”

He said the secret so casually that Soltic didn’t have to fake his bewildered reaction.

Vanya recovered faster, saying, “This is my coworker.”

“Hello!” Everbless said, again, and even more brightly.

Soltic almost wanted to laugh. He did not, though. He feigned ignorance, saying, “Uh. The Gold Taker, eh? The one who ensures money goes back to the dungeons?”

“One and the same,” Aroido said.

Vanya said, “He’s usually invisible and intangible, but you should be able to see him if you do some Ethereal, Intangible Force-type Sight magics. I figured it out fast enough, and you already know how because of—”

“Your [Personal Ward]!” Everbless said, his tendrils spinning around his body, “It stopped me!”

“Uh. Yeah,” Soltic said, “I had problems with Ethereal, Intangible enemies before. So. Yeah. Uh.”

Everbless went ethereal and moved around the room to the other side, though a single tendril remained where he had been. He spoke through that stretched tentacle, “See me?”

“Yes,” Soltic said, his eyes tracking Everbless’s main body.

Everbless came back to this side of reality. “You see me!”

An uncomfortable question centered within Soltic’s mind. He decided to ask it, and damn the consequences. “Does this mean that you pulled people under the waves inside the dungeons and killed them?”

“Yes! They broke the rules, so I do everything against them!”

Soltic froze a little bit, unsure what to do with that information right this moment.

Vanya was serene, though. Possibly because she agreed with Everbless? But even she agreed that children shouldn’t be killing other people… And yet, Erick used Ophiel to kill other people. Ugh. This was a mess, and Soltic would be a hypocrite to say anything more than he already had.

So he would say those words later, to Vanya, in private.

Aroido was clearly uncomfortable with Everbless killing people, though, so perhaps Soltic could say those words— No wait. ‘Gold Taker’ is not ‘Everbless’. Right.

So Soltic politely asked, “Gold Taker? How old are you?”

Excitedly, Everbless said, “I am 12—”

“That is…” Aroido had begun to say, fast as he could, but not fast enough. “That is an unimportant question, Soltic. The power to work the dungeon as it should be worked is there, as is the skill, and the ability to follow the rules. Gold Taker will be our main dungeon master going forward, but he is not actually connected to the dungeons. We tried that. Him putting a repro into the dungeons was a complete disaster. The current dungeon master is me, and has always been me, from the very first year that the dungeons came into being on this land. And I mean that in a very real way. I am a reproduction of the original Aroido who died a while ago due to an assassination. My fellow repros and I have been keeping up appearances ever since.”

Soltic looked to Aroido, now, his eyes going a little wider.

Aroido was worried, embarrassed, relegated, and a whole host of other, tired emotions that he had been wearing for a long time. “I am technically both 50, and 12. Age is unimportant right now. What is more important, is that I believe that you two are also repros. Are you?”

Vanya answered for both of them, “We’re immortals trying out new lives, in this new world. That’s the only answer you’re getting out of us for that question.”

As Aroido relegated himself to that answer, and found it not a bad answer at all—

“Who were you before?!” Everbless asked, too excited by half.

“Feel free to ignore the child in all questions that are too personal,” Aroido easily said, and then he demanded, “But I will know your full allegiances.”

“No you won’t,” Vanya said, “But you can be allowed to know that I am here to make this dungeon work as well as I possibly can. I want a Grand Dungeon, Lord Aroido. I want to make that happen.”

“Are you a Shade?” Aroido asked, even though he did not want to. “Either of you?”

Everbless suddenly shrunk away, his eyes going wide. He had never considered that possibility, and now, he was, and it scared him.

Vanya said, “We are about the furthest you can get from Shades.”

Soltic pointed at himself. “Not a Shade.”

Everbless came forward a little bit, his eyes narrowing on Soltic and Vanya. “Not a Shade?”

“Not Shades at all,” Soltic said.

Aroido regarded them for a quiet moment. Then he said, “For now, that answer will suffice. If, and hopefully when, this whole arrangement seems to be working well, the Regency will have clearer answers. Even if you have to leave those answers with Archmage Wiloza Tidewalker, or with the Regent himself. FOR NOW… For now, this is acceptable.” He gestured back to the diagrams. “Tomorrow, after we clear away some morning business, we will all journey into Dungeon 6 and we will have you look over the current state of affairs. From there, we will discuss alterations and priorities, and...”

They spoke for a little over an hour, with Everble— Gold Taker offering enthusiastic, childlike, horrific additions to all the various floors and puzzles and otherwise that Vanya had already carefully planned.

More than once, Aroido said some polite thing like, “That’s not what we’re trying to do here, Gold Taker. We want the people to learn proper aura control and altering for Water. Not have them try to turn themselves into fish, to be able to solve the puzzle.”

“But fish are fun! I’ve turned people fishy and it was fun!”

Vanya carefully asked, “Did you turn them back?”

“If they complete puzzle! It’s Rules! They did not complete puzzle so they die.”

Vanya nodded, saying, “A good standard to take.”

But inwardly she was deeply, deeply concerned. Almost as much as Soltic was concerned. Soltic picked up on that. Aroido picked up on that, too.

Gold Taker did not pick up on that human emotion at all.

Eventually, the talk ended, and Soltic and Vanya left the room, the castle, and then hopped on a Platform to head back to their rooms at the Maryols. After a wonderful dinner where they spoke about the plans for the dungeon with Jarod, Glorial, Barda, and Nero, Soltic and Vanya turned in for the night.

- - - -

‘We’re going to have to purge Gold Taker from the dungeons,’ Erick sent to Quilatalap, laying there in bed; him as Soltic, Quilatalap as Vanya. ‘It’s going to be a mess.’

‘Ah. Good. I was worried you’d be against that.’

Erick blanked. ‘What— Why would I be against it?’

‘… Can I ask why you are for removing him, first?’

‘Gold Taker is a child. He should not be harming people like you would harm people to test them in a dungeon. I made sure that Yggdrasil only fought defensive wars, but I was way too harsh with Ophiel when Ophiel was becoming cognizant of what I was actually using him for. When Ophiel splits off, I’m going to ensure that he’s raised as well as I can raise a child. When Yggdrasil splits… I hope I’ve done enough to help him learn right from wrong. But Everbless—’ Erick realized not even a fraction of the way through his sudden rant at the Everbless/dungeon situation, that he had gotten way too close to the truth that Everbless is Gold Taker. Quilatalap had lost his train of thought a few sentences ago, but he pretended not to. ‘Sorry,’ Erick said, and then he went back to the simple fact that, ‘Basically, Gold Taker killing things at a very young age, and I disagree with that in so many different ways.’

‘I killed my first man when I was 10. A lot of people of this world kill their first thing at a young age; be they hunters of game, or killers of others due to the necessities of self defense.’

‘That’s different. You were powerless, learning how to be powerful. Gold Taker is powerful, and he needs to learn how to control that power, and what it means to use that power.’

‘I can agree with that assessment. But what about the ‘Rules’ that he speaks of? He’s not some wild thing, going off on his own. He has ‘Rules’, and he follows them.’

‘Mostly follows them.’

‘ ‘Mostly’ is rather good for his age.’ Quilatalap said, ‘I assume for his age, anyway. He’s certainly not a normal person to be able to touch the Script at that age. He probably got the Script at like… 5? 6, maybe?’

‘Probably sooner than that.’ Erick asked, ‘Are you against purging him from the dungeons?’

‘I want him gone. He shouldn’t be in there.’

Erick liked that. ‘Why do you want him gone?’

‘He’s doing it wrong.’

Erick laughed. Quilatalap smiled. And then, while Erick couldn’t say the full truth, he could say, ‘I believe Sininindi has you down here in order to teach Gold Taker real magic. So please, Quilatalap, don’t go teaching a child archmage how to tear the world apart.’

