The day passed quickly. Breakfast had been a working breakfast, with Vanya speaking of dungeon plans and floating lightward diagrams into the air as they all ate fancy, little bacon quiches. The Maryols asked questions, and Vanya gave answers. Soltic had to actually glare at Vanya a few times when she started talking about things such as Elemental Death, and how it related to the coral wyrm.

For Jarod and Glariol were way too interested in that.

“So they’re using Elemental Death in the dungeon?” Jarod asked, nonchalantly. “I had heard you needed to be dead to use that without killing yourself. That to use Death inside a dungeon was to kill everyone who walked inside.”

“That’s not the case at all,” Vanya said, happy to explain and barely acknowledging Soltic’s look at all. “Dungeons can use all manner of Elements safely, as long as they are sequenced correctly. In this case, using Death in a dungeon is as easy as having a Rule where the only magic that can affect delvers will be from an approved list, and then you can keep Elemental Death off of that list and you’re free to use Death anywhere you want in a dungeon at all.”

With raised eyebrows, Glariol stated, “I was unaware that you could do that with a core.”

“You can do practically anything with a dungeon core. They’re less like an extension of the current reality into another, and more like the instantiation of a reality all its own.”

Soltic cleared his throat.

Vanya went on to simpler topics.

They continued to talk for a while, but Jarod and Glariol were already completely convinced of Vanya’s knowledge as of yesterday.

Knowing what Erick now knew about Everbless and Sininindi and Quilatalap, and how an ‘Intervention’ prevented Quilatalap from knowing about how the tentacle-thing was, in fact, Everbless, the entire shape of Sininindi’s plan was rather evident. Evident to Erick, anyway. The goddess of Storm and Sea wanted to have personal tutoring for her son, done by one of the most knowledgeable persons in the world. Her plan was the plan of tens of thousands of others, over the course of Veird’s long history; whenever anyone went into Ar’Kendrithyst searching out the Archlich, this is what they wanted. This personal tutoring.

The morning talking and breakfast spilled over into lunch with Nero and surprisingly, with Barda, too. There was much joy among the family that Barda was back in the fold, though she was uncomfortable the entire time. Perhaps she was more uncomfortable due to Vanya speaking of her deeper plans for a Grand Dungeon, or maybe she was still deeply uncomfortable with the whole ‘cultist of Melemizargo’ thing that the Maryols had going on. Soltic suspected there were a whole host of other problems between Barda and Nero and the Maryols, too, but Barda didn’t speak of those problems, and no one poked at her too hard.

And now they were here, walking into Regency Castle.

Barda and Nero did not join them, though.

The castle was stunning in the way that all the grand architecture of the world was stunning, for Veird was a world of magic, and when that magic was maintained, that magic allowed for impossible architecture. Since the advent of the Node Network spellwork and of [Renew], maintaining that impossible architecture was incredibly easy.

The original castle had been a simple thing of a few keeps and towers on a simple cliff, jutting out over the southern part of the city of Storm’s Edge. Since the Node Network came about, that cliff had been expanded outward, and tens of new structures had been piled onto the cliff and the castle. It all should have crashed down into the lake below the castle, long before now, but the pile of white stone buildings and blue roofs were as sturdy as adamantium, upon that cliff.

The cliff kinda looked like a ship, crashing out of the wave of the mountain, and piled high with shipping boxes. It had no real sails, though they could have easily added that part, if they wanted. Soltic assumed that they had discussed sails and decided against them, for whatever reason. Probably because it was too on-the-nose.

“They certainly went for the ‘ship’ look, though,” Soltic said, as he stepped out of the carriage that brought them here, to the back of the castle. “I kinda like it.”

Jarod said, “It’s a controversial design, but Regent Augustive Glorious Tidewalker loves it this way, and so it is this way.”

“Will we be meeting the Regent?” Vanya asked, as she stepped out of the carriage.

“Likely not,” Gloria said. “He’s a busy man, though we might see Archmage Wiloza in the meeting with Aroido. She’s less busy these days with the Node Network making everyone’s lives easier, so she’s been dipping her hands into a lot of different duties, and dungeon overseeing is one of the circles she controls.”

Ahead of them lay a grand road made of lapis lazuli, with trees sculpted into fish lining both sides. An open gate of gold lay ahead of them, with guards on both sides of the gate. Beyond that lay the first of the white castle buildings. A pair of massive fountains rose from blue flower gardens to the left and the right. The fountains were as impressive as all the rest, for they were sculptures of oceanic beasts, spinning into each other as water poured out of tens of mouths and blowholes, to cascade down into large pools. White salt had crystallized over some of the calmer parts of those fountains, which added a sort of ‘foamy’ look. The scene caused Soltic to stop for a moment, as they walked past all that, and into the towering castle beyond.

But soon enough they were inside the first part of the castle, facing down yet another obstacle. They would have been stopped long before they got to this location, were it not for Jarod and Gloria, their escorts. But here they were, now.

A series of arches stood to the side of the main entryway, and they might prove the end of this little experiment in subterfuge. Erick had actually invented those archways himself, as a part of his anti-facestealer programs, and they were devilishly simple in their actions, and effectiveness.

A person simply walked through the five-meter corridor, calmly and solidly, and the ‘machine’ checked to see if the mana was controlled —at all— as one passed through. They were adjustable to allow certain, specific magics through; usually the ones worn by royalty or whatever. But even those spellworks were noticed by the checking magic. Erick could have made the machine only require a single step through the space, but that would mean that someone could take their spellwork off and then put it right back on. The 5 meter distance was so that a person actually had to walk the 5 meters fully exposed, while guards watched the whole time.

Vanya and Soltic both wore permanent spellwork, and they were required to remove all of that spellwork before they entered the building proper. This would be a problem for many different reasons, and there was no real easy way to get through this check without fucking it up somehow. But Erick had [Return], and so—

A high-ranking guard cleared his throat to the side of the check in station, his eyes shimmering a little with Sight spells—

“Just pass right on through, Wizard Flatt. We’ll spoof the check for you and Q.”

Erick’s heart beat hard—

And then he noticed the hundreds of tendrils of magic coming off of the head guard; he had been hiding them until this moment. He was a Mind Mage.

“Mind Mage Rodrygo, at your service. Please head on through; no one will know this happened.”

Erick chuckled a little. “Well all right then.”

And then Soltic walked through the tunnel of arches, with Vanya right behind him. No one had noticed Soltic’s hesitation, or otherwise, as he set off every single archway with his active spellwork. Vanya set off the machine, too. No one cared about either of them, though.

Aside from temporarily hiding them from all nearby viewers, Erick suspected that the guard also had some sort of circumvention against the machine sending a ‘magic detected’ signal to the places where such a spell would be received, though he couldn’t see into all the Privacy spellwork and anti-magic magics layered across the ground, and elsewhere. Whatever the case, Soltic and Vanya went through just fine.

Jarod had an issue.

As the machine beeped, the Mind Mage guard said, “Please remove your spellwork and pass through again.”

Jarod sputtered, “Ah, I had forgotten about that one,” before moving through the machine again, this time silently.

Glariol smirked and passed through without giving the machine any problems at all.

The four of them strode across the ocean-blue marble floor under salt-lamp lighting, to the designated meeting room deeper in the building. Jarod lightly spoke of what they were seeing, of the various parts of the castle, and greeted a few different people and invited them to see the presentation. The hallways were not exactly crowded, but this was a castle filled with people of all kinds, and many of them would be a part of the systems of Vanya’s Grand Dungeon when it was completed. No one accepted the invitation to see the presentation, though. Glariol eventually whispered what Soltic had already guessed; that none of these people believed that Vanya would actually be allowed to change the dungeons. Mostly, it was an uneventful walk.

And then Everbless’s tentacle [Familiar] rounded a corner in the hallway and flickered out as his eye appeared. He had found Soltic and Vanya, and he instantly began poking at the unfeeling, unseeing Soltic, thinking he could get through Soltic’s defenses.

He was almost sad when tentacle after tentacle deflected.

- - - -

Soltic stood at the side of the room, while Vanya spoke of her dungeon presentation.

Everbless had stopped trying to poke him after that first time, which Soltic was glad for. Now, Everbless hovered behind Aroido, watching Vanya’s presentation alongside the lord.

A few others were in attendance.

The Regency Archmage, Lady Wiloza Tidewalker, sat a few seats from Aroido, calmly regarding the much younger woman on stage. She hadn’t said anything aside from a casual greeting at the beginning, but she had taken notice when Soltic was introduced as a Stone Warrior. She didn’t seem to care about Vanya’s Elementalist Class, though. From those facts, it didn’t take long for Erick to remember that Wiloza was a Stone archmage. Hopefully she wouldn’t be bothering Soltic with too much of an inquisition, but Soltic could tell that she probably would. She was becoming more and more interested in Vanya’s presentation, but more so in Vanya and Soltic, than in Vanya’s words, and that meant questions of all sorts.

The other person sitting on Aroido’s other side was the Dungeon Guildmaster; an incani by the name of Larro Tizet. From his tiny grin, his happy heartbeat, and how he had spoken to Jarod earlier about ‘looks like you got a good one’, Soltic could tell that Larro was already on their side.

Aroido looked on in reluctant approval; he was ready to run Vanya through the wringer before he agreed to anything. The fact that he was willing to have a small inquisition was good news, though. Maybe.

Vanya finished with her presentation, and in the end, the room was filled with lightwards. Vanya’s main image floated in the front of the room; a top down look at the overall map of her plan for the dungeons. A few more images held to the sides, detailing the general overhead layout and depth layout of the various ‘Elemental Dungeons’ around the ‘Central City Dungeon’. All of them had empty spots for growth and for the additions of others, but the main floor plan was set.

After an hour, Vanya ended with, “I look forward to working with you, if you should all choose to accept me as a dungeon master. I thank you for your time, and I thank Sininindi for her Call to action.”

Guildmaster Larro Tizet had been waiting for a while to speak, and now he did, “I approve of her. Put her in a smaller dungeon and see what she can do. Maybe #6; that one is always near breaking.”

Archmage Wiloza ignored Larro, and asked, “Where did you learn your spellwork, Miss Vanya?”

“All over the place. Primarily in the dungeons. I do not have a formal arcanaeum accreditation, but I do have enough experience to cast almost any spell of under fourth tier.”

Wiloza’s disapproval was written upon her scrunched face. “I will be withholding my acceptance for several days while we research your public dungeons and do a thorough background check.” She pointed at the floating wardlights. “If I can find proof that you can actually do as you say, then perhaps we’ll speak again.” She got up. “I have no time for any further questions. Till another time, Aroido.” And then she left.

Aroido nodded to the archmage, and when the door had shut behind the archmage, Aroido turned back to Vanya. “The purpose of the dungeons here at Storm’s Edge are to take the Dark for all he is worth, using his spellworks to [Grow] gold and other useful items. Are you comfortable with that? Because that is the major reason for allowing the dungeons in our lands at all. It seems, to me, that you are perhaps too enamored with the learning opportunities inside dungeons.”

“I am more than capable of working with the needs of the governing land in order to make a dungeon all that it can be. Allow me, please, to guess a few things, based on what I have seen of this land.

“From my public ability to estimate how much money comes out of the dungeons, I guess that it’s maybe 9,000 gold per day, per dungeon, meaning around 38,000 per day, for all of them. You might do more at night, or you might not, but I do not know. The Regency takes 30,000 of that gold, which is a good sum, but it likely pales in comparison to a single day at the market, either lower or upper, which likely pulls in multiple millions per day, of which you take a constant, smaller amount. Still hundreds of thousands of gold per day, though. The dungeons, right now, are a minor thing.

“I can increase the production of those dungeons up to a hundred thousand gold per day, at least.

“When we get it up and running, having a False Society on Storm’s Edge’s border will be like adding another major harbor to this land.

