‘Ah. Well…’ Quilatalap breathed softly. ‘That part about [Baleful Polymorph]ing delvers into fish and then not transforming them back? That’s fine if a delver entered a death-track willingly, but only the truly crazy people do death-tracks anymore and I highly doubt that Gold Taker knows proper Trials of the Dark protocols. If he did, he wouldn’t allow the truly crazy ones onto the death tracks at all, and even if he believes himself to have the mental capacity to gauge when a person is crazy versus motivated, from what I saw in that room today, he does not have that capacity. All he has are ‘Rules’.’

‘Gods above. ‘He’s not doing the dungeon torture properly’. That’s such a weird take.’

‘Bah! You’re too soft sometimes, Erick. A little death in a safe environment is the best way to ensure that less death happens out in the open, and if people truly want to challenge themselves and be rewarded for it, then they should be allowed to do so.’

‘Don’t think we’re ever going to fully agree on that one, and that’s fine.’ Erick smiled, and then he asked the serious question, ‘But anyway: Are you going to continue going along with Sininindi’s desires, or are you ready to purge the problems in the dungeons and instantiate your own solutions?’

A bit of silence.

‘… I’m not ready to give up on doing this how she wants it done, yet. So… No purging right now. Maybe tomorrow if it looks like we can get away with it in a secure manner, without upsetting too many people.’

‘Aroido did seem rather at the end of his temper. He might be willing to cover up your actions if he knew who you were.’

‘Yes, he did seem that way, didn’t he. You know… The more I learn about the dungeons here the more I am personally offended.’

Erick smiled. ‘That subsidy thing was unexpected.’

‘YES! That! How can they fuck up growing gold in a dungeon? That’s the easiest... Hmm… I guess they do have a child trying to run the place.’

‘More like they have a mentally exhausted repro running the place, and also babysitting a demigod.’

‘Various sets of children, all overseeing each other.’

Erick chuckled.

Quilatalap sent, ‘I bet that archmage oversees the Aroidos, never letting him grow properly, either.’

‘Probably. That oversight would be a problem with bringing ‘the Aroidos’ into the fold. Now that’s a weird concept: ‘The Aroidos’.’

‘Not that weird. There are about 30 Quilatalaps running around out there.’

‘… Right.’

‘Anyway. The archmage didn’t seem to like Vanya. That could be a problem.’ Quilatalap sent, ‘Once I’m emplaced in the dungeon I’m going to rip away this seal, or whatever it is, inside my soul. It’s a doozy, though. I might need your help Wizardry-ing it away.’

‘And you will have that help, but you’re going to need to help me on the lyrics and targeting and such.’

Quilatalap yawned, laying beside Erick. ‘I can do that. You might need to go back to one of my phylacteries to do it properly, but that’s easily done.’

Erick smiled softly into the darkness of the room.

Soltic kissed Vanya on the shoulder, as he whispered, “Good night.”

Vanya giggled at the touch, then said, “Good night.”

Her eyes had already been closed for the last five minutes, and now, Soltic closed his eyes, too.

‘One last thought,’ Erick sent, ‘I would like it if we handled Gold Taker with kid sensibilities. I want to believe he can be good, if he learns how.’

‘… Well… I am a teacher, and the kid seems to enjoy learning magic...’ Quilatalap sent, ‘I’m not one to raise a child though, Erick. I’ve had to do that several times before, and that’s how you end up with people like Zenipeq Frostflower, which is a fine example, but then you get Death Throne, which is the exact counter example.’

There was a lot there in that small statement.

Mostly, it was an admission that Quilatalap did not want to raise kids, which… Had Implications.

Erick decided to say, ‘I’m probably going to have to step in here at Storm’s Edge after Sininindi removes her part of the seal. Maybe I’ll get the Arbors at Treehome involved with helping to raise Everbless, if they aren’t already. This separation from Everbless’s actions and Gold Taker’s…’

Quilatalap blinked a bit. The anti-meme had triggered.

‘Ah. Shit. Sorry, Quilatalap.’

Quilatalap stated, ‘As soon as I’m emplaced here, we are removing this intervention. It’s been difficult, letting this thing remain in my soul, listening to myself tell myself to leave it alone. It’s a lot worse when it triggers.’

‘I’m sorry.’

‘I’m not angry at you, but I am getting angry at Sininindi. Some political maneuvering is expected in this sort of thing and I think I passed that rather well, but the soul control is a deeply unwelcome addition. And what’s worse, is that based on the depth of this intervention, I have been infected for a long time. Years, Erick.’

‘We’ll get it removed, and then I’ll start talking to Sininindi about getting it removed from everyone. All of Storm’s Edge— Maybe the whole world is infected.’

‘It probably is.’ With an easier tone, Quilatalap said, ‘Now go to sleep. I’m tired and I love how comfortable this bed is, and how warm you are, and I want to sleep now.’

Erick smiled in the dark. ‘It’s a pretty good bed—’

Vanya lightly slapped his arm. “Go to sleep.”

Soltic chuckled, and then he tried to sleep.

- - - -

The Archmage of the Regency, Lady Wiloza Tidewalker, was having a difficult day. It started with that interloper Vanya Silver yesterday at that meeting, and continued to become more and more problematic because Wiloza had been awake for the last 30 hours, following up with the Dungeon Guilds of Geode Bluite—

“Excuse me,” Wiloza corrected herself, “The Dungeoneer Guilds. Everyone has to have some different name for it. I swear.” She collected herself. “And now I am here, at House Benevolence, asking for a Benevolent reading of this upcoming disaster, as per our previous agreements. Honestly I would not be here if I could avoid it, but everyone is suddenly talking about this Vanya woman back home, and this dungeon shift is going to happen a lot faster than I am comfortable with it happening.” Perhaps she showed her exhaustion too much, as she had not slept at all last night. “I apologize for my brevity and attitude, but I expected to see some lesser prognosticator. Not you. I mean. I appreciate it. Just unexpected.”

Grand Prognosticator Teressa Rednail, sometimes called the Seer of Weal, sat on the other side of the table, looking as much the professional as Wiloza had been informed. She also looked younger than Wiloza had expected, but that was an orcol for you; nary a line on the face, even when facing 50, or however much time That Damned Wizard had dragged her through inside those [Hasted Shelter]s. Thankfully the Wizard was too busy running his kingdom these days to keep doing shit that would make the gods blush…

Though the world was certainly better off for King Flatt’s magics, and for all the changes caused by the Darkness and the Gods…

But Wiloza had a distinct distaste for people enacting their will upon her land, and while that resultant anger had been directed toward monsters and such for the first 60 years of her life, she was still adjusting to this new world order of the last 10 years.

“Perhaps I am overreacting,” Wiloza said, “I am simply supremely worried about the small scale disasters these days, and those damned dungeons are always disasters. I need to know if this Vanya Silver or Soltic Cross are disasters in the making.”

Prognosticator Rednail nodded. “Completely understandable. I usually focus on the good outcomes of any potential question, with only true disasters rising to the top, allowing me to see them. Are you comfortable with that?”

“I am. Probably better for my anxiety-ridden mind, which is fine by me.”

Prognosticator Rednail smiled a little bit at Wiloza's disarming attitude, then she said, “Okay. Allow me a moment with the paperwork you have brought.” Miss Rednail reached down to the papers sitting on the table between them.

Those papers were the collected history of Vanya Silver and Soltic Cross; everything that Wiloza had been able to find in the last 15 hours. It was not nearly enough as it should have been, if Vanya and Soltic were real people. That lack of history was what caused Wiloza to finally enact the agreements between House Benevolence and the Regency; to come here and ask these questions. Of all the things Wiloza had been able to find, herself, personally, as she had been traveling through the Gate Network all day long to find this information, all of it only took up 5 brief pages, and 4 of those 5 were about Vanya’s publicly-found dungeons. There was also a house on the outskirts of Bluite that was abandoned, and which looked like it had been abandoned for a hundred years—

“The major thing I found, personally, when I went down there,” Wiloza said, “Was that neither of these people were well known at the Dungeoneer Guild down there! Those Guilds had records for Miss Silver and Mister Cross, but their faces were unknown.”

Prognosticator Rednail winced a little bit at that, then she finished reading the paperwork, having flipped through it and used some sort of [Reading] magic, or whatnot. Most people in power had that sort of capability these days. She set the paperwork back down. “They could be immortals who are trying out a new life. There are a lot of those falling out of Underworld and elsewhere these days.”

Wiloza sighed. “That’s the best case scenario, and it’s honestly the one I most suspect is true. I never knew there were so many damned immortals in this world until the Wizard upended everything.”

Rednail smiled. “He does have that tendency.”

“With the way Vanya spoke, I suspect that she is an immortal. She seems truly Called by My Goddess, too, though, so…” Wiloza shook her head. “I don’t know. I want to know, though. The general shape of what is to come. I want to know.”

Rednail nodded seriously. “Final question: Is there anything in particular you would like to know, aside from the stated request?”

“Not that I can think of. Any solid, general advice from House Benevolence to the Regency will be enough. We might not act on that information, but we’re asking for your Benevolent Prognostication anyway.”

“A reading won’t take much time at all, so you can either wait here, and I can do it here, or I can move to the other room, or whatever you want.”

“Please do it here.”

Rednail gave a small, half nod, then she sat back in her chair, breathed out, stared into the distance, and her eyes transformed into pools of lightning.

If it weren’t for the similarities between Benevolence and Lightning, Wiloza realized that she might have either been offended at the prognosticator’s similarity to Sininindi’s look, or charmed. Probably more charmed than offended. Who knew, though. It was what it was, and all Wiloza could do was watch, as—

Rednail blinked, and came back to herself. Then she looked down at Wiloza and startled, as though she was surprised to see Wiloza was still here, or something. And then her countenance solidified. “Have them make the dungeon into a shelter. Devote the majority of the inner lands into a truly defensible location. Somewhere that all of Storm’s Edge can shelter inside, for there is a storm coming and it is not of Sinininidi’s make at all.” Her eyes flickered to lightning again. Wiloza was unsure if the lightning had ever left as the Grand Prognosticator’s voice turned to thunder,

“The Grand Dungeon of Storm’s Edge must hold all of the life of the Archipelago, and more besides. It will be The Lighthouse, The Castle That Withstands All, The Vault In The Ground Under The Roots Of The World Tree, The Protected Cove, and more, and you, Wiloza Tidewalker, must make that happen. Through the Death that is yet to come, there will be life, or there will be nothing at all for you and yours when lightning lashes Storm’s Edge.”

For a moment, Wiloza just breathed.

Wiloza had been shocked by a great many things in her long life. When her daughter made her first tier 7 spell, called it quits, and then made tier 8 a year later, surprising everyone that she had chosen to continue learning and growing as a mage, becoming an archmage while no one was watching. Another great surprise was when Wiloza found a Shade in the castle 34 years ago, casually murdering the previous Regent. Not too long ago the Gate Network opened and the world changed overnight, and then even more in the following years; even today, Wiloza was shocked that she was able to get all the way to Bluite and back by just spending 2 gold in traveling fees.

The shock passed.

Wiloza felt a familiar chill take root in her chest. A solidification, turning malleable, as Wiloza often found herself turning. It was why she chose to become an Ooze Mage in the first place, though everyone only knew her for her Stone Magic, and that was fine. She had surprised many would-be killers when they thought they knew how to deal with Stone, and then they were suddenly surrounded by not-Stone at all.

The Grand Prognosticator had finished with her proclamation, blinked a lot, and then just breathed. Now, she waited.

Wiloza easily said, “Well then! That was unexpected.”

Miss Rednail calmly, yet rapidly, said, “We will be verifying that particular prognostication over the coming days, to ensure that it is correct. We would appreciate it if you do not go spreading that information around without regard for who you tell. Not to the public; not yet.”

“So that worried you, too, then?”

“It is not often when something like that happens… Not for years, actually. The last time was with the Blue Wizard and the attack on Oceanside, about a month prior to that event. This particular prognostication is… Half a year away, or more.”

Wiloza took that information in stride, then she gestured to the paperwork. “What about these immortals?”

Prognosticator Rednail blinked a few more times as she looked down at the papers. “Vanya will terrify you beyond belief. I suggest you tell her what I told you, and then keep others away from her and let her make the dungeon how it needs to be made.”

Wiloza frowned. “This is not what I expected when I came here—”

Prognosticator Rednail stood, saying, “House Benevolence is terribly sorry that we must cut this meeting short. You have been given the information requested. We suggest you work that information how you will. Good day, Archmage Wiloza Tidewalker.”

