“This is yours.” She stepped out from behind the table and held the case out to him. “It was on the floor in the locker room when I arrived, and I didn’t want it to get stomped. Lots of traffic in and out of the elevator.”

Alden took the fabric case and saw that his name was stamped on the tag. This must be the “human necessities” package Bti-qwol had promised him right after he was summoned.

“Thanks,” he said to Manon. “I’m looking forward to having clean clothes.”

“I’m sure,” she said. “I’ve been caught off-footed by a summons quite a few times over the years. Hazard of the Rabbit lifestyle. When I wasn’t much older than you, I ended up arriving at a posting with nothing but a swimsuit and a bottle of tanning oil!”

She laughed. “It was only a table-arranging assignment, but it was still embarrassing to be walking around laying out candles and dinnerware in a bikini.”

She had a warm laugh and an easy smile. She was wearing bunny bedroom slippers. If Alden had met this woman before he met her friends, he would have felt at ease around her.

Manon led him to the pods at the far end of the room. “These four are unclaimed,” she said, pointing. Then she leaned toward him and whispered, “To be completely honest with you, it’s because of the neighborhood.”

She gestured at the last sleeping capsules in the line. The bottom one was shut tight, and a sticker that said Get off My Lawn was pasted to the privacy panel.

“Thwart Hog?” Alden guessed.

“She’s…not too much trouble.” The creases around Manon’s dark eyes deepened in concern. “She was here last year as well, so she must be a regular employee for one of the faculty. We’ve only spotted her a few times in the past, and she doesn’t seem to want to interact. Thankfully. But if you feel uncomfortable around an unregistered, I could swap spots with you?”

Alden wondered if the offer was serious or if she just thought it was a polite thing to say. After all, what did it matter if he was here or a few capsules over? They were all sharing the same room.

“It’s fine,” he said.

“Well, if you see a woman walking around in a fencing mask, it’s best to ignore her and let her ignore you.”

“A fencing mask?”

“It’s similar to one at least. We can’t see her face through it.” She sighed. “It’s concerning, but what can we do?”

After that, Manon filled him in on shower etiquette—no more than fifteen minutes per person in the evenings, ten in the mornings—and left him to his own devices. Alden carried his goodie bag back to his locker and opened it, both curious and nervous to see what supplies he’d have to work with for the next several days.

He was fairly horrified to discover a bunch of black turtlenecks and matching black pants. The pants had a stretchy waist and looked like overly voluminous joggers. They’d be comfortable if nothing else. But a turtleneck?

I’ll sweat to death.The fabric felt like cotton, but it had a sheen to it. Maybe it’s cooler than it looks?

There was a device in one corner of the locker room that vaguely resembled a washing machine. If the turtlenecks didn’t work out, he guessed he could just do laundry every night.

He’d also been given a brown garment that he thought was a bathrobe. Or maybe pajamas. He wasn’t sure. It looked like a long pillowcase with holes cut out for his head and arms, and though it was a nice, soft pillowcase, he didn’t think it was something he was supposed to wear to work.

Totally normal human briefs had been provided. They were still in the plastic packaging, and at the sight of them, he felt love for his fellow man.

He did wonder why the Artonans were willing to provide underwear from Earth but nothing else. A toothbrush would have been nice, but instead he got gum. And not even sticks of gum, but a single blue disc pressed into a little metal canister with a picture of an alien molar on the cap.

The System helpfully translated the writing on the bottom, and Alden discovered that the gum was re-usable. Which reminded him of that one creepy kid in elementary school who would eat old pieces off the bottom of desks.

For deodorant, there was a tube with a rollerball applicator full of some kind of cream. And there was a straight razor that looked like a miniature butcher knife with a sharp hook on the end. Alden didn’t necessarily have to shave, and he decided that if the mood struck him, he’d only do it with the lab coat on.

Maybe the extra dexterity would keep him from chopping his own nose off or accidentally piercing it with the awkwardly placed hook.

The last thing in the case was a bottle of multivitamins. That was probably a good thing. He didn’t know the nutritional content of the food here, but considering how much of his diet had been made up of unwanted fruit juice today, he doubted it was balanced.

He took a pair of pants and his super stylish pillowcase robe with him to the bathroom. When he opened the curtain, he almost walked right into the stocky, angry guy from the medical team.

“Sorry,” Alden said, stepping out of the way. He tensed up as the guy passed, but all he got was a grunt and a glare.

Could’ve been worse.

The bathroom was far less communal than he’d feared. Toilets were hidden away in their own individual closets, and though there were only four shower stalls, they were spacious and private.

The showers were more of an adventure than he would have liked, though. They had a wash cycle, during which soapy water the temperature of the sun blasted him from every angle, followed by a cold water rinse cycle. And then a bonus moisturizer cycle, which was just odd. It misted him from head to toe with something herbal and oily before he realized what was happening and that he needed to escape.

He managed to towel most of the stuff off, and it was good to be clean even if he did smell like alien body spray.

By the time he was done, the bathroom was empty, and he could briefly pretend that he had the whole place to himself. He checked out the rest of the space, discovering that one of the toilet closets was actually a storage closet. Manon’s cooler was there alongside cases of drinks and bags of snacks. There were also some cleaning supplies and an unloved wevvi dispenser gathering dust.

Alden debated the morality of taking a granola bar from the boater and decided that they owed it to him for making his lunchtime unnecessarily hostile.

It was a good granola bar, too. Lots of dark chocolate chips.

With fifteen minutes remaining until the System sent him to his sleep capsule like a naughty toddler, he finally left the bathroom. He’d been hoping to be the last one up so that he wouldn’t have to chat again, but Manon was still at the table. She’d set aside her magazine, and now she was filing her nails.

“ ‘night,” said Alden, striding past her with purpose.

“Just a sec, hon,” said Manon. “I wanted to talk to you without everyone listening in, and if you’re going to be as busy as you were today, there won’t be many opportunities.”

Alden glanced pointedly at the capsules. They weren’t far away.

“Sound proof,” said Manon. “For a restful night’s sleep.”

“Of course,” said Alden.

Manon glanced up. “I won’t beat around the bush. Everyone was at their worst when you arrived. Karl in particular.”

Alden assumed Karl was the angry one.

“But that’s no excuse,” Manon continued, looking back down at her nails. “You’re just a kid. And it’s always better to keep things friendly and professional on a job. So don’t worry about it. I had a talk with everyone for you. They won’t bother you anymore. Or ask you to chip in to cover Pineda’s lost salary.”

It took Alden several long seconds to process what she’d said. And several more to rein in his surprise. Was that what all the talk about money was leading up to earlier? Did the members of the boater think that he should give them the money he was getting for being on the medical team?

They hadn’t actually gotten around to suggesting anything like that. And Alden didn’t think he was so bad at picking up context clues that he would have missed strong hints in that direction. But maybe..

“I told them I’d cover Pineda,” Manon added with a soft smile. “It’s my responsibility as the founding member of the boater anyway.”

“Oh,” said Alden, still off-footed. “Okay.”

Maybe they usually split money from jobs with members who weren’t summoned? Or something like that?

“So don’t worry about it anymore,” Manon said. “And if anyone gives you a hard time, come straight to me, all right?”

She’s so nice, thought Alden.

But wasn’t she a little too nice?

No. He hated thinking that way. Some people were kind when they didn’t need to be. He really did believe that. And it was a dick move to assume that someone’s positive qualities were fake when you didn’t have any proof.

If something’s off I’ll figure it out tomorrow. When I’m not so tired. And paranoid.

“Thanks,” he said. “I’ll do that.”

She grabbed her magazines and headed for her sleeping capsule. “Good night, Alden,” she said. “See you bright and early. And help yourself to any of the snacks in the storage area if you want. They’re for everyone.”

She climbed into a top bunk and disappeared.

Alden went and fetched another granola bar for himself, then headed to his own capsule. The short ceiling was a little claustrophobic, but the bed was comfortable. There was a reading lamp that pulled out from the wall and a small shelf.

The sleeping pills were in a little storage cubby.

He didn’t need one.

Almost as soon as he settled under the crisp, clean sheets and put his head down, he was asleep.
