Fully surrounded, Jake had to pass through a flame wall, and while he summoned his scales to try to handle the heat, he was still pretty badly burned. What’s more, dozens of flame constructs kept popping up everywhere, and with a chasing Behemoth, dodging everything wasn’t an option anymore.

Can’t stay in offensive mode, Jake thought as he pushed Arcane Awakening further. The destructive boost only increased his offensive stats, meaning he effectively hadn’t been using a boosting skill when diving through the wall of flames. Now he used it at full power, boosting his stats even more, with the defensive ones jumping from unboosted to a 60% increase.

Alongside the passive barrier from Arcane Awakening, Jake was confident enough to dive through several flame walls as he tried to create some distance between himself and the Behemoth. The Archfiend stepped up his game, though, as suddenly Jake felt an intense pressure fall upon him.

Red glowing runes appeared all across his body, pulsing with energy as Jake felt their slight sealing effect. Despite just pushing his boosting skill further, Jake didn’t feel an increase in power as the demon’s magic weakened him, making Jake click his tongue.

He tried to dispel the effect as he erupted with destructive arcane energy, and he immediately felt several runes break and his speed pick back up... but mere moments later, the runes were back, having been reapplied.

Not a curse, some kind of channeled magic?

Through his sphere, he saw that the Archfiend was already preparing some other magic himself, meaning he wasn’t the one maintaining these runes. At least not actively. Jake tried tracing the source, but the Behemoth’s pursuit made it a stressful endeavor.

Right then, the Archfiend unleashed more magic as Jake suddenly felt his entire body freeze up, and at the worst timing possible. He exploded with energy one final time, filling the sky with dark mana to try to obscure what he was doing, but the Behemoth barreled straight into it, and all Jake could do was watch as a fist connected with his stomach. It broke through his passive barrier and scales before piercing all the way through and out the other side as blood was spilled and a serious injury was inflicted... In two places at the same time.
