Randidly decided, very generously, not to read too deeply into the intentions of the Pantheon by forcing him to utilize the Creed “Harmony”. Instead, his body still trembling with barely controlled power, he simply poured VPs into this new Creed and examined the definition. The corkscrews spun closer.

(Creed) Harmony: A Creed that emphasizes balance and cooperation between disparate elements. In addition, development without sacrifice. When VPs are spent, user will become more efficient and sophisticated in the manipulation of the body. In addition, user’s balance will be greatly strengthened. The user’s mental state will be very resilient. For those within the Alpha Cosmos, this Creed makes it easier to develop Skills or images related to cooperation, combination, water, healing, steady growth, communication, summoning, and spirituality.

As the relative dominance of this Creed increases, user can manipulate and combine energies with greater ease. Images will more easily be blended together. In addition, complex arrangements become easier to balance. However, harsh or aggressively pure images will be slightly weakened (yet attacks from pure images foreign to the Vessel will be more difficult to resist). Mutated monsters with strength well beyond their Level will spawn more frequently.

This… Randidly frowned at all the information provided to him. The development of this Harmony Creed was timely; the rabid waves of force within his body was quickly corralled and saddled. Setting aside the very obvious consternation from the Pantheon, it was just what Randidly needed. The wound spring of his strike compressed further and increased in power. In addition, he felt the same general reinforcement across his body as he spent another thousand VP straight into Harmony.

But the interesting point is that not only are there benefits for choosing this Creed, but also drawbacks… and from the inclusion of the word ‘relative’, probably it not only matters how much you strengthen a Creed, but also how much it is strengthened compared to your others…

Information to keep in mind.

Randidly broke off that train of thought and focused on his current situation. With a total of two thousand VP spent, he tested the development of his Vessel. The taut bowstring of his body snapped forward.

In the halo of silence around Randidly’s body, this sudden movement could be described as nothing but violence.

He punched. His muscles finally sang. The air around his first tore. Vibration became tension which became a kinetic eruption of godly proportions. Of Legendary proportions. The corkscrews shivered and chipped as the initial blast hit them and then fractured into hundreds of brittle pieces as the tide of destruction rushed forward.

The force continued. The next, half-spawned wave of corkscrews could only vanish from existence as Randidly’s powerful attack eroded them. The attack cracked against the constricting walls of the Samsara. Randidly hadn’t aimed toward the Samsara’s weaknesses, but as his force set the Samsara to trembling, he narrowed his eyes and gestured.

Force spun around and cracked against the flaw. Randidly pried open the Samsara, but he pursed his lips as he saw the Samsara was this time prepared.

The bits of the shatterer corkscrews began to react before Randidly could escape through the gap. A familiar memory formed in the broken pieces of the aftermath, strong walls keeping him penned in. Across the room from where Randidly stood, Aegiant sneered at him. “Let’s see then how much your spearwork has improved.”

Immediately, the sun’s nova leaked out from Aegiant’s skin and began to melt the surroundings. The Samsara had truly poured out all of its potency into this avatar’s body. Heat instantly sizzled against Randidly’s skin until he felt like he had been coated in flames. But the most ominous portion of this avatar was the eyes; they were empty black abysses, a cross between a black hole and a supernova.

They fixated on Randidly, intent on crushing his Vessel in that abyss of calefaction.

Randidly kept adding VPs to his Harmony Creed, although he began to have an implicit understanding of how this was exactly the sort of foe that Harmony was not designed to combat. After a thousand more, he received another notification.

You have condensed a Vessel Layer! Current Vessel Layers: 2

For earning a new Layer, you have unlocked access to a new Creed. Creeds will be distributed differently, based on the Vessel Layer. For the second Vessel Layer, please choose a Creed from the following three: Temperance, Isolation, and Vengeance.

Randidly’s lips twitched. What are the odds that the Pantheon nudged this list a bit to add Temperance?

Aegiant growled and waved a weapon that could conceivably be a spear, although it was really just destructive heat given shape. The attack spat out a projectile: A massive orb of pure fire seared its way toward Randidly’s chest. He observed it with his black eyes lit by a bright chip of emerald. He settled down into a crouch.

If I no longer have Paths, if I’m obliterating all the foundation I have made… these Creeds become how I express myself. Randidly’s eyes blazed. Although all the people around me clearly wish I had made certain choices and will make more of those choices in the future… I will not.

Because the whole point-

That miniature sun blazed right in front of him. His skin had turned red, his clothes sizzled and turned to ashes on his body. But Randidly Ghosthound raised his left foot, caught the orb with his toes, and stomped it into the ground.

You have selected the Creed Vengeance!

(Creed) Vengeance: A Creed that does not forget past slights. Over time, preparation and intensely held emotions lead to retribution. When VPs are spent, user will experience an increase in explosive power. Hands and feet will greatly increase in toughness, in order to be the appropriate tools to extract the long-price. User’s emotions will also become more vibrant and volatile. For those within the Alpha Cosmos, this Creed increases the natural memory capacity and makes it easier to develop Skills or images related to fire, storm, curses, hexes, revenge, contracts, obsessions, violent emotions, and devils.

As the relative dominance of this Creed increases, user will experience moments of purity of emotion, when attacking the target of vengeance. While pursuing a deeply held belief, user will be able to persist past their physical and mental limits. However, the speed and intensity of decision-making often results in small details being missed. When monsters are gravely injured and not killed, their is a very small chance of them mutating to become a Raid Tyrant, a massive and overpowered version of the monster which will seek to kill the individual who injured them at any cost.

For all the drawbacks associated with this Creed… it rings so much more true. In the end, I set off on this journey to change the world. To create peace, yes, but also because I wanted to use these hands to tear down the Nexus which had caused so much pain… Randidly’s expression tightened.

But he also didn’t hesitate to begin pouring VPs into the Vengeance Creed.

Aegiant frothed at the mouth to see his attack squashed by a bare foot. The intense radiance of his image squeezed the air. The burning avatar floated up and roared; the passage of sound melted the ground into bubbling lava, causing Randidly to sink up to his shins into the melted rock. And as each second passed, the heat mounted further, to the point that his entire body ached.

Randidly could feel Vengeance strengthening his Vessel, but it was not a Creed that gave him much of a defensive boost.

How far is this from the true heat of a star, I wonder? Randidly thought as he watched the walls very quickly turning liquid and collapsing. Bits of stone fell from the crumbling roof but just became more steaming lava before they hit the floor. The ground beneath the floating Aegiant began to evaporate and spark into plasma. Neon streaks of superheated air spun around the figure.

Yet Randidly could only show his teeth. “You know, I’m not trying to deny the of this place Truth. Just prove… you don’t need to be hemmed in by it. So what if you are more powerful than me, Aegiant? Power is a fickle thing. And until you understand the restrictions of the Narrow Path you have chosen, you cannot harm me.”

A new opinion formed in his heart. Yggdrasil spread out from Randidly’s form in response. It opened up its canopy of emerald leaves and rapidly began to absorb the explosion of solar energy. Its roots swam down through lava and found solid ground beneath. Such a constant supply of energy made the World Tree swell, although in a much healthier manner than swallowing kinetic force.

Congratulations! Your Grand Fate Temporal Thaumaturgy Mends Eternity has grown to Level 903!

Congratulations! Your Nether Penance Empty Vessel Fosakes the Path has grown to Level 903!

VP +1!

After pouring 2000 VPs into his new Vengeance Creed, Randidly hesitated and stopped. He examined his Vessel Point Menu.

Vessel Screen

Randidly Ghosthound

Vessel Layers: 2

Creeds: Vengeance (2000), Harmony (2000), N/A (1000)

VPs: 9704

(Infuse VPs to unlock further options)

Randidly pressed a hand to his chest. I can feel it, the churning force of Vengeance on the one hand, like a storm about to his shore, and the calming influence of Harmony opposite it. Right now they are in balance… and probably, I should stay like this for now.

Because… overcoming Aegiant isn’t really isn’t about power. It’s about demonstrating how fickle Truth can be…

The Alchemist rubbed his hands together. Bit by bit, he began to understand what today’s final miracle would be.
