The Templars initially didn’t show much interest in helping out. Zac’s status as a decorated veteran or Ogras’s identity as a Nameless Blade didn’t impress them much, and Tavza was currently using the identity of a noblewoman who’d been gifted a seal by her clan. Out of better options, Zac reluctantly took out Roan’s Fertile Earth token, which lit a fire under the Templar.

Just moments later, they were led to a garden at the back of the chapel, where a man in coarse hemp robes was pulling weeds with his bare hands. He looked no different from a mortal, but Zac’s instincts told him that this old farmer was even stronger than General Vatnus. And yet, there was no pressure coming from him as he dusted off his hands and turned around with a smile.

“Young friend, may I ask who gave you that token?”

“Roan, the Earth Sage,” Zac truthfully answered. “I helped the Sage with a small matter some time ago, and he imparted this to me.”

“A small matter?” the farmer smiled. “I think I know the matter you’re referring to. I assume you three are looking for a nucleus for your task?”

“It was just a thought. I hope you don’t feel pressured to break any rules on account of the token,” Zac said.

“Did General Vatnus tell you he was doing you a favor?” the priest said with a helpless expression. “He’s just trying to sow karma with you seedlings. Most of the sealbearers come this way before setting out. We usually assist so long as they show enough patience. The ones entering Poised Meadows empty-handed have either annoyed the general or failed Fertile Earth’s test of longanimity.”

“Oh,” Zac said, slightly embarrassed he’d forced his way inside by flashing a token.

“However, most leave with a simple trinket consecrated for a few decades. Seeing your connection with the Sage, I’ll give you an actual helping hand,” the farmer said, and three seeds flew out from a flower sitting in the middle of the private garden. Zac almost threw them away after realizing the seeds held more energy than the entire [Twin Eclipse].

“Is this safe?” Zac warily asked, his companions equally leery about the gift.

“The [Ketumati Lotus] has been washed by the piety of the fallen for over two million years. Its descendants will never harm a subject of the Empire,” the farmer said with a gratified expression.

‘But we’re not subjects of the Empire!’ Zac cried in his mind, but he still carefully stowed the seeds.

“Thank you. We’ll make sure to not waste the gift,” Zac said. “On that note, could we ask how to best awaken a useful spirit?”

“I can’t say too much. Reaching the Hollow Court is a test in itself. To see the purpose of life and meaning in death,” the priest said. “Follow your heart and find the profound grace hidden in the randomness.”

“Thank you for the guidance,” Zac said, utterly clueless about what the old man’s cryptic words meant. “We should go.”

“It is time. The first ones passed through this checkpoint months ago,” the priest nodded. “If this old man can give you a final piece of advice, it’s not to ignore the views as you rush toward the gates of the Hollow Court. A flower needs time to grow, and the journey is sometimes as important as the destination.”
