Lower on the mountain, Gan Guangli’s followers had reduced their odds to more even ones, and as sunlight bloomed again, stiffening spines and putting weight behind their blows, it became clear that if the other disciples had an opportunity to bring them down, it had passed. And when they finished and joined their commander, the girl from the western territories had no chance.

“Well, it seems your fellow has overcome his bout of misfortune,” Xia Anxi said, leaning back in his seat.

“I can’t judge his abilities fully from this scenario, but it does seem he knows his followers well,” Lao Keung concluded. Down below in the tournament field, Gan Guangli was speaking and gesticulating to his followers on the broken mountainside. One by one, the second realms bowed and made their forfeits. “They do not resent him at all.”

“He is their better.” Xia Anxi shrugged.

Lao Keung grunted.

“He is heavily involved with their drilling,” Ling Qi elaborated. “He has improved a lot at discerning value.”

Like Zhengui, Gan Guangli had something she lacked. She sincerely hoped that he succeeded in the Duchess’ test. Cai Renxiang needed more than she had to give if she was going to achieve her goals.

Her liege gave no outward sign of her true feelings as she chatted with the ambassador about the matches, but Ling Qi knew that seeing this first hurdle overcome so completely had to be a balm on her mind.

Soon, the matches were over, and only the winners remained. In the first ring, Gan Guangli and Gun Jun, the spearman, stood. Given his friendliness with Gan Guangli, she took a moment to scrutinize his face and remember his name.

In her head, Sixiang snorted.

In the second ring was a boy she didn’t know and Han Jian, her… probably friend from last year. Although with how long it had been, she didn’t know if the word still applied. The third ring held Xiao Fen and an older green realm whose name she didn’t recall, and the last held the muscular girl and another green she didn’t know.

The first round of the preliminaries was completed.
