-If they had no other distractions? The assessment is that Master Clevnis would have won if properly prepared and aware, but he received his wounds in their first exchange, before he really knew what was happening. In the time since, he’s held his own, even injured, and hasn’t sustained any further damage. Mistress Cerna—after setting up the healing and support for her husband—has focused on readying defensive workings while helping Lea stay back and safe. They don’t want to come into an ambush unaware, so she’s holding back just in case.-

Tala grunted at that. Good to know. They are prioritizing my daughter, and it’s costing them.

-That is my assessment as well.-

If that was the case, Rane and she would make quick work of the thing… Unless something changed, or there was something they were unaware of. Everything about this is unknown. Of course there’s going to be things we’re unaware of.

Regardless, she tried to grab a lock on the automaton to simply Crush it. That would be the easy way to end this. Unfortunately, the magical connection refused to form.

It wasn’t like the being outweighed her magically. That would be its own type of horrifying. Instead, it was as if her magic couldn’t affect it for some reason.

She hadn’t experienced something like it since, as a student, she’d petulantly tried to Crush the moon.

It had been a stupid thing to do, given it would have killed everyone if it had worked, but the attempt had simply slid off. Her teachers at the time—after staring at her in horror for a long moment—had simply said, ‘That’s outside of your authority to affect.’

They hadn’t explained what they meant, nor had they actually seemed to know themselves, but that was the explanation they had.

This felt the same.

A higher authority was denying any direct magical interference with the hostile automaton before her. Most likely? Reality was interfering, preventing Magic from taking hold.

Well, there goes all the easiest solutions… She could dig into the why later. Now, she needed to fight.

With that in mind, her armor flowed around her, the comfort of its presence helping to center her mind.

The automaton had only hesitated for an instant—seemingly not noticing, or not caring about her attempt to exercise her magics upon it—before blurring, attempting to go around Master Clevnis and Rane.

Rane’s sword was in his hand, and Force slashed out, only being turned aside at the last moment by a black blade, seemingly of the same material as the creature’s armor.

The two exchanged a series of blows, Rane obviously falling into a comfortable state of flow, moving from one strike or block to the next with ease as he drove it back.

The automaton for its part was moving almost frantically, its eyes continuing to flick toward Lea, uncertainty clearly visible within.

Tala sent a spray of iron spikes before herself, driving them deeply into the ground all across the valley as she claimed large swaths of the potential battlefield under her aura and authority.

Then Tala landed in her fully armored glory, willing all the debris from her impact to spray straight at the automaton, causing it to stumble back and away.

After the dust cleared, its eyes locked onto her blank white faceplate, and everything changed.
