“Aw, don' be like tha'.” Clint said. “Look, jus' taste it.”

Izabeal huffed again, and opened her lips a little. Clint slid the metal bar into the horse's mouth, and she clomped down on it and started sucking.

“Ha ha!” Clint said. “Ah told ya!”

Izabeal nodded her head and kept sucking.

“Ah bought tha' jus' fer ya while I was away.” Clint said. “Ah know how much ya hate having somethin' besides food in yer mouth, so I had tha' especially enchanted fer ya.” He smiled. “The guy said it was good fer a month.”

Izabeal neighed at Clint. He pat her neck and secured the harness over her face, then put the saddle on her.

“Let's go fer a nice long ride.” Clint said and led her out of the stable. Izabeal dug her large hooves into the dirt and Clint chuckled. She was just as eager as he was to cut loose and go for a good run. He climbed up onto her back, and once he was settled, he snapped the reins. Izabeal reared up onto her back legs, kicked her front legs in the air a couple of times, then when they hit the ground she took off at her top speed right away.

“Ha ha!” Clint laughed.

At that speed, they would be at the starter city of Aurora just before morning.

*

Lylyth could feel that Ren was asleep, and she was tempted to open a portal to go and visit him.

I can't. Lylyth thought. It's... it's much too soon. She rationalized to herself. He'd be scared and nervous if I just showed up out of the blue like this. She thought about him being scared, and frowned. No, he wouldn't be scared, would he? She asked herself.

“Is something wrong?” Lylyth's personal attendant asked.

“No, I'm fine.” Lylyth said. “I'm just thinking too hard.”

The attendant nodded. “I do that, too.”

“You do? About what?”

“If I should keep my pet or exchange him.” The attendant said. “He seems... weak.”

Lylyth chuckled. “Yes, I believe you've used up his arrogance, and all that's left is his self-pity.”

The attendant smiled. “That's it exactly.” She said. “It was great when we started; but, when I get him to perform now... he cries sometimes.”

Lylyth laughed. “Then exchange him. There are plenty more prisoners of war that we need to break before they can convert and worship me.”

“Thank you, your highness.” The attendant said. “I hope my next seduction attempt is rebuffed as much as the last one was.” She smiled. “It's quite fun to see them give in to their desires after they resist so much.”

“Oh, I know.” Lylyth said. “It's the strong and defiant ones that are the most satisfying when they finally surrender themselves to the passion.”

Lylyth thought about Ren, and knew that he wasn't going to be anything like the others. In fact, he willingly... Her face flushed a sightly darker grey when she remembered what Ren did to 'feed' her. No, he's not like the others at all.
