Every city had been put on alert and soldiers and the local Watch vigilantly manned the walls. However, at this point the Drakes and Gnolls had little experience battling the Antinium and made preparations as if they were in danger from a conventional force, rather than the Antinium’s unique style of tactics.
The Walled Cities nearest to the three cities received a panicked [Message] spell just past dawn, and then nothing. Although a force of riders immediately rode to the aid of the cities, it was too late. The Antinium attacked and withdrew before the cavalry reached the city, and the [Captain] in charge declined to give chase.
In less than two hours, the Antinium managed to kill or maim over 80% of the population in each of the cities. The walls and conventional defenses that make the city-states so difficult to take by conventional siege fell within seconds of the attack.
Recorded testimony by the few survivors reports a horde of black Soldiers and even Workers swarming up the walls, building living ladders and overwhelming the adventurers and City Watch by sheer force of numbers. So fierce was the assault, half of the city’s forces were caught in their beds and slaughtered there.
This was the beginning of the war in earnest. The city-states immediately declared a state of emergency and began raising as many soldiers and warriors as possible. However, each city preferred to raise their own armies and retain former alliances, rather than join together.
This was the second mistake made by the Drakes. Initially, the Antinium war force was outnumbered by the numerous Drake armies on the continent. But the separated armies and reluctance of the cities to work together allowed the Antinium to attack with local superiority and quickly overrun countless cities around their Hives.
While the Drake cities had existed in a state of enduring war and skirmishes with each other, one of the factors that prevented most of them from being conquered was the difficulty of taking the city before reinforcements could arrive. Even the largest of forces would take time to breach the walls and other magical defenses that guarded each city, in which time another army would surely launch an attack on the attacking force or their home city.
In this way, a city-state could easily remain autonomous or at the very least, retain much of its independence by forming alliances with nearby settlements and Gnoll Tribes. However, the Antinium’s style of attack was to overwhelm the walls by sheer numbers and relentless speed. Relief armies would find the cities already full of the dead or find the Antinium had already retreated by the time they arrived.
In less than a week, eight cities had fallen and the Drake city-states had realized the magnitude of their error. But while all agreed a coalition army was needed, no city wanted to send their armies past their walls, for fear the Antinium would attack while they were undefended. And while they hesitated, the Antinium swarmed over their walls and slaughtered them regardless.
Only a few armies achieved any success against the Antinium during these initial assaults. A few city-states with superior forces pushed back the Antinium and General Sserys’ army achieved several definite victories before retreating in face of overwhelming numbers.
A Drake [Tactician] recorded several initial observations after one battle, which he immediately passed on to every city-state via mage spell and Courier. She describes the Antinium as an extremely dangerous threat, despite their apparent lack of high-level warriors and magic:
 
“…While these ‘Antinium’ do not appear to have any individuals within their ranks with unique Skills, I believe their warriors are the equivalent of any Level 15 [Warrior], and are perhaps even stronger when fighting in tandem. 
There are two types of Antinium I have observed: the massive Soldiers and the smaller Workers. Of the two, the Soldiers are vastly more dangerous. They fight hand-to-hand and charge into pikes and magical traps without regard for their lives. They will continue to attack even when mortally wounded, and they are capable of bludgeoning even the most well-armored warrior to death given time.
Their shells are as tough as any leather armor and the Antinium fight and move together like a professional unit. Our army was only able to achieve victory by using our superior vantage point and numerous area of attack spells to decimate their formations. Our elite soldiers carved through many of the Antinium, and it appears the lack of magic and any high-level warriors is their only weakness.
The Antinium have no mages, and their ranged weapons are primitive bows and crude stone arrows. Nevertheless, their numbers and efficiency more than make up for this gap. It seems even the “Worker” class can use a bow to fire arrows, so their ranks of archers are capable to matching even our best divisions in terms of sheer output of missiles.
Be warned however: our warriors found themselves under attack from behind our lines at multiple points, and our group of mages found themselves under attack as the Antinium burrowed out of a tunnel. I recommend posting sentries to watch for these surprise attacks, and to fight on hard stone or in marshland if at all possible.”
 
The most troubling advantage the Antinium had over both Drakes and Gnoll species was their ability to tunnel. Entrenched positions with vulnerable elements such as command headquarters or areas with high concentrations of [Mages] or [Archers] would find themselves under attack by teams of burrowing Soldiers and Workers who would inflict as much damage as possible and then retreat.
These surprise attacks led to a diversification of valuable soldiers, and a standing policy among Drake armies to never have more than one Level 30+ soldier stationed in a squad at one time. This policy is still enforced within all Drake standing armies to this day.
However, even with their mages hidden and protected, there were never enough with levels high enough to turn the tide of battles. The Antinium gladly sacrificed thousands of their Soldiers and Workers to kill even one high-level individual. Slowly, the mercenary armies retreated, forced to abandon their client cities as their forces were gradually worn down.
Sserys made several overtures during this time to local cities, sending requests for their soldiers to join with his to repel the Antinium’s advance, but he was rebuffed and eventually led his soldiers far to the east as cities fell around him. Thanks to his slowing of the Antinium’s advance, several cities evacuated all their civilians and soldiers, but in terms of the overall map of the war, the Antinium were barely slowed as they continued to rampage across Izril.
One month after the start of the First Antinium War, the Antinium paused. It is believed they spent a week replenishing their lost troops and reinforcing their armies, and perhaps, digging and constructing more Hives. No army dared to launch an assault, and the few places where the Antinium had been stopped remained locked in semi-constant combat.
The Black Tide of the Antinium began to march once more, sweeping east, south and north with such ferocious speed that any hope of mobilizing a response force was lost. In an instant, the Antinium had captured nearly thirty percent of the southern half of Issrysil and seemed to be poised to sweep across the rest. However, they met their first obstacle as they encircled and began sieging the Walled City, Zeres.
The Antinium had successfully bypassed four of the Walls built by the Blighted Kingdom in Rhir, but they found the superior construction of the Walled Cities a different challenge*. A huge army began to lay siege to Zeres, but after a week of day-and-night warfare, the Antinium found themselves rebuffed with extreme casualties on their sides and virtually no losses by the defenders.
 
*The famed Walled Cities bear an entirely different type of fortification than smaller Drake cities. Their origin dates past recorded history, and the magic that allows the three-hundred foot walls to stand hardens the stone and even allows it to repair itself given time. No army has ever taken one of the remaining six Walled Cities by siege, although several coups and betrayals from within have seen the famed cities fall over the millennia.
 
The living ladders the Antinium used were far too short to reach the battlements of the Walled City, and the defending archers and mages could rain down fire with impunity, as the Antinium found that it was impossible for their arrows to reach the defenders from their superior vantage point.
One of the Lords of the Wall in Zeres jubilantly recorded the Antinium’s failure in his personal diary:
 
“They cannot break our walls, nor destroy the fortifications underneath! Their sappers may be strong, but these foul insects lack the magic to destroy the enchantments protecting the Walled Cities. We are safe, so long as they find no way to climb our walls or build a siege tower large enough.”
 
Indeed, the ground around the Walled Cities was impenetrable by conventional tools or equipment due to the magical enchantments radiating out from the walls. This frustrated the Antinium, and several watchers from the walls observed the Workers digging at the ground until their limbs broke and their digits were bloody and raw.
Zeres stood, and the Antinium were unable to abandon it lest the army fall upon their backs. This, along with the sieges of several other Walled Cites occupied a large part of the Antinium’s army, slowing their advance.
If there was a disadvantage to this situation, it was that while the Antinium took heavy losses in their initial assaults, they quickly retreated out of range and maintained a passive siege, hoping to wear down the Walled Cities’ supplies.
This would take years, given the massive stockpiles each Walled City maintains and their ability to grow produce and even herd animals within their massive confines. But so long as the Antinium maintained their siege the armies of each Walled City were forced to remain behind their walls, leaving the smaller city-states to fend for themselves.
The Antinium legions might have swept across the entire southern half of the continent unchecked, were it not for two groups which threw back their armies in unprecedented defeats.
While the city-states slowly evacuated and fell to the Antinium, another force entered the swamplands and grassy plains belonging to the Gnoll tribes, burning and killing everything in their path. However, the Gnolls of Issrysil built no cities like the Drakes, and unlike their scaly rivals, their opposition to the Antinium was far more successful.
The Gnoll tribes of the plains and swamps reacted to the Antinium threat swifter than any of the factitious Drake city-states, and over a hundred tribes sent their warriors to form a massive army – the same kind that successfully repelled even the greatest vanguards during the wars between Gnolls and Drakes of previous centuries.
In their first major engagement with a vast force of nearly eighty thousand Antinium, an army of twenty thousand Gnolls managed to rout the entire force in a bloody battle that lasted only a day. It is suspected that this army was not comprised of normal Gnoll [Hunters] and [Warriors], but rather of elites chosen out of every tribe.
Casualties were high on both sides, but the Antinium army was nearly completely destroyed and a much larger force of over a hundred thousand Gnolls assembled over the course of the next week. This main army, supplemented by several ‘hunting packs’ of tens of thousands of Gnolls, successfully fought off every Antinium advance into Gnoll territory.
The Gnollish resistance likely had much to do with the Antinium’s inability to overwhelm any one front later on in the war. They continued to fight the Gnoll Tribes in increasingly costly battles to both sides, but never penetrated further than fifty miles into the Gnoll heartlands at any time. Nevertheless, the Gnolls never sent any armies out to attack the Antinium in retaliation, preferring instead to guard their scattered tribes and holdings.
Given time, it is possible the Antinium could have taken the Drake settlements and encircled the Gnolls with overwhelming numbers, but their advance east was stopped at the Shivering Falls Pass by the first coalition army formed during the war.
General Sserys had pulled back the Liscorian army far east, looking to rally the cities. Initially he found no help, as the cities distrusted the mercenary nature of his army and feared betrayal. But as it became clear the Drakes would perish alone, more and more soldiers and high-ranking officials began to engage in private communication with Sserys in direct defiance of their city’s governing bodies.
As the sieges of the Walled Cities began, the Black Tide separated and sent a massive force towards the Shivering Falls Pass, one of the strategic locations separating the eastern and western part of the continent. This vanguard army numbered over a hundred thousand, and every city in its path evacuated, fleeing towards the Walled Cities which found themselves swamped by refugees.
Only one [General] refused to retreat. Sserys believed that the loss of Shivering Falls Pass would allow the Antinium to establish a foothold which would be impossible to shift. He  instead called every [Commander] leading an army of over a thousand soldiers in the area to join him to defend the pass. The reputation of the Liscorian Army and Sserys’s own high level persuaded countless mercenary groups and smaller armies to accept his gamble and join with his forces which engaged with the Antinium in the center of the pass.
Sserys spoke briefly to his soldiers as his smaller force prepared to repel the Antinium advancing down the pass. He spoke to his army minutes before the armies clashed:
 
“There is no time for speeches, no time for mighty oaths or solemn vows. Here is the enemy. Here we stand. I will not take a single step backwards. Who will guard my tail?”
 
General Sserys’ coalition army met the Antinium in the center of the pass, fighting in the narrow confines of the rocky canyon while the Drake [General] led his soldiers from the front.
He personally led fifteen charges against the Antinium. True to his word, General Sserys refused to retreat. Instead, he set up forward lines in the center of the Antinium formations, pushing their numbers back rather than allowing them to regroup.
His overall strategy consisted of forming heavy ranks of soldiers with defensive classes with [Tacticians] and [Strategists] assigned along each column, using their active abilities to reinforce their position. Archers dueled with Antinium at range and mages blasted the clustered Antinium, who had no way to return that kind of destructive power.
