Randidly’s attention drifted away from Lady Iellaya’s words and to his pounding heart. The more he thought about Shal losing himself in that image, the worse he felt. His mouth tasted sour, but it was more than that. Randidly could feel his Nether bubbling in his veins, reacting almost physically to this diminished version of Shal.

His very Nether Core was founded on a very specific philosophy, imparted to him by Shal. Now, seeing Shal behave this way felt like a very targeted repudiation of the significance that Randidly had accumulated. And his Nether did not take this challenge lightly. Gradually, Randidly’s mouth firmed into a line as the numbness in his heart that had been present since he had given so deeply to Claudette began to tremble.

Huge, deep waves surged from the corners of Randidly’s heart and began to gather. His Nether continued to curdle.

A thought occurred to Randidly as he experienced his sickened state.

Congratulations! Your Skill the Torch of Fast and Slow Silences (A) has grown to Level 276!

Congratulations! Your Skill the Torch of Fast and Slow Silences (A) has grown to Level 277!

If my emotions can return so easily, they weren’t spent after the image refinement. How could I have recovered so quickly? They were just… unused as I tried not to dwell. Randidly’s emerald eyes began to glow. Besides, my images haven’t been weakened today, I’ve just felt wrung out. But perhaps that is a matter of perspective, rather than an objective fact. I feel empty, but that’s not because I’m drained, but because I’m currently utilizing less.

Congratulations! Your Skill the Torch of Fast and Slow Silences (A) has grown to Level 278!

Congratulations! Your Skill the Torch of Fast and Slow Silences (A) has grown to Level 279!

If emotion as an aspect of Aether and images should be considered not as a volume to be spent, but only as a capacity with an upper limit… then what I’ve been feeling isn’t exhaustion but the capability to mobilize much, much larger quantities of emotional force than I’m currently utilizing. The heat in Randidly’s chest was rising, twining together to reignite the furnace that raged in his heart in the wake of Helen’s death. And still, his emotions howled upward, especially as the faceless dagger image finished destroying the Engraving Guild’s left flank and turned its gaze toward Military High Command.

Congratulations! Your Skill the Torch of Fast and Slow Silences (A) has grown to Level 280!

“Ah, word from above,” Lady Iellaya said. “A little slow on the uptake, but what can you do. Based on their observations, they discovered what the Pinnacle Seekers stole from the Swacc Family. And now they want it; obtaining it supersedes our previous mission. They call it the skull of truth- huh? And whoever manages to reclaim the item will receive a Tier 3 Citizenship coin, no questions asked.”

The dagger-wielding shade screeched and accelerated above the flowing silver army of the Swacc Family in their direction. Randidly’s Nether rose in response. His face twisted into a smile. “Whatever it is… Looks like the Swacc Family doesn’t want to turn it over to us.”

“And they are willing to attack us directly to keep it.” Lady Iellaya’s own sharp smile stretched across her face.
