His first return blow beheaded both Balus and Estilia at once, and his second and third strikes killed the remaining seven guards in an instant.

[Sword Mastery 52 → Sword Mastery 53]

[New Skill (Exquisite) → Impregnable Bladewall 1]

Two hundred and three damn loops, which meant dying two hundred and two times.

Orodan wouldn’t lie and say it was pleasant but by now his Pain Resistance of 26 truly did make most pain, even the pain of death, seem trivial. It was an unnaturally high number that would raise questions, but who else could train Pain Resistance by repeatedly dying like he could?

Of course, his Damage Mitigation of 29, Bleeding Control of 23 and his Unyielding Vitality of 20 meant that death took an uncomfortably long time to arrive, even when his limbs were lopped off, he was stabbed multiple times and had most vital organs destroyed.

Frankly, his enemies were more terrified of his ludicrous vitality and refusal to die quickly than they were of his unnaturally good swordplay.

And he himself still wasn’t used to maintaining consciousness for a full minute after being decapitated.

But despite suffering through some uncomfortably drawn-out deaths, Orodan had accomplished his goal. He had acquired the skill he had felt the inklings of right from the beginning when he had fought against the two Northmen in his first life.

None of his other skills had made gains because he hadn’t bothered using any of them during this crazy training regimen.

But now… he had an Exquisite-rarity skill. This was almost unfathomable for Orodan who grew up an orphan and a street rat.

Exquisite rarity skills weren’t spoken of openly by those who had them, usually in hushed whispers and there were many rumors surrounding who had them. But it was usually very high-ranking members of the military, powerful noble houses and other exceptional individuals who were likely to hold Exquisite skills.

And now Orodan had one.

Frankly, if someone decided to use an Observer orb on him, he stood a very high chance of being reported and promptly ‘asked’ to go along with some very powerful individuals to wherever they chose.

The last rumor he heard of someone with an Exquisite skill a few years ago was a girl in the neighboring Tooksten County, and the Capital Guard came by within an hour of her using the Observer orb at her local crafting guild office. Her family suddenly skyrocketed in wealth and often went to go visit her in the capital and they spoke of how she was doing important work and had a very lucrative position in the High Forges of Karilsgard.

So Orodan had to tread carefully if he didn’t want to be nabbed away to the Capital. Furthermore, his was an active combat skill of Exquisite-rarity.

The likelihood of him missing out on the ability to influence the Battle of Ogdenborough due to being kidnapped by the Capital Guard and trained into being a military asset of the Republic was incredibly high if anyone caught wind.

And while that sounded like a dream career to Orodan, in the short term he didn’t want to go anywhere until he dealt with this damned Quest looming over his head.

And so, he continued, eager to test himself against that very strong, spear-wielding Adept who put a stop to his rampage in Loviaston last time.

***

Even at level 1 of Impregnable Bladewall, the difference was like night and day. An Exquisite skill was… powerful.

The tabard wearing spear-Adept confronted him like last time for daring to rampage and slaughter the troops of House Argon, but this time Orodan successfully used Impregnable Bladewall and fended off the dangerous Lunge. He proceeded to engage the man in a heated melee exchange of steel on steel that damaged the stone tiles of the street with the shockwaves.

He was an Adept-level combatant now. And while regular Adepts couldn’t cause collateral damage with just their regular attacks, an exceptional Adept when combined with active combat skills absolutely could. And Orodan had an Exquisite-rarity active combat skill. It went without saying that he could now cause a certain level of environmental destruction if he wasn’t holding back.

Impregnable Bladewall was his defense, and Power Strike was his offense. Furthermore, once he got into close-quarters combat Orodan kept pressuring the man and preventing him from gaining sufficient distance to use Lunge again.

He weaved both his offense and defense together synergistically and fought the man evenly until the spear-Adept finally had enough and leapt away with an ugly look on his face.

“Who the hells are you? A dog of the Republic who’s caught on? If so, why aren’t you at Eversong Plaza?” the man asked, and Orodan was surprised he was as forthcoming with the information. Then again, the attack was in a few hours and Orodan had already acted openly.

“Less talking, more fighting. Face me like a warrior!” Orodan replied as he gave chase.

Unfortunately, all good things had to come to an end. The man was nearing the Elite level in his abilities and was thus able to outrun Orodan with a sizeable gap.

Furthermore, the alarm bells for Loviaston had been rung a while ago when Orodan had started his massacre and enough time had passed.

So, he finally got to see what the Volarbury county militia’s Elite response unit looked like for the first time.

And by see he meant experience a city block levelling attack which likely splattered him into fine red paste.

He didn’t even see the attack which killed him, only the sight of an armored woman in militia colors atop a brown-feathered griffin in the sky.

[Quest Failed → Battle of Ogdenborough - You have died]

A keening wail ringing in the night sky awoke him.

The Quest messages were brushed away, and Orodan got to his feet with a smile on his face.

“I actually forced an Elite-level member of the county militia to come deal with me personally.”

He looked through his Status and made the decision to change his title to Combat Apprentice and leave his newly gained second title slot empty.

Titles and the number of slots one had were a symbol of social status. When one crossed 50 and achieved the Adept-level in a skill for the first time, they received a second slot. A third was received for crossing the Elite threshold at 70 for the first time, and so forth.

Of course, if a slot was left empty then to anyone using Observe it would only show the singular active Title, which had to have a Title assigned.

Orodan made this decision because the enforcers of House Argon at Eversong Plaza knew him growing up, and most importantly, they used Observe on every passing person they saw. So, the discrepancy between Observing him the last time before the loops began, to now where he was suddenly an Adept? It would alarm them, and for the purposes of what he wanted to do, he didn’t need them being alerted instantly based off his Observe readings.

But still, Orodan’s smile grew wider at how far he had come.

Now it was time to put his obstinate nature to work at grinding against the Quest once more.
