Being an Adept was a pre-requisite to being considered an enforcer of House Argon, so it came as no surprise that both Balus and Estilia were considered as such, doing the dirty work of a noble house in Loviaston and the nearby towns when needed.

Between the two of them, Orodan discovered that Balus was unsurprisingly the stronger one, he was older and was at a later stage of being an Adept, but his potential wasn’t very good. Estilia however was considered a decent talent with her being a spear-Adept by the age of twenty-seven.

Orodan continued slowly and stubbornly making headway against the House Argon troops at 82 Caltrop Road. He refused to take the easy way and resort to trickery, memorizing patterns or knowing their moves. It was further complicated by the fact that Power Strike was an active combat skill that was very strenuous. Orodan could maybe manage fifteen or so Power Strikes before exhaustion set in and his muscles burned.

Thankfully higher skill levels lowered the strain of using the move.

Additionally, every single loop Orodan focused not on fighting Balus normally, but instead insisted on slamming his own sword against the old man’s greatsword using Power Strike in a foolhardy endeavor to level the skill and his Physical Fitness.

And inch by inch, Orodan was gaining ground in his stubborn goal as his Physical Fitness and Power Strike continually improved.

By the thirty-fourth loop his Sword Mastery was at 48 and Surprise Attack was at 23, which was good enough to be the tipping point where he could rush through and kill all seven Apprentice-level guards before Balus Mogram joined the fray.

Killing all seven guards caused Balus Mogram to fight very very seriously right from the beginning of their duel. Furthermore, it caused the unintended side-effect of Estilia, the other Adept, not showing up at all unless one guard was left alive to go fetch her from wherever she was.

So, from then on Orodan toned down the efficiency of his butchery and always left one regular guard alive to go fetch Estilia. It wouldn’t do to not have every single Argon soldier in the warehouse for when his victory was achieved.

It took till the fifty-sixth loop for Orodan to finally make headway in his mad endeavor.

Balus Mogram’s great sword flew down at Orodan’s neck at furious speed, but Orodan’s own Power Strike rose upwards towards the incoming blow.

A horrible clash of metal on metal occurred…

…and Balus’s great sword flew out of his hands.

[Power Strike 33 → Power Strike 34]

[Physical Fitness 42 → Physical Fitness 43]

[Sword Mastery 48 → Sword Mastery 49]

“Finally!” exclaimed Orodan as he rushed forward and took advantage of Balus’s shock at his heavier weapon strike being powered through by a sword wielded by a near-Adept. “Thank you for your tutelage, Balus Mogram… I’ll remember you.”

The last words were said genuinely, the sheer improvement he received in fighting against a melee specialist and Adept of Balus’s caliber was unfathomable. A Power Strike followed and Balus’s head hit the warehouse floor shortly after.

[Title Gained: Adept Slayer]

He could have honestly slain Balus a few loops ago if he didn’t insist on testing his power against the old man’s great sword, but this way was the superior option.

Orodan had done it. He had killed an Adept and was on the cusp of reaching the Adept-level in Sword Mastery himself.

Killing an Adept, while at a lower tier too. Jumping a tier wasn’t an impossible feat, he’d heard rumors of prodigies capable of doing it, but it was one reserved for the likes of the greats. Orodan now felt his confidence in himself increase; the feeling that he might not live up to the task of completing the Quest bestowed upon him grew smaller as he realized that he was shaping up to become someone who the history books would talk about if he kept on this trajectory.

Adepts specializing in a combat skill were respected and influential people in society. Guard captains for towns, veteran soldiers in the military, bodyguards for the wealthy, adventurers, enforcers for a noble house, and so on. To be an Adept was to be on a social level beyond the average masses which consisted mainly of Initiates and Apprentices.

To put it into perspective, the county militia branch in Ogdenborough, had no Adept-level individuals whatsoever. Reaching Adept meant a guaranteed captain rank in the mounted unit, or becoming a staff sergeant in the militia, or becoming a candidate for training and eventual induction into the Elite response unit.

Now Orodan could say he had killed such a caliber of person with his own two hands, in fair battle. He could now choose to take revenge upon that archer if he desired. But most importantly, he could start making a noticeable contribution in the Battle of Ogdenborough if he were to head there.

He turned to look at the other enemy Adept, Estilia Valenur, a look of fear upon her face… who turned and fled like a scurrying rat.

What was it with these Argon enforcers fleeing at the first sight of trouble?

He immediately gave furious chase and with his new Physical Fitness of 43 he was comparable to an Adept in terms of physical ability. He easily caught up and ran her down, sending her sprawling to the ground with a powerful Shield Throw which took her leg out, allowing him to rush up and finish the job with a swift decapitation.

In truth, if she struggled and fought back properly, she could have made him work for it a little bit, but it would have been a moot point as she was weaker than Balus who Orodan had already overpowered and slain.

As Orodan mentally compared the enforcers of House Argon he also decided to bring up his status.

[Name: Orodan Wainwright

Age: 17

Title 1: Combat Apprentice

Available Titles:

One Who Has Experienced DeathAdept SlayerShield ApprenticeSword ApprenticePhysical ApprenticeUnarmed Combat Apprentice

Skills:

Unyielding Vitality 14 (Initiate - Rare)

Power Strike 34 (Apprentice - Uncommon)Perfect Parry 26 (Initiate - Uncommon)Evasiveness 21 (Initiate - Uncommon)Dying Struggle 17 (Initiate - Uncommon)Shield Throw 12 (Initiate - Uncommon)

Sword Mastery 49 (Apprentice)Shield Mastery 46 (Apprentice)Physical Fitness 43 (Apprentice)Combat Mastery 41 (Apprentice)Unarmed Combat Mastery 30 (Apprentice)Cleaning 29 (Initiate)Surprise Attack 23 (Initiate)Pain Resistance 22 (Initiate)Damage Mitigation 21 (Initiate)Sprinting 21 (Initiate)Laboring 20 (Initiate)Bleeding Control 19 (Initiate)Club Mastery 15 (Initiate)Parkour 11 (Initiate)Maintenance 8 (Initiate)Repair 7 (Initiate)Thievery 6 (Initiate)Intimidation 6 (Initiate)Deception 4 (Initiate)

Blessings:

Warrior’s Heart - Increased talent and learning rate for all warrior related skills as determined by Agathor]

His status had grown, to say the least.

Physical Fitness and Combat Mastery were known as amplifier skills. Overarching skills that made everything related to their purview more effective. They were also hard to level unless one trained diligently at high intensity or went through life and death battles.

But who else could do both and attempt focused training in the middle of battle like Orodan?

Either Physical Fitness or Combat Mastery being in the 40s for an Apprentice was unthinkable, but for an Apprentice to have both in the 40s? Orodan’s battle power was now higher than his title would indicate.

His victory was an accomplishment, and in light of that he switched his active title to Adept Slayer.

Orodan then decided to spend the rest of the loop seeking out more House Argon soldiers and went about hunting them across the town of Loviaston, causing a decent amount of mayhem and the town alarm bells to start going off after the first five minutes.

Militia troops responded but fearfully stayed right out of his way at the display of him slaughtering Apprentice-level Argon guards like cattle. The militia’s elite response unit would eventually respond, but that would take longer than he was planning on staying in the loop. That he was killing only the troops of House Argon and not targeting civilians also helped them maintain their non-interference.

Trouble unfortunately found him, and he was reminded that he wasn’t invincible and brought back down to reality. After killing a few dozen more House Argon guards his loop was ended by a particularly powerful Adept, a middle-aged man wearing a tabard bearing the House Argon sigil, who was on the cusp of achieving the Elite level in the spear.

Except, this man also had an Uncommon-rarity active combat skill of his own.

Orodan almost couldn’t see the Lunge the man did from across a full street length to stab through his head and send him into the darkness.

[Quest Failed → Battle of Ogdenborough - You have died]

A keening wail ringing in the night sky awoke him.

The Quest bestowal message was routinely brushed off as he got to his feet and began planning for the loops moving forward while furiously cleaning his home.

On one hand, he could start another crusade of loops against this new opponent whose spear caused his demise. It would undoubtedly lead to great gains, and perhaps even more new skills, something Orodan was beginning to collect a rather large number of.

But, on the other hand it wasn’t Orodan’s way to half-ass something and do it sloppily. He already felt as though he was expanding widely to acquire a lot of skills, but that he was starting to run the risk of lacking depth and quality in what he did have.

So what if he could kill one of House Argon’s stronger Adepts?

Orodan wasn’t satisfied with just that; he needed to delve deeper and solidify some of his weaker skills and sharpen existing ones before he could move on. He was as stubborn as a mule, a man who would shut his mouth and chip away at a skill for months on end 'till he got a single level increase.

Thankfully, his current circumstances made his rate of skill gain something unprecedented.

So Orodan decided, he was going to return to the warehouse and solidify his understanding of some of his skills. Sure, he could kill Balus Mogram, one-on-one, but could he take him and all seven guards in the warehouse at the same time?

A feral grin emerged on Orodan’s face as he knew his next goal.

***

“Balus Mogram come down and show your face! I demand a duel! For every second you waste I’ll continue to beat these useless guards black and blue!”

Orodan parried the swing of a hammer and delivered a pommel strike to the man’s gut which made him spit blood. The remaining six guards all began furiously attacking him at once.

It was insanity.

Orodan could easily kill an Apprentice-level guard. His abilities were far beyond theirs.

But even with him being able to deliver thirty attacks a second now, the combined pressure from seven near-Adepts, each capable of launching at least six blows a second themselves… was nothing to scoff at.

Particularly with them all attacking him at once while he stood in one place and merely defended, refusing to evade. His shield was strapped to his back, only blocking and parrying with the sword was allowed. No skills such as Power Strike or Perfect Parry either.

This was Orodan’s new goal. To stand in one place as all seven warehouse guards furiously attacked him. He did not allow himself to move from his spot whatsoever. No matter how many wounds he took, no matter how many loops were cut short as he attempted the absolutely stupid feat of being able to stand and trade blows, purely with his sword, against seven near-Adepts at once… and come out on top.

Initially, he would always die when Balus Mogram himself joined the fray as the combination was far too much.

As he was on the cusp of achieving it, it came as no surprise that it took only the fifth loop of his self-imposed madness to receive a message he had been waiting for.

[Sword Mastery 49 → Sword Mastery 50]

[Title Gained: Sword Adept]

[Additional Title Slot Gained]

The messages would have been celebratory for anyone else. Even for Orodan himself whose life goal before his current circumstances was to become an Adept, it would have been cause for joy.

But right now, he had a goal, and it wasn’t to merely become an Adept.

The thirty-seventh loop passed, and he was able to stand and trade evenly against the seven guards at the same time, however Balus’s arrival still led to him losing the exchange.

He could definitely kill all seven and Balus at once… if he allowed himself to move from the one spot and let up on his self-imposed restrictions by actually attacking or evading. But he did not.

The eightieth loop passed and Orodan could finally evenly hold and trade blows indefinitely against all seven guards and Balus at the same time while standing in one spot and refusing to move, evade or use any other active combat skills.

In other words, it was getting easy. Which to Orodan… was unacceptable.

To increase the challenge, he began the eighty-first loop by tracking Estilia Valenur down in a pottery shop a block away and throwing her through the double doors of the warehouse so she too could join in. Of course, the addition of a second Adept, to the training exercise caused him to begin dying frequently again.

His Sword Mastery and Physical Fitness weren’t levelling as fast. Each level got exponentially harder as one advanced, and because Orodan could kill these opponents easily, the simulated danger he was in didn’t count nearly as much as actual combat against stronger foes.

But, bit by bit, he was still making progress.

And finally, after two hundred and three loops, Orodan got what he wanted.

His sword lashed out and caught both Balus’s and Estilia’s incoming blows, while a second motion of his sword, all within the same move, intercepted and diverted the weaker blows of the seven guards.

This was the tipping point. And he finally decided to attack.

