Nick sat down hard, resting his head against his backpack while bracing himself for the changes to come.

“Oh shit.” Bandit offered a grinning thumbs up. “Neek’s evolving! Make yourself comfortable and enjoy the ride. We’ll watch your back until the process is complete.”

Nick appreciated the sentiment but couldn’t offer a reply. The world faded away as his consciousness was drawn into his body, where a remarkable renovation was underway. The species experience he’d stolen from Zora had finished distributing itself, engulfing every mote of matter that comprised his being within an ocean of transformative magic.

Intense pressure gripped him on a cellular level. Evolutionary energy filled him to the brim and kept right on going, condensing as it pushed his body to its limits before shooting straight past them. He felt like a balloon that was ready to burst, experiencing apocalyptic heat, glacial chill, excruciating pain, and exquisite pleasure—all at the same time—and a thousand other sensations besides.

Part of him was terrified, convinced he was dying, but he knew that wasn’t the case. Nick wasn’t dying; he was being reborn, undergoing a fundamental change more profound than his prior evolutions combined. The pulsating sea of incandescent might grew more frenetic as it condensed. Power coursed along his nerves, shooting across his synapses and penetrating his core until the process hit critical mass.

For a solitary heartbeat, everything went still. He had just enough time to wonder, Is it over already?, before the energy was released in a surging rush, driving all thoughts out of his head in a scintillating cascade of existential expansion.

The magic reconstructed his cells from the inside out. It began with his DNA, refining, tempering, and improving his genetic code to enhance every fiber of his being. Atom by atom, gene by gene, the transformation took hold, reconfiguring every molecule along the way.

The process was still going strong, adjusting interconnective tissue, reconstituting blood vessels, and rearranging nerves before moving on to larger structures. It reinforced his skeleton, boosted every organ, and rebalanced the relationships between his body’s various components, spending quite a bit of time tinkering with his brain to make every enhancement feel just as natural as if he’d had it since the day he was born.

When the physical changes had run their course, the energetic alterations began. Nick’s stamina well deepened as his core expanded, distilling his pools of vital energy for good measure. He could sense alterations occurring within the health regulating his body’s inherent resilience and regenerative properties, although he lacked the vocabulary to put what he was feeling to words.

Part of the way through his adventures, he had entered the realm of the superhuman, at least by the standards of the world that was. Now, he was ascending to heights greater still.

When he had time to reflect on the matter, he would be blown away by the fact that he was the forerunner of what his species would become—superior in every conceivable way to any person who had come before. But in that moment, he just felt… right. Like he’d been wearing clothes two sizes too small and had changed into something tailor made.

He opened his eyes and took a deep breath, staring up at his friends’ smiling faces while basking in the consummate serenity that had arrived in the aftermath of the tumultuous tempest of sensation comprising his evolution.

Nick was eager to explore the options for his new class, but before he did anything else, he willed the floating screen waiting patiently in the periphery of his vision to center itself in his view.

Congratulations. You have evolved from D Grade to C Grade.

Your new species is Human of Earth (C).

For reaching Grade C, you have gained the following upgrades:

New geneline traits will be provided during the next species-wide evolution.

New classes have become available at class selection.

As a milestone bonus for being the first member of your species to evolve to Grade C, you have been granted 100 free attribute points.

While that was amazing news, it wasn’t the final update. Nick was already having one of the best days of his life, but it was about to get even better.

Warning: You have 26 Meta in temporary energetic storage. If you choose Meta for your new Grade-C attribute, you may integrate it now. If you wait to vote on a new attribute at the next species-wide evolution, this energy will be lost.

Be advised, if you unlock it now, Meta will be assigned to every member of your species upon reaching C Grade and there will be no vote.

When he read that last line, Nick was overcome with the profound and humbling awareness that he was about to make the most important decision of his life—a choice that would alter the existence of every person on his planet and every child yet to be born.

It might be centuries before humanity crosses the threshold for our general evolution. Is it wrong to fundamentally change what it means to be human, just to fuel my advancement here and now?

He had no way of knowing how his choice would play out over the course of history. No way to determine if another attribute would be better over the millennia to come. The only thing he was certain of was humanity wasn’t going to have a future if they didn’t grow stronger. Mere pawns couldn’t survive the war brewing between Taltos and the System, and the universe itself would perish if the Labyrinth expanded enough to let its progenitors cross into this dimension.

Nick wasn’t arrogant. He knew the outcomes of these events wouldn’t be determined by his actions alone—that he was only one actor standing upon a vast and intricate stage. But he was pretty sure he’d spotted a loophole that would change the fate of far more than a single man.

He reread the System’s warning while thinking the matter through. He had evolved early at D Grade too. However, he wasn’t able to pick a new attribute and had to wait for humanity to vote during their general evolution to access that aspect of his advancement. But that last line changed the rules this time around.

If he took Meta now, every person who evolved early would acquire it too, making them far more powerful than they would be if they had to wait for humanity’s species-wide evolution. Boosting Team Earth’s elites would improve his homeworld’s odds of survival decades or even centuries before it influenced his species as a whole.

Before Nick committed to a course that would have grave repercussions for his people’s collective future, he read the attribute’s description from memory.

Meta

Meta is the attribute that increases the effectiveness of all other attributes. Investing in Meta in addition to your primary attributes will yield greater results than investing into your primary attributes alone. Meta allows for extreme specialization that would not otherwise be possible, but it is useful for every path to power.

He liked everything about Meta. Not only would it offer Nick the might he needed to protect his planet, it would ensure his people had the best chance of thriving in the new era dawning before his eyes. He could sense the window closing, so he made his choice before he lost the opportunity.

He raised his gaze to the heavens and addressed the System. “I’m taking Meta for myself and all of humanity.”

Acknowledged. Stand by for Meta activation.

Nick braced himself when those words appeared before his eyes. He had no idea what was about to happen, but if everything he’d experienced thus far was any indication, it was going to be intense.

His guess was right on the money, although he had severely underestimated the magnitude of the modifications that began a bare second later.

When the System jumpstarted his Magic and switched on his Psi, Nick had experienced some extreme sensations. Something similar occurred the first time he pumped points into those attributes and magnified their effects. This time around, everything happened at once.

In his excitement, he hadn’t considered what it would feel like when the 26 Meta he’d stolen from the monarchs combined with the traits that boosted his attributes. With Blightborn and his old friend Versatile added to the mix, he had another 28 Meta right off the bat. In short, instead of going from 0 to 1, he was shooting straight to 54 right out of the gate.

Nick had experienced an impressive assortment of altered states over the course of his journey, including several this very day. He had sampled dozens of novel energies since his new life began, such as stamina, Psi, essence, and the myriad frequencies of mana.

Meta wasn’t like any of them. While its magic didn’t do anything by itself, it was the ultimate catalyst. When the newly awakened attribute flooded his system, he was overcome with a sense of limitless potential. That he could grow forever in any direction he pleased.

If the tsunami of Meta cycling through his channels had hit him all at once, he would have exploded, but the attribute was far more sophisticated than that. It divided itself into eight separate streams, in a ratio that perfectly mirrored the distribution of his other attributes.

When the allocation was complete, the first batch of Meta went to work. Most of the magic sank into his muscles, although some infused his tendons and various other tissues. That was when the pain began.

It felt like he’d spent dozens of free points on Strength at the same time, breaking his muscle fibers down to follow a new blueprint. It streamlined the configuration of his tendons, ligaments, and facia—not just replicating the effects of Strength but permanently enhancing the attribute’s efficacy going forward.

Fortunately, the rest of the process wasn’t nearly as unpleasant. Nick watched in fascination as Meta worked its magic on each of his self-aspect in turn, starting with Dexterity before moving on to Toughness, Creativity, Mind, Charisma, Psi, and finally Magic.

Meta was unbelievably versatile. It augmented the functions of every attribute, fine-tuning their properties in ways he couldn’t even begin to grasp in that moment. The amazing process was as educational as it was intense, offering tantalizing glimpses into the laws governing various energies that would open doors in the future if he studied them in depth.

When he came back to himself, his friends were looking at him with a blend of curiosity and concern writ clear on their features.

“What in the hell just happened?” Kenji asked. “I sensed your evolution take hold, but that last bit was something else altogether.”

Nick owed Kenji his life and trusted the man completely. “I hope you’re not mad, but I just picked humanity’s next attribute ahead of schedule.”

The strategist’s eyes went wide when he listened to the explanation, rubbing his chin while considering the ramifications.

“You won’t hear any complaints from me, although it’s probably a good idea to keep that information to our inner circle for a little while. It was your decision to make, and I would have chosen the same. I’m more concerned with the present than I am with the future. We need you in top shape to deal with whatever Taltos throws at us next. Multiplying those insane attributes you’ve acquired will improve our collective odds of survival.

“I agree that acquiring Meta early will be a massive boon to humanity’s elites. I’ll push hard to evolve as fast as I can. I should be quite a bit closer than 11% from all the quests I’ve completed, although I’m sure it will take years if not decades to achieve.”

“Thanks, man. I value your judgment, and those words are a weight off my mind.”

Nick still hadn’t reached the end of his updates. He was determined to get through them all before picking a new class, although the anticipation was almost unbearable by this point. I need to spend those free points first too. It blew him away that being the first member of his species to hit two major milestones had granted him 155 points, which meant his speedrun climb up the peaks of power wasn’t over yet.

For reaching level 50, you have unlocked secondary attributes.

He’d heard that term before, although it had been quite a while. The System had listed secondary attributes in the prerequisites for reaching Tier 2, which meant he had managed to skip a few steps. His instincts were telling him Blightborn was responsible, hastening his advancement by absorbing the dreadbeasts’ essence.

“Does anyone know anything about secondary attributes?”

“Indeed, I do.”

As it happened, Kenji had hit level 50 and earned an Epic class while Nick was kicking ass inside the Blade World. The strategist recited the Knowledge Point entry from memory, which one of Aurora’s citizens had unlocked during their tutorial.

Secondary Attributes

Secondary attributes allow for increased control over the benefits attributes provide. For example, Toughness affords increased endurance, resilience to poison and disease, and renders the body’s tissues more durable. After secondary attributes have been unlocked, it is possible to adjust the ratio of these advantages, dramatically influencing the direction of each attribute’s development.

Classes automatically create a template for secondary attributes, but they can be fine-tuned to customize growth, influence class selection, or specialize toward specific roles.

Kenji shared a few more details he’d learned on his own, then gave Nick a chance to mull the matter over. He hadn’t realized classes altered the effect of attributes on top of everything else, although it made intuitive sense.

Secondary attributes were fascinating, and he would ponder them long and hard over the next few weeks and consult with the research team when he made it back to Aurora. For now, he made a few minor adjustments to Dexterity and Strength, focusing on the movements he used as a swordsman instead of his general physique. His Sword skill came from a faction bonus and wasn’t part of his current class, and he could already tell that this distribution would suit him better.

He was curious how the secondary attributes for Meta worked, nodding in appreciation when he realized he could enhance Meta’s potency by removing some attributes from its effect. It was a fascinating subject, although it wasn’t something he was going to touch without significantly more information at his disposal.

Nick had undergone some interesting experiences while spending free points. While many of those altered states were valuable, he hadn’t learned anything he couldn’t have figured out on his own. Right now, he just wanted to invest them as wisely as possible and proceeded with his class selection.

Now then, where do I begin? His instincts were telling him that he didn’t have enough Meta to make the most of what it could do. He placed points into it one at a time until the ratio felt balanced, then started picking other attributes too. He did his best to devise an optimal distribution for his fighting style, which with any luck would have a positive influence on the classes he was offered.

It turned out that spending a ton of points one at a time had a unique effect of its own. He entered a trancelike state where he was acutely aware of the properties of each attribute and their relationship to one another. It made it easier to stay in the moment, feeling his way toward the best proportions for his current needs.

Nick let out a shuddering sigh when he spent the last point, pulling up his profile to consider the changes he’d made.

Attributes

Strength: 25 (87) à 25 (93)

Dexterity: 25 (103) à 25 (113)

Toughness: 25 (109) à 25 (119)

Mind: 25 (120) à 25 (135)

Creativity: 25 (86) à 25 (96)

Charisma: 25 (53) à 25 (58)

Magic: 25 (200) à 25 (250)

Psi: 25 (91) à 25 (106)

Meta: 28 (54) à 28 (114)

Nick knew he’d made some incredible gains since taking on the dreadbeasts, but he hadn’t fully processed the extent until he saw those numbers on the screen. His attributes had multiplied between two and a half and three times before spending his towering pile of free points.

After allocating his milestone bonuses, some of his stats were closer to four times their prior values, and that didn’t even take Meta into consideration. At his best guess, his newest attribute had more than doubled the effect of his attribute pool, taking his stats to between seven and ten times what he’d been packing when he stepped through the rift.

I still have a new bloodline coming from my quest reward, and a Legendary class on offer. Holy. Fucking. Shit.

Nick knew he was instinctively suppressing the effects of his newfound gains while his body, brain, and energetic network adjusted to the changes, which was why he hadn’t been able to fight at full power during his showdown with the Death of Dream until his rage made him lose control. He sensed it would take a few months of intensive training before he unlocked his true potential, but even now, he was so much stronger in every conceivable way that it completely blew his mind.

If I try to take it all in, I’ll be here all day. Let’s equip that new class, pick up our bloodline gems, then bid farewell to Yarren. I can process the rest on the way home.

There was one final update awaiting his perusal. While it didn’t affect his impending class selection, it was still welcome news.

System Message

Your Wand of Force (Rare) has evolved to (Epic).

The wand has gained 5 maximum charges, more power, and the ability to fire multiple blasts simultaneously.

The maximum Wand skill granted to its bearer has increased from [50] to [75].

The device may evolve again, but doing so will require absorbing significantly more essence than before.

Nick’s wand had been with him since waking up on the Searing Isle. He was thrilled that the device had evolved alongside him. He pulled it out and took a quick look before moving on. The wand was considerably thicker than before. The lustrous wood had taken on a golden sheen when the sunlight struck it. Tiny silver flakes were suspended within the spiraling grains, and their pattern reminded him of force mana flowing through the air.

The gems indicating its charges had doubled from five to ten, and the knobs adjusting the width of the blasts were gone. He sensed that function could now be controlled directly with his mind, and he could fire up to three blasts at once along separate trajectories guided by his will.

He was excited to run some tests, but that could wait for another day. Nick had been patient and done his due diligence, but the wait was finally over. His points were spent his mind was clear. Now it was time to peruse his options and pick a new class.