The next morning Jessica woke feeling a little stiff. The stone had not exactly been kind to her back, even with the sleeping roll. Even the forest floor without a sleeping roll was a little nicer than this, and the tent she used back at the Bloody Peaks was better still. But once she stretched and shook herself awake, she didn’t feel too bad.

Iris had already woken early and was sitting on her haunches at the cliff of the plateau, looking down at the basin below.

As for her hunting party, they were all rolling up their beds, so Jessica decided she should do the same. She checked her mask, even though it was still on her face, and then got to work rolling her bed up. Once she was finished, she walked over to Iris and crouched down. “Do you see anything?” She carefully patted the back of Iris’s neck, which was a level of affection Iris actually allowed these days.

“A creature is below,” Iris said.

Jessica glanced back, looking for her spear, which she had left lying with her pack, then scanned below them until she spotted what Iris was looking at.

It was reptilian, long-bodied and low to the ground, with spined ridges running along its back and a tail that was at least the length of its body, flicking sharply behind it as it moved along the ground. Jessica thought it looked kind of like an oversized, fantasy iguana, but red.

“Well… I guess that’s not a Drakewolf…” Jessica muttered. She wasn’t actually sure what Drakewolves looked like, but she imagined they were closer to dogs.

“Redmaw Skulker,” Draven said as he came up behind her.

She flinched, having not heard him come. She looked up to see he already had his mask donned and spear at his side.

“Are they… dangerous?” Jessica asked. “I mean, worth hunting?” she corrected, wanting to choose a bit of a stronger phrase.

Draven just stared for a moment, perhaps using Analyze, until he said, “That was only level 11. Not really worth it for all of us, unless it was in a group. There are dens that are crawling with those things around here that are sometimes worth the hunt.”

“I see…” Jessica said.

Then another shadow approached, and when Jessica saw it was Saelin she suddenly regretted her posture crouching so low to the ground. “How about you and your Hell Hound go get it?” Saelin offered. “It’s not worth it to us since we’re higher level. Should be fine for you, though.”

Jessica glared from behind her mask, then she heard Iris feed her a line to say.

She stood, as directed by Iris, and turned to face Saelin. “You do not give me orders, and I don’t hunt scraps because you point at them.” She hated that she was considerably shorter than the older girl, because it made it hard to feel as intimidating as Iris probably wanted her to be.

But the words seemed to do the job, as Saelin’s head merely tilted, and it seemed she was at a loss for a counter to that.

“It would be easy experience for you, Elva,” Draven said. “You’re only level 10 yourself, after all, and we are going to be going that way anyway.” He swept his gaze down across the basin and nodded to himself. “Yeah, go ahead and do it Elva. If we stay up here until it is done we shouldn’t end up causing your experience reward to be hindered either.”

Jessica considered her previous thoughts about how he compared to her brother, and realized his personality was actually nothing like him. It’s not that Draven actually said anything bad to her, but her brother would have read the room a little better and defended her against Saelin’s jabs.

Jessica didn’t respond to him, feeling somewhat irked, but she went to collect her spear all the same.

Come to think of it, yesterday when he criticized my hesitation, he didn’t say a thing to Saelin, who went against the plan. I thought me and her were supposed to cut off the Grubboar’s path, but she charged ahead for the glory. Shouldn’t he have told her to follow orders better?

When she looked back at them and saw how they quietly spoke to each other, she suddenly realized that no, she was wrong. He was similar to her brother, but in one of the worst ways.

They leaned toward each other as they discussed something, Saelin with her hands folded behind her back, and Draven turned slightly toward her, giving her more attention than necessary. That made it obvious. Her brother would always be on Jessica’s side and handle any situation fairly. Except for one. When it came to a girl he liked, his judgment became a little more questionable.

Jessica snatched up her spear, anger stirring in her chest. It wasn’t fair. Saelin had pointed her at the monster like it was a chore beneath everyone else, and Draven had turned it into an order. But refusing now would only make Jessica look like the petty one. The only way to save face would be to hunt the thing, do it well, and show how capable she was.

“Iris, come on, girl,” Jessica said as she came to the cliff and started making her way down the slope. Jessica far preferred climbing up rather than going back down, because she didn’t have to spend the whole climb staring at what might happen if her footing slipped. The slope was sheer enough that an uncontrolled fall would be hard to recover from, but not so steep as to cause serious injuries—especially not in this world, where bodies could take so much more damage and heal so much more easily.

Still, she made it down without much drama. Iris, of course, had a much easier time as she just glided down and was already waiting at the bottom. “Okay, Iris, what’s the plan?” she asked.

The Redmaw Skulker was further down the basin and clearly hadn’t noticed them yet.

“This should be a simple hunt…” Iris looked up, her nose puffing in and out, and Jessica realized she was testing the air. “Does this creature smell well?”

“I’m not sure,” Jessica admitted. “Probably not as good as you or the boar… but…”

“It does not seem fast in any case. I will fly over it and cut off its path, then we attack from both sides.”

With that plan decided on, Iris trotted ahead to get a running start, then her wings emerged as she zipped up into the air. Jessica quickly followed suit, running down the basin, the Hell Hound in the sky above her.

The Redmaw Skulker continued moving along the red stone, its long tail flicking behind it as it sniffed at the ground. But after only a few steps of trailing it, its head suddenly came up. It looked back to see Jessica coming, and its movements suddenly became far more urgent and it began to flee.

What!? What gave me away!?

Jessica pushed ahead, increasing her speed, and she realized exactly what the problem was. It was her footsteps. Each heavy step she took when she had started running echoed down the basin, and now that she realized it was so obvious.

Shouldn’t Draven have warned me about that? she thought angrily. Or was he too distracted with Saelin? Like what the hell, even he saw how she was when we first got here. What happened to him being irritated with her as well?

But now that Jessica had noticed, it was obvious.

Luckily, while the Redmaw Skulker was fast enough to stay ahead of Jessica, it couldn’t outrun an airborne Hell Hound—especially not one with ranged attacks.

Iris shot a Lumen Burst to cut off the monster’s path, arcing the beam across the basin, scorching the stone in a sweeping line, and causing the Redmaw Skulker to slow and scurry to the cliff face. Jessica realized it was looking to get between some rocks. “Iris! Don’t let it escape into the rocks!”

She wasn’t sure how deep it could get, but if it got deep enough, even if it didn’t have an exit path, it would be basically impossible to get to.

But Iris didn’t need to be told, as the Hell Hound was already well ahead of her and blasting a more direct Lumen Burst, moving it slowly along the rocks, scorching them with each pass and causing the creature to give up on that escape route.

Now Jessica was closing in on it, and the creature only hesitated for a brief moment as it made a fight-or-flight calculation.

It chose fight as it suddenly shot across the ground like a bullet towards Jessica. It lunged at her ankles, looking to bite her, but her Foot Work passive took effect as she smoothly dodged, and it chomped its fangs on nothing but air.

She tried to stab it with her spear, but it was a little too wriggly, and she ended up only striking stone.

It lunged at her once again, and she once again slipped backwards out of its range, and then moved her feet away a third time as it tried a quick follow-up attack.

Foot Work level up! 2 > 3

+5 Dexterity

Nice! Jessica thought. It wasn’t a huge gain, and she hadn’t honestly noticed much difference when she got it to level 2 during her battle class spars, but she was grateful that leveling up skills also always came with some bonus stats.

The monster continued to try to chomp at her, but she danced away easily until she was ready to take a shot of her own.

{Blink Line}!

{Nerve Strike}!

She skated towards it so suddenly, her feet moving unnaturally across the ground, and her spear feeling almost like an extension of herself as the skills carried her towards a direct hit.

The nerve strike jabbed the creature’s side, causing it to seize, its mouth opening in a silent scream, then Jessica spun her blade and slammed it down, impaling the creature right through the back.

Its paralysis broke just long enough for it to let out a hissing scream as its long body wriggled, but impaled to the ground, it had nowhere to go. It tried to snap at Jessica’s ankles once again, but it couldn’t quite reach.

She twisted her spear and ripped it through the creature’s body at an angle, spraying blood and spilling its guts, killing it instantly.

Prey Eliminated level 11 Redmaw Skulker

Experience gained!

You have leveled up!

You are now level 11!

+4 vigor

+5 Strength

+7 Dexterity

+2 Attunement

+2 Luck

Jessica let out a breath as she settled her spear against her shoulder, and Iris plopped down along her side.

Wow, I got a level already. Guess I must have been close before we came out here. Since I’m the lowest level of our party, maybe I really can gain 3 or more on this trip.

She then scanned the upper plateaus until she saw the three members of her hunting party looking down at her. She rolled her shoulder and gestured down at her kill as if to say, “Well?”

Draven nodded and then started climbing down the slope first, the two others following him.

She knew it was just a low-level kill, but she felt like she had done quite a good job with it. Neither she nor Iris took any damage, and she showed them how well they worked together. Iris was able to cut off its retreat and make it easy for Jessica to catch up.

Well, Saelin would just act as though relying on Iris was actually a bad thing, but Jessica didn’t care. She just hoped that in the next hunt she’d get to prove herself even more.
