"Yeah, yeah, you'll be here, don't worry. And we'll make sure nothing goes wrong for the citizens or the students. Just like we made sure nothing went wrong on campus earlier."

"You mean with the Prophetess," Cripple said. "Yes, I barely stopped myself from intervening then too. That was dangerous, sloppy."

"And they slipped out of your net," Shiv said.

"Our net," Cripple snarled, outraged. "Our net, that was only necessary because someone collapsed the mana core."

Shiv wanted to continue barking his own offenses at the Ascendant. But Psycho-Cartography told him it was a childish and ultimately ineffective way of going about things. "Yeah, you know what, Cripple? Alright, it was close. But you want to know how you can help me make it less so next time? Maybe find a way for me to deal with someone without letting the fight spill over or get noticed by the rest of the city. Your guard was nowhere near catching those four. The Jotun alone could have probably killed everyone on Academy grounds with her Cryomancy before any of you even noticed what was going on. And if I'm going to continue helping your guys wipe their asses, I can't always be fighting with both hands strapped behind my back."

And to Cripple's credit, he didn't continue complaining either. "I will see what can be done," the Strongest said mutely. A long, tired sigh escaped the Ascendant. "The lockdown will likely persist for a period of three weeks. After that, things get hard. The market will become volatile. The nobility will rebel. And trade will grind to an irreparable halt. Furthermore, there's movement to our south and north as well. The Jotun are mustering, as are the Scarred Ones." And then a beat of silence followed. Cripple seemed hesitant. "We also no longer know where the Tarrasque is.”

"You felling what?" both Shiv and Adam cried at the same time.

“How did you lose the Tarrasque?” Shiv snarled. “It’s the size of a fucking mountain!”

Cripple groaned awkwardly. “It is the size of a mountain, and it developed… Counter-Divination and several High-Tier Stealth Skills. Suddenly. Without explanation.”

Shiv cupped his face, and Adam clutched the sides of his head.

“Udraal!” Shiv snarled. “It has to be fucking Udraal!”
