“How are you doing that?” Rain asked.

“Huh? Doing what?” Vanna asked without looking up.

Rain pointed. “Writing and talking at the same time. That’s illegal.”

Vanna finally looked up, giving him a quizzical look. She set down the pen, finished.

Rain shook his head in amazement. “Just recently, I was working on some notes, and Ameliah interrupted me to ask if I wanted lunch. I didn’t notice I’d listed ‘lunch’ as an elemental affinity until over a week later. Seriously, how did you do that?”

Vanna snorted, spinning the paper to face him. “I guess I don’t know. It’s never been a problem for me.” She leaned back in her chair. “What’s taking Tarny so long, anyway? Did he get lost?”

“They’re in Engineering,” Rain said distractedly as he read the page in front of him. “They’ve been going all over. Must be looking for the scale or something.”

“Ah,” Vanna said. “I was wondering why Winter kept cutting out. You’re tracking them?”

“Mmm,” Rain mumbled, too absorbed to properly reply.

Common Worker

A Worker’s non-combat skills are 1.5 times stronger, but monster kills no longer provide experience.

Common Warrior

A Warrior’s Strength is multiplied by 1.5, but to select this class, Strength must be your highest primary attribute and you must have killed at least ten monsters by physical means.

Common Mage

A Mage’s Focus is multiplied by 1.5, but to select this class, Focus must be your highest primary attribute, and you must have killed at least ten monsters by magical means.

Common Defender

A Defender’s Endurance is multiplied by 1.5, but to select this class, Endurance must be your highest primary attribute and you must have taken or blocked at least 1,000 damage.

Uncommon Elemental Enhancer

An Elemental Enhancer has an increased cap of 13 for Elemental Enhancement spells. Additionally, as a derivative of Mage, an Elemental Enhancer’s Focus is multiplied by 1.5. This class is hidden to those without at least four Elemental Enhancement spells at rank five. To select this class, you or your allies must additionally have killed at least 50 monsters while under the influence of your spells.

Rain looked up to ask a question, but before he could, the door opened and Tarny entered. He was carrying a stool and had Atyl and Smelt in tow. Filing the question away for later, Rain stood to greet them, and after getting the pleasantries out of the way, there was a bit of logistical chaos as everyone shuffled around, trying to cram themselves into Vanna’s cluttered office. Rain ended up squeezed into a corner with his heavy pack perched precariously on his lap and his helmet stashed under his chair. Vanna’s desk was cleared of the papers, which Tarny grabbed to pore over from his position atop one of the crates. The tabletop was now occupied by a small bronze scale and a stack of wooden bowls for the sorting. Smelt had taken the chair where Tarny had been before, and as for Atyl, he was lucky he was so small. He was perched on a stool, squeezed between Rain and Smelt, with his back pressed against the door. To his credit, the former noble hadn’t complained about getting the worst chair.

“Okay, let’s get going,” Atyl said. He flipped open a notebook, bracing it against his knee with one hand, then looked up at Rain’s pack. “You have a sack or something in there? Just dump it out on the desk.”

Rain grinned, reaching for the pack’s flap. “You misunderstand. It’s not that I’ve got a sack of Tel in my pack.” He shifted, struggling with the awkward position as he tried to untie the bindings. “This is the—“

Suddenly, a voice boomed from outside the room, muffled by the door. “Say wha?!”

Heavy, determined footsteps became audible, growing louder along with the voice, immediately recognizable as Carten’s. “He’s back, an’ he’s jus’ hidin’ in Vanna’s office!? Didn’t even look fer his friends?! Oi! Rain! Come outta’ there! It’s time fer drinkin’!“

Without warning, the door was ripped open, revealing Carten in full armor, splattered by blood, doubtless that of monsters encountered on patrol. Jamus was there too, his orange hat visible over Carten’s shoulder. That was all Rain had time to take in, as Atyl had started toppling backward, owing to the sudden removal of the door’s support.

Flailing, the tiny nobleman grabbed for anything to steady himself. His hand found Rain’s pack. There was a ripping sound.

The pack failed catastrophically, splitting open to unleash a veritable waterfall of Tel and Crysts. Atyl squawked, having been saved from falling by Smelt only to take the full force of the deluge. Crystals ricocheted everywhere, pelting the room’s other occupants. A good number of them escaped out into the company hall as well, Carten and Jamus staggering back from the flood.

The room fell into stunned silence, save for the tinkling sound of crystals falling from people’s clothes. Carten’s reaction was the best of them. His face was contorted in marvelous, slack-jawed, bearded stupefaction.

“Oi…” the big man finally managed, looking down, his normally boisterous voice hushed.

There was another long, silent moment, and then Rain began to laugh.

Many hours later, well past the fall of night, Rain was sitting alone in his office. He sighed, rubbing at his neck. On the desk in front of him sat a bound copy of the codes beside a guttering candle. The flame was weak, the candle’s wick badly in need of a trim.

Rain snorted, pinching it out and closing the book. I didn’t even know that you HAD to trim wicks a month ago. They make special scissors for it and everything. He sighed, glancing at the light bulb glowing on the wall. It would be enough to prevent spawns, but it didn’t provide adequate light for reading. I need a desk lamp. Problem for tomorrow.

Rain stood tiredly, then stretched. It had been a long, long day. They’d slogged their way out of the depths that morning, and after the Tel incident and the following accounting marathon, he’d been all over the camp, meeting members new and old. He’d had to recount his story endlessly, simultaneously trying to get back up to speed with everything he’d missed. Then, after a full afternoon, Ameliah had returned with a second load of resources. Rain had helped her bring them down to Engineering, where they’d grabbed Tallheart for supper. Thanks to Carten and Val, what was supposed to be a quick meal had turned into basically a party, lasting for hours.

Finally, when it was over, Ameliah and Tallheart had retired to their rooms. Rain, however, determined to lead by example, had elected to stand a watch instead. Only once his full shift had ended had he returned here.

To read.

He snorted, glancing at the door that led to the bedroom he shared with Ameliah.

I know she’s asleep, but still, I decided to read first? I am such a nerd.

Blearily, Rain picked up his helmet, then walked over to the door, opening it softly and stepping through to close it behind him. The light in here was dim, coming from a pair of shaded bulbs set on either wall. To his surprise, the bed lay empty, the covers neat and seemingly undisturbed. He was about to use Detection, but Ameliah spoke softly before he could.

“Down here.”

Rain moved forward, skirting the bed to see her laying on her side on the ground, using her rolled-up cloak as a pillow. She was still wearing her armor, but she’d removed her helmet, which was sitting beside her.

“I couldn’t sleep,” she said quietly, apparently sensing his presence, though she hadn’t opened her eyes. “The bed was too soft.”

Rain nodded, setting his helmet on the bed and moving to lay down beside her on the dirt, facing the same direction. Ameliah shifted, making room for him, and he snaked his arm beneath hers to pull her body against him. He could feel the softness and warmth of her back against his chest through his breastplate.

After a moment, Ameliah sighed and spoke. “This is weird with the armor.”

Rain smiled. “Yeah.” He waited for a few seconds. “Do you want me to let go?”

Ameliah shook her head slightly, then pulled his arm tighter around her. “No.”
