Artrude reached beside the bed and picked up a matching set in red, and Malenka slammed the bedroom door shut then jumped onto the bed.

*

“I have to get to the Garrison!” Nathalia said and stood up, while Ereka tried to convince Croggart to stay and ask Ren for forgiveness.

“Wait!” Ereka said. “You can't!”

“Wh-what?”

“They won't let civilians into the Garrison.”

“But... I'm his... his...”

“It doesn't matter who you are.” Ereka said. “I've talked to Groggot enough to know that no one, besides military or the people that work there, can even get in the front gate these days.”

“Dammit! I want to go and help him!” Nathalia said in frustration.

“I know you do.” Ereka said. “But standing outside the Garrison and waiting for him, isn't going to help him any more than staying here does.”

Nathalia sat back down and crossed her arms.

Ereka turned her attention back to Croggart. “Don't be so foolish, you idiot.”

Nathalia gasped, and Ereka held up the Sending Square. Nathalia nodded slightly, and Ereka kept talking.

“You can't just run out on your family like this.” Ereka said.

“I don't want to.” Croggart said. “I want you to come with me.”

“No.” Ereka said. “You just want someone to share in the blame.”

“Hey, that's not true.” Croggart said. “I've never asked you to...”

Ereka laughed. “When you left the family because they wouldn't stick up for me, because it went against a member of the House, who followed you?”

“You did.”

“And who followed me?”

“Groggot.”

“And what are you doing now?”

Croggart didn't say anything.

“You're leaving us to deal with the shame of your actions.” Ereka said. “How much Honor did you lose when you attacked Ren?”

“I didn't attack him!” Croggart said, and both Ereka and Nathalia winced slightly.

“You can't even convince yourself of that.” Ereka said. “Do you really think you're going to convince me?”

Croggart sighed. “I'm not going to convince you to come with me either, am I?”

“No.” Ereka said. “I've built a great life here. It's only going to get better, with more and more people moving here every day.”

“Then I'm sorry.” Croggart said. “I can't stay here anymore. They'll be hunting me now.”

“If I didn't have so much work to do, I'd help them.” Ereka said.

“You don't mean that.” Croggart said, but neither he nor Nathalia had winced even a little bit at Ereka's words.

“I hope you can come to your senses.” Ereka said. “I've never turned you away any time you came home from one of your adventures.” She sighed. “You'll always have a home here.”

“I...” Croggart sighed again. “Goodbye, Ereka.”

“Goodbye, Croggart.”

*

For the next hour, Ren fought hard. He wasn't sure if he was suffering battle fatigue, or if the numbness venom he'd used on his head was wearing off; but, his brain started to hurt a lot from concentrating so long on his Fear Aura, and making Connections between the cloak, hammerpick, and shield.

It had taken a long time for Ren to hunt down all the screaming grubs. He had missed a giant that had one of the large Brain Arthropod Grubs inside, and while he had dealt with the pile of regular giants, a few dozen grubs had very slowly crawled away and hidden under the piles of unconscious giants. He'd found the large one right away, as it had started to drag the sack with the pheromones away.

“That was the last one.” Teepo said. “I flew way up high and I couldn't see any movement at all.”

Thanks, Teepo. Ren thought, then turned around to survey what he'd done. He took a deep breath as he saw that his handiwork covered the floor of the pit, now nearly several giants deep. Ren stored his shield and hammerpick after he let the connections lapse, then switched to his personal Aura.

Notice!

Controlled Berserk Rage ability has ended. You have gained the condition: Severe Exhaustion.

Stat Change!

Connection Level 6 (Beginner 0%)

Ren felt a wave of exhaustion flow over him, and he collapsed to his knees. He dismissed the popups and Teepo flew over to him.

“You did really well.” Teepo said, and Ren nodded as he laid down on the ground. “No! Don't lay down! Get over to the tunnel entrance!”

Ren nodded slightly, and started to crawl towards the tunnel. He saw several dwarves coming towards him, then the healer screamed.

“Watch out!”

Ren stopped crawling, then rolled over onto his back. The female giant that had fallen and broken her neck, the one both he and Teepo had ignored this whole time, wasn't dead. She stood up and walked over to Ren, who looked up at her with half-closed eyes.

“Oh, cra-” Ren's words were cut off as the giant's foot came down.

You have died!

You will respawn at your last chosen spawn point - SAFE ZONE: House Neram in 5 Hours, 59 Minutes, 50 Seconds (real time)
