Just as she was about to break down, a tiny hand shook her by the shoulder, a small touch that reached through her shame insistent that she notice. What does she want? Malika tried to focus on Aliandra who was speaking quickly and showing a hand with two fingers raised in a ‘V’ and gesturing urgently to the shrine. She repeated the gesture several times, clearly frustrated with her inability to communicate.

“What are you trying to say?” Malika’s frustration and despair crept out into her voice.

“I think she’s saying the shrine has two options we can use,” Calen said.

Two? Surprised, Malika looked again. Sure enough, there was a second option. It had been there all along, and in her focus and anxiety about class choices, she had not even seen it. Struggling to prevent an irrational surge of hope, she let a little of her mana flow into the mysteriously worded option for latent magical affinity.

[Shrine of the Ancient Grove] Exposing latent magical affinities may permanently alter your current and future class choices. Proceed?

I have nothing to lose. She confirmed the choice.

The shrine hummed and a deep resonant gong sounded within her mind.

Sudden power thrummed through her body, and she felt the hair stand up on the back of her arms and neck. The entire clearing flared into noon brightness as her body began to emit a powerful bluish-white light that seemed to burst out from within. Her ears filled with a roaring like a powerful waterfall crashing down, around, and through her. The energy coursing through her tore through her body, mind, and soul, raising her like a ragdoll several feet into the air, blasting open hidden doors within her mind, doors to places at once familiar and simultaneously entirely foreign to her.

Suddenly the power vanished, and the shrine fell silent once again. She dropped to the ground in a heap, her legs momentarily unresponsive, as darkness returned to the clearing.

[Shrine of the Ancient Grove] Reserved mana reduced by 50,000You have gained an affinity for Soul Magic. Your Aptitudes have been updated.New class options are available.

Her hand shook with the aftereffects of the rush of power and no small amount of nervousness as she touched the shrine once again to see how her class choices might have changed.

[Shrine of the Ancient Grove] Reserved mana reduced by 9,5002 Additional alternate classes found.Natural class:- ThiefAvailable alternate non-combat class options:- Pickpocket- Con Artist- SwindlerAvailable alternate combat class options:- ThugAvailable alternate magic combat class options:- Soul Assassin- Soul Monk

It changed! She clutched at her heart, holding her breath against the flutters that exploded in her belly. It had changed, but was it enough?

It seemed she had lost the Smuggler and Assassin class offerings, and in their place, she had gained two magic combat class choices, presumably based on her newly discovered latent affinity for soul magic. In trepidation she opened the first new offering, the Soul Assassin class, but immediately discarded it as simply a more powerful version of the basic Assassin.

With a trembling hand touching the cold stone of the shrine, she opened her final class choice.

Soul MonkThe Soul Monk walks the Nine Paths of the ancient Ahn Khen, striving for balance both within and without. Proficient at controlling her energy, she is confident, facing even the strongest enemies without balking. Holding body and soul in harmony, she fights with clarity and power, a master of the styles of unarmed and unarmored fighting.Requirements: Ahn Khen bloodline. Soul Magic affinity.Meditation skill. Fought multiple enemies unarmed and unarmored.Used martial arts and acrobatic techniques in combat.Saved a companion’s life in combat.Has received extensive training in Martial Arts.Attributes: +10 per level.Traits: Soul, Bloodline, Combat, Melee, Defense, Healing, Dexterity, Wisdom, Endurance.Quality: Rare.Class – CombatWould you like to change your class to Soul Monk?

Her breath caught in her throat as she frantically reread the description looking for that detail that would show it to be a lie and destroy her hope. But she could find nothing. She was looking at a rare martial artist class with the backing of soul magic rooted in her ancestral heritage.

The Nine Paths?

She had never even seen the sacred texts, but the elders spoke sagely of the wisdom contained in their pages.

Moments ticked away while she stared, scarcely believing what she was being offered. Memories of her childhood in the dojo flickered through her mind, practicing her forms and drills, listening to her parents’ instruction, and dreaming of the future.

The years since the destruction of her hometown and her family had been harsh, brutally crushing her dreams and grinding them to dust. In this one moment, all her hopes and dreams reignited with an intensity that made her heart race. And for the first time in ten years, she did not instantly squash them.

Quickly, before something else changed, or the unbelievable glowing words vanished back to wherever they had come from, she confirmed the class choice.

You have gained the class: Soul Monk.Soul Monk has reached level 1.+10 attribute points.You have lost the general skill: Basic Martial Arts.You have lost the general skill: Acrobatics.You have lost the general skill: Pickpocket.You have gained the Relentless aptitude.

Malika stumbled away from the shrine, landing on the stone of the path as her new class absorbed all her hard-earned combat skills in a wave of vision-blurring dizziness that made her queasy.

But the chimes continued, heralding the brightly shining lines of blue-white script that marched across her mind’s eye, a relentless searing song of change that burned itself into her very soul.

You have gained the class skill Martial Artist.Martial Artist – level 1Requires: Unarmed.You are proficient with unarmed and acrobatic martial arts fighting styles. Your reaction speed is enhanced.Stamina: Deliver a Melee Attack with any part of your body. Attack damage is increased by +42.7% [40 + skill + dexterity / 10].Physical, Melee, Attack, Mastery, DexterityYou have gained the class skill Soul Strike.Soul Strike – level 1Mana: Enhance a Melee Attack with your Soul magic, striking directly at the life energy of your opponent. A portion of this health is returned to you. Your Attack gains +54% [40 + skill + wisdom] additional Soul damage. Range: Touch.Soul, Melee, Support, WisdomYou have gained the class skill Healing Mantra.Healing Mantra – level 1Mana: The connection between your body and soul is strong. Instantly regenerate mortal wounds and restore health to anyone you touch. Range: Touch.Soul, Melee, Healing, WisdomYou have gained the class skill Perfect Body.Perfect Body – level 1Mana: Your Endurance, Wisdom, and Dexterity are increased by +42.3% [40 + skill + base wisdom / 10]. Reserve: 20%Soul, Buff, WisdomYou have gained the class skill Soul Armor.Soul Armor – level 1Requires: No body armor or shield equipped.Mana: Your soul reinforces your body increasing your Armor by +7 [skill x 7]. Reserve: 10%Soul, Melee, Defense, EnduranceYou have gained the class skill Enlightened Evasion.Enlightened Evasion – level 1Requires: No body armor or shield equipped.Stamina: Your martial arts grants insight into avoiding physical attacks. While unencumbered by armor, your Evasion is increased by +7 [skill x 7]. Reserve: 10%Physical, Melee, Defense, Dexterity

She sat in the middle of the path overcome with emotion, letting the tears of joy and relief spill unnoticed down her face. Through the haze of her vision, she could make out a concerned expression as Aliandra hovered nearby.

“Thank you,” Malika said, giving words to the upwelling surge of gratitude in her heart, and reached out her hand, knowing she would not be understood. If it had not been for Aliandra’s shrine, she knew she would be up in the Town Hall trying to decide which of her initial class choices was the least awful. As soon as her fingers touched Aliandra’s hand, she used her new Healing Mantra skill. A surge of energy flowed through her, passing through her hands and into the Fae girl, and, with a flash of blueish-white light, instantly erased the scrapes and bruises she had sustained in the fight.

Wow, that is incredible! She had just healed someone instantly, and all it took was a little of her mana. Even Aliandra yelped with surprise, examining her now unblemished skin.

She channeled her mana a second time, this time healing herself. It cost significantly more mana, and she felt the burning energy searing through her own body as her wounds closed and her health recovered in a rush. The sudden lack of pain was almost shocking, her mind seeming to refuse to believe it for a moment. But when she rose to her feet, she could walk without limping.

Quickly, she healed Calen and then Mato. For all his jovial and friendly outward attitude, the Beastkin had been severely injured and he took even more mana to heal than she had spent on herself.

“Thanks,” he said with a straightforward honest smile.

“You were hiding some serious wounds,” she said. “You should have said something.” Given what she had sensed from her skill, he must have been ignoring an enormous amount of pain.

“Not much use complaining,” he answered with a shrug. “We were out of healing potions.”

Malika finally found a large flat rock and sat, landing heavily, her head spinning with all the new information and changes. “I need a minute.” Closing her eyes, she settled herself with her Meditation skill for a few moments. With her new, calmer perspective, she reviewed all the changes, trying to get an overall sense of what she had unlocked.

My class has a strong focus on martial arts and unarmed combat.

Everything Malika had dreamed of was wrapped up in her new Martial Artist attack skill. She would put her training to good use and develop her technique and style. Soul Strike seemed to be a powerful support skill that could turn any kick or punch she made with her Martial Artist skill into potent attacks enhanced with her new soul magic. But the ability to recover health on each attack was extraordinary, she couldn’t think of one example of a fighting class that started with such an ability.

I have a heal, an attribute boost, and two defense skills for dodging and armor. She continued her cataloging, slowly forming her overall impression of what she had gained. An unarmed martial artist with a magic damage strike and healing. But I can’t use armor or weapons. Malika considered the implications carefully. She didn’t quite know how, but she felt that this class really resonated with who she was, almost as if it had been created for her.

Perhaps it’s more about who I’ve allowed myself to be, she thought soberly. Suppressing her dreams for so long might just be the reason she had been offered classes that were so antithetical to her view of herself. Those classes had been offered to the person she had allowed herself to become.

It had to have been her actions in that last fight that finally resulted in a class that matched her heart’s desire. The Street Rat would have run, cementing her path forever. But she had thrown herself into an impossible fight against a wolf pack to save Aliandra, and somehow, she had reconnected to the core of herself: her hopes, dreams, her identity, and her life before Myrin’s Keep, all rolled up into one. It was the first time she had put her life on the line and used her martial arts training to save someone.

She took a deep breath and let it out slowly.

Looks like I will need to invest in dexterity, wisdom, and endurance mostly. Considering her rough day, and the advice her parents had always given, she spent two of her ten attribute points on vitality. Then she put four into dexterity and two each into wisdom and endurance.

That looks like a good start. She smiled as she looked over her status, finding the familiar blue-white floating text to have dramatically updated.

Name: MalikaRace: HumanTitles: Street RatClass: Soul Monk – level 1- Martial Artist – level 1- Soul Strike – level 1- Healing Mantra – level 1- Perfect Body – level 1- Soul Armor – level 1- Enlightened Evasion – level 1- [Locked]- [Locked]- [Locked]- [Locked]General Skills- Meditation – level 3- Dancing – level 4- Calligraphy – level 3- Lockpicking – level 4- Appraise – level 5Aptitudes- Languages: Common- Bloodline (Ahn Khen): Dormant- Mana (Affinity): Soul- Relentless (Class): +100% to Stamina Regeneration- Relentless (Class): You can pay for any abilities with stamina instead of manaAttributes- Vitality: 10- Strength: 7- Endurance: 14- Dexterity: 17- Perception: 10- Intelligence: 9- Wisdom: 13Health: 100/100Stamina: 87/140Mana: 63/130

I might still be a Street Rat, but I’m so much more than that, she thought. I’ll never suppress my values or dreams again.

She had a lot to think about.

Relentless. Her class had given her quite the extraordinary Aptitude – enhanced stamina regeneration and the ability to substitute stamina for mana would mean quite a lot of flexibility in using her skills.

She continued down the sheet, examining each detail. One of the primary traits for her Soul Monk class was defense, and it seemed this manifested in her Soul Armor and Enlightened Evasion skills – both of which were passive defense skills. I guess they’re not precisely passive skills, she thought, her eyes drawn to the mana and stamina reserve cost for each respectively. Will they stay on as long as I set aside that resource to power them?

How does this even work?

She recalled the description for her Soul Armor to her mind, prodding the glowing blue-white words that appeared, trying to dislodge a hint or two, but nothing was forthcoming. No instructions?

The skill clearly indicated that it needed mana, but the entire ‘reserve’ concept was new to her. Maybe it works like Appraise? Or the shrine? Both of those had taken mana to power them.

She cleared her mind and focused on the glowing text of the description and tried to shove a little mana at it. Nothing happened, but… what was that? It wasn’t the text, but she had felt something hidden seemingly beyond it. She refocused on whatever that was and fed it a little mana.

In a sudden surge that filled her body, that something shifted, and a sizeable chunk of her mana vanished, diverted and drawn into whatever it was in an instant.

Reserved mana has increased by 13.You have gained Soul Armor.

