Pale blue-white runes shimmered across her skin, soaking in, and quickly fading away, leaving her feeling somewhat… denser? She flexed her arms, but her movement felt the same as normal. She poked herself with a finger. Whoa, that’s different! Instead of giving like normal, her skin and muscle seemed to resist the pressure of her finger, refusing to bend.

Excitement mounting, she tried Enlightened Evasion. Instead of mana, she fed it stamina, but besides that, she found the skill quickly, and just like Soul Armor, it consumed a big chunk.

Reserved stamina has increased by 14.You have gained Enlightened Evasion.

A bit pretentious, this one, she thought. Only the Ancestors, or perhaps some of the Elders, could credibly claim enlightenment. But her thought vanished at the sensation of the runes once again alighting on her skin and imbuing her body with their power. This time, as they faded into her, she sensed responsiveness rather than denseness. She waved her arm back and forth, trying to capture the feeling of what had changed. She wasn’t exactly faster, but the movements definitely seemed to come easier.

As her skills turned on, her mana and stamina available for other skills decreased by the amount reserved. Ten percent reserve each, she thought, confirming her understanding of how the cost worked. Turning the skills on and off seemed intuitive enough, now that she had figured it out, but then an idea occurred to her.

Relentless should work for Soul Armor, right? It does cost mana…

She found it surprisingly straightforward to switch her Soul Armor from using mana to using stamina instead.

Reserved mana has decreased by 13.Reserved stamina has increased by 14.

She switched it back to mana. I probably need stamina more, she thought, considering that she would likely always be using her Martial Artist skill, spending stamina to empower her training. And the reserve is slightly smaller for mana.

Satisfied that she understood her defense skills, at least in principle, she moved on to her Perfect Body skill. This looks strong. She remembered her lessons stressing the importance of increasing your skills by investing in the appropriate attributes. This skill would increase all her attributes and it would grow as she leveled. Curious, she activated the skill. Her skin flickered briefly with the glowing runes that gently faded away after a few moments. Her body immediately felt lighter and faster.

She opened her status once again to see the effects. The first thing she noticed was a new line that had appeared right below her Street Rat title.

Name: MalikaRace: HumanTitles: Street RatActive Buffs: Perfect Body, Soul Armor, Enlightened Evasion

So, they do stay on, she thought. Her eyes strayed down the much longer list of text to find her attributes.

Attributes- Vitality: 10- Strength: 7- Endurance: 19 (+5)- Dexterity: 24 (+7)- Perception: 10- Intelligence: 9- Wisdom: 18 (+5)Armor: 7Physical Damage Reduction: 20%Evasion: 7Dodge: 20%Health: 100/100Stamina: 89/190 (19 Reserved)Mana: 64/180 (54 Reserved)

That’s… incredible. No wonder she felt lighter and faster. Her endurance, dexterity, and wisdom were indeed significantly higher with the skill activated, just as the skill description indicated. As a result of the attribute increases to endurance and wisdom, her maximum stamina and mana had risen to one hundred and ninety and one hundred and eighty respectively, although the available totals were shown as lower because of the cost of running her Perfect Body, Enlightened Evasion, and Soul Armor simultaneously. The reservation costs for her defense skills had risen proportionally too. Additionally, every single skill that was tagged with one of the boosted attributes had presumably improved because of it. Well, apart from Perfect Body. But she felt it made sense that the skill wouldn’t boost itself. It’s also the only skill that says it scales off the base wisdom attribute.

Her status sheet had been updated to reflect the effects of her two defense skills now that she was using them. From her training, she knew that her Dodge and Damage Reduction percentages represented her abilities versus an attacker of the same level. The effectiveness would decline against higher-level monsters or against skills that were designed to oppose her defenses. However, ‘always on’ skills like hers had substantial advantages over crafted armor. It would not be possible to avoid her armor with accuracy, for example, unlike the leather armor Mato was wearing which necessarily left some portions of the body exposed to attacks, and hence vulnerable to precision strikes or area damage.

It felt a little like being in math class all over again, but this time the numbers would mean the difference between life and death. Soul Monk was far better than anything she could have hoped for. Feeling uncharacteristically whimsical, she gave herself a good, hard pinch just to check she wasn’t still asleep on that wood pile. Damn, it’s real. One day she might even have a chance to settle the score with Adrik and Edrik.

Right, back to business. I will be fighting with a ten percent stamina deficit, and a thirty percent mana deficit, and in exchange I’m much harder to kill, she summarized for herself. The big picture made more sense to her than the details, but she was happy she had made herself understand the specifics too – who knew when she would need to change something in an emergency?

I’ll worry about the rest of the details later, she thought, deciding that the seemingly expensive total reservation costs were easily worth it for what her skills gave her. She got up and moved through several kicking and punching drills to get a sense of the enhanced speed and how it would affect her. Her grin grew as she flew through the drills faster than she had ever moved, and with more precision than she believed possible.

The remainder of her abilities would have to wait for an enemy before she could test them properly, so she sat and watched her companions using the shrine, resonating with the excitement on Calen’s face as he lit up the entire clearing with an intense pure white light, and Mato’s joyous exclamation as his latent mana affinity turned the space into a green glowing aura with ethereal floating leaves.
