Tala

Tala darted down the street, hugging the walls to dodge the broad patches of moonlight. Her soft leather boots barely made a sound as her feet fell lightly on the rough stone pavement.

She may have grown up in the slums of Myrin’s Keep, but that didn’t mean she could be careless. On the contrary, it merely made her far more cautious of the denizens that prowled the streets after dark.

But while her eyes and ears were constantly searching the darkest corners and the most likely ambush spots, it was with a breathless lightness that filled her chest. A thrill that had begun when she had watched Donavan Asterford falling into that dark hole and heard the cascade of notifications that had echoed in her mind, clear despite the roaring crash of rock and stone.

Dagger Rogue was a fantastic natural path class, but her heart was set on something a little… stronger.

She dodged out from her hiding spot and dashed across the rest of the street, through an alleyway, and then emerged onto the main thoroughfare.

“Hey,” she called out, keeping her voice low as she announced herself to the two armored figures standing guard at the Town Hall. “Class candidate returning for the shrine.”

“It’s late to be out,” one of the guards said, calling attention to the obvious danger. But then he shifted his feet. “Successful, I hope?”

“Yup,” Tala said, plastering a grin on her face that did not even need to be faked.

“Congratulations,” the other guard said, inclining his head. “Go on in, they’re still in there waiting for the stragglers.”

“Thanks,” she said, walking up between them and opening the doors.

Heads snapped around as she stepped into the Town Hall, and eyes instantly glued themselves to her. Despite her best intentions of showing confidence, she froze on the spot.

“Oh, Tala!” the mayor, William Turner, said, rising to his feet. He let out a deep sigh and then beckoned. “Come, come, we’re so glad to see you. I was beginning to worry – is the rest of your group…” He trailed off, his eyes flicking briefly to the still-empty doorway behind her.

This was a question she was prepared for. Her body straightened up and she stepped forward as her habits kicked in.

“We split up when we got back to town,” she said, as smoothly as she could manage. “They didn’t want to risk the streets at night.” It was an obvious lie, but one they wouldn’t figure out until later. And by then, it shouldn’t matter. Hopefully.

She nodded politely to the others sitting at the table, the idealistic Guildmaster of the nascent Adventurers Guild, and the suspicious eyes of Commander Brand’s aide. But the mayor ushered her up to the table and the stone shrine prominently displayed in the center.

Now let’s see if Kieran Mori lives up to his reputation.

She remembered just how terrified she had been when she had first met him. The sense of his presence had overwhelmed her, leaving her trembling and shaking. It was a common reaction from the unclassed toward certain high-level classes, but she had never experienced it quite so intensely before.

But when she had pitched her proposal to him, he had agreed to take her under his wing, setting up some easy marks for her. He claimed he knew how to force an Assassin class and was confident enough to stake his offer on her getting one. If this shrine offered her the class when she touched it, she would have a mentor and a job – and access to all the accelerated experience that came with it. And if she didn’t… well, she could make do with Dagger Rogue. It would just take longer to reach her goals.

“Ok, Tala, it’s ready for you,” the mayor said, gesturing toward the stone artifact, inviting her to use it.

“Thanks,” she said, putting her hand on the cool stone surface. She channeled just a little mana into it as she had been instructed, and the shrine lit up with glowing purple runes.

[Shrine of the Second Path] Reserved mana reduced by 3,500Alternate class found.Natural class:- Dagger RogueAvailable alternate magic combat class options:- Silent Assassin

***

Tala enjoyed the crisp air on her face as she sprinted effortlessly across the slate rooftop with her Stealth and Concealment skills both active. She was effectively invisible even in the moonlit night. No longer were the footfalls of her soft leather boots merely quiet – they were entirely silent. She couldn’t even hear her own breathing.

Silent Assassin.

The name still caused her heart to flutter with excitement – it was just about the strongest Assassin class she could have unlocked – and well beyond her reasonable expectations. Beyond even what Kieran Mori had promised.

Kieran Mori’s plan had been remarkably simple – a few easy assassinations before embarking upon the Class Trial as a regular combat candidate and finishing it with a few monster kills. With the experience earned from those assassinations already under her belt, she was expected to unlock her class faster than the other candidates.

Tala hadn’t fully trusted Kieran Mori’s confidence, despite his sheer presence and reputation. However, his trial had clearly worked.

That and killing Donavan, she thought. Donavan had been a rather perfect stroke of luck. He had been standing right in front of her, stunned by the suddenly collapsing floor in front of them. And while he would have been fine where he had been standing, it had been so easy to push the entitled prat into the hole as the sewer disintegrated.

All it took was quick thinking and resourcefulness, she hadn’t even needed to bloody her daggers. Why dirty your hands down in sewers slaying monsters when you could simply take the experience from the people who did? The only reason she had stuck with the group from then on was that she wanted to stab that Street Rat girl in the back during a fight.

She frowned at the memory. They had had several fights, but Malika had an uncanny awareness of her surroundings, and try as she might, she had not been able to create an opportunity. She had just resolved to switch her target to that Beastkin boy, Mato, before he went charging off into an unwinnable battle, condemning himself and his friends to death, trying to save some dying Fae.

Fucking bleeding hearts. Dying had the unfortunate property of killing you, and then all your experience and hard work was gone, taken to feed whoever killed you. There was no way she was going to risk that for anyone – certainly not a stranger in some undiscovered cavern underground. No. And now that she had her class, it was she who would be at the top of the food chain, preying on the stupid or the unprepared to fuel her own growth.

While she was still somewhat terrified of Kieran Mori, at least he had his priorities straight. Experience and growth at all costs. Class levels meant power, and with power came the only reliable way to choose your fate. Nothing less from the man who had earned the title ‘Sudden Death’.

Allying herself with the Town Watch and taking Kieran Mori as her personal mentor was the fastest path to growth. And with her class, she could now ensure it. The money would be good – Kieran had allowed her to keep twenty percent of any loot she found on her assassinations.

Too bad Donavan was buried under a rock, she thought. He had been wearing some expensive gear and she could always use some more coin. She hopped across to the next building, making the jump easily with her class bonuses to agility, heading further into the abandoned and rundown warehouse district where the Town Watch had set up their headquarters.

It had been remarkably easy to fool the mayor with her fluttery-eyed excitement about choosing her ‘Dagger Rogue’ common class. And as soon as she had announced that, Commander Brand’s aide had lost all interest in her. Dagger-based melee classes were not well suited to manning battlements and Tala well knew that Dagger Rogue did not even boast any scouting skills.

The new Guildmaster, Vivian Ross, had seemed rather disappointed when she had turned down her offer of guild membership. But there was no way she was going to join any guild like that. What was she thinking anyway? Myrin’s Keep will eat her guild and spit out the pieces. It didn’t even matter that she was one of the few three-mark people in town. Kieran was too, and he was far more dangerous than any do-gooder adventurer.

Besides, there was a sense of brokenness that followed the woman like a faint miasma, a stark contrast to the sheer raw power that radiated from Mori.

She shook off her thoughts, coming at last to the nondescript building that was the de facto headquarters of the Town Watch. Tala had done her research. The Town Watch was no mere local guard operation for some two-bit town. If it were, there would be no reason for someone like Kieran Mori to run it, nor would someone like him be content to remain there. It had taken a significant amount of digging, but learning that the entire outfit was secretly the tool of the Hawkhurst Trading Company had been the final detail that sealed her decision.

Even though he had not said as much, she knew that taking Kieran Mori’s offer would expose her to far more opportunities than she had initially imagined.

She hopped down from the roof, marveling at the perfect silence of her landing, and crept forward using the cover of trash and broken walls to sneak closer, reveling in her new skills. Just as she was about to drop her concealment skills and stealth and announce herself to the guard standing before the nondescript door in the middle of a decrepit wall covered with graffiti, it swung open on well-oiled hinges.

Tala froze.

A man with a stocky frame, wearing a professional smile and an expensive tan business suit stepped out.

What is he doing here? He never gets his hands dirty. I thought that’s what he used Mori for.

Tala had seen Jax Hawkhurst only a few times – mostly at town council formal events, but she instantly recognized him.

He stepped into the street, not even looking at the guard now standing at attention, and then the leather-clad figure of Kieran Mori emerged, his steps speaking of restrained power and his presence radiating into the alleyways. The guard by the entrance flinched. Kieran dismissed him, and he fled inside the building.

And then a third figure appeared, making Tala’s heart jump to her throat as blood drained from her face. The elegantly dressed man walked up to Jax and shook his hand.

Bastian Asterford!

“Thank you, Jax,” Bastian said. “Good doing business with you as always. Know you can count on the Asterford family’s support in this matter.”

Tala knew him. As did everyone in the town. He was the head of the Asterford family and one of the royal representatives on the town council. One of the most powerful nobles in Myrin’s Keep.

Fuck. I just killed his son.

Obviously, she had known who Donavan Asterford was. And she had no compunctions about killing the entitled son of a noble. But she hadn’t been aware that his father was Jax Hawkhurst’s secret business partner. If Jax found out what Tala had done down in the sewers, not only would her job with Kieran Mori be forfeit, but likely also her life. He was not a man with a reputation for mercy or understanding – it wouldn’t matter one bit that she had no way of knowing their clandestine dealings – if she was discovered hurting his business or allies, she would find herself, like so many others, floating down the river in many pieces. Or forced to cripple her class and be sold off to the next Kel’darran caravan.

She stood rooted in the shadows, her mind racing with half-baked plans of running away, her jaw clenched to the point of cramping. A discreet unmarked carriage appeared and Bastian left. Jax spoke a few words to Kieran, who simply nodded, and then Jax vanished using some magic teleportation spell.

“What are you doing?” Kieran Mori still faced away from her, but he was clearly addressing her directly. There was nobody else in the newly deserted alley.

She dropped her stealth immediately. “Practicing my skills, sir,” she said quickly, hiding her relief that her voice hadn’t betrayed her fear.

“Your stealth is too good for Assassin,” he said. There was no question in his flat and unemotional tone, and Tala knew instinctively that she was treading on treacherous ground.

“I got Silent Assassin,” she said, not willing to risk making up a lie. “It’s an uncommon class with a further stealth specialization. I get advanced stealth and concealment, dagger specialization, and ambush.”

He turned slowly and fixed her with a piercing gaze while she squirmed under the pressure, trying desperately to appear calm. Taking initiative on class choice was strictly prohibited in his organization, and he brutally enforced the rule, but this was a significant upgrade, so she hadn’t expected him to be angry. Nor had she even been offered the Assassin class he had told her to take.

“Good,” he said finally. “Do not mention what you saw to anyone, not even other members of the Watch.” He spun on his heel and entered the building, clearly expecting her to follow.

She scrambled into motion, racing to catch up with his long stride.

“I have your first job already,” he said.

Kieran Mori offers his patronage.

Tala’s eyes widened suddenly as her heart suddenly skipped a beat. She instantly accepted the contracted Tithe Enchantment of his patronage, without even pausing to see the details. Tendrils of magic settled within her chest, a vaguely nauseating discomfort, like runes inscribed directly upon the parchment of her soul.

Malika

Malika lowered herself gingerly to the damp mossy ground beside the corpse of the massive shaggy Alpha wolf, caring nothing for the blood and dirt she was sitting in.

She hurt.

Everywhere.

The fight had been exactly as dangerous as she had feared, and now she was covered in bite wounds, cuts, and gashes, many of which were still bleeding. In fact, the only thing she had not predicted correctly was the astonishing fact that, despite all odds, she was still breathing.

Facing monstrous fangs in a tattered cotton shirt is not a recipe for a good time, she reflected wryly. Without that last healing potion, she would certainly have died mid-battle. She had literally used the full duration of the slow pulsing tick of its healing magic to outlast the wolves tearing at her flesh. For all that she was sitting in pain, drenched in her own slowly drying blood, she was simply glad to be alive.

Your group has defeated Starving Wolf – level 1-3 x4. Your group has defeated Starving Alpha – Wolf – level 5.

