Tough bastards. The starkly simple notifications listing what had died seemed woefully inadequate to convey just how close it had been. Even in death, the Starving Alpha seemed to exude raw strength and power. Fighting a level five monster without a class was a recipe for suicide – anyone would agree – even with all four of them. As she reflected on the fight, her notification chime sounded once again, surprising her with several new messages glowing blueish-white in her mind.

Requirements met for class advancement.Primary class slot available.Experience threshold reached.Class: Thief unlocked.This class will be permanently affixed in one week.Additional class options may be available at a shrine.

While she had been expecting it sometime soon, she still recoiled from the notification as the bile rose, burning in her throat.

Thief.

Her shoulders slumped at the sight she had been dreading for so long, dragged down by a sudden heaviness that seemed to hang from her neck.

Ten years of indentured servitude to the Town Watch mattered more than her family, her passion growing up, and her very sense of self. That single notification at once defined her by her actions, and simultaneously ignited a deep frustrated anger within her heart. While she had expected something like this, she was still terrified that when she used the shrine back at the Town Hall, her second choice would be revealed to be just as awful.

Her natural path, the Thief class, was just about the worst possible option for her. A non-combat class focused on burglary – clearly coerced by the Appraise, Lockpicking, and Pickpocket skills she had been forced to learn. Adrik and Edrik would be so happy – she could already hear their gloating in her mind – and that alone was plenty of reason to hate the class.

The biggest problem was that she would identify as ‘Thief’ to anyone who bothered to use Identify on her – a skill possessed by at least a third of the town – which meant she would be shunned from normal society. Far more than even the distrust she was afforded from just her Street Rat title – and would require the support of an organization just like Kieran Mori’s Town Watch to shield her.

No decent person picked Thief unless they had no choice. Unfortunately, that happened all too often in the slums of Myrin’s Keep.

Why must I be defined by them?

The rest of her life’s direction hinged on whatever was available at that shrine, and the sheer terror threatened to overwhelm the small spark of hope in her heart. She felt within her the powerful need to shift her fate, but it felt as hopeless as trying to push a mountain aside.

“Did you…” she began.

“I got a class…” Calen spoke quietly.

“Yes!” Mato announced, his excitement echoing loudly in the small cave.

They all spoke over each other in a rush. Her stomach twisted at the sight of their grinning faces and, perhaps uncharitably, she envied their excitement, but she chose not to share her private anxiety over her class.

That fight must have been worth a lot of experience, she thought, realizing that they had all earned their classes at the same time. Tuning out the excited chatter of the two boys, she glanced again at the wolf corpses strewn across the cave, recalling the wild struggle of the fight and the odds stacked against them.

It has got to be worth at least a warrior class, she told herself, driven by a powerful need to control her anxiety. I get one more shot. Malika deliberately steadied her breathing. Hopefully the Ancestors have a sense of fairness, she thought, ignoring the fact that she had stopped praying to them precisely because of the unfairness of her life. If she got any decent class, she would finally be able to work her way free of Adrik and Edrik and the rest of the despicable Town Watch, pay off her debts, and earn an honest living.

Now all I have to do is make it back to the Town Hall, avoid Adrik and Edrik, and get lucky with a good class. And then avoid them for long enough to get some levels. That’s all. No big deal … right?

It was with a small sense of rekindled hope that she looked up curiously at Aliandra now standing before her, speaking in her strange language.

Did she get a class, too? Of their little improbable group, she looked the worst. Amber and red blood mingled, drenching her tattered clothes, and matting her long green hair. Her eyes still held a dazed wideness as she tried to speak yet again.

Probably still in shock.

As Malika tried to make sense of her strange lyrical words, the Fae girl reached out and took her hand, tugging insistently. Malika studied the delicate frown and the huge earnest eyes peering out from behind the mask of dried blood that caked her face, trying to decipher her meaning. Her kind were rare – far rarer than the stories would have you believe – and Malika had never seen a Fae in person before. Her long green hair was so vibrant it almost seemed luminous with natural golden highlights that matched her eyes.

And those eyes… She’d be so pretty without all the dirt and blood. Even the tiny golden wings that were twitching with suppressed emotion as she struggled to make herself understood were stunning, glowing a soft golden hue.

Why didn’t she just… oh. She can’t fly. The wings were tiny even on her frame, and if she could have just taken to the air, she would never have been trapped fighting those wolves.

Aliandra spoke again and pulled. It was the tired pull of a tiny person almost entirely spent.

Slowly, Malika stood up. “What do you need?” she asked. It was clear that Aliandra wanted her to follow but was unable to tell her why. And it’s more important to her than resting. As soon as Malika began to move, Aliandra repeated her gesture with the boys.

“I think she wants us to go with her,” Malika told them. Whatever she wanted, it seemed important, but not the kind of urgency that told of imminent danger.

“Can’t hurt to see what she wants,” Mato said, grunting as he heaved himself to his feet.

His voice was back to his usual friendly self, and Malika frowned briefly. She hadn’t forgiven him for getting them all into this mess in the first place, but for now, she was willing to let it slide. And probably, once she returned to town and figured out her class, she wouldn’t have to deal with him anymore.

She limped out of the cave, careful to avoid the patches of blood-slicked stone, grimacing as she was forced to put weight on her more injured leg. That one will definitely need proper healing, she thought. The deep lacerations inflicted by the sharp wolf canines would probably require a trip to the Temple of Lunaré if she didn’t want to be permanently crippled. And that meant she would need to find money. She sighed. Another problem for later.

She followed the tiny barefoot Fae out of the cave and on into the ancient dead forest, her thoughts, for once, not consumed with possible danger. Instead, her mind raced, running in incessant circles like a dog chasing its own tail. Hope, and the promise of deliverance from her miserable existence at the hands of Adrik and Edrik – if the shrine showed her a good class. Despair at the inevitability of another class like Thief. Surely it would give her something worse. Around and around her thoughts spiraled, like muddy water circling the drain of despair.

We just need to get back to town safely, she thought, trying to quash the maelstrom within her through sheer power of will. With no potions, she added. Maybe then life will stop kicking me in the teeth?

It was easy to follow Aliandra in the darkness and Malika’s injuries appreciated the slower pace. Golden light shone from the tiny disk of mana that hovered above her head, and from the short, stubby wings that jutted out, protruding from the back of her torn t-shirt.

Just like that golden butterfly… The thought popped right into her head, along with an inexplicable pang of sadness. A sudden juxtaposition of freedom and clipped wings. What happened to her?

And yet Malika could not help but marvel at the floating construct. It was rare for people to have a mana affinity, let alone before they earned their class. Even though Aliandra’s magic seemed fragile and delicate, Malika owed her life to that Fae magic. Somehow, Aliandra – a person of such tiny stature that Mato’s biceps were probably bigger than her torso – had managed to turn the tide of the battle at the most critical moment. She had courage, that was for certain.

Their winding path took them around ancient fallen trees, thick trunks lying taller than houses, with piles of shattered bones nestled up against the dark and blackened wood. Black mushrooms and fungus grew everywhere, adding to the ominous sense of death and the stench of decay.

Somewhere during the fight, Malika had lost her shoes. Not that they had been particularly sturdy or secure in the first place. But she felt the transition as her feet left the squishy damp earth and found purchase on a stone pathway hidden beneath a thin layer of dirt.

A path?

Suddenly, they rounded a massive decaying blackened stump, bigger than most they had passed so far, and emerged into a large clearing. Malika stopped and stared. All about the dead grove, golden glowing shards sparkled brightly in the darkness, embedded into trees and stone in a radial pattern around the epicenter of what must have been an enormous explosion.

Aliandra’s magic faded, unneeded in the bright glow, and Malika couldn’t help but notice that it had been exactly the same golden color. The same color as the explosion that had woken her up in that alleyway.

What happened here? It was clearly the aftermath of some tremendously powerful arcane event, and yet she couldn’t fathom what it might have been. Did she do this? she wondered, glancing at Aliandra. But the profound sadness etched upon the Fae’s face told her in an instant that it was something infinitely more personal. This place held a deep meaning for their strange companion.

“Look,” Calen said, pointing, his voice hushed.

Raising her head, Malika found a tall obelisk of black stone looming up out of the darkness beyond the shattered golden shards. It was smooth, the surface highly polished, and it stood far taller than even Mato or Calen. With a black so dark it stood out even against the darkness of the cavern, seeming to consume every trace of light. Faintly glowing markings covered the surface, runes etched in soft green and gold.

Is that a shrine? she thought, suddenly struck by the similarity to the artifact William Turner used back in the Town Hall. Once so impressive to her, the small artifact she had used to unlock her experience seemed but a toy beside the immense construct looming before her. Even as she stepped forward, she sensed the pressure radiating from it, a tangible force prickling against her skin.

Is this why she brought us here?

“It looks like a class shrine,” Calen said, moving up to stand beside her, his eyes glued to the stone.

Even though he echoed her own thoughts, Malika struggled to believe it. “If that’s a class shrine, we would still need the owner to activate it for us,” she said. The mayor’s class shrine had remained worthless, inert until he had specifically activated it for her.

“I don’t think that will be a problem,” Calen answered, “Look at the owner.”

She used Appraise.

Shrine of the Ancient GroveAn ancient mystical shrine of unknown origin. Offers advanced class features and attunement of latent mana affinity.Owner: Aliandra AmarielMana Siphon (Active)Mana: Unlock class experienceMana: Unlock or enhance latent magical affinitiesMana: Unlock alternate classesOwner’s Mana: Recharge the shrine’s mana reserve. 308,050/1,250,000Quality: UniqueValue: SoulboundShrine – Artifact

“By the ancestors…” she whispered, her feet forgetting how to walk in the moment as she stared openmouthed at the monumental artifact.

She’s the owner?

Malika glanced over at Aliandra in surprise, finding that she had turned and was watching her as if waiting for her response. As soon as she met her eyes, Aliandra made an inviting gesture towards her and pointed to the shrine.

Malika turned back to study the shrine carefully, her heart beginning to thump within her chest as a mix of apprehension and anticipation spiked within her. It’s got a lot more options than the town shrine, she thought. It was the second time she had ever appraised a soulbound item – the first being William Turner’s shrine. And the first time she had ever seen something of unique-grade quality. And what’s with that insane amount of mana reserved?

Even without language, Aliandra’s intention was clear, and Malika knew she was procrastinating. Wrestling with nerves that threatened to spiral out of control, Malika stepped up and placed her hand on the cool stone surface of the shrine.

Please, please… a good class. Just one.

She channeled her mana into the shrine taking the option to unlock an alternate class, and a sudden chime sounded in her mind.

[Shrine of the Ancient Grove] Reserved mana reduced by 35,0006 Alternate classes found.Natural class:- ThiefAvailable alternate non-combat class options:- Pickpocket- Smuggler- Con Artist- SwindlerAvailable alternate combat class options:- Assassin- Thug

Oh… fuck… The world dropped out from under her as she stared at her options. The nightmare she had dreaded had come true – all her available choices were related to her last few years of forced crime and larceny. She stared dumbfounded at the crushing reality – she hadn’t even realized this shrine would unlock more than one alternate class choice, but even so, every single one of her choices was equally awful.

Clamping down on the powerful urge to cry, she lowered her head trying to hide her shame. I’m not even worth a single common warrior class? Not even for all that blood and pain? Even if she refused the choices, the Thief class would be forced on her, and then she would be stuck, forced unfairly into a life of crime.

Perhaps it’s not entirely hopeless, she thought, trying desperately to believe it. The Assassin class would at least identify as a ‘Rogue’. But the thought of taking a class that was best used for murder filled her with a wave of nausea as her guts twisted into a knot.

She looked at the Thug. At least it’s a combat class? She tried to make it seem better, but she was absolutely certain that this was Adrik and Edrik’s class.

