“Thank you.” Donna said, and took him into another tight hug. “To know you were responsible enough to do military service.” She grinned. “I'm proud of you.” She looked him in the eyes. “I assume you've been honorably discharged?”

“Of course.” Ren said as he nodded, and it rubbed her chest. She finally noticed his slightly compressed face jammed between her breasts, and she blushed a little.

“I'm... I'm sorry, Ren.” Donna said and let her arms drop. It eased the pressure being applied against his face. “I didn't realize...”

“It's okay.” Ren said, and kept hugging her. “You didn't hear me complain, did you?”

“You cheeky little...” Donna laughed and her chest jiggled, but since she wasn't squeezing them while hugging Ren with her arms, he didn't feel it as much. “I only intended to give you a hug, not let you... ah...”

“Enjoy the feeling of your wonderful chest against my face?” Ren suggested, and she smiled warmly at him.

“Yes, that.” Donna said softly, and ran a hand through his hair. “Ren?”

“Yeah?”

“How do you get your hair so fluffy?” She asked, then wrapped her arms around him again.

“It's always been like that.” Ren said, snuggled into her chest, and sighed. “Thank you.”

“For what?” Donna whispered, turned her head to the side, and rested it on top of Ren's.

“Nearly every woman I try to talk to, or get into a questionable situation with, thinks I'm trying to make a pass at them, or trying to sleep with them. It's... it's really nice to just hug someone and not worry about that.”

“Who said you didn't have to worry about it?” Donna asked, and lifted her head as Ren looked up at her. Her face was flushed a little red, and her lips were slightly puckered. Before he knew what was happening, she had picked him up and sat him on her desk.

Even Princess, a mount designed to hold my weight, can barely lift me! Ren thought, completely shocked that Donna was so strong. “Donna... I'm... I'm engaged...”

“That means you're not married yet.” Donna said and grinned. “Perfect.” She stepped close to him, pushing his legs to the side. With her standing up and Ren sitting on the desk, his face was at the same height as hers.

“Donna! What are you...”

“You're all mine right now, soldier!” Donna said, grabbed his tunic tightly, and kissed him.
