In the distance, the other archer responded in kind as he also took out his bow and began shooting. His opponent’s arrows flew with insane speed as they also began to speed up while in flight, but Jake saw that the other guy’s arrows did so by absorbing environmental mana.

Jake naturally also kept firing as the two remained over an entire pre-system Earth diameter away from one another. This meant both parties had more than a hundred arrows in flight combined by the time the first one would arrive, and to Jake’s surprise and delight, he was the first one who had to respond.

While continuing to shoot, Jake dodged to the side but found that the arrow followed him. In fact, all the arrows in flight seemed to veer towards him slightly as he moved, making Jake smile more.

Homing arrows.

It was very similar to Jake’s own Willpower-based control of his arrows, but had some different drawbacks and advantages, both rooted in the difference in control these two methods offered. His opponent’s arrows would always fly straight for Jake with little variance, making them predictable, yet at the same time, it didn’t require any mental energy or further input from the other archer once fired.

Once Jake dodged these homing arrows, the other archer seemingly didn’t think it was worth it to make them do a one-eighty to fly at Jake from the back, making them just keep momentum as they flew past Jake and into nothingness. Jake wasn’t even sure he would call that a drawback, as he was pretty confident their behavior was the result of a conscious decision by his opponent not to waste too much energy with every arrow by making them too complicated.

Meanwhile, Jake had the opposite approach, as he had to influence his arrows far more, making them take his opponent by surprise; however, it also required significantly more mental energy from Jake to control them. Sure, he would “pre-program” how they would fly once he shot the arrow, and they would carry out his will, but that required Jake to know where his opponent would be once the arrow arrived, something that wasn’t a thing in a duel over this distance.

This resulted in Jake having to manually control his arrows to make sure the other archer couldn’t easily dodge them, all while evading homing ones from his opponent. It was stressful and put Jake under pressure, making this just the kind of duel he wanted.

Arrows continued flying between the two of them, neither finding much success at first, but as the battle continued, things did get heated. As an example, Jake learned that his initial conclusion that his opponent couldn’t make his homing arrows do a one-eighty was quite wrong, and the other guy had likely fooled Jake on purpose. Not that Jake could blame the guy, seeing as it worked, resulting in him getting struck in the shoulder.

Jake didn’t take it lying down as he also controlled his arrows more, ending with a couple of his making contact. Seeing as both had arrows that kept accelerating during flight, by the time they reached one another, their speed was at a level where, without Jake’s near pre-cognitive dodging abilities, he found it challenging to get out of the way in time, with his opponent having the exact same problem.

Still, both could avoid the vast majority of blows, making the duel drag out as thousands of arrows were passed between the two, filling the sky above the barren moon.

This training session was the longest time Jake had spent consistently using archery throughout his life, and it had forced him to truly reflect on his Path and what kind of archer he wanted to be. It had confronted him with dozens of different techniques, all of them having powerful aspects in their own right.

As he exchanged arrows with the other archer, Jake was fully focused as everything he’d taken in so far was consolidated, and all the progress he’d made ever since his last skill upgrade came together. All the minor improvements here and there, and even the training he had done with Artemis the first time around.

All not to expand his archery further, but to truly form the basic foundation of what his Path as an archer would be.

Jake’s arrows slowly began to grow faster and stronger as he kept shooting. The increase was gradual until suddenly he passed the threshold. He felt himself grow stronger as the stat bonus from his weapon skill increased and the arrows all sped up by a noticeable degree, and Jake instantly felt a far more powerful connection with all of his arrows in flight.

His opponent also noticed when the arrows suddenly started doing more damage. It shouldn’t come as a surprise, but one party suddenly growing more powerful rapidly changed the balance of the duel as Jake’s victory became assured.

He was past caring about merely winning the duel... because he’d finally succeeded in what he wanted to do.

[Archery of Expanding Horizons (Epic --> Ancient)] - An Archer’s best friend is the bow in his hand and the arrow in his foe’s heart. Your horizon continues to expand, your foundation that of an archer who sees no limit on what his arrows can reach. You do not shy away from allowing other aspects of your Path to empower your archery, a testament to the vastness of your horizon. Allows you to affect the trajectory of arrows already in flight. By infusing arrows with your will before shooting, the effect is significantly improved. Adds a noticeable bonus to the effect of Agility and Strength when using a ranged weapon. Adds a noticeable damage bonus to all arrows based on distance traveled and Perception. Arrow trajectory control based on Willpower.

It was the boring kind of skill upgrade. The one who didn’t change much beyond the flavor text, adding nothing new. It just made everything it already did a lot better, which had been precisely what Jake wanted.

He wanted to ensure that the Records pertaining to his arrows dealing more damage based on distance traveled and Perception were as powerful as they could possibly be, so that they couldn’t be undermined by whatever came next.

Jake also had to admit he had never before experienced having a skill upgrade twice while retaining the same name, but reckoned it had something to do with the C-grade evolution and potential downgrade happening in between.

With his goal succeeded, and the Horizon reachable by his archery further than ever... it was time to also expand the scope.

That’s to say, Jake wasn’t done and hoped Artemis had a lot more sparring partners available.
