“Perhaps. Perhaps not. They seem suspicious—but I can only say I had nothing to do with them.”
She says it faintly, knowing how it must sound. I sigh.
“I don’t believe you, Wiskeria.”
I hold up a hand as she protests.
“…But I can’t prove you’re not telling the truth. So here’s what I’m going to do. I’m going to imprison you. Take away your wand, put you in a house and under guard…and ask some questions. If you can’t answer them, or your friends can’t, well—”
“I can’t accept that. Sire.”
Wiskeria interrupts me, sounding panicked. She half-pushes back her chair.
“I would be in danger for my life if your villagers found out what I was accused of. They—your subjects would kill for you. I don’t want to die or be held captive for weeks.”
“Sit down.”
Durene growls at Wiskeria. The [Witch] hesitates, and does not. I look at her.
“You have no choice, Wiskeria. I’m not about to risk another incident, or working with someone I can’t trust.”
I can’t. Not now so much is at stake. But Wiskeria is shaking her head.
“No, I can’t—won’t be held here when there are Goblins about! What if they attack?”
She speaks pleadingly to me.
“I’m willing to leave and void my contract, Emperor Laken. After the Goblins are dealt with. Or return with a truth spell testimony proving my innocence. But I can’t let you take my wand.”
“Wiskeria, I have no choice. You have to know how this looks—”
“I do. And I’m sorry for this. [Paralyzing Touch].”
Before I can react, I feel her finger on my chest. I gasp and my body goes rigid. Durene shouts. I sense Wiskeria going for the door.
My body’s frozen, but my mouth can still move.
“Wiskeria, stop! Don’t make this worse!”
She doesn’t reply. She’s ducking around Durene, hand raised, shimmering with magic. I can sense Durene hesitating. What do I do?
No good answer. But I know she can’t get away. I look to Durene standing by the door.
“Durene. Hit her. Gently, so she can’t get away.”
“No!”
Wiskeria backs up, hands raised as Durene makes a huge fist. She knows how strong Durene is. My half-Troll girlfriend could kill Wiskeria with a punch. Durene looms over Wiskeria, abandoning the door.
“Give up or I’ll hurt you.”
Wiskeria slowly raises her hands and backs towards a wall. She glances at me, and realizes she’s got no excuses. But she still speaks desperately.
“I’m innocent. You’ll see that in the end. Just don’t—I don’t want to die. Not here! I didn’t even want to take this contract on! I was against it!”
“What?”
Durene pauses for a second. Wiskeria speaks rapidly, eyes flicking left and right, too afraid to move and be hit.
“We normally take on contracts for monster exterminations, scouting, that sort of thing! We get the occasional request from the Reinhart family! I told Odveig there was no need to spend this much time on escort duty, but she insisted!”
“Odveig did?”
“Yes! She insisted! Said we’d get no better deal though we could have been hunting Frost Golems or making gold coins selling pelts! I have no idea why she wanted—”
“Wiskeria? I heard [Emperor] Laken wanted to talk to you, and I heard shouting. What’s going…?”
Someone opens the door. I sense Odveig come in.
“What the—? Odveig?”
Wiskeria gapes at her friend. Durene turns, but keeps her focus on Wiskeria. I’m…
Dumbfounded. Was that coincidence? No, it can’t be. That was movie-level timing right there. Was Odveig outside? Why was she here? I didn’t notice she was outside the cottage!
And suddenly the pieces in my head change. Odveig. Wiskeria’s actions. One of the Celestial Trackers. I shout.
“Durene! She’s the spy! Get her!”
Durene swings around. Odveig curses.
“Damn. He is smart.”
She steps nimbly to one side, unhooking her mace. Wiskeria is gaping, staring at me. Durene raises a hand.
“Hey, stop—”
Durene grabs for Odveig. The [Macewoman] steps back and as Durene misses, slides forward like a ghost. She taps Durene behind the knee with her mace and Durene’s leg collapses.
“Huh?”
The half-Troll girl goes down onto one leg, sounding stunned. She turns, reaches for Odveig, and Odveig taps her on the head with the mace.
“Sleep.”
I hear Durene hit the ground. My protector, my mighty [Paladin] knocked out. Just like that.
“Odveig!”
Wiskeria raises her hand. Odveig steps back as Wiskeria tries to touch her with the [Paralyzing Touch] spell. She hits Wiskeria; I hear a cry.
“Sorry, Wis. I didn’t want to let you take the blame…or let you find out this way. But I have a few secrets.”
The [Witch] crumples to the ground. I’m still locked in place by her spell. I sense Odveig coming around behind me, still holding her mace.
“Well, you are a very intelligent young man, Laken Godart.”
“Thanks. Is this the part where you tell me why you did what you did?”
I’m stalling for time. Odveig shrugs.
“You guessed. I’m a spy. That’s not my class, but…how did you know I broke into the cottage? How did you find out what was in Wiskeria’s bags without looking?”
“I sensed it.”
“Ah. Interesting.”
I feel all the hairs on the back of my neck trying to dance. I wait. Odveig moves closer.
“I have so much I’d like to ask you, but your protector might wake up soon and my cover is gone. So I’ll just say this.”
I feel someone brushing hair around my ears, and then a higher-pitched voice, an elegant tone, so unlike Odveig’s accented words.
“Lady Magnolia sends her regards. She will be very interested to speak with you once I deliver my report. If you survive.”
I feel a chill as Odveig whispers into my ear. I’m afraid to make the wrong move, tense. I can sense her holding her mace at her side.
“Who are you really? Why did Magnolia send you? What does she want?”
“I’m afraid I can’t say much, Laken. But my real name is…Sacra. I regret that we couldn’t speak under more pleasant circumstances.”
She shifts. I wait for the end, or at least, unconsciousness. But Odveig doesn’t lift it and smash my brains out. She turns and strides out of the cottage. I sense her pick up speed as she leaves—she’s running down to the village incredibly quickly. Then she’s on a horse, trotting it out of the village until she’s out of sight, and then racing it—
She’s gone.
It takes five minutes before my body starts being able to move again. Wiskeria’s magic wears off slowly, and I feel like I’m moving through molasses. My arms and legs tingle like they’ve been asleep. At last, I stand up, around the same time Wiskeria and Durene wake up.
Both of them get up and immediately start a riot. Wiskeria runs out of the cottage and Durene chases her shouting for Odveig. That leaves me in the cottage, alone. I put my head in my hands.
“Damn. I feel like an idiot.”
 
——
 
I’m an idiot. That’s my conclusion after the chaos, with Prost rousing the village and the Celestial Trackers demanding to know why Odveig’s run and Wiskeria trying to defend herself and avoid Durene hitting her. I sort it out by shouting at everyone and kick myself that night.
I’m an idiot. Have I said it enough times? No. To put it in a delightfully American way, I done goofed. That’s an appropriate way of thinking of how stupid I was.
What was my plan? Confront Wiskeria and hope she’d confess? And then what? Confine her as a prisoner or—kill her? Let her go? Aside from the fact that I was wrong, I didn’t give any thought to what I was going to do.
I panicked. And because of that, Odveig’s gone and I’m left with more questions and one less warrior to defend the village. If I had been smarter, I could have observed Odveig and let her help me—or see how far Magnolia was willing to go to attack me and my village.
Now I’m down another adventurer, and a good one if she can knock out Durene in a single hit. If only I’d…
Too late now. Too late. At least one of my worries has resolved itself. Only, now it’s a bigger worry and I still have to worry about them.
The Goblins.
