Some would consider Erick a monster simply because of his core.

Erick dismissed the [Slowing Enclosure].

The ooze froze, suddenly shrinking down into its Force bowl spellwork, its many eyes turning upward to take in Erick. Watching the movement of its eyes was like watching vein-covered golf balls turning around of their own accord, inside a bowl filled with dark red gelatin. Those eyeballs were certainly attached to a living creature, though, for variously-colored irises went wide. Disbelief, anger. Sadness, hope; a lot of emotions passed across those eyes rather rapidly.

But no words came out of the blood ooze.

So Erick spoke first, “I am sorry that you think I do not care about Aroido, or, ostensibly, about you. I care about as many people as I can see, but my Sight is limited, for I am still just a person, like you. Do you want a [Reincarnation]?”

The ooze said nothing.

It was in complete, sudden denial.

It simply lay there in its floating Force bowl spell, five of its eyes trained on Erick, three of its eyes trained on Goldie. One of its eyes looked to Ophiel, on Erick’s shoulder.

Ophiel fluffed up a little bit, expanding to show more eyes on his wings. He exclaimed, “I have eyes, too!”

The ooze mumbled, “Why yes you do, little one—” And then he went silent again.

Erick recalled Ophiel back to his shoulder, and then he hopped down into the hole. The ooze recoiled a fraction as Erick landed without a sound. Now at eye-level, Erick stated, “I have a lot of things to clean up around here at Storm’s Edge. I feel like I don’t want you to be one of those things. So here’s what’s going to happen: I’m going to ask you a few questions, and then Goldie up there is going to give you a full interview, while I move on. I’ll be back, though, and we can talk then. Okay?”

“… Okay,” said the bathtub of red gelatin, eyes, teeth, and various bits of living gore.

Erick nodded. “Okay. So, first question: The Aroidos go insane? Not hyperbole?”

“… They do. They were… They had too much of me in them. They… We tried to make…”

The ooze’s voice faded away. It was too scared to talk.

Erick nodded, though, for that was enough information anyway. This part of the Tidewalker family tried to make the dungeons work through a perfect dungeon master, created through blood magic and various donations from Aroido, Aroido’s wife, and this guy here. Quilatalap would probably have more to say about that.

“Final question for now: Do you have a name?”

“… Oozy.”

Erick raised an eyebrow, and then he went with it. “Nice to meet you, Oozy. I’m Erick, the Wizard, and by the time we’re all done here, we’ll make sure you’re assisted out of this hole you’ve gotten yourself into, both literally and metaphorically. Goldie will explain more. Also: Are you going to be a threat to anyone who doesn’t deserve it? Or do you only kill the Aroidos, as they are your failed experiment?”

“… I only kill the Experiments who go crazy. We tried fixing them but they… They always go crazy. It’s a soul problem, I think, and I can’t fix that, and... Frydrika was the only one who knew how to do that sort of magic, and the Experiment killed… All of them, except me.”

“But the ‘Experiment’ still works as the Regency wants it to work?”

“… The Experiment works well except when it doesn’t, near the end. At least that’s… what they tell me. I would have rather we never used them.”

“With any luck, I’m pretty sure that the dungeon master in there now will be able to solve the problem of the breaks, and I can take your ‘Experiment’ and give all of them new, real lives, so they won’t ever degrade again.” Erick added, “Just like I will do for you, if you want.”

“… I… I do want that.”

“Good! I want to help you, too.” Erick stepped into the air a half-step. “Goldie will take your interview from here. It was nice to meet you, Oozy.”

“… nice to… meet you, too...”

Oozy’s voice fell away, and never came back.

Erick flickered away in a flash of Benevolent light.

As he moved to his next location, he considered, for not the first time, what it meant to have non-human sensibilities. Yggdrasil was non-human, and he never had been, though he had been born of Erick and had grown up with Erick tethering him to reality. Yggdrasil had it easy, didn’t he. Sure, he had troubles in the beginning with being aware of what it meant to hurt people and animals and what not, but he had grown up fine, and soon, he would be out on his own, and making an avatar of his own, to experience the world through human-adjacent senses… Would he even pick a human form? Maybe not. He lived with the orcols and the arbors most of the time. He might choose to be an orcol.

Ophiel was another conundrum. How would he turn out?

Erick sort of smiled as he thought of Jane, how she had started off as human, but now she was a whole bunch of other stuff, too.

And he was a dragon, so that was freaking weird.

Non-humans all around… Not to mention, incani, dragonkin, harpies, shifters and all the rest.

Well anyway.

Everbless, the other most non-human entity in this land (that Erick knew of), still hadn’t shown. That was weird, too. Erick decided that he would go visit Everbless personally, if he didn’t show after this next major stop. Eventually, anyway.

There was a lot more work to do before he went looking for Everbless, though.

Erick’s next stop was at the Pit.

Poi and Archmage Wiloza floated along in the sky, upon the archmage’s Platform spell, overlooking the Pit as they spoke of current events and what would happen next. Erick was very glad that Wiloza was being as cooperative as she was, and he decided to say as much after landing on the archmage’s platform.

Wiloza did a professional, tiny bow with her head and upper body, saying, “I have a great deal of loyalty to the Regency, Wizard Flatt, but I know that we are not prepared to weather the storm that is coming; Sininindi helps, but she won’t help a sailor who won’t read the wind or know the tides themselves, and I see this wind and these tides very clearly.”

An unexpected sentiment, but perhaps it shouldn’t have been unexpected at all.

Erick said, “You seem more centered, too; I’m glad to see that, Wiloza.”

“I’m past the initial anxiety of knowing the storm is coming. I’m sure many people back in the Castle will take several more days to reach this point.” Wiloza gestured to the Pit, to the spaces where all the other dungeons except for 6 had been located until the Aroidos had moved them. Two of those black holes in the world were back in position, but the rest were still missing. “Aroido is past his terrible worry, as well. Nothing quite like a super power coming in and setting things to rights.”

Erick asked, “Do you know about Aroido’s true history?”

He tried not to make his words too accusatory, for he wasn’t quite sure what he was accusing, anyway.

Wiloza was already past being overly-worried about anything, though. “I know the larger sweeps of the story, but not the nuances. As I was telling your man: Years ago, in a bid to make proper dungeons, Aroido and Frydrika worked together to produce a repro that was perfect; him with his Force Magic, and then a bit of Soul Magic snipping from Frydrika. I don’t know the whole story, but it was a major horror show back when it first happened.

“The first repro or the second, we’re not sure, turned on them and their five children, killing them all.

“But by then we had ten Aroidos in a dungeon, and the one that had committed the deed was executed for his crimes. Augustive then handed off the Aroidos to me, for he couldn’t bear to work with them directly anymore.

“And so, for the last several years, the Aroidos have copied themselves into every dungeon they can get into, and they control the dungeons well enough for our purposes, which have always primarily been the disposal of monsters. But of course, they still sometimes go crazy.

“Augustive told me what to watch out for years ago, and I have seen what happens when an Aroido ages past his prime, and so, I guide them to Seafoam Manor. I’m not sure exactly what takes them over when they see that place, for Frydrika built something into their soul, or something like that. Whatever the case, they all always go inside, and they’re never seen again.

“That’s only for the ones who go crazy, or who are about to go crazy, and who don’t know where to vent their insanity. Sometimes the Aroidos simply get erratic out here and they have no respect for their lives, or something to that effect. They end up drinking themselves to death or going swimming with sharks to try and feel something, or… They’re sort of broken. But they work well enough, and we’re not going to execute them for being melancholic people.” Wiloza added, “But now that the secret is fully out, I believe that Augustive might pop that [Force Trap] and deal with the aftermath of executing them all as soul-abominations. A few people in-the-know have been calling for that ever since the Aroidos started replicating themselves inside their dungeons… You know we never asked them to do that. They do that on their own. They will actually be exceedingly difficult to remove from our dungeons.”

Erick listened intently, corroborating what he had seen back in Seafoam Manor with what Wiloza was telling him. “Thank you for telling me that. I only have one more question. Do you know about the blood ooze family member, living inside Seafoam Manor?”

Wiloza had been prepared for a great many proclamations from Erick, but she was not prepared for that. Her eyes went wide first, and then she narrowed her vision at Erick. “… There’s an ooze inside the Manor?”

“An ancient ooze, too. Centuries, maybe. With developed eyeballs and teeth and brain matter. Skilled in Blood Magic and able to use Force Magic, too.”

“No. I. Ah. I did not know that.” Perhaps sheepishly, she added, “I never went looking into that manor… for a vast number of reasons.”

“The ooze’s name is Oozy, and he has some odd sensibilities. He talks well enough, too.” Since that was enough investigation into the Aroido-situation for now, Erick changed the subject, “I’m taking Poi into the Castle. Do you wish to come along and answer questions, or will you be staying here?”

Wiloza banished her worried facade and looked back to the Pit. “… I’m going to stay here and have some talks with Aroido.”

“Ah. One last question about him.” Erick asked, “Do they have individual names? I am assuming not, but I can’t quite figure out why not— Aside from security issues with keeping the secret, but that secret is out of the bag now.”

Wiloza said, “They might have private names for use amongst themselves, but I don’t think they do. They like to trade on the expectation of Aroido being aloof and curmudgeonly, so they can be all of that without reprisal, and to be interchangeable with each other… They are their own little society, Wizard Flatt, and I could spend hours talking about what I know of them.”

Erick got the hint. “I would listen to those words, but I must move on as well.”

Wiloza nodded.

As Erick flickered away with Poi in tow, the Slime Mage resumed her work on the Pit. To be sure of what she was doing, though, Erick rapidly consulted with Poi, through [Telepathy].

‘What is she doing with the Pit?’

‘She was going for a trap to defend against Vanya’s workings, and she’s still doing that because she doesn’t trust any known necromancers, but she’s going to be adding in some intake areas and stuff like that if we get to that point. She does civic engineering on the side, and she’s made storm shelters before, so she knows most of what she’s doing.’

Erick extrapolated, and then asked, ‘Do you think she would like some help from House Benevolence in making the exterior of the shelter? Or would Stratagold or Oceanside be better contacts?’

‘She’s iffy with any foreign powers, so the answer to that really depends on how big you want to go with all of this.’

‘As big as necessary. 22.5-million-people big.’

‘I’m sure Archmage Wiloza will adapt.’

- - - -

The lower levels of Regency Castle were bustling with people preparing for a dungeon break or a necromancer attack, fitting themselves with armor or spellwork as they lined up in squads on small fields and on balconies here and there, all in order to hurry up and wait. Higher in the castle, in grand meeting rooms and otherwise, nobles and the servants of nobles argued over what would come next. The news of Vanya’s necromantic powers was spreading rapidly, though it had yet to reach any of the public.

A lot more people were stuck outside the Castle gates, simply trying to find out what was happening and why. Rumors abounded, and the Regent or Regency had yet to make a statement, and that seemed only to inflame the crowd. Some of those people were delvers who had Platformed themselves over from the Pit to try and find out what was happening. A few of the more violence-inclined people had fucked around with the guards, and then found out what happened; those worst offenders had been hauled away, off to some holding cells for the duration of this temporary crisis.

The guards also let in those who were of high standing, who appeared out of the crowd.

Erick did not go in that way, though. That would cause a scene.

Erick expected to make a few scenes, of course. The Storm Prophecy, as some people were calling it, was making the rounds rather fast. Because of that Prophecy, much of this riotous gathering was expected.

But for the Regency to take hours to make a proclamation one way or another spoke of… Problems.

Lots of problems, really.

Erick was rather sure that the Tidewalker clan, the people in charge of the Regency, and who were indeed ‘The Regency’ itself, were rather politically weak. Maybe magically weak, too. Sure, they had Archmage Wiloza, who was moving literal mountains back there at the Pit, but aside from nominal control of their guard and their army, they had nothing.

On the other side of the equation of the power of Storm’s Edge, lay the Storm Priestess, Tiza Nindi, and all the other people of Sininindi’s Church. Then there were the merchants and their various trade guilds, as well as the nobility. The Dungeon Guild also had a prominent place of power in the Regency, according to what Erick had seen over the last hour, through the Ophiel he had left scattered around the Regency Castle, spying on everyone.

And so, because of that spying, Erick knew where to enter the Castle.

