Not through the front gate like any proper person, but through a swirl of white lightning, opened up directly into the most important meeting he could see happening at the moment. One where Tiza Nindi and a bunch of nobles all stood or sat around a large table, yelling at each other and at the Regent Augustive Glorious Tidewalker, who sat quietly at the end of the table, flanked by guards.

The room did not go silent as Erick entered. Instead—

“What the FUCK are you doing here!” yelled Storm Priest Tiza Nindi, her feathered hair puffing up behind her owl mask as she glared at Erick. “You’re the reason we’re having this crisis at all! You and your House stepping in where you don’t belong! What do you have to say for yourself!”

Erick wanted to ask why Tiza was coming at him with that rude tone, and all those disrespectful words, but he only got so far as, “The first time we saw each other you called me an—”

“You shouldn’t be here!” Tiza said, interrupting him, because he wasn’t answering her question, or prostrating himself before her, or, even better, simply leaving. So she yelled, “Leave, and respect the sanctity of The Goddess’s decree against your incursion into this land! We don’t want you here, and you shall not have contact with Everbless while we stand!”

“… The first time we saw each other you called me an—”

“Stop talking and leave Storm’s Edge to us! Go away, Wizard!”

Erick had had quite enough of that, thank you very much.

Now, he was very sorry for what he was about to do, for it was not right to shut people down as he was about to, but as he looked around the room he saw a few Storm Priests silently backing up Tiza’s words, and a few nobles who were waiting for weakness of any sort, in order to pounce and demand that the Regency capitulate to their personal desires for the future. There were a few people openly gawping that Tiza would speak that way to the Wizard, but those people were trying not to have that expression on their face, for no one here really liked the Wizard at all.

And then there was Regent Augustive Glorious Tidewalker, sitting on his chair, and probably a little bit drunk, all in order to deal with the people all around the room. He was probably drinking due to Erick’s presence, too, which was a slight problem.

So Erick was going to make all his problems go away.

First, Erick filled the room with his [Physical Domain], and then he turned off all other magics in the room at once, popping a good thirty [Scry] eyes in the process. The room went utterly silent, as the only power and sound in that place was now Erick’s.

Tiza Nindi briefly grabbed her throat as her words failed to come out, and then she advanced on Erick, prepared to slap him. She fell through a [Gate] instead, helped along by a little push of power. She ended up in the hallway, beyond the locked door, not five meters away.

She could come back in when Erick was done here.

Erick closed the [Gate], but he switched to his sunform, with his Benevolence Domain, and sound returned. It remained quiet as Erick spoke, “She called me an adulterer when we first met, at my Particle Magic talks well over 12 years ago. Haven’t seen her until today. I had thought that time might have mellowed her a bit, but I see now that that was never going to be a possibility. Still, though! How odd, that she would start off her conversation with me like she did. Well she’s outside the door, and banging on it, too, as I’m sure a lot of you can already see. Anyway.” Erick got to the meat of the conversation, “I wish to have a private word with Regent Augustive, and my needs override all of yours because the crisis is already handled, and the dungeons will be active again shortly and giving out more gold than ever before to whoever can brave the Dark. The shelter from the storm is coming along, too, and various other good things are happening as they get to happening.” With a small dip of his head, he added, “I am terribly sorry for running roughshod all over you and your lawful and noble duties, but since this crisis is a lot bigger than just Storm’s Edge, I and other major powers will become involved in this moving forward. Now if you will excuse my impertinence, I need to have a private conversation with your Regent, as I have already said.” Erick looked to Augustive. “Would you be so kind as to grant a private audience?”

Augustive instantly declared, “The Regency recognizes the counsel of Wizard Flatt—”

“I would ask to stay,” interrupted a self-important nobleman, in a sky-blue and gold suit. According to the manasphere that Erick had been looking through as he had spoken, that particular noble had been berating others in the room before Tiza came in and took that duty from him. Erick disliked the man, and then disliked him even more, when the nobleman almost sneered, as he said, “We have a right to be here. You do not.”

The man had pulled back from that sneer just in time, too, as though he had realized halfway through who he was talking at.

Erick simply opened a [Gate] to the side, which led back to House Benevolence, on the other side of the Letri Ocean. He gestured to the room, asking, “Augustive?”

Augustive got up and walked right through the [Gate].

Erick and Poi followed, leaving the nobles and merchants and otherwise right where they were, back in that meeting room.

- - - -

In a nice little room that oversaw the Gate District of Candlepoint, Erick sat a very cooperative Augustive down in a chair on one side of a nice little table, while Erick sat down on the other side. To the left side of the room lay a small, yet full bar, complete with liquor on glowing shelves, adding a certain multicolor ambiance to that part of the room, while the rest of the room held natural light from the large windows. Poi began mixing drinks without needing to be asked.

Erick still thanked him, though.

Augustive was still collecting his thoughts while that happened. He probably had a great deal of them, since he had two tendrils of thoughts coming off of his head right now.

Poi set a lemon whiskey in front of Erick, and a sunset wine cooler in front of Augustive. For a moment, the Regent of Storm’s Edge looked askance at the drink, wondering if it was poisoned or not, but then he realized that of course it wasn’t poisoned. Erick would just execute him out of hand if he felt like it.

Erick had to speak out against that obvious thought, “I’m not going to kill you, or harm your kingdom, or even step in and take any power away from you at all.”

“Pardon me if I disbelieve that, after all these shows of power.” Augustive took the offered drink, took a sip, and then said, “You have a stranglehold on trade through the Gate Network, and I’m sure one of those ‘nobles’ back there has probably been feeding you information that would see me beheaded, if only to pour more gold into their already-full coffers.”

Erick smiled a little at that, and then he took a sip of his own drink. It was good; Poi made the best drinks. As Erick held his glass in his hands, he said to Augustive, “Your kingdom is flourishing. You’re doing well. I didn’t see any homeless people and even the thieving kids by the Gates all go to orphanages with nice, if meager meals, at the end of the day. The streets are clean. The dungeons were working for what you wanted them to do. Tourism is up, and people move freely everywhere they wish to move. Everbless is a bit of a concern to me, but that whole circumstance will shake out with time. This latest problem will pass as all storms pass, and though some buildings will fall and people will die, the kingdom will survive under your authority.” Erick said, “But you could use some help. How can I help you?”

Augustive stared at Erick, thinking, his mouth in a little frown as he held his red drink in one hand. He swished the drink a little. He thought. He asked, “You’re not going to execute me for crimes against souls? With the Aroidos?”

“No. You did what you had to do, using the magics available to you, in order to produce a monster-trap that worked well enough. I’m rather certain that Vanya is on the case with that now, though, so if you leave it to her, then everything should work out well. I’ll probably be taking the Aroidos off of your hands and [Reincarnation]ing them in order to solve their long-standing soul-degradation issue, and the thornier social issue you have created. Probably going to give the blood ooze, Oozy, a new body, too.” Erick casually asked, “So who is he, anyway? She? They? I’m not sure.”

Augustive kept his stare on Erick, trying to figure out his game.

Everyone who never met Erick always tried to ‘figure out Erick’s game’, and since Erick had purposefully never dealt with Storm’s Edge, Augustive was experiencing that familiar phenomenon for the first time. Most of the world had dealt with Erick in one way or another by now, though, and while a bunch of places hated him because he would butt into their problems just like he had done with Storm’s Edge, if the problem was large enough, a lot of places loved him, too. Augustive had likely heard all of those stories.

He was trying to decide which ones were true.

Erick let him think for a little while longer, sipping his drink as he waited.

Augustive began, “The problem is myriad, and has been compounded recently with the understanding that, until now, everyone knew you would stay away from Storm’s Edge, to honor Sininindi’s request that you not visit Everbless. But even before that, we’ve had strong-headed people in Storm’s Edge for as long as the Regency has existed, and even before that, with the Sea Kingdoms, where they wrestled with pirates both legal and not. I don’t have much power as the Regent, Wizard Flatt, so I am thankful that you allowed us to have this conversation so far away from all those opportunists back there.”

“Please, since you are another head of state, you can call me Erick.”

Augustive’s shoulder relaxed the barest fraction. “Then I will do so… Erick.” And then he relaxed a little bit more, and said, “Oozy is a— was what remained of the old king of Storm’s Edge, back 275 years ago, when the Shades turned him into that. My ancestors locked him in a real dungeon in the bottom of the castle, feeding him and tending to him, for he was always partially cognizant. In the last fifty years he had even begun to talk and Aroido… Aroido grew up talking to him. He’s the one who really brought Oozy back to sapience. Frydrika, rest her soul in the sea, bonded with my cousin over Oozy, back when they were both just kids reaching their maturity. They all grew up together, with Oozy coming back to himself more and more… And then the Dungeons came along, and Oozy was fully a person by that time, and Aroido, Frydrika, and Oozy all worked together to tackle the problem I gave them; to make a repro that could truly hold the dungeons against all subterfuge and… Various other issues. We had a lot of problems over the years, Erick.” Augustive said, “And they managed to make their Experiment work. They put all of their power, Force, Blood, and Soul, into a repro that could truly defend the dungeons, and who I could also call on to use his [Force Domain] against problems of the Regency.

“And then their Experiment went insane and killed them all,” Augustive said with half a sigh. “The rest… I assume you must have already seen it. My people tell me that you went into and came out of Seafoam Manor.”

Erick nodded. “I have seen more than enough. Thank you for telling me the full story. Will Oozy want to become king again if I were to [Reincarnation] him?”

Augustive smiled and chuckled. “Gods no. You think anyone actually wants this job? Even the nobles who want more power understand that if they took this job they’d have less power and they’d get yelled at all day long. Ha!”

“So then we need to reorganize your governing, and probably add some people between you and your people, so you don’t have to deal with everything yourself.” Erick asked, “How would you like me to help with that?”

Augustive paled a little bit at the surety in Erick’s voice. “… You’re not joking.”

“I am not joking.”

Augustive said, “… I need to think for a minute.”

Erick put up a [Hasted Shelter] around the room. “A minute is an hour, so take your time.”

Augustive chuckled again, before going silent in thought.

Eventually, Augustive spoke of the plight of Storm’s Edge, where a handful of different councils oversaw the running of the city, and each of them tried to override the other all the time, with hardly any respect between any of them at all. There were only two facts that made the whole of Storm’s Edge tenable. Firstly, the largest, most powerful council was made up of the Priests and Sailors, and they were on the side of the Regency; they formed the power base of everyone else, though the merchants and the nobles were the ones that everyone usually listened to, since money was the true king of the world. And secondly, the Regency had the weight of centuries backing it up.

“But even the weight of history is one good propaganda campaign away from falling apart,” Augustive said, “The Tidewalker line has broken at least 8 times between when the Shades killed the last king, and now. My grandfather married into the house, bringing his son, my father, into the Tidewalkers. I’m not technically a Tidewalker at all, except by my grandfather’s marriage to my grandmother.” He heavily added, “That little fact has led to many problems with the noble council. Mainly from the Stormsons and their never-ending quest to be the power-behind-the-regent.”

Erick hadn’t heard anything about the Maryols yet, and how they were in Regency custody, but Jarod and Glariol and Nero were likely far, far down on Augustive’s list of concerns. Erick would get to them eventually; it wouldn’t do to leave nice people as collateral damage from ‘Soltic’ and ‘Vanya’s’ visit to Storm’s Edge.

Poi refilled their drinks.

And the Regent talked with the Wizard for a while about everything wrong with the Regent’s kingdom.

Eventually, Erick introduced Augustive to Mox Dawnsider, his Overseer of the Exterior, saying, “Mox is a very capable woman, and I think you and her might already have something of a history, unless I am mistaken.”

Augustive smiled a little as he said to Mox, “I believe you were headed out to kill Hullbreaker last time I saw you, and now you’re working for a Wizard.”

Mox easily said, “I certainly can’t knock the perks of the job.”

Augustive chuckled. “I wasn’t going to say anything, but you are looking quite lovely.”

