This would have been a phenomenally stupid thing to do for most people, but Erick was able to weather any casual trap these days, and most anything that anyone could throw at him.

With his hand in the Wall, Erick felt a ‘testing’ sort of magic try to read his soul, and then it returned a ‘negative’ result, or something like that. That was only an educated guess, but it was probably the correct one.

Magical turrets opened up on the roof of the house and began blasting Erick with [Force Beams]. The beams struck his Domain and splashed away like curving laminar flows. Some Beams hit the ground, hitting [Force Trap]s in the ground that promptly exploded underfoot. Others hit the [Alarm Ward] spells in the air, triggering them, causing a large wailing sound to pulse away from the house like a shrieking demon. It was probably a Thunder-based damage effect, but Erick couldn’t feel anything under his protections.

“Ahh… Fuck it.”

Erick dove into the house, shaping his Benevolence into a great dragon-clawed hand to rip the wooden shutters away from the door—

The interior of the house detonated.

It was not a large explosion, all things considered. The house remained, but the carpets, the drapes, the chairs, the windows, all turned to shrapnel, all throughout the house. Bare stone remained, heavily scorched. And then a massive [Cleanse] spilled throughout the entire manor, wiping away everything that had been destroyed. Anything that Erick might have wanted to find was gone, and what’s worse, is that the final burst of cleaning spellwork had erased the manasphere; there were no bits of shrapnel to [Mending Aura] back into furniture, and whatnot. The house was now empty of all normal clues.

Erick sighed a little.

And then he [Return]ed.

Once again, the house was as it had been, and Erick stood before the Wall of soul-checking magic.

He opened a [Gate] just past the wall, and stepped through onto a land that was devoid of any spellwork at all. Glancing backward, Erick saw that he had successfully circumvented the Wall spell. That magic hung in the air behind him like an ethereal curtain—

A wave of another ethereal Wall expanded from the interior of the house, touching upon Erick, and then the Thunder-based alarms and Beam turrets began again.

Erick [Return]ed to several seconds ago, back beyond the ethereal Wall spell.

These simple 10 second jaunts at the base cost of [Return] of 10,000 mana only cost Erick 500 mana each time. He could do this as much as he needed to do this. But...

Well…

Erick opened a [Gate] back to the front of the house, beyond all the defensive Alarm spellwork, and then he sent a telepathic question to Poi, who was still beside Archmage Wiloza, discussing the events happening right now.

‘I need to know about Seafoam Manor. How do you get in?’

Poi asked Wiloza the question, and after Wiloza furrowed her brow, and then answered, Poi responded, ‘She says Aroido just walks in, without anything special happening at all. The place is layered with defensive spellwork, but none of it activates on him. Blood Magic or Soul Magic keys, she suspects.’

As Erick watched Wiloza and Poi through Ophiel, as all that information came through, and it all looked truthful according to what he was seeing of Wiloza, he was still watching his own area, where he actually was.

More specifically, he watched the Manor explode.

[Return].

Once again standing beside Goldie at the gate, Erick said, “This place is tied up tighter than a high-class bank.”

Goldie smiled a little. “Yes it is.”

Erick had learned a few things.

Firstly, that the house was actively being monitored. This would explain why it activated when it did, and why no Regency people had come out here to stop Erick. That raised another question, though, of why hadn’t the Regency asked him to stop this, if they knew he was here?

Also why had the monitoring person inside allowed Erick to even get this close without exploding the place already? Erick wasn’t sure. But since it was being actively monitored, that meant that the monitoring force wanted to see how far Erick could get… Maybe.

Erick was almost 100% sure that if an Aroido walked down this road, that they would be allowed inside, but Erick was not going to do that to any Aroido. The ‘Face’ that Erick had spoken to had seemed rather honestly horrified by this place...

Erick almost decided that he didn’t need to know what was in Seafoam Manor, but he knew this place was at the center of a lot of the horribleness of the dungeons, and whatever else might be going on around here. So he did need to figure this out.

So Erick opened a [Gate] to the secondary Pit, where the Aroidos had moved the dungeon entrances while dungeon 6 was compromised, and then he stepped through. Six black holes in the world held in the air, above a solid stone foundation, here on the other side of the mountain of the Pit.

Erick had kicked out the Regency overseers with Ophiel not ten minutes ago, and now Ophiel stood where those Regency overseers had been. A few Aroido had come out of the dungeons to all talk with each other, too, there in that not-private-at-all space. The Aroidos looked rather like triplets that each decided to style themselves differently, in order to be picked out from their clothes. One wore roughspun clothes, the other wore a thick leather belt, and the last one wore noble hand-me-downs. The three of them easily conversed with each other under the watchful eyes of Ophiel, but they all turned Erick’s way when he showed up.

Erick changed his mind about asking them to visit Seafoam Manor with him; he would ask, and see how they responded. “Any of you want to visit a foamy manor by the ocean with me?”

All three Aroidos went pale and started to protest—

“That’s fine,” Erick said, cutting them off. “I just need some blood, then.”

The three of them looked to each other.

Belt-wearing Aroido stepped up, asking, “How do you want to do this?”

Erick plucked the air, painlessly drawing out a baby-fist-sized ball of blood from Aroido’s exposed skin. It was just some Blood Magic he had made a while ago to collect samples for various reasons, and it worked well for stuff like this, too. As he floated that blood upon his hand, Erick watched as Belt-Aroido’s eyes went wide, and then fluttered. This was not enough blood to make anyone lightheaded, but Erick hit him with some [Greater Treat Wounds] anyway. It wasn’t a perfect blood-restoration magic, but he didn’t actually need a blood restoration spell.

As Belt-Aroido stood stronger and gathered his wits, Erick gave his thanks as he stepped back through a [Gate], his prize hovering to his left side.

He closed the [Gate] behind him and used a bunch of rapidly-cast illusion magic to do a few quick things. First, he used the blood to adopt Aroido’s Familiar Form, with his own [Perfected Polymorph]. Second, he made sure no one saw that, and what they saw, instead, was Erick stepping through another [Gate], going off to elsewhere, and leaving Aroido behind with instructions to walk forward, while he watched from afar so he didn’t disturb what might happen. A silent instruction from Erick had Goldie vanishing herself from sight.

Erick was rather sure that whoever was inside that Manor, watching, probably had [True Sight], but Erick’s illusions were good enough to fool that sort of spell about half the time, and he wasn’t faking his ‘new’ body at all; that was all real.

And so, Erick, as Aroido in body, but not in soul, walked forward, into the Alarm Wards of Seafoam Manor. Erick wasn’t willing to make an illusion of his soul, for that was practically impossible, anyway, and he probably didn’t need to.

The alarms did not trigger.

Erick smiled inwardly, but outwardly, he pretended to be Aroido; a worried mess, walking forward, stepping through [Force Trap]s and otherwise that did not trigger, even though they looked like they should. Erick knew at that moment that a very skilled Blood Mage had to be involved here, in some capacity.

Probably not a Blood Mage that Erick needed to worry about, though. Years ago, the knowledge of DNA had slipped to a few higher-ups in the world. The public knowledge of DNA hadn’t gotten out into the greater world at all, but some people were making big strides in figuring out how he could [Cascade Imaging] for [Cleanse]d blood. Both Kirginatharp and Quilatalap knew what DNA was, thanks to Erick. But then again, so did Kiri and some other high-ranking members of the Office of Enforcement, and…

Eh.

The knowledge of DNA was out there, but it wasn’t a problem yet.

The Blood Magic / DNA problem wasn’t even visible upon the Benevolent Sky, so Erick wasn’t too worried about DNA Magic. This wasn’t the first time he had encountered a set of spells coded to DNA permissions, either; that sort of magic was old hat, actually. Blood Magic was being used to do this exact sort of thing a thousand years ago.

And yet, the fact that he had gotten to the ethereal Wall again, without trouble at all, meant a few different things.

One, was that this place had blown up when Erick had involved Wiloza, but not when he had involved the Aroidos. Someone was looking at Wiloza, but not at the Aroidos. Or perhaps the magic here was actively checking up on Wiloza, and the Aroidos didn’t matter. Or maybe Wiloza was involved in this place more than Erick had suspected, and she had purposefully blown the location. But then again, no one had done anything between the time that Erick had first learned about this place, back there in the Pit when he was talking to Vanya and Aroido at the same time, and other people were undoubtedly [Long Range Scry]ing him then…

Eh.

Too many variables to suss out anything truly worthwhile right now, and it had only been maybe 15 minutes since he left the meeting with Vanya at the entrance to Dungeon 6. When you moved fast enough, a lot of the time other people just couldn’t keep up.

Anyway. Erick was at the ethereal Wall, and this time he pulled his Domain to just around his core and his head, leaving all the rest of his body completely unprotected.

He stuck his hand into the ethereal Wall—

“Tut tut, fake-Aroido,” came an indistinct voice from the air, “No Domains here, or else you’ll never know the truth about yourself.”

… Okay.

Lotta implications there.

Someone was watching.

That someone was able to pluck at many different separate threads of information out in the rest of the world, but did not know that the Aroido in front of him was Erick, or could not intuit that much. Erick had done that illusionary display back there to nominally fake out whoever might be watching, but he hadn’t given it his absolute best shot. Someone currently watching Wiloza at the Pit (and thus ready to explode this place) should have seen what Erick did with the Aroidos at the smaller Pit.

Though there were lots of smaller implications, too, but Erick considered the main series of ones, now raised by the words that had come from the air.

Every Aroido knew of this place, but didn’t want to come here, for to come here was to know the truth about themselves. Which usually ended up with them never being seen again.

Also, the system was loose enough to check on every ‘fake-Aroido’ coming through, and then accept them.

A purely soul-based checking system could do that, but Aroido had spoken of soul-drift, which was a common fault in repros when they got copied from each other, instead of from the original. Soul-drifting would have invalidated any sort of ‘Aroido-specific’ soul check in this case where there were many copies of copies.

Now, if there were only Aroido and the first generation of repros, then a soul check would have worked.

Blood Magic was easier to work with when it came to repros, though, for repros acted like a family line, and Blood Magic did family lineage checking very well. So it was possible this was all Blood Magic, and there was no controlling mind behind this spellwork at all, or at least a Blood Mage had left enchantments here, and those enchantments were supposed to take hold of Aroido when he crossed a threshold.

Erick hadn’t allowed that control magic to happen to him, but then again, whoever had placed this stuff was obviously familiar with Aroido’s spellwork, and he knew Aroido had a Domain, and so this Blood Magic enchantment was able to talk about what Aroido should not be doing in order to get his answers—

Ahh… Paranoia was causing Erick to think everything through, perhaps too much. This prognostication of a ‘storm not of Sininindi’s make’ and this [Onward]-fiasco were certainly freaking him out.

… So should he let the Blood Magic take hold?

Not a second had passed since the voice had spoken.

Erick answered, “I’m not like the rest of my brothers. I’m not insane yet and you’re not touching me.”

“A wily one, then! Well come on in anyway. Once you see the truth of yourself you’ll want me to take control of you anyway. All of you disappointments always do.”

Another eye-opening statement.

Erick didn’t go down the rabbit hole with that one, though. For now, he would play this event out until he reached the end.

The ethereal Wall opened up, pulling back like a curtain, and Erick stepped through.

The manor was exactly as it had been, but now there were no spells standing between him and the house. Erick had half expected to shift into a [Fairy House], or something, after walking past that Wall spell; to see everything from another perspective. But no. Seafoam Manor remained an enigma, all boarded up and growing weeds here and there.

“What’s supposed to happen now?” Erick asked, sneering in the way that Aroido had sneered at Soltic and Vanya, down there in the dungeon.

“Oh my,” said the voice. “You must be far gone if you don’t remember anything at all. Or maybe the one before you plucked those memories out, unknowingly.”

The wooden covering across the door began to shift, as under the spell [Woodshape], pulling aside, revealing a much nicer set of wooden double doors beyond. They were gilt with gold and silver, and those doors opened inward, revealing a hallway filled with opulence. Blue carpets, blue drapes, paintings on every wall. Seascapes with ships plying waves and storms, and coral vistas under sunny waves.

But as Erick walked forward, it was the portraiture that got his attention the most.

