At first glance, the house at the end of Seafoam Road was an unassuming place, all shuttered and locked down with spellwork to make sure no one broke in and stole anything. Sure, some of those spells looked impressively dangerous, but that was rather normal for a lot of these houses out in the middle of nowhere.

The road probably got its name from the house, since before the Teleport Exodus, Erick suspected that this place didn’t even have a road.

Seafoam Road split away from the main road back closer to town, in the real noble district, to then wind its way into the mountains, curling around the southern side of the island. In another life, Erick could easily imagine driving a car down a road like that, taking in the wonderful view of the sea, south of the Archipelago. Far beyond that watery southern horizon lay the northern coast of Nergal, where everything was made of poison and death, and everything tried to kill everyone else all the time. But here, on Storm’s Edge, the land was tame, Seafoam Road likely hadn’t had traffic in months, overgrown as it was, and though the beaches down below were rather filled with salt spray air, the wind up by the manor smelled of the forest.

Here, at this end of the road, a large iron gate had laid directly across the road, serving as a final dividing line between the road and private property. A shadow had ‘opened’ the gate prior to Erick’s arrival, though, which was more like breaking several enchantments laid upon that gate and dealing with the explosion afterward, but that was fine with Erick. He was pretty sure whoever opened it was fine, though the gate was very much not. Blackened iron lay in a small heap to the side, where someone had gathered it up just because they could.

Normally, a place like this, disused as it looked, wouldn’t have had such robust defenses, for all magic used to degrade rather fast once it wasn’t actively tended to.

Erick had changed that, though.

Or more specifically, the Lighter’s Guild had brought the node network all the way out here, which meant that this place was still inhabited all the time, even though it was a good 220-ish kilometers outside of town. That sort of distance in a node network wasn’t all that abnormal, but most people who lived out in the sticks had decided eleven years ago to abandon their houses and move into town.

It looked like no one lived here, either, which was part of the obfuscation of the whole place.

Other than that, this place looked like a rather normal noble’s house. Several stories. Stone. Large windows everywhere, offering great views of the southern sea. Balconies and whatnot. Of course it was all boarded up with solid wood, and all the stone was solidly enchanted to prevent [Stoneshape].

Erick muttered, “Kinda weird for him to say it was ‘inside the noble district’, but I suppose ‘the noble district’ could also be a state of mind—” He asked, “What have you found?”

Shade Goldie stepped out of the shadows. She was decked out in her normal solid-black armor which showed almost no golden scales at all, while her black sword hung at her back like a plank of wood. She was looking particularly excited today, beyond that solid black mask, which was a little odd, but it was also ‘whatever’. The Shade still had her bouts of absolute-devotion to Erick’s authority, especially when he hadn’t called upon her for any specific task in a while, but she usually grew out of that rather fast these days. Maybe she had picked up on Melemizargo’s excitement? Whatever the case, Erick would find out later, no doubt.

For now, Goldie happily said, “The place is shut tighter than most banks. An over-eager shadow tried the gate but she more managed to break it, rather than unlock it, and that put her in a temporary coma. She’s fine now, but she’s taking it easy for a while.”

Erick was glad the shadow was okay. For security purposes, they never spoke names out in the field, but Erick was pretty sure that Goldie was talking about Durri. ‘Durri’ was just a code name, anyway, for ‘durable’; it was the name she picked for herself because of her usual temperament when it came to how she survived solving the problems of House Benevolence. It made sense that Durri would be the one to try the gate.

Goldie continued, “One side effect of that breaking was that the manasphere cleared beyond the gate. We’re not sure if it cleared all the way into the house, but it’s very possible. The place is also on a 24-hour cleaning cycle as well, which they seem to have cribbed from bank protocol, which is basically what they copied here but with a few variations.”

“A governmental building, then.”

“Highly likely.”

“I probably won’t find anything at all.”

“All the defenses seem automated, yes, but we haven’t gotten any Regency people snooping around yet, so perhaps there might actually be someone inside there, and they don’t need the Regency people to come to the rescue.”

Erick considered his next moves.

Warning plaques held to the gate’s adjoining stone walls. They read out warnings of [Force Trap]s and [Alarm] spells upon the property, and said that Seafoam Manor was not responsible for death incurred by those foolish enough to test its defenses.

Erick tuned his mana senses forward, delving into the property.

There was about 230 meters of space between the gate and the manor itself, with a somewhat-wild forest growing up from the land to the left and right of the roads. That road itself was overgrown, but some sort of semi-autonomous spellwork kept the house looking halfway-decent; The weeds only got so high, and the road wasn’t too overgrown.

He picked up on a good dozen types of spells holding in the air, and in the ground, within the node network that was the surrounding walls, and inside the various dry fountains, and ivy-covered statues here and there. [Force Trap] seemed to be the usual spell of choice; perhaps a few nonviolent variants to dissuade people from trying shit in the first place, before the really lethal traps started closer to the house. That spell was illegal in most of the world, except for governmental use in protecting property. In a few places nobles were allowed to use that spell, too. Whichever this particular case was, Erick would find out after he cracked the place open like a bag of potato chips…

Hmm. Potato chips.

Maybe he should have eaten something as a dragon before he came here. It had been about a week since he last ate and was getting damned hungry… And he wanted some potato chips from Earth, now that he was thinking about all that. Oh well. Maybe Ezekiel could invent those; Erick had tried a few times in the last decade, but he couldn’t get those thin, crispy ones that he truly loved, nor the ruffled ones—

Enough about food.

Erick’s mana senses stopped at the door to the manor. His range was around 500 meters on a good, clear day, and this was a good, clear day, so he got a great deal of the front of the house in his sense, but he couldn’t peer inside.

“Good [Ward]s,” Erick said, “High class.”

“Hence the bank-connection.”

“Highly likely. I assume you haven’t been able to get inside yet?”

“Nope. I can already foresee that the place will violently reject me.” Goldie said, “It’s easy to make a place impregnable, but people can’t usually exist inside those, and that is what they’ve done here. They might have someone inside, but such a life would be a sad sort of existence.”

Erick nodded, then he regarded the manor once again.

He had seen a few places like this before. A dozen places existed like this in Oceanside, each of them hiding works of disassembled magic too great to be let out into the open, or too ancient to be used here on Veird, in this New Cosmology. The manor was kind of like the noble district of Enduring Forge, actually, where they used their old noble houses to store stuff securely, like with the Tear of Aloeth. House Benevolence even had a few caches like this, and Quilatalap had a great many caches like this.

Erick had a little bit of skill breaking into places like this, but he was no expert, by far.

He could just ask the Regency to be let inside, but that would be asking for permission, and they’d scuttle the place if there was anything truly reprehensible here. It was better to do the deed and then ask for forgiveness later, if forgiveness was necessary.

Erick could just use his Class Ability, Mana Siphon. That Ability, which Erick had created based off of [Renew] and the Undertow Effect, was a way for him to touch a spellwork and Drain it of all power. It was a bit more nuanced of a Drain than just putting an [Undertow Star] into the sky, and wiping the magic away from a building, but in the end, the effect was the same; all the mana powering a working was forcibly removed.

Of course, if he did that, Erick was almost 100% positive that he would break whatever incriminating spellwork existed inside the place, and there were likely failsafes to prevent investigation of an unprotected manor, if the node network should fail. That could be either good, or bad, depending on the nature of those failsafes.

Over the years, with Erick’s invention of permanent spellwork for the masses, he had seen many different places use a node network to set up spellwork that would trigger under certain conditions, and then go away if the spellwork itself was disturbed in a way it wasn’t meant to be disturbed. One particular terrible instance of that was a Trap Master who had installed a [Force Shear Trap] into the node network of Killtree, over in the Sovereign Cities. That particular trap was primed to be hidden in almost all cases, but then to activate if a certain demographic of people should come near; shadelings, primarily, but also orcols, strangely enough. That spell would remain dormant until properly triggered, and if it was disturbed, it would violently lash out at everyone, causing a great deal more destruction than the usual triggering, regardless of who triggered it.

Over a decade ago, there were those words painted onto the side of Odaali, back when it was occupied by the Halls of the Dead, and the Daydropper Queen. Those words were actually [Force Trap]s, and they would have remained for a very long time, decades really, if Odaali would have left them alone, but the second Erick tried to [Dispel] them, they triggered violently.

Another instance of needing to leave traps intact, was once again in the Sovereign Cities. A cult of blood had tried to undermine Erick’s authority, and in order to have meetings, they had enchanted a specialized [Force Trap] into a part of the node network, that if you approached it in a certain way then you would be directed to the meeting location, and if you approached it any other way, it would break. Those types of ‘traps’ weren’t very useful for permanently securing a location, though, for a box that could be opened was always more vulnerable than a box that was welded shut.

There was really no way to know what he was dealing with here, at Seafoam Manor, until he poked at it.

Erick decided to secure himself with his [Perfected Benevolence] Elemental Body and his [Lodestar] Domain. With his sunform active, Erick would avoid all the largest of the traps, and all the various Ethereal ones that were strung across the property like a web of power, cast by a terrible spider of some sort.

He stepped onto the property, his skin flickering with pale white light, and then distorting as he moved through the space like an ooze; his body coming apart before it met any lines in the air, and then flowing back together on the other side. It was movement born of a great deal of personal skill, but to anyone looking they would have assumed that it was easy to do what Erick was doing now.

Ophiel twittered from the air behind him, back beyond the gate, saying, “I look out here!”

Erick spoke through the air, without using his actual body at all. “Thank you, Ophiel. Be careful not to trigger anything.”

Undoubtedly, small animals triggered these things all the time, but whatever sort of spellwork this was seemed to be either immune to the vagaries of small animals, or it was controlled by some force inside the house.

Ophiel flitted away to go check out all of that, but really he just wanted to look at the mice and the big bugs that roamed the land.

Erick continued onward, stepping around and through a good hundred layers of spellwork. Finally he came to some [Alarm Ward] effects. Those ones were easy to spot as a bunch of anti-animal magics. They seemed much more nuanced and were more of a ‘do not approach’ sort of effect, as opposed to a [Solid Ward] effect, though.

Animals on Veird had somewhat different hearing ranges than people, but not really. Everything on Veird was invented by other people, after all, and generally, people heard, saw, tasted, felt, and experienced the world in a certain, shared sort of way.

Eventually Erick came to a Wall-like effect, about 50 meters away from the actual house, with no way around. The important thing here was that the Wall hadn’t appeared to his senses until he was five meters away from it, which meant that Erick might be triggering something unknowingly, or maybe someone was watching, but he didn’t think anyone was watching… So how was this Wall spell appearing before him, like some sort of ethereal surface? There was also some other sort of spell underground that was much more solid than whatever this Ethereal-thing was, and that certainly hadn’t been there before now, either. How was it appearing…

Erick considered what he was seeing.

Other people were better at certain magics than him; this was no surprise. Still, though, it always surprised him a little bit when he came upon such a thing. Finding new magic usually made him smile, followed by him trying to figure it all out, for magic was fascinating. But in this place, in this situation, Erick did not smile.

As a test, Erick floated left, and the Wall-spell, whatever it was, only appeared to his senses when he was within a good ten meters of it. Had the perception-range of it changed? Perhaps. It was 5 meters before, and now it was 10.

… All the rest of the Wall simply did not exist until he was there, observing it.

It was as though Erick was a lightbulb, shining on a wall that was not there, until he shone upon the—

Oh. It was responding to the presence of a soul.

Duh.

This was Soul Magic.

… Could also be something like a [Magic Sensing Wall], for Erick was layered with active magic at the moment.

… This was taking too long.

He could always [Return] if he fucked up, so Erick stuck his Domain-protected hand into the static spell effect.

