Pretending to be in a slight daze, Erick walked into the house, onto the blue carpet, to stare at the largest of the paintings, set above a grand staircase. It was a family portrait, with everyone wearing expensive clothes. Aroido was left-of-center while a woman sat in a chair beside him, two of their hands clasped together, while five kids from age 1 to 15 sat and stood around their parents. Three boys, two girls, with the youngest girl sitting on the woman’s lap, in her arms.

“If you accept my power, then you will know who they are,” said the voice.

“Tell me, instead,” Erick replied, making sure his voice was a bit shaky.

With too much hateful mirth, the voice said, “They’re you!”

“All of them?”

“Not the children, of course; those were just your first victims.” The voice took on a subtle, terrible wrath. “From eldest to youngest: Seyto, Matt, Aryi, Maya, and the baby, Silkie. You took [Force Beam]s to all except for baby Silkie. For the littlest one you just grabbed her and threw her down the stairs, thinking she was a demon. The only demon in the house was you.”

Erick breathed out, “I’m not responsible for who came before me.”

“… Huh.” A sudden [Scry] eye appeared before ‘Aroido’, glaring at him. “You’re not my creation at all, are—”

[Return].

“No,” Erick gasped, instead of saying what he really thought. He needed to drag out this interrogation a bit more, to get some actionable intelligence. “But I don’t remember…”

“A part of you remembers! A part of you knows your broken Truth.” The voice demanded, “Tell me your guilt, ‘Aroido’. Tell me, and I will wash it all away.”

Erick said, “I don’t know. I don’t know. I don’t know.”

“You don’t even know her name, do you? You poor, broken thing. You come here out of some unknown duty, engraved within your soul as a final act to keep you from harming others, and you don’t know anything at all!” The voice taunted Erick the entire time it spoke. “Born of the union of Aroido and Frydrika and myself, you are our greatest achievement, and greatest failure. Your entire line was conceived in a confluence of Blood Magic and the idea of utter subservience to the Regency. Fake. Unreal. Liar and death-to-all. You were to be the greatest dungeon master the world had ever seen, and yet all you can do is live for a while and break horribly after five years, growing more and more erratic the whole time, until finally, you come here. TO ME.” With a condescending whisper, the voice said, “Ready to break yet again, and yet still following those final instructions anyway, trying not to break where anyone else can see.” With imperiousness, “Let me in and I will make it painless. It’s more than you deserve for what you did to our creators.”

“I— I could go to the Wizard, and he can [Reincarnation] me!”

Quiet laughter began to seep into the grand entrance, spilling out of every hallway and out of every air vent, before erupting from the very air in front of ‘Aroido’.

“HE DOESN’T CARE ABOUT YOU!”

The level of sound would have qualified as an attack if Erick had been less secured in his own protective magics. He still pretended to hold his ears in pain, though. He pretended to struggle to turn away from the painting, to look toward the open doors behind him—

The laughter cut. The doors slammed shut.

The voice declared, “Die now, parent-killer, child-slayer, abomination-of-the-dark.”

The attack came from all sides. Blood spikes, mainly.

But Erick simply cast a [Time Stop], for he had done enough direct investigation with the construct, or whatever it was that inhabited the place. A [Familiar]-esque magic, perhaps? Maybe even an actual intelligence, locked away downstairs, or something.

Erick would have cast some of the various spells he had in order to find out better answers, since he was here, at the center of it all, but there was only one thing Erick couldn’t really do inside a [Time Stop], and that was to use any Script-granted magic at all. That magic was locked behind the Script Second and he was currently experiencing exactly zero of those.

Time Stop, instant, self, 1000 mana

Become the moment.

Lasts for 1 subjective hour.

He didn’t really need those Script-granted spells, though, and he didn’t really need to manually cast them, either.

His version of [Timestop] was really quite good, for it was fitted with such niceties as a [Cleanse] to keep his blood oxygenated and an [Alter Friction] to not burn himself (or the world) up as he walked through the air in the room. It also wasn’t a perfect [Time Stop], for he could still see. If time was perfectly stopped then no light could have reached his eyes at all. Erick’s version of [Time Stop] was more, as the text described, a ‘moment’.

And all he really needed was an undisturbed moment to suss out whatever was going on in this manor.

Quilatalap’s version of the spell cost a lot more and did almost exactly the same things, but Quilatalap’s version eventually turned the world dark all around him and anyone else he dragged into his [Time Stop] with him. He attributed Erick’s flavor of [Time Stop] to him being a Paradox Wizard.

Erick almost let his mind wander back to those moments when he was talking Time Magic with Quilatalap, and the few times he had done so with Phagar. But, no. He would do all that later; they’d have lots to talk about. Maybe not so much with Quilatalap, for he would be busy, but Phagar was literally always right there in the mana, waiting for his time to guide all people to their final destinations. Or to talk magic, in Erick’s case.

Later.

Erick walked into the house, following the frozen magic here and there, the layered Privacy spellworks inside the few mana-sense-opaque walls (mostly the outer walls), until he got to the kitchen. To his mana senses, the room looked normal; no large holes in the ground anywhere. But the large kitchen table was set oddly in the middle of the room, and that small bit of weirdness caused Erick to look closer at the table, and then, eventually, at the floor underneath the table.

The stonework under the table was composed of bricks and some Privacy spellwork layered through those bricks, just like it was all through the rest of this place. But there were scratches in the stone where the large table had been moved back and forth, and a conspicuous hole, about 1 centimeter across, lay in the very center of the stone. That hole was filled with some sort of Force Magic.

Erick shoved his sunform down the hole, breaking the Force spell, and then into several holes around the main hole. And then he lifted. Three bricks, all joined to each other, lifted out of the hole, revealing a depth beyond that was layered with even more Privacy spellwork.

For that, though, Erick just poked his sunform through, extending his soul past the well-made Privacy.

There was a cavern about the size of a bedroom down there. Mostly plain, open stone.

And it was occupied.

Force Magic hung all around the entire room. Most of the spells were [Scry] spells, looking out into the rest of the world; mostly to different parts of the property itself. A few [Scry]s looked over at Archmage Wiloza and also at Regency Castle, along with a few other high-profile places. Everbless. The Blue Temple. The harbor. And then there were the Alarm spells of the property, each lined up to a switchboard made of lights. Those spells filled up a quarter of the space. And then there were the killing spells, set to triggers here and there, alongside [Scry] spells on those triggering locations.

Erick wasn’t quite sure at the intricacy of what he was seeing here, or what all of it was for, but a lot of it seemed rather self-evident. If someone tried something untoward here at Seafoam Manor they would meet a grisly fate at the hand of the controller, down here in this room.

The controller, though, was a blood ooze.

Erick wasn’t sure how he felt about that.

There, in the center of the room, inside a bowl of Force that hovered above the stone, sat a bathtub-sized puddle of blood, viscera, eyes, and a few teeth. It was a very old blood ooze, for those didn’t usually develop those gory-bits until after several decades of life, at least. Since the thing had a myriad of tentacles extending from its mass, out into the room to control the switches on the Force Magic, it had intelligence, so it was very old. Dozens of decades, maybe. Over a hundred? Yes, over a hundred.

Maybe even 200? Who knew with these things—

Kirginatharp would know. Quilatalap, too. Several others, for sure. Oozes very rarely turned sapient, but of those that could, blood oozes were high on the list. Usually oozes were killed long, long before they got anywhere near to that point, for the life of an ooze was generally extremely violent.

But this ooze seemed rather well put-together. And it looked to be ‘at home’. That was the one main thing that showed Erick that this blood ooze was not a recently-transformed person. It was not like those blood oozes he had encountered over at the Sovereign Cities, back when they went to war with him and Charme had turned all those people into blood oozes. All those people were practically monsters after their transformation. Of those who had any wherewithal at all, they were desperately crazy, trying to get anyone at all to understand them as they fell to the madness of the ooze; rhythmic tapping to get attention, making sounds with their oozy body, or even casting some of the spells they knew in life, like using [Prestidigitation] to speak. [Telepathy] didn’t work on oozes, though, so that main method of communication never happened.

Those which failed to learn how to communicate fast enough, and get help fast enough, generally fell to their monstrous nature within a day. That didn’t happen to the Sovereign Cities, though; Erick and his coalition had been solidly on that job to ensure that no one got left behind.

Blood oozes in the wild could come back to some sort of sanity, though, if they were alive for long enough.

So this one was probably very, very old, but maybe only recently cognizant? That was Erick’s educated guess, for aside from the spellwork and the ooze, the room had one painting on one wall; one hint at how long it had been since the ooze remembered itself.

It was a different sort of painting; kinda weird, if taken on its own, but also kinda heartwarming, with everything else Erick had seen.

The ooze’s portrait was the same as the large one in the grand entrance way of the house; the one with Aroido and his wife and their five kids. But this painting also had the blood ooze in the painting, standing in its floating Force bowl, hovering behind and between Aroido and Frydrika like a protective force. A myriad of blood tendrils came out of that bowl and wrapped around both the humans’ shoulders in a protective sort of embrace.

The blood ooze was a member of the family.

Kinda odd? Kinda odd.

Erick had seen odder, though. All he had to do was look down, below that ‘family portrait’ in order to see ‘odder’, and to know that the blood ooze, while sapient, still had very non-human sensibilities.

A small collection of well-tended gilded glass boxes sat in front of the family portrait. Seven of them; not a single one of them looking old or dusty at all, unlike the rest of the stone hole-in-the-ground, where dust held in some of the other corners of the pit. Each of those well-maintained glass boxes held bones; carefully stacked and organized inside, with the skull sitting on top, looking outward. Each box of bones was arranged sort of how the people in the portrait stood.

Two boxes of bones were larger than the other five, and those went in the back of the arrangement, while the five smaller boxes held around those main two. The smallest box of bones had a faded blue ribbon sitting on the skull that mirrored the little blue ribbon on the little girl in the portrait; on Silkie. It was not the exact same ribbon in the painting, but it was close enough.

It was easy to tell what was going on there.

“… So this all seems like a horrible mess,” Erick muttered to himself. And then he had a thought. As he looked down at the ooze, he said to himself, “I never would have seen you had I not decided to dig as deep into this problem as I have. Perhaps it was the prophecy that made me go this far, but… Maybe I really have been ‘gone’ for the last eleven years.”

Erick pulled his hand back, and the cavern vanished from his Sight.

He went over to a chair and sat down for a think.

Two timeless minutes later, Erick went back to the hidden hole in the manor, stuck his hand through the Privacy, and did a whole lot of spellwork rather rapidly. First, he ended the [Time Stop]. As a flash of warmth from heated air passed across him, trailing all through the path he had walked throughout the house, Erick cast a [Slowing Enclosure] around the blood ooze.

That provided him with some more time.

He used that time to begin dismantling the spellwork all around the ooze, as the ooze slowly, ever so slowly, began to realize that something was happening. Erick made sure to disable all of the killing [Force Trap]s in the room, too. He was pretty sure that those had not exploded back when he had assaulted the place, and the place had exploded, before he [Return]ed to try something else. The ooze did have a final sort of contingency plan, though, in case it was discovered down there in his hole.

Erick excavated the kitchen, fully opening the pit below, while transforming back into his Apparent King, normal black-horn-crowned form, along the way. And then he went through the house, disabling every other explosive [Force Trap] he could find, which was a lot of them. More than a few of them were primed to explode the second they were disturbed, and Erick had more than a few accidents, but [Return] fixed those accidents, and since he was only going back the normal amount of seconds, his mana regen and his Intelligence could keep up with that mana expenditure.

A [Return] might move Erick back into the past, but it didn’t restore the mana he used to cast [Return]. It did, however, return all the mana he did not use to cast that [Return]. So it was easy to disable stuff when he was actually trying, since there was no need to keep anything intact anymore.

He had figured out the secret of this place.

Once Erick was through with the worst of the house cleaning, he invited Goldie inside, to help clean up the rest of the mess. But mostly she was to just stand there with him as he stood over the ooze’s pit. He was going to talk to the ‘monster’ now. Oozes didn’t have cores so they weren’t really ‘monsters’ in the classical sense of the word, but this one certainly looked the part of a monster.

