As Mox gave a diplomatic smile that was perhaps too much to be simply diplomatic, Erick decided to step back, saying, “You can contact me any time you have an emergency, Augustive, but, like you, I am a rather busy man, so you’ll probably be working with my Overseer of the Exterior most of the time, or at least someone in her office. If you two would be amenable to setting that up, then afterward I can take you back with me when I go back to Storm’s Edge.”

Augustive assumed his metaphorical mantle of Regent, as he said, “We would be amenable to this arrangement. It was wonderful to speak with you, Wizard Flatt.”

“And you as well, Regent Tidewalker.”

Mox gestured to the door. “If you would follow me, please, Regent.”

The Regent and the Overseer left together.

When they were gone, Erick turned to Poi, and said, “Looking back on it, I expected Mox to be married with kids by now, but she’s kinda married to the job. But maybe Mox hasn’t actually found anyone yet, because she likes them older than the 30-somethings I have running around here?”

Poi chuckled. “Could be. Could be.”

Erick hummed, then said, “On a more serious note: What did you think of Augustive as a Regent?”

“You work as a power base because you have actual power, and you know how to use soft power when needed. Augustive Tidewalker is politically savvy in all the ways a noble can be, which is why he has survived all these years in the political storm that is Storm’s Edge, but he has no actual power to fall back upon. So when you offered real power, he seized the opportunity.” Poi said, “Everything he has done in his entire career has followed that sort of path, which is why Storm’s Edge is as fractious as it is, with too many powers all vying for control of their own spheres of influence. So the question then becomes, what sort of sphere of influence are you looking to gain out of Storm’s Edge?”

“I just want the dungeon to work.”

Poi nodded. “Mox and the Office of the Exterior already have a lot of experience with dungeons; even before your supposed [Onward], they were overseeing the normal, Elemental Essence dungeons and also Benevolence Tower. I’ll make sure that’s where House Benevolence focuses their efforts.” Poi asked, “But speaking of [Onward], and Benevolence… Do you think we’re in another Fateful situation like with the Worldly Path? Now that you’re ‘back’?”

Erick chuckled, but that didn’t last long. With a sigh, he said, “Gods I hope not.”
