"Of course," the Biomancer said as if it were no big deal. Her fingers worked fast, and she seemed to have no issue stripping the Psychomancer bare, even though she was wearing thick gloves. One piece after another came free, and soon it was the Psychomancer that stood bare before Adam. And that was the most unnerving thing. The man still stood. His body was rigid and tight, even in death. The man was skinny enough that Adam could see every outline of tissue and tendon in the dead man’s body, and they were drawn taut.

By this point, the Gate Lord was beginning to suspect that the System wanted him to develop a phobia of Biomancers. With all the time he spent with Shiv, with the time he spent facing the First Blood, or that bookish-looking orc Biomancer that was now trying to teach Shiv his art, the thought of someone being able to reach into his body using magic to subvert his very flesh with their will filled Adam with a deep sense of unease.

I really, really need a personal Magical Resistance Skill, he thought to himself.

He suppressed his worry and put on the Psychomancer’s clothes. The Raven was correct in asserting that the other man was around his size, but he was still thinner than Adam, and parts of his inner uniform and gambeson felt stifling. The rest of the armor was a bit better, but still ill-fitting. That didn't last long.

The prismatic armor made a few clicks as it adjusted around Adam. The Minor Size Modulation enchantment was quite a common thing in the Republic. It saved the military a great deal of money when one set of armor can be worn by several different people.

And that wasn't the only benefit it provided to Adam. He suddenly heard a crackle in the back of his mind. Whispers glided against his consciousness like the rustling of leaves. And there was also a lingering sense of emotion that lay just beyond the boundaries of his mental reach. This armor also included Magical Resistance and a strength-boosting enchantment. Its physical durability was nothing compared to his Legendary armor. But even so, having some armor was better than walking nude through the prison, despite the momentary advantage that the shock value might provide.

The final thing that Adam adjusted was the blood helm the Raven had made for him. He pulled at the visor, sliding it up and down, and found that it was extremely well designed. More importantly, it didn't feel like blood; it felt like steel. And that was when he began to suspect that the Raven was more than just a Biomancer. Perhaps she was a Bio-Geomancy fusion, considering the texture of the blood, how it felt like reinforced titanium. Adam thought that was probably a good guess.

"Right then," he said, looking at his uneasy ally. "So, how are we getting out of this place?"

"We have to be teleported," she replied. "No way in, no way out, but through spatial magic. Of course, if you're strong enough, you can tear open the Orichalcum walls that surround this chamber. But I'm assuming that you don't have Legendary-Tier Physicality, do you, Gate Lord Arrow?"

This Raven liked to tease. Adam let her. Maybe she would let slip some additional details.

"The armor, is it working properly?" she asked.

Adam gave her a brief nod. "Let me guess, we need to use the Psychomancy enchantment connected to the armor to communicate with someone. Only after that can we be moved out of this cell."

Once more, his words took the Raven by surprise.

"It wasn't that hard of a guess," Adam said. "Containment control and redundancy is very common in the Republic. The concept of the cell makes sense to me as well. The Academy taught us cage and control strategies. In the field, if we needed to interrogate or even construct a bivouac to provide medical or psychological assistance to one of our comrades, the simple thing to do was simply creating a pocket of space in the underground, lining it with reinforced metal, and then building from there."

Though he wanted to keep going, he stopped himself. He was quite proud of what he'd learned at the Academy. But he remembered he was speaking to a Raven, and she probably knew about these strategies better than he.

"Quite so," the Raven said. "But before we call for aid, there's one final thing I must do." She looked around at the chamber and made a gesture. A few shapes composing some of the spell patterns came aglow. She pointed at them. "I lined those spells into the walls over the course of the past few weeks. Not only here but other locations like this. It’s the reason why the observers haven’t noticed anything.” She let out a satisfied sigh. “It’s quite a feat, you know. Compromising the Rubix Well.”

"Well?" Adam asked. “Wait. I’m in a bloody Rubix Well.”

"You're in the ultimate Rubix Well," the Raven explained. "I'm sure you understand what that entails."

Adam had had a suspicion, but he didn't fully connect the dots until now. I was still a little bit disoriented. Great. So I could be anywhere. Even if I manage to escape from this prison, I could be under the ocean, underground, or even within a gate.

"Oh, it's worse than that," the Raven said with a sing-song voice. She'd clearly guessed his thoughts. "You're near the capital. In fact, I would say you're utterly surrounded by it."
