“A bad witch. As high level as I am. Flee!”
Everyone ran after the [Soldiers] and Goblins—Pyrite and Headscratcher charged ahead with the other fighters, but Califor was locked in combat with the other witch.
The oldest Nanette made a gesture, and Califor’s broom snapped as the [Witch] tried her sweeping trick again. Califor caught the splinters and tossed one at the Witch of Sorrows. The splinter grew and grew and lodged in the hallway, forming a barrier that should have held back anything.
Anything…but the rancid water that oozed under the splinter of wood and reformed, becoming the emaciated [Witch] again.
The real Nanette was holding her wand out, spellbound by horror. She didn’t have any spells worthy of a battle between [Witches]. But it was she who first realized how…disturbingly familiar this [Witch] was.
The brown hair. The tattered blue robes. She looked like…
“Me.”
The real Nanette saw her evil, older counterpart raise a wand, and Califor flicked her own; a spray of acid splashed in midair, and Califor deflected two more bursts.
“What are you…doing, Witch? Here, now?”
“My mother abandoned me. I’m nothing and no one but death and sorrow. I want you to die, woman.”
Neither one had processed the other’s face, not quite. They had just seen the hat and each other’s magic; Califor strode forwards, yanking a sword from her belt, and Evil Nanette raised a dagger in her other hand.
Then they caught sight of each other, like [Mimes] meeting on a stage. Califor froze, and the oldest Nanette’s face went slack.
“Mother?”
“…Nanette?”
There was a trace of hesitation in Califor’s voice. For this insane [Witch] was so much older and different than the daughter she knew. But she would never mistake her daughter. Califor’s wand lowered.
Evil Nanette’s rose, and she fired a stream of acid straight into Califor’s chest.
“Miss Califor!”
Two voices screamed that. The youngest Nanette and real one ran forwards, yelling, but the oldest Nanette leapt on Califor, knife stabbing.
“You left me. Leftmeleftmeleftme—they’re so happy. Die.”
She spat a bullet of water at the youngest Nanette, and the real Nanette’s leap barely saved the two from the spell. The Witch of Sorrows kept stabbing—until a hand pushed her off, almost gently.
Califor Weishart was bleeding. She had multiple stab wounds in her chest, and her robes steamed as acid ate away at them. She brushed the acid off her with one bare hand and stood.
“[Water Jet]. Stop looking at me like that.”
The Witch of Sorrows fired a jet of water straight into Califor’s chest. The other [Witch] didn’t dodge.
The needle of pressurized water…splashed off Califor’s clothing. She reached down and picked up her hat. Then drank a potion. Confused, the oldest Nanette fired again. This time, she struck Califor straight in the cheek with a spell that should have pierced through her head with the force.
The water splashed off Califor’s cheek, as if it were no more than a gentle spray. The oldest Nanette backed away, but Califor didn’t raise her wand. She just wiped at the blood on her robes and lifted her tattered Cloak of Balshadow.
“Nanette? I’m sorry for leaving you. Stop that, please. Come here.”
She opened her arms, and the oldest Nanette froze. The two girls on the ground peeked up—and Califor beckoned.
“You’re so thin.”
“No. Nononono. You can’t do this. You’re lying to me, like Eloise. Where’s—”
The oldest Nanette backed up. Her eyes swung to her younger selves, and her face turned to malice.
“Die.”
She fired another [Water Jet] spell, but Califor’s cloak blocked the water spray.
“Nanette!”
Califor leapt at the girl, wrestling for the wand of bone, trying to subdue Nanette—the two grappled as the evil Nanette’s face twisted into horror and terror. She became filthy water that rushed away from Witch Califor, wailing.
The [Witch] got to her feet, reaching out for the puddle of water fleeing—Califor almost ran after her, then turned.
“Let’s go.”
She led the way after Pyrite as the two Nanettes glanced at each other in horror and shock—then ran after. They encountered the third Nanette, from the beach world, who was hiding with Mrsha and the children.
There was an entire battle raging in the hallway ahead of them. Those [Soldiers] of Rhir were fighting the Goblins—and the Goblins were winning.
“Find Lord Ragathsi! Move, move!”
They were cutting a path through the [Palace of Fates]—but even their firearms couldn’t bring down everything. One of those Truestone Golems came tearing out of a hallway, and the squad of Goblins broke apart, firing wildly at it.
They fled down another hallway, and the remainder of Rhir’s forces turned on the survivors of the beach world and opened fire. Nanette grabbed her two smaller selves and hid them around the corridor as everyone broke apart in the chaos.
“This way! Run!”
Pyrite was roaring, trying to get everyone moving, and Califor was advancing on the [Soldiers], whirling her cloak around her and catching the crossbow bolts they were firing with it.
“Nanette! Go back! Nanette—”
The witch-girls wanted to run after Califor, but hands seized them. Real Nanette kicked and fought, but someone grabbed her. She gazed up into an unfamiliar Goblin’s face.
Badarrow of the beach world grabbed the Real Nanette, and Rabbiteater put the other two under his arms as the Redfangs sprinted away from the Rhirian [Soldiers].
—They ran straight into a second squad. Badarrow dropped Nanette onto the ground with a curse, and she saw boots, heard shouts—then one of the Goblins fell, howling, as a net wrapped itself around them.
“Prisoners! Goblins! And [Witches]? Interrogate them!”
“No—get information about the way out of here! Bring them back to our door!”
“Where is it? Just execute them and—”
The [Soldiers] of Rhir were all arguing with each other in a panic. If there had been any cohesion here, it was lost. Four of the five Redfangs—Badarrow, Rabbiteater, Numbtongue, and Shorthilt—were all webbed up with some kind of artifacts. They were trying to tear their way out, but someone had disarmed them in seconds.
Nanette was getting up when she saw a terrified-looking young man with a twinblade, one side glowing red, the other green, shoving people aside.
“Fuck that. We’re not going back and fighting those Dragons or Crelers. Get me a way out of here! Kill the fucking Goblins! And the [Witches]!”
The [Hero] of the future, Triander, was panicking. One of the [Soldiers] hesitated.
“They’re children, sir. And the Goblins might—”
“You fucking idiots!”
The [Hero] exploded and raised his staff. He was aiming it straight at Nanette’s face. The girl lifted a hand weakly.
“Wait. Please? Don’t you believe in anything resembling mercy?”
She did her best. The [Soldiers] wavered, and one grabbed for Triander’s arm, but he just gave her a wide-eyed, uncomprehending stare.
“NPCs don’t matter.”
Which said it all, really. Nanette flinched as the twinsword came down, and she heard thunder. Triander twisted, and his twinsword whirled—there was a shower of heat, a scream, and she saw him tumbling backwards.
“Attack! The fl—”
Nanette went deaf as more thunder roared. She cowered, keeping her head down, and heard shouting, dimly, over the ringing in her ear. Then the roaring came again.
Heat flashed over her, and something hot struck her shoulder—she tore it off frantically, and then her head rose. The Redfangs who’d been netted were ripping the nets off themselves, and one of the other Nanettes was mouthing something at her.
“What?”
Nanette’s ears were ringing. She got up and saw dust—debris—and downed [Soldiers]. They were all…dead.
Triander was on his feet, somehow, trying to limp away. He had the shattered half of his twinblade in his hands, and he pointed a finger and fired a bolt of lightning through the smoke. Nanette heard a final roaring sound—something burning struck the [Hero], and he collapsed, fiery fragments embedded in his chest and face.
“Who…?”
A figure walked out of the smoke, and Nanette’s mouth opened as another familiar-unfamiliar face appeared. The Redfangs raised their blades; Headscratcher came running down the hallway, blood on his axe, and halted. He saw the stranger, and his eyes went wide.
“Kevin?”
Kevin of the Goblin King’s world racked his shotgun once as he eyed the corpses of Rhir’s [Soldiers]. He glanced down at Nanette and smiled, then swept his eyes up.
His eyes widened as they found Headscratcher’s face—then the other Redfangs, who were half-grinning in disbelief at this older version of Kevin. A man of forty years wearing an army uniform, belt holding tools for quick-repairs, a shotgun in his hands.
The older Kevin’s eyes fixed on one of them. The Goblin with the armor and helmet. He spoke.
“Hey, it’s another Rabbiteater.”
He raised the shotgun and fired. Nanette flinched. She saw nothing and heard nothing but ringing—then her eyes opened wide.
Rabbiteater had leapt at Kevin when he had raised the shotgun. The blast had caught Rabbiteater mid-leap. He rolled over and tried to get up.
Then he blinked at his leg lying in a spreading puddle of blood. The [Master Engineer] switched targets and fired.
Badarrow loosed an arrow as Headscratcher charged with a roar. The first shotgun blast blew the arrow to pieces, and shrapnel struck the [Sniper], who screamed as it perforated his armor. The other two rounds were dead on target.
The first shot burst against the blue flames on the Goblin Lord’s chest; they made him stumble. The second bypassed Headscratcher’s flames and ripped away his skin, exposing his ribs and organs. He stumbled—fell to his knees, and Nanette screamed.
“No!”
She threw herself forwards, and the older Kevin jerked his shotgun up. The rounds tore a hole in the ceiling, and the Redfang Five froze.
“Headscratcher? Rabbit?”
The Goblin Lord stared down at the remains of the enchanted Relic-class armor the Wild Wastes tribe had given him. Blood was running down his chest in a torrent; Rabbiteater was reaching for his leg.
Numbtongue and Shorthilt reached for their blades and froze as Kevin aimed his shotgun at them.
“Hey, kid…? Move aside.”
He tried to aim the shotgun around Nanette, who stood, arms wide. Numbtongue started to grab a potion, and Kevin spoke.
“Move and I’ll drop you…Numbtongue. Yeah, Numbtongue. I’m only after him.”
He nodded at Rabbiteater. Numbtongue froze, hand on the potion, and his eyes darted to Shorthilt. The [Blademaster] was eying Kevin’s gun. Neither Hob moved.
Rabbiteater and Headscratcher were bleeding out. The [Master Engineer] calmly pulled shells from his bandolier and slotted them into the shotgun, a practiced, swift movement. Nanette whispered.
“Kevin? Don’t kill them. They’re our friends.”
Nanette’s ears were still ringing. Kevin shot a glance down at her, and a world of pain, disbelief, and sorrow passed between them. He took aim. Not at Numbtongue, who stood there, frozen, aware of how fast that shotgun could fire.
At Rabbiteater. The [Champion] was trying to pull his own potion out, but his hands were slick with blood and trembling; he couldn’t uncork it. Kevin’s voice was so very, very calm.
“The Goblin King needs to die. Before he awakens.”
“The…”
Numbtongue croaked, and the kneeling Headscratcher tried to force himself up. He rose, and Kevin took aim at Rabbiteater. He was hesitating—his eyes flicked to Badarrow, to Headscratcher, and Nanette lunged.
She was trying to go for the older Kevin’s legs. He side-stepped her, and his shotgun’s butt struck her on the head. She saw stars; the two other Nanettes also charged Kevin’s legs and he knocked them off their feet.
The [Master Engineer] was too fast. He took a step forwards, levelled the shotgun, and Headscratcher was on his feet, arms spread, blocking his line of fire.
His chest—Nanette could see his heart, pulsing, but the Goblin Lord refused to fall, to move. He didn’t attack, but stood there, arms spread wide, his eyes pleading.
“Don’t.”
The older Kevin murmured, but distantly. He glanced to the side as Badarrow, still bleeding from the shrapnel, reached for his fallen bow. The lines around the adult Kevin’s eyes tightened—then relaxed, and his eyes grew weary. He sighed.
Then Nanette heard, faintly, something in the distance.
It sounded like a guitar. She saw Numbtongue’s eyes go round, and then the Goblin kicked her. Which hurt quite a lot. But he kicked her away and threw himself over the other two Nanettes as the lightning bolt came down.
 
——
 
Master Engineer Kevin picked himself up fast. His ears were ringing, despite the earplugs, and he said it out loud.
“Ow.”
His armor had taken the spell, but where the hell had it come from? He slammed backwards until he hit a wall, searching around in the smoke for a target. When he saw who had struck him—he hesitated again.
It wasn’t the five Redfangs he had engaged. They were still where he’d downed them, trying to protect the little Nanettes. The enemy was coming down another hallway. He was also…familiar. Only—Kevin sighted down the shotgun and spoke.
“I don’t remember you having a beard, dude.”
Numbtongue, the [Goblin Soulbard], stopped playing his guitar as he drew his Dragonblood crystal sword. He stared at the older Kevin and shook his head.
“This is all crazy. Stay away from them.”
Headscratcher rasped. Him again.
“Numbtongue.”
The Goblin’s eyes were steady as he held his sword up. He had been searching for Nanette and found them. Once again—his eyes flicked towards each of his brothers, and his voice was quiet.
“Run.”
Kevin hesitated. He almost swung his shotgun towards Rabbiteater to finish him off, but the other Redfangs were in the way—and something about this Numbtongue made him think he didn’t have the time to aim and fire.
“I can drop you before you even get close. Don’t do it. Just let me…”
His voice trailed off. He knew Goblins. He used to know Numbtongue. There was no way they’d accept.
Different worlds. But the image of the Goblin King was burning itself through his mind. Numbtongue wore a resigned expression as he lifted his sword.
“Come on, then. I’m waiting. This time it’s me. Come on!”
He advanced despite Kevin’s shout of warning. Like he wanted to die. The other Redfangs were running with the three Nanettes, and Kevin’s finger was resting on the hair trigger. The older man wavered—and then he heard a final voice in this clusterfuck of realities meeting and mixing.
“I’ve got him! Get the others to safety!”
