Then he stepped forwards, and took a hand—and Mrsha lifted her paws to her eyes.
“I’ll see you in a bit, Mrsha.”
When she lowered her paws, he was gone. Then it was her turn.
The girl stood before Death, and he looked down at her. She spoke with that voice that came from her soul.
“Hello. I’m Mrsha. I don’t know if you judge me, but I’m ready. I did my best.”
She waited, and Death stood there, scythe in hand, the black robes pooling around the ground. Mrsha was expecting a thoughtful comment or maybe a witty retort. She’d settle for one of those soul-crushing statements or a final note, like ‘Yᴏᴜʀ ʙᴇsᴛ ɪs ᴇɴᴏᴜɢʜ. Nᴏᴡ, sᴇᴇ ᴡʜᴀᴛ ᴄᴏᴍᴇs ɴᴇxᴛ, Mʀsʜᴀ’.
But Death didn’t speak. That tall figure, who was made of suspenseful moments, turned its shining eyes upon Mrsha and offered her no hand.
The girl cast around…then shuffled out of line. The next person stepped forwards, appearing apprehensive.
Mrsha watched as Jospiere took her place, then stepped back in front of him.
“Excuse me, I think I belong here. I am dead. I’m seldom 100% positive about anything, but I am on this.”
Unless…she’d gotten in the wrong line? It would be just like her to do that kind of thing. Mrsha edged over to the next Death and stood in front of the beautiful skeleton lady. Sand fell from the hourglass of Santa Muerte, and Mrsha watched the world turning in the palm of Death’s hand.
It looked quite nice. The girl realized she’d cut the line and waved respectfully up at the figure.
“Excuse me. It’s my turn. I think? I can go to the back of the line. I don’t mind waiting, but am I here or…?”
The White Lady said nothing to her as well. But then a skeletal finger rose and pointed. Mrsha saw it was pointing away, not towards any Death.
“Um…”
Did she not know and was just telling Mrsha not to hold up the line, or was it a ‘go back and we’ll see’ kind of thing? Mrsha edged over to another Death.
“Do you know…? Excuse me? I’m just…”
Death after Death refused to take her. After a while, Mrsha felt bad about holding up all the lines and walked back to the place she’d been.
What was going on? She didn’t get it. They were all turning her away. The little girl felt like it wasn’t quite fair. She deserved this, like everyone else.
She had died. She had definitely died, and even the dead gods had gone with Death. For good. No take backs, no ways out…
Not for them. Nor for the beings created by the [Palace of Fates].
The…[Palace of Fates].
Mrsha looked right, then left, and her gaze swept over beings from the many alternate dimensions. But no one from her reality.
Was she the only person who’d died who hadn’t been created there? Then, Mrsha turned around and saw the blue stars in the first Death’s eyes, the one she liked. He paused his delicate, careful, considerate task.
One of the twin blue suns vanished, just for a moment. Then it winked back into existence, and Mrsha felt a tiny presence of something in her chest. That audacious little creature that dragged you into hell and danced even in the deepest darkness.
Hope.
Once again, Santa Muerte pointed, and this time, Mrsha saw something unexpected. She backed away from the lines of the dead and walked in the direction of the finger.
There was nothing here. No reality. No classes. No Skills. This was a place beyond even the rules that Isthekenous and the other gods had made. But anyone could come here.
Everyone did, eventually, and Mrsha reckoned there were rules. Especially for beings like Kasigna, who helped Death out, like enthusiastic interns. Sometimes they got the job wrong, made trouble, or just…did things their way, but Death got it right in the end.
The point was, Mrsha realized someone was waiting for her, and it was shocking, but made a kind of sense when you thought about it.
Something?
Someone. She reckoned after all was said and done, you got upgraded to ‘someone’. She walked over to a line of one and reached her paw out tentatively.
“Hi. I suppose I shouldn’t be surprised it’s you. What comes next?”
To her faint surprise, a hand made of golden rules gently encircled her paw. The Grand Design of Isthekenous smiled at Mrsha. Not wearing Isthekenous’ body.
Not here.
It spoke in a gentle, rueful, sympathetic tone. Just to her. The entire world bent down and spoke to her as Death watched. Smiling.
<Hello, Mrsha. It’s not time for you to go, not just yet. I have a small proposal for you, if you’re interested. But first—shall we see how it all ends?>
The girl blinked up, then nodded.
She had to admit, she was curious. So she walked back and took a seat with the Grand Design.
Waiting to see what came next.
