She’s taken flesh. But how? Cauwine recoiled in shock. Cauwine was the most powerful of the dead gods after the Winter Solstice, or should have been, and creating physical flesh was beyond her powers by far. Had her mother enacted some great scheme? If so, how?
—And why was the Crone still running?
The other dead gods realized the Maiden was here in a physical form, not just some conceptual version of her, and Emerrhain gasped.
“Was there a soul so powerful…? Maiden, I wish to strike a deal!”
“Yes, come, Mother. Join us. Or do you still hold a grudge? I warn you, even with flesh, I will not be so easily chastised.”
Cauwine added her voice to the calls, saluting her mother with a sword. It was in Kasigna’s nature to gloat, to lord this moment and her triumph over them all, and they expected her to say something.
But she—the young woman holding a scythe in her hands said nothing. Cauwine eyed Kasigna warily.
She must truly be wrothful. But even so, they were parent and child, however they betrayed each other. Cauwine half-smiled, rueful, for even at her lowest, she did still love the being who had created her. The Goddess of…who never died.
The…Cauwine hesitated. The…Kasigna was the Goddess of…of…
It was like a word that was on the tip of your tongue that you couldn’t give voice to. A thought unformed. But it was so quintessential to Kasigna that it was instantly obvious.
She was Kasigna! Goddess of—
Nothing. No word completed that sentence. Cauwine’s confidence suddenly flashed to uncertainty. Norechl had noticed it too; the God of the Lost was inspecting the Crone, who wasn’t running for the exit. She darted down another side passage—and the Maiden began to walk forwards.
Pursuing the Crone? Norechl and Cauwine traded a glance, and then they both felt a tinge of unease. Cauwine focused on the blade that the Maiden held.
A scythe. Such a traditional tool. Her mother had never carried it; the Crone had used a gnarled staff at best. She never used weapons. Nor was the scythe some conjured aspect of her. It was…realer than she was.
Emerrhain hadn’t noticed yet. He was spreading his arms, intent on ingratiating himself to the Maiden as Tamaroth glared at him; as if they were still both vying for Kasigna’s hand.
That scythe.
That blade.
Cauwine knew weapons of the divine. She had beheld armories of heaven, weapons of the future, primordial blades made of the fabric of existence itself. She had never known a sharper blade than that. The scythe looked like it could cut…everything.
Cauwine’s eyes focused on the blade of the scythe. Hadn’t she seen its like before? But who had carried it?
On Kasigna—the Maiden’s—clothing. Distinct clothing, not an idea. The oblivious God of Magic didn’t realize what was off until he drew closer. Then he wavered.
“Kasigna—how did you separate from the Crone? I sensed the Mother die; a tragedy. But the Three-in-One never moves apart. And that scythe…where did you get that? Is it some Relic from this place? It befits even one of our nature.”
The Maiden hefted her scythe higher and spoke.
“Eᴍᴇʀʀʜᴀɪɴ.”
That voice made them all freeze. It was a voice to make even a dead god feel fear. The Maiden’s next words were more normal, but they had the same quality to them.
“Emerrhain. The Gnomes bested you. Despite all your tricks and plans, they were one step ahead.”
The God of Magic snarled at her, losing his composure once more.
“They never anticipated this! We always emerge victorious, and neither they nor their tiny little successors are a match for me. Watch your words, Maiden. For I am a thousand times your better with the strength I have gained!”
He stabbed a finger at the Maiden, and now she was within a span of the five dead gods as Emerrhain stormed forwards to argue with her. Tamaroth was behind him, along with Deviy, whose head was tilted beyond what should have been possible.
Cauwine was behind the other three; she took another step back and noticed Norechl moving away, fast. Tamaroth’s head turned to the two gods in the rear—then swung back to the Maiden.
The Maiden lifted the scythe high overhead. Eyes as pale as ivory focused on Emerrhain as he spat at her, lifting a hand of admonishment.
The scythe swung down.
The God of Magic stopped talking abruptly. He glanced to the right, and Cauwine’s eyes slid to the ground. The God of Magic stared at his arm, lying on the floor of the [Palace of Fates].
“Why would you do that?”
He sounded miffed as he waited for his arm to rise and reattach itself to his body. The Maiden said nothing. She swung the scythe, clumsily, inexperienced—but that blade knew its job.
Scythes had never been ideal weapons of war, and Kasigna had never been a warrior. Emerrhain leaned back out of the way of another blow. Then his face screwed up.
“My arm. What did you—my—my arm.”
He clutched at his right shoulder, and his arm was not reattaching to his body. Then the God of Magic’s face drained of color, and he opened his mouth in a silent scream of realization and horror.
Even the Maiden halted as the five dead gods stared at Emerrhain’s arm. It wasn’t returning to his body. In fact—it was vanishing. Dissolving away. Then Emerrhain grabbed at his arm, and Cauwine saw he was…bleeding. But he had no flesh.
Something was streaming out of him. Souls. Cauwine realized his gluttonous rampage had left many of the souls unabsorbed, like a predator that had yet to digest his meal. They were evaporating—the God of Magic’s power was leaving him.
And his arm was gone. The one-armed God of Magic had no other arm. His concept, his entire nature changed.
God of Magic. Emerrhain. A scholarly, intelligent man across every species and time. A being who represented the hunger for secrets and knowledge—who had only one arm.
“That is no God’s weapon. That’s the scythe of Death itself. Maiden…what have you done?”
Tamaroth breathed in horror, and Emerrhain’s face paled as he realized what he had been cut with. His mouth became a void as he shrieked.
“My arm! My—”
Then he saw the look in the Maiden’s eyes as she raised the scythe higher. Her gaze swept over them, the dead gods, the plunderers of this place.
Are you not ashamed? They hesitated, five divine beings.
Tamaroth, who raised a hand.
“Maiden, wait.”
Emerrhain, stumbling past them, calling over his shoulder.
“No, please. We are above judgement.”
Laedonius Deviy, who spoke softly.
“D-do I know you?”
Cauwine, whose sword wavered.
“…Mother?”
Norechl said nothing, but merely ran after the Crone. Too late.
Far too late.
The Maiden charged into them and swung her scythe, and they knew her.
Death.
Her scythe drove through Tamaroth’s head, point-first, and he shrieked.
“My eye!”
The Maiden ripped the scythe free and tried to behead him. She caught Laedonius Deviy instead; the head of the God of Dance came free, and his body stumbled. It flailed away from her as she swung her scythe down and cut the head in half.
Something tried to wriggle out—the Maiden slashed at the strands of the things infesting him, and they died. Then she whirled the reaper’s scythe out and jerked it back, like a farmer cutting grass.
The fleeing Norechl fell, severed into two pieces. It made not a sound; both parts tried to flee. The Maiden cut the lower half of the God of the Lost apart.
Gone forever.
Cauwine ran the Maiden through the heart with her sword. The Maiden turned—and Cauwine yanked the blade free and leapt back. The Goddess carrying the scythe didn’t even flinch.
She swung the scythe at Cauwine, and the Goddess of Last Stands brought her sword up to intercept the blade. It sheared the top of Cauwine’s sword off, and the goddess ducked. The scythe passed over her head, and Cauwine raised the sheared edge of her blade.
The very concept of a sword—she gazed down in horror at the sundered weapon she held. Cauwine tried to summon another blade to her hand—and couldn’t. She stared at the severed hilt of a sword in her hand.
The Goddess of Last Stands armed with her…broken sword? The idea vanished. Tamaroth was still screaming.
 
A monarch, sitting on a throne, one eye gouged from his face, bleeding as he howled.
A barbarian chieftain of the plains, screaming at the sky with one bloody socket. 
A waving flag, forever marred, an eye of imperium torn out.
 
Changed forever. And if that scythe had cut them deeper—
“Oh, Mother. What have you done? No…who are you? Are you the Maiden?”
Cauwine backed away as the Maiden turned. Five dead gods flinched, each one wounded. Norechl’s upper torso was crawling back as, at last, the Maiden spoke.
“I am an ending. My kindred, who consider yourselves above mortal souls—you have all clung to your existence when it was long over. Enough. For the souls created by this flawed design of Isthekenous. For you, I offer the only gift granted to me.”
The Maiden focused on the God of Rulers. Tamaroth, clutching at his bloody eye, backed away from her.
“You are mad. You—you’ve taken flesh. You don’t have the power. You will erase yourself.”
The Maiden lifted the scythe overhead, and they all backed away from it.
“Yes. And you and all the suffering. What is that expression you have so often told mortals, Tamaroth? Ah, yes. Die gloriously.”
She brought down that scythe towards The God of Magic. Emerrhain backed away, mouth opening in a widening pit of horror and agony.
“No, no, no!”
He vanished as the scythe came towards him. Fled back into the Gnomes’ prison, screaming. Cauwine backed up another step. She reached for a sword that a mortal had dropped, kicked it into her hand—and locked eyes with the Maiden.
The scythe. Cauwine, the greatest warrior among the gods, dropped her blade and fled. Norechl, Tamaroth, the headless Deviy—
Ran.
The Maiden strode after them, but slower. With that walk that was unhurried. Careful. She halted as she came to a door in the hallway and she inspected the cracks within it.
“All of it ends.”
Her scythe cut across the door, severing the portal to another world. It vanished with a sigh. The world beyond—disappeared, and the Maiden swung her tool through another door.
Reality came apart as the Maiden advanced down the corridor, slashing the doors apart, then cut again at the other side of the hallway.
It vanished into the aether. The dead gods looked back at the Maiden as she cut a piece of the [Palace of Fates] away, and then she was walking forwards. Towards the exit.
 
——
 
They ran. All of them. General Sserys gave no orders, nor Zel or anyone else. The [Soldiers] who had been prepared to fight the Crelers to the end, even the dead gods, just turned and fled.
There was no besting her. No weapon that could parry that scythe. The sight of the five dead gods being taken to pieces by a single swing of that blade was more than enough. But the Maiden called to them as she strode forwards.
“Why are you running? I am the Maiden. I have come to put an end to all of it. Come, take my hand.”
She extended one pale hand and beckoned, and the dead gods, the fleeing mortals, even the Crone hesitated. That single, slim hand…called to them. The Maiden smiled—then her scythe rose.
She cut an arrow in half, cut the very existence of the arrow out of the world, and then another one. Her eyes flashed as she focused on an Antinium Queen standing behind Lyonette.
“Oh. Um. You were saying?”
Bird lowered her bow and retreated towards the [Garden of Sanctuary]. The Maiden’s eyes narrowed, and she slashed another piece of the hallway apart.
“Run.”
A young woman whispered the words. But Lyonette du Marquin didn’t run.
The Box of Incontinuity in her hands trembled as she raised it—but then it fell from her grip. In the face of the Maiden’s calm eyes, that scythe—Lyonette drew a sword and faced the reaping blade.
Ser Dalimont stood in front of her, legs shaking, his sword half-raised, for he knew it could not block that scythe. Even so, he stood there. And the [Princess] refused to run.
The Maiden raised it—then cut down a door next to Lyonette, leading into another world. Then a second. She regarded the [Princess].
“W-well?”
Lyonette’s knees shook, but the Maiden strode past her and Dalimont, down another hallway. She turned her head.
“You belong to the world. It is not you I come for.”
She paused at the exit to the [Garden of Sanctuary], eyes flicking to the place where many had fled beyond. But then the Maiden glanced at the rest of the [Palace of Fates], with its worlds still pouring souls into this place. She swung her scythe again, and the rest of the hallway dissolved.
Then she was past Lyonette, and the [Princess] backed into a wall and slid down, trembling. There was nowhere to run. Not from that—her eyes fixed on the scythe, then on the fleeing dead gods.
“Well? Hurry up and get the other five!”
The Maiden halted and turned her head back to Lyonette. An expression of irritation crossed her face. Then—a rueful smile. She threw her hood back.
Then she began to run.
 
——
 
At first, no one noticed the woman with the scythe. They were too busy trying to escape. Still confident they could make it.
Reveling in what they thought was their victory.
An [Innkeeper] was dying. Burning away with each second. Her skin was covered in flames, like a rainbow of colors and emotions, each one blazing brighter than the last.
Her grief, her glorious rage, her guilt, all her regrets became flames, and she seized up the screaming [Witch], dragging Belavierr up by the collar of her robes, and kept stabbing. The Stitch Witch blazed, screaming, as her promised death by fire giggled.
Hazel eyes locked with the orange rings of the Stitch Witch. Belavierr was trying to throw Erin off her but the younger woman wouldn’t let go. The Witch of Webs had a pair of scissors in her hand, and she was slashing it across the [Innkeeper]’s body. She opened up a gigantic line of red on Erin’s chest, but the [Innkeeper] didn’t so much as flinch.
The two tumbled across the hallways, fighting, Belavierr hurling Erin off herself for a second—but the [Innkeeper] rolled to her feet and charged back at the Stitch Witch.
They had never met in their entire lives, and now they were fighting to the death. That’s how it worked. In fact, they had better reasons than [Soldiers]. In war, someone pointed and you went and killed everything that looked wrong.
Right here, right now, all that mattered was what you believed.
Flame met thread. The Stitch Witch’s face was crumpled up in agony, twisting, contorting until the semblance of humanity she wore vanished.
“Begone, dying flame!”
