Best of them? Best of what? Cauwine was still a dead goddess. And her eyes locked on the souls fleeing her.
Avariciously. She reached out and beckoned.
“Witch Califor. Great General Dionamella. Dame Eclizza. And so many more worthy souls. I have need of your help. Come with me.”
Nanette’s head snapped up as Califor retreated. Duke Rhisveri—both of them—whirled. The Wyrm of Ailendamus in his vast, serpentine form roared.
“Stay away from them!”
The other version of Rhisveri spat venom and acid over Cauwine. The Duke shouted.
“Stay back! Stay—”
Too late. Cauwine dodged the venom and acid and leapt at General Dionamella, who was helping a group of children flee their dissolving world. The half-Elf pointed a finger, and a [Ray of Disintegration] hit Cauwine in the face.
The Goddess of Last Stands didn’t even flinch. Her hands reached out—and that other version of Rhisveri struck like a serpent. The Wyrm swallowed the Goddess of Last Stands. Then he tensed up—and his voice grew soft.
“Ah. My people? My prized possessions?”
He turned, and Fithea, Dionamella, Eclizza, and the other immortals of Ailendamus, his subjects, turned to him. The Great Wyrm of Ailendamus spoke.
“Go.”
Then he dove away from them, snaking down the tunnel, a vast serpent, who vanished without a sound. Leaving only the Goddess of Last Stands.
Cauwine got to her feet again and sighed.
“Worthier than I thought. Come.”
She wanted them all. Nanette screamed.
“Run!”
Califor whirled, and they were running now, but of all the dead gods—Cauwine was the fastest. She caught up to the immortals of Ailendamus in a second, and a version of Visophecin vanished. Uziel and Razia, the Agelum and Lucifen tried to fight her, and she danced amidst them as they disappeared. Choosing those she found worthy.
Her hand reached out for Califor as the [Witch] dodged left. Too slow.
“Mother!”
Nanette screamed. A hand seized the Goddess of Last Stands and yanked her back. Cauwine stumbled; Duke Rhisveri stood there, holding her shoulder.
“Nanette, isn’t it? Take them to the door. Leave this woman to me.”
“Rhisveri!”
Dionamella shouted at the Wyrm, and he smiled. Cauwine turned, incredulous.
“Brave, Wyrm.”
She reached out and touched his chest as he threw a right hook. Cauwine’s head spun, and she staggered. Duke Rhisveri flinched—then felt at his chest.
“Huh?”
The Goddess and Wyrm were both confused. Cauwine touched Rhisveri again. He punched her in the face. She staggered, then spoke.
“Ah. You’re the real one.”
“So I am. We meet again. Here—I think you forgot this.”
Duke Rhisveri headbutted the Goddess of Last Stands, then threw another punch. She bounced off a wall hard enough to crack it and leapt forwards. Her blow snapped Rhisveri’s neck and broke his bones—his broken skull reknit, and he adjusted his head.
“You’re not the only person who gets to cheat. And you’re not having them. Not this time.”
He tackled her; the Goddess of Last Stands threw a blinding flurry of punches, but the Wyrm was laughing. He absorbed each blow, then hurled her back down the [Palace of Fates]. He glanced over his shoulder once.
“Come on!”
Nanette screamed at Miss Califor and her other self, and the [Witches] ran. Towards that door in the air. They were all there, at the end.
Cauwine, still battling Duke Rhisveri, the Crone still hunting the souls fleeing to the exit or the [Garden of Sanctuary]. And her—most of all.
The Maiden. The diminishing hallways meant that she was cutting through the people trying to escape. The [Witches] ran into her down one hallway; she sliced through the entire flood of souls and spotted them. Her eyes seemed to lock onto Califor.
The Great Witch whirled and ran down another corridor, but she was carrying her Nanette, and the real Nanette saw the Maiden running after them.
“Miss Califor!”
There was no dodging that scythe. Califor turned her head and threw her Nanette forwards. The Maiden’s scythe came up—and then jerked aside as the real Nanette tackled her. The goddess refused to cut the real girl, so she swept Nanette aside with one hand.
Califor ran as her daughter turned to her. The Great Witch tossed her hat at her Nanette, and the hat expanded, then carried the younger Nanette away. Towards the exit. But Califor—she glanced over her shoulder as the Maiden caught up.
The scythe rose in its deadly arc, and Califor raised a hand, that bitter expression of stubborn determination crossing her face. Nanette, every version of her, screamed.
If only this time.
Please—just once. That endless scream from her heart, in every body and time she had ever lived. She just wanted her mother for one second longer.
Death’s scythe gleamed under the cold rain, and the Maiden lifted a hand. She blinked in the face of a shower, the tears of a decade washing over her. Then she turned her head, and someone ran towards her.
A thin young woman, body wasted and frail, wearing nothing but wet rags, her hands still bloody. Holding a cursed dagger with her second mother’s blood still wet on the blade.
The Witch of Sorrows, the version of Nanette from the future, shrieked as she dove towards the Maiden, a poisonous flood of her bitter craft raging past her.
“Nanette!”
Califor turned and tried to grab the [Witch], but her hands passed through only liquid. The Witch of Sorrows smiled at that image of her mother, then she struck the Maiden, knife stabbing into the Goddess’ heart. Again and again.
The Maiden did not react to the blade that had killed Belavierr. Gently, she swung that scythe, and the Witch of Sorrows sighed.
“At last. Mother—”
She twisted around, no longer weeping, as the flow of water from her hat finally ceased. Then the scythe cut through her, and she vanished. The Maiden finished her swing and stepped forwards again.
Califor and both Nanettes ran, and the real Nanette kept gazing backwards, tears in her eyes. In Witch Califor’s eyes.
A second’s reprieve, that was all it was. Enough time to reach the last corridor that led to the door out of this reality.
They had made it. Nanette saw a stream of souls pouring forwards into the strange, new world beyond, sunlight shining into this breaking palace. The line was so terribly long—but almost.
Almost there. Then she realized Califor had turned around and was gazing towards the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Her world. When she tried to carry her Nanette back, the real Nanette barred her path.
“You’re going the wrong way. Go. The other world is waiting for you.”
Besides, she’d never make it past the Maiden. Not twice. Yet her mother was torn.
“I have to—I promised—”
Califor wavered at the exit. She gazed back down the long hallway at the [Garden of Sanctuary]. The way was still open. But Nanette just reached out and took Califor’s hand once. She squeezed it with all the strength in her body and blinked her teary eyes up at that vision of her mother. But then she shook her head.
“Miss Califor. You’re a grand witch, but I think you and I both know…my mother, my Califor is dead. I won’t force another version of me to come to my world just so I can have another version of you. I must make my peace with it. Thank you for being kind. Now, hurry. She’s coming.”
The Maiden was advancing on the sea of souls, and there was no one to stop her. Califor and Nanette, the people of Ailendamus, stood at the end of a line that spanned millions of souls, rushing past Pawn as he held the door open.
The Maiden with her scythe. Nanette nodded to herself, took a few deep breaths, and rolled up her sleeves. She advanced on the Maiden as Califor reached a hand out for her daughter.
Nanette saw the Maiden raise the scythe that could end gods and tried to remember everything Todi had taught her. She trembled as the Maiden glanced past her and swept forwards.
A hand dragged Nanette back. She struggled—then glanced up at the person who’d stopped her. Her mouth fell open—then she hesitated. The Maiden strode forwards, and her scythe drew back to cut the door apart.
Everything.
 
——
 
They were almost out. Almost gone. But the last door out of this reality, the final stop at the station had a queue of millions of souls, and there was a woman walking towards them.
A final gatekeeper of death. One last obstacle.
The Maiden.
She strode forwards, her scythe raised, and the souls trying to flee turned on her. They unleashed everything they had. A thousand spells shot at her. Arrows loosed by countless bows—Skills, flashing across the distance.
The Maiden swung that scythe, and it cut through everything. The very nature of the arrows, magic itself. She cut each and every thing out of the air all at once, and there was silence.
Then someone laughed and leapt at her.
A [Clown], knives whirling in his hands, a [Hero] who laughed at death. A version of Zeladona, teeth bared, swinging her sword. A version of Redscar and a [Peerless Spearmaster] from the sands of Chandrar.
She cut them apart, whirling her scythe through each soul. The [Clown] vanished with a sigh; Xil disappeared mid-strike.
Zeladona drove her blade through the Maiden’s neck, and her eyes opened wide. The Maiden’s scythe cleaved through the [Blademistress of Ancients]’ attempts to parry the blow—and then she kept walking forwards.
Not even Zeladona’s blade could hurt the goddess. Then, the onslaught of spells and Skills ceased, for it was futile. One last group strode forwards, trying to buy time.
The Painted Antinium.
 
——
 
Roots Mrsha had reached the [Garden of Sanctuary] at last. She clutched at her chest, wheezing for air. She had run as far as she could and bought as much time as possible.
Where was the real Mrsha? She’d lost track of her real self.
Someone was waiting for her at the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Lyonette. Only—when Roots Mrsha saw her, she only saw a limp body, red hair spilling onto the ground.
No. Nonono—she ran forwards and realized the [Princess] wasn’t dead. She was breathing, but she just lay there.
Ser Dalimont was holding her hands.
“Your Highness. Lyonette. Your Highness—”
She didn’t respond. Only when Dalimont spotted Roots Mrsha and exclaimed did she move.
“Miss Mrsha! Your Highness—!”
He pointed as Dame Ushar caught her breath. The [Princess]’ head rose. Her eyes found the Gnoll girl, and for a moment, they lit up. But then—
Roots Mrsha stood there, and felt a dreadful fear in her mind. She searched around.
Where’s the real Mrsha? I’ll go and—
“No.”
Without a word, Lyonette embraced the girl, and Roots Mrsha felt her cold arms trembling. The girl froze, with relief, with love and guilt—then tried to get away. But the [Princess] just held her. And Roots Mrsha…
Her world was gone. Her head turned to that open door to another reality. It was waiting for her as well—but the Maiden was in the way. And Lyonette whispered.
“No. Not that way.”
Nothing could stop the Goddess. Ser Dalimont whispered as he saw her cutting more brave souls trying to slow her down.
“It’s not fair.”
Mrsha’s eyes focused on the people at the back of the line fleeing through the door, fast as they could. She jerked.
Nanette. I see Nanette over there. I have to get her.
She tried to move, but Lyonette wouldn’t let go. Dame Ushar added her hands to holding Roots Mrsha in place, and the girl wrote, desperate.
Someone has to! Lyonette! Mother!
The [Princess] rose, eyes filled with terrible intent—but someone gently pushed her back.
“I’ll get her. Stay with your daughter, Lyonette.”
Colfa val-Lischelle Drakle and Vaulont the Ash appeared out of the chaotic hallways. The Vampiress was disheveled, and she had several long tears in her dress, but whatever injuries she’d taken had healed. Lyonette hesitated—
“But—”
“Stay with your daughter. That’s an order.”
The Vampiress ran forwards before either could object. Towards Nanette. But the others—Roots Mrsha turned her head.
It was not fair.
 
——
 
At the door out of this reality, Pawn’s arms shook. The Maiden was coming for him and the door as the souls drew back; she ignored them, making only for him. After all—all she had to do was cut that door in half.
“Not yet. Not yet…”
His faithful stood in the way. The Maiden cleaved through them. Their faith was unable to stop her. Their weapons did nothing to her flesh.
Behind Kasigna, the living gazed at each other in despair, and Roots Mrsha closed her eyes.
Who could stop that woman? 
No one, among any universe, had a chance. Not the Mrsha who had kept her levels, the Level 70 [Druid of the Lucky World]. Nor a version of the Dragonlord of Flames protectively trying to shield those he loved.
They fought, brave warriors of every world, throwing themselves forwards to meet her. [Martial Artists] of Pomle, a version of Orjin trying to find the way to parry or dodge Death’s scythe. He could not—but they fought till the moment that blade touched them.
The last line of defence that even slowed the Maiden for a second was a rolling vehicle, a massive warmachine that fired, again and again, with every gun it had. The Tortoise, from the world of Goblins, defending a stream of souls—until the Maiden sliced through the shell of the tank.
It took her two swings, only because she missed the gunner in the turret. Then she was at the doorway, and a single step closed the rest of the distance. Her scythe, which had cut the tank in twain in a single blow, now rested long in her hands. Long enough to cut the Dragonlord of Flames in half in a single motion. Wide enough to cleave through the entire hallway, the thousands of souls, and the door itself in a single sweep.
A matter of perspective.
The Maiden lifted her scythe, drawing it back, one hand on the handle. Preparing to reap…everything.
Then, a single figure strode forwards with a sigh. Among all the souls of every alternate world, someone pushed Nanette back and walked forwards to challenge the Maiden.
She should not have cared. The Maiden lifted that scythe to swing through this soul like so many others. Then her eyes focused on the face, and her arms wavered.
Just for a second. The Maiden’s pale eyes blinked, and she focused on the challenger.
“You?”
Her hands slipped on the scythe. Her relentless advance slowed, and Lyonette made a sound as she, Roots Mrsha, and Ser Dalimont beheld the stranger. Nanette, standing in front of Miss Califor and her other self, locked her eyes on the back of his head.
It was impossible that the Maiden should fear any being at this moment, let alone one that wasn’t from the real world.
But she did. The man strode forwards past the countless beings from alternate worlds, who turned to him in confusion. Who could make the Maiden halt?
So few recognized him. And there was no other version of this man in the millions of people present.
