Any one at all. Worlds so strange or hopeful or sad. It showed you what might be. But all of it was fake.
Mrsha…wondered if there was something she could ask for. Something real. She thought of the doors that led to the [Pavilion of Secrets].
No, not through them. Even if she could somehow unlock or break those doors, that would just take her into another place that the Maiden could follow.
If we got everyone out of here, every single person past her, she’d just follow us into the [Garden of Sanctuary] or the inn. She won’t stop. Not in this or any other place in our world.
So what they needed was…Mrsha opened her eyes as an idea came to her. It was hazy, ill-formed, and her battered mind couldn’t keep hold of it. Couldn’t process it.
She was so tired. But one last time, she kept telling herself. Stay awake. Stay…she was drifting off, like someone in the warmest bed, knowing that she could close her eyes any time.
But she had to hold on for the most important thing in the world. Then—she could rest.
It was so difficult.
The world was blurry, and Fightipilota was holding Mrsha as everything flashed and shook. Parts of the ceiling were falling inwards, showing Mrsha glimpses of that myriad reality.
Even existence itself was fraying at the edges. Mrsha sat up slightly, ignoring the screaming.
“More Crelers! Shoot! Shoot!”
Lord Moore was raising his staff, blood on his clothing, trying to protect citizens of Liscor. Beach Kevin was taking cover as one of the Goblins fired a rifle from behind Archmage Montressa’s barriers—Mrsha wanted to speak to every single person here.
Save them all. Know them all.
—The Crelers had lost their leaders, but they were throwing themselves forwards in a blind fury, and Fightipilota tensed as she heard voices crying out. She swivelled, then Mrsha felt herself being lowered.
“Mrsha, stay here, okay? I have to help—you! You, take her!”
She ran forwards and offered Mrsha gently to someone. The girl wondered who Fightipilota had chosen. Who would the Goblin trust, in the many parallel realities, with Mrsha’s life?
The answer was, of course, always—
Kevin. He made a surprised sound, that Kevin of the beach world, and took her gently, almost dropping her.
“Mrsha? What happened to—wait, which Mrsha is this?”
The real one, dummy. Kevin held Mrsha in that terrified way of someone who’d never held a child or a baby, or someone who just needed to work on their upper body strength. She raised her head as high as she could.
Hey, Kevin. Sorry I never came back to talk to you.
Her paw traced tiny little words in the air. Glowing letters. He recognized her, then.
“Mrsha? It’s—it’s okay. Are you…you’re gonna be alright, okay? I just need—we’ll get you to a [Healer].”
He was staring at her body, and she saw in his desperate, fake smile the lie that made adults grow old. Mrsha smiled kindly up at him.
I’m sorry. I keep trying to think of a solution, but there’s no good one. Nothing that doesn’t make everyone sad. You’re all people to me.
But her world wasn’t big enough to contain all of them. Not two Immortal Tyrants; Nerrhavia strode past Mrsha, leading an army of her warriors forwards from the world where she had been waiting.
Heck…one Kevin was big enough for Mrsha’s world. She had just missed him, that was all. Him and Halrac and…Kevin stood there, flinching, as everyone fought around him.
“I think I’m a person too. Really. I met…me. The real me in a mirror that leads to hell. Long story, don’t ask. I…it made me feel better. So it’s okay we never—”
Boom. A screaming, alternate version of Ceria had gone mad. The Archmage of Frost whirled, eyes glowing green as her amulet and circlet revealed their true shapes, and she went for Mrsha.
An older version of Pisces leapt through the air, like a lion, and they were tangling in midair, fighting. Kevin ran with Mrsha in his arms, and his arms were bloody, then. With her blood.
“[Healer]! [Healer]! Someone—”
He tried to feed her a healing potion, and she drank it, but it didn’t do much. Mrsha smiled up at him.
Do you have a question for me?
She had lost that shining idea. Her breathing was growing slower. Kevin skidded to a standstill and sank against one wall. His head turned right and left, then bowed.
“Fuck, Mrsha—!”
He was crying, and his tears splashed down on her fur. There was nothing he could do for her, so Kevin wiped at his eyes and smeared blood on his cheeks, then he tried to smile. It was the worst smile she’d ever seen, stained with blood and tears, shaking like a leaf.
“It’s the stupidest question. It doesn’t matter. I just…I just wanted to know, afterwards. If—if anyone missed me.”
Mrsha’s eyes opened a bit wider, and Kevin wiped at his eyes again.
“Like, really missed me. You know, after they buried me? I bet people were sad. But I wondered, when you told me I was dead. Did I really make a difference? Or am I, like, the kind of guy you remember now and then? I know it’s stupid and shitty. But I was hoping someone…I wanted to know if I made a difference. I should have made a bigger one. That’s all.”
His tears dripped down, and Mrsha gazed up at him. That biker, surfboard guy, [Mechanic] from another world. A ghost and a real person asking the only question of his death that mattered to him.
Of course we missed you, dummy. Everyone does. Joseph, Imani, even Troydel. You still have your room. Solar Cycles…there were so many flowers there no one could work. Hedault misses you. Even Zevara.
“Even Zevara? I ran over her tail so many times.”
Kevin’s laughter choked in his throat. Mrsha stared up at him.
She kept your bicycle. And Ceria lied and said you were in the Horns of Hammerad. Everyone in Medain thinks you’re the secret 5th member.
“She did? That’s so funny…do you think they’d remember me in ten years? Twenty? I just wish…I don’t want to die, Mrsha. I didn’t, and I don’t. I thought I was fake. That you just wanted a replacement for the real Kevin.”
She had wanted that. And him. The girl’s eyes ran with her own soft tears for her mistakes, for her arrogance. And she felt that terrible need to give something back.
One shred of hope for all this misery. Because it was there. Even now.
Especially now.
What was hope in the [Palace of Fates]? It was every good reality, every moment when you saw a bastard change their stripes, every lost friend and hero.
Each one different than the figures she’d known, but no less glorious. Mrsha saw a lonely man swinging his sword around, left and right. A cheese-loving [Lieutenant] of Vaunt. He was facing the Crelers as an Adult reared over his head. He raised a hand—and someone threw a halberd so hard the Adult Creler hit the ground and rolled onto its back.
An undead king in a chariot rode past the surprised Gershal of Vaunt, and Mrsha saw King Fetohep of Khelt point his halberd.
“Forwards! Follow—agh—follow the Immortal Tyrant!”
Fetohep of Khelt emerged from a world almost identical to the one Mrsha belonged to, only where his armies of the dead had never vanished. There was a whoop—and Mrsha and Kevin saw an ice chariot pulled by an undead bear and Skeleton Lord race forwards.
The Horns of Hammerad as Mrsha knew them followed the King of Khelt as he and Nerrhavia fought side-by-side, glowering at each other and exchanging insults. Kevin began laughing.
That faint laughter attracted the attention of an alternate version of Ceria Springwalker. The [Prankster] was skating off one wall on her ramps of ice. She saw Kevin and wiped out—slamming to the ground and breaking one arm.
“Kevin?”
King Fetohep of Khelt, swerving his chariot towards the largest Creler, turned his head, and his jaw dropped when they saw him. Beach Kevin blinked at them. He glanced at Mrsha, and she wrote.
You must be dead in their world as well.
The Horns of Hammerad whirled around, and they forgot to join the battle as the undead of Khelt surged forwards. Even Fetohep halted, golden flames in his eyes growing wider. Beach Kevin didn’t know what to do. So he asked the question again, waving weakly.
“Hey, guys! Did—did you miss me when I died?”
The young man tried to smile, tears in his eyes, then he flinched as more Crelers screeched. He began to run again, holding Mrsha close, and a wall of ice froze the Crelers near him. A half-Elf shouted at him as she slid past him, tears in her pale, icy gaze.
“You idiot! Of course! Who asks that? Run, you idiot!”
Kevin ran as more walls of ice shielded him from Adult Crelers spitting bolts of death his way. He stumbled—tried to lift Mrsha before he fell and hurt her—and a hand plucked him up.
“Yes.”
The young man and Mrsha gazed up, and the King of Khelt rode through the lines of the undead, then let go. Kevin stumbled—and the Goblin Lord of Civilizations, Ragathsi, whirled as Fetohep spoke.
“The worth of a man is not in the size of his casket, but how many attend it, Kevin Hall. But the weight of one person who cared is enough for a King of Kings. So I order you: live.”
Then he raised another halberd and turned the undead chariot around. Ragathsi blinked at Kevin and spoke.
“You’re not dead in my world. You’re just trying to kill me.”
“O-oh. Sorry. Is that the guy with syphilis?”
Beach Kevin was panting, and Mrsha was giggling in his arms. Ragathsi, the Goblin Lord of Civilizations, chuckled, then reached out and embraced Kevin with her free arm. He yelped; her chest was made of metal, and when she let go, he had a groove in his forehead.
“I missed your silliness. Get behind the lines, dumbass.”
She shoved him, and Kevin ran. Past Gershal of Vaunt from the Winter Solstice, who covered him with his colorful sword, around Magnolia Reinhart as she nearly ran him over with her pink carriage—around an older Selys, the [Guildmistress] of Liscor fighting with steel claws.
They all remembered him. If he hadn’t been in the center of their lives—they recognized him from the far future, from his time. Mrsha was smiling up at Kevin as tears dripped from his eyes.
Even the Immortal Tyrant turned her head as he passed by and tapped her lips. Not to be outdone in anything, Nerrhavia remarked to one of her minions.
“I believe that one makes bicycles. I have a use for him.”
Ridiculous. Silly, a sandy-haired young man running flat-footed across the ground, tanned from the sun, laughing and crying in his Solar Cycles t-shirt and pants stained with grease and running shoes.
Mrsha peered up at Kevin and thought that even if there were no place in her world for him—he still deserved a world of his own. A real world, not just the one he’d lost.
A world where you can figure out what kind of Kevin you are. A world…big enough for Fetohep’s and Nerrhavia’s egos combined, for however many Dragonlords of Flame you had. For millions of people.
Except Crelers. Safe from the Maiden. Did such a world exist?
No, of course not. That was the problem.
And yet…in this ludicrous moment, where you had all this going on, what was impossible? The Faerie King had played every trick on fate and reality, and Mrsha had met the Goblin King. The dead gods had run into Death herself…
The idea respun itself into Mrsha’s head, a silly request. One last wish to make it all better. Something only a child would come up with.
So, she raised a trembling, bloody paw. There was nowhere in this world to run from the Maiden. Nowhere…nothing that could be built, here, that could not be unmade. But she had forgotten to ask the [Palace of Fates] something, with all her preoccupation about what might have been, what was, these alternate realities.
It’s me. Mrsha. I have one last wish for you, my [Palace of Fates]. I don’t know if you’re allowed, but it’s the only thing I want. One last door, for me.
Show me, please…open a door for everyone I have wronged. All these peoples who have lost their homes. 
Give me a door not to another world, but out of reality itself.
The [Palace of Fates] heard her, and the trembling stopped for one eternal, immortal moment. The chaos of it all falling apart, the breaking Grand Designs, even the Maiden—halted.
The Grand Design heard the girl, and the two breaking systems focused on her request.
A…what?
A way out?
Was it allowed?
Was it possible?
Surely not.
Surely…so. After all, a door had been opened to take Erin Solstice and so many others here.
The Grand Design had been made to link to a million other realities. Only, the doors had all been closed. No one had the right to open them.
But this was the [Palace of Fates]. Everything trembled, and somewhere, the Maiden raised her head.
“No.”
She took a step forwards, and the Crone, shrinking away from her foes of faith, looked up as well. The dead gods, Laedonius Deviy, Cauwine, Norechl, Tamaroth, and even the trapped Emerrhain, stirred.
They felt vast hands reach past them. A being so infinitely vast it encompassed the world dug its fingers into the very fabric of reality—and pulled. It strained with trembling strength, pieces of it breaking and failing. But it—they—ripped a hole into that wild beyond with a smile as wide as planets. Of shame. Of apology.
For the little girl’s last request. After all—
The Grand Design had always sworn to be on her side.
Mrsha blinked her weary eyes, and it felt like it took a lifetime of effort as they closed and opened. Then, amidst the damaged marble, the broken palace, she saw a rectangle of space.
A door stood before her. Just like that.
Her mortal mind didn’t comprehend the eternity it took for that weary function of the universe to create the door, to build the steps across reality, and out of it, to a truly new universe. She did not fathom the strain, nor the effort—not consciously. But some small part of her saw it.
The door was different than every other one she had ever seen. It had no proper frame, no elaborate ornamentation on it; it was as if someone had sliced a rectangle out of, well, everything. A quiet door, as if it were at the end of a fantasy book, offering you a chance to leave your world behind.
It terrified her. It delighted her.
It was everything she had asked for.
Kevin had frozen when the door appeared. He saw Mrsha reach out for it, that wounded, dying child, desperate. Mrsha’s paw touched the glowing doorknob and pulled. So weak. She opened the door and sighed.
Oh, you. Mrsha’s head lolled backwards, and she lay limply there as Kevin saw—that familiar, mandatory sight.
A black wall in front of the way out. A piece of cloth made out of the rules of reality itself. He pressed a hand against it, uncomprehending.
“Mrsha! Mrsha, what’s—”
Fightipilota emerged from the fighting, a chunk missing from her ear, sword in hand, and halted. Mrsha was chuckling at the Grand Design’s last little trick on her.
