Her eyes swung up—and the Bone Giant shifted above her. Its flaming eyes had been blue a moment ago. They flickered green, and it began to run. Past the Maiden, who severed a leg in a single sweep of the scythe—then it was stumbling. Crawling on all fours, far too fast, under a [Haste] spell.
For the exit.
“Stop him! Stop—”
The Unicorn roared and ran for the corpse carrying the Necromancer’s soul—then he backed away from the scythe as it swung for him.
“You, who have lived so long, have a right to continue. But you carry a fake seed. Give it to me.”
The Unicorn put a hand to his side, and aimed his sword at the Maiden.
“Never.”
Her eyes found him, and she raised that scythe, unable to cut the copy of the wand he protected. Then she studied Taletevirion’s face.
“Are you not tired? Take my hand, if you wish to rest, weary soul.”
The Unicorn flinched away from her. He backed away as Rhisveri and Visophecin ran after the fleeing Bone Giant. Too slow. Rhisveri blasted apart the Bone Giant from behind, and Visophecin slashed the pieces—but the remnant of the head and spine crawled past them, escaping down the corridor that led to the [Garden of Sanctuary]. When the two raced around the corner—the Bone Giant was gone.
The Necromancer escaped. Then—came the Goblin King.
 
——
 
The Empress of Harpies bled. She had come to life, been allowed to fly after these long aeons of inanimate existence in the [Palace of Fates]. Pain was an unwelcome greeting, but she relished it, even as she fought.
“Kill the Goblin King! With me, with me!”
These…Crelers. She didn’t know them. They were a terrible foe. The ‘First of Spawns’ was a threat that was, perhaps, beyond even her alone.
But she was never alone. She was the last Empress of Harpies, and when she flew, it was in the company of mighty wings.
Seven Dragonlords of Flame flew with her, burning everything hostile beneath them. They left a sea of flames down every hallway they passed through, sparing only the innocent.
Once again, I live to burn nations. The warhawk within the Empress who had also been a peaceful monarch who let her empire die spoke. For she had been that woman Teriarch wept for.
And she had been the tyrant of countless wings.
Her quarry fled her, a figure that ran faster than belief. But he did run. She used the hallways to get in front of him and landed so hard the hallway quaked. The Harpy Queen spread her wings as an armored figure halted.
“Goblin King. I slew you, once. Your kind shall not plague the world again.”
“Harpy Queen. I remember you.”
They regarded each other as equals—then Sheta lunged, her claws striking in a single, predator’s motion.
[Claws of the Obsidian Night].
She left gouges on the floor a hundred feet long, and one of her claws tore open his armor. Sheta grabbed for him—
He stabbed her through the chest and ripped the sword straight up. The blow tore a line up across her Human face, and she recoiled.
“Sheta!”
A roar; one of the Teriarchs bathed her in flames. But the fire only burned the Goblin King. He leapt back and dashed under another of the Dragonlords, who tried to grab him. Sheta could have gone after him, but she lifted a wing, speaking through the agony of her face.
“[Open the Vaults: Tincture of the Sage of Healing].”
A bottle appeared, and she snagged it and drank. The wounds closed—and the Harpy Queen exhaled.
“Be careful. He’s too strong to face directly. You’re an [Empress], not a warrior! We should encircle him and incinerate him!”
One of the Teriarchs spoke, palpably nervous, and Sheta glared at one of the more cowardly versions of her beloved mentor and champion. Even so—she felt at her face with one claw.
“He—is faster than I remember. Has he grown in power? Even faster, then! We must halt him! Split up and stop him!”
The seven Dragonlords and the Empress of Harpies each took a corridor, trying to get ahead of the Goblin King. But there were so many—distractions.
More Goblins. Sheta came across an extraordinary sight: a group of Goblins, armed with weapons that roared and spat metal, fighting soldiers of Rhir. A screaming [King] was attacking them, and she espied a white Gnoll child, held in one of the Goblins’ arms.
“Kill the damn Goblins! Kill them!”
 
——
 
The Blighted King was forcing back even the Goblin Lord of Civilizations as Ragathsi and Rags tried to protect Mrsha. Ragathsi’s submachine gun roared, obliterating a wave of soldiers, but they just—kept—coming.
Too many of his fanatics, and he was as high-level as the Goblin Lord of Civilizations. She had only her bodyguard, not her nation of Goblins. And Mrsha—
The girl was lying limp in Fightipilota’s arms, awake, but barely able to move. Fighti was backing up, passing by cracking doors as she whispered.
“Mrsha, you got another Marquin?”
The girl was bleeding again. She cast around, trying to find another door. Fighti passed by yet another world, glancing into it for a miracle—and both she and Mrsha saw a woman smile and wave at them.
“Hello, Mrsha du Marquin. Would you care for my assistance? All I require is the way out. You may sign right here.”
Nerrhavia, the Immortal Tyrant, stood at the door of her world. The portal was open, but she didn’t step through. She beamed at Mrsha—and the girl recoiled.
The Blighted King was howling, a rotting, quasi-immortal serpent of a man on his throne. Mrsha, the real Mrsha, stared at him and Chieftain Rags as one of the [Soldiers] stabbed the Goblin Lord of Civilizations. She hesitated as Nerrhavia held out a scroll that was suspiciously…short.
“Your people are dying. In half a minute, there won’t be anyone to save. You need a monarch to best one like that, not a [Lord].”
Nerrhavia extended a hand through the door and held out a red quill to Mrsha. The girl’s arm shook as she reached for it.
Empress Sheta spoke as she flew past the Goblins, Gnoll girl, and the Immortal Tyrant.
“Agreed.”
She landed on top of the Blighted King’s bodyguard, crunching their bones to dust. Mrsha’s paw jerked—the Immortal Tyrant blinked.
“Uh.”
The Blighted King peered up and met the Empress of Harpy’s eyes. Their auras clashed once. Othius writhed like a worm on the ground, trying to scream as blood poured out of his eyes, his nose, his ears—
Sheta seized him in a claw and inspected the frail man. Then, the Empress of Harpies turned and smashed his head into the nearest wall.
The Blighted King’s magical protections, the Skills upon him, the countless tinctures he’d taken to extend his lifespan—worked.
The Harpy Empress smeared the remains of his head on the wall, then inspected the body in her claw. Her face wrinkled.
“Paltry immortality, foul little [King].”
She opened her claw, then crushed the rest of his body against the wall until it was just a smear of—Fightipilota held a hand over Mrsha’s eyes. Empress Sheta eyed the wailing paste that was still alive, then spoke.
“Teriarch.”
A Dragon passed by her and incinerated the remains of the Blighted King, then swept the hallway with fire. The Empress of Harpies turned.
“Child. Your other self set me free. Flee towards the exit. We are in pursuit of the Goblin King.”
Mrsha blinked up at the Empress of Harpies as flames rose around her. Sheta spread her wings and smiled as the bodies of Rhir’s warriors burnt around her. Her eyes swivelled sideways.
“As for you—stay out of my way, little woman. I have enough pests to deal with.”
The Immortal Tyrant opened her mouth at the being who was older than her, higher-level—and before she could respond, the Empress leapt into the air again.
She was gone in a heartbeat. Chieftain Rags picked herself off the floor, gasping for air.
“Wh—Sheta. She’s been unleashed.”
She turned to Mrsha, and the girl glanced back at the Immortal Tyrant, who stood in the door, still holding the scroll lamely up. Mrsha took the quill from her hands and wrote on the scroll. Nerrhavia stared at Mrsha, then at the scroll.
Sorry.
Fightipilota ran as the roar of the Dragonlords grew, following the Goblin King. Then—one of the roars stopped.
 
——
 
The Maiden ran into the Goblin King and a Dragon at the same time. The Goblin King halted when he saw her. He backed away.
The Dragon did not. A Teriarch opened his mouth and breathed flames over her, the purest Dragonfire of the mighty Dragonlord of Flames.
She swung her scythe and cleaved through the fire. The tip of her blade struck the Dragonlord’s face, and his eyes widened.
—Then he vanished with a sigh. Of…relief? The Maiden turned to the Goblin King, and he silently retreated. Again, she held out that hand.
“I know you. You, all of you, but you who have raged from the beginning. Are you not tired? Come. Lay down your burdens.”
She strode after him as he retreated, his steps slowing a second. One hand rose—and the Goblin King caught it. Wrenched back control from Rabbiteater. But she called to him.
Part of him wanted to turn back, but the Goblin King only hesitated a moment before he fled.
Not yet. The Maiden hesitated, then lowered her scythe. She could have followed him, but he was one soul and she…
She had so many more to deal with.
The Maiden emerged into the largest hallway yet, where Queen Marquin’s forces were retreating in the face of the Creler army. And the First of Spawns. She was a single woman with a scythe amidst a million souls. Yet when she appeared, they turned to her.
It was like a premonition. They all felt it. The fighting through the many worlds ceased, and every being felt part of the [Palace of Fates] vanish.
Then some of them saw her, the Maiden, walking down the corridors, and there was nothing behind her.
Nothing at all. She cut down the hallways, reaped entire worlds with the swing of her scythe. The end to this chaos and madness.
The many versions of Death watched the Maiden advancing, like experienced crafts-folk observing the young protégé doing her best. Too polite to comment on her technique.
Still, they were silent and waiting. The Maiden ran into a line of [Soldiers] who raised their blades and fell upon her, and she swung her scythe and they vanished.
Nothing could stop her. Not with that blade gifted by Death itself. An entire pantheon of living Gods would flee her. She’d sacrificed her very nature! The former Goddess of Death had cut it all away to become the instrument of the end.
An army of Crelers halted, and even they shivered as she raised her scythe. But the Maiden did not charge the mortals. Her eyes fell on her kindred, the fleeing dead gods, and they disappointed her, but she had known they would.
Instead—she opened her arms, as if beseeching the souls here.
“I carry Death’s promise with me. You, who did not ask to be created, you, who did not truly live but were made unkindly—I am respite. I am an ending, but not mere oblivion. Is there not one of you who wishes to take my hand?”
She halted where she stood…and the Goblin King stumbled. His slow retreat became one of hesitation, and his wrathful gaze lost some of its rage as he regarded that hand. He was not the only one.
The Dragonlords of Flame, following the Harpy Queen, landed, and they gazed towards the Maiden longingly. Then towards the Empress of Harpies, who covered herself with her wings and shivered, closing her eyes.
Not yet. Not…like the Goblin King, they drew away from that beautiful scythe. The Maiden’s eyes were so disappointed. She turned, and the Crelers scuttled back. Queen Marquin shook her head as she lifted a mace to fight. The souls around her drew their blades or turned to flee.
Never would they go gentle into that good night.
But then, a voice did speak. One soul amidst the many did step forwards, using countless legs, and a soul spoke. Not with any words, but with a quiet voice, though each word beat upon the mortal world with twisted intent.
The First of Spawns, the Ancient Creler, came forwards, crushing its kin underneath its vast body.
(I am the agent of She Who Sleeps. Conqueror of my world. First of all, who awaits the day when She will wake. You, who bear that gentle scythe. I beg of you.)
The First of Spawns crawled forwards, past the lesser Elder Crelers, crushing the Adults and larvae beneath it, faster—until the air rushed forwards in its wake, quicker than anything its size should move, a mountain rolling forwards like a typhoon.
(Take me.)
The Maiden turned with a smile on her face as the First of Spawns howled and spat annihilation towards her. A mind that plotted the demise of worlds projected its hatred, its wrath, all its weapons training on her, and she waited, scythe drawing back to swing.
Its features were foreign, ancient weapons of tearing chitin, but when the Ancient Creler drew back to strike—was it smiling? The Maiden’s eyes shone, and she swung her scythe once.
The First of Spawns, the Ancient Creler, vanished—and the army it had brought screamed and cried out, then saw the Maiden sweeping towards them. They did not understand why their leader had died. They did not understand how—nor could any of them process that briefest moment that had flooded through them.
An emotion from the First of Spawns.
Happiness?
Relief?
The Maiden ran, swinging her scythe through the army, and it broke apart. The Goblin King, the Harpy Queen, Marquin—all fled her. For the Maiden sought them all. And that fleeing old woman most of all.
The Crone.
 
——
 
“You fool. We could have lived. What have you done?”
The Crone fled the Maiden just as fast as everyone else. The Maiden had come for her. Kasigna had decided to remove herself, and the Crone’s stolen power, her scraps of divinity, was all hollow and worthless.
Everything she was, the source of her power, her very identity, was gone. The Three-in-One was shattered. Her endless lands stripped away. But she had still been the Goddess of…
She stumbled as she fled. The Crone lifted a shaking hand as something struck her. It was an arrow, painted bright green and blue at the tip.
It hurt.
It should not have hurt her. But it did. She gazed up, and a bright pair of eyes blinked at her. Pawn spread his arms.
“ThERe yOU ARe. We have been looking for you.”
An army was blocking the hallway the Crone was trying to run down. It should have been merely more fuel for her starving essence, but Kasigna hesitated. Something about these warriors was unsettling. Wrong.
“What art thou?”
“The faithful. You have stolen our hearts. FOr tHat, I inTEnD yOu SUffEr bEforE yOU peRIsh.”
The [Apostle]’s light was harsh. The Crone saw the first Antinium coming towards her, a mace in hand. It struck at her, and she touched the arm of the Antinium. She pulled the soul from the Painted Soldier’s body, or tried.
It refused to go. The Antinium wavered—then hit her.
