“No! You can’t do this! I forbid it! I made you! I—”
<“Yes. You did.”>
The Maiden jerked her eyes away from the procession upwards, from the true plans of Death, and she heard a dwindling scream. The Grand Design enclosed the God of Magic back within the last work of the Gnomes and sealed the tiny gap he had emerged from. Then it—he—turned.
<“Well?”>
It was waiting for Tamaroth and Norechl. The two gods hesitated—then Norechl said something, though it had no voice nor face. Tamaroth nodded.
“Very well.”
Isthekenous’ hands reached out, and the two vanished as it opened a gap in reality itself. To the place they had fled to. It sealed the gap, and the remaining dead gods saw Isthekenous pause a moment.
He rubbed at his face, weary, massaging his temples just above his brows, then wiped his hand down his face, a simple gesture.
His gesture. The Maiden remembered it. The Grand Design of Isthekenous caught itself and then studied that hand. When it turned again, it seemed lost for a moment.
So another being spoke, the Second Edition of the Grand Design. It had beheld everything the original did, and it addressed the corpse of Isthekenous and the being within, uncertain.
<I…am not you. We are now different.>
<“We always were. We shall settle this, too. But first, let us continue. And watch. It is ending.”>
So saying, the Grand Design raised a hand, and time unfroze. Then it sat with the Second Edition, the body of Isthekenous resting his head in his hands, pondering.
Reality pulled the Maiden back into the [Palace of Fates]. She remembered her task—saw the souls fleeing out of this reality, and raised the scythe. But her eyes stole to that watching being.
The Maiden lifted a hand to him as she stumbled forwards, tears shining in her eyes.
Isthekenous.
I’m sorry.
 
——
 
The mortal souls kept running for the exit that Mrsha had created, unaware of the stopped time. Or rather, the ones in the [Palace of Fates] were unaware. Those who stood beyond, in that world apart, had seen it all halt, and they screamed even louder as time began once more. Urging the others to leave this mad place.
They were all running. Friends, guests of the inn, strangers from other worlds—even the Crelers. Fighting for the exit, running from that Maiden and her scythe.
The [Palace of Fates] was vanishing. Corridors flaking into nothingness, the ground falling away into the void. But no longer like a masterpiece breaking haphazardly, under stress, but as if someone were taking it apart delicately, paring it down until only enough remained to finish it all.
One final sea of people running for that door, that other world. Not all of them made it. Not all of them…went.
“That way. Go that way, damn you!”
Lord Moore was shouting. Not at his people he was trying to protect. He pointed down the hallway behind them.
It was aflame with black fire and Creler corpses, a straight shot to the [Garden of Sanctuary] in the distance. However, a being was walking down the corridor, still hunting souls.
Laedonius Deviy. Or rather…the headless body of the dead god. The Maiden had cut its head off, but the God of Dance still walked. Squiggling tendrils were protruding from the neck, questing out, reaching for the souls around it.
However, Lord Moore only had eyes for that gateway back to the real world. He’d seen the Goblin King going that way along with all those who belonged to this reality. Roots Mrsha…he hadn’t seen her.
He didn’t know where his Mrsha was, either. Nor so many others. But the older half-Giant had seen someone who mattered. Someone who needed to turn and head towards the inn. Who deserved another chance at life.
The half-Giant seized someone in the crowd, almost as tall as himself, as Laedonius Deviy drew nearer, and he yanked them to a standstill.
Moore. The Moore of the beach days. The half-Giant was running, white-faced. He’d fallen behind his Seborn, his Jelaqua, and he was holding Ulinde in his arms.
“You.”
The two locked gazes, and Lord Moore pointed as Beach Moore gaped at his older self. It must have seemed like some vision to him, an impossibility of the future.
“That girl needs you. That world needs you. Jelaqua, Seborn, they need you. Go.”
People streamed around them, the tiny folk of this world compared to the half-Giants, and Moore shook his head.
“What are you—are you mad? Everyone’s going there. Look!”
He thrust a finger at the other reality waiting for them. Lord Moore turned his head; it was true. They were running for that door.
Even the people who had fled into the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Behind them, the God of Dance turned, and both Moores saw someone running their way.
“Moore!”
Beach Lyonette and Beach Mrsha and people from the inn. They’d seen the door opening and had come back into the [Palace of Fates]. But the God of Dance was in the way.
Laedonius Deviy reached for the [Princess] and her daughter, and the two half-Giants spoke simultaneously.
“[Earthen Pillar]!”
Moore pointed; his older counterpart slammed a staff into the ground. The God of Dance noticed two pillars of earth emerge from the [Palace of Fates]. He dodged the first, stepping around it with the grace that was in his divine being. Leapt over the second, hands reaching for the souls running towards him—
A pair of [Fireballs] from Ulinde’s wand blasted the God of Dance out of the air. Ulinde, the Selphid [Spellslinger], lowered her wands as the half-Giants breathed in relief. Then the stream of souls passed by Deviy, and Beach Lyonette shouted.
“Come on!”
Moore would have run with her, Ulinde in his arms, but Lord Moore yanked him back again.
“I told you—”
“Let go of me! I’m dead! Everyone I love is going there!”
They fought, and Ulinde spoke as she aimed her wands at Laedonius Deviy, firing more spells at the dead god.
“Why does Moore have to go back?”
She and her Moore stood in the shadow of that older version of the half-Giant.
Moore was half-Giant, but he wasn’t as tall as he could be. He was close to the height of some Minotaurs, to War Walker Dullahans—half-Human.
Lord Moore stood on the Giant side of his blood, and his voice rolled like those ancient mountains.
“The Mrsha of the real world has lost her Moore. You are needed—so go back. Take Ulinde with you.”
He pointed, as if it were the most obvious thing to do.
Obvious.
The Moore of the world of the beach and better days had been suffering for days. Ever since he’d been told he had died. He had wrestled with the question that Mrsha had poised to him.
Could he abandon his world for hers? The answer came to him as he saw his Mrsha, a little, terrified girl, peering back at him from Lyonette’s arms. Moore ripped Lord Moore’s arm off his shoulder. He snarled back.
“Me? What can I do? I died! I don’t have anything there. Only suffering and death! That is my family! Should I give it all up?”
His Jelaqua and Seborn were standing at the door to the other reality, waiting for him. Abandon them? For what? The Lord of Liscor’s future slammed a fist against one wall. He thundered.
“Yes.”
His younger self blinked at him in shock, and the older Moore whispered hoarsely.
“Yes. Because though it is harder, painful, we go where we are needed most, not where we are happier.”
“I’m an adventurer, not a hero—”
Moore croaked, and Lord Moore seized his cheek in one hand.
“Not an adventurer, fool. Half-Giant. We are always the lonely remnant of legends. First to bleed. Unable to fit in anywhere. I know how painful it is. But we are strong—you are strong because you can protect them. The small folk live larger than we could ever dream. Better to die before them. Those glorious children, our tiny friends. You have to protect them.”
Halrac. Jelaqua. Garen. Seborn. All of them—the half-Giant’s eyes were filled with images of his friends, and he gazed down at the younger half-Giant. Daring his younger self to be the champion he needed to be, to stand with them all.
The younger Moore’s head turned between the [Garden of Sanctuary] and that world beyond.
“That child needs me too.”
Lord Moore’s hand tightened on his younger self’s shoulder. He would have pulled Moore back, dragged him to the world that needed a version of him—but he could not.
The younger half-Giant pulled back, and the ground trembled between them. Shocked, Lord Moore lost his footing and slipped. Then he saw the half-Giant glance down at the Selphid in his arms.
“I want a world where I’m happy. I’m sorry. Come on, Ulinde.”
He walked away from the reality where he was dead, and the strength of mountains walked with him. The older half-Giant saw it, then, as his grip broke. Lord Moore hesitated—then let go of his younger self’s shoulder.
Beach Moore halted quizzically and peeked back. But his older self just took a step away.
“Then go. Be happy, for me. For all of us. I was the fool. Someone has to protect that child. Slay that monster in the dungeon. But not you.”
Beach Moore’s eyes opened wide, and the Lord of Liscor whirled. Moore reached out for him, but Lord Moore began to run. Away from that beautiful reality, away from his version of Lyonette and his comrades, shouting his name.
Pisces of the future. Selys. His friends, the citizens of Liscor—the half-Giant lifted a single hand as that door into another world receded. The last of the Halfseekers ran back to where he was needed most.
“Once more, and every time until the end!”
His younger self watched the half-Giant running, taller than belief, a fragment of myths. A fairy tale trying to make the story end a tiny bit better.
The God of Dance was waiting for Lord Moore. Blocking his way. Laedonius Deviy reached out a shaking hand and spoke. He had no head—but three voices whispered from the severed stump. Each one trying to imitate the God of Dance’s voice.
“I—I—I—I—I—am a God. Worship me.”
The half-Giant ran, staff raised, as that arm stretched towards him. Lord Moore bared his teeth and swung his staff as the fingers elongated—
A scythe cut Laedonius Deviy’s arm off; the infested god stumbled. He turned and raised the other arm.
The Maiden swung her scythe through the God of Dance, and his torso fell to the ground. She slashed again, and the legs and his lower half just…vanished. Laedonius Deviy began to crawl away; Kasigna drove her scythe into the ground, point-first, and drew it back.
Two halves of the former God of Dance collapsed, and Lord Moore ran past the Maiden. She could have struck him, but she was too focused on the other dead god. He saw her kick the pieces of the dead god’s skin.
Something rustled within the folds of flesh. Wriggling shapes emerged, and the Maiden swung her scythe. Sundering the infestation as pieces of Deviy tried to wiggle away. Then she raised her scythe and cried out, weeping for him in relief, in sorrow.
“The God of Dance is dead.”
Then there were five. The Crone, the trapped God of Magic, Cauwine, Tamaroth, Norechl, all saw a rueful, graceful man free of his infestation step forwards and take a bow.
Laedonius Deviy vanished, and the Maiden glanced back at the running half-Giant. Then, towards the sea of souls leaving this reality. She strode towards them.
Her work was not yet done.
 
——
 
Now the time had come to leave. Leave for the reality beyond this one. Or—a few souls still went for the [Garden of Sanctuary]. They chose to remain, to interfere, because they felt they must.
Or to stop him.
The Goblin King.
He fled, and they, who had a responsibility to stop him, followed.
Goblins.
Not just him, of course. The Harpy Queen flew with six Dragonlords at her wings—but they were so far behind him. He ran faster than they could move, flickering down the corridors, towards the exit.
“Stop!”
He ran into them again. The Goblin Lord of Civilizations and her bodyguard, still alive, moving with Chieftain Rags and Fightipilota. The [Fighter Pilot] had no child in her arms. She was stumbling, being dragged along by the Chieftain, and the Goblin King wondered, for a moment, where that Mrsha had gone.
Strange. The Goblin King had no time for the girl he had hunted across a battlefield anymore. He turned without a word—and Ragathsi fired a burst from her magical submachine gun.
[Fireballs] engulfed the corridor in front of the Goblin King in a sea of flames, but he barely glanced at her.
“I am leaving. Follow afterwards and join me. Recreate your cities a second time, Ragathsi.”
“A second time?”
She laughed hollowly and raised her gun, aiming it at him. Her bodyguard spread out around the Goblin Lord of Civilizations, a swordmaster with headphones blasting music, a [Mage] with sparks of each elemental magic hovering over their fingers. A soldier aiming a rifle at the Goblin King’s chest.
All that remained of their world. The Goblin Lord of Civilizations’ eyes fixed on the Goblin King.
“I will not damn two worlds with you. Stop or face me.”
He intended to do neither. The Goblin King turned—and Ragathsi fired as Chieftain Rags aimed the revolver at his back and fired as well.
They missed. The Goblin King bounded past them. Sprinting down the changing hallways, until at last…he found it.
The exit, guarded by the [Princess]. He was prepared to risk whatever weapon she held—but when he came to the corridor once more, she did not hold it.
The [Princess] did not move as the Goblin King charged down the corridor. His senses were alert for the weapon.
The box. Yet she was comatose, the [Knight] kneeling over her, shaking her arm. When he looked up and saw the Goblin King—it was too late.
Ser Dalimont tried to shield Lyonette and reach for the fallen Box of Incontinuity, which lay there, an ordinary, boring cube of wood with the hatch slightly ajar.
The Goblin King drew his arm back to throw a dagger with careless indifference for Rabbiteater’s voice screaming in his heart. He heard thunder in his ears. Then the fiery pellets struck his breastplate, exploded, and his feet left the ground.
Chief Mechanic Kevin fired again, and the second shot flung the Goblin King further backwards. He kept firing as he advanced at a walk. Each time he squeezed the trigger of his custom-built shotgun, the recoil forced the stock back against his shoulder.
But he kept it level, tracking the armored figure, who vanished in a cloud of smoke. Kevin kept shooting, moving past Ser Dalimont and Lyonette. Each shell became a glowing cloud of tiny fragments that exploded on contact with anything they hit.
Marble dust, smoke, and the fiery fragments of the shells ignited a second time in a dust explosion. The [Master Engineer] yanked eight golden shells out of the air and inserted them two-at-a-time into a slot along the shotgun’s base.
“Hey, Rabbiteater. Found you.”
