Erin tried to dodge as a line of thread, Dragon’s heartstring, shot out and snared one of her arms. It yanked her backwards, and she began to burn it with the black flames of her hatred. Belavierr ripped green flames off her arm and stood, panting.
Half her face was gone. Her good eye flashed; her nose and the left side of her face were melting, the flesh falling downwards like dough. As part of her face sloughed off, it revealed a chittering, hairy spider’s face inside her skin. But the eyes of the spider were orange and ringed, and in their depths was another layer.
Another and another—then the spider’s face vanished, covered by a cocoon of threads. Belavierr’s face re-knit. She had so many layers of immortality…but she was as afraid of Erin Solstice as she was of the Dragonlord of Flames or the Goblin King.
This woman could burn away her lives. 
But the [Innkeeper] was dying. Her wounds should have already killed her. Her willpower and levels were the only things keeping her fighting.
Erin stumbled to her feet, still wrenching at the heartstring wrapped around her arm, and a needle, like a javelin, went through her stomach. She slammed backwards into a wall and struggled, a pinned insect.
The needle, made of solid Adamantium, began to melt. The [Innkeeper] opened her mouth and exhaled flames at the [Witch]. Like a Dragon trapped in a Human’s body.
Belavierr had killed Dragons and eaten their hearts. Her scissors sheared through the flames, and she retreated, contemptuous. They were not of the same level.
“Get back here.”
The [Innkeeper] kept struggling, but the [Witch] pointed a finger, and a tidal wave of water, an unbound sea, crashed down the hallway. Enough water to drown those flames. The [Witch] waited for the fire to die, and then the hallway quaked.
Another wave of water; a ship met the raging torrent, and the two waves of water collided. Belavierr threw up one hand as The Wandering Ship crashed through her spell. It was headed straight at her—
She put her hand out and caught the prow of the ship, and the Spider’s feet skidded across the palace’s floors. A hundred feet—then the ship halted, and she shoved it back.
It vanished as Belavierr, panting, raised her head. Erin Solstice was running at her, blazing. The Witch of Webs ripped the scissors in half and held a half in each hand, like daggers. She strode forwards, then leapt up, kicking Erin off her feet. She darted forwards, far nimbler than her size suggested, a dancing, scurrying spider armed with metal fangs.
She stabbed in a flurry, again and again, then stepped back, tilting her head as the [Innkeeper] bled.
Still, the woman came on. She charged—into a web of wires that snapped shut around her. Only her skin, as tough as her inn, saved her. Cocooned, Erin stumbled, and Belavierr rammed one half of her scissors into Erin’s stomach.
She brought the other half up and down, aiming for Erin’s forehead, but the [Innkeeper]’s arm slashed. Belavierr blinked—caught her severed hand, and backed up. She sewed it back onto her arm, her free hand moving with lightning speed, and the [Innkeeper] bled onto the floor, trying to burn free.
The flames were lower now. Belavierr hesitated, drawing a pair of needles from her bag of holding, both black and mottled with green filth. Poisoned beyond belief. Belavierr met those burning eyes, then turned away.
The Stitch Witch began striding away from the [Innkeeper] as Erin tried to go after her. She emerged from the hallway they were fighting in, water covered with brilliant flames washing around her.
She strode down the hallway, past a giant made of bones and the Necromancer fighting the trio of immortals. Taletevirion tried to grab Belavierr—she tossed him into Visophecin, and Rhisveri roared.
“Someone stop—”
Belavierr simply walked past him, each step of her Seven League Boots carrying her out of the battle. Down that hallway, then right…and….there.
Ah.
There was the exit. Belavierr reached it at the same time that that girl skidded around the corner.
Roots Mrsha, leading Pyrite and the survivors of the beach world out with Dame Ushar. They saw the Stitch Witch, and Ushar screamed.
“Watch out—”
Belavierr had no time for them. Pyrite threw his axe, and Dame Ushar unleashed a [Fireball] at her. The Stitch Witch let the axe thunk into her face. She pulled it out and threw it back; the Hobgoblin went sprawling with a roar. The [Fireball] unknitted itself in midair.
The [Witch] pulled black needles from her sleeves and licked them; they came away covered in filthy, green poison. She flicked the needles, one, two.
“Your Majesty!”
Ser Dalimont blocked the one aimed at Lyonette’s chest. The impact from the tiny needle slammed him into a wall. Ushar lowered her shield and heard a ting.
A tiny hole in her shield, punched through the enchanted metal. She looked down—and Roots Mrsha blinked. The Gnoll girl reached up as the black needle stood out in the middle of her fur, then fell over onto her back.
There. Belavierr smiled as the [Princess] screamed and ran for her daughter.
Belavierr walked on. The Stitch Witch paid no notice to the bolts of black magic Visophecin fired into her back. Escape.
She could sacrifice another of her lives. All she had to do was escape.
Belavierr strode by a young woman holding a scythe, and the Stitch Witch glanced at the Maiden, because she hadn’t noticed her. Not at first. It was like seeing an old…memory. The Maiden swung the scythe, and the Stitch Witch’s eyes widened.
Belavierr dodged the simple sickle blade, or tried to. It cleaved through the side of her face and slashed through one of her eyes. She…blinked.
 
——
 
Lyonette du Marquin, bending over her daughter, was sobbing, reaching for Mrsha. Her daughter! The poisoned needle had gone straight into Mrsha’s neck—
Roots Mrsha sat up and blinked. She held up a card as she pulled the needle out of her fur. It was covered in blood, but not much.
Ow. Why am I alive?
The [Princess]’ jaw dropped open. Roots Mrsha kicked the poisoned needle as far as she could. She felt at her neck, and it was burning in agony. But she…
[Resistance: Disease]. [Purifying Blood]. Mrsha gasped in pain as the foulness in her body began to vanish. Her blood was excising it, just like the Crypt Worms. Then she looked up.
Belavierr! Someone had to stop—
The Stitch Witch was standing there, clutching at her right eye. Her head was—cut. That scythe.
Kasigna had cut through Belavierr’s face.
The Witch of Webs took her hand away, and she seemed shocked as the Maiden was. The Maiden was checking the scythe, confused that it had not ended Belavierr. But the [Witch]—
The [Witch] was an insanely tall woman with long, black hair, and she was covered in an ornamented robe of webs and patterns. The Witch of Webs, her ringed eyes open in shock, flames still clinging to her dress.
One layer deeper, a horrific spider was nested in a web of her fraying power, clinging to the remnants of the craft she had sacrificed, its strings of power in its long, hairy legs. The Spider of legends—one of its many eyes, orange and ringed with those black lines, cut—
A many-faced woman hid in the basement. She was more than one being. She was [Witches]—those who had joined with her willingly and unwillingly, a stitched amalgamation of their souls. Her arms and legs protruded from that pallid body, every single species, and each head had those ringed, orange eyes. But there was a cut—
A titanic, chained beast was buried in deep waters. A spider? No…a being closer to a Seamwalker than mortal. An idea built out of mortal fears and superstitions, the scuttling horror who had plundered empires and made pacts with every being across every age. It, too, had many eyes. And one of them was cut—
Mrsha saw more layers. Layers upon layers of power, each one a different kind of Belavierr. Each one another way in which she had cheated death. To kill her, you had to destroy every one. Pierce those rings of immortality.
Now, Roots Mrsha saw it. She saw straight through Belavierr, to the center of the Stitch Witch’s being.
A young woman, barely older than Erin or Lyonette, covered in blood, standing in front of an altar. She was naked; the ritual dagger was in her hand as she stood in the moment of her first sacrifice.
Her first link towards immortality. The first Belavierr was clutching at her face.
The scythe had cut her straight through to her mortality. But it hadn’t killed her.
Belavierr reeled. She clutched at her face, and Mrsha saw black threads trying to close the wound. She backed away from the Maiden.
“You. Y-you shouldn’t be here. I have never seen you. You have no right to come for me. Back. Back.”
She swung her hands clumsily at the Maiden. She wore an expression of the truest fear on her face, and the Maiden swung her scythe again—Belavierr leapt back with a shriek, and the Maiden missed. Then she spoke, tilting her head and regarding the edge of the scythe, as if it were subtly off or Belavierr were hard to strike.
“You have hidden from me for so long. Come. Take my hand, Belavierr.”
The Stitch Witch whirled and ran. Or rather, tried to. She stumbled; her boots weren’t working. She flung up a hand to attack the Maiden, and no magic came.
The Witch of Webs, the original woman, spoke, lifting the bloody dagger as she backed away.
“You shall not take me so easily. Not you. Not now.”
The Maiden advanced on her, and Belavierr stumbled backwards. She whirled to run down a hallway. All she had to do was escape one more time! The [Witch] ran forwards and halted in confusion.
She hadn’t felt pain from that reaper’s scythe. Not from that gentle touch that had tried to take her away. Now, she felt the unkind sting of metal in her body, an agony of mortal make.
The Stitch Witch gazed down at the blade running through her chest. In the center of her immortal heart, the young woman stumbled and tried to pull the dagger out—but the smiling Nanette just plunged the blade deeper.
“Oh, second mother of mine. You are dying. Just as I hoped.”
“Nanette. Not now. Not—”
The Witch of Sorrows ignored her teacher. She kept stabbing, and Belavierr opened her mouth to scream or curse her daughter. Then blood ran from her mouth, and she sank to the ground.
A spider curled up, running with blood.
A sunken nightmare floated up through dark waters.
A young woman lay on her altar, eyes open vacantly to the sky.
The Stitch Witch collapsed, and the older Nanette kept stabbing Belavierr. Stabbing the body until her head jerked up.
The Maiden bent over Belavierr’s body and gently took one of the limp hands.
“One who fancied she could escape even Death. This is why it must end.”
She raised the scythe as the older Nanette backed away. Erin Solstice limped around the hallway, knife raised. Both [Witches] saw the Maiden swing her blade and leapt back.
The hallway, and Belavierr’s corpse, vanished. The Maiden severed the entire section of the [Palace of Fates], and the entire Skill shuddered. The last thing Roots Mrsha saw was Erin and Nanette, running, leaping towards another hallway.
She’s destroying everything. That scythe can cut even Belavierr in half. She’s going to erase the entire [Palace of Fates].
The Maiden turned, and she did not seem so grand or evil as Roots Mrsha had imagined the final foe. The Maiden actually appeared rather unsure as she held the scythe. Unpracticed, tired, and exhausted.
But oh, so determined. She met Roots Mrsha’s eyes, and the same conviction the girl had seen in the real Mrsha’s gaze was there.
Ah, so you are here for us.
The Maiden pointed the scythe, one-handed.
“Those who belong to the world, leave this place. The rest must be unmade.”
She was speaking to Lyonette. The [Princess] blinked; the scythe wasn’t aimed at her. The Maiden turned her head and spoke again.
“You shall not leave.”
It was Roots Mrsha she was regarding, Zel Shivertail, all those from other worlds. The Doombearer backed up a step.
“Don’t touch her. I’ll use this. I swear, I will!”
Lyonette abandoned the Box of Incontinuity and drew her sword. She stepped forwards, pointing the blade at the Maiden as Ser Dalimont and Ushar moved forwards on either side of her. The Maiden’s scythe gleamed with a blade sharper than the event horizon of the universe. With an edge that could reap the universe.
The [Princess] shouted.
“Run, Mrsha!”
Roots Mrsha ran, and the Maiden raised that scythe to strike her. The two Thronebearers threw themselves forwards, and she tsked.
“Begone.”
She struck them with the haft of her scythe and sent the two [Knights] spinning away, but that was enough time for Roots Mrsha to run from it. Away from the exit.
The Maiden pursued them down the same hallway that Belavierr had come down, and she saw the Necromancer, rapier drawn, dueling Visophecin and Taletevirion at the same time. He spun—saw her—and Az’kerash’s eyes widened.
“Oh. The most beautiful thing in the world. Not yet, not yet.”
He recognized her instantly and lifted a finger. Az’kerash fired a spray of diamond shards at the Maiden. One of the shards went straight through her throat. A razor that pierced the Maiden’s body…the Goddess didn’t even react.
The Maiden advanced, swinging her scythe to cut down the doors along the hallway, faster now, striding forward, then running. She cut another section of the [Palace of Fates] away, and she was a God in her entirety now.
Not a dead corpse.
Not a starving memory of the divine.
Like the final flare of light of a dying star, the final hour of a memory before the long night, the Maiden was here. In the flesh.
She swung her scythe, and the Necromancer’s upper torso toppled from his legs. The white pupils in his midnight eyes flickered out, and he fell, his body vanishing. He left a pile of his severed robes behind, an amulet—a trio of rings, and his boots and belt.
Taletevirion, Rhisveri, and Visophecin, bloody and battered from their battle with him, stared at the being who had erased the Necromancer with a single swing.
Again—the Maiden ran a finger along the edge of the scythe, frowning. She peered at the remains of the Necromancer, and she sifted through his possessions.
“Just like that woman, you try so hard.”
The Maiden lifted something in her hands. An amulet, faded and worn, in the shape of a silver heart. A lover’s keepsake.
Green light flashed from it, and the Unicorn gasped. The scythe cut the amulet in half delicately, and the Maiden’s eyes narrowed. She hesitated, inspecting the pieces, then made a displeased sound.
“Do you fear me that much?”
