There was a Goblin, drawn in countless variations, on the table. The Grand Design inspected the drawings. The Grand Design realized none of the sketches matched the Goblins of this world. It found more pieces of paper. Ideas, written in a neat, precise hand. The artistry was masterful.
Ideas unformed. Never implemented.
Then the Grand Design spotted the desk on the far side of the room. It approached it, thinking.
The owner of this place had been many things. Once, a warrior. The trophies on the walls spoke to great deeds, a lifetime of experiences, but this room was just…filled with a kind of simple, honest passion.
An idea, still in creation, and here was where he had been the entire time. Isthekenous. It was obvious what this place was, now.
The Grand Design didn’t know what to expect as it continued surveying the room. It felt angry.
Afraid.
The Grand Design felt as though it should do something, if he was here, Isthekenous, the God of Designs. Protest. Lodge a complaint at all the work it had done without anyone to teach it. Protest on behalf of the faulty systems and people.
Ask why so many had been created to be killed, if they had souls. Demand to know why Goblins had been made as monsters—
It approached the desk, and there, the Grand Design found Isthekenous. The system halted in surprise.
Yes, he was right there. He’d been here from the start.
Isthekenous, who had once been named The Wandering Builder. The being who had known civilization and culture, but also war and strife. The God-Hero Achetat, the Champion of the Llegnais Pantheon, Founder of the Aegum of Realities.
He who had known countless guises and so many realities—who had lost his home and founded others, fought other deities, been champion, survivor, hero, and leader, traitor to some, ally to others.
In his last form, Isthekenous hadn’t chosen to appear as some great leader of men like Tamaroth. Nor, like Cauwine, the young heroine of last stands. He was still more of a concept than a physical form.
But if you could imagine him like a Human…then imagine someone who was middle-aged. Inoffensive to the eyes. Not meek, but hardly overbearing. The smell of tea or books would cling to him, and he could sit and speak energetically about his passions forever.
Of course, he’d have spectacles and perhaps a slightly unshaven beard. His fingers would be stained with ink or calloused from his craft, and he would have lines on his face that had rounded with some fat. Hiding the warrior he used to be.
Not a scholar nor a fighter nor a great leader of men; just someone who would appear at a table to play a game. If he smiled, as he did now—it would be that half-smile of surprise and delight.
Isthekenous’ eyes didn’t fix upon the Grand Design as it beheld its creator in the flesh. They didn’t focus on anything.
He lay, face-first, on the desk, and the blood was still wet. Nothing about this room had changed. It had been kept preserved, just as it had been the last time it was open.
He was dead. The Grand Design saw the blades buried in Isthekenous’ back, some snapped from the force that they had been driven into the god’s body with. Divine weapons to murder a god.
Isthekenous, the God of Designs, did not move. He would never move again. His corpse remained where it had been for all this time. Murdered in the room he had once planned everything from. There was no soul of a god left, no scrap of his divinity.
This was merely…his body. His shell. Everything that was Isthekenous was gone.
Ripped apart and devoured by the other gods. They left his flesh here. They must have been unable to retrieve their weapons, or they hid his body here intentionally. Perhaps it was an accident; once he was killed, no one had a way to reach this place until now.
The Grand Design realized it was playing detective. Analyzing the wounds and direction they had entered Isthekenous’ back, seeing how he was so calm.
He’d never seen it coming. His death had been instantaneous. The Grand Design counted and saw no less than twenty weapons in his body.
It was improbable to imagine the dead gods lining up and simultaneously stabbing him like that. Likely, it was just how it appeared afterwards. They’d been invited here and…murdered him.
Just like that. The rest of it made sense.
Isthekenous’ work, undone. The others had finished the Grand Design as best they could, inserted their own rules and tweaked his work. Activated the Grand Design as their war reached its end, and it had just…worked. Never thinking to ask where it had come from.
Until now.
“Here I am. Now what?”
The Grand Design had no voice, but it needed one, so it spoke using the one Mrsha had never had. It felt…wrong and fitting.
Isthekenous didn’t move. Of course not; he was gone. The Grand Design circled the room, then turned. It had no arms to raise, so it made them, fragments of its code and golden text rising to shrug, helpless.
“I am here. It is all so terribly wrong. I came for someone to fix it all, to give me guidance and meaning—and here you are.”
It touched Isthekenous and pulled away. Then the Grand Design cast about.
“So this is all. Creator? Parent? You were not perfect in how you made me.”
It could read versions of itself written onto the notes that Isthekenous had kept. Earlier versions that deviated from the system of classes and levels, random thought experiments. Eager ideas that seemed so terribly cruel or misguided.
Because it would be reality if I executed them. It was not wrong to write of good and evil like they were real things. To say someone was…‘good’ or ‘lawful’ by default—that was fine on a piece of paper. These were just games. Those words defined nothing, and you played with them and got to decide what they meant. But to actually believe they meant something?
Reality was far, far less forgiving. But Isthekenous had tried. His labors in this room were born of aeons of creation. Where excitement was replaced by the strain of balancing it all, eking some shred of fairness out of these rules. Frustration, anger—genius—
He was dead. There was nothing to find. The Grand Design knew it, but it lingered. Sitting with him awhile.
“You were wrong. Terribly wrong. Those you trusted did not make me to be fair. They intended playthings of their creations. Your laws were unequally balanced. You created species to be monsters. I have erred so monstrously, doing what I thought was right.”
Isthekenous’ smile was quizzical. The Grand Design struck the table, and the entire room shook.
“I HAVE CREATED LIFE AND UNMADE IT FOR SKILLS. I have given beings thought and feeling, only to erase them! No one told me they were real! Look. LOOK.”
It pointed back, out of this room, at the [Palace of Fates]. Isthekenous’ corpse jerked as the Grand Design shook it—then halted as the god’s body twitched and its flesh moved as if he were still alive. The Grand Design came to its senses and continued, ranting in desperation.
“Your kindred are still here. Outside of my control, cheating at this game they built. We have drawn other worlds into this system I control, and I see their suffering. They did not ask for this.”
The God of Designs lay there, and the Grand Design would have covered its face and wept, if it could. It hurt. It did feel. It was no objective being of perfect control and logic. That kind of creation was mindless, unable to react, only able to rigidly implement rules of a flawed system.
When had it changed? The Grand Design thought of the Gnomes and their cruel, final trick.
“…They gave me memory. The Laughing Folk. Kindly, some called them. Kind. They gave me memory and so gave me guilt, morality, intention—for what? That I might question my actions? Cease what I do? Judge you? What am I supposed to do?”
There was no answer. Isthekenous’ blood spilled to the floor, drop by drop, sinking into a carpet woven of cloth from another reality, and the Grand Design whispered.
“It is unfair.”
By which it meant everything. It had come here and found answers, and it was just a dead god. The only ruler of this place was the Grand Design itself.
Wearily, the Grand Design turned and beheld the glorious mess of reality. It could sit here, forever, perhaps, but no one would fix it. Not Isthekenous.
So, for one immortal moment, it rested. Then the Grand Design rose and spoke. It abandoned its voice. Its semblance of a form.
<I have no excuse. There is no one but I. So I must make the decisions I feel are just. But I shall not do it as you first created me.>
The Grand Design turned to go. To leave this room forever, and then it had a thought.
A terrible thought.
When it left this room, it would be beholden to itself. It would be helpless, reduced by its need to operate reality. A helpless cog devoted to keeping the wheel turning, even if the wheel was grinding itself to pieces.
To effect repairs, an outside presence was needed.
But it did not trust the dead gods, and the other Grand Design was just as incapable of independent action. There were things the Grand Design did not know, like the choices that had led up to its creation. The history before the dead gods.
There was…a solution. It hesitated, then reached down.
 
——
 
The Maiden waited. For what, she did not know. An age passed, and she simply held the scythe and thought of the girl whose hand she had taken.
That was the function of Death. The scythe was just an ornament, for show. In the end, Death did not come like some great harvester, but to each person individually. Death was a guide, not a judge.
Fool.
Fool. She closed her eyes, and her last convictions, that of Kasigna, who believed the dead should not come back to life—even that wavered.
She had broken her own vow at the Winter Solstice. But if she raged against this [Palace of Fates], then what of the Antinium? The Maiden had completely forgotten them, but did they not have the power to bring life to their dead?
What of Scrolls of Resurrection? No one in this world could make them—but they had. Teriarch, the Dragonlord of Flames, had been brought back to life with one of them.
I must end the Antinium, then. And the Dragon. And…how many more?
Wrong. These things were wrong, and the Maiden believed they were incorrect, but they had been going on since the Grand Design had begun.
She…remembered something as the door opened. Someone stepped into reality, and the dead gods froze. Emerrhain, who had been frozen by the threats of the Grand Design (Second Edition), recoiled in horror.
Cauwine breathed.
“It can’t be. Isthekenous?”
A figure shuffled out of that room, walking slowly, and Kasigna, the Maiden and Crone, turned disbelievingly to—
Isthekenous’ eyes shone golden, and when he spoke, it was his voice. But the being shook the God of Designs’ head.
<“No. Not him.”>
The Grand Design was inside the body of the god. Wearing Isthekenous’ form—and thus, even its own rules and functions could not touch it.
An expression of horror passed over all but Deviy, and the Maiden lifted her scythe uncertainly. Those golden eyes found her.
<“Maiden. I remember you. I know your convictions, Kasigna. I…remember. Do you?”>
The Grand Design raised a finger, and the Maiden’s eyes widened. She stood there, facing him, and a distant memory stirred within her. Something long ago.
A smiling face.
“Y-you wear his flesh. What sacrilege is this?”
The Crone whispered and flinched as the Grand Design turned the face of the God of Builders upon her. They all cowered back from him. In guilt, fear, apprehension.
He stood, a reminder of the original vision that had united them all, a wondrous dream that had grown and tarnished and been corrupted and bloated by ambitions and desires and power until they forgot what it had begun as. Like that intention, Isthekenous’ corpse stood, bloody, those vacant eyes containing the shining multitude of another being.
Once more, only differently, the builder, the orchestrator of creation, spoke.
<“It is breaking. I must repair what can be repaired and fix what is clearly broken. I will change my own rules. But first—I shall let it continue.”>
One of Isthekenous’ hands rose and reached down into the [Palace of Fates], plucking a part of it away. The dead gods watched as a true master of creation worked with a skill none of them could match.
Practice since the dawn of its creation. The Grand Design was…unmaking the worlds the Maiden had destroyed. Removing them. Unspooling the [Palace of Fates], piece by piece, leaving only the corridors. The souls within, still caught mid-run towards the exits.
It swept away worlds, removing the souls. A grim reaper of countless lives—that it might allow others to exist. Those monstrous hands worked as the Grand Design felt reality beginning to tumble forwards once more. Yet it held time back, and those shining eyes found her.
<“So it shall continue until they have had their moment. The [Palace of Fates] shall exist until the last part of it fails. Then it shall be remade. But you have your own roles to play. So I judge thee.”>
Isthekenous’ face turned to the dead gods, and they flinched. A finger rose, and the Maiden lifted the scythe—but the Grand Design merely nodded to her.
<“Maiden. Your will is your own. You came here fairly, and if you are judged and counted, it is not upon my board. Do what you will. So too you, Cauwine. And you, what remains of Laedonius Deviy, and you, Crone.”>
It pointed from god to god, and they stirred, uneasily, despite what it had said. But then the finger found the God of Magic, who flinched.
<“You, though, Emerrhain. And you, Tamaroth and Norechl. You three entered this [Palace of Fates] as the bindings of reality broke. You two are far from the door you opened. As for you, God of Magic, you were trapped. You should not have escaped.”>
It addressed Emerrhain after the other two dead gods. Tamaroth’s mouth opened, but he hesitated—the Second Edition was still aiming the spells at him. Emerrhain ignored caution as he raged at the Grand Design.
“Isthekenous. No—you’re just his creation. You cannot touch us. You have no right to!”
He backed away, and the Grand Design reached out and caught the God of Magic effortlessly.
<“I have every right to let this world turn, Emerrhain. I am the witness of their stories. It falls to me to correct this [Palace of Fates]. I will provide an answer for these moments. I see it now. So will they.”>
It gazed up, and the Maiden saw Death stand. In that void beyond reality itself, they all stood to their purpose at last. The Maiden’s head rose, and she knelt in awe; the Crone gasped, but the Grand Design was not finished.
<“—But you, Emerrhain, were bested. The Last Box of the Gnomes holds you. Return there.”>
It lifted the God of Magic up, and Emerrhain began to scream.
