Among the many different heroes, villains, the people of the worlds that had spilled into this [Palace of Fates]…there was only one of him.
So few versions of this man lived. Only one had reached this place. Perhaps that was also destiny.
Halrac Everam stepped away from the door that led out of this reality. He halted and drew his sword. The Gold-rank adventurer of Griffon Hunt pointed the tip of his blade at the Maiden.
“Halt. I challenge you to single combat, Kasigna. Withdraw, or I will kill you.”
Roots Mrsha gasped as she heard his voice from across the vast distance between them. Lyonette whispered.
“Halrac?”
Roots Mrsha saw him and knew which one it was. This was the Halrac of the beach world. He…he stood there, wind from the reality beyond blowing across his hair. His armor was simple, enchanted leather, and he held a steel shortsword in one hand.
Yet the Maiden drew back a step, then another.
Him. The man who had come closest to ending her in the battle at the Winter Solstice. Just…a man. Not even the original. She knew it. The Maiden lifted her scythe again and then stared at her trembling hands.
Why was she afraid? She didn’t understand. And the scythe that had reaped so many lives without effort—seemed to hesitate in front of him.
It was Roots Mrsha who realized what was so strange about Halrac. He was Beach Halrac, a Halrac who had never died on the Winter Solstice, never met the Three-in-One. Never even heard Erin Solstice speak of the dead gods. But if that was so…
How did he know Kasigna’s name? He shouldn’t. The Maiden blinked as she came to the same conclusion.
She’d killed another version of him. This wasn’t him. She raised her scythe, and his gaze transfixed her.
Halrac the Grim stared down the Maiden.
The [Bowman of Loss] was looking straight at her. Not as a stranger, but with the certain calm of an adversary meeting his foe once more. His grey-green eyes were set, and quiet determination filled them.
He knew her. He had met her before. It was the same Halrac.
How? 
Then the Maiden saw it. Something shimmered in Halrac’s eyes, in the depths of those steady pupils. A fathomless multitude of lives, like the eyes of the Grand Design itself.
Reality, countless realities, the vision of everything and every time and place blazing through his gaze. He was in there, a piece of him.
Halrac Everam had leapt into the void between existence, and some part of him had found itself in every version of him. Like Mrsha, he saw through the veil of reality—a mortal who had looked too long into the heart of everything.
Every version of him stood here at once. The soul of Halrac Everam standing in Hellste—the Halrac of the world of better days—a multitude of beings in one body.
The scythe didn’t know which one to cut. It hesitated in the air. Doubt filled the Maiden. A memory of reaching for that arrow. She licked her lips and then glanced at his sword.
He had no arrow. It was just a weapon of magic and steel.
“There is no contest.”
She said it, as much to hear the words as to tell him how futile it was. He had no weapon to harm her with. Not this time. Halrac’s face was calm. His eyes flicked past the Maiden, and he nodded at something over her shoulder.
“Perhaps. But if that’s so—why is Oberon smiling?”
A chill ran down the Maiden’s spine. She wavered—and a voice screamed across the long hallway at the [Bowman].
“Halrac!”
A figure ran forwards, out of the [Garden of Sanctuary]. The Maiden swung around, and her scythe pointed at—
Asgra?
Even Halrac gazed in silent astonishment as the little Cave Goblin pulled something out of her maid’s outfit. She dashed past Roots Mrsha, Lyonette, Ser Dalimont, running, almost tripping along the [Palace of Fates].
“I have a weapon! Take it!”
She tore something from her belt pouch, and Halrac Everam’s eyes locked on a tiny speck of metal in the Goblin girl’s hands. A piece of steel.
A belt dagger with a tiny, familiar glint of gold on the edge. Halrac recognized it, and he blinked.
“Redscar’s dagger. How—?”
The Cave Goblin waved the dagger that Redscar had given her. Just in case it went bad. It was a pathetic weapon; just a knife for mundane tasks, not a proper blade. But it had a golden edge on the blade.
The rules of the Grand Design, dust collected on the edge of the steel. Halrac’s eyes narrowed. And he remembered.
The [Blademaster], who’d been stuck with Halrac as the [Bowman] had chipped away at the golden rules to make his arrow, squatting and playing with his belt dagger as Halrac made that arrow that had caused so much trouble. Even threatened Kasigna. It would have been insane to decide to make a second weapon.
So of course, Redscar had done just that. Asgra waved the dagger overhead, then halted. She was too far away from Halrac, but she drew back and threw the dagger.
The tiny dagger flew in a pathetic arc through the air and would have landed an infinity short—but Roots Mrsha raised her paw, and the dagger vanished.
It reappeared in the air, and the Maiden whirled around. She heard a clang of metal—Halrac’s shortsword fell to the ground. He kicked it away as he caught the dagger in the air and inspected the golden edge.
Then he lifted the dagger in a practiced manner and set his stance low. A dagger with a golden edge versus a Goddess in the flesh and Death’s scythe.
Halrac the Grim bared his teeth in a wild smile, his rare expression of mirth, and the Maiden flinched. She hesitated as he spoke.
“Well? Now it’s fair enough for an adventurer. Fall back or die. This is your last warning.”
The Maiden stood there as, around her, the other passageways collapsed into dust. Leaving only this space around the door to another world and that long hallway to the [Garden of Sanctuary]. The multitude of souls, the original Lyonette, Roots Mrsha, Asgra, and Ser Dalimont observed Halrac Everam facing down the Maiden.
Broken worlds were spilling their contents into the void as the [Palace of Fates] crumbled. Broken roots, shattered doors, dying Faerie Flowers drifting in the void around them—one floated over Halrac’s shoulder. A mischievous little flower.
The Maiden exhaled softly. Like someone who finally saw all the puzzle pieces fitting together. Her eyes darted to the Faerie King, watching from his realm beyond, and she gave him a nod, which he returned.
Then the Maiden gazed towards Death and beheld their own plans. Her eyes widened.
What were they doing? But that—she glanced down at the scythe in her hands. Up at Halrac, at the door that Pawn still held ajar. The will that had carried her to this end wavered.
“It is not right. You understand why I am here, don’t you?”
She pleaded with Halrac, trying to get the man to stand aside. He gave her that expression he had given teammates, friends, Erin Solstice, clients, monsters, [Bandits], and everyone else in his entire life. That weary expression of a man staring at an idiot.
“Perhaps I do. What of it? I disagree. Step back or die. Did you really think we’d go without a fight? How do you not understand mortality? You?”
His caustic tone made her flinch. She opened her mouth to retort that she did—that she judged him from her perspective, from the righteous fairness of her divinity, her superiority, and halted.
The Maiden found Halrac’s gaze, and another face superimposed itself there. Itsthekenous’ dead expression.
Do you remember me, Kasigna?
The Maiden’s eyes flickered. And she recalled…a memory over a hundred thousand years old.
Isthekenous.
 
——
 
Kasigna, the Three-in-One, found him where he always was. In the ridiculous place he had carved out at the center of what he called his ‘Grand Design’. Or was it the ‘System of Classes’?
His names changed constantly, and the Goddess of Death disliked the inconsistency of it.
But then, Kasigna detested so much, Crone or not. It was in her nature; she was one of the last of the Gods to join this project, and it had been a long argument to convince her to abandon her dead reality in favor of this one.
Nevertheless, she was one of the most powerful of the divine, and she had established her primacy in the pantheons. Strangely, that was not what made her and Isthekenous friends.
He didn’t respect it, you see. He hadn’t even realized the depths of her power when they’d first been introduced. She had been irritated, thinking him disrespectful, until she realized he was bent over his task of obsessively writing out how a [Farmer] should grow into its myriad forms.
Isthekenous had not glanced up once, not for her nor the self-important Tamaroth nor any other being. Only when he was done had he introduced himself and spoken to her of her shattered reality, the Rot Between Worlds, and how this creation of his might create warriors to fight even the worst of it.
That had piqued her interest. Then she had given him a second chance and gotten to know Isthekenous, the God of Designs, not the many other titles he had earned.
He had few friends. Oh, countless admirers, and every divine being here supported his efforts. They would not be here otherwise; some were nakedly interested in the gain they might reap, like Emerrhain, or desperate for community, like Laedonius Deviy. But she had observed that Isthekenous had more comrades among, well, other beings.
Some of the fae, like Melidore. Or the mortals who could walk amongst gods. She was surprised, then, when he called her one of them. Even now, when she swept in with all the wrath and ire of death itself, the winds of oblivion blowing past the three figures’ robes and setting the humble room into disarray—he just held out a trio of cups on a hand-platter.
“My friend. You’ve come to shout at me again. Haven’t you?”
The Goddess of Death hesitated as Isthekenous ignored the fell winds blowing around him. Instead, the God of Designs offered her a cup of ambrosia from his homelands. For once, he was not bent about some piece of his grand work.
After a moment of hesitation, the three versions of Kasigna took a cup each and sat in the three chairs he had provided. The Crone scowled and sipped.
The Mother spoke for them, the peacemaker.
“You do well to attempt to placate me. I am upset, Isthekenous. I disagree with this…violation of my sovereignty. This decision that was made in conclave with the other Gods shall not stand! All those with me will oppose it until I am satisfied. And I shall war with as many of the divine as I must! It shall not be done.”
The Maiden added waspishly, prone to both reason and unreason as the mood took her.
“And this is the one thing I shall not shift on.”
It was a dire threat, and she meant it. She would draw blood, even slaughter lesser Gods to make her point. They had the effrontery to stand against her, like that pitiful God, Oletp, as if their peers could save them from her wrath.
This might be a conclave of countless divine beings, but they could war and fight in this mortal world they were creating. Some had already perished, defending this place from intruders like the Rot Between Worlds. Or in internecine squabbles. Despite being one of the last to attend, Kasigna had already slain six deities. Truly slain them; it made even the greatest of the divine walk warily around her.
But not him. To the annoyance of all three, in the face of these terrible threats, Isthekenous chuckled. He was in a good humor today. No, he was always in a good humor when he spoke of his Grand Design. It was his; he had worked exponentially more than any hundred gods.
“That does not surprise me, Kasigna. I have always admired that about you. You alone never waver in your convictions. I have, and I respect your will. Less so that of your alliance. I am surprised Tamaroth stands with you. But then, he is attracted to power.”
This statement endeared the Crone, who savored the respect, and the Maiden shrugged.
“He courts me. That one wishes something rather…I would call it insulting, but he proposes it. Let us not speak of that, but your…system…of life and death. I have already compromised with the others who pretend to my title.”
“Ah, Diotrichne. She is the Goddess of the Afterlife.”
“In her reality. I would ensure there is no question who rules. But she wheedles and begs for support from her pantheon.”
“Come, Kasigna. Is might the only way by which we of the divine may negotiate? She shall have her ‘Diotria’ and you ‘Kasignel’.”
The Three-in-One was not happy. He was distracting her, and she was trying to stay upset. Mother, Maiden, and Crone glowered at Isthekenous.
“Three afterlives is not how the dead should exist. Let alone more! Nor do I like the name of it.”
He just fussed with a piece of foolscap, jotting a note down as he found a treat to offer her.
“Kasigna, please. We have agreed—you are free to change it to whatever you wish. It is a placeholder. Let us speak of mortality. Reincarnation. It bothers you.”
He came straight to it, and Kasigna folded her arms across three bodies, angry, but unable to fully take it out upon him. He was listening to her, and he had labored endlessly to bring her beloved afterlife to fruition here.
In return, she had gifted him with the knowledge of life and death. Helped weave it into the ideas, these…scions of concepts that he called ‘classes’. [Necromancers] would draw on her power.
But this was too far. Undeath was one thing, but—the Crone slammed a fist on the table and the room shook. Her voice became a roar, like that of Giants.
“You would have them revive their very souls! To speak with the dead is bad enough!”
“[Soothsayers]. [Summoners]. Depending on the type of class, they could commune with Kasignel, Hellste, or Diotria. The faithful, the most auspicious, shall go to Diotria. Whereas Hellste—one might summon a ghost or a monster from there.”
How his eyes danced. He had built countless classes of every kind into this system. Kasigna had to admit, she was interested to see what mortals might do with this power, but the Mother leaned forward and silenced his eager prattle.
“Isthekenous. It devalues death. I have said it countless times, but surely you understand. If they can return from the dead, what fear will mortals have of it?”
“It will not be easy. I plan to introduce a malus; a cost. The prerequisites for creating a Scroll of Resurrection or performing a ritual will prohibit it from being common. You see, I’m deriving it from these—”
Isthekenous got up to show her his many tomes of rules and games and other fanciful fictions with their made-up mechanics. He halted as the Crone grabbed his hand. Kasigna snarled.
“This is reality, Isthekenous. Not a game! These mortals will be flesh and blood, and they will be respected or I shall never allow this to come to pass! If they can but live again and again, what point is there to death?”
