There was just one hallway left. One long stretch of ground with a door at the far end, severed in places, nothingness waiting to consume it all. And there stood the gatekeeper, who had beheld Halrac’s end.
Pawn. The [Apostle] stood, a giant, impossibly tall, holding a door open that was wide enough to let thousands pass under his arms. And just a small Worker holding a tiny window open.
The sunlight shone past his trembling arms, and the wind and voices from that place beyond filled his ears. But he just gazed at the place Halrac had been.
He was waiting. Waiting for the last souls to come. His arms shook; he was out of strength, and at any moment, he felt he would collapse and it would end. But he held that door as long as he had to.
“Soon, I believe, it is time to be judged. So shall I judge you. Are you ready?”
Who was he speaking to? Death? The Grand Design? Himself? He didn’t know.
Nothing remained. No worlds, no doorways. But there were beings who’d reached the [Garden of Sanctuary] and the world beyond. The Goblin King.
So Pawn waited. And he wondered what had been lost. Not just his Erin or his world.
How many made it? How many…alternate realities had been erased? So many had been destroyed. How many of those? Billions? Trillions?
Was it fair?
…Was the world any better?
His despairing gaze fixed on the [Palace of Fates] and the places where the many hallways had been. The Antinium Worker saw something, someone in that empty nothingless. And then his head rose, and he saw it too.
“Oh. I get it.”
He watched as the little soul stirred.
 
——
 
After a while, the girl got to her feet slowly, and it didn’t hurt anymore. That was something.
There was nothing, now.
No [Palace of Fates]. No twisting reality around her, even.
Just nothing.
Not even the Grand Design.
Mrsha du Marquin gazed at the place her body had been, but that was gone too.
She was dead. She’d died running from the Maiden in the [Palace of Fates]. Blood loss. The girl hadn’t even realized it until the Maiden took her paw. Now, this was what came next.
Mrsha hoped the others had made it.
It was not that she didn’t care. It was just that she was dead. On the other side of life, and when you were dead, truly…gone, it hit you.
“At last, I can rest.”
The thoughts appeared, not like spoken words, but good enough. Mrsha stood there in the void.
She wasn’t a ghost, and these weren’t the deadlands of Kasignel. This was something else. This was…it. The girl looked around, and then saw someone else was standing there.
Not lost. Just like her, taking it in.
“Hello. Who are you?”
He was a young man. In his thirties, but still—young. A kid. He seemed lost, guilty, and afraid. He wore fancy armor, but that wasn’t important. When she addressed him, he pointed at his face.
“Me? Jospiere. The…[Hero of Turns]. Who’re you?”
She told him. Then asked how he’d died.
“A Dragon breathed fire on me.”
It must have hurt. Mrsha saw, on his armor, the sigil of the Blighted Kingdom and recognized him as an enemy, of sorts. A bad person.
So she offered him her paw, and he gazed at it, then uncertainly took her hand. She walked forwards, slowly, not with any great speed.
They’d get where they were going in due time, and they had time. Jospiere licked his lips, then spoke. He didn’t try to resist going with her, but he was afraid.
“I, uh, I don’t know you. Thanks for taking me with you. I…I’m afraid, you know. I did a lot of terrible stuff.”
“Yeah. So did I.”
“Real bad stuff. Not like what a kid can do.”
“You’d be surprised. But now we’re dead. You had your chances. So did I.”
He nodded. This was all true, but the [Hero of Turn]’s voice faltered.
“I know. I knew it, deep down. I just thought I’d…I tried not to think about this. I think I’m going to be judged.”
“Yes. So do I.”
“I’m afraid of it.”
Mrsha gazed up at the young man and nodded.
“You should be, I suppose.”
She didn’t offer him false words or comfort, and he shivered. If he could have run, she rather thought he might have. She walked forwards, sad for her death, grieving, worried for her friends. But proudly, in her way.
At least she had tried. She wasn’t sure if it counted, but she’d find out soon.
 
——
 
They came across more people, presently. Lots more. Mrsha and Jospiere passed by countless [Soldiers], some of whom he knew. She walked past people she recognized and stopped when she found Ceria Springwalker.
“Which Ceria are you, please? I’m Mrsha.”
She didn’t say the ‘real’ Mrsha, because that was silly, and all of this had sort of proven there was no real. Original Mrsha—maybe.
She didn’t have to explain any of this to Ceria. They all sort of knew what was going on. The half-Elf scratched at her head.
“I’m the Ceria who got robbed by the Thief of Fluff at the Ruins of Albez. Then I ran into the Necromancer, I think. It’s all real confusing. I hope…I think my team made it.”
She laughed sadly, and Mrsha held out a paw.
“I’m the Thief of Fluff, I’m pretty sure. Or another me was. Sorry. It’s the stupid kind of thing I’d do.”
“Oh! That’s funny. How did that come about?”
Mrsha told both of them the tale of the [Palace of Fates], and they listened as they walked. The dead walked with them.
The dead of every world. Citizens of the Liscor that Niers had wiped out. Worlds that had vanished when the Maiden had cut them apart.
In fact, they ran into the Niers Astoragon who had died fighting Emerrhain, and Mrsha offered him a ride on her head, though they would have all gotten there at the same time regardless. The [Strategist] sat there, no longer hatching plans or trying to get ahead. He remarked on it conversationally to the others.
“I would, you know. It’s in my nature. But for some reason…”
He stared ahead of them, and the Fraerling laughed.
“I think I’ve been outplayed. Or perhaps it’s respect? Curiosity? Maybe the rules of an even bigger game, and I haven’t learned how to cheat, yet.”
“I think it’s because it’s just…it.”
Mrsha vouchsafed, and Niers winked at her, a smile on his face.
“Nothing’s ever ‘it’, Mrsha. But I suppose this is pretty final, eh? Good job.”
He didn’t know what she’d done, but he said it, and she smiled at the little man who’d killed a city, and they kept walking.
Two people stood out of the crowd, even here. Dragons, Crelers, even, they all walked next to each other and they were all equals, but two of them got some kind of special treatment.
Halrac and Kasigna, in her Maiden aspect, were still holding hands. She was a dead goddess, and someone had come to meet her.
The Mother. A woman who was like Kasigna, but older, the concept of her as the Mother in all her forms. Another part of the dead goddess. The Maiden and Mother nodded to each other; they must have been allowed to meet up here.
As for Halrac?
It was every Halrac and one at the same time. His journey through reality meant that a bit of him was in every Halrac there ever had been, especially at the end. So it was just him.
Mrsha let go of Jospiere’s hand to take his, and he nodded down to her.
“Hello, Mrsha.”
“Hi, Halrac. You killed her, then.”
“Yes. Though it seems one survived.”
The Maiden and Mother fell into step on Mrsha’s other side, and the Maiden dipped her head towards Mrsha. She was calm, now. There was no arrogance, no scythe, no superiority in any way. They were equals, and there was a kind of peace in the goddess’ eyes. The same relief as Mrsha.
“The Crone escaped. But she no longer commands death. She has lost her nature and the power she stole. The Crone has…changed.”
The Mother nodded, murmuring.
“She never wished to change. Of the three of us, she is the most stubborn, the most tenacious and determined. But she has changed and lost who she is. I hope she becomes something different. Or else soon, she will follow after us.”
What else could you say to that? The group walked on, all together, enemies, friends…
The dead.
In fact, they came across one last person that the two Kasignas recognized. They asked Mrsha if he could join their group.
She didn’t know the rueful man who stood there, the one called Laedonius Deviy. She’d never really met him, actually. Only his infested corpse. He was certainly better-looking than whatever had eaten him. He was fully dead, too, and introduced himself to her.
“I was the God of Dance. I fell and was…eaten. It was a relief when the Maiden set me free. This time, not a single one of the survivors stole more than they lost. Norechl lost half its body. Tamaroth, his eye. Emerrhain, an arm, Cauwine, her sword itself…”
“The sword doesn’t seem that bad. Was hers that special? I feel like she can get another.”
The Mother explained Mrsha’s misconception.
“The idea of the sword was cut. Cauwine is a peerless warrior, but now she lacks one. Let her pick up another sword. It shall ever be the sundered blade.”
“Oh my. That is bad. I guess they all did lose something important, then.”
The Maiden appeared faintly pleased with herself as Mrsha counted.
“So there’s five left, now. And only a third of Kasigna?”
The Maiden nodded and pointed back the way they’d come.
“Maybe some pests from Deviy remained. I tried to kill each part of the three parasites, but they were legion. It is up to the world to make what it will of them. Or the Grand Design itself. But the mortals bested us.”
“Yes. They did.”
Even the gods were just walking now, and at last, they came to their destination. Mrsha had known it, seen it in the distance from the start.
It was, after all, them.
It.
They, if you wanted to get pedantic.
 
Death.
 
All of them. Every version and point of view and representation that Kasigna had seen, and more. They stood next to each other, from the smallest version to the universe-defying beings, and each one had a line in front of them.
“Well, here we are.”
Halrac murmured, and everyone else agreed. The ghosts regarded each other, and they shook hands, nodded, or went together before different Deaths. Each one was…well, processing the souls in front of them, one by one.
There was probably a cooler way to say it, but Mrsha just saw a group of people at work. Like Selys in the Adventurer’s Guild, or someone running a stall down Market Street. Immigration officials at the last station to…well, whatever came next.
Not that there wasn’t any care involved. Oh, no. It was all the care in the world. It was everything.
Each soul stopped in front of the Death waiting for them, and it was different for everyone. Some weighed their hearts on a scale against a feather, which was, surprisingly, not as bad as you might think. Others spoke, giving their account of how things had gone.
A few just…took a waiting hand and went. One of the Deaths closest to Mrsha was a classic fellow. A skeleton wearing robes black as a midnight desert, bony hands curled around a scythe much like the one the Maiden had been wielding. That Death bent down and took the hand of someone waiting for him. Then his hood rose.
Mrsha saw the blue eyes of a skeleton shine, like the flare of stars in the void of the cosmos. She liked that one. He felt very traditional.
She could close her eyes, here, and listen to the sound of the dead going on their way. It was the sound of a book closing. A curtain rustling. The beating of great wings. It was an all-encompassing hubbub in a way; so many souls, so many worlds at once.
Who ever said Death was quiet? But they were pretty traditional. Mrsha stood there as the others departed, even the gods, and then she saw it.
So this was why they’d been here from the beginning, wasn’t it? For this reason.
These sneaky psychopomps. No one had been able to figure out why they’d appeared, not even Kasigna, because she was a mere goddess who embodied death.
Not the genuine article. There were probably rules and the bounds of reality that meant no one, not even the Faerie King, could just stroll in here. But Death…well.
Death found a way.
But why so many? Why a gathering when a single Death was usually enough to get the job done? Perhaps because of this moment.
Countless worlds, you see. So many doors of the [Palace of Fates], and yes, it was Mrsha’s fault. She hadn’t known. She hadn’t guessed that each person inside the Skill was a being with a soul.
You know who else hadn’t known that? The Grand Design. It had never, ever counted the beings it made for Skills, the copies it could generate, as actual, authentic people with souls.
In the Grand Design’s case, it was because no one had told it; it was working off its own preconceived notions and rules, and the gods really hadn’t ever cared what they’d done. The Grand Design had said these were soulless husks of data and they could vanish when destroyed, and there was no place in Kasignel or Hellste or anywhere else for them.
Death, clearly, disagreed. That was why they’d come here. For this moment. For the souls of the beings that no one else cared for. Even for the ones the Grand Design had made and never accounted for in its long existence.
All of them.
Hence their mysterious appearance. That was Death staging a silent protest. Raising a finger of objection. They didn’t cause a riot, they didn’t even need to speak. They just turned up, and yes, they caused chaos, interfered with everything, and scared the heck out of even the gods and the Grand Design.
All good protests did that.
Now, they were delivering the souls to, well, whatever came next. It was all mysterious, even now, and that was sort of fun to Mrsha.
It’d be really boring if I knew what came next for certain. She looked around, then cautiously lined up behind Halrac. The line moved pretty fast. She was no judge, but she didn’t see any of the Deaths slacking off.
…Maybe that one over there, actually. But regardless, Mrsha waited until Halrac stepped forwards.
Death stood before him, taller than the cosmos—and also just a bit taller than Halrac, so he loomed and yet didn’t make your neck hurt.
Halrac halted before him, and gave him a business-like nod, then spoke. He glanced over his shoulder at Mrsha as he delivered his thoughts to Death.
“Part of me’s still in Hellste. But I suppose this is the rest of me. I was proud of what I did. Glad I had a second chance. Most don’t even get one.”
He peered up at the hooded figure, and the skeletal figure bent its head. Halrac looked back at Mrsha, then forward at Death.
“…I wish I’d had longer. I expect you hear that a lot. Tell me…will I see them again? In any way, shape, or form?”
If there was a reply, Mrsha didn’t hear it. Some things were private. Whatever the answer was, it made Halrac smile, that rare, charming smile of someone who found the world was better than he expected.
“Fair enough.”
