Pain. The Crone cried out, then ripped the Antinium’s soul out of its shell. The Painted Soldier vanished. Pawn whispered.
“I see you, Crone. She has stolen our Goddess’ nature. Take it from her.”
The faithful stormed the Crone. Reaching out with blades, but also their hands. Grabbing for…
“You cannot seize that! You have no right! This is the realm of the divine!”
They were wrestling for the divine power within her! Kasigna fought them, conjuring minions of death, trying to erase the shining souls. But they were covering her like—well—ants. Biting and gouging pieces of her away.
“It may be. But you are not our god. So die.”
Pawn would have advanced with his congregation one last time. His eyes were blazing with faith, but his heart was empty. He listened to the Crone shriek, then looked around.
“It is all ending. What hope is there?”
Any being that could move was running for the exits, trying to avoid the Maiden. The Goblin King. The Painted Antinium threw themselves forwards, heedless of the collapsing [Palace of Fates].
For them, there was no salvation. But truly, Pawn no longer saw it for anyone. He turned as a single figure raced past him, but the [Apostle] was too weary to stop the Goblin King.
He honestly did not know if he could, even if his faith had remained strong.
Not that one. Not in his current body.
Pawn didn’t even know if it mattered. It was all ending. He could hear it.
 
——
 
<This state of affairs cannot long continue.>
A girl opened her eyes and thought she heard that infinite, weary voice. Pieces of reality were falling around her as someone carried her.
It hurt. Mrsha’s body hurt, but only faintly.
She knew how badly she was wounded. Fightipilota was carrying her as gently as she could as she ran, but Mrsha’s injuries were opening again. Red blossoms kept coating the bandages covering her.
Mrsha du Marquin had escaped the world of the Goblin King and brought him with her. They’d lost him at some point. She’d…opened a door.
Marquin’s door, and called the memory of the brave [Queen] she’d seen in the jumble of realities to help. She hoped it had mattered.
They’d met the Blighted King, hadn’t they? Then Sheta had turned him to paste?
Or had she dreamt that? It was all a blur. She didn’t remember. She kept closing her eyes. Opening them—
“It’s all falling apart.”
A voice spoke, despairing. Rags, her Rags, was running through the [Palace of Fates], and about them were Goblins. A tall figure, running as she fired at things coming out of the doors.
The Goblin Lord of Civilizations was with them, teeth bared in a desperate grin. Her worn face had come alive, as if this insanity were a welcome reprieve from her long duty of creating a nation of Goblins. She spoke.
“Where’s the exit?”
Ragathsi and her bodyguards slowed, and Fighti turned to her Rags. The Goblin leaned against one wall, panting.
“I don’t know. It keeps shifting. The [Palace of Fates] is—dying. Something’s erasing it. Where’s the Goblin King? We have to stop him.”
The Goblin King was out there, and worse. Mrsha felt it. Just as the Grand Design had prophesied, everything was falling apart.
Every single world was spilling into this one. Ragathsi grunted.
“Keep moving! Golems on the flank! Open fire!”
Her Goblins shot at something coming at them, and Fighti broke into a run.
“Mrsha, stay awake! Stay…we have to get her to a [Healer], Chieftain!”
The younger Rags glanced down, and Mrsha saw her eyes were wide and filled with tears. All their plans, and this was the outcome.
That was what hurt. The [Fatebreaker Child] closed her eyes again.
My fault. 
Somewhere out there, if she was even alive, Mrsha knew that Roots Mrsha was trying to keep it all together. She knew that. They wouldn’t, couldn’t give up until the true end. But it just hurt that it had to end this way.
Each and every time. All these people—Chieftain Rags skidded to a halt.
“I see someone. Hold fire! That’s—Lord Moore? Moore, here!”
She screamed, and there was a chaos of voices. That infernally loud gunfire—though it was growing more distant, which was something. Or maybe it was Mrsha losing her hearing.
The ever-present ringing had become a faint tone in her ears. Then she heard more voices.
“That’s not our Rags. Who—who is—?”
“Bodyguard, hold fire. I am Ragathsi of Civilizations. The Goblin King is loose. Where is the way out?”
“The—we don’t know. Pisces! Pisces, this way!”
Pisces? Mrsha tried to open her eyes, but her eyelids were so heavy. She realized it wasn’t her Pisces as a man’s voice spoke. A pity. She really wanted to meet older Pisces. She hoped he was still cool and lame.
“What’s going on? Who—is that Mrsha? Healing potion!”
The Goblin Lord of Civilizations shook her head.
“It’s no good. She’s been shot with Evercut—we have to get out of here.”
A breathless voice. Was that older Mrsha?
“We’ve been trying to find the exit! B-but there’s someone here. An old woman—and someone with a scythe! It’s all over. They’re destroying worlds.”
The good world. Mrsha had come up with an idea, and she was sure that Roots Mrsha had done the same. Her plan had been that if no one wanted to come with her to her harsh reality, then at least…
Now they had all lost their homes. The Doombearer twitched as she bled.
There will be no happy ending for anyone. They were all going to be…
No.
No, there had to be something. Think of it. That was what she was doing, praying that Roots Mrsha would do the same.
It was the only thing Mrsha could do. The cloud of despair that had seeped into her body was being held back by that single spark of hope in her chest, like the fluttering of her heart.
There has to be a solution. The door out, into The Wandering Inn. She didn’t think anyone was making it there.
Someone was guarding the way out. Mrsha could almost…feel her.
A Maiden with a scythe. A well-meaning Goddess, intent on keeping the dead from living. A fair and moral being, perhaps the best of them in this moment.
Mrsha disagreed with her. The Maiden’s choice would erase every world of life. Perhaps they were wrongly made, duplicates that should never have been created. But they had—they deserved to live.
Zineryr had loved her for being fair to all, for valuing death. But in the end, Kasigna was an uncompromising keeper of souls.
There has to be a solution. But every single door, every world was compromised. There was no world of better days to flee into that could not be destroyed.
So think.
Think…
More people were appearing. A young man, panting.
“Wh-where’s everyone gone?”
“Kevin?”
Kevin. There you are. It was Beach Kevin, and Mrsha wanted to apologize to him—but she heard him speaking.
“There’s some asshole who looks like me, only he has a shotgun and syphilis.”
“Dude. What the fuck?”
Beach Kevin met Future Kevin, who had ridden his motorcycle straight through into the [Palace of Fates]. Rags was speaking tersely.
“The Goblin King is trying to get out! If he does, he’ll kill Liscor. He’ll kill everything.”
“We have to leave too.”
That was the Goblin Lord, Ragathsi. Wow, things were getting confusing. Beach Kevin disagreed.
“No can do. There’s a woman with a scythe around the entrance. She’s cutting the hallways apart. Everything she runs into dies. I think she’s…y’know. Death.”
“Sounds like fun. Let’s get her.”
That was one of the Goblin Lord’s [Bodyguards]. Beach Kevin made a choked sound of laughter.
“Dude, I get you’re good with a sword and everything, but listen to me. She killed Belavierr in a single swing. Cut through all her immortality so the Stitch Witch could die. And she killed one of the Teriarchs.”
“Ah.”
Then everyone went quiet in that way you did when things were truly bad, and no one, not even the adults, had a real solution.
“Someone will get through if we rush her. Probably.”
Mrsha hoped someone had smacked her older self for saying that.
No. That wasn’t how it should be. And even if they got through, then what? Then they were just in the real world…existing. 
Homeless. Like Roots Mrsha. Everyone’s lost their home, and it’s my fault.
She hadn’t known this was going to happen. That wasn’t her fault. The responsibility of it was hers, though.
There should be hope. I told the Grand Design that, to its face.
The [Fatebreaker Child]…remembered that conversation, despite the attempts of the system to hide the memory from her. She had [Immunity: Fate]. She’d seen the endless web of worlds.
But that only meant she saw how fragile it all was. All of this was still based on the [Palace of Fates]. When Kasigna severed it, she’d cut everything here apart. Regardless of whether or not they were made of Skills. The only person who might survive that was Mrsha.
A solution to this. Mrsha’s head was going around in circles. She was drifting away, but she held on with one paw, trying to picture it.
She imagined that world of perfect happiness, the beach that hurt so much. Her endless scream of torment. And she realized it didn’t exist anymore.
Not that world.
Not that place.
It couldn’t exist. Not with these people. Not with the Goblin Lord of Civilizations, not with multiple Kevins. Not with Brunkr or…
It was just a dream. More of a dream than the [Garden of Sanctuary]. The world would always, always be difficult.
But at least it could have been better. At least give me a dream, Grand Design. Are you there?
It didn’t answer her. Even it didn’t see a way out, even if it was allowed to interfere. She thought she could hear its voice below the noise of it all.
 
<ERROR. ERROR. DATA DESTROYED.>
<DATA DESTROYED. ERROR. ATTEMPTING RECOVERY…>
<ERROR. ERROR. ERROR OF FUNCTIONALITY.>
 
The Maiden was only making it worse, not better. Each world she destroyed sent all that was within it spiraling out of control, loose ideas and worlds being destroyed, undoing the very fabric of…everything.
And they were real. A part of them was real. Soul-data or not…they were all real.
Why was that? Mrsha wondered.
Perhaps it was because it had never mattered what the data said. Perhaps, even if it was just on a computer or in a simulation, if you thought you were real, if you could cry and think, you were real.
The only difference here was that something had allowed these doors to open and let people take physical form, despite being mere data in a Skill. Mrsha thought she could even see the architect behind all of that.
The canny player of his own game, someone else struggling like her. The only difference was that he had a better poker face. Was it all by design? Or was he merely hoping it turned out well?
The King of Faeries was waiting, and he wasn’t smiling. He had the decency not to do that, at least.
 
——
 
No one was laughing in the Spring Court of the Fae. They were watching the finale of the [Palace of Fates] play out. But their attention was on the one girl they’d found in the chaos, whom they followed even now.
The Gnome, Reimesk, leaned over the pool that showed him his homeland, and he saw a limp little ball of fur in a Goblin’s arms.
“This is why it was never meant to be. It would always have been for good or ill—we never doubted that it was merely another tool. But the magnitude was beyond comprehension.”
He watched with Ivolethe, with the faeries as entire worlds died. A scale of destruction not unheard of in the endless realities that existed. But oh, the cost.
The Faerie King said nothing, as his court and guests watched. Every head kept turning back to him, but Oberon merely leaned on one armrest of his throne.
Waiting.
He had taken no move in this entire long arc of events taking place. Perhaps he couldn’t, even if he wished to. The mark that Kasigna had left on him had already been too much of a sacrifice.
He had played only one card this entire time. The one of the last in his hand. A silly gift, an offhand little event.
The Faerie Flowers. Now, Oberon watched the girl lying there, and someone burst into the Court of the Fae.
It was Melidore. One of the high lords of the Summer Fae had vanished, on a hunch, and he returned, panting, pale-faced.
“Your Majesty!”
He shouted, and the King of Faeries glanced at him. Ivolethe spun, wondering what could matter at this moment. Melidore pointed a trembling finger back across the realm that some called Avalon, others the Land of Faeries, Álfheimr; it had so many names.
There were tears in Melidore’s eyes. Ivolethe followed the path of his finger and saw across her entire dying realm. Past the countless patchworks of lands for the guests who had fled here. Beyond the forest, the broken city torn by war, to the hills where the seldom-used gates lay. The hills covered in swords, or…
“The flowers. Your Majesty, they’re dying. All of them.”
Melidore whispered, and the faeries cried out. They saw the flowers of the countless hills withering. Dying. The garden of the fae was…
Oberon gazed at Melidore, and he nodded his head once.
“Yes. They are.”
 
——
 
Ah, so that was it. Mrsha got it, now.
One of those tricks. Faerie Flowers that followed their own rules, that broke even this place. You could do anything with them, couldn’t you?
Enter the [Palace of Fates]. Maybe they could even do more. Hadn’t Ryoka said they were graves of the fae? Perhaps the King of Faeries had hatched some grand plan—
If you could grow those flowers across every world, here, they might have done something amazing. Given back to the land of faeries, perhaps. Even had the power to…undo some of the terrible damage. The lost lives.
But they were dying. Or rather, Mrsha thought, being traded.
Flowers for life for the people made of a Skill. A classic trick from the stories. But it was pointless; the people paid for by the Faerie King’s flowers were still vanishing, thanks to the Maiden.
Was this what Death wanted? No escape? She thought she saw them too, watching.
All these powers and not one shred of mercy. Not one ounce of it. Mrsha couldn’t raise her arms, but if she could have, she would have given the King of Faeries and Death the middle finger.
It would have been so easy for them to help. All the Faerie King had to do was open a portal…but perhaps he couldn’t. Perhaps he couldn’t risk it—a dead god sneaking through—or he was too weak.
Maybe you’re as weak as me, but you have an entire kingdom to run. If that was the case, she felt sorry for him.
—A way out. Mrsha’s mind clung to that idea. If the Maiden was guarding the exit, they needed a way out. But she doubted you could open the door to the Land of Faeries. Shaestrel had told Ryoka they had sealed the exits.
This [Palace of Fates]…had rules. It was hers, even if it was by accident. So think. It opened any door you wanted.
