Everyone. The [Fighter Pilot] took a step forwards, and the [Palace of Fates] flickered.
Now, they were at an intersection of a thousand hallways, an impossibility of geography. The girl called, and the countless worlds all turned.
She pointed, and they saw it.
One last door. The lost refugees, the wayward souls blinked at the strange sunlight and the Antinium holding the door open. Beach Kevin shaded his eyes as Fetohep turned his chariot. Lord Moore’s bloodsoaked head rose as Jexishe scuttled around.
And the Maiden saw it too. The woman, swinging her scythe around and ending worlds, halted, and her eyes grew round in disbelief.
“No. Stop. What are you—?”
She focused on the little Gnoll girl, who pointed her paw, wordlessly, at her final answer. Her final gift to everyone she had wronged. A refuge, a place even the Maiden couldn’t cross to.
“Stop. Stop!”
The Maiden shouted, but the first people began to run for that door and stumbled to a halt before the Worker who stood, arms braced, holding it open.
A Gnoll [Knight], a [Princess], and a little girl, who gazed at her bloody counterpart. Brunkr, Lyonette, and Mrsha. They stood at that door as the Maiden began to run—but she was so slow. So far away. That Gnoll [Knight] looked into the world beyond, back at her as she screamed, a shriek of outrage and uncertainty—
And he stepped through. Out of this reality, to a place where even the Maiden did not know. The Maiden saw the [Princess] follow, holding his hand, and then the little Gnoll child, who waved up at her counterpart.
Then they were gone, and a line of people followed them. Drakes and Gnolls from Liscor, another world’s version of the Eyes of Pallass, a purple-eyed skeleton who waved at the Maiden—
“STOP!”
Last of all from their world was a wounded Raskghar, who paused, sniffing the air, then bounded through the door on all fours. And behind it…an [Innkeeper] halted in front of the [Apostle].
 
——
 
He beamed when he saw her, though he didn’t know her and she didn’t know him. Not really. They looked familiar to each other, but they were all strangers here.
“There you are.”
“Pawn?”
The Erin Solstice from Brunkr’s world halted when she saw the [Apostle] standing in the doorway. He was so different from the Pawn she knew. The same in body, but his eyes—they were glowing faintly. The Antinium’s arms wobbled as an [Innkeeper] skidded to a halt. Erin Solstice faltered as she saw the open door beyond.
“Brunkr?”
“Erin! Come through! Hurry!”
He shouted from the other side, that Gnoll [Knight]. He was waving at her. Turning to sniff the air. Waving again, urgent.
Come, now, out of this place. Out of this world where the Maiden is trapped. Come on. Erin hesitated, and it was all so…familiar.
She, who had once crossed worlds, felt the light pouring through the door on her skin. She almost walked forwards into this strange, flat realm, then fixed her gaze on Pawn.
“Are you alright? It looks—heavy.”
“It is.”
The Worker’s arms were trembling, but he smiled at her.
“It’s worth it. I have made so many mistakes. Most of all thinking I spoke for you. That I knew what you wanted. At least…let me save one version of you.”
“Pawn.”
Her fingers touched his face, and his arms wobbled. The [Apostle] jerked his head away from her as the door closed slightly, and he forced it back open.
“Leave me. Go!”
“Erin, come on!”
Brunkr shouted again, and Lyonette reached a hand back through the door. Erin Solstice took the [Princess]’ arm as her friends reached for her. Pisces, the Raskghar, Selys—she turned her head.
“What about you?”
The architect of this all, Mrsha the Terribly Wounded lay in Fightipilota’s arms. She seemed so…relieved. The Gnoll girl sat up, heedless of the trailing bandages, and wrote in the air with a glowing paw.
Go. I’m sorry for what I’ve done. But go.
More people were coming. The Immortal Tyrant skidded to a halt and eyed the open door. She hesitated—but only for a second, then she ducked through the gap on Pawn’s other side.
“Well done, child. I shall remember your deeds.”
The real Mrsha rolled her eyes as Nerrhavia passed by her, but the Erin of Brunkr’s world lingered.
The Maiden was screaming at them all to stop, but now everyone was running towards them. Erin let go of Lyonette’s hand a moment and stepped back.
Erin Solstice stood before the [Apostle], timid and uncertain, fingers extended to touch him. He couldn’t move a single hand to hold hers; every scrap of his being was devoted to keeping the door open. Pawn panted at her.
“I have longed for this day. To see you. You are so…perfect. I don’t remember why I wanted to change you.”
“Pawn. Change me?”
“You look different in my silly dreams. I’m sorry.”
That’s all he said. Then the [Apostle] stood straighter.
“Go. One last world for you all. I see it.”
He peered at Mrsha, and the girl nodded. Erin Solstice hesitated, then threw her arms around Pawn.
“I don’t know which you it is—but thank you. Mrsha, come with us—”
She half-stepped into that door and reached out for the real Mrsha, but the girl shook her head. Then the hands pulled Erin Solstice into the world beyond. The last thing she saw was the Gnoll girl’s relieved smile, as she slipped out of Fightipilota’s arms and stood. Then—
She was somewhere else.
Again.
 
——
 
At last, she saw a better ending. Mrsha beamed. So, as one version of Erin passed into that other reality, she sat up. Mrsha slid from Fightipilota’s arms as the Goblin tried to catch her, and her feet struck the ground.
She stood.
Her body was as light as a feather suddenly. Mrsha ignored the tingling in her side, and Fighti gasped.
“Mrsha! How—?”
Strength filled the little girl. Not the mad strength of some kind of moment of utter willpower, the power of friendship, hope, or something stupid.
(Hey, I heard that!)
It was just—a Skill. [Other Me’s Skills – Final Run]. A Skill the Grand Design had once tried to give to Ryoka Griffin.
[Other Me’s Skills – Burst of Energy].
Everything she had left. All her Skills. Nothing to hold back or reserve for later.
It felt good. As if she were truly alive after so long feeling empty and tired. Mrsha took one step forward, then another, then she began to walk. Fightipilota tried to catch her, to stop her. But Mrsha’s steps carried her out of this hallway, across the [Palace of Fates], to the place where she had to be.
 
——
 
The Maiden stood with only the void behind her. Nothingness. She was erasing the entire Skill, the [Palace of Fates], and cornering the people who had escaped from their worlds. She would have caught them all, leaving no one to reach the exit—but for the new way out.
The real Mrsha appeared before the Maiden as she lifted that scythe up. But no longer was she serene, the redeemed Goddess on her mission to enact one final moment of justice. She snarled at Mrsha.
“How dare you? How dare you? I shall not allow this! Death must have a reason. Never an exception. For no one, not even me.”
Mrsha didn’t reply. Mostly because she was mute. She glanced around and saw a flood of people in the hallway, looking towards her. She knew the way out. All she had to do was…Mrsha began to write in the air, then hesitated.
Someone was standing across from her on the other side of the hallway. Mrsha blinked—and realized some idiot had had the same idea as her.
It was Roots Mrsha. The thinner girl, the [Survivor of Trials], wearing silly red robes she’d gotten from somewhere, shaking with fear.
Great minds thought alike. Or really stupid ones. Roots Mrsha was staring at the real Mrsha and shaking her head, gazing in horror at the other girl, but the real Mrsha just winked at her. Then she turned.
“Enough. I will end this all myself!”
The Maiden was spouting some real bad villain lines now that she was rattled. She swung her scythe at the nearest souls to her. Mrsha saw strangers and people she knew, like Lord Moore, in the long hallway.
Only one thing to do, now. Both Mrshas knew it. They locked gazes and nodded at each other. Tears in one pair of eyes, a relieved smile on the other. Then their paws rose, and they wrote in the air.
This way!
No, this way!
The Maiden’s eyes bulged as she saw them turn—and she ran at them. She sprinted forwards, and her scythe cleared everything in front of her. Doors. Hallway. Everything. But the people were already running.
Left? Or right? They split at the center, following both Mrshas through the [Palace of Fates]. Towards the exits. The Maiden screamed, because she was only one person, with one scythe. She swung again, obliterating a version of Mad Medain and Fierre.
“You!”
She raised her scythe at the two Mrshas, and they tensed. Both whirled, fell to all fours—and did what Mrshas knew best.
They ran from Death. The Maiden’s scythe tore a chunk out of the [Palace of Fates] as she missed Mrsha. She swung again—but one girl zigged, and the other zagged, and then they were running.
Death followed after them, shrieking curses now, trying to cut them. But the two little bounding balls of fur sprinted with all their might.
Just like always.
Just like ever. It was so easy to run. All you had to do was—
Mrsha juked left around a hallway, then right. She was running faster than she ever had in her life, laughing as Death chased after her. One last run to put paid to every death, distracting the Maiden. Running and running.
In the end, it was as it always had been. Death, metaphorical or real, chasing after her as she ran amidst chaos and confusion. Souls vanished before the Maiden’s swinging scythe, but she was distracted.
It all made sense in that moment. It was so easy to run and pretend you could outrun everything. Worlds flashed by the girl, and she laughed as she passed by them. A silver bullet, a Doombearer, with Death hot on her heels. The hallways dissolved around her, and the Grand Design whispered.
 
<ERROR. ERROR OF FUNCTIONALITY. ERROR. ERROR…>
 
The Maiden was right behind them both. That awkward reaper’s scythe was cutting down everything and everyone.
A warrior stumbled, and the scythe cut through Tulm the Mithril. He vanished, and then so did a brave company of Vaunt’s finest warriors waiting for the Winter Solstice.
Everyone. Everything. The Maiden’s eyes were locked on the fleeing souls, the final judge that stood between them and life.
Didn’t she see it? She was still blind. The girl would have screamed at her if she could. Whose life were you denying? It wasn’t clones of Kevin who ran down the hallway, the three of them abreast.
It was just Kevin. Each one distinct and unique and beautiful and silly.
All of it—all of them deserved to live, and she regretted bringing them to this point.
But at least they had a chance instead of being shut in a door, doomed to stop existing in a heartbeat.
What a cruel thing the Grand Design had done by accident.
 
<ERROR OF MORALITY. ERROR. I’M SORRY. ERROR. WELL DONE. ERROR…>
 
Mrsha was panting for air. She had never run this fast, never. But she kept running. There was no pain, only the burning soul in her chest, urging her onwards. Onwards! Buying everyone a second more of time. She turned, and the Maiden was right behind her, so the girl picked up speed, giggling at the silly woman.
Death? She was such a poor woman’s Death. Death was surely more dignified than that!
The second wave of people poured through the door that the Antinium [Apostle] was holding open, running past Pawn, between his legs, through the gaps of the door, for the door was larger now, or perhaps Pawn was.
A giant holding open the gates to Heaven as he saw a wounded, weary [Innkeeper] halt.
 
——
 
The dying [Innkeeper] from the world of the raft and the sea was limping down one long hallway as she saw a white Gnoll running past her. The Maiden followed, scythe raised, and Erin brought her knife up to throw.
She missed. Then she tried to run after both, but began to collapse. Her body was out of energy. Pawn was calling her name in the distance, but she shook her head.
“Not me.”
Someone seized her arm. A man halted and whispered.
“Erin?”
Pisces Jealnet of tens years in the future, the Captain of the Horns of Hammerad, locked gazes with the woman, and the [Innkeeper] turned back.
“I have to keep fighting. Until the end.”
“I can’t lose you twice. We can’t. We need you.”
“This is the end of everything. I should be there.”
The [Innkeeper] gazed back, but she just saw annihilation behind her. And ahead—Pisces shouted at her.
“It’s never the end, fool! You’re always needed, so come on—”
He tried to run ahead and stumbled. It wasn’t the Maiden’s scythe doing this here; the [Palace of Fates] was simply collapsing. Pisces saw a wave of desperate Crelers filling the corridor and hesitated. There were hundreds of people from his world behind him.
He drew his sword, despondent, ready to plunge into that sea of Crelers. The future Lyonette was there, calling for her daughter.
“Mrsha! Mrsha—”
She was searching for Future Mrsha, but the Crelers were coming for her. So Pisces let go of Erin’s hand and pointed at the hoard of Crelers. The words came to his mouth, unbidden.
“Horns of Hammerad, charge!”
Pisces shouted and strode forwards, and someone laughed in his ear. A familiar voice. He turned, and the [Innkeeper] reached down.
“Come on, then, you silly man.”
Erin Solstice pulled Pisces up—and the ship she conjured rushed down the hallway as water covered the Crelers. The people around her leapt aboard the vessel as the [Innkeeper] took hold of the wheel and steered it towards that new world.
 
——
 
The Maiden lost sight of the Mrsha she was chasing and stumbled to a halt. She didn’t understand. She panted for air as she looked around.
What was happening? She was failing.
She had sworn to end herself, to cut down each and every one of the dead gods and to erase this [Palace of Fates] and all within, to amend for her sins.
But they were escaping. By the hundreds, then thousands.
Why? She gazed upwards towards the watching Deaths. They still hadn’t moved.
“Why? If I am the instrument of your wills—”
Surely she should have succeeded. But they said nothing. Death’s impossible-to-read smile said nothing at all, and she realized, belatedly, that they’d never nodded.
Never said she was right.
Merely answered her request.
The Maiden stumbled to a halt and cast around. This [Palace of Fates] was truly ending.
It was wrong.
She believed that with all her heart. The dead should not be allowed to live twice. And yet…
