His right hand pulled a lever along the base of his weapon, and it clicked as he reloaded the first round. Then the [Master Engineer] waited.
“[Kingslayer Shells]. Just for you, Goblin King. Every Skill and level for the last decade…all for you. What a fucking waste, right? I didn’t even realize what I’d lost until I met myself.”
His head turned right to Ser Dalimont and Lyonette, and Kevin smiled faintly at them.
“Get back. He’s not dead.”
The Thronebearer already had Lyonette in his arms. He staggered backwards, eyes on the strange weapon Kevin held. The [Master Engineer] kept his eyes on the smoke cloud.
The Goblin King was on his feet again. His armor—regrowing over his body like a second skin. But there was blood. Kevin just exhaled softly.
“Anyone but you, Rabbiteater. It’s so goddamn hard to kill you.”
The Goblin King strode forwards, and the smoke swirled around him like a cloak. He raised a hand, and the future Kevin fired. The golden shrapnel halted in the air, caught by—something. Sheer will. The Goblin King’s ability to cheat.
Kevin fired again and again, eight shots in eight seconds. Each one on target.
The Goblin King’s hands both rose, like a mime conjuring an invisible shield. More pieces of ammunition hung in the air. The eighth shot touched him. Just a scattering of pellets he missed; they pierced through his right leg.
Through armor, flesh, and bone, and the Goblin King staggered. He almost fell, then glanced down. His leg was barely attached to the rest of his body.
“[Rapid Regener—]”
Kevin was out of his Skill-based ammunition. He reloaded, racked the chambers, and fired again. This time, the Goblin King’s outflung hand didn’t stop the glowing white lines that pierced straight through his chest.
Like a trail of comets across the sky, their tails vanishing through his perforated chest. The [Master Engineer] had never seen these shells fired. He grinned, an old man, or sometimes, that’s how he felt.
A lonely man with a gun—until he smiled, and his sandy hair and the lines on his face revealed the younger Kevin, staring out at the memory of better days.
“Cool.”
He fired again, and the Goblin King swiveled and gazed at the stump of his left arm. His limb landed behind him.
Holes in his body and armor. How? He had survived artillery and Relic-class weapons that had failed to breach Rabbiteater’s armor—
The Goblin King saw the [Kingslayer Rounds] lying on the floor, then his eyes saw the other Skill the [Master Engineer] was using.
[Lifeshard Ammunition].
The Goblin King began to run, limping on his wounded leg. The [Master Engineer] turned and fired. This time, he took the Goblin King’s leg clean off—but the bastard just rolled up and leapt, bounding from wall to wall, trying to get to the door.
Healing. He had Rabbiteater’s Skills. Kevin’s shotgun twitched as he tried to follow the Goblin King. His finger squeezed on the trigger, and then his arms jerked.
He coughed, a spray of blood and saliva, and rasped.
“Come on.”
His fourth round missed and tore part of the [Palace of Fates]’ walls to pieces. Kevin swivelled as the Goblin King leapt past him. Kevin couldn’t let him—
The Goblin King twisted around in midair, and the [Master Engineer] realized his mistake. The Goblin King wasn’t running. He was coming for—
The armored Goblin struck the [Master Engineer], and his sword cleaved through the shotgun, into Kevin’s chest, and the two figures fell.
A tangle of bloody limbs and burning eyes. Kevin was gasping as the sword blade tore up through his stomach. He dropped the broken shotgun, pulled something from his belt, and the Goblin King wrenched the blade straight up through the man’s heart. He tore it out, sideways, and the spray of blood and flesh coated the ground.
Then the Goblin King heard the click of a safety being released, and the pistol fired the fifth [Lifeshard Round] straight through the Goblin King’s chest. The Goblin King fell back, stunned, and the [Master Engineer], bloodless, chest torn open, raised the pistol and aimed it at his head.
Not yet. Not—
Kevin pulled the trigger and heard a click. He pulled it again. Staggered—checked the magazine, and his expression turned bitterly rueful. His mouth opened, and blood trickled down his chin as he tried to speak. But he had no lungs left.
Damn. I only had five rounds. 
He reached for a magazine at his belt and wobbled. The Goblin King crawled away from him as he heard the clicking sound. A soft sigh.
When he looked over his shoulder, the Goblin King saw the man was lying on his back, a bittersweet smile under his distant eyes. He didn’t move, but the Goblin King still grabbed his sword and threw it. Then he conjured a spell and turned that section of the hallway to ash. Unleashed another spell, recalled his sword and swung it—until the hallway crumbled into nothingness.
—Then, the Goblin King stumbled away. He put one hand to the wall and rested there, then remembered his arm. His leg. Like a broken puppet, he hobbled over and collected the mangled pieces of his body. Reattached them.
His hands shook. His will wavered—and that head rose, and another voice spoke.
“Almost, Kevin. Nice try. You hurt him. You slowed him down, brother. They’ll finish the job.”
The Goblin King regained control and snarled. Then his head turned, and he saw them coming.
The Dragonlords roared as they flew towards him, down the corridors of the [Palace of Fates]. The Goblin King jerked—then he moved, bounding for the exit. Stumbling.
He turned down the final corridor and saw the door. There was Ser Dalimont, who recoiled as he shielded Lyonette.
The [Knight] moved to intercept, sword in hand, but the Goblin King simply ran past the two of them. No time to erase what was in here.
Only to leave.
“Stop!”
Ser Dalimont shouted, but it was too late. The Goblin King had reached the hall where the gap in the ceiling led upwards on a simple staircase towards that door.
That battered figure halted at the entrance to the [Garden of Sanctuary] and hesitated. As if some part of him wanted to turn back. But then, his hands gripped the closed door.
It did not budge. It would not yield—for a moment, sanctuary held. But the Goblin King had not come this far to be stopped. He pulled—with both hands now—and the door shook. But it didn’t give.
His bloody hands trembled. The Goblin King strained. The wounds Kevin had left him weren’t healing fast enough. He faltered—and then his eyes blazed.
“Not yet. Not while they live.”
His voice grew, a guttural sound. A pained cry, then a scream that transformed into a howl, then a roar that came from the very beginning. Rage from the dawning of this world’s creation, until it shook the ground around him, and Ser Dalimont fell, unable to even stand.
The Goblin King ripped the door to the [Garden of Sanctuary] off its hinges.
Ser Dalimont uttered a cry, as if he were mortally wounded. The [Palace] was shaking, but now the [Garden of Sanctuary] trembled too. No—not just the garden.
The mortal world shook as the Goblin King tossed the door aside. He stood there, gazing into the world beyond, and true sunlight touched his chest.
He stepped forwards, a battered figure covered in blood and death.
The Goblin King returned to reality. Ser Dalimont got to his feet as the shaking around him stopped. The Thronebearer took a step towards the door, then turned.
“Your Highness. The Goblin King. The Goblin King has—I must go.”
He did not believe he could stop that being, but the Thronebearer raised his sword. Lyonette said nothing as she lay there. Ser Dalimont gently stood and would have gone, but someone spoke.
“No. We’ll stop him.”
He looked up and saw someone flying above him. A…[Witch]. Ser Dalimont did not know her; the [Witch]’s face was covered, and she flew a broomstick festooned with technology from ten years in the future.
A lone [Witch]—then the Goblin Lord of Civilizations shouted. She was running towards that door as well. Ser Dalimont hesitated, then he heard a scream that filled the [Palace of Fates]. A hunting cry and the roar of six voices.
The last Empress of Harpies and her Dragonlords of Flame. The [Witch] laughed in surprise and delight, then followed the Goblin King, raising a frying pan of all weapons. The [Knight] hesitated, then knelt as the others passed by. He stayed with his [Princess].
The Goblin King returned to the world, bringing his endless wrath with him. The Goblin Lord of Civilizations and the Harpy Queen followed him.
Chieftain Rags stopped just once, in front of the door, and she gazed back at the [Princess].
“Mrsha?”
She searched around for the girl. Then she looked to that broken door beyond. Without a word, she turned, and at last…
She came home.
 
——
 
All those who belonged to this reality were running towards the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Almost everyone else was leaving for that glorious, frightening doorway to the world beyond.
What lay out there? No one knew, but it was hopeful, frightening, an answer to their contradictory existences. It didn’t matter if one Erin Solstice escaped, or twenty. There—they could be different people.
Why would anyone stay and fight in this dreadful reality plagued by dead gods and their own deaths? Only if it mattered—only if they had some reason to stay.
Like a daughter.
Witch Califor had gotten separated from her daughter in the fighting. She was running through the dissolving [Palace of Fates], searching for the only thing that mattered, heedless of the danger around her.
Finding a needle in a haystack. She would have run until the end of it all. Another version of Belavierr scuttled past Califor as the [Witch] flinched; the Death of Magic, the Death of Wings, and the Death of Chains flew after the Death of Strings in some strange world—Califor just kept running.
They were all going for the exit, but she couldn’t leave. Not without…
“Please. Please.”
Witch Califor turned a corner, and she saw a little, brown-haired girl at last. Two of them.
The real Nanette was pulling her younger self forwards. The other Nanette, Califor’s daughter, was crying. She’d lost her hat, and she was looking for her mother.
“Nanette!”
Califor sprinted for her, and the girl sobbed and ran to her mother. The [Witches] met, and the real Nanette spoke as Califor turned to her.
“You’re alive. Thank goodness.”
Witch Califor held her daughter to her and swore never to let go again. She turned to the real Nanette and raised her hat.
“Thank you. Thank you. Where are the other—?”
“They’re with the Redfangs. Your daughter couldn’t go without you.”
So the real Nanette had gone with her to find her mother. Califor’s arms tightened around her Nanette’s shoulders as the girl clung to her.
“Come—let’s get out of here. Where’s the exit?”
Now they had to leave; the [Palace of Fates] was breaking, and to Califor’s relief, the real Nanette seemed to know exactly where to go. She pointed.
“This way! Follow me!”
They fled towards the exit, and Califor saw the doors breaking to pieces behind her. No more souls emerged from them. In fact, she saw several doors snap and dissolve away, leaving only the void behind them.
Something was removing the hallways behind them. Waiting patiently for the [Witches] to get out of range before obliterating the [Palace of Fates]. But the souls in the worlds that vanished…what a horrific act.
<I know.>
Califor stumbled, and her eyes went wide. Had she heard that voice? She gazed back over her shoulder, then saw one of the doors behind her.
Her world. It broke to pieces, and something drifted away. A single Faerie Flower root, still blooming with flowers. Califor almost reached for it; it was the only thing that remained as the Skill faded. There were half a dozen more roots twisting in the void, but what was the point?
There were no more doors. As for roots…
They hadn’t even used them all. The three [Witches] ran, dashing past a solitary figure standing in front of a door.
Duke Rhisveri saw Nanette skid to a halt as he delicately inserted a root into a trembling door. The [Witch] whirled.
“Rhisveri!”
The Wyrm of Ailendamus waved a hand at her.
“Hello, goodbye. Go on. Get your mother out of here.”
He reached through the doorway and hauled a confused woman free. Dame Eclizza nearly drew her sword on him, then halted.
“Rhisveri? But I—”
He simply pointed, then yanked someone else out.
“You and you—hello, Fithea, Dioname. And even you.”
“The door’s open! Everyone through the—”
A second Wyrm slithered out of the door and halted. He bared his teeth when he saw the Duke, but the real Rhisveri just stepped back.
“That way.”
He pointed after the three [Witches], and the other Wyrm hesitated. The Rhisveri from the world where everyone he loved was still alive searched for a moment of greed or trickery on Duke Rhisveri’s face. But all he got was a weary smile.
Then they were all running.
 
——
 
Witch Califor had beheld the death of a god. A war with armies beyond the scope of her imagination. The scythe of Death, the Goblin King, and so much more.
It was fair to say that even she was taxed beyond her limits, physically, magically…but she was still a [Witch]. There was always a voice in her head that questioned things. That took a second look at everything, and she put a few pieces together in her head.
Rhisveri had pointed at the direction Nanette was taking them. And the girl was…
Witch Califor skidded to a halt. She didn’t see an exit in front of her, and the real Nanette whirled. She waved at Califor and the other Nanette.
“Come on! This way! Hurry, before the Maiden gets us!”
She was breathless, her eyes running with tears and desperation. Witch Califor saw people streaming past her from the door of Ailendamus, then saw Dame Eclizza turning to stare at that other Rhisveri.
“You’re taking us in the wrong direction, Nanette.”
The younger Nanette blinked at the real Nanette, and then both [Witches] saw it. The terrible sadness and pride, hope and desolation in the young witch standing before them.
“I’m taking you where you need to be, Mother.”
Nanette beamed at the older [Witch]. Califor backed up a step, shaking her head. She whirled.
“No. I promised I’d come with you. Don’t do this! You need a mother.”
“I have one. Lyonette’s half as good as you. But I’m a selfish girl. I want to be happy. I want a world in which I have a mother and won’t ever lose her. So, this way.”
Nanette met her younger self’s eyes and giggled. Then cackled, a true witch’s laugh of triumph, despair, love, and loss. Califor refused to follow her. She backed up a step, to find the [Garden of Sanctuary]—and halted.
A woman was standing in the [Palace of Fates] behind them. She carried no sword, but she was still who she was.
