Of course she didn’t have the right. Good one, you two. She wondered if the Grand Design was laughing at her. She didn’t think so…but this was too cruel, even for it.
Fightipilota pressed a desperate hand against the blackness.
“No. Nonono. We need someone without a class. They can go through. I have a class now. What is this door? Why—”
Someone without a class? Only them? Mrsha lay there as blood ran down her arm. She peered up bleakly at the Faerie King. He didn’t answer, didn’t move. Just stared at her, eyes so terribly sad. No help from him.
Not even the roots would let them through. The girl traced a glowing line of text in the air for Fightipilota, for Rags.
It’s the way out. But I cannot open it. I’m sorry.
She’d failed them. The fighting around them had slowed as people beheld the door. Chieftain Rags limped out of the chaos, pulled to safety by the music-loving [Blademaster] in Ragathsi’s bodyguard. She put her hands against the barrier, but it was impregnable. No one could open this. Even when the Goblin Lord of Civilizations herself appeared and attempted to break the door, her claws skated off that black glass futilely.
Mrsha lay there as the fighting and shaking resumed. Trying to think of a solution. She had none.
None at all. Kevin had to put her down, then, to grab a weapon and fight. They were making a stand here.
The Goblin Lord of Civilizations, Lord Moore, all these high-level people were holding a line. Able to form a kind of shelter against the disintegrating [Palace of Fates]. Mrsha saw more people fleeing this way as she lay on the ground.
“Help! Please! Help—”
A group of people from an inn were running. A silly world where everyone’s gender was just backwards of what it was. They were fleeing a wave of Shield Spiders pouring out of the dungeon.
The Goblin Lord of Civilizations eyed the male [Innkeeper] running her way, then her submachine gun roared and turned the entire hallway into flames. The first and second waves of Shield Spiders shrieked and burnt. Fightipilota and the rest of the Goblins from the future charged the surviving Shield Spiders. The hallways shifted; Mrsha sent the remaining Shield Spiders away from the fleeing people.
It was all she could do. In doing so, she lost Ragathsi and Fightipilota, and she lay there, alone, next to the way out. King Fetohep and the Horns were still fighting Crelers somewhere else.
It didn’t matter. She’d failed again.
She was at an intersection of four hallways. Then eight. The [Palace of Fates] flickered—and Facestealer peeked around the corner of another hallway. He was followed by Skinner and a ripple in the air.
Stalker, Skinner, Stealer. Mrsha stared at them as they crawled towards her.
Great. She tried to vanish them, but it was hard—they fought her, and Skinner was followed by his army of the undead. A Crypt Lord opened a rotting mouth to spit black poison at Mrsha, and Facestealer ripped its jaw off; it wanted her head intact.
They were halfway towards the girl, who was trying to stand, when Crelers poured out of another hallway.
Damn Crelers. So many worlds were just them. Mrsha saw them dicing each other apart. She had the dubious satisfaction of watching Skinner being ripped apart by an Adult Creler, shrieking, and Facestealer toppled into one of the open doors, fighting a swarm of larvae. Stalker appeared, a shrieking, long creature tearing at the Crelers before one burrowed into its hide.
Undead fighting Crelers. And Crelers fighting Crelers; it seemed like Crelers from other worlds were fighting different Crelers. They were rampaging down a hallway big enough to fit two Shetas abreast; a dozen Adult Crelers charged an Elder Creler.
So that’s what an Elder Creler looks like. Wow, it’s horribly ugly and awful.
Mrsha’s tiny thoughts somehow attracted the attention of the telepathic things. The Elder flicked a claw, and she heard it think.
(That holds the exit from us. Kill it.)
About fifty larvae and two juveniles fled the battle of titans. They scuttled towards Mrsha, and she groaned. She tried to push herself up again—and then saw another Ancestors-damned Adult Creler.
It was camouflaged against the hallway’s marble, but it shifted and leapt on the group scuttling at Mrsha. Huge, stabbing legs smashed the little Crelers, and a Juvenile Creler reared up, only to be blown to pieces by the spikes shot from the Adult Creler’s mouth. Having destroyed its rivals from another world, the Adult Creler scuttled over to Mrsha. She gazed up at its hideous ‘face’ and waited.
One leg poked her, very softly, and then Mrsha heard a voice in her head. A thought, really.
(Hideous? That’s not very nice. I don’t call you names. You okay, Miss?)
Mrsha eyed the Adult Creler. She opened her mouth—then someone screamed.
“Mrsha!”
Fightipilota had found her way back. The Goblin leapt at the Adult Creler, slashing at her legs, and the gigantic monster scuttled back.
(Wait! Waitwaitwait, I’m not a foe! It’s me! Jexishe! The Friendly Creler!)
Fightipilota nearly tripped as the too-friendly voice appeared in her head. The Goblin’s mouth opened—then she tried to attack again. Jexishe swept the [Fighter Pilot]’s leg out from under her and planted a claw delicately on Fighti’s back.
Jexishe the Friendly Creler? Mrsha’s mind flashed to something Niers had once said.
No way.
(Yes way. I’m here to help!)
Well, at least her death would be as silly as her life. Mrsha saw more people charging down a corridor, ready to fight the Adult Creler, before they heard Jexishe’s thought-voice.
It didn’t matter. Friendly Crelers or an army of Cognitas, they were all dead.
(Wow, she’s depressing. What’s with this door? It’s black.)
A ripple passed through the [Palace of Fates], and the friendly Creler scuttled back in alarm as more hallways intersected. That damn Maiden was interfering with the already-chaotic geography. Mrsha tried to vanish Jexishe on sheer principle.
(You are so rude. I almost feel like eating you.)
Jexishe the ‘Friendly Creler’ seemed truly as trustworthy as her title implied. She loomed over Mrsha, and the girl wished Beach Kevin were here. Or Fetohep. Why did her last moments of despair have to be with Niers’ stupid, fake Creler from a joke reality?
(Hey. I’m gonna lay eggs in your eye sockets if you keep this up. A joke? Me?)
Yes, you piss off. Mrsha was getting annoyed at having her mind read. Jexishe scuttled forwards a few steps as Fighti raised a sword, but the Adult Creler shoved the [Fighter Pilot] a dozen feet away without looking at her. Then she loomed over Mrsha, and the child felt her anger.
(It’s funny to you, then. Like everyone else. Me! Jexishe, the stupid funny Creler! It makes me wonder why I shouldn’t just fall in with everyone else and murder everything! Why do I even try, then? Do you know how hard it is being a friendly Creler?)
She made a sobbing sound in Mrsha’s head, and the little girl blinked up at the gigantic, horrific…person. As stupid-sounding as a joke by the Titan of Baleros.
A friendly Creler. How on earth did one of them develop a conscience? Jexishe knelt in front of Mrsha.
(We can think. We worship She Who Sleeps, who charged the first of us to kill the Antinium and lay the world bare, worship her until she returned. Everyone only knows malice and hunger and hate from the moment they’re born. Any deviation from that mindset, any weakness, is consumed by the others. It’s not that you’re wrong, you know. I probably am just some wacky, alternate reality, an improbable thing like that drunk Unicorn I saw just now.)
She bent her glowing eyes towards Mrsha and whispered.
(…But what hurts is thinking I could never be. Because perhaps I could. It’s a one-in-millions chance. If, somehow, you found just one of us who hesitated. Mercy for a Creler. Madness. But someone has to set my people free from Her.)
Mrsha blinked up as the Friendly Creler rose. Jexishe scuttled back, gazing towards the Elder Creler, and the Gnoll girl lay there and realized that if ever she met them again—she might make a potentially fatal mistake. Jexishe heard the faint thought and projected a smiling face into Mrsha’s head. Then she raised two legs and, for lack of a better word, posed.
(—And that’s why the power of friendship can redeem even Crelers! Come on, everyone! Get the big one!)
She charged towards the Elder Creler, and Mrsha blinked—and the hallway vanished.
“—Mrsha? Mrsha?”
Someone shook her, gently. Fightipilota had Mrsha in her arms, and the Gnoll girl wondered if that last bit had been pure hallucination. The Goblin was stumbling with her, back towards the door out of this reality. She whispered down to the girl.
“It’s going to be okay, Mrsha. We’re going to get you to the way out. Okay? Just—stay awake. Please. You—stay away from her.”
For a moment, Mrsha thought Jexishe had somehow reappeared, but Fightipilota was aiming her sword at someone else. A voice spoke, a familiar one. Mrsha heard the sounds of fighting, and then Future Pawn spoke.
“I have been a fool. We have no quarrel here; my people have lost everything. I only wish to save…what can be saved. What is that door?”
The [Apostle] was here. Great. Mrsha raised her head as Pawn came towards her.
“You’re hurt.”
She swiped at him, but Pawn was half-focused on her, half on the door. His Painted Antinium were pursuing the Crone down the hallway, but Pawn looked as hopeless as Mrsha felt. He stepped forwards, and Mrsha didn’t bother answering him.
He put his hands on her.
“Be healed.”
Nothing happened. Fighti stared down hopefully at Mrsha, then at Pawn. The [Apostle] stood there, and they realized his eyes had stopped shining.
His faith. Of all the times—Pawn sagged against one wall, chuckling.
“I’m sorry. She’s gone. I know she’s not the only one, but I let her down. And we are all…”
Fighti kicked Pawn and began to storm past him. Pawn lay there, a bug curling up to die, and stared at the rectangle of blackness beyond Mrsha.
“This door. It’s shut. Shouldn’t it open like the others?”
Fighti turned, grudgingly, to him.
“It’s…a way out, I think. A new world. A—a—have you seen the woman with the scythe? Which way is she? We’re going the other way.”
Fighti couldn’t articulate what the door was, but anyone could sense this door was unlike any other. Pawn’s hands touched the black barrier. He didn’t answer the Goblin, but murmured.
“Something is in the way.”
Mrsha’s eyes were fluttering. She would have explained, if she had the energy.
Not high enough level. Perhaps if she were Level 80, or 90, the [Palace of Fates] would give her a door out of this reality. Perhaps it was a Level 100 requirement.
Mrsha closed her eyes. She was just waiting for it to end. She could still see the King of Faeries in her head, and she wished he’d stop watching.
It’s over. Just let it go. You should never have let this happen.
She wanted to curse at him. But it wasn’t his fault for doing this. It was hers. That antlered head bowed, and those eyes gazed at her, sympathetic. Mrsha snarled and spat blood at him, and the Faerie King’s hand rose.
He pointed and smiled.
Mrsha’s head turned, and she saw the Apostle of Erin Solstice, Pawn, reaching for the door. Her eyes opened wide. Then she remembered.
Of all the beings here, there was one who could open any door. The one who had escaped the reality she and Rags had imprisoned him in. Pawn was speaking to himself as his hands pressed against the black wall, like glass.
“Yes. I see it now. There can be no redemption from my failures. My hubris and pride. But perhaps…the path towards Heaven is one that I never knew. I only thought I saw it. Silly me. I was only ever supposed to hold the doors to it.”
His fingers dug into the veil in the air, and Mrsha heard him speak.
“[I Found My Path to the Promised Land].”
Pawn pulled, and his arms trembled as he tried to force something apart. Nothing happened at first. He strained against the air, and he was unable to do a thing. But he kept pulling. Pulling—
And then there was a strange, yellow light. Mrsha shielded her eyes, and a sunlight she had never known shone onto her fur. It was bright and yellow, and the grass beyond was green—but it wasn’t the same as her world.
She knew it, just as Erin Solstice and so many Earthers who had once stepped into this world and known they were in another.
The stream of sunlight wavered—Mrsha saw Pawn’s grip falter, then his other two hands joined the others. He wrenched the air open wider.
“It’s…difficult.”
Something blew across her face. Mrsha inhaled a scent of fresh air. Something utterly foreign—her eyes opened wide. She forgot her injuries. Sat up in Fighti’s arms as the Goblin gasped, and they saw…grass. A shining sun.
And across an extraordinarily flat land, something standing just beyond the open door. A dirt road, branching in three directions, and a piece of wood with three wings.
A crossroads sign. Down the road—Fighti breathed.
“Mrsha. Look. A city.”
Fightipilota’s eyes were wide, and Pawn forced the window open even more. A strange world shone brighter on the Gnoll girl.
What place is this? It’s so vast—Mrsha saw the sky was blue, but it stretched into the distance until it shifted, thousands upon thousands of miles away, changing color, as if the firmament itself were altering.
A world even vaster than this one. Then Pawn’s labored breathing drew Mrsha’s attention away from the door. The [Apostle] struggled to wrestle the door open wider. He was panting, mandibles open, but his eyes found Mrsha, lying there.
“So—heavy. I cannot hold it long. But—but—I have failed mine. But she’s still out there, somewhere, isn’t she? Erin?”
Mrsha nodded. The Worker strained, then his arms were holding this gateway wide, trembling against the boundary between reality itself. Air blew through, and he whispered.
“—Then I can hold this door open as long as it takes. Get them. All of them. I will not let this place close. My people—”
He called out as he placed himself in the center of the doorway and held it open. The Painted Antinium turned. They saw their leader standing in the center of that door, and Pawn spoke, so very calm now.
“I was wrong. Final battles. Glorious, promised days. I do not know what the future holds, nor do I promise this is the last moment. But for the Painted Antinium, for those who believe in Heaven and Her—hold these hallways. Go, Mrsha. Go!”
Fightipilota turned, Mrsha in her arms, and began to run with her. Not for the exit into the inn. But to find them.
Everyone. Mrsha raised a paw and summoned all the authority, all the power she had left. Her arm was light all of a sudden. She was relaxed.
One last moment of hope. She sat up in Fightipilota’s arms and called them.
