All three of her nodded and set down their cups. They were prepared to war with Isthekenous and every other god in existence over this one point. They had given way on so much—but not this.
Never this. 
The God of Designs stopped, and his excited manner faded. He became less that eager gamesmaster and then an older being. His appearance changed, and he ceased resembling the species of this new world, taking on a form alien to Kasigna.
But he was still the same deity. Isthekenous lifted one of his arms and took the Crone’s hand away. He stopped and thought for a while, then replied.
“Kasigna. You and I have cheated death many times. We have both survived the ends of our worlds, yet we live.”
“We are gods. We never truly died. Do not mince words with me—”
The Mother snapped, losing her own self-control, and Isthekenous replied steadily, meeting her eyes.
“Tell me, Kasigna. Do you mourn your lost pantheon? I do for mine. For my lovers, for my enemies—for the worlds that were lost to the Rot Between Worlds. What of you? Did it not matter?”
That drew her up short. Kasigna clenched three hands and spoke as her fingernails drew divine blood, running down her right hands.
“Did it matter? I pledged to honor the lands of the dead. They were mine to keep. I failed my charge. The souls were devoured—or I consumed them to prevent them being eaten. Does it matter? I hunted down everything that dared defile my home. Do I mourn? Yes. Always.”
“So do I.”
The God of Designs was sitting, a weary, lonely god at his table. He stared down at the hand-painted figurines and touched them. Then he gazed up at her with a pained smile.
“Insult the mortals who will live and die in my Grand Design? Never. But I intend to give them a path to come back from the dead, Kasigna. However difficult, I insist. That is my will.”
“Why? It is not fair.”
She snapped at him, and the God of Designs spread his hands, smiling at her with such simple sadness and a quiet delight.
“Fair? This great work of ours should not be fair, Kasigna. I have tried, and I will keep trying, but it will never be equal to all. Rather, it should be glorious. It should be wonderful.”
His eyes contained shining realities, and they were filled with so many hopes and dreams that the Three-in-One was lost for words for a moment. Isthekenous whispered.
“Let them try. Let them come back, no matter the cost. Let there be a way out, and let even Death stand second to my rules. It may be against all your nature, Kasigna, against the rules of reality that we know, and against even the justice of life and death. I do not care. It shall make for a better story. A kinder one. If the mortals triumph, against all odds, we should not stand in their way, but applaud them.”
He reached for her and took the Maidens’ hands. The God of Designs bent his head and bowed over the table to the Goddess of Death.
“Please. Give me this one boon. If it is wrong, if it is wretched, I will cease it. But give them a chance, Kasigna.”
Isthekenous begged her for this one favor, as he never had for anything else, and she hesitated. The Maiden met his eyes and—
 
——
 
Remembered.
The vision played out, over a hundred thousand years ago, before the birth of this world, and she saw it. Her silly folly. She’d forgotten the conversation. Forgotten him.
The Maiden wept her first tears since her death. She raised the scythe over her head and called up to the sky.
“Isthekenous!”
For his broken dreams.
For the world he had never been allowed to see.
For that one moment when she had believed she was wrong.
Then, the Maiden saw Halrac Everam standing there. Just a mortal man reflected countless times over—and his eyes contained that same steady conviction as the God of Designs.
The Maiden exhaled as the last of the tensions and doubts plaguing her suddenly resolved into a moment of crystal clarity. Her shoulders rolled back, and she stood straighter, dignified at last.
“Oh. I see. Thou art a fitting reaper for a Goddess.”
She held out her hand, and the [Bowman], Halrac of Griffon Hunt, Halrac the Grim, lifted the dagger. The Maiden smiled, rueful.
“I never considered, even at the end, that I could be wrong. I was always so stubborn. Which is it, I wonder? Let us find out. Show me your triumphs, mortal. And let us die gloriously.”
He grinned, a warrior’s excitement as he faced death, blade in hand. The Maiden spun the scythe up and charged, laughing.
 
——
 
The [Bowman] and Goddess met in the middle of the breaking hallways, dagger edged with the rules of reality versus the scythe of Death itself.
When the Maiden swung her scythe, that horizontal edge cut the air with oblivion, and nothing in this world could have stopped it. But she missed.
Halrac Everam ducked.
The blade of that scythe slashed the tips of his hair as Halrac ducked the blade, then jumped. He kicked the Maiden in the chest. She stumbled, and the dagger cut for her face.
The glowing rules that made up the Grand Design itself. A blade that could cut divine flesh—she leaned back as it slashed just past her face. Halrac slashed again; she blocked with the haft of the scythe and swept the weapon at leg-height.
Halrac leapt over the cut, then backed up as the Maiden whirled the scythe around her in a deadly arc. She pursued him as the crowd of souls drew back, watching this duel.
Insanity. Halrac had a dagger, and she had a scythe—it wasn’t a fair battle at all.
But it never was. Halrac was an adventurer, and she was a Goddess who had never warred with weapons. The scythe was a strange, haphazard weapon. Halrac dodged a vertical slice that lodged the blade in the ground and leapt.
He stabbed her through the shoulder, and she cried out in genuine pain. Divine ichor oozed across her black cloak, and she whirled the scythe around her in a cutting arc. But again—she was a hair too slow, and the [Bowman] was already backing out of range.
He darted in and back, slashing, trying to cut her in between the wide swings from her weapon. She, in turn, tried to cut him.
Just once. All she needed was one cut—
Every fiber of Halrac’s being was in his desperate footwork, his lunging strike to her leg this time. She staggered, swung with a cry of rage. He leapt back again, but the Maiden was a fast learner—she charged into him, choking up on the scythe so she had control of it. She jabbed and cut with it now, like a sickle.
The [Bowman] staggered back, and his dagger parried the haft of the scythe once—he had to throw himself sideways and roll to his feet. She lunged again; he caught the scythe, forced it away from her, and slashed.
The blade swept across her face. The Maiden’s blood splattered onto the Gold-rank, and Halrac’s teeth bared in a savage grimace. The Maiden recoiled, then blocked another cut from his dagger. He advanced, slicing her hand, stabbing into one arm—
He was winning. Halrac had grown up a [Farmer]. He knew how that scythe moved. He had fought to the death with blades, with his bow, so many times, and the Maiden had not.
She couldn’t block that blade, and it could cut even her flesh. The Maiden lifted the scythe, desperate, and took another cut across her shoulder. She was losing a fight with this mortal! Because she was fighting like a mortal being—
Her eyes narrowed. Heedless of another lightning-fast thrust to her shoulder, the Maiden took careful aim as Halrac swept backwards, well out of range of her scythe. She swung anyways, eyes locked on…
The [Bowman] saw the arc of the scythe and stepped further back, just in case she lunged. The scythe cut the air in front of the Maiden, and Halrac stepped under the arc. His dagger parried the scythe, golden edge meeting Death’s blade, and he swung the dagger down to drive it through her chest.
But he’d forgotten who he was fighting a second time. The Maiden’s scythe slid down across the dagger’s blade. And even if that dagger’s edge could deflect Death’s scythe—
It was still made of ordinary steel. Halrac heard a tinging sound. He gazed down—and Redscar’s belt dagger fell to pieces before his horrified eyes.
The Maiden cut the hilt of the blade in half. Cleaved through the ordinary steel-and-leather handle, and the blade shattered into tiny shards of gold and metal.
Halrac grabbed for a piece, any piece of the blade—then heard a scream.
“Halrac!”
Nanette’s warning came with a thousand voices. He looked up and leapt sideways. The Maiden swung her scythe down, and the remaining pieces of the dagger vanished as she gouged the floor away.
She ripped part of the [Palace of Fates] out of existence, leaving only the void and those damn Faerie Flowers and roots spinning around the two of them. Then the Maiden completed the cut.
The section of hallway Halrac stood in became untethered, a section of reality caught between the void—his eyes flickered to the other side, trying to gauge the jump. But the Maiden was right there, scythe raised.
Halrac backed away until he felt nothingness behind him and saw the Goddess step into the void. There was no guilt in her eyes, no apology for her trick.
Her kind never fought fair. She flicked the scythe. A flare of golden dust burst off her scythe into a million fragments that scattered across the ground and into the void.
The Goddess strode forwards as Halrac stumbled back, that familiar tight expression of pain on his face.
“A noble attempt.”
He didn’t respond. The [Bowman] was searching for a fragment of the dagger—anything. He yanked weapons out of his bag of holding, a Tripvine Bag—useless. The Maiden swung her scythe through that as Halrac held out an empty hand in a curious grasping motion towards her. He glanced over his shoulder, took another step back, then stumbled on a piece of stone.
The man collapsed onto his back, inches away from the void consuming the [Palace of Fates]. The Maiden advanced on him as he raised his hand towards her. Not in an open-palm of surrender or entreaty, but a curved grip, thumb touching his forefingers as his other hand drew back, pinching the air.
She assumed it was some offensive gesture. The Maiden raised her scythe with a gentle smile. Her eyes closed in regret. She swung her scythe down—
And an arrow struck her in the shoulder. 
The Goddess stumbled backwards and almost dropped the scythe. She gasped—pain ran through her body, and she stared down at a gleaming arrow buried in her flesh. No, a sword—a beautiful masterwork blade embedded in her shoulder. 
A weapon not of this world. How—?
A second arrow hit her in the stomach, and the Maiden stumbled again. A sword was buried in her stomach. A third—she swung her scythe through the sword, and it shattered into a hundred pieces. A weapon able to cut a Goddess?
Or, if you looked at it differently—
A little, yellow flower. 
Kasigna blinked, then saw Halrac’s empty hand was pointed in an odd way. He drew back and loosed a fourth arrow.
She cut it in half, then saw him reach out and pluck something out of the void behind him. Her eyes focused on what he was reaching for.
Halrac grabbed a yellow Faerie Flower off something twisting past him. The only thing that remained once the [Palace of Fates] vanished.
A…root. Covered in flowers.
Faerie Flowers. It became an arrow that vanished as he put it to his bow. The invisible bow—that even the Goddess had missed.
The Goddess pulled one of the Faerie King’s swords out of her shoulder, and another thunked into her right knee. She stumbled backwards, and the [Bowman] rose. He was grinning. After all—what kind of archer fought with a dagger?
The invisible bow snapped as she swung her scythe and cut the bow’s concept in half. Halrac lifted two flowers in his hands, and they became gleaming swords. The Maiden rose to her feet and flung one hand out, like someone greeting a forgotten friend.
“Ah. Death. You’ve come for me.”
She beamed as he ran across the ground, leaping towards her with a shout that contained all his many lives. The Maiden swung her scythe and buried the tip of the blade straight through his chest.
Then she stepped backwards and looked down.
Two swords were embedded in her heart. She and Halrac were pressed against each other, impaled on each other’s weapons. The Maiden let go of the weapon loaned to her and touched the hilt of the swords.
“T-t-t—”
She tried to say something, but she was collapsing. The Maiden fell to her knees, and a breathless voice panted.
Halrac Everam stood, heedless of the voices screaming his name, the cheering souls. The scythe buried in his chest—he rasped as his face grew calm, relaxed. He reached out towards her and offered her a callused hand as he began to disappear.
“Maiden. Take my hand.”
The Maiden gazed up gratefully. She whispered to Halrac as she straightened.
For one final moment herself, the Maiden stood whole, as she flickered, a Goddess of millions of years, through every shape she had ever taken. A lifetime of faces, ideas, all her guises and stages of being. Until she stood there, relaxed, blood running down her dress, smiling in relief and gratitude.
“Thank you. I was afraid of going alone.”
She touched his hand, and they vanished.
The scythe disappeared before it hit the ground.
 
——
 
Halrac Everam faded away with a triumphant, uncharacteristic grin on his face. He’d done it.
The Maiden was gone. Deviy was dead. Tamaroth and Norechl banished.
Cauwine remained with the Crone, and it was just like the Winter Solstice. The last two…victors?
“No, not victors. Not this time.”
Cauwine held the severed sword in her hand and tossed it aside. She walked forwards, and placed her hand on a bent-over, frail figure standing in the empty corridor. The Crone watched as the last crowds of mortals vanished into that door.
Neither Goddess tried to follow, even if it had been allowed. They didn’t know if they could have even survived that place, if there was a place for them to exist without flesh. Perhaps there were other divine beings there.
“Mother?”
The Crone didn’t react to Cauwine’s gentle hand. She was leaning against the wall, her wizened hands trembling. Kasigna.
Not the Goddess of…not the Three-in-One. Just Kasigna. She had lost—everything.
“Mother? It’s time to go. There’s nothing left.”
Cauwine was walking away. Trying to lead the old woman after her. The Crone did not follow. She simply leaned there, face empty, and after a while, the Goddess of Lasts Stands stopped trying to get her to move.
The Goddess of Last Stands departed, and the Crone vanished. They left. There was nothing remaining to eat. Nothing to gain.
The dying hallways rustled, then were still, and the place seemed to sigh as, at last, it emptied of intruders. A bittersweet sound of an idea crumbling into nothingness.
The [Palace of Fates] was ending.
