That voice. Kevin swung his shotgun left and saw someone bum-rushing him. He had four full seconds to fire. Enough time to drop the idiot eight times over. But he didn’t. The older Kevin blinked—and then Kevin Hall slammed into his older self and began punching and kicking wildly.
Beach Kevin vs. Goblin King Kevin. The two fought on the ground, shouting, as the real Numbtongue halted and yelled.
“This way! This way to the exit, idiots!”
The Redfang Five of the beach world didn’t hesitate. Headscratcher drank a potion, then grabbed Rabbiteater; Numbtongue and Shorthilt poured a healing potion over him, and all three dragged him as Badarrow got to his feet, grabbed two Nanettes, and ran with the last one. Rabbiteater clutched his leg as they all ran—Numbtongue hesitated, then charged after them.
Then it was just two Kevins, rolling around in the hallway, both cursing and kicking at each other.
The younger Kevin was fighting for the shotgun, trying to wrench it from his older self’s hands. He had the advantage on the prone man for as long as it took [Master Engineer] Kevin to engage the safety on the shotgun.
Then he kicked the younger Kevin off him, and when the young man tried to tackle him, the forty-year-old Kevin jabbed him in the forehead, then the stomach with the butt of his shotgun.
Beach Kevin sat down.
“Fuck.”
He flinched as [Master Engineer] Kevin stood over him. But all the older Kevin did was exhale hard.
“This is why I should’ve taken up smoking. Then I could light up a cigar and look cool. Hey, dumbass. Did you ever think tackling someone with a gun was a stupid idea?”
Beach Kevin held his stomach as he stared up at his older counterpart.
“Yeah. But you were going to shoot everyone. What twisted timeline are you from?”
“One where the Goblin King murders everyone.”
“Fuck, dude. And I thought I had it bad. And I just run around with a shotgun, Terminator-style? Seriously?”
The [Master Engineer] laughed; a laugh of incredulity and disbelief, and the lines around his eyes uncreased again as he snorted. He lifted the shotgun and cast around, remembering his purpose.
“Normally, it’s a tank. But it didn’t look like it’d fit. Seen a Goblin King? He looks like Rabbiteater, but he’s…the Goblin King?”
“What? No—dude, don’t go after them!”
Kevin tried to block the way of his older self, but the other Kevin just murmured.
“This is so stupid. What is this…it’s been decades. Some kind of multiverse thing? From comic books?”
“Yeah, looks like it.”
The two Kevins stood there, aware that they were one of the few people who could appreciate the irony of this moment. The [Master Engineer] critically eyed his younger self. Innocent, young, still more interested in making a cool bicycle than anything important. Content to be the ‘Fun Guy Kevin’…
“I’d give anything to be you. Want some advice from the future?”
“Sure. Is it actually good stuff?”
The older Kevin thought about it, then pulled a shotgun shell out of his bandolier and tossed it at the younger Kevin.
“Careful how you open it. You take dried fire magicore and mix it up with some of the elements of gunpowder, but you can tweak it. Don’t bother with black powder; you can make better stuff right away. Rabbiteater’s the Goblin King. Shoot him, then King Othius, then the Naga of Roshal. He’s got firearms too, and he’s the world’s first gunrunner. In that order. Also, in eight years, there’s going to be something like magical syphilis. Looks like faint half-rings on genitalia. Skip that too.”
“Dude. What the fuck? That advice sucks.”
The older Kevin laughed at his younger self. He reached out, clapped the younger Kevin on the shoulder, and met his eyes.
“What did you expect? I’m all regrets. Be a fucking hero, even if you die. Look around you.”
He strode past the dead [Soldiers] of Rhir and pointed down. The [Hero], Triander, flinched, and tried to raise his arms. The [Master Engineer] shot him point-blank through the chest, and turned to his younger self.
“—There’s no good ones anyways. Kid-killing bastards.”
He kicked Triander’s corpse and strode into the [Palace of Fates]. Hunting for the Goblin King.
 
——
 
The [Palace of Fates] was growing worse by the second. Lyonette stood at the entrance, but not many had reached it save the immortals—yet. Part of that was Roots Mrsha sending threats away, but the other part was just the chaos everywhere.
Lyonette had sent some of the others into that hell. Others had gone of their own accord, like Numbtongue. Right now, she had all the survivors, the versions of herself, Mrsha, everyone she could fit, climbing into the [Garden of Sanctuary].
She had begged them not to go into the inn, but she had also asked someone to send a message to—
“Ishkr!”
The Gnoll came out of the door, shouldering past a version of Lism, and stopped, eyes wide.
“Lyonette! What’s going on? Laken’s above, and so is Master Elosaith and Pallass! Goblinhome’s under attack, and Zevara wants to know—”
Lyonette seized him; her face was white, and in the distance, she knew the army of Crelers was still locked in a final confrontation with Marquin. But they kept…coming.
“Tell her to evacuate Liscor! I don’t care how! No, wait—”
It was damn well raining. They’d have to go through the [Portal Door] or they’d be swimming across the Floodplains. Lyonette changed her mind.
“Tell her to lock down the city gates and marshal the Watch. I need everyone above Level 40 right here, right now. No…in the inn. If it comes to it, I will cut the roots myself and seal this place away. If something gets out, close the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Tell them to destroy the entire inn if they have to.”
Ishkr’s mouth was open. The unflappable [Head Server of Tales and Fables] stood there, frozen, until she shook him.
“Run, Ishkr!”
“But what about you?”
The [Princess] pointed, and the staff of the inn, led by Peggy, joined the people evacuating into the [Garden of Sanctuary]. She smiled at him, a bright expression as she hefted the box.
“I’m waiting for my daughters. Go. That means you!”
Her next words were to a pair of women who came staggering down the corridor. Elia Arcsinger and Bird. They were followed by the Knights of Solstice—and a stream of soldiers.
“What’s going on?”
“It’s coming. Queen Marquin ordered us to fall back. It’s—”
Normen looked like he would have continued fighting, but General Sserys rode past him and snapped, face covered in Creler blood.
“Ancient Creler. Fall back! Get everyone out of here and hold this place until—”
A voice spoke, and everyone dropped to their knees and clutched at their heads. Lyonette’s head went white, and she felt a mind, vast and aged, think into her skull.
(I am the First of Spawns. It all ends. Do not resist.)
Weapons dropped from helpless fingers. Lyonette tried to lift the Box of Incontinuity and activate it—she couldn’t move.
“Nonono—everyone get out of here! Go!”
The flow of people into the [Garden of Sanctuary] increased—but there was only one door, and there were thousands of people. Lyonette saw Peggy hauling a wounded Antherr towards the door.
“We’ll stay and—”
Sserys shoved Normen away.
“Get out of here and prepare for round two, idiot! Tell Pallass to prepare for war!”
The Grandmaster of the Order of Solstice hesitated, then joined the exodus along with everyone from the inn, from the real world. That was something. The only person who resisted being taken was, in fact, Asgra. The Cave Goblin’s shouting attracted Lyonette’s attention.
“Wait! I stay! I have a weapon!”
She was fighting Bird, who smacked her on the head and tried to yank Asgra out of the [Palace of Fates] until Asgra bit her hand.
“A Tier 7 scroll will not help. Come with me, now!”
Even Bird sounded afraid and worried, but the Cave Goblin just kept shouting as she pulled towards Lyonette. The [Princess] blinked at her mutely.
Asgra fumbled with her belt.
“Redscar gave me super-weapon just in case things go bad. Here—”
She wanted to give something to Lyonette, but the [Princess] stopped paying attention. Her head rose, and her whisper made them all turn.
“He’s coming.”
There was a voice in the [Palace of Fates]. A familiar one, louder than the Ancient Creler’s mind. A building, thunderous sound that shook even the crumbling hallways, the breaking doors.
His voice.
The Goblin King was coming. Lyonette du Marquin stood there and knew that the dead gods were out there. The Goblin King. Belavierr…Az’kerash—
And her daughters. So the [Princess] stood there, back to the exit. Waiting.
She’s out there, I know that. Come here, Mrsha. I’m waiting, my sweet child. For you, and Nanette. I’ll hold this door open as long as I have to. No matter what.
Lyonette stood there, waiting, as the roaring voice of the Goblin King grew louder. The box trembled in her hands. And then she saw them coming down a long corridor, and the box tumbled from her grip.
She reached for it—but the five figures did not fear the box. They kept walking, eyes locked on the throng of people standing there. The way out.
Five dead gods.
 
——
 
Tamaroth, the God of Rulers.
Emerrhain, the God of Magic.
Norechl, the God of the Lost.
Laedonius Deviy, the infested God of Dance.
Cauwine, the Goddess of Last Stands.
Five of them. The only one missing was Kasigna, in her aspect of the Crone. Five was enough. More than enough.
Not even the Goblin King could challenge them, not together. They had walked through a sea of Crelers, past dying worlds, leaving nothing in their wake. An alliance of beings who did not trust one another, enemies and rivals.
They only desired one thing. They focused on the [Princess], then the exit she guarded. If they held that, there would be no way out for the souls. And the world beyond called to them. They had no flesh…but this was a doorway to reality.
What might they do if they could whisper into the living world itself, without having to wait for the Solstices?
The five spoke conversationally as Tamaroth turned his head to Emerrhain. They ignored the mortals trying to defend this spot. What could they do? Nothing.
“I thought Zineryr had bested you for good, Emerrhain.”
The God of Magic had been smiling fit to burst, gloating, but his expression turned to a snarl in an instant.
“Those—I am liberated from their pathetic last trick.”
“For now. Until this place closes.”
Tamaroth gave the God of Magic an arch smirk, and Emerrhain’s snarl turned to a strained smile. He glanced at the other four dead gods.
“I wish to strike a deal. It need not be you, but I shall reward you greatly for—liberation. If you refuse, what of it? All I need do is exit and signal one who might render me aid.”
The four considered it. Cauwine tossed her head.
“I do not care to. Beg the others for help. We are enemies once more after this.”
Her own attention was on the exit to the [Palace of Fates]. She swished her sword carelessly, and Norechl said nothing. Laedonius Deviy spoke.
“I-I-I will help. Tell me where you are. I will help.”
Emerrhain eyed the remains of Deviy, and his eyes swung to Tamaroth. The four exchanged an unsaid thought.
Whatever Deviy was now, he was not the being they had known. Better to end him once this was over. Tamaroth nodded, then gave Emerrhain another superior smirk.
“Of all those present, I am your best, and perhaps only, option, Emerrhain. I shall require a number of concessions.”
The God of Magic snarled, but his eyes darted to Norechl, the indifferent Cauwine, and Laedonius Deviy’s twitching face—he might have been trying to smile—and could see no better options.
“Very well. After we divide these souls—equally!”
He snapped. The five dead gods focused on the exit. Now, the souls streaming through were in a panic. A line of warriors formed in front of them; they had been firing arrows, using Skills and magic.
It did nothing to the dead gods. Of the entire group arrayed against them, there were only a handful of ‘real’ beings not of the [Palace of Fates].
A single [Princess] in the way, fumbling for some kind of box. And a [Knight] in battered, golden armor, prepared to defend her. And a terrified little Cave Goblin with a knife, but she didn’t count. No god paid attention to the box Lyonette held; it was just a box to their eyes. Cauwine shrugged and lifted her sword.
“Though I detest you, Emerrhain, we are agreed. Then I shall hear of how Tamaroth and Norechl escaped their own sorry fate. The five of us shall take flesh sooner than I thought. Or is it six of us? Ah, hello, Mother.”
A sixth dead god had appeared behind them. Cauwine turned, and Tamaroth scowled.
“Must we share everything? Ah, but it is fitting, one supposes. Kasigna—”
He turned, beckoning imperiously, and they expected the Crone to fall in with them. But instead—the Crone took one look at the five dead gods and ran towards them. Not strode, as befit her dignity, that haughty, ancient elder Goddess—but ran.
Clumsily, but with all the strength in her withered frame. Ran in a terror that Cauwine had never seen in her mother. The other five dead gods were amused or perplexed by turns.
Was she that hungry? Emerrhain held up a warning hand.
“This is not your place, Kasigna. If you attempt to harvest more souls than we, it shall be battle. And you shall suffer greatly. Well—more than already.”
He smirked, for she was no longer the Three-In-One but only her aspect of the Crone. Kasigna ran past him, eyes wide.
“Run, Daughter!”
That was only to Cauwine—the Goddess of Last Stands blinked, and then Emerrhain saw a second figure striding around the hallway. He tsked.
“Ah, both aspects of you. How clever. The proportioning of souls shall only be one sixth, either way.”
The five dead gods peered at the final figure to appear. There was something off about her, but only Cauwine understood it at first.
The Maiden stood still, and she wore black robes, worn and weathered, a traveller’s boots. And a hooded cloak that covered most of her head. The Maiden’s hands were clutching a scythe, the wooden haft of it frayed and plain, but also, somehow, timeless. Tamaroth smiled to see her; he had courted the Maiden an age ago, to create Cauwine.
“Maiden. Come join us. We have all returned, as ever. No mere ghosts could best us.”
His boastful words and his kingly gesture tried to overwrite history and his own memories that they had bested him and Norechl. It erased the deeds of the dead. The bravery of the last Dragonlord of the Void and Razia of the Agelum. It was contempt for mortality—and when he spoke, the Maiden’s head rose.
Her eyes were pale moons from within the black hood she wore. A hood…that Cauwine realized was real.
