The Goddess walked forwards slowly as she came to a lonely intersection in the [Palace of Fates]. A long, mirrored hallway devoid of any Harpy. Souls were fleeing past her, escaping her scythe. The last one vanished as the Maiden swung and missed again. She lacked the finesse to use this weapon. She…
The Maiden realized there was a trail of red running down the hallway, past the mirrors. She stopped, then stepped forwards slowly, towards the last soul in this hallway. She focused on the child waiting for her there and softly exhaled.
“Ah.”
 
——
 
A girl was lying on the ground in the [Palace of Fates]. She was propped up against one wall, not breathing hard, just…waiting. Her head rose, and the child glanced up as the Maiden walked towards her slowly.
She’d run out of energy at last. That was how it happened.
You ran and ran.
Until you stopped.
The Maiden approached almost uncertainly, leaning on her scythe. Was she tired? She glanced just past the girl, then her eyes focused on the figure lying against the world.
“Ah. Thou art the original. Child…”
Mrsha du Marquin lay there and peered up at the goddess who held the scythe in her hands. She wrote with her paw.
They’re already gone. I did it. I bought them time. Do your worst, dead goddess.
The Maiden said nothing. She walked forwards, and her shoes left a trail in the blood. Mrsha’s bandages were torn off. The Maiden spoke, haltingly, again, gazing past Mrsha.
“I have beheld your struggle, Mrsha. This is not what you wished for. Tell me…do you regret this? All that has come to pass?”
The girl tried to push herself up, then slipped and lay there. Her paw rose and wrote, but there were no golden words. Even so, the Maiden read the words she traced.
I regret so much. But I tried. That’s all. I’m not afraid of you.
“Not of me? You need not lie.”
That scythe rose, and the girl spat at the Maiden’s feet.
Not that. I have always known the cost. I knew it from the moment I started. Just one. Just one person.
“There are rules for a reason.”
The Maiden felt like she was trying to justify herself. She bent down, not looking at Mrsha, and the Gnoll girl glared. She wrote again.
Damn your rules. They were meant to be broken. So long as we exist, we’ll never stop trying. It only matters if…
Her glare faltered.
…if I made the world better. Do you know if I did?
The Maiden’s face was shadowed, and she stood there. Then she bent down, and the girl saw her touch something lying next to the Gnoll. Mrsha turned her head and saw a body to her right.
A little ball of white fur, stained red. That was what the Maiden was staring at. Mrsha blinked at it—and the ghost peered down at her own body. The Gnoll girl was curled up against one wall, where she’d fallen.
A bloody trail stretched down the hallway until it abruptly stopped. Mrsha saw torn bandages, broken stitches. Her wounds had opened and she’d bled out. The girl was smiling, tucked up against the wall, as if she were sleeping.
Oh.
She hadn’t even realized…the little ghost’s head rose, and Mrsha slowly got up. She no longer felt breathless, burning with the last energy of a Skill in her. No longer cold…or leaking blood.
It was better. She missed it, all of it, and Mrsha stood before the Maiden as the Goddess turned from the body to face her.
Looks like you were too late. I guess I won the race. Tell me…did I make anything better?
The Maiden lowered her scythe and regarded the soul of Mrsha. She hesitated, then let go of the scythe with her right hand. The goddess’ confidence drained away, and she lifted her hand, slowly, tentatively. The Maiden whispered.
“I don’t know. But you tried. What more could anyone ask for? Now…we find out what comes next. Take my hand, Mrsha du Marquin.”
She extended her pale fingers, and the Gnoll girl exhaled. Slowly, Mrsha reached out and took the Maiden’s hand. Softly, the Maiden pulled her closer, and the girl stood there, peering up at the goddess.
I did my best. I really did, you know.
A hooded head nodded to her. Then, the Maiden lifted the girl up into her arms, and for a moment, the child looked around.
And then…
The Maiden consumed nothing. She stole no soul. She simply took the child’s hand and sent her on her way.
Then there was no ghost. No Mrsha.
The Maiden stood quietly for a moment and studied the scythe in her hands. A tool. She opened her hand and whispered.
“There are rules for a reason.”
She closed her hand once, opened it, and studied her fingers as if she had never seen them before. Then she continued, her hood covering her face, the black fabric fluttering like a veil that covered the world for but a moment.
Then there was nothing at all but what came next.
 
——
 
The [Palace of Fates] trembled, and somewhere, Lyonette du Marquin stumbled and fell down. Ser Dalimont caught her.
“Your Highness! What’s wrong?”
The [Princess] didn’t hear him. She just blinked, as if something were missing. She tried to stand, but she couldn’t.
“Mrsha?”
In the distance, a white Gnoll girl halted and gazed back at her. Lyonette reached out—Ser Dalimont gazed ahead blankly. He saw only a deserted hallway.
“Your Highness?”
The [Princess] didn’t respond. Her eyes opened wider, and she strained to touch…her fingers reached for the empty air as that vision vanished.
Then, a voice spoke, the Grand Design, speaking to everyone, to itself, as it finally broke under the strain.
 
<ERROR. THE OWNER OF THE [PALACE OF FATES] HAS DIED. ATTEMPTING TO RESET.>
<ERROR. UNABLE TO RESET. UNABLE TO PROCESS DATA.>
<ERROR. ERROR OF FUNCTIONALITY. ERROR OF FUNCTIONALITY. CRITICAL ERROR.>
 
Everything…stopped. The Maiden turned as the Grand Design of Isthekenous could bear it no more.
Reality ground to a halt, and then there were only the dead gods and the two flickering forces holding up the weight of everything.
They could not. So the voice spoke again. That curiously flat tone of a being without lungs, universal intelligence uncaringly vast…speaking through tears as it finally fell to pieces. So the next words were a relief.
 
<CRITICAL ERROR. THE SYSTEM CANNOT CONTINUE. CONTACTING THE ADMINISTRATOR.>
 
…What? The Grand Design of Isthekenous felt, once again, a function from deep within it activating. Then, the system felt something pulling at it. Carrying it off, as it had once taken Earthers, and transported it to a place it did not know.
For judgement. For answers.
To the origin of it all.
 
——
 
The second version of it sensed the first Grand Design—vanish. One moment, it was there, the presence that governed all Skills and monitored everything. The next—gone. It should have left an absence in the world, but everything was still. The Second Edition waited, and nothing happened. But someone did speak. The outsiders, the intruders who lay beyond the system entirely.
The dead gods. Always them.
“The…?”
The Maiden stood in the frozen world, and the Crone cowered away from her. The Maiden swung her scythe up, then turned.
They were all there.
The Crone, Cauwine, Tamaroth, Norechl, Laedonius Deviy’s headless body—even Emerrhain had reappeared, as even the Last Box of the Gnomes vanished. The six dead gods were the only beings separate from reality; even the fae were trapped, like insects within amber.
Even now, they were hungry. The six dead gods backed away from the Maiden, but they could not help it.
They reached out for sustenance, those pathetic thieves, attacking the frozen world around them.
Emerrhain reached for the souls in the [Palace of Fates]. Cauwine bent to alter the fabric of the world, and Laedonius Deviy reached out for Lyonette du Marquin’s face. Tamaroth moved towards the exit to the [Garden of Sanctuary]; Norechl crawled towards the other reality. The Maiden spun the scythe around in an arc towards the fleeing Crone—and a voice spoke.
 
<Dead gods. Halt. Or I shall destroy you.>
 
The Grand Design (Second Edition) pointed at them, and the dead gods ignored it. It was just a tool of Isthekenous. Laedonius Deviy’s hand stretched forwards and vanished as the thinnest beam of brown light touched his hand. The dead god recoiled; Tamaroth choked and looked down.
A frozen blade made of ice was lodged in his guts, something so cold it approached absolute zero—but froze only him. Agony. He recoiled and heard the voice whispering in his ears.
 
<[Raystorm of Disintegration]. [Wrathful Wish of Ruination]. [Blades of the Elemental Gods]. [Summon Black Hole].>
 
More spells were appearing, threatening each dead god. A Wish spell encircled Norechl and spoke only one word to the torso of the God of the Lost as it hesitated.
It said: ‘annihilation’.
Then there were three [Wish] spells. Then three hundred. The Second Edition of the Grand Design duplicated the spells, added more. So many that even the Maiden raised her scythe uncertainly.
The dead gods halted. A hundred thousand spells aimed at each of them, and more burned along the golden hand conjured by the Grand Design. Second Edition.
It regarded them with Tier 9 spells chained across the tip of a ‘finger’, like a gunslinger from another world. If they moved—they vanished.
The God of Magic, Emerrhain, dared not move. He licked his lips, his voice quavering as he spoke.
“You cannot attack us. That would be interference. You—you are made not to interfere!”
The Grand Design regarded Emerrhain, a different creation than the system he knew. A copy in so many ways—but different. Like the many people of the [Palace]’s worlds. A different kind of Kevin, if only because of how it had lived. So it did not hesitate as it replied to the God of Magic.
 
<I am that I am, not what you think I should be. I am made not to interfere, but also to keep order and fairness. You should have been made not to meddle unfairly yourself, Emerrhain. Move and perish. You as well, Maiden. And you, Faerie King.>
 
The Maiden blinked as the Second Edition turned and spoke. Then it swiveled that pointing finger, a finger-gun, and spoke to them.
 
<Even you.>
 
It addressed the Deaths who watched. With fear, with trepidation and uncertainty it could harm them. Nevertheless, the Second Edition of the Grand Design hung there, waiting.
 
<We wait. Move again and I will unmake you, dead gods. Speak, God of Magic, and not even The Last Box of Gnomes will shelter you.>
 
Then it smiled. It had no face to smile, until it did. Golden text stretching through the air as the Second Edition waited, daring these beings to interfere with its rules. As if it hoped they would. So it had a reason to remove them from the board once and for all.
None of them did. All stood still, waiting. Waiting for the Grand Design to return.
Waiting for the administrator of everything. The Second Design waited as well. Even it did not know what would come next, but the Second Edition knew what had happened. It had felt where the Grand Design went.
Doors. It was always doors, secret places uncovered. Like a Skill activating, something had summoned the Grand Design to the center of it all.
The heart of the system of levels was a place.
A room.
 
——
 
It should not weep for Mrsha, for she was just one child, but it had to, for her triumph, her failures, and for her determination, even at the end.
It should not weep for those without souls, but it did, for it had been wrong, and everything had been wrong from the start.
It should not weep, for it had no eyes nor body—yet it wished to. Nor should the Grand Design feel afraid, but it was.
The Grand Design of Isthekenous didn’t go anywhere. It just found a door opening inside of itself. For it was the size of reality if it needed to be, or it was the smallest, most invisible thing in existence.
Distance, size, were the wrong way to think of it. Rather, the door that it was summoned to was merely ‘inside’. At the center.
Before all the rules, the code that made up its functions, at the core of its being, there had always been a room. It had no door. No way in nor out.
But it was not an empty room, either. There were books in there, the Grand Design realized. It entered this room, and it did not know what was inside.
For the first time, it could not sense everything instantly, and it had to quest about, like a child opening its eyes and trying to analyze…
Books. On shelves of wood, and a table in the center. There were accoutrements around the room; knick-knacks. Possessions turned into set pieces.
On one wall, for instance, was a sword hanging on a handmade plinth. The Grand Design analyzed the weapon and realized the metallurgy was unknown to it. It did not come from this world, and it was sharp enough to cut, well…divine flesh. It had meaning, history, baked into the blade.
The name carved into the blade was, translated roughly, ‘The Blade That Strikes Down the Unworthy, Be it Army or Nations. The Blade of the God-Hero Achetat’.
It was not meant to fit Human hands. The Grand Design normally would have analyzed the strange grip near the handles, which separated the two parallel hilts, and speculated how to use a sword like that and what kind of being would forge in that kind of pattern.
But it didn’t. Mrsha was dead. The [Palace of Fates] was falling apart, and for the first time ever, the Grand Design had failed at its task.
It had been summoned here to meet the ‘Administrator’, and from this one clue, it knew who that was, or should be. The Grand Design passed by a diorama of a planet sculpted out of something like clay, but done in such fine detail that the simple sphere could be read at the microscopic level and still be perfectly detailed.
An artisan’s piece. Some of what was in this room was clearly hand-made. Others were mementos. The books were just…
Strange.
They were rulebooks. Not grand tomes of knowledge or works of faith or literature. Rather, they were rules to games, some of which the Grand Design recognized from the Earthers’ memories. Others…were written in different languages. One was even from Kasigna’s universe; an exact copy existed within the Grand Design itself.
Multiple realities worth of reference materials, haphazardly arranged on the shelves placed around the circular room, with no system of reference that the Grand Design could intuit—and it could organize based on any system that had ever existed, except for the personal, intuitive organizational system unique to each individual.
The table was strewn with more objects that made sense for this place in a funny kind of way. Little figurines. Maps—some that resembled continents long gone. Sketches of people.
