It was almost a relief, you know. There had been a tiny part of him, an evil part of him, that had always believed it was fake.
His entire world. Not because he was so perspicacious as to notice that he was a being made of a Skill, or that he had a mind so keen as to pick it up before it became obvious.
No…it was just who he was.
A Goblin. Pyrite had always, always doubted every happy moment in his life. He supposed it was in the real Pyrite’s nature too. Every day he lay down in a comfortable inn and enjoyed a life without death or great worries, he had waited for it to end.
This was what he deserved, then. A part of him believed that; he had wanted the worst to happen, and it had, and it was always worse than you thought.
—But he really wasn’t sure what little Mrsha had done to deserve all of it. So that convinced Pyrite it was just a bad thing happening.
His Mrsha. Not Roots Mrsha, Real Mrsha, or anyone else. A frightened girl crying as she silently clung to her mother’s hand and ran. Lyonette from the inn that had so recently held a beach and happiness on the Winter Solstice.
“This way!”
He pointed, and the band of people from his world he’d found followed him. The Hobgoblin ran through the [Palace of Fates]—he’d found his people. He was trying to get them out.
Erin was gone. The Flooded Waters tribe…most likely gone. Most hadn’t reached the inn, and even if they had afterwards, that God of Magic was there. But this group, at least, he could save. Pyrite had run back into the [Palace of Fates] rather than stay at the exit. It had been a miracle that he found his people at all, or the desperation in his heart had led him to them.
Finding the exit again was not as easy. All they could do was run from everything.
Run, as soldiers and dead gods and worse poured in through every door around them. Pyrite led everyone towards the exit, an axe in his hand. It shone with lightning; a gift from Erin’s [Garden of Sanctuary], but it was a paltry weapon against…
A raging Truestone Golem hurtled out of one of the doors, screaming, its porcelain skin revealing red lines from within. Some—world where Golems had risen up against their masters? It turned and began smashing its fists against another door where Archmage Zelkyr, a withered Drake, backed away as a Truestone Golem tried to defend him.
“Back! Back—”
Pyrite retreated around the corridor, pulling Lyonette with him. A band of refugees from his world followed. A few of them, Drakes, almost went towards the dueling Archmage of Golems and the renegade Truestone construct—until they saw three more Truestone Golems emerging from the door. Then they fled.
“This way!”
Another corridor that was ‘safe’; something was clawing at the inside of one of the doors, but they weren’t all breaking at the same speed. Pyrite slowed near the door, forcing himself to stand in front of it as he pointed and saw people running past.
His Relc and Valeterisa, hand-in-hand—Relc’s eyes were empty and lost, and the Archmage had to drag him. Moore, Selys holding Ekirra’s paw—
Not enough. How many had died despite Niers fighting that thing? Pyrite didn’t know who was missing. He saw no Halrac or Kevin, but they’d already gone through—
A roar behind him, and he whirled. One of the Truestone constructs was coming. Pyrite set himself to meet the charge of the thing, then heard a crack—he turned, and a vast eye stared at him from the open door. It was like a portal to the abyss; something regarded him with a pupil larger than the Hobgoblin.
He turned and ran. The Truestone Golem vanished as Pyrite took off.
“Pyrite! Where now?”
A female voice called out; Ceria. Pisces was waiting at the intersection along with the Horns of Hammerad. The [Necromancer]’s eyes were empty, and tears ran from them. Erin was dead.
Gone. Pyrite felt empty. No. That wasn’t true. He felt the rage to smash that thing’s—Emerrhain’s—head in, to grind him to paste. Only rationality said that it wouldn’t do a thing. Pisces?
He seemed to be trying to will the agony out of him, as if he could sacrifice it, cut away the pain with his necromancy. But another part of him was mad with rage. He would have gone back, but Pisces saw the rest of the refugees of his world running towards him. The [Necromancer]’s eyes found Mrsha, Lyonette, the children and people of the inn.
Pisces addressed Pyrite curtly.
“Well?”
The Hobgoblin panted as he glanced over his shoulder. The hallway was deceptively empty save for that open door.
Like a spider waiting for something to fall into its trap. He didn’t have time to leave a warning. The Hobgoblin looked ahead; three intersections branched out in front of him.
“I don’t know. Keep going. Wish to find the exit.”
“We’re all going to die. Like Erin.”
Selys whispered, and Ekirra whimpered in her arms. The Drake was giving up on hope. Pyrite snapped at her.
“No one’s going to die. Run! Run and live!”
She started, and the Hobgoblin forced himself forwards, pointing at the leftmost passageway.
“Go!”
It was the intersections that spelled trouble or death. Each time they turned a corner, everyone braced—when they saw the Crelers fighting Queen Marquin’s army, the Horns of Hammerad didn’t hesitate.
“[Ice Walls]. Go, go!”
Ceria conjured ice walls, and the adventurers fought the Crelers trying to break away towards them. Pisces cursed, backing up.
“Come on!”
The Horns didn’t answer, nor could they retreat—they were covering this corridor, lest the larval Crelers reach the refugees. Pyrite backed up and turned, cursing. When he glanced back—the hallways were empty.
“Pisces!”
Selys shouted, but the Horns had bought them another moment to live. Possibly at the cost of their own lives.
Let it not be so. They can run and catch up with us. Pyrite had to drag Selys back. He spun around, searching for a safer hallway, and raised his axe to throw at the next figures he saw—
Headscratcher, the Goblin Lord of Sorrows, caught the spinning axe by the haft and grunted. Pyrite blinked.
Headscratcher, his Headscratcher, was here! And the rest of the Redfangs! They appeared battle-worn, but all five were intact.
“Headscratcher!”
“Found you. Come on, we have to get back to the exit.”
Like Pyrite, the Redfangs had come back for their family. Someone burst out of the crowd and ran into Shorthilt’s open arm—Pekona, one-armed like him.
“Where’s Garia? Octavia?”
Numbtongue called out as Badarrow searched for Snapjaw. Headscratcher raised his voice over the shouting.
“We have to go! Now! Come on!”
Headscratcher nodded in agreement. His eyes had the same agony in them as Pisces, but something was keeping the Goblin Lord of Sorrows moving. Hope that he’d found somewhere in these halls, despite all that he’d lost. A little flower was tangled in his hair, placed behind one of his ears. Pyrite glanced at it, then spoke.
“Let’s go.”
Headscratcher handed him his axe back, and the two led the way. Side-by-side, they ran down the hallways as Headscratcher relayed the encounter with the Witch of Webs and the army defending the exit. Pyrite just grunted.
“It bad. I saw that army. Two Elder Crelers are dead.”
“That’s good.”
“There are six more, now. And something bigger. Ancient Creler.”
Headscratcher said nothing—but he began running faster. Pyrite could feel it in his bones. They had to leave this [Palace of Fates]. It was clearly collapsing, but even if it didn’t—they’d have to erase it soon or reality itself might be damned.
And he still had no idea where the God of Magic was, or the Goblin King he could feel rampaging through the halls. Focus.
He had to protect the people around him. He could barely even do that.
They made it down two more hallways before they found more danger. Pyrite slammed into Headscratcher’s back and peered up.
“Great.”
He had no idea what the giant…flesh-monsters with eyes standing out all over their misshapen bodies were, but one look at the door they were coming out of and Pyrite guessed.
“Seamwalker spawn. That way—”
He spun around and froze. He tried to take another step and couldn’t. Something was locking down his muscles.
The eyes. Like Gazers—Pyrite saw the rest of the people behind him were frozen. Only Valeterisa could even raise her head.
“Gazer…eyes…[Chain…Lightning]…”
She fired the spell, and the paralysis undid itself long enough for Pyrite to spin back around. His axe came up—and he froze again.
Valeterisa had blasted one of the Seamwalker-horrors off its feet, but more had climbed out of the door. They advanced, swinging their arms clumsily. Pyrite strained for something, a Skill, anything.
Instead, he saw a figure step forwards and raise a hand. Headscratcher caught one huge arm of the Seamwalker Eye-Horror with a roar, then cleaved through it. His body was coated in blue flames, and he kept moving, despite the eyes fixed on him. But slowly—one of the things hit him with a blow that snapped his head back. They lumbered forward, swinging at the Goblin Lord. Headscratcher howled.
“Run! Run!”
Pyrite was trying, but there were too many eyes. He saw one stomping at the frozen Mrsha and Lyonette, raising a fist like a maul.
The Goblin roared in his head, focusing his aura, and the Seamwalker stopped. The Eye-Horror turned to him instead. That was something. The snarling Hobgoblin trembled as wind blew past his face. Then his eyes stung. Not with tears of helplessness.
Just sand.
Sand? It whipped against the back of Pyrite’s head, then there was a stream of particles blowing past him. A dust storm whipped up, and Pyrite saw one of the Eye-Horrors…blink.
Then vision became obscured, and he felt the paralysis effect on him abate. Pyrite twisted out of the way of the falling fist and swung his axe into the chest.
The lightning enchantment discharged, and the Eye-Horror staggered back. Pyrite was rewarded with purple blood coating his chest; he yanked the axe back and heard a voice crying out.
“This way!”
A child’s voice? Pyrite stepped forwards and grabbed Headscratcher; the [Berserker] was fighting the Eye-Horrors and nearly hit Pyrite.
“Keep moving! We have to protect the others, idiot!”
The Goblin Lord let himself be pulled back—and they ran out of the dust cloud spell. Pyrite was ready for a second ambush. Who’d saved them?
He lifted his axe to throw—and skidded to a halt as he saw a girl waving at him. No, a pair of girls.
“Nanette?”
Nanette Weishart, two of them, were standing with a taller woman that Pyrite didn’t recognize. But he knew her instantly.
Witch Califor had a broom in her hand. She swept it forwards, like someone getting rid of dust, and the sandstorm blew over the Eye-Horrors with redoubled force. Then the [Witch] adjusted her hat.
“This way. With me, everyone. Older Nanette, scout ahead. Younger, check for injuries, make sure we lose no one.”
“Who’re you?”
Headscratcher came to a halt; one of the Nanettes was shepherding the people forwards, but a little girl had come to a standstill in the crowd.
A third Nanette caught sight of her mother, and Beach Nanette’s eyes filled with tears—Califor was panting, and Pyrite saw the strain on her. But her voice was brisk.
“I take it you’re looking for the way out too?”
“Yeah. Our Erin’s dead.”
Califor’s eyes flickered.
“I—don’t know who that is. I’m sorry. I was attempting to evacuate Riverfarm, but we were too far. Only three [Witches] made it, and they tried to…”
She stopped, shook herself rapidly.
“My daughter has to live. All of them. I’m trying to find a way out.”
There was that familiar guilt in her voice that Pyrite knew only too well. A [Chieftain]’s guilt was much like a [Witch]’s.
“Let’s go. Headscratcher is the strongest of us physically, and we have Valeterisa, the Archmage of Izril. Also, Altestiel and Belchaus—”
Though the Earl of Rains was virtually comatose. Pyrite rattled off the names of their best fighters, and Califor nodded.
“Scouts. We have to find a path not obliterated. Who can move fast?”
“Ryoka. Hawk. Valceif—Couriers!”
They jogged over, and Pyrite gave them orders. He should have thought of it himself, but he pointed back at the silent corridor.
“That way’s trapped. Something in the doors. We have to keep moving.”
“I’d rather not run into more trouble like that. Watch the sandstorm; they might come out of it.”
Califor snapped back as they moved down a ‘safe’ corridor. Pyrite kept his eye on the sandstorm as he shook his head.
“No. There’s worse out there. We ran into a man. Emerrhain. He kills at a touch. Nothing can hurt him. He’s worse than anything else. The Titan of Baleros was trying to slow him.”
“I…see.”
Califor licked her lips as she glanced down the long corridor. Just that little action, nothing else. Her daughters were watching her, and she was trying not to show them fear. Pyrite respected that. Someone ran up to them, panting.
“Miss Califor—and—I’m from the real world. Only, someone’s hiding the way out. We have to get there.”
Nanette. Pyrite focused on the oldest of the Nanettes, the real Nanette, and hoped it meant they were close to salvation. But the little witch’s face was white.
 
——
 
It wasn’t supposed to be like this. Nanette didn’t know what had gone wrong with Mrsha’s plans. Everything. She had been so close to getting a version of her mother back.
…Then it had all gone wrong. It wasn’t Mrsha’s fault. It was just how life was, but it was so bitter.
It was Miss Califor who read the black emotion in Nanette’s heart and took a moment from assessing the hallways for a route forwards to kneel. She took Nanette’s cheeks and turned the girl’s head to her.
“It’s not your fault, Nanette.”
“But if I hadn’t—”
“We would be stuck in the door. Don’t assign guilt to yourself. Nor to this Mrsha of yours. Sometimes, the earth shakes and people die. Sometimes, it’s a fool of a [Mage] or a Creler. Other times, it’s simply nature. Remember that. We protect what we can and keep moving until we’re safe.”
The Great Witch of Izril lifted her wand, and Nanette nodded up at her. Then someone cried out ahead of her.
“Watch out! There’s some kind of battle ahead! Soldiers! There’s—”
A battle swept over them in an instant. Soldiers of the Blighted Kingdom fighting Goblins with…guns? Nanette saw them firing and running, like a movie, but the sound was deafening. Both sides were fleeing a laughing, too-thin figure throwing jets of water and downing everything she saw.
Nanette, the Witch of Sorrows, turned her attention to the people from the beach world and raised a hand to wash them away with a wall of water.
A blast of sand tossed her off her feet. She stumbled up, and Miss Califor swept her broom harder.
