There was no allocation of stat points or anything like that, nor did I have to sleep for the levels to apply, like in my last realm. Instead, the level-up funneled essence into my mind, body, and soul, strengthening them based on how much each had been used since I’d gained my last level.

And since I’d spent more time regaining skills than fighting, I was unsurprised when most of the improvement targeted my mind and soul.

I continued forward, meeting a pair of barkers just before the room ended.

While it truly did look like a typical forest immediately around the path, I could see the edges of the room between the trees. It wasn’t quite like being surrounded by the void, but it was close.

Dispatching both barkers took less than a minute, and I quickly searched the floor for additional mobs and harvestable materials before moving on to the next room.

Though it looked almost the same as the last, the path wasn’t as straight, and there were a few additional plants and herbs visible. I stepped forward, freezing when I saw the familiar tip of a fuzzy antenna peeking through the bottom of a nearby berry bush.

Though the lagus appeared to be a small rabbit with long antennae instead of ears on top of its furry head, I knew they were more like sadistic cats who enjoyed toying with their prey instead of being prey animals themselves.

Even outside the dungeon, the ferocious beasts would mercilessly attack anyone or anything that entered their territory. Within the dungeon, such violent tendencies were only enhanced.

At a glance, they might appear pretty harmless, and I had no doubt that many unprepared delvers had found their ends due to the creatures’ deceptive appearance.

I was pretty sure this particular species had evolved the whole fluffy prey animal appearance specifically to lure unsuspecting would-be predators to their deaths.

From personal experience, I knew that their teeth included a pair of sharp incisors that allowed them to inject a paralyzing venom into their prey.

They also had razor-sharp claws that could easily slice through light armor, making them particularly dangerous foes if they managed to latch onto someone.

They were a challenge well beyond what I would have expected to find on the very first floor of the dungeon.

The system’s identification worked on the antenna, showing the lone mob as a yellow threat – a fact which only reinforced my alarm, given the number of skills I had slotted. Even the boss shouldn’t be a yellow threat to someone with my demonstrated capabilities.

For the lagus to be yellow, it meant that the system had determined that the mob would pose a modest challenge to me, personally.

I wasn’t really concerned about a modest challenge since I didn’t think the lagus would actually be able to touch me, but what about the natives entering the floor? For a low-level mob to pose a modest challenge to me with my current skills, it would almost have to be a red or black threat to most of them.

It just didn’t seem right for that kind of threat to be present on the very first floor.
