Dinner was delicious. Kiri outdid herself with the meat pies. Erick needed to up his own food game, too, especially with all the strange and delicious things he saw in Oceanside. He also needed to find that fruit that grew in Nergal called ‘Tarip’, and see about making real coffee and actual chocolate.

But for now, Erick rested in his room, while five Ophiel held a chain of thought into the center of Glaquin. Jane was somewhere around there, for sure.

‘Jane? Can you hear me?’

Moments passed.

‘Hay, Dad! Howsa joo ban? Yo woods song fungi.’

… Erick added a few more Ophiel to the chain.

‘Repeat that, please?’

‘Oh. That’s better.’ Jane asked, ‘What changed?’

Erick smiled at the ceiling of his room, sending, ‘Five Ophiel were supporting my message across the world, but now seven are. Did you know you can piggyback the signal like this?’

‘Nope. I did not know that.’ Mirth flowed through the connection, as Jane sent, ‘How’s Oceanside treating you?’

‘Oceanside is pretty great. Already met the Headmaster. I didn’t see him in his true form, but there’s no doubt that he’s a dragon.’ He asked, ‘Hey? What were those game masters called? The ones that created the games that you played?’

‘Game Masters.’ Jane laughed. ‘Why?’

‘Because people in Oceanside make dungeons to support the growths of slimes, and then they harvest the rads inside.’ Erick added, ‘Everything is stupid expensive, here.’

‘I’ve heard a little bit about that.’ Jane said, ‘The practice is illegal in the Crystal Forest, but that doesn’t really stop people, and enforcement is rather low. Al is technically a dungeon keeper, but he never uses the term.’ She asked, ‘Are you going to become a dungeon keeper?’

‘No. Well. … No. It’s just amazing that I’m learning stuff again.’ Erick said, ‘Oceanside is nice, Jane. I’m going to take classes and learn about cultures and laws and magic! I haven’t felt this way in decades.’

‘I’m glad.’ Jane sounded both happy, and a little sad.

Erick asked, ‘What’s going on with you?’

Jane said, ‘Hunting slimes in exposed, old lava tubes, funnily enough. They each only have a few Flame Essences, but its only a matter of time before I’m ready for the unicorn. Maybe another two weeks.’

‘You’re not too lonely out there, are you?’

‘… I’ll be back in civilization soon enough.’ Jane quickly added, ‘Don’t worry about me. Worry about yourself. You’re the one with a target on your back.’

‘Yeah yeah. Speaking of targets:’ Erick said, ‘Caradogh Pogi, the Lower Trademaster of Portal, you remember him? Anyway: That asshole got Yetta and all those people who bargained with me for rains and gems, to destroy their gems, and tell me to go away. I’m going to make this [Gate] network and fuck Caradogh over, though. Just watch me do it.’

‘… You’re gonna make me start worrying about you again.’

‘I am well aware of the problems. This would be a catastrophic change to a vast majority of life on Veird, so I won’t do it right now. But if Caradogh wants an enemy, he’s gotten one.’ Erick added, ‘Though I know full well that turning Spur into a breadbasket is already dangerous.’

‘… Are you really aware of what you’re already doing, though?’

‘Yes. Spur prospers, so Portal has less trade, which means less money for those people in charge down there, which means I have a target on my back. This is very simple stuff, and I understand all of it. Doesn’t mean I won’t keep doing the right thing.’ Erick said, ‘I just wish there was more room for advancement, and less people on the top making that advancement difficult specifically because any advancements at all would upset their bottom line.’

‘That bottom line also supports militaries which drive back the monsters.’ Jane said, ‘Portal is home to a million people, at least, and their entire economy is based on trade across the Letri Ocean.’

Erick sent, ‘Well maybe I could just solve this entire problem with providing a [Gate] network for Portal to control.’

A moment passed.

‘That’s one idea.’ Jane asked, ‘You don’t really care about the money you’d make from the network, do you?’

‘Not really.’ Erick said, ‘What I want to do is kill all the Shades.’ He added, ‘Making Spur a launching point for the world to attack Ar’Kendrithyst is a good idea. But, of course, then you’d have a [Gate] sitting next to the Shades, and that would be a bad idea.’

‘I don’t think Silverite would want a [Gate] network in her town, anyway, for exactly that reason. I’m pretty sure she’s humoring the threat you made because it makes her look good and the people of Spur want the farms.’

‘Gods. I really shouldn’t have boasted about making a [Gate] network.’ Erick said, ‘[Gate] is a weird spell. Oh! That reminds me. What do you remember about quantum tunneling?’

‘Uhh…’ Jane paused for a moment, then spoke as though reading a remembered sentence, ‘High energy quantum particles can sometimes cross thin barriers, where classical mechanics say they shouldn’t be able to cross. Not sure what that means, though.’

‘That’s a heck of a lot more than what I remembered.’

Jane sent, ‘I love you, Dad. I got to go. I see more slimes that need eating.’

‘You are taking care to remove the rads you might accidentally eat, aren’t you?’

‘Of course.’ Jane said, ‘Might have enough saved up to fund the rest of my trip, if it doesn’t get too expensive.’

‘Love you, Jane. Good night.’

‘Good night, Dad.’

- - - -

When Erick woke, it was a rapid morning of prepping his speech on blackboards in an unused room. He had given the lecture a few times before, and even expanded upon it with Kiri, but he wanted a cohesive set of words and ideas to present to the archmages; not a jumble of words and the mostly-formed thoughts he had given to those back in Zago's classroom.

Kiri helped to organize what Erick was going to say and Erick was happy for the help, even if he might have mentioned a few things he maybe shouldn’t have mentioned. But this was do or die time, and Erick needed to be prepared. If he couldn’t trust Kiri to do the right things with the knowledge she was getting from him, then he shouldn’t have ever accepted her apprenticeship, and he certainly shouldn’t have accepted these bargains of trade from some random archmages approved by yet another archmage who only allowed himself to be referred to as ‘the Headmaster’. This whole string of events was risky, but it was a risk Erick had decided to take.

Poi came into the room half an hour to go-time. “Sir.”

Erick turned from writing on his fourth blackboard, asking, “Yeah, Poi?”

Teressa stood behind Poi, while Rats stood beside Teressa.

Erick saw the group, and felt a sinking feeling. “What’s up?”

Poi said, “We cannot protect you from archmages. We will try, but we cannot. If something should happen, you must escape, however you are able.”

Erick looked to Poi, and Rats, and Teressa, and said, “You three should stay here.” He immediately turned to Kiri, adding, “You, too.”

“Hell and Celes no!” Kiri said, “No way.”

“That’s not happening,” Rats said.

Teressa added, “We’re going to try, sir. But the fact is, is that we’re nothing more than a temporary nuisance compared to the power of six archmages.”

“Six?” Erick asked, “Who’s the— Oh? The Headmaster, right.”

Poi frowned a little, then said, “No…” He breathed, then said, “Archmage Opal has decided to participate in this congregation of archmages.”

“Really?” Erick laughed a little, saying, “She’s actually here? I finally get to meet her?” He switched back to the main topic, “That’s not important. If you guys are in danger, then you shouldn’t go. But I am going. I want those bargains of trade.” He added, “Unless you think I’m walking into a trap.”

Poi said, “I don’t believe it is a trap, but there is a danger. Opal is aligned with Spur, wholly, so we might have two archmages against the other five and the Headmaster, if that is how it turns out.”

Kiri must have finally had enough. She spat out, “I cannot believe that you all would think that the Headmaster would allow such a thing to happen!” Kiri said, “Honestly!”

“I totally think that he would,” Erick said. “He has to think of the rest of the world.”

Kiri just went still, like weights had fallen and she didn’t know how to pick them up again. She said, “I mean… Yeah. I can see that.”

Poi said, “We’re going with you if you are truly doing this, sir. I just needed you to know the score.”

“Thank you, Poi.” Erick said, “You don’t have to go, Kiri, if you don’t want to go.”

“… I’m going,” Kiri decided. “For sure.”

Erick looked around at his people, and saw Teressa missing her head, and a hole in Rats’ chest, Kiri clutching her missing arm and Poi barely able to stand. And then he banished those thoughts. Today was either the end, or the beginning; he would either gather the power to protect himself, or they would kill him for the disruption he presented.

Erick held no illusions about what today’s lecture really meant.

Hopefully, he could convince them of the benefits of Particle magic, or at least let them know that this magic was not going away. A door had been opened. The powers of this world needed to get some sort of control on the situation, and Erick was here to help.

Poi nodded, then left the room, with Teressa and Rats following him away.

Erick went back over his blackboards, while Kiri helped him organize everything. As moments stretched to minutes, Kiri’s demeanor shifted from resigned, to strong willed. For her, too, today’s lecture would be a vast change. Erick wasn't the only one getting introductions to a small snippet of archmage society.

A green fire lit in Kiri’s eyes, like today was the beginning of the rest of her life. It was a little scary to see that fervor in Kiri’s sight, but it helped Erick get into the right mindset. He needed to be a little more ruthless than normal, for he had no doubt in his mind that these archmages today would each be just as ruthless toward him.

- - - -

Erick strode down the stone stairs of an amphitheater classroom large enough to hold two hundred students. This classroom was at the very top of Central Tower. The walls and floors and desks were cream-colored stone, while the ceiling was a stone and glass roof, and the sky beyond a perfect blue. The sun shone down, illuminating the room, setting the stone to slightly sparkle, as though diamond dust had been pressed into the rock. Maybe it had.

Erick was the only archmage in the classroom right now, but others were there. Krigea, of course; she showed Erick the way to this room. All of Erick’s party stood near the back of the room, while Kiri followed Erick down the stairs, holding his bag. Professor Rue sat in middle seats, to the side, out of the way, smiling and waving to Erick, as Erick looked to her. He waved back, saying “Hello,” as he continued to the professor’s podium and stage.

When he stepped down into the moat of space between the student seating and the professor’s stage, a blip of golden light revealed the Headmaster near the podium. The ancient emperor of a man stood atop the professor’s stage with a wide, bright smile, and sparkling amber eyes.

“Good morning, Erick.” The Headmaster said, looking around; probably spying the [Scry] orbs here and there. Erick watched as a spike of intent from the Headmaster popped several of them with extreme violence. He seemed to clap the very manasphere with a look. The [Scry] orbs responded by invisibly, intangibly, exploding. He turned to Erick, looking like an ever benevolent emperor, saying, “Others will be arriving shortly.” He stepped down the stairs, lifting a hand back toward the stage, saying, “Your show, archmage.”

Erick walked up the stairs, past the Headmaster, asking, “What are you looking for, today, exactly?”

Kiri silently followed Erick up, making herself small as she slipped past him and got out his papers. She set some of them on the main podium, then went to work putting the diagrams up on the blackboards in chalk, exactly like Erick had drawn.

The Headmaster stepped to the first row of seats, turning to say, “Whatever you choose to give will be returned in trade, to be discharged at whatever convenience you individually decide amongst yourselves, before the lecture begins. I am merely here as an arbiter and to provide the platform for you to rise to glory, or to vanish in self-imposed hiding, before your knowledge is lost forever.”

Erick went still. He looked out across the mostly empty stone amphitheater, then to the Headmaster. He asked, “You don’t believe your society could learn this stuff? On their own?”

“It’s not a matter of believing.” The Headmaster said, “It’s a matter of being alive for millennia and knowing that, for the very first time in known history, actual progress has been made in understanding this Reality.”

“But.” Erick said, “Other planar people certainly had this knowledge.”

