“Oh! Right!” Erick said, “Oxygen is an oxidizer. Hydrogen actually burns, though. Oxygen does not burn.” He paused. He said, “Maybe.” He grumbled. “Ah? I don’t know if that’s right.” He looked over to Poi, cooking dinner, saying, “And can you believe that the Headmaster just went and made that spell, right there?”

Rats walked in from the front yard, carrying freshly picked potatoes, saying, “I can’t believe there wasn’t violence.”

Poi deboned fish with a sharp [Telekinesis], saying, “Violence was never a possibility. The Headmaster had that locked down tight.” He looked over to Kiri, slicing lemons, saying, “You were right.”

Kiri shuddered, sharp knife in one hand, lemon slices on the table in front of her. “That was still terrifying.”

Rats agreed, “Hell yeah it was.”

Teressa yawned in her seat by the window, saying, “Glad nothing happened.”

Erick nodded, in complete agreement.

Kiri added, “At least not right then. I bet they’re all talking about a lot of dangerous stuff right now.”

Erick nodded, in complete agreement. Then he asked, “Why would a wrought want an oxygen creating spell?” He amended, “I mean. An oxygen extracting spell?” He added, “Well. Actually. If they can take the oxygen out of metal, it goes back to being metal and not rust. So I can see how that—”

“Holy fuck!” Rats said, “Really?”

Poi and Kiri stared at Erick, while Teressa giggled, looking off into nowhere.

Poi went back to slicing up fish, casually saying, “It wasn’t an oxygen extracting spell. It was an oxygen condensing spell. If oxygen makes rust, then what Tasar had was an assassination spell, sir. She had to know this fact about rust, though. Which means she knows a lot more about particle magic than what she showed today.”

Kiri said, “That’s unfair. It also extracted oxygen. It could very well be a spell that pulls rust out of a wrought.” She added, “If that’s really all Wrought Rust is. I don’t really know.”

Rats said, “Both sides are possible.”

Erick sighed out, tired and weary, as he channeled mana across the oceans, to silver clouds that dropped platinum rain across the only green land in the Crystal Forest. He said, “Syllea seemed nice.”

Teressa said, “She is. She’s the golden girl of the Wyrmrest Tribe in Treehome, you know?”

Rats looked to Poi, and asked, straight out, “But who the heck is Hocnihai?”

Poi frowned deeply at Rats, saying, “One of the original activists of the Scaled Union, who became the Scaled Horns.”

Kiri gusted, “No shit! Really?”

"I wasn't sure until I saw him. But..." Poi said, “That man has thousands of human deaths to his name. And thousands of incani. He is a locus of the Quiet War, and you would do well to stay far away, sir.”

Erick sank further into his seat, touching the Silver Star on his chest. It was cool to the touch. It hadn’t reacted at all, all day.

Rats joked, “At least Hocnihai’s kept his numbers even.”

Kiri said, “Terrible joke!”

“Bad form, Rats,” Teressa said.

Poi just frowned and grumbled.

Erick whispered to himself, “Fucking quiet war.”
