Shockingly, it didn’t work out very well.

The instant the imp saw him sat there, he bolted, and Markus took off in quick pursuit.

Needless to say he caught some eyes as he rounded the corner and cut off the little creature’s escape, but that nasty fucker wasn’t half as fast as he was insane, and stopping him in his path was a lot easier than Markus had anticipated it being.

“Hey! I’ll call for help! I’m not afraid of you, you overgrown hairless ape!”

“Hey, keep your fucking voice down!” Markus shh’d him, grabbing his wrist and yanking him to an adjacent corridor.

The moment Markus grabbed him, he allowed a pulse of mana to pass between them. It went off just as easily as he’d hoped.

“What the fuck is this about?! And why the fuck am I still alive if you survived, anyways?” He dug his claws into Markus’ wrist, but Markus continued to hold him in place regardless, unfettered. “You just wanted to do me yourself, is that it?”

“Will you please keep it down?”

“WELL COME ON THEN YA BASTARD, I’LL GLADLY WELCOME DEATH IF IT MEANS I DON’T HAVE TO SCRUB ANOTHER BOWL FOR THAT POMPOUS RED CU—”

Markus grabbed him by the neck, cutting him off entirely.“Fucking shut it, or I will kill you. That’s a promise.”

Silence on the other end. Sounded like for all of his bravado, he didn’t like the sound of that too much.

Good. He deserved to sweat a bit after what he did.

“Now listen,” Markus waited a second, made sure no one was coming to check on them. Luckily, the kitchen was so loud with the doors open that it was likely the commotion hadn’t brought them much attention at all. “I didn’t ratfuck you after what you did to me, and I fucking well should have. You deserved everything you had coming to you for what you did to me.”

“Drathok… deserved to lose you…”

Fuck, how hard was his grip? He let up a little, making sure the prick could breathe. “Look. I don’t trust you one bit, but you owe me, and if you want me to keep our shared past a secret from here on out, then I need a favour.”

“Oh, I’m meant to do you a favour after you throttle me! Well isn’t that a wonderful fucking idea! Should I thank you for choking me, too? Would that make you feel like a big man? Would it?!”

God, this guy was awful. He couldn’t wait to have this shit over with.

“You owe me,” Markus repeated, his voice stern. “This isn’t up for negotiation. Help me or I’ll drag you to that master you hate so much right now and you can explain how you nearly got me killed. Your choice.”

“...fine. What do you want?”

“I want a way back to the lower levels.”

“The… why? You think there’s a way out down there or something?”

“Maybe, but that’s not what I’m worried about right now. There’s monsters down there, and I wanna get stronger.” Markus lowered his voice. “But I can’t get down there on my own. There’s always guards posted near the stairs and it’s pretty clear they don’t just let people wander off down there. I need you to help get me in. Make it look like you’re taking me somewhere, or something.”

He waited as the imp processed what he was saying, as the gears in his brain began to turn. “That’s it?” he asked, looking as if he were surprised. The cracks in his weathered face began to shift into a smile; it was like watching a dead planet terraform. “That’s easy! I don’t have to walk you down there! I can just do this!”

Markus went to ask what ‘this’ was, but he didn’t need to. The imp began channelling, his body glowing purple, and within three or four seconds, the two of them had vanished from the spot, reappearing in the dark depths below.

The moment they did, the imp pulled a torch from his belt and struck it.

“This was it? This was all you wanted?”

Markus instantly heard the sounds of various creatures springing to life around him, his heart pumping faster as he instantly realised how imminent the danger had suddenly become.

He steeled himself. Whatever was down here couldn’t be worse than the trimander he’d faced, or it’d be valuable enough to be locked away. Or maybe that was bullshit reasoning. All he knew was that if he wanted out of this place, he needed to get significantly stronger, and waiting for arena fights that were under the control of Drathok alone was only playing into his hands. He needed to create his own edge if he wanted to end up on top, and that was exactly what he was going to do here.

“Yeah… I’m good with this. Keep that torch burning while I fight. I know the light keeps them away, and I wanna be able to run if I need to.”

Markus took a couple of steps, and the imp immediately started laughing. When he turned back, his body was glowing purple once more.

“Heh, you really are fucking stupid, aren’t you? You need me to get in and out of this place. Well what if I just leave?! Good luck telling Drathok what I did when you’re sat in the bellies of fifty different monsters! Stupid fucking human, hahahahaha!”

The imp continued to channel his teleport, intent on leaving victorious, allowing Markus to fight and struggle in this place losing himself in endless corridors until he eventually succumbed to his wounds and died.

Markus only grinned. “I wouldn’t do that if I were you.”

“And why the fuck wouldn’t I?!”

“Because,” Markus tapped his glaive, and the imp immediately clutched his chest, the purple glow around his body dissipating.

“Wh-what the fuck did you do?!”

“I learned a skill yesterday,” Markus started, slowly walking towards him. “It’s called Detonate.” He smiled wider as he approached, leaning down and staring at him. “I read all about it. It’s a pretty cool ability. It requires prolonged contact, and it costs a bit of mana, but what it does is pretty simple…”

He tapped the glaive again, sending another pulse through the imp’s body.

“It blows shit the fuck up. And if you do anything to fuck with me while I’m down here, just know…”

One more tap for good measure. The imp dropped to his knees.

“Let’s see if you’re listening. What will I do if you try to fuck with me?”

“...blow me the fuck up?”

“Bingo.”

There. To say that was satisfying was a fucking understatement.

That matter settled, Markus immediately got to work on finding the first band of monsters he could unapologetically murder.
