“What about this room?”
“Empty.”
Sostrom shook his head as he walked out of another dark room, his staff glowing. Calruz stomped out behind him, growling irately. Ceria tried not to scowl at her friend, but it was hard.
“Not a thing?”
“You can see for yourself.”
Sostrom pointed into the dark room and shook his head. He traced a line of pallid blue light, too pale to be natural, in a cone around the worn stone. Smooth stone, possibly painted once, but fragmented away. Dust and tiny insects skittered away from the light, and it fell upon a marvel of architecture.
Deep, carved passages, even the rough, broken reliefs of what had once perhaps been complex statues. Now—smashed and rotted with age. A marvel, still, to [Builders] looking for decent stone or perhaps [Historians].
Nothing for adventurers. Faceless, eyeless statues revealed only gaping wounds where what might have once been valuable metal or gems. Someone had been here first—and if there had been books, cloth, aught at all beyond the bleak stone and rubbish strewn about—even wood had crumbled to dust. Sostrom’s staff glowed brighter as he set it down with a sigh.
“Whatever was in here, it wasn’t a treasury. And now it’s long gone.”
“Damn.”
Ceria cursed and kicked at the ground. Olesm peered over her shoulder into the empty room. He shuddered as a handful of crypt beetles scurried away. But then he looked peeved.
“I don’t get it. This is the lowest level, isn’t it? And you said there would be treasure—”
“I did. But who knew this place would be so cursed big?”
“But the treasure’s around here somewhere, right?”
Ceria growled at Olesm, and he backed away, claws raised. Gerial put a hand on her shoulder, but she sensed the tension in it too.
“Most likely. We just haven’t found it yet, and we’re all tired. Why don’t you go with Sostrom and check those rooms out?”
Sostrom made a face, but walked with Olesm down the dark corridor to peer into another room.
Ceria made a face and patted Gerial’s hand with hers. She turned, lowering her voice. She felt embarrassed—she was the veteran here. She couldn’t act like a child.
“Sorry, Gerial.”
“I know how you’re feeling. But he’s trying to be helpful.”
“Plus, this is his first adventure, and he thinks this is going to be Chalence and we’ll be famous like all the greenhorns. I know. It’s just—”
It was later. In fact, it was two hours later. The last of the undead had been killed and their remains incinerated with a spell, and those adventurers wounded too badly to move had been sent back to the burial room. A few more had remained as guards in case more undead popped up, but the rest had been searching nonstop since then.
Searching for treasure.
“Any word from Gregor’s team?”
They’d split into two groups, one going down the left passage, the other the right. Of all the teams, Calruz’s hadn’t lost any adventurers besides Hunt in either battle, so they’d taken a few of Menes’ mages while the other adventurers under Gregor had gone left. Yvlon had remained with the wounded, and they were keeping up a stream of communications with several adventurers who ran messages across the vast ruins.
“We just had one come by. There he is—”
Gerial led Ceria towards a panting adventurer drinking water and talking to Calruz.
“Any word on the other team’s progress?”
The man made a face.
“Nothing substantial. They’ve come across more empty rooms, same as you. Dozens upon dozens of them. It’s a warren down here, I swear. There’s some kind of urns in one room—just filled with dust, whatever’s in them is long gone. Old scrolls in another, none magical. They found a few undead, but nothing else. How’s it going over here?”
“Uneventful. We killed a few zombies, but they’re mostly cleared out here as well. Has Yvlon seen anything?”
“Nothing. I’ll get back to Gregor’s side of things if you’ve nothing else.”
Calruz grunted irritably, and the man took off. Gerial shook his head as he watched the man jog slowly off into the darkness, a ball of light following him.
“This is where a Runner would have come in handy.”
“This is where a hundred Runners would come in handy. They could search this place faster than we can.”
Ceria kicked at a wall. She knew she was frustrated, but she was exhausted from fighting and irritable from countless annoying questions from a certain Drake. Calruz had suggested quite sensibly—which was surprising—that instead of splitting up, their team should move together closely to avoid unpleasant surprises. The need to check each room and hallway for traps or ambushes had saved them a few nasty surprises, but it meant they were moving at a snail’s pace.
The fire of battle had left all the adventurers tired, it was true, but more than even that made the searching arduous. The ruins had become silent once more, and somehow, without the presence of the undead, it made everything feel more ominous.
Ceria kept expecting another zombie to pop out of the shadows, and one or two had—but the feeling hadn’t disappeared. The worst thing about an ambush is that you didn’t stop worrying after you survived one. Rather, you kept worrying it was only the first.
Gerial was probably feeling the same, but he still tried to be reasonable.
“You know he’s never done this before. And he helped us get through that fight a lot more easily than we would have otherwise. Just don’t snap at him.”
“I know. I know. But he keeps asking and—what if he’s right?”
“Yeah.”
Gerial, Ceria, and Calruz all fell silent. Treasure. They were all certain—had been certain—it was down here. You didn’t have ruins with this many guardians without treasure of some kind. But what if the valuable goods had been knowledge or something more intangible?
What if the dead had just congregated here because this was a glorified graveyard, and the only goods were the few bags of gold and jewels they’d recovered from the dead adventurers? It was a good haul for a single team, but wouldn’t even recoup the losses of their expedition.
Ruins could potentially be sources of amazing wealth, like the Ruins of Albez where magical items were still hidden under the rubble. But sometimes ruins were just old.
You heard stories, sometimes, of adventurers who would fight their way down to the lowest part of a dungeon, sacrificing all they had, losing friends and bleeding each step of the way to discover they’d cleared out an ancient storage house for grain or the living quarters of some subterranean people. That was the nightmare that hid behind the dream, and Ceria and the other adventurers were living it right now.
“We’ve still got a ways to go. There’s plenty of chances the vault is just ahead.”
“Sure.”
Ceria nodded, and Calruz grunted. She sighed and was about to stand up when she heard pounding feet.
All three adventurers grabbed at their weapons, and the others down the hall turned, ready for battle. But the woman who ran towards them was beaming and waving her arms.
“We’ve found something! Possibly a treasury!”
The shock that ran through Ceria was electric. She smiled, and the other adventurers whooped and cheered.
“Where is it? How big?”
“It’s right at the other end of the ruins, down the other passage.”
The woman pointed back as she explained.
“We’re not sure it’s a treasury, but it has every sign of—they’ve found a huge pair of double doors. Sealed. Magical runes of warding on the front, and Menes says some of them look like warnings.”
Ceria frowned at the same time Gerial did.
“Wait a second. That’s doesn’t sound like a vault to me. It sounds like a guarded treasury, the kind that has the nastiest monster waiting right behind the door. You didn’t try to open it, right?”
The adventurer rolled her eyes.
“We’re not idiots. Menes and the other mages are already setting up traps near the entrance with Cervial’s team. Yvlon wants a hallway full of traps before we crack the seal.”
She grinned. Like Ceria, she had a streak of blood wiped from one of her nostrils down her chin, and it was cracked and dried like the healed bite wound that had ripped across one shoulder. But she was alive. This—this was adventuring.
“Cervial’s group even has two bear traps. Don’t know how they carried them all the way down, but they’re setting them up. Even if what’s inside is as big as an Ogre, it won’t be able to ignore that.”
Ceria had seen the iron and occasionally steel contraptions used to hunt bears and larger monsters. Not just black bears or brown ones, but Mossbears. Mothbears too. They were nasty, vicious, and she’d nearly stepped in one more than once in her homeland. Damn [Trappers]. She shuddered, but it was a fine weapon to use on a monster.
“As soon as you lot finish on your side, we’ll seal off this passage with a spell and open those doors. Yvlon is going to join us, and we’ll see exactly what’s inside. Menes says the runes might be warning of the undead guardians, and if so, we just killed them all!”
“Or more could be inside. Wait for us.”
Calruz was, again, the surprising voice of caution, but he sounded eager. The woman nodded impatiently.
“We’ll have so many damn traps and fall-back points we’ll kill a thousand of ‘em once we’re set up. How soon until you’ll be done here? Gregor wants to know.”
Ceria and Gerial looked at Calruz. He shrugged.
“We’ve found nothing of worth so far. Give us a few minutes to gather everyone, and we’ll follow you.”
“Well, hurry up. Gregor wants to crack the seal this instant, and the other two Captains are the only thing holding him back.”
The woman grinned and dashed back as the other adventurers began to chatter excitedly. Ceria and Gerial exchanged a look.
“Warded doors? That’s right out of one of those classic stories you hear about. Odds are three-to-one it’s trapped or something nasty is lurking inside. Gregor better not open them before we get there.”
“He’s no idiot. But Yvlon has the right idea. Regardless of what’s in there, we can turn the passageway into a killing field. Even ten Crypt Lords wouldn’t survive a fully spelled passage if we combine resources.”
“Hey, hey everyone!”
That voice came from behind the others. They turned to see Olesm running towards them, beaming in excitement.
“Olesm? You’ll never believe this, but we found something! A vault, sealed by magic, over on the other side of the ruins.”
The Drake skidded to a stop and gaped. He grinned.
“Really? That’s great news! But we found something as well!”
“You did?”
Ceria exchanged a glance with the others, but they followed as Olesm eagerly led the way back down the corridor. They stopped at a huge opening in the wall, possibly where doors had once stood. Olesm pointed in.
“Look—but be quiet!”
He pointed, and Ceria gasped as she stared into a massive room. It was some kind of crypt. Well, the whole ruins were a giant crypt. Only this was the crypt inside of the crypt. What that all meant was—
“Tombs.”
“Coffins.”
Hundreds of them. Each one was stone, spaced apart evenly in a room that was so large it made Ceria feel as if she was standing outside again. She could barely see the far wall. The only light in the massive room came from a single staff. Sostrom was just inside, staring at one of the walls.
“This is the place where all the dead go.”
Olesm whispered loudly in Ceria’s ear.
“It must have countless tombs, probably with a lot of important people! And probably treasure if they bury their dead with their valuables like we Drakes do!”
That was true, but Ceria stared at the tombs and had another thought.
“They could all be undead in those graves. There’s no telling how many of them reanimated with the Crypt Lords about.”
The other adventurers crowding behind her groaned and grabbed at their weapons. Gerial shushed them while Olesm whispered.
“That’s what Sostrom said. But he found something else in there as well.”
He pointed, and Ceria saw the mage looking up at something on the wall. She nudged Calruz, and he nodded, so Ceria slowly approached with the others.
Sostrom jumped when Ceria put her hand on his shoulder. He whirled, staff raised, and relaxed when he saw her face. He bent down and whispered to her.
“Ceria. You nearly scared the piss out of me.”
“Better that than you screaming. What are you looking at?”
Carefully, Sostrom edged to one side and raised his staff higher so Ceria could get a look at what he was seeing. The blue-white light illuminated a dark stone wall, but etched into it deeply were…
“Words?”
“Something like that. It’s not magic—at least, no runes I’ve seen before. But what language it is I can’t tell for the life of me.”
Ceria stared up at the strange words, if words they were. She was familiar with several written languages and she had travelled far and wide, but for all that, she had never seen this style of writing. She beckoned, and Olesm softly padded over with the other adventurers following.
“Olesm. What do you make of this?”
The Drake frowned up at the wall as Gerial turned, watching the rest of the room for movement. There was none, but the countless tombs disturbed him greatly. He could just imagine something creeping up on them while they studied the wall, and so he faced the other way while his friends conferred.
“I’m not sure. It looks like some kind of message, but is it a memorial or something else? A memorandum? The script…looks familiar.”
Ceria peered at him. Her first instinct was to assume it was Drake writing. Everyone spoke the same language, obviously, but the Drakes and other species had different written languages.
“You can’t read it? Does it look like something your people might have written long ago?”
He hesitated.
“It—it could be something written in the past. Like I said, it’s vaguely similar. But I never knew if we changed written languages. I certainly can’t read it.”
“Is this important?”
Gerial winced as Calruz’s voice echoed through the room. The Minotaur wasn’t worried about waking anything. He folded his arms as he stared at the carvings.
“It could be nothing. But it might give us a clue as to what this place was or what it contains.”
“But you cannot read it.”
“I can.”
Gerial twisted his head and stared at Ceria in disbelief. She was raising her wand, and the color had changed to a light purple as she illuminated the wall.
“A little spell I picked up when I was at Wistram. [Translate].”
Sostrom whistled softly.
“That’s handy.”
Marian laughed.
“Handy? For what? No one speaks a different language. It’s only good for reading books.”
Sostrom hesitated, reluctant to contradict his crush. But Calruz just buffeted her with one arm. Gently, for him.
