The woman studied him closely, as she was wont to do, and Jorani did the same to her. While most Defiled wore loose, western robes these days, the men and women of Asmani’s tribe had long since left those trappings behind. Not out of any symbolic defiance of their former allies or anything, but because their clothes didn’t survive the long trek through the Arid Wastes, which was how they got here in the first place. Neither did any of their mounts it seemed, but that was hardly surprising. The Arid Wastes were supposedly the most inhospitable land in all the Empire, though these Defiled apparently made it through with only minimal effort. Somehow, they didn’t encounter any hidden sand pits filled with deathstalker scorpions, dead trees housing hordes of banded beetles, flocks of Razor Shrikes soaring about in search of prey, roving colonies of Blessed thunder mice, or any of the other deadly beasts which called the Arid Wastes home. A spot of luck that, but Asmani chalked it up to the guidance of the Ancestors, which was pretty much the same as thanking the Heavens to them. Seemed a little blasphemous, but different strokes for different folks.

The real problem was that the Defiled refused any outright gifts from the Brotherhood outside of food, which they only accepted because the monks wouldn’t take no for an answer. The only sin worse than incurring a debt was to let food go to waste, so all the monks had to do was leave food out for the Defiled and they would eat up every last grain of rice and leaf of lettuce. Not so with the clothes however, which the Defiled refused to touch, eschewing any gifted garments in favour of wearing ragged loincloths which only barely hid their shame. Men and women alike went about barefoot and bare chested, both of which were far less enticing than it might otherwise sound. It wasn’t that they were all physically hideous, though more than a few were, but rather there was a wrongness about their features and physiques that made them seem odd and out of sorts. Their bodies were rippled with muscle, but not in a pleasant, aesthetic manner, with the skin stretched taut beneath bulging, veiny masses of brawn and sinew. Some had so many muscles, their necks seemed to disappear, while others were oddly proportioned or asymmetrical, with one arm bigger than the other or a hulking torso topping slender legs. It was just... out of the ordinary, like a child’s drawing of a person given life, as opposed to a realistic painting done by a master of his craft.

Take Asmani’s breasts for example, which were about as far from pale, full, and supple as could be, yet somehow, Jorani couldn’t tear his eyes away. They weren’t the same size, with the left being noticeably bigger than the right, and between all the rugged scars and filthy grime, it was hardly an erotic sight, but still... Breasts were breasts, and even bad breasts were pretty damned nice to look at.

“Your breath is returned,” Asmani said, still standing a bit too far for normal conversation, and it was a wonder she didn’t put both fists on her hip and glower. “Sunlight is burning, is this not so?”

A clever girl, this Defiled Chieftain. Two weeks ago, she struggled to understand Jorani if he spoke too quickly, but now she was starting to use the jargon like a real Imperial native, albeit one who was trying too hard to sound like she was from Sanshu. “That it is,” Jorani said, deliberately settling back onto his elbows to relax. “But it’s not like I got a deadline or anything, right? The work will get done when it is done, and not a second sooner.”

“Your words make little sense Southlander.” Never one to mince words, Asmani asked, “You mean to sleep here?”

“Maybe.” He’d sooner sleep in a pit filled with vipers, but Jorani wasn’t about to admit that. “If the mood strikes me, I might catch a few blinks.”

“...If you do not mean to work or sleep, we will have words.” She wasn’t saying they were going to argue, but rather she meant they would literally have a conversation, but Jorani had long since given up on trying to explain the meaning of idioms to her. Squatting down on her haunches without scooting closer, she settled in and fixed him with her hawkish stare, one he tried exceptionally hard to meet so as to keep his eyes from straying elsewhere. Mother in Heaven, was he really this starved for female attention, to the point where he wanted to peek at a Defiled Chieftain’s nether regions? The woman was visibly pregnant now, her belly protruding halfway to her muscular thighs, but it didn’t seem to inconvenience her any as she worked harder than anyone else in her tribe. “You are at ease here.”

Not even remotely true, but there was more coming, so Jorani simply waited for the Defiled Chieftain to continue. After struggling to give voice to her thoughts, she asked, “Why?”

That was a twist then. “Why am I at ease here?” The woman nodded, and Jorani used one of the Brotherhood’s favourite tricks. “Should I not be? Yer tribesmen fixin’ to gut me and mount me skull as a trophy?”

“You are weak.” There was no condemnation in her tone, as Asmani was merely stating a fact. The sun is bright. Water is wet. You are weak. “You should never be at ease, not if you wish to preserve your life.” Tilting her head in thought, she eyed his rat ears and added, “Your skull would make a poor trophy. Small and dainty, like a child’s, and lacking any impressive ornamentation. I do not think any of my tribesmen would so desire it.”

“Is that so?” Squashing down his indignation over her comment about his dainty skull, Jorani drawled, “Well, I suppose yer right. I should be more guarded, but it’s been three weeks and none of ye have tried to kill me yet, so I guess I just got complacent.”

“Complacent.” Rolling the word over her tongue like tasting a fine wine, Asmani asked, “This word, it means foolish?”

This woman really knew how to get his blood boiling, and not in the good way either. “No, it means... err... feeling safe and secure when ye shouldn’t.”

“So foolish.” Without missing a beat, Asmani asked, “If you were to visit another tribe of your people, one you had exchanged blades with, and they did not attempt to kill you, would you also grow... complacent?”

“Well... yeah, I suppose I would so long as we weren’t still fighting.” A strange question to ask, until Jorani saw her try to wrap her head around the concept of ‘not fighting’. Jorani thought these Defiled tribesmen were here to settle down, but in their eyes, this was just a break in between fights, because they were always at war. That was how the Defiled lived, always preparing for the worse and never letting their guard down even in the heart of their tribe. For Heaven’s sake, she refused to come closer to Jorani while they talked because she was wary of an attempt on her life, but she treated her tribesmen the same way and was utterly flummoxed that he did things differently. “There ain’t no threats here,” he said, offering what he hoped was a comforting smile. “Long as you stay close to the monastery, there ain’t anything that can harm ye.”

“If you truly believe your words, then you are truly a fool, Southlander.” Again, Asmani’s tone lacked any heat at all, though he sensed a note of frustration as she accepted how she would never get through to the ‘Southlander’ sitting before her. “Danger lurks within every shadow and around every bend. You only lack the eyes to see it.”

Not so different from ‘trials and tribulations without end’, and for the first time, he felt like he understood the Defiled mindset. They fought and killed because to them, it was not a means to an end, but rather a way of life. Weakness was death, and she thought him a fool that did not fear death, but still she came here to try and warn him. Sitting up, he dusted off his hands and hopped to his feet, only to stifle a smile as Asmani followed suit and watched him with a guarded expression, wary of his quick movements because suspicion was baked into her very nature. There were no friends or allies, only enemies you were fighting and enemies you’d fight later, a pitiful outlook devoid of cheer and happiness. “So let me get this straight,” he began, intentionally turning away from her as he went back to work, hefting his sledgehammer in hand again. “You ain’t ever had someone ye could trust? Someone to watch yer back and keep ye from gettin’ yer throat slit while ye sleep?”

“I did. He left.”

Ah. Even the Defiled could experience grief and heartbreak, if the crack in Asmani’s tone was anything to go by. “I’m sorry fer yer loss,” he said, out of natural reflex, but her response surprised him.

“You!” Grabbing him by the arm, Asmani broke his wrist with a roar, but Jorani put the pain out of mind as he fought for dear life. Reminding himself that she was pregnant, he avoided kicking her in the belly and reached for his Spiritual Weapon instead, all while surrendering himself to her pull. There was no contest when it came to physical strength, and fighting would only cause him more pain, so he went with the flow and tried to keep her off balance while his fingers worked his rope into a noose which shot up and looped over the Defiled Chieftain’s head. Yanking hard with one hand, he tightened the noose around her throat, and was glad to see her free hand go up to grab it. As she pulled forward on the noose, Jorani again went with the flow and let go of his weapon, and the noose widened as Asmani jerked it free. Not expecting his lack of resistance, she over-committed to the movement which sent her stumbling forward for a single step, one she never completed as Jorani intercepted it while still in the air. Pushing her elevated foot with his own and guiding it towards her other ankle, he got her all tangled up in her own limbs and pulled hard with his broken wrist, while his free hand regained control of his rope and twisted the noose to wrap around her upper body. Yanking as hard as he could, he pulled until the Defiled Chieftain arched her back and his feet touched the ground again, at which point he had her neatly trapped and at his mercy without putting any pressure on her belly or causing any actual harm.

Not a bad maneuver, if he did say so himself, though reflection on his Insight would have to wait. “Calm yerself now,” he began, gently lowering her to her knees before planting a boot against her back and pulling his rope for all he was worth. “I ain’t gonna kill ye unless I hafta,” he said, glad she’d stopped struggling since he was pretty sure he couldn’t hold her in place if she did. “But at least tell me why? We was having such a nice conversation just now, but ye had to go an’ ruin it.”

“You killed him, and now you taunt me,” she growled, and for a moment, he mistook her trembling shoulders for unchecked rage. “Kill me so that I too may join the Ancestors and reunite with his spirit.”

“Killed who? And how ye come to the conclusion that I even did the deed?”

Finally cluing in to the fact that there was something wrong, Asmani craned her neck to study Jorani’s expression. “You apologized. An apology is an admission of offence or failure. I took this to mean you killed him.”

“That’s it?” So bewildered by her wild leap of logic, Jorani almost released his hold, then loosened his grip anyways because she’d let go of his broken wrist and he wanted to fix it up before the swelling set in. Breaks were strange, in that so long as you Healed them quickly, they wouldn’t bother you even a bit, but leave them too long and it’ll ache for days, if not weeks. Strange that, but it is what it is, and Asmani had clearly given up the fight. “I say ‘sorry fer yer loss’, and that’s enough to throw ye into a murderous rage?”

“There was no rage,” she replied, coming to her feet and turning to face him, though his noose was still stuck fast around her. That was a trick Jorani picked up after trussing up them Demons during the withdrawal from Sinuji. It was a bit like Honing, without the edge, more of a bite than a slash if anything. The Rope would rend and tear if she tried to slip out of it, and do worse if she tried to break free. Granted, she could still give him the boot and turn him into meat paste or tackle him and send him flying, but he could kill her with a thought and somehow, she knew it. “If there were, you would be dead.”

“So what? Ye broke my arm as a warning?”

“No. I meant to take you alive so I could offer your suffering to Vithar’s vengeful soul.”

Well fuck. Vithar was it? The name sounded familiar, but Jorani couldn’t place it, not while keeping an eye on the Defiled around him and Healing his broken arm. For some reason, the others had yet to rush him and were simply watching the conflict play out, showing no emotion and not even watching their Chieftain. In fact, they seemed more amused than anything, or about as amused as Defiled could get, trading knowing glances as they watched things play out. Where the hell were the monks? Had they all left Jorani alone with the Defiled? He assumed Monk Happy had set a protector for him, or maybe one of the bossman’s crew was looking over his shoulder, but apparently Jorani was here on his own, and the thought terrified him to no end. “Look here,” he said, using a remarkably calm tone that surprised even himself. “I didn’t kill no Vithar, not that I know of. Last Defiled I killed was months ago, during the whole shindig at Castle JiangHu.”

“The tribe remembers you,” Asmani said, her words taking on a reverent cadence, like she was saying a catechism rather than stating a fact. “You fought well, but Vithar would have torn you limb from limb, as would I were it not for my weakness.”

