Meaning her pregnancy, though Jorani wasn’t gonna touch on that subject. Let her call her unborn child whatever she wanted, but he was more concerned about how the Defiled tribesmen had seen him fight. If they saw him on the field of battle, then that means they fought, which meant it was possible Jorani killed someone they knew. Asmani was right; Jorani was foolish to let his guard down around them, but in his defence, he didn’t know he’d killed members of their tribe. “Good fer him and good fer you,” Jorani said, flashing a grin at the Defiled in stupid defiance. “But I didn’t kill yer Vithar, and even if I did, I ain’t interested in offering anything to his soul, suffering or otherwise. What I can tell ye is this: if ye rode away with him from that battle, then I didn’t kill him, and ye can take that as fact or leave it.”

Asmani nodded, all cool and collecteds now that she’d gotten herself back under control. “You are stronger than suspected,” she said, indicating his weapon wrapped around her arms. “The Ancestors tell me you could kill me with a thought, that I would have died if you meant me harm. Is this true?”

“What? Ye don’t trust yer Ancestors?” His grin still locked in place, he shrugged and said, “Maybe it is, maybe it ain’t. Guess you’ll hafta find out the hard way.”

“What is the hard way?” Tilting her head again, she asked, “Do you mean to make me suffer then?”

Again, that matter of fact tone threw Jorani off, because even though she thought he meant to torture her, there was nothing about her that even suggested she was worried or afraid. “Nah, nor do I mean to kill ye either. Just a misunderstanding is all, so if ye tell me you mean me no harm, then I’ll let ye go, clean and easy.”

“I mean you no harm, unless harm is done to me or mine,” she replied, and Jorani freed her without question. Rubbing her arms where his weapon bit deep, she nodded at something behind Jorani and asked, “Then what of him?”

Worried it was some sort of trick to make him look away, Jorani sidestepped to see what was behind him without turning his back to Asmani, only to stop when he saw the bossman standing there, bold as could be with sword and shield at the ready. For three weeks, the man did almost nothing, spending his days with the monks and his nights with his pets, but now he was here and ready to kill at the drop of a hat. No wonder the Defiled didn’t move; the Bossman was a Peak Expert or something, far stronger than any of them could ever hope to match, and while they did not fear death, they most certainly respected strength.

“Err... thanks bossman,” Jorani said, giving Asmani the benefit of a doubt as he moved into the bossman’s field of view to hopefully deescalate the situation. Waving his arms to catch the man’s attention, Jorani said, “Everything’s fine. Just a little spat is all. We’re all good.” To emphasize this, he shifted closer to Asmani and gingerly patted her arm, since the bossman seemed to have trouble understanding words and did better with actions. “See? No killin’ goin’ on here.”

Though the Defiled Chieftain flinched at his touch, she didn’t skirt away, probably because she was afraid of what the bossman might do. Not that he looked particularly fierce with his slender frame and neutral expression, but about two weeks back, the entire tribe stopped work and gathered together to stare at the monastery walls. Jorani didn’t sense anything out of the ordinary, but according to Asmani, the Ancestors were throwing a tizzy about some unnatural occurrence, a disturbance that had most of them shaken and screaming to flee. However, as far as he could tell, the Ancestors were more like advisors than commanders, and not particularly trusted ones at that, so the Defiled tribe went back to work after the disturbance died down and the monks told them all was well.

Apparently, the bossman was responsible for causing that disturbance, when he reformed his second Spiritual Weapon, the shield he now sported on his left wrist. How this was possible, Jorani hadn’t the faintest clue, and the monks were keeping mum about the whole thing. If he hadn’t seen the bossman’s destroyed weapons with his own eyes, Jorani might even suspect that the whole shattered Core fiasco was merely a ruse, but there was no denying it, not for him. The bossman was the real deal, and Jorani would follow him to the ends of the world and beyond if need be.

Regarding Jorani with empty eyes, the bossman took long minutes pondering Jorani’s message, minutes the entire tribe stood idly about. Then, out of nowhere, the bossman lowered his weapons and emanated an Aura of caution and concern, one that was touching in how heartfelt it was. The bossman wasn’t putting on a show, because he truly cared, and Jorani felt blessed to have a friend so true. Awkwardly knuckling his friend’s shoulder, he simply nodded in silent thanks as men were supposed to do, which the bossman took as a farewell. Instead of leaving however, he shuffled about in a small circle and studied his surroundings, seemingly content to stand there and stare for as long as he pleased until Monk Happy arrived to fetch him. Only after both men were gone did the Defiled resume their work, though oddly enough, most offered him a respectful nod before shuffling off. Those who didn’t gave him a challenging stare, to which he responded with his customary grin while resting one hand on the coiled weapon hanging from his belt.

“Perhaps you will do better than expected,” Asmani declared, but Jorani couldn’t make heads or tails of the statement.

“Do better at what?”

“At being Chieftain.”

This time it was Jorani’s time to ponder the message, and when he finally figured it out, he could scarcely believe it. “Wait what? What do you mean, Chieftain?”

“The strong lead, and the weak follow. Such is our way.” Scowling as she rubbed her arms again, she nodded off in the bossman’s direction and continued, “You have defeated me in fair challenge and you hold the Devourer’s confidence. This alone is enough for the tribe to accept you as Chieftain, though many will seek to challenge you in the coming days.” While he was still floundering in the troubled waters of that ominous statement, Asmani threw him another anchor and asked, “What will you do with me now? Am I to be offered to the Ancestors or do you intend to use me for pleasure first?” Narrowing her eyes, she added, “If it is the first, then I will fight you to the death. The second, I will have to consider it. I have never lain with a man so much smaller than myself, though I am not entirely against it. I have seen your hungry stares, and while I thought to put you in your place, you have proven yourself as a man worthy enough to pleasure.”

Squashing down his urges, Jorani stared at the Heavens and seriously considered taking Old Bones up on his offer. How bad could it really be? Certainly not worse than marrying a Defiled Chieftain, one pregnant with another man’s child no less.

“Mother in Heaven,” Jorani mumbled, not caring if anyone overheard him, “Sometimes, ye can be a real sick, twisted bitch.

Chapter Meme
