Gasping for breath as he staggered back from his work, Jorani leaned on his sledgehammer and craned his neck to check if the pillar was put in straight.

It wasn’t, which meant all his hard work was for naught and he’d have to pull it out and do this all again, else the whole wall would turn out crooked and improperly supported. Not so bad for a small hut, but this was meant to be a communal cooking area or something, so he would just have to keep at it until he got it right. That could wait until later though, when he regained feeling in his arms again, because this damned heavy sledgehammer was made with someone like Pran or Saluk in mind, not the likes of scrawny, slender Jorani. Besides, he never was one for hard work, and was only doing this for lack of anything better to do while keeping the bossman company at the Brotherhood’s monastery.

In Jorani’s eyes, hard work didn’t always pay off when it came to coin and wages. Ma worked harder than any two people he knew, and what did she have to show for it? He loved her dearly and would do anything to have her back, but in life, she was overworked and underpaid just like the rest of the working class in Sanshu. Things were supposedly better these days, but he hadn’t been back to see for himself yet, and had no intention of ever doing so. Far as he could tell, ‘better’ just meant ‘more like everywhere else’, where the common folk still worked hard and were underpaid, just not as much as they were in Sanshu. ‘Better’ was going to bed just a little hungry, but not hungry enough for the pangs to hurt. ‘Better’ was having enough downtime to whittle up an ornament or stitching together a nice leather jerkin in your hour or so of spare time every day, not to decorate your dark little hovel or have something nice to wear, but in hopes someone with more coin than sense would buy the work and you could maybe afford to eat half a fish for every meal instead of just a third for a bit.

That was part of the reason why he ran off to be a bandit, because if the nobles were gonna rob him of what he worked for just like they robbed Ma, then he figured it was fair play the other way around. Course things didn’t turn out that way and he ended up mostly robbing hard working folk who were already having trouble making ends meet, which left him conflicted but even more convinced that hard work was for idiots and optimists.

The Defiled had a different take on things. Murderous pursuits aside, no one could ever accuse the Enemy of being lazy, willing to trek hundreds of kilometres just for the chance to slaughter an Imperial. While the Brotherhood’s adopted Defiled rejects seemed less bloodthirsty than your garden variety savages, they clearly did not understand the meaning of the word ‘downtime’. Rhythmic grunts and thunks sounded throughout the burgeoning village as they set to building structures to reside in, with every last member expecting a spacious hut to call their own. Personal space was a foreign concept to the Defiled, one which appealed greatly to their suspicious nature, and Jorani could hardly blame them for it. If his neighbours sometimes devolved into bouts of frenzied bloodlust, he’d also want sturdy walls and a heavy door to keep himself safe. That being said, there’d been no deaths among the Defiled just yet, which was something of a miracle considering how often their gatherings led to fisticuffs, so Jorani assumed it would only be a matter of time.

Needless to say, he lacked the Brotherhood’s optimism when it came to the Defiled’s chances of reform. If the tribesmen didn’t kill one another, then they would surely kill themselves if they kept working at the pace they did. Day and night they toiled and sweat, working from Kukku’s crow right up until well after sundown when regular folk couldn’t see past their noses. Not the Defiled though; they worked and worked and then worked some more, with only brief breaks to drink water and eat white rice and vegetarian dishes the monks cooked up, coupled with whatever gamey meat or pungent fish they might scavenge throughout the day. The Defiled were not picky, and they saw no point in going out to hunt with food so plentiful around them, but Jorani suspected they simply preferred eating the food supplied by the Brotherhood. Not only were the monks some of the best cooks around, the Defiled were easily the worst Jorani had ever had the displeasure to witness at work. Cooking was a foreign concept to them, which made sense considering the scarcity of wood and coal way up in the frozen north, which was where this particular tribe hailed from.

Jorani learned this from the Defiled leader, a hulking, pregnant woman named Asmani with a crooked scowl and more scars than a ship full of Corsairs. Not that she cared to tell Jorani how she got them, or even answer basic questions like how old she was, how far along the baby might be, or who the unlucky father might be. No, everything Jorani learned, he learned from watching and listening, which wasn’t much because Asmani was the only Defiled in the bunch who knew more than a few words of Common. Some of the monks actually spoke the Enemy’s language, though as far as Jorani could tell, there was still a barrier even language had trouble breaking through.

So to remedy this, Monk Happy tasked Jorani with answering all of Asmani’s questions.

The woman wasn’t one for small talk or giving answers of her own, but she expected Jorani to hop to and tell her everything she wanted to know regarding even the most mundane of subjects. Things like: how do plants grow if they have no mouths to eat with? Why do birds make so much noise and fear no predators? Why was Jorani so short of stature despite having so much food available to him?

All asked in her curt, clipped tones as she loomed over him like an angry barmaid ready to tear him limb from limb for patting her on the buttocks. The only thing that kept him from taking offence was how much angrier she sounded when speaking to her kin, even the children who were some of the most disciplined brats Jorani ever had the displeasure to meet. Not disciplined in that they were well-behaved, but orderly and methodical about everything they did, as even playtime was approached like a learning exercise rather than the enjoyment it was supposed to provide. Tag, hide and seek, even flying kites eventually devolved into chaos, and while he was no stranger to roughhousing himself, this was something else. The children turned feral at the drop of pin, beating one another senseless in multi-sided brawls with no rhyme or reason, and if not for the Brotherhood’s attentive supervision, he imagined several children would have already died.

And yet they did so with the tactical precision of soldiers at war. It was uncanny and more than a little frightening to see how adept the Defiled children were at waging war.

Worst of all, the children’s fights were not the reason for Asmani’s tongue lashings, which were sometimes accompanied by actual beatings as if the children hadn’t suffered enough. No, the worst of her wrath was reserved not for the instigators or victors of the brawls, but rather those children who needed saving. When asked, she refused to answer with anything besides a derisive sneer, telling him, “Southlanders should mind southlander business, and leave us to do the same.”

Southlander. Not the worst thing Jorani had ever been called, but something about the way Asmani said it set his knuckles to itching. The woman had seventy five centimetres and at least a hundred and fifty kilograms on him, but something about her sparked a rage in him that made him yearn to drive his fists into her face. A terrible thing to do to a pregnant woman, even a Defiled one, but every night he dreamt of how satisfying it would be to defeat and dominate her in every possible way. A statuesque gorilla of a woman with features that could make milk curdle, she wasn’t much like the typical stars of Jorani’s dreams, nor were these ones particularly enjoyable, not after the fact at least, and he worried that by associating with these Defiled, he’d somehow caught the Father’s foul attention once more.

In fact, he was so worried he even went to Old Bones for advice, on account of how Monk Happy was busy with the bossman and Monk Eyebrows sided with Vyakhya and joined the defectors, leaving only the ancient but humorous Bones to turn to. Not that there was anything wrong with him, but Jorani preferred to ask for advice from the monks less willing to talk about his lack of genitals.

“This is what having a cock and balls will get you.” That was Old Bones’ response when Jorani first brought the matter up, to slap his thigh in a decidedly unmonklike manner and point at Jorani’s crotch with a knobbly finger. “Better if we removed them now and let you experience the clarity of mind for yourself. What’s the matter? It’s just a fleshy appendage, not your masculinity, and you can always grow it back if you ever come to regret it. Come, let me get my razor and a bit of string. We’ll tie it off, get it gone, and you’ll be up and about by lunchtime.”

Since he knew Old Bones would not be convinced otherwise, Jorani made some excuse and scurried off to the safety of the Defiled village. Then, the chop-happy monk came through a few days later and asked if Jorani was still having the dreams. Expecting another hard sell on genital mutilation, he nonetheless confirmed that he was, and explained how the experience was unnerving. “I don’t hate her, or like her, but fer some reason I can’t get her out of my dreams.” If he was going to dream of any women, he’d choose Lady Li Song or the beautiful Guard Leader and hopefully have some happier thoughts, but unfortunately, his unconscious mind fixated on Asmani and associated her with violence, hatred, and sex.

“You say the dreams are unnerving. Why? They are only dreams.”

Not prepared for the unexpected question, Jorani took a moment to consider the monks words, and when he couldn’t come up with a proper rebuttal, he defaulted to, “Dunno. Just bothers me to think about someone like that. I ain’t...” He was going to say a killer, but that wasn’t true, as he’d killed many a Defiled tribesman and Imperial citizen, too many for him to count really. “I ain’t bloodthirsty, not like that.”

“And how do these dreams change that?” Old Bones asked, continuing to play the fool and lead Jorani to the right questions and come up with answers on his own. “Does dreaming of murder make you a murderer? No more than yearning for food will fill your belly, so why does it bother you so?”

“Because it means deep down, I wanna kill her for no reason, even though that ain’t my sort of fun.” It really wasn’t. Soldiering was a job to Jorani, one that had him shaking in his boots after each and every battle, but he couldn’t give it up. Fighting needed to be done and the bossman wasn’t ever gonna back down, so Jorani was never gonna let him down. Not because he owed Falling Rain his life, but because the bossman made Jorani believe in the cause, to want to stand tall and defend the people like Ma who had no one else to stand up for them. Turning bandit was something he did to survive, but soldiering was his true calling, one given to him by the Mother Above.

If only She saw fit to make him better at it. Not a phenomenal genius like the bossman or anything, but something more than just competent would’ve been nice...

Flashing a knowing smile, Old Bones gave Jorani another question to ponder. “If you dream of sitting naked in public, does this make you an exhibitionist? If you dream of dying, does it mean you no longer care to live? If you dream of infidelity, does this mean you are unfaithful? Of course not, because dreams are nothing. They exist only within your mind, and there they will remain unless you make your thoughts reality. You dream of lust and violence because the three poisons have taken root in your soul, but they cannot change who you are, the same way dreams or thoughts alone do cannot make you a saint or murderer. Your dreams are a sign that all is not well, but so long as you hold fast to your morals and Balance, you will weather this rough storm and emerge stronger for it.”

And so even though those dreams haunted him every time he saw Asmani, he faced her down and refused to look away in shame. “They’re only dreams,” Jorani told himself, as the Defiled woman approached with more pillars for him to hammer, even though there was already a growing stack beside him. “They don’t mean nothing.”

In lieu of an actual greeting, Asmani stopped well over two meters away and eyed Jorani’s work. “This is crooked. You must fix it, Southlander.”

“I know,” he replied, trying to hide his exasperation with no success. “I’ll get right on it after I catch me breath.”

