And downstairs, a problem had been piling up; boxes with weapons were stacked up by the front desk, awaiting inscription, while the occasional person came in wanting to talk to Darabella, or something along those lines. The guy at the front desk had been constantly turning people away, all day long. One guy in particular had come in three times already, and this third time he would not be denied.

It was that guy’s insistence that finally ended Erick’s lesson with Darabella.

Darabella laughed in mirth at Erick’s mention of ‘Wind-powered runes’, saying, “I wish ambient mana worked that way!”

Erick smiled, and said, “Just need to find some way to—”

The man’s voice carried upstairs, “I’m going up there, and don’t try to stop me!”

The front desk guy whisper-shouted, “She’s with the archmage!”

“And I’m going up there anyway!”

Erick sighed. He still smiled, but it was fainter than it had been. “I have kept you from your duties for too long.”

“Ah…” Darabella glanced toward the staircase. She had heard the voice, too. And now she heard the footsteps, too. “Yeah— Oh. Damn.” She glanced toward the clock on the wall. “Is it one in the morning already?” For a brief moment she panicked, and then she relaxed with resignation, whispering, “Oh well.”

The barging man came up the stairs. He wore a cream and green colored suit, but aside from his clothes, the rest of him was rather unimpressive. He locked eyes with Darabella, then he quickly looked to Erick. And then he really looked at Erick, and realized he hadn’t been lied to at the front desk.

In one swift motion, the intruder turned around and went back down the stairs, calling out behind him, “Sorry for the disturbance!”

Erick chuckled a bit, and then he turned to Darabella, saying, “This has been wonderful for me. Thank you very much. But it’s time to stop for now.”

Darabella touched him on the arm, briefly, saying, “A pleasure to have you here, Erick.” She pulled back, happily adding, “Come back anytime. Maybe after you've learned how to properly forge, then we can get into some really interesting runic structures.”

“I’ll probably be doing that.” Erick bowed just a fraction, then raised, saying, “See you around.”

Darabella twirled her wooden knife in her hand in a casual display of competency, smiling as she said, “See you around.”

Erick took his leave.

- - - -

“I’m so sorry, Poi,” Erick said, on the way to the gates of the Smithy. “I’ll make it up to you.”

Poi laughed a little, saying, “You’re already getting me a million-gold armor.”

“Yes, but that’s like… Baseline of being a good boss. How about some good fish for dinner?”

“I will take that offer. There’s a place on the south side of the main platform that I want to try. They’re open at this hour.”

“Then that is what we shall have! And then it’s back to the room, I suppose.”

“Teressa could come back here with you. She’s probably up, though my communication is blocked when we’re in here so I don’t know for sure. If she’s not, then she can wake quickly enough.”

“Ah... Maybe I’ll do that.”

- - - -

After a nice meal of seared fish and rice and Erick trying to pay but the restaurant absolutely not accepting any of his money, while simultaneously trying to give him much more food than he ordered, Erick brought Poi back to the room. Teressa got to eat some nice leftovers, for she was awake.

Over their midnight lunch, Erick spoke of what Darabella had told him about runes and their flowing nature, both to get Poi’s opinion of what he had heard and to let Teressa know to keep a lookout on the ground beneath them, to see if she could understand what she was seeing down there. The runic web was an interesting structure, for sure, but Erick needed a second and third opinion (and probably a lot more than that) before he thought about implementing this system in other parts of the world.

So it was a good thing that not ten minutes after opening the paper boxes filled with hot, delicious food, that Nirzir and Jane woke up. They joined Erick and Poi and Teressa at the table, and Erick explained what had happened with Darabella and her runes again, running through the highlights of a runic web.

Teressa repeated a bit of what she had already said for the benefit of Nirzir and Jane, “The [Envelop Item] ability is massive. That and the lights are possibly the best use of a runic web. Even just a weak [Envelop Item] stretched over a house will prevent [Stoneshape]s and other spells from directly affecting the structure.”

“Seems ripe for abuse,” Nirzir said. “Scattered systems like that? Too easy to break.”

Jane nodded, then asked, “How would a [Force Breaker] work against the [Envelop Item] runes?”

Erick’s smile dropped. “Ah. I’m not sure.”

Poi finally revealed his judgment of the whole thing, saying, “The system is too easy to corrupt.”

“Oh yeah. For sure.” Teressa said, “Anyone with enough knowledge could destroy a normal runic web, or worse, stick [Fireball]s in the system.”

Erick frowned a little. “I’m sure they have safeguards against that. And against [Force Breaker] and [Dispel]s, too.”

“They have to; yes.” Teressa said, “But any safeguards can be ripped apart with sufficient force, knowledge, or power. Never trust a defensive structure to protect against the more devious monsters or people. Only trust yourself, and the power you can wield in that particular moment.”

Jane nodded. “Yup.”

“The Void Song works well because it comes from a central source which is easy to monitor and maintain.” Nirzir said, “Not that our system doesn’t have problems, too. But a scattered system? That seems foolish.”

Erick hummed in thought.

They talked for a little while longer, with Nirzir poking ever larger holes in a scattered ‘runic web’ and Jane wondering at how easy it would be for a well-made [Chaining Dispel] to take the whole thing down. Purely as a matter of security, after all. And then Teressa postulated that all they had in the runic web were utility spells, so perhaps their actual defense was something else much stronger.

Most everyone in the city was level 50-ish, after all.

They decided that the people were the main line of defense, so the conversation trailed off.

With a lot more questions on hand, and very few answers, Erick went back to the Smithy with Teressa in tow while Jane was on watch and Poi and Nirzir went to sleep.

The city seemed no less active at night than it was during the day, and Erick found that he really liked that. It reminded him of the times he visited New York City, or Chicago, but better, for Enduring Forge was truly a city that never slept. Half of the stores around the main city were actually primarily awake at night, and it wasn’t just restaurants and bars, either. Book stores, schoolhouses, places like that. Many places never shut down, and foot traffic never truly died down, either, but it was hard to call ‘night’, ‘night’, because the lights in this land never went out.

- - - -

Back at the Smithy, Erick wandered down the pathway toward the head office, where Grosgrena usually was. The Old Smith was asleep and elsewhere, but the ladies behind the counters were eager to point Erick in the proper direction to learn basic forging techniques. So Erick went to the forge, and found his target, who turned out to be the man who Grosgrena pointed out yesterday; Mordog, the human man with as much muscle as an orcol.

Mordog handed Erick off to a different teacher, though, once the gruff man heard that Erick wanted remedial lessons to ensure that he wasn’t doing anything wrong. Erick was pretty sure he knew the basics, but he had never really forged before, so he wanted lessons, from the bottom up. Mordog seemed to take particular issue with this idea that Erick was ‘doing it mostly correct’.

“Yer damned definitely doing it wrong. Everyone always is! And no offense meant, archmage, but I got orders to fill and no time to teach if all you want is basic shit.” Mordog said, “My guy here will learn ya, then you come back to me and I’ll get you hammering an iron sword strong enough to carve turtles in twain.”

“Fair enough. Thank you.”

So Erick went with a man by the name of Obrik to a different part of the forge.

In a private forge, Erick learned the grain structure of metal and of forging temperatures by color as it related to type of iron or specialty metals. Of deformation stresses both good and bad, and of pouring and folding. Tempering and quenching. Different ways of annealing. How to temper different parts of the metal in different ways to achieve flexibility in one area and strength in another. He hit a lot of metal with lots of hammers of various sizes, and also his own hard light. He squeezed metals in giant presses. He had a much easier and faster time squeezing metal with his own hard light. He made a dagger that broke as he slammed it into a boulder, sending shrapnel flying across the workshop. And then he watched as Obrik took a dagger Obrik had made and shoved it into the stone, like he was simply placing the dagger back where it belonged.

Erick joked that he weakened the stone for Obrik, and Obrik laughed, and joked back, saying that weakening a foe is only worth 25% Participation, and that he had gained all the rest. Erick just smiled at that, while Obrik [Stoneshape]d the rock back into its normal boulder-self.

12 hours and a few breaks later, Erick knew he could have spent another month with Obrik, and he still wouldn’t know as much about steel as this man did, and they had only gone over basic steel. There was still rustless steel, and iron, and all sorts of magical metals that went into weapons, or otherwise.

Erick wasn’t going to be making any weapons, but swordcraft (or spearcraft or daggercraft) was the starting point for many Smiths, though few people ever mastered any of the various disciplines. As far as Obrik and the Smiths of Enduring Forge were concerned, even though they were some of the best in the world, most of them still felt inadequate compared to some of the masterpieces hanging in the ancestral homes of the nobility, or in the forges of their neighbors, or even the casual work made by people like Mordog, the Adamantium Sword Smith, or Idalial, the Adamantium Armor Smith.

At the end of it all, Obrik said, “You learned rather fast, but you’ve got a long way to go.”

Erick joked, knowing the man’s answer already, “Would you buy a sword from me?”

“Nope.” Obrik said, “I might buy a spoon, if you give me a discount.”

Erick laughed, and then he said, “So this was all truly helpful, and I know I took you away from your work. Do you want a thousand gold for the day? Or you got a going rate I could pay you? I probably should do the same for the other teachers I learned under, but… Well I’m here, and offering— Actually. I’m not offering. How does 2000 gold sound for the day?”

Erick knew it was a good offer, for he had heard the various figures passed around the forge by neighbors, or by people walking through, talking shop. Obrik had predictably started to sputter out a denial of Erick’s offer, but when Erick had escalated to 2000 the man couldn’t rightly refuse.

Or. Well.

Obrik tried to refuse.

Erick didn’t let him refuse, saying, “I’ll just hand the money over at the front office. I know I’m taking up your time. So I’m paying you for your time. Thanks, Obrik.”

Obrik frowned, saying, “Well. Slag. I can’t refuse that, now can I! Sure. Thank you, Archmage.”

Erick nodded.

Obrik bowed.

The lesson was over. Erick moved on to the next…

But first! A detour back to the room to switch out Teressa for Poi.

- - - -

On the way back to the room, Erick asked Teressa, “That wasn’t too boring, was it?”

Teressa had been rather attentive and interested the whole time, but she proved that Erick wasn’t seeing interest that wasn’t there, as she said, “Metalworking is amazing. I still can’t see the grain structure that he talked about, though I could certainly tell it exists.”

“Same.” Erick said, “It’s a Smith-only thing to see the grains, and it affords them rather perfect control over the outcome, but they still gotta learn how to forge the hard way. They just get a hand up toward true mastery.”

Teressa smiled.

Erick asked, “Would you want to learn some metalworking, too?”

Teressa instantly shook her head, waving a hand, saying, “No no no.”

“Well. Maybe not here, if that’s what makes you nervous.” Erick said, “But eventually?”

Teressa thought for a moment, then said, “Yeah. I could see myself hitting steel with a hammer.”

Erick smiled.

They stopped for a proper… lunch, yes. It was lunch time now? Maybe. Sure. They stopped to get lunch at one of the places on the north side of the main town platform. Erick had forgotten what time it was, briefly, but if the various clocks here and there weren’t enough to inform him of the time, looking up at the crack in the roof of the cavern was enough to reorient him. Mostly. The sun was somewhere high above, though even the crevice up there was so far deep in the mountains that the sun never really appeared. The shadows up there were certainly less than normal, though.

With extra lunches retrieved, Erick and Teressa went back to the room.

Erick talked a bit with Jane, who had gone exploring in the city alongside Nirzir and Poi, briefly, and mostly just for an errand for Nirzir. Jane hadn’t gone back to Hothalls, though, as Erick had expected her to.

Jane confessed, “Oh gods, dad. My stomach… I was not prepared for what ran through it. You weren’t here, but I was on the toilet for a good three unfun hours.”

Erick laughed loud and happy. “You could have [Cleanse]ed it out!”

Jane touched her still slightly red hair, smiling as she said, “I like the red, though.”

“Red is a good color on you,” Nirzir said to Jane.

Jane smiled wide and tousled her hair, saying, “I think I might color it with [Polymorph]— Here. See?” She shook her head, and her hair returned to vibrant red as she laughed. “Ha! How’s this look?”

“Looks great, Jane,” Erick said, sharing in his daughter’s happiness. He asked, “So what’d you all go into the city for?”

“Well.” Nirzir began, “I got that knife, and I want to use it, so...”

Nirzir needed metal plates to make a formation. She wasn’t carving runes, though, but rather she was carving Thunder Song Formations, which was apparently a Singer thing, and which might help her to recreate Erick’s Undertow effect. Erick was interested, but Jane was not too interested because none of the traditional magic making methods had ever worked for her.

