But traditional methods and Singing had worked quite well for Nirzir, even if she was having a bit of trouble with her current project. Nirzir showed Erick three discarded formation plates and her current fourth, which might turn out better than the other ones. They looked like vibration-table designs, but with a lot more traditional magical diagrams stuck into them here and there. Erick wanted to know more about Nirzir’s designs, but there wasn’t much to say besides the purpose of the formation, and all the rather obvious magical diagrams sketched out in charcoal, waiting to be carved away by Nirzir’s new adamantium dagger.

“The goal,” Nirzir said, “If I get it right, is that my Void Song will produce its own solidified harmonies, which is what we call it when a Song is constructive. You usually need two Singers to make a constructive song, but I’m trying to do it on my own. In turn, this solidification will produce a stabilized song that will live as long as there are people to Drain.”

Jane was off in another room, and Erick was alone with Nirzir. It was not nearly as awkward as he feared it would have been, which he was thankful for, but he was about to make it more awkward, because now he wanted to talk about sound.

After a small deliberation with himself, Erick offered, “Want to talk about sound? How it works? The physics behind it all?”

Nirzir looked to Erick with a gleam in her eye, but also suspicion. “Uh. Sure. What do you know about sound?”

Erick ignored the barely concealed skepticism in Nirzir’s voice, for he had never shown off what his [Physical Domain] could actually do, had he? Erick smiled, as he asked, “Want to see which one of us can blow up a mountain with sound?”

A good four, maybe seven emotions passed across Nirzir’s face. Disbelief, first and foremost, but then came skepticism and intrigue. She grinned, unsure, saying, “Okay?” Then, more strongly, “Yeah. Sure. I mean… Maybe not a mountain, but—”

Poi’s voice carried over from the other room, “No, no!” He rushed into the room with Erick and Nirzir, saying, “Let’s not do that!”

“Bah! Why not!” Erick said, “I could put back any mountain I blew up… Maybe?” Less sure, he said, “I would need to make a mountain-building spell, but I could probably do that, too.”

“No no.” Poi said, “You’re delirious. You’ve been awake for too—”

Jane came up behind Poi, happily teasing, “I want to see him try.”

Poi instantly turned, glaring disapproval. “No.” He turned back to Erick, “No.”

Erick delightedly pushed Poi’s button, saying, “I might need to blow up a mountain some day. It’d be good to know if I could do it before I had to try.”

Nirzir spoke up, raising a hand as she did, “I’d like to try blowing up a mountain top.”

“Please no.” Poi said, “Erick. Go to bed, and if you still want to in the morning, then…” He tried a new tactic. “Destruction for the sake of destruction is just destruction. Don’t be that type of archmage.”

Ah.

The moment died.

Erick lost his joy. Jane lost her enthusiasm.

And then Erick started to think, and his emotions crashed even further down.

All of them were in friendly-yet-scared territory, and that territory was full of unknowns. If Erick started blowing up shit, then the people might become even more worried than they already were. Relations could deteriorate rather fast from there. Erick wouldn’t be the aggressor, but… if he went out and blew up a mountain, then he might be seen as an aggressor by anyone who might be watching. And besides that, blowing up a mountain for shits and giggles would give away some of his secrets. All of those outcomes would be bad. And for what? To learn that he was capable of blowing up a mountain if he wished? He didn’t need to know that.

A memory of Last Shadow’s Feast came to him.

Of standing in the sky, watching as the Aerie exploded, destroying a vast swath of the northern part of the Jungle, reshaping the face of Ar’Kendrithyst, killing many nearby survivors and sending shockwaves bouncing across all of the Dead City, setting it to ring like a drum. Erick’s skin went cold as a small trill of fear and hatred thrummed up and down his spine, then settled across his shoulders and neck.

There was no need to purposefully blow up a mountain; especially not ‘for fun’. No one needed to have that kind of power, and even if they did, no one needed to exercise that power just to see if they could.

“Ah. Yeah,” Erick sighed. “You’re right, Poi. I don’t know what I was thinking. I am tired. I’m going to take a nap.”

Poi sighed in relief. “Thank you, Erick.”

Jane eyed her father carefully, noticing his shift. She kept her own emotions guarded, too.

Nirzir frowned a little, saying, “Restraint is important, I suppose.”

“Yup.” Erick said, “It is.”

He went to bed.
