“The runed web of each individual platform is actually split up here and there by nodes that only allow certain magics to flow past them, and alert when any non-standard spell enters the network. They are both connective bridges to make the piece-wise system act as a whole, and [Alarm Ward]s. These spherical nodes are the ‘secret’ to making the entire system work.” She shrugged. “It’s not that big of a secret, though. I’m sure if you walked around with a mana sense on you could see it— Oh! And the adamantium chains used to be part of the system inside the platforms, but that changed when the original web was stolen. No one has ever been able to steal the chains, for they’re much more secured against everything than the runic web was secured… And that’s a big topic that I don’t need to talk about either.

“Anyway. Now we have 3 separate systems with lots of redundancies built in. The chains, the platforms, and… Uh. We only have 2 systems. Yes. Only two.” Darabella said, “And that's that!”

Darabella stood there, gently smiling as though she hadn’t shattered Erick’s worldview of the top-end defensive capabilities of the people of Veird.

He felt a profoundness.

And then he felt a contraction; a harsh question burbling to the surface.

He asked, “Why not tell everyone how to make a system like this?”

Darabella rapidly answered, “Because it’s baby-slime easy to break. A concerted effort of a hundred people could bring down the whole thing in a matter of half an hour and it’ll take between ten minutes to repair it, or a whole day, or even longer.” She said, “We have a lot of backup orbs and runners to replace what gets broken, but we’ve faced threats that have broken the whole system wide open multiple times. That's why we have the evacuation centers.” She ended with, “Aside from a few niche utility uses, this system is more of a supplement to our people defending themselves from the dark than an actual protective measure itself. The runic web is not unbreakable. Mostly, people protect themselves, and the runic web protects their homes and mitigates encroachment.”

Ah.

Well then.

Erick tamped down his expectations. “That is a lot more reasonable.”

“Yup.” Darabella said, “And most people don’t like using runes, anyway, so it’s been really hard to get Surface cities to adopt runework. Even most Underworld cities don’t like the stuff.”

“Why do you think that is?”

“Ohh... Could be any of a hundred reasons.” Darabella waved her knife around, pointing at imaginary forces as she named, “A lack of powerful people mandating and supporting runework infrastructure, which is its own ball of spiders, but even at the bottom of the stack, most people don’t have enough mana to support city-sized runework. Almost everyone in Enduring Forge is level 50 and with Scion of Balance, so we got that covered; other people are stuck in the shit. Add to that, anyone can carve runes if they know how, but maintaining a system like this is a communal effort. And then you got the lack of Rune Smiths out in the world, and you do have to be a Rune Smith if you want to actually create good systems—” She hummed. She said, “We’ll have to talk on that point a lot, later, because while anyone can do runework, only Rune Smiths can do the best rune work. That’s a big conversation; the expectations of working outside your Class. You probably won’t like that conversation.” She went back to the main topic, saying, “Anyway. Then there’s the problem that most people don’t know dirt about how to properly work metal, and that’s major. Then, back to the first point, you got leaders not wanting the people under them to be able to fight, like over in the Sovereign Cities what with their civil war, or with the wrought cities, what with their caste system, or Songli, or the Greensoil Republic, or practically every single Underworld city, and… A lot of places, actually. Most of the Surface is like that.

“But then you got the big, overarching problem: Everyone’s got their own methods of defense, and no one wants to try new things, because trying new things means mobile knowledge, and that means everyone will know how to tap the rocks under your foundation to knock down your house.”

“All good points.” Erick said, “I suppose a lack of metals is a problem, too.”

“Oh yeah! That’s probably a problem for other people, for sure.” Darabella said, “Not one of our problems, though.” She picked up a piece of steel, saying, “Oh! I forgot to tell you— Now for smaller runework it doesn’t matter, but for the larger stuff, you need to spend near the same amount of base mana to carve the runes as it would take for you to cast the spell yourself. Anything over 25 mana qualifies for this adjustment.” She set the metal in front of Erick, saying, “Okay then! I think I hit all the rudimentary lessons. Try carving some— Oh. Uh. There’s a few more lessons, for sure. We’re sort of skipping around. Uh. Back to carving?”

Erick laughed a little. The lessons were coming fast and disjointed, but he wasn’t having any trouble keeping up. Darabella’s teaching methodology seemed to be piecing together random puzzle pieces, then filling in holes before Erick fell into them.

“Back to carving then,” Erick said as he grabbed the metal and held it in his light—

“No no.” Darabella said, “Runework requires stability. Uh. You have to do your carving on a stable, unmoving surface. Or at least ‘unmoving’ with regard to the largest, nearest landmass. If you can accomplish this sort of stability with your light —Possibly with hard light structures— then that’s great! But stability is what the table is for.” She tapped the table, and began explaining, “This thing is imbued with a specific [Stoneshape] that all the Rune Smiths in the building pay into; all the rune beds in this building are on the same system, and you work it like this…”

Erick placed the metal on the white stone table, and tapped a [Stoneshape] into the working, exactly as Darabella told him to. White stone lifted from the table and grabbed the metal to hold it in place. Soon, he was carving [Envelop Item] into that metal, while Darabella instructed him from the side.

Soon, a rune of [Envelop Item] appeared out of the metal sheet, created with all the intent of layering Force over the structure. To ensure it worked, Erick cast the spell onto the metal, and a thin layer of Force held onto the working like a layer of varnish that was magically tough. The original spell would last for 10 hours, baseline, while inside this rune, it should last for 15; Darabella pronounced that carving adequate, but not that good. Erick could do better.

And then he did better, not three carvings later.

Darabella held up the latest carving and declared it good, saying it would last for at least 20 hours; double duration. Erick laughed, for this was kinda fun.

He said, “I’ve never been good at enchanting, so this was quite a nice change.”

“It’s not surprising that you’re good with this.” Darabella said, “But enchanting is almost as easy, so it is curious that you’re not good at normal enchanting.”

Erick almost grunted out in annoyance, but he held that back and said, “Normal enchanting is not that simple.”

“Ehhhhhh… It kinda is. Maybe your Particle Magic creation soured how you communicate with the mana? Or changed it, anyway.” Darabella said, “But besides that: You don’t have a crafting Class so of course you’re experiencing problems with crafting-focused endeavors, like enchanting. Which reminds me: We need to talk about how far you hope to actually go with rune crafting.”

Erick would have continued down that conversation, but he had to focus on one part of Darabella’s comment. “What do you mean, crafting Class? No one needs a magic Class to learn magic, or a warrior Class to hit with a sword, or an enchanting Class to learn enchanting. They’re bonuses, but not necessities.”

Darabella scrunched her face as she smiled a little, unsure how to proceed. She acted like she was trying to be let in on the joke, saying, “Yes you do.”

“No you don’t,” Erick said, not joking. “My Juggernaut guard is the most skilled mana senser of us all, and she’s even awakened her aura and learned to Remake several spells. With gridwork, my daughter, who had trouble with combining even the most basic spells like [Fireball] is now making tier 4 spells. I don’t have any Farmer Skills or Class Abilities, but I bet I can out-farm any single Farmer out there.”

Darabella pulled back, nodding in recognition, but not in defeat. She said, “But, as for rune crafting, you won’t ever have the Class Ability, Greater Enduring Runes, which makes any runes I craft resist all forms of degradation for at least a day from the carving. This lets me craft runes in literal mud. And here’s the big one: I have an Ability called Greater Shifting Runes, which lets the runes I craft shift to better suit the spells imbued into them. The normal Ability that most other Rune Smiths have only lasts for 12 hours, or less. My Greater version remains in the runes I craft for one whole week. During that time, the runes will shift with time and use, uncovering the Ancient Script words and strengthening the Script meaning behind any of my runework, producing a product that is literally perfect for anyone with any odd spellwork.

“This is in addition to the normal way in which runes will shift with time and use.

“I could craft you a runic anything, for any of your odd spells, and it would eventually work perfectly for you. You want that [Undertow Star] in a pillar? I can make that, even though I have no idea how you managed to make that spell.” She added, “You’ll be able to do some of this, because runes do get better with time, but I can write ‘[Undertow Star]’ in Ecks, making an absolutely terrible rune, and those words will eventually shift to Ancient Script.”

Erick could only say, “… Oh.”

Erick would have to check his Class Ability options when he got somewhere private, but even if he did get a rune crafting option, it probably wouldn’t be something as nice as Shifting Runes!

… And. Wait. Even if he did get that Ability, he probably wouldn’t take it. Opportunity cost, and all; he’d have to get rid of something else and there was nothing he wanted to drop.

Darabella nodded, saying, “Classed Enchanters have similar Abilities that help them make enchantments. So if you were comparing yourself to them, then… While, yes, everyone can make enchantments or potions or whatever, if you don’t have the Class Abilities to guide your hands, then someone else who is actually a Classed crafter will always make a better product than you.”

Erick thought for a second, debating with himself what he actually needed out of runecrafting. He landed on an answer, rather soon, so he asked, “Without the Class, can I still craft runes that link with other runes, enabling a runic web?”

“Oh? Sure. No problem there.” Darabella said, “Runes do two or three… or maybe five or six things really well. Two, for sure. One: they allow for longer duration and provide physicality to some spellwork. And two: they can be chained together over separate systems of similar metal.

“But without the Class, you have to be good at rune carving and precise at your connections and have a lot of power in your system to make it work, but physicality and chaining are very much attainable.

“We even have a few non-Rune Smiths working on the rune web of the main city. My father was even one of those people; he was a Stone Mage. He’s retired now.” Darabella digressed, “Anyone with enough skill can make and install the infrastructure of a rune web, but most people can’t achieve the level of skill needed to do this outside of the Class. So let’s run through more basic spells, and get some of that understanding!” She asked, “Yes?”

“Yes,” Erick agreed. “Thanks for teaching me, by the way.”

“Oh yeah yeah. Sure sure.” Darabella said, “You can have that knife, by the way. I got lots.”

“Thank you, Darabella.”

“No problem, Archmage.”

“You can call me Erick.”

Darabella smiled a bit, saying, “Then I shall!”

And it was a genuine smile, this time, her dimples on full display. Darabella lost all of her fear in that moment, making her seem like an even brighter individual. Her hair, wavy and reddish brown, like a much darker shade of her skin, bounced around her shoulders as she moved, while her eyes were reddish gold that almost shone like bright, brushed copper.

Erick smiled too.

And then he got down to carving.

- - - -

An hour later, Erick had produced the runework for the full suite of Arcanaeum-required spellwork. [Husbandry], [Alter Friction], [Alter Size], [Force Platform], etcetera. Everything. Many of his inscriptions were a poor fit to the small squares of metal he runed, but he still managed to rune the metal properly.

Erick was rather amazed with himself. He even looked over to Poi, and Poi just nodded; he knew what it meant that Erick had finally managed to do some proper ‘enchanting’, even if it wasn’t actually enchanting at all.

It wasn’t long before Darabella announced that Erick was skilled enough to move on to weaponry.

[Conjure Weapon] went into a forged dagger, and made the weapon stronger for it. The original duration on [Conjure Weapon] was only 10 minutes, so it was easy to check if Erick had done it right. And he had! As Erick was working on something else, at the 13 minute mark, the spell finally faded from the steel.

From there, Darabella decided that they could move on to lessons about flowing magic through runic systems, allowing for multiple inputs and drastically increased areas of effect. This led to Erick speaking of Earth technologies, and of the similarities between runes and their systems, and wires and electricity.

Darabella gained a real interest in listening, and in understanding how, exactly, electricity worked, and how it changed the world. For a little while, Erick became a teacher, and Darabella giggled as she jokingly spoke of ‘a world run on runes!’.

The lesson eventually went back to Erick learning how to string together runes and how to carve them properly, but this time, Darabella’s nervous energy had been replaced with eager calm. Erick suspected that they could have continued like that for a few more hours, at least. Or days, perhaps. But bodies demanded food and drink and it was already midnight, by then.

The day had vanished.

