“Oh! Yes.” Darabella gestured to the cabinets, saying, “Go ahead and grab one— Oh! Uh. You don’t know where they are. I’ll get you one.”

Erick couldn’t help but smile.

Darabella rapidly moved to the cabinet labeled ‘training swords’ in small print, saying, “Everything is labeled in here, so you’ll figure it out eventually. But for now—!” She pulled a short sword out of the drawer, then came back to the table and began setting up the fresh sword. “—I can do this for you.”

Erick chuckled.

In a matter of moments, the carved swords were removed from the table and tossed in a bin labeled ‘for reclamation’, while the fresh one was stuck into the white stone of the table.

Darabella stepped to the side, asking, “So take your dagger and— Ah. You have no dagger yet? Ah. You need to practice your carving, first, don’t you. This is your first time doing runework! Of course it is; you said that already.”

“All correct.”

“Okay. I can work with this.” Darabella went to the cabinets, speaking to herself, “I know I have an extra dagger here somewhere.” She dropped her wooden knife as she searched, and she didn’t seem to care that she dropped it. Drawers opened, then slammed. Cabinets flung open, then slammed. She went to the other side of the room, to a different set of cabinets, and did some more searching.

Erick pointed to her desk, saying, “I see a label for extra student daggers in your top left desk drawer.”

“Oh?” Darabella turned around, frowning a little, as though Erick had said words that were impossible to be true. Then she hummed as she went to her desk. “Oh!” She yanked open the drawer and went, “Oh? Oh! Yes!” She grabbed a student knife, saying, “I swear I’m not usually this confused, but it’s not every day that a Savior of Light comes asking for lessons.”

Erick said, “And I appreciate these lessons; thank you.”

Darabella grinned; she had dimples in her cheeks. She handed Erick the knife, handle first.

Erick took the knife. It was adamantium and blocky, with a curved back and a straight edge. Aside from the full metal construction, it didn’t look special at all.

“Oh! I’ll get you some sheet metal, too.” Darabella tossed her hands up as she scuttled off to another side of the room where thin, meter square sheets of steel laid against the wall, saying, “You know: I heard about your attempts at making some sort of [Renew] spell, but we already got something like that here.”

Erick was suddenly all ears.

Darabella brought the metal sheet to Erick and put it on the table, saying, “All the buildings have [Lightward] on them, and any citizen can cast a lightward of any type into the runes we got set up out there, and that spell will then be forced into the proper shape and shared across the entirety of Enduring Forge. Everyone is required to spend 5000 mana on upkeep of the city’s defenses, or 10 gold to the defense effort. Most people pay others to cast the spell for them, and that requires some paperwork, but it works out in the end.”

Erick stared, his mind whirring with possibilities.

And then he hit a snag.

What she outlined didn’t sound like [Renew] at all. Maybe superficially, it did; she was talking about communal efforts which created a massive area of light all around the city, which drove back the more deadly shadow monsters. But this was not [Renew]. Perhaps Darabella had heard a mangled version of what Erick was trying to do with [Renew] and she attributed it to what they already had going on here at Enduring Forge.

Or maybe Erick was the one misunderstanding.

Erick gave her the benefit of the doubt, and explained, “My goal with [Renew] was to allow anyone to input mana into a powerful magical construct, effectively allowing anyone to contribute to an archmage’s permanent defensive spells. Is that what's is going on here?”

“Well yeah.” Darabella said, “Not exactly like that, but close enough. People gotta use specific low-tier spells; not just a simple ‘[Renew]’ and as much mana as they want to use.”

“… Are there any drawbacks?”

“Lots and lots!” Darabella said, “The varied lightwards cast by individuals are easy to forge into a cohesive, uniform effect, but sometimes people make their lights so wrong that they can’t contribute like everyone else. Those people are slagged, so they pay the fine or pay someone else half as much to cast the spells. The runic web we got can do a lot more than lightward, though. We have a seldom-used option to grant a city-wide [Absorption Ward], but in practice, that system is rarely used because an area attack can wipe out the imbued magic of the entire system. A much better option is the [Envelop Item] runework. Those work very well for general building defense. Most people who can’t or won’t fight are required to spend as much of their mana as they can imbuing [Envelop Item] or other spellwork into the platforms. A protected house is a great deal of defense during a wide-scale attack, anyway.” She added, “We also have [Healing Beacon] runework to use against low-power gas attacks and other aura magics. That works really well, because we have healers that can fill the whole system with False Health [Healing Beacon]s, effectively doubling the Health of every single lower-level person in the city. Not that there are much of those; most people here are at least level 50.”

“Yeah. That’s... Not exactly what I had in mind when I started talking about [Renew] to everyone. But that’s…” Erick said, “That’s pretty darn impressive. That’s… I don’t know what to do with this information yet, but I am thoroughly impressed.”

Darabella smiled. “How about we get back to making runes, then?” She touched the metal plate, saying, “Let’s see you channel your [Greater Lightwalk] and Domain into your dagger, and try to carve something. Try [Envelop Item]. All that spell does is a layer of dull, protective Force upon the steel, and it should work well with these metal plates. Simple and effective— Oh! No. Let’s try [Light Ward], first, since you’re already Light-based. Yes. Then we’ll do [Envelop Item] when you get good with [Light Ward].”

“Okay. Sounds good.” Erick held up the knife, and…

He wasn’t sure what to do here, exactly, so he started at the beginning: He tried a simple channeling of mana—

Erick blinked. A white glow came out of his hand, like normal, but that glow soaked into the blade, like water swirling into a drain. The black dagger took on solidness in the manasphere that was the encroachment of Reality upon reality. It was also wildly unfocused for Erick barely understood what was happening as his mana joined with the dagger’s existence; Sparks of light burst from the edges of the blade.

Darabella just watched, silent.

Erick tried shifting around his mana, causing flares and valleys in the light around the dagger. After several shifts and movements, he began to understand what was happening. He controlled his output of mana, smoothing out the release and allowing the dagger to take in what it could take. His Domain and Light soaked into the weapon, and stayed there upon the edge, like a force waiting to inflict its Reality upon the world. He held it like that for half a minute, gaining an understanding of how the imbuing worked, and what he was doing.

Darabella nodded, saying, “Good control. Very good control. Try carving. Try imbuing your idea of [Light Ward] into the metal. It’s okay to mess up. We got plenty of spare metal sheets.”

Erick took the weapon and… applied it to the steel. The metal resisted him, as metal was wont to do, so Erick applied more pressure—

“Pressure isn’t good.” Darabella said, “Carve the Truth of your message into the steel. Don’t actually carve the steel. Do the work with your magic, not your muscles.”

‘Carve the steel without carving the steel. Sure. Makes sense.’

Erick focused again, because his dagger was sparking again. Soon, a controlled glow suffused the tool.

And Erick laid the dagger’s tip against the steel—

He paused.

‘Oh. Actually. This does make sense. It’s how I normally talk to the mana, but different.’

In a moment of clarity, Erick focused on the Truth of Light, imbuing his ideas of photons and wavelengths and energy into a compact message that would fill the world with Light. The tip of the dagger remained on the surface of the steel, but the illuminated edge of his power dipped into the metal, then all the way through.

Erick moved his hand, his whole arm, carving out ‘Light’ and ‘Ward’ in Ancient Script upon the center of the metal plate.

When he was done, he stepped away. His [Greater Lightwalk] and Domain retreated to the small of his back. The work had been done. To Erick’s mana sense, the metal plate was now carved; its path through existence was now parallel to the idea of wardlights. To his actual sight, the metal had yet to accept its new Truth; the carved cavities retained their dusted steel, like metal filings packed into holes.

“Hmm,” Erick hummed.

Darabella tapped the steel plate with her finger, and the metal dust of the carvings fell out of the holes in the metal, leaving behind… Well.

Darabella hummed, then she said, “It’s… legible. I suppose.”

Erick admitted, “It’s chicken scratch. And I should’ve accounted for the holes that would come from certain loops of Ancient Script. I need to work on my penmanship.”

“No no no.” Darabella gave a little white lie, “It’s… It’s fine!” And then she couldn’t lie that much anymore, saying, “You’ll get better. This is why we have practice plates.” She tapped the remaining empty space of the meter-square plate, saying, “Plenty of space left to carve! So get carving!”

Erick asked, “Don’t you want to test this one for quality?”

“… Oh. Uh. Sure?” Darabella said, “I can already tell it's of good quality, even with the accidental holes, but if you wanna… You probably should actually confirm the quality. Go ahead!” She walked back to the pile of plates, saying, “I’ll get you another one and cut it up smaller, though, for other tests.”

Erick smiled, then he cast a lightward onto the metal he had cut. The spell soaked into the plate and the entire plate poured light into the room, acting more like a fluorescent bulb than a lightward imbued onto steel.

Darabella paused, looking at the metal plate.

Erick asked, “Is it supposed to look like that?”

Darabella broke out of her trance and grabbed another metal plate, saying, “Sure! Why not? Looks great!” Darabella returned and set the new metal plate on the table. Then she squinted at the brightly-glowing metal sheet. “Is that a normal lightward? 50 mana? Lasts a day?”

“50 base, yes.” Erick had only spent 4 mana, though. “Lasts a day, too.”

“It’s rather bright… But that’s fine. That—” Darabella tried pointing with a knife she did not have, so she broke off her words and started to look around for the knife.

Erick handed her the wooden tool.

Darabella happily took the knife, continuing, “That should last for two days, then, instead of one!” She began cutting up the meter-wide steel plate into pieces, saying, “Maybe more, since you used a Light-aspect Domain to do it. Errr… Depending on the modifiers, it might last a really long time.” In a few flicks of her hand, the metal sheet had been turned into nine square pieces.

Erick smirked, saying, “We’ll see.” He took the luminescent plate and set it down on the ground, out of the way. “But anyway: how do you make plugging in a lightward at one end of town light up the other end of town? And what about malicious actors purposefully marking up parts of the system wrongly, to mess up the lights? Like erasing the ‘anti’ parts of the ‘anti-Shadow’ runes I’ve seen out there.”

“… Hmm. That’s an odd way to put it, but I take your meaning and I am very glad that I specifically cleared runic web talk with Grosgrena.” Darabella held up her wooden knife and began forming a lightward in the air, as she explained, “This part gets complicated, but breaking it down into pieces and ignoring the difficulty of making it all work… Upon each platform, there is a many-wired system of solid bar-stock metal spanning through the platform like a giant spider web. It’s a part of the sewer system. The metal we use down there is not adamantium but it doesn’t have to be. It needs maintenance, but not too much.

“The original system was adamantium, but that got stolen long, long ago. Long before most people here were alive. Probably better that it was stolen before our time. When that first runic web was stolen, Enduring Forge almost collapsed because we couldn’t replicate that magic and the normal threats from the Underworld never stopped. We had to rebuild the system from schematics and old books while fighting off monsters from every side. These days we keep people trained in that sort of thing, and the system needs constant maintenance anyway, ensuring that people remain with the knowledge to fix or wholly replace the system, if needed.

“Anyway.

“Every house has a runebox that the resident can both imbue with power, and, with the help of a Rune Smith— Or anyone, really. You don’t need to be a Rune Smith to make runes— They string metal wires through their house, usually behind the walls, into prepared metal plates. Those metal plates, when properly runed, will begin to transmit light and other functions to nearby structures.

“It’s not really that simple, because most runework won’t work properly unless the runic system is whole and uncompromised.

“But it’s not that hard, either, because the spells imbued into the metal do flow, and they flow quite well. For instance, [Envelop Item] will be able to protect three stories of apartment building as long as the runework on the middle story is done properly. Explaining all of that is a very complicated thing that you don’t need to know about yet, at this stage of the process. But this is one of the reasons that only every other floor of a building is runed, or that only the floors and ceilings are runed.

“Because, backing up a bit, as you have already guessed, this is the point where we have to talk about security. In a truly connected system someone could inscribe bad spells like [Fireball] inside the network, and hurt everyone.

“Solving for the flow of magical power solves the majority of these issues.

