“Don’t you strength-builds sometimes land Crushing Blows, too?” Malika asked.

“Yup,” Mato said, “Wait, do those count too?”

“Oh, yes! An excellent point, Malika!” Calen said, pointing a finger at her dramatically. “That should definitely do the trick.”

“Ok, getting this one then,” Mato said, grinning at his friends. “You all can thank me in advance for the overwhelming healing in the future! Look out, Malika, I’m after your job.”

“Bring it on, fluffy bear!” she said, putting up her fists.

[Battle Healer 4/5] Brutal Restoration gains Natural Blast.

Mato grinned at her as he accepted his skill improvement; his first direct healing spell, and then glanced over the updated reachable nodes available for his last path step.

Reachable Nodes: +50% spell power to Healing skills. Cost: 1Battle Trance gains Retributive Heal (Whenever you are hit, you may use Brutal Restoration for free. Recharge: 5 seconds.) Cost: 3Arboreal Sanctuary gains Breeze of Restoration (Mana: Your Sanctuary aura heals your allies over time. Channeled.) Cost: 3

“Another difficult choice,” Mato said, sharing the options.

“This path is strong,” Calen said, furrowing his brow as he studied the choices.

“Fifty percent to healing, wow,” Malika said.

“I still think one of the skill upgrades is better,” Ali said. “More options in battle.”

“I agree,” Mato said, eyeing his two keystone choices. “But which one? I like the Retributive Heal the best, but should I be taking the healing aura because it will help all Ali’s minions?”

“That would be strong, but your Sanctuary is pretty small in Bear Form – it should mainly help with the melee-range fighters,” Ali said.

“It’s channeled, so that means it’s likely mana intensive,” Calen observed.

“It would be very strong in Tree Form,” Malika said, “but I think Retributive Heal is the better choice.”

“How come?” Mato asked. He had his own gut feelings, but Malika understood tanking and melee combat better than most and her reasoning was solid.

“With Ali bringing shamans, we don’t struggle with any lack of healing,” she said. “Your mana would be making the shamans and my job easier, but nothing we can’t handle without it. I think you should save your mana for the abilities that make you tougher as a tank. You get hit a ton, so that Battle Trance upgrade will allow you to use your blast heal for free every five seconds. That should save a ton of mana for increasing your magical damage, stealing damage from others, and deploying your roots for battlefield control. Those are unique skills you bring to the fight that are much harder to duplicate.”

“Sounds like you think that would be the best for the team?” Mato asked.

“Yup.”

“I agree, too,” Calen said. “Don’t forget the other side of the coin, that it damages enemies too, so it should help with area tanking.”

“Same,” Ali said. “I can always bring another shaman, and soon I should have my Acolytes leveled up.”

“Ok,” Mato said, letting the grin spread across his lips. It was nice to know his friends valued his unique contributions. He glanced appreciatively at his friends before he chose the ability, grateful to have them able to back up his gut preferences from the numbers perspective.

[Battle Healer 5/5] Battle Trance gains Retributive Heal.Battle Healer path completed.13 Authority remaining.Bestial Rampage path removed.Two new paths found.

Phew, that was a complicated one. Ok, what’s next? Mato shared the paths as they came up.

Elemental ShapeshifterYour paws have walked the paths of Balance, threading the line between beast and plant, healer and tank. You have learned to incorporate the aggression of your deity and the nurturing of your mentor, forging your own path without being wholly defined by either. Now take up the mantle of your patrons’ affinities, folding them into the essence of your shapeshifting magic and thread the line of elemental balance between all.Traits: Shapeshift, Wisdom, Nature, Void, HolyPath Length: 4Reachable Nodes: +1 wisdom per class level above 100. Cost: 1+35% spell power to all skills while Shapeshifted. Cost: 1Quality: UniquePath – ClassAdaptable ShapeshifterYou converse with beasts and plants. Your deity is a dragon, and your mentor is a tree. You have experienced life in four different forms. Expand your understanding of nature and explore the wilds. Learn to incorporate the forms of every beast and plant you defeat, folding them into the skills of the Adaptable Shapeshifter. Assume the perfect form for every occasion. Traits: Shapeshift, Strength, Vitality, Knowledge, Nature.Path Length: 4Reachable Nodes:Unlock the Adaptable Shapeshifter skill (Consumes all existing Shapeshift skills. Grants Limited Telepathy while Shapeshifted.) Cost: 4Quality: RarePath – Class

Oh boy, these both look amazing!

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
