Shiv thought back to his conversation. "I think he's hunting someone here, or at least looking for someone. He asked me if I was here for ‘him’ too. Don't know who this 'him' is, but I guess he has a grudge to settle."

"A grudge? Wait." Adam fell silent as he started connecting thoughts. “I… Give me a moment. I might… I’ll get Helix first. Then, I need to… I’m trying to recall something.”

As Adam's thoughts cut off, Shiv heard Javelina call out, "Alright, new arrangements! We're going to treat this building like it's hostile territory! That wasn't the doing of a Morbomancer. I've seen that skill during the Abyss War. There is a vampire in the building. Heroic-Tier, at least.”

Immediately, ripples of fear spread through the students, ripples of fear so strong that Shiv's Shape of Monstrosity skill began to tremble inside of him. Yet the chains weren't going to him. He couldn't see the fear chains, but he could sense they were heading upward. Upward towards someone unseen.

"Vice 8," Javelina called out, and to Shiv's surprise, her hulking boar companion responded.

"Yeah, lady?"

"Zephyr of the Nine Winds. Scour the halls and place your clones. Do it now.”

The hog grunted, and suddenly a few Aeromantic gusts exploded out from it. Yet it wasn't just uncontrolled wind. It was wind shaped to the boar's body. Clones of the boar stepped forth, gliding up the stairs to the hallways on the side, and a few gathered around the students as well.

"You will all be accompanied by Vice 8," she declared. "You will stay near a version of him, and you are not to leave his supervision at any moment."

Fearful susurrations exploded amongst the Biomancers and medical volunteers. Javelina held her staff high, and behind her, the shrouded form of a looming boar holding an even grander staff towered over her. Shiv suddenly felt the potency of her Biomancy magnify. It didn't quite make her a Legend, but it made her a particularly High Hero. She was practically shrouded in a dense veil of Biomancy, yet it didn't extend far beyond her. Her field was compacted. It was like Shiv's Chronomancy: a layer of armor around her flesh.

"Our new approach is as follows: Senior residents and section heads, you are going to move and hold your sections! We are going to claim and establish control over every room, every wing, every ward of Last Chance Hospital as soon as we can. However, if you encounter opposition, you will turn, and you will run! You will preserve your own lives, and you will leave the fighting to me, a senior resident, a section head, or Vice 8!"

The massive Aeromantic boar cracked his hooves and chuckled.

"Additionally, you are to consider yourselves contaminated and infected," Javelina said, and Shiv detected a hint of remorse in her voice. "I'm sorry, but you are not to leave the hospital—not until we eliminate this threat."

Maxime was clenching her jaw so tight that Shiv could see the tendons of her neck tense up and begin to spasm. Malcolm had fallen silent, but the fan-headed automaton was shaking. Its legs constantly tapped the floor in an anxious, repetitive motion. Other students were shifting, eyes darted about, and Biomancy Fields swelled outwards as they tried to expand their coverage. Whispers and worried exchanges followed, and Shiv saw just how unnerved most of the volunteer medics were.

Welcome to 301, he thought to himself.

A slight ache built in the back of his head, and Shiv realized he was still creating more overflow tides. He'd never stopped doing that, not even after establishing a temporary truce with the Legendary vampire. On top of that, his Awareness was constantly active as well, and he was basically pushing his mental capacity constantly, never giving his subconsciousness a moment to rest.

That's going to tax me pretty quick, Shiv thought to himself. But still, that's damn good. I can probably sustain my durability now in combat. The next time I have to fight someone in the open, or if I'm facing another Legend in a brawl, I probably can constantly increase my Pillar of Orichalcum to match my speed and strength.

Funny how it took a mental skill to make his physical aspects feel more complete.

Just then, his awareness jolted again, and he subconsciously noted how Javelina was constantly looking between her students. Her paranoia was palpable, and her features were tense. Prior to this point, she still took the situation seriously, but it was mostly business as usual. Grim business, but still business. This wasn't business. This was something else.

She was actively scanning the Biomancers that had entered the hospital with her. At the same time, she also knew what a vampire was and what kind of skill it had. The latter meant she knew a bit more about this adversary than Shiv did. The Deathless didn't know how much the Republic brainwashed its people, or how deep and effective the propaganda was. But he did know this: Javelina had military history in the Abyss War that hadn't been wiped from her mind.

That provoked him to do something daring. Slowly, he raised a hand. "Hero-Biomancer Javelina?" Shiv called out, trying to sound every bit as nervous as a newly arrived apprentice medic would be. "Just a... Marcus Unblood here. You said this was a vampire's doing, from the Abyss? Do you know what that is? You know what we're facing? What kind of skill they have?"

Acting 17 > 20

Well over a dozen heads turned his way. Maxine regarded him with brief surprise, but Javelina was staring at him now with her narrowed gaze.

Shit, shit, Shiv thought internally. Maybe I shouldn't have done that. Does she suspect something? Is she going to say anything?

A long moment passed. Javelina licked her lips and then shook her head. "I think I have faced something like this before, but I cannot be certain. That's why you all need to stick together and not break from your groups. Do not leave Vice 8’s supervision; the adversary, I think, is treacherous. Worse, they can hide within blood, so do not ingest anything nor come into contact with any substance without your wards active or without a layer of insulating material. You are to be confined here until we find and eliminate the threat. You are not to carry it outside. Repeat, you are to consider yourselves contaminated."

Javelina looked down at the ground as if she were ashamed. "I'm sorry, but it has to be this way," she said. "The vampires... We don't want them to be carried out into the greater republic. We don't want their like to spread. We don't need a nest in the capital."

And that made the fear even worse.

"What is this drivel?" Helix suddenly called out. Shiv heard the orc's thoughts and tasted the disdain they were laced with. "Carried out in the blood? That's not a common vampire skill. That's a Heroic-Tier vampire skill. And that's not the skill we're facing at all, either way. Challenger, does she not know that one who has bound themselves to the skill of… Wait, no, I know her. Hero-Biomancer Javelina."

And suddenly Helix's tone changed. There was a dangerous edge as he seethed, "It's been a while. I have kept you in the basement of my mind, oh Hero.”

"Helix?" Shiv said. "Do you know her?"

"Know her? Yes."

"Don't... please don't tell me she's your Nemesis," the Deathless replied. He really didn't need this shit right now.

"Not in this lifetime," the orc declared. "Though I wouldn't be reluctant to have another round with her. That staff... It should have been mine, pupil. That was the staff of Many Vices, a Boar God from a long-dead world. One that has spread his teachings about biology and life itself through his Divine Gates."

"Alright, Helix, let's just get one thing very clear here: if you do anything to fuck this up or start a fight with her right now, I swear to the Challenger, I'm going to cripple you for all eternity. I'm going to cripple your Biomancy for good."

"Yes, yes, violent threats, of course. Insul, I'm no fool. I don't need to expose you right now. I can keep my itch under control. Besides, a duel between Biomancers should be settled properly, not in front of this rabble."

Shiv could taste the scorn Helix had for the students and volunteer medics here. "The hell’s wrong with them?”

“They are unworthy. They are shaking and quivering and worried, they are afraid that some vermin bloodsucker might touch them, might rip their blood from their veins and feast upon it. It's pathetic.”

"I don't know, it seems like a pretty normal fear for someone to have," Shiv replied. And then he remembered he was speaking to an orc.

"Normal fears are not for proper Pathbearers," Helix chided. "And that skill you faced earlier, you said it is a combination of Biomancy, Psychomancy, and Chronomancy? Then it was wise of you to call upon me, for you face a truly dangerous foe. Metastasis of the Still Mind. That is the name of the skill. I only faced one other Pathbearer who wielded that power, and it was a fellow orc."

"Did you win?" Shiv said, both curious and also partially jabbing at Helix.

"I learned," Helix declared haughtily. "I learned from that experience."

"Oh, so he kicked your ass," Shiv concluded.

"No. He did not brutalize me. We faced each other in a high battle of great wits and magical majesty. And I was simply his lesser that day, but someday, someday I will prove myself his better. Of course, I cannot prove myself his better directly, but I will gain his skill and I will surpass him. In fact, I think that day will come soon."

"What happened to him?" Shiv asked.

"He decided to challenge the Challenger."

"He what?" Shiv was surprised. "You can do that?"

"Of course. The Challenger is more than willing to accommodate any adversary, with the reward being true godhood. And he did. He faced my former rival.”

"What happened?" Shiv asked.

For a moment, Helix hesitated. “He didn't learn. He will never learn again."

And for the first time, Shiv felt something from the orc. It was genuine fear. It wasn't even the twisted fear they felt when he ripped into them, when he mutilated them. This was pure. This was as human as an orc could get.

The Challenger would like to remind you that all your choices will turn bitter as you lie broken before him.

Yeah, you got a nice imagination, Shiv shot back. I’m not one of your orcs. When I come for you, I’ll make sure I break you for good.

A notification appeared before Shiv's vision as his pin flashed.

Junior Resident Adept Maxime Stormhalt.

Senior Resident Master Hal Habendale

Designated Area: Pediatric Ward.

And once more, Helix spoke, placing a cap upon everything Shiv had just learned. "I think I know who our mystery bloodsucker might be. It takes a substantial effort on the part of a vampire to develop such a rare Skill Fusion, and there are only so many Legends one can encounter on Integrated Earth. I believe that we are hunting Tulveg the Irreverent, disciple of Ekkihurst the Sculptor."

And to that, Shiv had only one response: "Ah, just felling great."
