“This dungeon should be a cinch. I want to be done by lunchtime. May we use the auction house outlets?” The unnaturally gaunt speaker was clad from head to foot in black leather, leaving only his hard eyes visible behind a face mask.

Rogue [Prince of Darkness] – Human – level ???

“Of… of course, esteemed sirs and lady,” Worthington said, stuttering as he gestured to the booths, struggling to keep his voice under control as his eyes kept sliding away from the figure of Beltz Fellworth, the Crimson Blade’s shadow assassin. “The usual fees apply; I assume you’re familiar with the Silver Cog auction?”

“Yes, yes, we know how it works,” the priest, Vernon Bell, said, waving a hand with an impatient shooing gesture.

Worthington took in the final, silent member of their group, Sallis Bolt.

Hunter [Flame Strike] – Half-Elf – level ???

Sallis was dressed in the brown and green typical of an experienced woodsman, his silver hair bound into a tight braid that hung midway down his back, and his eyes were never still, always scanning the room, his companions, everything. More than any of them, he made Worthington’s skin crawl with his silent, piercing scrutiny.

The Heroes of the Crimson Blade. If they were after the dungeon, then he was in serious trouble. Every account of this group showing up anywhere was followed by a deluge of damage reports and repair requisitions. The New Darian royalty only turned to them when the more civilized avenues of diplomacy or economic responses failed.

The evolved crafters in Myrin’s Keep were an important source of income for him, but over half of the money he had made so far had been directly or indirectly linked to the Dungeon of Knowledge below the town. He didn’t know if they were here on an official commission or if it was a personal trip, but it didn’t matter much; if they were here to destroy the dungeon, he was going to be ruined.

“If… if I may ask, what brings such an illustrious group as the Heroes of the Crimson Blade to Myrin’s Keep?” he asked, cursing the stammer as he asked.

“We heard that the dungeon has magicite,” the rogue, Beltz, immediately answered, eyes sparkling with avarice behind his black facemask.

“No, you may not,” Vernon said simultaneously, and then rounded on the assassin angrily. “Shut up, Beltz, you’re always running your mouth off.”

“It’s not like it’s a secret, Vernon,” the rogue retorted, but returned to the auction booth without further comment.

But it was more than enough, Worthington realized in horror, already seeing his future fortune going up in smoke.

I need to warn the Guildmaster. She’ll know what to do.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
