As she slipped into the Dimensionality of his cape and joined up with Valor and Can Hu, Shiv shot up into the air with a burst of gravity.

“I’ll get a pathway set up,” Adam called. “Have the orcs queue properly if you can.”

Shiv laughed at the thought. That laugh died as he realized the orcs probably could manage a pretty neat line while they marched off to butcher and maim.

As he traveled through the air, orcs called out to him, cheering for his arrival, some jeering him for taking so long. But instead of just relishing their attention as he did before, he focused on their voices. Focused on how he felt, and he noticed it. They were pulling at his psychology, influencing him in weird ways. He truly enjoyed the orc's attention. It made him feel wanted. It made him feel special. And with every time they cheered, that feeling grew a little stronger.

Oh, you subtle, sneaky, gray-skinned sons of bitches, Shiv said to himself, shaking his head. But he realized it this time, and he remembered this moment. He reached inside his own mind using his Psychomancy and gripped this realization. He tried to scar it into his mind.

The orcs were not his allies; they were not his friends, and they were using any and all means to influence him. He needed to be wary of that. More importantly, he might be able to use the same means to influence them back. It was time to put them on a bit of a defensive.

He came to a halt above the Court Leviathan. There, Bonk and a dozen other Heroic-Tier orcs looked up at him, their eyes glowing with violent anticipation. Some of them were bleeding, their armor slightly damaged.

“The hells happen to you idiots?” Shiv asked.

“Sparring?” Bonk replied as if it were obvious, shouldering his club. “So? Are we finally leaving? Is the Gate Lord pleased with our proposal? Or are we going to have to each sign a skill contract with him, promising our souls as collateral in case anyone accidentally steps on an ant?"

“Nah,” Shiv said with a vicious grin of his own. “You guys are going to be scratching that itch of yours good today. Go get the other orcs prepared to cross the gateway. We’re gonna be intercepting the expeditionary force. Let’s see how you bastards do.”
