Rain nodded, seeing Jamus approaching with the crate. Ameliah waved from the ramp, then sat beside it to stand guard as Clubbs retreated inside. He could tell from here that she wasn’t all that interested in the political maneuvering to come. He could also feel Tallheart’s reassuring presence from within the ship, solid as always despite being in what he called ‘hostile’ territory.

“Okay,” Rain said as Jamus planted the crate beside the table and took a seat. “First off, let’s start with the basic facts. Your ranking is going to fall no matter what we do. With only four months and change to the new year, there isn’t enough time for you to rebuild the operational base you’ll need to hold your current spot. I can see that this upsets you, and given the stupid ranking system we’re working with, I get that. Wealth shouldn’t be a competition, but I digress. We’re prepared to help you stop the bleeding and stay in the top ten. Jamus?”

“These are ballpoint pens,” Jamus said, retrieving a wooden box from the case and setting it on the table. He flipped open the lid to reveal the metal pens inside, a full fifty of them, one of which he selected while readying a sheet of paper with his other hand. Removing the cap, he demonstrated, quickly drawing a happy-looking dog. Jamus being Jamus, the sketch was excellent and easily recognizable as a cartoon version of Cloud.

Spinning it around, he passed the paper and the pen over to Luna to inspect.

Atyl leaned forward. “The ink is inexpensive, as is the construction, yet the final product is better than anything on the market, including alchemical quills.” He pointed. “That entire box was produced by our artisans within a single day, as a test of our production capability. The material cost is trivial compared to the labor involved, which we are working to reduce. Estimated production cost for fifty units is three silver. Recommended selling price is 1 silver each, undercutting the standard rate for alchemical quills while providing a better product at a ridiculous margin.”

“How long-lasting?” Luna asked, testing the pen for himself.

“A hundred times as long as a one-Cryst quill,” Atyl said. “They cannot write on any surface, but on paper for the discerning scribe, there is no downside.”

“And you will sell them to me for...”

“Fifty percent above cost to start,” Rain said, nodding at the box. “Consider these a free sample.”

“But wait, there’s more,” Jamus said, making Rain smile. He placed a flashlight on the table, smaller and sleeker than their early, heavy prototypes like the one Luna had managed to acquire. “These, I believe you are familiar with,” he continued, flipping on and off the switch. “We have miniaturized the bulbs as well as the batteries—as we call the power source—and both are replaceable.” He extracted another pair of wooden boxes, batteries and bulbs respectively, placing them on the table.

Atyl had found his notes and extracted a sheet from them, sliding it across the table. “Production cost breakdown for the pens,” he said, finding another sheet and passing it over again. “And for the flashlights and their components.”

“This is all very quaint, but—” Luna began, but Jamus cut him off, slamming down a heavy bolt of fabric.

“Linen cloth,” Jamus said. “Note the tight, flawless pattern of the weave. This original bolt was thrice this width and was produced in less than a day, not including the time to grow the flax.” He plucked at the sleeve of his Ascension jacket. “Our uniforms have thus far consumed the bulk of our output, but soon, we will find ourselves with a surplus. Cotton, wool, other fibers...all should work with our process, should you be able to source the raw materials for us.”

“Again, we’re working to reduce the production time further,” Atyl said, sliding across another sheet.

“I—“ Luna said.

“Next!” Jamus interrupted, placing down a rack of bottles with a clink. “Health, stamina, and mana potions. Standard stuff, but of the utmost quality. We produce the bottles, too, as well as high-clarity glass in general. Other potions are available upon request.” There was a clatter as he tossed a collection of wooden dowels onto the table. “Arrow shafts, hardened with Woodsmithing. Again, fairly standard. Rain, did everyone throw something in here?”

“Pretty much,” Rain said.

Atyl was struggling to keep up with the papers.

One by one, Jamus laid out ingots of various metals on the table. “Copper, tin, iron, aluminum, all one hundred percent pure. We have a full refinery operation able to produce metals at scale, again, should you be able to provide us with raw materials. We also make fasteners—nails, screws, bolts, that kind of thing. Standardization is something we will insist upon. There are pamphlets on the metric system and our mathematical notation in here somewhere.”

“I think he’s got the idea,” Rain said, laying a hand on Jamus’s arm to stop him. “There’s a lot of stuff we can offer, and what’s in that box is just the start. We have plenty more ideas that we haven’t finished developing.”

“I see,” said Luna, greed bubbling beneath his dispassionate facade.

Rain tried not to smile too broadly. “We’ll come up with some sort of catalog eventually. For now, I’ll leave it to you to determine what has the best profit margin and decide what you want to order. Our ship, as you’ve doubtlessly concluded, was not swallowed by a Whale, and it has a significant cargo capacity. We’re set up on an island south of here, and no, we’re not going to tell you exactly where. There’s another island north of that in much safer waters. It’s even more desolate than this place, but we’ll build a dock and some infrastructure as soon as we can. Your Goldships should be able to reach it, and we’ll conduct our exchanges there. You can take our goods from there and sell them wherever you wish. We’ll be selling them too, mind, but in a much more limited fashion. You’re the one with the contacts and the distribution network to really make this work.”

“So this is your plan, then?” Luna said, peering at Rain over the mound of assorted stuff. “I will admit, some of these goods are enticing, but even should I disrupt the entire market with them, I would not be able to break the hold of the top three. They would undercut us in return, no matter how innovative your production methods. The gulf between their manufacturing abilities and those you claim is wider than you know.”

“I wouldn’t be so sure,” Rain said. “Also, they’re colluding, by the way. The top three. To control the market and protect their profit margins. But you’re a smart man, and you already knew that. What I know is that they’re doing it because they’re afraid of competition.”

“Let them try to match us,” Atyl said. “Let them just try. I know it sounds like hubris, but you haven’t seen what I’ve seen.”

“I am saying that this is not enough,” Luna said with minor pique, splaying his fingers atop the pile of papers Atyl had given him.

“Of course not,” Rain said, sitting back and crossing his arms. “Like I said, this is a stopgap. Something to keep your people loyal and your organization together through the hope you’ll be able to claw your way back. No, what I really mean to accomplish is much bigger, and it’s going to take decades. I’m talking about manufacturing and transport at scale. Inter-city transport of cargo that will make the teleportation network obsolete. I’m talking about consuming the Bank from within and reforging it into the symbiote it should be instead of the parasite that it is.” He waved a hand. “Not so you can be number one—or me through you by proxy. Wealth is worthless unless you put it to use, and that whole ranking system of yours has got to go.” He leaned forward. “I’m talking about building a better world. About improving life for everyone.”

[Coming on a bit strong there,] Reece commented.

[Nobody asked you.]

Rain watched patiently as the gears turned in Luna’s head, matching him stare for stare.

“This plan certainly does not lack for audacity,” Luna finally said. “I have several concerns which must be addressed before I even entertain trying what you propose. On any timescale.”

Rain smiled, settling in for the long haul. “Alright then. Let’s talk details.”
