“Slower,” Mora signed back. “Bad except basics.”

Rain nodded in relief, his cheeks heating all the same. “Tunnel ahead,” he signed slowly, then tapped his armor. “Metal.” He pressed a palm to the floor, then mimed doing so to the walls and ceiling before signing again. “Metal walls.”

Nodding, Mora reached down to touch the stone as well, tapping a gouge left by what would have had to have been an enchanted pick. The wide tunnel they were in was quarried like most in the Great Delving, but hadn’t been finished by a Geomancer, the tool marks in the deepstone remaining unweathered after who knew how long. Mora looked up and raised an eyebrow, clearly expecting an answer.

Rain tilted his head, confused, but Ameliah apparently understood the question.

“Yes, artificial,” she signed. “Not natural. Smooth. Bolts.”

Checking for bolts himself and finding them there, Rain frowned. He’d made what had felt like a pretty safe assumption—that the coating was artificial—but that was an assumption. Metal moss wouldn’t even be that bizarre down here. The codex hadn’t said anything about it, but—

“What are you three chattering about, all secret-like?” Leftbeard asked.

Rain looked up, seeing him approaching while the others fussed with their packs.

“Keep your voice down,” Mora whispered. “We may have a situation.”

Rain looked past Leftbeard, his jaw tightening. Genn and the fledglings hadn’t noticed anything out of the ordinary, too tired to pay attention to anything other than themselves. Rightbeard was busy removing the saddle from Pitterpatter, but it wasn’t Rightbeard he was worried about. Legruz was leaning against the many-limbed cat’s side with his arms crossed. Sulking.

Good. Last thing I need is him getting involved until we know what this is.

Unbidden, Rain’s lips twitched. Legruz’s reaction to being denied Unity was amusingly similar to Dozer’s. With how similar the two were, the funk would last perhaps the rest of the day.

Too late, he realized he hadn’t muffled the king-link before thinking about the slime.

[Hello!] Dozer said, appearing with a pop.

“Shhh,” Rain said, catching the slime and then mouthing the word ‘sugar.’ He would have mouthed ‘shit,’ but up close, Dozer’s spatial hearing was good enough to read lips by motion alone. The slime deciding there was filth to be dealt with would do little to improve the situation.

“Know common hand code?” Ameliah signed to Leftbeard.

Leftbeard shook his head as he too crouched down.

“Someone’s modified the tunnel ahead,” Ameliah whispered, the four of them forming a line facing the darkness. “Coated it in metal.”

“Ah,” Leftbeard said, looking over his shoulder. “Foundry?”

“Probably,” Mora said. “I guess they finally cracked down.”

“Damn,” Rain said, stroking Dozer. “What’ll the toll be, do you think?”

“Entente and Foundry don’t get along,” Leftbeard said. “It will be more than I can afford.”

“You won’t be paying it,” Mora said. “Legruz will.” She glanced at Rain and Ameliah. “He might be hard to convince, though. Any chance you’re willing to turn back? Just how time-critical is this job of yours?”

“Very,” Ameliah said. “We’d have liked to be in Nadir yesterday. If not for our rivalry with the Guild, we’d have taken the main shaft and damn the toll.”

“Anyone know another bypass?” Rain asked.

“Not that we can find without returning to the surface,” Mora said.

“So be it,” Rain said. “We’ll just have to open our piggy banks.”

“Legruz will pay,” Mora repeated, not questioning the strange phrase. “You just have to finesse him.”

“And if he won’t?” Leftbeard asked. “If he only covers himself and his apprentices?”

Mora’s expression twisted sour. “I’ll draw on our defense allocation if I have to, but there’ll be an inquiry.”

“Blame Legruz.”

“Oh, I will.”

As one, Rain and Ameliah shot to their feet. “Party approaching,” Rain said at full volume. “Fast.”

[!] Dozer sent, rebounding gelatinously from his sudden elevator ride.

“Looks like somebody noticed we’re here,” Mora said, rising as well.

Leftbeard muttered a curse, calling for his brother as he hauled his shield into place.

“What’s going on!?” called Legruz from behind.

Rain probably wouldn’t have answered even if he’d had time, and he definitely did not. The signals—seven of them—had covered more than a hundred meters in a handful of seconds.

And ahead of them came their intent.

And so, it was with his surprise already discarded that Rain moved to engage what emerged from the darkness—the point of a spear, diving straight toward his throat.
