Trey did so, as carefully as could be. A mini-Gazi, eye and all, rose from the ground as he poured a tiny bit of sand out of his bag of holding. It glared up at the Quarass. She glared back.
“Larger. At least to my waist. Yes.”
The sand-Gazi rose higher. The Quarass studied it, and then walked around it. She inspected Trey, and then glanced at Sainath.
“Good. Healing potions also work, but it would not do to err. Trey, stand here. Just above the golem.”
“To do what?”
Trey reluctantly shuffled in front of the golem. He made the little Gazi frown and cross her arms. He thought the real Gazi smiled for a second. The Quarass was not smiling. She reached up, pushed Trey’s head back a bit.
“To be in the right place. Thank you. Siv.”
She brushed her left hand across Trey’s throat. He heard the word, saw a tiny bit of magic—
And felt his throat open up. Trey felt blood spilling from his cut throat. He stared at Gazi. Then he began to choke.
“Quarass.”
Gazi froze. Sainath’s hands froze too. Both turned to look at the Quarass, but they were frozen together. Trey raised his hands. Blood was running down his clothes, onto the golem, from his throat.
It was slashed open. The Quarass flicked one finger. Trey saw a short, glowing blade of light protruding from one of her magical rings.
“This is a ring-blade. Used by the [Assassins] of Germina. Flos Reimarch has forbidden the use of child-assassins, but adults may use the ring just as well. It is difficult to avoid or predict at low-levels, and as you can see—sharp.”
She gestured at Trey. He sank to his knees.
He was clutching at the gaping wound, trying to stop—
The little girl kicked away Trey’s hands from his belt as he reached for a potion. She yanked his arm up—blood ran onto the frozen Golem, the floor.
“Quarass.”
Gazi had not moved as the [Fleshshaper] held his fingers to her eye. But her other four eyes were staring at the Quarass. The little ruler ignored her.
“Move, Pathseeker, and your eye is forfeit. Hold. Trey Atwood.”
Her voice came from far away. Trey felt like he was disappearing. But the Quarass’ voice burned in his head.
“Trey Atwood. Move the golem covered in your blood. Sand and blood. Mix the two and move it.”
Help me. He tried to plead with her, but she thrust his head down. Towards the blood-covered Gazi. Covered in his blood.
“Do it or you will die.”
Trey pushed. He had to; he couldn’t move with his arms locked by the Quarass’ grip. The little Gazi stirred. It was sand. But he felt it.
Blood. It was diluting his control over the Golem. But—it was his blood. And it had to move. He had to move it—
Dark red sand rose. It crystalized and the little Golem moved. It rushed at the Quarass, slashing with a tiny claymore. It hit the Quarass hard.
The Quarass let go of Trey. He fell limp, unable to move his hands. The Quarass struck the golem-Gazi with her palm, and the dark sand refused to crumble. It rocked backwards instead, fell still.
Trey was lying on the floor. The Quarass reached for her belt as she inspected the red Golem.
“Good. This is lifesand. Made of blood and sand. It will be your foundation for golems.”
No answer. Gazi was staring. Just staring. Sainath was sweating as he concentrated. Trey’s blood ran, but it was nearly out.
The Quarass moved fast. She uncorked the vial, bent over Trey, and thrust him over. She poured the healing potion onto his cut throat. Instantly, the wound cleared.
Trey gasped. He wasn’t thinking, wasn’t—the Quarass pressed the bottle to his mouth. Liquid went in and Trey woke up.
“Drink. You must replenish your lost blood.”
Trey flailed. He felt energy rush through him, life, as the powerful potion restored him. He flailed—the Quarass caught him.
“What—what was that?”
It was two minutes before Trey could speak. Then he just clutched his throat, staring at the little blood-sand Golem. At the Quarass. She had called it ‘lifesand’.
The girl stood over Trey, tsking at the blood on her sandals. She pointed at Trey’s throat, and then the golem.
“Training. I told you I would make your golems stronger. You have learned to make lifesand. That—”
Trey shouted. He rose, and leapt at the little girl. He punched wildly—the Quarass flipped him.
“You—”
Sainath kept working as the Quarass slammed Trey down, in a perfect throw. Trey was winded; she grabbed his arm and twisted it up. He shouted in pain, unable to move without wrenching it out of his socket. The Quarass stared down at him, dispassionately.
“Are you done?”
“You nearly killed me!”
“I ensured you’d be safe. Attack me again and I will throw you. Pathseeker is still being healed, Trey Atwood.”
She let go. Trey, panting, stared up at the Quarass. She was not a person. She was like Flos. Someone who used people like toys!
“You—you—”
She waited. Trey curled up, clutching at his throat. He remembered dying. Tears sprang into his eyes. The sixteen-year old boy rolled over, facing a wall, in the blood. His blood on the floor.
“I hate you. I want to leave.”
The Quarass sighed.
“When Pathseeker is healed. Sainath?”
It was another ten minutes before the [Formshaper] finished. Trey just shook in a corner, clutching at his throat. The Quarass waited. And then the old man took his hands away from Gazi’s eye with a sigh. She blinked, and he exhaled slowly.
Sweat was beading his brow. Sainath looked at the Quarass, Trey on the floor, and then Gazi. He wearily nodded.
“It may be done. I have joined everything as seamlessly as I am able. I detect no flaw. However…your eye was new to me. I would caution you to work magic into it slowly. Carefully. Do you feel it is done, Lady Pathseeker?”
Gazi nodded. She slowly moved her eye, blinking.
“I think so, Sainath of A’ctelios. You have my utmost gratitude. Name your price.”
“What could you pay a child of A’ctelios, Pathseeker? Baosar will give me what I wish for.”
The old man smiled. Gazi hesitated, and then bowed. She stood up slowly, and her eye—her whole eye—swiveled in its socket.
Even Trey looked up from his fetal position to see it. Gazi’s eye looked whole, beautiful. But she seemed…nervous. The Quarass inspected her and nodded slowly.
“If I have succeeded, the King of Destruction is twice in my debt. Let us go and test Pathseeker’s eye later. Come, Trey Atwood. Now we leave.”
She swept towards the door. Trey didn’t move. Sainath stared at Trey and then hurried after the Quarass. Gazi looked at Trey. The young man was curled up.
“Trey.”
“I hate her.”
The half-Gazer walked over to Trey. She hesitated, and then knelt and put a hand on his shoulder.
“The Quarass is unkind.”
“You’re evil too. Sometimes.”
Trey was crying a bit. He’d died. He was sure of it. He had never felt that terrified, thinking the Quarass was killing him, betraying Gazi. He looked at her.
“Did you think—?”
“For a moment. I was worried for you. Had she let you die—I would have slain her. But I could not move. My eye—it was a perfect trap. If she had been false.”
The half-Gazer looked at Trey. She slowly reached down and took one bloody arm.
“Come, Trey Atwood.”
She helped him up. Trey leaned on her weakly as they followed the Quarass out of the room. His head was still spinning.
Outside, Athal stared at Trey’s blood-soaked clothing. The young man’s cheerfulness drained as he glanced between Gazi and the Quarass. He didn’t even notice the half-Gazer’s open eye.
“All went well? Baosar wished you to be availed of every courtesy, Quarass—”
“I am pleased. Inform Baosar I am soon departing. I would like to express my gratitude before leaving.”
The Quarass spoke brusquely. Athal bowed and practically ran away. It did Trey some good seeing how even A’ctelios’ people were nervous around the Quarass.
He’d forgotten what she was. Now, Trey remembered and glared at her. The Quarass’ eyes were steady.
“It does not work if you are told exactly what will occur. Magic is part inspiration. You must learn it in the moment, or by ages of work.”
“I don’t care. I hate it. This isn’t worth it. Vaitsha doesn’t deserve to suffer like this either. You use people like—like pawns.”
She didn’t blink, just nodded.
“Yes. I pushed you, Trey Atwood. I maneuvered you. How else would you become strong? I have seen that few are strong enough to push themselves to their fullest potential.”
Trey opened and shut his mouth. He couldn’t do anything but scowl. It was Gazi who spoke up in his place. Her central, healed eye focused on the Quarass.
“You make your subjects and allies strong, Quarass. But I wonder if you have forgotten what it means to be mortal.”
The Quarass’ lips thinned. She stared at Gazi and then turned her back. Athal was coming back.
“Let us meet Baosar.”
She strode out of the meeting hall. Athal led them swiftly back, heading towards the eyes in the distance. As they went, they passed by shafts, circular stairwells leading deeper, past the first layer. Down from the head.
Trey barely noticed. Gazi was helping him and while he was getting stronger with each step, his head still spun. People who saw him gasped, and murmured.
The Quarass paid no mind to any of it. She walked calmly, past one of the descending stairwells and turned her head.
“A calm day. Quite pleasant, for a visit to A’ctelios Salash.”
Gazi and Trey glared at the Quarass. She ignored them. Trey had to stop for a second by one of the shafts. He raised a hand.
“Let me take one more video before we leave.”
Gazi waited as Trey fished out his iPhone. He turned it on, stared at his image in the video, and then gestured at his throat. He couldn’t see a scar, but blood had soaked his clothing.
“Hey, this is Trey. I just had my throat cut by the Quarass because she’s helping me. Also, Gazi met someone who helped her out. This is A’ctelios Salash, by the way.”
He angled the iPhone to the Quarass. She stared at him. And then Trey saw the same beast as he’d seen before, dragging a huge chunk of…meat…across the ground.
Literally just meat. A block of it, cut into a huge square. The beast was tethered with leather, made of this place. It was huffing, dragging the huge thing while some [Laborers] pushed. But as Trey filmed the Quarass, the creature raised its head and turned. It uttered another wailing sound.
Then it tore forwards, breaking the leather harness. It charged at Trey, tearing loose of its captors. The young man stared.
“Trey! Dodge!”
Gazi flung Trey to one side. She drew her sword and cut. Trey saw the Quarass lifting something, a flash—a scream. But the pakeil came on. It fell, skidding, and slammed into Trey.
He shouted, scrambling for his bag of holding. Out came the magical staff, and he shoved backwards. A magical arrow hit the pakeil as Gazi’s sword flashed again.
“Lady Pathseeker! Stop! It is stopped, stopped!”
Athal’s voice. Trey was on his feet, panting. He stared down at the fleshy beast of burden. It was bleeding red—Gazi had cut it twice, and the Quarass had put a scorched hole in its side. But it was still alive.
And it was still trying to get to Trey. He stared at it.
“Why did it charge him?”
The Quarass demanded sharply. Someone stammered an explanation. Trey backed away as Gazi looked around. Her central eyelid was closed once more, but her four eyes spun.
Blood ran down her blade.
Red blood.
Trey…paused. He didn’t expect red blood from a creature like this. But this was A’ctelios. Which had been built of a monster that had died in Chandrar and been buried. They ate it here. But whatever horror lurked in the Carven City, Trey had not seen it openly.
Oh, the buildings made of dried flesh and bone. The warnings about the food. The people with their teeth, the baby—but he had not seen it directly. Even this beast—Trey shuddered as it moved weakly. Even it was less horrific than what was unknown, what he feared. It just bled red, not green or yellow or black or whatever blood some eldritch thing would bleed.
Red, seeping around the layers of flesh staining the blue and black fabric—
Trey’s breath caught in his chest. Slowly, he stooped. Someone tried to stop him but Trey knocked the hands aside. He stared down at the…strap. Of fabric, caught in the layers of the pakeil’s body.
It was not the leather harness. It was something else. Trey pulled at it, ignoring the beast moving. He moved aside mottled flesh, his stomach heaving. But he had to know. His mind had a supposition. A piece of a story, if you imagined what might be in a place like this. And he had to—
Something was buried around its flesh. It came undone as Trey found a buckle. He lifted it clear and stared at it. Below, the thing of flesh writhed, and its voice warbled and twisted as its heaving shape was secured by ropes. Yet the thing Trey held was not of flesh.
It was…a backpack. Trey stared at the blood-stained, filthy fabric. His hands shook.
“What is that? It should have been removed—Trey Atwood—”
Athal backed away as Gazi’s sword shifted, aiming at his face. She stared at Trey. Three of her eyes, and her closed central one. He looked at her.
“Trey.”
He…unzipped it. And fished out the first thing he saw with shaking hands. A thing of plastic. A dark screen. Metal around the rim. Trey nearly dropped it. He looked at Gazi.
A camera.
Slowly, so slowly, Trey turned to look at the pakeil. That was what Athal had called it. The others were securing it with ropes, lashing it with their whips. It was not a person. But it had worn the backpack.
Do not eat—
Trey was holding the magic staff. The Quarass had seen the camera. She spun.
“Baosar!”
Her words rumbled and those around her fell back, but for Gazi. Yet even her voice was distant. Trey was trembling, looking down at the thing.
Its face was obscured by folds of flesh. He wondered if it could even see. He thought he saw an eye. One. Something looking up at him.
“[Light Spear].”
Trey murmured a spell. The tip of his staff erupted into a blade of solid, yellow light. It was a spell to make a weapon. The magical tip was sharp. Trey stared at the pakeil. The transformed Human.
He raised his staff, then brought the magical blade down. Trey drove the staff through the thing’s head. It didn’t die immediately, but made a sound like a sigh. Trey stabbed again and again.
“—ey—rey—Trey—Trey!”
Someone grabbed him. Trey jolted. He spun—Gazi was holding him with one arm. The other held the claymore. The Gazer’s main eye was shut, but all four smaller ones were looking at him.
“Trey. It is dead.”
The young man stared down at what remained of the pakeil—no, the person’s head. Whomever it was, it was dead. Completely. It was destroyed, and everyone was staring at him.
