The Quarass turned her head, regarding Trey intently. They were friends. Of sorts. She had accompanied him to Khelt, where he’d gotten to know her, and they’d talked since then.
“I wouldn’t want to bother you. If you still need to learn the carpet.”
“I have mastered it to my satisfaction. What do you wish?”
The Quarass was still unnerving to Trey, but she seemed to not mind explaining things to him. That was why Flos had insisted Trey go with her. For perspective as much as anything else. And…Trey rolled his shoulders.
“Um—I was just wondering if Vaitsha was alright?”
She had been very pale. The Quarass shrugged as she turned to look at Trey, keeping the carpet moving ahead.
“The poison is running through her. I have told you of this.”
“Right. Right. But, er, is she doing okay?”
“She must take a numbing medicine—another poison—to stay sane. She is weak, faint. In another few days she will not be able to stand. By the time I return, she will be bedridden, and must be hand-fed. At the end, perhaps when I return, or just after, she will not be conscious. Then, she will be force-fed and she will live or die. Perhaps, all before I return. Does that answer your question?”
The Quarass’ gaze bored a hole through Trey’s skull and implanted a silent message that he was being an idiot in his brain. Still, he went on.
“Can’t—can’t she reduce the dosage?”
“No.”
“But if she might die—”
The Quarass clicked her tongue.
“It was her choice. As is Khalid’s. For power and her new class, Vaitsha is risking her life. Would you deny her that right?”
Trey bit his tongue.
“No. No…well, maybe I would. Does she have to risk her life? Isn’t there another class?”
He looked at the Quarass. She had the memories of countless lifetimes in her head. And she knew more about classes and levels and the secrets of this world than anyone, even Fetohep. The Quarass smiled.
“Of course. But this is a class that suits Vaitsha. It is more powerful than many I could easily transform her into. And the swiftest. Germina needs champions. Vaitsha has taken the risk. Her chances of death are low.”
“How—”
“One in sixty.”
Trey fell silent. That…wasn’t as bad as one in ten. Or one in twenty, like he’d been thinking. Still…
“So, how’s Khalid doing?”
The little [Street Tough] was a boy from Ger who had pledged to be the Quarass’ protector, like Vaitsha. And Flos. But Trey hadn’t seen him when the Quarass had come to Reim the last two visits. The little Quarass shrugged.
“He is training his body. Learning the art of war. It will be years before he is able to serve as my protector and champion. But I have laid the groundwork. Each day, he imbibes tinctures and medicines, and soaks in baths designed to improve his body.”
“Really? Really? All that helps a lot? Tinctures?”
“Yes. Pills, made of ingredients and in processes I know. They will improve the quality of his muscles. By the time he grows in height, he will have twice a normal man’s strength without a Skill, among other qualities.”
Trey blinked. Gazi turned her head back to stare at the Quarass for a second.
“Bird.”
The Quarass turned them left. Trey kept talking. It wasn’t hard. Everything about this world was beyond fascinating.
“Wait, you can do that? Eat something and get powerful? Does it wear off?”
“No. You are thinking of potions, substances with short-term effects. What Khalid eats will change his very nature. Slowly.”
The Quarass calmly stared at a large albatross-like bird with dark feathers flying past. It made a strange, warbling sound—Trey saw it had teeth. It tried to turn—the carpet outraced it.
“So—so—by the way, this is an amazing carpet!”
“Your praise is unneeded. The carpet is average. Ask your questions.”
Trey wilted.
“Okay. So about these substances? How is it possible? Gazi, did you know—?”
He looked at Gazi. She shook her head. For the first time, the Quarass looked at Gazi directly.
“These are secrets I know. Gazi Pathseeker, travelled though she is, does not know much of this world.”
Gazi grinned with all her teeth. Trey winced. Venith had warned him! The half-Gazer looked at the Quarass and inclined her head ever-so-slightly.
“Apparently so. If it is not a secret, may I ask how this is possible? I know of enchantments that may last indefinitely. But you say it changes the nature of this boy. How?”
“Any aspect of the body and even qualities like the mind or natural flow of mana can be improved to some extent. The people of Drath know this; they are experts at this refinement and produce pills, liquids, and other methods of cultivating their form. I studied their methods in several lifetimes.”
“Really? So you can make them stronger?”
The Quarass smiled a bit, pleased by Trey’s wide-eyed fascination. And Trey wasn’t dissembling! …Too much. You had to entertain people like Flos and Fetohep. The key was to genuinely be interested. And this was amazing.
“Of course it is possible. This is what is happening to Vaitsha now. She drinks poison and antidote until her blood itself is venom. Soon, she will become [Viperborn]—or a [Serpent Lady], or a number of classes depending on some factors outside my control.”
Trey shuddered.
“And Khalid?”
“Strength of body, fitness of form. It is a simple thing with him; slower. I rely on Vaitsha’s class; not so with Khalid. His strength will come from body and class. It is said on Drath, that their perfect warriors had blood which circulates through the body ten times for every one of ours, that they are lighter, swifter, stronger, with eyes like birds and flawless skin and the ability to consume poison like water. But the ones I poisoned certainly did not have that latter quality.”
The young man’s face fell slack as the Quarass smiled. Gazi grinned too. The Quarass raised a finger as Trey opened his mouth.
“You are about to ask me why I do not offer this to other subjects, or why I did not do this to myself. Or why the world over does not practice this.”
“Yes.”
The Quarass let go of the carpet. Trey experienced a moment of panic, but the flying magical carpet just flew straight ahead. The Quarass pulled out a tiny bottle in a sealed clay flask. It was nondescript, and she yanked on the cork. Twice. She dug her fingernails under the cap, glared at it, and then handed it to Trey.
Without a word, he pulled at the cork. It took him a few seconds, but he opened it and carefully handed it back. The Quarass instantly took a swig and made a face. She went on as if nothing had happened.
“Three reasons. Firstly, because it often creates a class of its own. Secondly, the process takes years, often difficult or painful as one internalizes foreign substances and the body adapts. It is also best done in conjunction with training and adolescence; it would be immeasurably harder for you, for instance.”
She prodded Trey lightly in the chest with one finger. He winced. The Quarass finished drinking her tincture and sighed, grimacing.
“And finally, to develop even my body with the fullness of such techniques would cost more than Germina’s coffers could withstand. The cost is astronomical for the most impressive of such recipes; this is relatively cheap and effective for its cost. I will be able to cast magic well in a few years’ time with this.”
She tossed the clay bottle over the side of the carpet. Trey instantly watched it disappear. He carefully looked over the edge, but they were flying across the edge of Zeikhal by now, along Khelt’s borders. Sand began to overtake even arid scrubland.
Endless sand. Zeikhal had apparently engulfed countless kingdoms. It had been settled by great empires and they had turned to dust. It was the Great Desert of Chandrar, larger than entire continents from Trey’s world. They were flying along the border, southwest.
“So that’s…”
“Concentrated mana potion. I must drink it daily, and monitor myself closely. Too much and I will poison myself. But if I manage it—and my changing flow of magic—I will become more attuned to magic itself. Are you taking notes, Pathseeker?”
Trey jumped. Gazi, who hadn’t moved from her cross-legged position, just smiled.
“His Majesty has no need of enhancing his magic, nor I mine. Will this work with Amerys? Trey?”
“As I said. If the King of Destruction wishes to pay a fortune for a comparatively small reward, he may request my knowledge. I have agreed to help you, and Trey Atwood. But I do not believe he will benefit from this process.”
The Quarass flicked her fingers. Gazi shrugged and relaxed. Trey looked at the Quarass.
“Why did you agree to help us, Your Majesty?”
The Quarass turned and looked at him. Trey really wished she’d stare ahead, but Gazi was keeping at least three eyes out, which was reassuring.
“Besides the fact that I have tied Germina to Reim, Trey Atwood? Besides the fact that I have bargained with the King of Destruction for the return of some of my treasures in exchange for my aid? This is my carpet. And these are my rings.”
She touched two of the rings on each finger. Trey winced. Flos had gone through some of the artifacts looted from Hellios and Germina and spread the wealth. Some had gone back to the Quarass indeed, but Mars had walked off with two swords. Teres had a magic ring, and Trey had…
“The staff of Deliqen. You have it with you?”
Trey jumped. The very staff of the [Geomancer] the previous Quarass had sent to kill Flos was in Trey’s bag of holding. Guiltily, he nodded.
“It’s uh—”
“It was lost in battle. You will become worthy of it. It is a powerful artifact, which I shall instruct you in the usage of. Among other tasks. It will be at least three days of non-stop flight to reach our destination, even as fast as this carpet can go. A day of conference. Three days to return.”
“Right. Right, and um. My role is to take videos. And Gazi—”
“To provide mana for this carpet. Among other tasks.”
Gazi smiled, looking with two eyes at the Quarass. The girl nodded.
“Among other tasks. And she is a useful guardian. One who can see scrying spells, among other things.”
“Oh. Oh. So that’s why His Majesty was so certain…”
“My departure will be noted, perhaps even my arrival. The key is not whether we are spotted, in the end, but whether we are ambushed. There is little chance of that, I believe.”
“And if we are? Are you prepared to fight, Quarass? I cannot guard Trey, myself, and you with perfection with my wounded eye.”
Gazi indicated her closed eyelid. Someone had poked her eye out. Or in. A girl named Erin Solstice. Trey had seen her, thrice now. The Quarass inclined her head.
“If it should pass—I am adept at using a magical carpet. I will evade pursuers by air. If we fall to the ground, your life is in the most danger, Pathseeker.”
“True.”
One of Gazi’s eyes swiveled to Trey. He hesitated.
“Did His Majesty say…?”
“To protect you, Trey. Although if we are surrounded, you two should surrender. I will not be a prisoner.”
The half-Gazer calmly nodded at the Quarass. The ruler of Germina tapped her fingers together. A bug bounced off her face. She blinked; Trey was certain it would have splattered or hurt at the speed they were going, but one of her rings flashed. She brushed at a leg caught in her hair.
“True. And if it comes to it, I may well die.”
She and Gazi stared at each other. Trey looked at the Quarass.
“Die?”
She shrugged.
“If I die, I die. The King of Destruction will owe me a debt. And if I die, it is no great loss. I have already selected my successor, and Germina will not suffer the loss of a high-level Quarass.”
“But that’s awful! You can’t think of death like—that’s not right!”
Trey was genuinely horrified. He was used to people talking about death, but even this was cavalier. The Quarass slowly turned her gaze towards Trey. Her eyes narrowed.
“You look at me as I appear. A child. Do not let my appearance deceive you, Trey Atwood. Yes, I am a child in parts, but I am also ancient. Death is not something worse for me than anyone else. In fact, it is a lighter thing for me than you, since I shall live again—”
“Insect swarm. Locusts.”
The Quarass spun. The carpet went nearly totally perpendicular in a moment. Trey saw a huge cloud of bugs, a long, swarming group of them headed south. He hung on as the Quarass took them away. Then she turned back and stared at Trey. Hard.
“By all means, sympathize with the circumstances to which I am thrust into. Grieve for the girl who became the Quarass if you must. But do not pity me. The next time you treat me like what I am not, I will disabuse you of the notion.”
Trey couldn’t say anything to that. He knew the Quarass was old. He knew she had died—he’d seen her headless corpse and that was something that had given him nightmares. But to look at her…
The child ruler clearly knew what Trey was thinking. She glowered, her eyes flashing, and got angry for the second time Trey could remember seeing her. The first had been trying to mount a really tall camel without help.
“Sand-blinded boy! I have slept with more women than you have seen in your life, you arrogant virgin! I have eaten the hearts of my dead foes, and watched nations fall! I am not one to be coddled or made light of! I am the Quarass of Germina!”
She pointed a finger at Trey’s face. He turned crimson.
“I’m not a—”
Gazi looked at him. The Quarass looked at him. Trey turned pale.
“I’m not! Neither is Teres! No, wait. She is. She is, I’m not!”
“She’s not. You are.”
“What?”
“We can read your aura.”
Trey stammered.
“But Teres said—that’s a lie about the aura. Right? I mean, you can’t tell…”
The Quarass rolled her eyes, as Trey tried to explain or justify. She turned back to the carpet and made a slashing motion with one hand—Trey’s mouth shut instantly.
The carpet was quiet for a while. Trey fell silent, more from the heat in his face than anything else. At last, the Quarass spoke, and it was softly, facing ahead. She gripped the edge of the carpet as she stared across the open sky.
“Many lifetimes ago, I was a [Carpet Racer]—a [Skyrider of Ger]. I may not have the Skills or levels of my incarnations, but carpets need neither muscle nor supreme reflexes, Even in this body I can control it well. Your [King] believes carpets are dangerous. Well and so, he is right. But I remember living in times when many soared through the skies as we do now. How else to travel across Chandrar?”
“There is a magical carriage in Izril owned by a [Lady]. It moves as fast as this, or faster.”
Gazi offered noncommittally. The Quarass scoffed.
“Pah, can it ride across the sands of Chandrar? Even if it can—what is a carriage to flight? This is magic.”
