“Forever? But I thought they couldn’t be bound like that. Don’t you get three wishes?”
The Quarass gave Trey an odd look.
“Of course. But you can wish for anything. Including that they carry out a task forever. It is a waste of a djinn, and there are few left, but Merreid was founded when Djinni and their half-mortal kin, the Jinn, were both plentiful. The Jinn have died and the Djinni are slaves. Powerful, dangerous. If you find one of their vessels, be wary of the wishes you make.”
“But how powerful are they?”
The Quarass puffed for a bit.
“Some were as powerful as [Archmages]. Others were not. It varies, as with all people. What is true is that Djinni are exceedingly useful. Even your [King] would desire one, and to face a Djinni is a dangerous feat. They are almost pure magic, so to slay one you must use spells. I think that is why your [King] laughs at your world, Trey. He thinks a single djinn could conquer it. Well, he is a fool, but he is right that…”
The Quarass lapsed into thoughtful silence. She had been told of Earth, and Trey didn’t like knowing that she knew. But it had made her an ally. For now.
“U-um, Quarass. I know you want to talk about Merreid, but I want to know about djinn, please. You have three wishes? And they grant each one?”
“Within their power. It is an ancient geas, from when each was bound. It makes them servants, but rebellious ones. You must word your desires carefully, for they will turn on you if they have a slightest chance.”
Trey felt something hot in his stomach.
“Then they’re not servants. They’re—”
“Slaves.”
Gazi opened one of her eyes. The half-Gazer raised her head a fraction. The Quarass turned.
“Yes.”
That was all. After a moment, the Quarass went on.
“But you seem to be making a mistake, Trey Atwood. Depending on the binding spell, they are indeed compelled to grant the asker’s desire. Sometimes it is one wish, or three, or even as many as thirteen, or a hundred.”
“A hundred—”
“Depending on the enchantment of the bottle. But why would you risk it? Every first wish someone who comes across a djinn-bottle makes is for more wishes. Ah—but be careful. If you use up your last wish for more without wording it right, a djinn may free themselves before your next wish. Normally, the first wish is so lengthy one spends hours uttering it, to ensure the djinni cannot alter the wish in any way and you are protected from all harms by it. However—”
The Quarass was going on, but Trey waved an urgent hand in her face.
“Wait! You can’t ask for more wishes! Isn’t that—illegal?”
The Quarass stopped smoking. Gazi raised her head. Both gave Trey a nonplussed look.
“Why would it be illegal?”
“Because—isn’t it unfair?”
“To whom? The djinn? Those who enslaved them didn’t care. Ask for more wishes. Why would you…? Many ask for the djinn to be lifelong protectors and servants. They must only restrict the djinn’s power immensely, less they break their word-bonds and slay their masters. But of course their masters have infinite wishes. They just must be very careful not to leave loopholes. Illegal? Nonsense.”
The Quarass snorted. She tapped her pipe over the side of the carpet and refilled it. Trey opened his mouth.
“So—”
“Merreid. I will not discuss djinn all night. And you must learn etiquette.”
The Quarass ignored Trey. She pointed down at the city.
“Merreid is a safe haven. Its bazaars are truly neutral; no one may break the laws of Merreid, not even its ‘rulers’. The djinn are its servants. And the city thinks.”
She nodded at Trey’s sharp look.
“The [Architects] who created the city and wrote the laws which shape the city’s will and magic were much like the deceased one of your King’s Seven, Drevish. They did not trust mortal weakness. Sensible. Which is why Merreid has endured.”
“In that case, why are Merreid’s rulers allowed to meet with the other nation’s rulers? That’s why we’re going to A’ctelios, right?”
Trey saw the Quarass’ lips curve into a slight smile at the question.
“Well, Merreid’s rulers control the people. Not the djinn, who only defend the city. They can manage trade and other qualities. It is still worth entertaining them. But yes, they are less influential. Still, each Shield Kingdom serves a purpose. Qualvekkaras leads Garuda to some extent. A’ctelios, like Merreid, is a place of trade. Even if A’ctelios is more dangerous than Merreid.”
“And Germina? What does it do?”
The Quarass blinked.
“In the past? Before my predecessor ruined its reputation? Germina was a place of wisdom. Rulers, [Mages]—many would come from far and wide to seek my knowledge in exchange for gifts, favors.”
“Of…course.”
Trey tried to nod seriously. The little Quarass glared out of her child’s body.
“My predecessor was a fool. She slew her own mother, a matricide, and was forced to know of her mother, the Quarass-before-her’s true contempt for her daughter in her last moments. She was forced to live through slaying herself, and trapped by her class. She was a fool. But yes, Quarasses have been great and poor. I will be one of the greatest.”
She lit her pipe again. Trey just nodded. The Quarass puffed and sighed.
“Before you ask—yes. There were more. Once, there were seventeen Shield Kingdoms. They fell apart, were destroyed by calamity or simple foolishness—their protections turned out to be less than perfect. We four are the last who remain, by chance as much as trust.”
She looked terribly sad and old as she said that. Trey hated to see it, so he searched for questions.
“Why seventeen?”
She shrugged.
“Because only seventeen nations had the will to resist Dragons in that ancient time. It could have been a hundred.”
“And what did the people of Germina trust when they made their kingdom?”
The young man looked at the Quarass. Her pipe’s small glow was the only light now, as they rushed on through the desert. Gazi was sitting up, her back to them as she opened their prepared dinner, but she was watching, listening. The little Quarass smiled ruefully.
“They trusted to the one who had founded their nation to guide them forevermore. That a single soul could bring down a Dragon. That even time could not break her will.”
The group on the carpet paused for dinner, then, and Trey ate heartily, savoring sweet rice from Baleros, rolled up into little balls and seasoned with bits of nuts, or fruit, like candy. Among other dishes. The Quarass related the final Shield Kingdom as they ate.
“A’ctelios Salash? The Tomb-Dwellers trusted no one thing or person or creation. They simply trusted that they had killed worse than Dragons. We head there now, and it will be easier to see than explain. I caution you before we enter: eat nothing within the city save what you bring in. To be safe, eat nothing at all. Drink nothing. Is that clear?”
Trey felt the back of his hair prickle. He was reminded of the old legends, old tales like faeries and whatnot. Like never looking back as you left the underworld. He’d always thought that sounded incredibly hard and that poor Orpheus had gotten a raw deal.
“Why not eat anything in A’ctelios? Can I see an illusion?”
The Quarass paused. And two of Gazi’s eyes swung towards Trey. The girl chewed and swallowed.
“No. Have you been there, Pathseeker?”
“I have stepped within one of the outer places. Briefly. I know the rules.”
The Quarass nodded. She looked at Trey.
“To see it is a terrible thing. Not all the Shield Kingdoms were made of virtue, Trey Atwood. And A’ctelios, like Qualvekkaras, has never been taken by force. But its protection is simply the people and the…city…itself.”
“How?”
She refused to answer him. The Quarass looked ahead, as if counting the time to the city.
“We shall arrive the day after tomorrow. We shall camp early tomorrow, arrive at dawn. When we do—I have little fear you will give offense. It is hard to offend those in A’ctelios Salash, even should you scorn everything offered. But it was a risk, bringing you and Pathseeker here. One your [King] is willing to take. And I must meet with my fellow Shield Kingdoms. However, I fear for you more than Pathseeker, Atwood.”
“Fear…what?”
The little Quarass’s eyes were sharp on Trey.
“I fear that we will lose you to the Carven City, Trey Atwood. Germina is the Throne of Ger, protected by the Quarass who lives forever. Qualvekkaras is the Kingdom of the Winds, the last bastion of the Garuda. Merreid is the Labyrinth City, the Bazaar of Fables, the city that thinks.”
She paused, and her eyes glittered darkly by starlight.
“A’ctelios Salash is the Carven City. Tombhome. The Shield Kingdom which rots.”
 
——
 
As promised, they reached A’ctelios Salash on the fourth day, after sleeping a night on the ground on the third. That was a relief to Trey, because despite the more easy company of Gazi and the Quarass, their close proximity began to wear on each other.
Trey especially; after three days, he was beginning to smell a bit in his clothing. Gazi and the Quarass made him sit downwind. Before they camped for the third night and he was able to rinse himself with magical water, they would snap at him.
“Cease passing gas!”
“I will kick you off the carpet, Trey. You are worse than Mars.”
“Stop feeding me beans! It’s not my fault!”
Tensions eased that night with solid ground, a warm fire, and the ability to walk about instead of the permanent carpet. The Quarass made Trey practice a few bows and gestures, for each Shield Kingdom; Qualvekkaras was the only one that demanded specific gestures, like Germina.
And she talked more with Trey about the history of the other Shield Kingdoms, of Chandrar which was poor yet wealthy in equal measures. Poor in arable dirt, land which could support pastures or livestock like the other nations, but which had buried treasures, resources and more untapped treasure from old days than any other continent.
“After all, Naq-Alrama steel has been forged by Clan Tannousin and others in Chandrar. And it is a substance beyond most metals in this world. Yet a travelling clan may forge it where [Blacksmiths] in Terandria fail. Because Chandrar holds minerals and substances of great worth in its sands.”
The Quarass was an excellent teacher since she had lived through almost anything you cared to ask her. She was not shy about admitting the limits of her power either; most of her stories involved her death, whether by incompetence, accident, or disaster. She seldom died of old age.
“The Shield Kingdoms are powerful in their way, Trey Atwood. But do not mistake our might; it is not to conquer and shake this world. All four nations are mighty, and A’ctelios, Merreid, and Qualvekkaras are difficult to assail. But our strength lies in our ability to endure. Qualvekkaras has often been starved of resources and forced to capitulate. Merreid’s mortal rulers are susceptible to corruption.”
“And A’ctelios? What about it?”
The Quarass refused to answer.
“You will see. It is easier to let you see. Remember what I told you.”
Her comments were foreboding, and Trey slept somewhat unwell that night. In the morning, he boarded the carpet, yawning, and they flew towards the Carven City.
 
——
 
At first, Trey did not know what he was looking at. A’ctelios lay on the horizon, an inky, misshapen thing, like one of the countless dunes which had taken on a blackness of color, and solidified. From afar, it was but a strange hill with five bright points of strange color, sitting in the sands.
The road to A’ctelios was windswept, and sand covered many portions of it. Six roads led in, all old from time, laid and then half-buried by the shifting deserts. Even the city seemed to be close to burial; sand had built up high around it.
The young man did not see it for what it was, first. He did not know why Gazi tensed, and all four smaller eyes stared ahead, unblinking, or why the Quarass’ shoulders hunched. But he caught what they thought and understood something of A’ctelios from afar.
Yet the truth only revealed itself as the carpet flew onwards. The city was silent, and Trey saw only a handful of travellers on the road.
“I thought A’ctelios was a trading place.”
“It is. But its traders do not stray far. And those who trade with the Carven City know better than to travel by day. The sun scorches, Trey Atwood. I wondered if we might see delegations from the other two Shield Kingdoms. They have likely already arrived.”
The Quarass took them down. Now, the Shield Kingdom rose up. Trey saw it was in fact, massive. But he did not understand its curious geography.
“Is it—a hill? No. Is that stone?”
Neither woman answered. Trey stared. There were five, rounded things attached to each hill. It was a complete structure, but lumpen, irregular of form save for the five spheres. Each one was odd, not quite ringed, but with a spiral in the center of sorts, a curious pattern that drew inwards again and again, until it reached an inevitable center from which the light shone.
Trey did not understand. The Quarass slowed her flight, pointing towards the middle-most structure.
“That is our destination. Boy. Do you see what it is?”
Trey hesitated. Something tickled at his mind, but it was unable to, reluctant to make the connection. He looked uncertainly at Gazi. And she stared back.
“Look, Trey. What do you see?”
“Five entrances? That’s not very defensible, is it?”
Trey tried to joke, pointing at the five spheres connected to the—he stared again. Strange, now he saw it. No [Architect] would have envisioned such uneven shape. It had no purpose, in the logic of construction or even art. It was—
And then Trey looked at Gazi. At her. The half-Gazer stared at Trey. He beheld her face. Four eyes, staring at him and the shape waiting in the distance. And her fifth, closed eye. Slowly, his head turned. And he saw.
Five eyes stared outwards, living pupils and long-dead flesh. They waited, in the gloaming, casting a shadow that ate away at the sun. The misshapen head lay buried in the sand, and from the depths of the eyes twisted a madness not made of any symmetry nature envisioned. They stared at Trey, and he screamed. For he was never meant to see such eyes, or the form that held them—
“Trey! Trey Atwood! Look at me!”
The voice stopped the scream. Trey’s throat was hoarse. He coughed, tasting iron, and turned. The Quarass’ bright yellowed gaze kept hold of his. Two round irises, two normal eyes, for all they were immortal. Trey realized he was panting.
“Look at me. Do not look away. I command you.”
The Quarass’ voice was sharp. Trey held still, shuddering. It was still there. Staring at him.
