“The Shield Kingdoms of Chandrar are ancient. They must be political, to keep from being destroyed. I expected no more or less.”
“So, we’re going?”
Trey itched to be gone of A’ctelios. It was becoming too normal to him, and he had to remind himself of what it was. The Quarass looked at him.
“Not yet. Baosar.”
She nodded as the man swept back towards her. He gave a pointed smile.
“Ah, Quarass. I have summoned our finest expert which you requested. He awaits in a private room. Athal will show you the way.”
It was such a casual thing. The Quarass nodded and Trey nodded too, suppressing the leap in his chest. Gazi’s face was blank—she even looked bored as she nodded. And Athal led them to the private room with vague interest and nothing more.
“He awaits inside, Quarass. Tell me but when you are finished, and I will take you elsewhere.”
He mouthed at Trey. And don’t take too long, please! The Quarass ignored him and the wink, and walked into the room. Gazi was next, and Trey followed.
 
——
 
A man in a leather robe sat in a chair in the room, at a desk carved of bone. Trey’s first impression of him was of a rather hunched form—until he saw the man straighten. And then he gasped.
A wrinkled face and huge eyes stared at him. Unnaturally large eyes—larger than an eye should be. The man’s arms were long, sinewy. And his flesh was old.
He had hair, but it was long and tangled. The man looked dirty, and he smelled like the [Butcher]’s shop. But he was hale of body, even if his skin betrayed his age.
Unnaturally hale, in fact. As he stood and bowed, he had a fluidness of motion that Trey didn’t expect. He reminded Trey of Flos Reimarch, in fact.
The King of Destruction was in his forties, past his physical prime, but he had not one grey hair. He refused to let age touch him, in fact. He looked like he was a decade younger and he was in better shape than Trey and Teres combined.
In the same way, this man was probably in his eighties, but while he had grey hair and wrinkled skin, he had not a single liver spot, and his head was full of hair, not prone to balding. And his physique! It wasn’t that he had muscle. In fact, he wasn’t nearly as muscular as Flos. But he didn’t move with any hint of pain or wear on his body.
That was the unnatural bit. But as soon as the man spoke, it all became clear to Trey.
“Quarass, I greet you. Baosar informed me I was needed. My name is Sainath. I am a [Fleshchosen Formshaper].”
The words echoed in the small room. Trey instantly looked around for the Quarass. This was her plan? A—[Formshaper]?
He saw the Quarass incline her head.
“Greetings to you, Sainath. I have an ailment I am told you may fix. First, however—Trey Atwood, stop gawping. You are giving offense.”
The Quarass pointed a finger. Trey jumped as she addressed him directly. Sainath laughed.
“I take none, Quarass. And if it pleases you, I will answer any questions this young man clearly has.”
“Very well. Gazi, you must take off your armor. It will interfere with Sainath’s magic.”
Sainath’s eyes darted to Gazi. The half-Gazer stared at the Quarass. Slowly, she nodded and turned her back. She began to adjust parts of her armor, removing her gauntlets first as Sainath turned to Trey.
“Have you never seen a [Formshaper], Trey Atwood?”
“No. What are you—I mean, I’m terribly sorry. But what was your class?”
The old man smiled.
“All of us are fleshchosen. But [Formshaper] is my class. I am a—well, I suppose the crude word for it is [Flesh Mage].”
The word echoed in the room. Trey shuddered.
‘It was born with illness. Do not ask—the shapers will fix it.’
Athal’s words. Trey found another piece of the puzzle and stared. The Quarass’ voice was calm.
“It is a rarer class, not often practiced. But the shapers of A’ctelios Salash are well-known. Among some. They move flesh at will, to heal or…change. It is a dangerous process, however, and [Healers] are far more trusted. More efficient. But a [Formshaper] may do what no potion can, or at least, more easily.”
She nodded at Sainath and he bowed.
“Your words praise me, Quarass. This humble [Formshaper] will do what he can to aid the Dragonslayer of Ger.”
Trey glanced at Gazi. Then at the Quarass.
“His Majesty didn’t think of this?”
“No. I did.”
The Quarass turned to stare at Gazi. The half-Gazer had clothes on underneath her armor, and she had shed half of the pieces already. Sainath glanced at her, and then at Trey.
“Your Quarass is right, young man. I work with living bodies like [Necromancers] work with the dead. Skin and muscle are my projects. I can alter form and improve it—but my specialty is restoring. Healing.”
Trey nodded. He hesitated as Gazi took off her greaves.
“What does fleshchosen mean? Does it give you some aspect in your class?”
Sainath laughed. The Quarass’ eyes flickered and she shook her head slightly. So did the [Formshaper].
“It is what all those who are part of A’ctelios are granted, young man. And as for what it gives—comfort.”
He smiled. Trey opened his mouth, but the Quarass slashed with one hand behind Sainath’s head. He closed it.
“Well, Quarass, who am I seeing to? And how many? I must tell you I am not able to heal all ailments. Indeed, bone eludes me. Better to find a [Necromancer] for that.”
“I am aware. Your patient is not me, or him. But her.”
“Lady Pathseeker.”
Sainath turned smoothly to Gazi. Outside of her armor, she was slimmer, shorter. She seemed naked to Trey without her sword. Gazi glanced at the Quarass. And Trey looked at her closed eye.
Sometimes, great events took place by chance. Other times, they were by design. Sometimes, what everyone thought was the most important thing was in fact, a ruse.
The Quarass’ meeting with the other Shield Kingdoms. The King of Destruction at Jecrass. All of it was fake. Trey knew it, but he hadn’t known exactly why they had come. Now he did, and he saw the simplicity of it all.
For this, Flos Reimarch had given Gazi and Trey to the Quarass on her journey. For this, he had marched an army north, to distract the world’s eyes. For other reasons too, like the King of Destruction wanting a new horse, to level his army, so the Quarass could meet the others.
But this was a reason beyond all others. Gazi slowly sat in front of Sainath.
“My eye is wounded, [Formshaper]. I was told you might be able to heal it.”
“Ah.”
The old man sighed. His body shifted as he leaned forwards.
“I thought as much. Lady Pathseeker, is it? But I admit—I wondered. Rumors reach even A’ctelios Salash. But few think of my class. And I confess—I am not as skilled as some of my predecessors.”
He gestured at his body.
“My body is without flaw, but I keep my old skin to remind myself of what I am. Imperfect. So I warn you, Lady Pathseeker, I will do all in my power to aid you. But it may not be enough, and if I err—”
He paused, waiting. Gazi’s eyes locked on him, flickered to the Quarass. One looked at Trey.
“I am prepared to take that risk, [Formshaper].”
He nodded.
“Then, Lady Pathseeker, open your eye and show me your injury.”
Gazi paused. Trey, Sainath, even the Quarass edged around the table to see. Slowly, the half-Gazer opened her main eyelid, her huge central eye that Trey had never seen. He blinked.
And gasped.
“Gazi!”
The eyeball moved. Trey saw a dark pupil contract, slowly. Beautifully; her eye was many times the size of his. He saw the cornea move—and then saw the wound.
“Ah. Lady Pathseeker, you have been sorely wounded.”
Sainath’s sigh was different. He inspected the eye as it swung back towards him. He slowly bent forwards and Trey saw.
Gazi’s main eye was damaged. Trey had known it, had seen the weeping eyelid in the first few days when Gazi had returned—but he had never seen her eye itself. Gazi had opened it only once, to show Flos. She had kept it closed the rest of the time. Been crippled by its absence.
For she was Gazi the Omniscient, and her lesser four eyes were but a shadow of her main one. Now, Trey saw.
Gazi’s large, central eye was healed. It was—the eye was not deflated, or torn, or any of the things Trey had imagined. Even an eye could recover, it seemed. The whites were clear, in fact there were no red blood vessels in her eye, and it was able to rotate at will in her socket.
But the damage had come along the iris, the colored section of her eye. The color of Gazi’s main eye was yellow, but of a depth and scope even the Quarass’ eyes lacked.
Deep yellow in the center, but changing to blue and green and darker reds along the entire circumference. It was not one color, or even one pattern. It glowed, and the colors seemed to shift subtly as Trey watched. It should have been a perfect circle, surrounding a black mote of a pupil in the center.
But it was not. Part of Gazi’s iris had—bled. A cracked line along the center of it indicated the old wound, and it had spilled out into the whites of her eyes. A scratch ran along her eye, and it had ruined—beauty.
Trey stared at Gazi and his heart hurt. Her eye was beautiful, but damaged. The Quarass simply nodded and stood back.
“Can you see, Lady Pathseeker?”
“Yes.”
Gazi’s voice was low, almost without emotion. But look into her eye, see her clenched hands. Trey dared not speak as Sainath leaned forwards. Gazi’s eye moved slightly—then held still.
“I can see with it. Not perfectly, but I see. I dare not pour magic through my eye.”
She meant use the powers she had been born with, that of Gazers. Sainath nodded.
“I see, I see. Gazer eyes must be perfect, or the magic will warp. Damage the eye further. You were wise to wait. Lady Pathseeker—I must touch your eye. If you feel any discomfort tell me. But—”
“Do it.”
Slowly, gently, the man moved his hands forwards. He was rather unclean, but his hands were spotless, Trey was relieved to say. Gazi’s eye shivered as he gently touched a finger to it. Trey blinked for Gazi.
“Hm. Yes. I feel exactly the damage. Yes.”
Sainath put his hands on the side of Gazi’s central eye, closing his own eyes. Like hers, they were larger than normal. Had he changed himself to be like that? Gazi waited. The Quarass spoke slowly.
“Can it be restored? Money is no object.”
The [Formshaper] paused. He chewed on one lip, inspecting Gazi’s wound. Then he turned to face the child-ruler.
“Money is not my issue, Quarass of Germina. I think—yes, I think it can be done.”
Trey exhaled in a rush. Gazi blinked and she rubbed at her own eye as Sainath stepped back.
“You can?”
Sainath turned to Gazi.
“It is a small amount of damage. You must have treated it with a potion?”
“No. My eye responds poorly to magic. I feared it might warp my healing. It was naturally.”
“Wise, wise. And the injury—it does not run deep. Not into what lies behind your eye. It was not magical either, which is what I feared. What caused it, may I ask, Lady Pathseeker?”
“Someone poked a finger into my eye.”
“Ah.”
The Quarass and Sainath paused. Both looked surprised. Trey just winced. Sainath wasted no time, though.
“I can perform the repair now. If you are willing?”
“Do you not need anything else? Any tools? Preparations? This must be done with utmost care.”
The Quarass’ voice was sharp. Sainath shook his head.
“Lady Pathseeker’s eye is whole, Quarass. All that need be done is move what was altered into the right places. It will not take long. Nor will it be as dangerous. But I will need to concentrate. Lady Gazi, I will touch your eye. Please do not move it at all, or blink, or use any magic.”
“Of course.”
Sainath nodded. Trey and the Quarass backed away. And Sainath placed his hands on Gazi’s eye when she told him she was ready.
And he moved magic.
 
——
 
To Trey, the process was like watching someone perform surgery with a needle the size of a thread. He could see magic, thanks to Gazi’s tutoring, but he had never witnessed such fine control as he saw Sainath doing with Gazi’s eye. An almost imperceptible wisp of magic was entering Gazi’s eye—itself glowing in Trey’s sight with power. He couldn’t even grasp what Sainath was doing, but he assumed it was slowly moving the contents of her eye.
“He does it well. With the skill of previous [Formshapers].”
“You honor me, Quarass.”
The little ruler watched as Trey waited in a corner. Gazi held perfectly still, unmoving, not even speaking. The Quarass went on.
“Do you change other bodies, [Formshaper]? You claim you are not skilled, but you stand well among your peers.”
“Honor, Quarass. I have worked all my life as a shaper. Of course, I tend to the people of A’ctelios Salash, but I have repaired. Seldom altered. That is…a dangerous road.”
“Indeed. I am glad the shapers of A’ctelios remember. Betimes they forget.”
“Quarass. Shouldn’t you let him work in peace?”
Trey nearly begged the girl to stop distracting Sainath. The Quarass turned towards him.
“Sainath has control over his magic, Trey. Speaking will not impede him. Is that not so, Sainath?”
“No, Quarass. I will ask for silence if it is needed.”
Trey still didn’t like it. He wanted to pace, or say something to Gazi, but he was afraid to so much as breathe. He knew what this meant to her.
The Quarass had no such compunctions. She eyed Sainath’s back.
“[Formshaper]. Can you heal more than simply an eye? What of limbs? Surely that would make you prized elsewhere. Or does A’ctelios call you?”
Sainath’s voice was light, amused.
“I will never leave my home, Quarass. I doubt any shaper would, and few ever come to apprentice here that leave, over our long history. Yes, I am even able to reattach a limb—if it is not rotted beyond belief. I have fixed holes or imperfect alignments in the body that are invisible from the exterior. I may even craft new limbs…although that is only for the people of A’ctelios. For I need material to work with.”
Trey shivered. He could only imagine. The Quarass was nodding.
“Still, you may close a wound without using raw material?”
“A simple task, Quarass. Closing a wound is just moving flesh. To create, I must take or…harvest what is needed elsewhere.”
“Of course. Then I am satisfied. Well, I shall continue fulfilling my obligations. Trey Atwood.”
She turned to him. He jumped.
“Yes? Quarass?”
“Trey, make a Golem for me. There. Out of sand.”
She pointed at the floor just ahead of them. Trey hesitated.
“Now? Can’t it wait for—”
“Now.”
The Quarass glared. Trey still hesitated. Sainath didn’t move, but he spoke up.
“So long as the sand goes nowhere near Lady Pathseeker or I, young man, cast your magic.”
