No—ahead. The blank gaze of the thing was fixed on nothing but forever, which lay beyond the recumbent form that lay sleeping. Or dreaming? Trey’s eyes began to move.
“Look at me. Wait. It is not alive, Trey. It is dead. Look at me.”
Trey kept his eyes on the Quarass. Slowly, ever so slowly, she let go. He realized her fingers had dug into his skin. His throat—Trey began to cough. How long had he been staring?
“You did well. Sometimes those who gaze on A’ctelios Salash and understand its nature are lost for far longer. Look. Follow my finger, but slowly.”
The Quarass pointed. Trey followed her finger. He flinched—
And saw the Carven City for what it was. A monstrous, no, eldritch head stared at him. Just the top of it. And five eyes stared outwards. Five eyes. And Trey realized they were hollow.
“The light. The light. They’re inside it! How can anyone—”
He moaned. The Quarass blocked his gaze for one moment.
“Focus on that eye. There. You can see them in it. Do not behold it as a whole. It is dead, Trey. They have hollowed it.”
“What is it?”
Gazi rose, slightly. Her hand clutched the hilt of her claymore, but her voice was very calm. Too calm.
“The Carven City. A’ctelios trusted they had killed worse than Dragons, is that not the legend, Quarass?”
“Yes. This is what they slew. And they live in it to this day. Behold, Trey. Look into the eye.”
Trey saw. The line of the thing’s…eye twisted and curved, like a magical sigil gone wrong. The Quarass stopped him again, made him look for the single hole in the center. The iris.
It was open. Light shone from within, the only light on the shrouded body. It was a portal. All five eyes had been hollowed.
“Why? But why?”
Who would do such a thing? Trey shuddered. He wanted to be sick, or faint. The Quarass spoke levelly, but even she did not stare long at A’ctelios Salash.
“In an age before the Dragons ruled, something came from beyond the edge of the world. It must have destroyed nations. But here it fell. And A’ctelios Salash was the nation that sprang from its corpse. Even when Dragons ruled, they did not take this place. And the people of A’ctelios first sheltered in its eyes. Then, over millennia, dug deeper.”
“They live there?”
“Oh yes. The children live in there. They seldom leave. It still feeds them. Still rots to this day, if decay touches it at all. The eyes are filled with structure; they dig deeper.”
Trey shuddered. The Quarass slowly moved the carpet forwards. Trey reached out.
“I can’t go inside!”
“You must. It is not as bad inside, Trey Atwood.”
“No, I can’t. That thing—it’s from my world! I know what it is! It’s not a normal monster. It’s—”
Both Gazi and the Quarass looked at Trey. The Quarass listened. She shook her head.
“It is not that, Trey. Just a thing from the world’s end. The people of Drath hunt them. I have seen others. This one was simply the largest.”
“It’s not dead.”
Trey spoke with utter conviction. The Quarass shook her head.
“Its brain is hollow, Trey. I have lived countless lifetimes and visited A’ctelios Salash countless thousands of instances. Each time it is deeper. They hollowed the eyes first, then the head. Now they dig lower. It is dead; nothing lives. It is true the flesh does not rot, but then—neither does Dragonflesh. It is made of magic and time and it is disturbing. But you will be safe with me.”
The carpet flew onwards. Trey shuddered and averted his gaze as they flew towards the central eye.
“What kind of people live in there?”
“The kind you expect.”
Gazi’s voice was low. Trey looked at her.
“Did His M—did Flos see this?”
“He conquered Chandrar. Of course he did. I have walked A’ctelios once before, Trey Atwood. It is terrible, but few realize what it is as you did. And it is a place to trade. With…limitations.”
Trey saw tiny shapes, moving from within the center eye. They had been spotted. There were no doors, nothing to stop visitors. He did not think that mattered. Who would attack such a place?
“Did—did His Majesty conquer A’ctelios? You said it was never taken by force, Quarass. Then…”
She nodded slowly.
“The Carven City’s folk are much like Merreid’s guardians. Strong to defend. They do not emerge from their Shield Kingdom often. I think they would be a terrible force. But flawed. I am told Flos Reimarch vassalized A’ctelios in a single day as his armies marched past.”
She glanced at Gazi. The half-Gazer’s four eyes were staring ahead. She nodded slowly.
“My lord looked upon the tomb-kingdom and desired nothing of what it held. He only lamented that the age of A’ctelios’ glories were past. Although even he agreed that it was a mercy not to fight such a thing.”
“Gazi. It looks like…”
Trey couldn’t stop looking at her face. It was not the same. All five eyes were the same size. But Gazi’s face—she glanced at him.
“Yes. Milord noticed it too. I feel nothing but unease, Trey. I do not know what died here.”
The Quarass tapped her lips thoughtfully.
“Even for one such as I, Gazers are a rare species that seldom visited Chandrar. It is said they may have come of A’ctelios, or rather, another such beast in ages past. But that is a rumor.”
She glanced at Gazi. The half-Gazer bared her teeth.
“You would have to ask my kin in Baleros that. I have never been there.”
“True. Ah, we are approaching. Remember what I said, Trey Atwood. Forget everything if you must, but remember—do not eat in A’ctelios.”
“What will happen if I do?”
There were people in the entryway. The Quarass flew upwards, slowly, slowly. The eye had been hollowed indeed, and you would have to rise by climbing that flesh—if it was—Trey stared down and his stomach gibbered like his mind.
“If you wish to gain a gift by gambling your nature, partake of the rotless food they offer you. If you wish to stay forever, continue to eat.”
The Quarass’ voice was soft. She took the carpet up, forgoing the long ascent. Trey saw two dozen forms waiting near the top. They looked…Human. But his skin crawled. He felt hot and cold, chilled like he was having a fever. His head became light. And he felt himself pass through the spirals of the eye.
Bright light shone from within. Brighter than torchlight, but deeper than artificial light. The entryway was peach, not a perfect sterilized white, but colors altered by deeper, subtle shades. It looked like…stone.
The carpet halted. Trey saw a long tunnel, and then actual doors. He stared around. Peach changed, darkening and faltering, into a color like aged red and purple. It looked like—he closed his eyes.
“We walk here. Trey, take my hand.”
The Quarass made him stand. The ground was hard. Like stone. Trey opened his eyes, but he still beheld it for what it was.
Passages carved in something that did not rot. The narrow tunnel expanded, and they stood there, the people who lived in Tombhome. Their clothes were long, concealing, their faces yet distant. Behind them rose buildings, places all carved out of the very substance that made the walls, the ceilings.
“Walk with me, Trey. It is no different than the Leviathan-Ships of Drowned Folk. They too live in ancient flesh.”
“It isn’t right. It isn’t…don’t make me come with you. Please.”
“Would you prefer to stay here?”
Faced with that—Trey couldn’t respond. The Quarass bent and the carpet vanished into her bag of holding.
“Come, Trey Atwood.”
They walked together, and he clung to the girl. Behind them walked Gazi, a shadow whose armored feet did not make any sound as she walked on the foreign ground. But the half-Gazer stood behind Trey, and he could continue forwards.
The tunnel was long to Trey, or they walked slowly, at first. The delegation never moved. Before they reached the watchers, Trey heard a sound.
It was a quiet, humming song. The young man nearly stopped and fled, but the sound came from behind him. Gazi was quietly murmuring something, to the tune of a song.
 
“I met a traveller walking on a journey.
We stopped where shadows met the sand,
He entered the tomb rotting and I held back
I saw him ever waving, but I never took his hand.”
 
The Quarass glanced back. And the two dozen people of A’ctelios Salash shifted as Gazi’s song reached them. Trey heard laughter, and it was blessedly normal. Almost merry. He heard someone raise his voice in reply.
 
“We met two folk who stopped on a lonesome path
One entered full of willing, the other did not stay,
A single soul found comfort in our ancient home
He is one of many, and the other slipped away.”
 
The two parties met. Trey saw two dozen people. Just people. Humans, like him.
It was such a shock. He had expected—well, he had expected abominations, twisted by the very thing that this city was built of. But here were people. Humans in every way. They wore long, leathery clothing, and the colors were all muted, all variations of dark red or browns or blacks, with purple hues or oranges—but never any colors like green or blue—and they looked…subterranean.
Not like the people of Ger, who wore freeing clothing. This was a pale group, who lived without sunlight. Not without light, for there was plenty of it in this place. Trey realized the whitish substance they’d walked on was responsible for the glow. Inside, the city of A’ctelios Salash was less bright, and mortal fire or magic lit things.
The leaders of the city greeted them. The first was a man. He bowed, touching his finger and thumb just below his pale brown eyes.
“Quarass, I greet you and rejoice at your coming. The Dragonslayer of Ger lives again!”
“She lives again.”
The other murmured. They too bowed, copying the greeting. The Quarass inclined her head.
“Baosar Yeothrix. You have changed little since my last visit. I greet the people of A’ctelios Salash once more. I live again, and together we stand.”
“Together we stand. The Shield Kingdoms shall not fall.”
The two stepped forwards. Baosar was in his forties, perhaps. He had little grey, and pale he might be, but he was fairly hearty. He was so—so normal. Right up until he smiled and Trey saw points on his teeth.
His hand clasped the Quarass’ as Trey froze. Baosar turned and bowed.
“And I see one who knows the old visitor’s song.”
“I did not know A’ctelios sang a different one. I am Gazi Pathseeker.”
Baosar’s gaze sharpened and those behind him murmured once, repeating a name. Reim. But the leader of the Carven City only offered a hand in greeting.
“We see the old choice differently, Lady Pathseeker. I greet you. Do you come on Reim’s business?”
Gazi did not take the proffered hand. She simply inclined her head, two of her four eyes on Baosar’s face.
“No. I escort the Quarass.”
“I see. And this one? A servant? Or a companion?”
He looked at Trey. And the young man shuddered because Baosar was so normal—but Trey could see the points of his teeth each time the man smiled. They were not like Gazi’s, which were her own, a carnivore’s designed mouth, but a Human’s teeth that had somehow shaped into points over time. It was unnatural.
“This child is a companion of mine. A servant for my purposes. He has never walked the Carven City, Baosar.”
The Quarass’ voice was cool. Trey found himself taking the man’s hand. They did not shake hands, but rather, squeeze, as the Quarass had told Trey. It was a familiar, warm grip. Trey let go as fast as possible and tried not to wipe his hand.
The leader of A’ctelios smiled.
“Ah, a stranger. He sees our home for what it is.”
“I—I greet you, Baosar of A’ctelios.”
Trey stammered. The man smiled. Then he turned to the Quarass.
“Are they all who come? What of your escort? Germina’s shadows?”
“Unneeded. Pathseeker is my guardian. You know Germina allies with Reim.”
Baosar angled his head. The people behind him were still. Trey felt eyes moving from him, to Gazi, to the Quarass.
“I have heard of its fall. But that is a matter to discuss. The Sapki of Qualvekkaras has arrived, as has the Keeper of Merreid. They await to discuss and meet. Shall we go, Quarass?”
“Yes.”
And that was that. Trey saw Baosar turn and gesture. The escort of the hooded, tall people fell in around them. Silently. Trey looked at Gazi, but she just nodded, and the Quarass walked beside Baosar.
They entered further into the rotting kingdom of A’ctelios Salash.
 
——
 
It was just a city. Trey tried to tell himself that. If you ignored the strange floor, the enclosed space, it was much like a city.
Walkways had been built inside the city. Homes lay in residential districts. There were shops—places to work, drink, eat—everything you would find in another city.
But the color was off. And the entire world of A’ctelios was enclosed. First, Trey walked through the eye. It was a gateway, vast, domed, as he had seen from afar. Within, it seemed even larger. But it was only the exterior of the Carven City.
“In times long past, we settled in the eyes. But A’ctelios is far vaster than it was in the past, Trey Atwood. Now, we have built into the head, and we dig deeper with each year. We are halfway through the torso, and the appendages will be next.”
As they walked, one of the escorts spoke to Trey. He was tall, like the rest of A’ctelios’ folk, and his eyes were also pale. He, too, had pointed teeth, but he was a young man, lively, fascinated by the visitors. His name was Athal and seemed amused and also used to Trey’s nervousness.
“There is nothing to fear! I know what you must think, but this city is like any other. See—we pass into the head. Witness the first layer of A’ctelios! For you, it is where business is done with outsiders, and where your beloved Quarass will meet the other Shield Kingdom representatives!”
He thrust out his hand as they passed below a large archway, through another tunnel. And Trey gasped.
“Reim isn’t this big!”
The city of A’ctelios made you forget that it was inside something, at first. It could have been night, but forever night, without stars. The city was set on multiple levels, and walkways and bridges made up the inner city.
Stone, too. It was almost a relief to see stone and wood mixed with the dark material. It was a further relief to see an incredibly vast trading area, and normal people.
That was to say, outsiders. Athal explained as he stopped with Trey for a moment; Gazi and the Quarass had halted to the side, on a balcony from which stairs led up and down. Athal pointed.
“See? This is the main part of A’ctelios. The head. Isn’t it magnificent? It would be a wonder of the world on any list! Many have called it such.”
“It’s so…huge.”
