The other girl’s cheeks reddened, but her scowl only deepened.

“And what are you looking to do, Senior Brother?” Ling Qi cut in. “I don’t believe you’re really holding back out of fear.”

Ruan Shen considered her. “Will I get an answer in turn if I tell you?”

“Yes,” Ling Qi agreed grudgingly

“Then, for my shy Junior Sis, I’ll give an answer,” he said lightly. “I don’t need something to blast or burn or overwhelm. I just have some conflicts I want to see settled and old wounds I want to see healed. Family isn’t always a happy thing.”

Ling Qi bowed her head at that. She wasn’t going to ask for more details, but she appreciated that even though they were not really close, he had answered. If Ruan Shen was willing to say that much, she could find words for the snarl in her own heart. A moment passed in silence as Sixiang helped her find the words.

“I’ve mostly been alone in life,” Ling Qi picked out. “Here, I’ve tried to work against that, but I default to doing things on my own.” Had she not meditated on the way that loneliness was a keystone of her mind and spirit, a central drive to everything she did? “But I don’t want to. I want to include other people without having to consciously remind myself of it all the time. At the same time, I can’t stop either.”

“You’ve got a bit of a problem there, but if I had to make a suggestion…” Ruan Shen reached across the table, tapping his finger against one of the scrolls. “This one might be a good place to start. Sometimes, you have to make sharp distinctions between parts of your life. Things you do, and things you are. Clan and family. Wants and needs. Allies, enemies, and friends, too, of course.”

Ling Qi took the scroll in her hands. Winter Hearth Resounding… An art with some lessons on boundaries. She had put it on her curated short list because of the duality in it, which she felt might help her better understand Zhengui’s own duality. The aid in parsing her techniques to exclude allies from their negative effects had also attracted her eye. It might be a useful contrast to Harmony of the Dancing Wind. Boundaries to contrast connections, huh? Maybe there was something to that.

“I guess I can give it a try.”
