The throne room had an actual throne. Ryoka stared at it while she waited for Rie and Durene and Prost to come back. It was carved, wooden, yes, but it was ornate. Someone had worked hard on it. An actual damn throne. She had forgotten, but Laken was an [Emperor]. And the people here believed it.
Charlay whistled as she trotted up to the throne and inspected it.
“Wow. An [Emperor]. I heard rumors, but I didn’t believe it! And you know this Human, Ryoka?”
“Sort of. It’s a long story.”
“Really? Well, tell it to me! This is all very interesting. Hey, do you think I’ll fit on this thing?”
Charlay looked at Ryoka as she turned around and backed up. Ryoka bit her tongue, trying not to laugh as the Centauress maneuvered her behind towards the throne.
“Don’t you dare. They’ll kill us. And you’ll never fit!”
“Hah! Watch me—”
That was how Rie, Prost, and Durene found the two. Ryoka trying to persuade Charlay to get off Laken’s throne. As first impressions went—well, she’d had hers with Prost and Durene already.
After a short explanation, Rie was on the same page. The [Lady] stared at Ryoka. They’d relocated to her home by now, and an embarrassed Charlay was being made to sit on the ground. She was so embarrassed at being caught she didn’t object for once.
“So. Emperor Godart’s help that Durene requested showed up in the form of a few low-grade potions. Which was mainly to prompt your arrival.”
She gestured at the small collection of bottles and vials on the table in front of her. Ryoka nodded.
“That’s right. I got a message asking me to come to Riverfarm because there was…trouble. Laken didn’t say, but he implied it.”
He’d actually used some pithy German amid the contents of the message. Ryoka wasn’t sure exactly what he’d said, but she recognized some of the words and had gotten the gist. He was worried, and he had sent her. Only, she hadn’t known what to expect, and the others certainly hadn’t expected her. Rie stared at Ryoka, drumming her painted nails on the table, heedless of the damage to them.
“He sent you.”
“Uh, yeah.”
Ryoka scratched her head. After the [Witches], she had to admit, she wasn’t much. Prost, on the other hand, seemed reassured. He spread his callused palms on the table.
“I think it was the right move.”
“You do?”
Durene blinked. She had been watching Ryoka from the start. Ryoka vaguely remembered her from her encounter in Invrisil. Only, she remembered a very protective Durene, who had seemed jealous of Ryoka even getting near Laken. This Durene was quieter. And she had a scar, a thick, deep one half-concealed by her sleeveless working tunic. But Prost, the [Steward] was decisive. He was certainly far different from the cold man grateful for food in his ruined village. He nodded to Durene and Rie.
“Miss Ryoka brought Riverfarm food when the village was starving for it. She ran through the winter, through one of the worst blizzards I’ve ever seen, to bring it here, and I’d trust her with any delivery.”
He looked at Ryoka, and she squirmed, embarrassed. Then she remembered. It had been Ivolethe and the other Frost Faeries who’d helped her on that run. Prost noted the way Ryoka sobered and nodded.
“Did His Majesty send you with anything else? Any messages, Miss Griffin?”
“No. Just a request to help. And I will if I can.”
“How, exactly? Are you some kind of [Steward] yourself? A manager of people? You’re a City Runner, yes? Not a Courier? No offense, Miss Griffin, but I cannot understand what His Majesty was thinking.”
Rie looked exasperated as she put one finger to her lips, staring at Ryoka. The young woman returned the gaze. Rie was striking. Ryoka had no idea how Laken had met her, but the woman’s careful makeup, her dress, and her bearing didn’t fit in Riverfarm. But she seemed to be all aboard Team Laken, so Ryoka weighed her response before replying carefully.
“I’m…an acquaintance of Laken’s. Personally.”
Durene knew that. But Prost and Rie exchanged a quick glance. Rie’s eyes widened a bit, and she sat forwards. Now, Ryoka felt the [Lady]’s attention fix on her like a spotlight.
“I see. From his nation? His, ah, homeland? In…Chandrar?”
The question was probing. Ryoka smiled at Durene and shook her head warningly.
“I’m an acquaintance of Laken’s. I helped him out once. And you’re one of his vassals?”
The woman pursed her lips.
“I am Lady Rie Valerund, yes. Last of the Valerund house. I owe His Majesty a great debt after he saved me from a Goblin attack on my mansion.”
Ryoka nodded amiably.
“In that case, I’ll let, uh, Emperor Laken explain it to you. If he thinks you should know. As for what I’ll be doing—I have no idea. But as I said, I’ll help however I can. If you’ll let me.”
She saw Rie’s affronted look at the shut-down response. Durene just smiled happily. Prost nodded.
“Of course. And you’re welcome to stay as long as you want. More than welcome. We’ll put you up in a house. We’re already arranging some for the [Witches]—”
“She can stay at my cottage. I have room. And I can sleep on the floor.”
Durene interjected quickly. Ryoka blinked at her. That was unusually friendly. Rie threw up her hands in disgust.
“Fine! By all means, let us include Miss Ryoka in our proceedings. I have to think the [Witches] matter more. Miss Ryoka, please share anything you have to offer.”
She sighed. Then she seemed to remember the Centauress sipping tea and munching on some bread and cheese. Rie stared at Charlay along with Prost and Durene.
“And who are you, Miss?”
The Centauress waved her hand.
“I’m Charlay, known as the Dustrider. City Runner, one of the best. Hi.”
“She’s following me. Uh—she’s not related to Laken.”
“I see.”
Rie had to sit back and massage her temples. She looked helplessly at Prost.
“We need to discuss the ramifications of these—[Witches]. And whether it’s really wise to let them stay unchecked until His Majesty returns? Let alone what Miss Griffin can offer…but Wiskeria is still absent. Talking with those—with her coven. Should we wait for her? I think it would be wise. But what does it all mean, Mister Prost? I can’t fathom it.”
“Me neither. But we’ll do that. For now, let’s just get folks settled. I’m going to go round talking with anyone who wants to know about Elmmet. Reassure them about the [Witches]. Durene, get Miss Ryoka and Miss Charlay settled in your cottage. We’ll meet tonight, if Wiskeria’s able. Tomorrow at earliest, if not.”
“Okay.”
Durene seemed relieved and nodded energetically. Ryoka admired Prost’s decisiveness. Rie was clearly overwhelmed, but the [Steward] was a former [Farmer]. He had a [Farmer]’s practicality. So she got up, followed Durene as Charlay grabbed some more bread and cheese—
 
—–
 
And now they were here. Durene gestured around the cottage, clearly embarrassed by the space. It wasn’t actually that cramped with three people in it; Durene had built it for herself, and she needed more room than most. Still, she was sleeping in the kitchen while Ryoka and Charlay occupied the actual bedroom. And there was a tent outside where Wiskeria was sleeping!
“So…what have you been doing since I last saw you? A lot’s happened.”
Durene sat on one of her kitchen chairs. Staring at Ryoka. The young woman sat up on the bed.
“A lot.”
“Right. A lot’s happened over here. Goblins and a war and…Laken’s gone. He’s coming back. With Goblin prisoners, but he was at Liscor.”
“I heard about that.”
Charlay, laying on the bed, swiveled her head from Ryoka to Durene. The young woman stared at Durene. She didn’t know her that well, and Durene clearly felt it. She looked—awkward.
“Um. Last time we met, I remember being a bit—”
“Don’t worry about it. I was pretty bad myself. A lot’s changed. Do you—want to talk about it?”
“Yes. Uh—why don’t we have a drink? I can make some tea. I have a kettle—move out of the way, Frostwing!”
She shooed the brilliantly blue bird, and Ryoka heard a screech. She stared at Frostwing. So did Charlay.
“That’s a big, blue bird.”
“Yup.”
Durene waved a hand airily.
“That’s Frostwing. You remember her, right, Ryoka?”
“I do. She was a lot…smaller back then. But I do remember her.”
Ryoka accepted a cup of hot, somewhat weak tea from Durene. She handed it to Charlay, took the second one, and sat down. Durene sat opposite her. There was a murmur of thanks, sipping, silence.
“So about what happened here. Well, we had Goblins—uh, do you know about the mountain raids? Well, what we had—”
“Oh, yeah! And I, uh, well, I was running a lot after I left Riverfarm. And, uh, I’m still running, basically. I work around Reizmelt. Ever heard of it? No? Well, they call me the, uh, Wind Runner—”
“I’m Charlay.”
The conversation started and stopped. One side talked, the other side listened. Ryoka heard Durene talk about Riverfarm and the battle and watched the half-Troll girl’s face. Durene did the same to her.
It was awkward. They really weren’t friends. And Ryoka, for all her best efforts, couldn’t figure out what to really say to Durene. By the time they were on their third cups of tea and feeling it, they had nothing more to say. Durene stared at Ryoka.
“So Laken sent you. And you really don’t have any plan? He didn’t tell you anything? Maybe there was a clue in what he wrote.”
Ryoka shook her head.
“I don’t think there was. At least—I looked for it, but I think he just wanted me to come here. I have no idea what to do. But it seems like I got here just in time.”
“Right. Well—I’m sure Rie and Mister Prost will want your help. And, uh, if you think of anything, let us know! Wiskeria’s going to tell us what her coven’s here for. Tomorrow. I haven’t seen her; she must be talking with them still. I’ll introduce her. She’s a [Witch] and the [General] of Riverfarm’s army, like I said.”
“Got it. I’ll do my best.”
That was it. Durene nodded, then excused herself to use her outhouse. Charlay and Ryoka exchanged a glance. The Centauress put her cup down.
“That was awkward.”
“Yup.”
Charlay peered at Ryoka and shook her head.
“You have no idea what you’re doing here, do you?”
“Nope.”
“Great. You Humans are so weird.”
The Centauress snorted. Ryoka couldn’t really argue that point at the moment. She lay back in her sleeping bag and stared up at the ceiling. What a mess. What could she do? Why was Charlay still here? Her mind was whirling. And then Charlay spoke up.
“…Hey, is that a bear in the window or is that just me?”
Ryoka glanced over and then recoiled in alarm. Bismarck stared at the two and paused in sticking his tongue towards a basket of food Durene had brought from the village. The two stared at the Mossbear in horror until Durene came back in. She eyed them, spotted Bismarck, and slapped the bear gently before pushing him out.
“Bismarck! That’s our food! Get back to your den! I already fed you! Sorry, that’s Bismarck, you two. He’s Laken’s other pet. Mossbear.”
Charlay and Ryoka gaped at each other. Silently, and in unison, they decided to go to bed. Ryoka rolled up and found that her sleeping bag really was the most comfortable thing in existence. She almost immediately began to drift off, but her mind was still racing.
[Witches], a [Lady], a [Farmer] turned into a [Steward]. A Troll-girl with a giant bear for a pet and a blue bird, and a village. A missing [Emperor].
Ryoka nodded to herself. Yup, that about summed it up. Welcome to Riverfarm. She lay back and closed her eyes. After a moment, she realized something else.
Charlay was a loud snorer. So was Durene.
 
 
Night 56 – Wiskeria
 
They didn’t gather in secret. The moons were not gibbous or full in any particularly significant combination. And nor was this a time of ritual, of significance. Well—[Witches] had died, but it was too far away for this coven to make use of their deaths. If they had even that inclination.
So it wasn’t a particularly notable gathering. Yet it was. Oh, it was. Wiskeria could feel it in the air as she stood in the simple home that had been afforded to Miss Califor and Nanette.
The first thing the [Witches] had done was actually secure lodgings. Prost had been willing to give them some of the newer houses without payment for the moment, and the [Witches] had moved into their lodgings, checked out the village, and settled themselves before proper conversation was had. It was just common sense.
Eloise and Hedag had their own house despite one being large enough for all seven in theory. Mavika and Alevica shared another, although Wiskeria was fairly certain Mavika would not be sleeping in the village.
And Belavierr? A house unto herself. Wiskeria wondered if her mother would make much use of it either. She did sleep. But Wiskeria had known her all her life. And Belavierr made Mavika look mundane.
Covens drew power from many things. The cycles of the moon. Significance. And yes, death. It should not have been a powerful gathering. But the six [Witches] in the room besides Wiskeria positively reeked of power. (Nanette was already in bed since it was late.)
They had gathered close to midnight. Wiskeria could feel the hum of magic in the air. And—purpose. Each [Witch] was powerful and famous in her way such that Wiskeria knew them even if she’d never met most personally. Only Nanette and Alevica didn’t fit; Wiskeria knew Alevica’s master, the Witch Oliyaya, though.
So what was the purpose of this meeting? What did they do? They sat at Califor’s table and sipped Eloise’s tea. There were also biscuits, as freshly baked as one wanted. The sight of Mavika perching on a chair, nibbling a biscuit, was only matched by Alevica sitting with a cup of tea and biscuit in hand, trying to look pleasant. It was funny—until you remembered what they could do. Wiskeria didn’t smile.
She had been weeping. It felt appropriate this time, and she had not had to try for the tears.
[Witches] were dead. Ones she’d known and liked, friends, were dead.
Wiskeria had held Tillica’s hat. The motherly [Witch] who had welcomed Wiskeria to Izril was dead, like the others Wiskeria had shared friendships and conversations with over eight years.
Dead, just like that, but for Mavika. Wiskeria might have mourned as long as she felt was needed, but she could not take the time to weep now. Vengeance could not wait. And she had to know why the others were here.
 
——
 
What did the other [Witches] see when they regarded Wiskeria around the table? They were all present, save for two. Nanette was sleeping upstairs. Belavierr was not present.
She had not been invited. She was still, technically, banished, though how long she would allow it was uncertain.
