“Three thousand, three hundred, and twelve. The war lasted thirty-four years.”
Then there was silence. Belavierr could be vague. But sometimes you asked and wished she didn’t answer. Eloise murmured, counting.
“A war between north and south. It must have been—the Ironbreaker conflict? Zelkyr’s War? Or before it—the Gloaning Foothills invasion? No, that was when Terandria invaded. Too early.”
She gave Califor a curious stare; Eloise had known Califor for as long as Mavika. But she hadn’t seen Califor in, oh…years upon years. Maybe over a decade.
Califor had never had an apprentice until now. Famously so. Nanette was an exception to Califor’s rule; the other [Witch] kept her face impassive, and Eloise went on.
“We may research which war Witch Belavierr mentioned later. It only matters that the Circle of Thorns may endanger [Witches] again. It matters that we not die from any hands. We are fewer than we were in the past. And our magic is weaker.”
“The old ways pass.”
Hedag murmured. She sighed, and the coven sighed too. Wiskeria was familiar with this as well. She saw Alevica rolling her eyes. Mavika noticed that.
“You have something to say, Witch Alevica?”
“Not me, Mavika. Certainly not about the old ways passing, less rituals, or spells being harder to perform. I’m all for dancing around a pot and making a brew.”
Alevica’s impudent tone made Califor scowl and Eloise sigh. Hedag laughed loud enough to wake Nanette. Mavika just stared until Alevica stopped grinning.
“Our magic fades. The Gnolls call this the Waning World. Do you seek to make light of it, Alevica? In times past, [Witches] summoned beings far greater than your skeletons to make good or ill. Our covens stretched from north to south, but those times do not last. Now, [Witches] may breathe our last. Do you make light of it, Witch Alevica?”
Mavika snapped, and in her room, Wiskeria heard Nanette gasp and hide behind the door she was peeking out of. The air around the coven constricted, and Wiskeria felt the air leave her lungs. It was suddenly stifling. Choking—as if feathers were crammed down her throat!
Alevica felt it too. The [Witch] raised a hand—and then glared at Mavika. She didn’t back down, and furious sparks raced down her arms, crackling towards Mavika. In her room, Nanette choked like Wiskeria.
The other [Witches] at the table reacted to the fight in the same moments. Hedag leaned back, grimacing. She just breathed, in, out, in, out, slowly. Eloise did likewise, grimacing, but doing so with far less effort.
Belavierr didn’t even seem to notice. She was staring at Wiskeria. Only when she noticed her daughter’s expression did she glance sideways. Then her fingers twisted. She grasped something, and a bit of thread—Wiskeria felt the pressure on her disappear at once.
And Califor? She was glaring between Alevica and Mavika, put out by the quarrel. Until she glanced up and heard her apprentice choking in her bedroom. Then she stood. She raised her hand and slapped it down on the table.
“Enough.”
The room shook. The gathering power slammed Alevica back against the wall she was leaning against, and Mavika rocked backwards in her chair. At once, the air resumed its normal quality. The two [Witches] stared at Califor. Alevica had a nosebleed from her left nostril. Mavika recoiled and was about to hiss—when she saw Califor staring at her.
There were snapped feathers scattered across the table; Califor swept them onto the floor. Voice milder now, she spoke towards a little shadow shivering at the top of the stairs, breathing in and out frantically.
“Enough. Nanette, go back to sleep.”
Nanette squeaked and fled to her bed at once. Califor whispered and flicked fingers across her eyes. Instantly, she felt her mouth force a yawn out; her target, Nanette, would feel the effects just as strongly, if not more so.
Then Califor fixed on Alevica and Mavika.
“Witch Mavika. You are overzealous in chastising Witch Alevica. She is young, but an equal part of this coven as Oliyaya’s representative and apprentice. Witch Alevica, you were warned. I lead this coven, for now, and I will not gainsay either of your crafts. Mine, however, is to peace and my apprentice’s wellbeing. Conduct your magic elsewhere or I will hold you to account.”
Silently, the two considered Califor and bowed their heads. Eloise put down her cup and nodded.
“I think we are done for now. It is enough that we’ve gathered. And we are not decided yet. We must see if Riverfarm suits us. I suggest we all practice our crafts as we may, take in the strength of this demesne. I sense this [Emperor]’s power. Especially in those totems I passed. But whether it is for [Witches] or not remains to be seen. But we shall discuss it later. For now, let us sleep. Unless anyone objects?”
 
——
 
After the brief altercation between Alevica and Mavika, the coven didn’t object to a break.
Wiskeria exhaled slowly, relieved, as the [Witches] stood.
So this was her first real coven, eh? It had all the drama and issues she’d expected of one. For a second she’d thought Alevica would try to fight Mavika—which would have been a mistake. Eloise was the voice of reason they needed in times like this. Every coven had to have someone like that or risk fights and feuds. Mavika, though—Mavika was old. If Alevica had drawn blood, it would have gotten ugly fast. And it had been a minor squabble; Mavika was capable of much more.
Then again, Alevica did seem strong for her age. Strong enough to fly, which few [Witches] could do. And Califor? Wiskeria kept eying Califor as she rose and helped Eloise pack up her cups.
She’d dispelled Mavika’s craft in a single move! True, it was in her house, but even so—Wiskeria’s mother herself had glanced at Califor when she did that.
At any rate, the coven quickly headed to bed. Hedag sighed as she stood, the first to leave. She reached out and held Wiskeria’s shoulder.
“We do bother you, Wiskeria. I apologize for that, but I hope you let us practice our craft on your land.”
The others paused and looked at her. Wiskeria shrugged uncomfortably.
“Of course. So long as you obey Prost’s rules.”
The others nodded, to lesser or greater satisfaction. They walked out one by one. Califor went to check on Nanette, and Wiskeria realized they were leaving her alone with Belavierr. The others in the coven had to know of their relationship, even if some, like Hedag and Eloise, Wiskeria had never met before. But they would know Belavierr and thus Wiskeria. However [Witches], being who they were, wouldn’t meddle. This wasn’t something for a coven. It was…personal.
The two sat alone for a while after the others had left. Wiskeria knew Califor wasn’t listening—but she was probably expecting to sleep sometime tonight. Which meant Wiskeria had to be the first to talk. Belavierr might sit for hours without speaking, just watching Wiskeria over the table. But to her surprise, as she was trying to break the silence, Belavierr spoke.
“Daughter.”
“Mother.”
The two stared at each other. Belavierr nodded.
“…You appear to be well.”
Wiskeria sighed. That was her mother.
“I am well. Why are you here, Mother?”
“Sanctuary. I have told you.”
“I know. But why are you…here, Mother? You could hide in a thousand places. You came for sanctuary and me. I told you I didn’t want to talk to you again.”
Belavierr paused. She looked at Wiskeria, unblinking.
“I care for [Witches]. And for your fate.”
Wiskeria just folded her arms in disgust. She knew Belavierr remembered their last conversation. Her mother paused again.
“You have continued practicing your craft? You should learn while the coven remains here. I could teach you.”
Her daughter’s brow wrinkled in disgust.
“Teach—! Teach me what, exactly? How to become like you? Should I go off and find a Djinni to devour their heart over an altar with a hundred thousand people watching? You don’t practice magic like I do, Mother. Mountains don’t teach gnats magic. And I don’t want to be like you.”
Silence. Belavierr looked Wiskeria up and down. Wiskeria flushed, and Belavierr lifted a finger.
“You are a [Witch] now. But you have no craft. No true passion that defines you. Even the child upstairs has one.”
Another flush. It was true, but Wiskeria snapped back.
“Well, I have you to thank for that. You made me the [Witch] I am.”
So saying, Wiskeria tipped her hat and gave Belavierr her most insulting smile. She hoped it would produce something, but the cutting words didn’t seem to affect her mother in the slightest. They never did. Belavierr frowned.
“I would like you to be a better [Witch]. You still have much to learn. If not from Mavika then…the others.”
“Califor, you mean. The Witch Califor.”
Wiskeria cast a glance upstairs. Belavierr paused.
“Yes.”
“You don’t know who she is.”
“Should I?”
“I’ll bet you every other [Witch] alive knows her name.”
“I am not every other [Witch] alive.”
Belavierr’s tone was so…matter-of-fact. Wiskeria hated it. She’d used to love the way Belavierr spoke in truths and words that made the rest of the world seem too fast, too inconsistent. Yet now, she disliked that slow, almost monotonous tone.
“You’re not even really here, are you? You’re still wrapped up in all your protections.”
At this, Belavierr grimaced. Which did alarm, even frighten Wiskeria. Grimace? By the time Wiskeria had left, Belavierr hadn’t even remembered how to smile.
“They are…destroyed. Burnt and torn and eaten, Daughter.”
Wiskeria sat back down slowly.
“Wait, really? All of them?”
“…Most.”
“You really lost everything?”
Belavierr stared at her black cup, which had the symbols of the Kingdom of Nerrhavia’s Fallen on it. No…wait…it was older than that, probably, a diplomatic incident if anyone knew what they meant. She oozed power; Wiskeria was older now and sensed it from Belavierr, but for all that, she had never been frailer before Wiskeria.
“I was wounded greatly, Daughter. Plans unmade. I have declared one woman my foe. And another pursues me, deathsworn to end my life.”
Wiskeria wondered who was mad enough to have angered her mother. She wavered, trying to smile victoriously, but she only managed the words.
“Well, you deserve the second part of it.”
“Perhaps.”
Wiskeria scowled and dropped the subject for now. It was late, she was tired, and while she had been told she could be annoyingly calm and level—she got only a fraction of that from her mother. She changed subjects, trying to get a rise out of Belavierr.
“I’m a [General] now. What do you think of that?”
“You are a [Witch].”
That was that. The two sat in silence, one glaring, the other just staring. Wiskeria balled her hands into fists.
“I’m warning you, Mother. The coven can stay. That’s fine. I know what they’re like. And I suppose since all [Witches] might die on this continent, you can stay too. But this is my land. Don’t do—anything in this village. I like it here. Don’t be—can you not—”
She trailed off, frustrated. And Belavierr just shook her head. As Wiskeria knew she would.
“I am what I am, Daughter. I cannot change that.”
Wiskeria knew that too. Bitterly, the daughter stared at the mother. And the mother paused, rolled her eyes upwards. At last, she seemed to recall something.
“Do you want anything? Three years have passed since we last met. Do you have a wish? I will grant it if it is within my power.”
“Nothing from you, Mother. Nothing from you.”
And that was it. Belavierr nodded and stood up.
“Then I bid you good night, Witch Wiskeria. I ask you speak well of us to this [Emperor], for we bear the fate of all [Witches] on Izril.”
She tipped her hat and walked out of the house. Wiskeria stayed a moment longer. She was grateful that Miss Califor tactfully remained in Nanette’s room so Wiskeria could wipe away her tears.
 
 
Day 57 – Durene
 
“They’re the best [Witches] on the continent. Maybe the world.”
That was how Wiskeria explained it. She sat in Lady Rie’s house with Prost, Ryoka, Charlay, Rie, and Durene. Technically, Charlay didn’t have to be here, but the Centauress seemed delighted to be included in the conversation.
As Wiskeria stood in front of the table, she looked from Prost to Rie to Durene to Ryoka. Her eyes lingered on the City Runner longest, but she had accepted the explanation about Ryoka very quickly. It was probably the least of the surprises she had experienced of late.
There was a moment of silence as everyone digested Wiskeria’s statement. Then Prost carefully raised a hand.
“By best, Wiskeria, do you mean…”
“I mean they are the best, the highest-leveled, the most dangerous, or just the best, Mister Prost. Each one is a legend. They’re all legends. Except Nanette. She’s Miss Califor’s student, which means she’ll probably be the next Califor. So a legend-in-training since that’s never happened that I can remember. Alevica’s more like a short story as well, I suppose. But her mentor, Witch Oliyaya, fits in with the others.”
Wiskeria sighed as she adjusted her hat. Durene stared at her. The best? The highest-leveled in their class? It was hard to believe. Durene had met…well, she’d heard of some high-level [Farmers], but they were only good locally. The best in the world?
“And they came because of this Circle of Thorns. Because of the…threat to [Witches].”
Rie’s eyes fixed on Wiskeria. The [Witch] nodded, fiddling with her spectacles.
“Among other things. But it’s the pact with Laken that concerns them. They think he has potential. I think they’re united in that, although they might want other things. I’m sure Mavika does. She might want…well, she wants something other than what Califor wants, I’m certain of that.”
That made no sense to Durene, and she was opening her mouth to say so. But then Ryoka leaned in. The young woman had strange skin and features, and she was quite tall—well, for a woman. Durene towered over her still, but she envied Ryoka’s grace. She’d envied a lot of things about her when they first met, come to that. Like her connection with Laken.
They came from another world. Laken had told her. But he had confessed that he didn’t know Ryoka herself that well. Still, she had come when he asked. So Durene listened as Wiskeria turned to face Ryoka.
“Witch Wiskeria, right?”
“You can call me Wiskeria. Witch Wiskeria is only for formality. You should address Califor and Mavika like that. The rest won’t care as much.”
Ryoka nodded, and Durene saw her processing that as her eyes flickered. She looked at Wiskeria thoughtfully.
“Can you explain what [Witches] are in general, Wiskeria? As well as what each of the [Witches] in your coven does? I think that would help us all.”
