“You see? We’re all combining our Skills on the other side. The [Farmers], I mean. We’re growing as fast as we can since there are so many people to feed; we’ve harvested three times already from some parts! And Prost wants this to be twice as big when we’re done! We’re going to grow potatoes, corn, carrots—all kinds of stuff!”
“That’s incredible.”
Ryoka stared across the farmland. It was a substantial amount of work, and that would be if Riverfarm’s folk had access to tractors and combine harvesters! But they’d done this themselves. She saw dozens, no, over a hundred men and women working the fields and more in the distance, clearing land for use. Durene nodded proudly.
“It’s great. The only trouble is pests.”
“Pests? What’s this about pests?”
Charlay was back. She excitedly waved the two over to a small bridge someone had built over part of the river. Ryoka had to pause to admire it too; it wasn’t much more than a sloping bridge, but the fact that someone had engineered it—complete with a keystone construction, only with wood blocks—told her that there was some serious talent here. The fields and new houses—Ryoka decided that Riverfarm might be poor, but perhaps not for long. Durene strode over to the other side and pointed at some wheat already ready to harvest.
“It’s rats. And birds. And other animals. It happens with most fields, but even scarecrows don’t keep them away with this much food. We have night patrols, but without Laken, it’s hard to handle stuff like rats.”
“Why’s that?”
“Well, because we keep growing stuff. And the rats make these burrows and only come out at night mostly—Laken could find them the instant they arrived, but we have to keep searching!”
Durene pounded a fist into her hand, looking frustrated. It was a [Farmer]’s dilemma. Ryoka nodded absently. Charlay did too.
“That sounds awful. I hate rats. But this wheat looks nice. Let me try some! And there’s a lot of lovely grass around here!”
So saying, she reached down and plucked a stalk of wheat and began to nibble at it. Ryoka and Durene stared at Charlay. Ryoka frowned.
“Do you eat grass, Charlay?”
The Centauress jumped and blushed.
“No! I mean, not unless I’m really hungry. Grass is too hard, let alone hay. There’s some nice grasses that you can get in Baleros, though. Very soft. Why? Hey! Are you being racist again?”
“Not me. But why don’t you stop eating the wheat? That’s Riverfarm’s food.”
“Aw, but it tastes good. And it’s one stalk. You’ve got tons, right, Durene?”
The Centauress grabbed another. Durene hesitated. But someone else ran up, shouting in outrage.
“Hey! That’s our crop! Begone, you—uh—”
Mister Ram paused as he stared at Charlay. She pranced away, looking offended.
“I just wanted a bit. You’ve got tons!”
“That’s our crop! And we’ve having enough trouble keeping birds and rodents away as it is. Not to mention the damned bugs! Durene, we’ve got grasshoppers now. Northeastern fields. Can you believe it?”
Durene groaned. Ryoka made a face. Bugs, rodents, and birds. She didn’t envy Riverfarm’s [Farmers] their job. The half-Troll girl grimaced.
“We have to get rid of them fast! Otherwise they’ll eat half the fields! Let me lend a hand, and I’ll tell Prost we need everyone to get over and help get rid of them. Ryoka, is there some way we can get rid of grasshoppers quick?”
She looked expectantly at Ryoka. The City Runner froze. Ram blinked, then swung around to her.
“What? Me? I have no idea. Unless—a pesticide? Water and soap, maybe? I really don’t know.”
Ryoka backed up a bit. She had a lot of useless knowledge like how to make a bomb (purely for anarchistic reasons of a rebellious child), but she’d never looked into stuff like pesticides. But she could try. Maybe this was what Laken meant. Durene brightened at the word.
“Pesti-what? You mean, like an [Alchemist] draught? I heard some sell stuff to [Farmers].”
“That’s right! Are you an [Alchemist], Miss? No. Wait. You’re that City Runner people were talking about, right? Well, maybe we can send for some potions! But the cost—”
Ram looked excited and then worried. Ryoka bit her lip, thinking hard. She could experiment, but she didn’t actually know if soap and water would kill most insects. It probably didn’t have much staying power. And rats? Birds? She was hesitating, wishing she hadn’t blurted that out without time to think, when there was a sound.
Flapping. The skies darkened, and Ryoka heard a cawing of dozens, no, hundreds of birds. Ram looked up and swore.
“Fecking wormrot. What is that?”
That was a murder of crows. And Mavika. She walked across the river towards the fields as the [Farmers] put down their tools and turned. Above her head swirled a mass of crows, driving off the other birds in the area, their voices shrill. Silently, the [Witch] approached Ram, Durene, and Ryoka. Charlay had decided she wanted to inspect the corn.
“Farmer, farmers, gather around and give me your ears. For I have a bargain for all to hear.”
It sounded like a spell, but from Mavika’s mouth and by the smile on her lips, it was mockery. Ram glared as more [Farmers] approached, looking wary and holding hoes or scythes not quite as weapons. Ryoka, for her part, had seen Birds by Alfred Hitchcock and had decided that if things went south, she was going to jump in the water and hold her breath.
“What do you want? Mister Prost told you not to interfere with us, didn’t he? If those things land in our fields and try to eat our produce, he’ll sort you out!”
Ram shook a fist at Mavika. The [Witch] regarded him with black eyes, then turned. Prost was striding towards them at speed.
“What’s this about? Witch Mavika?”
“I’ve come to offer my craft. And strike a deal. That was the terms you gave, [Steward] of this land. I’ve yet to make my offer. Refuse it or let it stand. But my offer must be made before it can be rejected. Or is it offense you want to give?”
The [Witch] peered around, her eyes flicking from face to face. Ryoka saw her smile with yellowed teeth as the crows jeered. But—she didn’t shudder with revulsion as many of the other people did. She looked at Durene. And then at Mavika. What Ryoka felt was…a memory.
She looked at Mavika and saw pride. Pride and contempt. She was daring Prost and the [Farmers]. Expecting them to react with insults. She reminded Ryoka of the fae. And Ryoka, looking at Prost, saw the man was about to snap back. That would be a mistake, because Mavika was the kind of person who didn’t deescalate in front of threats.
So Ryoka stepped in front of Prost. She caught his eye, and he paused. Silently, Ryoka met his gaze. Then she turned to Mavika and bowed. The [Witch] hadn’t expected that. Nor did she expect the smile Ryoka gave her. The City Runner answered her, pitching her voice to be heard by the [Farmers] and crows alike.
“Witch Mavika, I’ll speak for the [Farmers] and those gathered here. You’ve come to offer a deal fairly, and for that, we’ll hear you out. We can’t promise a deal will be struck. But a bargain made in faith should be answered with faith. What does the Marshland’s [Witch] offer Riverfarm?”
It wasn’t as poetic as Ryoka would have liked. But it was simple and to the point. And as she said it, Ryoka bowed slightly again. She looked up and saw Mavika regarding her. The [Witch] seemed to be looking for sarcasm or mockery in Ryoka’s voice or posture. But there was none. Somewhat mollified, she beckoned.
The murder of crows came down and landed. In the wheat, on the ground—hundreds of birds. The [Farmers] backed up uneasily, but the birds just stood there, flapping a wing, opening their beaks, but silent. And they all looked at Ryoka and Prost. The City Runner wavered. Okay. That was more creepy than she would have liked. But Mavika grinned then.
“Respect for a [Witch] is rare indeed. So I will make my offer plain and fair, City Runner. Give my flock a field of food. A hundred paces by a hundred paces from there to there. Of your best corn, freshly grown. And for one week, my crows will call Riverfarm their home.”
She pointed to a patch of corn with the ripest and biggest corn, almost as nice as Farmer Lupp’s crop. Ryoka looked around as the [Farmers] began to protest. Ram looked outraged.
“Give our corn? But that’s our best crop! And for what—”
“Ram. Shut up.”
Prost elbowed the man. Ryoka looked at Mavika. She was grinning again.
“By ‘call it their home’, what do you mean, Witch Mavika? It sounds like the [Farmers] would be giving away their food for nothing.”
The [Witch]’s eyes glinted.
“Not for nothing, wind’s child. For not a single blade or seed will my flock eat. And instead this bargain shall they meet: every rodent buried in your fields they’ll kill, and no bird shall feast from your fields at will. My flock will devour the insects who plague your fields. For but a portion of your yields.”
She really liked to rhyme. But everyone who heard her understood what she meant. Ram looked up.
“Both birds and rodents? The damn grasshoppers too?”
“If she could do that—but for our fresh corn? How do we know the crows won’t eat more?”
A female [Farmer] protested. Ryoka saw Mavika’s glare and turned hurriedly.
“Mister Prost, I don’t think Mavika would allow her crows to eat more than what was offered. They’ll probably have enough with all the pests. That’s the deal she offered; I don’t know how fair it is.”
“A hundred paces by a hundred paces. And that’s good corn. Enough to feed a lot of mouths. Or one flock. We need to think about it. Give us a second?”
Prost grimaced as he considered it. He stepped back as Ryoka nodded, and Ram and a few senior [Farmers] huddled around him. Ryoka watched as they discussed, clearly doing a [Farmer]’s calculations and glancing at Mavika. Wondering if they could trust her, no doubt.
Ryoka didn’t worry about that. Rather, she kept her eyes on Mavika because she didn’t really want to turn her back on all those staring crows. Or the [Witch] herself. Mavika seemed content to wait with all eyes on her. She had the kind of poise Ryoka dreamed of. After a second or two of desperate smiling, Ryoka cleared her throat. Several crows near her flapped their wings.
“Um. I’m—Ryoka. Ryoka Griffin, Witch Mavika. I’m honored to meet—”
“I know who you are, wind’s child. Belavierr pointed you out to me.”
“She did? I mean—did she say—I’m delighted to—”
Mavika cut Ryoka off.
“It matters not. I am not here to be friends with you, wind’s child. Nor these [Farmers]. Look for Eloise if you seek that. Only seek me if you have something to offer and something to take. Now step aside. Now I will see if the path that brought me here was one that was worth the effort to take.”
She gestured, and Ryoka saw Prost approaching her with Ram and two [Farmers] at his back. The [Steward] looked determined.
“Witch Mavika. If you agree your flock will take not one plant more than that section there—we’ll agree to your terms. One week of keeping our fields clear. Is it agreed?”
“You swear to leave my flock safe in the skies? No [Hunter] will shoot arrows at them or traps bring them down? If one crow dies, I claim the forfeit of our deal and three times as many fields our prize.”
Mavika pointed at her flock. There was another mutter, but Prost silenced it with a look.
“Spread the word. You know it’s a good deal. We have an infestation in our fields. How much wheat and crops do you think we’d lose? I say it’s a deal, Witch Mavika. Do we shake on it or sign—?”
He jumped backwards as the murder of crows took off into the sky. Mavika threw back her head and laughed.
“A word is good enough until broken! Let my flock work, Steward Prost! And you, wind’s child, play no games with the wind! Now, crows of Mavika’s flock, fly!”
And they did. The crows took wing, cawing, and dove into the fields. Ryoka saw the [Farmers] exclaim in horror as they aimed straight at one wheat field, but the crows weren’t aiming at the wheat. True to Mavika’s claim, they avoided the plants and began tearing at the ground, at tiny shapes. Ryoka saw a flurry of movement and saw hundreds of grasshoppers shoot up, fleeing the crows. But the birds were already after them, landing, tearing up the soil to eat the bugs as they hid.
“Dead gods!”
Durene exclaimed as she and the other [Farmers] watched the crows flying about. They were efficient! And coordinated; the bugs fled at random, but the crows boxed them in. That was only a portion of the flock. Some took to the air, circling, jeering at other birds. Some landed on the corn they’d been given, pecking already and fighting with their brethren. But the last group circled around Mavika. She had walked into one field of potatoes and was studying it.
“You say there are rodents in the ground? Rats and moles and mice or larger things?”
Her voice was almost conversational, now. Businesslike, as she talked to Prost. He nodded, and Ram hurried over.
“In this field and a few more. At least, we think it’s them. We’ve raked the spots and brought in dogs, but they keep coming—”
He paused as a bird landed and cawed at Mavika. The [Witch] seemed to listen to it and nodded.
“Yes. Rats.”
“Can you find them? We could turn up the fields if your crows work like terriers. Even our dogs are stymied by so many fresh burrows…”
Prost’s question was answered by a shake of Mavika’s head. She smiled again and pointed up.
“My flock have the [Eyes of Many]. They will find whatever hides. But keep back and let them work. It will not be long; they have hunted far larger than rats in times far past. Hunts of vermin storied in song.”
Sure enough, no sooner had she spoken then the group of crows circling overhead was broken up by another bird. Ryoka squinted up and saw a different black shape among the crows. A solitary raven, far larger than the rest. The crows made way warily as the raven landed on a patch of dirt. And then shrieked. Ryoka whispered.
“Nevermore.”
“What was that?”
Mavika looked around. Ryoka coughed.
“Nothing. Sorry.”
The raven was digging at the dirt with its claws. It was large, even for a raven. And its efforts were rewarded in less than a minute. There was a flurry, and then something burst from the ground. A huge rat, nearly four feet long, erupted from the ground. The [Farmers] roared, and the raven took off as the rat lunged at it.
“Dead gods, it’s Colony Rats! That’s a mother if I saw one! We’ve got to kill it—”
