“Mister Delgriff has reclaimed his pants, and perhaps they shall never come off in our presence again. One may only hope. But we shall ever remember you without, Mister Delgriff, no matter how long and how many times you come to us with pants on. So. My hat stays on. Because I am a [Witch]. And I do not change. You may love me or hate me, but you must remember: a [Witch] I remain.”
Her words this time left only a thoughtful silence. After a bit, when Lady Rie had regretfully excused herself, she looked at Geram. The [Fistfighter] was brushing crumbs off his front. Rie looked back at Eloise, who was letting a new circle of people come to sit with her. Those leaving seemed invigorated, and many were holding tea packets they’d purchased from her. Lady Rie smiled.
“I believe I love that old lady, Geram.”
“She reminds me of the grandmother I never had, Lady Valerund.”
The man wistfully agreed. Rie sighed and shook her head.
“What was she saying about Rehanna, though? That dreadful woman?”
“She lost her husband during the battle for Lancrel.”
Geram reminded his mistress. Lady Rie paused, and a moment of guilt flashed across her face.
“Oh yes. I had forgotten. Even so…well, she is allowed her grief, but not spitefulness.”
Geram nodded, but he glanced back at the tea circle.
“There might be more. The [Witch]—Miss Eloise—was asking about Rehanna before you sat with them. Some of the people there looked fairly serious when they replied. Should I ask what was said?”
Lady Rie hesitated.
“No. I don’t think it matters. For now. Tell me. I’ve accounted for Eloise, Califor, Nanette…the Witch Runner, I forget her name already—Alevica, yes—Mavika, Hedag. But where is the one called…Belavierr?”
Geram paused. He looked around with a frown.
“I…haven’t seen her.”
“You normally keep an eye on everyone you consider dangerous.”
“I do. And I don’t remember seeing her this morning.”
“Is she still abed?”
Lady Rie glanced around. She saw Rehanna standing apart from the tea circle, looking on with a mixture of jealousy and anger. And Eloise, clearly beckoning her. Rie smoothed her skirts and then walked back to Eloise.
“Miss Eloise. May I ask if you know where your…fellow [Witch], Belavierr, is? Is she still resting at this hour?”
The table went quiet. The name of the seventh [Witch] could do that, even at Eloise’s merry gathering. And the [Witch] sitting there tugged on her hat, and her smile flickered.
“No. But I don’t believe you’d find her easily, Lady Rie. With that said, I wish you hadn’t spoken her name.”
“I beg your pardon. Is there a quarrel between the two of you? She is a member of your coven, isn’t she?”
Fascinated, Rie prodded carefully. Eloise’s look told her plainly that the [Witch] knew what she was doing. With a sigh, Eloise shook her head and stood up.
“No. But there is a philosophical difference between she and I. To put it plainly, if Belavierr stands on one side, I stand on the other. We respect each other, but we do not get along.”
“Because she’s a bad witch?”
Someone suggested that from the back of the circle. Eloise turned, and the laughter faded uneasily. The [Witch] looked around and nodded.
“Yes. And no. She offers trinkets, charms, and she can be very good. Helpful, even. If she sells her trinkets, I would advise you to buy them no matter the cost. But if she seeks you out, I would not take any deal she offers you. And I fear, Miss Rie, that she is seeking to practice her craft today.”
She walked past the circle of people sitting around her table. Rie followed her.
“And how do you know that, Miss Eloise?”
“Because I know what she looks for. Which is why I am here, Lady Rie Valerund. Just like how Hedag sits with the children and worried wives. We know who seeks us. And I am seeking the same person Belavierr looks for. Will you convince her to sit with me?”
The [Witch] pointed ahead. Lady Rie saw the woman she was indicating.
“Rehanna? Why her?”
The woman was sitting by herself now, on the ground. Her hand was healed, but she was holding it as if it were still burned. And her face was bitter, angry—and miserable. She sat alone, and neither Riverfarm’s folk nor Lancrel’s people were with her. She was a villager, but she had scorned Wiskeria’s gift, and she wasn’t one of the city dwellers who joined together to sneer at what made Riverfarm’s people so enduring. Eloise looked at Rehanna.
“I asked, and she was one woman of many Belavierr would look for. But, I think, she would be the first Belavierr sought. Her grief is fresh. And she is lacking friends. I realize she is not pleasant, Lady Rie. But she has a reason to her grief.”
Rie frowned. There was a puzzle here, and her mind realized she was missing something.
“You don’t mean her husband. She was recently bereaved—”
“Half. That is half the reason. Do you know why she came to Riverfarm with her husband, Miss Rie?”
“She…was fleeing the Goblins. I think she was part of Mister Helm’s village. Windrest.”
“Yes. She had a husband there. A home. And a child.”
“Oh. I didn’t know.”
Rie stared at Rehanna. So she’d had a child before she fled. Which meant the Goblins had killed her. Him. Was it a baby? A miscarriage? Or a young child?
It changed nothing, surely. Rehanna was still the woman who’d kicked over Wiskeria’s pot and who had tried to overturn Laken’s authority. But knowing that one fact changed a lot. It made her look like a different woman, sitting there. Rie looked at Eloise, ashamed. And the [Witch] nodded. She adjusted her hat.
“Kindness asks questions, Lady Rie Valerund. And it is kindness I seek to spread. That is my craft, my reason for existing, and my root of magic. It is not Belavierr’s. So hope that I succeed. I have not faced a challenge like this since I was young. Or perhaps since it is her…ever.”
Eloise strode forwards towards Rehanna. Rie watched, uncomprehending, but now she felt it. On the very edges of her senses. Not the senses she had as a [Lady], but something more primal. A tickling on the back of her neck. A little tapping at her mind telling her to look.
She turned around slowly. For a second, she didn’t see Belavierr. But the [Witch]’s presence had silenced the merry tea party on the street. Every head turned until they were all looking in the same direction.
Then you saw her. Standing in the shadow of two houses, tall and still as a statue. Her wide hat was raised, her glowing eyes staring. Across the street, Eloise looked up as Rehanna spat at her. She bent down and offered the woman a hand. Rehanna slapped it away. And Belavierr began to walk.
“This way, children.”
Hedag’s voice was the sole sound on the street. The children who had been playing moved at her voice and ran sideways as she walked out of Belavierr’s path. They hid behind Hedag, whose smile reflected the sun. But Belavierr’s presence was a shadow. She kept moving, and Rie realized her path was as straight as an arrow towards Rehanna. And her eyes were fixed on the woman.
“Miss Rehanna, sit with me.”
Eloise’s voice was patient, but strained ever-so-slightly with urgency. Rehanna spat at her.
“I don’t want your tea or biscuits. [Witch]! [Witch]! And I’m not afraid of her either!”
She pointed a trembling finger at Belavierr. She really wasn’t afraid, Rie realized. Astounding as that was, she looked at Belavierr with only anger. The [Witch] was approaching. Eloise was trying to persuade Rehanna—the woman shoved Eloise back. She rounded to face Belavierr, clenching her fists. What would happen if she struck the [Witch]? Belavierr was giving her no reason to, but she was striding forwards, and Rehanna had planted herself in the way. She was daring a collision.
But what was Rie missing? The answer, part of it, presented itself as someone broke the silent street’s quiet. Wiskeria skidded around the corner, panting, her robes and hat askew. She ran forwards and shouted.
“Mother! Stop!”
Belavierr’s head turned, but her pace didn’t slow. Neither did it increase, though, and Wiskeria ran forwards. The three met in the street, Rehanna, Wiskeria, and Belavierr. Wiskeria threw an arm between Belavierr and Rehanna, and the woman spat.
“What do you want?”
“Rehanna, don’t listen to her. Belavierr is my mother and a [Witch]—but she doesn’t make deals you want to accept. Listen to me—”
She reached for Rehanna, and something snapped in the woman. Rie saw it. She turned on Wiskeria and screamed.
“I don’t want to hear it! You let my husband die at Lancrel! Do you remember his name? Do you even know who he was?”
She raised a hand and struck Wiskeria, punching her face and knocking her spectacles aside. Wiskeria grabbed for them and stumbled back. Rie hissed.
“Geram, go arrest Rehanna. Place her in a pillory—no, just confine her to her house. Maybe that will solve—”
Before the man could move, Rehanna lashed out again. Wiskeria was grabbing for the spectacles, which had fallen but not shattered on the ground. Rehanna kicked at the [Witch], and Wiskeria yelped. Rehanna raised a hand to slap—
And Belavierr caught it. It was so fast Rie blinked. Geram halted uncertainly. Rehanna spun.
“How dare you—”
She punched Belavierr in the face. Rie saw the impact, saw Belavierr’s head snap back a bit. The entire street went quiet. Rehanna hit Belavierr in the face. In the chest, struck her leg, kicking—Belavierr didn’t blink.
Then it was quiet. Rehanna paused, panting, and stared as Belavierr slowly let go. Wiskeria got up and opened her mouth. Belavierr twitched a finger, and Wiskeria’s mouth closed. She regarded her daughter for one moment and then turned to Rehanna. She paused. Looked up.
“It appears to be a fair morning.”
Everyone stared up at the sky. It was indeed a clear day. No clouds in sight. The sun was actually fairly bright, a pleasantness after all the rain. Belavierr nodded.
“Quite pleasant. Although, I expected rain. Still, one is not always right, it seems.”
The words were so out of place that all Rehanna, Rie, and everyone else could do was stare. Rie heard a strangled laugh from behind her. It was hilarious to hear Belavierr say something that didn’t match the scene. At first. Then…terrifying when you looked at her and understood. Belavierr went on after a pause.
“Good morning to you, Mistress. My name is Belavierr.”
There it was again. The words came out cautiously, slowly. Rie listened, saw Belavierr choosing each one. It wasn’t that she was out of sync with the world. It was something that bothered Rie far, far more. It sounded with each word like Belavierr was feeling for what should be said.
Like, someone…pretending to be Human but who had forgotten how it went. She didn’t look around. She didn’t blink. The blows Rehanna had given her could have been an illusion.
“What do you want? I’m not scared of you.”
Rehanna was breathing hard, her eyes flashing with rage and even tears of fury. Or grief? Rie watched Belavierr inspect her face. Whatever was in there—the [Witch] nodded.
“I have business with you, Miss Rehanna Salesmith. You have something I want. And I have something to offer you.”
“I want nothing you [Witches] could ever offer me!”
Rehanna screamed back in Belavierr’s face. She whirled, but Belavierr’s fingers twisted. A bit of thread tangled, and Rehanna stopped. She turned back, her face red.
“What did you—”
“Listen. This is what I have to offer.”
Belavierr’s head bent. Rehanna glared, her face red and white with sudden fear. Wiskeria groaned. She was held too. Rie looked around. And Eloise moved. The small [Witch] strode forwards.
“Miss Rehanna, a word. I think tea would be—”
Belavierr caught her hand as she reached for Rehanna. The two [Witches] locked gazes for a moment. Then—it was too late. Belavierr spoke in Rehanna’s ear.
The woman’s face went white. Rie had seen men hit with spells and arrows die before her eyes in battle. The Sacrifice of Roses. It looked very much like the same had happened to Rehanna. She stumbled, fell backwards onto the street, and stared up at Belavierr. The [Witch] straightened, and Eloise let out a long, pained sigh as she stepped back. Something had been done.
“That is what I offer. Would you like to see it?”
Rehanna stared at her, her face still bloodless. Then she got up. She shook so hard that Rie thought she was having some kind of seizure. She stared at Belavierr, then turned and ran. Ran so fast that she was gone before anyone could blink. Rie peered at the empty street and then at Belavierr.
The [Witch] had paused. She held still where she stood, but her head was turning. Tracking someone through the houses, turning slowly, ever so slowly—and stopping. She looked straight into a wall as she stood in the street. There she stood. Silent. Immobile as Wiskeria got up and tried to talk to her, as Eloise walked back and disbanded the tea circle. It certainly could not stay.
And there the [Witch] stood. For minutes, and then nearly an hour, as Lady Rie shakily got back to work. As Ryoka found a reason for being in Riverfarm. As Durene heard a warning about [Witches], delivered too late. Belavierr stood and waited, perfectly still, until something changed. She tilted her head and nodded.
“I see.”
Somewhere, there had been an answer. A reply, wrenched from a pain-filled soul. An answer to a bargain only Belavierr and Rehanna had been privy to. Lady Rie Valerund did not know what the deal entailed. She did not know the cost or the result yet. She did not know what the reply had been.
But she feared, greatly, deeply, and with all her heart, that the answer had been ‘yes’.
