Day 56 – Ryoka
 
“…A fair morning to you all.”
Belavierr’s words echoed across the street. Such innocuous words, delivered politely by a blank face. Luminescent orange eyes with ringed pupils. And the [Witch] herself, tall, dressed like she had walked out of a story.
Not just her either. Seven [Witches]. No—eight. Alevica, Califor, Nanette, Hedag, Mavika, Eloise, Belavierr. And—Wiskeria. She looked up at Belavierr. She’d called her mother.
Ryoka’s head spun. She looked around the crowded street and heard a strangled shout. A woman with a pale face, snappy, fancy clothes compared to many of Riverfarm’s people, stepped forwards.
“Are you quite serious? What is this?”
There was a note of hysteria in the woman’s voice as she pointed. At the [Witches]. At the one called Hedag. Her axe was still bloody. Ryoka’s eyes were drawn to it. The woman, a giant, smiled as the shouting woman’s voice rose.
“She killed Councilman Elmmet! With everyone to see!”
“He deserved it!”
Another man roared that. This one Ryoka vaguely recognized. A huge, balding man—a [Blacksmith] to judge by his clothes—pushed forwards. His face was pale as well, but he pointed furiously at the woman.
“You were there! You saw it, Councilwoman Beatica! I say it was just! Pah! Dead gods, if what we saw was true—”
He spat, looking ill. The Councilwoman, or whomever she was, stared at the man and then shook her head. She stared past the [Witches] at a woman lying on the ground.
“Miss Rehanna as well? They’ve attacked two people of Lancrel—no, of Riverfarm! Sovereign citizens! Steward Prost, I demand you arrest them at once!”
Eight pointed hats turned, and Beatica’s finger quavered. The looks from some of the [Witches]—the hunched Mavika, Califor’s gaze, Belavierr’s—Ryoka edged back from Beatica, as did a lot of the crowd. Beatica’s finger slid sideways out of self-preservation, pointing at a weathered man. Again, Ryoka recognized him.
“That’s Prost!”
She muttered to herself. He was a [Steward] now? No—had he been when she last met him? She had no idea.
“Who?”
A figure bent down and whispered to Ryoka. The Runner girl jumped and looked up. Charlay was half-crouched, staring over the heads of the crowd. The Centauress was getting a few odd looks, but, amazingly in this all-Human crowd, she was still far from the most notable thing at the moment. Ryoka hesitated.
“Prost. I know him.”
She stared at Mister Prost. She had been to Riverfarm before. Once. But it was completely different from what she knew! It was four times again as large, and the people! The street was filled, and this was only a fraction of those present. Ryoka could see more coming this way, some at a run. She stared around. This was Laken’s empire? What had gone on since she’d left? And what was going on now?
The man that Councilwoman Beatica had addressed looked like he was adjusting to all of the events as well. He glanced at a well-dressed [Lady] on his left. Ryoka blinked and realized she had to be Lady Rie Valerund, Ryoka’s target for her delivery. The giant, grey-skinned girl on the right was immediately recognizable to Ryoka as well. Durene towered over all but Belavierr, Hedag, and Charlay. Half-Troll. Laken’s…girlfriend. She looked uncertainly at Prost, then at the Witch named Wiskeria. The hats lying on the ground.
“Murderer!”
Someone in the crowd hurled that at Hedag. Another pointed at Mavika.
“I saw her! She cursed Rehanna! Burnt the flesh right off her hand!”
Every eye fixed on Rehanna. The woman was passed out. Tears, her contorted face—the smell of burnt flesh still hung in the air, appetizing and nauseating at once. Her hand was whole, though. The speaker hesitated.
“She did do it! It was healed—but that [Witch] cursed her!”
“Only after she kicked over Wiskeria’s brew! She made a potion—right magical it was! The best thing I’d smelled in my life! And Rehanna kicked over the whole pot!”
Another man shouted back. He furiously gestured to an overturned cauldron and brown, foul-smelling liquid drying on the ground. Ryoka eyed the stew. Prost looked over, a frown on his face. He raised his hand and forestalled more shouting.
“Is this true, Ram? Tell me what happened here.”
The man named Ram nodded.
“What happened was—see, Wiskeria and Durene came into the village with a stew. Something magical! She was all set to share it out, and Lady Rie’s man, Nesor, he said it was the best stew he’d had! We were getting in line when Rehanna rushed over, and the idiot kicked the entire thing over! Started calling our Wiskeria a [Witch] and all sorts of things—she was running away when she grabbed the doorknob and that [Witch]…”
He pointed uncertainly at Mavika and trailed off. Every eye turned to Mavika. Two crows sat on her arms and shoulders. They peered around, unafraid of the crowd. The [Witch] only smiled as Prost turned to her.
“Is this true, Miss?”
“An ill for an ill. That is what I did. The woman called Rehanna repaid goodwill with bad. So she in turn reaped hers. Do you object, [Steward] of this land?”
There was a rhythmic, odd cadence to Mavika’s words. It would have been clichéd to call it ‘cawing’; Ryoka was rather reminded of a witch right out of Macbeth. Mavika could have won first casting if she’d been an actor. Hell, she could walk onto a stage right now.
But she was the real thing as well. Ryoka’s skin crawled as the witch’s words provoked a cawing from overhead. The flock of crows circled the houses, making the obnoxious, shrill birdcalls Ryoka knew from home. But again—the crowd shivered as it looked up. There was something different about this cawing than the obnoxious bird flocks that sometimes crossed in the thousands from Ryoka’s world. These crows’ voices sounded too knowing. Mocking, even.
A murder of crows. Ryoka shivered. How fitting for a [Witch]. Why were they here? To meet Laken? Mavika’s words produced a hush until the Councilwoman, Beatica, spoke up again.
“An ill for an ill? That was nothing more than—than assault!”
She licked her lips as Mavika stared at her. But Beatica went on, her voice strident. She had a presence about her that called attention to her, lent weight to her words. Ryoka’s eyes narrowed. So this was what Laken’s note had mentioned. She was beginning to see, but she stared quietly. Charlay pawed the ground nervously as Beatica went on.
“Mister Prost! Will you allow these [Witches] to simply stride into Riverfarm? They’ve attacked two people in the village within minutes of arriving! That woman is a murderer!”
She pointed at the tall [Witch], the one with the axe. But the [Witch], with her brown hat, didn’t look bothered by the accusation. She just laughed, a great, booming sound without guilt.
“They call me Hedag, Miss. Hedag the [Executioner]. Sometimes Hedag the [Witch]! And I delivered what justice I had with me in my axe. In a swing for a man who deserved no more and no less. Or did you not see me reveal his sins? Do you say it was ill-done? That he deserved better? You saw what he did.”
She faced Beatica, and the [Councilwoman] froze a second. Those who hadn’t seen, Ryoka included, stared at the woman. But those who had looked uneasy. Sick. Children clung to their parents, and the parents looked as though they wanted to do the same to each other.
“I—know what I saw. Nevertheless! Mister Prost! What is to be done? We demand justice! Lancrel—”
“It isn’t Lancrel that makes the decisions around here!”
The [Blacksmith] roared at Councilwoman Beatica. Looking relieved—Ryoka thought she’d baited his response—the woman turned to him and snapped back.
“Nor is it Riverfarm’s folk, Mister Helm! The responsibility lies solely with Emperor Laken Godart, who we have not seen since arriving in Riverfarm. In his absence, I believe Lancrel’s people deserve a say. Mister Prost—!”
Her words were summoning the crowd’s ire, even in the face of the [Witches]. Ryoka could see it. And now she had a clearer picture. Riverfarm much larger? Check. These Lancrel folk—city dwellers, if their clothes were any match—check. They outnumbered the villagers Ryoka remembered by far. Throw in a few [Witches], a demagogue like Beatica, and no wonder Laken had called for Ryoka.
But the question was: what could Ryoka do? She didn’t think she had the ability to just jump into this conversation. Ryoka tensed warily, wondering what was coming next. Beatica might be a skilled orator, or skilled, but Ryoka thought she was making a mistake. The seven new [Witches] were eying the woman and the crowd, but only the young one, Nanette, looked afraid as she half-hid behind the one named Califor. Her teacher and the others were regarding Beatica like an annoying bug.
And Ryoka didn’t want to know what the one called Belavierr would do if she was provoked. She was just…staring blankly over the heads of the crowd. Then her eyes flicked to Ryoka. The Runner felt Belavierr stepping on her grave…and it wasn’t even dug yet. Her skin prickled. Then Prost spoke. As Beatica was drawing breath, the [Steward] broke off, stepped away from Lady Rie, who was whispering urgently in his ears, and drew breath.
“Very well! Silence! I’ve made my decision!”
The crowd went still again. Ryoka felt the second pressure coming from Prost much like the effect Beatica had had. It quelled tongues, brought eyes onto the man. Another Skill? Prost looked around, then nodded. He raised a hand and began ticking points off on his fingers.
“As I see it, there are three things to address here and now. The arrival of [Witches] into this village. The curse placed on Miss Rehanna. And the death of Councilman Elmmet. I’ve given thought to all three. And this is what I have to say. Elmmet first.”
He took a breath. The crowd of hundreds waited. Prost looked around, and then he bellowed.
“I say it was just! And if that man stood before me again and I held an axe, I would swing it twice!”
Silence. And then a roar of outrage, shock. Not from those who had seen. Ryoka blinked, but Prost’s words shouted over the crowd again. He rounded on the woman with the axe, raised a glowing stone that flickered between blue and red.
“Hedag the [Executioner]. Do you swear before all here present and on your class and under His Majesty Laken Godart’s name that your Skill revealed Elmmet Patterson’s sins and crimes? Do you swear what we witnessed was the truth, unaltered by any magic or trickery?”
He held it up. Ryoka recognized the truth stone. And the [Witch], the [Executioner], grinned. She planted the axe and leaned on it.
“I swear. It was done justly. And what you saw were that man’s sins laid out for all to see.”
The stone remained blue as she spoke. An uneasy murmur ran through the crowd. Someone from Lancrel shouted.
“But she murdered Elmmet? He was accused of theft! And it wasn’t proved—”
Prost spun around so fast the man choked on his next words.
“He did more than steal. And we saw his sins thanks to the Skill [Witch] Hedag used. It was a proper Skill! One that revealed crimes. Like a [Guardsman] would use. I was there. I saw it all. Now, pay heed!”
Prost looked around, and his eyes had their own affixing quality. Ryoka saw his gaze pass over her and then go back to her for a second. But then Prost kept moving, and his gaze was haunted, direct. Without doubt.
“Justice was done. I was there at Master Elmmet’s trial, and his crimes were revealed. Not just to me, but everyone present! I won’t hide his guilt! If anyone wishes to ask, I will tell you what I saw. Or you may ask those who were there. I cannot imagine they’d forget. But Elmmet’s crimes went beyond thievery, and the young shouldn’t hear of what he did. Or anyone who wishes to sleep and think of the man as anything but a monster wearing Human skin. That alone tells you it was just.”
The crowd muttered uneasily. A few voices were raised—
“But surely—”
“A Skill? But she’s a [Witch]—”
“With an axe?”
Then a voice hurled from another man. Ryoka didn’t recognize the [Mayor], Rodivek, but she immediately placed him in Beatica’s camp. The man gestured at Prost, red-faced.
“Nevertheless, Prost! Elmmet was a [Councilman]! You’d hang him without a trial?”
“That was his trial!”
Prost thundered back. Rodivek hesitated. Prost turned around furiously.
“Maybe you didn’t hear me right the first time. I judged the sentence Hedag passed down as just myself! If she hadn’t killed him, I imagine half the folk in the square would have done the same the next minute. I know what I saw.”
He looked at Helm, and the man nodded. Prost’s voice was steady as he gazed at the crowd.
“And I have every right to sentence Elmmet to death. Nor would I hesitate to, even if Emperor Godart were in this village. If he were but five minutes away as I saw what I did, [Farmer] Ram, I’d have called for a rope and strung him up first and then presented myself to His Majesty for judgment without a doubt in my heart that justice had been done. That was the nature of the crime. The only thing to cry about was how fast the sentencing was done. Too slowly by half and far too late, say I.”
He paused. And no one had anything to say to that. Not even Beatica. Ryoka wanted to know what Elmmet had done and she didn’t want to know at the same time. But she didn’t doubt Prost. Nor, it seemed, could much of the crowd. Those who might have wanted to speak up were silenced as Prost turned back to the women standing in the center of the street.
“Now to the next point. Miss Rehanna’s injury. I hear from Mister Ram, who I trust, that she gave offense and destroyed something of value. Wiskeria is our [General]. A trusted member of Riverfarm. I’ll ask for more testimonies, but if she did destroy this…magical soup, she will be punished. But hear me, [Witch] Mavika. You will pay a fine for injuring Riverfarm’s citizen. And that same fine will go to Miss Rehanna, and she will pay part or all of it for destroying Wiskeria’s work! That’s all!”
Another murmur, but subdued. Mavika stared at Prost, unblinking. Credit to Prost, he didn’t look away or flinch. He met Mavika’s gaze and glanced at the others. Only Belavierr gave him trouble; his eyes jerked away from her. But Prost gazed at them and then around at the crowd.
“[Witches]. You are His Majesty’s guests. People of Lancrel, you are his subjects. You came to his lands seeking protection and aid, and it was offered freely. And I know there is discontent. Trouble! But I will remind everyone here present of this: you are subject to his rule on this land.”
Prost pointed down at the street. He glared about.
