“Of course. Sorry, I forget it’s not common knowledge. [Witches] are…”
Wiskeria sighed and took off her hat. She inspected it, then put it back on.
“[Witches] are loners. By and large. You know all the basics, I’m sure. We cast spells, we can have familiars—pets—and we can do magic other than [Mage] spells. Magic brews, summonings, séances; our abilities are far more varied than your average [Mage]. But…weaker. Or as Miss Califor would put it, different. Which means weaker in the sense that we can’t throw [Fireballs]. At least, most of us can’t. Alevica probably can.”
Ryoka and Charlay nodded at that. The Centauress mouthed at Durene: I’ve seen it. Wiskeria went on.
“Generally, a [Witch] just…is a [Witch]. She does her business, pursues her passion—which we call her craft—and meets her coven a few times a month at most to exchange news, warnings, trade, and so on. Some of us are even adventurers, like I was. Some can live in towns—it’s rare that any go to cities like Alevica, but it can happen. There’s no rules that say we can’t do much of anything. But there are nuances, I suppose.”
“Such as?”
Ryoka sat forwards, the most interested. Wiskeria frowned.
“Well—[Witches] derive a lot of power from different magic. Uh—grudges. Death. Or life! We need passion for what we do. That’s how we become [Witches]—I don’t think I can explain all of it now…but it means we can be different from each other. Very different.”
Uncomfortably, she shifted her hat again.
“Let me put it like this. If you want to break it down to the most basic element—there are good witches and bad ones. Or maybe it’s better to think of them as ‘selfish’ or ‘generous’.”
“Really?”
Durene saw Ryoka’s eyes narrow. But Durene remembered Chimmy asking Wiskeria if she was a good [Witch] or a bad one. Wiskeria clearly remembered the same thing, because she looked at Durene. Rie coughed delicately.
“And, ah, which would you be, Miss Wiskeria?”
“I suppose I’m a good [Witch], if you want to break it down. What I mean by that is—look, some [Witches] follow rules. They try to help people as much as themselves. That ties into their craft and passion. Other [Witches] don’t. They might help people, but they’ll sometimes do as much harm as good.”
Ryoka scratched her head. Drat. It was never simple.
“So, which are which?”
Prost had a resigned look like he knew what was coming. Wiskeria’s pause this time was telling. She cleared her throat a few times.
“If you want to be simple about it, then the ‘good’ [Witches] are Hedag and Eloise. And Nanette, but she’s young. The ‘bad’ ones, or at least the selfish ones, are Mavika and Alevica and Belavierr.”
Durene looked around. No one was surprised by that, although Prost and Rie were grimacing. Charlay nodded several times when she heard Alevica’s name.
“And Miss Califor?”
“In between. Mostly good, but you hear stories sometimes. She helps those who help themselves. And she has no patience for fools. She’s something of a terror even among other [Witches], actually. She’ll come around if she thinks you’re not behaving properly and sort you out.”
“Ah. So she’s a teacher? A mentor to other [Witches]? What do each of the [Witches] do?”
Wiskeria looked at Ryoka. The two appraised each other, and Wiskeria shrugged.
“You’ve probably guessed some of it. Califor’s good at everything she does. Illusions to charms to basic magic and non-magical things—she’s a teacher, and she sorts problems out. Mavika is her exact opposite. She hates people, but she has control over all kinds of animals. Crows primarily, but she can control rats and snakes too. And I think she can turn into a bird.”
“She can what?”
Prost and Rie shot up in their seats. So did Durene. The half-Troll girl gaped around. Charlay and Ryoka didn’t look surprised. The Centauress shrugged.
“Like a Lizardfolk, I guess.”
Wiskeria shook her head.
“Not exactly. She can turn back.”
Ryoka nodded. She wasn’t shocked at all, and Wiskeria and Durene saw that.
“She’s dangerous?”
“Oh yes. But she’s a traditionalist. Remember what she said about ill for ill? She doesn’t attack people. But, uh, don’t insult her. Hedag’s actually more likely to hit you. Her magic’s not that strong, but she’s a law unto herself in villages.”
Prost lifted a hand.
“I know of her. Hedag’s a family name, isn’t it?”
Wiskeria looked surprised.
“That’s right. She comes from a line of [Executioners]. Family trade. Her [Witch] side ties into that. Her passion is her craft.”
Ryoka was still missing something. Craft?
“Which is…?”
“Being the law.”
Prost didn’t elaborate. Wiskeria nodded.
“Her magic’s probably the weakest of all the [Witches], but she has Skills to make up for that. Eloise, on the other hand, is very skillful in herbal magics and…tea. She lives in one village and generally just helps people out.”
Another hand from Ryoka.
“You say that, but does she have any, uh, secrets? Like, I’m sure I shouldn’t cross Mavika or Alevica. I do know about her. The Witch Runner. She can fly and use necromancy, right?”
“Among other things. She’s a genius at fighting. Not so much traditional magic, but her being able to fly means she’s one of the best [Witches]. I don’t know of any of the others in the coven who fly with a broom either. Mavika definitely can, but most would prefer to walk.”
“Imagine that Hedag riding a broom.”
Charlay laughed. Durene snorted with amusement. Wiskeria did not. Neither did Ryoka.
“So don’t cross Alevica and Mavika. What about the others? You said Eloise is a ‘good’ witch. But does she have a…secret? Anything that we should know about?”
Durene’s skin crawled. That was right. Now that Ryoka mentioned it, compared to the others, Eloise stood out. Califor could be dangerous, Hedag had an axe and killed people for all she smiled—what was Eloise’s secret?
“Her secret? She doesn’t have one. She’s just nice. We’re not all dangerous, you know.”
Wiskeria gave Ryoka a blank look. The City Runner paused.
“Oh.”
“Anyways, that’s all of them. Except Belavierr.”
“Your mother.”
Rie looked at Wiskeria. The [Witch]’s expression froze. She tugged her hat lower, hiding her eyes.
“Yes. She is. I haven’t seen her in…at least thirteen years.”
“What about her? She’s a…bad witch?”
“Oh yes. The very worst in that respect. She’s not dangerous like Mavika or Alevica. It’s hard to cross her. But she’s dangerous. She’s…don’t talk to her. Don’t interact with her. Don’t make her any promises, and don’t take any offers she makes. She’s harmless if you ignore her. Probably.”
What an endorsement. Wiskeria fiddled with her hat, clearly unwilling to say much more, but Rie pressed her, frowning hugely.
“What does she do? I feel like I know that name…but my parents…I lost them quite young. Perhaps they met her?”
Wiskeria’s gaze darkened.
“I hope not for their sakes. But they probably knew of her. Many people do. As for what my mother does. Her magic, her craft is…stitch magic.”
The room waited. Wiskeria looked up. She shrugged at their blank faces.
“She stitches things. She’s a [Stitch Witch]. Don’t ever talk with her if I’m not there. Okay?”
She looked around, and her gaze was deadly serious. Durene looked about uncertainly as well. She saw Ryoka meet Wiskeria’s eyes, Charlay’s uncertain grin, and Rie looking at Wiskeria. The [Lady] pursed her lips, then glanced at Ryoka and nodded.
“In that case, I think we had better see what these [Witches] are doing. Durene, why don’t you accompany Miss Ryoka?”
The half-Troll girl nodded.
“Of course.”
 
 
Day 57 – Ryoka
 
It was an odd experience, starting her day in Riverfarm. Not bad—just odd. Ryoka had abandoned being a City Runner for a second to be, well, a guest. She’d woken up at dawn with Charlay. They were used to an earlier schedule, so they’d tiptoed—well, Ryoka had tiptoed—around Durene and made breakfast. Some odd meat with eggs, corn, and potatoes had been in the bag.
Then when the half-Troll girl had woken up and eaten as well, they’d headed down to the village. Then they’d met first thing to hear Wiskeria’s report on what her coven wanted, and now they were just walking around Riverfarm. Charlay stretched in the morning air, yawning.
“That was some great sleep I had! And you don’t cook half bad, Ryoka! I think you underdid the meat, though.”
“You’re the one who wanted to throw it in the pan.”
“Hey! I covered you from that evil bird while we made it!”
Durene chuckled. The half-Troll girl walked along the two, listening to their banter. Ryoka felt somewhat easier around Durene after a night, although it was nothing like the strange and friendly bickering she had with Charlay.
“Sorry about that. It’s Frostwing. She can be evil.”
“She’s very beautiful. But also vicious. So this is Riverfarm?”
Ryoka stared around at the streets and the people bustling about. It was amazing. Durene nodded proudly.
“That’s right. We built all this since you last came by, Ryoka! And we’re working on new houses every day!”
“It’s incredible progress. When I was here last, the village was still snowed in. From the avalanche…sorry.”
Durene’s face had clouded over. The half-Troll girl shook her head and smiled brightly.
“It’s fine. It feels like ages ago, really.”
It did. Ryoka nodded, remembering those times. Frost Faeries. Magic and snow and dead things around a fire. And it would be summer, autumn, and then winter before they arrived. The spring wasn’t even over! She frowned up at the sky. Seasons were longer in this world. It meant they hung around too long for her taste.
“At least it’s a nice day. Very bright. Too bright. Hey, is there anywhere to drink? I need water.”
Charlay grumbled as she clip-clopped along. Many people were stopping to stare at a Centaur in their midst. Durene looked almost pleased to not be the center of attention.
“Of course! This is Riverfarm after all. You can see the river that way! And beyond it are the fields—hey, wait!”
Charlay took off excitedly. Durene jogged after her, but she couldn’t have caught Charlay in a thousand years. She turned back to Ryoka,
“She’s really fast!”
“And excitable. Sorry for foisting her on you.”
Durene hesitated at the word ‘foist’. Then she nodded, smiling. She looked around, then edged closer. Ryoka resisted the urge to hop back; she had bare feet, and Durene’s feet could easily smash one of hers.
“Um, Ryoka, I know Rie and Prost wanted me to follow you. But if you have any ideas, you know, from yours and Laken’s world—”
Ryoka winced. Damn, so Durene had remembered. She hissed back up at her.
“Don’t talk about that, please. Anyone could be listening.”
Especially a [Witch]. Ryoka wasn’t sure if they could be trusted—no, she was pretty sure at least one of them spelled trouble for Riverfarm. This entire scenario smelled fishy to her. A Circle of Thorns? This traitor who’d manipulated Laken into attacking the Goblins? Durene had told Ryoka about that last night, and Ryoka was already trying to figure out who it was. It had to be—
“Hey, you two! What’s the hold up?”
Charlay came galloping back, wiping water from her mouth. She glared at Ryoka and Durene and then grabbed at her horse half.
“Ooh! My stomach! I think I’ve got colic! I shouldn’t have drank that water so quickly!”
“Don’t joke about that.”
Ryoka sighed at Charlay. The Centauress laughed. Durene blinked.
“You mean, like horses? Can a Centauress get that?”
“Hey! Anyone can get colic! Don’t be racist! Speciesist!”
Charlay glared at Durene. Abashed, the half-Troll girl turned red. Ryoka glared and kicked Charlay gently on one leg. The Centauress raised one of hers, and Ryoka backed up. She hesitated and saw Durene’s face.
“I didn’t mean you’re super-racist. It’s fine! It’s fine! Besides, we’re both non-Human, right? Humans are the really racist ones. We should be pals!”
She trotted over and slapped Durene on the shoulder. Then she squinted at Durene.
“I didn’t ask, but you’re—are you a Troll? I’ve seen some as mercenaries on Baleros. You know, in monstrous regiments?”
Durene stared at Charlay, open-mouthed. Ryoka coughed.
“Charlay.”
“What? Oh, am I being ‘insensitive’ again, Ryoka? Wait, am I?”
Charlay rolled her eyes and then glanced anxiously back at Durene. The girl shook her head.
“I’m—half-Troll.”
“Oh. Hey! I haven’t seen any of those—I mean, people like you. But that’s cool. Half-Troll. Half-Troll. Does that mean a Troll and—”
“You say you knew Trolls in Baleros, Charlay?”
Ryoka interrupted quickly. The Centauress nodded casually.
“Yup. Monster regiments. They don’t level, and a lot of them are really stup—I mean, they don’t level up, but sometimes tribes ally with mercenary companies or enlist. It’s rare, and Goblins are banned from that kind of thing, but it used to happen. Of course, usually we go to war with them. Hey, do you know Fleethoof? She’s a famous Centauress, and she fought a bunch of Ogres and nasty Cyclopes and, um…”
She stared at Durene. The girl stared back. Charlay looked around, and Ryoka massaged her eyes. The Centauress turned around.
“Hey! Let’s look at those fields, huh?”
She took off. Ryoka glared at her galloping figure as she raced away and turned to Durene.
“Sorry. Charlay’s insensitive.”
“It’s fine. I didn’t know Trolls could live anywhere with people in peace. I thought they just attacked everything on sight.”
Durene looked wistfully after Charlay. Ryoka cleared her throat.
“So. Uh—Riverfarm. I see it’s busy building. Lots of new people. What do you do all day?”
The half-Troll girl started. She kept walking with Ryoka and shrugged.
“Me? I just woke up a little bit ago. I help out, but ever since the army was pretty much disbanded…I don’t know. I wish I did. I wish Laken were here.”
Ryoka nodded absently.
“Aren’t you a [Paladin], though? Laken said he made you into one.”
“Yup.”
Ryoka hesitated and eyed Durene.
“So…don’t you have an urge to do [Paladin] things? Go on crusades? Fight evil?”
“No? Where would I find any? And I’m not a [Knight]!”
Durene laughed at the idea. Ryoka hesitated.
“Yes, but…”
She broke off as they reached the river and fields. Ryoka blinked, then stared. Durene pointed proudly at the developing farmland that stretched far as Ryoka could see across the other bank.
