Ram rushed forwards with a hoe, but Mavika’s glare stopped him. The [Witch] pointed as the rat chased after the raven. It was biting, snapping, and the raven was seemingly outmatched on the ground. The [Witch] pointed her fingers at the raven.
“Sephraic. [Ancient Form].”
She snapped her fingers. The raven disappeared behind a stand of corn as the rat mother pursued it. Ryoka heard a shriek, then a rat’s scream. It came back out, fur bloody and torn. And a bird from hell pursued it.
There was no biological history for a raven like this in Ryoka and Laken’s world. But perhaps, in the lost world of this one, there had been. A time when ravens needed to be dangerous. Deadly. How else could you explain the raven that came out, striding across the ground with huge clawed feet, its beak pecking at the rat, descending on it with a flurry of wings, slashing claws?
There was no fight. Just the rat mother’s flight and a quick, painful death. The raven looked up, its beak bloody. The Humans stared at the bird and backed away. Ryoka gulped. If that thing came at her—hell, a pack of those aggressive geese that liked to pick fights with picnickers would take one look at this thing and fly away.
The raven cawed, and the crows descended. They began digging at the same spot where it had driven the rat mother from as the raven began to devour the rat. None of them got anywhere close to the enchanted bird. But they were unearthing the rat warrens. And Mavika’s second finger made all the [Farmers] step back.
“As promised, Steward. [Primal Fear].”
Out came the rats. They fled into the waiting talons, too maddened with fright to hide. Not just in that field either; more crows descended, claws snatching, cawing. They swooped down, pecked at the writhing shapes, bore them up—
And then Ryoka saw bits of animals falling from the sky. The [Farmers] looked up and groaned as the birds dropped blood and flesh. Ram whirled.
“Prost—”
The [Steward] was already addressing the [Witch].
“Witch Mavika. Can’t you persuade your flock to eat the—rats elsewhere?”
Mavika’s grin was unpleasant to see.
“That was part of no deal of ours, Steward Prost. The bones and flesh will nourish the ground. Is this not what you asked for?”
She gestured at the fields. Ryoka stared at the black army of crows and saw one pursuing a robin. The bird was flying away—right until the chase carried it into a second crow’s talons. The birds ripped the robin to shreds, and the head fell into a field of corn. Along with dead grasshoppers, rats, a rabbit—it was turning into a scene of carnage. But the fields were intact.
“Gross.”
Charlay gagged. And the [Farmers] looked no happier. They began muttering amongst themselves.
“Lookit the parts. We’ll be picking rat bones out of our crops!”
“Bah. Better than weevils and grasshoppers out of our teeth! Think the crows’ll get the little things?”
“Doesn’t matter. Bad deal to make with a [Witch] if it is. I don’t care what Prost says about giving them a chance.”
“Do you want to fight those grasshoppers? Or the rats? Half our dogs won’t go after one four feet long! And it saves us the trouble of finding them. And they’ll watch the fields.”
“So what? I had a dog from Radivaek lands. You know, the Dog Lord’s domain? Best ratters in the world. She kept my land clean of pests. If I’d had her longer, I would’ve bred a litter. What can crows do better than a good pack?”
“Eat bugs.”
“Ryoka?”
The City Runner broke off from listening to the [Farmers]. She saw Durene approaching with Prost. The [Steward] was shaking his head as Mavika continued directing her flock. Ryoka glanced at the man, a bit anxious.
“Did I step in too much, Mister Prost?”
“No, no. I’m grateful for the help, Miss Griffin.”
“And the birds? Was that a good deal?”
The man hesitated.
“It’s alright. It’s a blow to give up the corn, but it’s better than what we’d’ve gotten if we had to fight the pests. And I think that [Witch] knows it.”
He gestured to Mavika. Ryoka nodded slowly.
“Except for them raining parts over your fields. And—crapping too.”
Prost groaned. Ryoka grinned weakly.
“That’s a proper [Witch]’s deal for you, I guess. But it’ll keep your plants safe?”
“That it will. Let’s just hope the crows let our [Farmers] work. I’ll keep them from complaining too loudly, don’t you worry.”
Prost waved a hand. Ryoka nodded and looked for Durene. She was still watching the crowd with Charlay. The half-Troll girl pointed at the large raven. It still hadn’t changed back.
“So this is what a [Witch] can do.”
“Guess so.”
Ryoka trotted over. She eyed the bird as it kept devouring the rat’s corpse. It was not a sight for the squeamish. And Ryoka’s own stomach was hurting a bit. From nausea or Charlay’s colic? She looked away.
“Are they all like that, do you think?”
Charlay glanced at Ryoka. The Runner Girl shrugged. Slowly, the three began to walk back towards Riverfarm. And behind them, the crows cawed, claiming the fields as their own.
 
 
Day 57 – Rie
 
To the [Lady]’s relief, the issue of the [Witches]’ presence in Riverfarm seemed to have settled itself by the time she began her day. More or less. Or at least, with Mavika occupied in the fields, the worst objections were dealt with. The matter of Rehanna had been settled, to everyone’s surprise, by Alevica.
Prost had levied a fine on Mavika of two gold coins. Privately, Rie thought that might be too much for what had been a rather grave insult, but it was too little for some of the people who had seen the burning spell cast on the doorknob. And it was paid promptly by Alevica.
“Mavika owes me for this.”
The Witch Runner grumbled as she passed over two gold coins in front of a small audience. Rie took them gracefully and passed them to Nesor, who had control of her personal bag of holding. Rie thanked Alevica, got a sardonic grin, and the crowd was assured Rehanna would see some of the money as compensation for her pain, and that was that.
Privately, Rie was determined not to give Rehanna more than a few copper’s worth of the money, but the woman had heard about the fine and sought Rie out in moments. She spluttered when Rie handed her eight silver coins.
“I was told it was two gold coins!”
“And you destroyed a magical brew that was probably worth at least ten.”
Rie coolly informed Rehanna as the woman turned red with outrage. She didn’t know what Wiskeria’s soup was actually worth, but she was tired of Rehanna. The woman was spiteful, bitter towards Wiskeria and [Witches] in general, and a pawn of Beatica and Rodivek’s manipulations. Rehanna glared at Rie.
“This is unfair! I was injured! My hand was nearly burnt off!”
“And my [Mage], Nesor, healed you on the spot. Miss Rehanna, the cost of the healing potion alone was nearly worth the fine we posed. I would not continue arguing your point.”
Rie’s imperiously tilted chin made Rehanna remember who she was addressing. Geram looming over her shoulder also helped. The woman backed up.
“This is unfair! Those [Witches] killed a man! And they’re being allowed to go free?”
“Justice was served. You may dispute it, but I would ask anyone who was present. Or do you not know what Elmmet did, Miss Rehanna? I won’t sully my tongue with that filth.”
Rie’s voice was as cold as ice. She had heard from Prost what Elmmet had done, and as far as she was concerned, he had died too quickly. Abusing a child like that—Rie felt her stomach churning. Rehanna just stared at Rie, and then her expression twisted.
“But they’re [Witches]. They—”
She looked around, realized no one was coming to her support, and turned and stormed off. Rie tsked, the only expression of anger she could let herself show.
“Dreadful woman.”
She said as much to Eloise later that day. The [Witch] was hosting a tea party again, and this time, Rie let herself be sucked into the circle of women—and men!—relaxing with her. The [Witch], or perhaps [Tea Witch], had a Skill. But since it was clearly being used to calm and relax and build relationships between the disparate folk sitting around her, Rie was only too keen to encourage it. She smiled at Eloise. The woman was serving a sweeter tea today, one perfect for the children bouncing on laps. She had snacks, tea—where had she gotten it all from?
“A [Witch] does have her ways, Miss Rie.”
Eloise reached out and tapped Rie’s hand with a smile when Rie asked. It wasn’t even offensive or patronizing, that was the thing. She was so…non-[Witch]-like that you couldn’t help but relax around her.
Part of Rie wondered if Ryoka Griffin was right and Eloise had a dark secret. She couldn’t imagine it looking at the woman adjusting her flowery hat. Rie was no stranger to people with secrets, and Eloise struck her as genuine. If she had any hidden depths, they weren’t the ones that would come out and bite someone.
“Miss Eloise, you are a delight. Truly. I must say, this is such a pleasant experience. And after I thought—well, with those other [Witches]—but you’re so unlike them!”
A former [Shopkeeper] confessed as she ate hungrily from the plate of scones that Eloise was offering around. Rie knew what she meant, even if it was delivered with all the tact of a hammer to the hand. Eloise was sociable, kind, and generous. Totally unlike the others. She’d even invited Rehanna to the tea party. Rie was relieved the woman had declined and only snatched a few of the delicious scones.
“You’re too harsh on my fellow [Witches], Miss Velmir. And you, Miss Rie. Too harsh on Miss Rehanna, I think. We all benefit from considering others with kindness. My current coven is indeed full of [Witches] unlike me. But what they offer, they offer freely. You may always refuse them. Take Hedag for example. She is at work, and she is quite kind. Hers is a helping hand for those who need it. In her way, she is far better a [Witch] than I.”
Eloise gestured across the street towards Hedag. Rie turned in her seat, frowning. The [Executioner] had garnered a huge berth this morning, and Rie had expected no one—save for perhaps angry folk from Lancrel—to go near her. She’d been expecting trouble, but to her surprise, Hedag had a number of children about her. And women.
Perhaps it was her booming laugh or the way she was willing to toss children up or listen to them talk. She sat listening to a girl solemnly show her a flower. She—Rie’s eyes focused on the girl’s face and narrowed.
“That’s Elmmet’s child.”
The tea circle went silent. Eloise nodded.
“Yes.”
“But she killed—”
Miss Velmir lowered her voice hurriedly. Eloise nodded again and sipped from her cup, as calm as could be.
“After what was done to the girl, who else in this world do you think she would trust? Not her mother. But perhaps Hedag. But you’ll see the rest of her craft tonight. Look.”
She pointed, and Rie saw Hedag laughing and waving her hand over the flower. Once, twice, three times, as if casting a spell. The little daffodil perked up a bit, and the girl, delighted as the flower turned a bit brighter, clutched it and ran off to show the other children. Another boy replaced her, holding up a leather ball and demanding Hedag do the same. The [Witch] paused and said something, and he nodded solemnly.
“Cantrips?”
That was all Rie could imagine at the moment. She looked at Eloise. The woman had a knowing look that Rie didn’t like. There was something about Hedag that Prost hadn’t told Rie. He’d assured her that she was lawful, but that word clearly had a meaning to the villagers that they had refused to explain outright to Rie or anyone from the cities. Thoughtfully, Rie took another sip from her cup.
“I see. Well, I do agree that Miss Hedag is kind at the moment. But what of the rest of your…coven, Witch Eloise? I believe I saw the one called Alevica napping on a roof.”
“That sounds like her. I don’t believe she wishes to practice her craft. There’s not much for her to do at the moment. As for Califor and Nanette, they’re practicing magic, no doubt. Their craft does not affect the village much either. But you see? We may keep to ourselves and have our own ways, but they are not so different from me, are they?”
Eloise chuckled ruefully. There was a murmur of protest, and a young man from Lancrel raised his voice. He was off-duty as a [Woodcutter], but he had been a [Clerk] at the Merchant’s Guild. He was sitting with a giggling girl at the edge of the conversation.
“But you’re so much better than they are, Miss! But for the hat and you’d be like my grandmother, but nicer!”
“Ah, but I am a [Witch], young man. And the hat must remain, or else you’d think just that of me.”
Eloise’s kind response provoked relaxed laughter. But the young girl, giggling and taking her cue from the young [Clerk], spoke up. Rie eyed her. She was probably seventeen, but she acted like she was four years younger.
“But Miss Eloise, we’d all love you more without the hat! What’s wrong with taking it off? Otherwise you remind us of those horrid other [Witches], like the horrible lady with birds!”
Rie inhaled slightly. This was crossing from banter into rudeness. But Eloise’s smile didn’t waver. It only deepened. She paused as the other tea-drinkers looked at her uncertainly.
“Young lady. What if I said I’d love you more and be more at ease if you took off your shirt? Or that young man his pants? What would you say then?”
The said young lady blushed and stammered a reply, but the young man, drunk on bravado, stood up.
“I’ll do that!”
So saying, he yanked his pants down. There was a peal of laughter from the young women, and Rie sighed and averted her eyes from some underwear that was thankfully in place. Pale legs—the rest of the tea circle groaned or laughed, and a man snapped.
“Put your pants back on, Delgriff! You’re among ladies!”
The young man, flushing, began to do that. But Eloise’s voice interrupted him.
“What are you doing, Mister Delgriff?”
He stopped, flushing as more laughter passed around the table.
“Uh—putting my pants back on?”
“But you asked me to take my hat off. And you offered to take your pants off. Shouldn’t you keep them off as long as we’re sitting?”
More raucous laughter. Even Rie couldn’t help but smile. The young man flushed, and Miss Velmir leaned over knowingly.
“I see. So his pants are like your hat?”
Eloise blinked.
“Not at all. Pants and hats are quite different, Miss Velmir. I don’t imagine I’d provoke such notice if I took my hat off. But there is something similar.”
“Which is?”
The tea circle looked at her as Delgriff, flushing, got his pants back up. Eloise nodded to him, smiling.
