So, it was Mavika, gaunt and seemingly-frail until you saw the sinew, sipping from the teacup.
Eloise, a contrast, the very image of a lovely grandmotherly woman, hat covered with flowers, with an elegance to her movements as she poured tea.
Hedag, blunt, but not unrefined in her way. Travel-worn, but dignified, largest of the lot, smiling around, authority in her words and laughter.
Alevica, youngest of the lot, full of vinegar and her own confidence—yet eying each face and finding all of them imposing, save for perhaps Wiskeria.
And that was the biggest mistake, for Wiskeria, blue-haired, bespectacled, with her plain robes, seemed much less a witch than the others. But Wiskeria was Belavierr’s daughter, and even if that was only infamy by proxy—no one should underestimate that.
The last witch was, of course, Califor, whose mental image of herself was a straight-backed woman in her chair, less graceful than Eloise, perhaps—it was hard to match her in such moments—but, Califor hoped, dignified nonetheless. Alevica kept sneaking looks at Califor as if expecting the other witch to burst into proclamations or cast a spell.
That was the problem with reputations. Califor’s own clothing and staff were hardly more pristine than Hedag’s. Her image of herself was of a woman in her, oh, thirties, still striding around figuring things out. When she eyed herself in the reflection of her tea, she disliked the natural grey, even if it added to one’s supposed gravitas.
Six witches. Not seven. Numbers didn’t matter that much for conversation. The first thing to do was ensure everyone understood what was going on.
“They called themselves the Circle of Thorns. A secret name, one we have heard times before.”
Mavika spoke first. She scattered crumbs as she spoke, chewing, eating. Her eyes were dark like the birds she could summon. The others nodded. Only Wiskeria looked around quizzically.
“The Circle of Thorns. Who are they?”
Hedag leaned on the table. Her expression was grim. Flinty. She nodded to Califor.
“An old group. Or young! Depending on how you look at it. They were before my time, but Mavika remembers them. Perhaps Witch Belavierr might as well. A group of nobles. I suppose they style themselves as secretive, but the name’s plenty to remember.”
“Would you remember anything like that, Wiskeria, my dear?”
Eloise filled Wiskeria’s cup, and Califor watched Wiskeria smile politely. But guarded. Wiskeria sipped, frowned, and then exhaled.
“This is excellent tea, Witch Eloise. My mother? No…but she never told me stories of every would-be cult or secret society. If I don’t know them, they probably weren’t very dangerous. Or she just didn’t mention them.”
“Great, so you have no idea. Got it.”
Alevica sardonically added a splash of whiskey into her cup, earning her a frown from Eloise—Hedag held out her cup instantly, and Alevica, grimacing, gave her a tot. Eloise sighed.
“Any knowledge is valuable. We might ask Witch Belavierr…should we move onto her? I confess, I thought Agratha would be here.”
“Dead gods, spare me from the Teacher Witch herself. At least this Belavierr’s a truly great witch, right?”
Alevica muttered. Hedag laughed merrily—then realized Alevica was serious. Eloise shot Califor a quick glance, and Mavika peered at Alevica over her cup’s rim.
She must think Belavierr’s the same as us. The thought was entirely amusing—and alarming. For Alevica’s sake, Califor replied directly.
“Belavierr is the [Witch], Alevica. Bar none living. You may not recall your mentor’s stories of witches. Ask Witch Oliyaya who Belavierr is. Be respectful around her. More than you would be to Mavika or Witch Oliyaya herself. Or myself, for that matter. Throw tea at me, but treat Witch Belavierr with every old custom.”
Alevica’s mouth opened. She stared at Califor, whose stories she did seem to know, and then at Wiskeria.
Califor wished Oliyaya had felt able to come, but if Agratha had been here, the stakes would have been significantly lower, and the two would have fought like Wyvern and Griffin. So, this had been a calculated, diplomatic move in a game of cards…right up until someone had kicked the table over and started rolling dice on the floor.
Mavika continued the conversation as if no one had interrupted.
“I do not know why Tillica summoned the coven. Perhaps she was forced. Perhaps she erred, for I was not present. Without me, this ‘Circle’ committed dark deeds by moonlight. I came too late and repaid only blood with blood. Yet the offer I do know; I took it from my sister’s dying lips and the screams of fools before they died.”
Grim. Califor had no doubt those who had slaughtered the Marshlands Coven had died painfully. Alevica looked excited and intimidated by turns. Wiskeria just nodded, unmoved in satisfaction or grief.
The contrast between the two was marked. Mavika went on.
“The demands were simple and direr still. They called for a curse upon Magnolia Reinhart and her kin. A spell so powerful and so foul that she would die screaming, boiled by her very skin.”
Mavika looked unconcerned by the spell. Wiskeria shuddered.
“Are they stupid? Dead gods, the amount of effort that would take—could they even do that, even with you, Mavika? No wonder the Marshlands Coven refused. Even if they succeeded, then what?”
Califor nodded, replying in a clipped tone.
“It would be war against [Witches] as in times past. But it seems it was war either way. This Circle’s actions come during a rash of reprisals against witches. Many have been chased from their homes or even killed.”
Wiskeria’s eyes narrowed.
“Why?”
Hedag chuckled.
“Ah, Wiskeria. That’s the rotten peach in the middle of our pies. Why? It might be partly this Circle or the changing of times. But most of it—dare I say almost all!—is due to stories come from the north this past winter and spring. The deeds of one of us reflect on all. And in this case…”
Wiskeria shut her eyes tight.
“Mother. She didn’t say, but it had to be truly terrible for her to leave her domain. She never left Terandria if she could help it when she was raising me. What did she do?”
“More appropriately, the question is how was she bested.”
Eloise murmured. Alevica’s head was swinging blankly from face to face, clearly not keeping up, but Wiskeria just laughed.
“No one bests my mother. She’d eat them. Did the Hero of Zethe come back to life and fight her? I haven’t heard of a nation collapsing; how did anyone stop her?”
Her mirth faded as the other witches remained silent. So that was how Wiskeria thought of Belavierr? It was not entirely inaccurate to rely on stories.
Califor had never met Belavierr before. So her sense of caution increased tenfold, especially because Mavika, quick to call out anything she saw as a lie or even untruth, was ominously silent as Wiskeria chuckled.
Still, the younger [Witch] did not have all the facts, and she gazed around as Califor cleared her throat.
“That is something I would dearly like to know myself. Hearing the story from Witch Belavierr would be enlightening. What I do know is that a nation did not fall to send her fleeing—but it was close. She was defeated, a village laid to ruin, and those ‘Helpful Servants’ disbanded as an organization entirely. More than that, I will not gossip, except to say that while only rumors have reached Izril’s shores…rumors are enough to remind folk of the past.”
“Ignorant idiots talking about ‘evil witches’. Most just need a hex to remind them to watch their tongues.”
Alevica snorted into her cup. Hedag gave her a friendly buffet with one hand, and Alevica cursed, almost went for a dagger—and stopped under Califor’s reproving glare. Eloise gave Hedag a firm look, and the Hedag was unmoved.
Different personalities. Califor lifted a hand for peace, and the [Witches] relaxed as Eloise passed over a handkerchief.
“Memory is an interesting thing, Witch Alevica. Remembering the ill deeds of our predecessors is fair. The hysteria? The hunting? Perhaps not. But it was Belavierr who was the catalyst…”
“…and my mother deserves every story about her. Each and every one. Oh no. What did she do?”
Wiskeria buried her head in her hands. Now she saw the problem. The very same origin of the problems facing the [Witches] of Izril had just come here.
“Our presence was meant to alleviate the issues facing the witches of Izril, Wiskeria. It seems we must now reckon with our goals—and Witch Belavierr. We would greatly appreciate your aid, with the former if not the latter.”
Eloise broke in, and Wiskeria’s head rose. Now her gaze was focused, and she gave the others a wary stare.
“Why do you want to meet Laken? He is an [Emperor], you know.”
She was protective! Califor raised her brows as Mavika reached for another biscuit. Who could inspire Belavierr’s daughter to a kindly word? Mavika didn’t seem to care and croaked at Wiskeria.
“We know. And that authority is his to claim. We care not for it, only what it may offer. All that passes comes again. It matters not what nations rise or fall. Only that [Witches] do not meet their end.”
“So why—”
“Sanctuary.”
And then she was there! Califor had hold of her walking staff and Hedag had her axe before they could stop themselves.
Belavierr, the one they called the Witch of Webs, who had many names besides—was standing in the dining room, a teacup in hand, black porcelain with golden symbols on it, face blank, but mimicking the postures of the others.
She hadn’t come through the door that Califor had sensed; it hadn’t been a shadow-leaping Skill or spell. One second she wasn’t there, the next—
Alevica crashed backwards with an oath, and Eloise jerked backwards, staring at Belavierr. She had entered Eloise’s craft without a single problem, even gotten ahold of Eloise’s tea!
Wiskeria jumped a second, then scowled at her mother.
“I thought I banished you.”
“So you did, Daughter. I have been banished. Now I return. We seek sanctuary, do we not? This is the pact to be struck; this coven is united in purpose. Sanctuary for [Witches]. Now we seven meet. Under midnight’s auspices. I have sacrificed no blood this night nor hung around my neck goat’s feet. So small deeds shall be wrought before we sleep.”
Belavierr’s orange eyes flashed as Califor forced herself to sit down.
“Unless, of course, my coven demands. Then let the hours be long and shadows further deep.”
Style, of a kind. Old words, far older than Califor, the kind witches these days would say and chuckle over. But Belavierr meant them. Wiskeria rolled her eyes and muttered.
“You’re showing off.”
The other [Witches] were silent until Califor nodded at Belavierr and adjusted her hat.
“Welcome, Witch Belavierr. You are of course right, and the coven’s task is purely that. Sanctuary.”
Belavierr’s eyes flicked to Califor, and she inclined her head.
“As you say, Witch. Do you lead this coven?”
“I do. I am Witch Califor.”
“As you say, Witch Califor. I have come, so I accede. How shall it be done?”
The others watched as Belavierr put down her cup and picked up a biscuit. The tea was untouched. Belavierr stared at the tea cup and biscuit as if she had never known thirst nor hunger. Her gaze towards Califor was as indifferent as it was towards the wall.
Only when it came to Wiskeria did that gaze shift ever-so-slightly. Wiskeria returned that glowing stare. She truly was Belavierr’s daughter. The one, the only one there ever had been in the entire lifetime of the Stitch Witch herself.
And that lifetime had been…
Califor was tempted to ask questions, but Belavierr did not waste words.
“That is why we have come. To call on this [Emperor] for sanctuary for all [Witches] on his lands.”
Wiskeria blinked.
“Wh—all [Witches]? Not just you, Mother?”
Now she saw it. Califor sat back as Hedag laughed gently.
“Not just her. Belavierr means sanctuary and protection, Wiskeria, child. That might apply to me, although I’d be content to roam. No, it just means that, if need be, we can flee here. Rally, knowing there’s an army at our backs. It might be a small army, to look at this village!”
“Not just an army, but the protection of his name.”
Eloise swirled the tea in her cup gently. She nodded to Wiskeria, smiling.
“It is a risk, but this [Emperor] may gain more power. And if he needs us, if we strike a deal, it would be the first noble or city to openly ally with our kind in an age, Wiskeria, my dear. That’s what brings this coven to you.”
“So you want me to intercede with him. Why all come yourselves, then? I could do that myself if you sent a letter.”
Wiskeria breathed out. Califor replied evenly.
“Because we represent what Emperor Godart stands to gain, Wiskeria. We must prove our value. Besides, one [Witch]’s word has weight, but we represent the interest of all our covens. Witch Wiskeria, this is not the decision of just some of the [Witches] of Izril.”
Wiskeria’s eyes widened.
“Wait—you mean all of them?”
The seven nodded slowly. Wiskeria shivered suddenly and felt at the goosebumps on her arms.
“That can’t be! Laken could…with that kind of…how dangerous is the Circle of Thorns?”
All eyes turned to Mavika and Belavierr. Mavika shrugged, hunched.
“I remember them once. Two generations hence, when they slew members of the Five Families. Old blood, old feuds spilling onto the earth. A time of shadows and death. Unless Witch Belavierr remembers more?”
She peered at Belavierr. Wiskeria’s mother was still staring at Wiskeria. Slowly, she turned her head to Mavika’s. And blinked.
“Do I…know you?”
It was a complete non-sequitur. Mavika herself gave Belavierr a huge stare that was actually hurt. But suddenly, Belavierr tilted her head.
“You are the crow. Witch Mavika. We have met before.”
“Twice.”
“Yes. I know of you.”
You could probably bottle Belavierr saying that and sell it for credibility among other [Witches]. Mavika nodded, shuffling in her perch, and Belavierr kept staring—then sat back.
“The Circle of Thorns. I remember them thrice. They come again and again. And twice, they culled more than their enemies. [Witches] died. War came to Izril from north and south.”
The coven waited. Belavierr paused. She reached down, picked up the tea cup, and sipped from it. Then she began eating the biscuit. Eloise and Hedag traded a glance. Alevica seemed about to laugh, then caught Mavika’s eye and went still. Califor exhaled through her nose and glanced at Wiskeria. Here, at least, Wiskeria needed no prompting. With a tired sigh, she reached out and nudged her mother.
“Mother, how bad was the war? How many [Witches] died?”
Belavierr paused, as if surprised anyone had follow-up questions. She looked up and replied calmly.
