“His Majesty is returning! And until he does, I am in charge. I, the [Steward] of Emperor Godart, and until he returns, my authority rules! Not any Councilwoman, any mob, or any [Witch]! Is that clear?”
He bellowed, and there was silence from all corners for a moment. Ryoka whistled very quietly.
“Damn. Prost took a few levels in [Badass] since I last met him.”
“I like him. He shouts a lot.”
Charlay looked approving. Beatica, Rodivek, both were crushed in some way Ryoka understood to be a battle of classes as Prost glared at them. They folded their arms, harrumphed, but didn’t dare speak up. It was Mavika who acted first. A crow cawed on her arm, and when Prost looked at her, the hunched [Witch] spoke.
“You speak of laws. Of your right to rule, as if you own land and hearts. Perhaps you claim it of these people. But we are [Witches], Emperor’s man. We cannot be anything else. And where we go, we practice our craft. Will you stop us from that? Bind us with laws? Because we will not be held.”
“Mavika.”
One of the other [Witches], Eloise, sighed. The short grandmother of a woman stepped forwards and adjusted her hat. She smiled at Prost. Eloise looked kindly, which, contrasted with Mavika or Belavierr, made one suspect she had darker secrets still. Prost folded his arms.
“You are guests, Witch Mavika. Are you threatening to curse more people? Or unleash your flock?”
Eloise sighed as Mavika looked at her.
“Neither. Allow me to explain. We are [Witches], Steward Prost. And we have come here to speak with your [Emperor]. But while we wait, we all have services to offer. I, for instance, sell tea.”
“Tea?”
Prost stared at Eloise. So did much of the crowd. The woman smiled, completely at ease with the incredulous looks.
“Teas, tonics, and treatments for what ails a body. Come to me if you seek a [Healer]’s remedies. For tooth rot or just company. I do enjoy chatting. My fellow [Witches] offer different things. Mavika wishes to be assured that she will have the right to offer her abilities to others.”
“Which are?”
Prost looked at Mavika. The [Witch] grinned.
“My flock will clear your fields, [Steward]. Or eliminate pests. I can call fortune or misery. But I must be paid. Worth for work fairly done. Will you gainsay it?”
The man chewed this over and then shook his head.
“No. But remember this. Steal, harm, or threaten others in Riverfarm and the surrounding area, and you will answer to me. The same as anyone else. You may practice your business so long as it is fairly done. As long as it does not harm anyone else. Or you will leave or be dealt with. Is that clear?”
Mavika eyed him. The crows cawed and flapped their wings. But at last, Mavika dipped her head once.
“Very well. I am agreed until a further pact is struck.”
Prost nodded as well. Ryoka thought that was the end of it, but one last woman stepped forwards. Hedag. She boomed as Prost turned to look at her, vexed.
“Mister Steward! You call on us not to harm a hair on another soul’s head. But it is my business to harm and help. I fear I’ll break your laws and do it again and again! So, I call on the rights of my other class. [Executioner].”
An uneasy stir ran back through the crowd. Prost frowned.
“Meaning? You aren’t going to execute—”
A booming laugh interrupted him. Hedag slapped her chest as she guffawed.
“Of course not! Dead gods, but it’s been long since I walked places so near to civilization. Is Riverfarm so close you’ve forgotten my role? The axe is a last resort. But I call on my other duties! Judge and arbiter. Where there are crimes, I find them. Do you know me, Mister Steward?”
“I know your name. And your reputation.”
The [Witch] nodded proudly.
“Just so, then. I am Hedag alone. And you have your laws, and I bring mine. Will you let me work here? I will cut no man or woman down. But I will not promise to leave those that need my craft unscathed.”
She gestured around. Ryoka didn’t know what that meant, but Prost did. So did some of the villagers. They looked at each other a touch uneasily, Ryoka thought, but most glanced at Hedag, mouthed her name, and their resolve firmed.
Who was she? What were her other tasks? Ryoka didn’t know, but Prost nodded after only a beat.
“I grant you leave, then. But whatever you do, Miss Hedag, it will be alone.”
“Fairly said.”
The [Witch] swept her hat off and bowed once. Beatica spluttered at this.
“Steward Prost! You can’t just let that woman—”
“Councilwoman Beatica, silence!”
Prost snapped back. The woman shut up, affronted. Prost shook his head.
“I know who Hedag is. And if she has a rank, it is that of Watch Captain. You may not know of her, but I do. As do many from villages like Riverfarm, I’ll wager. If I were you, Councilwoman Beatica, I would educate yourself about how we do things in villages far from your rule of law. Now, that’s all! This gathering is adjourned. Back to your tasks if you have them! I need men to take care of the body at the pillories. We’ll sort out the rest, and you’ll hear what happens over your supper! Clear the street! Wiskeria, Lady Rie, Durene, with me please. Ram! Helm! Beycalt! Get your folks to work! Now!”
His words broke up the scene at last. Ryoka saw people start and glance around uneasily, but Prost was already striding forwards, chivvying them off, reminding them that they had places to be, jobs to do. He was decisive! The [Witches] gathered around Wiskeria as she pointed at the hats, still clearly distressed. And Ryoka hesitated. Someone poked her in the side, and she yelped.
“Gah—Charlay!”
The Centauress looked delighted at Ryoka’s reaction. She tried to poke again, and Ryoka slapped her hand down. The Centauress gestured at the village.
“This is so weird. I’ve never been to a place like this! Have you ever seen so many [Witches]? I just know Alevica…um, are you going to talk to them?”
“Probably.”
Ryoka glanced at the coven. Charlay pawed the ground uneasily.
“We’re just here to deliver your package, right?”
Ryoka sighed.
“Sort of. Look, I need to talk to—”
“Dead gods, is that a Centaur?”
Someone finally noticed Charlay. The Centauress’ head swung around.
“That’s right! And it’s a Centauress! Who’s asking?”
Some heads turned to stare. Ryoka sighed, but then she saw Prost heading her way. He’d noticed her. Durene spotted Ryoka at last, and her eyes widened.
“Ryoka? Ryoka Griffin?”
“Who’s that? Someone you know, Durene?”
The [Lady] peered at Ryoka as the three came her way. Durene seemed stunned.
“Yes! Ryoka met Laken back in Invrisil. But I didn’t think—wait, did Laken send you, Ryoka?”
Her eyes widened. Heads turned, and Ryoka saw some other villagers turn and point.
“That’s her! The Runner who came during the winter—”
Durene, Rie, and Prost came to a stop in front of Ryoka and Charlay. The Asian girl coughed, feeling embarrassed by the attention. She smiled weakly at Prost. He was surprised to see her too.
“Hi. Mister Prost. Uh, hi, Durene?”
“Miss Ryoka. It’s a pleasure to meet you. But what brings you here? Did His Majesty—”
Prost’s eyes flicked towards Ryoka, then Charlay. Ryoka nodded. She fished in her pouch for the potions.
“That’s right. I have a delivery and, uh—”
Prost halted her with a hand. He glanced at Rie, and she nodded. The man turned back.
“Later. We have to hear what His Majesty sent with you. Or…why you’re here. Lady Rie, we should meet in the throne room in a few minutes. Once the crowd has cleared—”
“Of course. This way, Miss Ryoka. And…is your friend with you?”
Rie looked at Charlay uncertainly. Ryoka hesitated and then nodded.
“Sure. Yes.”
She gazed at Durene. The half-Troll girl was staring. Ryoka uncertainly followed Lady Rie, and Durene looked around. Wiskeria was still just holding the hats. Belavierr bent.
“Daughter. My great work was undone in moments. I was nibbled upon as I slept. At long last, my death once again walks this world, and it—he—burns.”
Witch Wiskeria barely looked up at the incredible address. She lifted a bloodstained hat, grim and sad.
“That’s nice, Mother. I knew these [Witches]. I grieve for them all. Which great work was it? The Helpful Servants? I never liked them.”
“Yes. And more. My craft itself was devoured. My very soul was defiled by strange mice. Nibbling as I dreamed.”
The other [Witches] turned abruptly and fell silent. Ryoka rubbed at her ears. This [Witch] was an aberration among already strange women. When she spoke—
Ryoka felt as though great things had come to pass, not all good. Yet Wiskeria didn’t trivialize them so much as…she looked up and frowned.
“Are you talking about literal mice? Or metaphorical ones.”
The tall [Witch]’s face never moved, never shifted. But she did pause a second and then murmured.
“Metaphorical. Naught one I caught, though I cast a thousand nets of curse and spell and ward. Beyond even ghosts, who returned to walk Noelictus.”
Wiskeria blinked, and she half-turned, then looked down at the bloody hats again.
“Real ghosts? Mother—this is all fascinating. I’m sorry you’re mortal again, but let me grieve for the dead.”
Wiskeria’s eyes were filled with tears as she held one of the pointed hats. Belavierr paused.
“I searched for you when you left, Daughter.”
“Not very hard or you would have found me. Don’t pretend this is just for me, Mother. I heard you claiming sanctuary. Leave Riverfarm out of it.”
Ryoka couldn’t tell if—it was the strangest conversation between mother and daughter she’d ever heard. Familiar, and yet they were so distant in a way that it hurt. Wiskeria was running her fingers over a hole in one of the hats, and Belavierr kept talking.
“I take it you are well? You appear to be well.”
Ryoka saw Wiskeria’s head snap up, her eyes flashing.
“I’m fine. How’s Ostevien?”
Another name Ryoka didn’t know, but Wiskeria spat that word out with such intensity…Eloise twitched slightly, and each [Witch] save Alevica and Nanette reacted visibly to the name. Califor with a deep frown, Eloise with an indrawn breath, Hedag with a grimace, and Mavika with a bright stare for both [Witches].
And Belavierr said:
“…Who?”
Her face was completely blank. Wiskeria whirled, face filled with fury.
“That’s what I thought. Begone, Mother! Once, I banish you, for you did not come here for me. Twice, I banish you, because you do not even know his name. Thrice, I banish you, because I am busy and we have naught to say. Leave.”
Then she lifted the brim of her hat, and Ryoka saw magic. Not a flash of light or incantation, but the simplest of things.
Wiskeria tipped up her hat, squared her shoulders, and gave Belavierr a damn strong shove. Despite their huge difference in sizes, Belavierr stumbled backwards a step. She took one step back—then another—then caught herself, oddly strained, as if holding herself in place.
“You have improved your craft, Daughter.”
“Oh, please.”
Wiskeria rolled her eyes. She looked disgusted, annoyed, and even embarrassed and angry by Belavierr’s presence. The taller [Witch] stood there a second, and only then did Ryoka see how she was now angled forwards, as if a great wind were blowing her back.
People stared; Belavierr shouldn’t have been able to lean forwards like that in the air, as if braced, without something pushing her. But there was no wind, no pressure…then Ryoka saw the woman’s boots skidding slightly on the street.
Something was pushing her back, but the great [Witch] barely acknowledged it. She took in her daughter—then turned, slowly, and began to walk away.
One of the [Witches], the short Eloise, broke the silence as Belavierr retreated, striding away through Riverfarm.
“Hundred Kings of Terandria, I cannot believe that worked. I thought she was unbanishable.”
Witch Califor nodded, eyes on the distant figure.
“She allowed it. Even she must obey laws. Most of the time. A quite effective banishment, Witch Wiskeria. Old and direct. May we speak?”
At this, Witch Wiskeria turned and, remembering the other [Witches], doffed her hat and bowed.
“Witches Califor, Hedag, Mavika, Eloise, Alevica, and Nanette—I am truly sorry. I did not mean to be so rude when you approached me. I thought I was being inducted into Mavika’s coven and did not know the circumstances.”
Her head turned, and Wiskeria gazed blankly at the hats. Hedag bowed her head, her smile vanishing.
“A mess it is, and let all be forgiven that can be! Your mother and the hunting of [Witches]. Poor girl. Come here, Witch Wiskeria.”
She swept the younger woman up in a hug. Wiskeria yelped, and Durene saw Califor sigh.
“We may speak later. My concern is where we will be sleeping. It would be preferable to rent a house in the village; if not, we shall camp. Let us organize that, then—”
The [Witches] marched straight towards Prost. He was busy arguing with Rodivek and Beatica, sending people back to work, organizing a burial for Elmmet—and Durene stood there. She stared around. Then at the young woman. This was Laken’s help?
“Ryoka?”
 
—–
 
Later that day, Ryoka sat in Durene’s cottage. She blinked around the small hut, stared at the bed Durene had given her. And at the Centauress trying to lie down on it.
“It’s big enough for me, but it’s not comfy. Hey, do you have any more blankets, Ryoka? We should get some more from the village. Ooh! Wait a second! Suddenly it feels soft! Is this a Skill? A magic bed?”
The delighted Centauress was wriggling on the wide bed. Ryoka looked at her own smaller cot set up next to it. It did feel ludicrously soft for what was a sleeping bag on a hardwood floor. Durene paused as she fed Frostwing.
“That’s Laken’s Skill. [Blessing of the Hearth]. You’ll sleep like babies even on hay. Want another blanket? Sorry it’s so cramped.”
“Nope! I like it! This is better than most inns! The bed feels amazing! Hey, Ryoka, does your bedding feel like that?”
Ryoka glanced up at Charlay. She blinked twice, then nodded.
“Yup. Feels nice. Charlay, why are you taking Durene’s bed?”
The Centauress paused.
“Because she offered it? She said she’s okay with sleeping on the floor! Why? You want to gamble for it? I could toss a coin. Best three out of five?”
She reached for her money pouch. Ryoka shook her head.
“Why are you here? I told you, I’m staying.”
The Centauress paused.
“Right. You did say that. Well—it seemed interesting. So I’m staying too!”
She grinned at Ryoka. The young woman shook her head. But she couldn’t argue. It had been an interesting meeting. Not exactly reassuring on any side, but interesting—
 
—–
 
