“The moment I saw her, I was transfixed. Her eyes were mesmerising, deep pools through which I could glance the epoch of my greatest joy, or perhaps my untimely demise. A swirling miasma of black mystery reflected my sordid desires, my greatest fears… all of it was laid bare to her, and through her subtle, serrated smile, I watched her as she passed my way without a second glance, her motions so fluid, so regal, so assured, that the entire room pulsed and breathed to her effortless rhythm.”

“There was not a man here among us fifty present who had any business being hers, all of us earthly and transient, frivolous and fragile, our riches and our youth paling in the wake of her endless and eternal splendour…”

“And yet, I didn’t need a second glance. No one else in the room had even received one.”

“She had chosen me. And in my heart, I already knew that I had—Hey, are you enjoying this? I can grab the tax book if—”

Rika batted Markus with her tail. “Don’t stop!”

“Alright, fine. You really like it that much?”

“I don’t understand half the shit coming out of your mouth,” Rika admitted. She sighed. “All I know is, it sounds pretty when you say it.”

Markus smiled. He picked the book back up.

“And in my heart, I already knew that I had chosen her.”

***

Within half an hour, Rika was asleep. Asleep laying on Markus.

Snoring.

It was kinda comfy, even if his shoulder was beginning to ache after a solid minute.

She was really fluffy. But she needed to lay down. Markus began moving her and putting a pillow beneath her head when a voice sounded behind him.

“Whoa, what the fuck?” came the sound that made Markus absolutely jump out of his skin.

Luckily, Rika seemed to be a complete log, and barely stirred from the sound.

Markus wheeled around, just in time to find a certain treacherous imp waltzing into his cell.

“You shacking up with the locals now, huh?” Didn’t take ya very long, did it?

Markus cleared his throat. Explaining this was way more hassle than it was worth.

“Hey, Abrah. This isn’t what it looks like.”

“Sure it ain’t.” He shrugged, then slumped his shoulders. “I don’t give a fuck. I’m just here to get paid. You never fucking paid me. Wanted to see if you got that chest open yet too.”

Markus glanced at the ornate chest in the far end of the room, still locked, still sat with a metal tool jammed inside the lock.

Eh, screw it. Guess now was as good a time as any.
