There was a sensation you got in places that were, for the lack of a better word, otherworldly. It was like the tingle at the back of your neck when something amazing happened, but in the air. Like the [Garden of Sanctuary]. However, Mrsha knew she wasn’t in the garden; the effect was way stronger than even Erin’s domain.
Back to her items. One of the things Mrsha was most wary of, despite still not having her bearings, was starvation. She’d been badly hungry before, so she sighed in pure relief when she found sustenance, at least, for a few days.
An entire jar of Calescent-grade cookies produced an aroma of mixed smells. Spice, sweet, even some chocolate…her cookies looted from his kitchen. Mrsha almost ate one then and there, but she caught herself.
I’ll need this if I’m here for a few days and there’s no food. Or to barter with. Faeries love cookies. She even had a half-empty water flask that she was going to desperately need, and she tucked those away at once.
What else did she have? Uh…her anti-appraisal ring, probably useless. A stack of notes of pre-written phrases. Her speaking runes that said ‘hey, listen’ and stuff like that—Mrsha actually moved them to one side.
Maybe they’d be good as distractions? Plus, hadn’t Ryoko said that magic from this world had been valuable to the fae? Lastly, Mrsha had a Tripvine Bag and Pepperspray Potion for ultra emergencies.
And her cape.
Mrsha’s eyes widened as she finally found something she definitely could use. The Cape of Heroes! Bright yellow, enchanted by Master Hedault; she fastened it to her neck and felt invigorated. Mrsha did a frontflip, landed on her feet, and nodded.
Mobility is mine! She ran forwards, raced sideways up a wall a few steps, and then gravity reasserted itself. She remembered the cape had a limited mana pool before it needed to recharge.
Can I reach the ceiling from here? Mrsha stared up at the ceiling as she picked up her lantern.
…Nope. Absolutely not. If she could run up the wall, she doubted she’d get more than eight feet, even with the cape, and she couldn’t run on the ceiling. The cape was useful. Not game-changing.
Still, she felt much more equipped. Lantern in one paw, holding it by a simple ring of iron, and Wand of the Mrsha in the other. Cape on her back; Mrsha was ready as she was going to get.
Oh yes, iron lantern. She hadn’t forgotten the cardinal rule of faeries. Mrsha took a few deep breaths and held the lantern up.
Orange light swept down the corridor like a warning glow, swift, yet only stretching a few dozen feet before seeming to double back in fear. The light wobbled as Mrsha took a few steps forwards. It was so quiet her ears hurt.
Normally, any place had noise, even The Wandering Inn at night. Floorboards moving. Wind. People sighing or breathing. Here?
Nothing. Mrsha could hear her own heartbeat thudding loudly in her ears, her breath coming in short, quick bursts. It was so quiet she thought she’d go mad.
This entire place feels…dead. Am I in the catacombs of the Faerie King? Dead faeries. Great.
This was the kind of adventure where Saliss would check out the name and prompt and decide he was underleveled. Maybe it was like a video game? Mrsha walked down the stone hallway, trying to make it like a game from Kevin’s laptop. Numbtongue didn’t want it as much anymore, so she’d played all the games on it.
Mrsha and the Catacombs of the Faerie King! Level 70+ challenge!
Instant death!
Wait. She paused as the light continued to do funny things. Mrsha glanced over her shoulder and groaned.
The roots of…whatever they had been! The ropes! Her mysterious level up!
Of course. This was why she’d gotten the announcement! She’d been awarded all the levels for entering the lands of the fae! Level 70…actually felt right for doing something that stupid.
Hey, levelling…system? I could really use my old class! I think it’s deserved! Pretty please? With a cherry on top?
Mrsha raised the lantern higher. She was in a long hallway, and the light was showing her what looked like…caved in dirt and stone on one end. True signs of decay or collapse. She blamed the flowers; there were cracks along the stone ceiling, and the ropes had poked through in more than just the one spot.
Damn things collapsed this entire hallway. The other way was illuminated by the bright orange light, but even so, Mrsha’s vision ended a mere forty feet ahead of her. She steeled herself and began to walk. She needed either something to build with, to get up to the hole in the ceiling without breaking the ropes, to know where she was, or friendly people.
Failing that, Mrsha just needed to see one horrific monster or trap or ominous message on the wall and she’d risk climbing the ropes even if they broke. All the while, she kept begging the Grand Design of Isthekenous for a single Skill from its announcement.
 
——
 
The first clue Mrsha had to where she was took her five seconds of walking. Her eyes were scanning the darkness as she plodded forwards, her senses failing her.
Sight, hearing, smell—all were indicating a void of dust and stone so nondescript as to be terrifying in itself. Mrsha had never, ever smelled something like this.
Stone didn’t smell like stone. It smelled like moss, rainfall, and a building always had the faintest odors of people walking through it. Invisible stains of scent left behind.
This place was truly empty. No one had ever walked here, ever, according to Mrsha’s nose. Or if they had, it was so long ago that even scent had dissolved. It was so deathly silent; she couldn’t hear anything. When Mrsha did hear something, she spun—and saw a fragment of dirt falling from the hole in the ceiling.
It was so damn quiet that it sounded like a huge patter of sound.
It was her eyes that revealed the next clue. Mrsha had been looking ahead, squinting in the darkness to see where this hallway led. But she realized, as she walked forwards, the light wasn’t helping her.
When she looked down, she jerked and halted. The orange tide of light emitted from her lantern had rushed forwards to illuminate the hallway, but had abruptly broken and stopped. It refused to go further, even as she walked forwards.
The glow of tangerine light was pooled in a huge arc on the ground, brighter over here, despite being further away from her lantern, forming a ‘u’ facing…something in the darkness.
Oh come on. Mrsha’s fur rose as she lifted the lantern, and the light moved like it was water, oscillating—and refusing to go further. It lapped against something ahead of her, and Mrsha’s sense of trepidation rose.
There was something there. She took another few steps forward, and the glow intensified—and remained frozen in the air, refusing to illuminate anything past a certain boundary. There was a sphere of darkness, a dividing line where light refused to cross and went back the other way.
Mrsha was surrounded by a glow now almost like the dawn…and reached a paw out to that curtain of darkness beyond. She hesitated…but it was just plain air. She coughed—there was dust in it—then put her paw out.
It turned dark, and she jerked it back, but there was nothing…Mrsha squinted into the gloom. Then she took a step—and her lantern’s light abruptly went out.
All the light in the hallway vanished. Mrsha stared at her lantern and nearly went blind.
The ember was still burning in it, but all the light was now contained in said lantern. Where it should have spilled out, obeying the laws of physics, it was a solar beacon, a miniature sun—yet one that provided no illumination. It was merely bright in and of itself.
It refused to leave the glass case. The lantern swung as Mrsha lowered it, then stared. It was as if even light had a ranking, and it was below the bar of entry for the space here. Yet if there had been natural, regal light, intended…Mrsha’s dazzled eyes took a moment to adjust. She gazed up at something in the darkness and sighed.
Ah. Of course.
It was a door. It was always a damn door.
It was huge. A door fit for a half-Giant, and not one merely Moore’s size. Thirty feet high; it dominated the hallway and was a third as wide. Made of stone with no handle, something carved into the surface.
Mrsha couldn’t see it since the light was refusing to come out of the lantern. She squinted, heart juddering in her chest, and thought the door seemed…weirdly familiar. It was super hecking dark, but she thought if there was any light anywhere, in the entire world, it was coming from here.
To be more precise…it was coming from something in the center of the doorway. Mrsha realized what it was as she made out the design on the door and things connected in her head.
It was a single keyhole. A strange design unlike the traditional keyholes she knew. Second—
She recognized the design. It looked like two outstretched wings over a crest that was familiar because Mrsha had seen it before. It was the symbol she had glimpsed just once in a special hallway in Erin’s [Garden of Sanctuary].
The hallway that led to the [Pavilion of Secrets]. Only, that had been a door at the end of a hallway of doors, far smaller, in a void of nothingness. Here? Mrsha was in a collapsed, empty passageway of stone.
…And one more thing. The markings on the wall were indented, not raised. They had no shine to them; they were literally just impressions without color or detailing beyond the size. It was as if—
Mrsha were on the wrong side of the door.
Why she thought that, why it provoked a shiver all up and down her body, the girl couldn’t have said. But the wrongness intensified. It was the lantern refusing to give light. As if it knew it wasn’t allowed to shine through the keyhole.
And the light beyond was infinitesimal. Tiny; it wasn’t bright light, like that of any spell or flame. It was just that compared to this absolute darkness, there was some light at all.
Nothing for it. Mrsha took a few more steps forward and had a thought as she felt along the door. The keyhole was, annoyingly, several damn feet above her head, even set far lower to the ground. Definitely all the light was coming from this. Mrsha eyed it.
I don’t think I’m in the lands of the fae anymore. Is this a secret part of Erin’s [Garden of Sanctuary]? It can’t be. She’s never hinted about this, and I think she would have if she had a free hallway.
She’d put all the food in here or something.
Yet it was no longer Avalon in Mrsha’s mind. She felt like the faerie folk’s land should smell of something, even if that something was unnatural.
This absolute void of detail spoke to her of the system. Mrsha recalled when Pelt had been so unnerved by the items rewarded by a <Quest>. He had said that while the swords and other objects were of certain qualities, he had not sensed the workings of any hammers on the sword that Redscar had been given.
The same eeriness applied. No one had ever been here. And Mrsha was beginning to think that she shouldn’t be here. Well, that was obvious, but she meant it in the sense of ‘she wasn’t even on the right side of this damn door’.
There was no crack or way to see through the door beyond the keyhole. So Mrsha had to get up to it. That proved trickier than she wanted, but she made do. She put the cookie pot on the ground, then, grimacing, stood on it.
…Too short by about a head. Wonderful. Mrsha had to balance the lantern on the cookie pot and hope she didn’t break either then, leaning on the door, wobble her way up to the keyhole.
Twice, she fell over with a crash, but Calescent didn’t make pots that gave up the ghost that easily, so Mrsha got back up. The damn rounded lid gave her trouble until she had the idea to flip it over; the oval depression let the lantern balance on it better, and Mrsha’s feet nearly slipped on the lantern’s top as she finally got her head up just high enough to peek one eye through the keyhole.
Then she gasped.
There was nothing beyond. But hold on—it was a different nothing than this place. Instead of the empty tunnel, it was absolute nothingness beyond.
A void. Not even the stellar cosmos that the Earthers told Mrsha was ‘space’, filled with stars.
This was pure oblivion. A nothingness so absolute that calling it ‘black’ was meaningless. It was a lack of color that Mrsha’s mind only translated as ‘black’ so she didn’t go mad. Absolute. Wondrously terrifying.
Okay, I’m glad I’m not over there. Mrsha was entranced for a good minute, then worried she’d come to a dead-end. She swiveled slightly, slipping as the lantern shifted, changing her angle—
The appearance of something blasted Mrsha’s eyes with such color that she gasped. A trickle of noise filled the void, as did the sight of something incredible.
A…huge, rounded dome sitting in the void. A brick pathway leading up to it and far, visible beyond the thin beams of the gazebo, past a square table with two chairs, was a door.
The same door that Mrsha had seen in the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Suddenly, she knew where she was, or at least, what she was seeing.
[The Pavilion of Secrets]. She was staring at a weird gazebo floating in the aether, painted white, like the weirdest place to relax Mrsha had ever seen in her life. So that’s where this door led!
…Was this Erin’s new Skill? Ishkr had said he’d visited Erin in a place like this. The real Erin, not whomever was masquerading as her. Mrsha’s mind was racing.
Wait, then Erin’s here! I can go help her! Bring her back? She glanced around, desperate, but there was no Erin present. Erin probably had to enter this place to do anything, right?
If the door was there…that meant the way back to the [Garden of Sanctuary] was right there too. All Mrsha had to do was, uh, squeeze herself through a gap smaller than her eyeball.
No problem! Mrsha punched the door and decided it was probably impregnable. Okay…but she had a keyhole here. Could you pick the lock? She didn’t see any tumbling things or mechanisms like Seborn described, and she was no [Rogue].
There had to be a way. At the very least, Mrsha knew where she was, and it was not in faerie-death-land. Or the dungeon, which, to be frank, had been Mrsha’s other worry. She did not want to run into Facestealer 2.0.
Mrsha’s legs slipped as she tried to lean forwards, and over she went with a crash. It was the loudest thing in the world, and cursing, she saw the magical ember vanish. Not that the lantern was much good; she scrabbled around, picking up cookies, reassembling her impromptu step stool. She ate a cinnamon cookie in relief and masticated furiously as she took a sip of water.
Okay, I’m staring into the [Pavilion of Secrets]. Then…wait. Where the heck am I? 
If she was on the other side of…Mrsha stopped chewing. Then glanced over her shoulder.
Where…was…she?
There was a door in the [Pavilion of Secrets]?
