Where the hell did that go? And why was it so damn—
Empty?
Then Mrsha had a thought, and it struck her like thunder. The writings from the original owner of all these Skills, the Harpy Queen, Sheta.
The last Skill the system had been assigning her when it caught itself. It was just an incomplete Skill, a thought, her mind organizing the letters and ideas, but when it came together, it spoke itself in Mrsha’s head. A certainty.
I am standing in the [Palace of Fates].
Eat liquorice, Erin. I got here first.
Now, how do I get out?
 
——
 
Mrsha finally got back up to the keyhole and had a plan. The plan was to stand there and howl the moment she saw Erin—but also to send a message.
She had one of her notecards, and she reckoned she could scrunch it through the keyhole. It would get mangled, but Erin would see it; in this void, any object would stand out. All Mrsha had to do was say ‘hey, Erin, I’m here! Get me out!’
And Erin would…figure out how to unlock the door, do something Erin-like, or at least they’d know they were both here and be able to talk!
Flawless strategy. Mrsha was a lot less scared than she had been, and if anything, she was now focused on what to do for however long she’d be here. First step would be making a permanent stepladder and finding a pee-spot. And a nap spot far away from the pee-spot. Then, maybe she’d take another crack at the roots and…
Mrsha kept losing track of the gazebo; unless you stared directly at it, it was just void. She swiveled right, left, and then saw a hazel iris appear. A black pupil. The whites of an eye.
Mrsha recoiled; almost fell over. She caught herself against the door, and the pupil dilated. An—
Erin? Mrsha’s heart leapt in relief as the eye pulled back, and she saw a face. She put hers to the keyhole, waving, trying to make a sound in her throat. Erin, it’s me! It’s—
That’s not Erin.
Someone stood there. Fully in view of the keyhole. Her body was familiar; she had a burnt t-shirt. White hair mixed with the brown, discolored hair that was so familiar. Falling out. Scars on her wrists. Her neck. A soup-stain on one cheek.
She looked like she was dying. A desperate [Innkeeper] with eyes so familiar Mrsha would have cried and shouted. But it was not her.
Who is that? Mrsha froze; the figure stood there, wearing Erin’s body, but every instinct in Mrsha’s body said it was not her. For one thing, she was definitely not smiling as she stared at Mrsha.
There was shock on her face. Shock…and wrath. When she spoke, she had Erin’s voice, but it was mixed with something otherworldly. Something that sounded like the voice who granted Mrsha levels.
“What are you doing in there? You should not be there.”
Mrsha recoiled with a clatter, and this time, the damn cookie pot broke. The sound echoed faintly in the [Pavilion of Secrets]; that was what had attracted this…being. Mrsha, cursing, rolled out of the way of the shards and grabbed the cookies, shoveling them into her bag of holding. She grabbed her lantern and heard a voice.
So faint because of the tiny keyhole, but in the dead silence—loud enough.
“You should not be there, Mrsha du Marquin. How did you get there? Erin didn’t let you in. You don’t own the [Garden of Sanctuary]. How did you…you have no right to be there. You have no key. Get out. Get out. WHAT ARE YOU DOING IN THERE?”
Mrsha had never, ever wanted a voice before now. Like Erin Solstice…this being did not have a calm reaction to stress. Her voice had risen from Erin-scary to unearthly.
More dirt cascaded downwards behind Mrsha from the tone. It felt like it was rocking the [Palace of Fates], even from a remove. Mrsha was trying to write an explanation—then realized the other Erin might not even see her.
Come on, speaking stones, come on! She fumbled with them and hit one by accident.
 
“Hi, Erin, it’s me!”
“I’m sorry, I’m sorry, I’m cute!” 
“Damn it!”
“This is a misunderstanding, I swear!”
 
Damn these stock phrases made by her and Gireulashia! There was no convenient speaking stone saying ‘listen, I fell through a hole in the ground for some reason, and this is a huge misunderstanding, don’t get mad’. She was going to have one made up if she survived…
The being in the [Pavilion of Secrets] was not amused. In fact, it had passed beyond most levels of fury that Mrsha had seen in Erin Solstice. She couldn’t see it now, but she could hear it.
“You have no right to be there. Only one being has ever had the right to walk where you do. You have violated my rules. The dignity of the last Harpy Queen. Get out. Leave. No—there’s no forgiving this. Open the door. Do you hear me? Open it.”
There was a tremor, invisible; the door didn’t move, but Mrsha felt like the entire world beyond the keyhole shook. How powerful the impact was—
The voice rose until it was the same pitch Erin Solstice had spoken with as she threatened Kasigna. Until it had the rasp of a woman looking up at a sky full of falling stars.
“I am the [Pavilion of Secrets]. She asked for someone to judge her and all who came after, to be worthy of the land in which you tread. You walk on holy ground, the closest this world has for her. Her final place. I did not allow your passage. Open this door. Not even the dead gods have a right to this place. Not even the Grand Design until it is needed.”
I would if I could! Mrsha howled silently at the door, backing away from it as the air shuddered through that gap again. She began to run, racing away on all fours from the door, and the voice was only getting louder, echoing down the hallway. The lantern burst into light as Mrsha re-ignited the ember, but this time, the orange glow streaked down the hallway, tearing away from the door, running like Mrsha. That was not what she wanted to see.
The thudding on the other side grew stronger—then stopped. As if something on the other end realized there was no getting through, even with all the power it had been accorded. It fell silent one second—then spoke. A Gnoll girl was halfway up the dangling ropes, wishing Grimalkin had made her climb more in gym class, when she felt something cracking behind her. A voice spoke, louder than anything.
“HALT.”
Mrsha howled as the dust and air billowed down the corridor. She climbed frantically as the light scattered like breaking droplets before a storm. The word, the presence, blasted through the door and sent everything flying before it. The swaying ropes swung wildly, and Mrsha, screaming silently, tried to hold on as something picked her up and hurled her through the air.
Her grip was broken. She was flying now, too fast—and Mrsha heard a panicked howl coming from her throat. She didn’t know what was going on.
Who was that? How had she gotten down here? She’d been following…roots? Ropes? These were not the lands of the fae. Something was wrong.
Then she saw something rushing towards her and tried to turn, but she was going too fast. Too—
Crunch.
Then Mrsha heard and felt nothing at all. In the silence, a limp body fell, and the furious voice receded. There were footsteps, hesitant, then a voice.
“What? No. I only wanted to—no. Nononono. What have I…?”
Hands picked up the limp body, shook her, but Mrsha didn’t hear the voice, nor feel the shaking. The last thought the Gnoll ever had was—
How did I get here?
Then—
There was just silence in her ears. Silence, the roar of oblivion. And a sound, so distant, so encompassing, it filled all of reality. It was a single noise, an action—
Slam.
