Sometimes…
Secrets were best left hidden. Open that box you found and you might have the truth. Or an answer. Or a chance.
Fear the box. Sometimes, you fell.
And fell, calling out without a voice, through the earth, through what felt like dead air, into a place you should not be.
Straight into an answer, a place no one could predict you’d be.
Landing with dirt showering around you, long, magical roots of plants that should never have been grown here, and pain.
Falling always hurt. She couldn’t remember how many times she’d done this. Fallen down a pit into a place of danger and secrets.
…At least once before. Twice, if you counted the ravine when she was small. But that had just been a crummy pit. It felt like the places she fell into were getting progressively more important.
Not that Mrsha du Marquin, the Doombearer of the Stone Spears tribe, child of The Wandering Inn, thought of anything at all at first.
 
——
 
Everything hurt. Her head was a jumble of weird ideas like the fact that she was getting tired of falling into pits.
Confusion. She’d landed on her shoulder, and it ached. Mrsha opened her eyes, dirt stinging her fur, and then realized what had happened. She sat up slowly, wincing. Everything was black, dark, and she had hit the ground hard enough to knock herself unconscious.
Not hard enough to splatter, and she must have bounced off the roots on the way down, which had slowed her fall. Darkness—dirt falling off her.
Mrsha remembered how she’d gotten here: swimming through the [Garden of Sanctuary] and seeing the roots…
What roots…?
…going through the floor, which was purely impossible. She’d made the mistake of touching the hole and…
Mrsha whined as she felt at her arm, then fully realized what was going on.
Then she panicked.
Mrsha was eight years old. Technically, older by Earth standards due to the discrepancies between years, but still a kid at heart. Even if, when she stood, dirt sloughed off the kilt she wore, a green, checkered pattern, and she had a t-shirt on, light and thin, saying ‘I Survived Liscor Hunted’. Which was a lie because she hadn’t been allowed to do the experience yet, and Menolit just kept handing out the t-shirts to people he liked.
Mrsha sniffed and felt at her nose. No blood. She searched around, looked up, and then got on all fours and did a panic run around in a circle, screaming silently.
I’m dead. I’mdeadI’msodeadohdeadgodsthisisitIregreteverything.
The last time she’d fallen into a hole, it had been the dungeon, and Zel Shivertail, the Halfseekers, Klbkch, Krshia, Xrn, and Griffon Hunt had gone down to rescue her. That had been bad.
This was even worse, somehow. Mrsha came to a halt and lay against the pile of dirt she’d landed on, panting.
I fell through the bottom of the [Garden of Sanctuary]. No one knows where I am. I am so dead. 
She hadn’t wanted this! She’d just been curious! She’d been having a normal day. She did not want another adventure.
Seriously. And especially not ‘legendary, ultra-death, Named-rank plus plus’ mode. Mrsha’s eyes were refusing to adjust to the darkness, which suggested that it was pitch-black without any ambient light. Even when she looked up, she couldn’t see any light…Mrsha began trying to climb the roots.
Unfortunately, the long, dangling strands of the buried…flowers?…might be so terrifically long they reached down all this way, but they were slippery and damp, and Mrsha got barely up four feet before slipping and hitting the ground.
Something was wrong. She cried out as she landed and stared at the swaying roots above her head. The damn roots were too hard to grasp, and she was too weak! They were wet and dirty and—
…Rope?
Huh?
Mrsha stared at the dim roots in the darkness. Or rather…she clearly remembered the long, tangled roots. But instead of them, she saw long, thin strands of, well…rope.
Definitely rope. They were neat, braided strands. Just hanging from the ceiling.
What the heck? Mrsha felt at them gingerly, and they were slick with damp and dirt, but definitely not roots of any kind. Wait, where were the…
…What was going on? She stared up at the ceiling and tried to remember how she’d gotten here. Let’s see. She’d been swimming down—and then she’d fallen into a…what had she been chasing?
She couldn’t remember. Mrsha rubbed at her head, and then her panic reasserted itself. If she didn’t even know how she’d left the [Garden of Sanctuary]—!
She had to get out of here. Ropes or not, Mrsha swarmed up them towards the ceiling. But all she saw was dirt above; she didn’t sense the [Garden of Sanctuary]. And she only got five feet up before she slipped and burned her paws on the ropes on the way down.
Undeterred, frantic, she tried again. But Valeterisa’s magic had worn off; she was no longer enchanted with [Lion’s Strength], and even when she did haul herself up what felt like at least twenty feet—she patted the ‘ceiling’ and found only compacted dirt.
Oh no. [Groundswim] was deactivated. Mrsha tried to dig upwards and just got so much dirt cascading over her face she spluttered and nearly fell. Her paw brushed something sharp and hard—stone? She recoiled, lost her grip on the ropes, and tumbled down.
Ow. Only her [Fur of the Fortress] and [Lesser Toughness] Skills kept her from breaking bones from that fall. Come to that, Mrsha realized that if Nanette or Visma or anyone else had taken the twenty-foot drop, they would have been seriously hurt.
Okay, breathe, Mrsha. She had her Skills, Mrsha realized. Which was good? Something, at least.
It would not save her.
She knew where she was. There was only one place it could be in Mrsha’s mind, and she was desperate to escape before she super-died.
She was in Avalon. The lands of the Fae.
Where else would the ropes have led her? Erin and Ryoko had talked about the faerie rings of mushrooms, about make-believe faeries and the like. Not that her world or this one had faeries in it, which was one of the few good things as far as Ryoko was concerned. But Mrsha knew the stories. Ryoko had redacted the really scary parts, but even her tales of the evil faeries kidnapping children were bad enough.
…Mrsha did not want to be here. Nope. No way.
Get me out of here. Get me Saliss! Get me all of Manus, and let them get eaten here. Help! Heeeeelp!
It was just as well Mrsha didn’t have a voice because she might have alerted whatever was around her in the darkness by her panicked voice. As it was, she was halfway up the ropes again when she sensed them shifting in a way she didn’t like.
They were decently thick and twined together, but they were still the roots—ropes—of, well, flowers. Even if they were flowers now dozens of feet long. They could rip or tear at any moment, and Mrsha realized that if there was a way up—she had to be strategic about this.
If I rip these ropes out, then I have to get up twenty feet to the ceiling and somehow get into the [Garden of Sanctuary] without them. Plus, they might be the only way back through.
Mrsha was absolutely certain that the magical ropes had created some kind of portal, like Erin’s door Skill, and if they snapped—she instantly let go and forced herself to sit.
She was a [Survivor]. Think, Mrsha. Don’t panic—she glanced around the darkness, ears pricking for any sound whatsoever, but she heard nothing.
It didn’t mean she was safe, but she had to trust to her hearing and nose. She smelled a lotta dust, actually. Dust, dirt, the otherworldly fragrance of the ropes…stone. Virtually nothing else.
If I’m lucky, I’m in, like, the catacombs of a palace or a cave. Maybe I can go out there and get my bearings? 
Waitwaitwaitwaitwait. That was what the old Mrsha would do. The young kid who, frankly, might survive by luck and the goodwill of others. Or get eaten here. Or lose her soul.
What did Ryoko say about the faeries? Um. Never tell them your name. Never agree to anything? Don’t be here?
Be super polite, as if all of them were like Fetohep without the niceness. Mrsha recalled all the fairy-rules she knew.
If she ran into a fae, it would be a being from a different realm who had to obey certain pacts, but who were able and willing to kill small children. Mrsha didn’t just have Ryoko’s stories; Laken and Kevin and all the other Earthers had opinions on the fae, though theirs ranged from warily excited or happy to ominous and dire. Usually it depended on the culture they were from.
Erin’s were the nicest, like Tinkerbell, and frankly, the most inaccurate. From Ryoko’s understanding of them, Laken was closest. Mrsha had also watched movies via the [World’s Eye Theatre] and really, really wished she hadn’t seen Pan’s Labyrinth. Erin had forbidden the movie, but Nanette just had to drag Mrsha to a midnight screening. Then again, Mrsha had loved it.
Stupid past Mrsha.
If you run into a monster with eyes on its hands…
There was no way out. Mrsha’s heart was beating out of her chest in terror. Then her mind presented her with a question.
Why do I think I’m in the land of the fae?
There was no rhyme or reason for it. No one had ever seen a faerie in this world. But for some reason, she was terrified of this hypothetical more than anything else. And why did she think of Ryoko?
Mrsha stared at the dangling ropes. She felt her heart thundering in her chest. But faeries weren’t real.
Yet she was afraid.
…Why?
 
——
 
At some point, Mrsha calmed down. Her frantic thoughts turned into more deliberate decision-making. It might have been fifteen minutes?
It was a sign that Mrsha had been in life-threatening situations that she got to anything like a logical place of mind. Scared as she was, she had done this before, been alone, and she had the advantages of both multiple traumatic events and her life as a Plains Gnoll to draw on.
Okay, I need light. Gear check!
As soon as Mrsha stopped looking everywhere for threats, she took stock. She had a banged up arm and shoulder, but nothing bad. Her clothing was dirty, but that was all, and she had…her bag of holding.
Mrsha sighed in relief, then pulled something out of its holster on her side. She waved the Wand of the Mrsha in the air.
Aha! With it, she had access to four spells! She could cast two from a list each day:
[Lucky Glimmer], [Flick Fire], [Earth Clod], and [Scribe Text]. Mrsha often used it to fast-write things she wanted to say, so it had…zero charges of magic.
Creler shit. But it was still a spell catalyst, and Mrsha didn’t think Tier 1 combat spells were good anyways. But if she had to fight—
[Thorn Arrow] and [Stone Dart] were Mrsha’s top-tier combat spells. Tier 1 and Tier 2 magic respectively. She could cast [Stone Dart] three times a day, and it had the punch of a sharp piece of rock hurled by someone like Selys. For close-combat, Mrsha had [Thorn Paw], which made a fairly sharp thorn appear on her paw. She also had her teeth, and claws, and [Fur of the Fortress] and [Natural Toughness].
…No fighting. For stealth, she had [Natural Concealment]—which was surprisingly useful, but she was no Seborn. She had [Student] and [Scribbler] Skills, but Mrsha was low on useful Skills except in one department.
And that was her oft-forgotten class.
[Emberbearer].
It came to the forefront of her mind as Mrsha pulled objects out of her bag of holding. She was cursing her lack of organization; she had a lot of gifts and trinkets, most of which were in her room because she hadn’t thought she’d be doing anything interesting today.
However, she raised a paw, and something flared to life as she thought a Skill.
[Rekindle Flame]. [Lasting Ember].
A soft, orange glow filled the air at last, and Mrsha looked around. She saw a pile of dirt, pale, brown rope, and a long, long hallway of grey stone. The stone looked…ancient beyond belief. It had no inscriptions; this was clearly somewhere unused given the dust in the air, and when Mrsha gazed up, she saw a stone ceiling twenty plus feet overhead. And a small, tiny patch of dirt where the ropes were coming from.
No way up there without a ladder or staircase. I really wish I’d mastered geomancy spells now. 
The [Druid] gulped. She held the ember up, grateful for it. She had [Light] as a spell, but that would tax her mana.
This was free. In this case, Mrsha had an ember from The Wandering Inn in her paw. Not a magical Erin fire, just one from the fireplace. She could conjure Erin’s fire with great difficulty, but this was perfect for now.
Mrsha spread out the items from her bag of holding and, after a moment, transferred the ember to something. She held up a little metal lantern and closed the glass lid; with a sigh of relief, she now had a steady source of illumination. And here she did have Skills.
[Increased Warmth: Ember]. [Lantern: Bright Illumination]. Instantly, the lantern tripled in brightness, and the entire hallway came into focus.
Mrsha covered the lantern, angling it so the light was a narrow strip, not anything to give her away. She kept sorting the items she had, grim.
Mother will search for me when she realizes I’m gone. But how long will that take? And even if she does, only Valeterisa knows where I was, and she might not guess I went all the way down. Damn! I covered the flowerbed! If they noticed the pile of dirt, they might figure it out…
But how did flowers do all this?
Her head hurt. Mrsha shook it, and tried to focus. Ignore that…
How long until they searched for her? Even if they did, how long would it take them to figure out she was at the bottom of the garden, underground?
This wasn’t like the old days where Bird or Numbtongue would have been looking to play with Mrsha. The girl imagined she wouldn’t be missed until dinner, and then they’d assume she’d run outside. Dalimont and Ushar might notice, since it was their job, but even with the best will in the world, Mrsha didn’t have high hopes for a rescue until at least half a day had passed.
I have to trust Ishkr will notice, if anyone does. Or can I send a [Message]?
No way. This place felt way too different from where Mrsha felt she should be, but she did have a [Message] scroll bound to Fetohep. Mrsha pulled it out and scribbled hurriedly.
 
Mrsha: Hey, Fetohep. Small problem. Can you read this?
 
What happened when you wrote on a [Message] scroll was that the letters would flash a moment after it detected you were done. But this time, the letters didn’t light up.
No magical connection. Great. Thought so.
Worth a shot, and it confirmed she was somewhere…else. But Mrsha would have known that already.
