He gritted his teeth and scrounged up every bit of spite, grit and determination within him and furiously dragged his critically wounded body to cover in the alleyway between two nearby houses. He had a Physical Fitness of 21 and his body could thus survive somewhat more blood loss and trauma than anyone untrained in the skill… but a gaping hole caused by a great arrow would still kill him. The wound was looking to be fatal.

He held the great arrow in place and with every iota of willpower and focus his adrenaline-fuelled mind could muster, he concentrated till his face was red and tried to control his breathing and attempted to mentally slow the rate of bleeding.

His vision started to slowly darken, but he felt like he earned himself maybe another minute.

[New Skill → Bleeding Control 1]

He ignored the message and the screams of nearby witnesses and instead tried very hard to now staunch his own bleeding. Perhaps if he survived long enough a priest from inside the temple could help?

That hope was dashed as a dark figure wearing a full face mask and hood stepped into the alleyway, a great bow slung across their shoulders.

As the figure drew a dagger the length of his forearm, Orodan desperately lashed out with as strong a kick he could muster and caught the figure in the knee.

The assassin’s knee slightly buckled, but they suffered no visible injury from the kick. They were likely at the Adept-level then.

Orodan refused to die quietly as he lunged out and grabbed his killer’s dagger with both hands, even when the enchanted blade sliced into his palm like hot butter and nearly broke his focus with the searing pain it inflicted.

Even with both hands against the assassin’s one, the man was stronger.

As the killer began easily pushing the dagger towards his head Orodan tried everything he could think of. He kicked, scratched, and exerted so much force he broke his own fingers in desperation. He even spat out a glob of his own blood that was simply blocked by the killer’s face mask.

Finally, as the blade reached his head he struggled and twisted enough that the dagger entered his left eye instead of his forehead. The pain was utterly all-consuming but Orodan still fought like a rabid dog to hold onto consciousness.

[New Skill → Pain Resistance 1]

As the darkness began to take over his vision he reached out and did the last thing he could, he reached out and grabbed his killer’s belt, specifically the strange green flask on their hip.

And he crushed it in his hand.

[New Skill (Uncommon) → Dying Struggle 1]

His vision faded to darkness but as he passed he could hear sizzling and frantic screams of pain even as he lost all feeling in his own body.

So much for a second chance.

[Quest Failed → Battle of Ogdenborough - You have died]

***

A keening wail ringing in the night sky awoke him.

He… he was back?

[Quest Bestowed → Battle of Ogdenborough - Defeat the Novarrians and their allies as they attempt to activate and commandeer the ancient war machine beneathe Mount Castarian]

Was this a third chance?

He was so brazenly murdered in broad daylight once he let slip about the upcoming attack. And by an Adept-level archer too. How was he supposed to deal with all this?

A mad grin began to take shape upon his face.

Who was Orodan Wainwright?

He clenched his fist. Orodan was someone who saw things through to the end. Someone who would doggedly clean every single inch of the floor in his dilapidated hovel. Someone who would train every single day and struggle despite being an orphan without a background and family support. Someone who would stand his ground out of spite and receive a charge from Guzuharan barbarians when all his peers had fled. Someone who would lash out like a rabid dog even when he was dying and make his killer feel his revenge with his dying struggles.

Maybe there was a limit to the number of times he would be allowed to come back, but maybe there wasn’t.

Either way, he cared not.

A more reasonable person might have decided to plan and scheme, perhaps gather allies and amass equipment. But not Orodan Wainwright.

What did he intend to do?

As the harpies keening wails died off in the distance he could only say one thing.

“That archer will be a good source of training. As many times, as many deaths as it takes!”

If there was a wall in front of him, he would ram his head into it until either it broke or he did.

For him there was no easy way out, no attempting to find a hidden solution, no cheap tricks or enlisting of allies. He would only ever accept doing things the hard way.

Orodan was a stubborn skill-grinder who didn’t quit.

And he was in a time loop.
