The other two reached him at the same time however.

Fighting two opponents on the same level as himself at the same time was a lopsided affair to begin with. But so what if it was two-on-one? Orodan’s heart roared for blood and battle and he would show these Northmen what real ferocity was.

A scream of mad battle lust tore free from his lips as he counter-charged the two.

He took one of them aback with how crazed his zeal for battle was, and the opening was exploited to good effect. He roared, swung, hacked, kicked, punched and bashed. And while he gave as good as he got, unfortunately the regular rank and file of the militia like himself were provided no armor.

A deep cut to his own thigh was exchanged for a mad thrust which ran the hesitant Northman through, and the sword he received through his own shoulder was reciprocated by a frenzied overhead chop that cut through the barbarian’s helmet and split the foe’s skull in half.

He took severe wounds, but dealt out fatal wounds of his own. And at the end, while he would eventually die without treatment… the two Apprentice level Guzahar savages he fought lay dead at his feet. They’d died first. His bloodlust and battle spirit having proven too much for them.

[Sword Mastery 34 → Sword Mastery 35]

[Shield Mastery 23 → Shield Mastery 24]

[Unarmed Combat Mastery 19 → Unarmed Combat Mastery 20]

[Combat Mastery 11 → Combat Mastery 14]

[Agathor, God of War, smiles upon you]

[Received Blessing → Warrior’s Heart - Increased talent and learning rate for all warrior related skills as determined by Agathor]

He was too preoccupied with battle-lust and his own impending end to care overmuch for the messages.

And as he drew his final breaths he used the last of his body’s strength to rush at the unprotected back of the ogre-barbarian.

He struck with his all… and the blade bounced off the monster’s hide.

The massive man turned around to find what had tickled his back and was surprised.

“Three to fuckin’ one… and they still couldn’t kill one damn Adenian? Now this is what a warrior should fight like!” the Ogre-man exclaimed while casually slapping away the rapier-Adept he was playing around with, sending her flying through a nearby house dozens of metres away. “A shame that you’re in front of me and on the wrong side, you’d make a good addition to my tribe.”

And the last thing Orodan saw was his vision flipping upside down over and over.

[Title Gained: One Who Has Experienced Death]

***

A keening wail ringing in the night sky awoke him.

What?

“What the ever loving h-”

[Quest System Activated]

[Quest Bestowed → Battle of Ogdenborough - Defeat the Novarrians and their allies as they attempt to activate and commandeer the ancient war machine beneathe Mount Castarian]

Orodan believed he was dreaming. Genuinely.

A Quest... an actual Quest.

Not what the word meant in common language, but actual Quests as granted by the world.

Many people throughout history claimed to have received Quests, but only a select few could truly say they had received a Quest and completed it. The last known Quest bearer being the founder of the Republic a hundred and twenty years ago.

And now he… Orodan Wainwright, a meager militiaman in Volarbury County, was receiving a Quest from the world?

But most importantly… what had just happened?

He vividly remembered the final moments of his battle just seconds ago.

The last thing Orodan remembered was losing all feeling and his vision tumbling almost as though he was sent flying through the air. He was almost certain he had died in battle. Even if that hulking Guzuhar didn’t kill him, the many lethal injuries he took during the fighting certainly would have.

And yet, here he was back in his bed within the hovel at 13 Briar Court in Ogdenborough.

It made no sense. He needed answers and he needed them now. If he truly went back in time, did this mean the Gods had sent him back? Perhaps this was tied to the Quest he received?

He mentally summoned his Status before him.

[Name: Orodan Wainwright

Age: 17

Title 1: Sword Apprentice

Available Titles: One Who Has Experienced Death

Skills:

Sword Mastery 35 (Apprentice)Shield Mastery 24 (Initiate)Cleaning 24 (Initiate)Physical Fitness 21 (Initiate)Unarmed Combat Mastery 20 (Initiate)Laboring 17 (Initiate)Club Mastery 15 (Initiate)Combat Mastery 14 (Initiate)Sprinting 14 (Initiate)Maintenance 8 (Initiate)Repair 7 (Initiate)Thievery 6 (Initiate)Intimidation 6 (Initiate)Deception 4 (Initiate)

Blessings: Warrior’s Heart - Increased talent and learning rate for all warrior related skills as determined by Agathor]

As he looked it over Orodan was certain everything that had transpired prior was very real. For one, his newly available title was the first bit of evidence. For another, many of his skills were higher than they were, and especially Combat Mastery was at a whopping 14 instead of at 11 like it was previously.

His childhood had been spent brawling, fighting the other street rats and orphans and occasionally picking a fight with an Argon guard way out of his league. A Combat Mastery of 11 by the time he was seventeen was excellent. It had gotten him into the county militia.

And yet, three levels gained with one battle. Did fighting in life and death battles increase skill gains that much?

But most importantly… a Blessing!

Maybe one in a thousand people received a Blessing in their lifetimes, and although most Blessings were minor, they still guaranteed a good life for their recipients.

Orodan’s life wasn’t bad. True, he had a rough upbringing, but his hard work had gotten him somewhere. Even though he was a private in the Militia, Sergeant Woodgard and his predecessor before him had both taken him aside and told him that a transfer to Trumbetton was coming up for him in the near future due to his talent and work ethic, with a spot on the mounted unit being a real possibility once he started approaching the Adept level.

He tried to avoid delusions of grandeur, but perhaps going beyond even the Adept-level was a real possibility if he kept working hard throughout his life.

But for him to now have a Blessing as well? He immediately set about his usual routine with a furious pace as he wanted to get it done with as fast as possible. His goal? To visit the nearest Temple in the town of Scarmorrow.

Breakfast was practically inhaled, the house was cleaned with such speed and effort that Orodan found himself almost breathing fast at how hard he pushed himself, and the run and subsequent assisting of Old Man Hannegan was blazed through with little to no time for small talk.

If Old Man Hannegan was surprised or curious about Orodan’s sudden urgency, he didn’t mention it.

With enough time to spare, Orodan practically sprinted the whole way for the Temple in Scarmorrow and arrived before the ringing of the county’s dawn bell.

Temples to the Gods were commonplace throughout the continent of Inuan; and while there were minor variations in the pantheons across geographical and national lines, most humans on Inuan held faith in and communed with the Prime Five.

It was early, the dawn bell hadn’t rung and consequently the Temple wasn’t too busy. The early worshipers had yet to come in, thus it was only a few priests and priestesses cleaning the Temple and performing their early duties that were on-scene when Orodan barged through the doors.

“I must speak to a priest of Agathor!” Orodan declared as he stomped in.

“Calm down my son… what has you seeking the faithful of the God of War so early in the morning?”

“Priestess, I’ve received a Blessing!” Orodan blurted out as he came to a stop, breathing heavily as he put all 21 levels of his Physical Fitness to work in running as fast as he could.

The Priestess seemed taken aback for a small moment, but recovered and smiled.

“Excellent, come my child, allow us to verify this and add you to the registry. I take it that mighty Agathor has blessed you? Are you with the militia perhaps? Do they know?” she calmly asked.

“Yes, I’ve received the Blessing of Agathor, I’m with the county militia but haven’t had the chance to tell them.”

“That’s fine, we can handle all of that. If you had to attend to your duties today you need not worry about it, they will be informed,” the priestess spoke as she led Orodan into a smaller chamber within the Temple where a priest covered in armor was praying in front of a statue of a divine figure posed with a hammer in his right hand, a greatsword in his left, and two spears strapped across his back. The statue of Agathor looked as warlike as stories of the God himself.

Without turning around to face them the priest spoke.

“I sense it, the feeling of a fellow Blessed of Agathor,” the man said and finally turned around. He was grizzled and had a scar across his face, befitting a priest of the God of War. “I am Solamus Einshield, battle-priest of Agathor. You, warrior, what is your name?”

“Orodan… Orodan Wainwright. I was blessed by Agathor yesterday,” Orodan replied, deciding to take things one step at a time.

“Oh? And what were you doing around the time you were blessed?” Solamus asked him, suddenly all too interested in Orodan.

Subtlety. Some were masters of the art, and a small part of him whispered that perhaps he ought not blurt out critical details.

That part was quickly smothered by his bull-headed nature.

“You won’t believe this, but I came back in time after dying,” Orodan declared with confidence. “Today, in Ogdenborough around the time of the Council announcement from the Capital there’s going to be a huge battle. Guzuharan barbarians attack the Eversong Plaza and House Argon is in on it, assisting them. A brave few Republic loyalists come by to try and stop whatever they’re doing… but I fell before I could see any more.”

Orodan’s explanation was earnest and straightforward. The idea of dancing around the issue and keeping knowledge to himself wasn’t in his nature. If a problem existed, his solution was to batter his head against it until either it broke or he did.

To Solamus’s credit the battle-priest didn’t scoff or laugh at Orodan. But he did suddenly become very silent and give him an almost piercing gaze.

A full twenty seconds passed before Orodan himself spoke up.

“As unbelievable as this sounds… I also received a Quest-”

“That’s enough. I believe you,” Solamus suddenly interrupted, and then he moved to close the door to the inner chamber they were in. “Aelis, what is spoken here cannot leave this room. The same goes for you as well Orodan.”

The battle-priest’s tone was severe and brooked no dissent. If the man’s hand suddenly resting on the hilt of his sword was any indication, he was also willing to come to blows over the matter.

“You just, believe me?” Orodan asked, almost in disbelief himself.

“Certain Blessed faithful can commune with their Gods… for Agathor to speak directly to me after so many years…” Solamus trailed off. “But that isn’t the issue, you… who are you? Agathor tells me he does not recall having ever given you his Blessing, and he has spoken to the other Gods and nothing adds up.”

Gods were above the realm of mortals. From what the Cathedral said, they had perfect minds and could process an unfathomable number of things at once. Simply put, there was no way Agathor would have forgotten or not paid attention to the fact that he had Blessed a mortal.

Furthermore… this carried the uncomfortable implication that even the Gods seemed not to be aware of the fact that Orodan had been sent back in time. Which to Orodan, was inconceivable.

The Cathedral’s teachings held that chronomancy couldn’t affect Gods. They were supposed to be outside of the flow of time and were immune to time magic. Agathor also presumably conversed with the God of Time, so for even him to be unaware…

Just who was responsible for Orodan’s second chance?

“I don’t know, I am and always have been Orodan Wainwright, a member of the county militia. And yesterday… or I should say, today, I died while fighting against northmen barbarians in the Eversong Plaza of Ogdenborough.”

Solamus took another moment to look at him closely, but then broke eye contact and sighed.

“As insane as this all sounds, I believe you. Lord Agathor has spoken to me and your tale has enough evidence for me to consider it. It makes too much sense... Eversong Plaza and that tavern have always been a closely guarded secret of House Argon,” Solamus spoke. “You’d best take this report back to your superiors. It might even need to get back to the Capital Guard. I’m just a battle-priest, I know some old friends but none of them are anywhere near relevant to help in a matter like this.”

The battle-priest then ushered him out with a word to the priestess Aelis to see Orodan out the door.

Orodan made it twenty steps outside the temple when something hit him from behind and he was knocked right off his feet and sent sprawling to the ground. Whatever hit him, hit very hard.

He tried getting to his feet but found that he couldn’t move his arms at all. They lacked any strength. And looking down at his own chest he saw the tip of a great arrow sticking out.

Only then did he realize he was choking on his own blood.

Orodan’s mind kicked into overdrive and he desperately attempted to regain control of his body and crawl away to safety. He couldn’t die like this! He was given a second chance!

