“If you value your limbs, you won’t even think about it. Stealing from the plaza’s merchants is akin to stealing from the Baron himself. Even the weakest guards of their house are near the Adept level in a martial skill,” Orodan replied, speaking from experience and many beatings received when younger. Edrosic was newer to the county militia, thus Orodan did him the courtesy of a warning as it was the man’s first time working the plaza. Given how quickly he saw the rare thieving attempt get caught during his orphan rat days, he was almost certain they had people with perception type skills keeping watch too.

Although Orodan was seventeen and younger than the twenty-year-old Edrosic, the man didn’t have the same rough upbringing and street sense that the orphaned Orodan did. Edrosic was the son of a carpenter and a seamstress and simply joined the county militia to have a stable paying job and maybe move to a nicer town after putting in some time and work.

Orodan had joined the militia to pursue his goal of becoming a better warrior. The two were not the same.

Furthermore, the differences in their work ethic and talent were apparent. Edrosic often slacked during morning drills and spars. Orodan however treated each day with the proper zeal it deserved.

Orodan was probably the second strongest militia member in the local barracks after Sergeant Woodgard, a gap that he was quickly closing. It wasn’t saying much given that they were all cannon fodder with not an Adept among them. But it was still a fact worth mentioning that Orodan could give Edrosic a beating if it came to it. In fact, Orodan could likely get the better of most of House Argon’s Apprentice-level guards in a one-on-one. His Physical Fitness, Sword Mastery and Combat Mastery were decent enough and put him near the higher end of Apprentice-level warriors.

“Alright, alright! I’m just hungry is all... the baked pastries look quite nice,” Edrosic amended. “I didn’t grow up like you did... how am I expected to know the dynamics of this plaza?”

“Whether you know the dynamics or not, if you’re going to think about stealing, at least have the power to beat the enforcers or the speed to outrun them,” Orodan said. “They’re guards of a noble house though... a cut above the typical militia member. I wouldn’t recommend it... unless you’re looking to get some training in.”

A smile graced his face as he recalled all the times he had gleefully fought the men of House Argon. No matter how many times he was beaten bloody, he kept challenging them all the same.

“We can’t all be battle-junkie masochists like you Orodan, you’re a certified weirdo, you’ll fit right in at Trumbetton when you get transferred.”

Orodan felt annoyed at the description of his character but couldn’t exactly deny it. He was a conflict-seeking person, even when younger. The meaner kids at the orphanage certainly learned it the hard way within a week of him being registered.

He simply grunted and decided to focus on surveilling foot traffic.

Time passed and soon it was high noon, and as forewarned the regal trumpets of the Spire of Karilsgard, the tallest tower of the capital, magically resounded everywhere to herald an announcement. A melodious voice, one that felt soothing and uplifting despite being projected from a great distance away in the capital, began speaking.

“To the brave and hard-working citizens of the glorious Republic of Aden, I High-Burgher Sarvaan Ilsuan Arslan, leader of your elected council, speak to you today in celebration and commemoration of the one hundred and twentieth anniversary of our liberation from the Novarrian Empire.”

Upon hearing the magically projected announcement, everyone in the plaza began cheering and hollering; even Orodan himself felt a fire stir in his heart. Despite his duties demanding he keep the crowd in check, he found himself wanting to join them in their revelry. However he tried his best to stay focused and instead got back to keeping watch, which was when he noticed a group of ten approaching the plaza, all of them armed and armored in Republican military attire.

“On this auspicious day I wish to thank you, the citizens of our Republic, for your hard work, courage and sacrifices that have made our way of life and freedom from the tyrannical Novarrians possible.”

Edrosic was far too enraptured by the announcement to notice anything. Orodan tapped him on the shoulder before approaching these people himself.

“Republic military? I’ll have to ask what business brings you this way. Neither House Argon nor our chain of command in the militia informed us of your arrival,” Orodan asked, and he had an uncomfortable feeling in his gut as he did. He decided to rest his hand on the hilt of the sword on his belt.

“Ah apologies, we have business with House Argon, I’d strongly recommend you get out of the way militia man,” the man replied. He seemed to be the leader of the group.

Although the man’s words came across as rather brash and arrogant, the way of the world was that power determined all. They were Republic military, soldiers. Compared to the soldiers of the Republic of Aden, what chaff were the Volarbury county militia?

Orodan found himself wondering if this individual and his subordinates weren’t at the Adept level to be talking like this. Times like this he wished he had access to the Observe skill that all nobles and their guards knew, which allowed one to view another's titles and name.

Orodan looked around to see none of the rest of his troop present, although he felt some hope at seeing a group of five members of the mounted unit rushing their way, including the Argon enforcers.

Furthermore, he saw griffin riders flying their way. But as they got closer, he realized they weren’t the standard brown feathered with harnesses that the mounted unit rode, but instead had silver colored feathers with plate armor covering them. Only military griffins were of that stock.

And then a blinding glow emanated from the lead griffin rider, and something large and bright flew towards the plaza. Was that... magic?

“Unfortunately, freedom never comes freely. And sometimes maintaining freedom involves rooting out the poison from within. So, I use this auspicious day to call upon my fellow citizens of our Republic of Aden, to mobilize, to gather together, for freedom comes at a price and sometimes it involves facing enemies both within and without.”

As soon as the announcement’s final words finished, the group of Republican soldiers all drew their weapons...

...and carnage began.

The first thing Orodan saw was an Argon enforcer’s head sail through the air, an Adept… killed like a chicken. And the second thing Orodan saw was the bright projectile fired by the military griffin rider reach the tavern and collide with a shimmering magic shield he didn’t know existed. And the world turned orange and lit up in flame.

Years of instinct saved him as he used every ounce of his Physical Fitness to furiously leap a dozen metres out of the way in one jump and immediately dive for cover behind a stall.

The shockwave from the blast helped him gain even more distance than he could otherwise, and he hit the ground dozens of metres away, the wind knocked out of him by the Fireball’s destructive blast.

“County militia! We’re under attack! Face the attackers! Defend your county!” ordered a burly-looking member of House Argon who Orodan had not seen before, but who was now clashing against the leader of the soldiers in what was clearly a battle at the Elite-level. The shockwaves shattered the underlying paved stone with each attack and pushed Orodan back to the point where he struggled to hold onto solid ground.

“Hmmph! Tricking the local bumpkin militia into being your cannon fodder are you, traitor?” the leader of the attackers asked as his spear moved about at frightening speeds with enchanting motions while clashing against the war hammer of the Argon Elite. “Hear me, we are soldiers of the Republic of Aden, under orders from the High-Burgher. House Argon are traitors to the Republic, stay out of this fight or suffer death!”

Orodan grudgingly complied, despite how much he wanted to join in. The fight was clearly above him and although he was a fighter who wouldn’t back down, he also knew when his death would be pointless.

“Northmen! Come out and earn your keep! Delay them as long as possible!” the burly Elite-level Argon retainer roared, and on command the tavern doors opened and dozens of fur-clad warriors stormed out of the building wielding an assortment of weapons, shouting savage war cries and heading right towards Orodan and Edrosic.

Guzuharan barbarians! Sworn enemies of the republic and the very reason he was an orphan.

Orodan himself was found as a crying infant amongst the blood and bodies of a Guzuhar raid upon a coastal caravan. Both his parents had been killed that day and the trajectory of his life altered forever. His life of squalor as an orphan was due to these barbarous killers.

Orodan’s temper grew tempestuous, and his blood boiled for a fight. On principle he refused to back down in the face of the Northmen scum.

Orodan immediately drew his sword and shield for the first time and stood beside the soldiers of the Republic. He didn’t understand the first thing about this conflict, but hearing the brief bits that he did and given the fact that House Argon was siding with filthy barbarians made the decision for him. The Republic military were the loyalists, acting against House Argon who’d committed some great betrayal.

Did it make sense to embroil himself in a conflict above his head? No.

Did his hunger for battle care about the reasonable part of his mind? Not at all.

Orodan was merely at the Apprentice level of his swordsmanship, but his training, his desire to seek challenges and improve, his upbringing scrounging for scraps as an orphan, and his blood which boiled hot for a fight against the scum responsible for his misfortune all came together and sang to him. He stood beside these loyalists and prepared to receive the charge of these barbarous raiders from across the sea.

Above him the mages mounted atop the silver-feathered griffins were casting luminous and deadly looking spells at the tavern’s barrier which still held despite the bombardment. And behind him, Parthus Edrosic and the rest of the Volarbury county militia including the vaunted mounted unit itself… had all turned tail and fled.

Whether they were cowards, or Orodan the reckless fool remained to be seen.

Multiple roars were cut short as the sound of numerous steel-on-steel impacts rang out. The press of bodies, mainly Guzuharan, seemed overwhelming. Of course, the Northmen rank-and-file were merely at the Apprentice-level.

A dozen raiders on the front rank were killed on the spot by the loyalists who were all at least Adept level. The momentum of their charge slowed as a majority fell. But some survived, and Orodan himself received one of them in the form of a charging overhead blow from an Apprentice-level Northman. The axe bit into the top of his shield then attempted to pull it away from him.

Of course, the beginner habit of hiding behind the shield was one of the first things drilled out of new militia, and Orodan grew up fighting and sharpening his combat instincts even before he joined them.

He twisted his shield at an angle which exposed the savage’s arm, and with a swift burst of strength, sent a cut right towards it.

The arm came flying off and the man screamed in horror, and a follow-up stroke had the Guzuharan gurgling blood as his throat was sliced through. He had killed another street rat during his formative years; over a piece of stale jerky too. But killing a man in head-to-head battle was different.

Toe to toe, life on the line, this sort of kill felt right.

Five more barbarians rushed to charge at Orodan, seeking revenge for the death of their comrade. He was good, but not good enough to survive five-on-one. He realized that death approached; but before they could reach him, they were slain by the incredible movements of one of the Adept-level loyalists who wielded a sword and shield like Orodan himself did, but with a fervor and skill he could only strive for.

“Kid! You’ll die by daring to fight here alongside us! I respect your guts and warrior spirit, but leave now!” One of the Adept level loyalists shouted at Orodan from behind his shield, but before he could continue admonishing him, the air trembled, a shockwave blew Orodan backwards and a massive great axe split the man and his shield in two.

His saviour, an Adept, killed in a single blow. Just who could do such a thing?

The killer of Orodan’s protector was the single largest man he had ever seen, he was bigger than even the largest orcs Orodan had heard of, and was approaching the size of an ogre.

“Bah… you send the whelps out and they all die like cockroaches. Not a single shred of talent among the new group of unblooded. What are the youth coming to these days… Guzuhar blood can’t be allowed to be this weak.” The ogre barbarian derisively spoke. As he did a furious loyalist wielding a rapier charged him with murder in her every movement.

“I’ll make sure you die for that!” a murderous female voice screamed as she launched a blitz of attacks Orodan couldn’t even keep up with. Unfortunately, the ogre-barbarian wasn’t strained at all.

And in more bad news, behind the now dead line of initial barbarians came another group of three savages, and Orodan raised his shield and sword as the first one screamed like a madman, raised his axe in the air and threw himself at him.

A diagonal side-step followed by a shield bash threw the savage off balance allowing Orodan’s subsequent stab to put a stop to him.

