A keening wail ringing in the night sky awoke him.

Orodan was a light sleeper in general, but the shrill shriek of a harpy, even if distant, was enough to wake most people.

The bloody birds were a public menace. Living in one of the poorest towns in the Republic didn’t help of course. No archers or battlemages around to shoot the damn things down. Sometimes he found himself wishing the county's griffin riders would do a fly-over and clean up.

Worst of all, the stupid things hunted in flocks, and their flight path to and from their hunting grounds was above his town of Ogdenborough. Taken in tandem with the fact that they hunted at night?

No wonder property values in Ogdenborough were so abysmal.

Orodan still held onto his long-term dream of eventually becoming a Sword Adept, and when that day came, he’d march into their dens and kill every single harpy around town. Nobody would be bothered then.

The moon was still high in the sky and the sun had yet to show its face. As such, Orodan muttered a curse for his lost sleep and decided to freshen up and eat. A stale loaf of bread and two pieces of jerky later, he picked up a dirty rag and began his self-imposed habit of cleaning the hovel.

He always stubbornly cleaned every inch before he had to report to the barracks.

His derelict bedside table was wiped down, the bed was made, the rugs were taken outside and thoroughly beaten to rid them of dust and debris, and even the rocky footpath leading to his hovel was broomed to sweep all loose rocks to the side.

He then wet a separate rag at the nearby well and thoroughly scrubbed the floors as the finishing touch before he felt satisfied that the job was done.

[Cleaning 23 → Cleaning 24]

Well, that was long overdue. Two weeks since his last increase.

The other militia cracked jokes at him for being a Cleaning Initiate, but at this rate he’d cross the threshold of 30 and earn the title of Cleaning Apprentice before the year was up.

He had no plans to join a noble’s house staff, but unlike most of his fellows in the town militia he was an orphan and had been a ward of the Lady Sashwari Home for the Wayward till he had turned fourteen and had been deemed old enough to hold a job and fend for himself.

His current hovel in Ogdenborough was the only affordable option he and his caretakers at the orphanage had been able to fit into the budget upon coming of age. It had also been the only place that would accept him given his lengthy record of fighting and delinquency as a child.

And while his annual salary, a reasonable sum of a gold coin a year, was enough to allow for better lodgings. He kept to his hovel out of sentiment. And Orodan had never been one for fine trappings.

He sighed and mentally called forth his Status Screen.

Name: Orodan WainwrightAge: 17

Title 1: Sword Apprentice

Skills:

Sword Mastery 34 (Apprentice)Cleaning 24 (Initiate)Shield Mastery 23 (Initiate)Physical Fitness 21 (Initiate)Unarmed Combat Mastery 19 (Initiate)Laboring 17 (Initiate)Club Mastery 15 (Initiate)Sprinting 14 (Initiate)Combat Mastery 11 (Initiate)Maintenance 8 (Initiate)Repair 7 (Initiate)Thievery 6 (Initiate)Intimidation 6 (Initiate)Deception 4 (Initiate)

Orodan would say it was halfway decent and given his upbringing it could almost be seen as good.

In fact, he’d outworked and gotten ahead of every other child from the orphanage. A Sword Mastery of 34 by the time he was seventeen years old was decent enough to meet the qualifications for an average martial academy; if he had the means of course. That and his determination to work hard enough to reach 20 in Physical Fitness meant that the Volarbury County Militia had their eye on him, and they were more than willing to take him as a recruit once he’d given a good showing during the entrance examinations a year ago.

Serving with them, he hoped to reach at least the Adept-level in Sword Mastery over the course of his life.

He’d done odds jobs as a laborer upon coming of age, but he rather preferred the martial line of work. Fighting was all he was good at, but he could always fall back on his Laboring skill if nothing in his life worked out. But Orodan’s ambitions were not that low. And he enjoyed fighting too much to do anything else for overly long.

He mentally waved his Status away and decided to continue his routine.

***

After an hour of running laps in a loop through the neighbourhood, Orodan noticed the beginnings of the sun rising so he concluded his training and came to a stop in front of the construction site at 4 Ale Road.

Old Man Hannegan was sitting atop the driver’s seat of his mule drawn cart, the cargo of course, was stacks upon stacks of lumber. Albeit of different coloration and wood species than the delivery of yesterday, Orodan noted.

At the time, fourteen years and of age, not many jobs would accept someone like him with a lengthy record of trouble. Old Man Hannegan and his construction crew were the exception. Orodan had worked on and off for the man until he finally attended the county militia examinations last year.

“Morning old man… they shaft you on the quality of lumber today?” Orodan asked as he began unloading the thick stacks of lumber, four at a time, onto the empty pallets on the ground. Volunteering to assist the man every morning was also part of his self-imposed training.

“First thing in the morning and you call me old?! Good morning to you too, you annoying blockhead. The supplier and I had a minor argument is all. Don’t you worry, the house will get built all the same.”

Getting built and getting built properly were two different things, Orodan thought. But he kept his thoughts on the noticeably cheaper lumber to himself.

Local business and construction projects in Ogdenborough often faced difficulties like this. It wasn’t one of the poorest towns in the Republic without reason.

“I see…” Orodan replied as he continued placing the lumber down onto the pallets with a decent amount of exertion.

Two stacks of thick lumber per arm for a total of four. That was his current optimal exertion point, which was a great improvement from a year ago when he had first started helping Old Man Hannegan. Back then he had 18 Physical Fitness and could only move two stacks at a time.

At 21 Physical Fitness he could successfully lift the full cart, with all the wood inside above his head, albeit only momentarily.

Perhaps reaching even level 40 in the skill over the course of his life was not impossible.

With a grunt of exertion, he finished unloading the last of the lumber onto the pallets and made some further small talk with the old delivery driver.

Before he knew it the morning officially started as the unique sound of the county dawn bell’s chime went out across all of Ogdenborough.

There was one bell tower for all of Volarbury County and Orodan always wondered what qualifications the mages needed to work it. The noise was neither louder in Trumbetton where the tower was situated nor was it any quieter a few hours horse ride away in Ogdenborough in the farthest reaches of the county.

He cut his own musings short as he began to make his way back to his hovel to freshen himself after his exertions. His shift at the barracks was due to begin an hour after the bell and he already saw one of the night shift patrols winding down and making their way back towards the local barracks at the edge of Ogdenborough.

***

“Botterson?”

“Sergeant!”

“Bistrid?”

“Corporal…” came a resentful voice, unhappy with the recent promotion.

“Come again Bistrid?” he asked in a low and threatening tone.

“Sergeant!” she corrected herself grudgingly.

“Wainwright?”

“Sergeant!” Orodan responded back with vigor.

“Edrosic?”

“Sergeant!”

And so, on roll-call went until Sergeant Woodgard reached the end of Orodan’s platoon of fifty and twenty-five more extra detail troops that had been ordered over from their days off just for the occasion. The recently promoted man carried himself a bit more severely than usual. Orodan thought it was understandable given the upcoming public event and how much more work it would entail, plenty of opportunity for him to look bad in his new position.

“Alright… it’s Liberation Day and you all know what that means,” the Sergeant stated while sweeping his gaze across the room. “No pre-shift training and drills this morning. We’re expecting drunks, looters, fights and maybe even a body or two. So, I want double patrols, we have extra hands on deck and I want a show of presence and force out on the main roads and the main squares, particularly Eversong Plaza and the tavern. I’m sure every orphan, urchin and no-good scumbag will be gathering to pick easy targets today. Additionally, there’s been rumours that the Council in Karilsgard will be making an announcement at noon, so we need to maintain order.”

Orodan heard what the Sergeant was saying but disagreed. He was an orphan, and he knew growing up that Eversong Plaza was the territory of House Argon and their cronies.

A noble house with criminal connections was far deadlier than any street gang could ever hope to be. The local barracks of the County Militia in Ogdenborough, while not under the purview of House Argon, knew better than to pry into the affairs of noble houses. No orphan or urchin would dare cause trouble around that area if they wanted to stay in one piece. Well, besides Orodan. He had quite the reckless and delinquent character growing up; something he still retained vestiges of.

Even Orodan himself, as brash and headstrong of a youth as he was growing up, still knew not to push things too far whenever he challenged their guards to a fight. He knew they were humoring him and could easily kill a young boy if they so desired.

That the man was asking them to patrol the area meant that House Argon allowed, and perhaps even asked for their presence in the area. For what? He didn’t know. Such things were above the paygrade of a mere private such as Orodan.

“The mounted unit from Trumbetton will also be present and running patrols in the area. For everyone’s sakes, do not get in their way or bother them, if you see them take over a situation use your amulets to call it out for operational awareness. And if they require support, assist them. They might even have a griffin rider or two doing flyovers.”

Not all barracks in the Volarbury County militia were equal. The Trumbetton barracks where Sergeant Woodgard’s predecessor had been transferred to, for example, was the center of the county. And consequently, the militia barracks there was the headquarters and had all manner of specialized units such as an investigations division, the Elite response unit, a mounted unit and others. Other barracks also had specialized units; alas, the branch in Ogdenborough was one of two in the county that had nothing besides regular militia.

For the mounted unit from Trumbetton to be coming in and doing patrols meant that again, the occurrences behind the scenes were above Orodan’s paygrade.

“Listen up for your assignments! Botterson, I want you and your troop doing patrols of the road leading in from Exerston County, leave carriage and caravan searches to the mounted unit, just do patrols. Sahar, your troop is on relief duties, reinforce and relieve as needed. Bistrid… you’re doing Eversong Plaza, your troop’s to stay posted there at all times, keep the riff-raff in line and support House Argon in whatever they might need. Vargorias…”

Orodan tuned out the rest of Sergeant Woodgard’s orders as he focused on the fact that Corporal Bistrid’s troop, which included him, would be posted at the plaza itself. The militia rarely ever saw the plaza outside of special occasions as it was otherwise primarily the domain of House Argon.

Although it stabbed at Orodan’s principles, the militia and by extension himself were essentially ordered to ignore House Argon’s activities, no matter how shady they might be. And it looked as though today would be more of the same.

***

Mount Castarian loomed over Eversong Plaza. In fact, Ogdenborough itself was a town that was landlocked against the gigantic mountain, likely a part of what made the place so poor and limited any expansion opportunities.

That the town existed at all in such a location was thanks to House Argon running Eversong Plaza and the Castarian’s Boot; the tavern built into the side of the mountain.

It always had strange traffic coming in and out and a popular theory among the locals was that the tavern was where House Argon ran smuggling operations via tunnels they mined through the mountain. Another wild rumor was that wealthy clientele with forbidden desires were catered to within.

Of course, nobody of their station could or would dare to pry, especially if a noble house was involved. Plenty of strange and powerful individuals could be seen entering and exiting the tavern from time to time, and the numbers going in and coming out often didn’t match up. It went without saying that entering the tavern was via invitation only, and no local had ever set foot inside.

A town and economy had sprung up around the tavern to service its various needs even if none of the locals, including the county militia, were ever allowed in.

Orodan stood on the perimeter of the plaza alongside his assigned partner, Parthus Edrosic; they were monitoring foot traffic into the plaza. Most inbound pedestrians made their way to the various stalls set up within Eversong Plaza. While the Tavern was off-limits to the public, the stalls outside in the plaza, were not.

“Ah... those baked treats look so succulent! Hey Orodan… you think those Argon goons would care if I took something from the stalls?” Parthus asked. A question which made Orodan give his partner an unimpressed look.

