He'd dipped into that pond, that internalized Domain, that inner paradise which awaited, but his enlightenment, though brief, colored him. As a dragonfly might sink into a lake, it would be drenched in the waters thereafter.

When he surfaced once more, rising from that inner realm into the confines of his soul, his Legendary skill had changed. The System's rules had been overwritten, for his skill wasn't merely a thing of mortal mana anymore. Instead, a dilution of Divinity had slipped across, and that elevation, that need to transcend, passed over as well.

Adam's collection of gleaming eyes began to fuse. Instead of a spreading hexagonal grid, they became a single presence, one that was projected upward from his crown. It resembled a star that hovered above his brow, and a larger sun radiated from it, becoming an all-seeing, all-piercing gaze.

While the name of his Legendary skill changed, so too did the light that fell. It wasn't azure anymore; it was gold, the gold of a hopeful morning, the gold of a sun on the precipice of going nova but never truly crossing over into that point of collapse. It was a sun that glared down upon all, that pierced into all.

As Adam enjoyed its sublime brilliance, he felt it stain the Culturist, burn into his soul as if applying a searing brand to the orc's flesh. Rather than being sunburnt, the orc was marked and marred in soul, and Adam felt himself aware of the Culturist forever, always, absolutely. The same applied to the Deathless, who screamed, who shuddered, who finally felt the gaze of the Paragon without any possibility of escape.

And it was then that Adam felt his skills separate from his soul entirely, as a section of his soul rose up and slipped beyond this realm into a Domain all his own. It hovered above. It was a star that loomed beyond him, and as he closed his eyes, he stared down through the star as it glowed brighter, as it swelled wider, as it burned without knowing an end. That burning gaze ignited the land, and where the fire spread, so did Adam's knowing.

Applying Partial Skill Evolution: Glare of Immolating Omniscience (Legendary-Standalone)

But it was more than the land that burned. It was Adam himself. As he fried his body, seeing everything he once knew was weakness now was just another variable to regard, something inside his skull began to melt and sear as it failed to contain his burgeoning Divinity. It was expelled from inside of him, rejected from the base of his membrane to form a withered, burned halo. As the glistening band of matter was seared by impossible emissions, Adam reached up. He acted without knowing, while also knowing on a level so deep and fundamental that it went beyond his mind. He seized the thing that had tormented him, the thing that refined him, the thing that drove him to such need—to dominate, to control, to seek the absolute.

Adam seized the Crown of the Anti-Savior, and then he shattered it in a symbol of defiance against the heavens.

Mythology was the thing that echoed the past, the present, the future to come. In that moment, he became the Lightbringer, fallen from the other angels; he mirrored the sage who equaled the heavens, who defied the notions of the kingdom above to establish one all his own.

It was here and now that he cemented his mythology: to defy, to decide, to usurp.

He had been stained by the mythology of another, painted by the legend of Shiv, through the man himself and the Deathless orc, and from that, his fate was sealed.

But from here and from now, the chains of his fetters were going to be his to choose.
