The Great Sage was shoved into the Eight Trigrams Brazier, and the brazier was firmly covered. Laozi then directed the Daoist attendants guarding the brazier and the pages in charge of the fire to blow up a strong flame to reduce Monkey to ashes.

Now, Monkey squeezed his body into the palace of Xun. Xun was the wind; where there was wind, there was no fire. But the wind whipped up the smoke, which reddened his eyes, giving them the title Fiery Eyes and Golden Pupils…

—Journey to the West (Pre-System Text: Original writing attributed to Wu Cheng'en of the Ming Line; Translation into Anglish by Anthony C. Yu.)

426

Elevation

Applying Legendary Skill Evolution: Flaming Heaven Be My Sight (Legendary)

"This is not enough," Adam declared as he hovered beneath a rain of blinding rays. Eyes appearing grander than the sun, each scintillating with an azure brilliance brighter than the coming dawn on a clear day, wept those rays by the tens of thousands, and within that expanse of falling beams of light, his perception was absolute.

It wasn't enough that Adam boiled himself in struggle and strife—through repetitive deaths and constant practice. The refinement dragged him closer to the skill he wanted, but it still wasn't enough, and he knew it wasn't enough. It failed to penetrate that all-consuming black, that festering shadow of dread that the orc Deathless wielded as his aegis.

"Not enough, eh?" the false Shiv mused. There was no true rancor in his too-deep voice, though suppressed cruelty and unsatisfied bloodlust still festered. As much as he may have wanted to make a feast of gore of his friend, there was still a desire to aid Adam in equal measure, despite what the System had made him into.

"What are you looking for then, Paragon? What do you want from me? Your gaze cannot pierce my darkness. This isn't a limitation of your Awareness, but of your courage. But hey, perhaps with just a few more tries, you might deaden your heart and find yourself immune to my powers entirely."

Shrouded by light, little more than a shadow beneath the glare of his own glory, Adam shook his head. The movement was almost imperceptible, but his enemy still saw—and so Adam used that understanding to fan the flames of dissatisfaction within. His enemy could see him, but he couldn't see his enemy, not truly. He had to use his own absolute dominion to counter the Deathless, and that wasn't a good enough strategy. There would always be another threat hiding in the dark, and he couldn't be that boy in the hallway too terrified to venture into the black. In fact, the very presence of the black offended him, for he was meant to see and know, and not knowing was tantamount to betraying this evolution. If he was to be a Legend, he would not be a partial one. There would be no "good enough." He would not be held back by his own deficiencies of courage, of ignorance, of hesitation. He had to be more.

"Maybe you need to focus on your meditative aspects more," the orc Shiv suggested. He tried to look up at Adam, but motion wasn't exactly an option when one was held in place by a hand as vast as a mountain and composed of coiling wisps of mist. There was no need for the palm to swat Shiv out of the sky; it made the open air act as unbreakable bedrock.

Caught like a rat in a glue trap, the orc relaxed his body and tried several times to talk Adam into suicide, using his faux-Harbinger in an attempt to crack the Paragon, but to no avail. Where the real Shiv's words cut because they had purpose behind them, the orc was made less so, for he was rooted in the foundations of destruction and invective. The Harbinger was a strange skill that way. It wasn't just powerful; the user needed to be insightful as well, and truthful. It was the manufacturing of truth as an instrument of purest destruction that defined it, the ability to peer into people's hearts and rip open wounds they had left ignored and infected for far too long.

But the Challenger-claimed Deathless wasn't Shiv. He didn't wield the truth. He wielded banalities of offense and casual observations of Adam's mental state.

What the orc didn't understand was that the health of Adam's mind was irrelevant compared to what he wanted, no, needed to achieve.

Yes, there was a cowardice inside him that offended his very being. Yes, he wanted to escape, he wanted to break free, he wanted to take revenge, and he despised the weakness that seized him. He despised that moment where the Challenger gripped him, forced the Crown upon him, and he despised that urge he fell to several times in this Delve—that urge that made him rip those he loved limb by limb, gouging, ripping, biting into their flesh, gorging himself upon their bodies like he was less even than a base animal.

But that came second to this moment of actualization. The only thing that would truly shake Adam now was to fail this Delve.

Short of one's body being slain in the real world, there was no way to truly fail a Delve, of course, but to Adam, to fail this Delve meant coming out incomplete. He could clear the Encounters by the skin of his teeth and attain an evolution, but if that evolution did not sear through the darkness of the Deathless and all darkness besides, it was no evolution he desired.

"My father told me something once," Adam said, speaking to the hollow recreation of his closest friend. "He said that he pierced people using his gaze before he ever loosed an arrow. I am doing the same right now. Until you are pierced with my gaze, I do not have you. Until I can cut you down with my glare alone, I do not have you. Until this skill is greater than yours, and I know it is not Legendary, I do not have you. This is above courage. It is above my weakness. I need something that strides beyond me. I need something... something…”

“Something divine,” the orc finished for him. He let out a soft sigh of appreciation, but it was also laced with a hint of derision. "You ask for too much. You are fragile, Adam. You seek the highest glory, and while that burden you carry inside you, that Divinity, is a wondrous thing, you're still just a boy. Barely over two decades old, while that thing inside you has probably been around for eons. You should accept your limitations. It will be kinder to yourself."

A snarl slipped out of the Paragon as his rage nearly combusted. He gathered himself before he lost control again. That was the closest the orc had come to pulling him into a mindless rage, but there was a reason for that.

"No, no," Adam said, shaking his head again and turning away from the Deathless. He needed to think. As the orc prattled on, he considered his path forward. Looking up, he gazed upon the representation of his new skill. His eyes had been implanted over the firmament. Like the last skill he had, it fused over the heavens, but unlike the limitations of the first option he was given, Kingdom of the All-Seeing, which spread based on sensation, he could control this. It was like a fleet of stars he could summon at any point, the eyes sailing out of him as the gleaming crown of incandescence resting on his brow projected a beam of azure brilliance upward.

This skill was a second sky planted over the first. It was a heaven manifested in place of it. It was Adam's soul infusing and usurping the realm above to gaze upon all that was beneath him.

And it wasn't enough.

Adam beheld himself through thousands of gleaming eyes. He beheld Blackedge. His current focus, even unenhanced by a meditative state and the amplification of his Multitasking Skill, allowed him to contain all of Blackedge within his senses, but he could push it further than that. If he simply sank down into his subconsciousness, his eyes would expand, his heaven would swell, and soon it would sweep across the land, perhaps not as fast as his previous Legendary Skill, but fast enough still. Better yet, he could move his patch of heaven. He could project this massive fleet of eyes outward, and underneath, everything would be known and seen. It would travel and grow at the same time, granting the skill maneuverability and propagation.

But it needed to be more.

He had to be more.

For all the benefits Flaming Heaven Be My Sight offered, how soon it allowed him to detect Whisper and discover the plague, and how it granted him an easy angle on the Vicar, it still couldn't peer through the Trespasser Shaped of Dread and Null, as the orc Deathless had graciously revealed it to be named to Adam.

Since he'd refused Kingdom of the All-Seeing, the System had offered Adam twelve separate Legendary Skill Evolutions across what felt like weeks, each one more piercing than the last. One of them was the hyper-focused manifestation of his Awareness—a hovering star that painted everything illuminated by its light into Adam's knowing. But that couldn't pierce the darkness either, even when Adam flung the star directly into the darkness' embrace. It was a wasted skill, and Adam tasted true death that time as the Deathless jumped across existence with his Chronomancy to strike him down using the cutting presence lining the rim of his Last Morsel.

As the Paragon hovered here now, contemplating his path ahead, a new presence materialized beside him.

It emerged as a pulse of faint blue, blending in with the azure light of his Legendary Awareness. The intruder's form was unmistakable. He was an orc, but Adam refused to shape a Shard of Exalted Flame. For he recognized this one, and he realized what that aura of magic represented.

It was an act of Animancy; someone waiting for him in the real world had entered his Delve.

The Culturist stood in the air, hovering between the Deathless and Adam, three in the skies above Blackedge. The Culturist regarded Adam, trying to gauge how badly damaged the Paragon was. Once more, the itch inside Adam flared, but he crushed it down as he let part of his mind sink into a meditative trance. His eyes spread, each one opening and causing more to expand beside it. It was like a hexagonal grid that spread its lines to grow the greater network, until the firmament was completely consumed from horizon to horizon.

"If your question is if I'm well, then the answer is no," Adam said with a pithy tone, "but I am sane enough for the task at hand. Whatever has happened on the outside, it's given my mind stability."

He looked over his shoulder and regarded the Culturist. The orc stared upon him, and though his features were almost stoic, Adam caught a gleam in his eye and tasted the posture of his body language. There was a reverence there, an awe… And surprise. The Culturist had doubted him.

"So you claim," the Legendary orc said. "And to answer the question you must have, it's Uva. She completed a Delve of her own, and she is currently working to rebuild your mind."

An appreciative laugh escaped Adam, one rich with affection. "I should have guessed. So all three of us went under then? All around the same time?"

The Culturist cocked his head and frowned. "I didn't tell you about the Deathless."

"You don't need to. I could practically feel him Delving. It seems right. He's never out of pace with us. In fact, he's always ahead. Every time he advances, the System seems desperate to pull us along, and so it wrenches us—me with my Divinity, Uva with the Outside. It's like it's flinging us down the same path, the same trajectory, the same…" Adam trailed off as he regarded the false Deathless. "…ending."

The Delve-made orc looked upon his greater and grinned. Somehow, the mists allowed for that, for there was nothing malicious in a simple expression. "The Prodigal Son, veering ever further, going from one father to... Well, we can't call this boy your father, can we?"

"The Challenger was no father either," the Culturist replied smoothly. "He is simply a first weapon, rich in authority and nothing besides, creating an arsenal of lessers to feed his self-regard."

"Is that the lie you're intent on telling yourself?" The Deathless smacked his gray lips in an act of faux pity. "Perhaps it's just you that's the problem. Tragic little Legend, unable to stride further. All orcs, unable to stride further. Maybe it's simply because you are all unworthy of being Mythic. You fail to grasp the greater meaning ahead, the necessary fortitude to survive that refashioning. But the Challenger did. Think now, Culturist: What has he stopped you from pursuing? What has he punished you for? In truth, he has been gentle for a God of Strife. He has not scarred you or tormented you any more than your fellow orcs have. He's permitted you everything, and you still failed. Perhaps it is not the first weapon that's lacking. Perhaps it is every weapon that followed. Do not cast fault where it does not lie."

"Perhaps," the Culturist agreed, humming in near-acceptance, "or perhaps it is because our design is faulty at its core. We are born from violence, we are molded by violence, and so long as that is our purest foundation, we cannot step beyond. We have no capacity for true art, for there is no meaning besides destruction, besides feeding the itch inside of us. What great works have we produced of our own? Though we have the power, though we overshadow most of our victims in terms of skill and experience, living lifetime after lifetime, we are a meaningless people. We are weapons with no true target. What war is it that we supposedly fight? What goal do we strive toward? What greater philosophy do we espouse? Destruction is not a philosophy, and neither is war, not as the ends instead of the means. With the Challenger serving as its only embodiment, why does he need a second? Why should there be another orc to take that mantle? Maybe that is why we remain bottlenecked, and maybe that is why you are as well. Adam, why are you still here? How far along the Encounters are you?"

"He is the fourth," the Paragon answered. "I have not gone further."

