"And why not?" the Culturist asked, glancing at the immobilized and helpless Deathless with a hint of confusion.

"Because he can't see through the darkness that comes with me.” The false Shiv chuckled. “He can't see through the shroud of my Intimidation and Stealth, and he refuses that limitation. Despite the terror I inspire, despite my explanation that it's not his skill that's weak, but his heart that betrays him, he wishes to push his Awareness, his Multitasking, and Meditation to overcome that which he has failed fundamentally."

When Adam kept his silence and didn't reject the Deathless' claim, the Culturist bowed his head in understanding and acceptance, and then began trying to formulate his own counsel. "The fact that his skill is half rooted in Intimidation—"

Adam cut him off with a raised hand. "I know, and I'm going to purge myself of it."

"Of fear?" the Culturist asked.

"No. Of everything. If my Awareness is to be stopped by myself, then my Awareness must exist beyond myself. It's not enough. I am not enough, but the skill should be more than who I was. In this Delve, I can work. I can boil myself until I reach a point of purity." Adam could feel himself close to rambling. With the Culturist here, something awoke his itch, and he wanted to rip into unwilling flesh once more. It was all he could do to hold himself with dignity and enforce his mental clarity.

"Or perhaps not," the Culturist said, his voice almost a whisper. He was on another track of thought, and rather than rejecting him instinctively as a festering wound inside Adam began to ache, Adam listened to the orc. Despite what he was, despite the fact that the Challenger had cast him here, the Culturist had been purged of the itch that Adam now suffered. And so, it was in recognition of that and looking beyond his prejudice that the Paragon touched upon the surface of wisdom.

"It may be wise of you to seek this evolution, but perhaps the way you're going about it is wrong. You think of your fear of the dark, of your friend, of death, of all the things that make you hesitate, that make you feel weak, as weaknesses, as impurities—but maybe they never were." The Culturist paused as he organized his thoughts and contemplated what he wished to convey. "Through my Meditation Skill, I learned to control my emotions. I learned to overcome my mental anguish at what I was. I rewrote my existential suffering as a joy. In my Delve, I lived lifetimes. I twisted my mind until I managed to overcome the work that I was. I thought myself happy to be at work; I thought myself happy to be a man... I thought myself many things as I contemplated the shape of my own mentality and the place where I resided in existence. But above all, I think I realized something. Something finer. Experiences are only what we use them for. We refine ourselves based on them. Traumas consume us, and they define us. It's not simply the pain of the moment or the extreme circumstances that they are born from, but how they enslave us. Right now, what weakens you may be the fact that you are letting this enslave you rather than using this to feed your own will."

Adam clenched his teeth as his skull began to boil from within. "I think I understand what you're talking about, but I already tried it. I tried accepting the terror. I tried using my Meditation Skill to dull the dread. I tried all these things, but I still can't see through it. It's still impenetrable."

"Perhaps because you're still trying to fight it, rather than use it," the Culturist said.

"Or maybe he should die a thousand more fucking times,” the Deathless orc said, speaking like it was a useful suggestion. “Who knows? Maybe after all those attempts, he'll finally grow bored enough of me that he'll just cut me down and move on before butchering his final, lesser self, take a damn skill, and be done with it." He spoke those words with such confidence that Adam felt certain of one thing: that final Encounter wouldn't be an Encounter at all. If there was one person Adam was certain about prevailing over, it was himself.

"It's not that, and it's not him," Adam said, reaching for the real words buried deep down inside of him, trying to drag out his actual fear. "It's not the darkness. It's what he represents. It's what his skill hints at. It's more than the darkness that is... The darkness that we can see right now. It's the darkness of what I don't know, of the extent of my ignorance, of all the enemies to come, of all the new traumas I must face. Perhaps I will overcome them, but can I overcome them in time? Can I overcome them reliably, decisively, within the moment allowed to me before more people die, before my town is destroyed once more, and my friends end up dead at my feet?”

Adam clenched his fists. "Look down!" he shouted. "Look down!" The itch inside him grew beyond inflamed, turning agonizing, begging him to scratch, begging him to approach the Culturist and hack him to pieces. "Look down, Culturist. Look down upon what I lost."

As the Paragon bellowed those words, he felt something inside him turn fragile, turn brittle, and threaten to break. The Culturist didn't judge him, not like the Deathless, who sneered and laughed. Instead, the Culturist bowed his head in an act of sympathy—and the subtle, genuine nature of that act stood testament to the Culturist’s newfound freedom.

"And I think the only truth here is not found in words of pity or mercy, but in a horrible, cruel, but ultimate acceptance that things can't be made right. So many things across our lives." The Culturist lifted his hands in a gesture of greater meaning. "Even now, without the Challenger's influence, his shadow upon me still remains. I killed and tortured those people, millions across the ages. The Challenger did not puppeteer me. I decided to do it. The itch is an ever-present impulse, an anchored obsession. When there's an obsession, it defines your thoughts and consumes you. But how much of that is an excuse? How much of that is a justification? Is simply the impulse enough to make us depraved? Perhaps the answer is yes. Yet I ultimately did decide to kill all those people. I butchered many who deserved it, but many more who did not. All of that was a decision of my own volition, and that, perhaps above all else, is my sin. It is sin that cannot be made right. The taking of a life is absolute. Everything that could have been, everything that was—no more. Or that's how it seems.”

The Culturist gestured toward Adam. "You torture yourself, Paragon, but to what end? Do you think that there could have been another way? That there is another life in which you could live it all again and do the right thing and save Blackedge?" He wasn't taunting the Paragon, but he was judging. "I have had such thoughts before. If only I could have known the way things would play out, I would have prevailed. If only I'd known, I could have stopped myself in some way, used the wisdom that I gained across countless lifetimes to live it all better. But is that really true? Or will we just find ourselves faced with new mistakes down new paths? I think that is more likely. I think in the attempt to escape from our original fate, we will make a new one, and we will suffer the flaws of that new fate as well."

Adam saw where the Culturist was going here, but the orc was making a mistake. He was speaking from his own experience. On a fundamental level, he despised his experiences, for they were inflicted upon him by the Challenger, by the System, by the state of the world. It was the state of the world that was his darkness. It was this oppressive reality that he sought to defy.

"It's not just the past; it's the fated future," Adam countered. "It's more than everything I could possibly do. Yes, I could accept this, but it's not going to change anything either, because the System... Well, it's predictable. If nothing else, it is predictable."

Adam laughed bitterly. "How can we say otherwise? It wants us to struggle. It's going to make us struggle. It's going to move us down a specific path. I see it now in him!" The Paragon pointed at the orc, his finger trembling in barely suppressed bloodlust. "It wants me to kill Shiv someday when we're both at the height of our power, or perhaps at the peak of our strife, before I reach a level where Shiv cannot follow, or more likely he circumvents the System ceiling itself. It will make me kill him. It will fuel everything with all our conflict and would do it over and over again. I can see it. I can't unsee it!"

And Adam got to the point of it all. "I have to rise above it. I have to rise above these circumstances. I need to be more than—" He hesitated. "I need to be divine. I have to be divine. I see the shape of my world, and it is a world of power, but with no tether to responsibility. My father tried. He still believes it will all be worth it. But the good he's done, the consequences he's borne, they're not equal to the pain he's likely caused, not nearly. He is not malicious. He tries to be a righteous man. I cannot ever think otherwise of him in spirit. But he burned a city because the Starhawk ordered it of him. The Starhawk, the God of Justice, betraying the ideals of justice when he believed he had to. If a god, even a false one, could be made to do this, then what then waits for me down the line? What then? Because I know that my spirit as it is right now is not as strong as my father's, and it cannot contend with the Starhawk’s, not after all the experiences he's gone through, not after how much his resolve has calcified. It's pure hubris to think that I alone can rise beyond that, and that's why I need to do something right now to sever this skill, to elevate it beyond myself if it's at all possible. I must do that. I must. I must find it in myself to achieve something absolute if I am to… If I am to overthrow the system someday."

And somehow, while he tried to avoid the lesser hubris, he spoke a greater utterance of absolute arrogance. How could he ever contend with the System?

Integration was to the Starhawk what a universe was to a microbe!

Adam wasn't even a microbe right now, not even close. But his ambition, his dream, his need, had gone that far and was scarred into him. It was more than a scar. This was no reality he wanted to live. He didn't want people to suffer in this world anymore.

Because what came of all that agony? More power? Power toward what end?

Adam's teeth clenched, and he cut through the air with his hand, gesturing at the world below. "Look around us, Culturist! Look around! It's enough to drive me to despair! My Republic is more lich than Valor or any other Undying will be. It is the ghost of national ideals—a false faith worn by a single Councilwoman governing and herding gods that have gone senile, that have tumbled away from the truth of their Domains, that have abandoned their previous ideals by the decay of legend and time. And then there are those around me, those who escaped the Republic's depraved prison, who are surviving battle after battle. But I see what lurks beyond the veil of Integration, and it's nothing at all, nothing but madness and incoherence. It is no better than this country, nothing for the common Pathbearer to live for. What is there to be found in this nation? What is there but a caste system of blind power? What nobility? We are sacrificing children to feed a god that is but one of them. We are blowing up Master-Tiers to butcher Adepts, and then Legends casually slaughter and maim just because it suits their convenience. What true faith can be constructed from this? What reality are we living under? This is a cauldron in which we're boiling away thousands of lives without true purpose. Our power is purposeless. Our skills, these evolutions, feed our pleasure, our actualization, but where do they lead? Where am I to go if not to the absolute peak to change things?"

And with every act of defiance, with every moment, Adam invoked the absolute, where his desire became more than a feeling and cemented itself as a sensation, a force—a force that trembled within, a force that lit the palm he'd placed on the Deathless in an incandescent glow that infused his Divinity as he worshiped what he was or what he would become.

Absolute. Absolute. Absolute.

That Divinity leaked over into his Legendary skill as his subconscious leaked over into his active knowing. He made a wish.

He prayed to the System, though it disgusted him to do so, but more importantly, he prayed to his own soul. “Untethered from my own weakness so that I can bear the burdens the System won't, so I can bear the burdens the world can't. If this reality needs a tyrant, then let that tyrant be a just one. Let that tyrant be a pillar of virtue. Let this world experience a heroic age unending.”

Domain Worshiped: [Heroism/Tyranny]

And as Adam spoke those words, it was as if he struck a pact with an unseen god above gods. His palm grew ever wider. His Zone of Absolute Dominion went from spanning the breadth of a mountain to expanding beyond the bend of the world. It spread across all of Lost Angeles, expanding from horizon to horizon and further as his own soul awoke in a new and desperate way. More than that, however, the incandescence inside of him exploded as well, ignited as it was roused to its fullest glory. His Divinity climbed, and that colored him ever more.

Adam felt a separation, one that drove him deeper into another place beyond this reality, even beyond this Delve.

For a moment he flickered into a realm of mist, a realm of peace, a realm of virtue, a realm bereft of suffering, death, and destruction. It was as close to Nirvana as he had ever felt.

And then he was wrenched back.

