I’m sorry? This feels… wrong in here, like my authority doesn’t belong, like no authority belongs here. The void isn’t a place that any part of … anything is meant to be. It’s supposed to be the place between things, not a place in which to exist. I can’t even wrap my extended will in voidmagic because I don’t want to damage the cell… if I can ever find it, and—Oh! There it is.

She commanded the cell to move toward her, her body acting as an anchor as she drew forth the dimensionality of the prison. As she pulled it closer—while leaving it still suspended in the void—she realized that she could actually connect in several places, at least to this particular cell.

Or maybe it’s because I have more experience or capacity because of Kit?

-Either way. Where do we want to connect?-

There was part of a town—or at least a collection of buildings—several cultivated fields, a forest that seemed to have been harvested and replanted in cycles in centuries past, and a large lake.

She could open the hallway into any one of those locations. -Underwater!-

Forget that… Even if I thought that was a good idea, it would be horrid for Terry and rather unkind as such. How about…? The forest.

The empty door frame darkened, the hallway extending away from it before the other side appeared as a bright rectangle in the distance.

Terry immediately flickered forth, knowing the procedures from having participated in quite a few cell missions previously.

Alat cleared her metaphysical throat, taking over the threads of will and authority that Tala was working with.

Tala then felt Kit drawing close from where she hung at all times, stoneward of their current position.

Alat quickly exerted a bit of repulsive pressure to keep Kit at a respectful distance, even as Alat also began drawing portions of Reality close to the voidling, Kit exercising her own will and power to smooth and strengthen the dimensionality and connections of what she was presented with.

It wasn’t fast by any means, but it did seem to be effective. It was also odd, because Kit didn’t really have a will with which to act. She was a part of Tala, bound and merged even closer than she and Terry were.

So, in effect, Tala was simply using the part of herself that was Kit… and that part really, really wanted to eat the cell.

But that was ancillary to the current matter.

Apparently, every Paragon had the ability to do what Kit was doing in one way or another, but most had to perform the work as an act of pure will and authority.

It was like how Tala could create a fire with her authority over a stick if she really had to, but it wouldn’t be easy, as sticks tended to not want to be anything other than a stick. Fire was great and all, but it was better to stick to what it already was.

-That was a bad pun and you should feel bad.-

Hush you. I thought you were focusing.

-I’m trying, but bad puns are distracting.-

Regardless, in this case, she was like a fire Mage. That rusting stick would burn whether or not it wanted to.

There was a beat of silence after Terry flickered to the far end as he looked around the forest that surrounded him.

-I still say that fire and sticks make a weird metaphor.-

I didn’t ask.

-Fine, fine. Well, I’m busy here. Go be of use with Terry.-

Tala considered for a moment, then agreed, moving the cloud of bloodstars that had swept the antechamber after Terry, using the terror bird as the source of her aura in which to work.

It essentially made Terry the focal point of her field of view, and she was fine with that.

Still, as he began to advance into the cell—weaving among the trees—she drove iron spikes into the deep, soft soil of the forest floor to serve as another source for her aura and an amplification of the same.

One is none, and now we have two, three, four… More and more iron spikes were placed as Tala fortified and extended the position that she and Terry would defend while Alat and Kit continued to work.

This was either going to be incredibly anti-climactic or quite the fun little clash.

That internal uncertainty was resolved sooner than she’d hoped as a stunningly symmetrical woman stepped out from behind a tree. “Well hello there, little birdy. Who might you be?”
