Niala and David were back at the ship, discussing the result of their interviews so far, when the door to the cabin opened on Sammie.

She turned her head toward him, ears perking up. “Hey Sammie! How did-”

Her mouth hung open on her next word as Jordo followed the guardsman in, carrying a pouting Sybil in his arms. Sammie bowed. “Hello, Ma'am. The investigation went alright, do we have a lot to discuss, I think.” He said, walking up to the table and sitting down.

The golem majordomo came after, walking to a chair and gently depositing the bunnykin on it before taking up his position by the door. She kept her arms crossed and her head tucked in, making it a point not to look at Sammie.

David quirked a brow and then shrugged. “Let's talk, then. Me and Niala haven't finished questioning the people involved. If you two are done with the police report, you can help us finish that.”

Niala blinked and got her head back in the present with a little shake. “Ah, right! So, huh, what did you learn?” She asked both guards.

Sammie leaned back into his chair. “Not that much, all things considered, but enough to know that something isn't right.”

David and Niala shared a glance before she let her ears droop. “And what is it? The thing that doesn't feel right?”

“Welllll, it's more of a gut feeling than something concrete. Emile seemed really incensed about his father's death, right? But he only ever put in a single request with the guards to reopen the case. We asked around, and the only other attempt he made was to get a private investigator to go over the evidence and present a separate report, which didn't lead to anything.” Sammie said.

David narrowed his eyes. “Two official attempts aren't a lot, if he's certain his father's death was a cover-up. What about un-official ones?”

Sammie shook his head. “Couldn't find trace of anything in the guard or town records. One of the local judges said the Landretti family approached him, but he wouldn't say why, only that it was before the death.”

Niala tapped her mouth with a finger. “Well, what if Emile was just out of money? You heard him talk about how his father practically ruined his family.”

“And that's oxshit!” Sybil exclaimed, breaking her silence, though she still ignored Sammie. “We got our hands on the transactions that the Landrettis did after Hugo's death, and they didn't sell or divest anything until about a year later, and then all within a trional.”

Niala frowned. “Doesn't that just mean they ran out of money at that point?”

Jordo's eye flashed. “Madam, that would indeed be the logical conclusion, but I was given access to the town's publicly available financial data. When compared against the information Ms. Sybil charmed out of the Landretti's treasurer's son-”

“I didn't charm him! I just asked nicely!”

Sammie stared at her through half-closed eyelids.

“Don't give me that look! You know it's true! And besides, the guy's a bastard, getting drunk and badgering his commoner friends into causing trouble and getting caught by the guards!”

Sammie shrugged. “All true. Not the point.”

She stuck her tongue out and looked away.

The golem waited a beat before continuing. “As I was saying, the Landrettis' finances were much diminished after Hugo's death, but remained manageable. The sale of a few properties and re-investing for short-term gains would have seen them bounce back into relative affluence within a few years.”

His eye dimmed. “However, they instead kept spending money on discretionary purchases for a year, at which point they had to perform a blanket sale of many properties to avoid actual bankruptcy.”

David scratched his head. “That's the first piece of hard evidence that Emile lied to us. Everything else is supposition, but it points at us being taken for a ride.”

Sammie, Sybil and Jordo nodded.

He turned to his wife, who had been taking notes all along. “What do you think?”

She blinked. “Are you sure? I'm not the expert investigator here...”

David smiled. “Maybe not, but you're the smartest of us all. Your input will be valuable.”

Her tail and ears went still for a second, with a small blush following right after as she looked away and focused on her notebook. “O-ok, well, if you insist.”

She breathed in once. “Let's recap, then. Stefan Landretti opened a sealed door, didn't like what he found, and resealed it. He then built 17 enchanted tools that he dispersed across the kingdom, in case his family ever needed to open it again. Hugo Landretti was given the role of grand manager at the company despite his lack of skills. He went on to burn through a pile of funds, both from the company and his family.”

Pausing, she looked around. Everyone nodded, so she continued. “Hugo was ousted and was found hanged a few weeks later. The official cause is depression and shame, ruled a suicide. Emile maintains that it was a staged death, and was done so that Hugo wouldn't reveal that he had been manipulated and blackmailed by Sebastian Quaro, the current grand manager. According to Emile, Sebastian has gathered all 17 of Stefan's enchanted tools and intends to open the ancestral treasure hidden underneath this valley.”

She put another check mark in her notebook, reviewed her notes, and kept going. “Here we have the first question; was Hugo's death really a suicide, or a murder...”

David cocked a brow at the silence. “What is it?”

She looked his way. “It's just... does it really matter if it's either?”

“What do you mean?”

She scrunched her mouth, ears twitching. “Well, the really important part is whether or not Sebastian has all the hidden runes, no? I don't like saying that, but do we care how Hugo died?”

Sybil's ears flopped, hanging down. “...Ma'am, do you really not care about justice?”

Niala looked at her wide-eyed. “No! No! I mean, yes, I do! I'm just saying, shouldn't we figure out the motive first?”

The bunnykin lifted a finger to retort, but stopped with an open mouth.

Sammie chuckled, earning himself a red-iron glare, while David sighed. “Kitten, that's why I wanted your input. You're right, we're skipping a few steps.” He looked at the guardsman. “You have that date with the records clerk from the company, right? When is it?”

“Tonight.”

Sybil's brows shot up. “Tonight?! You met her yesterday!”

He shrugged. “Love doesn't wait.”

“I'll show you love!” She made to step up and toward him, but David held a hand up while clearing his throat. She stopped, tucked her ears in, and sat back down.

He turned to look at Sammie. “Enjoy your date later today, then. Tell her that we'd like to meet, if you can?”

The guardsman nodded. “That was the plan, sir.”

They kept going over the cases' details for a few more bells. David and Niala reported that, even though they still had quite a few people left to interview, they'd met a few people who had interacted with Hugo outside of the Landretti family after his dismissal. Unlike what the inner and middle circle had reported, that he was upset and angry, they had reported that he looked like a hollow shell.

There had been one man, who had retired from the company during Hugo's tenure but who had been on friendly terms with him, who had approached his old colleague and boss. Hugo had, at first, confided in the man about his mistakes, descending into a spiral of self-loathing, before exclaiming that he had been wrong all along and demanding to be left alone.

Clearly, Hugo had not only been angry and upset.

They decided that they would continue their interviews, though they would specifically seek out current and ex-employees of the company, and include questions about suspect cargo or packages being brought in.

They needed to know if Sebastian really had been collecting the hidden runes, or if Emile had lied there as well, and they couldn't rely entirely on the archive clerk agreeing to work with them.

The time for Sammie's date arrived, and he left, glared at by Sybil until he walked out the door.

Two minutes later, she was asking for permission to trail him and make sure nobody tried to jump the man. David cut Niala off before she could agree, instead asking Jordo to observe from a distance.

As the golem left, Niala cocked her head at he husband, a question in her eyes. It was only later, when they were alone, that he said he just didn't want Sybil to crash the date mid-way.

Sammie knocked at the door he had been given and waited. He'd dressed out of his armour and instead put on one of his nicer uniforms, because girls loved uniforms.

It was nearly a minute, after he had started wondering if he'd been led astray, that the door slowly opened on the clerk girl, Anna, wearing a delightful blue-grey dress with a cute white neck bow-tie.

One thing she wasn't wearing was the puffy beret she'd had yesterday. Instead, a long pair of bunny ears graced the top of her head.

A bunnykin. A pleasant surprise, to be sure, but he also started an internal timer for how long before Sybil would crash his date. She had asked the Allwardens to be allowed to follow him, he was certain, and Niala would have agreed, obviously.

Better make it count. He smiled. “Hello, Anna. You look just as refined as yesterday, but twice as resplendent, and it's a shame you hid your ears; they are lovely.”

She returned his smile. “You don't have to lay it on too thick, Mr. Sammie. I know what you're looking for.” She said with a twinkle in her eyes.

His smile grew a bit. “Oh? Do tell, please, and just Sammie, or Sam, is perfectly fine.”

She giggled. “Really? You're going to play the gentleman card? Well, ok! Let's see how long you'll keep it up, Sammie.”

He stepped aside as she got out and locked the door. He offered her his arm, which she took, and walked her down the street and a couple of blocks toward a nice little quiet restaurant that only had tables for twos.

As they walked and chatted, bantering back and forth, he was quickly reminded why he'd approached her in the first place.

Sure, he'd said it was to get access to the company's records, but the truth was that he'd simply given her one look and been taken. The longer he talked with her, the more she proved his initial impression; she really was a calm, quiet, and reserved woman, exactly the things he told Sybil that he liked, but she wasn't meek.

Back when Sebastien had barged into the service room, she had appeared subdued, but he knew it had been a mask as soon as he'd locked gaze with her. Her eyes were bright and alert, with a rigidity that hinted at someone who knew what they were worth, even if they chose to avoid problems.

And here she was, holding her end of his light teasing, giving back as much as he sent her way.

He didn't even have to think about smiling. His mouth did it all of its own.

They'd ended up taking more time to get to the restaurant that he'd planned, which meant they got there right on time, having scheduled a good twenty minutes in advance.

Before they got in, though, he did have one unpleasantry to address. He took in a breath and manoeuvred her so they were facing.

She gave him a quizzical look, and he returned a thin smile. “Apologies, Anna. There's no good time to ask this, so I figured I'd get it out first.”

“That sounds serious.”

He shrugged. “Not serious, but not pleasure either. My employers asked me to tell you that they would like to meet. Now, your answer will have absolutely no impact on our evening together, so go ahead and say no, and we'll just get on with it.”

She stared at him with a neutral expression. “So you weren't sent to try and get access to the company's files through me?”

He blinked. “I... no? Well, I might have used that excuse to make sure they'd let me out for this date, but that wasn't my actual intention.”

She smiled. “Well, ok, then. I won't meet them. And you've earned a few points.”

“We're scoring each other?”

She grinned. “Of course we are. People are always scoring each other during dates. I'm just honest about it.”

“...I guess that's true.”

“Oooh, another point being open-minded. Well, can we go in? You're off to a great start!”

“Wait, are there prizes if I score high enough?” He asked.

To which she turned and gave him a lopsided smile over her shoulder as she walked toward the restaurant's entrance.

He pulled at his collar. Oh, she wasn't meek at all.

With a short prayer to Saintess Emilda, the patron of good fortune, he stepped after her, his cheeks warm, and a good feeling in his heart.

He only realized later that she had agreed to a date while suspecting that he was trying to use her. He wasn't sure anymore if the date had been his idea or hers.