“Where am I supposed to change?” Holly asked, and John thumbed over his shoulder. “You're kidding.”

“I can't think of anywhere else to do it without being seen.” John said. “Can you?”

Holly sighed and climbed into the backseat of his car. “Tilt the rear view mirror down.”

John did it without question, and she nodded as she unbuttoned her shirt. What Holly and John didn't realize was that the mirror had two settings. One for normal driving and it faced straight, and one for bright lights behind the car when you tilted it down; it reflected the light away from your eyes and still let you see. Holly slipped off her shirt to reveal a thick sports bra, and John froze because he could still clearly see Holly in the mirror.

“Holly...”

“Don't talk to me while I'm changing.” Holly said. “This is awkward enough without hearing your voice, too.”

John kept quiet, and he couldn't reach up to move the mirror, because Holly would accuse him of trying to peek at her. He watched in silence as she put on his t-shirt and it slid over her head easily. When she started to undo her pants, he tried to look away; but, the alluring scene played out in front of him and he just couldn't stop himself from looking at her.

Holly pulled her pants down over her hips and watched the back of John's head. He didn't try to turn and take a peek, and she slid the pants down her thighs and over her knees. She pulled her shoes off and took her feet out of the pant legs. She felt a little self conscious because she sat in the back of John's car in just a t-shirt and underwear, then she picked up her uniform pants and folded them.

Holly grabbed his jogging pants and put one foot in them, then the next. She pulled them up over her knees and up her thighs, then lifted her butt to slide them all the way up to her waist. She sighed as she covered herself, then she slipped her feet back into her shoes.

“You can look now.” Holly said, and John flipped the mirror up.

“Holly...”

“Thanks for not trying to peek.” Holly said.

“I didn't have to peek.” John said to her as he looked her reflection in the mirror. “I-”

“Just because you've seen me naked already?” Holly asked and cut him off. “Don't tell me you're like that, John.”

“Holly, you know I could stare at you all day.” John said. “I fought hard not to turn around and look at you.”

Holly could see the honesty in his face, and she let a small smile out.

“You'd kill me if I tried to look at you unprofessionally.” John said and saw her tiny nod. “No matter how cute you look in your uniform.”

“John! I do NOT look cute in uniform!”

“You just keep telling yourself that.” John said and smiled at her reflection. “Denial isn't just a river in Egypt.”

Holly snorted a laugh and got out of the back seat on his side of the car. She stepped to the driver's side window, put her hands on her hips, and bent over.

“I am not cute.” Holly said.

“Even wearing my workout clothes, that are at least two sizes too big for you, you're cute as hell.” John said as he looked at her. “By the way, I can see your sports bra.”

Holly glanced down and looked at herself, and saw the neck of the t-shirt gaped open and let John see all the way inside. “That's okay. Nothing's showing.”

“Your bra is showing.” John said and chuckled. “Do you know how sexy that is?” He asked her. “I'm glad I'm sitting down, because you'd probably punch me if I was standing up.”

Holly took a deep breath and let it out. “Don't be an ass.”

“Hey, it's not my fault you're so attractive.” John said and smiled. “Blame your parents.”

Holly stood up straight. “We'll talk about this later.” She said. “I'll walk over to Pekoe and check the house listings.”

“I'll be waiting right here for you.” John said, then passed her the burner phone. “Unless you need me, then I'll be there as soon as you call.”

Holly nodded. She was both angry and not angry at him, and for the same reason. She didn't really know how to feel about his comments, and walked out of the alley without a word to search for information that would help them find Ren.

What she didn't know, or couldn't possibly guess, was that it would help others find Ren, too.
