Sipping from her own cup, she leaned against the trunk of an oak. “I won’t be able to sleep yet.” She sighed in contentment.

For a time, the two friends sat together at the edge of the forest, watching the lights in the field below and the stars in the night sky above. The wind was low and warm, and the trees rustled peacefully. From somewhere in the field, someone had produced a set of pipes and was playing them by their campfire. Crickets chirped through the night.

Alex took a deep breath, drinking in the peace of the moment. He idly wondered if such sights existed within the land of Generasi. But, knowing that in two months or slightly more he would be finding out for himself, the thrill of anticipation bloomed within him.

If it weren't for the nagging reminder lurking in the back of his mind that ancient evil was descending on the land, he could have easily thought that the folks in the field peaceably bedding down were simply camping in wait for a festival, instead of fleeing the near end of all things.

It was strange how people could find the calmest comfort in the most trying times.

“Did it ever cross your mind to stay? All jokes aside?” Theresa’s voice asked quietly in the dark. The red light of Alex’s spell strangely brought out the sculpted beauty of her face in new ways. He had to catch himself, otherwise he’d be staring at her for half the night.

He wasn’t so stupid to not realize that he’d developed a strong crush on his oldest friend, but he had never had time to examine it. Maybe he would on this journey.

“Honestly, I thought about it earlier: if I’d gotten a different mark,” he admitted, settling further back against the tree. He felt the gentle course of mana through the forceball’s magic circuit. “I’d have no choice then, but I don’t know if that would have been good or bad. But I meant what I said back at the gate, I’m going to miss Alric and I’m going to miss Thameland.” He sighed. “A lot.”

He glanced over to Theresa and his breath caught to find her sharp brown eyes staring right at him.

“What about you?” he managed to ask. “You asked me if you could come with me, but you didn’t have to. What made you decide to come?”

A part of him dearly hoped she would say ‘for you’.
