He wondered if things would have been different, if his apprentices had been with him. Would they have found a way? They were determined, certainly, and even now Cale was reminded that there was a reason he needed to keep others around him when he could. As broad as his perspective was and as much as he'd seen, there were always modes of thinking he didn't naturally reach on his own. They'd proven as much when they helped him save Angus, and in turn the Icon of Battle.

But there was no real point in that speculation. The truly important thing was that as Cale spoke to his apprentices, he found that part of himself—the part that still clung to the distance and separation that Torment's Shadow represented—slowly began to relax, and to believe in what Torment's Shadow itself had already realized.

The war was over. He'd won. The method was cruel and terrible, but it was done, and he was living in the reality that stood in its aftermath. Torment's Shadow was no longer needed.

So what did Cale want to do?

...Figure out baking magic, obviously, and probably the deal with the Gift while he was at it. Try to make things better when he encountered them, instead of just moving on when he was done. Turn his apprentices into the greatest archmages to step on half the Great Realms, let alone Utelia. Fix that thing with Professor Graystalk's mana core, if he could, and help Sternkessel build a people. Help Akkau with the still-unknown threat hunting down all dragonkind.

And he probably ought to find out what happened to humanity. The Red Commander had called him the Fugitive Seal. He might not have interrogated the guy, but that was still the kind of clue divination magic could reach.

There was, obviously, only one way all of this could come together.

"I don't suppose the tournament you guys were talking about happens to involve a series of seemingly unrelated tasks that would let us help five different professors at once?" Cale asked hopefully.

Flia gave him a strange look. "What? No, it's a series of competitive dungeon delves. Why do you think the wyldfires are practicing in the labyrinth?"

"Damn." Cale grumbled. "Guess that was too much to ask for the Thread of Fate. Whatever, we'll just do things the long way around. Leo, how do you feel about absorbing a metaphysically unstable storm into your mana core?"

Leo blinked. "...What?"

"I think he's feeling better," Damien said.

"I am. Ten points to Damien."

"What?" Leo looked outraged. "You didn't—you didn't even give out points for all the other things we've been doing! I found a dungeon!"

"You also plotted a really complex ritual to be drawn out in the Golden Sands with a storm," Cale said thoughtfully. "I was gonna give you points for it, but I forgot."

"You... forgot," Leo repeated, staring at him. "And you aren't going to give them to me now?"

"I did tell you the points don't mean anything. I'm not even recording them."

"I am." Leo walked over to Cale and placed his frankly massive arms on Cale's shoulders. His eyes were practically glowing. Somehow. Was that a labyrinth magic thing? "Give me points. I will do literally anything."

"...100 points if you shove the storm into your mana core next time we go into the labyrinth."

"Done," Leo said immediately.

Behind them, Syphus nodded, pleased. "I have taught you well, Leo."

"Just for the record," Cale said. "I have plans for everyone. Even that guy." He pointed at the monster under Damien's bed, and it reached out with an inky tendril to wave.

Flia blinked. "I'm not sure if I should ask about that one."
