There was more. There was a lot more but the construct could only hold so much at the time. She could cover many more people. She could protect them all, fend off attacks and let them do their job. There would be no artillery spells crashing on tightly-packed Harrakan Heavies because she would be here for them.

A wave of fatigue washed over her and she stumbled.

“Please, be careful,” Abe reminded her.

“I’m fine. Not out of mana. Just tired.”

“Should we stop here for now?”

“Yes.”

Viv coaxed the mana back into herself without much difficulty. It was hers more than any energy she had ever wielded before. She felt like she could take on a necrarch and win. After her nap, of course.

Mana mastery: Intermediate 5

“Ah, in case this was not abundantly clear, you have access to enormous reserves and your spells will be extremely effective. The black ones, that is. The use of colorless mana will still present a challenge. Now, you seem tired. Should we head back?”

“I could eat, actually. And drink.”

“Oh! I got soup from the Five Fishes inn!” Sidjin exclaimed.

He was very proud of himself.

“You brought soup all the way up here?” she asked.

“Well, Abenezigel sent me a messenger bird saying you were stirring in your sleep so I figured you might want something hot. I flew it all the way up here.”

“Oh yes, you can fly. I always forget flight is a thing around here.”

“Flying over Helock is normally a death sentence. It is also a fairly tiring thing to do so even those with a license to fly normally prefer to hail a cart.”

“The part of mankind with access to will-powered flight considers this a chore. Figures,” Viv grumbled.

“I got the license so I thought, why not? Better than field rations and nutrient patches.”

“Yes. I would love some soup.”

Viv got her soup. She sat in one of the new couches while Sidjin reheated it for her with a handwave.

“Thanks. You are handy to have around,” she told him with a smile.

“As a fourth step war mage, it is my pleasure to use my awesome powers to provide piping hot soup.”

“As it should be,” Viv joked before realizing Sidjin’s gaze lingering.

“It’s the eyes,” he whispered. “Very scary.”

“Sorry.”

“For them.”

Viv chuckled. Sidjin was doing his best to make light of the many changes she was going through. She appreciated it and focused on her meal while the others gossiped and talked about the recent events.

Not much had changed in just nine days. Rakan was still recovering safely in the suburbs though Sidjin wanted to have him transferred to Harrak for safety. Lady Azar had sent a report stating all was well and that she had secured trading rights with wild land tribes to the south, specifically for fur and minerals. There were also rumors of scouting parties returning from Halluria, bringing back reports of troops heading east. Moving armies were a sign of a civil war brewing between the warlords. It would also explain why the assault on Baranese defenses had been so weak. Sidjin laughed when he reported that the arena still hadn’t been cleared of black mana saturation. Apparently, the Academy had refused the job.

“Remember Ashra? The black mana tenured professor?” Sidjin asked.

“Of course. I was her assistant for two semesters.”

“She had some choice words for Deos. Rumor has it she turned down quite a bit of money. Now, Deos has been forced to hire local talents but the concentration is so high that it takes specialized gear to even enter the arena. Unfortunately, the prototypes tend to go missing,” Sidjin said with an exaggerated sigh.

“Something about sabotage. I’m sure they’ll figure it out, eventually.”

Viv smiled in appreciation. A little delayed vengeance was just the perfect sweet note to end her meal. Like ice cream but schadenfreude flavored.

“Why has Eunath not intervened?” Viv asked.

“He is a victim of his own importance,” Abe explained. “An archmage of his talent cannot be seen doing what is essentially janitor work. I suspect he may intervene soon if the City Hall battle mages do not purify the land first. The arena’s closure reflects badly enough on Helock as a whole to push them to forfeit their pretend neutrality. You must understand. The arena has never closed for longer than a week. Even during sieges. Deos is going to be replaced.”

“Serves them right.”

“Indeed, though I would warn you that you have a somewhat roguish reputation in the city right now. As for rumors about you, most people agree that you must be dead and your corpse is floating somewhere in the sewers.”

Viv could have done without the imagery and, apparently, the same was true for Sidjin. She recovered when the lich floated her bedroom lock to his skeletal hands.

It was really badly broken.

“I installed this handle here myself more than two centuries ago.”

“Well then errrr… it was high time to change it!” Viv replied.

It appeared Abenezigel shared Solfis’ ability to convey displeasure without facial traits.

“Ok sorry for wrecking your stuff. I apologize. I need to get used to my new strength, is all.”

“That is quite fine. I am sure Solfis can help you with getting used to it all.”

“Yes yes. Nap first. Assassinations later.”
