“Incredibly detailed. I could just use it at full power non stop without issue, I think. Very useful.”

“It should also scare those who behold them, though be wary. Ignorant folks might take you for a monster.”

//Those who attempt to cull her will receive their just reward.

//Although it might make the purchase of goods and services challenging.

“Precisely. You will find your visual acuity improved, including in more adversarial conditions as well.”

“Such as?”

Abenezigel waved his hand, invoking a cloud with blue mana. Viv could see rather clearly though the ensuing fog. He followed with a layer of black mana he placed on the windows, plunging the room into darkness. At least, Viv was pretty sure it was darkness. She could see just fine.

“Ok that’s pretty nice. Anything else?”

“Yes. The second thing I want to talk about is your body.”

He stood, approaching Viv. Sidjin leaned against one of the couches as if unsure if he should stay. Or perhaps he was just worried. Viv looked at her arms again, her annoyance at how thin they were still present in her mind.

“Many of your bodily functions are now powered by mana which leads me to the most important point, the one I absolutely intended to mention. In fact, I have come to the realization that I should have told you in your bedroom.”

“Get on with it,” Viv said, annoyed by the delay.

“Many of your vital functions now rely on mana as your physical body is no longer quite physical. This means that when you used to run out of mana, you fainted.”

“Yes, I know,” Viv said, remembering the deadland fort sieges during which she collapsed several times.

“If you run out of mana now, your brain will immediately cease to function and you will die.”

“Errrr.”

“I do not wish to alarm you. It is excessively difficult to make an elemental archmage run out of mana. Nevertheless, keep that possibility in mind. Fortunately, the other aspects of an elemental body are much more beneficial. You can last longer without food and breath, though not forever. I am pleased to report that you may also survive mortal wounds as if your endurance was several tiers higher, whether the cause be massive trauma, poison, or even curses!”

The lich seemed giddy, something that immediately set off Viv’s survival instinct. It was the skull, really.

“Not that I would wish it on you, of course,” the lich quickly amended.

“Alright, good to know. Moving on?”

“Unless you are killed, you are now functionally immortal.”

“Ah yeah. Not bad.”

Viv considered millennia of research for eternal youth, trillions spent over the ages on alchemy, genetics, medicine, magic, and AI for the sake of obtaining what she had just been so casually handed. Abenezigel patiently waited until she was done digesting that particular piece of information.

Immortality.

She wouldn’t age, she wouldn’t catch degenerative diseases, she didn’t have a deadline to finish her project before the reaper came knocking. Strangely, the thought didn’t calm her down at all. It gave her vertigo.

“Right. Okay. Next thing?”

“The last consequence should be your drastically improved ability to channel mana, thus placing you squarely among the ranks of the most powerful humans on Nyil. This is the bottom of the mountain, mind you, but its tip leads to Emeric’s palace. Though the path is barred to me, I would like to be the first to welcome you to the Greatest Game. May your journey take you far.”

“Thanks…” Viv said, rather moved.

She turned to Sidjin, though she wasn’t sure why. It felt like a life-defining moment yet at the same time it was intimate and friendly, not majestic. She found she preferred it that way.

“Hey, I am just happy to see you alive and well. You can conquer the planet at your convenience. Do not feel pressured,” he said.

“World domination is overrated anyway.”

//I formally disagree.

“Moving on, to quote you,” Abenezigel interrupted, “the last addition to your arsenal is also the most unexpected. Those limbs you have on your back. May we see them?”

“Sure,” Viv said, though she watched Sidjin’s reaction when the half wings expanded from her back. He seemed curious, not revolted. That comforted her, somehow.

The three others approached, looking at the scythe-like appendages as she extended them in front of her. Moving them didn’t require her to contract muscles, yet it was not intellectual either. This new sensation was… uncanny. A request to touch the limbs meant three pairs of hands (two of them made of bones) on that surface. It felt ticklish.

“It’s warm and unyielding at the same time?” Sidjin said, sounding unsure.

//Superficial analysis indicates the material is solidified black mana.

//Classification: exotic material.

//Flexibility: mild

//Durability: extreme, all aspects

//Full sensory feedback detected.

//Mana circuits detected.

//Evolving structure detected

//Material rarity: unique.

//Harvesting directive: refused.

“Hmm yes. Hmmmm yes yes yes, fascinating. Hmm. Hmmm,” Abenezigel said.

All the others glared.

“I have been trying to sound more human by using suboptimal conversation branches and various noises to express emotion. I presume that my efforts are not producing the expected result?” he finally said.

“If you can pick your personality yourself, why would you use an annoying one? Just speak up,” Viv replied.

“I shall make adjustments. I believe you have a wide range of motions but that is secondary. The most important factor seems to be that those wings of yours can act as anchors. Anchors are dimensional matrices at the center of spellworks with arcane indexes superior to the Radani constant, thus requiring— “

“They’re wells in the fabric of magic so Nyil knows it’s supposed to listen better,” Viv interrupted.

Viv had never seen someone with no face look so put upon.

“Accursed witches,” Sidjin grumbled to the side.

He looked like he was eager to listen to a fellow mage drone on about constants and variables and whatnot. Viv was not having any of it.

“You two may feel free to dork it out in the privacy of your man caves but I’d like to point out that those are my anchors, which means they are witch anchors, which means that I get to call them as I damn well please.”

“We must still test them out,” Sidjin observed.

“I’m pretty sure I can use them to stab people.”

“Yes,” Abenezigel pointedly replied, “in the same way a jeweler’s crystal pliers may be used to stab someone in the eye.”

“So that’s a yes.”

//I shall schedule some eye-stabbing practice, Your Grace.

“That doesn’t seem like a good idea,” Sidjin said.

//Says the only nearby source of fresh eyes.

“My wings can clearly be used as weapons and they’re completely invisible until deployed. I would be stupid not to train to use them as a contingency plan. Besides, Solfis saw that they were extremely durable. Certainly more durable than my mostly fleshy self.”

//Extreme durability in Imperial classification means that I cannot break it.

//This classification takes into account the capabilities of my original frame.

That gave everyone a moment of pause.

“So. My wings, solid. Got it. I need to learn how to move again anyway. Let’s add this to my magical practice. Abe, I assume practice is fine and wouldn’t mess with your schedule?”

“Indeed not. In fact, I expected it. Is calling me Abe really necessary?”

“Would you prefer Ben?”

“You may call me Abe in a private setting.”

The lich nodded to himself, the gesture once again clearly unnatural.

“I remember that nicknames are an important part of complicity between members of the same group of rapscallions. This bodes well for the future of our cooperation. My good mates.”

“If you say so. Right, so rest and physical training. What about magic practice? I have a new active skill I would like to test.”

“Would it lead to the destruction of my floating island?”

“No, it's a purely defensive increase of my abilities.”

“We can do that in the ritual room.”

The ritual room.

Viv instinctively placed a hand against her chest at heart level to fend off a swell of phantom pain. Her death had been quick and it hadn’t stuck but she did remember a flash of agony. Sure enough, there was a small patch of scar tissue she could feel through the thin fabric.

“Your scars should have been reabsorbed… except…” Abe said, hesitating.

“Yeah.”

“We can postpone the exercise if you would rather take a moment.”

“No, I’m fine. This is just a big change. I knew I was going to become part-elemental or die from the moment Solfis started to train me two years ago. I worked hard to make sure I would survive. I befriended the Temple of Neriad. I got the information that Helock was the place to ask. I came here, then worked my way up to a solution that Solfis eventually provided. Now that I’m mostly safe, I realize that I didn’t consider what I would do after. I wanted to learn portal magic to at least send word to my family that I was okay but… they’ll all be dead of old age before I can reasonably figure it out. Being part elemental also comes with a range of weirdness we are only just starting to uncover. And that’s not mentioning the dying part. Sorry, Abenezigel, I’m only considering myself when I say that. I am not trying to belittle your own struggles or your plans…”

“I know that revenge is my life project, and that you are an ally. Do not worry.”

//You could always bring civilization and life back to the deadlands.

//You may also consider becoming an empress.

//Lead mankind into a new era of progress and enlightenment.

//And make urinating in public a capital offense.

“I was already considering it.”

//Additionally, you now have the time to see your adopted daughter grow.”

“A daughter?” Abe asked.

//The dragon.

“Ah. In any case, self-care and mental well-being are an integral part of the recovery process. You will have the time you need to come to terms with your new reality.”

“And possibly get back my normal height. Alright, enough navel gazing. We went over body changes, now let’s have a look at the magic.”

The four reconvene in the ritual room, filing through a corridor to get there. Viv noted that for an undead den, the place was surprisingly devoid of black mana and skeletons. All the rooms she passed by kept the same strange identity of ancient ruin repopulated and refurbished centuries after they had been abandoned, new curtains covering stones smoothed by centuries of disuse. The effect was reinforced by the general cold air up here. Interestingly, it didn’t seem to affect her much though she noted Sidjin had kept his coat.

The room itself had changed. The circle she’d seen was gone, as was the altar. She searched for a pool of blood on the ground her memory insisted should be here but only found clean rock. It bothered her a bit.

The three others stood at the edge of the circle to give her a moment. She went towards its center.

“The room is properly insulated. So long as you do not actively try to demolish it, the enchantments should hold. Feel free to begin at your convenience.”

Viv nodded. She was ready.

Just like inspection, using the aspect of the guardian didn’t really require any ceremony, though she felt like screaming it just because she could. Maybe it would help. In any case, the world guided her, whispering instructions. She extended her wings, or anchors, then stabbed them down.

At this point, Viv looked behind to see that her wings were not just considerably thicker but that they didn’t stab in the stone so much as in the world itself. As an experiment, she pulled them back. They returned to their default size and left the stone behind untouched.

“Hmm.”

The skill description said she couldn’t move but could be moved. She wondered if that meant that someone could just punt her away or if she could, say, stand on a chariot and cast it to act as a supercharged portable shield array. Maybe both? More things to try out. Planting the wings again, she resumed the test.

Right, she was anchored and static. Now it was just about pulling power from…

Oh.

OH.

Mana didn’t come from the usual place around the center of her chest. It was a little bit forward and it exploded out in the room, coursing down the wings and to every pore of her skin, every cell, down to her fingertips. It rose in great waves around her. It formed blades and shapes and tendrils seeking, searching for anything and everything it could affect. It wanted to be freed, it wanted to be used and it was hers and hers alone.

Nyil was alive. It poured power into everything and the living beings on its surface took and grew it, returning it with interest. They grew it and bloomed it but the power was, ultimately, borrowed. If Viv had returned to Earth, she would have starved for that might, pushed her core for the trickle it could create from memories. No longer. The source of the black was now her soul and it was hers, uncompromisingly hers.

There was a lot of it.

Viv brought the tidal wave under control, feeding it to herself to form an aegis that covered the entire outer circle. Viv was the rock upon which armies would shatter as she protected her own. Mana shimmered and sang, the hum audible. A ripple over the aegis crystallized it. It was ready. She was ready.

//Citadel class shield array detected.

//Impressive, Your Grace.

“So that’s what an elemental caster does,” Sidjin whispered.

