r a drink soon, grab him or that idiot friend of his, Seth to go spelunking. I need you to deliver this letter!” Nibs ordered. Nina took the sealed note between two fingers as if it was going to bite her.“But what about work?” Nina protested.Nibs eyed her two clones. “Just leave them. I’ll wait for you,” he promised, and ushered Nina towards an oncoming Quiss.The wizard looked furious as his face was covered in soot and burn marks. His Mana flashed and threatened to explode as he glared at them.Everyone in town was going to be suffering the same, soon. New levels of Mana meant that previously limited powers would grow...Even Nina was in danger from that, and she had no desire to return to the mess she had been before. She might have to train to get her Mana to higher levels before long.A Nina Hivemind was not a cute thing to see in action.“No. Whatever it is. No,” Quiss shut them down and stalked to the bar. Nina wasn’t sure she imagined stools slightly moving to avoid him or drinks pouring themselves before Nibs actually touched the lever.Okay… she needed someone whose Mana hadn’t plummeted and was now rising like a dragon on gnome crack.She went looking for Seth and prayed he had grasped the language a little better.--“You wish to... give letter...to new drink place?” Seth said after a moment. Nina’s hopes rose and she carried on.“I think my boss has a crush on the new place and wants me to scope out his darling,” Nina admitted.“Your leader wants to crush new drink place? Scope...scope...as in watch? He wants to see new drink crushed for daring to be?!” Seth said in alarm.Nina was quiet for a moment then shrugged.“You know what. It’s not the right crushing but I bet Nibs would do that if he doesn’t like what he hears. But all you need to do is come with me to deliver the letter!” she beckoned. Seth waved it to Isanella who was watching them with delight in her eyes. Seth was having tea with her.What they would talk about, Nina had no idea.“May… I come? Deo is out with his friends and I have nothing else to do,” the woman asked. Nina blinked and tried to remember if she had ever heard the woman speak before.“Sure, open party, looking for a healer now but we’ll take a bard,” Nina joked. Isanella thought about it.“Delta is a sweet girl. I doubt we need a healer. I can spend time with Maestro and practise my new instrument!” Isanella said brightly and the room felt melodical and sweet as if her mood was infectious. She plucked a lute that looked to have had mushrooms on the mind when being made. Seth peered at the mushroom motif and nodded. He patted his stomach and it growled.“Round squishy headbulbs make for good mouth party!” Seth beamed. Nina nearly spat out her tea.“Can’t you teach him or find someone to help him learn the local words?” Nina asked the smiling woman.“I can understand his music but I’m no good at teaching. We just hum at each other and sometimes he slips into the tongue of magic which I know a little bit of,” Isanella explained.“I just feel like he's going to say something bad to the Dungeon and it’s gonna be my fault,” Nina sighed. The petite woman giggled.“Dungeons understand all languages that are in common use, most creatures and even most intents. Most just don’t care to respond,” Isanella stood and grabbed a yellow cardigan.That was news and Nina leaned forward as the woman kept talking cheerfully as she began to pack lunches for them all. What a mother.“Dungeon Cores take in ambient Mana, a lot of the world’s Mana flow on the wind and from dense places. In a lot of areas, the Mana mingles and it whispers words to each other, spreading itself so Dungeons learn more about many things!” Isanella packed the food into a basket and covered it with a red cloth.Unauthorized usage: this tale is on Amazon without the author's consent. Report any sightings.“Mana talks?” Nina said doubtfully. Seth merely hummed and that made Isanella giggle.“Seth thinks you sound like a negative nancy. I’ve been to such places. Where Mana mingles and spreads to the corners of the world. Such places are called Ley Lines. They are powerful and if you use a map, many Dungeons are built along one or more Ley Lines!” Isanella hummed as she spoke.Nina frowned.“What about here?” she asked. “For a powerful thing like these lines, Durence sure had been tapped dry,” she pointed out as they began to walk down the street.That made Isanella frown.“Our Dungeon seems to have been built on a dead line,” the woman went quiet.“How does a line die?” Nina pressed on. The look she got was haunting.“It’s cut open and sucked dry by evil.”Nina only had one thing to say.“Bummer.”---Ruli left with enough bacon and eggs to feed an army. That alone made Delta feel better about helping to pay the woman back for coming to her aid like some demonic super hero. It wasn’t nearly enough, and despite Ruli only going to the first floor to drink (on the house… dungeon?) it still meant Ruli was closer to leaving than hanging out.Ruli’s demon nature, whatever it was, let her see Delta far more clearly than she suspected normal folks would. After an endless time of no real sleep other than the times a floor appeared or she broke the system… Delta was beginning to miss talking to people she hadn’t made or found in her basement… or unearthed in a spooky circus or exploded down a soul level.Delta pursed her lips. It felt like so much time had passed when really, the eight hours of sleep she no longer needed just made everything go on forever.As soon as Ruli reached the second floor... Wyin too lost in her own world to even care about the woman, Delta felt the system rushing to bombard her with notifications.“Order! Order! One at a time,” she barked and all the appearing boxes hastily shifted into a neat queue.The first one was interesting. She hovered in the air and got ready for some reading.Where was Nu? Shouldn’t he be her secretary for all this?

Delta eyed the boxes as Nu appeared and grabbed for the first one.

The first menu simply gave her the results of reaching the Third Floor.

“I have no memory of consenting to this,” Delta accused. The box shied away but didn’t do anything but give her the menu of the new beasts.

It was a big info dump and Delta summed it up in her head.

Eazy peazy. Delta should do this dungeon gig herself if it was so eas-Oh wait...Delta made a note to summon a gargoyle soon to test out how she felt about them. Thinking about the Lure Lizard and the Slimers still repulsed Delta to a degree and she was suddenly hit with a weird feeling of time flying past.She thought of her first floor... and the idea of changing any of it... to lose those memories of her time there made her chest tight. If she just messed with things then what she had done and what she had felt would be lost to this weird time lapse.No thank you.Minor upgrades and keeping the foundation sounded nice for now.So, if the goyles (Delta’s name for them) turned out to be a bit crabby, then she would keep the lone one and move on with more trolls.More Jebs seemed fun!The next notification was for the Feast Hall and her battle inside it. Well, Fran’s battle. Delta just cheered and fiddled with some options.Turning on a cheat code by accident.

“Sis, I’m no warrior. Just give that task to Nu,” she protested and the box fizzled then faded. Relieved, she focused on the next box.

“But that’s just the same room with a different name,” Delta pointed out. The box twitched for a moment.

“But now we’re lying. No bar here sadly,” Delta said and the box began to twitch a little faster.

Delta rolled her eyes at Sis’s sass before she mused.Something catchy.Something Delta.--Fera looked up from her task of dodging blinding beams of light from starlight mushrooms as she tried to force them into the cooking pot. The dumbwaiter labels had changed to show the new name.“Free Heal Hall? Really? I guess ‘Extra work for Fera’ is a bit mouthy,” the goblin grumbled as the connecting dumbwaiter began to leak a thick black sludge from Jeb’s latest attempt at cooking.She sighed and got her boomstick.---Free Heal Hall or Free Heal for short felt just right in her head. It was like that free healing spot before or after a boss in some games. Delta was sure her food, while delicious, could not heal actual wounds.She eyed the tables and rubbed her hands in anticipation.“Not yet... but I’ve managed weirder things,” she admitted. How hard could it be it to replace the typical herbs with medical ones? Wine mixed with magical grapes? Cake that didn’t make you fat?Okay, that last one may be even beyond the System. Still, a girl could dream.She hummed and twirled along the hall as she hummed.“Maestro, have you made it down yet?” she called aloud. From underneath the tables came a cat call whistling.“Not even the worst monsters of this world could keep me from taking centre stage! How can I please your ears today, Mother?” Maestro sang and the floor vibrated.“I can call you Betty… and Betty, when you...” she waited, interested to see how far Maestro had learned her music.Maestro began to tute a flute and the floor hummed.“Call me Al! A fine choice if I do so say myself, Madam Betty,” Maestro took off and the song filled the halls and Delta giggled, skipping along to the beat as she planned. There was something just fun about filling the place with music and laughter. A tiny slap to this Silence nonsense.“Take it away Mister Al!” she laughed.She could feel the Mana slowly taking over the garden beyond the hall. Soon, that would be even more space to work with but she tapped her foot to Maestro’s jolly voice as his beat was on point to the song she remembered.Her eyes flicked to the menu that followed her.

Pretty tame options. Delta was a little bummed not to see a hall guardian but she assumed she was getting some version of a breakfast monster meant to feed a family. Some Together-breakfast beast.Truly, the most important meal of the day... and the deadliest.Speaking of potential guardians and purchasing... Delta whistled innocently as she floated towards the stairs. Feeling nostalgic over the first floor had made her remember that she had forgotten about the chance to purchase a random guardian for the toll well that connected Waddle’s Pond to the Fort room!She flew past a singing Wyin and blushed a little as she noticed Maestro was broadcasting her song choice Dungeon-wide.Ah well, the bees were partying it up and Bob was wiggling so hard he was like one of the dancing things outside car shops.The paradise birds of the jungle and the various rabbits and trick foxes were also hooting and yipping along to the song.Honestly, she felt like some princess... that could fly and summon monsters but still, it was a fun feeling.She shot up to the first floor and peeked in on Fran who was sleeping in his cave against Bacon’s stomach. She really was going to make Fran a decent room once Ruli stopped drinking and left the Dungeon.Speaking of the giant woman, who Delta regarded as her... closest friend from outside, she was enjoying Delta’s reward of free drinks with great pleasure.“Then I <pow!> Sent the wolf flying so hard it exploded!” Ruli told a blank-faced Fera.“I keep feeling like I should be responsible and cut you off but if you get drunk enough, you might drop more tips that aren’t rabbit bones and naughty jokes,” Fera mused. Ruli burped loud.“Jukebox monster! Turn the tunes up!” Ruli said with a huge grin. Maestro seemed only too happy to blast the flute solo as requested. Ruli cheered and went back towards the second floor with her drink to bask in the faux sunlight.Perfect timing.“Maestro, line up ‘Jump in the Line’ next,” Delta whispered and the mushroom glowed with pleasure at the request. She snuck past and floated down the toll well to see the dark tunnel.She looked around with a guilty expression before pulling up the menu and hovering her finger over the Guardian buttons.Random. A gamble.Delta moaned at her lack of self control before she giggled and paid the cost.The light gathered in the halfway submerged tunnel. Orange, of course.The ball of light burst and something fell to the ground, splashing heavily as it hit the water before settling. Delta had prepared herself for many tentacles or heads... or heck, she would have bolted at the first sign of something with suckers.Instead a roundish purple thing laid there as the water mostly settled around it, submerging it besides a tiny island of shell.It was... a clam.A giant purple clam.Delta blinked at the innocuous monster and prodded it.“Hello?” she called. Her touch slightly rocked it and bubbles began to ripple to the surface as the seam of it’s two halves began to open. Delta leaned in eagerly.There was a pause then the shell snapped open to show a pile of coins, pearls, gems, and a collection of tiaras. The shine and luster of it all was spectacular. Delta was so shocked that she leaned in closer.That was when the pile of coins shifted to reveal a grinning skull, the bottom of the shell was filled with various skulls and the top of the shell became ridged with barbed teeth.It snapped down.Delta screamed and phased away with a yelp. The monster lowered itself into the silt and blew bubbles out in what Delta guessed was it’s attempt to be cute.She glared and opened its menu.

Affection? By eating people?Delta was not sure how that came across. The clam opened again and showed Delta it’s treasure and tried to entice her to jump in as if to join the collection.

Nu’s ringing made Delta turn, trying to hide the clam with her thin form and she laughed nervously.“Control? Me? Of course. I didn’t summon a man eating treasure chest!” she laughed nervously.

