"Well, you know. They learned from the best." Times like these, Cale wished he had a staff. He didn't have any particular need for one, but it would've been nice to have one to twirl around when he spoke.

"They would die if I were free of this," Apophis spat. "I will free myself and set the full power of the storm upon this accursed land. You know not what you have unleashed."

"I feel like you've forgotten to ask yourself one very important question," Cale said. He wondered if it was too late to commission a staff. Perhaps Graystalk would be willing to make him one?

"And what is that?"

"You haven't asked what you've unleashed."

The banter was mostly a distraction, of course. He'd set all the other pieces in place, carefully carving a circle into the Duat through a set of well-placed spells. He didn't have chalk, unfortunately, but the importance of chalk was largely what it symbolized; in this vision-realm, Cale had a far more effective substrate than chalk.

He had the land of the Duat itself. It was said to be connected to the mortal world through burial chambers, and it was that legend Cale drew on now—he needed only to reach through that connection with a spell. First a symbolic one to establish the connection, then an arcane one to widen it.

To that end, Cale cast [Mark].

Mana overload detected! Attempting to compensate...

There was a second purpose to this spell, of course. More than simply reaching the twelfth country of the Duat and ending the vision, Cale needed a way to destroy Apophis and end the Dragonstorm once and for all. This was difficult because the nature of Apophis was of a primordial force of chaos. He wasn't something that could be destroyed, at least in the legends that spoke of him.

As much as Cale had stripped power away from him by bringing him into this vision, that aspect of the legend hadn't changed, and he needed a way around that. He was almost certain he could evolve this spell into something that would give him what he needed.

Adjusting spell construct...

Cale had learned long ago that he couldn't save everyone. A different version of him might have raged and dedicated itself to destroying Apophis before anyone else could be hurt. But his apprentices had reminded him that it was worth it to try, and to that end Cale had spent their fight studying the vision and the effects of [Resonant Comet].

The essence of the spell was that it took a thing of symbolic power—a vision, in this case—and turned it into something real. To that end, both he and Apophis were now technically isolated within a pocket realm, and neither of them could affect the University with their magic. That alone was an advantage, for Apophis's presence alone would have been enough to overwhelm his apprentices and the mages they fought with, but the more he studied it the more he was certain he could do something more.

All he needed to do was open a gap in the spell that only he could use. Thus the symbolic spell he had seeded, to create the connection without Apophis realizing what he had done.

[Mark] was, by itself, perhaps something unremarkable.

[Mark, Level 1] [First Tier, Active] [100 Mana]

Mark a target, causing nearby spells or magical effects to be drawn toward them.

But Cale had always loved spells like these. They worked beautifully with other spells. Some version of [Mark] existed in many realms, and he'd seen it used in a dozen different creative ways. Perhaps among his favorites were the mages who used it to create complex courses for spells to race through, creating a dazzling display out of simple projectile spells.

Many beautiful works of magic were born from something simple, and it was that power Cale sought to draw on now.

[Mark] had evolved into [Mark of Extinction]!

Cale almost snorted; the Gift had something of a sense of humor, it seemed. He had been aiming for something a little different.

Overwhelming intent detected. Adjusting result...

[Mark of Extinction] has evolved into [Mark of the Beholder]!

[Mark of the Beholder, Level 1] [Fifteenth Tier, Active (Unique)] [1.0e37 Mana]

That which is unseen is decided by its beholder. Gain minor control over the rules that govern an unstable realm-space. This spell cannot be used to overwrite a realm actively stabilized by the Leviathan or any equivalent entity.

Cale grinned. That was good enough for him.

The world around them pulsed and felt suddenly smaller. The skin of reality folded into the bars of a cage, slamming down on them both; Apophis gasped at the sensation, his struggles causing the river to splash over shrinking mountains.

"What have you done?" it managed to ask, though it sounded out of breath.

"Just asserting myself," Cale said. "My therapist says I need to get better at doing that. Or, well, technically he told Damien he needed to be more assertive, but we have the same therapist, so it probably counts."

He glanced up at the sky. With [Mark of the Beholder], he saw the stars as tiny, shining holes through which the realm of the University existed. All he had to do now was reach through them and cast.

So Cale did exactly that.

Mana overload detected! Attempting to compensate...

Adjusting spell construct...

[Instant Magishell] has evolved into [The Many Barriers of Cale Cadwell—

"Not that name, please," Cale said, grimacing. Somehow that was worse than the names people gave him. Maybe the fancy titles were better.

...[Instant Magishell] has evolved into [Barrier-King's Blessing]!

"Better," Cale decided. A little pompous, perhaps—he wasn't the biggest fan of that name, either—but it was better than that other one. Honestly, he had no idea what the Gift had been thinking.

But that would probably be enough to help his apprentices. Now all he had left to do was to deal with Apophis.

It had taken a while for Akkau to fully understand what was happening in this realm. The air was thick with draconic essence, but that draconic essence tasted wrong—dull and metallic on his tongue, a darkened version of the distilled liquid he had given to Cale. For a moment he wondered if Cale had something to do with this, but he dismissed the thought. He knew the kinds of things Cale got up to; this didn't have the same feel about it.

Sternkessel seemed to agree, given the way the Indictment's expression darkened. "More than the truebridge, there is something deeply wrong here," he murmured.

"I agree." Akkau's eyes narrowed as he took in the mana signatures around him. Many of them were difficult to discern in the chaotic storm of mana swirling around them, but even with that interference he could tell there was something fundamentally different about those cores.

And then there were the ones that felt like some twisted mockery of dragonkind. Akkau had no idea what to make of that yet, but he could feel his hackles rising just at the thought of them.

"Calm," Sternkessel said, seeming to notice his anger. "We must identify what has happened here first."

Akkau grunted. "I was calm."

"I am sure." Sternkessel sounded amused, at that, and Akkau sighed. Any of his other professors would have been afraid to contradict him. Sternkessel, on the other hand...

Before he could finish the thought, Akkau caught a glimpse of a figure and froze. He thought for a moment that it was Cale, but the sight of them was wrong—they were too short, for one thing, and their hair was the wrong color.

But that was undeniably a human. What did that mean? Where were they?

Rain poured out of the sky, collecting into a thick sludge on the ground that radiated with what felt like poisonous mana. Akkau frowned, taking a moment to wipe at some of the substance that dripped onto his robes. Somewhat hesitantly, he gave it a sniff, then immediately recoiled.

It smelled foul. Like the rot of a dragon, somehow, except given the form of blood. "Something is very wrong here."

"We can discuss that once we have helped these humans fight off this threat," Sternkessel said, already moving with purpose. "It has been a while since we have fought together. You have not lost your edge, I trust?"

Akkau scoffed. "I am a dragon," he said, as if that was all the answer Sternkessel needed. Stern turned back long enough to give him the faintest of smirks.

"Very well," Sternkessel said. "Then show me what a dragon can do."

Akkau was loath to admit that the Indictment's strategy worked, but... well, it did exactly that. Thus encouraged, he gathered his magic, and tore into the University with a roar.
