“But... you can't defy the council.” Yllana said. “They'll come after you if you...”

“I am not going to let all those High Elves, and a few elflings, sit and wait for a couple of months just for a council that doesn't have any say in the matter, to approve building a building they didn't even know could be built.”

“B-but...”

“M'lady, may I escort you back to your home?” Ren asked and stored the Amulet of Interrogation. Yllana looked at him for only a moment before she spoke.

“I would like that very much.” Yllana said.

Ren equipped his High Elven Court Uniform and Yllana took his offered arm. They walked over to the door of Lord Tathalyn's apartment and Ren opened it. He led her out through the door and turned around.

“Will you get a notification when I build the tower?” Ren asked.

“I don't know.” Lord Tathalyn said. “I've never farmed out my work like this before.”

Ren chuckled. “Well, we'll find out.” He said. “M'lady Arthion won't be calling on you again.”

Yllana looked at Ren with wide eyes, and he felt her surprise.

“Yes, I expected as much.” Lord Tathalyn said, and Ren felt his resignation. “I have lied to her all these years.”

“That isn't why; but, it's as good a reason as any.” Ren said and smiled. “Good day.”

“Good day.” Lord Tathalyn said, and Ren shut the door.

“You presumed to speak for me.” Yllana said as they entered the lift.

“I did.” Ren said, and pat her hand that rested on the back of his. “I know he must have been a good friend all these years.”

“He was.” Yllana said when they reached the bottom. “I've lost count of how many times he used Illusion to make himself into an elfling just to spend time with me and not make me or my family uncomfortable.”

Ren chuckled and led her outside and down the street. “That alone would have made me uncomfortable.”

“What? Why?”

“He's been lying to you all these years, in both words and appearance. What else has he been lying about? What deeds or actions did he do for you, that weren't-” Ren stopped talking and brought Yllana to a stop. “M'lady, please forgive my rambling.” He said. “It's not my place to doubt your relationship with him, nor should I make you doubt it as well.”

Yllana sighed. “You are only speaking what's going through my mind as well, M'lord.” She said and motioned forward. Ren started walking again, and she kept pace with him. “I thought I knew him well, and in most respects I do.” She said. “This is an aspect of him I never even suspected.”

“Some people will do a lot of bad things for what they want, and believe they can justify it all in the end.” Ren sighed as well. “I'm sorry that I led you to this knowledge about Lord Tathalyn.”

“I believe you yourself said it wasn't my fault for bringing you to him.” Yllana smiled. “You can't blame yourself for revealing part of his nature.”

Ren pat her hand again. “Your understanding and wisdom is beyond compare, M'lady.” He said. “I can only hope that this incident doesn't change how you see me.”

Yllana smiled as they entered her two storey apartment building and went up the stairs. “M'lord, everything you do changes how I see you.”

“Should I ask if it's for the better or for the worse?” Ren asked and stopped in front of her door. “Do I even want to know that answer?”

Yllana chuckled. “M'lord, you seem to reveal things about people, just from your very presence.” She said and opened her door with her free hand, and then let go of his arm. “You have learned one of my secrets today as well.”

“I will keep my word to you, M'lady.” Ren said and stepped close to give her a hug, then put his mouth by her ear. “You will never know when I might peek in on you.” He whispered. “Will you be alone? Will you be at home? Will you be out and having a meal with friends?”

Yllana started to shake with anticipated pleasure as Ren mentioned several more different situations she could possibly be in when he looked in on her at random times.

“Goodnight, M'lady.” Ren said and kissed her cheek, then walked down the stairs and left the building.
