“These will be your friends. You will care for them. You will love them.” Ghomhan said and smiled an evil grin. “And you will kill them.” He said. “I will teach you how to hit them, where to hit them, and how hard to hit them. You need to get the most effect from your strike, or you're just wasting energy.”

Everyone listened with attention.

“Normally, we'd be going right into one-on-one and hand-to-hand combat training, but as almost all of you are lacking in even holding a weapon, we'll start with this.” Ghomhan said and went into the training supplies area and came out with a large wooden chest. He put it down at the end of the line of training dummies. “Everyone step forward and select a weapon. You will practice with this weapon, using overhead strikes, on the training dummies.”

Ghomhan looked at each dwarf as they stepped forward and told them to always use the same strike, until their body gets used to the motion. One that happened, he'd teach them another strike. Groggot was halfway down the line and when it came to his turn, he picked up several things, but his over-sized hands covered so much of the handles that he gave up and stepped aside to let everyone else grab a weapon. Ren had intentionally waited until last, so he could break the news to Ghomhan about his problem. Ren saw Groggot's unhappy expression and made a decision.

“Sir! I have a solution to Groggot's problem, sir!”

Both Groggot and Ghomhan the Knight looked at Ren in surprise.

“What problem is that, Recruit?” Ghomhan asked.

“Sir! Groggot's hands are too manly for these small weapons, sir!”

Groggot's mouth dropped open and he looked at his hands. “They're too manly?” He said and flexed his massive hands several times. “They're too manly!” Groggot said and grinned.

Ghomhan ignored the outburst and looked at Ren. “Your solution, Recruit?”

“Sir! A bigger weapon, sir!”

“And where are you going to get such a weapon?” Ghomhan asked.

“Sir! If I may speak to Recruit Groggot? Sir!”

Ghomhan waved slightly.

“Groggot, what weapon would you like, but couldn't get in your size?” Ren asked him.

He thought about it for a minute. “Battle axe.”

Gasps came from the other dwarves, as only really strong people could wield a battle axe effectively in a fight.

Ren smiled. “Well, my friend... it just so happens...” Ren pulled out one of the two steel battle axes that he'd made while at Donan's, using up the last of his normal iron bars. The battle axe gleamed silver in the waning sunlight. “I have one that should be just the right size for you.”

Everyone's eyes popped out of their heads in shock. The large double-headed battle axe was nearly 3 feet across, and had 2 half-moon blades attached to a 4 foot long handle. When stood on it's end, it was as tall as Groggot.

“They let you in here with that!?!” Ghomhan said, shocked.

Ren snapped back to attention. “Sir! I wasn't asked, sir!”

Ghomhan started to laugh, and then everyone joined in, even Ren. After a minute, Ghomhan looked at Ren. “They let you come in here and didn't even bother to check you for weapons.” He gave another bark of laughter. “I'm not even going to ask what else you have.” He said and shook his head, then pointed a finger to Groggot. “Go ahead.”

Ren spun the Battle Axe in his hand and held the handle out to Groggot, who looked at Ren with astonishment.

“You... you're just going to give this to me?” Groggot asked in wonder.

“I can't have a guard that's weaponless, can I?” Ren said and grinned.

Groggot took the handle gently, and his hand fit around it perfectly. Ren let it go and Groggot had to catch the full weight with his other hand to balanced it out. Once he did, he stepped back and swung it a few times with both arms, then with each arm alone. Groggot laughed a little and started to swing more vigorously.

“That's enough.” Ghomhan said, and Groggot stopped the next swing before it started. “Okay, Recruit. Your turn. Pick a weapon.”

“Sir! I can't, sir!” Ren said.

“Excuse me?” Ghomhan said. “Are you refusing my order?”

“Sir! No, sir! I just can't complete your order, sir!” Ren said. “I can't equip standard weapons, sir!”

Ghomhan sighed. “Why do they always stick me with the misfits?” He said then stopped. “You said you've held every weapon before.”

“Sir! I've held every weapon that can be made by a smith, sir!” Ren responded.

“I don't suppose you have a non-standard weapon on you, do you?” Ghomhan asked.

“Sir! Of course I do, sir!”

The other dwarves chuckled.

“Show it to me, please.”

Ren took out his hammerpick and nearly everyone gasped except Groggot, who had seen it before.

“Hand it over.”

“Sir! No, sir!” Ren said and stored it.

“EXCUSE ME?”

“Sir! No one touches it but me, sir!”

Ghomhan stood up and stalked over to Ren. “What if I throw you in the brig for refusing an order?”

“Sir! If that's your decision, it will have to wait. It's getting dark, sir!”

“So what?!?”

“Sir! I have to leave at dusk, sir!”

“Not if you're in the brig you don't!” Ghomhan nearly shouted.

“Sir! With all due respect, you cannot countermand the Commander's orders. Sir!”

Ghomhan opened his mouth to say that he could... and then closed it.

“Sir! You can still brig me in the morning, sir!”

“I'll do just that! Be back here at dawn.” Ghomhan said with a scowl. “Get out of my sight.”

“Sir! Yes, sir!” Ren said and walked over to the gate. He followed the proper path to leave out the main gate that faced the road to Dornrach, and once outside, started running.

Teepo didn't enjoy it as much this time.
