(Ah-ah-ah)
I'm freezing outside, I feel my skin tight
My coat is inside, but I look up at you
I tracked your plane ride for when you're in tonight
Tell me, when is the next time I'll run into you?

It sounds insane, right?
I'll take the same flight
Wait at your bedside
I'll land right next to you
I'm going stateside
Where I'll see you tonight
Tell me, how did a girl like me get into you? (Into you)

Ah-ah-ah-ah-ah-ah-ah-ah
Ah-ah-ah-ah-ah-ah

You can be my American, ha, ha (ha, ha)
Ha, ha, ha, ha (mwah)

Is it right? I don't know
But you're taking my control
Never been abroad before
Now I'm knocking through your door
But you're nice, so I'll stay
Never met a British girl, you say?
No one treats me this way
Are all boys out here the same?

What can I say? (Uh-huh), what can I do? (Uh-huh)
I'm tryna be the girl that you're talking to (you're talking to)
And maybe you can be my American ha, ha boy (ah-ah-ah)
You can be my American ha, ha boy (boy)
Why can't you say that you want it too? (Too)
I'm flying intercontinental with you
And maybe you can be my American ha, ha boy (boy)
You can be my American, ha, ha

All the years I've put in for the American Dream
Is it worth all the work if you can't be here with me? (Me)
'Cos I fly Stockholm to LA
Leave my feelings on the plane
Worries fade away (fade away)
When I hit the stage

I've been touring stateside
Kissing my Swedish boy over FaceTime
Who knew, opening up would make me a headline?
Boots, that's my ego boost
Schedule ain't been loose for a minute
Yeah, I'm that girl, I've been it (ah-ah, ah-ah, ah-ah, ah-ah, ah-ah, ah-ah, ah)

Oh, oh-oh, ooh, whoa-oh
Oh-oh-oh, ooh
Ooh-ooh-ooh, oh-ah

What can I say? (Uh-huh) what can I do? (Uh-huh)
I'm tryna be the girl that you're talking to (you're talking to)
And maybe you can be my American ha, ha boy (ah-ah-ah)
You can be my American ha, ha boy (boy)
Why can't you say that you want it too? (Uh-huh)
I'm flying intercontinental with you
And maybe you can be my American ha, ha boy (hey, boy)
You can be my American, ha, ha

Is it right? I don't know
But you're taking my control
Never been abroad before
Now I'm knocking through your door
But you're nice, so I'll stay
Never met a Swedish girl, you say?
No one treats me this way
Are all boys out here the same?