They gravitated towards quality of life rather than raw power. I gained another unique skill from the previous tier of immense, Hands of a Giant. The skill helped me keep my hands adroit and dextrous. Mass Manipulation helped me control my size to an extent. All these skills culminated into an advantage over other huge ass people.

Hand’s of a Giant helped the most so far with day to day life. I spent a large chunk of my day carving out tiny detail in runic lettering. Having fingers the size of tree branches didn’t really help with that.

With these newfound tools at my disposal, I opened my armor screen, finding the modifications. I enjoyed checking them before finalizing my status screen.

[Modifications - The dimensional fabric composing this structure has been modified with code from the dimensional cipher. With mana, further bonuses can be applied. The bonuses are as follows:

+72 Strength

+72 Dexterity

+1,410 Endurance

+100% to effect of legacies

+705 Willpower

+50% to internal motivation]

After inspecting them, I opened up Force of Nature to check that out too.

Force of Nature(lvl 1,876) - You are nature given fury. Enhances all techniques and application of skills within this ability, including: Close Range Combat, Runic abilities, Telekinesis, Gravitation, Sensory Abilities, Bearing, and Draining Abilities.

Bonus Attributes: 180 Strength, 180 Dexterity, 72 Constitution, 72 intelligence, 36 Perception. +18 to all attributes for having a 1,800 total in a legendary skill.

Ability Bonus: +140%

Mana Cost Reduction: 28%

The percentage bonuses towards the ability and the mana reduction halved after reaching a thousand points in the skill. Even then, Force of Nature gave tremendous returns. The runes on my armor enhanced my abilities with time too. After that, I opened my status screen and found a few uninvested attribute points.

As I invested them, a notification appeared.

Previous save state downloading...Discontinued perk line opened...Old patch notes assessed...Requirements met...

[Cancelled Perkline]Jack of All Trades(Have 1,000 or more in seven attributes before level 10,000) - Grants a 10% bonus to attributes with a neutral or negative multiplier.

I raised an eyebrow as I read through the perk line. I blinked a few times after reading through it. The discontinued aspect of the perk came with my hacked system. Ever Schema exiled me, weird difference cropped up every now and again. This strangeness resulted from that. In this case, the perk looked pretty damn good.

It boosted my lowest stats. If anything, the title of the perk was ironic as hell for my build. I specialized more in a single attribute than anyone I knew. I also had the most attribute points of anyone I knew too though. I shrugged, counting my blessings. With the attribute points gained from hunting eldritch with Yawm, I selected the perk.

I put the rest of my attribute points into endurance and selected finalize. As I did, a deluge of vigor flooded through my system. I grinned, a dissonance growing in me. The body surrounding my mind lightened, no longer feeling like metal. My skin could now bend in my hands without a desperate struggle.

At the same time, a clarity rushed across my eyes, my thoughts becoming clearer. Confidence coursed in my veins, my decisions no longer clouded by doubt. Complex concepts simplified. The horizons of my mind expanded.

I breathed, twisting my neck and moving my fingers. I laughed, my voice pleasing my ears a bit. The general improvement was an intoxicating rush, like caffeine and adrenaline. Except in this case, I didn’t get jitters or anything like that. With Schema’s system, side effects didn’t exist.

That’s why I loved leveling. Levelers hunted this sensation like a drug. Based on what it felt like, I understood why. Once the upsurge of improvement passed, I opened and observed my status screen.

Level 3,566

Strength – 3,488 | Constitution – 5,494 | Endurance – 21,861

Dexterity – 1,474 | Willpower – 11,438 | Intelligence – 4,362

Charisma – 480.5 | Luck – 1,485 | Perception – 622.8

Health: 2.35 Million/2.35 Million | Health Regen: 3.1 Million/min or 51,934/sec

Stamina: 1.4 Million/ 1.4 Million | Stamina Regen: 21,044/sec

Living Dimension: 0.42 Trillion/4.30 Trillion

Mass: 160,566 pounds(72,985 kilos~) | Height: 10’3(3.1 meters)

Damage Res - 98.5% | Dimensional Res - 49.25%

Phys Dam Bonus – 116,918% | Damage Bonus – 40%

Event Horizon – 20,000 + (100% of your total health)/min

My biggest improvements came from strength and my steady climb in regeneration. Yawm’s base stats still dwarfed my own, but he didn’t quadruple my strength anymore. By the time I finished my Immense tree and passed level 5,000 or so, I’d be able to battle Yawm. Well, at least physically. Beating out his antimatter bullshit would take a more creative solution.

Even on a physical level, outgrowing Yawm required years of practice and training. The more I tried, the more I learned about the distance between us. For now, I kept my head down and grinded out my levels and skills.

With that in mind, I lifted my legs and kicked up. I flopped off my bed, landing on my feet. As I fell into practice, a message appeared from Torix.

Torix Worm, of Darkhill(Time: Undefined) - Since the levelers appeared, I’ve been monitoring the sky and areas near Springfield for strange activity. Something odd appeared near Springfield yesterday. While I discovered the approach of the object during atmospheric entry, I failed to identify it.

It utilizes stealth and tactics that the levelers failed to implement. This tells us several facts of a sort. First, they understand a necessity for stealth. If they were investigating a normal quarantine, they wouldn’t be so difficult to locate. Second, by avoiding my detection, we know they have access to high level resources. Otherwise they wouldn’t hide from my probing eyes.

Third, they aren’t here for eldritch. You and Yawm cleared out nigh all of Springfield. Nothing remains now. They would go elsewhere for rifts now. If they aren’t here for a normal quarantine or for the rifts, there remains only one other reason. It all culminates in an inevitable outcome.

The breakers are here, and they’re hunting Yawm and you.
