“Package for the Ambassador.” The messenger said and held out the package to Railyse.

“Thank you.” She said and reached out for it. Ren, on a hunch, activated Enchanted Eyes and looked at it. It didn't glow, but he knew it was odd for Railyse to get a package, especially inside the meeting room. He tried to take it instead, but the messenger wouldn't let it go.

“I'm sorry, sir.” The messenger said. “Only the recipient can accept packages.”

“Since when?” Ren asked.

“It's all right, Ren.” Railyse said. “I'll take it.”

*

Talon had come out of one of the many shadows at the back of the room and looked at the podium. He saw the messenger hand the package to the target, smiled, then caught sight of a set of gold-colored armor.

Oh, dammit. Talon thought, looked around for Lord Eddlemere to warn him, and saw that he stood across the room next to the king and was deep in conversation. There was no way that Talon could get there in time. I'm not sticking around to watch this disaster. He thought, and slid back into the shadow he had come from. All that work for nothing!

*

Railyse accepted the package with a smile and the messenger turned to walk away. She untied the string that held it closed and started to lift the lid; then Ren's Enchanted Eyes ability was almost overloaded with how brightly the contents glowed. Thanks to his Lightning Reflexes ability, he reacted immediately.

“King Alamast!” Ren shouted, hit the package from underneath to knock it high into the air, and grabbed Railyse and Diana by their arms. “Catch!” He said, then quickly turned and tossed the two surprised women through the air.

King Alamast was just as surprised, but he hadn't become king because he was slow to respond to any given situation. He braced himself and opened his arms to catch the two women, and the package flipped over in the air. It's circular motion had held the cover mostly closed; but as it fell, the air caught it and pulled it open.

“Everybody down!” Ren yelled as he positioned his body between it and the king, then caught the package and hugged it as the cover opened all the way. Inside was a very large custom-made elemental grenade, with various parts and things fused together to increase the blast radius.

Ren instantly got the plans for it... and then it exploded right in his face.
