“You have two?” he asked, registering surprise on his weathered face.

“I have Clarity and Soul Sight,” Malika answered.

Rezan raised his eyebrow in surprise. “Clarity has not been seen in decades. Come. Time is against us.”

Leaning heavily on Mato’s arm, Malika pressed on and as soon as they reached Rezan’s tiny camp, the pain struck again like a bolt of lightning out of a clear sky. Malika gasped, driven to her knees as she clutched her head, as the world around her lurched, fading to black briefly before returning to normal.

Your bloodline has deteriorated. -5% to maximum stamina.

Rezan turned sharply. “Your bloodline is already unstable.” It was not a question, and she could see the harsh emotion written on his face.

Malika nodded. “For three days?” she glanced at Ali, avoiding Rezan’s eyes.

“Five days,” Ali corrected.

Rezan crouched in front of her, his eyes beginning to glow with an inner light as he held her head and stared, looking right inside of her, and she found herself entirely unable to look away.

“Is there any hope?” Malika asked, ashamed of the tremor she heard in her voice.

He sighed, a frown creasing his weathered face. “You are too far gone for the rituals already.”

Malika’s heart dropped.

“The only chance you have now is to accelerate your awakening. In ancient times, awakening was the result of surpassing yourself in battle. An awakened bloodline will heal,” he said. “But… you will have to defeat me to even have a chance at awakening.” He paused, the lines around his mouth seemingly graven in granite, yet she sensed an emotion – regret, perhaps – beneath his stark pronouncement. “The only other path is death as your bloodline consumes you.”

Malika knew he wouldn’t allow that path. If her bloodline consumed her, she would lose her mind and become destructive and violent before it tore her apart. It was his duty to end her before that happened. With luck, she would die before she could do any real damage.

Malika got to her feet and raised her guard. “I’m ready.” She staggered a little as a jolt of pain hit her.

“You realize I cannot go easy on you?” Rezan said. “If you are unable to awaken, you will die in this fight.”

“Don’t do it, Malika!” Ali gasped. “You can’t!”

“If this is the only chance I have, I will take it,” Malika said firmly.

To her left, Mato shifted, getting a little closer to her, and then his body twisted, growing into a tree.

“Very well,” Rezan said. Carefully removing his outer robe, he handed it to one of his disciples. He stood in a relaxed stance, his athletic arms and torso hardened from a lifetime of training. “You must use all your skills to defeat me. Overcome the pain of the bloodline.” He took a basic stance.

Malika matched him.

“Begin,” he commanded.

Malika had no doubt her chance of winning was minuscule. The Elders’ skills were legendary; she didn’t even question going all out. Immediately, she activated her Divine Step, accelerating herself to close the distance in an instant, unleashing a perfectly executed combination kick and punch with her Soul Strike discharging in rapid flashes. Rezan’s body shifted slightly, avoiding the kick and deflecting the punch on his forearm with an extraordinary economy of motion.

“I said use everything,” he said with unsettling calm as he avoided her flurry of attacks. “Stop trying to ignore your Soul Sight. Do you think you can defeat me without it?”

Malika leapt back and paused. Her body recoiled in anticipation of the excruciating pain, but she did what he demanded. Her entire vision exploded in a riot of colors and distortion. Rezan’s body lit up with a brilliant white energy that wavered and shimmered, warping her perception. An enormous jolt of pain drove her to her knees once more.

Your bloodline has deteriorated. -7% to maximum health.

She forced herself up with a roar that was equal parts frustration, anger, and fear, and charged him once more. Burning stamina, she poured all her roiling emotions and channeled the pain into her attacks, blurring punches and kicks and elbow strikes while Rezan blocked each one flawlessly, his energy flickering crazily in her warped and pain-wracked vision.

She fought purely instinctively, her usual calm and rational fighting style impossible with the pain she was unable to mitigate, even with her Healing Mantra, and her entire field of vision and balance lurching and warping as she tried desperately to push her body faster, harder, and more precisely.

With a sudden flash, too fast for even her reactions, his left hand shot out and connected with her elbow, spinning her, and knocking her to the ground. She rolled head-over-heels, briefly cradling her numbed arm against her body before she surged to her feet and attacked again. The Elder’s mouth hardened into a firm line, and he struck once again, hitting the same elbow. This time the flash of energy was significantly stronger, and Malika distantly heard a crack.

Your bloodline has deteriorated. -3% to maximum health.

In the haze of pain and warped vision, she got up from where she had somehow hit the ground, and attacked once again, registering surprise as her arm did not respond.

“Heal it,” Rezan commanded firmly.

Dimly, she realized her arm hung broken at her side. She had not even felt the pain. She cast Healing Mantra and the arm knit back together with a searing burst of pain that seemed to come more from her use of stamina than the grating of bone snapping back together. She unleashed another series of attacks, but Rezan blurred into action. With two powerful kicks, Rezan broke both her legs, one at the shin and the other mid-thigh. She collapsed on the ground, her legs suddenly unable to support her weight. She ground her teeth as she triggered her Healing Mantra again.

Your bloodline has deteriorated. -3% to maximum stamina.

This isn’t working, it’s killing me. Through the haze of pain, she felt a chill down her spine as her bloodline’s deterioration accelerated due to her fighting. Every time she used a skill, or used her stamina or mana, it ripped and tore her up inside. She got up as soon as her legs worked, and blinked her eyes, trying to see him clearly through the warping energy. Channeling Second Wind to replenish her stamina, she launched her attack. Two steps glanced off the air with Divine Step as she gained height, and, with a flip, she attacked from above using a vicious knee strike that connected hard against Rezan’s crossed arms. As she descended, he punched her in the stomach with an enormous release of energy which blew her backward like a kite in a thunderstorm.

Ali shouted something in the background.

Dazed, Malika shook her head to clear the ringing as she regained her feet.

I haven’t hit him even once. Her heart sank with despair. There had never been even a minuscule chance of her winning her awakening. She had never been so outclassed in her life. It was only due to him allowing her to heal herself that she was even standing.

Your bloodline has deteriorated. -7% to maximum mana.

She staggered from the pain, her vision darkening briefly.

I cannot win like this. I’m just dying faster. Malika used her Healing Mantra and then refilled her stamina using Second Wind. Summoning her utmost determination, she ignored the pain and her fears and put everything into her attack.

If I must die, I will do it fighting. She found she didn’t hate him. She had no desire to leave this world trembling in a ball, screaming in pain. If anything, her only regret was that she would miss her friends.

Don’t be silly, she told herself. They will miss you. You will be worm food.

Forcing her body faster than it had ever gone, she charged, attacking with her most powerful kick, and a flurry of high-speed punches, pouring all her energy into Soul Strike while she dodged his counterattacks. At the end of her combination, her last punch finally connected with his ribs, unleashing her Soul Strike into his body.

But he simply took her strike, his body absorbing her damage without even flinching.

With a sudden rush, his energy surged to a pure incandescent white in her sight, warping and shifting as it drove flashes of pain through her mind. As if in slow motion, she saw his fist blurring, splitting six ways to strike her torso, head, and chest simultaneously. She saw it, but she could not even move an inch in the face of his power and speed.

Instantaneous Strikes. One of the legendary martial skills detailed in the Nine Paths of Ahn Khen.

He released a powerful surge of energy through his fists, blasting through her body and catapulting her into the air. There were several loud cracks, felt more than heard in the distance, and a tearing sensation in what felt like the core of her mind. Her vision shimmered, the world receded to a tiny point of light, and her pain faded.

Ali screamed.

Malika never even felt the ground as her awareness left her.
