He took Agility up to 30. That left him with 12 free points and 14 regular remaining. He decided to hold onto those points. He might need them for something later, whether it was an Arcana increase or something entirely different.

He told himself he’d remember: if a fight broke out suddenly, he’d spend his remaining points straight away and dump them into a combat stat. No point holding onto them at that point.

Armed with that mantra and little else, Markus left to go and collect his new weapon.

As he walked back through the dimly torchlit corridors beneath the dungeon and crossed out into the open hall that connected to the main foyer, he glanced down the massive set of stone stairs once more, attempting to pierce through the darkness and see if he could figure out what exactly laid down there.

He heard a rumbling from below, and then, after a time, an ear-splitting roar.

This roar wasn’t like that of the bulleater. Whatever this thing was, it’d make the bulleater shit itself, and then eat it. Probably in one bite.

Markus didn’t even wanna know what that thing was. He’d passed plenty of monsters on his way through the dungeons, they were paraded through the main hall of this place even now, being transported and whipped and used and prepped and sold and bought in abundance.

And yet, whatever was down there clearly needed to be kept somewhere separate. Somewhere removed. Somewhere safer.

Markus banked the knowledge. It was something he’d have to investigate later.

After Markus had collected his weapon and gotten a brief explanation on how to use it, he got on his way. He’d paused to admire it briefly, the blade shimmering a light red whenever he grabbed the handle. It was kinda uncanny at first, but cooler the longer he held it. The handle felt great, too, and the weapon looked really nice. The blade was a tad smaller than the first glaive he’d used, the handle a tad shorter too, but that didn’t stop him from feeling it was ten times greater than that which he’d previously had.

That blacksmith knew his shit, clear as day.

As Markus left with his weapon, he found himself visualising combat scenarios as he walked, daydreaming strikes, thrusts, and parries. It was more curiosity than anything, wondering how the weapon would handle and how effective it might be in certain situations. Markus didn’t particularly enjoy violence, after all. Or at least, he never had. The prospect of violence against one or two particular people in his life right now was a bit of a different story.

But that didn’t make him revel in his arena fights or even look forward to them. The only thing he looked forward to was his freedom.

He’d been walking in relative peace through the packed main chamber until a woman waved him over, sat on a nearby stone bench, perfectly still until he’d began to pass her by. She was sat facing the blacksmith, likely having watched him walk from it. Had she been waiting there for him this whole time?

It was difficult to tell what she was from here. She had golden blonde hair, and wore a long hat that covered much of her face. Surely not another goddess?

“You,” she began as soon as he approached, in the characteristically haughty voice of a goddess.

Yup. Markus sighed.

“I am the Sword God, Maesha. My virtue is Strength. I ask that you accompany me to the training rooms, so that we might introduce ourselves to one another.”

Well, shit. It might’ve been yet another fucking immortal, but at least this one didn’t wanna yap at him for 20 years. Eager to test out his new glaive, Markus was more than glad to agree.

Besides, if she meant what he thought she meant, he was stoked. Fighting a god sounded baller as fuck.

Well, assuming she didn’t maim or murder him.
