Viv watched the second person to come with interest. She was an older woman with a faded yet expensive dress of a design the outlander had never seen before. Her hair was cleanly cut and held in an elaborate tail that curved around head before delicately resting on her shoulder. At the feast, she had curtly introduced herself as Baroness Azar. She looked prim and elegant in a cold and confident way that irked Viv on a fundamental level. A very short introspection made her realize why

The woman had the mannerism of Madame Hortense.

The worst elementary school teacher who ever lived.

A hateful harpy with a deep resentment for children, fun, and life in general.

“Well, are you not going to greet me?” the woman asked with a peculiar pronunciation that Viv recognized from the school and elsewhere. The lady was Baranese, a noble according to her mannerisms.

“Tradition dictates that the petitioner should present themselves first.”

“Hmph! That should be after you invite me to sit!”

“We are not in Baran.”

“Indeed not, to my deep regret,” Azar replied, hands stretched in despair. “I have crossed half of the continent to bring you back your enslaved people and this is how I’m received! I must tell you right now, my dear, that I am unimpressed. This place is a proper mess, which can be reasonably expected to a limited amount but what do I hear? You are gone! Gone? The ruler of an expanding… backwater mess, gone? Have you no notion of rulership? I fully expect you to step up because — “

Viv didn’t know what stopped the talkative baroness. Perhaps it was a social skill. Perhaps it was the expanding, insane smile she felt blossoming on her lips. Perhaps it was the discreet sound of Solfis opening the nearest window to resurrect an old tradition.

“I just want to say two things. First, thanks for bringing back the lost families. Second, it’s just such a shame the Paramese languages do not have a term for defenestrate,” she said genially.

Baroness Azar uttered a small, almost cute yelp when she passed through the open sill.

“I think I clipped her leg,” Viv commented afterward.

//Indeed.

“But she lives, right?”

Downstairs, high-pitched cries of outrage drowned out the morning hubbub.

//Indeed.

“Welp. NEXT!”

Viv wasn’t sure how she felt about it.

***

Farren and a few others came to give their own reports. By early afternoon, Viv had outlined the measures she could implement that would set the Harrakan territory on the path to recovery.

//I will need a week of intense training with Solar to coordinate with him and improve our teamwork.

//You may have enough time to implement most measures before we leave for the lone mountain and the necrarch’s den.

“You don’t want to train Sidjin and I?”

//If you are involved in direct combat, something will have gone terribly wrong.

//Your task will be barriers and traps.

//A week of training will not make a difference.

“I trust in your experience. Alright, NEXT!”

The man who entered the room was handsome in a slightly rakish sort of way. He wore an actual doublet with glass stones and painted golden threads that made it flashier than it had to be. He immediately took a seat and leaned forward, over the desk and close to Viv’s face. She didn’t move.

“Hello, Miss. Or boss? What do you prefer?”

“People usually address me as ‘Your Grace’ in official settings.”

“Your Grace, hey? Mouthful. Think I’ll call you Viv.”

“You will not.”

“Alright, alright, no need to make a fuss! I was just trying to be nice,” he said, pulling back and raising hands in defense.

“Are you sure you’re fine holding the meetings today? You still look frazzled from the long road. A bit tired, maybe?”

“I appreciate the concern Mr…”

“Edric, but my friends call me Ed. You could too! Haha, I am jesting. You can call me whatever you want, little lady. Me and the lads heard you got a lot on your plate and we happen to be problem solvers. The quiet kind, efficient. We get things done you see? I see a bright future for you and I, if you let me help you. Shoulder some of that burden. Lots of problems around, right? Maybe too much for a lone little lady.”

Viv kept a pleasant smile on her face as she looked at ‘Ed’ like one inspects a freshly dissected toad.

“Oh, it will be fine,” she shily admitted, “I have not come empty-handed. I’m sure I’ll smooth things out soon enough.”

“You sure you don’t want some help?”

“Maybe. But not without testing you first, Ed,” she said, then she giggled.

Behind her, Solfis’ eyes shone with interest.

“Smooth things out, ey? You’re not talking about the refugees I suppose. Mind letting me in on it?”

“Oh, I’m not sure I should say.”

“I promise to keep it a secret. The word of Edric is worth gold, they say. Come on, you pushed me off, can’t you give a man a bone? A hint?”

“Well,” Viv hesitated.

“Come ooooon, a secret completely kept is no fun.”

“Ah. Alright.”

Viv leaned forward, her face a little flushed, and spoke in a conspiratorial tone.

“I earned quite a bit regrowing… you know whats, for the nobles of Helock. Their legs too, sometimes. But anyway, this will solve all our problems, I’m sure of it.”

“If you says so, lady. I’m impressed.”

“Was there anything else, Ed? There are still people.”

“Ah it’s fine, don’t want to bother you too much. Don’t forget your promise! You have to test us so we can dazzle you with our skills, yeah?”

“Sure, I won’t forget.”

Ed left and closed the door behind him. Viv’s face, which had been shy and pleasant, turned cold.

“Well well well. I am pretty sure we just found the thieves terrorizing the neighborhood.”

//Would you need my assistance?

“You need to focus on the training if Wamiri says yes, which she has not yet. I’ll handle it with Ban and the heavies.”

//Understood.

It appeared a little fall cleaning was in order.
