“Yes, because the arcane spiked rotators I used would make the beastling —”

“And here I thought it referred to your painting skills!”

Sidjin blinked and seemed to get his mind out of whatever spot it had wandered to.

“Sarcasm. Of course. Sometimes, I miss the palace. Beautiful women would pamper me all day long, asking me to recount tales of my many exploits without facetious comments.”

“Yes, but could they do this?”

Viv manifested straight, slightly pointy shapes of black mana all over her face, simulating a beard and mustache combo Tolkien’s dwarves would not have shunned. She wiggled her eyebrows suggestively.

“I am truly blessed,” Sidjin replied.

***

The rest happened exactly as Viv had expected. The band returned to their camp to pack, then a company-sized group of assorted marauders and cutthroats moved south through the land. Viv and Sidjin spent their entire days riding before and after the column, intercepting patrols Arthur spotted and talking to them before trouble could erupt. Those who recognized Rakan and Tarana as Hallurians were discouraged ro raise a fuss, and the possibility of facing hundreds of combatants backed by three mages for no discernable gain proved to be enough. They also bought food and supplies for the army, and it wasn’t cheap. Fortunately, Viv was flush with money from her days at the medical faculty. The highwaymen also proved extremely resilient to long walks and difficult conditions, a side effect of their paths. It took only a week to reach the edge of the Deadshield woods without any notable incidents. In fact, the most time-consuming activity for Viv proved to be the drawing and testing of witchy teleport platforms, Sidjin being legally bound not to make any of his own for the duration of his employment.

The improvised convoy bypassed the last major city, Reixa, but they did stop at Anelton at the edge of the Deadshield road where Viv had held a one hour siege against a bandit.

What was his name again? Helix? No, Elex. Whatever.

The ravaged city had not regained its former glory, but some of the survivors had returned and many intact buildings had been ‘acquired’ by opportunists in search of free land. There was quite a bit of traffic going through the woods and not all of it was troops going to man the forts.

“Lots of refugees going to fatten the monsters. Not sure why they think it’s worth the trouble. Bunch of unruly savages ruled by a mad queen probably eat the lot as soon as they arrive. Just as bad as the revenants, I always say,” an enterprising innkeeper told Sidjin.

Viv had taken to hide her hair now that it appeared that fame followed her where she went. It didn’t help with the eyes or skin tone but in the shades of a badly lit tavern, it worked well enough. She didn’t let the man’s comments get to her. As far as she was concerned, cannibalistic mad queen was a massive step up from promiscuous great whore. At least they were afraid now.

“Speaking of, your lordship. You want company to warm your bed tonight? Finest girls from Reixa in a proper bed before you cross over.”

“You offer this in plain view of my wife?” Sidjin replied. “You are certainly bold.”

“The more the merrier, I always say. Some of my girls can please you both. Why, —”

“That will be fine, I do not wish to indulge too much. I heard you were the man to talk to about specific tents?”

“Of course! A gold talent for a set of eight. A steal!”

“That’s a threefold markup. May I ask you to reconsider ripping me off so shamelessly?”

“Anelton’s far and the roads ain’t safe, melord. A man’s gotta do a living.”

Sidjin smiled and tilted his head. Viv was definitely sure he had a way to improve his haggle. On an inspiration, the prince turned to her and winked.

“Care to give him a reason, darling?”

Viv revealed her hair and leaned over the counter, both hands planted on the weathered wood.

“Give me a fair price and I might forget that man-eating comment next time I go through here with an army instead of refugees.”

She watched recognition light his face. They got the discount.

***

The trip through the woods went much better than Viv expected. The now retired highwaymen — and women — didn’t complain and didn’t stop. The Kark made no objection either.

“We cannot return north without covering ourselves in glory first,” he bellowed one fine evening.

“What he is trying to say is that if he heads back with his tail between his legs and not even enough iron to buy a single old Pakar, no one will marry him,” Marruk added.

Viv was amazed how much shit Marruk said about her compatriots and how much they tolerated it. She prompted the stout woman about it later.

“They know I have much iron. I am a competent war leader. I also…”

Marruk huffed in annoyance.

“I let it be known my mother had been a shaman. Shamans normally carry the wisdom of the ancestors. But I don’t!” she complained, raising her fists to the sky in impotent fury.

“Are you annoyed because you feel responsible for them?”

“Yes…” Marruk grumbled.

“And they are boneheads?”

“Not a single brain to share among them all. No plans. Screams all the time. Requests for honorable, single combat! Where do they think they are?”

“Was it not you who said you wanted them to change?”

“They have not changed,” Marruk growled between grit teeth. “They think we act different because we are here, like crazed hunters away from their wives. They have not changed at all. Yet.”

“Maybe you should talk to them.”

“I am no good at talking.”

“Marruk.”

“Yes. Yes, yes, damn you. FINE.”

***

With Arthur covering the air and ravenously feasting on the flying wildlife, they arrived at Kazar two weeks after leaving Helock. It had to be a world record even the gryphon riders could not match. Unless that adventurer Sidjin had mentioned who could teleport had done it before. In any case, she felt a measure of excitement when some of the bends of the road grew familiar. In the early afternoon of the thirteenth day, they found the clearing where Lancer had died and were raced by Hadal children to the fair grounds. Viv took a deep breath as she emerged from the edge of the forest. There was black mana in the air.

It also… didn’t smell very good.

“Huh,” Viv said.

The fair grounds were a makeshift ghetto with rickety constructs where beggars waited listlessly. A shanty occupied a nearby field and dug into the forest a bit. Dirty, emaciated children watched them arrive with wolfish gaze. A small assembly waited in front of Viv. There was Solar and his wife Amiri, both looking like they’d been caught with their hands in the biscuit jar, Wamiri being a little more defiant about it. Farren the Hand of Neriad was here with a few temple guards, looking exhausted. Ban had prepared a honor guard of heavies and they were the only group that stood straight. A few other notables and people she didn’t know watched her from behind with expressions ranging from curious to furious.

“Welcome back,” Solar breathed. “We have prepared a small feast and, ehm, welcome back.”

“You knew I was coming?” Viv asked, slightly surprised.

“Your Arthur told us this morning. She has grown! Ahem.”

“Where is the feast?”

“The town hall.”

“Let’s go then. Can someone help those newcomers settle?”

“How many of them?”

“Three hundred, give or take.”

It seemed like the end of the world given how the others were either wincing, massaging their temples, or boiling with rage.

“We can set them up in the barracks, we’ve made new ones, but it’s going to be a temporary measure. Like many others. Look, let’s talk inside.”

Viv nodded and split from the group with Marruk, Sidjin, Solfis, Rakan, Tarana, and Arthur. The procession made its way through the main road and Viv realized the population hadn’t been told she was back.

“Hey it’s Bibiane. Welcome back, Your Grace!”

“Oh gods you’re finally here, thank Neriad.”

“Please fix everything like last time, yes?”

“Did you bring more grain?”

“Finally someone who can get all those strangers sorted out. One way or the other!”

There were a lot of guards in the dirty streets. Kazar had lost some of its pastoral charm and gained quite a few urchins. The air smelled more rancid and some of the shutters and doors had been reinforced with nails and steel bands. For all the apparent problems, people still greeted her with a smile and wave more often than not.

The town hall’s feast was a blessing for Viv who had not eaten anything decent on the road. As usual, Kazar’s food lacked the spices and diversity of Helock’s cuisine but the ingredients were top notch and that was all that was needed, sometimes. The mood remained somber and Viv walked from group to group, catching up with people she knew and getting to know others. Some were adversarial, some less. She didn’t learn details but that was fine, this was a social event. The general mood was that Kazar, and by extension Harrak, was buckling under a massive influx of refugees and population growth. Simply, the place had been at peace for fifteen years and there had been few casualties during the war. Between this and the increased safety for children now that Hadals roamed the wood, even the space Viv had already cleared was becoming insufficient. This created tension between the old guards and newcomers. Some also struggled to adapt to the nation’s progressive treatment of non humans, with some prejudice deeply ingrained. Simply put, Harrak was a victim of its success.

Viv shortened the feast and retired to her tower, where she spent most of the evening poring over reports and documents. Her increased mental abilities and the polymath skill let her absorb a massive amount of data, helping her classify them into several major categories.

Despite all of those problems, Viv was optimistic because Kazar had lasted without her. It had only done so for a couple of months, but… it had done so. With a system she had implemented and adapted from modern democracy.

Kind of cool, when she thought about it.

It was late by then and she went to sleep with Sidjin after the pair fortified the house again. The next morning, her boyfriend took off to check the buildings and see if he could help. She was grateful and let him know in clear terms, though that took another hour. After that, Solfis was left in a corner, Arthur guarded the door, it was time for meetings.

The first to come up was Solar. The tall, powerfully built swordsman sat rigidly in the guest seat and clenched his jaws.

“Say it,” he hissed.

Viv knew what this was about. The city was in significantly worst state than she had left it. On the other hand, it was clear to her that those had been extenuating circumstances. She would surprise Solar… and then she would hire him for her expedition.

“I am sorry.”

The swordsman blinked.

“What?”

“I know you expect me to bash you so I’ll just state it plainly. I won’t. I asked you to hold the city and make sure to protect it and its institutions. Which you have done. The place is still standing, people are still alive. You are a blademaster, buddy, not a mayor. You did a great job. If a leader gives its subordinate a task, it is the leader’s responsibility to check that the subordinate has the tools and capabilities to complete that task or at least ways to find those. I didn’t expect a miracle. You did what you could. I’m thankful.”

“Seriously? You won’t blame me for the problems?”

“I told you. I asked you to stop Harrak from collapsing. You did it. You are not an administrator by vocation. It’s fine.”

“Huh,” the man said, relaxing against the back of the chair.

“If you want to stop —”

“Gods yes!”

“Then stop. I remember that you didn’t want the job to begin with. Before you go…”

“Ah, we are not going,” Solar said.

Viv raised an eyebrow. Solar was a bit of a wanderer from what she could tell and his companion Wamiri was from across the sea. She expected them to be gone as soon as they could.

“Wamiri is expecting,” Solar explained.

“Ah. Why is everyone pregnant? What’s in the air?”

//Legs, Your Grace.

“Thanks Solfis, very classy. So. You have decided to stay? Here?”

“It’s not a bad place.”

“Alright. It makes it a little awkward but… I need you for something.”

“What?”

“I need help killing a necrarch.”

The declaration fell like an expensive vase. Solar was left gasping.

“A necrarch?”

“Yes. You, Sidjin, Solfis, and I. We have a plan and equipment but… we cannot do it without you.”

“It is…”

Viv expected a flat refuse at that moment, yet something curious happened instead. Solar sat straighter and the air around him changed until the man felt more solid, somehow, more intense. Viv got the curious impression that if she extended a hand in front of him, it would return bleeding.

“... a fascinating idea… Wait no. No. I am supposed to consult the mother of my child over such questions. yes. A necrarch… by the light gods that would be such a magnificent battle…”

He turned his attention to her.

“If I do so, no more jobs. I am a free man.”

“I believe I already agreed to release you from your debt against you holding the fort while I was away.”

“I consider I have partially failed so it does not count. But yes, a life debt against the blood of a necrarch. This would do. Let me talk to her, I should be able to convince her that it will be fine.”

He made to leave then turned one last time.

“Hopefully.”

The door slammed shut.

“Next!” Viv said.

It was going to be a long day.

***

