Wave 1 activated.

Wave 2 activated.

He resolved the Uvas in an instant, taking them out of the equation with a swelling flood of flame. As the Urris came charging across, stomping through Shiv’s scintillating fires while their Magical Resistances waned, Shiv dropped his fists and waited for the beating to come. It was here that he discovered the first disadvantage possessed by Onus of the Scarred Unbroken.

When the Urris smashed into him, hammering him with their immense strength, he found himself drawn back, driven back ever so slightly. Force still affected him, even if he didn't sustain any harm. The same wasn't the case when Shiv was using the Invincible Sacrifice. Both kinetic energy and potential damage were dissipated upon his surroundings.

Still don't get how that has anything to do with Narrativium…

However, that disadvantage didn't last, for another drawback resolved it before it could become a lasting issue. As the Vultegs struck Shiv, he gained new scars in the form of massive glowing bruises that blazed upon his body. Like with the Uvas' fractals, Shiv suffered no injury, but there was weight, and the Urris inflicted a lot more weight than any of the reduced Uvas could.

Movement now came with the slightest strain. Shiv had to spend tides if he wanted to accelerate, and with every subsequent blow, the burden he bore grew greater. It wasn't just that. Time itself caused each of his unbreaking scars to grow denser, to weigh on him evermore.

Well, this has me feeling pretty nostalgic. When my pillar got tough enough, it left me pinned in place. Had to spend Tides to start moving again. Yes, this is like that, but even better. Instead of me building up to a certain amount of toughness, I take the damage, and it converts that to weight… But if that's the case, then why can I feel these scars? Why does it seem like I can push on—

The moment Shiv tried pushing on one of his unbreaking scars, his entire body flared like a star going supernova. The world was bathed in palest light. The Culturist chose the wrong time to teleport behind Shiv as he was caught in the blast radius once more. Every single scar lining Shiv's person detonated off of him, seeking a surface or an individual to square his debt. He saw the Urris refunded for their many punches, and the Culturist took three such blows at the same time to the lower section of his spine.

The lesser version of the Legendary orc folded in half like a broken chair, and was then shredded by all the fractal cuts Shiv had endured earlier.

However, to Shiv's growing delight, the release of all the damage he sustained did not spread into Adam's room. Instead of projecting his damage-debt in a flood of light, Shiv shed the platinum lattice lining his flesh like an exoskeleton he could detonate at his enemies. Everything caught by his shrapnel suffered on his behalf. The orichalcum infrastructure was torn open and punctured. The Urris were driven back by their own blows. The Culturist was reduced to less than paste on the ground.

“Godsdamn,” Shiv growled in triumph. “That’s the kind of shi—urk!”

The rest of his words left him as a slurred groan as one of the Urris flung another of his clones at him. A literal ton of Vulteg smashed into Shiv’s midsection, and he felt his sternum crack, his ribs break, and his lungs hammered hollow of breath.

“Urri is strongest!” the Legendary Vulteg roared, wrapping both hands around Shiv’s head in an attempt to rip his spine out of his body. Shiv heard a disconcerting series of cracks go off inside his torso before he caught and broke Urri's thumbs before launching him back at the others with a thrust kick. A shock wave went off inside Urris chest. The counter force tore ligaments and shredded cartilage inside Shiv's knee.

As he staggered back, Shiv found himself coughing up blood and having a hard time breathing. Yeah, I know what this feels like. Probably have a punctured lung. One of the ribs is buried deep inside my left… Won't be putting any weight on that right leg either.

Just as he was about to wonder what happened to his Toughness, Shiv felt a faint itch crawl across his body, and when he held up his hand, he saw that he no longer sported the platinum lattice that kept him protected. It was slowly growing back, spreading out from his heart and across the rest of his body, but it would take time for it to regenerate. And during that time, I'm vulnerable. Shiv tried not to groan. No free meals. Always a drawback. But I can work with this. I really can.

And he did just that by wrenching himself open and letting the Garden of Wounds and Broken Things spill over to flood the hallway.

An avalanche of rubble and bloodied injuries crashed over the Urris. In seconds, he drained them dry of life force and saw the encounter ended. During that time, he studied the many wounds and runes that comprised him and saw that platinum lattice creeping over every square centimeter of his unique form as well.

It looked like every part of him was going to be coated in that second skin of whatever it was. There was a common theme of sacrifice here, so Shiv had guessed it was probably something like sacrificium or whatever.

Alright, so ultimately and actually, there's really just one drawback, and that's a period of extreme vulnerability after I detonate my skill. I guess getting really, really heavy is also another drawback. I suspect if I take enough damage, I won't be able to move. If a Mythic-Tier or a god hits me, do I keep getting more and more weight added to me until I'm just stuck in place, or is there a breaking point for the skill?

If he had to guess, the answer was likely no. There wasn't a direct limit, but every bit of damage he took would come at the cost of exhaustion and also a moment of extreme fragility that followed the aftermath of a discharge.

Also, why are so many of my skills discharge-based? Hm, wait. Between this and my Inertial Overdrive, I think we can go places.

Shooting a wary glance at Adam to make sure he was still fine—and that a Culturist hadn't snuck into the room somehow—Shiv immediately immolated the hallway again as he prepared to finally get past the third encounter.

Initiating Encounter (3/5)

Wave 1 activated.

Wave 2 activated.

Wave 3 activated.

Shiv stayed close to Adam this time. Instead of leveraging his Garden of Wounds and Broken Things immediately, he decided to wait until he was in a vulnerable phase. In the meantime, Shiv fought with absolute abandon, committing everything to offense and leaving defense to handle itself.

This strategy ended up working pretty great. He lashed at his enemies using his mana hydra, hammering their Magical Resistances over and over again. At the same time, he called forth eruptions of scintillating fire, searing everyone within the hallway as much as his nihilistic flames could. Possessed of their own absurd Toughness, the Urris barreled forward, only to find themselves siphoned bare of life as they led impotent charges into Shiv over and over again.

But then came the Culturists—and that was when things got trickier. A dozen of him seemed to assail Shiv at the same time. The Culturist’s fists glowed and blurred, strikes hammering against Shiv's meridians, calling for his body to tear itself apart from within, but his Onus of the Scarred Unbroken endured on his behalf even as his burden grew greater with every hit.

Shiv took the beating without issue, but trying to intercept the orc was a far greater challenge. He ended up drawing all his nihilistic fire back and igniting everything around Adam's bedside. This strategy worked out well as the Culturist caught aflame, his Magical Resistance dramatically inferior compared to the real one’s.

Once more, the tasty scent of deep-fried orc meat filled Shiv’s nostrils, and he found his mouth watering with thoughts of food and victory. His enemies couldn’t even scratch him, and even if the Culturist was annoying, he couldn’t get close to Adam. When the orc was reduced to an edible lump of smoldering meat, Shiv turned his attention to the Urris and returned to relieving them of their vitality.

As the attritional struggle finally came to an end, the hallway was filled with steaming bodies, and Shiv found himself pressed tight against Adam's bed, for that was the only space left to him—everything else was occupied by bodies. He had no idea how much time had passed. It didn’t feel that long in retrospect, but active combat made time flow strangely sometimes.

“An hour,” Shiv reminded himself. “I have to protect Adam for an hour. That’s the Quest. Don’t think I can just end this by killing everyone across all encounters.” And more than that, he knew what was waiting at the end. After facing waves of other Pathbearers, there would be another version of him with the same skill, and Shiv was not looking forward to that. “Shit. No idea how I’m going to deal with asshole-me.”

But then something struck him—this current encounter was still going for some reason.

Wave 4 activated.

A single door swung open outside Adam’s chamber.

Shiv's scintillating flames licked at the newcomer's body and recoiled as his attuned mana found itself flung back by a repulsive presence. His new enemy sported tessellating armor and a long golden blade that filled the hall with blinding light. She was short, practically half Shiv's size, but he felt his rectum pucker up at the sight of her as all illusions of a guaranteed victory turned to ash on his tongue.

“Ah, shit, fuck, not you!”

“Me!” Jessica laughed, and she strode forward with a lazy flourish of her blade.

Okay, Shiv told himself, brushing cooked bodies aside so he could get to Jessica before she entered Adam’s room. Remember. She can’t hurt you. All we have to do—

His mind went blank as her blade began to flow. She wielded her weapon like it was a river. He stood in her way like a dam, refusing to budge, impervious against all that was to come.

Jessica's first strike landed before Shiv could even react. It was a flicking blow, meant more as a gauge of distance rather than an act of injury. Though Shiv remained unharmed, there was just enough force in her upraised strike that he found his head tilted toward the ceiling.

Which caused him to lose track of her.

Every subsequent strike Jessica delivered felt like it landed at the same time as the others. She drew disemboweling wounds across his abdomen, hammered a deep gash into his chest, whipped a gleaming lane of platinum along his throat, and utterly savaged his groin, eyes, ears, temple, knees, elbows, and more.

It was as if she walked into a hurricane comprised of platinum pens. His unbreaking body was defaced, and the weight he sustained grew to insane levels. Every step caused his legs to shake. Every movement required Shiv to use up all his overflow tides.

He tried striking back, but she wasn't in front of him anymore, and between the scintillating flames that caused everything around him to glitter and the smoke rising from the bodies, Jessica proved impossible to track—until the sickening sound of tearing flesh sounded from Adam once more. Shiv gritted his teeth and turned like a rusted gear. When he finally managed to look behind, he saw Jessica growing out from the slowly remaining parts of Adam's carcass. She had shrunk down to less than a flea, sank inside Adam after battering Shiv and leaving him stalled in place. After that, it was just a matter of growing large enough to tear Adam's body apart.

“Getting closer, kid,” Jessica cheered with a chuckle, pointing her longsword at him. “Getting real tough too. Actually, I'm going to be real jealous about this Toughness Skill, or maybe not, but I'm just going to tell you this. You're on the right track, except you need to take it a step further. You got to protect this guy. I'll be honest, it's not looking good for you in a straight fight. You’re not going to be able to stop me from getting to him. So, looks like you’ll have to find a—”

Encounter Failed

Resetting Delve

Adjusting Legendary Skill…

Initializing Unconfirmed Legendary Skill Evolution: Onus of the Scarred Unbroken

Shiv found himself back in front of Adam’s room with everything reverted. A long, frustrated sigh whistled out of him. “Fuck. She wasn’t even trying when she fought me before… Wasn’t even trying now.”

He threw off his impending demoralization as he rolled his shoulders. “But she couldn’t hurt me. Not even a little. Just gotta use that. Just have to think. Think… How do I stop a Legendary Pathbearer skilled enough to embarrass me every time we fight who can also turn into a flea or smaller? How…”

“That is a good question indeed.”

Shiv spun as he flinched, swinging a fist—that struck nothing but air as Valor shifted out of the way.

“Whoa! Valor? Wait, but—”

Valor held up his hands. “No. I am not part of your Delve Quest. I am the original, descended into your soul to render whatever aid I can. Now—let’s not waste time: Show me what you have evolved so far.”

And suddenly, Shiv wasn’t feeling so demoralized anymore.
