It was funny how much knowing the Emperor personally changed things. Everyone else in the room was probably worried Manny would be angry if he was drawn into such a small incident. When in reality the Emperor had already told them to just do whatever they wanted, damn the consequences.

That tidbit going public would give the various news agencies something real juicy to chew on. Just how much would they dare to speculate on that news? Probably a fair bit less than they were daring to do to his wife, Matt was sure of that.

Still he tried to calm himself down by reminding himself that the stations could be far worse.

Liz looked to him, silently asking for his opinion and bringing him back to the present. Matt made the choice that was best for his wife. Damn everything else, that was what mattered to him most.

“Let's show our proof and see what happens. I agree this was a rush job. Maybe it was something they were preparing for a long time and pulled the trigger on early. That would mean this is a trap, but the timing of this suggests this fiasco was an opportunity they saw when the Count hit the facility and someone jumped on it, but that's pure speculation. Either way, I think it's best we cut this off as quickly as possible.”

Liz grimaced as he said speculation. “I’m really growing to hate that word. But you're right. Let’s just go for it. I want to kick over that hornet's nest right damn now. Everyone, go do what you need to do. In two minutes we will go to a news station. If you need to come, be there. If not, do whatever you need to do.”

The moment they were alone, she took his hand and squeezed it. “I’m sorry they are trying to ruin your moment.”

Matt melted and pulled Liz’s hands up to kiss them. “That's my line. I’m sorry they decided to attack you to try and get at me.”

Liz shook her head. “I don’t think that's necessarily true. Between our suspicions that Aster’s problems are this cabal messing with her and now this, I think it's pretty much confirmed they were always targeting all three of us. My instincts say this ploy was always being set up for me, they just fired it early to try and counter you too. Make it seem like your guild's achievements were also accomplished using unethical methods or some crap like that.”

Matt didn’t like that thought, but he pushed it down as he remembered something he thought of earlier. “That reminds me. Eyria said the training aids for self-made skills deserve to be sold at an exorbitant price, similar to what Aster’s bad actors were saying. It could be obvious bait or coincidence, but distracted with my discovery, I hadn't connected the dots right away.”

Liz growled. “I was already mad at these assholes, but now I’m furious. Hopefully this maneuver kicks up some response and we can drag whoever this is out into the light.”

Matt looked at Liz’s balled up hands, which started to shake and glow more brightly with how hard she was clenching them.

Anything that came to mind just felt like platitudes and he didn’t know what he could say that would make her feel better.

When she unclenched and sat back in the seat with a sigh, Matt pulled her into a side hug.

Together they just sat there in companionable silence until the others returned.

Once everyone who was coming had arrived back, Matt [Portal]ed everyone into one of the expanded buildings that housed a news agency. They didn’t care which it was, so he had simply chosen the closest one to their suite. Going to a more sympathetic station might have given them some small advantage, but for what they were about to do, they didn’t require anything more than a recording station and a licence to broadcast.

The moment they walked through the door, the station started to panic.

It wasn’t surprising with the still simmering anger on Liz’s face and stoney displeasure on Matt’s. People clearly thought they were about to start killing.

Not that they weren’t tempted, but random civilians at a random news station weren’t their targets.

Though, it was amusing to watch as the news anchors who were just discussing how monstrous blood mages guilty of such acts as the recording showed were, go through all five stages of grief live on air.

As they reached the sealed recording studio, Liz kicked the door off its hinges, causing the second anchor to relieve himself.

A quick spell from his cohost saved him from broadcasting that embarrassment to the entire Empire.

Liz growled at him and pointed off the set. “Move, piss pants.”

Or not.

The man scurried off and Liz looked at the vacated chair before kicking it off the set and pulling two chairs out of her spatial ring.

Matt just looked down at the remaining host until he scurried away.

Taking his seat, Matt glared at the director until she stopped hovering over the button that would have stopped the recording.

Using his [AI], he projected a message onto one of the dozen screens next to her.

Seeing it, she and the two aides started nodding frantically as they changed the projecting cameras and framed them better as well as pulling up the recordings he told them to find.

Liz tapped the table, causing the wood to splinter, for ten seconds or so until she growled. “That's enough time. Everyone else can play catch up, and frankly, I’m pretty fucking angry at all of you, so I’m not inclined to play nice. Which is funny, as I’ve been pretty fucking nice every time I went on one of these worm shit shows. I see that everyone is having a lot of fun flinging shit at me. Let me officially quash that.”

Liz paused as they waited until the director signaled they were ready. “What you should be seeing next to my angry talking head is a full spectrum broadcast of my Ascension. I don’t know or care about the source, but you can see there is me and my spiritual signature. Now, onto the next one sometime later, after we took out a supply depot deep inside Republic space. Let's look at the full spectrum recording. My spiritual fluctuations are way more chaotic and mixed. Strange. Did I learn some new veiling technique that disguises my spiritual signature? Now show my next public outing.”

Liz went through half a dozen more recordings pointing out the odd fluctuations in each, but Matt was flicking through the news stations who had universally stopped their discussions of the recording to broadcast Liz’s speech.

He took a smug satisfaction in their obvious nerves, fearing they might come visit their stations next.

“Now look at me.”

When the director started to panic because they were looking at Liz and didn’t know how to do more than they already were, Liz slapped the table hard enough to cause it to crack in half. “With a spiritual camera! Come on! What have I been spouting about for the last two minutes?”

Seeing her view had changed, Liz pointed at herself. “And look at that same distortion. What could it possibly be? What you fuckers forgot when you were tearing into blood mages was that I’m a fucking blood mage.”

Matt sent the director a message, and she quickly projected a real image and a spiritual image side by side on the screen.

Liz reached down and cut her arm, letting her golden blood rush in a wave out of her arm.

Except the ichor didn’t just pool around them, and instead formed into a second glaring Liz.

“I’m a fucking blood mage who uses clones. Of course, I amplified my own powers by using a clone in place of my own blood.”

Matt finally spoke. “And you did so well before this… recording’s purported date.”

He took great pleasure in watching the reaction spread across the news stations that had just been tearing into Liz as they immediately started publishing retractions. They didn’t forget to point out everything had been speculation based on what had seemed like credible evidence.

Cato and Isabella would be throwing the book at all of them. As much as was possible, at least, which was less than they would have liked but more than enough to make their displeasure felt.

The stations that hadn’t bothered to hold back would be hurting in the next few days. As for the stations that had been more analytical and waiting for more information, they weren’t free of sighs of relief or wiped brows, but they would at least escape the worst of his and Liz’s wrath.

“Crazy, that. Honey, how interesting is it that this information came a…”

All of them froze as the entire building lost power.

Matt grinned and ran at his best speed as emergency power came back online, only lasting for a second before it too went out.

Someone had just panicked and tried to shut them down. He was giddy with excitement as he flew down corridors and atriums hardly able to contain himself.

He arrived at the power link in only seconds, only to find the technicians panicking as they tried to close the connection to the mana conduit that ran throughout the city as backup power or disconnect the local backup battery

Matt ignored that and them, instead walking over to the malfunctioning mana battery and slapping a hand onto it.

One of the technicians shouted at him as if he didn’t understand just how much mana was contained inside it.

But he did, and it was nothing to what he generated every second.

Connecting to the battery, Matt found that someone had overridden safety protocols, causing the power regulator inside to think the mana gathering arrays had failed and the building was drawing an impossible large load. Forcing it to draw mana out of the mana stones inside it as fast as it safely could, far more than the building needed. It also reported externally that the battery was empty and needed support. This, in turn, meant the shunt to the public net had opened, adding even more power to the system and triggered every safety mechanism, thus causing a complete shutdown.

The one saving grace was that the mana gathering arrays didn’t care about what the backup measures said, and had gracefully shut down when they detected the system was already overloaded.

It was an interesting attack vector, and not one he would have considered normally viable, but it had worked with what was only a single bypass.

From what he could see, it seemed like a purely digital attack, but the investigators that would come and inspect it later would be able to tell if it was actually done remotely, through spiritual perception range, or locally by one of the technicians. But no matter the method, he was ecstatic.

They had caught someone in the act, and now there was evidence.

Keeping in contact, he wormed his own mana inside and used it to forcefully stop the flow of rampaging mana. His personally aspected mana caused serious damage to the battery bank, but he didn’t care or stop.

With a final thought, he flipped the control to block the battery, letting the backup systems take over.

The entire battery bank would need to be replaced, but that wasn’t his problem as mana was restored to the building.

Grinning, Matt informed everyone they were now in a crime scene, and to cooperate with the police and Imperial investigators, though he doubted they were guilty. This felt even more hasty than the initial attack, which had already seemed sloppy. It was unlikely anyone was turned against them with them in the building, or was already planted into the building before they arrived.

Both were possible, but incredibly unlikely.

Sitting back down next to Liz, he smiled at her. “All fixed. Someone sabotaged the building's local battery bank. I got power back online. Now what were you saying?”

Both Lizzes’ smiles were just as wide as his. “I was just talking about how wonderful my husband is.”

Matt played it up. He couldn’t help it. He understood why Mara and Leon did so, now that he had a taste.

“Oh, that's sweet of you. Please, start over so I can hear all of it.”

“I believe I was saying how interesting the timing of the attack was. Just a month and a half after your Realm-changing announcement. And then boom. Once more, another attack. A sloppy one this time, but I guess they expected us to have to move to a new building or something when they killed the power.”

As she paused, the other news stations immediately started speculating about the hidden entities who were foolish enough to target the Ascenders, as if they weren't part of their previous efforts.

Liz then turned a glare onto the nearest camera. “And I don’t appreciate the slander about blood mages. We get enough grief without assholes talking about how inherently evil our magic is. If a fire mage burns someone alive, no one calls all fire mages abominations. And to answer your earlier speculation which the video tried to paint me as… Yes, I have practiced the less palatable aspects of blood magic. I just did so far earlier than that video showed. I did so while still on the Path, and onto Imperial prisoners slated for death, just like everyone else who needs a human body to work on. I don’t pretend that the darker aspects of blood magic don’t exist, but don’t try to slander me or mine with it.”

Isabella flicked a finger and the second Liz added, “And as for the correspondence between my research facility and this blood magic team. Here. This is all of the correspondence between the two. They reached out in an attempt to get my teams to test things for them and we declined. They reached out a few more times, and we declined. For people who don’t interact with research teams, this is fairly normal and happens dozens of times a year. It's the equivalent of spam mail.”

