Seeing Liz was done, he spoke. “To those who are threatening us or feel threatened by what we are doing… You had better hope your layers of secrecy are sufficient, because we are coming for you. You started this when you hit our duchy’s aura potions, but that was a small thing we could have overlooked. This, however, was a declaration of war. If you are smart, you’ll throw yourself on the Emperor's mercy, because if we get to you first, there will be none.”

Together, the three of them stood. The Lizzes merged back into a single entity as they walked away, with their people following at their heels.

The whole time, Matt was checking in with the other news stations and noting how they were reacting.

By now, even those who had taken the most adversarial stances had pivoted and blamed their former reporting on a mistake made in the moment, trying to get the most current information out.

His information people also noted that information bursts through micro portals had spiked once Liz revealed the flaw in the recording. Most of that could be explained away by the news stations sending out retractions to the nearest planets, which would have already gotten the news, but a suspicious amount of information had passed through as heavily encrypted packets.

Data security wasn’t inherently suspicious, but the degree of the encryption was telling, and some of the packets used absolute top-of-the-line encryptions that would be impossible to crack without specialized Talents. Even then, it would be iffy if the other side had their own Talented security.

More importantly, they were able to track the data packet that caused the power shut down. It originated from the neighboring system and bounced between at least five other systems before that, but Jericho was already tracking it down, and in a day or two, they would hopefully have a target.

At the same time, Esmeralda was digging through the initial information that had been found in the raid and forwarded to the Capital news stations. From what she could tell, the information had originated locally inside the bloodline facility, which meant their attackers had physical access to the facility, which was another lead.

For the first time since they had been hit, it felt like they were on the offensive, and it was a fantastic feeling.

It was time they went hunting.
