Ali was paying attention this time, but even focusing on its mana as the spell unfolded, she still couldn’t tell where the real monster was. She slipped her senses into the Sparkling Ooze she kept for just this purpose, but even from the ooze she could only sense silence as if the elemental archer had stopped its heart and stopped breathing. If it even has a heart.

That’s an incredible stealth skill, she thought. She didn’t have any bats or wolves to use to find it, but it had defeated three of the perception skills available to her.

Malika stood still in the middle of the battlefield, eyes closed. Malika? What are you doing?

“There!” Malika suddenly yelled, juking to the left and charging down an empty space of rock. Her fist lashed out and improbably struck something solid where Ali could see only air. A flaming bolt of magic streaked from the suddenly appearing bow as the hunter was forced to release its shot prematurely.

Can her sight pierce the illusion? Ali wondered how exactly Malika had achieved that feat.

All the remaining illusion images exploded into sparks, but the powerful arrow of flame still flew true, striking the golden barrier right in front of her eyes, with a shockingly loud bang and a spiderweb of cracks. She yelped and fell backward in surprise, but hastily replaced her barrier with a new one. No real harm done.

Right at that moment, her nearest Acolyte flared with the holy light of its devotion skill, startling her into checking its perception. What she saw made her blood run cold.

“Mato is struggling!” she yelled. In the Healer’s Sight of her Acolyte, she wasn’t focused on the spectacular storm of flaming arrows – which admittedly were doing a phenomenal job of suppressing her and her minions. Instead, Mato was the recipient of most of the healing. His body was on fire, burning with pitch-black flame, and he was surrounded by six wolves that were tearing him apart. She had not been paying attention to him at all, fully absorbed with the arrows and the hunters, but now that she was, she could see the wolves flanking him, taking turns to charge in and bite him from behind. Every now and then, one of the wolves would let out a chilling howl, or one of the heads would breathe a dense cone of black hellfire that lingered on Mato’s already smoking flesh.

“Ali, send the Hobs to help Mato. Malika, spot the hunters. Everyone; back up so Mato can use the wall!” Calen called out strategy adjustments rapidly.

“Yes. On it!” Ali shouted, recalling her Hobgoblins while his strategy changes percolated through her mind. The powerful crimson elite Goblins hadn’t been able to hit anything so far; every time they reached the hunters, they teleported away. So that part made sense. Backing Mato up into a wall would hamper the wolves’ ability to surround and flank him.

Suddenly, she realized that the reason Mato had not been able to do that before was that he was forced to remain within the range of her Acolytes’ healing spells. Quickly, she directed her Kobolds back towards the wall and Mato responded with a limping retreat, his movement clearly impeded by his injuries.

With all the shifting, and readjustment, Ali still had to keep her barriers up, and now moving with her minions to protect them from the arrows that filled the air – both hunters were not letting up with their unerringly accurate five-way flame bolts. She bunched her Acolytes up behind her two remaining mages and summoned a larger barrier to cover all of them, leaving the rest of her minions to their own devices – hopefully they were robust enough to survive for a while on their own.

Well, more robust than the healers at least. She had already lost several Kobolds and a shaman. Once the harried battlefield readjustment was completed, things improved dramatically. Mato was still in critical shape with his health still hovering dangerously low, but it began to slowly creep upward. Up against the wall, it was harder for the wolves to flank and hamstring him from behind, and with the addition of the Hobgoblins, the fight seemed to stabilize somewhat. On the other side of the cavern, Malika charged towards empty space and punched at nothing, causing a shower of sparks to erupt from the various images of Flamecallers.

“Totems on the hunters,” she told her remaining shamans. While Malika was somehow able to detect the real location of the hunters after they teleported, and mostly disrupt their powerful ambush, she decided that filling the space with lightning novas would further limit their use of their dramatic teleport illusions. Disrupting the illusions themselves seemed to require only minimal damage, and if they spawned inside the range of one of the totems they would be dispelled almost immediately.

Hopefully, Malika will be able to spend less time running, and more time punching.

Ali re-engaged, lashing out with barrier shards with what little remaining capacity she had after her defensive shields were created. Her ranged attackers all unleashed their magic on the Flamecaller Hunter. The archers and mages were not doing a lot of damage, but the lightning bolts from her shamans seemed to be working well enough. Combined with Calen’s arrows, they were finally making some real progress.

Ali saw the teleport magic flare again, and the furthest Flamecaller Hunter vanished, leaving behind three images, two of which instantly burst into sparks, having been summoned inside a lightning nova.

Yes! She allowed herself a small celebration at seeing her idea work. As soon as Calen hit the remaining image, the hunter’s real location was revealed, and they resumed.

“Much better!” Calen said, filling the air with a smaller counter-storm of glowing arrows. “Now, let’s take them down!”

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
