You would have been one of the greats. You would have been there to help us stop the Sundering, or helped us pick up the pieces after we all failed. If you had turned up in the Old Cosmology, at the right time, maybe the events that lead to the Sundering would never have happened.

But you came to us in the wrong time, and this is the world we live in.

Sorry it had to be this way.

This message will vanish as soon as you are lucid enough to understand what it says.

~Rozeta

Erick read the message a second time, and just like Rozeta said, the message vanished from his notifications. Erick brought up his Status, and his Class.

Erick Flatt

Human, age 48

Level 39, Class: Particle Mage

Exp: 659,855,559/10,233,415,500

Class: 1/6

Points: 16

HP

600/600

600

MP

900/900

6000 per day

Strength

20

+0

[20]

Vitality

20

+0

[20]

Willpower

30

+0

[30]

Focus

50

+0

[50]

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Spell waiting!

Particle Mage

<empty>

If you witness a Particle spell and you understand it, you may unlock that spell for free.

<empty>

<empty>

<empty>

<empty>

Just like Rozeta said, [Zone of Peace] was nowhere to be found in Erick’s Status.

Erick closed his eyes. Sleep was a great idea.

- - - -

Erick opened his eyes to a grey stone room. The sun shone in from the left, onto the floor. He was comfortable, but people were talking nearby. Erick sat up, groggy. He was on a plain bed in a grey room, with an open archway leading to a much larger room. Someone walked past the room, carrying linens and wearing the robes of an acolyte. Erick swung his legs off of the bed and sat up, grumbling.

Darenka, silverscale head priest of Spur’s Interfaith Church, appeared at the doorway.

Erick said, “Hello-oww.” He clutched his left side as a twinge of deep pain scattered through his chest.

“Bah! Still got a pain, eh?” Darenka walked over, hand glowing. As she touched his shoulder, Darenka’s magic spread through him like a warm balm. “You made a right mess of yourself and sparked a lot of hatred. The only gods on your side are Atunir, Koyabez, Rozeta, and Phagar. Powerful friends, for sure, but you’re already not Sininindi’s favorite person, and aligning with Koyabez puts you at odds with the Demon King, the Crown of Heaven, and Sumtir, the God of Righteous War.” She frowned. “I ain’t never seen someone so recklessly piss off so many gods; they’re bitching at me like never before.” She confided, “This old priest feels quite out of her league, presently.”

Erick’s face slowly fell into more of a frown the longer Darenka spoke. “I’m sorry.”

Darenka folded her arms, standing a few feet away, waiting for more.

Erick had a lot of thoughts, right now, but all of them were pointed in the same direction.

He said, “I feel guilty. I brought particle magic to your world, on a whim and now there’s daydroppers and…”

I dug too deep.

Just like the Old Wizards.

Darenka said, “A bit of guilt helps people keep their head on straight, but don’t you go taking on my world’s woes. This nastiness over in Odaali is not your fault; you are not my savior, you are not the savior of the Greensoil Republic.”

“I never said I—”

“Don’t act like it, then! They got their own heroes and villains over there. If one of them comes to you, make ‘em coffee and talk about their problems, but you ain’t done shit except try to be a good man.” She added, “And for the most part, you’ve succeeded.”

Erick breathed.

There was a lot of sense in Darenka's words. Erick didn’t want to be a hero, but if he kept trying to put himself out there like this, touching the extremes of magic, he might accidentally become a villain. The people around him might not have called him a wizard, but Rozeta had; the people of Spur might not be far behind.

And that was more than enough of a shock to make him reevaluate his whole outlook.

He said, “Okay. You’re right. I need to take a step back.”

Darenka blanked, then laughed. “‘Okay’?! Just like that? No! Don’t you just accept what I say as truth! I had this whole conversation laid out in front of me and you are not about to deny me my priestly duties. So come on, tell me why I’m wrong. I can take it.”

Erick smiled, asking, “And what if one of the villains comes to me? How would I even know the difference? What would I say?”

“I’ve spoken to my fair share of villains in my time." Darenka smiled at him. "[Sense Intent] helps to know if it’s time to defend yourself.”

She was using [Sense Intent] right now, wasn’t she?

“How do you learn that spell?”

“Don’t you already have at least one God you need to talk to? Maybe Koyabez can help.”

Erick asked, “What if I actually am some player on the world stage? What if I am responsible for being someone’s savior?”

“You already are, though.” Darenka said, “All the new farmers in Spur moved here because you promised them a life outside of the Greensoil Republic, and outside of the Wasteland Kingdoms. You want to take responsibility for your actions? Take responsibility for that one.”

Erick chuckled, softer than before. He said, “You’re absolutely right.”

“Of course I am.” Darenka said, “And once you get a [Familiar], you can leave that little tyke at the farms while you go on and do anything else you want to do. Heck! You could even explore the world with your daughter, if you wanted.”

Erick smiled. He said, “You're right.”

“Course I am! Everyone gots problems. I’m just here to help.”

Erick paused. In another time, in another place, Erick would have said those same words to someone else who was also facing problems too big for them to handle on their own.

Erick said, “Thank you, Darenka.”

“Glad we got all that cleared up.” Darenka stepped away, saying, “You’re taking up a bed and we don’t have all day for you to get to your feet, so get out, and come back if you ever have any more problems. The Interfaith Church and I are here to listen, and to guide.”

Poi stepped into view, just outside of Erick’s hospital room. He nodded at Erick. It was time to go.

Erick stood up from the bed, and said, “Again: thank you, Darenka.”

She smiled, “You’ll get a bill later. It won’t be too much, but the Church has to keep its doors open.”

Erick chuckled, nodding. “Of course.”

- - - -

Erick went to the farms. He was only a little late.

Redscale Valok was there in the temple, along with sand harpy Krakina and orcol Apogough.

Krakina said, “Oh thank Sininindi! You’re alive.” Her feathers fluffed as she quickly added, “I knew you were alive! I wasn’t worried. You’re late, though!”

Valok just glared.

Apogough asked, “Are you okay, Erick?”

Erick turned on [Exalted Storm Aura]. Mist rose from all around, turning into fog, condensing upward into clouds overhead. Erick said, “I was sleeping off some trouble.”

Valok seemed to relax. He said, “I was worried.”

“I made a promise to you three and to everyone else on these farms; I’ll be here on time, and if not, I’ll have a [Familiar] soon enough who can still bring the rain.”

Valok frowned. “I meant... I was worried about you, personally. We all heard what happened. You left several bodies' worth of blood on the ground out there and inside the Church.”

Erick paused. After that initial terrible image, Erick felt a tug at his heart. They were worried about him, personally. Erick felt that sentiment, deep inside. It was a bittersweet feeling. Like being back on Earth when his friends and coworkers welcomed him back from a hospital stay.

He said, “Sorry to worry you. I’m better, now.”

Valok nodded. “See that it doesn’t happen again.”

Erick grinned.

Apogough smiled wide, then said, “Glad to see you’re okay, Erick.” He looked out into the platinum rain. “Time to work.”

Krakina, Valok, and Apogough walked into the rain. Erick watched them go.

Krakina turned back, and went up to Erick. She looked like she was about to say something, but she stopped, and wrapped Erick in a quick hug. Erick returned the gesture, but Krakina pulled away almost as soon as it started, then preened her disturbed feathers with her clawed fingers.

She walked away, saying, “Don’t you dare do that again!” She added, “Idiot human!”

- - - -

While Erick was playing with summoned birds, Al showed up with lunch and a frown.

“Jane contacted me when you weren’t available.” Al set out hot sandwiches and disc fries onto a table in the temple, saying, “She panicked, but she couldn’t get away from assignment. I told her you were fine, and everyone else was telling her that, too. But I just didn’t know. So. Are you? Okay?”

Erick sat down at the table. “Right to it then?”

“Right to it.” Al sat down across from Erick, and slid him his sandwich.

“I’m mostly okay.” Erick took his sandwich and unwrapped the butcher’s paper, saying, “Class mostly rescinded, the spell taken away, a general slap down by a deity.” The sandwich was meat and cheese, from the very same eatery Jane loved. “I won’t be trying to create any new Particle magic for a while. I will be creating [Familiar] when I’m more comfortable with the spell. I'm going to explore normal Script magic, I think.” Erick looked out into the rain. “Particle Mage down to 1 ability out of 6 doesn’t seem to have affected this spell, though.”

Al nodded, holding his sandwich. He said, “The spell you lost… Was it good?”

“[Zone of Peace]. In a super large area, turn all magic cast with the intent to harm into a [Cleanse] of commensurate size. No effect on ongoing magic.”

Al nodded, saying, “Sounds like a good one.”

“Yeah. I got 12 points for the creation.”

Al laughed. “12!” He smiled. “That’s a good start for a beginner Mage.”

Al started in on his sandwich. Erick ate too. It was delicious. The fries were great. Platinum water washed it all down. Erick was hungrier than he thought he was. Being out of it for a day would do that to anyone.

When Erick finally slowed down, he asked, “Have you heard any more about the Daydroppers? Or about a necromancer hanging out north of Spur? The Oceanside Trio is supposed to be going after a necromancer north of Spur.”

Al shook his head, then took a sip of water. “First I’m hearing of this.” He added, “Maybe you could take some quests at the Adventurer's Guild. Talk to people you normally wouldn’t talk to.”

“I could do the same with Mage Guild quests.”

“No you can’t.” Al shook his head. “And don’t do any more Mage Guild quests, anyway. This is an open secret, but don’t go spreading it around: Almost all of those quests on the Mage Guild Quest Boards are posted by people opting to pay half their taxes through the Mage’s Guild, instead of through the Courthouse. Those boards are always full because the Mage’s Guildhouse spreads the quests they get from the populace out over the course of a full month.”

Erick stopped eating his sandwich. “What!”

Al chuckled. “The practice allows itinerant adventurers to pay their bills around town, which keeps us all afloat. A lot of people see it as their civic duty to participate, though not many people expect an adventurer to actually show up on their doorsteps. But then again, some people like to get to know the strangers around town. Sure… you can take those quests if you’re a resident, but it’s kinda… not done.”

Erick was still reeling. “They can’t all be fake!”

Al said, “Anhelia personally taps people for the big quests if she think you’re suited for the job.” He added, “There are real quests on the boards, but not many. Everything above a gold reward is usually real. I mean… technically they’re all real. But the ones that are needed are the expensive ones, and those get snatched up quick.”

Erick laughed. “I was doing tax work.” He added, “Except for Ulrick, I guess? And the farm work?”

Al looked out over the farm. “The farm quests are tax work, too. All the Adventurer Guild quests are real, though.” He paused. He said, “Except for the ones I post. That's just more taxes at work.”

Erick smiled, then turned to Poi. “Want to go on an Adventurer’s Guild quest somewhere, Poi?”

“If I must, I must.” Poi said, “But doesn’t that seem beneath you?”

“Not at all! Being an adventurer is part of growing up in Spur, is it not?”

“It is.” Al said, with a smile, “Usually people start off a bit younger.”

“No time like the present! Speaking of young adventurers… Hey, Poi? Have you heard about Kiri lately?”

“She’s been assigned to Ar’Kendrithyst so she can raise her level to something more appropriate for the defense of an archmage. She should be ready to return to Spur in 20 to 30 days.”

Erick was stunned. After a moment, he asked, “When did that happen?”

“She entered the Dead City yesterday.”

“Well damn. I hope she’ll be okay.”

“She is… adjusting, sir.”
