One thing bothered him, though. Why was the skill [Conjure Force Elemental], when the description was about constructs? Poi didn’t have an answer; he wasn’t a mage. That was okay. Erick wanted to go to the Mage Guildhouse to talk to Sizzi about her summons, anyway.

- - - -

Erick entered the Mage Guildhouse and walked up to the main desk. “Hey, Anhelia. Is Sizzi in? I wanted to talk to her about her summons.”

“She’s off today.” Anhelia added, “But Zago is in her tower, if you want to talk to her.”

“That works.”

- - - -

Zago’s office was as plush, and yellow, and teal, as Erick remembered. The same exposed grey stone walls and floating doodads and hanging rugs were in mostly the same places. The many chalkboards and many arcane circles that were strewn about the room last time were now mostly stacked to one side of the room, or simply not there. The black and white pair of cats were still there; they were eating from a pair of dishes beside Zago’s desk.

“Because they are elementals,” Zago said, from her chair behind her desk, in answer to Erick’s question. “A construct is an elemental is a construct, though people usually say ‘construct’ when they talk about something created by a person. ‘Elemental’ is used when talking about something found in nature.” She gestured toward the western windows of her tower office. “You can find stone and air elementals out there in the Crystal Forest, if you’re lucky. They’re just as mindless as the ones you summon, though.”

Erick sat back in his seat. He thought. He said, “The ones I’ve summoned don’t seem mindless. They act like normal birds.”

Zago smiled. “Then you’ve already reached a rather decent proficiency with [Conjure Force Elemental]. But don’t fool yourself; they are not alive.” She explained, “It’s like this: The manasphere carries souls to their destinations, or dissolves them into itself if the soul cannot sustain themselves without a body. This intimate relationship between souls and the manasphere leads many to conclude that the manasphere is alive itself, but it is not; what people are seeing are echos of life; memories and ideas. Sometimes these echos catch onto each other, culminating in a spark in the world that transforms whatever it sparked upon into an elemental. Rolling piles of rock, twists of air that never dissipate; these are elementals. They appear alive, but they are not; they have no soul; they are constructs of mana. Even monsters have souls. Every living thing has a soul.

“[Conjure Force Elemental] takes this echoing process and puts it in the hand of a mage. If you are able to produce a clear enough echo, the spell picks up on that, and out pops something that looks and acts very much alive, but it is not. It has no soul.” Zago said, “The [Familiar] in the Script, though… That creates enough of an echo in the manasphere to produce a minor soul; a truly living being that will grow into a real animal, if it lives long enough.”

Erick frowned, taking that all in.

“Mana… is not a soul?” he asked.

“Souls are not mana, mana is not a soul. Is a cloud in the sky, the sky? Is a jelly in the ocean, the ocean? No, of course they aren’t.”

Erick took a look at the [Familiar] in the Script.

Familiar, instant, close range, 500 MP + Variable

Create a permanent, thinking, feeling, telepathic, level 1 being, that is predisposed to like you, who will change as they grow based upon how you raise them.

See through their eyes, Variable

Imbue them with spells, Variable

WARNING! Unkind treatment of a Familiar may result in your Familiar acquiring Class: Slave, and then killing you for 95% of your experience points.

Purchase [Familiar] for 1 point? Yes/No

No!

“Wow.” Erick said, “That warning text! Why is this spell even in there?”

Zago nodded. “All spells have their own quirks which make them special, and [Familiar] is no exception. Of all the random nuances to combining [Conjure Force Elemental], [Telepathy], and [Scry], none of those combinations will ever create what the Script [Familiar] creates, at tier 2.” She said, “It is speculated that the Script’s version of [Familiar] is a lock, and also a warning, that removes the possibility of accidentally creating a soul when you’re trying to make your own [Familiar].”

“So I won’t accidentally create something that will murder me?”

Zago smiled. “Only if you use [Telepathy] and [Scry] in the creation of [Conjure Force Elemental]s above tier 4. [Telepathy] with [Conjure Force Elemental] is fantastic because it allows a long-lived [Conjure Force Elemental], like a [Familiar], to grow with every mental command you give it, retaining an echo of your commands as part of its very being, but that growth is limited by the tier of the spell. Tier 2 and 3 are safe. Tier 4 is iffy, but okay for things that don’t last long, though most would see that as cruel, if they understood what they were looking at. With tier 5 and above, you’re putting more than enough mana and thoughts into your elemental to cause its internal mana to spark into a soul; the elemental then becomes a real being, separate from you, and no longer an elemental.” She added, “To some summoners, this creation of life from nothing is the ultimate pinnacle of their art. To almost everyone else, this is an evil act, that you deserve to be killed for. This type of magic is technically soul magic.”

Erick frowned. Then he nodded, saying, “Thanks, Sirocco.” Erick gestured toward the space that used to hold the chalkboard with people who had discovered new Particle spells. “Where’s the list? Everything discovered, yet?”

“Oh, my, no. Most of us in this little circle upgraded to a list that is still shifting around…” Zago paused to rummage through a cabinet in her desk. “We transferred to this. One second.” She pulled out a thick folder of loose leaf paper. She put it on the desk between them. “Take a look. We’ve started organizing by item, now. Iron, gold, water. That sort of way. It’s actually much cleaner, though messier at the same time.”

Erick opened the folder. It was full of handwritten notes and tiny maps, from places all over Verid.

… Yup. Zago was right. This was much messier. Though…

… Going over the papers…

… [Gold Grab]…

… Daydropper theories. Oh. Erick would have to read more about that…

… people trying to control the weather through applications of water…

… progress on that front. Some lady invented dust devils, hitting the ceiling of ‘medium-sized’ spells…

Erick read for a bit. Zago watched which ones Erick read. Soon, he stopped. He had read enough, for now. According to Zago’s folder, a lot of people were focused on a few aspects of particle magic, namely hot, cold, water, metals of all kinds, air, electricity, and light. Erick could use those focuses to create some SLR particle spells that would only work on monsters, or be unable to be used to directly kill. Erick was completely sure that whatever he created could be mutated into a kill spell by some nefarious person or persons, but he could head off the deadlier, more obvious uses.

“I’m going to try and create some SLRs for a few of these that only work on monsters. I’m pretty sure I’ve already created the water, electricity, and sound spells.”

Zago scrunched her face a tiny bit. She hummed.

“What?” Erick asked.

“I don’t think it’s that simple.” She relaxed. She said, “But you’re welcome to try.”

“… Why is it not that simple?”

“Because particle magic is vast. Even if most people are locked to medium-sized spells, the pure variety I’m seeing makes me think that it might be as large as Basic Magic 101, which is 2 years of study and covers 350 spells. So far, for Iron alone, there’s 20 new spells that I know of.”

“Oh.” Erick said, "Well that's something to think about, for sure."

"Quite."

- - - -

Erick knocked on the door to the Mage Trio’s house.

A quiet yell came out from within, “One sec!”

A moment passed. A light blue [Scry] eye appeared to Erick’s left. He waved at it.

Something crashed on the other side of the door. Someone cursed, loudly.

Eduard opened the door, wearing a disheveled robe tied tight. He exclaimed, “Archmage!” Eduard stepped out of his house, closing the door behind him. “Uh! Hello! What, uh, brings you here? Uh?”

Erick smiled. A linger of thick air was drifting away from Eduard’s clothes. If Erick was a guessing man, he would have bet that he had just interrupted Eduard and someone, likely Ramizi, getting up to some shenanigans. That might have been Ramizi's voice Erick heard cursing earlier.

Erick stamped down his smirk as he said, “I’m making some desserts and would like to know if you three would like to come over and talk about stuff, like about the Quiet War and Kal’Duresh, and I want to invent the SLR versions of some popular spells that the community seems to be pursuing so that they’re locked to monster only. I would like to know what you think about my thoughts.”

Eduard went from obviously flustered, to intrigued, to worried, then ecstatic. He contained his mirth, as he said, “Absolutely, Archmage. What time?”

Erick looked to the sky. The sun was a few hours from setting. “Either in a few hours, or tomorrow afternoon.”

“How about both!?” Eduard cleared his throat, then spoke calmer. “We can talk a bit later, then do more tomorrow?”

Erick smiled. “Sure.”

- - - -

Maia sloshed her beer, saying, “That fucking Quiet War— Eduard and I shoved off that nasty business when I was fourteen and my Da wanted Eduard to join Kendry’s army.”

“Fuck the angels!” Ramizi said, for the second time.

Eduard laughed, “Fuck the angels! Grandma in particular.” Eduard shivered.

Ramizi and Maia laughed, while Erick chuckled over his slice of lemon meringue pie. He was really quite happy with how the pie turned out without having access to cornstarch. What even was cornstarch? It appeared the Mage Trio was happy with the dessert, too; they were on the second pie.

Erick asked, “Did you hear about the daydroppers in Frontier and Kal’Duresh?”

Maia groaned. Eduard did too, but much less animated.

Ramizi said, “Yeah. How did that even happen? I pinged my Quest at noon. When did you go to the cities and kill the daydroppers?”

“Before noon, and then after. I think.”

“Yeah! Makes no sense. They must have had antirhine shielding, but I haven’t heard anything about anyone finding rooms lined with antirhine.” Ramizi said, “I’d hear about something like that; we’ve been looking out for such a thing for a while, now, for unrelated reasons.”

Erick would get back to those ‘unrelated reasons’ later. He asked, “Is antirhine expensive?”

“Shouldn’t be.” Ramizi said, “Almost all mines refine their ore using [Metalshape]; antirhine just falls out, untouchable. It’s pretty common, but it is tracked and is artificially expensive, because it takes a skilled blacksmith— like, actually skilled, not with a Skill— it takes a skilled blacksmith to turn that soft shit into anything usable.”

Eduard held up a fork full of lemon pie, saying, “Yeah. But… The divine [Scan] of a quest can be tricked because it’s a spherical pulse that won’t see something behind antirhine, but if an oozy spell can find a hidden daydropper, then a city guard’s top-tier [Scan] spells should have found it, too.”

Maia said, “Well now they know to personally investigate those blank spots on their mana sense.”

Ramizi said, “Like I said: I would have heard about that before now. I’ve been looking around here, and in Frontier. Can’t go near Kal’Duresh, though, for obvious reasons.”

Erick smiled. There was just so much to learn about magic. He asked, “I’ve never heard of [Mana Sense]. What’s that?”

Maia shook her head. “It’s not a spell or a skill. It’s… not an upgrade to Meditation, but it kinda is. You won’t find it in the Script. You just have to get really good at seeing mana. Ramizi’s got a great mana sense.” She grabbed another slice of lemon pie.

Ramizi said, “It’s easier to get in tune with your mana sense if you drop down to using Meditation 1 and practice for a while with all those handicaps. Immobile, blind, you know. If you have the knack for it, you might be able to see the world how ambient mana sees the world.” He sipped his beer, saying, “It’s like wardwork; some people are better than others. Here. I’ll show you.” He got a far-off look in his eyes, as he said, “You can tell I’m not using [Scry], right now, right?”

There was no glow in his eyes, but Erick looked with Meditation anyway. He had no visible spell effects going except for a [Personal Ward]. Erick smiled, saying, “That could be possible.”

“I’m not lying!” Ramizi said, “Hold up some fingers behind your back.”

Erick laughed, then held up two fingers behind his back, saying, “This is a great party trick.”

“Two fingers!” Ramizi said, blinking, shedding tears. “It’s a sting to switch between modes, but a good mana sense is crucial for a lot of different applications. Great for alchemy; you can see if the plants you’re using have the correct amounts of innate mana.”

“That sounds really nice.” Erick said, “I’ll have to work on that later. I love the parts of magic that aren’t in the Script.”

Eduard and Ramizi laughed.

Maia smiled, saying, “You would say that, wouldn’t you.”

