Tomorrow was a scheduled day of rain, so Erick spent most of the night and a bit of the morning dumping mana into [Conjure Force Elemental], [Scry], and [Telepathy], with the barest nod for actually using the spells as intended. He needed those levels; he’d play around with the actual spell at the farm, when he had nothing better to do. When he was done eating through 21,450 mana, and at the end of several hours, the spells had barely changed from their previous versions.

Conjure Force Elemental X, variable duration, close range, 10 MP + Variable

Conjure a number of force constructs under your command equal to spell level, or one Large summon, or infuse your constructs with mana. Constructs operate based on mana.

Telepathy X, self, super long range, 1 MP per minute + Variable

Communicate with the minds of people you know. 1 connection available per level. Unwanted connections are harmful to caster.

Scry X, instant, super long range. 10 MP + Variable

Conjure a quick sensor to see a place you have been or have seen.

That ‘Variable’ had been key to leveling the spells quickly.

Some notable experiences of dumping 870 mana into his new spells included:

A white blob of a summoned monster, the size of his three story house, that squished and burbled and crushed his experimental garden and got the guard called on him; Poi was able to clear that up rather fast, though. Erick popped out hundreds of smaller blobs after that. The smaller blobs tumbled across the land like bouncy, glowing white basket balls, hopping and plopping across the empty Human District, not getting very far until their mana ran out.

‘Variable’ in the case of [Telepathy] helped to speed up the process considerably, because, since both he and Jane had the spell, they could send each other images across the link. Sending images took up a lot more mana, and granted a lot more experience than simple words. Jane loved seeing Kal’Duresh…

But viewing Ar’Kendrithyst through Jane’s eyes was an experience.

Erick had heard about the Dead City before Jane showed him, but hearing about the crystal spires and seeing the crystal spires were very different experiences. Through Jane’s eyes, and with the emotions she transferred through her connection, Erick realized why the Dead City was considered the largest jewel in Melemizargo’s dark crown. Erick witnessed spires of red-purple-smokey crystal, sun glinting across a fractured land, bridges everywhere that connected everything. A glance below the surface crystal showed a deepness, calling up from below, that glinted white in the darkest parts. Ar’Kendrithyst was magnificent; it stirred something primal inside Jane, triggering emotions in his daughter that Erick could barely understand.

Erick stared at the images Jane sent him for quite a while.

She wouldn’t let him [Scry]-follow her on missions, though.

After [Telepathy] reached level 10, [Scry] provided the largest disruption to the night: Erick’s 870 MP [Scry] was a massive white eyeball rimmed by the dark night, the size of a house. The guards rushed over to investigate this disturbance, too.

That was an embarrassing conversation.

No, the giant white [Scry] eye was not the eye of a Shade; white was just the color of Erick’s magic and the night was dark. Erick stuck to summoning horse-sized eyes, fully inside his house, after that.

There was still a bit of [Scry] left to level, but he would do that in the morning.

- - - -

Platinum rain fell across the land while the morning sun hid behind silver clouds. In the temple in the middle of the fields, Erick practiced with [Conjure Force Elemental] under the stone gaze of Atunir. Last night’s leveling helped him to understand the spell a bit, but today’s experiments would refine his new magic into something he could use.

Erick prepared an idea in his head, exactly how he would have cast a lightward, then he readied 15 mana. Quick as a whip, he cast—

[Conjure Force Elemental].

Out popped a cute white cat; four legs, tiny claws, a long tail that was probably longer than a normal cat’s tail, a cute face with cute triangle ears, and long whiskers. The cat did not move right, though. The eyes were completely white. The cat angled into a half-sit; having its ass halfway to the ground was apparently enough of a sit, because the cat stopped moving completely. Its tail flopped to the temple floor like a dead snake.

This was nothing like Sizzi’s summons; those monsters moved like natural creatures. At least last night’s blobs acted like blobs, bouncing around like blobs were wont to do. This cat was not a cat at all. Erick dismissed the cat, then tried again.

The second cat was better than the first, but something was wrong; this cat flopped over in the sun and didn’t bother to get up. Didn’t flick its tail; didn’t blink. Maybe it was happy in the sun? Probably not. Erick was obviously doing something wrong.

He considered a slightly different approach. This time, he would imbue the idea of a cat into his summon. Now, what is a cat, emotionally? Independent, clean, whisker’d and tail’d, with a penchant for relaxing in the sun and hunting small animals with big jumps and large claws. There weren’t any small animals in Spur besides rats, other cats, and chickens…

Erick would dismiss the cat before it killed anything.

Erick re-prepared his catty ideas, then—

[Conjure Force Elemental].

The knee-high thing that popped out of the air was a cross between a white kitten and an albino velociraptor, with a long tail, huge back legs, smaller front legs, claws that were way too big, and the face of a cat with long whiskers. It moved rather cat-like, despite appearances; flicking its tail, arching its back, slipping to Erick’s legs and rubbing against his pants. Not a huge success, but enough of one to keep going.

Erick released mana into the cat with the ‘infuse’ part of the spell. Curling white fog flowed away from his skin, swirling into the creature, who purred —it purred!— and promptly stretched. Its long claws scratched into the temple floor. The not-cat fell on its side, soaking up Erick’s mana; its tail curling back and forth, flicking against the stone ground.

Except for the shape, it acted like a cat.

Poi cleared his throat, on the other side of the temple.

Erick looked at him.

“Why a kitten, sir?”

“Kitten?”

Poi pointed outside of the temple.

Erick looked over to the edge of the Ring of Gods, around the temple. A pair of farm cats were lounging under an awning, atop a raised platform someone had built for them, gently grooming each other and their three small kittens. Erick saw what Poi meant. He looked back down. His cat-raptor was vaguely bigger than an Earth house cat, but much smaller than a fully grown Veird farm cat; those things were 20 kilos.

“I guess I am?” Erick said, “Sure. Why not. I'm making kittens.”

Poi looked away; back to guard duty.

Erick cut his infusion; the white fog from his skin stopped, the not-cat meowed once, annoyed. Okay. That was cute. Maybe this one was okay? Erick bent down to touch—

The not-cat ripped at Erick’s hand, carving 45 damage from Erick’s [Personal Ward] as it ran away. Erick yelped, pulling his hand back. A few drops of blood welled from the side of a finger, but the cut was barely a paper cut. Erick dismissed the veloci-cat-or. It vanished like a popped bubble of smoke; white mana dispersing into the rainy air.

Erick frowned. “Maybe cats are a bad idea. Something with no weapons would be better.” He thought back to last night. “Slimes are kinda cuddly. Should I do a slime? Would that be stepping on godly toes, Poi?”

Poi said, “I’m not a priest, so I don’t know about that, but if you make a slime monster, someone will automatically try to kill it.”

“That’s a really good point. …What about birds?”

“There are no birds in Spur except chickens. If someone saw a bird, they would likely question their experience first, then correctly identify the bird as a summoned monster, due to its coloration and transparency.”

Erick sighed. “I wanted to surprise Jane with the siamese cat song sung by some cats. She loved that song as a kid. But…” He had a thought and stood up straight. “Isn’t Koyabez’s favored animal some small bird?”

“The Starling, sir.”

“What’s it look like? Disposition? Peaceful, I assume.”

Poi paused, then he said, “Here you go, sir.”

Poi opened a telepathic connection to Erick; an image of a memory came down the path. When Erick had done this with Jane’s memories of gazing out over Ar’Kendrithyst, he experienced Jane’s monumental feeling of cosmic wonder like it was his own; a clear image of crystalline towers from horizon to horizon that had yet to falter due to the passing of years. Poi’s bird was image-perfect, too, but the surroundings were faded green; everything about the memory-image was focused on the animal in the center of the frame.

The feelings that came with the bird were still fully intact, too, still rock solid. Erick felt a profound sense that someone had asked a question of a god, and gotten a genuine response. This was not an image translated from one person to the next; Erick had tried cycling memories between himself and Jane, and that turned out about as well as a game of telephone. This bird was a deeply personal memory.

Erick had to ask, “Is this your memory, Poi?”

Poi looked away, saying, “From a trip to the green forests north of the northern mountains, eleven years ago.”

Erick smiled softly. “Thank you for sharing this memory with me.”

Poi looked at Erick, then nodded.

Erick smiled. This bird was the most personal thing Erick had yet to find out about Poi; He had to do it justice. He studied the memory; the bird itself was better than intact. Looking upon this animal was like gazing at a hyper-real painting.

The bird was flying overhead, glittering in the midday sunlight. Aside from the bright silver plumage which was perfectly straight except where the wind curled against its feathers, the bird was an unassuming bird. It had a medium-sized beak, like a parrot’s. Its eyes were bright silver flecked with white; the bird was looking down at Poi as it flew, its neck just a bit longer than a pigeon’s. Wide wings, like an owl’s; and like an owl it made no noise as it flapped and soared. Its tail plumage flared out straight behind, like an arrowhead. The bird formed a cross in the air, similar to the Silver Star pinned to Erick’s chest.

[Conjure Force Elemental].

Erick cast the spell while he still held onto the image and feeling in his head: peaceful exploration, witnessing the world from on high, and forgiving of those who had done wrong; not for their benefit, but for his own; for Poi’s own benefit.

Three bright white birds appeared on the ground in front of Erick. Each of them were knee-height. Each of them moved a little differently. One had a larger beak than the other two; it fluttered into the air and landed on the railing that surrounded the temple, just outside of the rain. One had bigger wings; it flew into the air, out the temple entrance, into the rain, over to the statue of Koyabez to land on the statue’s head. The last one, with a tail too long, just hopped across the ground, flapping its wings once to land next to the temple steps.

They moved like birds. They plucked their own plumage. One trilled out a minor ‘chi-chiiirl!’ that sounded like a songbird’s call.

Erick said, “I like this.”

Poi smiled, his eyes lingering momentarily on the birds, before he looked away.

The three white birds faded one by one, like ghosts released.

Erick made birds for the next hour. Meditation returned 3 mana to him every 2 seconds, while [Exalted Storm Aura] drained 1 mana every 2 seconds. He easily kept his mana above half as he played around with birds. He quickly discovered that image and emotion and ideas all needed to flash together properly for the animal to turn out correctly. He’d done plenty of image work with his light wards, but this emotional and idea work was vaguely new.

He had a bit of experience with putting emotions and ideas into new Particle spells, though.

He made small birds, big birds, skinny birds, fat birds. Nine small birds that flew slowly in formation while one bird stayed behind on Erick’s shoulder, soaking up mana for all 10. One bird, infused with 200 mana and [Flight of a Thousand Hands], that took off at the speed of fast, racing out across the farm, through the air like a slow bullet, or a fast arrow. That bird lasted a while; almost 3 minutes. He couldn't infuse them with two spells at the same time, but he could have a pair of them, one to fly around, the other on his shoulder, while he infused spells into the one on his shoulder, and the other one activated them. He did that for a while, switching between [Airshape] and [Swift Movement] to see which one worked better. Neither worked well; [Flight of a Thousand Hands Aura] was the best choice for small movement; [Teleport] was best for longer distances.

The birds accepted mental commands just as easily as audible commands, but it took a push of 2 to 5 mana either way and each time to overwrite their current command. If Erick gave them no commands, or if they completed the task he pushed into them, they milled about like birds. Chirping here, flitting onto that god’s head over there, flying away from cats that saw something new flying overhead and desired to eat it. The rain didn’t seem to bother the birds; it wasn’t coming down that hard, anyway.

Birds were better than cats. Definitely.

Experimenting with damage auras would have to come later, when Erick was far, far away from town.

