How touching. Problem is, even if every former member of the Iron Banner were present in Sinuji and came along to keep me safe, I still don’t think it’ll be enough to make a difference. “I appreciate the offer, but –”

“But nothing.” Cutting me off with a wave of her hand, the burly, half-bear woman hefts her wicked axe and grins. “Ain’t an offer. I’m tellin’ ye how things are. Number One Talent or not, I’ll still put ye across me knee if you think ye can order me about.” Switching to Sending, she nods towards Not-Gen and adds, “Yer sister’d be here in my place if that creature out there weren’t so dangerous. Good head on her shoulders that one, and she says to tell ye you best come back alive, or else ye’ll regret it.”

Only Alsantset would threaten me to stay alive. The weird thing is, now I’m worried about what she’ll do if I don’t.

Chuckling at the absurdity of it all, I climb onto Zabu’s back with Ghurda’s help and give Guan Suo a helpless shrug. “Err, guess I’ll be off then.” Unsure how to properly frame it, I add, “Don’t die. Oh right!” Brain derp. Pulling my last two gourds of Water Chi out of my belt, I toss one to Guan Suo and the other to GangShu, mostly because the Abbot needs both hands to keep drumming on his wooden fish, though I don’t really understand why that’s so important. Maybe he’s like Luo-Luo and likes to dance fight. Who knows. “Just in case... err. The Abbot can explain.”

“Much obliged.” To my surprise, GangShu actually sounds like he means it, and as I take in his strained voice and stiff joints, I realize how nervous he really is. Guan Suo and the Abbot seem like pretty heavy hitters, so it’s entirely possible the Azure Ascendant is the weakest one here, maybe even weaker than the Mole-Rat lady, who now that I think about it, probably isn’t weak at all, what with the whole raising mountains bit. I need a scouter to tell me power levels or something, this shit is getting too complicated to keep track of. “If I don’t come back, then promise you’ll look after my people? All of em, mind ye,” GangShu adds, looking off to the north east for some strange reason. “Not just me two boys. The others got plenty of old grudges to handle without me to safeguard em.”

It’s touching that he cares, but I don’t know how I feel about inheriting a group of troublesome bandits. OuYang Yuhuan became the number one Runic Craftsman of the North by killing off the competition, and I can only imagine what sort of trouble Lei Gong and the others got themselves into, but... “Yea, I’ll look after them, though I doubt I’ll be of much use.”

“More than ye know.”

Turning to Guan Suo, I stand and wait to see if he has any requests, but he just shoos me away like a child who doesn't want to leave for school. As for the Abbot, he doesn’t even look my way, his intense glare fixated on Zhu Chanzui in the distance, and I totally understand. Considering he spends most of his time repressing his anger and trying to be a better man, he probably has decades of unresolved anger locked deep inside, and now that the dam is broken, he doesn’t know how to handle it well. “Abbot,” I say, bowing to him as a monk would, with hands pressed together and eyes down. “Anger is a tool to use, not a master to obey. The pig deserves death, but be wary not to underestimate him as others have.” Others like Mahakala, who was stronger than the Abbot and still lost to the Immortal.

Honestly, that’s so much better than ‘the Undying’. Makes me sound like a human punching bag or something. ‘Don’t worry, he’s the Undying, you can hit him all you want’.

Having postponed my departure for as long as humanly possible, I throw out one last encouraging quip of, “Fight well and return victorious,” before directing Zabu to hop off the wall. Eager to do battle after long weeks of sitting around, he lets loose with a long, piercing squeak as he dashes across the barren, rocky firebreak of Sinuji. Beside us, Ghurda and Kuang Biao have no issue keeping up on foot, zipping along faster than any human has any right to run without so much as breaking a sweat. Honestly, I’m not even sure if I can call it running, seeing how it’s more of a long-distance, low-altitude jump, with their feet barely leaving the ground as they soar through the air a dozen metres at a time.

Cool trick, though I doubt I’ll ever get a chance to learn it. Even if I survive today, the life I’ve lived makes old age seem like an unattainable dream. At least I didn’t marry Lin, Mila, and Yan yet. They’ll all bounce back from this and marry someone else, Luo-Luo too, though I’d prefer if it was to different people. Or would it be better if they all married the same guy, so I have less competition in the next life?

At our destination, Not-Gen greets us atop his gajashia with a patient but mocking smile, having set out as soon as I agreed to meet up. Alone and unguarded, he makes for a striking and courageous figure one might almost respect, if one didn’t know he was actually an eight-hundred year old body-snatching monster. Holding up a clawed hand to tell me I’ve come close enough, he stops us about ten-metres away, close enough so we can chat without shouting, but far enough so he can react if Kuang Biao or Ghurda attack him. “So we meet again, young Devourer.” Making a big show of studying my feeble frame, he chuckles and asks, “Still playing games, are we? Foolish child, but you will learn in time. Politics are for the weak. It’s much easier to negotiate from a position of strength.”

What the fuck is he talking about? “Zhen Shi.” No need to be coy about it. I know who he is now. “So what now? We sit around and gab until the survivors come back?” Shrugging, I add, “Torture anyone famous recently?”

Why did I ask that? I don’t want to know.

“Good, good,” he replies with a grin, not at all bothered by my flippant discourtesy. “This Sovereign grows weary of all the lies and deception, but needs must and such.” Eyeing the bewildered Kuang Biao with obvious disdain, he scoffs and continues, “A shame you brought along this Imperial dog. His presence offends this Sovereign, standing so close to a beast content to dine on whatever excrement the Emperor throws him.” Turning his attention to Ghurda, he looks her strapping frame up and down with marked interest, even though her arm is almost as thick as Gen’s waist. “This one... how curious. This Sovereign senses a hint of the Truth upon her, but not firsthand. No, she is too rigid and simple-minded, her will bound by dual constraints of honour and duty, so who does she know that walks in the shadows?” His pupils dilate and eyes unfocus for all of a second before returning to normal, happening so quickly it’s over as soon as I notice. “Ah yes... the young wolf. Promising, that one. He will make for a fine companion, so much rage and potential. I will speak to him personally and guide him along the Path, then he shall ride at my side as we topple the Empire, together.”

Between Zhen Shi’s omniscience and Ghurda’s throaty growl, my neck hairs are ready to abandon ship. Weathering the formidable Bannerwoman’s ire easily enough, his hateful smirk a perfect imitation of Gen’s own which makes me want to shove his face into the dirt and stomp on the back of his head.

...

Is it an imitation if it’s Gen’s own reaction? “You’re not in complete control, are you?” The question slips out before I can think better of it, but Zhen Shi’s response tells me everything I need to know, eyes widening as he leans away from the accusation and throws up a Sound Barrier to isolate us from Ghurda and Kuang Biao. Surprised and defensive. I’m right, or at least I’m not wrong. “How much of you is Zhen Shi and how much is Gen? Sixty-forty at least, or you would’ve abandoned this as a failed effort. No, with how meticulously anal you are about things, sixty-forty is too low. Eighty-twenty at least, but even that minuscule resistance is enough to irk you. I see it now, the grand, long-winded speeches, the comical arrogance...” Giving Zabu the lightest of touches, I urge him forward a single step and am rewarded with an almost panicked retreat as Not-Gen flinches away. “The fear. He’s still in there, his personality bubbling to the surface despite your best efforts to suppress it.” Smiling as I settle back into my seat and prepare myself for the worst, I add, “Eight hundred years of experience, yet the infamous Zhen Shi still can’t even control a common farm boy. How disgraceful.”

Barely able to control his reaction, Not-Gen’s rage is apparent even to the soldiers on the wall, but aside from clenching his bladed hands and trembling in mute fury, he makes no move to refute my claims. Not sure how useful this information might be, since I’m not even certain there’s only one Zhen Shi. It’s entirely possible I’m looking at Gen’s body being puppeted by a Natal Soul, a snapshot of the original which has since been... corrupted, for lack of a better word, by Gen’s personality. I mean... Mahakala did say my Natal Palace diving ability wasn’t entirely unheard of, and I can’t think of any other way to take over someone else’s body.

If I dove in too, could I fight Zhen Shi for control? Maybe it’s not Gen who’s afraid of me, but actually Zhen Shi himself...

Debating whether or not I should tackle the half-Demon Not-Gen, the decision is made for me as Zhen Shi straightens up with a smile, his anger melting away in an instant. “You’ve been studying this Sovereign’s work. How delightful.” This time it’s my turn to poorly conceal my reaction, and I inwardly grumble about sharing so much in common with a creepy psychopathic torturer. “A clever child to read so much from my scrawls, a more worthy successor than any this Sovereign has come across in his centuries of existence. Is this how you came upon your new Path? Through inspiration from this Sovereigns words? How fascinating. Pray tell, which experiments in particular led you to the conclusions you made? Was it perhaps 1792? No, that would not be enough on it’s own, but combined with 7485 and 11548, as well as a minor misinterpretation of 616 and 1610, then this Sovereign could see how one might arrive at such a unique interpretation. Then there’s...”

While Zhen Shi rambles on like a crazed comic book fan, I wrack my memory for the experiments mentioned, though the only one that stands out is the first experiment he listed off, 1792. That’s the experiment where the test subject from the previous experiment turns into a Demon and starts fucking things up, but I have no idea what those other experiments were about. I’ll take another look at 616 and 1610, but I’m pretty sure the books end well before 11548, or even 7485, which means there are more volumes than the ones in Fu Zhu Li’s collection.

Also, what does he mean, new Path? When the fuck did that happen? Did I take a wrong turn somewhere?

“Enough.” Cutting Zhen Shi’s rambling short, Ghurda steps through the Sound Barrier and puts herself between Not-Gen and me. “The Divinities be long gone by now, and we ought to do the same. Sooner this fight starts, the sooner I get to bury me axe in yer skull.”

“Wait!” Visibly flustered, Not-Gen’s gajashia moves a few steps forward before he reins it back, undecided if he wants to get closer or not. “Join this Sovereign, and he will spare your people, all of Sinuji if you so desire it.” Eyes burning with desire, he Sends, “Do you not see it too? We are two kindred minds, you and I. Join me, and together, we will lead humanity into a new era of greatness, one free of the restraints imposed by the Imperial Clan. Know this, should the Emperor learn of your heresy, he will not offer you mercy as this Sovereign does. No, he will kill you and all you hold dear to ensure your secret dies with you. Mine is the hand of mercy, young Devourer. Do not reject it lightly.”

Instead of answering, I study his hesitant posture for long seconds before asking, “Why are you so afraid?”

Flinching at the question, Not-Gen’s face wavers between determination and reluctance before cautiously answering, “Accept this Sovereign’s offer, and the answer will soon become apparent.”

Finally, the light-bulb turns on and the pieces fall into place. “Yea... you’re not Zhen Shi,” I say, dismissing him with a wave of my hand while turning Zabu away to leave. “Not entirely, but even if you were, my answer would be the same.”

Because now I know why Zhen Shi, the real Zhen Shi, sent not one, but two armies to Sinuji just to take my life.

He’s afraid of me, afraid of my power. Whether it’s my ability to Devour or this new Path he speaks of, he’s worried about what I might do if given time to develop.

Which means not only is there hope for my recovery, there’s a way I can recover quickly enough to prove an immediate threat to his plans.

...

Now if only I knew how...

Chapter Meme
