He was carrying a head. And it wasn’t his own. This head was far larger, and it still wore the helmet, the armor identical to his body. Xol, the War Walker, patiently waited as the Dullahan porting him carried him up the steps and onto the deck. The crew of Dullahans all paused to bow to him, those that weren’t immediately busy. He acknowledged them briefly as he passed, but the dour mood had infected him as well. His bearer took him towards the ship’s cabin, normally reserved for the [Captain], but now occupied by a much more prestigious guest.
The Dullahan stopped at the door to the cabin. A pair of silent Midnight Shields were standing guard at the door, and their attitude was intense. They were taking the defeat worst of all. The Dullahan gulped, but the Midnight Shield let him knock anyways.
“Strategist. Xol to see you.”
“Enter.”
A crisp voice instantly replied. One of the Dullahans on guard swung the door open, and the Dullahan porter entered. And there he had a surprise.
Because inside the cabin wasn’t doom, gloom, or even sulkiness. In fact, the person standing inside the cabin, his armor gleaming, was quite calmly feeding himself dinner while his head rested on the table. The Dullahan porter paused, surprised.
He didn’t look upset. And, strangest of all, he wasn’t. As the Dullahan carried Xol’s head into the cabin on a pillow, Tulm the Mithril glanced to his right at an orb he was speaking into.
“Xol has arrived, Seer. Your pardons, Xol, I was finishing my meal as I spoke. May I offer you refreshment?”
“It would be welcomed.”
Xol replied politely. As was customary among the Dullahans, the status of the two had already been decided the moment Xol entered the room. And despite the War Walker’s age and status as a titan among Dullahans, Tulm was still the superior. Now the two heads rested together on little cushions, talking together as Dullahans did in a little circle of heads, leaving their bodies free to act autonomously.
In this case, Tulm’s body was feeding himself, and very quickly a Dullahan [Server] entered the room and began to serve Xol food. Headless, of course; it wouldn’t do for someone to join the conversation. Especially because the attitude was very informal, as befitted old friends. If someone else joined the conversation, everything would have to be very formal. Especially given who was listening from the scrying orb.
“A light wine, then. And to eat?”
“Mm. I will have the catch of the day, whatever that may be, with a pasta sprinkled with the oregano sauce. Hold the addition of salt and provide me with a lemon for the fish.”
“Noted.”
Tulm delicately wrote the requested dish down and handed it to the headless [Server], who took it and came back with a plate of food and drink during the conversation. The duality of heads and headless would have bothered another species, but Tulm and Xol barely broke stride. Tulm instantly turned back to the scrying orb.
“As I was saying. The defeat was close, and avoidable. If I had prepared more fully, it might have been reversed despite the intrusion of House Kallinad’s reinforcement. As it is, I can only offer my regrets, Seer.”
Xol held his breath. Tulm was apologetic, but there was little actual regret in his tone. Certainly not the humiliation or pain the rest of the crew was feeling, Xol included. There was a rumble from the orb.
“DO NOT REGRET IT, TULM. I QUITE ENJOYED IT.”
The voice rumbled throughout the cabin, a low, bass roar that reminded those listening of the thunder of rocks falling down a mountain. It was—well, to call it a shout was wrong because a shout was a certain way of speaking that involved force, effort, the maximal volume lungs could produce. This voice was as loud as any shout, but it was spoken in a conversational, even casual tone.
It was loud. Tulm’s own plate vibrated slightly, and he winced as the liquid in his cup danced, and a bit splattered on the tablecloth. Xol wished he could massage his ears; he’d felt his earwax vibrate.
“Seer, may I regretfully request that you lower your tone? Our confine is enclosed.”
“APOLOGIES. HOW’S THIS?”
The operatic, booming tone lowered slightly in intensity. But not by much. Tulm sighed. Volume control was among the Seer of Steel’s few weaknesses. He tried to adjust the scrying orb’s volume instead, and the volume did indeed reduce. But the size of the voice couldn’t be changed so easily.
“I have a few small victories to share. Among them was my ability to use my appraisal Skill on all of the students and a number of the Forgotten Wing officers during the game. I have had a [Scribe] write down their rough levels and Skills. The information will help us if we come across them in the field or in hiring. A small compensation.”
He indicated a sheaf of papers. The voice in the orb rumbled.
“USEFUL. BUT A LOSS IS A LOSS. I SHARE YOUR DISAPPOINTMENT, TULM. HOWEVER, IT WAS A GAMBLE.”
“Yes.”
Tulm calmly fed himself more of his dish, a lasagna-type meal neatly arranged and cut into pieces. Xol stared from Tulm to the orb.
“Pardon me, Mithril. Seer. But the crew and I were under the impression this was our battle to lose. Morale is low.”
Tulm glanced up and nodded.
“As it should be. However, Xol, I regard this loss as partially inevitable. The Titan invited me to this game. I came with every advantage I could reasonably take, including yourself.”
“And I was unable to grant you victory. It was my weakness, Mithril.”
“WAS IT? I THINK OTHERWISE. AS DOES TULM.”
Tulm nodded.
“To play the Titan’s game is to invite defeat. The only question was whether he intended us to play or not. I decided to take the risk. And I lost. I am ashamed. But not surprised. My teacher is insurmountable in his ability to play mind games. If I dragged him onto the battlefield, I would be more sure of victory. But this game?”
He shrugged. Xol stared at Tulm.
“Then, Mithril, if I may ask. Why take the risk? Why invite humiliation to the Iron Vanguard, however great or small it may be?”
“BECAUSE OF WHAT WAS OFFERED.”
The Seer’s voice made the cutlery rattle. Tulm nodded briefly. He looked up at Xol.
“A question.”
Xol’s brow wrinkled.
“I thought it was the prize from his armory. A gift worthy of the Seer of Steel. What question could the Titan answer that the Seer of Steel could not?”
He looked respectfully at the orb. There was a rumble, not so much words, but noise. Tulm put down his fork.
“Only one that matters. It is not your concern, Xol. Yet.”
That was a polite way of saying that Xol wasn’t important enough to know. Which told the War Walker exactly how important the question must be. He looked at Tulm’s head, and the Dullahan closed his eyes. When he opened them, his silver gaze met Xol’s steadily.
“If I had won, I would have considered it worth the cost even if we had left four out of the six warships and their crews at the bottom of the harbor. And, as much as it pains me, even you, Xol.”
Xol inhaled sharply. He hadn’t taken offense; why would he? But it was the magnitude of what Tulm suggested that gripped his heart below decks.
“Then why did we not deploy a dozen warships? Bring in as much of an army as possible?”
The Mithril smiled ruefully.
“I’m sure the Titan would have countered that. He already broadcast his game to the world. I brought what I could, Xol. I employed any number of tactics. And still I failed. His student, Wil Kallinad, was impressive. As were some of the others. I regret my defeat. But it was worth the risk.”
The three fell silent. And after a moment, the Seer of Steel spoke.
“INDEED. BUT WHAT WOULD MOTIVATE THE TITAN TO PLAY A GAME OF SUCH RISK WITH LITTLE REWARD?”
Tulm frowned. Now that was the question, wasn’t it? He stared at his empty plate. And then, to Xol’s surprise, he chuckled. And then laughed. It was a short laugh, but it was a laugh. Only in this unguarded room did it come out. Xol stared at Tulm. The younger Dullahan looked up. And then he addressed the orb, as was proper.
“My apologies, Seer. Xol. But I recalled something the Professor once said to me. He told me once that he’d burn down a forest to win a card game, if the stakes were high enough.”
“Ah.”
Xol exhaled softly. It was a phrase he’d expect from the Titan of Baleros.
“Then the only question is, was what the Titan sought worth the risk?”
The War Walker glanced at Tulm, looking for answers. But the Dullahan just frowned, pondering. No one spoke for a while. At last, the Seer of Steel’s voice vibrated through the room.
“TULM. UNCOVER THAT ANSWER IF YOU WILL. I WILL AWAIT YOU IN PERSON. IF THE TITAN WILL NOT ANSWER BY GAMES, THE ANSWER MUST BE FOUND ANOTHER WAY. IF THE QUESTION IS NOT FRUITLESS IN ITSELF.”
Tulm raised his head and nodded. Slowly, he fastened the head onto his shoulders and looked at the scrying orb.
“And if it is a question worth answering?”
“THEN IT IS WORTH ALMOST ANY COST. PAY IT.”
Tulm the Mithril nodded, and Xol did likewise. That was all that needed to be said. The figure in the scrying orb turned.
“XOL.”
“Seer.”
The image winked out. Tulm sat back and rubbed at one ear. Xol envied him.
“So this is a defeat for the Iron Vanguard.”
“A setback. A defeat would see far more ships burned and our officers downed, if the Professor had willed it. Xol, I thank you for your efforts. You have leave to rest. Unless you have anything else to bring before me?”
“I do, Mithril.”
Tulm glanced at Xol’s head, surprised. It was rare for the War Walker to request anything.
“Speak.”
“I request to allocate forty, no, sixty gold coins from my funds. And to request connection with the central Adventuring Guild in any major city.”
“Easy enough. I will conduct both affairs now.”
Tulm reached for the scrying orb. He spoke into it, and after a few instructions to the [Mage] controlling it, and a slight pause, an image appeared in the orb. A very nervous, very widely smiling Lizardman appeared.
“My—my goodness! Tulm the Mithril and Xol of Ingrilt? How can Zevai’s Adventuring Guild assist my honored guests today?”
“The smallest of things.”
Xol spoke politely and carefully, aware of Tulm’s curious eyes on him. He was embarrassed to even bring it up in front of his commanding officer, but there was no time like now, in case he forgot.
“I would like to put a bounty up. On one Luan the City Runner.”
Tulm glanced at Xol. The Lizardman blinked only once, and then nodded rapidly.
“Of course, of course! Anything for the Iron Vanguard—”
“No. This is a personal bounty. Please register it as such.”
The Lizardfolk instantly scribbled a note. He was sweating; he didn’t want to make a mistake.
“Naturally. I have made the note. Um, Sir Xol, may I ask a few questions about the nature of the bounty?”
“Yes.”
“Ah. Well then. For helpfulness’ sake, may I ask if this is a lethal or nonlethal bounty?”
“Nonlethal.”
“Oh! Nonlethal, excellent, excellent. We have a wide selection of options if you have any preferences. We offer maiming, permanent disfigurement, loss of an eye, branding—that’s extra—minor humiliation, property damage, superficial beatings—”
“No permanent damage. Superficial beatings. And did you say property damage?”
“Yes, of course! We can put in a request for burned houses, financial damage, theft—I know this isn’t how other continent’s guilds do their jobs, but we aim to please, and if you have any specific items in mind…”
“He has a boat. Destroy the boat. But don’t harm him. That’s all.”
“I have made a note. And I will place the bounty up at once! Ah—”
“The Iron Vanguard will send the payment directly.”
Tulm spoke up for the first time. The Lizardman jumped.
“Of course! And if you have any more needs, please don’t hesitate to—”
The connection faded. Tulm sat back and regarded Xol. The Mithril looked amused.
“A small thing, Xol? Did the City Runner cause you some form of insult?”
The War Walker frowned mildly.
“Some things should be dealt with. There is fairness, and there is justice. I did not appreciate the risk to the children.”
“I see. It is your decision.”
“Yes.”
The two sat in silence for another minute. Xol sighed. His pride still hurt, even hearing Tulm’s reasoning. The Mithril glanced at him, and then out the porthole at the sea. The ship’s lights illuminated the dark waters, but the horizon was vast and the sea endless. The Iron Vanguard’s navy, first and foremost among the Four Great Companies—no, the only naval power of the four, was a small thing compared to the vastness of the ocean.
“It was just a game, Xol.”
“Yes. And I wonder who really won?”
Tulm the Mithril looked up. His eyes flashed. He wondered the same question. For after all, as sanguine as he appeared, he had lost. He sat with Xol, thinking about the Titan, wondering what game his former mentor was playing.
They called him the second-greatest [Strategist] of Baleros. The second of the Iron Vanguard. Second in many things. And they told stories about him. Many of the stories were fake. The rest were exaggerated. But there was one thing no one knew. Tulm’s class. A class only he, the Seer of Steel, and Niers Astoragon knew he possessed. Perhaps Foliana too, but you could never tell what she knew. Or if she cared. But it was his class, and it was a class to shake the world.
[Dragonslayer Strategist].
Sometimes, the legends were true.
 
 ——
 
So Fleethoof ran, Tulm the Mithril sailed away, and his students laughed and partied. Victors, each in their own way. Daquin became a name on every lip until it was not. And for a day, the world revolved around him.
The Titan of Baleros flew through the night, back towards the academy. The owl holding him was swift, and he was nearly back home. Still, he resented the trip; he realized that Perorn would only have arrived a little bit behind him if she was going all-out. Speed was a relative thing, sometimes.
Even so, the Titan was in a good mood. He hummed to himself as Elvallian’s spires came into view and the welcoming lights of his academy appeared before him.
They were coming to see him. All thanks to Venaz, a few lucky moments, and of course, a game that had pulled in every eye across the world. And they all wondered and speculated what his purpose was.
And they were right to wonder. Right to suspect. But the truth was that it was all a feint. The game. Tulm. Even Niers’ question and his gift to Umina, which he’d have to come up with. Oh, he always had his game. And he always liked it to be fun. But this time, it had all been to arrange one meeting. Such a casual one that while everyone stared at Niers’ grand plots and designs, they missed the little trick, the moment hiding amid the grandeur.
