The Gnoll smiled, baring her teeth. Perorn nodded.
“As far as ideas went, your ability to rally Daquin was exceptional. The rest of your performance was not.”
The Gnoll looked abashed.
“Hrr. Yes, Professor. I failed to use my best Skill at the end as well. I thought about it, but it would be little use with so many bodies in the way. How should I improve?”
“By learning to employ your existing Skills more effectively. To that end, you’ll be shadowing me on campaign. You’ll serve as my second. I expect you to fill that role to the best of your abilities.”
There was a gasp from the students. Feshi looked delighted and alarmed. She bowed.
“I will do my best, Professor!”
“Very good.”
The Centauress stepped back. Aggrieved, Niers cleared his throat once or twice. He looked at his students, then past them. Wistram’s [Mages], Daquin’s people, and his soldiers looked on. They were entertained, if puzzled by this moment. Now the Titan smiled, and they stood straighter expectantly.
“And so we have rewards. Or punishment. But exemplary though some performances were, and many were truly impressive, I have one student yet to call upon. Wil Kallinad. Walk forwards, lad.”
Every eye swung towards Wil. He was standing silently to the side. With some of the Humans from Terandria. Now he did walk forwards, and Marian saw his face was pale. He was…well, if Venaz was downcast, Wil looked smashed into the ground. He managed a stiff bow before Niers.
“Professor.”
“Wil.”
There was kindness in Niers’ eyes as he looked at Wil. He paused for a moment.
“You brought four warships from Kallinad’s harbors. Across the sea. And of all my students, you were the one to predict the Iron Vanguard’s arrival. You foresaw Tulm the Mithril, and you challenged him.”
“Yes sir. And I failed.”
Wil looked up steadily. Niers shook his head.
“I could argue that without you, none of the students would have had a chance at victory, much less succeeded. But you are correct. You were outplayed in the end. By guile.”
He gestured at Umina, who went even paler than Wil for a moment. Niers paused.
“If you could have done something differently, what would you have done, Wil?”
Everyone waited for his response. Wil opened his mouth, gulped a few times, and then croaked hoarsely.
“I would have won, sir.”
Silence. Niers nodded.
“Fair enough. I suppose you feel disappointed. I suppose the cost of four warships—and crew and [Soldiers], not to mention the [Knight] order accompanying you—weighs on you. And it should. [Strategists] may answer to [Kings], or [Generals], or any number of employers. But when we give our orders, our analysis, lives hang in the balance. On our decisions a nation’s hopes and lives may rest. Never forget that.”
Marian held still. Wil was shaking with each sentence, but nodded.
“Yes, Professor.”
Niers waited. The world waited. The Titan walked back and forth, studying Wil.
“You lost. But you took on Tulm the Mithril. Don’t forget that either, Wil. You surprised him. I know Level 40 [Strategists] that can’t claim the same.”
Wil’s head rose. Niers went on. His voice rose slightly as he gestured in the direction of the harbor.
“It was a masterful move, Wil. I saw the ships coming because I looked. I lost them after they left the harbor, but I knew they were coming. Next time, everyone will be looking, so learn to prepare decoys and cover your tracks. You’ll never be able to pull the trick you pulled today as easily. And that is because the world knows your name. The world saw you outmaneuver a Great Company. Come this close to victory. And for that display, I have only one thing to say. Umina.”
He turned. The Lizardgirl jumped and stuttered.
“Y-yes, Professor?”
Niers looked at her. She looked at Niers. The students, Daquin, and the world, as always, held their breaths. Niers glanced around, then he smiled.
“I’ll see both of you later. Umina, I’ll have your gift ready. Wil, no gift. You did lose. But have a question ready. Both of you.”
Marian felt her heart catch in her chest. Wil’s eyes widened. Marian heard a wild cry and saw Wil’s sister raise a hand in the air. And then Wil opened his mouth to say something—to protest—but it was drowned out by the roar of sound behind him.
Humans, and not just Humans! Daquin’s citizens screamed and clapped and shouted in delight with the others. The students around Wil swarmed him, clapping his shoulder, shouting in excitement. The Titan stood on his pedestal and laughed as Teura tried to shout at him. He had to wave his hands for nearly a minute to be heard.
“Enough! Enough! No questions. The reward matches the deed. Enough said. So let’s continue. To my students, officers, strategists. To my soldiers of the Forgotten Wing Company and those of the Iron Vanguard who have yet to depart. To Daquin and its citizens, who won a victory over a Great Company this day. I congratulate you all. And as the Titan of Baleros and member of the Forgotten Wing company, I offer you my hospitality this night.”
At his words, Marian heard a roll of sound. Not the slow thunder of the Iron Vanguard’s drums, but a far more welcome sound and sight. Wagons rolled forwards, and [Servants] leapt down. From bags of holding, and the stores in the wagons, they began setting up tables. Chairs. Rolling out barrels; kegs were far too small. The students and Daquin’s people stared. Then someone shouted.
“A feast!”
“A feast indeed! My people are setting up across the city, so don’t swarm them here! I’m renting every inn, pub, and miserable dive in the city! Open your doors! And if one of my students leaves Daquin sober, I’m expelling that student on the spot!”
Niers roared, and his students cheered wilder than anyone else. They swarmed the tables and the [Servants], who had to beat them back with ladles as they tried to serve food. The excitement, expectation, and surprise of the last hour all faded as Marian looked around and realized how hungry she was, how tired.
So she pushed towards a table, grabbed the nearest edible-looking thing, ate, drank, and felt better. And she forgot about the heartache, defeat, and all the other emotions whirling inside of her. The game was over.
And that was a relief.
 
 ——
 
The Titan of Baleros had a flair for drama. But saying that was an understatement of understatements. It was like saying that Crelers had a bit of an eating problem. It completely missed how aggravating, how annoying Niers Astoragon could be. And while Perorn had worked with him for decades, he still managed to catch her by surprise.
Like now, for instance. She had coordinated the rest of the students’ ‘rewards’, which were rewards but really just rare training opportunities with the Fraerling. But the announcement about Wil winning the right to a question had caught her off-guard as much as anyone else.
She pushed through the crowd surrounding Niers, Wistram [Mages] demanding an interview, Councilmembers asking if he was really going to pay for everything, only to find he’d disappeared. He was good at that, too, which meant Perorn had to answer all the questions.
She found Niers after the mob had dispersed to go look for him. Or rather, he found her; the Fraerling had hidden in a little alcove underneath the pedestal. Like a spider. It was an uncharitable comparison, but Perorn wasn’t happy to be left facing a sea of aggressive questioners.
She glared at the Titan as he pulled himself back up the platform. No one noticed, not even the Wistram [Mages]. As Niers had once remarked, the fact that they trusted to spells to notice invisibility enchantments and so on and so forth meant that they were terrible at noticing the mundane. And Fraerlings were masters of hiding in plain sight.
“Quick, put me on your shoulder. Before they notice me.”
Briefly, Perorn debated ratting Niers out or abandoning him. But knowing him, he’d just wriggle out of it and cause her more trouble. So she held out a hand, and he raced up her arm as if he were running up a slope. He perched on Perorn’s shoulder, and she trotted off. The celebration was in full swing, and more than a few [Mages] and Councilmembers were distracted by the barrels already being emptied of expensive alcohol.
“How much did you spend on the celebrations?”
“Do you want to know that? Or do you want to kill me about Wil? You can take your pick, but I’d rather not add to how snappish you’re going to be.”
Niers dangled his legs over Perorn’s shoulder, looking more cheerful than he had any right to be. The Centauress glared at him, limping slightly as she walked across the city.
“What was that stunt at the end? You just ruined the purpose of the entire game!”
The Fraerling stroked his beard, unconcerned at her reaction.
“As a matter of fact, I did not. Umina still won. And she gets a larger prize than Wil, but he still earns the right to the question. It’s not as if this is the first time. I did it two games ago. Or would you have let Wil toss himself into the ocean after losing to Umina?”
“I’d have rather you gave him a suitable reward. Or are you sympathetic to him because of how much money he spent?”
The Fraerling raised his eyebrows.
“The reward matches the deed, Perorn. Or do you disagree?”
The Centauress hesitated. The Titan looked seriously at her.
“I overplayed his bravery and the challenging Tulm bit, but he outmaneuvered the Iron Vanguard. They didn’t see him coming. I lost track of those damn ships.”
“You did? Really? I thought you made that up.”
“Well, I was hardly able to send scouting ships, was I? He kept them out of sight of regular vessels the entire way across the ocean. Tell me you could do better. Name me one of our best [Strategists] that could pull off a trick like that without sweating. And then tell me the reward is undeserved.”
Niers stared at Perorn. She hesitated.
“I suppose not. Even so—you know what the Kallinads will want to know, don’t you?”
“Mmf. Something political. I have something in mind. It will cause a fuss, but it shouldn’t get back to us.”
Perorn eyed Niers. His idea of a fuss was largely different from hers.
“And Umina? The gold you spent on this party? Healing potions? Was it all worth it? Not to mention—how many died?”
Niers paused. His expression grew somber.
“Seventeen deaths. Eight of ours, two civilians, six from the Iron Vanguard. One [Knight].”
“Low on the Terandrian’s side.”
“I didn’t count the horses. Twenty-four of them.”
Perorn felt a twinge of pain. Horses weren’t Centaurs, but as distant kin, even if Centaurs were vastly more intelligent than horses, she felt the pain.
“What will you do about that?”
The Titan swung his legs in silence for a moment.
“Award the families double the standard pension. This wasn’t a battle. They weren’t meant to die. I’ll reach out to the Seer of Steel for his people. And I’ll have someone speak to Sir Kelm of the Order of Seasons about his [Knight].”
The two moved in silence for a minute after that. Well, Perorn walked, and Niers sat. She could already see people eating, talking animatedly, clustering around a [Mage] in hopes of appearing in the scrying orb, and pairing up. The relief, the adrenaline and rush of triumph—it was almost as if this were the end of a battle. She spoke quietly to Niers.
“People always die. [Soldiers] die in camp when they quarrel with each other. Or after visiting a brothel and having their groins slowly rot off them. They die tripping while marching.”
“I know. It doesn’t change that this was my game.”
“Even so. You don’t have to—”
“We’ll pay them, Perorn.”
The Centauress dropped it. She looked at Niers. And thought. She knew her boss well. And she knew that nothing with Niers Astoragon was straightforward as it seemed, even when he looked like he was on a razor’s edge.
“You didn’t answer my question.”
He stood up and stretched. Niers absently raised a tiny whistle around his neck and blew it. The shrill sound was quite inaudible to Perorn, but she knew what was coming. She glared and reached out to grab him. He sidled down her shoulder, dodging her hand.
“No. I didn’t. I’m going back first to Elvallian. You’ll be back at the academy tomorrow? The students will head with the convoy, but you can run back if you want to meet me there. We should plan out the students’ curriculums after this.”
The Centauress known as Fleethoof glared. She knew Niers wasn’t trying to hurt her—at least, she thought he wasn’t—but sometimes it felt like he forgot on purpose.
“I’m in no condition to run.”
Her right hind leg hurt. Now that Tulm was gone, Perorn felt her tendons protesting her every movement. Healing potions hadn’t saved her leg after it had been hamstrung; she had saved some mobility, but the pain and her own aging body made her old feats of speed a distant memory. She scowled, and Niers looked up at her.
“It will feel better by the time you return.”
“Oh, really? And do you have a poultice for me? I don’t want one. I told you, [Healers] with painkillers don’t change the fact that my leg can’t move the same way it used to. And I won’t damage it just so you—”
“Perorn.”
The Titan stopped her with a word. He could do that. But Perorn swore that if the next words that came out of his mouth didn’t placate her, she would knock him off her shoulder and stomp on him. She waited as the Titan met her gaze. A tiny man on her shoulder. Perorn heard beating wings. Niers looked up, and then smiled crookedly.
“I told you you’d have a good day. Do you think seeing Tulm humiliated slightly was all of what I meant?”
Perorn blinked.
“I—yes. Of course. If it wasn’t just to see this, then what did you bring me for?”
Suddenly paranoid, she stared hard at Niers. But he only gave her his most enigmatic smile. He leaned forwards. And suddenly Perorn felt a hum as her rings warned her that he’d just employed an artifact. His anti-listening spells. He whispered in her ear.
“Venaz. Search for Armor Captain Shailt. Try to be discreet. Let him take the lead.”
“What—”
Niers stepped back. Perorn grabbed for him, but it was too late. He tipped his hat to her and leapt up. Perorn stepped back as a claw descended and snatched the Fraerling up like a bug. The owl flapped its wings once and took off. The Fraerling sped into the night as the trained bird flew back towards the academy, as fast as a swallow.
Perorn watched him go. She cursed once. But she knew the owl would be flying too high for her, even if she decided to race after him. Damn animals. The Titan employed [Beast Masters] among his other tricks.
And then Perorn thought about what Niers had said. And her instincts, the little animal sense at the back of her brain, tingled. She looked around, murmuring.
