“As bad as Foliana in his own way.”
He loved secrets. But he seldom lied outright, so Perorn went searching for Venaz. She found the Minotaur a few minutes after a certain City Runner did. Perorn had to stop and speak to Daquin’s Councilmembers, as well as Wistram’s [Mages] and everyone else vying for her and Niers’ attention. Again.
Luan had to check on his boat.
 
 ——
 
The game was over. She’d won. Umina walked around the streets of Daquin, feeling drunk on exhilaration, confused, and almost, a tiny bit, disappointed. Because no one was trying to kill her. No one was screaming that she was a cheat and should be punished. People seemed…happy.
But she wasn’t. Umina felt as guilty as she ever had, worse than when she’d pushed her neighbor’s son down the stairs because he’d shoved her the day before that. She’d seen Wil’s face after the game ended, and the disappointment on Venaz’s. But the worst had been Marian.
She’d been so close. Umina’s heart had stopped when she’d poked her head out of the ground and seen Marian leaping at her, and Tulm, Tulm the Mithril blocking her way. And he’d looked at her. And asked her name.
Umina’s heart pounded wildly at the memory. But if she dwelled on that, she’d start shaking, so she kept walking. Daquin’s citizens were in the streets, making merry with Wistram’s [Mages], the Forgotten Wing soldiers, and the students. They were the noisiest, and the center of attention, demanding to see themselves in the scrying orbs, which were on replay as Noass and Sir Relz gave their commentary on the game, drinking, being toasted and toasting each other—
And crying. Yes. There were tears amid the laughter and congratulations. Frustration, jealousy, disappointment—the other students had done their best after all. Some had spent money, or time, or any number of things on victory. And Umina had won. She tried to slink past the first few groups, head on a swivel for Marian. But the third wave of students clustered around a food table spotted her.
“It’s Umina! Get over here!”
A Dwarf’s bass voice roared over the crowd, and everyone turned. Umina froze, but Merrik appeared and tugged her over to his table. He and some of the officer students were drinking, and they greeted Umina with shouts of delight. And surprisingly, none of them seemed angry. They sounded angry, but only for a second. Kelsa merrily cursed at Umina as she and Kaelma practiced quaffing. Jekilt shook his head as he drank more sedately from a mug.
“You bastard of a Lizardgirl, you did it! Right under our noses! Hah!”
Merrik slapped Umina on the back and then wrinkled his nose.
“Phaw! You still stink! Here, take a drink and pour it over your head!”
He grabbed a mug and filled it with one hand. Umina took the mug, trying to speak, and saw a huge, feathery shape appear next to her. Peki tilted her head and nodded a few times.
“Good trick. Dirty trick. I didn’t see it coming. Good job, and I hate you.”
She nodded at Umina as she dipped her beak into her drink. Umina ducked her head.
“I’m sorry—”
“Sorry? What’s there to be sorry about?”
Merrik was instantly outraged, as were several other students. Jekilt shook his head as he trotted over. He was eating some sticky balls of rice sweetened with a lovely sauce Umina knew from back home. Her stomach rumbled, and Jekilt passed her a few. Umina scarfed them down. The [Captain] shook his head.
“There’s nothing to be sorry about. You won, Umina. A win’s a win. It makes all of our effort look pointless, though. Which is the lesson the Professor probably wants us to learn.”
He looked at the others. Kaelma nodded as she tilted her head back and took the drink down hard, gulping it down. Umina blushed.
“I still feel bad. You were all fighting so hard, and I used you as a distraction. Especially Wil. I couldn’t have done it without him occupying the Iron Vanguard.”
Merrik grinned.
“Hear that? She couldn’t have done it without us occupying all of the Iron Vanguard’s [Mages]! Which means—eh—wait—so no one would have won if we didn’t do our best. But since we did, Umina won. But if we’d all acted like she did—so how would we have won?”
He broke off, muttering to himself. One of the others, the Oldblood Drake with the folded wings, shrugged. She spat a small wisp of darkness out; it dissipated quickly in the blood-red evening sky.
“Probably by having a better endgame plan. Facing Tulm the Mithril in a scrum was suicide. You saw how he flattened your Minotaur with a single punch, right?”
Jekilt nodded.
“Venaz? I’ve never seen anyone do that. What was the Skill he used?”
“[The Twice-Born Warlord]. Now there’s a Skill worthy of a legend.”
Merrik sighed longingly. The others nodded. Peki frowned.
“You think he has the Skills too? Is he exactly as strong as Xol? These are the questions. I would have liked to fight him.”
“Fat chance of that now. You saw how he swanned off at once. Can’t take a defeat, that one.”
“It’s not like he’s going to stay and drink with you, Merrik. Or that he’d be that fun to hang around. I am disappointed that Xol left, though. I wanted to ask him to sign my helmet!”
“Me too! And I owe him a punch for smashing me into the ground! My head’s still ringing! Hey, did you see how he took out Tefret? Poor bastard didn’t even stand a chance. And I thought he’d be the one to make it to the endgame! Let’s see if we can get it on replay. Oi! You, the [Mage] with the hat!”
Umina edged back from the group as they turned on a [Mage] trying to pour an entire keg’s worth of alcohol into a bag of holding. She was glad, really, but she had a job to do, so after raiding the food table for a very tasty rodent of some kind on a skewer, she headed out in search of the person she really needed to talk to.
It wasn’t hard to find her. Marian hadn’t gone far, and she stood out from the crowd because she was, well, a Centaur. Even in packed spaces, Centaurs got space. After a horse stepped on your foot once, even by accident, you didn’t let it happen twice. She was eating from a plate heaped with oats and covered in a spicy salsa that the Centauress liked. Even though it gave her indigestion.
She was talking with another Centaur, a student from another class. Umina edged over. She knew Marian saw her, but the Centaur [Strategist] didn’t acknowledge her. Umina coughed.
“Uh, Marian. Can I have a word?”
The other Centaur glanced over and saw Umina. Marian turned her head and something about her posture might have given away her feelings; the other Centaur made himself scarce in a moment. Marian and Umina stared at each other. The Centauress chewed her food, and swallowed. She spoke shortly.
“Hi, Umina. Congratulations on winning.”
“Thank you? I mean—I wanted to say sorry.”
“What for? It was a game. You won. Congratulations.”
Marian furiously shoveled another mouthful of oats and nearly choked. She glared at Umina.
“Everyone knows all we had to do was win. You did that. Good job.”
“Marian. I really am sorry. I just—”
“Just what, Umina? Just stabbed me in the flank?”
The Lizardgirl was silent. Marian took a deep breath. She stared at Umina, and a note of hurt entered her voice.
“I thought we were a team. Wasn’t that what we said? Why did you run off?”
Umina traced the ground with one foot.
“I—I just had an idea. You know, with the [Nightwoman] we met? I wanted to see if she’d help me. I didn’t know if it would work. It was just an idea. I thought it wouldn’t work, so…”
“If you thought it wouldn’t work, why didn’t you tell me? No, don’t answer. You thought it would work, and you wanted to win.”
Marian abandoned her food entirely. She tossed her plate on a table to fold her arms. Umina protested weakly.
“I really didn’t know. And—look, I knew you and Venaz wanted to try Luan’s idea. You might have succeeded! You nearly did.”
“Except that you won.”
The two stared at each other. Marian tossed her head angrily. Umina spoke in a small voice.
“I really am sorry. I didn’t know you were that close. If I’d known…Marian, look. I have a question, alright? And I get an item from the Professor’s vaults. What if—if I gave you the question? I can ask it and tell you—”
Marian jerked as if Umina had slapped her. Her cheeks grew red.
“Don’t patronize me! If you’re going to stab me in the back, don’t give away your victory. You won. You ask the Professor a question. Don’t be like—”
She waved an arm, frustrated. Umina nodded. She looked down at her claws.
“I really am sorry, Marian.”
“Yeah, well. Sorry doesn’t change anything, does it? We were supposed to win together.”
That was true. Umina rubbed at one eye. Marian glanced at her. Looked away. Then she looked back.
“I suppose at least one of us won.”
“Marian. I’m so—”
“Don’t say it. Just—fine. Fine, okay?”
Marian reached out and grabbed her friend. She hugged Umina so tightly the Lizardgirl squeaked.
“I’m not forgiving you just yet. I’m out a lot of money thanks to you, and I have to duel a [Weapon Master] every morning now! You owe me big. So you’d better tell me a bit about what the Professor’s room is like and what he says to you. Got it?”
The Centauress let go. Umina nodded rapidly. She opened her mouth, caught herself, and decided to stop talking for a while. And that helped. So did the alcohol Marian filled up in a huge tankard. The Centauress drank down one mug, then another. In quick succession. So went the legendary Centaur tolerance for alcohol. After that, Marian looked more cheerful.
“And at least I didn’t have to wade through that sewage again. That almost makes it worth it. Was it nasty?”
Umina shuddered.
“You have no idea. The last place we were in was clean compared to the one I had to have the [Nightpeople] excavate.”
Marian paused as she grabbed her plate of oats.
“It wasn’t that bad.”
“Oh yeah? How’d I get poo on my head?”
Marian thought about that. She put her plate back, no longer hungry. Umina wasn’t much either. She looked around, struck by a thought now she’d talked to Marian.
“Where’s Luan? I didn’t see him. Did he get captured?”
“Him? No. I lost track of him in the final push. He helped us out, though. And he stopped Xol! With children, no less! He’s one interesting City Runner. Want to see if we can find him?”
“He stopped Xol with—yes, let’s find him!”
Marian nodded. She led Umina through the crowd, catching her up while Umina described in brief her adventure in the septic tanks, locating the right one and waiting for her moment. In truth, Marian’s story was far more engaging; Umina’s had mostly been one of patience and trying not to throw up.
“Oh, look! There he is!”
Umina spotted Luan in the crowd. It wasn’t hard to find him either after a bit of searching; he was Human, but his skin tone made him look Chandrarian, and the Terandrians were also a bit shorter than he was. Umina waved excitedly.
“Luan!”
“It’s you two. I saw you won. Good job!”
Luan smiled as he walked over. He’d been looking around the party. Now he grinned at Umina in a satisfied way that told both [Strategists] that he had no idea how momentous Umina’s victory had been. Umina glanced at Marian.
“Thanks. I, uh, well, I owe you for encouraging me. And giving me the idea, really. Where were you? Did you get captured in the end?”
“Me? No. Once everyone poured out of the apartments, I decided to stay back. I’ve been looking for my boat at the harbor.”
Luan made a sour face. Umina frowned.
“Your boat? I didn’t see it.”
“Exactly. My scull’s wrecked and sunk. It wasn’t that strong to begin with, but the collision—I’ll have to take a Centaur cart all the way back to Talenqual, or rent a canoe here. I’d rather take the cart.”
Luan scowled. Marian raised one brow, slightly offended by the comparison.
“Since you’re still here, can I ask whether or not you’ve been paid?”
“I have your gold. But I haven’t seen that damn Minotaur yet. Do you know where he is?”
The [Rower] scowled. Umina looked around.
“Not me. But that’s a good point. Where is Venaz? I’d expect him to be arguing with everyone and challenging all the officer classes to a fight.”
Marian craned her neck. She shaded her eyes against the sunset’s glow.
“He looked down after the battle. Was losing really that hard on him?”
“Let’s find him. I want to apologize to him as well.”
“Don’t bother. I’m the one you owed the apology to.”
“Marian…”
The two were joking as Luan looked around with a frown. He took in the tables, and Umina distinctly heard a gurgle from his stomach. He pointed hesitantly to a table laden with food.
“This food’s free, right? Can I get some even if I’m not a citizen of Daquin?”
“Of course!”
Luan smiled.
“In that case—hold on. I’ll be back in a second.”
He hurried over to a table and grabbed a plate. Umina laughed. And then she saw something peculiar. Luan reached into a pocket and, after a glance around, pulled something out. Umina saw a bright glow, almost like a spell coming from a little device in his hands. The City Runner held it up and did a slow circle, before going over the buffet with it in hand.
Almost as if he were…she frowned and nudged Marian. The Centauress spotted Luan’s motions and nodded. The two trotted over as Luan filled a plate. He put the little rectangle back in his pocket. Marian casually glanced at his laden plate and cup.
“Nice selection. What was that flash of light?”
Luan froze for a second. Then he gave her a disarming smile.
“Uh—artifact. I, uh, just wanted to get a better look. So my friends back at the company could see everything. Where do you think Venaz is?”
Neither the smile nor quick topic change fooled Marian or Umina. They exchanged a look. Interesting. It could have just been any number of minor magical artifacts. But given that it was Luan…Umina’s instincts tingled.
Something to discuss. Or look into. But neither [Strategist] brought it up. Instead, Umina looked around with a frown.
“He mentioned that Armor Captain. Shailt? What was that about?”
“Oh! You missed it, Umina. We ran into an entire company right outside the apartment, and Venaz was challenged by their leader. She was a Minotaur, and he actually took her down!”
“An Iron Vanguard’s Armor Captain?”
“That’s what I said! He was worried about her. Something about her jaw? I don’t remember. Let’s find a [Healer]. He might be with them.”
Ironically, the [Healers] were hardest to find. Not because they didn’t have an aid station set up where those too badly hurt to be cured immediately were being treated, but because it was so hard moving from street to street.
