Daquin was packed, and people who recognized Marian and Umina just had to come up and congratulate her, or tell Marian how close she’d gotten. Luan had finished one plate and was halfway through another by the time they spotted a familiar horned head talking to a [Healer].
“Venaz! There you are. Why aren’t you having fun?”
The Minotaur turned around. He still wore the uncharacteristically depressed expression he’d had earlier on. He nodded to the Lizardgirl.
“Umina. Congratulations on your victory. It was well-deserved. I need to remember that underhandedness in the future.”
They were the right words, but without any of the arrogance that normally came with it. Umina blinked up at Venaz. He noticed Luan and grimaced.
“Luan. I haven’t found my money pouch. I’d get the Merchant’s Guild to withdraw me some coin, but—”
He gestured around the chaotic streets. No Merchant’s Guild was going to be open; Umina saw a [Merchant] dancing in the street with a [Barman]. Luan folded his arms.
“Can you borrow some?”
“From another student? I suppose so. I’ll do it in a few minutes.”
The Minotaur sighed. This melancholy was so unnatural that all three, Luan, Marian, and Umina, stared at him with worry. Even Luan, who’d known Venaz all of a few hours.
“Venaz, what’s wrong?”
He shook his head slowly and glanced towards the aid station. It was a commandeered inn, and the patients were resting upstairs. Although given the raucous streets, the rest component was debatable.
“I’ve disgraced myself in front of my people. No matter what the Professor says.”
“What? You hardly did worse than anyone else. You even got a reward! I know it wasn’t as good as Wil, but—”
“Not that. I know my performance wasn’t stellar, but I demonstrated my abilities and faced off against Tulm himself. I don’t regret that. It’s Armor Captain Shailt.”
Venaz pointed towards the door. Umina glanced in, but the other Minotaur must have been upstairs already. She glanced up at Venaz.
“Is she badly hurt?”
“It was a weaponless match. If she’d kept her weapon, I have no doubt I would have lost, even if I’d used one of mine. But the duel was fair. I pride myself on my victory! She’s at least a Level 30 [Warrior]—the fact that I bested her is a mark of pride. Or it would be. But her jaw—”
He broke off and stared at one of his clenched fists.
“I misjudged my strength. I was wearing gauntlets. I hit her too hard, and my punch shattered her bones. I know it did. I felt it.”
“But that wasn’t all your fault. She challenged you.”
Marian shifted her hooves uncertainly. Venaz shook his head stubbornly.
“To injure another Minotaur is normal. If this were a battle, even a death could be understood. But in a sparring match? A game? A permanent injury is far different than a wound that could be healed by potion. If I force Armor Captain Shailt to retire because of my careless blow, I could never forgive myself.”
He paced back and forth in front of the inn. And he looked so guilty that Umina couldn’t help but feel bad for him. She’d never seen Venaz beat himself up nearly this much over anything, even losing to Marian. And in a way, she could respect his guilt. She put a hand on his arm, standing up on tiptoe to do so.
“Hey. It’ll be fine. The Professor runs a Great Company, Venaz. You think he doesn’t have the best [Bone Healers] around? If Shailt doesn’t get better with the [Healers] here, I’ll bet he calls in an expert, no matter the cost. The Iron Vanguard will for one of their Armor Captains.”
Marian nodded encouragingly.
“They have experience with all kinds of injuries, Venaz. There’s no way you did enough damage with a single punch to be beyond fixing.”
Venaz perked up a bit, but grew despondent just as fast.
“True, true. But even then, shattered bone is different from a break. All the pieces—you can’t even heal them with a potion. And if the wound begins to heal before it can be seen to—”
Umina wondered if they could find the Professor, or another [Healer] to reassure Venaz. She was about to suggest it when Luan, who had been listening intently, stepped in. The [Rower] tapped Venaz on the shoulder and spoke seriously.
“If your Armor Captain doesn’t have the right [Healer] see to her here, Venaz, my company can help out. Either bring her to Talenqual, or I can bring my friend to her. There’s a [Doctor] in my company who can mend almost any wound. She might be able to restore even shattered jaws.”
“Your company?”
Umina blinked at Luan. Venaz did too.
“Your stupid company?”
Luan sighed.
“My company has an expert with us. She’s a [Doctor], not a [Healer].”
The man said it as if this were a good thing. All three [Strategists] blinked at him. Umina swished her tail uneasily.
“What, one of those weirdos who hacks off limbs with saws and stuff? They’re…okay, I guess, but most of them aren’t better than a [Healer] with decent potions.”
Luan looked offended.
“She’s far better than that. My friend—Geneva—she’s saved hundreds of lives on the battlefield. [Soldiers] had a name for her because she was so good at saving lives, they call her the Last Light of Baleros. I saw her save a War Walker shot full of Evercut Arrows once. His arm was nearly gone, and she reattached it by herself.”
Marian whistled slowly. Umina’s jaw opened. She had never heard of the Last Light of Baleros. But a [Doctor] who could reattach an arm? Short of serious magic or a healing potion like no other, that was incredible. And Evercut Arrows? Venaz stared at Luan and spoke slowly.
“A [Doctor] who can perform that level of healing? On a battlefield? That’s…incredible. If I had a [Doctor] like that in an army, I could reduce casualties by…you could create a vastly more efficient army that way!”
He was blinking fast. Umina waved an urgent claw.
“But she could also help Shailt, if need be, right?”
“I don’t see why not. I can at least ask her. She’s mended broken ribs, and all kinds of other breaks before.”
Luan nodded. Venaz looked up. He frowned, then nodded decisively.
“If Shailt does not recover. No, even if she does. Luan. If your [Doctor] friend is willing, would she consider journeying to Elvallian? I’d like to introduce her to the Professor. That is—the Titan of Baleros.”
The [Rower]’s eyes widened. Umina and Marian glanced at Venaz in surprise, but not for the same reason. Marian snapped her fingers.
“That might actually impress the Professor. If he hasn’t seen something like this already. Damn. Can I take partial credit, Venaz?”
“No.”
“You want Geneva to come to your—city? To meet the Titan?”
Luan spoke slowly. Venaz nodded.
“Why not? He’s always interested in new ideas. And even if he doesn’t allocate class time, I could get his interest by running an experiment. Hire someone to be cut open and test her versus a healing potion. Or break a leg. Yes. What’s her rate?”
“Rate? I, uh—”
“Venaz. There you are.”
A voice interrupted Luan as he blinked and tried to respond. The students and City Runner turned to see an older Centaur trotting towards them. Marian bowed slightly.
“Professor Perorn!”
Luan looked up at the Centauress as both Venaz and Umina bowed slightly as well. He stared at her, and the Centauress stared back. Her eyes shifted to Venaz.
“I was told you were asking about Captain Shailt. Her injuries don’t seem to be outside of healing. Lord Astoragon has sent for a healer specializing in this kind of injury. You needn’t worry. Who is this?”
Venaz let out a relieved sigh. He gestured to Luan.
“This is Luan, Professor Perorn. Luan, this is one of our teachers. Perorn Sadiluc.”
Luan bowed slightly, copying the students. And again, Umina saw he had no idea of who Perorn was.
“Pleased to meet you, Professor. City Runner by water. I’m a [Rower]. I was hired for this game by, uh, Venaz.”
The [Galewinds Strategist] nodded politely as well. She looked Luan up and down searchingly, and Umina wondered if she was unhappy about the City Runner’s participation. No. That made no sense. But she definitely seemed interested. Then again, Professor Perorn was the sort of person who would sweep a dirty corridor in the academy if she spotted it.
“Did I hear you saying you intended to bring someone to the academy, Venaz? After the last incident with the fire spitters, I’d hope you’d run any ideas by a teacher first.”
The Minotaur hesitated as Marian snorted.
“This is hardly on the same level, Professor. I’m considering inviting a [Doctor] with exceptional skill. She’s apparently renowned as the Last Light or something. You see, it would fit nicely with my proposals about a casualty-intensive battlefront that I intend to submit to Professor Astoragon…”
Marian and Umina both rolled their eyes, but Perorn’s eyebrows shot up. She glanced sharply at Luan and shifted her hooves slightly.
“The Last Light of Baleros? I heard a rumor about her. Tell me, how good is she?”
Luan frowned. He hesitated, and then nodded decisively.
“The best in the world. I think I can say that definitively.”
This time all three students made sounds of disbelief. But Perorn didn’t. She looked at Luan, and then glanced at the other students.
“One second, please.”
Umina backed up as Perorn drew Luan aside. They spoke for a moment, and she saw Luan glancing at Perorn’s hindquarters. No, at her leg. Umina’s jaw dropped. Marian blinked rapidly.
“Does Professor Perorn think—”
“No way. The best healing potions didn’t save her leg.”
“But a [Doctor]—don’t they just cut off arms?”
“Sew them back on too is what I heard. Mad. I heard they were close to [Necromancers]. But the Last Light of Baleros?”
“Hmf. Luan didn’t lie. Not according to my amulet. I’d better do more research. If he’s telling the truth—”
All three broke off as Perorn exclaimed.
“Really? You’re sure about that?”
The students tried to covertly shuffle forwards. They caught the tail-end of Luan’s reply.
“I don’t know. But she could reattach a hand that’s just been severed. And I know of operations that can splice tendons together. Maybe Geneva could…”
Both Centaur and Human looked up. Venaz looked up and pretended to stare at the sky. Umina tried to whistle. Marian turned around. Perorn glared.
“I believe I was clear on the meaning of privacy. Or do I need to prepare a lesson on civility as well?”
“No Professor.”
“Sorry.”
“It’s an open street.”
Marian kicked Venaz. Perorn looked at Luan. She nodded curtly.
“Bring her to the academy. I’ll authorize it. I’m sure Lord Astoragon will if need be as well. We’ll send a formal invitation along with the cost of travel expenses. Does this [Doctor] need any tools?”
Luan smiled. He looked excited, as well as nervous.
“She has her own set. And she has a number of tools that can help with everything from sickness to delivering babies.”
“Delivering babies? Alright, now I’ve heard it all.”
Marian was derisive. Luan protested.
“She can do it! Geneva’s capable of delivering children when there are difficulties in childbirth as well.”
Umina was skeptical.
“You say that. But childbirth, fixing bones, reattaching arms…this isn’t some fake cure-all, is it?”
She expected Luan to grow defensive. But to her surprise, the man’s expression calmed. He smiled.
“No. It’s medicine. You see, what Geneva performs is known as a Caesarian Section. Anyone can do it, but she is one of a few experts—perhaps the only one who can do it reliably. The way it works is—”
It was just as well Umina hadn’t eaten much. She listened to Luan’s description with mounting horror. A way of cutting open stomachs to remove babies inside the mother? It sounded barbaric. And yet, Luan described it with such confidence and detail that Umina was impressed, despite herself. Venaz was shaking his head after Luan was done.
“Babies, limbs, I have to see this. So does the Professor. If you’re not lying, bring her over by all means.”
“I’ll arrange it. And yes, Venaz, you’ll get credit.”
Perorn stomped her hooves briskly. She looked around.
“You all enjoy the night’s party. I have to return to Elvallian.”
“Oh! Professor, aren’t you going back with the caravan—?”
“Too slow. I’minthemoodtorun.”
Perorn’s hooves shot forwards. She zipped forwards, surprising Umina. The revelers turned and stared as Fleethoof galloped past them, from standing to faster than a Human could sprint in a moment. Luan stared.
“Who was that?”
“That was Fleethoof. One of our Professors. Almost as famous as Tulm the Mithril.”
Marian informed him archly. Luan stared at her. He blinked a few times.
“I’ve got to ask more questions.”
“And you have to meet our class! They’ll want to hear all about your [Doctor]. And I want to know more about your rowing! And how you beat the Iron Vanguard into the harbor!”
Umina pointed back towards the plaza. Luan nodded amiably. He grinned.
“I could use some drinks. And more food. But just one more thing before that. Venaz.”
He turned to the Minotaur. Venaz blinked at him.
“Yes?”
“Give me my money.”
 
 ——
 
Out of Daquin. Like lightning. The owl that had carried Niers back towards his home had nothing on the blur that raced down the streets, around people, jumping over wagons, as fast as any Courier. Students, civilians, and [Mages] looked up and stared. Some cried out her name in surprise. But by the time their words were echoing, she was gone.
Fleethoof. She raced down the trade road, weaving around other travellers on the road. Her four legs galloped, and the ground melted away in front of her. Perorn ran with the humid wind on her face as the sun set. And she felt alive.
She was indeed running back. Her leg hurt, but something, perhaps a meeting beforehand, had caused Perorn to forget all about her pain. It blossomed fiercely in her chest, beating right next to her heart.
Hope.
On a warship heading north across the coastline of Baleros, a silent crew attended to their duties with the exact opposite feeling in their guts. They were the Iron Vanguard. The might of a Great Company. More powerful than any one nation. And yet, they moved in almost complete silence. Nursing bruises, minor cuts, and worst of all, injured egos.
They had lost. But far more egregious, far more terrifying, was the fact that he had lost. Their leader. You couldn’t have gotten a laugh out of the crew with a Level 40 [Jester]. As they sailed through the beginning night, a Dullahan bearing a precious cargo headed above decks from the ship’s hold.
