“Careful. There are [Mages] still listening to us. Which brings me to my second point. I’m going to make a little show of awards in a second. Would you help me with…?”
Niers leaned over and whispered into Perorn’s ear. The Centauress nodded, turning her head to survey the plaza.
“Fine. I’ll find the other teachers. You can show off as much as you like. Where do you want me to put you?”
“One circuit of the plaza. I want our [Healers] to get to everyone they need to first. Then the pedestal. That would do.”
Dutifully, Perorn circled the plaza as Niers ordered his [Soldiers] to help disperse the bewildered crowd. Half of Daquin’s citizens were still clutching their weapons uncertainly. Perorn eyed them.
“Feshi actually managed to rally the city into fighting!”
“Wasn’t it brilliant?”
Niers smiled. Perorn eyed the torn up street, the injured people being tended to, many of which were Iron Vanguard members, and didn’t know if she agreed. She walked back towards the pedestal, and Niers leapt onto it.
“Citizens of Daquin! Thank you for your patience!”
The plaza jumped as one. Niers’ eyes twinkled as the Fraerling took the spotlight once again. He spoke casually, letting his amplified voice ring out across the plaza.
“And to my students and the audience, thank you as well. Let me repeat myself. The game is over. And we have a winner. One of my students has infiltrated the winner’s circle. From the ground! You may not have seen her, but I present to you—Umina Caxical!”
He gestured. Every eye fell on Umina, who was tugging a foot out of the ground. She froze and then waved a claw, looking terrified. She was still covered in dirt and stuff that resembled dirt. Niers smiled.
“A rather unorthodox win this time. It appears Umina tunneled under the ground through what I can only term a sewage depot. It appears the [Mages] in the plaza did not notice her. Nor did Tulm the Mithril himself. He has conceded defeat, so once again, congratulations to Umina on a victory well deserved!”
There was a moment of silence at that. Some laughter even sprang back up. It was so—ridiculous. But the Titan forged ahead as if it were perfectly natural, and his audience was caught.
“Very well, very well. I think a bath is called for, or a bucket of water at least. But let us not waste time. Tulm certainly hasn’t. The Iron Vanguard is returning to their ships, and my [Healers] are tending to the wounded. But the game is not quite concluded! As with every battle, I think the dissection afterwards is just as critical as the experience itself. So, then. Students! Class is in session! Gather around, all of you!”
His sudden bellow made the students in the plaza jump. Venaz, Wil, and Feshi all appeared, at once, but Niers was beckoning to another group. A mass of students, seated or standing, some nursing bruises, others unharmed. They stood up slowly and approached. Everyone but the Wistram [Mages] gave way to them. And they surrounded their teacher, the Professor, as if they were in class. Niers looked down at them and smiled.
“Well now. Thoughts on today’s lesson? Questions? We will be studying this in class when we return to the academy, you know.”
They stared at him. Then one of the students in the crowd—Yerranola—laughed. Niers smiled along with her.
“I’m serious, Yerranola.”
The Selphid stopped laughing. Niers walked up and down the platform, looking across the students. And suddenly, he wasn’t speaking to the plaza, Wistram’s [Mages], or to the audience across the world, but to them.
“Well. It was a fine game. Unexpected, yes. Unfair? Probably! But that is the nature of all games. And whether you were caught, or you survived to the end—”
He nodded to Venaz, Wil, Marian, and Feshi, who were standing together. Wil looked tired, almost too tired to be upset. Feshi propped him up with a sympathetic paw on his shoulders. She didn’t seem that put out. Venaz was still disbelieving, almost shell-shocked. Marian…she looked around for Umina. The Lizardgirl was hiding. The Centauress glanced back up and found Niers staring at her. His voice was soft.
“Whether you won or lost. Whether your plans went awry or failed in just one part to come to fruition. I saw it all. Your struggles, your defeats. I saw it. And you did me proud. Each and every one of you. I called for you to challenge Tulm the Mithril, and you did. For that, I thank you.”
His students looked up at him. The Titan, their Professor, smiled, and it was a fond smile meant only for them.
“I hope, no, I trust most of you will level up after today. Perhaps even more than once. But what sort of teacher would I be if I didn’t reward what I saw? So I have a few announcements to make. We have a winner of this game. Umina. Step forwards.”
And she appeared, from behind Perorn. Cleaner, but smelly. The students stared at her. The world stared, but this was a class. And Umina, flushing, afraid to meet anyone’s eyes, stood in front of Niers. He smiled gently.
“Congratulations, Umina. A prize from my vaults and the question of your choice is yours. When we return to Elvallian, I will set aside an appropriate date. Have your question ready then. Until that moment—well done. Your trick with the [Nightmen] was…inspired, to say the least. I didn’t expect it. Nor did Tulm. It was not a victory created solely by you, but you seized an opportunity. And that is the key to winning any battle.”
“Thank you, sir.”
Umina mumbled softly. Marian stared at her friend. And then Niers looked up. His gaze swept the students.
“But Umina isn’t the only student I have to reward. [General] Felk?”
A Drake walked forwards. He was one of the teachers. He stood next to Rustarmor and three other teachers from the academy. Felk looked around calmly and called out in a parade-grounds voice.
“Sillk. Venaz. Marian. Jekilt. Kaelma.”
The students walked forwards slowly, through the crowd. Marian saw the other students turning to look at her. She was suddenly nervous. She fell into place with the other students, glancing from side to side. Felk eyed them and nodded.
“Lord Astoragon?”
“Thank you, General.”
The Fraerling looked down from his seat at the students. He met each’s eyes in turn. Sillk’s abashed look, Venaz’s downcast expression, Marian’s stare, Jekilt’s level gaze, and Kaelma’s questioning glance. The Professor smiled.
“Don’t be disappointed. Or rather, only be disappointed in appropriate measure. This game was not easy to win. Chance played as much part as strategy. Nevertheless, I see fit to award you five for excellence during the game.”
The students looked up, confused. That wasn’t part of the game! Niers cut off Teura, who was trying to point that out. He shooed her back with one impatient hand.
“My game. My rules. Don’t interrupt, please. Now, where was I? Ah yes, Sillk. You first.”
The Lizardman walked forwards, hunched, checking his dark clothing. The [Rogue], who Marian had never seen once the game started, looked up at Niers. The Professor studied him kindly.
“I almost expected you to team up with Merrik. I’m pleased you two did not; you were most effective fighting in your strengths. I’m pleased to see you didn’t hold each other back with friendship.”
Sillk jumped. He blinked up at Niers, and then opened his mouth reflexively.
“Er, thank you, Professor.”
The response was so automatic that some of the students laughed unconsciously. And Marian felt something ease in her stomach. For a second it felt like class and a student giving a particularly bad response. Niers laughed along with the other students, and Sillk turned red. Merrik growled from the crowd.
“What do you mean, ‘thank you’? You’re getting it when this is over, Sillk!”
Niers waved a hand for silence. He went on, as, behind him, the scrying orb on his pedestal began flashing moments from the battle where Sillk had taken part.
“Very well done taking out the enemy officers. You got captured the instant the [Mages] tagged you with a locator spell, though. Any thoughts?”
“Uh—no, sir. I mean, yes, sir.”
Sillk turned bright red again and went on.
“I should have gone to ground sooner than I did. I regret not doing that. I opened myself up for being tracked; I should have been just as aggressive, or even more so, but then hidden. Instead, I got myself caught when I could have survived for much longer.”
Niers nodded appreciatively.
“Good answer. Well done indeed. I saw less leadership than I would have liked, but you coordinated well with Jekilt and your fellow students on the field. I’m afraid there’s not much of a reward for you, though. You’ll be eating tea leaves for the next three days.”
“Sir?”
Sillk looked blank. Niers smiled.
“I think Foliana has an opening for you in her schedule. She doesn’t have a set curriculum, but three days of shadowing her will prove instructional. Learn from her how she disappears.”
The students, who had been full of levity a moment ago, went silent. Behind Niers, Teura and the other Wistram [Mages] looked stunned. Marian felt the same way. She stared at Sillk. He was going to be taught? By Three-Color Stalker herself? She was notorious for not taking apprentices—as far as anyone knew. But this was a reward. And…
Did Niers have special training courses for [Assassins]? And if so…Sillk gulped, but he bowed.
“It would be an honor, Professor.”
Niers smiled drily.
“Say that after three days with Foliana. I have no idea what she’ll do, so I apologize in advance. Venaz.”
The Minotaur stepped forwards. Niers studied him.
“Interesting ploy with the City Runner. It would have worked if I had decided to take action against the students, but it handicapped you earlier on. I’m afraid you trusted to your battle prowess instead of considering a larger offensive.”
The Minotaur bowed his head, uncharacteristically quiet. Niers went on.
“You did well fighting through the patrols, though. And your leadership at the end took the fight to Tulm himself. I’m afraid you underestimated him, but the experience should be instructive. Venaz. Any thoughts?”
The Minotaur shook his head briefly.
“I have nothing to say, sir. I’ve embarrassed myself in front of my people.”
“Nonsense.”
The snap in Niers’ voice made Venaz look up. He met the Professor’s gaze. Niers glanced irritably at Venaz, and then the scrying orb.
“If you’re referring to hiding and being outclassed, that was a mistake every student here made save one. The point is how you reacted to adversity, not your preparations. With that said, you demonstrated considerable skill in making it to the end of the game unscathed. That alone merits a reward. And I’m sure the House of Minos agrees. If not, that is my sole opinion.”
Venaz stood a bit straighter. He glanced up at Niers, and then bowed his head quickly.
“Thank you, Professor. I…I was unprepared, but I found the value in teaming up with other students. No—more than that, listening to sound advice no matter where it came from. From the City Runner I hired, no less.”
The Titan smiled, and there was approval in his tone.
“That is a lesson worth learning. If you took away only that, I’d say you gained something from today.”
The Minotaur nodded and then hesitated.
“Yes, Professor. I have to ask—is Armor Captain Shailt recovering?”
“You may check on her later. I understand she was left in our [Healer]’s care rather than brought with the Iron Vanguard. Now, as for you, Venaz, I think some instruction into evasive maneuvers in an urban environment would be helpful. General Felk is an expert at urban warfare, and you’ll be accompanying him as he returns to his duties in a month’s time.”
“Yes sir. Thank you, Professor.”
Venaz stepped back, blinking a few times. Marian was next. She smiled as Niers asked how her leg was and complimented her maneuvers in the plaza.
“Thank you, Professor. But I really didn’t do much.”
Niers nodded calmly.
“True. Other students made more heroic efforts. But you made it to the end, and if you’d had a second or a few feet, you might have won. What have you learned?”
“How poorly I do in close-quarters combat, sir? I was nearly taken out by a [Captain]; my bow wasn’t nearly as useful as I would have liked.”
“The flaw of every [Strategist] is weakness in combat, at least compared to [Warriors]. I’m glad you recognize that. But since it is important, you’ll get to receive personal instruction from our weapons masters until you can use a bow to fend off even a Level 30 [Warrior].”
“T-thank you, sir?”
The Titan grinned as Marian stepped back. Some of the students winced, and one of them patted Marian on the shoulder. Kaelma received a similar gift; the [Fencer] had done well, but Niers pointed out her dueling Skills had been on display without any actual leadership. So she would lead [Scouts] on patrol for two weeks.
Now that it came to it, the Titan’s rewards didn’t sound like rewards so much as personalized training. Which was a reward, but it wasn’t always fun. Shadowing a [General], receiving one-on-one lessons from [Weapon Masters]…Marian groaned, imagining the bruises. Niers called over another group of students who’d also done well, but then someone else took his place.
Fleethoof. And when Perorn stepped forwards, the students looked up and went quiet. The watching [Mages] leaned in. The Centauress’ voice was crisp.
“Peki. Merrik. Feshi. All three of you did exceptionally well.”
“Indeed. I particularly liked—”
Perorn walked in front of Niers. She stared down at the three students, the [Martial Artist] Garuda, the Dwarf, Merrik, and the Gnoll who’d rallied Daquin, Feshi. Her gaze was severe, but Marian thought she looked pleased.
“Peki, outstanding fighting Skills. Subpar choice of opponents. You lack experience against fighting opponents with high-level Skills or artifacts. You will report to my company and engage in duels against my officers.”
Marian winced. Peki only smiled.
“Yay.”
The Centauress gave her an icy smile. She turned her attention to the next student.
“Merrik.”
“Fighting maniac from Pomle—er, hi, Professor!”
The Dwarf straightened, to a laugh from his fellow classmates. Perorn raised an eyebrow.
“Excellent leadership. You led your classmates and auxiliary fighters splendidly. Right up until the moment you wasted your best Skill in an early engagement.”
“Well, you see, Professor Perorn, I planned on—”
“You need experience. You’ll get that accompanying me. I plan on doing a patrol across our territories, battling monsters and [Bandits]. I expect you to learn something from the ordeal.”
“Oh, grandfathers. Not field training—”
Merrik shut up as the Centauress gave him a quelling glance. She looked at the third student.
“Feshi.”
