They chatted with Mahala a bit more, the older woman warming up to David as they did so. They eventually parted, Niala extending an invitation to dinner to her acting aunt, and finished their short tour of the facility.

David had known that the Cornelius Concoction name was one of the bigger names in the alchemical industry, but he still came out impressed. It wasn't just the installations, but the numbers and names that Niala rattled off.

Not only did the company sell directly to most noble houses, but it was also contracted to provide potions to other companies, which then resold them under a different name, many of them brands David had bought in the past.

Doing a few quick mental calculations made him frown. Even if mostly estimates, the amount of money Niala's father was making must have been absurd. And yet...

“Kitten?” He asked, as she was escorting him back to her house, across the compound.

“Hmm?”

“Your family is incredibly rich, isn't it?”

She glanced over her shoulder, her ears twitching. “I guess, why?”

“Just wondering, you always look surprised when we talk about a few hundred princes or whatnot. Your father probably makes that much money in an afternoon.”

She stopped and turned around. “Well... yeah, but, you know, most people would be super happy to get a few regents, let alone a prince! It's still a lot of money! Poor families could live for months, if not a year, with a prince or two!”

He blinked. “Ha, yes, of course. That would be your frame of reference, wouldn't it?”

She tilted her head. “What do you mean?”

He shook his head. “Never mind, I got my answer. Let's go.”

She quirked a brow, but turned around and resumed her way back home.

He took a few long steps and reached up to her, grabbing one of her hands, lacing his fingers between hers.

She angled herself closer to him, a slight blush colouring her cheeks, as her tail swayed happily.

The people they met along the way looked at their hands, then at Niala, before sending David piercing stares full of suspicion.

After the fourth such instance, he wanted to start shouting, "I know! She must be protected! I am one of you!

Instead, he sighed and squeezed Niala's hand.

They made their way back to Cornelius' study, where Angeline and the catkin were sitting, waiting for Niala to come back.

Her father was subdued, making himself small on the couch. His ears perked up as he saw Niala enter the room, and he made to jump to his feet, only to be held in place by one of Angeline's hands snapping to his shoulder, gripping tightly enough that he visibly winced.

The younger sister took a sip of tea with her other hand before sending them both a gentle smile. Only once Niala and David were seated did she let go of her father.

Cornelius proceeded to offer a full speech of apologies, lasting a quarter bell. Niala sighed, but leaned back and listened just the same. She couldn't change her father, and she knew that, for all of his theatrics, this actually was his way of offering a heartfelt apology.

His piece ended, and he looked at his eldest daughter, his face suddenly marred by doubt and anxiety. Niala smiled and got up, went to sit next to her father and gave him a big loving hug.

As they separated and both wiped a few tears from their eyes, Angeline clapped her hands.

“Well done, Dad. You managed to apologize almost like a normal person! I'm so proud of you!”

Cornelius turned his head to look at his other daughter, looking pleased like a dog that had just been told it was a good boy.

Angeline smiled, then rose to her feet. “Now, I do believe it's time for dinner. I asked the chef to cook something simple, as I assume we will have a lot to talk about.”

Everyone agreed that food sounded good, and they made their way to the secondary dining room, which was still about the size of an entire regular home.

There, they chatted a bit, waiting for the meal to be served, with Mahala joining them shortly before the staff brought out the plates.

A “simple” meal turned out to be five services. The food was excellent, although...

David leaned toward Niala, who was sitting next to him, and whispered. “It's really good, but yours is better.”

She smiled, her cheeks tinting pink, as her tail began swishing. Their link began dripping with affection and a fair bit of desire.

Mahala and Angeline, noticing the event, shared a look, and then a smile, before stilling their expressions and returning their attention to Cornelius' retelling of his latest social event, and the many new business opportunities he'd sniffed out.

As the meal wrapped up and tea was served, the conversation moved on to more recent topics.

Cornelius put down his cup, turning his head toward David. “So, David, what is it that occupies your time, outside of my daughter?”

All eyes turned to the young man, who dabbed his mouth with a napkin before answering. “I'm a Free Courier by trade.”

The catkin quirked an eyebrow. “A Courier? So you are off gallivanting across the land while my daughter sits at home and waits for you to come back?”

Niala's ear twitched, and she opened her mouth to talk, but stopped when she felt David's hand brush against hers. She looked at him, and he gave her a small smirk before returning his attention to her father.

“To be honest, sir, I've been rather attached to our house since I met your daughter, only taking local postings that had me back home in time to help my girlfriend with dinner.”

The corner of Angeline's lips tugged upward as she noticed her father's ears twitching to David's emphasis on certain words.

He knows how to speak like a noble, little jabs that can't be faulted, but which aim to irritate. Add to that his posture, vocabulary... I wonder...

Cornelius, not hiding his mistrust, stared at David. “Is that so? And how did you two meet, exactly?”

David glanced at Niala, who nodded. He returned his eyes toward her father. “She helped me save my nephew, who'd been injured by a kwiller.”

The catkin's brows rose. “A Kwiller? You were down south? The last I knew of my daughter's travels, she was heading north...”

Niala spoke next. “No, Dad. We are up north, as far north as you can, up in Riverwall. The kwiller escaped from a cage in Bellharbour.”

“Riverwall? That's... quite far north, and right next to the Ruinlands...” Cornelius said, ears flopping down. “A very dangerous area.” He added, swallowing. “Are you still living there? Surely, another, safer city would be just as good?”

Niala shook her head. “Thanks, Dad, but we're fine. David is really, really strong! And! A retired Azure Knight moved in recently!”

“Oo-ooh, I see, well, with an Azure Knight around, I'm sure the town would be kept... safer,” Cornelius said.

“David's stronger.” Niala countered. “A lot stronger.” She said, her tone firm.

David tapped on his girlfriend's shoulder, but she ignored him, instead staring back at her father, who was challenging her claim through a stare of his own.

Cornerlius's ears flicked, pointed toward his daughter. “Surely, this is your infatuation speaking. A courier can't possibly be-”

“He is. By a lot.”

Mahala and Angeline spread their gaze between both father and daughter, while David burrowed his face in his hands.

Cornelius cleared his throat. “Niala, dear, I know you seem to hold the man in high regard, but be reasonable, he can't b-”

“He is.” Niala declared, piercing her father with her eyes, daring him to challenge her further.

Silence stretched.

Angeline's sonorous voice broke it. “Ah! Sister, I meant to ask. David said he helped you rebuild a shop? Have you opened a business?”

Niala's ears wiggled as a smile replaced her frown. “Yes! Panacea Potions! My own alchemy shop!”

Cornelius's ears twitched; his interest piqued. “Alchemy shop? My daughter! Following in my footsteps! I am so proud of you! How has your business been, then? Excellent, I dare hope?”

Niala shrank upon herself a bit, “Ah, well, yes! Quite well! Though I mostly just brew. I hired a shopkeeper, Linzy. She's been taking care of the, huh, shop part of the shop.”

Cornelius narrowed his eyes, “...a shopkeep? Have you been, hum, auditing your finances, at least?”

“Ah, well, I guess I looked at the ledger... But! She came highly recommended! She's very trustworthy!”

“Trustworthy? Daughter, have you forgotten my teachings? As surely as water against rock, loyalty will erode against gold. Trust can be given, but it needs to be verified. You must audit your-”

“I've been auditing the ledger. It's clean.” David cut in.

Niala's eyes widened in surprise as she turned to look at her boyfriend. “You have? Why?!”

His features softened as he returned her stare, “Kitten, I know you think it's unfair to Linzy, but I agree with your father on this. In fact, I think his words just now were very wise.”

Cornelius' eyes shot open. “You do? I mean! Of course you would! They are the sum of a storied life and sharp intellect, after all!” He said, puffing his chest.

David nodded. “In fact, I've found myself wholeheartedly agreeing with every one of your quotes that your daughter graced me with. I particularly like the one on how there is no shame in knowing your strength, and letting other people know.”

Cornelius nodded vigorously. “Oh, yes! That is one of my favourites as well! Tell me, has she graced you with more of my wisdom?” He asked, leaning forward, his tail swishing.

David nodded. “Unfortunately, only a few others. Another one I found profound was: when you think you know what someone wants, you don't. Let them tell you.”

The catkin smiled, “Ah, yes! That one is something to remember during negotiations!” He turned his attention to Niala, “Daughter, it seems I might have misjudged your claimant! He has a good head on his shoulder!” He looked back at David. “Would you like to hear more of my words? I actually have been collating them in a book, in the hopes of publishing it!”

As Niala burrowed her face into her hands, Mahala drained her tea and asked for a refill, and Angeline tried to keep her smile from slipping away into a scowl, David tilted his head.

“A book, you say? Oh, I might actually be interested. Would it be possible to...?”

Cornelius was up before David had finished talking, his chair screeching. “Of course, my boy! Come this way!” He said, leaving the dining room, in the direction of his study.

David gave Niala a parting smirk before following after her rapidly departing father.

Once both were gone, Angeline looked at her sister.

“Well, it seems like your lover and dad found something to build a bridge over.”

Niala moaned.

Mahala quirked an eyebrow. “Is something wrong?”

The catkin looked up from her hands. “You don't understand! David isn't that interested in Dad's sayings. He just wants to throw them back at me, because he knows it annoys me!”

As Mahala leaned back on her chair, Angeline lost control and started laughing.

Niala speared her with her eyes until her sister got herself back under control, swiping a tear away. “Sister, I dare say, you did find a good one! Make sure you hold on to him!”

“He's annoying!” Niala said, looking away and pouting.

Mahala and Angeline shared a look, both smiling.

Angeline leaned forward, resting her elbows on the table and her head on her hands, looking at her elder sister.

I'm kind of jealous, to be honest.

Mahala cleared her throat. “So, Niala... you said David was very strong?”

The catkin snapped her head back to the older woman. “Oh, yes! Very! The first time he showed me, I didn't even understand... huh, please forget I said this. He asked me not to talk about it.”

As certainly as a lioness would be attracted to a dangling steak, so were the two women sitting in front of Niala.

Angeline narrowed her eyes, peering at her sister. “Oh, really? So your boyfriend is not only tall and handsome, but he's also mysterious? How interesting.”

Niala's ears folded back as she stared at her sister. “You... no! He's my boyfriend! You're not allowed to touch him!”

Angeline fluttered her eyelids, her eyes round and innocent. “But, sister! Didn't we use to share all of our toys?”

“No! He's my toy, and- I mean! He's mine! I mean! Boyfriend! My David! I mean! Aaargh!”

Mahala hid her smile behind her hand, but couldn't stop it from reaching her eyes, as the two sisters kept playfully bickering for a while.

This is what had been missing in this house. These two weren't the same without you around, as much as they tried to hide it. My dear Niala, I know you will be leaving us once more, but please, never again believe you are not welcome back.