In the year 4819, during the Triumph of Sentinel Grace, the woman being honored by the empire gifted a young girl—an ordinary lass of limited means, like any other—a decorative helmet and unknowingly established a legacy. The girl remained obsessed with the beautiful Sentinel, even when soldiers beat her parents while they searched in vain for her treasure, even as she failed to prove her ability to follow in her idol’s footsteps, even as she married a lackluster handyman and gradually found love, and even as she grew old and chose to accept an unwanted newborn daughter from another woman after years of failing to have a child of her own. Her daughter was raised on the tales of Sentinel Grace. The accolades and the achievements of the Sentinel largely grew stale and faded from memory, but in that house they remained alive.

Like her mother, the daughter dreamed of becoming a Ranger and following in Sentinel Grace’s footsteps. Like her mother, she failed—not because of any frailness of body, but because of a lack of drive to truly pursue her ambition. She remained lazy, barely willing to put in the minimal effort required to survive within Ariminum’s costly walls. For a time, she reveled in the attentions of three different men, but when one of them inevitably impregnated her, they disappeared from her life.

Her daughter was made of sterner stuff than her forebears. She wasn’t touched by her grandmother’s unrelenting frailty, and she was more energetic than her mother from the very day she was born. Gracea was a rambunctious and healthy child that grew up on her sickly grandmother’s stories of the larger-than-life woman—a true Sentinel, greater and more accomplished than those that typically stalked Ariminum—and always claimed the identity of her namesake when she played Soldiers Versus Shimagu with her friends. But her grandfather struggled to feed his wife, daughter, and granddaughter—often, she was asked to pretend to be another urchin off the streets.

She loved it each and every time that it happened. She was hardly the only child from a poor family that would spend a season or three at Our Lady of Chaos—it was a lifeline to many throughout Ariminum. There, Gracea practically feasted like a wealthy girl on a decadent three meals a day. They even had bread that was much, much tastier than the oft-stale loaf she had to stand in line for half the morning to get from the imperial bakery. But the food wasn’t the best part, that was the people that visited to teach them things! She learned from so many craftsmen, artists, teachers, and even philosophers. She was able to get the [Apprentice to Knowledge] class when she unlocked, which would let her become anything that she wanted to be. The System said so itself!

It was always worth the fresh rounds of mockery over her ‘odd’ name, as if being named after a number was somehow better than being named after one of humanity’s greatest heroes!

She tried to practice dancing and exercised hard when she could, whether she was at home or with the urchins sucking at the teat of the Chaos Temple’s generosity. That was what Sentinel Grace—the best Sentinel—did, after all. But rhythm continued to be weirdly hard, even as she neared the lofty heights of the level 32 class up, which left her frustrated. She had nightmares about her approaching class up denying her any means to follow her heroine—denying her goal to someday destroy the shimagu at her side.

And then she was faced with the happiest coincidence of her life. Her grandmother died (not that part) to a minor coughing plague going around the city, and Gracea found herself back at Our Lady of Chaos just in time for a new teacher to arrive. His name was Markus, and he was almost as cool as Sentinel Grace. After all, he had actually killed shimagu.

The man seemed to be ancient—he was close to the combined age of her grandparents—but he was powerful. He was the first person that she ever met that had all three of his classes. But above all else, he was a Pyronox [Healer] and he led his lessons with words that she would never forget: “Healing is the easiest way to kill any shimagu.”

The man was friends with another lady Sentinel—Dawn—and provided them with copies of the Sentinel’s set of scrolls collectively known as the Medical Manuscripts. They were almost entirely indecipherable, but Gracea devoted herself to learning what precious few sections made sense. Even when she hit level 32, she put off her class up and focused on her lessons. She greedily pestered Markus with questions, even when she had to shout over her peers. She did everything in her power as a young child to learn things people who were much older than her failed to grasp.

Because, for the first time, she felt as though she had a real path to someday fight alongside the heroine that she had inherited from her grandmother and her mother.

At the age of 13, the Dark [Healer]/Water [Healer] that Gracea had grown into signed up with the Legions. Technically, she was still a year too young, but it was something of an open secret that the recruiters didn’t actually care, so long as they met their quotas. Gracea was hardly the youngest that signed up; the Legions offered food, training, pay, and a chance at glory. Legion veterans that had fought the shimagu were celebrated—Remus’ culture demanded it and there was more than a little pressure to treat every last veteran soldier as if they were a hero.

Besides, it was better to sign up. There were three possible routes to service in the Legions and signing up was by far the best choice. Slaves—at least those that weren’t small children or of great interest to the proclivities of the wealthy—were forced to serve thrice as long at a fraction of the pay, and most of those that were arrested for any reason had the same fate afflicted upon them. Those who signed up served only eight years and were treated… not as well as the wealthy that inevitably became officers, but better than the rest, at least. Then, when recruitment fell below quotas, the powers that be held a “lottery” and “randomly” selected households that were obligated to provide at least one member of their household to the Legions, to serve a sixteen-year commitment. Given that the destitute were almost always those chosen by the “lottery,” and it was held at least twice a year in Ariminum alone, Gracea wanted to sign up while it remained her choice.

Besides, it brought her one step closer to Sentinel Grace.

The twenty-four days of Legion training were the most brutal experience Gracea had ever faced, at least at that point in her life. She was no stranger to beatings, abuse, threats, or starvation—but it was the first time she had endured all of it at the same time, while she was forced to push her body past its limits. Her [Healer] classes helped, but she found herself regretting not taking a Light [Healer] that could restore her more thoroughly. But no, she needed classes that could kill the shimagu.

Every time she hit the dirt and questioned her ability to pick herself up, she remembered stories about Sentinel Grace while she forced her body to move. No great woman would be bested by human cruelty—not while the shimagu threatened their future.

“What the fuck do you mean?! How can you not want a [Healer] on the frontmost line?!” Gracea demanded of the privileged Centurion.

Ordinarily she would never have dared to invite the beating, but she had finally made it—the 9th Legion was restructuring its lines with fresh blood to replace those lost or transferred. Yet, even though she had a passing mark (albeit just barely, but it wasn’t like this idiot knew that) with a shield, he wanted to assign her to a support role! It was a waste; she was the perfect weapon to use against the shimagu! She could even [Imbue] the greater parasite-killing power of her Dark class into the reach her Water class gave her, but she couldn’t do that if she was kept away from the fighting.

“If you were a Light [Healer] there’d be some merit, but it’s still a terrible place to put you. You’ll be safer behind the fighting, helping to keep our people patched up.” The man replied with a surprising amount of patience.

“I’m not that type of [Healer], I’m specialized at purging parasites and diseases—namely the shimagu.” Gracea insisted. She hadn’t come so far to get turned into a non-combatant at the last second!

“…Kid, that hasn’t worked since before your grandparents were born. Where the heck did you even hear that?” The Centurion finally looked up from his pile of scrolls and fixed her with a genuinely perplexed stare.

What?!

“A veteran [Healer] that had been stationed in Coalition City since early in the war told me. It was Sentinel Dawn herself that confirmed that [Healers] could easily remove shimagu from existence, took less mana than even an efficient artillery [Mage]! The Imperial Heal Force was established to capitalize on it—men and women with builds just like mine that—”

Gracea’s impassioned words were cut off by a deep, noisy sigh from her commanding officer.

“A reader, great. Just great. That information had to have come from even before my father’s tenure with the 4th Legion; I’ve certainly never heard of an ‘Imperial Heal Force’ that operated within the Legions. Bluntly, you haven’t got the levels to remove even the lowliest slimeball from the shimagu’s worst combatant. But,” he raised a hand to stave off her objections, “there just might be something I can do for you. If you’re both able and willing.”

Gracea forced herself to swallow the venomous response that nearly escaped her lips. There it was—she had known the day would come. The problem with being a girl was that there were always men that seemed to expect her to eagerly spread her legs for their gratification. Even before her first bleed, she had encountered it time and time again. Wealthy boys that enjoyed turning poor, desperate girls into their personal harlots until they got bored; older children at Our Lady of Chaos that assumed they were irresistibly charming and immune to the rules; and shameless adults that preyed upon those too poor and weak to stop them.

It was the reality of her world, and she hated it. Sure, as a Dark [Healer] she could make herself immune to the consequences of a man’s unwanted attentions—in a way that few could, with the rarity and egregious prices of silphium—but it didn’t change that she didn’t want to. For the love of Herculix, she wasn’t her mother! She had no interest in being the plaything for any man—or any woman, for that matter. But what did her desire to walk a road different from her mother’s truly matter against her desperate need for an opportunity to prove herself?

“Ah! No, wait, I think you misunderstood!” The Centurion’s arms were almost flailing as he rushed to defend himself. “Look, you’re serious about wanting to fight the shimagu, right? I can respect that. So, prove it to me. Follow every duty I assign you and prove yourself an exemplary member of my century. Prove yourself, time and time again. Have courage when things grow dire and push yourself. If your records glow bright enough in every report, I’ll have all the ammunition I need to convince the Legate to choose you when we’re forced to send someone to the Ranger Academy.

“The Legions aren’t where you want to be; we lack the resources to try to make a combat [Healer] work again, not against an enemy with proven defenses. But if you can become a Ranger, you might be able to get what you need. It’s a big if, and it’s predicated on a bunch of other maybes, but it’s the best opportunity I can give you. So do we have a deal, soldier?”

Gracea couldn’t adequately describe the emotional journey she went through in the time that her commanding officer spoke, but by the time he finished, she was barking her assent while she performed the most ardent salute of her entire life.

Gracea had spent her entire life hearing about the shimagu and the threat they posed to her empire. She had never had any cause to doubt those words, but when she was forced to confront them as a member of the 9th Legion, she learned unwanted—but necessary—lessons.

The shimagu were just as bad as she had heard. No, that wasn’t right—they were worse.

The creatures truly were a disease inflicted upon Pallos. She had no idea if they were a mistake that the gods had inadvertently created or if they were an act of hateful malice inflicted upon them by cruel and spiteful divinity—but the details largely didn’t matter. So long as humanity triumphed and erased the scourge from Pallos, just as Herculix would have, all was well.

The parasites delighted in casual acts of cruelty. Time and time again lines suffered unnecessary injuries because a former comrade had been seized, infected, and sent against his or her own friends. When conflict paused, dead men and women were consumed by their enemy like cattle or thrown their way in pieces. Even the lauded soldiers of the Legions struggled to maintain their humanity and their sanity in the face of such depravity.

But Gracea refused to relent. Each sin she witnessed only increased her determination to see the disease torn out and erased.

“And why in the stars would a [Healer] want to be a Ranger?”

Gracea had made it through a year with the Legions and won the opportunity that she had been promised. On a decadent island meant to entice entitled twits, she was a single woman amongst a vast sea of trainees that would compete for an unknowable number of slots to become Rangers. They were in lines being asked a pile of obvious and pointless questions by the instructors, yet she had been singled out by the woman with a question wholly unlike any she had asked the other trainee candidates.

