And he even offered to give me a longterm job himself, there at the end. In a year or so, he said, after he’d squirmed back into everybody’s good graces.

Wasn’t he afraid of pissing off my mysterious benefactor?

I guess he thought I was really on my own…or maybe that he could manage any wizard out there, if he had enough time to plan.

He told himself, again, to let it go.

In only the few days Alden had spent with him, in just the moments Alden had seen him, Worli Ro-den had rubbed shoulders or bullied—it was kind of hard to tell which it was in some cases—multiple important wizards. The parents of everyone he’d helped out of the mishnen situation. All those people he’d been gifting potions to left and right at the party. Ro-den was a smart, talented, energetic doer of illegal things. Alden’s chances of really understanding what the professor had once thought of him and planned for him, when the guy wouldn’t even talk to him anymore, were lower than low.

Brooding was stupid.

In an attempt to snap himself out of it, he reached into his bag to grab his tablet so he could take a picture of Mr. Blingy. He had no clue what Kibby would think of the vending machine, but she’d surely have at least one hilarious opinion.

She’d be so upset if she knew how angry I was with him. And at least him using me got her out of there. And most of the others.

He had told Ro-den, during that first phone call after he’d made it home, that he didn’t think he’d made a bad gamble. What else was he supposed to do under the circumstances? If they’d had one more day, one more minute, before everything went wrong…

Alden hoped whoever made decisions for Yipalck corporation saw Kibby’s explosion in their dreams every night.

He snapped the picture of the Mr. Blingy machine. After saving it to add to a message for Kibby, he sent the image to Boe.

[This is the poison dart frog of vending machines,] he wrote. [Its vibrant exterior is a warning.]

[What are you sending me that for?]

[Because I know you like frogs now.]

[I don’t like frogs.]

[Don’t be like that. They were there for you when you were wearing nothing but fronds.]

By the time he finished escalating the dart frog jokes, he was back on the street, heading for his next stop. And he was so busy laughing at Boe’s replies that he’d completely let go of chewing over the things that he wanted to leave behind him for good.

He was thinking about how he could make the frogs a recurring topic. But a really infrequent one. So that Boe was never expecting it.

He was thinking about how funny it was going to be when he found an opportunity, months or years from now, to put a toy dart frog in front of a toilet, so that Boe stepped on it when he went to take a leak. A perfect reenactment of his Amazon adventure.

And then, some subconscious process he hadn’t been aware was running produced an answer about Ro-den and himself that he’d never even asked it for.

It wasn’t shocking.

It was so clear that he knew it was true, and at the same time, so unwanted that he tried his best to make up reasons it might not be.

He walked for blocks until he reached a neighborhood he hadn’t seen yet and a place he’d only read about online—a tall, egg-shaped building where you could learn about Life Shaping and agriculture. And pay a fee to enjoy a pick-your-own-produce experience. He bought the largest available basket from a man who spoke Mandarin, and wandered the winding interior paths, admiring the verdant trellises and the ballet of silent drones misting plants and moving containers.

The place was busy but so well designed and managed that he often found himself in an area that felt like it belonged to him, tucked away between towers of peppers or surrounded by logs covered in mushrooms.

He spent a while selecting fruit in a long pergola corridor where frames held up a roof of kiwi, grape, and tomato vines. It was worth the price of admission for sure, but his thoughts were still twisting and turning, looking for a way to get away from the truth.

I can’t. It’s too basic. To everyone else who knows what happened, all this time, it must have been like blue skies and wet water and hot fire.

I should have known. If I didn’t know at first, I should have figured it out so fast. The first time I saw that humongous lab. After the mishnen. During the—

Something smacked into his leg. He took a startled step to the side, and looked to see that he’d been joined under the tomato arbor by a little boy with dark hair and light-up shoes who was too short to reach the vegetables.

Very focused, though.

He swiped at the overhead vine with the basket he’d just accidentally whacked Alden with. When swiping didn’t work, the little guy went for a jump and swipe move that had the potential to knock down tomatoes if he improved his execution. Though Alden did not like the tomatoes’ chances of remaining intact when their harvester was beating them with wicker and stomping around.

“Do you want me to get some for you?”

The kid gave him such a shocked look that Alden wondered if he’d somehow failed to notice that he wasn’t alone. He stopped jumping and unclipped a chunky, panda head keychain from his belt loop, then stared at the small screen on the front.

It took longer than it should have for Alden to figure out that it was a translation device.

<<I’m big enough to do it myself,>> the boy answered confidently.

Alden nodded and ignored the jumping while he picked a couple more tomatoes.

Some people, he thought as he headed back to campus with all his shopping  and a full basket, are big enough to pick their own berries.

Ro-den might really be way over his head now, but back then, he was tattooing the heirs of important families and smoking hookahs with their parents. He was laughing it up in golf carts. The lab they took from him was massive. He had like fifty assistants at one point, and a lot of them were geniuses. Even fallen from grace, he was still so damn talented that they let him torment students at the second most prestigious school on the Triplanets as punishment for his crimes.

When he acted like I was his one and only way of helping his assistants, that was just…a lie.

He took a deep breath.

Worli Ro-den was big enough.

So why was Kibby still on Thegund?

Why were the rest of them there?

Why was I?

******

That night, despite his high expectations, casting the flashlight spell didn’t go well. He knelt on his learning cushion and tried until his authority was exhausted, until he felt like he was a feather trying to penetrate through concrete instead of someone who could sometimes ask reality to shift for him.

His hands and his authority had moved well. He thought maybe he’d misunderstood something about the “calling the memory of light” part, which was slightly different from anything he’d been asked to do in other spells. His focus was off, maybe. Or his memory of sunlight spilling through his bedroom window wasn’t what the spell meant. Perhaps it was the turmoil of his thoughts this afternoon, still messing with him despite his efforts not to let them.

One of those, he hoped.

There was always that worry in the back of his mind that a spell wouldn’t happen for him because of his species. Calling the memory of light could be advice for someone whose brain worked differently.

Unhappy and unsettled, he climbed to his feet and stripped off the silk pajama pants he’d been wearing while he practiced. He took them and the cushion over to the huge suitcase lying in front of the window, where its bulk was keeping the bottom of the blackout curtain pressed against the wall, and added them to everything else he’d carefully packed earlier.

After he’d zipped it back up, he stared at a particularly large rip that Stuart had repaired with one of his silver patches.

Tomorrow morning.

First, a flight to Matadero. Then, a teleport to the art’h household. Then…a trip with Stuart to meet the healer.

The nerves were beginning to bubble up again.

I need to put myself to bed before I talk myself out of going.

He did, and to keep himself in bed for at least a few hours, he took his Opposite stone with him and performed the mega-klutz half of My Body Becomes My Assistant. He laid down, careful not to bite his tongue or smash  some part of his body into the wall, and waited for his Opposite to notice.

Hey, there, he thought when the crystal checker started glowing a few minutes later. Whoever you are, I’m really glad you’re all right.

It took him a very long time to sleep, but at some point, the dark of his room turned into the deeper darkness of a moon that orbited the planet Kimnor. The lights of the lab were so far behind him, and he had the impression that he was running into an abyss that clawed at him from every direction.

There was nothing in front of him but bare, chaos-ruined dirt. And even that was a fuzzy gray view that he was afraid of losing, despite his promises to Kibby that he could easily find his way back to her if the goggles she’d made for him failed.

The lab lights are so bright, I’ll be able to see them from a very long way away, he’d assured her. But he’d worried, as he always did, about a hundred things he’d never say.

If I fall, she won’t be able to come help me. If now is the time when the lab lights give out…if that thing that made the trails in the grass comes while I’m out here…if by some miracle I make it back with the car, but she’s not strong enough to make it to the next sunrise…

One step after the other anyway. There was nothing else he could do.

When he finally found the car, the pieces that had once been her father and Wivb-ee were so light in his hands and so heavy in every other way. Kibby wanted the bodies of her family to be completely gone, and so they would be when Alden brought the car back.

Nobody but him would ever know how many pieces there had been. Or how he had tried to pull some of them free of the mutated grass that had vined its way through them only for them to break apart. The way he’d wanted to hurry and be careful at the same time. The few heartbeats spent holding a portion of a small skull, wondering what the right way to treat it even was.

He had driven toward the lab and left them back there with only the dark for their grave.

That night was long past and far away, but it was somehow right next to him and all around him when he woke in his room at Celena North. One of his hands was cold and locked like a vice around the railing that was supposed to keep him from rolling off the loft bed.

It had to be close to morning because when his feet hit the floor, he didn’t fall all over himself. The wordchain had run its course. But his room was as black as his dream, and he stood there, almost disoriented, auriad sliding down over his hand to entangle itself with his fingers.

He remembered how it had been coiled into the logogram for friend when she gave it to him. Right after he made it back from that trip to get the car.

This is your present for returning safely….you will use it your whole entire life and be the best Avowed.

Everything was so close to impossible, thought Alden, breathing hard, his face pointed toward the spot in the darkness where his feet should be. Everything was almost death. I could have started a fire with the promise stick lighting spell, but out there on Thegund I would have had nothing but my own clothes to burn.

A flashlight that couldn’t be lost, that would be his forever. Wherever. As long as he could cast. One small thing that made the impossible a little less so.

He started casting again—his auriad moving, his authority moving.

To be a wizard is to move through reality with true awareness of your own freedom. The theoretical pinnacle of wizardry is dominion. Over the self. Over the universe.

He didn’t try to call the memory of light toward the symbol of the lantern because there was a slightly different thought, more deeply felt in that moment. A shift in desire and perspective.

I don’t want to call the light right now, he thought, lifting the auriad as if he were about to shoot a square of force at an enemy. I just want the darkness to FUCK OFF.

He held that idea in his head, dropped the strands that transformed the lantern symbol into a spell release shape, and claimed his dominion over this one small matter. Not an exhausted feather now, but a freshly determined battering ram.

The room lit up. It was less flashlight and more flash. One so bright that Alden actually saw almost nothing but the whiteness before his authority was spent and he was in the dark again. He stood there, caught in a state between euphoria and panic. He’d just done a new spell! YEAH! And also he was blinded and his skin stung and he smelled burning hair or dust or something.

He managed to fumble his way toward the light switch and slap it, and then he had a minute of real panic because his vision was still definitely impaired. After a lot of probably-detrimental blinking, it went back to normal, and he walked around the room taking stock of it all.

It still smelled kind of crispy and wrong, but there was no smoke or singed spots that he could find. He peeked out of the blackout curtain and didn’t see anyone pointing up at his window. He listened and didn’t hear Haoyu banging around like he’d been woken up.

He seemed to have gotten away with it better than Søren had.

Okay…that was…one way to do the spell. Not the best way. But I made magic. I called light to fuck up the darkness.

That means I can call it in a more controlled way, too.

He dug his toes into the rug and smiled.******
