That anyone could just listen to people do their bathroom business would never sit well with Erick, but it was a fact that unless you walked around in [Audio Dampening Ward]s, that other people had [Perfect Hearing], and all their other senses, too.

Those emotions and feelings bounced around in Erick’s head for a hot minute. As they calmed down, Erick’s final emotion was a combination of ‘everything and everyone needs help that I can’t give them’, and a whole lotta ‘I need a nap’.

Erick listened to whatever was going on upstairs, though. He totally listened.

And… Yup. Jane was puking and moaning and cursing at her own life in the upstairs bathroom.

Erick sent, ‘Jan—’

A massive pang of mental shock slammed into Erick’s psyche. Luckily, the [Prismatic Ward] around his house and his own [Personal Ward] were both rather strong. Instead of a splitting headache, his skin just flickered white for a brief, tiny moment.

Jane filled the house with her voice, “DO NOT DISTURB.”

Erick winced, as he whispered, “I guess the dragon essence is gone?” He turned to Poi, saying, “I’ve got to prepare to make this new spell to fight off other possible Flare Couatls. What are you going to do?” He immediately followed that up with, “Are you okay? You collapsed out there. And your ‘walls are bleeding’? What the heck, Poi.”

Poi smiled small, as he said, “I’m okay. Thanks for asking. But don’t ever tell anyone I ever said that bit about the broken walls, please.” He looked around the room, said, “It actually feels really good to be inside this [Prismatic Ward]. I’m at Rest without Meditation. I can do strenuous magic and not break that Rest.” He added, “I would like to be gone from here and then come back with proper help. If the Headmaster won’t give it, then there’s another place I need to go, and you can’t come with me there.”

“Okay. Well. Sure..” Erick stood up, saying, “Where’s Kiri?” He added, “Jane’s not going to like moving.” He said, “I really feel like we’re relaxing too much. Even Silverite seemed calmer than her normal calm.” He looked around. “Oh my gods is this [Prismatic Ward] a drug?!”

Poi laughed, saying, “Maybe.”

Erick’s eyes went wide—

“Relax!” Poi said, “I saw the box. This [Ward] is not a drug. Silverite was just finally able to relax for the first time in… ever? Oh.” Poi paused. He said, “Now there’s a thought.” He continued, “Eduard was finally able to relax as well, but he’s just a human and he’s been under a lot of magic-induced stress. Mog… I think Mog was compromised. I’m not sure how. I don’t know soul magic. Probably a latent Dream Worm.” He slowly stood up, saying, “But you’re right. We’re relaxing too much. We were just under attack. We’re still under attack. We should evacuate to a safe distance and come back with more help from the Headmaster.”

Erick looked around again. Then he asked, “Where’s Kiri?”
