Saf trotted forward. Behind him, the regiment dissolved, the officers trying in vain to maintain formation. He felt the brush of a skill on him but he shrugged it off. Something about duty. He didn’t owe them duty. They couldn’t even give him bread and a gods-damned helmet. Saf walked through the wall, the first to do so. Twenty paces. Ten paces. Five paces, maybe out of reach.

“Don’t suppose you fuckers accept surrender, huh?”

No response. He grabbed his spear tightly but he kept it low.

“I bet you sons of whores don’t even speak my tongue. Just make it quick please.”

He stepped forward.

“Please?”

For an inexplicable reason, he was not struck down. There was movement at the back of the enemy formation.

“Excuse me, excuse me!”

A shorter man in light armor and the symbol of Neriad slipped between two imperials who let him pass through with unreadable expressions, probably because they all wore war masks. He had a fantastically hooked noise and the friendliest smile Saf had ever seen. His Viziman was only lightly accented.

“Hello. By imperial decree, we are all dedicated to Neriad, God of Righteous war. That means we are duty-bound to accept all genuine surrenders. Please drop your weapon and pass through.”

Saf had to blink several times. His heart beat like a drum and he felt light-headed.

“Really?”

“Yes,” the priest insisted. “Really. If you could hurry so your friends can go as well?”

Saf realized he was at the head of a panicked mob. People were fighting behind, and it wasn’t against the imperials.

“Alright.”

He moved, expecting a cold touch and lancing pain between his ribs but it never came. Past the soldiers were more soldiers, a lot of them, and then fortifications and bored crossbow ladies. One of them was a southerner with a small smile and freckles on her weird greenish skin. He blinked.

“You’re the most beautiful thing I’ve ever seen in my life,” he declared.

The woman raised a brow before turning to one of her allies, a dusky-skinned viziman with a frown and enough knives on her chest to start a butcher shop. They whispered, then the Viziman, to his endless surprise, replied.

“She said she’s not into men.”

Well. Couldn’t have it all.

***

In front of the One Hundred, a second regiment stopped, then very slowly walked in the opposite direction. It would probably be replaced soon, but still. Left and right, the chaos of battle enfolded in a symphony of death and vengeance. The Harrakans were proving to the world that they were never to be underestimated.

But here? Nothing.

Ban the Younger signaled for his troops to return to parade rest. After ten minutes or so, it happened. A voice rose from the back ranks.

“It’s kind of boring, isn’t it?”

***

Viv watched the second wave of attacks fall apart. Arthur was carving grooves in Efestar’s statue which was a bit of a problem but Viv understood. Her daughter was nervous with so many of her minions and her own brother on a very active battlefield. Everywhere she was looking for now though, things were going amazingly well. That was mostly because Oleander was probing her defenses with lesser troops but still. He was getting his teeth kicked in on a conceptual level and that was good for her. As she watched, Enorian knights sallied out to relieve some pressure on the yries holding the priest village. The alliance armies were a strange but beautiful beast, moving organically to fend off the attackers. Sometimes it retreated, sometimes it turtled, and sometimes it lashed out with painful, precise attacks that bit off chunks of the Maranorians, grinding them down squad by squad. From the ground, it had to look like chaos but from up here she could see the touch of her strategists — no wait Jaratalassi hadn’t been recruited yet — of the alliance’s strategists leading the dance like orchestra directors. The fucking Vienna Philharmonic didn’t move with such elegant precision.

Viv ran out of tea.

“Really?”

You should have brought more.

“I didn’t expect Mr. Megalo Pants to take so long. Hey, you!” she yelled. “How long do you intend to keep a girl waiting? Or do you enjoy watching your followers get trounced?”

The jaws of fate were closing. The battle couldn’t be more in her favor. The sun was going to set soon.

Come on you dumb fuck. Take the bait. Come on come on come on you deplorable piece of shit.

A connection was made, powered by a mana as old as stories themselves. Viv felt it in her soul and she let it anchor her. He was going to answer her. It was like playing poker with a man who didn’t know he had a hand. Oleander’s voice carried over the battlefield, born by destiny and the blades of thousands. It thundered with righteous fury.

“You jest? Soldiers are dying for your hubris, and you jest?”

Viv’s own voice returned, filled with contempt and malicious glee. Fate bound them. Their conversation spread across the battlefield.

“Maybe they wouldn’t if you were a better commander but, to be fair…”

Directed by her, the deafening roars of cannons and explosions overtook the din of battle. It was a new sound on Nyil, but to Viv, it carried the memories of centuries of effort and innovation into killing more people, faster, and farther. It was the dawn of a new era. It was the merciless hand of progress, and she had brought it to this planet herself.

“You brought a medieval army to my world war.”

Oleander jumped up, red wings extended behind him bathed in the blooded light of an early evening. Arthur grabbed Viv and placed her on her back. They fell from the statue like a dive bomber.

[Aspect of the Paragon].

The two souls crashed over the field. Both armies redoubled their efforts, spurred by the presence of their champions. Mana itself hummed with their flight. The Ascended had entered the fray.
