The formation was moving, even if they were leaving wounded behind. The sounds of fighting from another group grew more intense. They were going to merge and then leave. Suddenly, something crashed into the shield wall from the side and men were sent tumbling like empty wine bottles. The captain spotted strange legs, too many for comfort. A merl sat upon the scurrying shape as it smashed into people, disrupting the formation. Eyes. Mandibles. Then it was gone. And another one attacked.

“Close ranks! Don’t break off, dammit!”

But now the enemies were using the gaps in their lines to pick their archers off. One of the younger fuckers panicked. He dropped his weapon and ran.

“You’re gonna get killed, idiot!”

But the merl let him go. At least, from sight. Another woman ran off with just her shield. And then the captain was on his back.

Spider. Huge fucking spider. He pushed with all his might. Drips on his face. Something was poking him but his chest plate held on. Screams. He reached for his dagger and used his stat boost to empower one attack. The blade buried itself into the creature’s neck. Spasms. An opening. The captain gathered his legs and pushed. The spider collapsed to the side.

Its rider was a merl, face encased in a bone helmet. It was wearing fur to ward off the cold. Eyes filled with hatred peered at him. The rider’s posture was low, stable, it held a thin, long spear like he knew how to use it. The captain checked the tip. Black steel. Harrakan make.

The warriors stepped back and the captain realized he was alone. The last of his men were running away, now jumped on without mercy since they were prey. He sprinted for his sword. He grabbed it. By some miracle, his shield was still attached to his forearm. He’d have to join the other group. They weren’t too far. Hopefully.

It was the silence more than any noise that warned him to turn away. The first thing he noticed was a shaman, currently not casting. The second thing he noticed was why the shaman wouldn’t bother: it was a spider as large as a hut. all eight legs thick and furry.

The beast jumped and crushed him against a tree.

***

“Milord, only the Baranese are still engaged. King Marzak reports that unless those cannons are destroyed, he will be forced to withdraw.”

Oleander fumed. He’d expected the first wave to be repulsed, but… this was too much. Especially with the witch waving at him every time one of his regiments ran for it.

“Are the Sheem ready?”

“Ready and eager, sir!”

“Have them attack across the front, and reinforce Baran as a priority. I want cavalry to support them. Tell Crest that it’s time. His gray mages must destroy those cannons you spoke of.”

He had cannons in his previous world but they were pneumatic, quiet and elegant in design; destined to harpoon ships, not those black, smelly, noisy things.

He had planned to force the witch to move first, to watch her fly around the battlefield to help her beleaguered troops until he swooped in for the kill, a pitiful end to a crumbling cause. He might have to move first. He felt in his soul that it wasn’t a good thing. His troops ought to be winning. Why were they not winning? His attention returned to the Sheem, the red, beak-helmeted Vizimias devouring the space between them and their enemies. This time it would be different. Then, the explosions redoubled, killing a dozen soldiers with every impact.

“I have many troops, witch, and I don’t think you have a lot of shells.”

***

Crest flew at the head of the formation. Griffin raiders from Helock guarded them from above, their spell spears shining with leashed power. Their tight formation flew towards the leftmost battery, the one overlooking the kark. Kark didn’t have great bowmen so it made sense to start there. He looked left and right. That was a lot of mages.

As he watched, two of them almost bounced into each other. Quality varied but that was fine. With almost three hundred of them, he was confident they could pull this off.

“Sir. Movement above.”

A tendril of cloud was extending from the cloud cover. So there were forces hidden there, as expected. It had been hard to confirm anything when none of the scouts had returned. Mages in dark and silver uniforms peeled off the enemy lines in a tight wing led by an old man sporting a rather spectacular silvery beard. Crest vaguely recognized the wing formation from ancient manuals he’d read back in Helock.

“Harrakan doctrine. Did they find a library?” he grumbled.

But there were only around seventy of them. He could only assume other wings were in combat over the cataclysmic Baranese battlefield. It would be easy to defeat them, even with inferior combatants.

There was just something weird. According to what he remembered, this formation called for a superior force on overwatch. Ah, yes, the white dragon’s brother.

“Watch out for a dragon!” Crest warned.

Judgment death might not have scared him off.

A roar shook the air. The gray mana under Crest’s control shivered, almost rebelling, and a few of his mages lost some altitude before recovering. That roar had been everywhere around him. A wave that triggered something primal in a quiet part of his brain. It had been a warning.

There was a second roar, deeper, more threatening.

“Maranor have mercy,” his second-in-command whispered.

A dragon emerged from the dispersing cloud cover, white, lean, angry, gray mana swirling around him. A massive green dragon was next, and then a third, black one, its roar one of outrage and fury. Then another: a red one. The dragons took position over the accelerating mage flights.

“Sir? Sir.”

Gray mana was pulled from the air. Crest struggled to regain control.

“Engage, distract, then disperse and fall back. Griffins with me!”

Crest surged through the air though it felt like pushing through syrup. Terror gripped his heart.

When he was a child, he and his friends had played on a knight training ground with wooden sticks. They had a lot of fun skirting the rules while yelling blood oaths and challenges, then, at some point, the knights had returned. Crest had only realized this when a man in armor holding naked steel stood over them. It was the same feeling, like children playing in a field that had never been for them, wielding toys and spewing made up war cries. The voice of the bearded man reached his ears but his brain struggled to process them.

“For Frostbay, for the empire, and for Judgment!”

Vengeance.

There was no impact. The dragons and their lackeys just tore through the gray flights and they lost cohesion. Crest urged the griffin riders onward. The whisper of heat at the back of his ears was all the warning he got. A quick gate saved his life but not that of the lead rider. He turned to see twin red eyes firmly locked on him.

You are as slippery as her.

The white dragon used a surge of gray mana to accelerate after him. A part of him was happy that he could get the creature’s attention to protect the riders but the rest was screaming ‘oh shit a dragon’ and it was quite loud. A hail of stones peppered his hastily built shield. He fought back with colorless blades of mana, easily dispersed by a quick counter. The dragon was a caster too. Fire mana coalesced around him in a ring. He teleported. A stone pierced through his shield and broke his shin. The pain was unbearable.

But not nearly as smart.

Crest used every drop of willpower to form a portal to escape. The griffin riders were diving, and the white dragon dove after them. Pain tolerance allowed Crest to push through the blinding agony. He hated broken bones almost as much as he hated shattered shields. But they’d done it. The battery was just ahead. He could see the cannons half buried in protected emplacements belching little puffs of smoke, subhuman servants scurrying all around.

Disbelief pushed his focus to its very limits. They had shells, pointy things Oleander had mentioned when talking about his home world. The shells were loaded on crate things and brought to the emplacement on mining rails. There were a lot of them. His eyes traveled closer to the city. Old men and women were pushing carts filled with metal over maybe half a league. Merciful Maranor, that was a lot of the things. No, no, it was fine. It would be fine so long as they destroyed the cannons. They were almost there.

Colorless mana flared. A man he’d taken for a cannon servant raised a hand, cloak shifting and revealing an elaborate black and silver robe. Crest’s eyes widened when he spotted the cornrows and dark skin. A Hallurian? Then he remembered the reports: this was Rakan of the Five Colors. A circle flared around him. Other servants showed suspicious hints of engraved silverite under their uniforms.

“It’s a trap. Pull out!” Crest screamed.

Rays of fire, colorless blades, and black claws erupted from the sphere in a deluge of effects. Some of the griffin riders got their own attacks out as well before veering off. A few unfortunates were caught too soon. Rakan intercepted the incoming projectiles with counters in a display of dazzling mastery. Crest couldn’t let it happen. He had to act. A quick portal brought him to the ground, forcing porters to run away. Two quarrels panged against his shield. He winced in pain, but firebolts rushed after the nearest pile of shells.

A blue shield intercepted them. Other shields formed, blocking everything he could throw. More counters reached him from the allied mages. Crest’s attention turned to Rakan. The master of five colors wasn’t looking at him. His face was a mask of concentration, sweat dripping from his skin. He wasn’t just blocking all of Crest’s attacks. He was casting something. Crest recognized the runes. He’d seen the witch use them before.

Spatial interdiction.

“Shit.”

Danger sense screamed at Crest. He had opened a portal to base and jumped through it the moment it hit his mind though the pain from his broken shin redoubled. The portal almost closed on him when the interdiction spell hit and it weirdly saved his life. A battleaxe bounced against the closing aperture in eerie silence.

Through the closing gap, Crest saw a smiling mask, then it flipped into an image of pouty frustration.

***

“I’m sorry, Zero-Five,” Rakan said.

The tall hadal shrugged.

“Target-rich environment.”

“That it is,” Rakan admitted, then he returned to his casting.

He wished he could be on the back of a dragon too. It looked more interesting than defending cannons.

***

It was looking to be the worst and also last day in Saf’s life. He’d kept a bottle of liquor for bad times. That liquor had been finished within three days of setting on Param. He was thirsty, hungry, tired, and dirty. His helmet’s hawk beak was broken so it hung limp on his cheek and that was just adding insult to injury really. Not that it would fucking matter. His regiment of press-ganged assholes was being walked to his death. He knew he was dead because no explosions ravaged their ranks while they walked towards the imperials. Even the nasty-looking crossbow bitches on the packed earth fortification were watching him approach with an expression of pure boredom. One of them was smoking from a pipe. Saf wished he could have a drag.

“We’re not even worth the fucking quarrels,” he said.

Only a hundred paces separated the two formations. Maybe steel through the head didn’t hurt. Unless they were trained to hit the throat because that was probably very painful. But Saf’s helmet was like a whore with her legs open so surely the fuckers wouldn’t miss. They didn’t look like the type to miss. Eighty paces.

“Shut up Saf!” the officer yelled.

“Or what?” Saf replied, “You gonna stab me?”

It was usually a shit thing to ask in case the answer was yes but he was going to get speared like a fish within the next thirty breaths anyway. This was the elite of the imperials. It was like facing a wall of angry statues. It didn’t take a mage to see the shining mana in their shields.

“Look at these fuckers, it’s like they were fed a cordudon a day since they were babies.”

Sixty paces.

Saf’s brain went into overdrive Maybe it was panic. Maybe he just didn’t give three shits anymore.

“Saf you asshole I swear to Maranor I’ll—”

“You’ll what?”

He turned on himself, back to the imperials, arms extended. Fifty paces.

“What are you going to do? Kill me first? Go ahead then. I bet you hit like a wet fish. Look at those guys behind me.”

As if summoned, he heard a slam. A quick glance confirmed that this was now a shield wall with spears, so same as before but spikier. To the side, heavies with purple tree tabards were laying into another regiment with screams of rage. Maybe that was because they’d burnt the fucking tree.

“They look like they floss their teeth with greatswords. They look like they swallow ingots and shit nails. Their fathers beat them with sticks and the sticks got blisters. They look like they can only be opened with lockpicks. You could stick one to a cornudon to plow all of Vizim. I’m a dock rat you asswipe, not the dragon slayer. You come, then. Come to the front. Show me how you kill. Come here!”

The officer paused.

“There’s another regiment behind us, Saf,” he said in a very low voice. “There’s another one after that, and after that it’s the tribesmen. You know what they’ll do to us if we run.”

“Yeah? Fuck it. Maybe I’ll run forward.”

“I was fine fighting southerners but I’m not fine being tossed in the pit like a food scrap,” another man said.

“Screw this! I left my field to die for nothing?”

