“Sorry, Captain. The southern gates are closed, and we’ve got [Archers] shooting down any undead that try to climb up. But all our guards on the north and eastern walls have fled!”
“That doesn’t make sense. I saw those gates closing! What could have…?”
A zombie shoved aside a Drake and lunged for Zevara, jaw gaping wide. She stepped back, and Tkrn’s hand axe buried itself in its exposed brain.
“Close ranks!”
Zevara’s voice cracked like a whip, and the guards around her flinched. She pointed, and more warriors ran forwards to fill in the weak spot in the line. Not all of the Watch was fighting. Zevara had kept several groups back, spread around the city to fill in weak spots.
Now she raised her voice as more undead ran down the streets and hit the ranks of armed warriors hard.
“Are you Human cowards or guardsmen? Put your tails into it!”
The Drakes and Gnolls heard her and answered with a roar. They pushed the undead back several feet, and Zevara turned back to Tkrn as he wiped the hand axe on his fur.
“What else?”
His face was pale under his fur, but the younger [Guard] pointed back the way he’d come.
“The adventurers are asking what they can do. They’re fighting with our people—but poorly. There aren’t many good teams around. My people have bows. They’re shooting from the rooftops!”
“Have them pick off any stragglers that break through. We’ll hold the line here and push forwards. Now, where’s Relc?”
“He’s holding them off down Tesseract Street.”
Zevara grunted.
“Good. They won’t get through that way, then. But this is insane.”
She pointed to the massive gates, visible from where she and Tkrn stood.
“We shouldn’t be fighting in the streets! If we can get close to those gates and close them, these undead will die outside the city. Why the hell are they still open?”
Someone else growled.
“Many of those large things are standing next to the entrance. We cannot kill them, and more keep coming.”
“Crypt Lords standing guard? That’s…”
Zevara trailed off. She glanced at the undead, and suddenly, a cold bit of fear wormed its way into her heart. She had a thought.
“The Necromancer?”
Tkrn raised his axe.
“I saw him in the city earlier today. I could track and kill him—”
“Not that idiot. I mean the Necromancer.”
“Oh.”
Tkrn looked worried. Zevara shook her head.
“If it was him, we’d be dead already. There aren’t any Giants or Bone Horrors or Ghosts or any of the other undead he brought last time. No—this is something else.”
She pointed down the street.
“This area is secure. I’ve got civilians holding bows, and a few mages are catching any Crypt Lords they see. You go and organize the adventurers. Tell Relc I want to see him, and find Olesm! We need his Skills!”
“No one has seen him this day. They saw him leaving the city, but—”
“If he’s here, find him! I’ve got to go. The east streets need help.”
Tkrn nodded and loped off. Zevara exchanged a few curt words with a large Drake sergeant and ran through the streets.
The undead had caught the city by surprise, but the city militia wasn’t like a Human one. Nor were the citizens. The undead had overrun the first few streets, but their momentum had halted once the Watch and groups of combat-capable citizens had formed barricades and halted their advance.
The problem was that the undead weren’t sticking to the streets. They went through houses, over rooftops—attacking the beleaguered defenders from behind. They were hunted down, but it added another layer of complexity to Zevara’s nightmare.
And the eastern streets were furthest from the guardsmen’s barracks. They needed reinforcements or else—
Zevara ran out of the alleyway just in time to see a Crypt Lord smash its way into a group of guardsmen and civilians, sending them flying. The bloated Drake’s corpse was immediately attacked from all sides and pushed back by a pillar of stone, but while everyone was concentrated on it, a pack of zombies ran past the line and towards the civilian archers.
The fifteen or so Drakes and Gnolls froze up in fear with one exception. Krshia calmly took down one zombie, shooting an arrow through its eye. She drew a wickedly long dagger and grabbed a second zombie while Zevara crashed into two more.
The last zombie ran past the two and opened up a male Drake’s scales with a devastating strike. He had a piece of sword buried in his hand, making all of his wild swings deadly.
The Drake fell down, screaming, and his companion backed away in horror. Selys raised her bow, but the zombie split it in two with a single blow. She screamed for help, but the corpse of the Gnoll ran at her, mouth opened wide to bite. 
She raised her claws—but she wasn’t her Uncle. She hadn’t had time to get to her apartment and grab her steel fighting claws he’d given her. Sword it was. Selys pivoted, dodged the bite, and slashed with her claws, but it was a zombie and barely noticed the raking cuts.
Sword! She needed the sword! Selys dodged sideways for it, and the zombie whirled. It leapt, and the sword stabbed into its leg as Selys fell back.
Zombies didn’t do this! This was the work of some kind of advanced death magic. It was like every zombie was a Ghoul. She tried to wrench the sword free as its teeth touched her throat—
“Begone, pest.”
Selys screamed in horror as the zombie’s neck suddenly twisted around. The undead Gnoll collapsed to the ground, twitching.
“Just so we’re clear: I didn’t raise them.”
Pisces appeared out of the air next to Selys and Zevara, hands glowing with purple energy. Selys gaped at him, scales nearly white.
“You!”
“Ah. Hello to you, receptionist. Don’t wait to thank me for saving your life.”
Pisces gave Selys a mocking bow and then turned. He pointed, and two more zombies and a skeleton fell to the ground, necks broken.
Krshia bared her teeth as she hammered her zombie’s head into the cobblestones, breaking its bones until what she held wasn’t so much a head as bits of one.
She stood up as Zevara beheaded her opponent. The Drake turned to Pisces as Selys backed away from him. He raised his hands protectively, and a wall of wind swirled around him.
“I mean you no harm. And this wasn’t my fault! I was in the city all day, and I knew nothing of this—this event.”
The Drake eyed him. She shook her head and shouted to the guardsmen as they wavered, trying to form their line.
Another group of eight armed Drakes ran into the street. They rushed into battle with a roar as Pisces pointed, and another zombie that had gotten past fell down, dead.
“Believe me, ah, Captain. I would never jeopardize my good standing with your city. In fact, I am helping to prove my innocence. I—”
“I believe you.”
Pisces blinked. So did Selys. Krshia was firing into the crowd of the dead already.
“We have countless witnesses who saw the undead emerge from the ruins. Besides, I doubt a [Necromancer] of your level could reanimate more than five bodies, let alone a horde like this.”
Pisces scowled.
“I—”
He hesitated and glanced at Zevara.
“Um, that is correct. But this is rather inconvenient, is it not?”
She glared at him.
“Are all you Humans as damn crazy as this? Liscor is under attack!”
He shrugged.
“They’re just the undead. Quite easy to subdue. I have every confidence your Watch will safeguard innocent civilians like myself.”
He turned.
“If you’ll excuse me—”
“Oh, no you don’t!”
Selys stomped on the hem of Pisces’ robe, and the mage stumbled. His arms wind milled frantically as he tried to keep his balance. He turned and glared at Selys, but she advanced on him, tail thrashing.
“You stay here and help! If this wasn’t your fault, then help us!”
Pisces hesitated. Zevara hesitated. She didn’t like the mage, but she needed all the help she could get.
“Can you do that back-snapping thing many times?”
He sniffed and clicked his fingers. Three skeletons fell down like dolls that had their strings cut.
“It’s neck snapping, and I have ample mana reserve. I suppose if it means exonerating myself…”
“Good. Do it!”
The Crypt Lord finally fell to the ground, splashing those nearby with toxic blood. Zevara cursed as those hit cried out and retreated to be cured. She ran towards the line of guardsmen, already shouting. Selys stared at Pisces, finger raised. He raised his hands.
“I understand. I will help. Stay here and, ah, try not to put an arrow in my back.”
She spluttered, but Pisces was already striding forwards. He kept a safe distance between the struggling fighters and the dead as he stared at the masses of the undead running through the streets.
“I assume I will be remunerated appropriately for this?”
Zevara turned her head and snarled at Pisces.
“Kill these things and I’ll give you a medal. Now start casting or I’ll slice your damn hands off!”
Pisces sniffed and conjured a flaming sphere into existence. He aimed it at a crowd of the dead as they surged down the street.
“I prefer gold, myself.”
He threw the orb, and fire consumed the dead bodies. The [Necromancer] smirked as the undead screamed. Fast or not, the zombies and Ghouls were still slow targets to him. He snapped the neck of a Ghoul leaping to one side, casually, bringing it down.
But who was making them so quick? A foreign [Necromancer]? What…
What had happened to Ceria?
Pisces stared towards the gates, and his smile winked out. Then—he heard the Watch Captain scream in the distance.
“Fall back! Fall back to Tesseract street!”
Whyever would she do that? They were holding fine with him here! Pisces turned to tell her they were losing a decent defensive spot—when he whirled around.
“[Fire Orb]!”
He shot a second spell into the dark street—then snapped his fingers. A neck twisted—and the flaming orb went out before it could strike its target. But the undead refused to go down. And Pisces couldn’t snap the neck of the too-pale Drake with huge fangs and long, grasping limbs that looked melted.
“W-Wight?”
His voice trembled. Pisces backed up. But that was a rare undead! Then he saw a Crypt Lord appear. His fingers snapped.
The neck—twitched. And did nothing more. Pisces stumbled back as the Wight ran forwards. Then he saw the second Crypt Lord appearing, and eight Ghouls bounded down. The [Necromancer] turned and ran.
 
——
 
“Something is wrong.”
Toren looked up from the floorboards. He was using an old knife to lever up bits of food from between the floorboards. Erin stared out the window.
“Can’t you feel it? Something is wrong.”
She pointed out the window. It was dark now, but there was a faint speck of light coming from outside.
“That’s Liscor. Why is it red over there? Is something burning?”
Toren walked over and saw the skies around Liscor were indeed glowing. And there was smoke, rising and barely visible in the moonlight.
Erin stared out the window worriedly. The pot of meat and noodles sat untouched on a table. She leaned over the windowsill and then grabbed at her stomach. The anxiety was getting to her in a physical way.
“I feel—bathroom.”
She pointed at Toren.
“Keep an eye on that, okay? If you see anything—”
Her stomach gurgled, and Erin ran out the door, leaving the skeleton by himself.
Toren hesitated. He looked at the knife and the floorboards. Then he carefully put the knife on one of the tables and reached for the sword he’d leaned against one wall. He opened the door and walked outside.
The skeleton had made it halfway down the hill when the Antinium seized him and ripped his skull off his body. The Worker tossed Toren’s skull to the ground and seized his sword. He left the flailing skeleton’s body and walked up the hill towards the inn.
 
——
 
A Ghoul caught a Drake’s halberd in one hand and punched him in the midsection with the other. The guardsmen gasped and collapsed as the Ghoul tossed aside the weapon and tried to race past the other guardsmen.
Zevara’s sword cut through the top of the Ghoul’s skull, severing the flesh and rotted brain. The Ghoul collapsed, and she helped the Drake to her feet.
“Watch the damned Ghouls! They’re strong enough to rip your scales apart if you let them!”
Another zombie ran at them. Zevara turned her head and growled low in her throat. Then she took a deep breath and exhaled.
A gout of fire leapt from her jaws and blasted the zombie off its feet. It fell to the ground, screaming and burning as Zevara coughed.
“Where are the damned Antinium?”
The Watch had retreated back down another street, giving ground up as more undead flooded into the city. They were fighting well, and healing potions and a rain of arrows and magic had given them the advantage, but the undead kept coming.
And the more dangerous ones had appeared. Wights, whose single touch would make you freeze up and fall over, helpless. Crypt Lords, who were so huge and tall they could sweep aside low-level [Warriors] in a single blow and break every bone in your body—or spit black poison.
The Watch was not equipped to deal with them. Or at least, they were well equipped, but they needed reinforcements. And those reinforcements were not coming.
The Watch was one half of the city’s defenses, but in truth, they only handled [Bandit] raids, criminals, the occasional monster pack, and so on. The landscape took care of most armies, but the other half of Liscor’s considerable defenses was the army.
The army…who were at Oteslia, leagues to the south! But even in their absence, there was another force, newer to Liscor, who could fight. The bargain that had made Liscor a pariah with every damn city in the south.
The Antinium. The Black Tide who had nearly overrun Izril! An entire Hive was in Liscor, and they were the true force to be reckoned with along with the Watch.
But the Antinium, always present in some capacity in the city, were nowhere to be found. She hadn’t seen a single Worker today…or the last few days.
Zevara growled again and coughed out some smoke. She walked backwards as the Drake found his halberd and joined the line of guardsmen and shouted.
“Tkrn! Where are you? Get over here!”
The Gnoll ran towards Zevara, panting. He was still drenched in gore, but now he was bleeding in places, dark blood covering his fur.
“Here, Captain.”
“Where are the Antinium? Send a message to the Queen at once! We need Soldiers!”
“That will not be necessary, Captain Zevara. We are here.”
Zevara and Tkrn spun around. Ksmvr walked towards them, two swords and two daggers held at the ready. Fifteen Soldier Antinium followed him.
Ksmvr pointed towards the failing line of guards.
“Join the battle. Kill all undead. Retreat if you suffer significant injuries.”
