The Soldiers ran forwards instantly. They pushed aside the surprised Watch and civilians and crashed into the undead in a black wave of their own.
A Ghoul lunged at the first of the Soldier Antinium. The huge ant man grabbed the undead and held its shoulders with two of his hands. The other two punched downwards.
As Erin had seen, the hands of the Soldiers were more like spades or weapons than actual digits. They pummeled the Ghoul, breaking bones, stabbing through flesh with ease. The Soldier held the Ghoul down, pounding it into paste. When it was done, it stood up and grabbed a zombie and ripped its head off.
A skeleton stabbed the soldier Antinium in the back. It didn’t stagger as the blade buried and stuck in its carapace. It swung around and began ripping the skeleton apart.
Ksmvr watched the Soldiers fighting as the Drakes, Gnolls, and few Human adventurers staggered back, suddenly reprieved from battle. He nodded to Zevara as she stalked over to him.
“Watch-Captain Zevara. It is good to see you alive.”
Zevara was in no mood to exchange pleasantries.
“Where the hell were you? And where are the other Soldiers? I don’t need fifteen of them, I need every single one in your Hive! Bring them out!”
Ksmvr calmly replied to Zevara as he kept one eye on the battle.
“As this is not a period of war or crises as declared by the Council, I must decline your request. The maximum number of soldiers the Watch Captain is allowed to command is fifty Soldier Antinium and a hundred Workers in a time of crisis.”
“That is exactly what’s happening! Or do you not see the undead? I am authorizing you to bring all your Hive! Bring the Soldiers and all the Workers then! We need barricades, fortifications—”
“I regret to say that is impossible at the moment. I have brought fifteen Soldiers. That is all that can be spared at the moment.”
Zevara gaped at Ksmvr. She opened her mouth, and smoke plumed outwards as she shouted at him in fury.
“Why by the damned Ancestors—”
Again, Ksmvr cut Zevara off calmly.
“The Soldiers guard the entrance to the Hive and the surrounding streets. We will let nothing disturb our Queen. She is in the middle of a critical process. The Rite of Anastases. She is hours—less perhaps—to completion.”
“Your Queen can take her damned ritual or whatever it is and shove it—”
Zevara cut herself off as the blades in Ksmvr’s hands twitched. Half of the guardsmen near her raised their weapons, but their Captain waved them away. She eyed Ksmvr and tried to modulate her tone slightly.
“This is a state of emergency. If we can’t push the undead back soon, they will overrun this place. Your Soldiers can buy us some time, but there’s not enough. We need all fifty and soon. More than that. We need all of them! Talk to your Queen. Tell her we need help!”
“I regret that is impossible. The Queen must not be disturbed at this moment. I am sorry.”
Flames trickled from Zevara’s mouth as she opened it in rage. Ksmvr held up one hand.
“As soon as our Queen finishes the Rite of Anastases, we will fully cooperate in the defense of the city.”
There was no use arguing with the Antinium, so despite the building heat behind Zevara’s eyes, in her heart…and her lungs, she bit off her reply.
“The Workers, then. We could use them. Not just for building. If they can fight—”
“They are unable to be summoned as well.”
“Why?”
For the first time, Ksmvr visibly hesitated. He clicked his mandibles together and stared at the battle. Already, the Soldiers had pushed the undead back the street, and two were attacking a Crypt Lord as it spat black blood on them.
“The Workers are in rebellion. Many have left the Hive and fought with the Soldiers at the entrance.”
Ksmvr lowered his voice as Zevara stared at him in horror.
“Already, three have become Aberration. We fear the rest may have as well. They are violent, and many are armed.”
“You’re serious.”
“Very.”
For a moment, Zevara’s mind was caught up with images of Worker Antinium ripping apart Drakes and Gnolls. Then she brought herself back to reality and stared at the dead bodies lining the street. She snapped at Ksmvr.
“If we didn’t have a horde of the undead trying to eat us all, I’d be more worried. The citizens are either in their homes or fighting with us. If these Workers kill a few zombies, I won’t shed any tears.”
Ksmvr shook his head.
“I fear the Workers are not in the city any longer. They are moving towards a Human. Erin Solstice.”
“The one who got Klbkch killed?”
“Yes. One of the Aberrations who escaped was intent on killing her.”
Zevara didn’t have to think about this one. She gestured at the undead. The Crypt Lord was dead, but the two Soldier Antinium who had killed it were curled up, arms and legs withdrawn as they lay on the ground, dead of the poison.
“Whatever the reason is, I can’t spare anyone. She’s not a citizen here, and we’re up to our necks in trouble. The Human will be on her own.”
Ksmvr nodded shortly.
“The Queen is all. She must not be placed in danger. Erin Solstice…is merely important.”
Zevara eyed him. The words he’d just said—she couldn’t dwell on them now. She pointed towards the Soldier Antinium as she signaled the guardsmen to form up.
“Will you stay and fight?”
Ksmvr nodded. He followed Zevara as she strode down the street, Drakes and Gnolls seizing weapons and standing to follow her.
“I will fulfill my duty as Prognugator within Liscor. However, my position will cease in a few hours. Another will take my place.”
“Until then, follow me. We’ve got to use this moment until your Soldiers all die.”
Tkrn fell into place next to Zevara, swearing, as the guardsmen and lone Antinium ran after the Soldier Antinium. Suddenly, things had gone from bad to worse. He looked around as the two realized—the relief they were waiting for wasn’t going to come.
And the undead were pushing into the city. If they tore into a group of civilians, a thousand—a thousand running, jumping, climbing zombies? Ten thousand?
Liscor had a hundred thousand souls in it. This was how undead apocalypses began. They had to hold the streets.
Alone.
“Anything I can do, Captain?”
She spat, so furious she trailed smoke.
“You heard the Ant. Looks like we’ve got no choice. We need to close those gates. Get Relc. He’s the only one who has a chance of cutting his way through. I’ll grab a squad and push up.”
The Gnoll nodded and broke away from the group. Zevara and the guardsmen rounded a corner and skidded to a stop. The Soldier Antinium had thrown back the undead, mercilessly cutting their way through them until they’d reached the main street down which the north gates were located. But there they had been stopped.
Zevara saw a Soldier borne down by the weight of a Crypt Lord and another hurling Ghouls to the ground as they swarmed him. She saw groups of guardsmen struggling to contain the main flow of undead. But that wasn’t what struck fear into her soul. She pointed towards the gates where something was dragging itself through the open stone doors.
Her heart froze. The sword in her hands grew heavy, and around her, the Gnolls, Drakes, and Humans shuddered and felt terror coursing through their bodies. All around her, guardsmen and civilians fell back, screaming, unable to fight.
Zevara forced the words through her numb lips.
“What is that?”
 
——
 
It was nearly ten minutes before Erin managed to extricate herself from the bathroom and stagger back to the inn. She held her unhappy stomach and walked through the open door.
“Toren?”
The inn was dark. Erin stared around. The skeleton normally came the instant she called. Where was he?
“Hey, Toren. Where are you?”
No response. Erin didn’t hear the clicking of bones on floorboards. She stared around. He’d left the knife on the table. Had he gone out to fetch water?
Erin stared around the dark inn. He could at least have lit the lanterns. Or a candle. It was so dark—the only light came from the moon.
Where was he? And why—
Why was Erin feeling that same warning in her head again?
She spun around. Nothing. The grass shone in the moonlight from the open door. Erin relaxed. But then a prickling feeling ran down her spine.
She’d walked through the open door. But Toren always closed the door behind him. And if he hadn’t opened the door—
Who had?
“Hello?”
Erin backed up towards the door. Something moved in the shadows and shut it. She spun around, fists raised, and then relaxed.
“Oh. Pawn. It’s just you.”
The Antinium stood in the doorway, nearly invisible in the light. Erin frowned. Then she took another step back.
“Wait a second.”
The Antinium had four arms. And two legs. Pawn—Pawn didn’t have all his limbs anymore. But Workers weren’t allowed to leave the city unattended, and this Antinium didn’t have swords.
“Who…are you?”
He was familiar. At least, he seemed familiar, but he definitely wasn’t Pawn or Ksmvr. The Worker—if that was what he was—shuddered. He shook slightly and then stepped suddenly towards Erin. She backed up quickly.
“H-hello? Can you hear me? Who are you? What do you want?”
The Worker’s head twitched suddenly. Erin jerked back, and his voice came out, quivering with emotion.
“i aM AnTiNium. i haVe a NaMe.”
Erin backed up even further. That wasn’t what a Worker normally sounded like. The one in front of her was speaking rapidly, his voice surging and falling. He sounded—
Insane.
“You have a name? Um. Good. That’s good, right?”
He stared at her.
“I Am iNdivIDuAL. BuT i reJECT. I rejEcT aLL.”
“Reject? Reject what?”
He pointed at her with two arms.
“YOu. ThiS is yOuR FAulT.”
“Me? What did I do?”
The Worker raised his hand, and a sword shone in the moonlight. He walked towards Erin, still speaking.
“YOU DiD ThiS To me. yOu mAde Me THis waY. For yOU, I did tHis. bUT alL iS SuffERIng.”
Erin backed up, speaking fast. She tried to sense where her frying pan and jar of acid were, but it was impossible in the darkness.
“What did I do? I don’t remember—”
“yOU knoW.”
“Please—”
Erin took another step back and suddenly tripped over a chair. She sprawled to the ground and desperately tried to get up. But the Worker was too fast. He loomed over her, sword raised.
Erin kicked up at his groin, but the Antinium caught her leg. He pinned her down with three arms and held the last one up with the tip of its sword pointed at her face. Erin tried to scream, to shout. But her breath was gone. She stared at the gleaming blade as the Worker shuddered and stared at her.
“diE.”
The sword flashed towards her eye. Erin screamed—
And another Antinium seized the first and threw him off Erin. She gasped as the sword fell to the ground and rolled away as the two Antinium crashed into chairs, fighting, punching and kicking in the darkness.
Erin scrambled away and struck a table. She ran to a shuttered window and threw it open. The moonlight illuminated the room just in time for her to see one of the two Workers mount the other. The Antinium seized his struggling opponent’s head and twisted with all four arms.
The neck broke. The Worker lay still. The other Worker stood up and stared at Erin.
She held the frying pan and jar of acid in shaking hands.
“Stay back! I’m warning you!”
The Worker walked towards Erin. She raised the frying pan, and he stopped. The Worker raised all four arms.
“Please. I mean you no harm.”
The words were familiar. The way of speaking was familiar. Erin hesitated.
“…Pawn?”
“I am not Pawn.”
The Worker shook his head. But he was not Ksmvr either. He knelt before Erin suddenly, and she nearly tossed the jar of acid. But the Worker made no move. He spoke to her, voice loud in the silence.
“I am Knight.”
“Knight?”
He nodded. The Worker stared up at Erin.
“I have named myself. I have chosen. I am Individual, first and last of my kind. I am Knight, and no other is like me. And I am here to protect you. We are here to protect you.”
Erin stared at him. The frying pan loosened in her grip, and she nearly dropped it. Her mind was spinning. She stared at Knight. There was something familiar about him, too.
“I—I don’t know you. I never—”
Knight straightened.
“Please, Erin Solstice. You must remain calm. We are here to protect you.”
“We?”
Movement. Suddenly, Erin saw it outside the window. She threw caution to the wind and raced outside, brushing past Knight. There she stopped.
Antinium. Workers. They stood around the inn, arms folded or holding weapons. Swords, maces, axes—and not just those. Rolling pins, rocks, large branches…even a large vase in one case. They stared silently at Erin as she froze in place.
“Who—”
Knight emerged from the inn and bowed his head to Erin.
“The dead are coming. Please remain inside. We will protect you with our lives.”
She looked at him.
“You? But who are you? Where’s Pawn?”
“He was kept in the Hive by the Prognugator. He remains. But we have come. We have chosen. We are Individual.”
“Individual?”
Knight nodded. In front of Erin, a Worker turned. He bowed to her, low, as far as his stiff exoskeleton would permit.
“I have chosen. I am Bishop.”
Another Antinium turned and then another.
“I too chose. I have decided. My name is Vladimir.”
“I am Calabrian.”
“I am Emanuel.”
“Call me Garry.”
“I wish to be known as Milner-Barry.”
“Belgrade. I will die for you.”
“We will all die for you. I am Jose.”
They spoke, one by one, in the faint moonlight. Antinium looked at Erin, all alike on the outside. But each one different, each one individual.
They were all familiar to her. And only now did Erin realize. She knew them. She knew them all. They had never had names, but she knew their faces, the way they played. She knew them.
They were her chess club.
Thirty odd Workers stood on the hilltop, ringing the inn, waiting. Erin could barely speak. She felt it. A surge of terrible emotion—whether fear or happiness or sadness, it was impossible to say. But she knew something had happened. They had all chosen names.
But that was only half of the question. The other half burned in her fiercely. She turned to Knight. The Antinium was staring into the darkness, splashes of green blood still coating his carapace.
“Why are you all here? Why now? Why tonight? What—what’s happening?”
He opened his mandibles to reply. And that was when the first zombie appeared out of the night and tried to take a bite out of Erin’s face. Toren leapt out of the darkness, crashing into the zombie, and the two rolled down the hill.
Erin screamed. More bodies shuffled and ran through the grass as the Workers moved to intercept them. And then the night was filled with the dead, and Erin found herself fighting for her life.
 
——
 
