“Fall back! Fall back!”
Zevara screamed as Skinner grabbed a Drake and pulled his scales and skin off him like a child pulling a wrapper off a bit of candy. The horrific white face grinned down at her, sunken crimson eyes staring around layers of folded dead flesh. Fragments of metal clung to its chest, deflecting some of the arrows striking it.
She tried to raise her sword to slash at it, but her arm refused to move. Zevara had fought countless monsters, had faced and come close to death several times. But the terror that Skinner projected dwarfed anything she had ever felt before.
Zevara retreated, trembling, as Skinner’s hand swept around and grabbed a struggling guardsman. The female Gnoll had only a moment to howl in fear and agony before she was dead.
All around Zevara, guardsmen were retreating or dying. The undead flooded through the gates around Skinner, slaughtering the helpless warriors. Only the Antinium fought on, Ksmvr and the five remaining Soldiers blockading one street, but even they were falling back. No one could fight Skinner, and every time one of his hands swung down, someone died.
Zevara prayed they died. To live without skin—she hoped they died instantly, rather than imagine there was still life in the silent piles of bones and intestines and muscle that lay on the ground.
Skinner grinned at her. His folds of thick, white skin grinned at her too, the faces of the dead stretched to canvas his body.
She had to run. Zevara felt it in her bones, in her marrow. But she was Captain of the Watch. She couldn’t run. She had to fight. But her body wasn’t listening to her mind.
Skinner loomed over her. He tossed what remained of the Gnoll to the ground and raised his hand towards Zevara. She dove out of the way, dropping her sword, and the palm smashed into the ground next to her.
The impact knocked the Drake sideways, but she scrambled away. The red spots. It was the red spots on Skinner’s hand. Touch those and your skin would be peeled away. She had to keep her distance. She had to run—
Too late, Zevara saw the other hand circling around. She was running right into it. She tried to stop, but it was too late. Skinner closed his hand around Zevara’s scales—
“Relc attack!”
Something blurred past Zevara and stabbed into the hand. Dead skin fell around spear tip as a green Drake grabbed both spear and Zevara and ran nimbly past Skinner. Zevara gaped as Relc, Senior Guardsmen of the Watch, grinned toothily at her and twirled the spear as he ran.
“Heya, Captain! Mind if I take this one on?”
“Relc!”
It was a warning. Relc turned his head, and both he and Zevara hit the ground as Skinner swiped at them. His hand smashed into a wooden building instead and shook the foundations. Skinner stared at both Drakes, and Zevara felt her scales growing cold with fear. But Relc just shook himself and bared his sharp teeth.
“Soldiers, fall back. I’m going to need some room for this.”
He raised his voice, and somehow, it was audible over the fighting, over the terror in Zevara’s heart. Men and women looked up—and the Drake shivered as that crimson stare fixed upon him again, like a lighthouse.
Terror. Terror—death and terror! It was primordial, deep, and even Zevara wanted to void her bowels and flee. It took all her will to hold her sword steady.
But Relc just shouted.
“Clear a space. Hold the lines!”
He wasn’t Senior Guardsman Relc in that moment. The former soldier of Liscor’s army spun his spear. [Sergeant] Relc held his ground. And Skinner…stared at him, then seemed to realize Relc was immune to the stare. Relc’s body lowered.
“Not an officer. I hate fighting monsters.”
He was watching Skinner. The undead froze—then lashed out so fast his hands cut the air. But Relc was already gone. Zevara’s head whirled.
Where—
Skinner had missed as well. A second hand had come out, grasping for the Drake, but Relc hadn’t dodged left or right. He’d launched himself from the ground with his spear. He landed as the monsters swiveled, kicked a Ghoul aside—
Blurred past a Crypt Lord whose head vanished as Skinner ripped it off. A green figure, zig-zagging through the undead as if they were statues. Zevara heard someone mumble something. They had once had a nickname for him, hadn’t they? In his days in the army.
“The Gecko of Liscor.”
A zombie popped up on his right side, but Relc raised his spear and ran the undead Human through. He kicked the zombie’s corpse off his blade into a skeleton, punched a Ghoul to the ground, and looked up as Skinner’s other hand swept towards him.
Relc raised his spear and met the hand as it flew at him. His spear’s tip stabbed rapidly into the open red sores in Skinner’s hand. The monster jerked, and for the first time, Zevara thought she heard a sound come from the creature’s mouth.
No—not the mouth. It came from inside Skinner, a high-pitched shriek that echoed across the city.
It was deafeningly loud, but barely within Zevara’s auditory range. She clapped her hands to her ears, and Relc staggered back, doing the same.
Skinner swiped at Relc and caught him on the leg with an open palm. Relc roared and stabbed down with his spear, and Skinner let go just as quickly. The Drake staggered backwards, and Zevara saw part of the scales on his leg had been stripped away.
The Drake slashed Skinner’s arm, but the monster brought his limb out of harm’s way. A hand swung back—Relc leaned under it as it beheaded a Wight—
Fast as a sword’s swings. But the [Spearmaster] was watching it, reacting before the arms even reached him.
Again, Skinner fixed Relc with his crimson gaze. But though Zevara saw Relc shudder, he gritted his teeth and fought through the magic affecting him. He raised his spear and dashed towards Skinner, cutting and stabbing as he ran across the monster’s side.
Chunks of flesh sloughed to the ground as Skinner swung his hands at Relc. The Drake dodged away, keeping too close to Skinner’s body to be caught. The massive undead suddenly rolled, and Relc had to dodge away before being squashed.
“You bastard! [Triple Thrust]!”
He struck so fast Zevara didn’t see it, three lancing jabs. But the thick flesh—Relc yanked the spear out, cursing. He slashed, his arms a blur—stepped back. Then just backed away.
Why? He wasn’t doing any damage. Dead skin littered the ground, but Skinner just rolled back upright and attacked again.
Relc ran through the undead, stabbing and knocking them aside like flies as the hands struck at him. The zombies and skeletons weren’t able to even slow him down, and the Ghouls he neatly dispatched with a spear strike to the neck or head.
Suddenly free of Skinner’s gaze, the guardsmen around Zevara turned and formed another line. The Drake Captain found another sword and sliced a zombie apart as Relc blurred towards them.
Faster, stronger, and unaffected by fear. That was Relc, Senior Guardsman, the strongest guard in the city. Perhaps the world. A Level 33 [Spearmaster].
He paused in front of Zevara, panting. She saw red blood running from his leg and grabbed a healing potion from her belt.
“Here!”
“Thanks.”
He nodded and smashed the bottle against his leg. The purple liquid ran into the gaping wound, and he sighed.
“Damn. This isn’t good.”
“Do you know what that thing is?”
Zevara pointed to Skinner as the monster slowly rolled back upright, the undead around him forming a living wall. Relc shook his head. He was focused and barked a reply between gulps of a second potion. Stamina.
“Something ugly? It’s—strong. All that dead flesh is like armor. I need to slice it away to get at what’s underneath. But one touch of those hands—”
“Can you kill it?”
Relc paused and then grinned at Zevara.
“I can. Maybe. Probably. But give me some of those Antinium just to be safe.”
“The Antinium? Why—”
Relc pointed. Ksmvr was slicing apart zombies as the four Soldiers still alive covered his back. Even as Skinner rolled back upright and stared at Ksmvr, he kept fighting, undeterred by the crimson stare.
“The Ants are immune to whatever he’s doing. So am I.”
“Why’s that?”
Relc grinned and tapped his head with one claw.
“[Indomitable Will]. Anyone without a similar Skill should fall back. This thing—it’s projecting fear. Like a Level 30 [Mage]. Higher.”
“I got that. Can you take it out with just them?”
“I can try. But give me more [Archers] and [Mages] to get rid of the undead. I can’t have them on my back and that thing.”
“Just stop it for now while I call a retreat. We’ll set up another street and give you a chance—”
Zevara stopped, and Relc turned. Skinner was moving. The giant creature stared hard at Relc as the Drake raised his spear. But suddenly, Skinner turned. He pulled himself around and began moving back through the crowd of undead.
Relc crowed as Skinner pulled himself away. He twirled his spear and broke a skeleton’s skull with the butt end as he shouted at Skinner.
“Yeah, that’s right! Run! Run! Finally met someone with too many scales for ya, huh? Run away and…wait a second.”
Relc blinked. Skinner was leaving. Not just retreating; he was pulling himself back out the gates while a wall of undead protected his ‘back’.
“It’s…leaving?”
Zevara stared at Skinner in confusion. Why was he going?
“He must sense you’re a threat.”
Relc swore, and Zevara nearly spat fire at Pisces as the mage appeared out of thin air. The Human flinched, but pointed at Skinner as Relc glared at him.
“This creature is highly intelligent, guardsmen. It won’t fight anything that can resist its fear effect and poses a credible threat. Perhaps it could win, but it won’t risk that.”
“Why?”
Pisces shrugged.
“Most of the more valuable undead specimens have some kind of survival function built into it. I surmise this being may be the same.”
“Being? It’s not undead?”
“No.”
Relc grabbed Pisces as Zevara stared at him. The Drake shook the mage none too gently.
“Okay, but where is that thing going? Is it going back into the ruins or do we have to worry about reinforcements now? Even without that monster, we’re still up to our ears in undead!”
“I don’t know! I don’t know!”
Pisces fought to get Relc to release him. He shouted as the undead resumed their attack on the lines of guardsmen.
“Perhaps it seeks to wear us down first! Or maybe it goes after easier prey! I can’t tell!”
Relc released Pisces with disgust. He turned back to Zevara.
“Well, that’s just great. If it comes back with another horde, we’re cooked. But what could it want if it wants more victims? There’s only a few farming villages around here and they’re almost all north or west, not east. So where—”
He broke off, eyes widening. Zevara looked at him as Relc turned towards the east. He breathed the words.
“Oh no.”
Pisces looked at Relc’s face and then east too. He blinked in sudden comprehension, and his face turned slightly pale.
“Erin.”
He and Pisces were starting after Skinner, and Zevara was about to call Relc back. Then—the monster paused at the gates. She saw it turn—and that ‘hand’ rose. Skinner looked at Relc. At Pisces. And its grotesque hand moved. Almost in a parody—a mockery of Pisces.
Skinner snapped its ‘fingers’—and the fallen undead began to get up. The ones hacked to pieces slowly began to rejoin. Watch Captain Zevara turned—and Pisces turned dead white.
“It just—”
A fallen Ghoul sat up, and Relc beheaded it. Then he watched the Ghoul fall over—the glowing eyes fade—and flicker back to life as the severed section of its head began to drift back to its body.
“Fall back!”
Contemptuously, Skinner hauled itself away as a second wave of undead rose and joined the first. Then the Watch was in full retreat, fleeing, trying to block the streets. And every single member of the living that fell rose once more. It left the city and the danger with a tiny bodyguard. Too much direct danger here. Skinner’s glowing gaze turned elsewhere, to the only other pocket of life it sensed. A handful of villages. And…
An inn.
