At first, there was something soft under him. Then came the pain; everywhere, deep and thrumming. Finally, there was a warm weight on his belly.

David pulled his eyelids up. Only one responded. Or maybe both did, and he'd lost an eye.

He inched his head up, pushing through the stiffness in his neck, and allowed himself a tiny smile when he saw Niala resting her arms and head on top of his belly, asleep. His smile froze in place when he noticed Cornelius, resting against Niala's back, his arms thrown around his daughter.

Her ears twitched, and her eyes stirred under her eyelids. She cracked them open and met David's gaze. A wide, beaming smile cut across her face.

“Good morning, trumpet.” She said softly.

“Good morning, Kitten.” He rasped out.

Cornelius awoke with a start. “Nuh!? Wher-” He blinked when he noticed David staring at him. “Oh, hrrm, good morning, David. Thank you for protecting my daughter with your body when you crashlanded into the forest. Niala told me everything.” He looked at his daughter with a mix of pride and relief.

He turned his head back to him. “I must say, while I would much prefer my Niala remain home and safe, pushing back the limits of alchemy, like her father, if she has to venture out, I am glad you are ready to sacrifice yourself for her sake.” He declared.

Niala cleared her throat, grabbing her father's attention and showing him a strained smile.

Cornelius stared at it wordlessly for a few seconds before he got the message. He pulled away from her and got to his feet, dusting his robes. “Ah, well, I will go and let the healer and the others know that you are awake. It is good that you are alive, my boy. I believe my daughter would have been devastated if you had-”

“Dad.”

Her smile was like a razor blade at this point.

Cornelius blinked. “Yes, very well. I will give you two privacy.” He blurted out and retreated from the cabin, closing the door behind him.

They both watched the door for a few seconds before looking at each other. She shuffled closer to his face and gingerly rubbed her cheek against his before nestling her head into the crook of his neck.

There, she sighed. “I'm glad you woke up. From what they told me, we were both really hurt, though I was bleeding out. They fed me two of my potions, and I woke up just in time to stop them from pouring one into you. We tested with just a tiny sip, and even then, you still squirmed as if you were in pain. We weren't sure if we should still risk it, but the healers said you weren't immediately in danger, just really hurt.”

She sniffed, and he felt something wet on his neck. “Your left eye is gone, and you were impaled on wood sticks and branches. Your left leg is broken in two spots, and you have half a dozen other minor fractures. The healers cleaned and bandaged your wounds, but that's all they could do.”

She raised her head to look at him with glistening eyes. “You've been asleep for three days. I was...” She clamped her eyes shut, forcing the wobble out of her voice and a smile back on her face. “I love you. Thank you for waking up.”

He smiled back and brought the one arm that hurt the least toward her, resting his hand on her nape and pulling her in slowly.

They kissed, gently, like two butterflies tangling.

It was enough.

She pulled back, her nerves calmed, and rested her head on top of his chest. He stroked her head with his good hand. He didn't need anything more right now.

All the imagined scenes of Niala's broken body, limp on the forest floor, of having failed her, came to mind. The same ones he had stomped with all he had during their fall, because, in that moment, he had to be strong.

But now, she was safe, and alive, and he could be weak. He let the dread visions flow out of him, one stroke of his hand at a time.

They remained in the quiet, reassuring stillness of the cabin, their world stopping where each other's bodies did.

Together.

After a while, Niala began catching David up with what had happened while he was unconscious.

Arnelle and the Alchemical Star crew had made it out; she'd managed to grab hold of the rope ladder with her unbroken arm, and the floating launches returned to one of the other four airships.

Isaac had them all land and send out teams to find the couple, going by the accounts of the crew who said they'd spotted a pair of indigo wings a few seconds before the explosion, darting away from its epicentre.

The other captains called the reports stress-induced hallucinations, but Isaac figured that if anyone could do something so ridiculous as sprouting wings and flying to safety, it was his brother and her wife.

To Cornelius and Angeline's relief, he turned out to be right. They were found a few kilometres away, mangled, but alive.

Isaac then had the Azure Guards and airmen set out on patrol to make certain nothing remained of the blob. They incinerated anything that resembled fleshy bits within a 10-kilometre radius. That took two days.

They were heading back home, now. David, in his current state and unable to take healing potions, was consigned to bed rest. Most of his wounds would heal naturally, with time, though his missing eye and organ scars were going to need a proper Niala potion to fix. That meant fixing his mana siphons problem.

They were hoping Marshalla and Leandro would be able to help. If not them, then maybe another expert, or even the fairies.

Whatever happened, Niala swore she'd see him healed up, even if she had to somehow brew a potion a grade higher than god-tier.

She didn't laugh when he joked that at least he was able to see things the right way now.

He asked about her own ailment; the globes of corruption floating around her pathways, keeping her from weaving. She reassured him, saying that she would probably be fine, as she already knew how to clear them out, having done it at the temple. She was going to have Marshalla observe the process and make sure it wasn't having a hidden effect, but if it didn't, then all she needed was time to prowl her pathways and hunt the invaders down.

With that, the discussion circled back to their encounter with the ascended fel and what it had said. Niala had written down everything and had gone over it while standing vigil over David.

Even if they couldn't entirely trust the fel's words, they still gave hints and indications. For one, they confirmed Niala's theory that mana corruption was a sort of contaminant in the aetheric sea, which then clogged up people's mana pathways as they drank from it. The guesses she had made during their fight out of the temple were thus validated.

Whether or not this contaminant was of divine origin was up for debate. If it were, then it meant that death wasn't the end for a god; its essence would still try to collect itself.

Or maybe that was for this one particular god. Maybe it wasn't even a god, and something else entirely.

Whatever its nature, the contaminant sought more of itself, and apparently, higher life forms contained more of it. Why animals never became corrupted was left a mystery.

The fel had also said a few things that had led Niala to some theories. First, it had seemed surprised when they both resisted his command to bow, ignoring some sort of call. She figured that it could mean any number of things, but the fel had also remarked that she 'had the gift but not his presence'.

By gift, she assumed her ability to consume mana, and the presence was probably the contaminant. While she had some in her now, because she had fed upon the fel's mana, she figured it meant she had been devoid of it at the time.

She had wondered if the call was supposed to come from the contaminant. If so, then it could mean that David was clean of it as well.

David remarked that it could also mean it was just diluted within him to the point of irrelevance, but still present. She agreed that it was also a possibility, but both were encouraging, at least to her. If the source of mana corruption within David was either absent or too diluted, then, maybe, it meant he wasn't as susceptible to the affliction as Jordo seemed to think.

It, however, also left a question; if Niala was free of contaminant, which was what turned people into magivores, then where was her ability coming from?

Then, there were the wider aspects to consider. For one, it explained why the Hummers had gone after the Reign's scions; they were a source of contaminant, something the fels used to strengthen themselves.

It also shone a new light on the Whisper Kingdoms' troops' frenzied obsession with capturing or killing anyone on the battlefield who displayed magivore abilities.

Had there been a deeper meaning behind the two nations' hate for each other?

So many questions and, ultimately, most were little more than curiosities.

For now, they had a singular goal. David put it best: they had to fix his holes, so he could be made whole again.

He'd smiled at Niala.

She'd sighed and resigned herself to rubbing her face on him. She was starting to suspect that David was going to develop a terrible dad humour.

It was fine. She'd still love him to bits despite that disability. Nobody could be perfect, after all.

They'd both gone quiet after Niala's exposition, happy to simply both be alive and, all things considered, healthy, after their ordeal.

David, though, had one burning question on his mind. He craned his neck to look at Niala. “Kitten?”

She turned her head to look at him. “Hmm?”

“...Your wings. Are they like Heartsong?”

She froze for a second, and then blushed, averting her eyes. “I... yeah.”

He smiled. “Can I see them?”

She looked up at him, ears folded down, before nodding once. She got to her feet and stood in the middle of the cabin.

There, she did as David had when he'd summoned Heartsong from nowhere, and pulsed the thought of her wings through her pathways. Her mana ignited and raced along, pooling in a small knot between her shoulder blades. The pressure grew for a few seconds, then snapped.

From Niala's back, two amethyst feathery wings, scintillant like a starry sky, unfurled, bathing the cabin in violet light.

He lay there, marvelling at his wife, who had taken another step toward being a literal angel. She already had the heart, now she had the wings.

She looked up from the corner of her eye. “You're staring...”

The corners of his mouth curved up. “Yeah, they're the second most beautiful things I've ever seen.”

“...What's the first?”

“You.”

She looked away, her blush deepening and underlined by a happy smile.

The wings took up the entire room, but they were smaller than he remembered. Just like Heartsong, when they were called out without both of their mana, they wouldn't reach their full potential.

But Heartsong could be carried by either of them... “Do you think I could call them to me? The wings?”

Her ears wiggled as she tilted her head. “Like Heartsong? I don't know. Maybe?”

They set out to test it out, and he was kind of disappointed when they seemed to belong to her only.

He sighed, but let it go, his curiosity sated. She'd more than earned a pair of wings.

He smiled. “Did you give them a name?”

She blinked. “You want to... name my wings?”

“Sure. We named Heartsong, and I seem to recall that you were speaking to what looked like a little featureless mana kid in our inner world. So, in a way, it's kind of like a child. Came from both of us, and was born into something new.”

She thought for a second. “I... guess that makes sense, but what kind of name? Did you have an idea?”

“Hmm, they came to us when we thought we were going to die...”

Her ears perked up. “...But you told me to not give up, that you had faith in me.”

He nodded. “Because I trust you more than life.”

They smiled in tandem. They spoke in unison. “Hope's Light.”

Niala's wings pulsed bright. A subtle weight around them imposed itself into the world, as if, up until now, they had been incomplete.