Ah crap, Thomas thought, and quickly reached for his mutable shield. He could try to blast the entire wave again with Severing Radiance and take them out that way, but then every wisp would drop a metric ass-ton of loot. It would quickly become apparent to anyone with eyes that he was the reason.

What if he didn't do his very best, and that caused someone injury, or worse, their life? Didn't he have a duty to--

Thomas firmly shoved that thought away even before it could finish forming. He was not going to become suicidally self-sacrificing just to feed the wants of his Healing mana.

Besides, everyone here except for perhaps Antonin was either capable of defending themselves in a dungeon or had run this one multiple times and knew what to expect.

Case in point, Jo stepped in front of him, held up her palm, and a spray of needle-like projectiles erupted from her open hand and cut the oncoming swarm into ribbons.

Then, casual as you please, she turned, and with a whip-like motion of her arm, launched another huge blade at the remainder of the sub-boss. The thing had been staggering back and forth without its "head," but was not down.

A screech came from its open neck as it was impaled with a blade, though it didn't go down completely or explode into more wisps.

"The sub-bosses have a weakness to physical attacks," Jo said quickly. "That's one of the few ways to defeat them. They won't take well to being ganged up on, either."

"Well, who does?" Thomas asked weakly, to cover his shock. He was still reeling from her sheer badassery, and also what he read between the lines: That was a nasty dungeon trick. After dealing with wisps that didn't react to physical attacks, it was unlikely anyone new to the dungeon would try it on a sub-boss.

Also, and most importantly, holy fuck, Jo! She'd either gotten a lot of practice with her skill recently or the Purge had really strengthened her. He really wanted to ask what the needle move had been about, but they had other problems on their hands.

More of the wisps burst off of the main sub-boss and came right at them to join the few that Jo hadn't taken out.

"Spread out and don't bunch up!" Tiny barked. Instantly, the group of prisoners around him went from fearful to ready to fight. Thomas felt his spine straighten too, and he readied himself for the next round.

Tiny looked over them all and nodded. "Watch out for your neighbors. We're not going to lose anyone else today," he said, and since he was built roughly on the scale of a Mack truck, he stepped to the front before everybody else. He was a reassuring sight.

Thomas activated his Eyes of Riches. Some of the oncoming wisps were much brighter than the others. That told him they were probably worth more, so of course, he focused on the closest bright wisp first, striking out with his Severing Radiance just to see what it would do. Turns out that while these wisps were a little more resistant to physical attacks, they couldn't take a single Severing Radiance beam straight to the face.

It exploded in a satisfying way into disintegrating motes, and he saw a large A-grade crystal fall from it.

He didn't have time to follow up and snatch the crystal because two more were trying to sneak past him toward Antonin.

The poor guy was the only one who was not fighting and had cowered back against the wall, even though those false gems had to be digging into his back—hey, some of those gems were glowing brightly in his Eyes of Riches, too.

No, focus! Thomas hit the first wisp with another Severing Radiance and swung at the second with his halberd. He wasn't the best with weapons, having used them for maybe a month now, but a blade was a blade. He sheared off one of the arms from the wisp. Unfortunately, it wasn't enough to kill it, and the remaining wisp darted around to come at him instead. Kind of like a wasp when you fail to kill it the first time; then it starts to fight back.

That was when Thomas's Combat Foresight kicked in. He didn't realize that he could use it in conjunction with his Eyes of Riches, but the ghostly after-images warned him to duck. He did, and when the wisp buzzed past his head with a crackle of energy, he hit it with a Second Severing Radiance. It popped like a balloon, and a glittering diamond shape fell from it to 'ting' when it hit the ground.

Score! Skill shard!

There were wisps everywhere, and Thomas didn't have time to stop to identify it. He scooped it right off the ground and put it in his pocket for later, then looked to see his next victim.

Around him, the fight had fallen into chaos as everybody attacked wisps individually. Twitch was off to his right and was doing really well, though he was waving his sword sort of randomly in all directions, like he was trying to strike flies with a flyswatter. It was getting the job done. He was grinning almost manically, as if he were having a good time.

Jo was strictly professional. With one hand on her sword, she was clearly channeling her Still Waters skill, using her other hand to take wisps right out of the air with one bladed needle after another. Damn, he had to talk to her about that skill. She had gotten real good.

Zach was being his usual ultra-competent self, knocking wisps out of the air with his quarterstaff like it was easy. The freed prisoners were doing their bit, too.

However, Tiny had gotten through the initial swarm of wisps and was heading straight for the remains of the sub-boss, which seemed to be pulling itself together into a more amorphous shape with four limbs and gnashing teeth.

"We have to take this thing out together!" Tiny roared.

The group surged forward with shouts to help out. Thomas felt the thrill of battle rise up within him as well. He started to join them, but then realized at the last moment that while everybody's attention was on the sub-boss, he could take out the individual wisps one by one. No one would see, and the loot would be epic. That was an easy choice.

He hung back and started doing just that, focusing first on the random wisps which glowed brightest in his Eyes of Riches. Those almost certainly dropped good items. It was a shame he didn't have time to scoop all of them up as he went. Though, of course, he did his best and got some huge light and nature mana crystals.

Then there was another roar from the other side of the cavern. Thomas looked over to see Tiny and Jo drive their weapons into different parts of the sub-boss at the same time. Then Jo hit it with another flying blade, point blank. Thomas half expected the thing to fall apart into another swarm, but it died in moats and left a huge A-grade crystal that buzzed with electricity behind.

Zach, he noticed, stood back. He was working on any escaped wisps like Thomas was, but there was a slightly troubled look on his face.

Deciding he'd analyze that later, Thomas looked around, making sure that no one was missing any fingers or toes or maybe a nose. There weren't any huge injuries, but some people had indeed had chunks taken out of them. Twitch, especially, was bleeding from at least four different places, though he wasn't acting like it.

Thomas had him absorb a healing crystal, and then watched a moment to make sure the crystal patched him up well enough that Thomas didn't need to use his Living Architecture.

Tiny let out a war whoop that other people echoed, cheering their victory. Everyone was all grins, especially Thomas, who could feel the shard practically burning a hole in his pocket. He wanted to check on it the second he could, but he also wanted to see what else had dropped.

He wasn't the only one. The others were fanning out across the cavern floor like an adult Easter egg hunt. Some people were outright absorbing crystals as they went. Thomas hoped that what they were absorbing fit their current build, but he wasn't their mom.

"A shard!" Holton, one of the prisoners, yelled, as he picked up a diamond off the ground. "Holy shit, I got a skill shard!"

"You should turn that into the team," Sue said, scowling. “Let everyone decide who gets it.”

"Yeah, I think I was the one who killed that wisp," the guy who was meant to be dungeon feed said. "I should have it."

There was no way to tell for certain, as everybody had been killing wisps at the same time. Personally, Thomas thought he was the one who killed the wisp over there, but there were ugly expressions on almost everyone’s faces, and he was not dumb enough to get in the middle of that.

"Enough." Tiny stepped into the middle of the brewing argument. "We're not doing this right now. It's a good find, but there's plenty of dungeon left with big stuff." He held out his hand. "Give it to me. We'll add it to the pool for later."

Holton shard hesitated for a moment, then very reluctantly handed it over. Tiny nodded and clapped him on the shoulder, and the guy seemed to straighten under his praise.

He works well with people, Thomas thought. A natural leader. I'm glad we have him.

And as if he'd heard him, Tiny looked around and then, spying Thomas, walked on over.

"Noticed you didn't go for the sub-boss," Tiny said. He spoke in a straightforward fashion, but the tone was only mildly curious.

"I'm a healer," Thomas said. "I was making sure no one got swarmed and eaten alive. Then I started taking out the stragglers." He had no reason to defend himself to this guy, but it didn't bother him to explain.

Tiny nodded once, his expression neutral. "Saw that. I'm pretty sure you're the one who took out that wisp who dropped this shard."

Thomas shrugged like it didn't matter to him, though if he didn't have another one hidden in his pocket, he might have pressed the point. "My skill slots are all full."

A smile flickered across Tiny’s face, and Thomas thought, Shit, he knows something.

"Before I got thrown in this hellhole, I used to have a crew back in New York," Tiny said. "We've got people who know how to keep divers off government radar instead of just hoping it doesn't catch up to them. It was bad luck that got me here. But when I get back... we could use a guy with your sort of talent." He let that sit for a second before he added, "I'm talking about healing, of course. Useful Gift, that."

He was about as subtle as a hammer to the forehead and had absolutely not been talking about healing.

Though strangely enough, Thomas was tempted. Things were real scary for him out on the West Coast. If Tiny could actually back up what he was saying and had a professional outfit, it might be worth looking into, especially if Thomas ever had to duck and run. He was friends with a teleporter, after all.

Actually, the more he thought about it, the more branching out to another team seemed like a very good idea. He had been trying to keep his head above water for a while. It had only been luck that he hadn't been caught up in the raid and sent here as a prisoner like Jo.

Thomas didn't want to be some Elven game piece that could be taken off the board at the sweep of a hand. He just wanted to loot dungeons and get rich, and maybe help people on the side, because what was the point of loot if you didn't use it? If Tiny could offer that, then yeah, maybe—

A second thought came out of nowhere, and he swore it almost sounded like Zach's voice. It whispered, Pineapple.

He almost dismissed it out of hand, but the oddness of it made him stop and consider.

Wait. No, hold on. What was he thinking? He didn't want to run off to the East Coast. He'd never been further east than Chicago that one time, and he liked his life here with his family and team. He wanted to fight for his home. Why was he actually about to jump at Tiny's offer?

Tiny was still watching him, waiting for Thomas's reaction. What the hell was going on?

Thomas kept any confusion off his face and let out a long breath, as if he were seriously considering it instead of internally freaking out.

"Sounds great," Thomas lied. "Let me think about it."

Tiny smiled, then clapped Thomas on the shoulder just like he had with the guy who'd given him the shard.

Despite himself, Thomas straightened up. He felt like someone important, someone who could be courageous and daring.

Those feelings were absolutely not his own.

"Sure, man. No rush," Tiny said.

Tiny walked back to the others and exchanged words with Jo, who smiled and laughed at him, easy as you please.

Oh shit. Oh shit. Oh fucking hell and shit.

He had to warn the others. There was nothing he could do for Jo just yet as she was probably way under his sway, but he had to get the message out. How, though?

While he was no longer under the elf hologram, the little subvocal communicator was still in his ear. They were unobtrusive and really comfortable. Hopefully, Zach and Twitch had kept theirs in as well.

He toggled his on and subvocalized. "Watch out. Tiny has a mind manipulation Gift."