Erick looked over to Jane. She was not doing well. With a short shuffle, he scooted over and wrapped her in his arms. She folded onto him without complaint. Soft sobs came and went as Erick whispered that everything was going to be okay. He was a liar, of course, and she called him on it, but having hope was better than falling to despair.

They laid down, their backs pressed tight against each other, staring out into different darknesses.

- - - -

Morning shone over the horizon, bringing with it a raging thirst and a full bladder.

And full HP and MP.

He was the second to wake, of course. Jane was walking back from somewhere beyond the [Ward] boundary, her arms crossed, hugging herself as though she was freezing. She quickly relaxed as she crossed the [Ward] threshold.

“It’s fucking cold out there!” She thumbed over her shoulder. “You need to go?” She handed him the knife. “Use it to dig, not to bury.”

He took the knife. “I’ve been camping since before you were born.”

She smiled. “Don’t go too far, or get too close to the crystal agaves.”

“Oh? Do you think I should ration my water as well?” he asked, sarcastically, and in a wholly good mannered way.

“Yes. I’ve calculated that one sip per hour should be appropriate,” she responded in kind.

“Thank you, Daughter," he said, smiling.

“Anytime, Father.”

He stepped to the edge of the ward and poked it with a knife. The knife passed through the space with no resistance.

“Thank God.” Jane said, “I thought I would have to take it down for you and then suffer in the cold while I waited. Guess it doesn’t work like that.” She added, "And we're not rationing water."

"Yup." Erick said, "Hydrate or die, as they say."

Erick walked about thirty feet away, dug a hole in the ground, ditched his drawers, and popped a squat. When he was done, he found a nearby stone and used that as toilet paper. It was not his most dignified moment, that’s for sure.

This is intolerable. I’m buying Cleanse as soon as I can.

Their daily routines buried in the desert, Erick and Jane each drank enough water to wet their throats, and not much more. As they broke camp, which amounted to little more than gathering up their few non-pocketable possessions and wrapping them in the blanket, Erick had a thought.

“How big of a bug was it? Did it look edible?”

“It was fat fucker, for sure. Big beetle-thing, all shiny black. Probably fry up real good.”

“Mmm. Fried bug and waffles.”

“Lotsa maple syrup.”

“Can’t forget the homefries.”

“Dee~licious.”

Jane went right to the line in the dirt she carved yesterday. It was still there, untouched. They followed the arrow, making sure they lined up with the correct path, setting off a little bit left of sunrise. One and a half more days go to. Hopefully they’d see something besides crystal agave before then.

- - - -

Erick wished he had not wished to see something besides agave. Agaves are great! Agaves are beautiful!

Agaves did not want to eat them, as far as he knew. The thing chasing them? There was a 90% chance that thing wanted to eat them, and a 100% chance it wanted to murder them.

The Spike Monster crashed through yet another agave, cutting itself on the sharp crystal. Black blood scattered across the desert. The monster hurt itself each time it smashed through an agave instead of run around, like Jane and Erick were forced to do, but it didn’t care. It was ten feet tall, made solely of six long arms that each ended in a five foot black spike, with no visible mouth. It had lifted up from the ground twenty minutes ago and gave chase at a little faster than a jog. They couldn’t outrun the monster, but it either couldn’t, or wouldn’t, catch up.

There was another problem.

“Heal!”

Jane poked him with a [Rejuvenation] as they ran.

Running ate up HP. A lot of HP. But as long as Erick was full, running was easy. This right here? This almost-sprint? Erick could do this all day. He couldn’t have done 10 minutes of this back on Earth.

ROOAAR!

“It has no mouth!” Jane complained, “How is it screaming!”
