They spent the next hour listening to Curon’s curated collection of sad music. Ballads really weren’t her faux-father’s forte, but it helped.

Trent Davis came down at eleven to see if his Director was working—and find father and daughter loafing.

He opened his arms. Eppie went into it.

It felt like she was being hugged by the facsimile of a hug. The feeling, the pressure, the overwhelming cologne, as opposed to her father’s laundry powder and body odour, made it feel like there should be a camera somewhere, capturing them for a press release.

“We’ll be there on Saturday,” Trent said. “To give our respects.”

“Thank you, sir…”

He patted her hand, then returned to the top floor.

Did Davis descend to share grief? To mourn the loss of an artist who had straddled both sides of American history? Or had he come down to cultivate rapport with his golden goose? Or was the [System] reminding her that her daily net income would soon dip into the negatives?

Her questions were rhetorical, for the bard had told her the answer, a long time ago.

All the world’s a stage,And all the men and women merely players.

After lunch, Maddy suddenly materialised from the digital world and confronted Eppie while she hung around the corridors of the Belmonte building like the unhappy spectre of disgruntled idols whose dreams had been exhumed and sold for pennies on the dollar.

Maddy went analogue and gave her a big, tight hug that lifted her off the carpet. Finally, after holding her like a homeless kitten for about a minute, she gave her a physical readout of Eppie’s current reputational crisis.

Maddy asked for permission to make posts about Kiritani-sensei.

Eppie said she’d rather not.

“Okay, but take care of your mental health.” Maddy channelled her corporate lingo with as much humanity as she could squeeze into the phrase. “I’ll take care of everything on this end! You can count on it!”

Then she took Eppie down to the cafeteria for ice cream.

After the ice cream, Eppie realised that another reason Maddy had come down was that Eppie wasn’t answering her emails.

Tuesday

It was Kellie’s turn in the Mueller Suites, and she had brought fajitas to cheer Eppie up.

Fortunately, Kellie hadn’t lost anyone in her immediate family yet, and, as the child of a young family, she hoped that she wouldn’t for a long time. When she heard that Eppie was going to be in the Mueller suites, she just knew she had to offer some kind of emotional support.

“I heard,” said Kellie, watching the listless girl waiting to host her sensei’s funeral on Saturday. “You have my condolences. I…I don’t have anything better than that. Sorry… would you like a fajita?”

She had remembered how much Eppie loved Mexican during the Dream a Little shoot, and sent Big Brendan a long way for the best fajitas this side of the Rio Grande. She even had the kitchen downstairs reheat them.

“Sure, I’ll take one…” She watched Eppie bite into the saucy tortilla, allowing the flavour to hit, then moodily gulp down the lot.

Kellie watched this happen, then opened one of her own.

Her technician’s nose wrinkled, and Kellie felt it in her stomach. She had carried hot food into his room. Nobody carried hot food into Mueller’s studio unless their name was Frederick Curon.

Then he looked past her at Eppie, and something in his face gave way. He sighed, asked Kellie whether there was a spare, and took it to the far end of the suite to eat well away from the meter bridge, the faders, and the routers, holding it flat on a paper towel the whole way.

“Should be working on your song,” he mumbled, mostly to himself. “Not feeding a stray cat the C-suite adopted.”

Kellie decided she had not heard that, but when she tried to apologise, Mueller just waved her into silence.

Eppie ate four fajitas.

By the end of their meal, even Big Brendan was afraid.

Wednesday. Zara texted her from Detroit.

I am so sorry, Eppie. Antonio says the cats will find you again. (What does that mean?) I’ll be in or around NYC in six weeks. Please take care of yourself.

Eppie considered what she should text back. Zara had never met Henry Kiritani. Her friend was sad for her, not for the artist who journeyed into the pure world.

So she texted back a picture of Kimi, having grown fat thanks to the shelter. Plus a love heart emoji.

That's a FAT cat...

Eppie agreed. Kimi was a right chonker.

Then the rest of the week happened.

She sat in on two A&R meetings, listening to the VPs and Producers argue over mixed reviews. She received confirmation from Green Hasson Jank that her T-bill bidding was complete. She texted and received texts from Valorie, passing on a message from Sir Justin that Reiber had been moved to NYC, and that he had engaged a premium remote education service for the boy.

Every morning, George laid the day’s papers, and every morning, Eppie subtly curated the financial news for the Dame of the Met.

Seventy-nine days until the economy implodes.

How many days after the fact would tens of thousands of artists find themselves unemployed?

Her Newfoundland called on Thursday.

“Deed’s drawn. Mr Whitfield reviewed it as a favour. It’s clean.” A pause; a car horn somewhere behind him. “You sign Saturday morning before the service. Director Curon will witness. It’s four pages, and three of them are the schedule of works, which, by the way, is 141 items. Half of which have yet to be exhibited. Kiritani-Sensei was very prolific.”

Eppie said thanks. She told Eric that she was glad he was in NYC, and that their working relationship would continue.

“Em and I are not far,” he told her. “Thirty-Fourth and Ninth. Movers get here Tuesday. I’ll be in the same building as you, just below 27. Business and Legal Department, reporting to Whitfield.”

“Are you still going to be my babysitter?” she asked.

“Are you still a baby?” Eric returned her question with one of her own.

They both laughed awkwardly, flatly, then Eric sighed with heart, and said: “Take care for now. See you Saturday.”

When she hung up, there was a new text from Valorie.

Francis Sanders would also be attending Kiritani’s funeral.

Well, that makes sense… Eppie tossed her phone back onto the bed. If Francis is going national—there’s no way he would miss the man who catalysed Tule Lake’s transformation into a national monument.
