The entire sword, then half of his hand disappeared before his triumph turned to horror. He turned into a shadow and teleported back exactly where Viv expected, catching an astra through the chest which killed him instantly.

“Nice try.”

“Close ranks,” Tarn screamed from the side where he was fighting off another pair of warborn. “Close ranks or I’ll fucking skin you alive!

The guards who had spread out a little immediately surrounded Viv but it was for nothing. The battle was already winding down.

Cernit and his sons had engaged more warborn at the edge of the formation while she was taking care of the nearest ones. Cernit and his eldest son formed the wings of the group of four while the youngest stayed at the center, the opposite of what Baranese doctrine dictated. They rode one warborn down at a time, turning sharply when they used their insane mobility to evade. Four spears and the horse’s speed were enough to make sure at least one of the weapons landed. The usefulness of boar spears now became apparent when the skewered warborn tried to free themselves. Their tendency to charge suicidally was hampered by the merciless implement pinning them in place.

The swifter warborns tried to use the wall to their advantage, jumping on it to force the knights to give up the charge or crash into it. The first to try received two javelins to the back and fell to his death.

The four knights had done better than the rest of the infantry combined, Viv realized. More importantly, the warborn had absolutely no team spirit. They were independent fighters with no squad tactics, trading the ability to work in formation for incredible single combat prowess. It proved of little utility against patient and disciplined groups of soldiers and yet the outnumbered warriors had still killed four people in the blink of an eye. It was… a little concerning.

Viv also realized the last slingers had stopped firing.

Inside the fort, something was happening. The ram smashed through the damaged door to reveal a scene of carnage. Two giant hounds like the one they had killed before were fighting slingers, killing them easily. A third lay dead with a smashed skull. The inner courtyard was a scene of pure chaos. Blood was spilled everywhere amid corpse parts and dying men. Viv immediately spotted the cause. There was a group of robed figures left intact near the tower. Well, mostly intact. Feathered shafts emerged from their backs.

It appeared that Jerod’s little foray had been successful.

With the fall of the tamers and most warborns, the rest of the battle was a simple mop up. The remaining slingers never surrendered though several managed to run away. Viv was left watching a peculiar scene.

In the corner of the courtyard were huddled women wearing thick robes that hid most of their features. All of them clutched a small, ornamented knife in their blood-covered right hands and all of them were dead. The sprays of arterial blood and clean left hands indicated the girls had cut their own throats before forming a small pile, perhaps to face death together.

Cernit walked to Viv after he was done giving orders. They looked at the spectacle.

“Camp followers. They always kill themselves. Even if you capture one alive, they’ll do their best to end their own lives.”

“Out of fear of something?”

“Not fear, I’d wager. Pah, who knows with those savages?”

Viv shrugged. They looked like civilians to her and she didn’t like that. That was all.

“Is it pity you feel?” Cernit asked, his face closed.

Viv knew this was a test and also that she didn’t care for it.

“A little, yes. Those were not warriors.”

“Then come with me.”

They walked to the keep. The first floor was a makeshift prison, the door guarded by a soldier. He looked a little green. Viv knew what to expect from the smell.

The Halurians had captured villagers at some point of their brief occupation. Probably to sell as slaves for a bonus. Their bodies were spread haphazardly across the room, drying blood coloring stained piles of hay in a disgusting mess. There were many with defensive wounds, a mother curled around the remains of the child she had failed to protect. They were all too thin and too lightly clothed. A skeletal body waited curled in a corner, long dead before the rest had been executed. The stench of voided bowel and filth was nauseating.

“That’s what they do. That’s Halurians,” Cernit growled, and there was a deep hatred in the knight’s voice Viv had never heard before.

“They are beasts who kill and get killed without a shred of regret. They don’t understand humanity. One day we’ll cross the border, all civilized nations together to cleanse them off the face of this world for good.”

Viv could see why Rakan and his sister would leave. Haluria sounded like a shit place.

“Do you understand what we fight for?” the knight asked with a burning passion.

“I understand that I have my orders and now that the fort is clear, I’ll carry them out.”

Cernit blinked.

“Oh. Of course. My apologies, this is a difficult tale for me.”

“You live on the border. I understand,” Viv replied.

She turned and moved to form a large, durable witch teleporter.

The work this time took a long time, not least because she didn’t have Sidjin with her to flatten and prepare the ground. This teleporter was temporary but the distance was also much longer and it was close to nightfall when she added the finishing touch, pouring most of her mana into the working before her. All the while, soldiers and knights protected her though she could see them look with some curiosity.

With an effort of will, the circle ignited.

It always felt strange to twist reality at such a fundamental level that even modern technology could not dream of matching it in a hundred years. The sheer amount of power required to do so would be on the scale of the Dyson sphere, Viv thought, but here it happened because the planet allowed it. Or perhaps, it strengthened the body and souls of those who dwelled on it so they could make it happen.

The aperture of the portal opened slowly. It would close just as smoothly later. Viv could soon see the distant walls of the town of Lartizen on the northern border of Baran. There were also knights. They crossed immediately.

Now, Cernit was a country knight. He owned land but probably had few servants if any. His armor was army-issued while his son used functional yet mismatched castoffs from lost sets. Those stood at the opposite end of the spectrum. If Viv had to imagine a valiant prince in shining armor, that was it. That was the real fucking deal. They rode massive chargers clad in engraved armor of exquisite make shining with delicate patterns, lines, and illustrations. Art and enchantment here formed a harmonious whole far from the functional sobriety of Harrakan armors. Banners and motley capes completed the dazzling display. Those armor bore the history of the families that undoubtedly paid a fortune to have them made and they did so in more ways than one. Discolorations and minuscule dents proved that those were not display pieces to be exhibited in dusty halls but tools of war, powerful defenses that had saved their owners as they’d charged into danger. The knights’ weapons were stowed for now but Viv saw from the sheaths and handles that they would be no less impressive. She felt tiny in front of them. On horseback, they were so tall and massive. A fugacious memory of the charge in Sinur’s Gate came to her mind unbidden. If a dozen knights could plow through ranks of undead, then those men…

[Inner Circle Knight of the White Orchard. Count of Irelus. Very Dangerous. Expert melee combatant…]

Yes, they could probably hold their own. And there were a lot of them. The first riders trotted out of the courtyard until one blew a horn, then a group even more hallowed and decorated slowly moved out, shining under the pale sun like apparitions.

The most obvious signs that they were bigwigs happened when every man in the courtyard took the knee, Cernit first. Viv did not bow to foreigners so she merely curtseyed.

The group consisted of a giant in scarlet armor, a lithe man in a multicolor garb that looked strangely like a buffoon outfit, though she didn’t feel like laughing, and a few others in sublime garments. They rode under a banner showing a field of trees bearing white flowers that reminded her of roses. The man at their head was seventy if he was a day. Or rather, he looked seventy but that didn’t mean anything here. She didn’t dare inspect him while his dark eyes peered at her over a wide, bushy white beard. He was the only one whose helmet was open. He nodded at Viv, then to his credit, he dismounted. Meanwhile, knights kept crossing the portal.

“And you must be Viviane the Outlander. Excellent work on taking the fort, as expected of a war caster of your reputation. Now, we can be sure the tamers cannot report our presence. You have delivered on your promise, just like General Jaratalassi said you would. Congratulations.”

“Just doing my job, sir.” Viv replied automatically before realizing he wasn’t a colonel and this was no longer the army.

He had a rather strong presence, but it wasn’t just that. Just like Inquisitor Denerim, he felt transparent in a way that Viv could never achieve. She could tell with certainty that he was valorous and devoid of malice. She could also tell he would lose his path if he acted otherwise. That didn’t mean he couldn’t plan and manipulate, she reminded herself, but at least he wouldn’t try to abuse her.

He nodded.

“My name is Order Master Ered. I lead the Order of the White Orchard.”

Viv nodded, though she minded two things. First, the Order of the White Orchard was the most elite knight order on the entire continent and quite possibly the world. Second, the knights had kept pouring through the aperture and there was no sign they would stop any time soon. Jaratalassi had already understood the importance of Viv’s portals. They were meant to solve the military world’s most constraining factor: logistics. Viv was moving an entire army.

“This is the second time you have proved your valor to the kingdom, Lady Viv. You have also saved the life of young Cernit whom we have been following with interest. Captain Cernit, you will report to the citadel for evaluation after we return to the capital. The eyes of the White Orchard are upon you. Do not disappoint us.”

“Y… Yes sir!” Cernit exulted.

“As a sign of Baran’s appreciation and with regard to your vital contribution to our plan, we would like to offer you the position of herald in the coming battle,” the man said seriously.

Then he waited with a careful expression. It was a test of sorts, first of etiquette. She knew she couldn’t fuck it up.

In the space between moments, Viv’s mind went into overdrive. Ethics class content had mentioned that, albeit briefly. The herald’s place was third in importance in a Baranese cavalry formation. Their role was to yell a war cry. They rode at the grandmaster’s left and before the standard bearer while to his right, he had the squire and the musician. All their roles were pretty self-explanatory, but there was one subtlety. Herald roles were sometimes left to outsiders because it only required high attunement and a leadership skill while standard bearer and musicians required a specific path. As for the squire, that was usually the formation's deadliest fighter. It was a rare and meaningful gesture. She could not refuse.

“I am greatly honored and I accept.”

“Very well. We have prepared a horse for you. Cernit will explain your role, won’t you, my boy?”

“Of course, my lord.”

While they talked, Viv’s mind went on tangents, calculating. Was this a political gesture? Did the grandmaster count on her to occupy the Enorians now that the kingdom could finally turn its gaze outward and towards the nearby Baran, currently under pressure because of the invasion? Was this a first opening towards future cooperation? Perhaps Lady Azar, Viv’s senechal in Harrak, had something to do with it. After all, the wily old viper was Baranese. There were so many considerations.

“This way, milady,” a flustered Cernit told her. “This way.”

“Don’t milady me Cernit.”

“Apologies. But you have to understand, I have never been so proud. The order of the White Orchard, perhaps recruiting me? It would… it would change everything!”

“Let’s make sure we give a good impression.”

“Most astute, yes! We have to do that. Absolutely. So, herald.”

“I know what I need to do. Scream a war cry at the beginning of the charge, right?”

“Yes. You do not have to do much. The order master’s magic will guide you. It is acceptable when hosting a guest to yell war cries belonging to other nations, though it is considered a poor show to name the foreign power itself. Oh, and the most important detail: leaders such as yourself tend to resist the order master’s skill by instinct. You will perhaps feel it like an intrusion? I am not sure. My own skills cannot compare to yours, of course. I only recommend that you let go and accept to be pushed forward.”

“I won’t ruin the charge.”

“Merely being aware of the pull should be enough. Only surprise could push you to resist I suppose, hence why I informed you. But I babble, I babble. Oh, the Order of the White Orchard! Viv, I cannot express how much this means to me.”

“You’re an honorable man, Cernit. And you have good instincts. I’m happy that your efforts are recognized.”

“And yours as well. A herald. Ah, to be at the front of such a charge. You will see. This is an experience like no others.”

“Looking forward to it.”

***

