“The fort’s occupied alright. By those thrice-cursed Halurians!”

“Language.”

Cernit’s eldest son faltered under his father’s gaze, his bluster gone in an instant. The mood in the tent grew awkward. Viv shifted and leaned over the map to offer a distraction but the old captain would not have it.

“We are here to receive your report, my son. Not to see you grandstand with all your youthful bravado. Provide your report in a concise and gentlemanly manner, so your officers may draw the right conclusions.”

“Yes, father. Of course.”

Viv thought the golden rule was to scold in private and praise in public, yet Cernit had decided not to do that despite a known leadership skill. Viv wondered if it was a question of etiquette. Perhaps he could not show favoritism. Perhaps he had done so for the sake of his other children. An interesting aspect of his culture.

“Halurians have taken over the deserted fortress. I have personally seen them while standing on Semia’s teat.”

“That’s a small hill facing the fort,” Cernit whispered to Viv.

She nodded. There was a mountain in the United States called the ‘Grand Teton’, the great nipple in French, so mankind shared the same naming skills everywhere, it seems. That or explorers were horny.

“I used a spying glass. They had sentries and the flag of the Varak clan. I did not come closer because the presence of birds of prey indicated tamers…”

The young man looked up to his father for approval with clear worry. Cernit only gave a curt nod. Viv thought the scout had been wise to stay away because if the Halurians had more of those dog things, he would have ended up as a crunchy snack without word of the enemy presence reaching the Baranese.

It was also clear the boys were not meant to be stealthy foresters. Their classes read as [Hedge Knights] and they were a sort of hybrid between hunters and actual knights.

“Will you be attacking them, father?”

“You have not finished your report. How many men do you think they might have?”

“Oh, yes. At least sixty from the number of flags, perhaps less. They have tamers. The presence of a faceless is… unlikely.”

“Very much so. They only intervene when we move into Halurian territory,” Cernit said for Viv’s benefit.

She had learned that in her history class but thanked the knight anyway.

“Do we attack?”

“Our orders are clear. We are to take over that place and we will. They cannot be allowed to report to their main forces.”

“Yes, father. It will be done.”

“Get your armor ready, you three, and fetch me my horse. They might have warborns with them to protect the tamers. We will be needed.”

“Do we raise the levies?”

“We know they have more beasts and they likely have warborns… what does it mean?” Cernit tested.

“That levies are only victims.”

“Correct. Make sure you pick up spare spears.”

“Of course.”

“You may leave.”

“Father, what should we tell mother?” the youngest asked.

Cernit smoldered until it looked like smoke might escape from his ears. Junior Cernit wilted under the terrible gaze.

“Tell her I will do all I can to bring her idiot sons back home in one piece. Now go.”

“Yessir.”

The trio left the tend, leaving Viv and Cernit alone. Tarn and old Jerod peeked through the curtain flaps. Cernit invited his lieutenant in with a gesture, then inspected the map in front of him.

“We need to follow the road. Beasts are always more dangerous on uneven ground. Even worse in a forest. They’ll see us coming up from very far if they do have birds anyway,” he said after a little while. His attention landed on Viv.

“What do you think?”

“How do we get over the walls? You do not have siege equipment.”

“We can make ladders in mere hours, but…”

“If they have warborns on the parapet, it will be a slaughter.”

“Yes. Only cavalry or elite infantry in formation can hope to stand before those maniacs. Soldiers climbing one by one just be so much meat. The gates, however…”

“Could they have repaired them?”

“Close to impossible. The Varak clans live in the nearby plains which also happen to be the only place in those gods-forsaken lands that can grow cereals. They have very few forests and no carpenters worth their salt.”

Viv knew from her class that the clans almost never cooperated, each warlord only trading favors in dire times.

“It’s not easy to repair a fortress gate. If they have done anything it will be a makeshift arrangement. Most likely not enchanted either.”

“What if they put up a barricade?” Tarn asked.

“Then they’d have a real hard time getting in and out seeing as there are no other entrances,” Cernit said with some bite.

“Beg your pardon,” Old Jerod said.

He blushed mightily when everyone actually paid attention to him.

“That is, sorry, ah, they probably have slingers. Gotta be hard to get the boys to work if the slingers just take potshots at them. Those stones can brain a man, even if they wear a helmet!”

“I could always shoot them from afar,” Viv offered.

“We’re supposed to take the fort, not demolish it. And the general said we were on a schedule,” Cernit said.

“How about that then? You pick some strong lads to carry a ram. I protect our approach with a shield and cover them while they work. Worst case scenario, I can destroy a blockade if there is any so long as it’s not made of stone. Black mana works worse against inert materials, though it still works.”

“And the scouts provide covering fire. That would work well, but… It puts you at risk. A great risk.”

“Have shield bearers protect me and it should be fine. I’ll make protective walls for your archers.”

Cernit and Viv exchanged a long glance. Viv could almost see the gears turning in the experienced man’s head. He could probably take the fort without her. The archers would provide cover while the infantry attacked through the door and while climbing the walls, using their superior numbers. It would most likely work but the casualties would be massive. Success would not be certain either. Involving Viv gave him the best chance to succeed, yet it also placed her in danger. No Viv, no portal.

“Jaratalssi didn’t just send me because of what I could do. He also sent me because of what I… could do.” Viv commented.

Cernit knew what she meant. He’d seen her fight.

“We will do as you suggested with one more thing. Jerod will pick his best archers to scale the walls on the northern side after we’ve begun our attack.”

“They’ll see them coming.”

“Not if they’re too busy with us. I know the perfect spot to scale the walls. A place where they’re damaged. They might get lucky.”

“As you said, sir. I’ll… lead them personally.”

Cernit eyed Jerod with suspicion. It was universally known he couldn’t shoot for shit and his offer felt suspicious.

“I can tell them if there’s a warborn waiting for them on top.”

“Very well. The fort is some way away. We’ll have an early lunch then leave as soon as my sons have returned.”

***

Cernit’s sons did return with a graying dark horse in tow. They wore mismatched armor pieces that did not always fit. Viv thought they looked like university boys who bought their disguise from the discount bins, though every bit was polished to a shine. The youngest just had a gambeson, no chestplate. Their spears looked good enough, however. Those were boar spears with a guard near the tip that prevented the victim from approaching.

The riders also came with civilians carrying a cauldron of warm food between them, and a letter from Cernit’s wife. The old knight read it, turning bashful and scared in turn. Everyone pretended not to notice.

“Let’s go!” Cernit said.

The column departed shortly after and Viv didn’t miss the worried glance he cast at his sons. She hoped her luck wouldn’t screw him over.

***

The approach to the fort went without a hitch. Distant birds of prey observed them from far above, their shapes sometimes visible as they emerged from the low clouds. Those looked like a cross between vultures and hawks, and it didn’t take an ornithologist to notice they were neither locals nor acting normally. The path led through dense woods, the pines still green and healthy. Their scent overpowered that of old sweat, to Viv’s relief. Nothing moved. Nothing attacked. The scouts’ vigilance proved superfluous.

The company reached the fort in the early afternoon after a brisk march though. Viv had ridden at the back of Cernit’s horse and felt refreshed as she took on their target.

Across a large expanse of empty ground, the fort stood like an old, cracked nut. Crenelations were missing on a battlement and reminded Viv of a smile with missing teeth. Large impacts had scored holes in the gray stones here and there, revealing lighter shades beneath. The gates had been hastily repaired with nailed on planks and they were closed at the moment. The keep was a single round tower no higher than her own house back in Kazar, and the walls were barely thirty meters long at the front, yet the fortress felt no less formidable for it. Savage flags depicting a lean wolf lined the walls, floating under a light breeze. Shapes moved behind and growls could be heard on the other side. The fortress had seen much and it still stood, and now it belonged to her enemies. A horn rang in the distance.

“Alright, spread out,” Cernit said. “Stay well behind your shields because you’re not safe, you hear? A second of an exposed neck and you’ll get a stone through the jaw. No second chances.”

Viv made sure to keep her shield in front of her. A squad detached from the main formation to cut a thick trunk at record speed. They had a makeshift ram ready in record time. Once again, the average soldier’s strength meant they could work and carry stuff their Earth counterparts could not hope to move. Soon enough, they were ready.

Tarn formed a protective square around Viv. Jerod faded in the trees with his handpicked group. The rest of the infantry formed in a column behind her with the scouts protected by shields, the ram went in front of her, and the mounted knights under Cernit loitered at the edge of the forest, trotting in this and that direction to prevent the slingers from getting an easy shot. They were ready.

“Forwaaaaaard!” Cernit roared.

He blew a horn for good measure. Viv called in an aegis with colorless mana and the formation moved forward.

Almost immediately, a few stones pinged on the transparent beehive shield. A test. This version of the Aegis was designed with runes that stopped physical impact so the drain on her reserves was negligible. Guttural voices rang across the battlements, calling the warriors to battle. Viv didn’t have Arthur with her this time so she asked Tarn to keep an eye up for birds. Nothing could break concentration like surprise talons to the eyes.

Slowly, they moved forward. Stones would skirt the very edge of her shield to try and take infantrymen off guard, but those were experienced lads and most stones only found raised shields. A man got a broken foot after twenty meters and the column made themselves even tighter. Cries of frustration echoed over the wall.

“Steady!” Tarn said.

The formation kept together remarkably well until they reached the walls. Viv kept the shield up and got to work.

“Eldritch walls!” she cried while the ram smashed heavily against the door.

Twisted geometry erupted from the earth, forming a thick barrier. The scouts spread out along and exchanged fire with the slingers above the walls. A scout got brained immediately but Viv heard cries of pain above and saw a man take an arrow through the eye. The slingers wore leather caps over their long, braided hair. It didn’t seem to help much. Not at this range.

It didn’t take much focus for Viv to maintain the shield so she sent a couple of astra spells at targets of opportunity. She needed to get a reaction and now was the best time. It worked.

“Warborn! WARBORN!” Tarn screamed.

She didn’t like the fear in his voice.

They came quickly. Viv barely caught a glance of a man falling from the battlement dressed in leather and what appeared to be chitin, his thick hair following like a mane. A scout fell with a dagger in the throat while Viv was still registering it, then another pinged against her shield. He practically teleported through thin air to dodge her first net and then he was in the middle of the spread out scouts, killing. He dodged behind a wall. She caught a glimpse of red lines shining on his face.

Viv dispersed the wall which he did not expect. A well-placed purge spell whipping at him chased him off, wounded. He had still managed to avoid being cut in two. And then she saw him look down in surprise at the arrow going through his chest. Another joined in the moment he hesitated, then a third. Viv didn’t even cast. She didn’t watch him collapse with a look of furious disbelief. There was another. That one fell right on the ram wielder. He had killed three before she could even look.

A large axe smashed against her shield to no effect, so the man ran alongside its length all while dodging spear thrusts coming from the inside. A couple of soldiers blocked his path with their shield but he kicked them and they were sent flying. Viv hit him with a telekinesis spell. He was sent flying into a lying spear. It skewered him from back to front. She smirked. He rushed at her anyway. A well-placed purge spell finished him off.

It was her danger sense that saved Viv once again. She coated herself in mana and charged it with the annihilation meaning and not a moment too soon. A third warborn fell from up high where he had jumped and between Viv’s guards. A thrown knife pinged against her physical shield, then the man was in front of her.

