"That magic of yours is incredible. If we can unlock it further, we might learn more about the Old Ones, like where they are or what they're doing."

Hod nodded.

"Or what Old Ones like eat. Hod like chicken. Maybe Old Ones like chicken?"

He waved his hands in grand gestures.

"Hod give chicken to Old Ones. Old Ones leave Hod and Harbinger alone. Maybe give chicken to Hod and Harbinger? Hod think good plan."

I weighed my hands back and forth.

"Eh, it's as good a plan as any."

Hod peered at my primordial, self-augmentation rune. He pointed at it.

"Good writing. Hod like it."

I peered down.

"The rune? You can read it?"

Hod shook his head.

"No. Hod know it good though. It feel right."

As he said that, I realized I didn't know who Hod had been. Not even a little bit. I needed to get together with some Eltari and learn more about who Hod was before his eldritchification occurred. All I had were a few vague hints from years ago, but fully applying Hod's talents required knowing what the guy could do. From what I gathered, his past was the key to unlocking that knowledge.

To get that done, I sent a few messages to some Eltari as the sun rose in the distance. Torix raised a hand.

"We'll stay in touch, everyone. I've experiments to run and a hivemind to temper."

He walked through a warp. Shalahora raised several shades around Althea and Hod.

"Your training must continue."

Althea sighed while Hod karate-kicked at one of the shades. They fought while I stepped away, immersed in thought. Unlocking Hod's abilities could give us a vantage point for seeing the Old Ones. His mana type also reminded me of the weird mana signature that Valgus's shackles responded to. It wasn't the same, just similar.

Regardless, if I learned it, I might gain another dimensional wake.

First things first, I checked the replies to what I sent earlier. A few Eltari could get together for a talk in a few hours after completing some daily dungeon clears. They'd been helping out some villages in Illinois, and I didn't want them to drop everything for what I wanted.

Having a gap of time, I opened up my grimoire. Mana flooded into my body, and my primordial wake covered the mountain. I'd finish the follower amulets, and in addition, I'd create a stockpile of various gear made of me. I'd have it protected in an armory, and different Speakers in the guild could give out the equipment as extra rewards for continued excellence. It'd be like a tier system for various guild members.

Before I fell into my work, a crash erupted in the distance. Trees fell as an architect golem sliced the forest apart with its bladed feet. Kessiah walked beside it, pointing it in different directions. Further out, a guardian golem inspected people, ensuring nothing happened here. The executive toiled away in the inner sanctum while the vanguards patrolled near Springfield and other towns.

Mt. Verner was safe. Plazia would secure Blegara after we talked, and Schema hadn't dropped any tasks at my feet about what I needed to do next. It left me plenty of room to prioritize new tasks. Considering what I could do, I set up another plan for the near future.

It was time to conquer Earth.
