Who would he have used them on? Even if he’d had more time to prepare, it wasn’t like the intake dorms had an underground battle ring.

“I see…” She stared off into space again. “I know you can’t kill anyone with the umbrella. And I don’t think you’re likely to kill anyone here with the fishing line. But let’s test that out.”

“What?” said Alden, a little alarmed. “I was just trying to think of ways to trip people, maybe?”

“Sure!” she said eagerly, flipping her red hair over her shoulder. “But let’s check just to be positive. Show me your skill, young Avowed! Let me give you my wisdom.”

Trying not to feel ridiculous, Alden grabbed the closed umbrella by the wrong end and gripped it tightly. Holding it over his head, he spun it in circles so that the weighted line began to unravel.

Don’t hit yourself or anyone else in the head with a washer, he commanded himself. Don’t get tangled up in your own line. You will look incredibly dumb.

When he had maybe twelve feet whistling around over his head, he shifted his weight and activated the preservation. It froze into position. He now had a long, difficult-to-see preserved line.

“So you’re using the umbrella as a handle, too,” Instructor Plim said as she walked below the line and examined it. “Double duty. How long can you hold it like that for?”

“Forever.”

She looked over and raised her eyebrows at him questioningly.

“Until I get tired of moving around with it,” he clarified. “And it’s not heavy. So several hours if nothing messes with it.”

“Define ‘messes with it.’”

“If nothing too powerful impacts it?”

“How powerful is too powerful, though?” she asked. “Do you know?”

“My skill’s a B, level…3. So nothing more powerful than that?”

“Are you aware that some people think Rabbit skills might be more powerful or longer lasting than equivalently ranked and leveled skills from other classes?” she asked, reaching up to poke at the line. “So when you’re thinking of it, you should think of it as Rabbit B3.”

“I thought it might be that way, but I’m not really sure how much the System cares about—”

“Oh! Did you?” She looked thrilled. “Do you study System theory?!”

Alden didn’t know how to answer that one. “Well, most Rabbits start with just a single skill, and our spell impression choices are weak, and most of us don’t get many foundation points. It just stands to reason that our skills are…slightly bulkier than other classes at the same rank? Or else it wouldn’t be fair.”

He guessed it could have to do with a lot of factors. Complexity of the magical effect, strength, durability…all of the above. It could be slightly different for every skill. But if the System was locking up most of your authority to make the skill, it had to be more substantial in some way.

So that Konstantin guy’s Adjuster skill must be overpowered for a newbie S, Alden realized, glancing toward where the other boy was arguing with his brother again. Either that or his spell impression is nuts. Adjusters usually get multiple decent spells to start, so one of the two things he can do must have abnormal authority requirements.

“You have thought about it!” Instructor Plim said, and Alden refocused his attention. “It makes sense and follows with what we currently understand about the System. Only not many people have gone toe-to-toe with a Rabbit and then reported back on it. I tried to look up some things when your application came through just to be sure. But I couldn’t find what I wanted, so I called up one of my friends and asked if we could fight, and she said, ‘No, Luna. What’s wrong with you? I mop alien floors.’”

She shook her head and then beamed. “So can we?”

“Can we what?” Alden asked.

“Can we fight?” She spun her finger, and her orbiting water balls started spinning faster. “Can I hit your fishing line over and over again, and see how tough it is?”

He nodded.

“Great!”

Half a second later, one of the water balls flattened into a disc and flew at the line like a Frisbee. It was so fast, Alden could barely see it. But he definitely felt it. He didn’t know how much power Instructor Plim had put behind it, but it was more of a strain than anything Natalie or her roommates had hit him with.

Like most Shapers, Luna Plim directed her element with bodily gestures. It was a dynamic-looking class because of that. High ranks who had lots of different control skills to play with could look almost like they were dancing when they worked.

“All right!” she said excitedly. “I’m going to hit it again.”

Three more discs smashed Alden’s line in rapid succession. He stood there, trying to gauge how fast he would get exhausted if she kept doing this. It would take a long time.

Do I need to fake skill fatigue at some point? he wondered worriedly. She thinks it’s a level three skill, but it’s an eight.

He didn’t want to do that. He wanted to see how much he could really do. But that was a pretty big gulf, and he didn’t want to out himself as something strange either…

Wait. She’s probably not actually trying that hard. They can’t wear me out this early because recovery time for most people is longer than mine. Hadiza had been down for most of a day after she’d tried her skill on Alden’s bag. They would assume I’d miss all my other practical testing.

“I recover from fatigue in…I think it’s around three hours until I’m mostly functional?” he said. “So if you hit it really hard, I’ll probably just need to miss the running test.”

She stopped in the process of forming another water disc.

“Ohhh! That’s tempting. That’s so tempting. I don’t know what the other faculty will think of me though if I knock out a student’s main skill first thing in the morning.”

So knocking us out later in the day would be acceptable?

“But this is good enough for me to tell where you’re at. Your fishing line is approved for tripping people! And your umbrella is approved for protecting you! And you can play with your Flickerer if you can find something to use it on, but I don’t think you will since most of the enchanted objects around should be the Meister tools, and an F-rank skill isn’t going to do anything to those.” She chuckled. “Is there anything you’re worried about as far as the morning combat assessment goes?”

“Doing well?”

She smiled. “Then you’re a go! With a warning—your fishing line is sturdier than I was expecting, so you’re going to need to be careful with some of our Brutes.”

“Brutes?”

“There’s a no killing requirement today.” She smashed another water disc into the line. “And your tool here is more dangerous than you’re thinking. People who grow up knowing about Avowed mostly through the news cycle and entertainment media tend to assume Brutes are more unbreakable than they really are. You have to remember that the ones who become superheroes have much more complete talent packages and knowledge of their weaknesses than those who are just starting out. They don’t make many mistakes. Kids do all the time. It depends on the subclass, rank, and skills, but most of the Brutes here aren’t equipped to take narrow point damage at their maximum speed.”

She pointed at the clothesline. “It’s too skinny. When I read your description of your skill, I was assuming you created more of a bubble shape around your object, like other shields I’ve seen. But it seems you freeze it in exactly the shape it’s in. A clueless speedster could slice through their own neck smashing into this, so our gym suits would register that as a kill.”

“I can just not use it,” Alden said quickly. “In fact, maybe I shouldn’t. I don’t want—”

“Oh no! You should use it. It’s so interesting. Well, it’s your choice. But I’m curious to see what you’ll do with it! Just be careful and don’t get yourself disqualified. Now, if you could cancel the skill, I wanted to see—”

Alden let the preservation fall, and the line went right back to spinning.

“Yes! So exciting. It really does just resume motion. I can’t wait. Now…”

Without any explanation, Instructor Plim stiffened up and fell flat on her back in the grass. She hit the ground with a thump. Her water orbs splashed down around her. A couple of people under the tent called out in alarm, and the principal looked over from where she was working with Lexi.

“Instructor Plim,” she said with a sigh.

“I’m injured!” Instructor Plim announced. “I want to be frozen in time for science…I mean rescued. Please rescue me.”

Right, thought Alden. I guess they would want to see that part of the skill, too.

But just as he targeted the Creative Applications teacher, Principal Saleh walked across the grass toward them. “You don’t have to pick her up if you think it will tire you out for your other assessments. She gets unprofessionally enthusiastic about powers she hasn’t seen before. There’s a rescue component later—”

“I weigh fifty-five kilograms! I have a possible spinal cord injury. Saving me is extra credit!”

“There is no extra credit!” Principal Saleh said loudly for the benefit of everyone present. “None of you are even being judged right now. We’re just making sure we understand your powers so that you’re prepared for the rest of the day, and our faculty are prepared for you.”

“I have no idea how to pick up someone with a possible spinal cord injury,” said Alden.

“Since she doesn’t actually have one, you can just throw her around however you like. If you’re going to indulge her, then…” She stepped over to the other teacher, bent and picked the redhead up like she was light as a feather. “Here. Take her. I’ll offer advice for you if I think of anything after I see your skill work. At least that way it won’t be completely pointless.”

Alden carried the teacher around for a few seconds.

“This is really strange looking,” Kon said. The Adjuster boy had casually wandered over to watch. “She’s like a statue. You just haul people around like that all the time?”

“It doesn’t come up that often.” Alden dropped preservation, and Instructor Plim looked at him in confusion for a second before she lowered her arms from around his neck so that he could set her back down. “This is actually my first time preserving a human.”

He’d only just realized it.

The teacher was blinking excitedly around and examining herself. “How long was I out?”

“Less than a minute,” the principal said. “And that was plenty. Konstantin, you’re next with Instructor Plim. Alden, regardless of whether you are accepted into Celena North or not, you would benefit from emergency response classes. Carrying people is somewhat unusual for you since you lock them in place, and you should learn more about positioning and weight distribution.”

“Yes. Thank you,” Alden said quickly. “I’ll do that.”

The principal headed back over to Lexi.

“I’m now a time traveler,” Instructor Plim said thoughtfully. “Who’s next?”

She completely missed everything Principal Saleh just said.

Kon smiled and waved at her.

“Oooo,” she said. “The object reader. I have so many ideas for what we can do together in my class! I mean, if you get in of course. Let’s talk about…”

*************

Alden passed his drug test, then headed to the locker room. A man at a table just outside glanced at his name tag and passed him a tote bag.

“I feel like getting dressed is something we should all be able to do by ourselves by the time we’re in high school,” he said with a yawn. “But since we’ve already had one unfortunate incident this morning…this is a protective bodysuit. Magic zipper on the front. You have to wear the cuffs unless you want to lose your hands, feet, or face. Red lines down. You have to return all of this when you’re finished with it. The gear isn’t a souvenir. The last time someone stole a set, the principal tracked them down, phased through the wall of their bedroom in the middle of the night, and recovered it herself.”

“Got it.”

Another pair of guys were already in line behind him to receive their own suits, and when he stepped into the locker room, it was packed. There were private stalls and showers, but they were all occupied. Lots of people were changing in between the lockers. Alden wasn’t particularly eager to flash his contract tattoo, so he waited and ducked into a shower as soon as the previous occupant left.

He snapped the curtain closed behind him and examined the gear. He’d already seen the dark gray bodysuit in videos online. And in person on Principal Saleh. It was a somewhat famous uniform—one of the perks of getting into the school. It was the same magical protective outfit that the college’s hero program students wore.

The material was soft, with a faint sheen in bright light, and it was very thick. He put the suit on and ran his hand up the gap in the fabric at the front. “Magic zipper” was a misnomer. The fabric itself just sealed together as if it had been made in one piece from the start, all the way from his navel to the turtleneck top.

Of course it’s a turtleneck.

Nothing about this outfit was human tech.

Since he had the option, he shifted his auriad from where it had been hiding under his leather bracelet and put it around his neck before pulling the bodysuit up to cover it.

Inch-wide metal bands with a line of something bright red inlaid into the bottoms went around his wrists, ankles, and neck. The red looked like some kind of stone, and the things were heavy, so maybe it was.

