He put his shoes back on and headed out. Everyone else who’d gotten dressed was crowded around mirrors examining themselves, and he couldn’t help but stop and look at himself for a second, too.

It’s not that a gray unitard is much to look at, he thought as he took in his appearance. But everyone knows it’s what superheroes wear to train.

He followed a Wright—the only one he’d noticed so far today—out the door and into the gym.

He took a seat on the bleachers and was pleasantly surprised when Maricel appeared a few minutes later and climbed up to join him. She had opted to wear her hoodie over her own unitard.

“You’re not using performance enhancing drugs,” she said.

“You either. We are officially not cheaters together.”

Performance enhancing wordchains were allowed. Alden had heard a couple of people muttering them in the locker room. One of them had even sounded like he was getting it right.

Maricel looked around at everyone else. “The interview must have been difficult.” She jerked her head to their left.

The group from Franklin High they’d sat beside this morning was clustered up again, but their numbers were seriously diminished. Only around a third of them had survived their five minute interview session.

Brutal, thought Alden.

It would make you feel like garbage to keep coming here every two months and making it this far only to get dismissed in five minutes.

Faculty started streaming in. They were almost all in suits of their own now, and it wasn’t long before Principal Saleh reappeared, too. Everyone focused on her, but she only walked over to take a seat on a bottom bleacher beside some students who all spontaneously developed amazing posture.

Instead, an absolute giant of a man took the floor.

“Big Snake,” Alden and about a hundred other people whispered at the same time.

“Howdy,” said Big Snake, smiling and tipping an imaginary cowboy hat. He somehow made his gimmicky greeting look not cheesy. His graying blond hair was pulled back in a short, straggly ponytail. “I’m Morrison Waker. I’m teachin’ combat to third year students here while that little mess back home blows over. I’ll also be watching y’all work today.

“Let’s talk about the gymnasium and those suits you’re wearing.”

He stomped the white floor once, and it sounded like a thunderclap. “Our gym’s tough. One of only a few places on the island built special for Avowed by the Artonans and regularly maintained for us by wizards. You might see ‘em when they come to check it every few weeks. Remember it’s rude to stare at people just because you haven’t seen their kind before. Artonans don’t mind, but this one time I stared too hard at a Fetuna and—”

Principal Saleh cleared her throat.

“As I was sayin’, the gym’s magic. You can smash the floor. You can burn it. You can try to cut it with your big giant sword. Oh yeah, I see you there, kid with the big giant sword. That’s cool, young lady.” The girl with the absurdly large broadsword blushed. “I can’t bust this place up no matter how hard I try, so that means you kids can’t either. And when the floor is turned on—”

He paused for a moment, and a curtain of light went up between the white floor and the bleachers. It was bright at first and then it faded into invisibility. In its place, Alden now had the words FLOOR ON at the top right corner of his field of vision.

“Then nobody standing here where I am right now, properly wearing one of the suits, can take serious physical damage. There are rules! And they’re important ones. Even I follow ‘em, so you know I mean it. First, you wear all your gear.”

He pointed to his own metal bands and his suit.

“Second, you don’t screw around and try to kill your peers. During certain classes we allow lethal intent for training purposes. You’re not in one of those classes. If the gym registers a lethal hit today, the person who dealt it had better be prepared to prove it was a freak accident, or they’d better be prepared to find another school. And I don’t mean a hero school. We’ll share your name with every school in Apex, and you’ll be blacklisted.”

Several people muttered at that.

“Finally, just because you aren’t likely to take an injury, it doesn’t mean you’ll enjoy getting hit. That wouldn’t make sense. Training that way would turn you into a bunch of fearless idiots with no sense of self-preservation. So when you get socked in the nose, you’re going to feel like you got socked in the nose. It’s neat.” He nodded. “Artonans make neat stuff. One time, I talked this wizard into giving me a spiky exploding mace her grandpa used to own and…and that’s another story.”

Principal Saleh nodded at him.

“The point today is, you all need to come down here now and make sure your suits fit properly and the gym is registering them correctly. So you don’t die. Or have embarrassing things like this happen!”

He shrank at least a couple of feet in every direction until he was a wiry, short version of himself. His suit started to slip off his shoulders. It pooled around his feet. One of his wrist bands thudded onto the floor.

“Little Snake,” people all around the room whispered.

“So come on down here now and get checked out!”

“Is that man famous?” Maricel asked Alden as all around them people started rushing down the bleachers toward the floor.

“You don’t know Big’nLittle Snake?” Alden said, surprised. “He’s one of the most popular heroes in America. He was. Top three in polling for more than a decade.”

“He’s a Morph Brute?”

Alden nodded. “A cool one. When he’s big he’s incredibly strong. When he’s little he’s incredibly fast. And his shift time is so quick. You just saw. It’s only a few seconds.”

“Why is he here then?”

“He’s an over the top kind of person,” said Alden. “That’s part of the reason he’s so popular. And he’s busy…he has extreme hobbies. A new one every couple of years. They don’t always work out.”

“How can a hobby be extreme?”

“When I was little he ran through every state in the contiguous U.S. And when he got to your state, he would knock down a tree, carve the wood into some of your state animals with his bare hands in front of a crowd, and then auction off the carvings for charity. He did that on weekends and then headed back home to Texas to work for the rest of the week. He was their state hero.”

“Wouldn’t carving a tree with your hands hurt?”

“Maybe not if you’re him.”

“Can he morph his fingernails into carving blades?”

“Probably? Anyway, nobody had a problem with that. But a few years ago, he decided he wanted some wolves. And if I remember correctly, ranchers protested against him? But he was at peak popularity with everyone else, and some of the other states were going to let him have them if Texas didn’t, so he got his wolves.”

“They let him have wolves? For fighting crime?”

“No. He just enjoyed having a wolf reserve and running with them.”

Maricel stared across the gym at Big Snake.

“He seems to love Triplanets work, too. Like I said, he’s really busy. I heard he only sleeps two hours a night. He got summoned, and while he was there, he told some wizard how much he loved his wolves. So they offered to make them better as his quest reward.”

“Better how?”

“Bigger, stronger wolves. Strong enough to make decent pets for a world-class superhero.”

“That’s not legal in your country is it?”

“Of course not.” Alden sighed. He stood up, and they headed down the bleachers. “Anyway, the government was not happy about it. To make a point about Avowed getting out of line, someone sent a tank to shoot one of the wolves. Big Snake beat up the tank. And then there was this whole drama because a lot of people were fans of the giant wolves and Big’nLittle Snake. And others were worried that getting rid of the wolves would offend the wizard? But it was a crime. So the wolves still live in Texas, but Snake got banished.”

His feet hit the white floor, and a notification appeared.

[Connected to MagiPhys Gym. Floor On. Protections active.]

“Can I hit you now?” Maricel asked, looking around at a number of other people who were slapping each other with growing enthusiasm.

“I guess a light tap?”

She smacked him lightly on the arm. It felt normal.

He tapped her on the arm, too.

“You guys look like cowards,” a tall Brute who’d come with them on the bus said. “This is how you hit somebody.”

He drew back his fist and punched his own friend in the jaw. The friend fell to the floor clutching his face.

“Oh shit! I’m sorry! I didn’t mean to!”

“They said it would hurt,” Maricel said with narrowed eyes. “Did you not believe them?”

Alden assumed that everyone was hitting and slapping each other out of curiosity, but it turned out that it had been started by the prospective students who’d made it this far in the admissions process previously. The gymnasium was interacting with the suits to check efficacy, and the students were supposed to be hitting each other.

Some people had just begun early.

Big Snake—who Alden was trying unsuccessfully to think of as Instructor Waker—explained it, and shortly afterward, the barely-visible letter ranks superimposed on everyone’s forehead grew bolder and turned green.

“I’m allowed to punch literally everyone in here as hard as I want, wherever I want,” Alden said with a groan.

They weren’t using skills or spells for the suit test, just physical stats. And green meant he could go all-out on that front.

“You’re yellow for me,” Maricel informed him. She sounded intrigued. “That means I can’t hit you in the head.”

Alden smiled uncertainly at her. “This is so uncomfortable honestly.”

People were partnering up as they’d been told to. Some of them were still joking around. Others were on the floor, having already been knocked down by eager partners. But quite a few of the teens in the gym were staring at each other with looks on their faces that said they found this just as surreal as he did.

“I knew we’d be doing stuff like this. Obviously. Using powers and having them used against me is one of the reasons I want to get into this school. But it’s hard to actually hit someone like I mean it. I’ve never done that…”

“I’m surprised there are people in the room who are yellow for me,” Maricel said. She’d lowered her hood to look around. “I know I’m an S, but I’ve got a small Strength stat, even for a Shaper.”

“Do you want to hit someone else instead?”

“No. Where do you want the pain? And do you want a kick or a punch?” She balled up her fist.

“You seem not at all bothered by this.”

“I’ve been looking forward to it.” At his expression, she added, “Not hitting you specifically. Just hitting things in general. I haven’t gotten to do it before either, but it sounds satisfying.”

I guess it’s good one of us is into it.

He nodded. “Okay then. Surprise me…nope. On second thought, let’s avoid hitting me however that guy just got hit.” Someone across the room was puking. Alden hadn’t seen where his partner had aimed.

“I’ll kick you in the leg,” Maricel said, lowering her fist. “That seems safe.”

“Oka—”

Still looking more curious than anything else, Maricel leaned back and delivered a swift kick to the side of Alden’s left thigh. His legs flew out from under him and he landed hard on his shoulder. At first, he was shocked more by the force of the blow than anything else. Then the pain registered.

“Fuck!” he said, clutching his leg. The word was lost in a cacophony of other peoples’ multilingual cursing.

The pain was intense enough to make his eyes water. But after a few seconds, it disappeared. That’s so weird. How can it feel so realistic, then not be there at all?

“Are you all right?” Maricel asked, leaning over him.

“Yeah.” He let her pull him back onto his feet. “Yeah, it’s not a big deal. Should I kick you in the same place?”

“Yes.” She held still. After waiting patiently for a moment, she said, “You don’t have to put that much thinking into it, do you?”

Alden felt his face heat.

“You’d better kick me for real, Rabbit boy,” she said, crossing her arms. “I don’t want to fail my combat assessment later because everyone else hits so much harder than you and it takes me by surprise.”

Right. That’s a good point.

Feeling insanely awkward and very much like he was doing something wrong, he took a deep breath and then tried to kick a person who was smaller than him as hard as he could. He didn’t know whether to be relieved or horrified when she hit the floor.

<<My god,>> Maricel gasped, wrapping her hands around her leg just above her knee. <<It feels so real. Why does it feel so real?!>>

Her eyes were wide.

“The Artonans can do some really interesting stuff when they’re trying,” Alden said, looking down at her nervously. “You’re fine, right? Your suit worked? I didn’t—”

She shooed him away with a gesture and got back on her feet.

“All right,” she said. “Let’s try punching each other now.”

“But I just got a notification saying the suit check’s complete. We’re done.”

“We’ve got more time, though,” she said, looking around the room.

Most people were taking their one required hit and leaving. But a few were still fighting with their partners. The faculty were watching it all play out and discussing things with each other. Several of them had pulled out tablets. One teacher had a notebook. Alden couldn’t tell what they thought.

