The lawn Alden’s schedule directed him to was a large stretch of grass that separated the building from the school’s track. The sky was turning paler, but it was still dark. And one of the teens walking ahead of him was glowing.

U-type? Or an Adjuster with a light spell package? Or some lucky Shaper who got a rare element?

In addition to the glowing person, who turned out to be a guy from Denmark, there were fourteen others under the canopy of the green tent. Feeling nervous, Alden sat down at a picnic table with the glow guy and two girls. A moment later, a short, red-headed woman with tons of freckles bounded up to join them.

“Good morning, odd birds!” she said in a gung-ho voice. “Sorry we deprived you of breakfast. Most people are too sick to their stomach to enjoy it anyway, but there are water bottles in the cooler over there. And if you’re hungry, feel free to drone something in from Cafeteria North. No charge. You’re on the school’s budget today just like you were already students. By the way, I’m Luna Plim. Instructor Plim. I teach Creative Power Applications.”

She paused as if waiting for them to greet her in return, but they all just sat there in silence.

“Nerves?” she asked. “I don’t bite. Anyway, as soon as the principal gets out here we’re going to go ahead and have each of you show off a little. So if you need to stretch, pray, or ask a question, go ahead.”

Five different hands went up, including Alden’s. The skinny, blue-eyed girl sitting across from him blurted out,“Ihavetohaveapartnerandi’msorrybutI’maSway.”

Everyone stared at her with frowns on their faces while they tried to figure out what she’d said. Finally a tall guy at the next picnic table said, “No thank you.”

Instructor Plim cleared her throat. “Mina here is a next gen Sway. In case you’re not up to date with the latest and greatest Avowed news, the Council’s complaints to the Triplanets have finally yielded results, and for the past few years, Sways have been getting much more variety as far as class refinement options go. Mina, why don’t you tell us about your talents and how you hope to use them?”

Mina looked like she’d rather crawl under the table and hide, but she said, “Ihaveaspellthatrelaxesmytargetanda—”

The teacher coughed. “Just a little slower maybe…”

The girl took a huge breath. “I…I have a spell that will relax you, and I have an S-rank alteration that will let me block distractions from your mind as they pop up. I also have reverts for both if they’re necessary. And…and a couple of other things that I’m not going to try today.”

She glanced around at the others desperately. Nobody seemed to want to meet her eyes.

Luna Plim spoke up again, “Mina is in this group because to complete her entrance requirements it was decided that she would need to gain the cooperation of at least some of her future classmates.”

It made sense. A Sway with the kind of helper mind control the girl had was still a Sway. If she wanted to work with other heroes, even with those talents, she was going to have to get permission from her teammates every time she used her powers.

Only now that everyone knew she needed their help to have a chance of getting into the program, several people were staring at their own fingernails or the blades of grass beneath their feet like they were the most fascinating things in the world.

“Those sound like support talents,” Alden said finally. “You didn’t take any other reader or manipulator powers?”

“I’m not going to use anything like that today,” Mina said, looking at him hopefully.

That wasn’t a no. But now that he’d spoken, he didn’t want to say, Never mind. Fail, you brain scrambler.

After all, his own skill required a partner if he wanted to do more than play with his magic umbrella. He’d thought he’d be the only one here in that situation.

“I guess…I would be fine with it if you shared your Avowed profile. So I could actually read your talent descriptions.”

Her face reddened.

“Sorry,” he said. “It’s just I wouldn’t be comfortable with it otherwise.”

When she didn’t reply, the teacher asked, “How do you feel about that suggestion, Mina?”

The girl clenched her jaw and shook her head.

Really? thought Alden.

“Well, I’m going to have to say no then.”

Instructor Plim sighed. “In that case, Mina, you’ve failed again. Regular buses should be running by now. Have a safe trip back home.”

The girl grabbed her purse and hurried off, wiping tears from her eyes with the back of her arm. Alden felt awful, but at the same time…

“I thought it was a reasonable suggestion,” he muttered.

“It was completely reasonable,” said a boy who was lying on a bench with his hands behind his head like he was here for a nap. He had an S on his forehead and an Anesidoran accent. “Willingly letting her access your brain for one thing makes it easier for her to do something else to you without any detection. If she didn’t have some nasty talent lurking on her profile, she’d have shared it. And if she’s got a nasty talent, she’s an idiot. Everyone knows if you’re going for the next-gen-nice kind of Sway you don’t pick things that will scare other people off.”

Alden was guessing that was something island kids knew. He’d never lived the kind of life where he had to think about it himself. But it did make sense.

“Other questions?” Instructor Plim asked. Her chipper attitude was back, as if she hadn’t just sent someone off crying. “Alden, you had one, didn’t you?”

He looked back at her. “Yes. I wanted to ask about the entrustment component of my skill. I brought something that’s already under my control. So technically nobody has to entrust me with anything, but that reduces my flexibility a lot, and I wasn’t sure—”

“Interesting! You were thinking ahead. And you brought a tool of some kind? That’s exactly the kind of thing we’re here to figure out before we send you off for the rest of the day’s tests.”

She stared off into space for a second. He didn’t know if she was thinking, reading the profile and skill description he’d provided the school with, or texting someone else.

“Don’t worry about it,” she said after a minute. “Since you came prepared we won’t make you jump through any extra hoops. We do have you scheduled for some things that will necessitate you dropping your item. But one of the faculty will entrust—is that the term you want to use?—you with it again if the other students aren’t willing to play along. If you want to use additional items, you’ll have to get your hands on them yourself however you can. Sound fair?”

He nodded. I’m so glad I brought the umbrella.

Otherwise he’d have to con people into giving him things all day long.

It was fascinating to listen to the others’ questions. The group of “odd birds” was really odd. The glowing boy was a Shaper—an A-rank who controlled light as an element. It wasn’t totally unheard of, but it was rare enough that Alden didn’t know what could be done with it. And apparently the other Avowed didn’t either.

This was his second time around. He was trying to figure out how to use the starter skills for invisibility, but he hadn’t quite gotten there yet. And he was trying to figure out how to burn things, but he hadn’t quite gotten there yet either. It made it hard for the faculty to decide what he could actually do to show off his talents.

There was a B-rank Brute girl who could elongate and strengthen her limbs. It made her look like a Morph, but she was listed as something the System was calling a Flail Brute instead. So she apparently wouldn’t be getting access to the full variety of shapeshifter options moving forward.

The guy who’d been lying down on the bench was an Adjuster who’d gotten a rare spell path offer from the System and had taken it. He’d only received one starting skill and one spell impression, which was very uncommon for his class and rank. The skill let him read the recent history of nonliving objects. The spell let him return them to a past state.

“You sound like the world’s greatest repairman, not a superhero,” another boy muttered.

The Adjuster flipped him off.

Principal Saleh arrived not long after they’d finished asking all of their most pressing questions and looked around. “The Sway?” she asked Instructor Plim.

The teacher shrugged. “She wasn’t good at making her case. Alden here offered to partner with her if she’d show her full profile, and she refused.”

“Mmm…” the principal said. She glanced at Alden briefly and arched a dark brow at him “All right. Who do I get to beat up first?”

************

Despite the principal’s words, no beating went on. She and Instructor Plim each pulled a student onto the lawn for a brief talk and power demonstration. Everyone else sat around the tables watching and eating breakfast.

Alden pulled a meal prep container out of his bag. The motivational label Natalie had chosen for today said, “Hard work never fails.” He bit into a breakfast wrap while he watched Principal Saleh encourage the nervous Flail Brute girl to take a swing at her own outstretched arm.

“Just trying to gauge the power output of all of us <<freaky ones>>,” said the Adjuster. He had very dark brown hair that looked like it had received a lot of attention in the mirror this morning. He was eyeing Alden’s breakfast curiously while he spread cream cheese on top of his own strawberry-filled croissant. “So that we don’t kill the more predictable people. Or get killed by them. Hey…what’s your class?”

“Me?” Alden asked

“Yes. You asked questions about your skill, but I couldn’t tell what class it belonged to. Are you a rare Adjuster path, too? Or a U?”

“Rabbit.”

The boy choked on a mouthful of pastry. Then he laughed. “For real? That’s fun! If you get in, you should come to my house on Friday. I’m throwing a party. Everyone will be there.”

<<Kon, there’s such a thing as being too confident,>> another boy snapped as he bounced his leg and stared at the principal. He was an A-rank Meister who was carrying a polished black stick with a slender gold chain attached to the end. <<Just because you were Mr. Popularity last year doesn’t mean you will be this year. Affixing changes everything.>>

Alden checked the S’s name tag again. Kon was short for Konstantin.

“I got my S,” said Kon, yawning. “I got a good class. My good class turned out odd thanks to the System deciding to throw something extra my way. But I think I’ll manage just fine.”

<<You’re relying too much on your rank!>>

“You’re just scared I’m going to get in, and you’re not. Stop speaking awful Russian. You’re so bad it makes Mom want to cry.”

<<I’ll speak whatever I want.>>

<<Animal.>>

<<Moron.>>

“Everyone’s going to think you’re warped, carrying a magic whip around for the rest of your life.”

The A-rank clutched his weapon tighter and glared.

“Lexi and Kon are brothers,” the girl sitting next to Alden whispered. “I go to the same school as them. Lexi’s a year older, but they got selected around the same time. I think he’s jealous.”

“You know I can hear you, don’t you?” Lexi spat.

“Careful. My big brother likes to hit people with whips!” Konstantin said gleefully. Then, he sniffed the air. “What in Apex are you eating for breakfast, Rabbit guy? And why does it smell like sunshine?”

Everyone else started sniffing, too.

“Must be something else,” said Alden, grabbing the other half of his wrap quickly and biting into it. “This is just beans and lettuce and grains. Health food. Gross.”

And a pineapple salsa. And some kind of luscious potion of a dipping sauce that Natalie said had twenty-three ingredients in it.

He’d gotten into the habit of eating slowly so that he could savor every bite, but with these scavengers watching him he couldn’t take any chances, so he gulped it down.

“You ate that like you thought you were surrounded by thieves,” said Lexi, staring at him with an expression of mild disgust.

“Right?” said his little brother, still sniffing. “Seeing that kind of made me want to steal it more.”

Shortly afterward, it was Alden’s turn to go up and have his private consult. He was with Luna Plim. Having watched her work for the past twenty minutes, he now knew she was a Water Shaper. But she was only using the contents of about six bottles of water to test people.

“Hello again!” she said brightly while water blobs orbited her head. “I re-read all of your info last night. So I’ve got down everything you included in your application. What object did you bring along with you?”

Alden held up the compact umbrella. “Technically it’s two things. I’ve got the other one wrapped around the handle.”

“You can do two objects?”

“Stacks,” he clarified. “Or things that are touching when they’re entrusted to me.”

He didn’t see a point in trying to show off his actual ability to do two separate items since it wasn’t easy enough yet to be useful in practice.

“Ooooo,” she said, clapping her hands together. “That sounds like so much fun for me to play with in class! I mean…for you to play with. If you get in. Of course. What’s the other thing?”

Alden extended the compact umbrella without allowing it to open fully and showed her the fishing line he’d wrapped around the handle. A metal washer was tied to one end of it.

“Woooow. Points for creativity! I love weird weapons. Though I guess yours is more like a weird shield. How much practice have you had with these two things?”

“Basically none,” said Alden. “I played with them a little, but it’s not like I’ve tried to use them seriously.”

