Individual lighting fixtures were also brought out as they took time to experiment with dimmers, barndoors and shutters. What Eppie found most interesting was the newly installed LED lights that could internally adjust colour and saturation, forgoing the difficulty of individually applying gel to pre-mounted fixtures.

What she garnered, after three hours, was that Min-jun’s job would be no easier than any of theirs, even though they would be hogging the light.

“Eppie,” Costello sent her up last, in the final minutes of the session. “You may want to look away from this one.”

Her teacher made the signal for “Bump”.

Suddenly, thirty strobes lit up at once. For a second, all Eppie could smell was ozone as the shards of light converged on her, filling the air around her with motes of dust. What she noticed next was that the heat was immense. She was being cooked, literally, like someone had held her down with an invisible hand. Where she stood was no longer the black stage, but a white void where everything else simply disappeared.

“FADE!” Her instructor made the gesture.

Min-jun performed his dark magic. The shards of light bleed out, growing dull. Eppie is left panting in the gloom, her skin glistening with sweat, her eyes seeing purple after-images everywhere she looked, including the floating box that had just come into view.

Trait Acquired

[Love the Light]

Causality Tier (D)

You have learned to love the light. At higher tiers, you will respond to both natural and artificial lighting in ways that enhance your performance on stage and on screen.

Beyond the B-tier, this trait can only be improved through Karmic Causality.

“Learn to love the light,” Costello handed her a towel, then led her by the hand to sit. “Learn to love your Light Tech. I do not joke when I say that your life may be in his hands. You make a mistake, and he can make it go away by drawing the audience’s gaze. But if he doesn’t like you…”

“Muahaha…” Min-Jun’s cackle echoed through the darkness.

Eppie thought nothing of immediately throwing a good chunk of her [Causality] into improving what was probably one of the most essential skills she could imagine.

Trait Acquired

[Love the Light]

Causality Tier (A)

You have learned to love the light. With supernatural instinct, you will react to the presence of both natural and man-made lighting in ways that enhance your performance both on stage and on screen. Your continued practice has enabled you to instinctively react to lighting in such a way that your desired expressions and movements are clearly illuminated.

Beyond the B-tier, this trait can only be improved through Karmic Causality.

[Causality: 14122]

“I’ll see you tomorrow, folks. You have until 7 PM before the custodians arrive to clean up and the systems are put to sleep.”

Eppie’s life quickly snapped back to normal as the memories of NYC faded under the crushing workload of essays, exams and endless practice. Rumour had it that the new “Postmodern” script was done, and that all that awaited the Sophomores was who would be in what roles.

After the theatre was done, she met with Zara, and the two practised their rendition of “In the Pines” until her fingers finally began to develop calluses.

When her [Health] remained at [35], however, the callouses peeled away, revealing once more, the tender flesh of a pampered young lady beneath.

Tender, bruising, bleeding flesh.

This was… an unexpected outcome, one she would have to endure until a solution was found.
