…Then again, there had been a lot fewer cities and towns about. The Humans had infested the north and spread out.
They were weaker, more pathetic, and their warriors were inferior to his age of grand strife. He had fought with Dragons.
Here? Dragons were a myth. The half-Elf, the being of death who had served the Putrid One, stood at a remove, watching the two drivers delivering their destroyed cargo to the city.
Garbichugs. Rihal had bred them. The stupid imperium hadn’t realized how much of a pest they were. Of course, Tolveilouka and his master had laughed at the creatures, and they only spread minor plagues.
But they were fun to germinate. They had come from Rhir—and if you knew a trick and had the mana…
The three Garbichugs that had gone after the wagon drivers were nursing their wounds. Tolveilouka had actually been impressed—the two ponies had fought off the Garbichugs, and the three giant birds were all six feet tall and fairly dangerous.
“A more competent driver. But you have served well enough. So—[Plague Pustule].”
Even he would not kiss a Garbichug. Tolveilouka reached out—touched a Garbichug on the head, and the duck-creature jerked up in alarm. It didn’t see him under [Greater Invisibility]—but it did see the pure amalgam of putrefaction slowly swelling in its chest.
The other two Garbichugs looked up as the first ran around, squawking and screaming. The pustule grew and grew—then exploded.
Tolveilouka held up a parasol from the Empire of Drath as bits of the creature rained down.
“Alas, thou hast met a cruel fate. Sayest anything for thy kin, fellow Garbichugs? What nobler—eugh.”
Mid-eulogy, he wrinkled his nose. Garbichugs really were disgusting. They were trying to eat the pieces of their fallen comrade.
He kicked one, and it went flying over the nearest hill. The other decided this was a dangerous place and ran for it. Wisely.
Now, why had he killed the first one? Tolveilouka bent over the one he’d exploded with the plague spell. And—even after seeing this a thousand times, he was always amused.
The pieces of the destroyed bird were shaking. Coalescing into a ball—then morphing. Of course, he had accelerated the process a hundredfold with his spell. But it was remarkable.
A tiny, tiny Garbichug squawked as it rose from its dead parent. And it was accompanied by sixty more such voices as Tolveilouka saw the infused parent’s remains shifting.
This was, incidentally, why you had to burn the damn things. Garbichugs reproduced when they died. Anything they ate turned into fuel for another generation—and they could do wonderfully in sewers. Or against plague spells.
Rihal had tried to use them as weapons of war against the Putrid One—until he had realized he could just multiply the pests. They, ironically, halted some of the worst plagues, but spread tons of low-level ones. It was why the imperium had declined…though it had stuck around for a long time, apparently.
And they were very helpful in ruining shipments of alchemical items. Tolveilouka was just annoyed about one thing.
This modern era. Inferior. No more great beings—or very few. Such a lack of elegance. Pitiful nations—no more Walled Cities to replace the ones that had fallen.
And yet—he glanced up, annoyed, as he stared at the city in the distance.
…Why were they all so damn determined to wash their hands? When he had roamed the world with his master, the idea of constant obsessive cleanliness was more of a thing you did every few days. Half-Elves would famously go for months without bothering. A bit of dirt was natural. If you could see skin, it was good.
It was almost as if something or someone had traumatized generations into learning to heat water and use soap. A weird legacy, but his master might have laughed.
Oh, his master. Tolveilouka clutched at his heart. Time to go back to the city and lay there a while. He tracked down the mostly-dead Garbichug he’d kicked—you didn’t survive that kind of impact anyways—and created fifty more to harass the area. Then he continued on his way north.
It wasn’t really about starting an avalanche of Garbichugs or ruining the entire salamander supply. It was just about resources. As in—valuable heating gels and tonics were already in high demand for the winter.
Izril would make do, even if a dozen suppliers of the reagents had shortages. After all, they had big, lovely cities to cling to. It wasn’t as if there were thousands of people headed to new lands. Was there?
The half-Elf stopped by a field of wheat and admired it. Then he pointed a finger.
“[Flame Swathe].”
In his master’s experience, you could starve a nation, and that hurt them. But it was one thing for everyone to starve with nothing to eat. Far better—if two nations began fighting over a half-supply.
Whistling, the half-Elf began flying north, towards that so-called City of Adventurers, then faster. Every now and then, he stopped and cast a spell. You could deliver a lot of misery if you just put in the effort. He quite respected [Wagon Drivers]. It might be humble—but Tolveilouka was also putting in a hard day’s work.
 
——
 
When Rhaldon felt clean, he met the [Alchemists]. They were busy fighting the [Merchants] for the salamander parts, and the [Merchants] were arguing with Termin.
“We were counting on the entire delivery, Master Termin—”
“Take it up with the Driver’s Guild. Accidents happen. We were attacked on the road!”
“Yes, but—”
The angry [Merchant] blustered. The rest of his sentence was something like, ‘yes, we know there are accidents and we have a standing arrangement with the Driver’s Guild and we know we can’t hold you responsible for monster attacks. But it’s inconvenient, and we want to blame you.’
Termin, though, was foul-tempered enough to get into a chest-jabbing match with the [Merchant] and high-level enough that the furious debate had lasted twenty minutes.
Meanwhile, Octavia Cotton, Saliss, and Xif were shoveling as many salamander parts as they could into bags of holding. They were paying four times the going rate—because they all knew that would be cheap compared to the prices soon.
“Damn. Alright, apprentice, I’m going to Pallass. Damn, damn, damn. These alchemy shortages.”
“At least we’re going to make a profit!”
The Gnoll, Xif, looked happy, and Saliss jabbed him in the side hard.
“Sometimes, it’s not about a profit, Xif. Who’s going to afford your warming tonics? Not the lower half of Pallass’ citizens anymore. Eat Garbichug. Apprentice—drop by my shop to do some work later. Oh, and tell Erin I’m really busy, and it had better be something good. Nicely or something.”
He stomped off. Which left Octavia looking around the Merchant’s Guild. She walked over to the counter as Rhaldon—listening in to the conversation about Erin—heard her speaking to one of the workers there.
“Excuse me. Can I lodge an order through the Driver’s Guild? Or do you have a [Merchant] or [Trader] on stock with the following items? Alchemy-related.”
The man at the desk nodded and brought out a catalog. If you were anyone with money, the Merchant’s Guild would order items, hold them, or just provide you with what you wanted from their stocks. The Runner’s Guild was for fast items, letters, and individual-deliveries like groceries.
The Merchant’s Guild, in tandem with the Driver’s Guild, fulfilled orders for shops, restaurants, smithies, and so on—which was why Termin could shout at a [Merchant] without being blacklisted forever. Both sides needed the other.
“I need good beakers, vials, uh—tons of low-level reagents. Can I get someone good on the job? Please?”
“Do you have a specific [Driver], Miss?”
“Not Grenim. Or Llerif. Or this Gnoll who likes chewing on a piece of straw. Or a Human—Moodif. Or Rena. Or…”
Octavia rattled out a list of nearly eighteen [Drivers] as the [Clerk] looked a bit harried.
“I meant, do you have someone you’d like to run the delivery, Miss?”
“I’m telling you who I don’t want. Those are all bad [Drivers]. They don’t know how to store alchemical items, they can’t transport glass—and I’d like the delivery to me, not sitting in the Merchant’s Guild where it’s improperly stored too.”
The [Clerk] gave Octavia a long-suffering look as Rhaldon listened in. He’d heard [Drivers] hated working for [Alchemists], and he could see why. If it were even remotely like home—
Well, even the salamander parts had taken Termin, a good driver, to transport them safely, and Rhaldon had made sure they were not going to be rained on or frozen. Termin had grumbled about storing them from the frost, but Rhaldon could only imagine how tough it was to be a chemist. Especially if this world’s version of the USPS dropped or bounced things around on a wagon.
Actually, he felt for the [Drivers]. Imagine transporting something you knew was volatile.
“Miss, I can only lodge an order. And I don’t know when it’ll be fulfilled. We’ll ask our Merchant’s Guild to inquire with traditional suppliers.”
The Stitch-girl looked more and more peeved.
“There’s no dedicated [Merchant] around? What about the Golden Gnoll? The Silver Merchant? They sell alchemy items too!”
“Aren’t they in Liscor? Wouldn’t you have better access to them?”
Octavia pulled at her dreadlocks in frustration.
“I already asked! I meant—there’s no good [Merchant] you can prevail upon?”
“They are two of the larger multi-specialists in Liscor. You wouldn’t happen to know Miss Qwera personally, would you? I’d love to attend one of her seminars…”
Octavia groaned. It was at this point, as she was glumly telling the [Clerk] that Qwera was giving a seminar later that day, that Rhaldon strolled over.
“If you need glassware, doesn’t Invrisil have an entire import of it from one of the coastal cities? I know [Alchemists]. Pallass should have dozens of suppliers, shouldn’t they?”
Surprised, Octavia and the [Clerk] looked around. The man was about to tell Rhaldon this was private when he recognized Rhaldon as a driver. Octavia swiveled around, looking mildly exasperated by the obvious questions. But she relented when she noticed Rhaldon.
“Pallass? They don’t import the reagents cheap. Are you—oh, you’re that poor [Driver]. The problem is—you can’t go to a big city. Everyone in the damn Merchant’s Guild marks everything up at least 20%.”
Octavia gave the [Clerk] the evil-eye. He smiled politely.
“Guild practice, Miss Cotton.”
“Yeah, well, that’s why I want a [Merchant] to haul the goods from another town or get a [Driver] to get it to me direct. Even hiring them, it’s a profit. That damn glassware is too expensive in Invrisil.”
The [Clerk] was nodding with Rhaldon.
“Well, Miss, what if you rode out to one of the towns where the goods pass by and negotiate with someone to buy the goods there? That’s what any basic [Trader] does—and if they can do it, why not an [Alchemist]? You’d have all your glassware for cheap instead of going through the Guild.”
Octavia gave the [Clerk] a long, long look.
“Am I made of time? Do I look like I want to ride four days and nights to get a beaker? I’ll pay your prices, thanks. As for the reagents—give me the entire catalog. If I’m paying in bulk, I might as well…”
She glumly began writing down notes, and Rhaldon eyed the sheet. That was a…lot of gold.
What a racket! No wonder the Merchant’s Guild ruled each city. He hesitated—and glanced at Termin—but then he couldn’t help it. When he saw the prices on what looked like salt, he winced, tapped Octavia on the shoulder, and took a breath.
“Um—excuse me, Miss? I could get you all of that. I know there’s a glassware route from Invrisil. It’s a four-day round trip if you have [Faster Rolling], which I do. And if I ask a few [Drivers] to pick up the other things you want at villages they pass by, I can get you the rest. It’s only a few [Message] spells. If you want to cover that and my prices, it’ll cost you about half of what you’ll pay here.”
Octavia looked up, and the [Clerk] frowned at Rhaldon. Technically, you weren’t supposed to ask other [Drivers] to share the load, but Rhaldon knew that you could do it. Octavia turned, eyes wide.
“Really? Wait, what’s your name? I’m Octavia. Stitch-folk [Alchemist].”
“Rhaldon. [Driver]. Er—Human?”
He took her hand and smiled. She looked him up and down and eyed his haircut with a wince. But then she was nodding.
“If you can do a delivery for me—I’m willing to wait. I’d wait longer with this lot.”
“If it is a request through the Merchant’s Guild, there is a fee and I can arrange it now, Miss. It would be a personal delivery request through…Driver Rhaldon. Ah, you’re new, but Master Termin vouches for you. Is that what we are doing today?”
The [Clerk] folded up his catalog and poised, quill in hand, ready to make another order. Rhaldon hesitated—and then a few other people heard.
Termin had finished arguing with the [Merchant]. He was red-faced, but he strode over.
“What’s this now? Rhaldon, are you doing your first personal delivery? Good lad!”
Rhaldon had been afraid Termin would be angry, but the [Wagon Driver] looked delighted instead.
“About time we got you doing independent work! Not that I couldn’t roll with you to…oh, glassware, is it? Damn fragile stuff. And alchemy? Are you sure you can handle it? You need to keep it dry and such.”
He knew the job, and Rhaldon felt worried—but then again, he did know how to be cautious in a lab environment.
Transporting the stuff will be rough. But he’d promised, and Octavia looked so hopeful Rhaldon gave her and Termin a smile.
“I think I’m ready to try as long as Miss Octavia’s going to give me a shot.”
“I will! Especially at these prices. Hey. Hey, Xif!”
The Gnoll turned from where he was still packaging up his salamander parts. He came over, whining.
“It’s Master Xif, Miss Octavia. Please. I know you’re Saliss’ apprentice, but…”
His eyes focused on Rhaldon as Octavia introduced the young man and his offer. Xif peered down his spectacles at Rhaldon.
“You think you can get all of what we need at those prices? Are you, uh, experienced in delivering alchemical items, young man? Even Saliss would rather get his goods in person. I went to Oteslia because good delivery [Drivers] for alchemical items are so far and few between. We had a wonderful Drake who ran practically all of Pallass deliveries, Norish, two years back.”
He put a paw over his heart and sighed wistfully. Rhaldon and Octavia hesitated as Termin winced.
“What happened to him?”
“Explosion.”
That—said it all, really. Rhaldon gulped, but then he took a deep breath.
