In fact—the [Guards] had missed all but one of the little pieces of hard bread. Unleavened and small. They’d fit in the palm of your paw, so they did.
The Brothers—even the new ones—looked at the pieces of bread in dismay, but they had to trust. And recess was coming up—the cells were being opened and groups being led into that courtyard. The Earthtenders, a huge mass of them, strode ahead, some winking at the Brothers.
“If—if you last a few seconds, the [Guards] come. But it just takes a moment. They’ve got shivs. They got Rudinel last week—said they’d get us one by one. Unless we join up and tell them everything we know.”
A terrified younger Gnoll was whispering. Rudinel was the Gnoll who Wilovan and Ratici had buried.
“That’s how it was. But no longer. As it were.”
The new Gnolls were learning the lingo, so they weren’t quite as adept as Wilovan and Ratici. When they strolled out, it was nervously.
Communal gardens—even weight sets to work out at. No blades—the prisoners weren’t even allowed gardening tools for the danger.
Yet the Earthtenders were watching them, clustered up, and the [Guards] looked the other way. Ashamed, perhaps, of their class.
“How’d the rhyme Ratici taught us go? It’s this or nothing.”
One of the younger men muttered. The Gnolls looked at each other as a group began to walk their way, smiling. Hands in their coats holding something. They began to hum—and even the other gangs, criminals, members of Oteslia’s underworld, and people who knew nothing at all of this world—turned.
 
“The night’s been long and the bodies are wet,
But don’t you fret; be quick and ain’t not a guard who’ll be upset
The good folk are rising, and we’re off to our beds,
The smart thieves away with the loot and the slow ones are dead.”
 
They raised something and put it to their mouths. It just looked like a piece of burnt bread. The Earthtenders frowned, and the hair on the back of their necks, their scales prickled.
They stepped faster—as the Brothers took a bite of the bread.
It didn’t crunch like it looked like to the [Guards] and the Watch Sergeant. There was a crust—but it just looked black.
Black as midnight, dark with wheat from Noelictus. The crust was hard indeed, and even they had to chew it down—there was even iron dust baked into the exterior. It had strange ingredients within.
Stonelizard scales. Lemon juice. Lots of mint—but also Wyvern tendons. Corusdeer venison, beets—all these things were appetizingly baked within the flour. Chopped up fine as could be, their taste mitigated by the dough. Dense as a lump of steel, small as a hidden dagger.
If that were all, it would be scary enough. Scary as the look in a [Witch]’s eyes as she made something she knew was illegal. For a friend in low places.
For brave men in hats. But there was a secret in the bread. The Watch Sergeant had not seen it when he tore the biscuit apart. It only appeared after the first hard bite.
Something—inside the bread. It flashed bright under the sunlight shining down on the City of Growth. A second bit of bread inside the first.
Pink dough? Why was it pink? One of the Gnolls stared at it and then nearly dropped his ‘snack’. For it was—
The dough had turned pink with half a bottle of rum. Half a bottle of rum…set on fire. The pink dough within the brick of dark midnight loaf reacted to the light and air.
And then the bit of black bread was on fire. On fire—like a glowing ember. The Gnoll nearly dropped it—then he closed his eyes and took a huge bite. Almost choking as he gulped it down.
The Earthtenders slowed. One drew a knife, not bothering to conceal it. He lunged—and the dagger’s tip buried itself in the first Brother’s chest.
A shout, and the onlookers backed up. The [Guards] turned, knowing that even when they ran, they would be too slow. Too slow for—
A pair of paws gripped the knife’s handle and drew the tip out of his fur. It had gone in about half an inch. No more. And—the Drake [Knifemaster]’s arm jerked back. Or tried to.
Because it was locked in a grip far, far too strong for the Level 13 [Street Tough]. Fur as hard as iron. Arms cording with muscle that locked the Drake’s arm in place. He tried to raise a fist—and a head cracked his skull.
The other Earthtenders froze. A Gnoll with fur as strong as iron, as strong as a certain [Innkeeper]’s bisque—turned. If that were all—
His eyes burned pink a moment. Burning like the flame. Glory.
The Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings exercised their necks and raised their paws as the Earthtenders halted. Then the two sides were striding at each other—and one was backing up. When the [Guards] reached them, it was too late. Half a dozen Earthtenders were down—and when they were dragged away, both sides searched, they only found the knives on the Earthtenders.
No sign of what the Brothers had just done. When a curious [Rogue] picked up one of the remaining pieces of bread and bit into it, intending to prove what had been done—he made a face and spat out a cloud of black dust.
The Brothers grinned as they were led back to their cells. And they tipped their hats to the staring inmates. This wasn’t about the inn, really. Or great deeds.
It was just about drivers. Transport, baking, and secret things. And friends. Two thousand pieces of Emberbread came in from The Wandering Inn, and if they needed more, the [Innkeeper] had their backs.
The Earthtenders kept losing the streets. And it began to be whispered—the Earthtenders might have the Watch on their side. They had roots in the cells and vines across the City of Growth.
But the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings were the thugs on the streets. Gentlemen in the sheets. They had hats on their heads—and fire in bed. The men of fancy dress—
—Were going to put Oteslia’s war to rest.
 
[Witch of Second Chances Level 16!]
[Skill — Hat Trick (Minor Arcana) obtained!]
