He left Erin with her mouth open. The [Priest] was on a tear of killing people recently. He quite enjoyed it. Everyone expected the Mrsha-card to hurt their feelings. No one expected the [Priest] to put a knife in their back.
Since Hexel and Pelt were working on his requests, Pawn had decided to visit the inn more. And he had just taken his new group of Workers and Soldiers to lunch.
Sashimi. Imani and Calescent really were good for the inn. They had it on that lovely rice and even some weeds from the sea. It wasn’t ‘good’ yet according to Imani, but she’d started another trend in the city.
In fact, Lord Alman Sanito was so engrossed in his meal that only when his wife seized his arm did he look up.
“Alman, the insects! The insects—”
“What? Oh—”
Alman slammed back in his seat when he saw two dozen Antinium filing past him. His wife nearly spat out the ‘sushi’, and his children stared at the Antinium in horror—but Alman croaked.
“They’re under Miss Solstice’s control. In fact, a few saved my life during that Invrisil unpleasantness. Just let them pass. Don’t stare so.”
Lady Edere Sanito looked horrified. But Alman stood up, appetite suddenly gone, and intercepted Erin as she poked around the kitchen.
“Miss Solstice.”
“Hey—you! Wait. Lord Alman Sanito, put her there!”
Erin stuck out a hand, and the man stared at it before shaking it. The [Lord] bowed slightly, uncomfortable, and Erin smiled.
“What are you doing here? Visiting Invrisil? You missed the celebrations.”
“Seeing the Haven before it left, actually. We have rooms there. But, ah—I wished to have a word with you. About matters of trade.”
Erin gave him a blank look.
“What are we trading?”
The [Lord]’s heart sank. She’d forgotten? He looked at Erin and at a [Princess] who had appeared and closed her eyes.
“The…the magical connection to the lands of House Sanito? We had a shipment of our goods to send, but of late, the door has not been opening in our lands. As I was in the area, I was asked by the other [Lords] to check on the issue. Temporary, one hopes?”
Erin’s puzzled face turned increasingly wan—which meant pale—as Sanito kept speaking. And her smile turned increasingly guilty.
“Oh. The door. Uh oh. The door.”
She looked around, and Alman began to sweat. He lowered his voice, trying not to sound worried.
“The door is still there. It’s surely a matter of—reconnecting it?”
He had come in through the Haven door and if she could make new connections…but Erin was looking at Lyonette, and the [Princess] was putting her hands over her mouth. And the truth…Erin turned to face Alman slowly.
“I’m afraid—the door’s changed. It’s now a Skill, Lord Alman. It connects to Riverfarm, and it can go further—but only places I’ve been. And since I’ve never been to House Sanito, wherever that is…”
His heart had begun sinking already. But when she said that—Alman thought of the funds coming in that had been making things good enough that he’d elected to visit the costly Haven before his children lost the chance. But wasn’t she wrong?
“You have been there—briefly, Innkeeper Solstice. I recall you petitioning my house for help—”
Erin frowned. Then she snapped her fingers, but regretfully.
“That’s true! Unfortunately—I don’t remember it. Did you have, um…paved streets?”
She gave him a blank look. Alman Sanito hesitated.
“W-where exactly? Outside my manor?”
“Yeah, paved streets? Was there a shrub somewhere around? I don’t remember. I think I needed to spend longer there. I could tell you all about the Players of Celum’s inn—or Emperor Laken’s guest houses and his mean traffic light, Traffy.”
“An [Emperor]? A what light?”
He was getting lost, but it was clear that Erin Solstice needed more than a second in his lands. She gave him a helpless look.
“If I’d spent a day or two there, I’d probably have a way to ‘anchor’ the door. It’s not an improvement, it being a Skill instead of magic. No one can steal it, but it has different requirements. And then you can only move it around a little bit, not grab them and run to a different city. Sorry, Alman. Trade might be out.”
The next words out of his mouth were quick, desperate, and instantaneous. Along with his smile.
“Then—I should invite you to House Sanito’s lands at once, Miss Solstice! It’s only a two-week ride from Invrisil—why, we’d even pay for a faster carriage…”
Erin looked up into his face, and his heart kept sinking through his boots. Erin Solstice—famous traveller, who’d had such great experiences travelling recently?
Alman Sanito stood there as his family anxiously stared at his back. And before he had to put on a good face and turn to them—someone looked up from her table where she was catching up with old friends.
“Bezale, Ceria, sorry. Give me one second. I think this is what we’ve been waiting for. Do I have anything on my face?”
Montressa du Valeross stood up, and Bezale caught her. She dabbed a napkin at some ketchup on Montressa’s cheek, and the [Mage] strode over. As the hour of Erin Solstice waned…
The age of Valeterisa began.
 
——
 
Pawn didn’t hear the slight hubbub from behind him as he walked through the inn’s quieter corridors. There was always a hubbub in the inn. Unless someone screamed—and even then, you waited for the fifth scream—you didn’t pay attention.
“This is the room in which the [Crusaders] were ordained. It is a small room, and we will someday build a better one. But for now—”
The Workers and Soldiers were filing in past Pawn when they all stopped. Yellow Splatters halted, and a Drowned Man who had decided to shadow Pawn came to a stop. Seborn stared into the prayer room of the Antinium—and the notoriously taciturn [Rogue] made a sound.
He laughed.
“Hah! What in the name of shellfish is this? Some kind of joke?”
His voice startled the beings within. Some jerked around—others squeaked—they whirled and froze up. Some began hiding behind the podiums or altar—but there were far too many.
Possibly as many as a hundred—but they didn’t fill up the room, despite their numbers. How had they gotten in? Pawn stared in confusion—for the prayer room was filled with Sariant Lambs.
They had been crowded around the altar where something was lying open. A book—and one of the lambs was resting on a little stool. It—she—had been bleating something in lamb-speak. And the Sariants had been sitting or standing.
At the sight of the inn’s guests, they began to flee, racing past the Antinium’s feet or baahing randomly. Some looked at the Antinium—and ran, crying loudly.
“What the—”
The Antinium were so surprised they only realized the lambs were making an exodus as they tried to stampede. Of course, the tiny, adorable things couldn’t push past anything. But they cried like little children—and their caretakers came for them.
“So this’ where they are! The little rascals!”
Mister Prost himself had come to find the Sariants. They had apparently all run through the portal door from Riverfarm. A bunch of Riverfarm folk recoiled from the Antinium and Goblins and rescued the lambs, who were crying and running to them.
“Were they hungry? Or curious? His Majesty noticed them going through the door and sent me to investigate. I’m sorry for the trouble, Miss Solstice.”
“What? I’m baking!”
Erin stuck her head out of the kitchen and looked blank. She frowned at the lambs.
“Wait, that’s a lot of them. Did Nerry do this? Where were they?”
“Just the prayer rooms. It looked like they were starting a cult. Better watch out or you’ll get [Necromancers] and [Cult Leaders].”
Seborn was highly amused, and even the Riverfarm folk laughed when he related the strange scene. But Pawn…Pawn glanced over his shoulder.
“Just copying us, perhaps?”
Yellow Splatters himself seemed confused as a lamb tried to push past Pawn. But the [Priest]…
The priest looked down at the lambs, ignoring him, pretending to run from the scary Antinium. Slowly, he bent down and picked one up.
It wasn’t Nerry—and the little lamb kicked and wailed as Pawn looked at it. The Riverfarm folk were concerned, but Lyonette assured them Pawn was just curious.
“They were not playing.”
Pawn spoke to himself—to the lamb and the Antinium around him. He stared at the lamb as it stared at him for a second then tried to look innocent and cry.
It was a very little one, perhaps even by their standards. Pawn looked in its eyes.
“They were praying. That was my book. Little lamb…what were you praying for?”
No one noticed him. Everyone was laughing at the lambs as they cuddled the guests. But the little lamb stared at Pawn—and he looked it in the eyes.
“Is it something we can pray for, little lamb? What do you want?”
The Sariant looked at Pawn—and its face screwed up. It tried—hard—but it was too late. The lamb’s cute little button eyes began to turn wet. Then it began sobbing. Tiny tears rolled down its face—and they looked different from the wailing lambs crying piteously.
It knew it shouldn’t, and was trying to stop, but the little lamb just began hiccuping, then. Uncontrollable tears rolled down its face. And only Pawn truly saw its face. Those eyes staring at him. As incomprehensibly hard to truly read as…an Antinium’s insectile eyes.
Pawn stared at the shaking lamb—until something kicked him. He jerked—and Nerry bit his leg, or tried to.
“Nerry! Pawn, you might be frightening the little lamb. I’ll take it. There, there.”
Lyonette took the lamb, and it kept crying as the other Sariants surrounded it and Lyonette put it down. But the [Priest] kept staring as Prost assured everyone all the lambs were safe—just emotionally vulnerable.
It was a funny little moment, that was all. And the lambs left as Erin stared at Nerry. Then she went back to baking. She only said one thing, as if to the air. Perhaps to Lord Alman, speaking to Montressa? Or…
“You have to ask. I never get things unless someone spells it out.”
She walked back inside the kitchen as the lambs looked at her—then Nerry. A naked Drake went stomping past Lady Edere, and she covered her children’s faces in horror. Lady Pryde just sipped from a post-workout beverage and rolled her eyes. She was still here too, and she seemed to be spending more time in The Wandering Inn than The Adventurer’s Haven. Probably because Larracel had refused to install a workout room. She didn’t want that much sweat percolating about her inn.
Saliss of Lights was scowling and muttering about alchemical shortages, and he and Erin locked eyes. Both gave each other a look. Erin had asked to speak to Saliss. Saliss was busy.
The [Alchemist] and [Innkeeper] had a look that said, ‘no, you come to me while I’m doing my thing’. Erin stepped into her kitchen. Saliss walked backwards, arms spread wide, heading to the portal door.
Erin Solstice reached up—and the air crackled and flared with a dozen colors.
She took off her hat. Then she reached inside, and the kitchen began to glow. Saliss halted in his tracks. He sighed as Nerry narrowed her eyes and the inn turned. Mrsha calmly tugged on Watch Captain Venim and Kenva’s claws. She was taking cover behind a table. Pawn and the other Antinium decided it was time to pray after all, and Riverfarm’s folk disappeared with their lambs fast.
That was what tended to happen when the [Innkeeper] of The Wandering Inn made food.
 
——
 
This time, she didn’t experiment. She used her craft.
It felt like reaching into a well and hauling something precious out of it. She knew how deep the well was—her hat and inn held everything she had gathered, and it had been practically bursting already.
Just like when she made Foliana’s gift—she could feel how she had to take the feelings and put them into something suitable. But unlike last time, there was more to it.
Like an unskilled pair of hands, she had been clumsy, wasteful, packing power in like packing peanuts rather than anything elegant. Well—sometimes you could do that, but of late, Erin Solstice had been seeing art.
[Witches] sometimes making small things, but infusing craft in every stitch of a hat. Dividing their authority between a thousand crows—or putting it in the swing of an ancient axe. If a single sweep of a broom could be so magical as to clear a room, then you had no excuse not to try to put the same into cooking, right?
She was no expert and never had been. Cooking was a means to an end for Erin Solstice, which was why she didn’t like it. You ate what you made, and what fun was that? It was impermanent—which was why she didn’t often do things like spice rubs and complicated, tedious processes.
Even now, she didn’t necessarily do that, but she put effort in this time. That was the difference. Every step of this process, she stopped. Thought about what she was going to do before she did it and tried to put something into it.
For instance—one of the first things she did, before she even poured the flour into a bowl to mix, was heat some butter in a pan. A lot of butter—sugar, a dash of salt—and in theory, she should be tossing yeast and sugar into some water. Or—lacking that, the baking soda.
But this time, she stopped. Erin Solstice stared at the stick of butter she’d grabbed. And the baking powder—and she spoke.
“No baking powder. Not this time. I think—where’re the butters?”
She put away the mundane stick of butter. Erin Solstice looked around and threw open a cupboard. Then she picked something out of it—a gift from one of the new visitors to Liscor.
“Ah.”
The most ominous of happy sighs echoed through the kitchen—for Erin Solstice had just pulled out a pot of dark grey butter. Inedible looking—until you realized it came from a Noelictus-breed cow. A Shadowcalf, raised by the famous Lischelle-Drakle farm. And when she set it to melting, Erin Solstice fetched out something that made Lyonette decide to take a walk rather than watch.
Ashwheat flour. But it wasn’t going to just be dark. Intention…Erin Solstice prepared some of the other ingredients she knew full well. Then she looked around.
“Can someone get me a quick delivery?”
“What do you want?”
Numbtongue poked his head into the kitchen, and Erin hmmed. She stared at the ingredients she was preparing—threw some sugar into the melting butter mixture. Some milk from the same cow—grey—
“I wish we had better salt and sugar. It’s okay. I need…iron. Can you take some ore and wash it so it’s as clean as it’ll get? Just this much.”
She made a tiny amount with her two fingers. Eating metal was probably bad for you.
Iron? Numbtongue hesitated—but then he went running off to Esthelm to bother a Dwarf. Erin stared into the dry mix.
