This is a story about [Drivers]. At least, in part.
They took many forms. Sometimes, they were just [Wagon Drivers]; other times, they were more magical and didn’t actually need horses. They just teleported cargo like the bored [Dockmaster] who did all the actual loading and unloading in Fissival’s Teleportarium.
Sometimes—they were the kind of wild, on the edge of your seat racers who would gallop some screaming horses past some screaming [Bandits] while the carriage doors flew open and a narked [Lady] and five [Maids] shot crossbows.
They might even be an overworked, under-thanked Death of Magic, who was a glorified [Teleport Mage] sometimes. ‘Put a [Spy] here.’ ‘Just fly over to Baleros and cast [Greater Teleport], would you?’
…But most of the time, they did have wagons or the like, and they were pulled by mundane animals. They were not Runners, who ran with life on the line. Sometimes, they were ambushed and held up—but most of the time, the [Wagon Drivers] would hand the cargo over. Because it wasn’t worth dying over.
One of them, a new cadet serving under a living legend, Termin the Omnipresent, was a young man with black skin. He had a huge coat on because it was cold, edging below freezing on mornings when he awoke with frost covering the ground, and he sat hunched in his seat as he followed a second wagon through the night until dawn.
His name was Rhaldon, and every time he straightened, his shoulder clicked and he felt something shift and a tightness snap across his arm.
He was sure that was a bad sign. And doubly sure—it hadn’t been doing that a few months ago. Then again—if that were the worst he got for having been shot, Rhaldon would take it.
“You holding up alright there, lad?”
Termin’s voice floated back to him through the fog. The two were running a late-night delivery across known roads. A mix of danger—but Termin had taken the risk because the area they were passing through wasn’t safe stopping ground.
A word on terminology, first. Rhaldon knew the lexicon of each profession varied. He, personally, had a thousand words that no one with a sane mind would ever need to think of. Or words whose context varied dramatically. Absorption—a process in chemistry, not to be confused with adsorption—atomic numbers, an entire list of elements and how they worked with each other—
Not very useful stuff unless he had the tools of another world to make good on it. Although—perhaps invaluable for the same reason.
But wagon drivers, the Driver’s Guilds of Izril, had their own terms and techniques, and so Rhaldon had written down a list. Termin thought it was ‘odd behavior’, but he just remembered it all. Why not write it down? It had never occurred to him.
Late-night delivery. Not a fun thing to do. Most wagon-drivers didn’t like doing them. For one thing, the night was full of danger. Another—your animals needed rest. Even if you could push them with Skills or just encouragement to pull through the night, it would take a toll on them mentally and physically. Throwing a shoe, breaking a horse’s ankle—it was something you only did across known roads.
Known roads—not just ‘mapped’ roads, but trade routes, roads beyond any variance. These were the only places a sane driver would do a late-night drive. No backwoods trail could count as these. It had to have enough traffic—and enough people watching for monsters—that you wouldn’t get yourself killed.
The reason they were doing this moderately risky thing even on known roads was due to the last term. Safe stopping ground. In short—the last two towns and villages that Termin had passed by on their way to Celum weren’t safe.
They were heading back from a northern excursion, far past the local High Passes region. Nowhere near as far as Invrisil—they’d headed from Romswicht, and Celum was their destination. The city was in need of a delivery of Romswicht’s largest product.
Salamander tails. And scales. And other parts.
Oh, if you headed to Romswicht as a normal—the Driver’s terms for people who didn’t understand what Izril looked like—you might think it was just a warmer city than usual with huge-armed [Miners] boasting about finding a lump of gold in their active mines. Or you’d stop by the hot baths or take a chance panning for some gems.
And you might reasonably think ‘this city’s a big mining city like Esthelm or Salazsar’. And you’d say that, and Romswicht’s populace would agree. And every [Trader], [Merchant], and [Wagon Driver] in earshot would laugh at your ignorance.
It was true they sold such things. And it probably even made up a good amount of the city’s trade. But the real value was the salamanders.
They were everywhere. They nested in buildings, in the mines, would appear in your bath—even leap into your morning cup of tea in a suicidal bid to get you to spill it all over your face. But the truth was, the pests were highly, highly valuable. So much so that there was a Catcher’s Guild devoted to dealing with the pests.
[Alchemists] loved them. The same natural magicore and hot springs that made the town of Romswicht so warm led the salamanders—cold-blooded and magical—to infest the area. Their tails, skin, and everything else were valuable low-level reagents.
Celum wanted them. But really—it was what Celum was connected to that made the trip worthwhile.
“Just a bit further, lad. Celum to Invrisil and Pallass. It makes our trip faster—if cheaper—but I’ll be damned if most [Drivers] won’t hate the route. Two no-stop zones.”
Termin grimaced. The last two places he’d passed had been apparently dangerous enough that he hadn’t considered pulling into an inn.
“How bad was it? They didn’t look—nasty.”
Rhaldon called out. Termin grumbled as he patted Erma’s head. Or Fox—Rhaldon couldn’t tell who was who in the mist.
“Maybe not. But two [Drivers] got jumped in their sleep last year. That’s more than enough to take it off our lists.”
The Driver’s Guild was very careful about the places they knew as ‘safe’. They had lists of inns, pubs, and even had established routes you’d follow as a new driver to maximize your safety. And they had a bit of weight; entire villages and overnight hostels had wondered why they had lost a substantial number of customers. Many would never realize that no [Driver] had stepped through their door—they were an overnight guest, but there could be hundreds each month.
Incidentally, the inn that Termin wanted to stay at was not on the safe-list, but as a top-tier [Driver], Termin often explored new routes and reported his findings to the guild. But he was not exactly charitable to The Wandering Inn at the moment.
“The damned door is throwing all our routes off. Good on Miss Solstice for having it, but it’s making our lives harder, eh, Rhaldon? You not nodding off?”
“Mm. I’m doing okay right now.”
Rhaldon assured Termin and sat up a bit. This was an expensive amount of cargo to haul, and messing it up would be disastrous. Reassured—that was probably why he’d slowed—Termin moved on.
“We’ll have a hot drink on me when we get in. Then—I’m thinking maybe another day off before we hit the road. You…you sure you don’t want to have me introduce you to Miss Solstice? We might get rooms this time.”
They had been at the inn no less than three weeks ago. And then—they’d moved straight on, back to work. Rhaldon sat in the driver’s seat and thought about it.
“—She looked busy last time.”
“Being dead does that to you. Can’t believe it myself. And the 7th Hive of the Antinium and the Haven on the move. Damn Haven. Larracel’s probably transported a hundred tonnes of goods on the sly. Job-stealing [Innkeeper]. Miss Solstice has the decency not to undercut us that much, but her…”
Another funny thing was that the [Drivers] hated the Haven. Larracel could and sometimes did transport items or people in her mobile inn. And while her inn was slow—there was no beating a magical fortress like the Haven.
But Termin liked The Wandering Inn. He had hugged Erin—been given all the new favorite foods and been part of that moment. Rhaldon had eaten a meal in the inn—and then left.
He hadn’t spoken to Erin Solstice. Nor to Kevin of Solar Cycles or Joseph the Coach. All of whom Rhaldon suspected he had things to say to.
Termin noticed. Termin noticed a lot, and as Rhaldon now knew—Termin had the ability to meet people who might matter on the road. He could drive his coach—shift it across vast tracts of land, and he was a veteran of his job.
So he was obviously curious as to why his young protégé was not rushing to meet Erin Solstice. The answer? Well, there were a few.
“It’s a dangerous inn.”
Rhaldon broke the silence as their wagons descended a slight incline. The dirt road was wet by the moonlight now cutting through the mists. It appeared in front of them, fifty feet at a time, and Termin’s figure sat a bit too light in the saddle. Rhaldon knew that the older man had a club under his seat.
Their voices were low as a field of what might be wheat passed to one side, like a whispering sea of hands reaching up. It was just…they were speaking to fill the silence. But so quietly, just over the clop-clop of hooves and the creaking of the wagon wheels. In case something was out there.
“That monster that attacked it? Fair enough. It’s never going to be a safe-spot for [Drivers] even if a decade passes with nary another attack. But Miss Solstice is generous. Is it the Goblins? Antinium?”
Rhaldon shook his head. He smiled at the suggestion.
“She seems pretty open-minded to me.”
Termin couldn’t guess why Rhaldon would take that as a good sign. The man grunted.
“Them monsters make my hair stand on end—but they’re decent sorts. One of them even gambles. The fellow with the guitar. Almost like people.”
“Amazing how that happens.”
If he noticed Rhaldon’s sardonic comment, Termin didn’t react. The man rubbed his gloved hands together.
“It it Erin herself?”
“Mm.”
“I admit—seeing her with them flaming eyes and those wings gave me a start. Who knew chess was that dramatic, eh?”
Rhaldon’s heart beat faster just remembering it. He had seen Erin Solstice playing her now-famous match against Pisces. Felt the inn shaking.
Intimidating didn’t cover it. Perhaps if you had known her longer or you were as famous in your own way as Termin, it was ‘normal’. But Rhaldon was like Inkar, though neither had met the other.
They were newcomers, and they saw someone from their world who seemed to now belong to this one.
Myth and legend and—she was intense. Rhaldon couldn’t describe it any other way. He had once met someone who had come off active-duty service. Fresh from a plane-ride home. They had been—well, they’d talked and spoken and reacted normally, but they were also somewhere else. And Rhaldon had felt like they were ready for something he couldn’t even dream of.
If the sky fell down—they’d be the ones who ducked.
What did you have to live through to get like that? He wondered. These were both two good, obvious reasons. She was an established something, and he wasn’t sure he should trust her.
He’d seen the Singer of Terandria’s music video. He’d heard…well, he’d seen the Meeting of Tribes play out on the scrying orb. Roshal existed.
All these things made Rhaldon’s skin crawl, but why not speak to Erin Solstice? Why not? There was one last reason, and it was this:
“I know her, you know, Termin. Or—not know, but I knew her name before we met her.”
The [Driver] twisted around in his seat. His eyes glinted from below his hat.
“You don’t say? Are you from her homeland? I thought so.”
“Exactly her homeland. I know Kevin too. Not Joseph.”
“…How? Is she a famous chess player back there?”
“Funny you mention that. I think they even said something like that. The second chess prodigy gone missing.”
“…Missing?”
The young man hesitated. He schooled his face, but his skin kept crawling. Because she didn’t really look like the picture of her. No, not at all.
Something had aged her. Five years—but she didn’t look five years older. Not physically. She had aged in the way emotions and maturity aged her, but her biological age was closer to the image he’d seen.
Almost every single night on news bulletins. On the dedicated websites. Rhaldon spoke, and he knew it might be risky to tell Termin, but someone had to know. The thing was…
“I didn’t even believe she was real. Even when I saw her. I thought, ‘no way’.”
“Someone’s searching for her?”
“You could say that.”
A tenth of the country was on the streets, knocking on doors, demanding to search their neighbors’ houses. Every single organization from the FBI to local police—and half the countries were pointing fingers at each other. Taking sides.
“You, uh, think she might want to go back?”
“It’s not that simple.”
He was going to be on that list—if they didn’t declare him dead. Rhaldon shivered. He spoke, trying to explain to Termin what had happened.
“Erin is…one of a few people who vanished, Termin. Now, I guess we know what happened, but back home—no one knew. And people didn’t really take notice until later. But now, everyone’s noticing. There are a lot of false positives. Even more conspiracies. The lockdown didn’t help either—”
“Curfew? Now they see Miss Solstice, surely the panic’s over.”
“…It’s an insular nation.”
“Ah. Inland?”
“No. Private. No scrying orbs.”
Termin whistled as Rhaldon invented a different way to explain the issue. The [Driver] glanced sideways.
“So a lot of disappearing folk makes for trouble. Even I don’t have to guess that.”
“Well, we had a bad few years. Sickness, wars—and we’re having people vanish. On camera—”
“I thought you said they didn’t have them television things.”
“No, they’re just within our nation’s boundaries.”
“Ah. Right.”
Rhaldon rolled his eyes. This was stupid. But he wasn’t going to explain the entire thing right now, so he went on.
“The point—is that no one trusts the crown. Add in the curfew, and nothing’s changed. Now people are seeing—visions. And nothing else is getting better. There were protests. Along with people trying to search homes. Arrest people—vigilantes. Extremists. So there were two kinds of protests. And some of them were put down hard.”
He felt at his shoulder. Termin’s keen-eyed stare shifted to that.
“You wouldn’t have happened to be at one of them, would you?”
“Yes.”
Maybe it was just one idiot using live-rounds. But that wasn’t what it had sounded like. That wasn’t—
