“I am actually familiar with keeping to lab protocols, Master Xif. If you could give me a list of dangerous items you’re requesting and how to store them—I think I can do it.”
“Well, well. A list? No driver has ever asked for a list of procedures before. As it happens, I could give you a basic guide for young [Alchemists]. Why not?”
That reply seemed to impress Xif, and soon, he was writing down his order on top of Octavia’s.
“If you do well, I can recommend you to a dozen [Alchemists] outside of Pallass—let alone the ones within. But let’s see how you tackle this, eh?”
Termin was patting Rhaldon on the shoulder, albeit a bit worriedly as he eyed the highly esoteric orders. But Rhaldon was getting excited.
“I can deliver straight to your laboratories.”
“You mean, our shops. Of course! Thank you.”
And I’ll get to know what they’re buying and why. Some of it looked obvious. They wanted salt, flour, mundane things like that—but also salamander parts, roots, and what Rhaldon wondered if he knew from his world.
Tipath ore, for instance. What was that really? Charcoal…his eyes ran down the list, and he smiled as he shook their hands. Termin put a hand on his shoulder as the two [Alchemists] hurried back to their shops.
“Lad, it’ll be a challenge. The first thing we’re going to do is get a Wand of Fire Bolt. Upon me. I think we need it if there are more Garbichugs.”
“You’ve already paid for the wagon and the horses, Termin—”
Rhaldon hesitated, but Termin waved this off.
“I’ll take a cut of what you make—and if you get through this delivery without breaking a thing, you’ll be closer to paying me off even with that wand. Any good master does that for an apprentice. But no—the first thing we’re gonna do is stop by The Wandering Inn, alright? Because if you want to get those deliveries done—time was it’d be a month of travel. With Invrisil and the magic door? You could do this all within four days. The glassware at least!”
Rhaldon gulped as Termin steered him out of the Merchant’s Guild, but he nodded. The [Clerk] made a few notes for the record, and Tolveilouka laughed his way north.
But no one really paid attention to the [Drivers]. They were the hidden grease in Izril’s axles. Not the main players of any story. When someone needed to get somewhere or had something delivered—that was them.
The real heroes rode horses. Or ran barefoot or had fancy hats.
Or wore aprons. Well—Erin Solstice was an exception to that rule.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice was reading a [Message] with some dismay that morning as Ishkr greeted two men at the inn.
She was reading a note from Wilovan and Ratici. Something bad was going down in Oteslia. She barely glanced up and smiled at Termin—but Ishkr was talking with them.
“—very standard to go through the doors. Liska can set it up outside temporarily to get your horses through. The wagon won’t fit.”
“Ah, well, he can use another one in Invrisil. Thank you, sir. Good to see you, Miss Erin!”
“Termin, hi! Get him a burger on the house, Ishkr! If you’re staying, let’s talk…later.”
Erin half-waved at the two men. She was reading the note instead and barely looked up. Erin was far away, in a place she’d never actually been to.
 
——
 
Oteslia, City of Growth. It was, by all accounts, one of the better cities to live in if you were a Gnoll. Maybe not the most military-minded, and certainly the poorest, vying with Manus for rock-bottom—but Manus poured their resources into their army.
Yet Oteslia had some ideas about how to run itself. For instance, it was the only Walled City—one of the only cities in Izril at all—which thought that criminals, [Prisoners], and so on deserved a place to stretch their legs and mill about.
Oteslia’s prison complex had an outdoor component where the imprisoned could, at daily intervals, stretch, exercise, and actually socialize. And while Erin hadn’t realized this—and most people did not have an intimate knowledge of prisons—the thing that she considered standard to Earth was not usual in this world.
Liscor, for instance, had a prison. Prisoners went in, and when they were released, went out. At no point did they have a recess or chance to move about. Calruz had nearly gone insane from his confinement.
Pallass was like that too. In fact, it had low incarceration times and high fines—the idea was you paid for your mistakes in a literal sense. Drake cities liked that model. It was how Pisces had been allowed to roam about despite being a criminal after paying his fines.
But in other cities—you were thrown behind the bars, and you sat there. Sometimes, you died there. Or some Walled Cities had other practices.
In Salazsar, you were given a forced conscription sentence where you labored in the mines. Some companies ‘rented’ prisoners instead of hiring [Miners]. In Zeres, similarly, you were made a rower on some of their ships along with jail terms.
Manus was different. You were given military duty for them or work in the same way as the other two cities—but they also would lash offenders.
Fissival tended to simply exile most criminals or downgrade their citizenship papers after enough infractions. But no city—none of them—let you leave the cell. Once thrown in, you might spend ninety days in a box too small to do more than pace about, using a privy that fed into the sewers.
Some might consider this fair treatment for prisoners. Oteslia was of the view that they could at least walk about for a bit—tend to gardens they let prisoners grow seeds in. Which made it a fine city to be arrested in, especially if you were a new gang of Brothers fighting the Earthtenders, right? You’d be put in there a week at the most for brawling—or more if there were blood—but then come right out.
Rickel stared down at the Gnoll’s body. The young man had his paws clasped together and eyes closed—and the [Gravekeeper] had prepared him for burial. But that didn’t hide the wounds on his chest.
“Stabbed. Eight times with a shiv.”
Wilovan and Ratici stood around the dead young man. He had no hat—the Watch had taken it when he was jailed. So, Wilovan produced a hat and covered the young Gnoll’s face with it.
He looked—grim. So furiously silent that the [Gravetender] didn’t interrupt the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings. The new recruits from Oteslia’s streets and the Humans who’d come to aid the Gentlemen Callers.
“Is he the first?”
“Fourth this week. We didn’t realize they weren’t coming back—the Watch notified their kin, not us.”
Ratici squatted down, face hard and bleak. Rickel wanted to tell a joke—he wanted to laugh—in denial, because this was dark.
“I don’t suppose it’s a coincidence?”
One of the Brothers from the north was a man with a goatee and a scar that closed one blinded eye. He looked down, and Wilovan shook his head.
“It’s not always the same weapon.”
The Brothers murmured to each other. One of the veterans exhaled.
“—Then these Earthtenders have a way in with the Watch. No wonder they’re calling for the law. Their lot might get booked—ours won’t come out. Spread the word. Better to die than go in. It’s the same either way.”
“We will not be shedding blood with the Watch, Torpith.”
“And you’d have us let in young lads who’ll go up against bastards with blades?”
The scarred man and Wilovan squared off—until Ratici lifted his voice.
“Silence. You’re in the company of this brave lad. Show some respect.”
Instantly, both Brothers stood down. But there it was. Rickel saw it.
So this was Poruniv’s plan. Ecleeif had feared these ‘Gallowsmen’ and their swift justice, but the Earthtenders were willing to let the Watch and law enforcement arrest their own and the Brothers.
Because once they were in Oteslia’s lovely, social prisons, the Brothers would be unarmed, in theory able to hold their own if they stuck together against Earthtenders in the jails.
—In practice, the Earthtenders would miraculously somehow smuggle in blades. And without Wilovan or Ratici, the junior members of their gang were sitting ducks.
 
——
 
They buried the young Gnoll, and Rickel stood around the small funeral as dirt was piled in. Oteslians didn’t believe in coffins. They knew what happened to those buried, and the bodies in this graveyard would grow the somber plants and trees from Noelictus. The only thing Oteslia did to make sure the undead wouldn’t rise was remove the head and add salt between the shoulders and head.
Only afterwards did he realize no one had told him the young Gnoll’s name. Wilovan, Ratici, and the veteran Brothers spoke on their quiet walk back.
“What can be done?”
“Keep the Watch back. Run interference. No one goes into the jails. No blood on the Watch—for now. I said, for now, Torpith. We can’t destroy this city in the process of taking it from the Earthtenders’ hands. Put a line in the ear of any [Guard] who’ll listen. Tell them to open their eyes. We don’t want sides—but we want justice. Even for folk such as us.”
“Or else?”
Wilovan’s eyes glittered.
“Or else there is no law to respect. And we do respect them, for all we step over the line. That’s all.”
The Brothers fell silent, and Rickel’s skin crawled. Oh shit. Things were going to get super real soon—unless something was done. He tried not to smile. He knew that would be intense. But—holy shit. What would that look like?
Could he help? He wondered about bribes…but then Ratici spoke up.
“Perhaps there’s a way. I sent a line to Miss Solstice. As we happen to send a monthly letter.”
“You what?”
Wilovan looked annoyed, and Ratici adjusted his cap.
“Perhaps she has some good idea. Perhaps—as I asked—Miss Lyonette had more words with that Cire fellow. Rickel knows him too.”
“I can bring it up.”
Rickel thought that was a good idea. A few eyes on the prison situation might calm the stabbings—but it wasn’t a permanent solution. He was curious, though.
“What do you think the [Innkeeper] can do?”
The [Thief] gave Rickel an expressive shrug.
“A fellow never argues with help, Rickel. Or doubts it might come at times when it’s greatly appreciated. Especially not from a lady who’s flouted death.”
 
——
 
Hence, the letter to Erin Solstice. She sat there, thinking, aware of her debt to the two Gentlemen Callers. But what could she do?
She barely noticed the door opening and closing as Ishkr handled the mundanities of inn-travel and transport. And while Rickel might doubt the young woman, he’d never met—Erin Solstice.
Could she fight dirty and low, as the streets fought, with mud in the blood and teeth cracking on the pavement? Erin Solstice looked up, and her eyes rested on a jar of acid for sale clearly marked ‘DO NOT DRINK’ on the far end of the room.
Oh, yes. She knew how to play dirty indeed. Then Erin twisted her head.
“Watch Captain Venim? Got a second?”
The Watch Captain and his daughter looked up from their table. Kenva, who was Mrsha’s new friend and a huge fan of the inn, glanced up from listening to a tale of school from Mrsha with interest.
“Miss Solstice?”
Venim’s face took on the pained look of a man who knew she was about to inject trouble into his life with a needle the size of a turkey baster. Erin glanced casually to the side.
“Would you, uh, in theory, as a Watch Captain overseeing a prison…Let’s say someone was gonna bring in some green…glowing…juice into the prison. Would you allow that?”
The Watch Captain stared at Erin. Then at the jars of acid. He stared back at Erin.
“…No. We can tell if something’s dangerous, you know.”
“Damn. Well, there goes my idea.”
Erin folded her arms. Venim opened his mouth—then decided he didn’t want to know. He hesitated—then decided to get up and tap Erin on the shoulder as she thought.
“We would test the food as well to make sure it wasn’t dangerous. Jello, for instance.”
Erin gave him a wide-eyed look of innocence. Then she scowled.
“Double damn.”
 
——
 
Erin was walking into Calescent’s abode—the kitchen—when she spotted someone even better.
“Oh, Imani! What’s up? Not working today?”
“It’s Tirenv, Erin. Palt and I only work five days of the week. I’m helping Calescent learn how to make jello. Palt, stop being a little foal.”
Erin came across the funniest of scenarios. Which was Imani bossing around Palt, a Centaur, and Calescent, a big Hob, as the two of them fiddled with a bunch of powder and a pan. They looked exceptionally reluctant, and ‘ick’ was written across their faces.
“You get three days off a week? What?”
“Comes with being a successful bakery-restaurant. Timbor took a page from your book, and I prepare dishes in advance for his preservation runes. Besides, I often do tutoring on my weekends. Come on, you two. Erin, what do you want?”
Calescent made a face as Imani showed them how to mix the gelatin, which you could make into all kinds of dishes. Boba, jellied eels…Hectval had ironically helped import the recipes to Liscor.
But, funnily, both the [Spice Chef] and [Illusionist] didn’t like making jello.
“Is gross. Wobbles like intestines. Like Wyvern-brain jelly. Nasty to make.”
Calescent grumbled. Palt nodded. Imani slapped his hand and glared at him.
“Palt!”
“But it’s made of gelatin! Darling—”
“You were all for it before you knew it had horse in it. Besides—this is apparently slime-stuff from Onononno…”
Imani rolled her eyes. Palt whined.
“That’s worse! I don’t want to eat a slime!”
Imani threw up her hands. As if he didn’t know how you made sausage! She turned to Erin as the [Innkeeper] laughed at the cooking antics.
“How can we help you?”
“Oh—I was gonna ask. Can I borrow your kitchens and some ingredients? Yours are bigger, right?”
Imani’s fond smile vanished like someone turning off a lightbulb. Palt’s cigar fell out of his mouth into the jello. Both looked at each other and chorused.
“No.”
“Absolutely not.”
Erin was hurt.
“Wh—come on! Just for a bit? You can watch!”
“Erin—how can I put this gently? No. Calescent, we’ll teach you in our kitchen. If Erin needs this one—let’s get out of here. We’ll help you clean—no, Erin should have to clean up her own messes.”
The Goblin looked confused—then worried at Imani and Palt’s reactions. Erin put her hands on her hips.
“Guys. I’m a good cook. I’m a decent cook. I don’t start oil fires. Accidentally. Pawn—Pawn, they’re bullying me!”
Erin looked around and called out to the first person passing by. Pawn hesitated as he walked with a group of Workers and Soldiers through the inn. He stared at Erin as she pointed at Imani.
“I am sorry to hear this is the case, Erin. Did you deserve it?”
