The acid jar needed a safe place to experiment—so she went to her lab, made sure Reagen wasn’t ambling about—then put the thread in a metal tray. Then she poured some acid over the top.
She watched the thread floating about as the rest of the cloth smoked and dissolved in seconds. Octavia stared at the thread.
“…Yep. That’s not normal.”
She looked up when she heard an aha from the common room.
 
——
 
“I cut it! Or rather—Numbtongue did!”
Revi had won the war. Numbtongue was panting—and he’d cut a line straight into the inn’s floorboards. Lyonette was throwing a fit.
“Numbtongue!”
“It was hard!”
He had his Dragonblood crystal sword out—and two tables had been secured with the string stretched between two heavy rocks. Numbtongue had been swinging his sword down, trying to cut the string.
He’d managed it after Shorthilt had taken over, and the resulting slash had cut through the floor too. Numbtongue stared at the thread suspiciously as Lyonette groaned. Erin just poked her head out of the kitchen.
“Hey, where are the baking trays? Don’t worry about the floor, Lyonette. [Partial Reconstruction]!”
The inn’s floor began to mend as Numbtongue felt at the thread. It was as strong as could be!
“That’s the kind of thread you’d want to use in fishing for sharks. What kind of material is it?”
By now, Seborn had cottoned onto Revi’s experiments, and Octavia came back to report it was odd thread too.
“Acid-proof?”
“More like the acid doesn’t even begin to dissolve it. It might be dissolvable—but not by acid-flies.”
Everyone gathered around the thread, wondering what it could be. It was the most important part of the dress—Lady Edere was sighing.
“The color is so—bright! It would be hard to fit in subtly anywhere. But the strength of it!”
“It’s a strong thread. Not exactly armor, my dear.”
Alman had the blank look of an oblivious husband being dragged along to a shopping outing. But Edere looked outraged.
“Alman! You have some nerve saying that! You know thread goes into your precious suits of armor, don’t you? A piece of leather is only as good as the stitching that binds it! And thread begets cloth! Why, if you had enough of this, you could make a shirt so tough only yon…Goblin…could cut it!”
“And he barely got one thread! Imagine making my stitches with this! I’d never have split ends again!”
Revi was nodding. Numbtongue was red-faced. He stowed his sword.
“It’s tough thread! I’m going to go practice with my sword. With the Horns. I’ll be back when I beat up Pisces, Ksmvr, and Yvlon.”
He stomped off, ignoring his brother’s ghost, who was saying much the same thing as Revi—but in even less kindly terms.
“The real question is—what is the thread? Because I should dearly love some more, wouldn’t you? Miss Solstice! Miss Solstice, do you think that antique store might have more such dresses?”
Everyone looked up eagerly, and Erin screamed.
“I’m on fire! I’m on—oh wait, it’s okay.”
She came out, dusting flames off her. Alman stared as Erin tossed some flames onto the floor.
“Force of habit. What was the question? Oh, the dresses? Nah. I think the pot and dress were the only special things. Or I would have found more fingers in other pockets.”
“Everything about what you just said made no sense. From the fire to the fingers. Explain.”
Lady Pryde folded her arms, glaring, and she had been there. Grimalkin gave her a look of deep sympathies. He had just come into the inn.
“Grimalkin! Man, everyone’s coming here today. Kitchen’s busy, but are you here to talk? I’m a bit busy—can you guys reverse-engineer the thread or something?”
“It’s just a simple thread. We need more…”
Edere was peering at the thread and wishing she had some spectacles from home. Grimalkin just grunted.
“I suspected something was up.”
“How’s that?”
The Sinew Magus nodded back the way he’d come, and Erin distantly heard the wail of something in the background. Did she smell smoke?
“Saliss of Lights blew a hole in the top of his laboratory. It’s now on fire. You…wouldn’t happen to know anything about that, would you?”
Everyone stopped as they heard the fire alarms in Pallass going off. Erin stared at Grimalkin. She slowly walked back into the kitchen and pretended she wasn’t there.
 
——
 
By the time Valeterisa, the Archmage of Izril, came to the inn, there was so much fascinating stuff happening that she barely listened to Montressa whispering in her ear.
The first thing she saw was a sooty Drake, Saliss of Lights, pointing at a bit of thread and the vase.
“Both are highly magical. I don’t know what either one is—but it’s the Adamantium bricks story. The thread’s so tough I had to cut it with a Mithril razor. The pot has something in it. Baked into the damn ceramics. And…I think I’ve seen something similar in the ingredients from Albez.”
He was grinning like a madman despite having been caught up in the blast. Valeterisa peered at the pot fragment as everyone drew back.
When you removed the lesser parts of the ceramic, you got some kind of glittering powder. It was white…or translucent?
Oh, and it was apparently so reactive that it had blown a hole through Saliss’ fortified laboratory when he tried to find out what it did.
Erin Solstice’s eyes were glittering—but she was also peering at something in her oven. So that was why Nerrhavia had called her.
“What’s this about Adamantium bricks?”
Lady Edere didn’t get the reference. Valeterisa explained absently as she tried to grab one of the thread pieces. Saliss slapped her hand down.
“Ouch. The Adamantium bricks is a popular—and historically accurate—story about a Chandrarian [Brick Layer] who didn’t realize he had found Adamantium ore in its unprocessed state. A Dwarven [Smith] recognized that entire brick walls had been built out of the raw Adamantium ore. The parable is used to describe something valuable hidden in plain sight. Give me that piece of thread, please. I would like to inspect it. Montressa, secure a sample.”
“Archmage—”
Montressa was thrust forward like some kind of attack-apprentice. She stared at Saliss—but he grabbed Octavia and put her in front of him.
“Apprentice—throw an acid jar! Attack!”
“Apprentice Montressa, use a barrier spell. Counter with [Light Arrows].”
Before the two respective masters could make their apprentices do battle, Lord Alman Sanito jumped.
“Archmage Valeterisa?”
He knew she was staying at the Haven, but now she was here—and apparently here for him! Valeterisa focused on the [Lord] as she slowly levitated a piece of thread up with one finger. Saliss grabbed it.
“Ah, Lord Alman Sanito. I am told you are my first test subject.”
“T-test subject?”
“What Archmage Valeterisa means is that she would be delighted to help you with your issues regarding trade! Can we discuss the matter somewhere private?”
Montressa hurried forwards and nudged Valeterisa aside. Valeterisa was trying to speak, and she had that uncanny, too-friendly smile on.
“Pitch #1: Hello sir or madam! I have the offer of a lifetime for you. Are you interested in magical transportation similar to Fissival’s Teleportarium grid? Tired of slow [Drivers]? I can send your goods across Izril at a fraction of the cost. No livestock, irreplaceable goods, or people for now. Accidents may occur. I am not liable for any magical accidents, vortexes, or destruction of property that may occur—”
Before the rest of the dreadful spiel could be laid upon House Sanito, Montressa elbowed Valeterisa and spoke.
“[Master, Allow Me].”
Valeterisa blinked—shut up—and then began to silently nod as Montressa took over a more rational explanation of what was going on. Yet—with a deal of magical knowledge that even Montressa couldn’t speak on normally.
“We can do eighty miles, Lord Alman. Eighty miles—and what we’re calculating at six point four filled crates of ten feet by ten per day. Until we work out magical leylines and recharging the spells—think on it. It might not be much, but it will be a daily shipment.”
He was blinking as Montressa spoke. Valeterisa was impressed. Those were her calculations. She hadn’t even told Montressa that. Did the Skill let Montressa use Valeterisa’s magical knowledge?
Imagine how many spells and projects she could make Montressa do. Valeterisa rubbed her hands together. Saliss himself looked envious.
“That’s a good [Apprentice] Skill. Octavia, beat her up and steal her Skill.”
Lady Pryde was listening in sharply, and when she heard what Montressa was offering—Grimalkin was staring at Valeterisa, but in a resigned way.
“Fissival.”
That was his only comment. Meanwhile, everyone was staring at the thread and powdered vase-stuff. Lady Edere coughed.
“How would one find what the thread was spun from? If it is…it may be highly valuable, but what there is—is limited here.”
Just enough to stitch up a dress, really. Five Families knew she wanted more, but even Edere’s own [Seamstress] class couldn’t pick up what the thread was.
“Some people from home could probably figure it out. If Erin wants to send it to Nerrhavia’s Fallen—dead gods, I’ll send it back home myself.”
Octavia looked passionate about the thread, but Saliss just grunted as he brushed soot off his face.
“Don’t do that. You’ll never get it back if it’s valuable. It’ll be confiscated. You need…a kind of [Historian]-[Scholar]-[Tailor]. I guess it’s back to the old Oteslian research teams again. Hey, Erin! Can we send this off to someone to see what it is?”
“No!”
For once, the [Innkeeper] refused. Now, the smells of something hot and lovely were coming from her ovens, and she emerged with a smile. She pointed at what Saliss had—alchemy and thread.
“Don’t send it to Nerrhavia’s Fallen or Oteslia. Can you divide the thread and powder into three?”
“There’s more than enough for three samples. Who do we send it to?”
Revi was skeptical that Erin Solstice could think of anyone better to talk to than Stitch-folk—until Erin started speaking.
“Send it to the Longstalker’s Fang tribe and ask for that famous [Magic Spinner] that Inkar knows. Send the powdery stuff to the other Gnoll tribes and ask if anyone remembers what it is. That’s one group. Send the other parts to Wiskeria and the [Witches]. I’ll make Ser Dalimont run it over. And give the last to Kevin.”
“…Why Kevin?”
Erin gave them a blank look.
“He’ll send it to Khelt. Fetohep’s got a good [Potter].”
 
——
 
Somehow, amidst all the chaos of discovery, Valeterisa, and Erin baking with craft and magic—
Nothing had exploded.
Well, in the inn. Saliss didn’t count. It was so odd that Lyonette kept checking on Erin’s kitchen, but all she saw was an [Innkeeper] cursing, experimenting, feeding her ‘failed’ experiments to Mrsha, Rhata, and Ekirra and getting them to attack guests—and working hard.
Most of the day, in fact, Erin just stayed in the kitchen. Working.
Two last things happened that day that made Erin break off cooking, even for a few seconds. She was experimenting with her doughs and realizing she needed a very low heat for the first part of her process—and she had to be exquisitely careful with the second bake.
“I’ll never get it to Oteslia fast. Darn! Even if my door can go to Pallass…anyone know how you get something super-quick to Oteslia? This’ll be too much to fit in most bags of holding.”
Valeterisa appeared, munching on one of Erin’s failed prototypes.
“I am busy flying to House Sanito. I am also not working with the Walled Cities as of yet. Inquire later. I will be approaching Liscor’s Council after my trial runs.”
“Wh…okay?”
Erin stared at the Archmage blankly. Valeterisa gave her the same look.
“I thought we were discussing deliveries.”
“You deliver things?”
“I transport them now. We are in competition.”
“We are?”
Possibly only Valeterisa could beat Erin in the obfuscation of reality game. And that was because Valeterisa genuinely looked as confused as Erin. But as she walked off, someone else popped up.
“Miss Solstice. I think I could take whatever you’re wishful of. Won’t be a hard trip down the trade roads. Give me a few days, and I’ll run it down, quick, just for you. My own apprentice is doing his first solo-delivery.”
And there he was. The forgotten man—Termin, the [Wagon Driver] in the background. He had been quite ignored in all the excitement, but when you needed him—the delivery man appeared.
Erin turned to Termin, delighted.
“Termin! You’re sure? Are you that fast?”
Termin the Omnipresent’s eyes glinted.
“When it comes to it, I can make good time. Not as fast as a Courier or their fancy Pegasi—but if it’ll wait a few days—these important gentlemen you need me to deliver to?”
“The most important. And the most gentlemenish. It’ll wait till then. It’s probably good if no one notices. I think I’m almost done. Can you set off the next morning? If I need to bake through the night doing two more batches, I will.”
Termin’s eyes glinted. He focused on what Erin was making, and she showed him the trick. He grinned.
“I’d be interested in seeing what that does. I can do a tiny cart with Erma and Fox, then. Make brilliant time. The more important the delivery, the faster I go, Miss Solstice.”
“Hey. In that case…let’s talk fees.”
Erin gave him a floury handshake and beamed. Then Mrsha raced in, waving a notecard.
Erin, Erin!
Erin and Termin turned. Mrsha was dancing around—but she had to put a second notecard down and write out what she wanted to say.
Erin, Ryoka is coming! She’s almost at Invrisil!
“What? No way! That’s great news! Roll out the red carpet—Ryoka’s coming back, everyone!”
Erin laughed in delight. Mrsha smiled—until she wondered if she should be mad Ryoka hadn’t come back sooner. But this was good, and she decided to beam.
“Ryoka?”
Relc poked his head into the kitchen. He was coming in, and his scales were a bit wet from the chill outside. He coughed into one gloved hand.
“It’d be nice to see her.”
The [Innkeeper] blinked at Relc as the Drake Guardsman developed a nasty cough. But then he indicated the door.
“That’s better news than what I’ve got. How’s it going, Erin? Hey, weird food. Mind if I try—”
She smacked his hand.
“No! I’m going to need as much as I can. Have a burger.”
“You don’t make them well.”
Relc sulked. Erin raised a fist.
“Pizza?”
“Oh, okay. I deserve a slice! I was at work all day—serious work, you know. There was nearly a fight at the gates. You’ll never guess who just flounced into Liscor, throwing their tails around.”
Erin went back to baking.
“Who?”
