Rhaldon tried not to think about what might have happened again. It had been a peaceful protest—ish. With almost as many officers to make sure it stayed that way. Right up until the counter-protest got violent.
Disaster back home. And if this were what was really going on, behind the scenes, no wonder no one had any answers. Because this was no conspiracy. Or if it was, it went even above the nations of Earth—unless they were in on this.
He was going too far into Stargate-esque conspiracies. Bring it back, bring it back. The young man closed his eyes and breathed. What he knew was still unbelievable.
He wished he knew a factoid about Erin Solstice beyond the most obvious things. But again—she was one of thousands. And those were only the people from America.
Termin was silent, digesting all of Rhaldon’s half-truths and no doubt forming his own conclusions. He tipped his hat up.
“Well, lad, I can’t blame you for being wary. But Miss Solstice is as real as they come and generous. Think on it, huh? Not that I mind the extra help. You’re a deft [Driver], and you’re levelling a tad too fast for my ego. I wasn’t Level 14 until I was…”
Rhaldon smiled. He’d leveled so fast Termin was jealous. Level 14 might seem low—but he had done it in bare months. Right now, he only had a few minor Skills, but some were nice. And Termin, for all his abilities, liked having someone with Skills in the same area.
“How’re we looking on the track, lad?”
“[Pathfinder].”
Rhaldon obligingly used the Skill. A long arrow that looked suspiciously like something from home snaked out in front of him, illuminating the road. It curved left in the distance.
“Left turn up ahead.”
“Sounds about right.”
The light was rising, but because the High Passes blocked the sun, they’d be traveling through the mists for a while yet. The horses were calmer than the [Drivers]. This pre-dawn hour was when trouble struck.
Rhaldon had a club as well, but Termin had told him to surrender unless the [Bandits] were out for blood. Monsters…if it were monsters, you unhitched the horses and took cover. Hide under the wagons or run.
The [Driver] was scratching at some light stubble on his chin and wondering if he had the courage to try shaving on the bumpy wagon when he heard something.
Scritch. Scritch.
The hairs on the back of his neck rose. It was coming from behind him. Slowly, his head swung around. Short, unevenly cropped hair from a Level 5 [Barber]’s haircut covered by a riding hood exposed two careful, amber-brown eyes.
Was something moving in the back of his wagon? Rhaldon stared at the covered bags of salamander skins and tails and jars of goods.
One of the salamanders wasn’t dead? Some were wholesale, dried. He hoped that was the case. But then he heard the sound again.
Scritch. Something made a loud, scratchy noise. And he saw some of the canvas move. Something too big to be a salamander…
“Lad? You heard that?”
Termin glanced around. Rhaldon didn’t make a sound. The horses plodded along, and he saw the other [Driver] turning his head in the darkness. He opened his mouth—and Rhaldon pointed.
Termin’s wagon slowed. Erma and Fox’s eyes went round in the midnight—and the man slowly reached under his seat.
“I’ll, ah…”
His voice trailed low. Rhaldon gripped the hard handle of his club with a suddenly sweaty palm. He turned—it was rustling closer. Termin looked at Rhaldon—then he grabbed the edge of his seat. His wagon slowed—and Rhaldon lifted the bulls-eye lantern shining ahead and swung it back.
“Get ‘em! Erma, Fox—[Run Free]!”
The two ponies leapt out of their positions as Termin freed them with a Skill. The older [Driver] and Rhaldon whirled on the thing in the back of his wagon. Rhaldon’s wild, dancing light illuminated the creature bent over the first bundle of salamanders, holding on with its mouth. The monster reared up in alarm. The—
—fox—
Freaked out and did a screaming jump, landed on its back, and leapt out of the wagon, shrieking. Rhaldon froze, club comically raised, and Termin nearly slammed into the wagon’s side.
“A fox.”
The two stared at each other, and then Termin let out a breath. Rhaldon began laughing shakily. He put down the club and felt limp with exhaustion. He wiped some sweat away from his face. Termin climbed back on the wagon as Erma and Fox trotted back.
“Dead gods, lad.”
“I thought it was—”
“Me too. Foxes. Too brave by half! Did it jump up? Eating salamanders? Must’ve been hungry for the winter. Little bastard. Let’s go.”
He had to re-hitch Erma and Fox. Rhaldon sat back, then soothed his nervous horses. He heard Termin fussing with the reins and a few loud stomps from the two ponies. And a squarb sound.
“…Termin?”
He’d never heard Erma and Fox say that. Rhaldon looked up and saw three shapes in the mist. Erma, Fox, Termin—no, wait, Termin was standing behind Erma. The tip of his hat stood out. So who was the fourth…
The Garbichug had a mouthful of Termin’s salamander cargo. It opened its toothy beak—then smacked Termin in the face with a wing as he gaped at it. Rhaldon reached for his club and then heard a second sound at his back.
Squarb?
 
——
 
Octavia Cotton was grumpy in the morning as she waited for her delivery. She had a cup of coffee, which made her less-grumpy. The highly caffeinated beverage was a hit among [Alchemists].
But she was grumpy—as she always was when she had to spend gold on things she didn’t need to spend gold on.
In this case—an entire set of alchemy supplies. Someone’s new cat had broken them. And while Reagen was now a proud member of the inn with Erin Solstice’s blessing, guess who had to buy a new set?
“How many vials?”
“Fifteen. Three flasks. Four beakers. Oh, and he fouled up all my alchemy work for the day, so I have cat hair and a mix of thirty-eight grams of associated reagents all swept up on the floor.”
A wince didn’t begin to describe the reaction of the other two people keeping her company. They stood—all of them glaring at the sun as it dared to rise just outside the gates of Celum.
Erin’s door was actually in Celum once more; Wailant was getting tired of the foot-traffic, and besides, a crossroads was not always the safest place to be, even one close to the Strongheart farm. That Octavia was here didn’t endear her to her former home of several years.
She remembered how she’d left. But she had to be here, because she was expecting a delivery.
Salamander tails. They were essential in creating warming tonics and for a lot of low-level potions. They’d be popular this time of year—the winter got cold, and she could also use some parts in her matches, and it was good to buy them cheap, wholesale from Romswicht.
Before some [Trader] got ahold of the delivery and marked everything up by 30%, she was going to buy the goods in person. Which was why she was here, shivering in the pre-dawn light, with two other people.
Saliss of Lights and Xif of Pallass were the two other [Alchemists] who could persuade Liska and Erin to let them through before dawn. Only friends of the inn could prevail on the annoyed [Innkeeper] to make an exception—and so the three of them were sharing cups of coffee.
“At least you’ve got a shop.”
Xif whined. Saliss glared sideways with red-eyes.
“Shut up, Xif.”
“Someone burned down my shop!”
His entire fortune and home, ruined. The Gnoll seemed close to tears as he recounted it—but Saliss just glared.
“The city helped you build a temporary one—and I gave you some reagents. It’s tragic, horrendous, blah, blah. I let you have the first thousand complaints. This is one thousand two hundred and five.”
Was he actually counting or making that up? Xif grumbled into his fur. He didn’t look cold in the dawn chill. Then again, neither did Saliss. Saliss just looked tired.
“I feel like an apprentice starting from scratch. Having to beat the rush on salamander parts. At least it’ll be a huge profit once I put out Warmth Tonics on sale. You don’t do mass-produced items. Why are you here?”
Saliss glared.
“Salamanders go boom.”
“Ah.”
“Mm.”
Octavia and Xif nodded. That checked out. They were three kinds of [Alchemist], standing in a line at the gates. Octavia had yet to find her true specialty—but Xif was a famous producer of more standard potions while Saliss was an exotics and battle-oriented catalyst expert.
That meant his specialty was in explosive reactions or just deadly ones. There were [Alchemists] of completely different breeds, who did work with more classic acids or metallurgy or were even able to harness Skills and put them in a bottle.
Octavia was in awe of the two older [Alchemists].
She sneezed.
Well, mostly in awe. They were more normal than you thought once you got to know them. Even Master Saliss. Xif eyed the naked Drake as Saliss poured some coffee into his mouth and began to gargle.
“Why are you sleep-deprived? I thought you’d reconstructed most of your battle potions.”
“Fifty percent.”
“Dead gods. You’ve been putting Octavia on grinding and mixing for months. How many did you have?”
Saliss glared at Xif as he lowered the cup of coffee.
“Enough to create a damn lake and blow up an entire Guild of Assassins. Enough to crater all of the 9th Floor. When you sleep at night, remember that.”
The Gnoll shuddered. He took another sip from his cup of coffee and grimaced.
“But you could at least sleep rather than bite our tails off.”
“Can’t. I’m researching the stuff from the laboratory the adventurers found. And you’re supposed to be helping.”
“I have to sleep, Saliss.”
“Bah.”
The Drake seemed to be determined to drink his way back to wakefulness. He poured another cup of coffee out of the flask and gave Octavia and Xif a top-up. Octavia took a sip and promptly sprayed Xif with it.
“Dead gods! Master Saliss—this is filled with sugar!”
“It’s called ‘energy’. More efficient than eating.”
“My fur! Saliss, give me a cleaning tonic. I know you have some—not a fur-remover! You turned me bald two years ago, and I haven’t forgotten it!”
The three [Alchemists] were bickering as Saliss laughed at Xif and the enraged Gnoll demanded a cleaning tonic. Octavia was apologizing when she saw the two wagons finally roll in.
“At last! There they are! Over here! W—oh dear.”
The Watch and the [Alchemists] noticed the two [Drivers] coming in and stopped grousing about their own mortal complaints. Mostly because they were staring at two half-ransacked wagons.
And two dirty, battered, pecked, scratched, vomited-upon, and foul-tempered drivers. The horses too.
“Dead gods, what happened to you?”
One of the [Guards] strode out the gates, worried. All Termin did was grunt.
“Garbichugs. Three of ‘em. They’re still out there. Find them and shoot the damn things.”
“Garbichugs? They attacked you?”
“We had to fight them off.”
The younger man made Octavia blink. He looked like someone from home, but he had no stitching. He was lankier than she expected as he stood up, and he had on a cheap waxed riding cloak and some horribly-cut hair a [Barber] had mangled into clumps.
Also, about fifty-two scratches she could see. Most unhealed.
“Don’t you have a potion?”
“Think we’re stupid? A potion costs too much—and those things are foul as can be. Those roads are supposed to be safe! The Driver’s Guild will be lodging a protest, and if there are more Garbichugs, no one’ll be driving or running the roads!”
Termin growled back. Saliss agreed as he strode over. From being annoying, he was all business as he inspected the foul odor. Even Xif and Octavia, veterans of bad smells, were keeping back.
“Don’t put a potion on that. You’ll turn into a ball of infections. Here—douse yourselves with this. It’s a cleaning vial. Get a bucket of water, heat it up, put this in it, and douse. Clothes, everything cut—and then keep it dry.”
“Thank you. Alchemist Saliss, isn’t it?”
“My cleaning fluid!”
Xif whined, but Termin looked grateful. Saliss strode over to the carts next as the young man, wincing, felt at a cut.
“How likely is it we were infected? One threw up on me.”
“Self-defense mechanism. They shouldn’t be this widespread. But the damn things love garbage…Garbichugs. You can’t even burn ‘em. Some explode, and others create toxic gas. They aren’t worth anything. Not hides, not any part…”
The guards were groaning at each other. But Saliss was peering at the salamander parts, and his shout drew everyone’s attention.
“No! Half the parts are fouled!”
Everyone rushed over to the carts. And sure enough—the hungry animals had eaten and broken into dozens of crates and sacks and jars. Termin grabbed at his hair.
“Tell me the remainder can be used.”
“After a Garbichug so much as looks at them? Are you mad?”
The [Alchemists] clustered around, groaning. Octavia’s heart sank as she saw the mess. You could purify some things—like ore—but the salamanders and a Garbichug’s filth introduced far, far too much contamination into most alchemist procedures.
“You can sell the bad parts at rock-bottom rates—but not much else. Dead gods, the Alchemist’s Guild is going to die. Wait—is this the entire Romswicht delivery? All of the last four months?”
Termin and Rhaldon exchanged a long glance as Saliss looked between them. Xif, paling, began counting less than a third of the driver’s goods that could be sold. Octavia reached for a money pouch.
“I’ll buy anything I can afford—right now.”
“Me too. And I’ll double your going rate.”
“I’ll triple it. This is going to be a cold damn winter.”
The [Alchemists] began fighting over what remained. Termin, meanwhile, just grabbed the cleansing fluid and motioned to Rhaldon.
“One side, [Alchemists]. This was a Merchant’s Guild delivery—sort it out with them. But we’re getting cleaned up first. Master Saliss, here.”
He tossed a good bag of dead salamanders at the Drake.
“This is no good. Might as well take it. Thanks for the potion.”
The Drake made the bag of ‘bad’ parts disappear and nodded. Termin, shaking his head, grabbed the reins and headed for the Merchant’s Guild. First thing, he’d get himself, Rhaldon, and the animals cleaned up.
No telling what kind of nasty was on those Garbichugs.
 
——
 
What really annoyed him about the modern era was that it was so pathetic. They had no great weapons of war.
The Emperor of Lightning had once mass-produced spell-weapons like the cheap wands of Tier 2 magic. In his day—
In Tolveilouka’s day, those were standard armaments any force might lug around if they could afford them. An [Alchemist] of the level of that Drake would have been normal in any major hub.
