“It needs something else. It’s all about intention. So—if that’s one half—something in the center, I think. Like a coin?”
Her eyes darkened as she thought of a bright flash of metal—then Erin’s gaze brightened.
“Or…hey, is it possible to make alcoholic breads? They have ‘beer battered fries’ and stuff in pubs. I get it now. Anyone know if we have any dyes? Okay, I need two pots, and I guess I’ll use boring butter in this one…regular flour here…where’s my magical ingredient cupboard!? Oh. It’s labeled.”
Erin was banging around the kitchen like a storm, but only to put her ingredients out, check on her milk mixture, and so on. When she began working—mixing the flour—she did it slowly, carefully scraping the bowl as she poured the first mixture in—and did the same with a smaller set of bowls.
She looked…like she was actually thinking about how you were supposed to mix in dough rather than just doing it by rote or sticking a beater in there. The amount of novel cognition might have been taking all of Erin’s concentration.
No [Witch] would mock her, though. Especially not Nanette, who delivered a tiny amount of washed iron dust to Erin herself. She peeked into the kitchen after asking Erin if it were alright to observe. For this was Erin’s craft. And while she might not do it often—
One of her talents as a [Witch] was cooking. Her [Wondrous Fare] Skill, her hat, her [Innkeeper] class…Nanette had never seen Erin Solstice work as hard as she did now. But then—the [Innkeeper] had a reason to work hard.
The inn moved around Erin, but respectful of the kitchen—Ishkr or a worker would pop in to get food, but no one was making anything but her, and the audience in the kitchen was small.
After twenty-two minutes, someone began to boo.
“Boo. No explosions. Boo. Hiss. Boring. I want my money back. You’re not the Erin I remember. You’ve changed. You’ve lost your touch. The old Erin was cooler before she died.”
Saliss cupped his claws to his mouth, and the [Innkeeper] turned her head.
“Hey, pal. You try it.”
Then he grinned. And his teeth flashed. Saliss had chosen the part of the process where Erin was carefully mixing up the dough. Two batches, actually. Neither one with baking powder, the most novel and alchemical item in her kitchen.
That was most of Octavia’s local sales. Pallass still hadn’t caught onto the stuff en masse, but some [Merchants] had begun taking it to interested [Bakers], and Saliss knew the recipe was registered and credited to Octavia in the Alchemist’s Guild. Interest was not widespread, though. He wondered if that might soon change.
But Saliss of Lights just stood there. He was weary from his own studies. He spoke as Erin worked.
“I heard you wanted to bother me about something, Erin. If it’s Albez 2.0, you need to bother Xif. Because I’m trying to catalog a bunch of ancient alchemy items and figure out what does what without blowing my laboratory to smithereens.”
“…How likely is that?”
The Drake looked sideways at Nanette and Nerry and lowered his voice.
“More likely than any other time in the last five years, actually. The trick to figure out what you’re working with is identification—that’s a lot of looking in books and figuring out what something looked like before it got ground up or dried out, and so on. But eventually, you do try to figure out what some reagent does.”
“Uh huh. And the boom?”
Saliss didn’t mind giving her a little lesson.
“Well—low-level [Alchemists] use water or something mundane. The idea is to create the smallest reaction possible. I use bases that actually reduce any catalyst’s effect. But if you toss Unicorn horns into the right mix—even a gram—”
He raised his claws and made a pshow sound.
“Did you know that if you move glass fast enough, you can break enchanted metal? The trouble is that I have over a hundred and twenty things to catalog, and some might be the equivalent of old-era simple acids. And some of it is definitely the real stuff.”
And it was the real stuff that he both needed—and needed to identify before he blew his face off. Erin nodded. No wonder Saliss looked stressed.
“Sounds about right. Second question—you were in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, right?”
The Drake frowned at her. He didn’t look pleased by the question and never talked about the place he had apprenticed for ages.
“Yep.”
“It’s a place full of Stitch-folk, isn’t it? Famously where Nerrhavia died after they rebelled and took her kingdom? Lost her fortress, though.”
“…Awfully odd way to describe it. Earth-shatteringly odd, one might say. But yes, I was there. I wasn’t a local, but you pick stuff up.”
Erin carefully spread the dough out and grabbed a rolling pin. Saliss eyed the black mass. Erin turned her head to him.
“You, uh…got fifteen minutes to stare at something for me? It’s in my room. How good are you at dresses? And cloth?”
The [Alchemist] stared at Erin, lips moving as if he were trying to work out if this was a trick. In the end, he managed a grunt.
“You might be surprised.”
 
——
 
Saliss wasn’t the only person that Erin called in for this. In fact, upon request, she sent Numbtongue to ask if Revi were in the area—and they grabbed Octavia, who was back after sending Rhaldon off on a delivery.
“Hey, does anyone else here know anything about thread? Or pots?”
Erin shouted into her common room. In theory, she might have gotten Selys, who was at least a decent stitcher.
In practice? Lady Edere Sanito found herself standing with the Drake and two Stitch-women, and at least Saliss had the decency to put on his box. She looked to her husband for help, but Alman was talking with Montressa. And her two children had run off with some Gnoll after a giant bee!
“Oh, Flowers of Izril protect me.”
She was incredibly nervous—you heard things about this inn. And what was worse—she was being actively snubbed!
The [Innkeeper] didn’t even face Lady Edere. She was baking! Doing something with the bread—and she had an entire bottle of rum. Was she drinking on the job? Edere was outraged—until she learned the naked Drake was no less than a Named-rank Adventurer.
And the first thing Saliss of Lights did after he’d brought down two objects from Erin’s rooms and inspected them with Revi, Octavia, and Edere was come to a conclusion.
“Erin. This dress is ugly as a Stelbore’s ass. If you try to wear it, we might have to stab you.”
He stared at the bright green inlays in the dress—which clashed amazingly with the pink. You could run the colors off each other. The green was just the edgework around the pockets and hem and so on—but the rest of the dress was dirty pink.
“It’s got brown buttons. This has got to be Izrilian style. Made by a colorblind [Seamstress]. Only Terandria could export this kind of hideousness.”
“It’s not Izrilian.”
Lady Edere spoke up in defense of her homeland. Octavia, who was the least fashion-forwards, poked at the dress with one of her measuring spoons as if afraid it would bite her. It had two worn straps to hang over the shoulders—she tried to imagine Erin wearing this.
“How do you know it’s not Izrilian?”
“Yeah. Looks stupid enough for the north.”
Saliss and Revi sneered at Lady Edere Sanito. The woman drew herself up.
“Because we would hang the person wearing it.”
“Explains how it got into that antique store. Erin? Erin, you have no taste. Is that what you wanted to hear?”
Revi called out, and Erin turned to flip one flour-covered finger up. She glowered back at the [Summoner].
“I’m not wearing it! What about the vase?”
They looked at the giant carp with cream-color, faded paint around the lips, and the vague fish-scales on the side. Lady Edere peered at it.
“The opening is sideways. You couldn’t put anything in it. Is it meant to be some kind of off-kilter flower pot?”
Octavia nudged it.
“Boot holder?”
Saliss kicked it from the other side, and it rocked. It wasn’t even that sturdy.
“Parasol holder? Broom holder?”
Revi put her chin in one hand.
“[Thief] deterrent?”
Everyone stared at her. Lady Edere pursed her lips.
“What would it do against a [Thief]? Do you throw it at them? That’s the only use I could imagine. It’s surely not enchanted or valuable.”
“No, what you do is you put it in the hallway. So when they break in—they look at it and say, ‘this person has no class or taste, there’s nothing worth stealing’. Then they leave.”
Despite herself, Lady Edere laughed, and the roasting of the carp-vase and ugly dress continued. But Erin Solstice didn’t seem hurt by the accusations against either’s style.
“I know they suck. I think they suck. I’d have never bought them from the store I went to—well. I’m not a vase person or a clothes person.”
“Neither am I.”
Saliss put his hands on his bare hips. He had been chuckling along—but he was eying both objects with a kind of keen-eyed stare that made Revi pick up on it. Edere too—she might not be an adventurer, but she had fought with the greatest in another bloody battlefield before.
A [Lady] might not hunt through dungeons, but going through auctions or sales against the top [Bargain Hunters] and [Merchants] and so on? They looked like that. She studied the vase and gown again.
“What, exactly, are we looking for, Miss Solstice?”
Erin turned her head as she poured the rum into a bowl. Then she grabbed a match. Everyone watched as the room lit up for a second. Erin turned to her consultants.
“I don’t know—but I was hoping you could help me. I think there’s something about the dress and vase that matters. Maybe it’s what they’re made of? Or is there something in them?”
All four of her consultants looked at each other. Then—without a word, they bent over the two objects again. This time, Edere did see something to note.
“This came from that famous pawn shop, didn’t it? The antique store?”
“You know about that one?”
Saliss raised his brows—Edere flushed. House Sanito was not well off, so she turned red—until she realized she was not among noble company. Even so, she lowered her voice in case Pryde heard.
“One can find some reasonable deals in a variety of locations. Certain inquiring classes love to hunt about such stores and locales.”
“Huh. I know a few of that kind of place myself.”
Revi looked intrigued. But Edere was eying the dress again.
“It could be hundreds of years old at most. In which case…it’s held up surprisingly well. I don’t believe the entire shop is enchanted in a preservation spell.”
So the cloth could be ancient. It certainly…looked that way. It might have been moths or just the wear and tear of being used until it was donated, but the hem was frayed in several places. Not too badly that you couldn’t see yourself buying it—again, if not for the ugly color, the need to replace all the buttons, the damn stitching—
Okay, this dress was better used as kindling because the effort to make it something worthwhile was better put into sewing a new dress wholesale. Edere, who had hand-made dresses that looked noble enough for her own children at a very reasonable price, vouched as much.
“Eight gold coins—and that can be dear—can still produce an entire matching outfit for a young [Lord]. Dresses are more expensive, but I have sewn one up for thirteen gold coins.”
Octavia had never spent that much for anything but alchemy-resistant clothing and looked scandalized by the price. But Revi raised her brows, impressed.
“That’s cheap! I’d pay for that kind of clothing—is that what your children have on? It looks as good as, if not better, than most clothing on the market.”
Edere was modestly proud about that. Saliss, who was naked, had to rely on Onieva’s expertise. He’d found the inner pockets—but there was nothing interesting in them aside from the owner’s clear desire not to be shackled by the lack of pockets in life. Which was commendable in and of itself.
Yet Edere was peering at the dress.
“Strange. It’s all worn down, and I wouldn’t even try to recycle this. But there is one part that stands out. Do you notice it?”
The Stitch-girls and Saliss stared down, and they all got it. Revi’s eyes sharpened, and Octavia wondered why she hadn’t noticed it before. Saliss too—but the dress was so damn ugly.
The Stitch-folk of Chandrar cared more about cloth than most people. Edere might care for fashion and appearance and comfort—but this was Octavia and Revi’s skin. Similarly…what held them together was just as vital.
“The stitching. I thought it was just some bright thread. But that’s not the case, is it? It’s held up perfectly.”
“Odd. Stitching is the first thing to loosen or go. See how the cloth tore here? Either someone stitched this up with a Skill like [Unsnappable Thread]…”
“Erin, can we mess with the dress?”
Revi turned to the kitchen as they conferred. Erin waved a hand and got flour everywhere.
“Achoo! Sure!”
Edere had a pair of sewing scissors on her, and she began to try and cut the dress apart. The old fabric came apart easily, but she began snipping at the pocket—and realized something. Edere cut across the pocket, intending to pull out the thread. Then she pulled the scissors back, stared at them—snip-snipped again—
“My goodness. I think I just blunted my scissors.”
Aghast, she stared at the slight dimples in the good steel. She kept a fine edge on the scissors—and Revi blinked.
“I have a dagger. It’s enchanted. Here.”
Saliss took another part of the dress as Revi tried to saw at the stitches. Only to realize…she couldn’t cut them. She looked over—and Saliss was chewing on part of the dress.
“Saliss!”
“It’s tough. What?”
His teeth couldn’t break the thread either, and Octavia ended up with a pocket—Saliss the hemline—and Revi and Edere other parts of the bright green stitching.
“Can we…”
“Go ahead! Hey! Anyone know how many eggs we’ve got? I need dinobird eggs! Someone call for Bird!”
While Erin was baking away, Edere, Octavia, and Revi began digging into the mystery of the thread. Saliss, by now, was inspecting the vase. He cracked part of it—it wasn’t that tough, just thick—and bore it and his sample of thread away to Pallass.
Meanwhile, Octavia tried a knife on the thread. It wouldn’t cut. She tried to burn it with a match.
It did not burn. Staring at the green thread, Octavia felt a tingle in her own cloth.
“There’s no way. Is this…the old Adamantium bricks story?”
Revi looked up sharply and Edere blankly. But now, Octavia was watching Revi experimenting with sharper blades. Octavia went the other way. She looked around—and pulled something off one of the walls.
