Relc grimaced as he decided he needed to check his appearance in a mirror.
“Manus. Some Wall Lady who caused trouble is back, and you’ll never guess who I ran into. Captain Z herself had to keep a fight from breaking out. The balls on them—but they are allies. I guess.”
“Manus? Great. Aren’t those the war-jerks? Wait…Riverfarm. Laken is going to hate that.”
Erin shuddered. Then she shook her head as she reached for another shot of rum.
“Eh, I’m sure we can keep them from heading over. What’s the worst that could happen? Oop! Murphy’s law. Remember when I used to talk about that all the time?”
Chuckling, she rapped her knuckles on the wood counter. Relc gave her a blank look as Erin turned. Mrsha eyed the counter. Maybe it was from the Facestealer attack, but the wooden counter had a huge crack in it.
 
——
 
The last notable incident that occurred came as Erin stared at her final creation. Proudly. She was exhausted, sweaty, her back and shoulders hurt from kneading—but she was proud.
Her hat was half-empty. Which…was actually amazing when you thought about it. But when Erin did a test—by waving it in front of Valeterisa’s face, then Bezale’s, both magic-users were mostly either perplexed and hungry or politely annoyed.
Good enough. 
Venaz, Wil, Peki, and Merrik had come in with some news. Merrik cleared his throat.
“Miss Solstice, I think tomorrow’s our last day here. We’re heading south to pick up Yerra…if she’s coming. And to say goodbye to Feshi. Could we ask if it’s too much trouble to have a little party?”
Erin beamed at him. Sadly, but she wiped sweat from her brow as Qwera, Ysara, and Ylawes’ new, expanded team tromped in with the [Knight] and the Silver Swords themselves.
“You bet. A big party? We can break out the cake and ice cream! Play a few rounds of chess.”
“Can that be for us, too? I’m heading north. Qwera is going back—but I’m visiting my family. With Ylawes—and Yvlon too, if we can manage it.”
Ysara Byres looked as happy as a slug showered in salt. Ylawes kept glancing at her, but he nodded.
“We won’t be as long—but I thought returning to home before we set out wouldn’t hurt.”
“Are you taking…?”
Erin stared at Infinitypear and Rasktooth, and the Cave Goblin and Worker grinned.
“We’re going to House Silver! As adventurers. See?”
They showed her bronze badges, and Erin’s jaw dropped. Nothing would do but for her to give them a big hug.
It was going to be a big day! Erin promised both groups she’d have a huge party for them and told the other guests to get ready too. The only thing that could dampen that good mood was Numbtongue, bleeding from the mouth and nose, being dragged in on his back.
“Numbtongue!”
He was a mess! He had cuts on his face, his chest—and someone had punched both his eyes black! Erin whirled—then her hand went for her knife. The [Strategists] turned as Octavia whirled and looked around for one of her potions.
“What happened? Who did this? Where’s Manus—”
Shriekblade appeared, scrutinizing the damage, but to Erin’s astonishment, the two people who’d helped carry Numbtongue in stopped her.
“Hold it, Erin. It’s not Manus or anyone else. The real culprit’s right there.”
Erin turned and saw it was Ceria. The half-Elf had a knot on her head, and she looked grim. The other person was Ksmvr. He was unharmed, but he looked unhappy—and shaken.
A furious argument burst through the doors as Ylawes and Ysara turned. They saw their younger sister, Yvlon Byres, face completely red, as Pisces walked in. He was grimacing and holding his ribs.
But it was the last person, Colth the [Supporter], who was furiously speaking to Yvlon Byres. Yvlon—who, Erin realized—was responsible for most of the injuries.
Including her own. No one had used a healing potion, and Octavia herself was halted by Saliss, who told her not to waste the potion on the injuries. It was so startling everyone had to check themselves.
If Saliss and Octavia couldn’t waste healing potions on bruises, bloody noses, cuts—
Yvlon might have needed it the most, though. Numbtongue had given as good as he got—and the other Horns had put up a fight too. Especially when she came after them.
“You are not ready to adventure. You have a Blood Skill, and you are going to get yourself or your team killed. I may not have the authority to stop you, but your team will if they have any sense. Find a way to remove it or control it or you can forget about adventuring again.”
Colth snapped. He didn’t look hurt, just disheveled.
“What happened?”
Mrsha was shaking Numbtongue, who sat up and groaned before lying back down. Yvlon didn’t say a word—she was breathing hard, and she avoided everyone’s gazes. Especially her brother and sister’s.
“[Berserker’s Rage].”
Colth said it—and the inn fell quiet. He looked at Yvlon and spoke flatly.
“You need to find an expert to help you. Ask Emper—[Monks] know this kind of thing.”
“I—”
Yvlon took a huge breath, and someone interrupted. Gireulashia peered at Yvlon and then nodded.
“Talk to Honored Berr. Of the Wild Wastes tribe. You’re heading to the tribes anyways, aren’t you? If you’re after Honored Shedrkh—speak with Berr as well. He knows rage. If you’re lucky, his tribe won’t have left the Meeting of Tribes yet.”
The Horns of Hammerad looked at each other. Yvlon said nothing—but they had two reasons to head south, now. Venaz glanced at Yvlon and, for once, decided to keep his mouth shut. Erin Solstice bit her lip, but Numbtongue was getting up with less hard feelings than most—and Erin exhaled.
“Ryoka had better not bring anything weird this time. It’s gonna be good. Just a few hiccups.”
Lyonette turned to Erin, and the rest of the inn did too. Relc was eying Infinitypear’s spear…Ylawes Byres was staring after his sister while Ysara stared a hole in the wall. Lady Pryde and Grimalkin were both taking notes on Erin’s pot and dress.
Valeterisa was in direct competition with the Driver’s Guild. Qwera was leaving, and soon, Niers’ students, the Horns, the Silver Swords, and possibly even Gire and the other Gnolls might have to move on too.
In the midst of it all, Ishkr looked around. He knew Ryoka. He had heard Manus was coming—and he saw Erin knocking a hand on a wooden beam. Ishkr eyed Nerry and for once wondered if he should take off work tomorrow.
Instead, he grabbed Peggy by the shoulder.
“Peggy—get the Workers and your Goblins. Tell them to put everything breakable in the Garden of Sanctuary. And is Rags coming back soon?”
The Hob turned warily.
“Chieftain Rags? You want her not to come?”
Ishkr paused a pregnant moment.
“…I doubt she can make it worse. But put some bedrolls in the Garden too. Just in case.”
He looked around and thought that Rags plus Manus multiplied by the party…and the Haven…at the start of winter, the most normal time for the inn. Maybe these were mitigating factors. He didn’t know.
The [Head Server of Tales and Fables] made only one mistake, the first huge one in his career. He just thought it—but he did think it in the back of his mind.
I just don’t see what could make this any worse.
 
——
 
It probably wasn’t the power of Murphy’s Law. These things just happened. They were already in motion.
But the power of Termin meant that the next morning, very early, the Wagon Driver set out with a small hamper of carefully covered and packed items fresh from Erin’s kitchen. He rather liked the inn—but Termin the Omnipresent hadn’t gotten to his level lightly.
Erma and Fox made amazing time from Pallass. It took some doing to let them through the [Portal Door] and hitch them to the waiting cart, but the door was bigger and a sleepy Liska obliged.
The normally-lazy ponies actually generated a trail of wind behind them as they clopped down the trade-road towards Oteslia. Like Termin…they could sense trouble.
He was leaving it behind him, thank you. The [Wagon Driver] was doubly certain he’d made the right move when he saw a group of yawning people exiting a carriage just outside of Pallass for an inspection.
Magnolia Reinhart was grumpy from sleeping in a carriage—but she was gracious enough despite the [Maids] and Ressa being used to her more indecorous states of being. As Reynold presented passports to some very surly Drakes, she turned to the two guests of her carriage.
“And here we are! I should hope we put any unpleasantness behind us. At least for you, young man. As for you, Mister Yelroan, isn’t it? Won’t you reconsider my offer?”
Sunlight flashed off a pair of amazingly sharp glasses, and a Gnoll grinned. He blinded a dozen [Guards] as he smiled.
Yelroan ducked his head.
“I made a promise, Lady Reinhart. Thank you for picking me up.”
“That poor horse should be just fine. It was my pleasure. The roads are not safe—and you, young man? You might need more help. Shall we discuss the matter? My estates are linked via the door and well-guarded.”
Magnolia turned some keen eyes to the shivering second passenger who had joined them in the night. In much distress. But the white-scaled Drake, who went by ‘Tesy’, just shook his head and glanced behind him. The road was silent this early in the morning.
“I—I have friends in Liscor. I think they’re there. I’ll be fine.”
“Mm. We’ll see. Happily, I have business in Liscor as well. I may speak to a friend—an acquaintance. Larracel. Shall we go together?”
They entered Pallass as Termin flapped his reins and Erma and Fox trotted faster. Magnolia Reinhart turned her head.
“Is that Termin I see?”
“Hello, Lady Reinhart! Goodbye!”
Reynold himself turned his head, amazed. He had thought he ran the fastest carriage in all of Izril, but the famous [Driver] was set to beat him. Termin fled like a partridge before a magical hurricane.
And this one was called Hurricane Ryoka-Rafaema-Tyrion-Manus-Erin’s Party-Winter…
It touched down in Liscor later that morning. But as things went, Termin only heard about it later. And he didn’t regret leaving at all.
 
——
 
By the time Termin rolled into Oteslia, everyone had seen the scrying orbs, and the world had changed as it always did. He was unnoticed as he unpacked, asked about the Gentlemen Callers or a ‘Rickel’, and found the latter.
By the time the Driver’s Guild had stopped pestering him about what had gone down and if he’d known—Termin met a young man who hurried up, inspected his cargo, and laughed his butt off before agreeing to find the Gentleman Callers.
It was a little thing, in the grand scheme of what was going on. Termin sat in the Driver’s Guild as a group of hatted men came in.
The [Drivers] were wary of them—but since these folk were actually far better to deal with than Earthtenders or the like, they let a pair of smiling men, a Gnoll with a fantastic suit and a Drake [Thief] assuring the others this would work, inspect the cargo.
Termin watched out of the corner of his eye as they read Erin’s note. He had his own [Message] from Rhaldon; the young man had written that he’d gotten the glassware and was heading back on a very safe route to grab some alchemical ingredients.
The Driver’s Guild was abuzz with the news—as well as concerning talk of competition.
“—just flew down, Termin. Then began chanting magic for six hours, and she said she had a teleport-thing for House Sanito! She’ll run us out of work!”
“Don’t ask me about it. I just got in. Give me a moment with my breakfast!”
Termin snarled at the worried Guildmaster. Then he sat back and realized Valeterisa was going to be a problem. Izril was changing, and he had been there. But sometimes he was glad he wasn’t there. He was glad Rhaldon was a sensible young fellow and had missed the worst of it too.
Dead gods. He’d thought Erin had run out of surprises.
 
——
 
The Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings were still fighting the Earthtenders in the streets. They gained ground—veterans from the north had come, and they were taking apart the Earthtenders, who had gotten complacent in their dominance of Oteslia.
Yet—the Watch still arrested knots of fighting [Thugs] and [Thieves] and [Rogues] and so forth. Neither side wanted to incur the wrath of Oteslia—yet.
And in the prisons, the battle for dominance went one way.
“You’ll get your items back once you enter. No weapons, no tools; if we search you and you’re hiding something, you lose it.”
The Watch Sergeant lecturing the newest prisoners arrested in a scrape was tired—but watchful. The Earthtenders with black eyes and bloody lips were glaring at three of the young Gnolls with hats.
They looked confident, and the Watch Sergeant was worried. Worried—because the First Gardener’s son had put in a request to check on the prisons and a series of murders happening in the ranks.
Someone had blades on the inside. The Earthtenders. But while Cire of Oteslia was…known to the Watch Sergeant, he also had orders not to disrupt things.
The law…was a hard thing to balance against what was best for Oteslia. The Watch Sergeant wondered if he’d lose his class this month or if it would change. The three Gnolls didn’t deserve what was waiting for them inside.
“Let us have our hats!”
One of the Gnolls growled as a [Guardsman] briskly inspected his possessions. The belt-knife, coins, miscellaneous items like a ‘match box’—all went into a lockbox for the Gnoll in question. But the [Guard] stopped and eyed one item.
“What’s this? Charcoal?”
“It’s a snack.”
The Watch Sergeant eyed it and called for a test.
“…Not magical that we can see.”
“It might have a needle inside!”
One of the Earthtenders called out, and the Watch Sergeant glared. He bit his tongue—and broke the item open.
“A needle? Fine—”
The Sergeant inspected the pieces. Nothing. Glowering, he handed it back to the Gnoll, who put the pieces in his hat and pressed them together.
“It’s just bread. Let him eat it—they won’t last in the lockbox. Move them into the cells!”
No one paid much attention to the Gnoll’s snack. The three Brothers joined a small group of their own, and the other inmates gave them sympathetic looks.
“Dead men, hat men. You may rule the streets, but the Earthtenders have roots inside.”
One called out to the trio of Gnolls, who joined some very scared new recruits. But, strangely, the trio of young men looked more confident than the others. Fools, perhaps.
“Here, lads. Take one of these. A little snack.”
Each of the three Brothers had three pieces of bread—which the Watch Captain had assumed were just snacks.
Bad snacks, too. They looked like charcoal briquettes, and when he’d broken them open, he’d seen burnt bread. But sometimes a fellow got hungry, and they’d been in the hats.
