“We should be using utensils like with a proper meal, but I think you're right.” Her mother said. “We need to hurry, or we'll miss the beginning of the meeting.”

“What are they going to do?” King Alamast asked. “Start without me?”

Diana laughed. “Can you imagine the gall they'd have if they did that?” She asked and finished the piece food she had. “They'd be spending a week in the dungeon!”

Her father laughed, and her mother sighed.

“Sending people to the dungeon isn't a laughing matter.” Lady Eleanor said.

“It can be.” Diana said. “Especially the looks on their faces when it's suggested.”

“Diana.” King Alamast said a little sternly, and Diana sighed.

“Fine, no joking about dungeons.” Diana said. Not when mom is around.

“Thank you.” King Alamast said and kissed her cheek.

“Daaad!” Diana laughed as she leaned out of the line of fire and pretended to wipe the kiss off, despite the fact that she really liked that he would still kiss her cheek. She was almost fully grown now, but he had spoiled her quite a lot as a child with how much he showed his affection for her. He always made time for her, no matter how busy he was, and he always made her laugh. She loved her father very much, and would do almost anything that he asked her to.

“Diana! What's that?” King Alamast pointed and she turned her head to look at whatever it was, and he kissed her cheek again.

“DAAAD!” Diana yelled, and he laughed and laughed.

They finished their small lunch, cleaned up, and made sure they looked the part they were going to play. The wise and just King, the dutiful wife, and the obedient Crown Princess.

“I think we're ready.” Lady Eleanor said and took her husband's arm, then looked at her daughter. “Two paces behind, big smile, and no skipping.”

“But...”

“No. Skipping.”

“Fine.” Diana sighed. “No skipping.” She said. Not that I was going to, anyways.

Her mother gave her a big fake smile and looked at her husband. “Lead on, My King.”

*

Ren and Railyse had sat in silence as the room slowly filled up with more and more people. Several of them stared at him and her openly, without trying to be sneaky about it like a lot of the other people were doing. Ren couldn't tell if they were government officials or not, because his Identify skill only worked on items and not people.

I wonder if there's an 'Identify Person' skill? Ren asked himself and was about to ask for the skills popup when the main doors of the meeting room opened. His Etiquette skill activated and he stood up quickly, and had Railyse stand as well.

The King came around the corner in the hallway, and Ren saw him for the first time. He bared a striking resemblance to Lord Eric of Aurora, and he had his wife on his arm. She looked nothing like Lord Eric's wife, though; and then Ren noticed the young woman behind them. She had long flowing blonde hair that was just curly enough to catch the eye, but not enough to say that it was all curls. She was only about 5 feet tall, nearly the same as her mother; which was about a foot shorter than her father.

“Everyone, please rise.” A man at the door said quite uselessly, since everyone had already stood up when the doors had opened. “His Majesty King Alamast, Her Highness Lady Eleanor, and Crown Princess Diana.”

The king nodded at the room as he entered, and everyone nodded back, including Ren. The king entered the room and walked towards their seats, and Ren took a moment to examine them. The king wore an expensive outfit that was well made, a long cloak of purple fabric, and the crown on his head was real. Lady Elanor had a smile as fake as the jewels she wore around her neck; but, her clothing was just as expensive as what the king wore.

Crown Princess Diana wore a simple white dress with long sleeves that covered her from neck to knee, a necklace made of silver, and a thin bracelet. She gave the crowd a small wave as she walked behind her parents, like she always did when she entered a room of important people. Unlike everyone else there that knew it was just for show, Ren assumed it was an actual wave and waved back. He had been the only one to move in the entire room, so Diana took notice of the action immediately. Her eyes widened a little as she saw Ren for the first time.

Who the hell is that? Diana asked herself. She couldn't believe someone would show up wearing full plate armor for a business meeting. It's shining gold, too! She thought as she sat down next to her mother in their section. Are those diamonds? Her eyes darted to the person that stood beside him, and she caught her breath as she finally got a good look at the Sea Dweller's Ambassador. Oh, my god!

King Alamast had remained standing while his wife and daughter sat. “I bid you welcome!” He said loudly and he spread his arms wide. His voice didn't need any kind of amplification because he was a natural public speaker. “Senators and Ministers, Lords and Ladies.” He looked at Ren and Railyse. “Esteemed guests.”

No one spoke as the king continued.

“You all know why we are here.” King Alamast said. “We have been contacted by a representative of the Sea Dwellers.” He motioned to Railyse and everyone turned and looked at her, now that they were given permission to. “It seems that they have a proposal for us. It's one that no one... myself included... could have possibly expected.”

The king paused for dramatic effect and smiled.

“She is here to discuss... the first ever... non-aggression pact between Land Dwellers and Sea Dwellers.”

“WHAT?!?” Several people in the room yelled, and then everyone started to yell and holler.
