Ren probably could have left the bracelets off and given them to her afterwards; but, he was adding them into the recipe so she wouldn't have to worry about equipping them or keeping track of things. Since he was adding everything anyways, he tossed in the recipe for the Amulet of Unnatural Armor Protection of the Spider that he had given to Lara, the Sage of Ages, and a Strong Ring of Storage with Dwarf Communication runes in it, just in case, then added in the same shield and mental protection enchantments his own armor had.

“No one is going to be able to touch her.” Ren said and smiled as he moved the sentient crossbow recipe into the new female familiar body. Since it was now magic-based, Ren merged the recipe into the familiar's chest, with the main body of the crossbow down the spine and the ends of the bows went out to the arms.

“Is that even going to work?” Teepo asked.

“It should, since it doesn't really need any actual moving components anymore.” Ren said. “But, I think you're right.” He said, and moved the discharge mechanism down to the hand instead, then copied it for the other hand.

“Dual firing?” Teepo asked, and Ren nodded.

“She's going to have twice as much Mana as everyone else, so being able to fire two Mana bolts at the same time is definitely a plus for this design.”

“Is there any particular reason you're making it female?”

“Not really.” Ren said. “I made Tee-one and Ruck male, so it's just a change of pace.”

“You should make her fast, too.” Teepo suggested, and Ren threw in the heavily modified Boots of Striding and Leaping with Speed runes. Since they were going to be solid metal, their bonuses were going to be huge.

“I can't make it on the Craft Wondrous Item platform, though.” Ren said. “The diamonds need to be full size to hold all the enchantments.”

“Then you need to get the mold set up.” Teepo said, and Ren laid out an approximate shape for what he needed. He then took out the right number of diamonds and enlarged them to the proper size.

“Here we go.” Ren said and poured out the molten metal. It started to fill the mold and he poured it all out to empty the smelter. He bent down and put his hand into the molten metal and activated his Craft Familiar ability. He didn't wait for it to cool at all, because it would just be a featureless mass if he did. He wanted the recipe to form it into the shape it was going to be, and let the game system handle the details. When it asked for the platinum coins, the diamonds, and the Mana, he added them to it.

Notice!

Please choose the inherent spell this familiar contains.

“Permanent Regeneration.” Ren said automatically, and used his Spell Combine skill to make it. The molten metal churned and condensed as it formed into the proper shape, and it even had long flowing metallic hair. Ren used his Fire Manipulation and Absorb Fire skills to cool it off instantly.

Notice!

Initiating bond. Please do not remove your hand.

Ren felt something click inside his head, then felt a new intelligence grow. It fully formed in only a moment, and the presence filled the new link. The familiar opened her eyes and looked at him.

“You really should ask a woman first before touching her chest.” She said and smiled, and Ren looked at where his hand was. It was nestled right between her armored breasts.

“Oh! I'm sorry!” Ren exclaimed and removed his hand. “Please, forgive me.”

“There's nothing to forgive.” She said and sat up. “I was only joking.”

“Oh.” Ren said, a little flustered. “Um...”

“Give me a hand.” She said and held a delicate hand out, and Ren took it and helped her stand. She was 6 feet tall, her chest was a good size and was at least a 36 C, and her metallic hair flowed in a non-existent breeze as if it were alive. Ren stared at her, because without thinking about it, he had combined three women's faces. The familiar had Elise's eyes and chin, Lisa's mouth and lips, and Stella's cheeks and forehead. She also had Elise's long flowing hair, albeit metallic and not red in color.

“May I have a name, please?” The familiar asked.

Ren didn't know what to say, because he hadn't thought of a name beforehand. Now he was at a loss to think of one, and he knew that the longer he waited, the less chance there was for her to like what he picked. The familiar laughed because she could hear all of his thoughts, and crossed her arms under her armored breasts. The movement lifted them up a little, much to Ren's surprise.

“I'm waiting.” The familiar said and started to tap her foot impatiently.
