I feel like I’m in a different world. The worn-down room of the Runner’s Guild is a far cry from the grassy plains or the rubble and destruction of the Ruins of Albez. The woman raises her brows. This isn’t the one I recognize, by the by. This is a middle-aged woman with a frizzy shock of green hair in a stripe running through her brown hair. I think it’s not even a style; some people just have magical hair as part of their genetics.
Lucky. She’s taking notes, and she looks relieved.
“That’s incredible. Are the Horns already finished fighting? The magic communication we got said they were fighting a Lich and a horde of the undead.”
I shake my head as a few Runners in line poke their heads up, interested. I point, as if I’m pointing at the distant ruins.
“They’re still fighting. The Lich is still around. Not sure about the other undead. Looked like they were mostly dead. Undead.”
The receptionist doesn’t smile. Didn’t she get the joke? Darn. She’s still giving me that ‘I-don’t-believe-you’ look. I hand her the Seal.
“Here’s the Seal from the Horns of Hammerad.”
She checks it over and then double-checks. Her eyebrows rise.
“It’s real. So you’re telling me you delivered the supplies in the middle of the battle?”
Why is she making a big fuss? I thought that’s what all Runners did on this kind of mission.
“Yup. Emergency Run, right?”
“Incredible.”
I’m silent. I mean, what am I supposed to say to that? ‘Oh, yeah, I’m really amazing, now give me my money?’
After a few moments, the receptionist finally shakes herself.
“You could go to Invrisil, if you cared to risk your life like that. The City of Adventurers always headhunts brave Runners. But a Lich? Well, well, this is all in order. Would you like the payment now or…?”
“Later.”
I can collect my pay whenever, but most Runners do it in one lump sum at the end of the week. It’s more convenient that way since we have to sign to confirm we’ve been paid and the receptionist has to validate it. The [Receptionist] is still staring at me, and she smiles.
“Well, I think you’ve earned your break. Unless—do you think you could do another delivery? I wouldn’t ask, but you’re the only City Runner here right now.”
I’m tired, but that’s only because of my adrenaline low. I know my legs have got at least another good run in them, so I nod.
“Where to?”
“Celum. It’s another request from Lady Magnolia. Another Runner just brought it from Remendia, but he’s too tired to keep going. It’s been passed from six Runners so far, and we need to get it to Magnolia within the hour if possible.”
Okay. Now that’s tricky. I hesitate.
It’s not that I don’t think I can do it in time. I can get to Celum in less than an hour even with something heavy on my back. But I’d done another run for Magnolia—delivering a big, fancy vase—a few days ago. By the ‘unwritten rules,’ that meant I should wait for at least another week before I took the request.
Damn. Damnation. Drat. Fals’ warning sticks with me, and I’m half tempted to take the delivery just because I hated his annoying hints and threats. On the other hand…I don’t need to meet Magnolia Reinhart again.
What should I do? This is the exact kind of situation I hate. I glance around at the other Runners and see mostly Street Runners.
“There aren’t any other City Runners around?”
The receptionist shakes her head.
“They’re all out on deliveries, and I don’t want to wait longer than I have to. I was about to ask one of the Street Runners to do the delivery, but that would have been a problem too.”
Well, in that case…why not? The Magnolia rule can go to hell for all I care.
“I’ll do it.”
The receptionist smiles in relief.
“Thank y—”
“Hold on!”
The receptionist’s head turns. My head doesn’t. I’m taking this moment to say a few choice words in my head*.
 
*Oh, please no. Not that stupid, inbred rodent girl. No one in the world has a voice more high-pitched and annoying than her and her moronic cronies. I’d rather go back and dance naked in front of the Lich than deal with this.
 
I turn and see a familiar face. She stands in the doorway of the Runner’s Guild, wiping sweat from her face. She looks at me as her two best friends, Claudeil and Toriska, wave at the Runners inside. They’re both taller than she is, but she’s in charge.
Two pigtails instead of a braid, brown, flax hair, despite all the gels she puts in it, and she looks like she’s starving.
Or hungry. She’s thin, but she always looks like someone’s just snatched a sandwich from her, and I’ve never seen her not looking accusatory. Especially now as she gives me a triumphant look as if she’s just caught me red-handed. Today, she’s wearing a light-green hooded jacket to keep out of the rain and long, loose leggings like most Runners. She also wears open-toed sandals when she runs, the monster, secured by leather ties.
She’s famous enough that other Runners turn and some smile at her, but I see a few just looking apprehensive behind their smiles. The [Receptionist] in front of me actually makes a small groaning sound, and I look at the worst Runner in the region.
Persua. Her voice is strident, high-pitched, and makes me long for the whine of a [Fireball] passing by my ears. Especially if it hits her. She gives me a huge smirk.
“There’s no need to give Magnolia’s request to her. I’ve just arrived, and I can take care of it myself.”
The young woman—no, the annoying teenager who strides towards me brushes past to stand at the counter. She keeps her back very straight, probably because I’m taller than her by a head. I catch the overpowering smell of perfume masking her sweat and step back so her brown hair doesn’t smack me in the face every time she tosses her head. Which she does quite often.
I know her. Or rather, I know her sallow* face. She always looks like she’s pursing her lips at everyone, and she annoys me every time I look at her.
 
*Is sallow the right word here? I think it means pinched and narrow, but I could be wrong. That’s the problem with not having the internet. Anyways, her face is shrewish, although I forget what a shrew looks like too. I’m going with sallow either way.
 
“Oh, Miss Persua. I didn’t know you were still in the city.”
Persua. A name fit for her. Persua tosses her head impetuously and nods. Her two friends, Claudeil, all sneers and eyes on my chest, and Toriska, who looks straight past me, follow Persua over as if she needs the emotional support at all times. Persua herself is the worst, though, and she smirks as if she’s being clever.
“Well, I was doing that delivery to Remendia, but once one of my friends let me know Magnolia’s request was sitting in the Runner’s guild, of course I came back to fulfill it.”
She what? I give her a blank stare. The receptionist looks uncomfortable.
“You—haven’t finished the other delivery? Well, I was going to give the request to Ryoka. She’s free, and she’s—”
“She’s already done a request for Magnolia this week. By rights, that means I should have a turn. Claudeil will do my run, right?”
The receptionist frowns at Persua. So does the young man. He brushes at his hair.
“I will? I mean—of course, Persua. That frees it up. Toriska and I will go.”
“I’m going with Persua. You can go—or Miss Ryoka can go, Claudeil. We can trade up!”
Toriska giggles, and the [Receptionist] stares at my face as I debate kicking the other Runner. Although—they are armed. Claudeil has a crossbow, and Toriska has a wand and knife for emergencies. I’ve seen both showing off their weapons to Street Runners.
I bet I could kick them both in the face from here. However, the [Receptionist] breaks in, trying to mediate…Persua.
“There’s no rule that explicitly gives precedence to other Runners. Besides which, I need this delivery done as quickly as possible. It is literally getting…warmer? As we speak.”
“So?”
Another head toss. I notice some more of Persua’s ‘friends,’ the other Runners—mainly Street Runners who are new or lower on the totem pole—watching me. They always gather around when she appears. I stare at them until they look away. I hate their guts. Too bad Persua doesn’t back down as easily. Doubly too bad is her annoying voice.
“I can easily do Magnolia’s request. Ryoka can just switch with me.”
The [Receptionist] was beginning to look exasperated.
“It doesn’t work like that. Unless Ryoka agrees, I can’t just give this to you. Besides, as I’ve said, this is a speedy delivery. I can’t give it to—”
“To what?”
Persua looks at the receptionist coldly. But I fill in the gap silently in my mind, probably with everyone else in the Runner’s Guild.
To a slower runner. One of the slowest, in fact. Persua might be a City Runner, but she’s slow. Or lazy. Actually, she’s both. She’s also an idiot, but that’s just my observation. She doesn’t take as many long-distance contracts, and she only delivers light-weight stuff like flowers or letters.
However, she does tend to get deliveries done—possibly because her friends often run with her. The [Receptionist] bites her tongue and tries a smile, which clearly fails, even to me.
“I just meant that Ryoka is the fastest City Runner. Even Fals can’t beat her time.”
“Yes, but I’m sure she’ll switch with me, won’t you, Ryoka?”
Persua glances at me and then away. Passive-aggressive bitch*.
 
*What language! I’m ashamed of myself. Mainly because I don’t have a wider vocabulary to describe someone like her. I could get vulgar, but I’d rather just slap her on the back of the head. Must resist temptation.
 
I hesitate. I should give the request to Persua. Even if she fails it, there’s no skin off my back. In fact, if she gets in trouble for failing the request even better. Although she’ll probably wriggle out of it somehow.
Yeah, I hate her guts. And I don’t feel like giving in to her bullying, especially because I know the only reason she wants to do the delivery is for the easy money and the opportunity to sponge off of Magnolia. So you know what? Let’s escalate things.
“It’s urgent.”
That’s not what Persua wants to hear. She glances at me in irritation.
“So? I can make it.”
The receptionist glances around uncertainly.
“If we can’t get it to Magnolia within the hour, the delivery won’t be any good. Can you make the run in time? It will melt, that is what I am told, and the Runner’s Guild will bear the costs of reimbursing Lady Reinhart if it is ruined. I would like it there in forty minutes. Or less. Miss Persua, you have no sprinting Skills while Miss Ryoka is the fastest. Can you do it?”
This time, Persua noticeably swallows, but she glances at her two friends and then nods.
“I can.”
“So can I.”
Both the receptionist and I glance at Persua. She’s already sweating, probably from running back to the city to take the request.
“Can you?”
She glares at me. But I know bodies, and I know running. Sallow girl is sweaty, tired, and she has terrible running form. I’ve done a run too, but unlike her, I know how to conserve energy. I turn to the receptionist.
“Give me the request.”
Persua’s sallow face grows even more pinched, if that were possible. She glares daggers at me.
“That’s not fair. You’ve already done a request. I deserve it! Claudeil and Toriska are both with me—they both deserve chances too!”
“Toriska’s not even a City Runner yet.”
The other young woman glares daggers at me and reaches for her dagger, and Persua stamps her foot.
“So? Claudeil is!”
“Yeah, and you always deliver to Magnolia together. This isn’t about—getting to hobnob with her. She needs it fast? I’m ready.”
The idiot is ready to argue with me, but even Claudeil is hesitating because he knows I’m right. Persua strides over to poke at me and I’m ready to break her finger, but an urgent voice interrupts the two of us.
“Persua, please.”
The receptionist is already wrestling with something under the counter. She lifts it up to me and gives me a smile of relief. I guess she really didn’t think Persua could do it either. She brings out a huge metal…canister?
Yes, a locking canister of metal. I blink because it’s more ornate than I thought this world had for metallurgy, but that’s the nobility for you. It’s cold, too, and I feel how heavy it is. Must be something solid in there.
“Here’s the delivery. It’s packed in ice, so try not to get it too warm if possible. You know where Magnolia’s house is. They’ll be expecting you.”
Persua stomps her foot angrily as I put the large metal canister in my backpack. Cold. And it is wrapped with melting ice, so I’ll have a wet backpack after my run. But it’s worth it to see her get mad.
“I don’t think this is a good idea.”
“Good for you.”
If looks could kill…but Persua’s looks only annoy. She stomps towards me until my nose burns with her stupid perfume. She hisses at me.
“You’ll regret this.”
“Oh, really?”
“Yes!”
Some people. I turn away from Persua and hear her make a sound like an angry hamster. Claudeil, Toriska, both are giving me what they probably think are sinister looks. I look around and see most of the Street Runners pretending not to see this altercation.
Whatever. I really don’t care about their opinions or whatever Runner’s Code they claim. I’m here to do my job.
I nod to the receptionist.
“I’m off.”
I’m out the door before Persua can make another comment. I hear a strangled scream of fury, then a barrage of complaints. You can’t tell, and I don’t have a mirror.
But I’m grinning again.
 
——
 
This time, it’s the head maid who opens the door. She sniffs down at me.
I nod at her. I’m out of breath, tired, and my back is really, really cold. But I feel great, because I made it here in just forty minutes. That’s almost a record, and it’s at least twice as fast as Persua’s best time.
“Delivery for Magnolia.”
“That’s Lady Magnolia, Miss Ryoka Griffin. Wipe your feet.”
Now here’s someone whose looks can really kill. I shrug and take off my pack. I do wipe my feet again.
“Seal?”
“Wait.”
The head maid closes the door on me as I wrestle with my damp delivery. Well, looks like I won’t be talking to Magnolia today. That’s actually a relief. I don’t mind the bubbly, excitable noblewoman, but I actually prefer the maids. They might be abrupt and rude, but that means less talking.
Okay, icy package is in my hands. I wait as patiently as I can outside the door and then hear a muffled conversation. It sounds like someone arguing, and then I hear a familiar energetic voice.
“Nonsense! Ressa, how could you—of course I insist you let her in! Dirty feet or not!”
