Man, I had to admit, that was a pretty awful response. I let it slide as Lehesion smiled at him, "If that is your defense, Helios, then I will let it speak for me." The big gialgathen turned to me, "As you can see, many species are belittled into servitude to enact the will of Schema's system. We've freed thirteen different races from this servitude, and we're working on the fourteenth here."

Through Lehesion, she gestured to my golems with a tail, "You're doing an admirable job here, and we are willing to renounce our claim given your effectiveness. You've even found a way of managing the eldritch threat here."

Lehesion spread his wings like a person spreading their arms, "We only want to expedite the freedom and progress of different species. Particularly fringe species that have been left abandoned by Schema's policies. It is Schema that attacks without end against us. We simply retaliate as we have to in order to survive."

"Then why the hell do you keep launching attacks on my damn city?"

"You're raiding one of our territories, whether you believe you are or not. That gives cause for our assaults. We're now offering a ceasefire. If you don't accept our generous conditions, understand that subsequent death on both sides is your fault exclusively."

A chill ran down my spine as Tohtella continued, "That's why we're willing to forgive your previous transgressions, even the bombings on Giess, where you killed millions."

That unnerving pressure mounted on me before it faded to anger. I pointed to her and shouted, "Bullshit. Those deaths aren't on me. You wouldn't stop converting the gialgathens, so I did what I had to so we could save some of them in the countryside. Don't forget that. And even then, you don't care who dies. You're just afraid of me, so now you don't want to fight anymore."

I frowned, "You just don't want to lose."

Lehesion sighed, "Hah...In essence, you are correct. You are worthy of fear. Why does that change the dynamic of this talk?"

I threw my hands up in frustration, "Because you wouldn't have stopped attacking us if you were winning and the situations were reversed."

Lehesion spread his wings, "That is simply untrue. We aren't looking to wipe out a new guild with promise. We want to have Elysium be a bastion for disparaged species, worlds, and one day, even the eldritch. That is how we gained many massive eldritch to help us defend Giess."

Still not trusting her, I raised my eyebrows while diving into thought. Elysium wasn't about to forgive all that I'd done, but they might turn a blind eye to my guild for a while. That alone would be an enormous boon for me. Without that looming threat of obliteration, we could expand far out on Blegara. Hell, we could finally help people on Earth.

It went even deeper than that. The gialgathens enjoyed Blegara, and they could settle down on it. I could help my homeworld after neglecting it for so long, and I even got some free time for Obolis's mission with the Ahcorus. In that way, I still fought Elysium. I just didn't need to put my own people on the line to do it.

And yet, a part of me didn't want to let this go. Elysium terminated a species for their own gain and tortured silvers and eldritch alike. The eldritch did kill people, so it wasn't as if eliminating the eldritch was downright evil. It was more Elysium's methods that disturbed me.

The footage from their camp on Earth flashed in my mind, vivid and wounding. Outside of the Hybrids, mind magic was a tenuous, grisly means of control. These reasons made me want to smash Elysium to pieces and put a stop to all of that. To make that happen, I would need to wage war.

Peering around, the wasteland surrounding me gave me my answer to this trade. I didn't want to sign this ceasefire, but I had to for my guildsmen. They deserved better than this. If I chose to make some moral stand here, then they'd suffer for it, not me. Considering they'd be the ones making sacrifices, I turned to my guild.

Torix already cast his silencing magic as I did, the aura passing over us. He even fogged our surroundings so that our enemies wouldn't be able to read our lips. I raised my eyebrows at my guild members, "Any ideas on what we should do here?"

Krog snarled, "Kill every last one of them. My kin were killed. Elysium should die for it."

I gave him a nod, "Noted. Anyone else have anything to add?"

Chrona chimed, "If anyone understands your hatred, Krog, it is I. I still dream of killing them even while I sleep. But that is why I wish to stop this - I rest little these days. I suffer more nightmares than dreams now."

She grimaced, "Krog, I've grown weary of these relentless attacks. As a species, we have adapted to this change in how we live, but we were not made for prolonged wars. We make our own slowly, and we take pleasure in the arts."

She leaned towards Krog, "If they offer us peace, then I say we let go of revenge. We may turn that desire to destroy into a desire to rebuild."

Other Hod hissed, "You're cowards."

I frowned at Other Hod, "No, they're not."

Other Hod winced, "He spoke of vengeance, but she forgoes it for peace. Is that not cowardice?"

I lifted a palm, "It can be courageous to not fight sometimes."

Other Hod tilted back, "I...Huh."

Torix coughed into a hand, "If I may, I'd like to offer some of my thoughts."

Ready for a calculated perspective, I let my hands down, "Alright, let's hear it."

Torix raised a finger, "I've decided upon creating a list of the pros and cons of either endeavor, and they are as follows: we're choosing between Schema's favor along with Elysium's ire versus Schema's ire with Elysium's neutrality. I'm of the opinion that Schema's favor means little and that we've been used by that omnipresent AI from the start."

I crossed my arms, "Why, exactly?"

"It's simple. He's never offered reinforcements, bonus quests, or even extra experience beyond what he's offered to other guilds. Considering our central position in this conflict, I believe that is unacceptable. We deserve more for taking on these risks."

I pointed above me at my title, "I got over five thousand extra levels added to my level cap. That's pretty crazy."

"Indeed. However, I researched your bonuses, and they were, in fact, less than those offered to other select individuals during different times of conflict. As an example, there are reports of war with Etorhma's followers centuries ago. During that time, many individuals were given 15,000+ levels to their level cap along with class sub-titles and the like. Comparatively, you've accomplished far more yet received far less."

That was strange. Schema played hardball with us for some reason. I sighed, "Huh...Well, that sucks."

Torix swung a hand, "And I have a penchant to agree. Now, there are other reasons to agree to a truce. Elysium's raids will be defensible while our territories are small as they are. However, in the future, they will be able to destroy vast swaths of our conquered land. I also believe they won't attack us after an agreement. After all, they've stopped Lehesion from going into orbit and simply scorching this land entirely. Of all people, Daniel, you must understand this having fought him."

I shook my head, "Yeah, he can't beat us in person, but that doesn't mean he can't beat everything around us."

Krog's anger waned while he stood with less pride, "I...I hadn't noticed."

Torix placed a hand on the gialgathen's wing, "And that is due to Daniel's dominance in direct combat. Unfortunately, they know where we are, but we don't know where their lairs lie. This puts us at a distinct disadvantage."

Torix shrugged, "We'll be extremely limited in our guild's growth from now until a ceasefire of some sort is arranged. Given how little building we've managed, our guild is more than due for a rapid expansion, both here and upon Earth." Torix met my eye, "That is my final point; we can help your native species. I know you're not human any longer, but surely there's a lingering attachment, hm?"

I tapped a knuckle on my forehead, "Yeah...It is."

Torix spread his arms to the others, "As for the cons of forgoing battle, they are obvious. Elysium has enacted great evil against the gialgathens, the eldritch, and likely others as well. We have done great moral good in fighting them and preserving a culture and species. Of that, we can take pride in where we stand."

Torix steepled his hands, "But does pride put food upon our tables or build roofs over our heads? No. It only gives you a warm, fuzzy feeling when you happen to think about it. In that regard, I believe we've done more than enough to satisfy any moral obligation we might've had. Personally, I believe we should move on from this conflict and progress our own agendas instead of the agendas of other factions."

Torix's eyes flared bright, "And that is why I say we accept the treaty as is."

I crossed my arms, "Does everyone agree?"

The battered, bruised, and bloody battalion nodded at me. I bit my lip before taking a sharp breath, "Alright, but let's think about Elysium for a minute. We've actually been able to take the brunt of their assaults and withstand them. Even if we can't see it, their forces had to have come from somewhere else."

Torix rolled his flaming eyes, "Obviously."

I gave him a fake smile, "Thanks. Anyways, hear me out - I think they were supposed to be attacking someone else, but they siphoned those troops here instead."

Torix tilted his head, "Daniel, I think very much of you, but you're stating the obvious. Where else would the troops have arrived from?"

I raised a hand to the mage, "Yes, but let's take a step back from that fact. If they're offering a treaty, it's because they need those siphoned troops desperately. Having Lehesion's time taken up like this must be crippling as well, and having their forces get slaughtered without gaining ground, they might not be able to afford to do that."

I spread out my hands, "Based on offering us a treaty mid-combat, I'd say they definitely can't, actually."

Torix nodded, "That is a point of contention. Elysium may stand to gain more than we realize from this."

I gestured to my guildsmen, "So we're actually in a point of power here. Let's not forget that."

Chrona sighed, "And here I believed we'd gained peace. Instead, we wish for gold and riches at the expense of our enemies. Do you not believe that will breed resentment?"

One of the supergolems deadpanned, "According to my history, our creator destroyed millions of their people. I am of the opinion that resentment is a non-factor, as it should be assumed to already be present."

Chrona raised her eyebrows in disgust, "These creatures are sinister at times, are they not?"

I pointed at the super golem, "Sinister or not, I agree. I don't care if Elysium likes us less because I know they hate me already. Knowing that, what can we gain from allying with them besides not being attacked? I say, let's gouge a little."

Torix spread his arms, "If we must, then I have a few suggestions."

"Let's have it."

"Elysium has access to many forbidden technologies. I've recently gained access to many of these magics, as have you. Despite that newfound access point, we've no resource to learn about these magics. Perhaps an exchange of information could be arranged?"

Torix leaned to me, "And also, though you're tutoring sessions for the cipher have been appreciated, hm, how should I put this...Your teaching style simply doesn't mesh with how I learn."

I read between the lines of what Torix said,

"So, I suck at teaching?"

"To put it succinctly, yes. Yes you do."

I shrugged, "Well, that's a good point. Does anyone else have something to add that we can ask for? Personally, I don't want Hybrids or the tech for them."

Krog whipped his tail behind himself, "They are abominations, and they mar an otherwise beautiful world here."

Helios spoke up, "I would wish that the Empire's planets would remain un-sieged. The Empire would pay much for the ceasefire if you could include that in this treatise of yours."

My mind raced. The Empire's tactics bothered me, almost to the point that I regretted helping them. Sure, Obolis and the Empire treated us reasonably well, but I didn't want to help them take back worlds that didn't want to be ruled in the first place. Based on Helios's mentioning of indentured servitude, well, it was safe to say Obolis used questionable means of controlling their populaces.

But, Helios put himself on the line earlier. Florence spoke well of us. Obolis also seemed like he genuinely wanted to treat us fairly too. Even Caprika helped put me out there on Giess. Those reasons spurred me on as I tilted my head to Helios,

"Do you think Obolis would be willing to compromise a ceasefire with Elysium to squeeze us into the arrangement?"

Helios scoffed, "You would be surprised at the lengths Obolis would go for your guild. He has told me that he sees you as a brother in many respects."

Eh, that sounded like a stretch to me, and Helios's ulterior motives spilled out like liquid silver - evident as could be. I stared the albony down, his dark mask sheening with a glossy stain. Exerting more pressure, I wielded Event Horizon as a weapon over his mind, but I didn't actually drain him. I wielded the aura's mental stress alone while I spoke like iron,

"You're not lying to me, are you?"

Helios's knees buckled for a second, but he kept himself composed, "I...perhaps I exaggerated the lengths to which he would go. Obolis would attempt to help, yes, but he would not jeopardize the arrangement for your gain."

I pulled back Event Horizon, "I'll do the same for him then, and sorry about that. I can't afford subtlety right now." Turning back to Lehesion, I spread out my hands. Torix's silencing aura ceased while I said,

"We can arrange a deal, I think."

Tohtella spoke through Lehesion, "Speak your terms. We will heed them."

