"I want you to stop attacking my city or any other world I'm settling on."

"Done. What else do you require?"

"I'd like you to give us books and files on forbidden technologies and magic, like antimatter, arcane, and dimensional magic, and, hm."

I opened my status, looking at what my Sovereign-class unlocked, "Anything you have on genetic engineering, the eldritch, AI tech, and warping. Oh, and the cipher, of course."

Those ancient symbols sheened over my armored skin, "But you probably figured that already."

Lehesion smiled, "We can arrange that information transfer right now if needed. What else would be required?"

I was surprised they were willing to do even more than this. I cupped my chin, "Huh, well, how about giving me info on Eonoth, Etorhma, Baldowah, planets in this galactic area, solar systems, fringe worlds, terraformable locations, terraforming techniques, fringe clearing techniques, schema, cloning, runes, smithing, all kinds of magic, governance, your reform plans, how you plan to enact said reform plans, necromancy, the Ruhl's, remnants, primordial mana, entropy mana-"

Lehesion curled his neck out of frustration, "We see that an open-ended arrangement with you is perhaps asking too much. We'll send that information, but nothing else."

I pointed my thumb back at Helios, "And yeah, stop attacking the Empire."

"We will not do that."

"Why?"

"Their planets are poorly defended, they wish to no longer be under the Empire's rule, and they show resounding support for our invasions. To my point, this is one of the most difficult of their planets to take, and you're not the reason for that if you can believe it."

Ouch. I bet Obolis wished he'd paid a bit more attention to how he set up shop now. I waved a hand, "Ok, then stop attacking their worlds that don't want to rebel."

"That would weaken our offenses. No."

"Yes."

"No."

"Yes."

Lehesion's eyes narrowed, "We said no."

I shrugged, "Then no deal. I hope you guys are ready for me when I learn my sovereign skill, cap out my level, get warping down, master mind magic, manufacture hundreds of thousands of golems, learn dim-"

Lehesion seethed, "Fine. We will do as you ask. No more than this can be permitted in this deal. Understood?"

I grinned, "Of course, of course. We won't attack more of your settlements if you do all that for us."

Lehesion took a deep breath, "Then we will do as you ask. Representatives will warp over towards your city via a portal. We ask you don't blow them up when that occurs using your death magic."

I gave the Lehesion puppet a thumbs-up, "Oh yeah, most definitely."

Lehesion turned towards a warp that opened with a golden sheen. He headed towards unseen horizons and uncrossed borders before Tohtella smiled at me through Lehesion,

"Though you negotiate fiercely, you did negotiate with us. We thank you. I hope that our future relations prosper."

I narrowed my eyes, "Yeah. Sure."

Lehesion walked onto a world of desserts, reminding me of Gypsum. Before closing the warp, Tohtella stated, "And lastly, a word of warning - Schema will not appreciate this deal. Expect recourse."

I peered at my guild, "We'll be ready."

Lehesion's portal closed, "As will we. Goodbye, Harbinger."

They stepped out into a starry abyss, gone for the moment. I turned to the people here, and we stared at each other for a bit. That silence lingered for a while before I spread out my hands, "We're done, guys. The war's over."

Chrona roared, "To victory, our new home, and the end of this never-ending battle."

As she let out a plume of icy fire, Krog and the other gialgathens joined her. I lifted my hands and roared with them, my other guildsmen celebrating at that moment.

We hadn't killed or destroyed Elysium, but we sent a loud enough message that they didn't want to keep fighting us. For a guild of our size, it was an enormous victory. That triumph saturated everyone here, each of them knowing that the constant raids, the endless battles, and this galactic war was over for us. It gave me solace knowing we pulled through with only a few casualties, at least relative to the scale of destruction our battles wrought.

At the same time, we gained access to many technologies, new territories, and I could finally help Earth. We even pulled some pressure off the Empire, and we'd still undermine Elysium in other, less direct ways. It wasn't like I had to call off my mission of killing Plazia-Ruhl. By the time I finished that and a few other objectives, I'd of amassed a much firmer foundation for my guild and myself. Either way, it was a good day.

No, a great day.

After the initial celebrations ended, I lowered the enormous, floating island back towards Blegara's surface. It landed in a flat plop compared to its thundering rise, and I preferred it that way. Collapsing the structure into a tall mound of stone, it remained as an isolated island amidst the ocean's waves. To me, it was a monument to the battle and a reminder of our victory.

Yet it loomed over a devastated Saphigia.

I walked closer to Althea while we made our way home through that desolation. I watched Althea be taken by the super golem guard I gave her. The colossus stood several feet taller than she did and many times her weight, yet it held her like a fragment of glass, both sharp and fragile. That reflected who she was, beautiful but deadly.

Kessiah would help Althea at the hospital, and I let the super golem take her away after holding her hand for a moment. She'd be fine, but she and Kessiah needed to work out the kinks of the blood stimulant. Being knocked out like that wasn't exactly optimal. Still, they should be proud of its results.

Those weren't the only results we should be proud of. Congregating at Torix's lair, we walked into the city before holding an impromptu council. Krog, Chrona, Amara, Hod, Florence, Helios, and Torix stayed here with me while we took a moment to relax. Not long after, a warp popped open over our blue core's barrier.

I kept several singularities of mana charged in my blood as a shuttle siphoned out. Viewing it from the glass, I peered at the lavender and fuchsia shades, unlike the grim grays and forest greens of their dreadnoughts. Along it, gold and platinum trimmed the paneling, and an excess of windows gave plentiful viewing of its surroundings.

From those windows, stockpiles of ancient texts, tablets, and cipheric etchings piled up high. Sorting the cluttered mess, remnants went about stacking the assortment of rare treasures. Torix nudged me as we watched them from outside his lair,

"It would seem they've made good on our offer."

Rubbing my hands together, I grinned,

"It does, doesn't it?"
