Her forces crumbled slowly as her foes pressed their advantage, pitting the Rock Beetles against her Lava Lurkers, preventing her from getting to the more vulnerable plant and fungus monsters behind them. The Rock Beetles ground through her oozes with their enormous strength and their powerful mana twisting the stalagmites and ridges into spikes and sudden crevasses to stab or entomb. She squished her way out of each new trap as they formed, countering the powerful magic with the amorphous bodies of her oozes, recognizing now that this would be a vastly more challenging foe for Ali-friend with her unfortunately disadvantaged rigid body.

She crawled her Blood Thralls a little further along the craggy roof, triangulating by the scent of the earth mana impinging on every membrane, and then suddenly dropped; each thrall falling in rapid succession, raining their heavy forms down on the rock beetles. She hit the ground and bounced off thick rock carapaces with splatting thumps, reacting by flattening all her bodies and slipping beneath the beetles’ carapaces. All at once, she detonated them. Each Blood Thrall mustered all their energy and mana into a single powerful explosion – she hadn’t found a way to use their strange healing ability yet – besides the Blood Thralls, oozes didn’t have this strange ‘blood’ that flowed in the tubes of those stiff-bodies – but, short of a boss, these explosions were her most powerful offensive ability.

The thumps and cracks of the explosive release of power shook the rock she clung to, followed a fraction of a second later by the rippling shock of the sound waves reaching her membrane through the air. Shattered bits of rock armor shredded the Dark Treants and her oozes indiscriminately as her multiple bombs dismantled the Juggernaut Rock Beetles in an instant. Naia twisted her form, dodging the whistling shriek of a wayward granite missile, briefly compromising her disguise, but she rapidly assumed the color and texture of her new location. Quickly, she bubbled out a wave of sacred oozelings to swarm or rain down from the walls to heal her damaged forces and pushed up her highest-level Scalding Slimes to tear up the remains of the beetles from the inside.

She sampled the rock vibrations, studying the mana distribution and evaluating the impact of her destructive move. The three Juggernauts were dead or dying, twitching and flailing on the ground as her remaining slimes and oozes swarmed them. She had lost almost half her forces in the clash and her Sacred Oozes were working hard to restore the remainder, but past experience had taught her that the aberrant plant monsters swarming the cavern would be as endless as the waterfall in the upper chamber.

Not much time. It was a tiny window of opportunity, but she was going to take full advantage of it.

A sudden vibration caught her attention as a large chunk of the side wall crumbled and collapsed. To her dismay, three new Juggernaut Rock Beetles appeared, but this time, they escorted a Subterranean Brood Queen. Naia’s membrane froze at the wave of earth-mana that flooded the chamber. The Brood Queen was giant – more than twice the weight of even the Juggernauts – and Naia had yet to kill one of this size. It wasn’t that the Brood Queen was particularly strong, it had thicker rock armor than the juggernauts, but it was their ability to summon swarms that made them so devastating.

She had been so close to capturing enough of the cavern to establish a new raid boss and finally make a breakthrough progressing on this level – but the instant the Brood Queen appeared, Naia knew she had lost. Her membrane drooped as the craggy cavern shook under the heavy footsteps of the queen.

Without waiting for the first swarm, Naia squeezed herself through her mana connection, fleeing to her previous boss room where she prepared to defend herself once more.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
