It extended three skeletal cyclopean heads upwards on thick vertebrae to survey the land around it and look for the Heirs. Nathan was keeping them hidden from magical senses, but there wasn’t anything but distance stopping it from spotting the Heirs visually. That wouldn't be hard with Khachi’s restrained glow. Except that each of the heads exploded in turn, one round each detonating the bones and destroying the magic they contained.

“That pouch really is bottomless, isn’t it?” Nathan asked, watching Sarah pull another handful of rounds from the nondescript leather pocket strapped to her bandolier.

“It is,” Aarl confirmed. “It has limitations, but duplicating simple enchantments like this is its purpose, and that weapon enhances those enchantments.”

“We should get her some more kinds of bullets,” Nathan noted, watching Sarah continue to work on the monster. She was cutting off the tentacles, each detaching from the main body after two or three shots to the base. It struggled to regrow its limbs and opened its mouth to roar. More shots went into the open mouth, and the roar rapidly changed in pitch as bullets mauled the giant creature’s vocal cords. Nathan absorbed the extra death magic that came their way. It was barely above the background of the blight.

The creature eventually figured out their general direction and started moving towards them. It looked deceptively slow, but that was only true for the scale of the monster. The wriggling hulk left a trail of destroyed wreckage and pulped flesh in its wake. It tried to extend more tentacles to attack them, but Sarah shot those off too. Then she started drilling a hole through the creature, getting dozens of rounds into its fleshy innards, where the shockwaves from her explosives started rippling through larger and larger areas of the creature.

Eventually, it fell, the animating magic running out and leaving behind a pulped and reduced mound of flesh that was still larger than most of the buildings around it. Sarah wiped a sweaty forehead with a hand. “There. I have done my deed, and I regret it. I yield any future grave tangles.”

“Fair enough,” Nathan noted, then pointed towards the center of the city. “It’s time to finish this.”

Permanent Talent 1: Arcane Nullfield 10

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 7

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 3

Class: End of Magic level 995

Bottomless Stamina: 100500/100500

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 763

Limitless Focus: 7288/7730

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Tranquility 6

Inspiration 9

Impulse 6

Mystical Discernment 9

Forewarning 7

Arcane Insight 10

Evasion 3

Mental Vault 9

Veracity 4

Whiplash 3

Visibility Control 7

High-tier Disguise 10

High-tier Battle Cry 5

Aura Control 10
