“They will follow it. I know you’ve leashed Eater Goats before. This one will go wild when you release it. I would save it for later.”
“Gr—Grdsh? Kethn.”
Tolve’s head tilted left and right. Was that language? The Gargoyle was intelligent enough to make itself a club and lead a clan. The undead didn’t really care.
“Yes, Grdsh. Or whatever. Now, listen closely. Take your clan and head down the mountain. Down the mountain. And kill…oh, everything.”
The Bossel listened, uncomprehending. But it got the message as Tolve did a visual diagram. Its eyes, orange, focused on Tolve with curiosity.
But why? Why are you sparing me? Why give him the Void Eater Goat and…?
It had no perspective. Tolve made a shooing motion. But he did tell the Bossel why, as it backed up warily and the Gargoyles made sounds, corralling the Eater Goats, forcing them down the slopes.
“It’s because you do things in order. You test yourself. How fast can they beat you? Mortal armies? The Humans of the north? Are they as organized as the Drakes? If they’re not—how many cities burn? How many the first time? How many the second? How fast can you raze a city, and how fast can they build them?”
He stretched, laughing to himself at those old questions.
“It’s a game. And if that team comes—how will they die if they meet that lovely little goat?”
What could stop that arrogant goat? And if this failed, so be it. Tolve dangled his legs off the cliff as he sat.
“Nothing and no one remains worthy of my respect. No one remembers his name, even. There is no reason to stop, but slowly. Slowly…”
He raised his hand, and his fair skin mottled. A plague, living mushrooms, sprouted along his arm. Growing out of flesh, rotting, buzzing—Tolve blew it over the Eater Goats, who looked up blankly as the spores grew on their coats. The half-Elf chuckled.
“Oh dear. I think there’s a monster plague. A plague of monsters, I mean. Send adventurers.”
They streamed downhill as Tolve looked for another location, another opportunity. He stood and stretched and walked off. A day later, the alarm was sounded.
The High Passes were unleashing monsters. Thousands of monsters.
