Talented people had been assigned to guard this area from the floods earlier, and now they guarded it from prying eyes and ears. Lind-otta could hear the strain in the voice of the woman who’d just called her attention. She needed rest.

“Esh-erdi is taking care of something important,” Lind-otta said. “And I was only curious about this process since I was nearby. Please continue as you usually do.”

The woman nodded, but instead of leaving right away, she stayed to offer explanations.

The phones and watches being brought in by drone and deposited directly in the grass of the square had all been in use before and during the disaster.

“Not all of his devices contain the keys,” she explained. “He couldn’t possibly make enough for that. But for those that do have them, he offers superior replacements to the owners in exchange for their return. The keys inside the ones that are being collected now will be fully connected to the apparatus by other Avowed soon, increasing its power and the likelihood that it will align with requests.”

She gestured toward the houses and streets around them to indicate the numerous keys already embedded.

“He doesn’t have the talents necessary to join the keys in this way himself, so he employs those who do. Once his skill is in use, additional recording devices capture the output for analysis. Most of the keys of eyes are to our left. Keys of voices are everywhere. There are other types, but they are few in number. Novelties or experiments for him.”

A man with dark brown hair and a short beard had just exited one of houses. Despite the fact that the reports Lind-otta had glanced over said the Avowed had exhausted his skills more than once since this all began, he had an energy in his step as he strolled past the growing piles of devices and passed beneath shining, undulating strands that emerged from the top of a large jar-shaped fountain at the center of the square.

“The Contract's decision to deny communication features to most people during the incident encouraged Avowed to heavily utilize these infogear devices, seeking answers about what was going on. Those conversations were recorded and are now purchasable. It also means all the keys within the devices have been better attuned to exactly the kinds of questions we want to ask at this time.”

Lind-otta was watching the human press his hand to the fountain. “Is this kind of thing not illegal on Earth?”

“I believe it is. But a series of loopholes on Anesidora—”

“I see.” Lind-otta focused on the Avowed. She could sense one of his skills taking affect.

“I should go,” the woman who’d been explaining things said with a nod. “If you stay for long enough, he will be using a second skill as well. That one may prove more useful to our search for answers in the end. The effect when applied to this many keys is impressive.”

All at once, the keys activated. All at once, the square was filled with whispers that gradually grew louder. Whispers that hadn’t been recorded when the phones holding the black discs were in use.

Lind-otta didn’t speak a human language, so she couldn’t understand them. But the Avowed, Elias, was targeting one word she did know. And she heard it repeated all over the square, in a thousand voices that were talking about the subject right this second, unaware that their conversations were being overheard here in this place.

The same word spoken in so many different ways—fear, rage, boredom, glee—in so many different tongues all at once.

Matadero, the humans said. An attack we should have known about, that my old man always said would happen, that nobody could have expected, a hoax, a sign, I told you, who cares about, I’ve always been scared of, mark my words this is only the beginning of the end at…Matadero.

******

******

A deep, pleased noise from the back of Esh-erdi’s throat caught Alden’s attention, and he looked up from the final read-through of his paper. It was a good essay. He was going to be annoyed if the assignment was cancelled rather than just postponed.

Esh-erdi was smiling, and as Alden took in the expression, he realized just how long the two of them had been together. Didn’t knights have better things to spend their time on than watching Ryeh-b’ts do their homework?

Maybe this was his version of sleeping? Maybe he’s gotten so powerful that he just does downtime instead of actually going to bed. I’m not sure if that would be great or terrible.

“Zeridee-und’h will survive and be well,” said Esh-erdi.

Alden dropped his tablet onto his lap. “She’s out of…”

“Surgery” would be the wrong word.

“She’s out of the fake healing grove? The room with all the plants in it?” he asked.

“If I remember that particular ritual correctly, she’s probably in the fake healing grove with everything but her nose and mouth buried in a pile of dirt. But that’s good!”

Relief and excitement sent Alden to his feet before he could decide what he thought he was going to do on his feet. “Oh...I guess I shouldn’t go stare at her in her pile of dirt?”

“It’s all right with me if you do, but some of the smokes in the room might have unusual effects on a human.”

Alden sat back down.

“I sent a message to Porti-loth,” said Esh-erdi, “suggesting that I might take you to a human Healer since he’s going to need several hours to recover. He’s trying to convince me that they’ll definitely kill you because they won’t understand what he’s already done to you. I’m sure that’s a lie.” He frowned. “What’s your preference?”

Alden almost said he didn’t have one. But that wasn’t true.

“I really want the gash on my hand healed as perfectly as possible,” he said. “So whatever’s best for that?”

It was a little silly. He thought that even if he had a scar or some pain, his hand was still going to move well thanks to the stats. But he’d been trying for more perfection with his spell casting by really paying attention to the feel of his fingers when they were in action, and if they felt slightly different because of an injury, all of that work would have gone to waste.

“If you want something healed perfectly, it’s best to never let it be healed imperfectly. According to the Contract, there are some excellent Avowed healers on Earth. But most of them will be very busy, too. If you don’t mind waiting for Porti…?”

“I’ll wait if he can do it.”

“He can do it,” said Esh-erdi. “You might end up buried in dirt, but it will get done. And I wanted to keep you here longer anyway.”

Here in this room or here on—?

“In the cube,” Esh-erdi clarified before he could ask. “Bash-nor is on Anesidora. Your involvement with the deaths at his residence and the <<fiasco>> with the flyer could make him decide to approach you. He has no reason to come here. I plan to make sure he knows you’re not a tool for him to leverage. And I’d like to reassure myself that there are no human laws that will trouble you. I know almost nothing about human laws, so that might take me a short while. I think you may also want to consider a Healer of Mind for—”

“You don’t have to do all of that,” Alden interrupted. “That’s a lot. You must have so many important things to take care of.”

“I will <<delegate>> whatever needs to be <<delegated>>. Bash-nor, at least, you should let me manage. He is a little too powerful for anyone else to do it successfully, and Lind doesn’t like politics.” He searched Alden’s face. “Do you disagree?”

He couldn’t. If Esh-erdi really thought the ambassador might bother him, then Alden didn’t have any way to stop that himself.

“I don’t disagree,” he said slowly. “And I don’t think there should be legal problems, but if there could be, it would be good to know.”

Esh-erdi drummed the armrest of his chair with his fingertips while he stared at Alden.  “I want you to tell me what else you need.  You should think about it and do that.”

“I’m not sure I—”

“Start with little things,” said Esh-erdi. “For example, what are you planning to do tomorrow?”

Why did this feel like a trick question?

“I’ve got to find something to feed a snake, or I need to get it back to its owner. I want to know what’s going on with school. I’d like to find out what happened to all my friends and say hi to my aunt, but the Contract won’t let me call. And…Stu-art’h’s supposed to call tomorrow. But I don’t know if that would be okay right now? I’m sure Evul-art’h could get a call through, but I don’t know if she would.”

“If your school is open do you want to go?”

“Well…yes. I would really like to. But if I have to stay here—”

“You’re not trapped. I could arrange something. Do you want to talk to Stu-art’h? Or do you only want to let him know you’re well?”

“I would prefer to talk to him,” Alden admitted.

“Good,” said Esh-erdi. “Little things. Tiny cracks in the future. So easy to repair.”

*******

*******
