An icon appeared below the text. A single, shimmering key.

[ITEM RECEIVED: Root Access Module (Blessing_of_Incompetence_v1.0)][DESCRIPTION: A Moderator-level administrative tool. Allows the user to adjust the intensity of the applied Blessing from ‘Baseline Incompetence’ to ‘Functionally Catatonic’. WARNING: Overuse may lead to irreversible cognitive damage or planetary destabilization. It is strongly advised to keep the subject in a state of manageable stupidity.]

I stared at the item description. We had been handed the keys to Dave’s brain, with the explicit instruction not to make him too smart.

Liz, however, was throwing the skink equivalent of a tantrum, pacing furiously on a pile of sapphires. I will not do it! I will not solidify my bond with that oaf! He is not my master! He is a project! A liability! We will find another way!

[Liz, be reasonable,] I said, my voice calm and steady. [This is a major win. They didn’t delete us. They gave us a tool to manage the problem. Think of it as a negative intended to achieve a positive. We strengthen the bond to gain control, which we then use to achieve our long-term goals.]

I also sent a second, private email. This one was short, addressed to the anonymous designation of the Moderator. It was a flicker of my old, pre-System self. Thank you for your consideration in this matter. It felt… professional. Human.

But Liz would not budge. She stopped her pacing, planting her tiny feet firmly on a large emerald, the very picture of defiance. No! she declared, her mental voice ringing with unshakable conviction. I refuse to accept him as my true master! We will find another way! Our combined intellects are more than a match for this!

She paused, as if doing some complex mental calculation. Yes… between my seventeen heads and your own formidable mind, we are a council of nineteen powerful intellects! We will outwit this Moderator!

I froze. My own internal processors stalled for a moment. Nineteen?

My voice was hesitant when I replied. [Liz… I only have one head.]

There was a moment of genuine, profound silence from her end. I could almost feel her re-evaluating her entire understanding of me.

Oh, she finally projected, a note of deep, sincere disappointment in her tone. Only one? Are you certain? I had assumed, given your processing power, that you must have at least two. How… inefficient.

Her pride, the very core of her draconic identity, could not accept Dave as her true master. The stand-off was absolute. Our grand project, which had just been saved from the brink of annihilation by a perfectly worded email, was now being held hostage by my bestie’s stubborn, glorious, and utterly illogical pride. And apparently, she was now disappointed in my lack of cranial redundancy.
