“We can lay you down, instead of leaving you in the wheelchair.” Denise said and went to the closet and grabbed several towels. “You're right, staying in the wheelchair would be awkward.” She said and spread them out on the floor to make a half-decently soft spot for him to lay down on. She helped him transfer from the wheelchair to the makeshift bed and he relaxed.

“So, who...”

“I'll go first.” Denise said. “Elise, lock the door.”

Elise nodded and went to go lock the door, then heard Ren gasp. She turned to see Denise expertly apply her skills to help Ren, and it turned her on. She glanced at the bathroom door handle and fumbled with the lock, managed to click it to the right position, then slowly walked back to where Ren laid on the floor.

“It's... not... working.” Ren said and looked up at Elise. “I need to see you.”

“Ren.”

“Please.”

Denise stopped what she was doing and looked up at her. “He needs a bit more stimulation.”

Elise nodded and lifted up her skirt, then pulled her underwear off. “Will this do?” She asked and stepped close to stand above his face.

“Oohhh, yeah.” Ren said with a huge smile. “It's even dripping for me.”

Denise returned to her work and Ren started breathing heavy.

“It's always dripping for you.” Elise said and knelt down to bring herself that much closer to him.

“I miss it so much.” Ren said and opened his mouth to let some of the dribble go in. “Mmm! That tastes so good!”

Elise shivered and more came out of her, which he readily accepted, and Denise felt Ren's body react to Elise's pleasure.

“Can I touch...” Ren started to ask.

“Yes, Ren.” Elise said. “Always yes.”

Ren reached up and touched her tenderly, and she moaned for him. Like a switch had been thrown, Ren's body shivered and then he finished. Denise couldn't take it all, since there was so much, so she grabbed one of the towels and tried to use her hand. Ren hissed at the touch and she sighed.

“This might take a while.” Denise said.

“Take... all the time... that you...” Elise managed to say as she slid her legs out a little more and Ren kissed her special place directly. “...NEED!” She yelled and finished.

It took them nearly 20 minutes to relieve Ren's painful condition. Denise and Elise had even switched positions several times. It wasn't to provide Ren variety, though. They were getting tired and need a break from their tasks. When Ren's private place was back to a normal color, all three of them relaxed and laid down on the floor.

“My jaw is so sore.” Denise said and rubbed it.

“Mine, too.” Elise said. “You wouldn't think specific foreplay like that would actually hurt after a while.”

“It's the lactic acid buildup in the muscles.” Denise said. “Any extended use can cause fatigue and soreness.”

“That's not always true.” Ren said and smiled. “My tongue feels great!”

“Yes.” Elise said with a matching smile. “It does.”
