Neutral mana was a bit odd, as far as mana went. It wasn’t really elemental in the end. It didn’t have a manipulation spell, it didn’t have any special associations, and skills that used it were as basic as they got, just standard mana constructs given marginal form. Some people went as far as to call it the element of magic itself, or said that neutral mana was mana-aspected, but arcane mana fit that description just as well as neutral.

It was sometimes called a level zero mana type due to its almost anti-complexity. If higher-level mana types were intricate paintings, neutral mana was the blank canvas upon which the art was created. Its effects were basic, but completely element-agnostic.

Just like sharpness aura.

Sharpness was basic but non-elemental, and as he’d worked with aura, Matt was getting familiar with the ways in which even basic elemental aura wasn’t really basic. Flame aura wasn’t heat aura, but both were fire aura. Wave aura wasn’t ocean aura, but both were water aura while neither was water, and so on.

The guild had tried dozens of different mana types to get sharpness aura to form but nothing had worked which led Matt to asking himself: What if sharpness worked the same way?

What if it wasn’t just a type of non-elemental aura, but rather a type of neutral aura in the same way that heat aura was still fire aura but fire aura wasn’t heat.

With a wave of his hand, Matt cleared his testing area and reassembled it.

Elemental injectors were primed with neutral mana sub-aspected with seemingly-relevant sub-aspects. Cutting, sharpness, severing, and anything else Matt thought might be useful.

Swords flew out into their respective arrays, and Matt changed the formations to simulate the sorts of environments where non-elemental rifts abounded. That was actually trickier than it sounded, as despite the fact that non-aspected rifts were the most common types of rift, there weren’t many environments that actively supported their formation.

That made things far harder but he made it work.

Then he triggered the tests, and much to his surprise, every single sword he was testing with was absorbed into the rift. All at the same time. That was not expected, but was definitely interesting.

It took a few more tests with Erwin, Aisha, and Theodore all watching for them to notice what was going on, but they managed to catch it.

Before the rift started absorbing the swords, it started breaking it down into something.

It wasn’t mana, but neither was it essence or aura.

It was something simpler, but more robust, despite only lasting for an instant before unraveling like an unstable isotope.

Which shouldn’t have happened.

Essence was inherently stable, and everything that had essence was more stable. Even high Tier stars didn’t operate through fusion, because even with their immense gravity, the high Tier hydrogen was unable to go critical. They produced heat and light because that was what their fundamental nature, as dictated by their essence cores, said they did.

Or at least, that was how Matt understood the phenomenon. At any rate, all of that meant that whatever the rift was pulling from the aura wasn’t based in essence, or it would have been more stable.

Even at Tier 6 speeds, it was dissolving faster than any of them could perceive, the only evidence that it had ever been there was the very peculiar decay patterns- none of them recognized the particular blend of more traditional energies left behind afterwards. Fortunately, they already had orders out for more advanced sensor tech that probably would help them figure out what was happening, but those tools were projected to still be decades away from arriving.

But something weird was happening, and in their field of work, ‘something weird’ was the best sort of discovery to have. On a hunch, Matt tried imbuing the swords he was using to form the rifts with his own mana, giving them an inherent boost towards aura-production and hoping that would bridge the gap.

The added variable made things harder, and on top of a dramatically higher rate of sword absorption his de-aspect chance was close to eighty percent, but Matt trusted his gut and pushed through the dozens of failures that never reached Tier 6, and then the further failures that didn’t end up with an aura rift.

With each failure he tweaked his mana types, going with what he felt was best, like a chef tasting their ingredients as they cooked.

Stepping into the fifteenth variation of his neutral mana rifts, he got exactly the surprise he was looking for upon seeing the monsters inside. He was so prepared for another failure that he almost didn’t recognize what he was seeing at first.

Tier 1 Kobolds. But instead of the lizard-like monsters, these seemed like a nightmare version of a typical Kobold. They had shards of varying lengths of metal sticking out of their backs, almost like a porcupine. Their teeth and claws were also replaced with shards of metal, and after killing one, Matt exited the rift to call the others in.

This was exactly what he was hoping for.

Poking his head out of the rift, Matt found only two of his team. “Erwin, Theodore, get in here!”

He sent a message with the time of the instance creation queued for Aisha so she could join them if she exited her own rift instance in the fifteen minute window. After the third failed test they had all gotten bored enough to go back to their own tests.

Erwin immediately oohed and aahed at the new monster variation, while Theodore raced ahead to start looking at the rest of the rift.

It wasn’t much but Matt was happy that at least a few people in the Guild were comfortable enough around him to do something else around him. Far too many of them would have pretended a random acorn was of incredible interest if he looked at it for too long.

It was only by showcasing his imperfections after the ice aura rift that a few of them had started to realize he was just like them, except he could just punch a little harder. It was a good thing too, because he had started to consider making his own island just to get away from the gazes that tracked his every movement like he might obliterate them for the smallest irritation.

There was still a long way to go, but Matt was happy with any progress he could get even if it was just on his own team.

Theodore’s disappointment was short lived as he moved to join Erwin inspecting the kobold.

Aisha came in a moment later, panting. “Oh good I didn’t miss the cycle.”

“Interesting, the protrusions are nearly steel in their makeup.” Looking up at Matt Erwin asked, “You used the Tier 6 weapons right?”

“Yeah, just had them imbued with more of my mana. Old mana that is. I think using my mana was wrong but this is a great start. Finally something weird.”

Aisha offered her own suggestion. “Or the rift is just trying to make the kobolds more lethal and this isn't relevant to aura rifts?”

She very well could be right but the only answer was to try it. To that end they exited the rift, registered it as interesting so others could check it out if they wanted, tagged it for no destruction, and started testing.

Erwin and Aisha started rifts identical to Matt’s method except using other weapon types, while he and Theodore tried to recreate the rift exactly as it was but using other neutral mana sources they had samples of.

When they did succeed in creating a new kobold rift, they attempted to Tier it up, but they failed the coinflip and the rift de-aspected. They did, however, prove that the rift itself was a stable configuration and could be recreated.

It took a week’s and thousands of rifts, but eventually they managed to create a Tier 6 kobold rift.

The kobolds in the rift at Tier 6 were almost five feet tall, well muscled, with tails as thick as Matt’s biceps and last but not least sharp spikes sticking out of their backs and jutting from their body, ready to tear any flesh that got too close to them.

Best of all, the kobolds had wisps of aura lingering around the spikes giving the monsters a sinister appearance.

And it wasn't just any aura, but sharpness aura.

“Fuck yes!”

“Finally!”

Matt slapped Theodore on the back before snapping the neck of the nearest kobold.

Dragging its body out of the rift as fast as he could without tearing the rift apart, Matt flew into the sky, holding his prize aloft.

He had only one word to say. “Success!”

His voice echoed through the island and grabbed everyone's attention, but Matt was more than happy to let everyone see.

Titan’s Torch wasn’t just a guild wasting money recreating what he and Erwin had done at Tier 6. They were moving forward, creating new, realm changing things.

It was everything Matt wanted for his guild, and he took a minute to bask in the glow.

Instead of flying to him like he expected, all of the aperologists flew right into the still open instance to inspect a fresh specimen of the variant kobolds.

Looking at the corpse in his hand steadily losing aura, Matt activated the harvesting bottle to collect what remained.

He intended to return to the rift to nerd out with the rest of his aperologists, but Kees stepped in front of him.

“This is an opportunity, Guild Leader, should you wish to capitalize on it.”

Matt raised an eyebrow and obliterated the monster in his hands with a flex of his will. He thought he had a good idea of what Kees was going to suggest, but he wanted the older man to speak his mind.

“We have less than five years before the deadline you set goes live, and the Emperor has stated that he should have a deal worked out from the other Great Powers before then, so we have to launch on your stated schedule. We can turn this into a great publicity moment. Non-elemental aura rifts being impossible to create and stumping the guild, solved by the guild leader himself. The headlines write themselves.”

Hearing that Kees wanted him to give an interview, Matt immediately tried to deflect. “Do we really need more publicity? The news of aura rifts is already well propagated, and I’m, well, me. I don’t think anyone doesn’t know of it. It can just be part of the package we release in five more years.”

“It's not about the aura rifts, Guild Leader. You are correct about everyone knowing about the aura. It's about the guild's prestige. Titan’s Torch is a new charity guild without any substantial creations. An Ascender being the leader is great for the short term, but showing that you are actually invested in the guild and working with and in it will ensure that even when you need to go and do Ascender things, and leave the guild for centuries at a time, people are still willing to invest and assist. Otherwise, we might only see assistance and help when you are personally at the helm, because people will be investing or rather trying to gather favor with you personally.”

Matt tried to catch the man in a logical flaw to get himself out of more interviews. “Then I’m the wrong person to do the interviews. It will seem like exactly what you fear since I was the one to create the rift.”

“No, Guild Leader. It's the fact that you are hands on that is important. Even if someone else made the vital discovery, I would push you to do the interview. This is important for the long term growth of Titan’s Torch.”

Cursing the man under his breath, Matt agreed to do an interview in a month or so, and then returned to the rift before the instance cycled.

The Tier 6 rift was a little smaller than average, but that was something they had noticed as they tried to make higher Tier aura rifts.

Rifts grew in size as they Tiered up, which meant more monsters. While rifts could have variation in monster density, that was usually tied to how strong the individual monsters were. They generally had a similar amount of total essence to be harvested for a full clear. Aura rifts, they had found, were typically five to ten percent smaller than their non-aura rift compatriots, and even more interesting was the fact that the total aura per rift didn’t scale up.

A Tier 4 rift had enough aura to create 2 to 2.5 aura potions, but that number didn’t scale up for a Tier 6 rift, which had five or six times as many monsters on average.

It was a very interesting factoid that further killed the idea of large scale aura farms done in high Tier rifts that could be sustained on higher Tier worlds. That, combined with the difficulty of keeping an aura rift from de-aspecting meant Matt expected very few high Tier aura rifts.

A few worlds would make them to answer the demand of the Tier 14s who were stuck without a Concept, but they would be the exceptions, which wasn’t something Matt minded.

With the revelation that they needed to treat sharpness aura as an elementally neutral form of aura, Matt modified the Emperor’s own Tier 4 aura rift instructions to account for neutral mana, rather than elemental.

It took an infuriating 523 attempts, but when they succeeded the entire guild stared at the Tier 4 sharpness aura rift.

It was beautiful.

It also sent everyone into a frenzy, trying different materials as seed items for neutral mana.

Sadly, few of them worked.

What they did create was a neutral-mana movement aura that Matt thought might be popular.

Or at least, Olivier loved it and instantly started throwing out bets for which Matt could use the aura type as his stake.

That sparked a flood of messages in the Ascender group chat, with everyone making requests for what his guild needed to make next. Sien’s requested dream aura was basically impossible, doubly so considering none of them personally knew anyone with the Level 5 mana, so they’d have to first find a source of the ever-elusive mana type. And if dream mana was anything like simple illusion mana, it would be a nightmare to work with.

