Fritz stopped walking towards the mine carts and crossed his arms. The large pickaxe fit perfectly in the crook of Fritz' arm. Ren smiled, went into the med tent, and sat down on the nearest cot.

“Ready to be patched up, are you?” Mourn said.

Ren nodded and the healer walked over to kneel beside the cot. Mourn raised his hands and they glowed. Ren felt a little better as his Health Bar filled up completely and then the Mana Pool started to fill.

“Mourn, what's your last name?” Ren asked, just to pass the time.

“Ingwood. It's a family name.” Mourn said and sighed. “I don't want to hear any jokes about me, either. I've already heard them all.”

Ren looked at Mourn. “That's good, because I don't know any healer jokes.”

Mourn's eyes widened. He's completely serious about healer jokes. Mourn thought and smiled. Kids these days.

Mourn's face turned into a frown as Ren's body absorbed more and more of his Mana. Mourn's hands stopped glowing and looked at Ren.

“What's wrong with you?” Mourn asked.

“Huh? Oh, nothing. You can keep going, though. I can take a lot.” Ren said.

Mourn's frown deepened.

“I'm an Adventurer.” Ren said and Mourn shrugged and activated his Major Healing ability. Ren didn't like using that phrase, but sometimes it helped that Ren didn't have to explain some things. Mana Pool was something that Ren wanted to keep a secret. The Mana Pool filled up quickly and once it was done, Mourn dropped his hands.

“You're right, you did need a lot.” Mourn said.

Ren nodded. “Thanks a lot, Mourn.” Ren said and left the med tent. Fritz had stood there and waited until Ren approached.

“Did I hurt you that badly?” Fritz said and shook his head in sadness.

Ren grinned. “Ha! That love tap?” Ren laughed and slapped Fritz on the shoulder. “I was just getting my Mana refilled.” Fritz grunted and they walked over to the mining carts.

Teepo! I'm going into the mine.

“I'm in the cafeteria. I can't make it there in time, so summon me back.” Teepo said.

“Summon Teepo!” Ren whispered and tapped the ring. Teepo appeared at his feet and Ren picked him up. Ren looked at the other rings on his hands and realized that he felt lighter than normal. Aw, crap. Ren thought.

“What is it?” Teepo asked.

I haven't felt the extra burden from the rings since I got the Honorary Dwarf title.

“Is that bad?” Teepo said.

Ren sighed. It means I can't make myself heavier to gain strength.

Ren waved Fritz forward when they reached the mining carts and Fritz braced to push the cart like he normally did and the cart jumped forward and nearly got away from him. Fritz looked back at Ren who pushed a cart himself.

“I told you they'd be a little lighter.” Ren followed Fritz into the mine and as they walked, Ren decided to look at his new abilities.

“Show Honorary Dwarf Info.”

Honorary Dwarf Skills and Abilities

Dwarf Presence: Dwarves will recognize you as one of their own.

Warning: You may need to grow a beard of some kind so Dwarves will not distrust you immediately. Dwarves who shave their beards off are considered 'a little crazy' in normal Dwarf society.

Strong and Wise: (Strong) Strength +10, (Wise) Wisdom +10

Rock Steady: You suffer no penalties from wearing any type of armor. You will always move at the same speed no matter what and are not impeded by any moderate obstruction. Chest deep water, foot deep mud, dense foliage, etc. are no longer considered obstacles. You are also difficult to knock over or trip while you have both feet on the ground.

Darkvision: Normally, this would grant clear vision for a limited area at night, but due to your already augmented Elfling vision, you can now see clearly at night (even in pitch blackness) as if it were daytime.

Hardy Level 1 (Beginner 0%) (Passive): You have gained some resistance to poison, foreign spells, and foreign spell-like abilities.

Higher levels will allow resistance to more powerful poisons, spells, and spell-like abilities.

Appraisal Level 1 (Beginner 0%): This skill allows you to determine the worth of non-magical goods and if they contain precious metals and real gems.

Higher levels will allow easier appraisals of any goods, precious metals, gemstones, and magic items.

Ren read it all and swiped the popup away. Rock Steady was definitely going to mess up my training idea.

“You'll figure something out Ren... you always do.” Teepo said.

Thanks, Teepo.

Ren followed Fritz into a different area of the mine. As they walked on, they saw several miners pass by and heard them talking.

“Hey, is your cart full?”

“Yeah, so is yours.”

“Mine, too... but... it's not as heavy as it should be.”

“Same here.”

“Should we fill them more?”

One man laughed. “How? They're already full.”

“Just go dump them and get back in here.” A mine foreman said. “If they're easier to push, push faster.”

Ren chuckled. They knew the carts were lighter but didn't make the leap to the contents being lighter, too. Fritz stopped pushing his cart, moved close to the wall, and glanced at Ren.

“It's pretty far in.” Ren said and Fritz nodded. “You won't have to worry about that now, though.” Ren said and grinned. “You don't know how tempted I was to try and use that thing myself after I made it... and in town, no less...” Ren laughed. “I'm glad I didn't, though. Now I get to see what a real master digger can do with it.”

Fritz nodded and looked at the wall. Fritz hefted the pick a few times to get the weight settled in his hand, then tried to spin it. It didn't spin in Fritz' hand at all. Fritz looked back at Ren who laughed again.

“You saw the description, right?” Ren said and Fritz nodded. “You're not letting that thing go unless you want to.”

“I don't want to.” Fritz said, grinned, and swiped at the mine tunnel's wall. The pickaxe was true to it's description and cut through the earth like it was butter. Fritz started to chuckle and took another swipe. Fritz' chuckle turned to outright laughter as he kept swinging and the dirt fell away. Only a moment later and Fritz was already 10 feet into the rock. Fritz' laughter echoed out through the mine tunnel and out into the main area. All the workers stopped when they heard the maniacal sound Fritz had produced. After a minute they continued working; but the usual quiet was broken by conversation about how no one had ever heard Fritz laugh before, and about how scary it was.

Ren laughed and Teepo hopped off and followed Fritz. Make sure he's not having too much fun, Teepo. Ren thought jokingly at Teepo. Teepo chittered in laughter and disappeared down the tunnel Fritz was digging.

Ren hollered up the tunnel that he and Fritz had come down. “We're going to need someone to shovel down here, fast.” Ren took out a normal pickaxe, moved down the tunnel a little, found a good spot, and started digging himself. Another cart was pushed down the tunnel and a man shoveled the dirt Fritz was leaving behind into it.

Ren looked at the normal pick he had. “Ha, why not?” Ren enchanted it with the quadruple Dark rune to increase gravity's pull on it, then took off the rings he still wore, and kept working. Ren would have to think of something else to do with them. In the meantime, Ren had a lot of ore to gather for Donan. Then Ren froze.

The healer! Ren thought. Mourn. Ingwood. Morning Wood!

“Bwahahaha!” Ren's laughter joined Fritz' as it echoed throughout the mine and Ren kept digging.
