[Lv. 10,000,000] shines bright silver and white in the forefront of my mind, and below it, an even brighter golden light, I see another layer of text.

[Rank Up][YES] [NO]

The spinning gears in my system have all been set in motion.

It feels like after trillions of years of pushing a boulder up a hill, finally, it has been shoved off the other side.

The natural direction of my mental movements ranks up as though it is as intuitive as breathing.

At the same time, the dense golden core in the Immortal Dragon's chest before me slowly shrinks.

It floods past the silver river in my sword as though they are two different densities, existing in different planes.

The only reaction my sword makes is a slight shimmer and glow from the runes embedded at its very center. The laws radiating off these two golden lights are extremely similar, but they do not interact. It is nothing more than a simple wave as they watch these golden threads flood into my arms and merge with my own immortal core.

These golden threads move on their own, like a foreign entity, circulating throughout my entire body, flooding into my mind, and even maneuvering around the subtle glow of bright white flawless-grade ether that begins to take over my body as a rank up proceeds.

Maria's membrane-like body that envelopes me is not affected by this golden flowing energy at all.

Its space is not indented, and the free-flowing laws that make up her entire form do not even recognize they exist.

I try to move my hand, and think about manipulating some of the golden threads moving through me; but instantly, an extremely dangerous burst of instincts stops me. This sharpness is felt throughout both Maria's and my minds.

Instead of acting upon these thoughts in reality, I mentally simulate what would have happened. I see the activation of these threads tearing holes through this nascent membrane artifact. It would completely disrupt the cycle of my immortal body being destroyed and summoned back into existence over and over.

The sparks would instantly destroy my Immortal Form before I could even fully assimilate these golden threads.

This epiphany aligns many past memories from this life, and others that were perceived through my blade, to resurface. The restraint used by the golden Immortal Dragon during many eras was not because he didn't want to act, it was sometimes because the fabric of reality wouldn't have allowed it.

This connection triggers many of the golden threads now flowing through my consciousness to trigger images of places I've never seen before.

They are through unfamiliar eyes, but wielding a very familiar power. It is all of the times in the past that Ember himself tried to use his golden threads, but the laws of the universes he was in were not ready for him to do so.

Instead of just failures, I start to see workarounds too. There are instances where golden threads are used in isolated environments, and laws are bent long enough over eras of time where the stress on them evens out, and the universe can withstand it.

Other times, all observers of these actions have blank spots forcibly burned out of their memories. The golden crackling light I have fought against many times before, this is nothing more than a natural universal seal to keep the laws of reality intact.

The instant I understand this, more and more memories come flowing in.

They are not all of these intense moments, others are quite mundane; consisting of sleeping, training, and searching many unique, vast universes.

I start to connect many of these memories with different points of view, those of my soul sword, as these two entities have met and fought together in many universes before.

Yet, the majority of the memories I absorb now are of a solitary existence.

There are infinite worlds, realms, power systems, and trials that this dragon has been through.

The expansive past of every universe from its birth to its death comes flooding into my mind, making my eyes open wide to stare into Ember's in the moment.

I'm absorbing all of his memories, and with it, all of his wisdom, energy control, and even his mission.

The enormous golden dragon's body starts to fade, showing dark spots where empty space behind him peeks through.

The less of him in reality I see, the more of his memories flood into my consciousness, and the more of him I understand.

A soft white light covers my entire Immortal Form, even shining brighter than the golden threads that circulate beneath it.

My mental capacity is strong enough to stay conscious, and watch the events of reality turning and changing around me even as my body goes into a deep slumber while ranking up.

Every last golden thread in the towering Immortal Dragon above us fades away, all being absorbed deep inside my body.

The life force that kept this immortal being's soul tethered to this realm has dissipated.

My own soul should have broken and shattered to nothingness too, yet the cool darkness that hugs me from every direction summons back all signs of my vitality the moment they disappear.

The sparks of demonic energy and mana colliding have grown far more vibrant, filling my entire Immortal Form, as every single known particle of mana and demonic energy have perfectly aligned and destroyed each other. Yet, they're continuously summoned back within this strange membrane.

In a state between life and death, my rank up commences, and the true purpose of the Great Cycle through Ember's eyes is all I see.
