The cold downpour washed away both blood and tension, sapping the fiery heat of battle from Song’s bones and transforming the dull ache of her lacerated hip to a more pronounced pain now that she had nothing to distract her. Exhaustion settled over her like a sodden cloak, made worse by the restrictive weight of her rain-soaked clothes, and she wanted nothing more than to be dry and warm again, but such luxuries would have to wait. Stemming the bleeding with an effort of Chi and will, she tried to gauge how bad the injury was, but it was difficult to tell in the current conditions. All she knew was that it was too deep and too long to Heal on her own while standing exposed in a field of corpses, because unlike Rain, Song needed complete focus and concentration to do more than stem bleeding, even if she was using his simplified Panacea Healing method. Until they were safely back in camp and surrounded by ten-thousand soldiers, the best Song could do was grit her teeth and cover the gash with a hand.

“Let me see.” Flicking her hand out of the away, Kyung knelt down to check Song’s injury with a practised eye and a surge of probing Chi. “The cut scored the bone, but you’ve skill enough to keep from bleeding out.” Snorting, he released her hand and loomed over her in barely restrained contempt, his cold snarl audible even over the downpour. “Then again, I suppose you’ve plenty of experience in Healing injuries after spending so much time with the Bekhai.”

Narrowing her eyes at the barb, she decided to overlook his remarks just this once since he did just save her life. Luo-Luo’s too, but Kyung paid her little mind despite how alluring the Imperial Servant looked in her soaked, silken robes and shocked, wide-eyed expression, her pipa laying broken in the mud while both hands clutched her sceptre tight in a white-knuckled grip. Unable to think of anything to reassure the poor girl, Song simply reached out and patted her on the arm before turning back to Kyung. “Thank you for your help.”

Curling his lip in a sneer, Kyung huffed and barked, “Do not thank me. I only acted to keep Grandpa from having to come out in the rain to save your worthless hide. The chill is bad for his health.” Waving her aside in a huff, he turned to survey the surroundings and take stock of the situation as another flash of lightning illuminated the darkness around them. “Gather your things and let us head back. Bring your stupid pet with you this time, so there will be no more of this foolishness in the future.”

Pet?

Only then did Song notice the weasel-bear’s presence, its lower half wrapped around the bucket of meat while its upper body loomed over it, snarling and shivering as it tried to make sense of the chaos and violence. The poor thing had probably just come out to eat when the battle began, and now it was frozen in terror and confusion with no idea what to do next. Carefully approaching the poor frightened thing, Song slowly slipped her hands around its midsection and lifted the rumbling weasel-bear into her arms, ignoring its grumbling growls and threatening snarls. It made threats, but didn’t act on them, even snuggling into her embrace to seek warmth and protection, and Song flushed with joy and satisfaction at having won the creature’s trust. Holding it close like a quin would carry its pups, she headed back to camp with its legs dangling just above the ground and the bucket clenched in its paws, while she fought to keep her smile from stretching across her face.

Finally, a pet to call her own. A grouchy, cantankerous, and frankly smelly beast, but it was hers and hers alone.

Chapter Meme
