Watching the gathering storm-clouds to ensure they wouldn’t be caught out in the rain, Song picked up the weasel-bear’s dinner from the Khishig quartermaster and led Luo-Luo out of camp. Mindful of her restrictions on distance, she inwardly reasserted that she was not running away from her master, that he would remain inside his carriage for another hour at least, and there was no reason to believe she would end up more than five kilometres away from Rain without warning. It all felt unnecessary, since her Oaths had left her well enough alone these past few days and she never felt the shortness of breath which heralded a panic attack or the urge to run back and check on his location, but having lived like this all her life, these preventative measures were almost second nature by now. It’d been quite the ordeal learning how to go about her day with so much leeway, not only because it was unfamiliar, but because she had to constantly reassure herself that she was not in conflict with her Oaths. At times, she thought things might be easier if she simply told Rain what she wanted to do, and asked him to order her to do it, but somehow, she felt like this would lessen the freedom she’d so come to enjoy.

There was something invigorating about going to the market to purchase a snack and returning home with a new scarf, or heading out to train and stopping to watch a heated sparring match instead. Small pleasures, but fulfilling ones, and she cherished this precious freedom all the more because she knew how easily it could be lost...

After almost an hour of walking, Song signalled for Luo-Luo to stop and proceeded forward for another fifteen paces. By her estimation, they were just a little over four kilometres from Rain’s carriage and well within her limits. It took longer to get this far with Luo-Luo in tow, but considering how Erdene and the other quins had reacted to the weasel-bear during their one and only encounter, Song thought it prudent to leave all other animals behind when interacting with the weasel-bear. Placing the bucket down, she retreated back to Luo-Luo’s side and found the two of them standing alone in the fields, with all of her guards still hidden in Concealment. Off in the distance, the camp bustled with life as tents and barricades went up with practised efficiency beneath the overcast skies and gathering storm.

A bad time for the first spring rain, but perhaps this meant things were not fated to be, so Song swallowed her sigh and signalled for Luo-Luo to begin.

A lively chord rang out into the air, and Song settled back on her heels to wait. Hopefully, the stocky weasel-bear was faster than it appeared, else they might be too early to greet it by some hours yet, but so long as the weather held up, Song had time to spare, and Luo-Luo was happy to play for hours on end without rest. Even when her hands were otherwise occupied, say with handling food or holding a pet, the Imperial Servant would sing or hum a tune as if she couldn’t stand to go a single minute without music to accompany her. Song didn’t mind it much, but while the music was pleasant to the ear, there was nothing more to it. Luo-Luo’s melodies were neither uplifting nor inspiring, and Song felt no hint of Aura from them as so many others seemed to.

Rain was right. Aura was a strange milestone along the Martial Path, one which made little to no sense. A Core was needed to hold Chi, a Natal Palace was used to practise Chi Skills, and a Domain meant to encapsulate External Chi, so what was an Aura good for? Protecting them from baleful Demonic Auras? If this was Aura’s sole use, then why was it a crucial milestone along the Martial Path? One friendly Aura could block many hostile ones, and it could do so for hundreds, if not thousands of people at once, so why was Aura necessary to become a Peak Expert?

In contrast to Song’s dour musings, Luo-Luo remained untouched by both gloomy weather and downcast mood. A beam of sunshine on a stormy day, she stood and smiled amidst the darkening field, playing music to her heart’s content. Her melodies rose and fell, hastened and slowed, changed in pitch, timbre, and frequency, yet throughout it all, Song felt nothing of note. Not joy or pleasure, relief or satisfaction, nothing of what Luo-Luo tried so hard to convey, but still she continued to play. Musical notes in a song, Rain said, before likening Song’s Movements to words in a poem instead. In his eyes, they might be one and the same, but Song understood neither as well as she’d like to, and not half as much as she needed.

A jagged bolt of lightning raced across the skies, illuminating the world around them and heralding the storm to come.

And also revealing dozens of cloaked strangers surrounding Song, their wicked weapons gleaming brightly beneath nature’s brilliant radiance.

These were not her Bekhai guards in Khishig leathers, and Song recognized these skulking strangers as Imperial assassins, revealed to her by the Heavens themselves. Moving on instinct more than reason, she struck out at the closest assassin with Tiger Swipes the Rushes, but the advantage of surprise was not enough to overcome her foe. Saber met sword in a metallic crash, and the assassin staggered away, rocked by the attack but unharmed as he came to a stop with a look of startled disbelief etched across his half-veiled face.

Then thunder boomed overhead, and chaos broke out on the fields of Central.

Three assassins threw themselves at Song as she retreated to guard the Imperial Servant, whom they were no doubt here to capture. Whipping her sabre about in Raising the Winds, she knocked two swords aside whilst the third scraped across her hip. The pain was but an afterthought, informing her of what she’d already expected, but a minor trade was the best outcome she could hope for, as these killers were both faster and more powerful than she. Luckily, they were unaccustomed to fighting in a group, else they’d have staggered their attacks instead of getting in each other’s way, so Song sought to take advantage. Feinting a charge ahead, she smiled in satisfaction as all three assassins leapt away, where Tenjin’s waiting daggers took two by surprise and a Bekhai spear impaled the third.

Leaving these fools to their fate, she wasted no time searching for her next foe. Fierce battle joined all around her, but the clash of steel barely audible as sheets of raindrops plummeted from the skies above and crashed down amongst them, turning solid dirt fields into a muddy death trap. Again, Song seized the advantage and struck before her foes adapted, leaping forward to perform Greet the Moon and deliver an upwards slash she knew wouldn’t connect, but such was not her goal. In his haste to avoid the unexpected attack, her target moved too quickly and without forethought, and the price he paid was both small and large.

Small because his boot slipped a mere half a centimetre before finding his footing in the mud.

Large because this minor distraction was enough for Tursinai’s chain to wrap around his sword and neck.

Like in music, there was no satisfaction to be found in Song’s victory, and she retreated to carry out her duty: safeguard Luo-Luo. She was the target here, there was no doubt in Song’s mind. Why else strike only when she was present? How could she forget the Imperial Servant was also at the crux of this conflict, a prize to be won in the eyes of Yang Jixing? Snarling in fury and frustration, Song embraced her rage and struck with reckless abandon, raising a wall of steel and curtain of raindrops to defend and obscure her position. Her sabre rang against multiple probing thrusts, and she held out for long seconds before another Khishig arrived to relieve her, giving her much needed time to breathe and rest her already weary arms. Outmatched by every combatant on the field, her only hope of survival was to distract her opponents long enough for someone to come to her rescue, but her guards were outnumbered and hard pressed to respond.

Clear and concise movements weren’t enough, not in these conditions and against these foes. Rain called her movements clear and delineated, or in other words, obvious and predictable. Surprise was her only advantage here, so the spoken word would not suffice. She needed to strike with poetry, else Luo-Luo would pay the price for Song’s folly.

“Solemn is the Clear Temple,” she intoned, neither yelling nor whispering the words.

Gliding Wing into Stepping Grasp.

Surging forward to bring the fight to her latest foe, Song’s sabre hissed along her opponent’s sword as she closed in to grab his wrist. She lacked the means to break bones through raw strength alone, but her opponent didn’t know this. Releasing his sword, he jerked his hand away to break her hold, and she let it go easily. Having put too much strength into his escape, the assassin’s momentary confusion gave her enough time to take her saber with both hands and plunge it towards his chest. The Amplified thrust glanced off an unseen Deflection and barely struck her foe, but a wounded assassin was a dead assassin when faced with the Bekhai. Song didn’t even stop to watch him die to the Khishig flanking his position, and instead stopped her thrust short while moving back to guard Luo-Luo, where she noticed a flash of movement out the corner of her eye.

“Reverent are its illustrious adherents.”

Circling the Grass into Twisting Snap and Reverse Bite.

Her sabre scythed through the air and water as the assassin abandoned his attack to avoid the killing blow, his cold, brown eyes wide with surprise and agitation. A hair’s breadth closer and Song’s attack would have blinded the assassin, but she was not done yet. Stopping her momentum through a combination of Lightening and Reinforcement, Song brought the blade around for a desperate, drilling thrust, with so much power behind it her weapon threatened to fly out of her grasp, but she was the sabre, and the sabre was she. The assassin parried the thrust and drew his weapon back, wholly expecting to strike down a helpless Song as she struggled to rein in her over-committed attack.

Except she didn’t regain control. She surrendered it, going along with the momentum to surge forward and move beside the assassin before spinning on her heel to slash at his now exposed flank.

Again, she only wounded her opponent, and again, this was enough, as Kyung’s sabre neatly separated the assassin’s head from his shoulders. Grabbing her so suddenly she almost attacked in response, he dragged her back to Luo-Luo’s side before setting upon his foes with unbridled ferocity, and Song finally caught a glimpse of where Teacher Du’s guidance would lead. If she was a wildcat, then he was a tiger, surpassing these assassins by an even larger margin than they surpassed her. Like her, his movements were clear and delineated, easily read yet moving with such speed and power that it hardly mattered. Kyung could list out his planned movements beforehand, and Song would still be powerless to stop him, and the assassins fared only mildly better as he dismantled their defences and dismembered their bodies in one fell swoop.

Killing Lunge. Reverse the Flow. Fanged Clutch. Twitching Tail. There was no poetry, no music, only repeated singular clashes of steel, brawn, fury, and faith in which Kyung emerged the undisputed victor every time. These were no duels, but forced exchanges, all or nothing with no half measures as he darted about to meet his opponents with reckless abandon. Kill or be killed was the question he raised, leaving himself open to counters because he knew one way or another, their match would be decided in a single blow.

This was Du Min Kyung, the strongest Disciple Du Min Gyu had ever raised. A dominating style suitable for Oath-Sworn warriors and insane masochists like Rain who risked life and limb with every exchange, but it worked well against foes who wanted to survive. Ironic that in seeking life, Kyung’s foes chose death, but here on the battlefield, false hope was deadlier than cold steel.

“Each must walk their own path,” Song mused, mildly irritated that Teacher Du’s style was no longer suitable for her, because she too had been poisoned by treacherous hope. What’s more, her mid-battle Insight had been cut short by Kyung’s appearance, but she was grateful for his aid since it was only a matter of time before she slipped up against her superior foes. Though Kyung wasn’t exactly stronger than Song’s Khishig guards, he was far more efficient and effective due to his lack of restraint, and he swept through the assassins like a sanguine storm. Sword in hand, she watched her surroundings and guarded Luo-Luo until all too soon, the Bekhai and Kyung were left alone on the battlefield, the bloodied victors in this brief, but grisly exchange. Her guards were all still standing, three with assistance, but none seemed in danger of dying since Yaruq seemed content to guard the bodies instead of rushing everyone back into camp.

