“Is that everything?” The mysterious stranger peered at her, an easy smile on his face, and she nodded, trying not to show her apprehension. “All right then, we're ready to go.” Taking the chest from her, he set it on the grey stallion's back and began lashing it in place. “The decision was sudden, but there's no point continuing to sit around. I'm healthy as I'll get and I've already been missing for over a month. It'll be good, a nice ride through the forest, an easy camping trip, nothing to be worried over.”

Nodding wordlessly, she turned to stare longingly at her home, silently bidding it farewell. It wasn't the happiest or most luxurious place in the world, but it'd been hers. Closing her eyes, she took a deep breath and gathered her resolve. Stop moping silly girl, this will be a new chapter in your life. Why would Baledagh bother trying to trick her? He's a soldier, not a bandit, he gave his word to reward her once they found his people. So he's bloodthirsty, he's a warrior, it is who he is, how he was trained. You cannot blame a guard dog for biting a stranger, it was his nature and upbringing.

“Erm, Qing-Qing, a little help? I can't seem to tie this down, the damned animal keeps shifting about.”

Turning around, she found Baledagh hopelessly struggling with the chest and twine as the stallion danced skittishly beneath the unfamiliar bulk. Smiling to herself, she felt better about her decision already. There was no way this was an act, no one could pretend to be so awkward. Besides he tried his best to cheer her up these past few days, offering uncertain pats and plenty of space. “Are you not a warrior? How can you not handle a mere horse? Come, let me help.”

With everything secured, they mounted up and trotted north through the village towards the lake, planning to retrieve Baledagh's weapon and keep the lake in sight for their entire journey. Even after losing two young hunters, the village seemed no different from any other day, everyone hard at work to survive. Such was life here, no breaks, no pauses, always struggling so they might fill their bellies each day. Doing her best to ignore the angry stares, she busied herself with braiding her horse's mane, her mind filled with endless fancies of what she'd do once free of it all. Today was but the first step in the rest of her life.

Who knew what the future held in store? Fortune could lay over the horizon, and she intended to seize it, wherever it might be.

Chapter Meme
