“Okay. Let’s say we…get a pass.”
“If you’re going to say we mug a winner—”
“Pisces!”
The [Necromancer] coldly met Ceria’s eyes.
“I looked into it. The Shield of Tenbault tracks winners. We’d end up fighting them.”
“Damn. I was going to suggest that.”
Ceria ignored Yvlon’s look.
“From someone who didn’t need it, Yvlon. One of those fake-supplicants, like Pisces was talking about.”
“There might be a lot of them. But there are more people in actual need than I ever want to see. It’s…”
Disturbing. Yvlon saw Pisces nodding, lips pressed together. Tenbault was a thriving city—on people who genuinely needed aid. There were people who had lost limbs, who were sick of some unknown disease—they were kept far away from the city, and indeed, illnesses did spread from guests, hence the Horns paying for an inn which was safer—people who had taken head injuries, children who had gone blind…
And those were people with long-term diseases. People died in the city at the gates, bleeding of wounds no potion could cure. Some who had taken poison, or anything a [Healer] and magical medicine had no answer for.
Tenbault was as much morgue as place of hope. It disgusted Yvlon. Ceria looked at the [Armsmistress].
“What I need to know is: will it even help? We don’t have Erin with us. And the rules state…”
She found the wadded up instructional and opened it. Yvlon saw Ceria go down the page and recite.
“…patients may be accompanied by no more than (2) assistants and/or guardians. Furthermore, the Healer of Tenbault will only administer her practice to those who appear before her directly. Infectious diseases, dangerous ailments of any kind, etc. are to be subject to further inquiry and may not be treated. The Healer of Tenbault does not guarantee success of any kind, no matter how a pass is acquired…”
“It’s a scam.”
Pisces folded his arms. Ceria broke off reading. The [Necromancer] looked around as Ksmvr wiped at the spilled wine.
“Excuse me? Pisces, all these people are here for her. It can’t be if they’re here.”
“This seems exactly like a scam to me. The Healer is making a fortune. Note the wording? We don’t have Erin. Our best bet is to convince her to help Erin—which I do not believe we can do. But I was also not aware of how she conducted her craft. This seems like a scam. Perhaps she has a fake class and is fooling a few people with temporary relief each month…”
Ceria bit her lip. Certainly, this wasn’t the saintly [Healer] they had been led to expect. The Healer of Tenbault was a name people talked about with the worst injuries. A distant hope.
Reality sucked. However, it was Yvlon who disagreed.
“It’s not a scam, Pisces. It may be that the Healer is less than the rumors say. But I know it’s not.”
“And how, pray?”
The [Necromancer] snapped, and then swiveled to watch Yvlon’s foot. It twitched, but the [Armsmistress] contented herself to folding her arms.
“Because my aunt, Magnolia Reinhart, made the Healer of Tenbault. I had hoped that counted for something, but apparently not.”
The other Horns looked at Yvlon. Ksmvr’s mandibles opened.
“Is this true, Yvlon?”
She nodded and gestured. He scuttled around the bed and sat next to her. He had been so…quiet on the way here. Depressed. They all were. To keep hope, Yvlon nodded.
“It’s a story she told me when she used to visit. Or was it mother…? Well, either way, I know how it started.”
“Ah, you mean, the Legend of the Healer of Tenbault.”
“Yes, the—wait, what?”
Ksmvr produced something and held it up. It was…an illustrated placemat from one of the inn’s tables. Yvlon stared at it.
“Ksmvr, I told you that is propaganda.”
Pisces snapped. Ksmvr had apparently snatched it last suppertime. He pointed at it.
“But Comrade Pisces, the Healer has endorsed this telling. During the Second Antinium Wars people fighting the Necromancer’s filthy minions, the Goblin King’s armies and Antinium who are foully hated—”
“Um, Ksmvr.”
Two representatives of the three were in the room. The foully hated Antinium looked at Ceria.
“I am taking their opinion for the retelling, Captain Ceria. Comrade Pisces is always well-bathed. It says the Healer appeared here, and began to treat people by the thousands. Such is her legend.”
He brandished the slightly-dirty mat at Yvlon. She leaned away, smiling bitterly.
“Not quite, Ksmvr. Pisces is right. That’s how she might tell it—or this inn. But Aunt Magnolia says it was after the first Antinium War. And it wasn’t so much thousands at first. She saw there weren’t enough [Healers]—or rather, those who could take on serious injuries without potions. So she helped…create the Healer. Rumors spread and it grew out of control, but the Healer was first and foremost someone who was meant to replace potions.”
“Tell us.”
It was Pisces who leaned forwards, eyes glittering. He did love secrets. But the other Horns were just as intent.
“You mean she’s not a great [Healer]? Lyonette said Erin needs—Erin—”
Ceria gulped. She looked around for a drink—then steadied herself.
“An antidote. And…something to unfreeze her.”
“I don’t know. Aunt Magnolia never said exactly how the Healer works. That was why I wanted to see her.”
Yvlon confessed. She searched her memory, hunting for more clues to recollect, then shook her head.
“All I know is that the Healer of Tenbault does heal people. According to Aunt Magnolia, it can be an hour-long process—or days for diseases—but usually minutes.”
“Impossible. Is she some kind of [Alchemist]?”
Pisces’ eyes narrowed. He was becoming more skeptical by the second. But he was listening. He needed to know. This was valuable information. Especially to…he saw Yvlon shake her head.
“Not an [Alchemist]. But she’s not a [Healer], either. What I heard was that somehow, one time, Ressa—that’s my aunt’s [Maid], we saw her once, remember? With Ryoka.”
The others nodded. Yvlon gestured at her hand.
“Er—one time, she got her hand sliced off.”
“Wait. How?”
“Aunt Magnolia didn’t say. I think she hinted it was a kitchen accident, but I’ve never actually seen Ressa cook anything.”
“Maybe that’s why. She looked, uh, handed to me. Better than mine.”
Ceria waved her skeletal hand. Yvlon almost smiled as she ducked her head.
“Sorry, Ceria. Well, apparently they had the hand so they rushed both over to the [Healer] in that coach of hers. And Ressa got her hand back; not even a problem.”
“Wow. And that’s from Magnolia Reinhart herself?”
“She told it to us when she visited. I don’t think she lied—maybe she exaggerated. But we have seen people go in and come out…fine.”
It was true. The Horns had seen a man with a leg so badly mangled by a bear attack go through the inner gates and come out walking and praising the Healer’s name. They hadn’t detected any illusions or anything else. But it boggled the mind. How?
Ceria sat back.
“Then we have to meet her. Meet her and ask if—if—she’ll go to Liscor. Or we transport Erin. Maybe we can barter with her?”
“We would have to get past her security first. And I do not believe we are equipped to kill a Named-rank adventurer at this moment. Or his team. I am sorry, but my crossbows and blades are not deadly enough.”
Ksmvr hung his head. So did Yvlon. All three Horns saw Pisces raise a finger to his temple and rise.
“I’m…going to take a walk.”
He murmured. None of the others stopped him. Pisces left the inn as the Horns waited.
The lottery tickets for the day? #199, #4022, #5. Please come to the inner gate. The Healer will see you now.
 
—-
 
In The Wandering Inn lay a young woman. She was an [Innkeeper]. A friend. A young woman from another world.
She was smiling. Her lips were slightly parted. She looked…almost peaceful. Except for the crossbow bolts still sticking out of her chest. Six had struck her; five remained, two with broken shafts. Blood was frozen around the wounds.
She was frozen. She lay there, preserved, neither dead nor alive. You could use magic to check. But she would not stay that way.
She would live. Surely, someone would heal her. She had friends. She was not dead. Surely…
That was the refrain. It came from the hopeful, those in denial. But the truth was that her friends had been told. And still, she lay there.
It was not an unfamiliar feeling. In fact, of all the ones he remembered—this was the one which was most bitter.
Desperation. Denial. A willingness to part the seas and take on armies if only the ones he loved might live. But all his magic had never brought back the dead.
Now? Az’kerash, the Necromancer of Terandria, was in a unique position. For he…sympathized…with the young man. But two things stayed his hand.
The first was that pragmatically—it suited his goals better that Erin Solstice remain dead. He was Az’kerash, bane of the living! What care had he for a mortal life?
Still. He had once been alive. And it was the young man who begged him that…swayed the Necromancer. A bit.
Pisces Jealnet. A [Necromancer], self-taught largely, a Gold-rank adventurer, a former student of Wistram, and someone trained in the art of fencing. So like him and unlike him…
He was not an apprentice. Not like the Goblin Lord had been. In truth, the Necromancer had not wished to involve him so fully in his designs. But Pisces had caught his eyes for a number of reasons. His creation had provided Az’kerash with the key to leveling, that he had hunted for over a hundred years.
And he himself? The Necromancer had seen the day when the Horns of Hammerad had become Gold-rank. And it had reminded him of a man called Peril Chandler, Archmage Chandler of Terandria.
So he listened when the young man begged for aid. He listened, especially when the boy said what should not be said:
“I will do whatever it takes to heal her.”
Never let it be said that the Necromancer did not listen to those kinds of words. So he sat in his castle, pondering the dilemma. And hit upon the second problem of Erin Solstice’s death, one that must have occurred to the Wall Lord of her acquaintance, the Earl of Desonis, the Grand Strategist of Pallass, Saliss of Lights and all the others.
It. Was. Difficult.
“I was an [Archmage] of Wistram. I was called the Undying Shield of Calanfer. I have surpassed my mortal self many times over and I command death in every form.”
The Necromancer spoke as he passed a hand over the thing lying before him. He saw the ice melt…he murmured a spell.
The frozen fox failed to rise. The Necromancer stared at the corpse. He murmured a second time.
“[Regeneration].”
His forehead began to bead with sweat. This—this one-word spell was a magnitude beyond what most [Mages] could dream of casting. He could cast greater, but this spell lay diametrically opposed to his magic. Life versus death. Even so, he forced mana into the spell, into the body…
But it failed. The body had died the moment it warmed, despite the [Stasis Field] he’d set up. The sixth failure. The Necromancer shook his head.
And you could not regenerate frozen flesh. It was like a conundrum at the academy—but he’d award any of his students who solved it the highest grade. He sipped a mana potion, thinking.
“Why freeze her flesh?”
Annoyed, his eyes flashed and the fox got up and walked off to drag another frozen animal over. It made no sense. He was aware of preserving mortally wounded people of course, but ice?
“If they had simply cast [Stasis Field] or [Breath of Life – Extended] or…”
Exasperated, the Necromancer snapped his fingers. Someone scurried around the side.
“Master?”
“Ijvani. Peruse my library of tomes again. Search for…cryomancer healing magic?”
“At once, master!”
The [Skeleton Mage] hurried off. Az’kerash wondered how many days she might search. Healing magic was not a kind of spell he collected and spell tomes were rare, especially since he had lost many books of his collection after his ‘destruction’ at Liscor.
The Necromancer focused on his ongoing communication spell instead, undividing his consciousness. He had been patiently listening to the young man recap the Healer of Tenbault’s information.
“Young Pisces. Enough.”
The anguished voice cut off. Az’kerash heard emotion there, unfiltered through the mental link. He remembered many friends who had died. And his comrades had begged him to revive them, hadn’t they? He had always refused, for when he did to give them one moment to say goodbye…
It was always the more bitter.
He felt the emotion, clung to it—then banished it. Cold logic. Yes. He was the Necromancer. And he helped this young man only because he too was a [Necromancer] and he might owe Az’kerash a favor. No other reason at all.
“I know of the Healer of Tenbault, young Pisces. If her craft has advanced, perhaps she may help you. But she is a reclusive researcher, not the generous soul rumor has made her out to be. Nor is she a [Healer].”
Surprise rippled through Pisces’ link, though he tried to conceal it. He was learning.
“How so, Archmage?”
Why did he enjoy the appellation so much? Peril Chandler squashed that emotion too. It was simply nostalgic. And correct, so he didn’t rebuke Pisces over the title.
“I investigated her in decades past. She is no charlatan; but she is not a skilled medical expert either. It is correct to say that Magnolia Reinhart created her, however.”
Az’kerash sorted through his memories. Ah, yes. When he had first conceived the Izrilian campaign.
I thought she was a force that might wipe out my undead with the ease of the [Clerics] of old.
How wrong he had been. The young [Necromancer] was coy, but the desperation-desire-trepidation was clear.
“Then may I ask her true nature, Archmage Chandler?”
“It is simple, [Necromancer] Pisces. Her nature is [Mage]. She is a [Restoration Mage] capable of casting [Restoration] numerous times per day. That is all.”
Shock through the link. Az’kerash smiled. And it was such a unique thing that Ijvani stopped and stared as she returned with a book on cryogenic attack spells. The Necromancer waved her away and she hurried off.
Even his tone was different as he spoke-broadcast the reply.
“[Restoration], as I doubt you were ever told, is a spell a Level 40 [Mage] can learn with the right disciplines and Skills. Twenty levels higher without specialization. It is a useful healing spell—one of the few spells that can restore a body. However, it cannot heal your friend. And as the Healer of Tenbault has learned, it is limited in scope. I have no doubt she has found many permutations of how it can be applied. But she is no [Healer] who understands injuries. Merely a [Mage] funded by her healing that Magnolia Reinhart gave the spell to.”
