The jig was up. Nowhere to run. He slowly walked back into the shop, to face his fate. The [Shopkeeper] just stared at him.
“You cleaned my shop?”
Silveran nodded miserably. This was a fine fate. What would happen? Would he be executed? What would Pawn say? How much trouble would the Hive be in? The Drake blinked a few times at him—then looked around.
“Well, you can’t just run off after all that. Come with me.”
Crime and punishment. Silveran believed in the justice system. He hung his head and walked into the shop. He stood before the counter as the Drake disappeared into the back room.
“Everything alright here?”
One of the [Guardswomen] asked the shop assistants as they watched the Worker. They peered around, but they still didn’t see a [Thief] or anything. The ten year-old pointed.
“Yeah. That Drake—Miss Pelessi—just shouted at the Worker.”
“The Worker? Did it do something?”
The Guards stared blankly at the Antinium. Then they grew worried. Was this the Aberration-event? They’d heard about that kind of encounter. They steeled themselves—but the Drake just shook her head.
“He cleaned her shop. Look at it.”
They all blinked. Silveran saw the Drake—Pelessi—reappear with his punishment. It was…
Rock Crab bisque. She placed the soup in front of him, with a spoon attached.
“Here. Have that.”
Silveran peered at it. Was he…supposed to drown himself in the bowl? Tricky, but he’d do his best. The Drake stared at him.
“To eat. It must have taken hours.”
“That Worker was working for the last four, Miss Pelessi! He was digging dirt out of the floorboards!”
A young Drake shouted. The [Shopkeeper]’s eyes widened. Silveran hung his head. Then he raised it. Wait, eat the soup?
Death by poison was appealing. He took the spoon, took a sip. It even tasted good. The Drake watched, a bit warily. The [Guards] were admiring the floorboards.
“Beech wood? Such a lovely color. I’ve walked by here hundreds of times on my beat and I would have never thought. Some luck, eh, Pelessi?”
They jested with her, gently. The Drake replied, scowling. Half-smiling. But the red eyes and tear tracks on her scales…
Something bad had happened. Silveran ate meekly, seeing her gaze on him. And then—she clapped her claws. He nearly dropped the bowl and ran.
“A chair. Why are you standing?”
Why was he standing? She fetched one from behind the counter. It was a stool, but Silveran didn’t object to the improper taxonomy of the object. He sat on it and ate. Which was even better than standing and eating.
“You cleaned my shop. Even my husband didn’t do as good a job, when he was alive. I certainly never did.”
The Drake marveled. She was touching the floorboards. Silveran wanted to apologize for the shoddy work. It was just a compulsion.
She looked back at him once. The Watch had apparently decided that Silveran was no Aberration, so they were walking on. But the Drake…they all saluted her.
“Sorry for your loss, Miss Pelessi.”
She gave them a stiff nod. Silveran saw her turn to him. And apparently his blank stare finally registered. She gestured.
There was something on her chest. The toga-like robes, a light yellow, had something attached. He hadn’t noticed it since it was a white bloom. But Silveran knew what that meant.
“My son.”
She saw the Painted Worker stop eating. Pelessi blinked at his bowl.
“You eat as fast as my boy. Do you want more?”
Silveran didn’t know how to respond. So the Drake got him some more. Workers could always eat—but it seemed to him the act of giving him food was just as much for her as him. She spoke as she came back.
“He went out to fight them. Hectval. For her. That—that—all because he had a mug of that Minotaur’s Punch. That glory drink and he said it made everything make sense. Losing his sister. All the good times, the bad—he kept wanting me to come and try it. Because he said it made him remember why she was beautiful.”
So there had been husband, sister—daughter, rather—and son. Silveran looked around and saw not a one.
Ah. He dipped the spoon into the bisque, unsure of what to say. The [Shopkeeper]’s chin rose, as if daring him to. But Silveran said nothing. He just ate the bisque.
“I’ve seen your kind about. The new, Painting Antinium.”
Painted. But Silveran let her talk. The Drake went on.
“I voted, you know. For Lism. This is his district. I didn’t have anything against the Antinium—not much. But Goblins and…it was all too much. My son agreed, until he visited the inn. I thought he was mad. I’ve never involved myself with the Antinium, though. I never thought one would clean up my shop.”
She hesitated.
“Thank you, for that. Why did you do it?”
Silence. The Worker hesitated. Then he gestured. He’d spilled a bit of bisque in his fright earlier. He pointed—and the Drake saw the stain vanish.
Her eyes widened.
“You have a Skill?”
He nodded. He industriously used the rag to wipe some more off another bit of the counter. As if to say ‘there is a mess. I clean messes.’
Then he shrugged. Pelessi almost laughed.
“That’s all? You saw a mess and cleaned it? Half the shops on this street would love you to do that. We can never keep it clean—this is Clawgrass Way.”
She said that as if it mattered. Silveran assumed it was the street name. The Drake explained, seeing another blank look.
“We sell food. Vegetables, the butcher’s down that way—and whatever people pick. [Alchemists] come here for cheap herbs. Do you know how much dirt that brings in?”
Lots? Silveran just ate the bisque. The Drake looked past him.
“It was hard enough keeping the store clean with four pairs of hands. Now? What am I supposed to do now? They said we’re at war with Hectval. I hope the city burns. But what am I supposed to…?”
She looked lost. The dried produce, the shop in disarray…Silveran put down the spoon. She noticed.
“Keep eating. At least the store’ll be clean for a few days, thanks to you. I heard…the Antinium fought Hectval. Stopped them from killing everyone. Good.”
That was all she said. Then, as Silveran put the spoon in the bowl, she whispered.
“Thank you.”
He had done nothing to earn her thanks, or so he felt. Silveran stood as she took the bowl. The [Shopkeeper] looked at him, then turned away. She put the bowl in the kitchen—where she had made altogether too much Rock Crab bisque, forgetting…there was only one person to eat it.
The Antinium was gone when she opened the door. She was glad of it, somehow. She—
—Nearly tripped over him as he levered up a tiny pebble in the floorboards. The Drake stared at him.
“What are you doing?”
Cleaning. The Antinium’s antennae waved. He was never one to leave a job half-done. She protested, but then stopped. The assistants—and [Shopkeepers]—began to gather. They stared. What horrifying dedication to the art of the broom! And when he started waxing the floors?
The Drake objected. Then she just watched. Because at some point, she realized the cleaning was as much for him as the bisque had been for her.
 
—-
 
The Horns of Hammerad walked out of the city of Tenbault. Ceria paused to raise a finger to salute the glorious city and the Healer. Ksmvr raised four.
“No, Ksmvr. It’s the middle finger. The middle one. You can’t just raise four.”
The Antinium lowered the four fingers on his upper right hand.
“Ah, thank you, Captain Ceria.”
“So what now?”
Yvlon felt tired. They had gone all this way, waited, tried their best. And for what? Another dead end. They were no closer to helping Erin.
It was Pisces whom they turned to. The [Necromancer] had been quiet. At last, he spoke.
“I have an idea. I did not want to mention it so long as Tenbault was the likelier solution. But—you are no doubt aware that I procured the information about the Healer from somewhere.”
Ceria and Yvlon slowly nodded. Ksmvr shook his head.
Pisces turned to them. He looked as uncertain as they had ever seen him.
“I have contacts. I would tell you more but…I cannot.”
It didn’t matter to Yvlon what he was hiding now.
“Just tell us, Pisces. What’s your idea?”
She hung her head, her golden hair drifting across her silver arms. She stared at them, wishing she could use them to any purpose.
Erin Solstice was dead. What seemed like it had been a beacon of hope in the days after the dungeon—a permanent lighthouse—had ended.
What was there now to look for? How did you bring her back, short of a miracle?
Pisces spoke.
“When we left Liscor, Selys asked me if I would go on a quest for her. To find a missing piece of the Heartflame Set.”
The Horns of Hammerad looked at him. Ceria walked into a bush.
“…What?”
“Did you just say the Heartflame Set, Pisces? As in, the other pieces of the armor?”
The [Necromancer]’s eyes glinted.
“I did. She is an [Heiress] and inherited the armor.”
“I didn’t know she changed her class.”
He harrumphed mildly.
“Well, she obtained a unique Skill in return. Hints as to where to complete the armor.”
“I am very confused. Do you mean to imply the breastplate was merely a piece of a greater set of armor? That would mean it is…very powerful.”
Ksmvr’s talent for understatement almost made the others smile. Pisces nodded. But he looked troubled.
“I told Selys the odds of us reaching the…destination and recovering the armor piece were remote. We would need to prepare, even ally with other teams to get it.”
“You know where?”
Yvlon was incredulous. Pisces shrugged.
“She was given the hint in the form of a riddle. ‘To find the helm of fire/Look to death’s ire;/That village without rest,/Where the Putrid One met his death.’”
The others looked at each other in shock. Ceria was trying to pull her robes out of the bush. Ksmvr opened and closed his mandibles and stroked his chin in an imitation of Pisces.
“A difficult riddle indeed. One must look to the clues. A village narrows down the options from possible billions to perhaps only tens of thousands of options. However, by my deductive reasoning—”
“It’s the Village of Death. It has to be.”
Ceria breathed. Ksmvr looked almost hurt.
“This is an obvious deduction, Captain Ceria?”
Yvlon nodded.
“It is to adventurers. The Village of the Dead. I don’t know about the Putrid One—isn’t that an old [Necromancer]?”
“The Necromancer before the Necromancer. And yes, I had the same thought. Any northern adventurer would know it; the clue was not exactly difficult for me to decipher. But…”
“The Village of the Dead. That might be a Named-rank encounter.”
The half-Elf breathed. She looked uneasy. They all knew that place. One of the truly dangerous zones you avoided. Not as large or memorable as the High Passes—but no one had ever found out what lurked in the center. And armies had tried…
“But it’s the Helm of Fire. Not a cure. Why are you bringing it up, Pisces? I’m sure you didn’t tell us because you wanted to inform us when we had a chance of getting it. Or just to be secretive.”
Pisces blushed a bit at Yvlon’s gaze. But he met her eyes.
“That was my intention, Yvlon. But things have changed. I promised Selys I would try—or bring the idea up to you. Now? I am suggesting we get it. And…trade it for a cure.”
The Horns of Hammerad stopped. Ceria’s head slowly rose and she stopped tugging on her robes.
“You mean, to the Healer of Tenbault? That might get her attention.”
“Not to her specifically. I know of someone who might…trade a cure for a relic-class artifact.”
“Your contact. Who you won’t name.”
Yvlon leaned on her sword. Ksmvr was opening and closing his mandibles. Pisces chewed on his lip.
“Yes. But I would also say this: if that was where a [Necromancer] as powerful as the Putrid One met his end, there is surely treasure beyond compare there. The kind that…would pay for the Healer. And the Helm of Fire? A Walled City might pay a fortune for it.”
Any Named Adventurer would. Any [Lord]—even royalty might. Yvlon’s heart began to beat faster. But Ceria had a thought at the same time.
“But Selys was the one who uncovered the prophecy. It’s not hers, but…”
“I know. I am hoping there is more there than just the Helm of Fire. Yet I am still suggesting it. Ceria, Yvlon, Ksmvr. If it came down to it, I would trade the Helm of Fire for a cure for Erin. And I do believe it is the only solution. No matter what Selys thinks.”
Pisces looked at them. And there was resolve in his eyes. Yvlon exhaled.
“Are you mad?”
He half-flinched. But the [Armsmistress] was straightening.
“Selys would pawn the Heartflame Breastplate itself if she thought it would bring Erin back. Well—I think she would.”
Pisces smiled at that. But he raised a finger.
“The Village of the Dead is…an unknown threat. If the Putrid One really died there—it is certainly a Named-rank threat. We are not of that level yet.”
“But we are going. That is what you are going to say, aren’t you, Pisces? Ceria? Yvlon?”
Ksmvr looked around. The Horns jumped. Ceria spluttered.
“I didn’t say that, Ksmvr! It’s dangerous—”
“But you will go.”
“We could die—”
“But you will go.”
“You sound sure, Ksmvr.”
The Antinium [Skirmisher] looked at Yvlon. And for the first time, he smiled.
“Yes. Because I know my team. I do not mean to interrupt the decision-making process. But I find it inconceivable we would not.”
Pisces blinked. Yvlon opened her mouth and Ceria scratched at her head. The [Warrior] had been going to say it was dangerous, and that they were taking a huge risk and that they needn’t all go.
…Then she was going to say she’d go with Ylawes’ team alone if no one else wanted to. And to look at the supercilious expressions on Ceria and Pisces’ faces, they had been about to do the same.
“I am simply expediting our decision-making process. Please correct me if I am wrong.”
Ksmvr’s shoulders hunched. But then he was embraced by a laughing Ceria.
“You’re right, you silly Antinium. I was going to say—”
She looked around and took a breath. So did Yvlon.
The Village of the Dead. The Dungeon of Liscor had been one thing, Albez another. It had been a while since they had taken on a threat like this before.
Was it mad? Yes. Was it foolhardy? Even to suggest it.
But was it a plan where they had been drifting hopelessly? Absolutely. And if risking their lives meant a chance—
It was she who put her hand out. Pisces, Ceria, and Ksmvr stared at the metal hand as the silver-steel skin flexed and opened.
“Erin is gone.”
Yvlon saw the others flinch. She went on.
“But she’s not lost. And if there’s even a chance—no village full of undead scares me. Not with a [Necromancer] on our side. That already gives us better chances than most.”
