The young woman regarded the Drake. Zevara saw her smile, faintly. But it wasn’t a true smile. She looked like she’d been stabbed and was smiling in spite of it.
Zevara felt the same way. She saw Lyonette shake her head.
“Do you want to know?”
The Watch Captain wasn’t sure. She saw the [Princess] reach for the wand and stop.
There, on the desk, was a little—the Watch Captain’s eyes widened. She reached for it at once, but it was too late.
 
Days Since Crazy Human Incident: 4
 
It was out of date. The Watch Captain hadn’t updated it since…
“That’s…”
“I’m sure she would have laughed.”
The [Princess] unfroze after a second. Zevara hesitated.
“Who? You mean…?”
“Erin, obviously. She would have laughed. And probably started selling them, or put one up in her inn.”
It was the first time Zevara had heard the [Innkeeper]’s name here since—the day. The Watch Captain saw Lyonette fumble to put the wand on her belt loop.
“She would have been upset, of course. And demanded—oh, I don’t know. ‘Days Since Dungeon Attack’, and ‘Days Since Mrsha Incident’. And that last one would never be above two, let me tell you. But Erin wouldn’t have been really offended—she knows what she does.”
There it was again. Erin. Lyonette kept saying her name. Zevara had only heard references to it. ‘The [Innkeeper]’. ‘The crazy Human’. The [Guards] spoke of it like that, if at all.
As if saying her name made it realer. But the [Princess] just adjusted the cloak and picked up the tiara again.
“I guess I should keep it off until I need it. It hardly camouflages itself, and it’s quite noticeable, isn’t it?”
“Yes. It is.”
Zevara had never really run out of words to say. She was Watch Captain and normally she didn’t have time to waste words. But she didn’t know what to say. After a moment, she sat back down at her desk and pretended to look at her reports. She glanced at Lyonette as the [Princess] sat back down, now wearing most of her old gear.
“I feel I should caution you, Mi—Lyonette.”
“How so?”
The [Princess] looked almost serene as she sat there. Far too composed compared to the rest of the city. Zevara shuffled her papers. She had to say it. She knew why, but she had to say it.
“Oteslia is far from where I’ve ever ventured. I understand it is as safe as any Walled City—but one can find themselves in great trouble, even behind the walls. I should know. There is danger there.”
“But I’m going.”
“Yes, but the risk—especially with two members of the gangs, is beyond what I’d consider acceptable.”
That was the real issue. Zevara spat the words. She’d looked into the Brothers—oh yes. And she couldn’t think of a riskier proposition. They might appear to be friendly, but they had as much blood on their hats as, well, any other gang. She met the young Human woman’s gaze. But Lyonette didn’t blink as she leaned forwards.
“Can you spare [Guards] to escort me, Zevara?”
“Yes.”
Now there was a blink. But only a second of hesitation. Lyonette dipped her head fractionally.
“And can they protect me better than two criminals? Can they help?”
Zevara looked away.
“They would be more reliable than—”
“What’s the highest-leveled [Guard] you could send? Beilmark? Jeiss? They’re both married. Is it higher than theirs?”
They both knew the answer to that. So, Zevara’s last-ditch effort to talk Lyonette out of it failed. She had known it would.
“You have someone in mind?”
“I’m going to ask the [Druids]. Oteslia has [Healers], [Gardeners]—I’m going with Saliss of Lights, remember.”
“That doesn’t make me feel better. He has a criminal record as long as those two. Longer.”
“If you take away the nudism, how much has he actually done?”
“…Fair point. But there’s still destruction of property, disorderly conduct, tripping a [General]…wait.”
Lyonette smiled slightly as the Watch Captain frowned over the list.
“I’m going, Zevara. I know it’s risky. But I have to. You understand? For Erin.”
Zevara looked up. There the name was again, on her lips. The [Princess] was not okay. But she said the name. And she looked…determined.
“Watch over the inn for me. I’m leaving Mrsha, Numbtongue—everyone. I can’t take them. I wish I could, but—it’ll just be us four.”
Zevara half-nodded. Miserably, she put the papers down. There were a lot of things she wanted to say.
I’m sorry, for one. It was Hectval who had attacked Liscor. If she had more patrols. If she had—
But too many people had done the apologizing. And at least, Zevara knew that Lyonette did not want to hear it. It changed nothing.
The [Princess] stood. Lyonette du Marquin of Calanfer. 6th Princess to the throne. Zevara regarded the note Chaldion had sent her.
She said nothing. Lyonette breathed out, looking out the window.
“When I was a girl, I wanted to be an adventurer. Or go on one. I had a grand dream that out there was everything I wanted. Everything I dreamed of. I suppose that’s childish to you.”
“Everyone dreams of that.”
The Watch Captain had done the very same. In her own way. Lyonette smiled and the Watch Captain gave her a rueful grin.
“Mine was curing my breathing problems and becoming the Oldblood Drake everyone looked up to. I also wanted wings.”
Lyonette laughed. Then she grew somber.
“That’s true. Everyone wants that. But for me? That was last year.”
She looked out the window. Her hair was fiery red, the hallmark of royal blood a continent away. Her skin was fairly pale. But she had not the delicate hands of the aristocracy, but calluses from someone who had worked. She kept care of her nails, but she also cooked and cleaned.
She looked so much older than the [Thief] who had been hauled in front of Zevara, calling everyone ‘peon’. Lyonette shook her head and gazed at Zevara.
“Today? I would have been happy to grow old without adventure. I feel old now. Somehow, I became a mother. I know I didn’t give birth to her, but I would never be anything else. I made great friends. I did something important, more important than my old life.”
So said the girl who was eighteen years old. Zevara shook her head. Lyonette’s eyes shone.
“And then—Erin was hurt. And it turned out everything I thought was so secure was so fragile.”
Yes. They all thought the Crazy Human of Liscor was…invincible. What a mistake. Lyonette wiped at her eyes.
“Now, it’s all fading away. So I have to fight to get it back. Thank you for keeping my possessions. But I have to go.”
She held out a hand. Zevara rose to take it. She looked the [Princess] in her eyes. Blue. Zevara supposed it was royal blue, appropriately.
“You could have paid for them any time you wanted, couldn’t you?”
The young woman had come here every week, or more often, to add a few silver or coppers to it with her paycheck. She had come this morning with the rest. The young woman smiled slyly. Sadly.
“I enjoyed our talks. I didn’t want to need them. I will see you when I return, Zevara.”
She turned away. The Watch Captain watched her walk slowly to the door. As she was opening it, Zevara called out.
“If I could, I would march the entire Watch out with you. I’d take a vacation, barring that. I’d order my two most idiotic Senior Guards to go with you. But they’re gone. And I’m needed here.”
Lyonette du Marquin looked back. Zevara, Watch Captain of Liscor saluted her briefly. The [Princess] bowed her head.
“I know. Thank you.”
Then she was gone. Zevara sat down, and looked blankly around her desk. It occurred to her for the first time—how small the Watch was. How little power she had. In this moment?
She wanted an army. But instead, a single [Princess] went in search of a cure. Zevara hoped it was enough. She could only ensure there was a city for Lyonette to return to.
 
—-
 
The young woman returned to the inn where silence reigned. It was not an entirely empty inn of course; there were the two Humans who watched everyone coming in. The Gnoll who cleaned things and waited for guests who never arrived.
And there were guests. Multiple Humans. A Naga for some reason—or one of the snake-breeds. Ulvama didn’t know. She’d search the memories of older Goblins for details later.
Nagas rarely came to Izril. So this inn was already weird. Another weird thing?
The [Shaman] stared for a long time at the chess board the Antinium-thing had knocked over. After a moment, she poked a chess piece.
“Hmm.”
She edged around the side. Now, what was this? Nothing in Goblin-memory knew what it was. At least—early Goblin memory. It was conceivable that the Goblins who knew what it was hadn’t died yet.
Either way, she was at a loss. The [Shaman] walked around to the scrying mirror and stared at it. Now a Garuda was talking about ‘lost eggs’. She understood this more than the game. Obviously, this was a scrying spell. And this entire room was…entertainment?
She had never been in an inn before. It was so interesting to her. Interesting and—
“Mrsha?”
The female Hobgoblin froze. She looked around—then scuttled behind a couch. She peeked out of it, hearing the young Human woman. What was her name?
Lyonette, right. Ulvama had a [Bolt of Spite] ready to fling, especially if that horrible bug-thing came back. But all she heard were quiet voices.
Still, she didn’t relax. Ulvama listened, sharpening her hearing with magic as she heard Lyonette moving through the inn. She heard…
A quiet voice from the kitchen. The cooking Human girl had stopped crying, which was a relief. The Centaur [Mage] was talking to her, quietly comforting. 
Muffled conversation between the two dangerous Humans with crossbows and weapons. One was debating lighting a puffer. The other told him to put it away.
Upstairs, the rasp of a knife on wood. The other bug-thing was making more arrows. 
Then a voice from the common room.
“Mrsha? Mrsha. There you are. Sweetie. Oh, honey…”
The little Gnoll-child was called ‘Mrsha’. Ulvama listened as the young woman crooned and sadly spoke to the child. Ulvama knew that the Mrsha-child hadn’t moved.
She just lay there; the young woman had to get her to eat. Someone had taken away the life from her.
Something terrible had happened here. So terrible that no one spoke of it.
This strange inn where she had found herself after going through the magic doorway on the Summer Solstice? It was in the middle of tragedy. Ulvama licked her lips. That was almost a good thing, for her. Because the inn was empty, and no one had done more than check on her, and give her food. That was good.
Because she was a Goblin and she was afraid.
Very afraid. Ulvama tensed—but the sounds were only of Lyonette going to the kitchen, interrupting the two there and asking if Mrsha had been fed. Guiltily, the two confessed they hadn’t thought of that.
Ulvama wondered if anyone had fed the strange Hobgoblin on the hill. Numbtongue was his name. A Redfang—but a broken one. Had they broken him? But he seemed to be grieving the frozen Human. Strange and strange again.
Ulvama’s heart beat anxiously, but her eyes found the sign hanging in the rec room again. It reassured her, though she did not know why. Why had she felt this place was safe to her? But it hung in every room of the inn, a promise, a rule.
‘No Killing Goblins’.
She had nearly laughed when she read it the first time. It was so ludicrous, despite how welcome the words were. But the Humans had obeyed the rule. They had refrained from slaying Ulvama, offered her food, a bed…
What a strange inn. Ulvama only wished she were not so alone, with a foreign Hobgoblin. The other had left, refusing to take her with him. He had been as broken as the other Hobgoblin and had not trusted her enough to take her with him. Unfortunately, he’d recognized her as Mountain City—their tribes had been enemies and he remembered it.
Badarrow. Two Redfangs, then. Had Garen Redfang’s tribe survived where all the Goblins had died in the battle for Liscor? For that was where she was.
Liscor, again. Where Humans had slaughtered Goblins. She should have been terrified of dying here. But she was only afraid, thanks to the inn and signs.
After a while, Ulvama heard Lyonette take the Mrsha-child to the common room and try to get her to eat. The Centaur and Imani-cook went with her. Ulvama slowly crept out from behind the couch, relaxing.
Then she reached down and crunched on some of the popcorn-things she’d been given by the Gnoll. His name was Ishkr and he kept asking if she wanted anything. She’d checked for poison, but hunger had won out.
Crunch, crunch. The Hobgoblin munched as she thought and listened. Weird food.
She wished Pebblesnatch was here. The silly little [Cook] would have loved the novelty of these ‘popped-corns’. She wished anyone else were here.
Ulvama was afraid. And guilty.
She had left Pebblesnatch behind. Why had she done that? It was a mistake, but one born of the moment. She had been at the door, shouting at the other Goblins.
“Come! Hurry!”
But they hadn’t moved. News of someone dying had made them all sad. A Human. And so Ulvama had rushed through the door, fearing the shadows and magic tearing the sky apart, that only she had sensed. The power so close to the Goblinlands.
Only to arrive here, in an inn that had not tried to kill her. To be fed, to see the signs and learn that a Human had died here, and everyone mourned her.
There was a connection there. But an incredible coincidence…Ulvama’s eyes narrowed. Crunch, crunch.
She should have grabbed Pebblesnatch and hauled her with Ulvama. But when she had told them of her escape plan, how they could leave this place, start a new tribe—the other Goblins had looked at her as if she were an idiot.
They all had. In that moment—Ulvama had realized they did not have her desire. For her, Riverfarm had always been a trap. They saw something else. An opportunity, even if it was behind walls.
Not for her. She was a [Shaman] of the Mountain City tribe! A Goblin who knew that Humans would always hunt Goblin, no matter what. They might be kind for a single generation—but always, they turned.
That was what the memories of Goblins past told her. Better to hide, or be strong. She was just building her strength, searching for more Goblins. A tribe to join.
She had to survive. She’d do whatever it took to survive. Ulvama knew how the world worked. The world was far crueler than it deserved to be, especially to Goblins. She’d take what mercies there were. If these people wanted to feed her? Fine.
But she’d leave. And bring the broken Hobgoblin on the hill with her. Maybe to whatever tribe Badarrow said was hiding in the High Passes. Ulvama liked that, though she feared that place.
