Maybe to the Kraken Eaters? Molten Stone? She’d rather join a strong tribe, like Tremborag’s. She had worked so hard to get to the top there! And it was all gone!
Damn the Goblin Lord. Ulvama cursed as she ate more popcorn. She had a feeling it wasn’t the most energy-filled food. But she couldn’t stop munching. Yum.
Yes, another big tribe. The leader of Molten Stone had scorned Ulvama’s pleas, though. Stupid [Witch]. If Ulvama had to choose, she’d choose the Kraken Eaters. They were a dangerous, nomadic lot, not nearly as easy to live with as the Mountain City tribe, but they lacked [Shamans].
Molten Stone had too many. Hard for Ulvama to get to the top there—and their Chieftain was the Goblin Witch. Female, too. So harder to seduce.
Ulvama had learned how to get ahead as a Goblin, especially a female Goblin. You found other Goblins, and made them like you. Male Goblins? Easy. She’d gotten Raidpear to give her authority—but it hadn’t been a proper tribe in the Goblinlands.
Easier to start with the Kraken Eater tribe, especially if the Chieftain took a liking to her. She’d heard he was a second Tremborag, but even more warrior-like, so she’d opted to remain in the Mountain City tribe. But since Tremborag was dead…
It was simple, to Ulvama, how life should be. Eat, sleep, do not die. Gain power by bullying, giving things, persuading. Do not die. This inn was perfect for her to get what she wanted.
…She just wished the people would stop crying. The Hob bothered her. He was so empty. She’d tried talking to him, but he didn’t move or eat. She’d have to make sure he didn’t die. Goblins had to stick together.
Ulvama crept from the rec room, hoping she could get through that mysterious door again. Now, where was it? That was another mystery of the inn; the garden which could not be entered. She’d only been able to talk to Numbtongue when he left, and he hadn’t moved in two days.
Into the hallway, down towards the common room, head on a swivel for sounds or people. Ulvama peeked around the corner and saw something she wished she hadn’t.
The Lyonette-Human was hugging the little Gnoll. Whispering to her.
“I’m going to Oteslia, sweetie. I have to. To bring her back.”
The dead Human. Or not-dead one. Ulvama nodded to herself. The little Gnoll was stirring. A tiny paw encircled the Lyonette-Human’s neck. Ulvama looked away.
Stupid little children. They were all alike. Pebblesnatch was tougher than most, but children were children. She looked for the door to the garden as Lyonette whispered.
“You have to eat something, okay? Palt and Imani promised they’ll look after you. And Selys and…but I’m going to go, alright? So Erin can come back.”
Her voice broke on that note. Ulvama listened for more pieces.
A Human was dead. And apparently, a city mourned. That was what she understood.
If she was callous, she could have sneered. She nearly did.
A single Human is dead? So what? Goblins have died by countless numbers. Enough so that we gave up counting long ago. Each one mattered to someone. 
But she did not say that. She understood. She had known death. She knew what it was like. She had mourned her mentor. Her parents. Her first love.
Even Tremborag, in her way. Though she had not loved him. But he had still been her Chieftain. He had still died as a Goblin.
And this Human had put up the signs. She had taken care of Goblins. Ulvama didn’t understand that.
So she listened, furtively, to the conversation.
“I have to go. And you’ll stay. Okay? Please? Be good, for me. Eat and—”
The little Gnoll made a sound. She didn’t speak. Ulvama saw her cling to the young mother, though. And she read every word from the frantic look, the desperate paws trying to hold the Lyonette-mother.
“I have to. You’ll be safer here. I’m sorry.”
Gently, the young woman unclasped the paws. And now Ulvama did have to retreat. Because the sound the little Mrsha-child made was piteous. Ulvama put her hands over her ears.
Not a Goblin. Doesn’t matter. After a few minutes, she looked again.
The young woman was crying as she left. She kissed and hugged the child—but leave she did. As Goblin warriors did when they left for battle. Only, Goblins did not waste water.
And then? She found the Ishkr-Gnoll.
“Please take care of her. Make sure she eats—that she bathes and—”
“I will. I will, Lyonette.”
“I have to go. I’ll—I’ll be back in two weeks. Two weeks, even if I have to return, Mrsha. Even if I’m not done. I’ll bring you with me if it’s safe? Okay?”
The little one said nothing. More tears. Ulvama waited. Then she heard her name.
“Ulvama—have you seen her?”
The [Shaman]’s heart beat anxiously. She readied herself. Oh, how she wished she had a few Goblins who could fight for her! She could fight—but she was a [Shaman]. She drew her strength from a tribe! This inn was lush in mana, but she was not an expert who could make herself invisible. Turning a bunch of regular Goblins into giant, blood-crazed berserkers? That she could do.
But Lyonette was just talking to the Ishkr-Gnoll.
“I saw her this morning. She is very…wary. What should I do with her?”
Ulvama flinched. But all she heard was Lyonette sigh.
“Just—keep an eye on her? She is a foreign Goblin, and Badarrow said she was a ‘Mountain City Goblin’. How he can tell, I don’t know, but he said Snapjaw was enemies with her tribe.”
“Should I ask the Brothers or Palt or Montressa to keep an eye on her?”
Dangerous [Mages]. Ulvama licked her lips. But Lyonette just shook her head.
“Feed her. Let her do what she wants so long as it’s not dangerous. Ishkr…they’re waiting. I have to go. Please keep the inn until I return?”
“I will. Best of luck, Lyonette.”
And then she was walking to the door full of magic. The Gnoll lingered, and more guests came to see Lyonette off.
It was a moment for them. Ulvama took that chance, while they were all in the hallway, to creep through the common room.
Door, door…where was it? She looked around—then nearly tripped over the little Gnoll.
She was sitting on the ground. The Mrsha-child looked up at Ulvama—then at the door where the [Princess] was saying her last goodbyes. She was listening too. And Ulvama saw her empty gaze.
How bitter. She stood over the Gnoll for a while. There the little one sat, like a doll. Ulvama had seen it before, after great loss. Pebblesnatch had been like that until…
She hesitated. Reached out—then hurried away.
She was not a Goblin. Not Ulvama’s business. Hers was only…
The door to the [Garden of Sanctuary] was in the kitchen this time. Ulvama pursed her lips. Why did it move? She peered into it. She knew the broken Numbtongue was in there.
“[Unlock Door].”
She murmured a low-level spell, calling upon the magic in her ink and the inn. There was so much that she could cast most spells even without a tribe nearby. She pushed at the door—
And her hand ran into solid air. She growled. Again! She heaved on it. Tried another spell.
[Frost Ray]! The staff emitted a ray of, well, frost. It hit the door—
Disappeared. Ulvama peered at the door, the open air. Strong magic. Or…a Skill? She kicked the door’s opening and hopped in silent agony.
Voices. They were coming back. The Hobgoblin froze. She looked around—
“We have to take care of the inn.”
“But no one’s coming, Palt. What do we do?”
Clip-clop went the Centaur’s hooves.  The Imani-Cook was talking to him. Ulvama shivered. She did not trust them. But…
“It’s not like the inn’s poor. Lyonette put money in the Merchant’s Guild so she can take it out in Oteslia, but I have coin—guests might come back, Imani. Worst comes to worst, I could make sure everyone gets food.”
“Thank you, Palt. But what about Mrsha? She doesn’t even move—”
“I could try a tonic. I um, don’t have ‘happiness’, though. Just calming, sleep…I can look it up.”
The two entered the kitchen. Ulvama breathed out, sidling towards the door. Imani sniffed.
“I just—it’s all wrong.”
She leaned on the Centaur’s side and he put an arm around her. Ulvama recognized familiar scents. She eyed the cigar he had. She wished she could steal one of them. Aside from that—he probably had a lot of herbs she wanted. She had been debating breaking into his rooms before she escaped.
Strange. She recognized attraction when she saw it, and even in grief, here was a couple. The Centaur was a bit distracted, though. He kept looking around. Did he sense her magic? Ulvama edged a bit further over as her camouflaged skin rippled against the kitchen’s…
“And Numbtongue hasn’t even left the hill! He hasn’t moved for days. He’s going to starve himself!”
“What?”
Imani and Palt jumped as Ulvama accidentally spoke. They whirled—and saw the chameleon-Goblin standing against the counters shed her spell.
“Aaah!”
Imani leapt back. Palt nearly crashed into a wall, but caught himself from running again. He grabbed for his wand—
“It’s—it’s the Goblin! Ulvama!”
Imani stopped him. Palt still raised his wand. Ulvama backed up.
“No hurt! Only want food, food! Nice Goblin, yes!”
She gabbled, in a mockery of proper language. That’s right. Pretend to be a scared little Goblin…well, she was too big to pull off the trick entirely.
“It’s alright! It’s—”
Imani recovered first. She held out an arm in front of Palt and spoke for both Ulvama’s and his benefit.
“You’re Ulvama, right? Did you want food? We didn’t mean to scare you.”
“Scare her? I nearly died!”
Palt exhaled hard. He fumbled for his cigar, staring at Ulvama’s [Chameleon Skin] spell.
“[Shaman] magic. I would have noticed it at once if I’d been looking.”
Hah. Ulvama rolled her eyes. But he wasn’t, so she would have knifed him twice if she’d been trying to kill him. [Mages]. She backed up.
“Not hungry. Am fine. Sorry Goblin. Is go now.”
She began to scuttle out of the kitchen. Then…stopped. Ulvama ground her teeth. She had to know. She looked over her shoulder and pointed at the door.
“Broken Goblin with sword. He not eat?”
“Broken…Numbtongue? No…he hasn’t.”
Imani looked at Ulvama, and then at Palt.
“I tried to give him food, but—well, I think the plate’s still up there. It’s not like it’s gone bad, but he hasn’t touched it.”
“You…give food to him?”
Ulvama was surprised. Imani nodded, with something like actual concern. Blown away, Ulvama saw Palt nod.
“I could try to talk to him again…but I don’t think it’ll work.”
He half-trotted into the door. Ulvama’s eyes narrowed.
“How do that, you?”
Imani’s forehead wrinkled. Ulvama might have been overdoing the bad speaking. But most Goblins spoke like this. Mountain City tribe was different.
“We…we can go through the garden. Oh. You can’t. Erin’s Skill—”
She and Palt shared a look. That was the frozen Human’s name. Erin. Ulvama hesitated, eying the Centaur.
“I go through? I am Goblin. He is Goblin. I talk to.”
She smiled, trying to look unthreatening as possible. She shouldn’t have shown them she could blend with the walls. Palt hesitated.
“I don’t know. We can’t just bring new people in.”
“They came for the wake. I guess the door’s not letting anyone through? We could…bring her in? I don’t know how, though.”
Ulvama’s smile turned to a scowl as Imani’s back turned. Darn. She thought for a second, but the Garden didn’t actually have much of what she wanted. Just that Sage’s Grass on the hill; Ulvama would love to cut a bunch of the plants. And truth be told…
Goblins could live for up to a week without food. Twice as much if they had the right classes. Tremborag could probably have starved for a month. But without water? She hesitated. But that stupid broken Goblin…
“You give him food. Numbtongue. He eat. Food, water.”
She urged Imani. The [Cook] looked helpless.
“But he won’t eat.”
Ulvama eyed her.
“So? Make him Hungry Hungry Stew.”
“Hungry Hungry…what?”
Did she not know what that was? Ulvama tried to translate.
“Make him stew…with Skill. That makes him very hungry. So even sad Goblins have to eat. You have Skill?”
She looked at Imani hopefully. The [Cook] blankly looked at Palt. He shrugged.
“Must be a compulsion-effect. I don’t know it. I could cast a spell on a dish. But do you know that Skill, Imani?”
“No…”
Ulvama cursed. Most Goblins got that Skill. It’s utility wasn’t just in making sad Goblins eat. It was generally to uh, make Goblins so hungry they ate stews with worms and mud and bark in them without objecting to the taste.
What other ways did you cheer up sad Goblin warriors? Well…she thought Imani and the Centaur would object if she told her to go have sex with the broken Goblin. Getting a Chieftain to kick the sad Goblins into action and go kill something didn’t work either since there was no Chieftain.
“I go into Garden, I help.”
Imani hesitated.
“I’m sorry, but I don’t know how to do it.”
“Human poo.”
Ulvama cursed. She leaned on her staff. Then she had an idea.
“I know how to make broken Goblin eat. You have water? Food?”
“There’s a plate. But I could get um—a regular stew.”
Imani fussed with the bowls. Palt came back in and found her a large one, and a spoon. Ulvama nodded. She saw them fill up the bowl with a hearty broth; how fascinating that nothing began to rot here! Another useful Skill. Tremborag would have loved to conquer this inn.
“You give to Numbtongue-Goblin.”
“He won’t eat. He barely moves.”
“He will. I will tell you magic words to make him move. Special, Goblin-words. You must tell him exactly. Um…you.”
She pointed at Palt. The Centaur blinked. Ulvama thought he’d refuse. No Centaur she’d ever met would have treated a Goblin with respect, much less taken orders.
But she was desperate. That broken Goblin should live. And he only hesitated for a moment before nodding.
“I’m willing to try anything. What do I say?”
Ulvama beckoned him over. She knew roughly what the words should be. She whispered in his ear and Imani eyed them. Palt’s mouth opened.
“Er…”
“You say. It work.”
Ulvama urged him to the door. Imani went after Palt as he trotted, bemused, into the garden.
“What did she say?”
“Magic words? I don’t know. It might work—”
Ulvama craned her neck as she saw him head up the hill. Imani followed and then turned to Ulvama curiously.
The female Hobgoblin couldn’t see up into the hill with the mists where the frozen Human lay. But she could see the Centaur ascending most of the way at a fast trot. It was so silent she heard his voice.
“Hey Numbtongue? Numbtongue, you have to eat. This is from Imani and me. And that female Hobgoblin. Ulvama? You need to eat, friend.”
