They were once a group of Named-rank Adventurers, an internationally recognized team named World’s Founding. As the late Archmage Tritosech wrote in an analysis of the team at the time, their name was almost as pretentious as the core members themselves. But World’s Founding had kept the title, because how else would you describe a multi-species team with the only Fraerling adventurer in the world and one of the few Beastkin adventurers ever to hit Named-rank?
They had been the largest adventuring team of their time. Second only to famous groups like Balsame’s Legion, notable for having hundreds of adventurers in days of yore. World’s Founding had been political.
They had entered into conflicts between nations and altered the course of wars, deflecting a Terandrian incursion war in their first famous battle against another nation. Then—taking a visible stance against Jungle Tails, one of the four Great Companies of Baleros, seeking to gain even more power.
The entire story of Niers Astoragon was famous enough for multiple tales, from his involvement with other characters like the King of Destruction to the Lightning Thief’s adventures. The highlights everyone knew were how his company started:
The World’s Founding team had been cornered along with an army of disorganized forces from every species on Baleros by Jungle Tails’ army. World’s Founding vanished after two months of protracted, deadly hunting and were declared dead after they failed to resurface for months.
Then, the mysterious army that would become known as the Forgotten Wing company emerged from the Labyrinth of Souls, a Named-rank dungeon, and began to win battle after battle. Six adventurers, including Niers Astoragon and Foliana, began earning their reputations.
World’s Founding vanished in that dungeon. The group of dozens of adventurers, from Silver to Named-rank, and an army of disparate soldiers were reduced to six surviving adventurers and four hundred veterans.
When asked, the few survivors of that mysterious point in history seldom spoke of what they had seen or done; the Labyrinth of Souls was later claimed by the Forgotten Wing company and sealed. No other team ever reached the dungeon’s heart, despite two Named-rank teams entering.
Twenty years later, a retiring Selphid [Vanguard] made comments to an aspiring [Author] seeking an alternate take on the retelling of the Forgotten Wing company’s rise to glory. The book sold eighty-eight copies and was not remarked on. Among other aspects during the interview, the Selphid refused to mention specific details of what they’d seen in the dungeon but provided the [Author] with a few quotes. The passage read:
 
“Niers Astoragon kept us alive down there. It was Jungle Tails behind us or the dungeon ahead. Parts of the army were pursuing us—that’s what no one ever mentions, I suppose. We were exploring the dungeon because they were slaughtering us from the rear. Ahead or behind. Death either way. So yes, that tiny little [Strategist] was the one who pushed until we reached the final point in the Labyrinth of Souls. He saved us.”
At this point, our intrepid investigator pauses for a sip of tea, and I keep my voice level, not letting an inflection of disappointment into my tone as I reply, “So it seems. Which squares entirely with established accounts. Why would this be so controversial?”
Jaucton sits with his new Human body in good repose, smoking on a puffer as he weighs his next words like a Minotaur laboriously lifting a slab of stone. The silence is palpable before he replies.
“Well, because he saved us. And killed us. We could have surrendered, and some of us would have made it. I doubt World’s Founding would have; Jungle Tails wanted their heads. He drove us until we saw the end. A brilliant [Strategist]; that’s what he was even back then. A lot younger, and he swore more back then, but they were all sort of like that. Foliana was always sneaking up on people and scaring the shit out of [Soldiers]—sometimes as we took a shit. But it’s the ones you don’t think of, you know? Melsaiid the Draconid. Anyone remember him? Haspeta Springwalker? Named-ranks. Even when we ran into Old Ones…Niers was right there and just pointed straight ahead. We could have fled.”
Then, Jaucton pauses, dear readers, and I see his Selphid body flinch within his form, and he clamps his lips shut as if he’s said something too much. Instantly, I press him about this ‘Old One’, a hefty claim, but he refuses to speak on the dungeon. All he will say, after nearly twenty minutes of silence or shaking of his head, is this:
“If we’d surrendered or fled, maybe the Forgotten Wing company wouldn’t have been made, and it’s to be named a Great Company any day now, I hear. Maybe it’s bigger than all of us, and he’s the Titan of Baleros. He did it, that’s all I wanted to say. We could have run away, and Jungle Tails would still be in power, and nothing would have changed. But we didn’t.”
 
The book never reached popular acclaim, possibly due to the [Author]’s insistence upon styling themself after the famous Krsysl Wordsmith’s by inserting himself as a protagonist into even objective historical accounts.
Despite this, the account was one of the few honest interviews ever put to public word about any other survivor’s feelings on the Forgotten Wing’s dark period of history.
The moral of the story was probably that Krsysl Wordsmith negatively influenced an entire generation of [Historians] by discrediting their style and the class in the eyes of the world.
 
——
 
Iuncuta Eirnos grudgingly had to admit that the Forgotten Wing company exceeded the military might of any one, or probably any dozen, Fraerling city, including Tallguard fortresses.
Not just in sheer numbers; despite their size, Fraerlings could field large numbers of their kind. Forgotten Wing certainly looked primitive, with literal unenchanted weapons in their standing forces. Every single Tallguard had an enchanted blade, and Tallfolk couldn’t fly, teleport at will, or rely on higher-grade munitions like Fraerlings could. For Tallfolk, Vortex bolts were considered a commander-grade relic used only at great expense, for instance.
However, Forgotten Wing was one of the Great Companies of Baleros, and as much as she hated to admit it, Iuncuta Eirnos sometimes just forgot what that meant.
A regiment, a measure of a few thousand soldiers, was something Tallguard tended to operate at—at maximum force. A thousand Tallguard were considered overkill for most problems short of a new monster hive or actual war. A hundred Crelerbane armor units could kill anything you wanted, and if they couldn’t…well, you were in trouble.
Eirnos had led that level of force. The Iuncuta, a commander and arbiter of Fraerling justice, could force multiple cities to heed her orders. She was as close to Fraerlings got to a public figure of renown, stratified as they were among their hidden settlements.
She’d come to the Forgotten Wing headquarters on two missions. Firstly, to reclaim the lost Fraerling settlements in the Dyed Lands and push back the hordes of monsters still savaging Baleros, locked in combat with three Great Companies and every city around them.
And also to liberate a Fraerling city taken hostage by Jungle Tails and punish the former Great Company for its destruction of Oierdressql and near-destruction of Paeth. Niers had welcomed her into his forces, given her the respect of her position, and Eirnos had been surprised that the famous Titan wasn’t more pushy.
So she forgot, sometimes, and it felt like he was deliberately reminding her with the war against the Minds or now—
Perspective. Scale. He commanded Tallfolk, not Fraerlings. Eirnos’ one good eye flitted to the scrying orb, and she stared at the map of units moving on the table. Flashing blue icons indicated the presence of each military unit, and little titles and flags showed which one was which.
For instance, one read ‘Gnrl. Diomedes, Eyewatchers Army’. It was slowly moving down the main trade-road.
Here was what Eirnos failed to remember. She glanced at the library of books set around the Titan’s war room, collecting herself. The Titan himself wasn’t present. He often gave orders and just expected them to be acted upon by competent people. What he was thinking here…she wanted to ask. But she had to be collected when she did.
Regiments. Groups of a thousand. The Forgotten Wing company’s table didn’t measure regiments. Eirnos had thought they did, but when she’d seen the blue dots moving, forming a huge line down one trade route as dozens more pushed southwest, meeting the red line of units of Jungle Tails?
When she stared at the purple icons of the Iron Vanguard or yellow, fast-moving icons of the Howling Maelstrom company or icons of independent companies? Some were small, and Eirnos had asked what the standard unit size was. Not regiments.
The smallest visible force usually present on the map was a division. Six thousand units minimum. Smaller brigades or tiny units were often marked as slivers since they were harder to confirm.
Big forces were corps or full armies. Twenty thousand to hundreds of thousands of marching soldiers. Two armies were locked in combat, marked by flashing lines on the path towards the Dyed Lands to the west. Fighting monsters.
And dozens of divisions were fighting Jungle Tails to the south. The Forgotten Wing had divisions and corps scattered across the holdings of south and central Baleros. Now, sixteen blue units slowly blinked their way across the map, securing a single road.
All for one Human. Eirnos wondered what it…looked like. She had to talk to Paeth, who wanted to keep their Human safe. All well and good; Eirnos had requests from other Fraerling cities to meet with her. She had a suggestion to tell Niers that the Fraerlings were in charge of Erin’s safety, not him.
How was she supposed to tell Paeth…the Titan was friendly. He was also the Titan. He’d let Paeth keep Erin Solstice for a week. Then, without talking to Eirnos, without pausing to do more than review the costs of moving that many soldiers and the effects of marching tens of thousands of people with a single order—he’d sent them to secure a line across the continent.
He’d sent a Cyclops to march on Talenqual. You couldn’t even see the tiny mercenary force occupying Talenqual on the map. A junior [Tactician] had been forced to insert a manual magical pin with the title of both mercenary companies, the United Nations and Gravetender’s Fist.
Focus. The Titan couldn’t be allowed to see Eirnos looking nervous. The Fraerling tore herself away from the war room and prepared her best shouting voice. To take him to task. She paused one last time to eye his bookshelves.
With respect to the war room, any books were clearly ambiance; no seasoned [Strategist] or [General] was going to crack open a book on the shelves. They either knew the contents by heart, had written said books, or had their own damn copies. So she got that it was just there to add to the grandeur of the place. But she’d been counting to steady herself and…
Who had eighty-seven copies of Interviews: The Founding of the Forgotten Wing Company from a New Perspective by Volov the [Historian]? Eirnos shook her head. She supposed the Titan had to support small [Authors] sometimes.
 
——
 
The eighty-eighth copy of Interviews had a bookmark in it. It was faded, the cheap leather binding worn, and sat on a desk. Since it was too large to open, normally, the Titan used it as a paperweight until he wanted to read it, after which he sometimes had to remove a stack of damn books.
Niers Astoragon sometimes went back to the interview, because it was honest. Pedantic, poorly written drivel, the rest of it, but the interview was honest in a way nothing else was. Frankly, Niers doubted even Tulm, one of his best students, would have found the book, much less understood everything from it.
But the Titan of Baleros didn’t win by giving people clues or even the chance to win. Today, he was staring at the book, like he sometimes looked at the other possessions in his room.
Foliana kept her own trophies and mementos in her giant tree room. Her nest. She didn’t hoard in her room, though; the Forgotten Wing was her hoarding, and she helped herself to everything in her domain. That was the trick about her. She was a Squirrel Beastkin, and, yes, yes, it was a huge insult to refer to a Beastkin species by the traits that defined their pre-Beastkin forms.
You didn’t make jokes about Rabbit Beastkin reproducing fast or Squirrel Beastkin obsessively saving objects. But they did have a bit of it in their ancestry, so you had to understand how Foliana operated. If she was not like other Beastkin in obvious ways—the question was why and how she’d taken her own route to sometimes get to the same destination. Most Beastkin never left their home tribes in the north, and if they did, they were either wanderers, those pushed out of their tribe, or on a mission.
Guess which one Foliana had been? In the same vein, Niers did hoard. A bit. Sometimes, he’d stop working when he was tired or stressed and stare at something hanging on the walls. A bow neatly patched, but still broken, made of manawood, yew, from some stupid forest in Erribathe.
A notched sword and shield. A framed map, still dirty and smudged from use. A banner from a memorable battle. And so on.
Boring trophies. The kind you’d find in any half-baked [Warlord]’s tent, really. Niers bet the King of Destruction had had many before they’d been sold off. The thing was…he stared at the bow, sometimes.
And for him, it was more than an old Gold-ranker’s piece of gear. He remembered a stare, a cracked voice, two eyes lifting upwards, and two pointed ears wilting as he pointed. A friend staring at the faces of great ancestors and hesitating—
Then he could, without a spell, go back in time and stand in the center of the Labyrinth of Souls and, for free, remember the faces of Elves. And get a topping of guilt and introspection for good measure.
“…I hate it when [Vanguards] quit.”
Niers went back to reviewing his work. He was aware his Forgotten Wing company was moving towards Talenqual. But because Niers also knew how fast soldiers marched, even on a trade road, he knew that there was no point obsessing over the war room map. He had work to do. A lot of it these days.
It kept him busy. Niers stared at one of the things a [Commander] hated: resignations.
It happened. People had lives. A [Soldier] fought through a battle with 30% attrition rates and decided to take their pay and retire. You had to deal with it, but sometimes you had mass resignations.
