She could fail or exit the negotiations. The least viable position would be to enter into another bargain like Visophecin’s. That would spell disaster for the Lucifen.
Paxere tried to cast a mental boost spell, but she realized the room had blocked off all spells…and she hoped it included Skills as well. They were doubtless secure from all intrusion; she doubted another Lucifen could listen in here.
There were rules. Unless a Lucifen had been hiding in this room since the last time it had been used before Erin and Visophecin. Unless the room itself was sentient…the darkness held nothing living.
Neither woman was quite relaxed as the room roiled around them, twisting ink. Erin’s eyes slowly took in the room, perhaps with the leisure to inspect it properly this time. Paxere tried not to visibly do the same.
“Welcome to the Verum Pactum, Erin Solstice. Or should I say, welcome again. Would you care for anything to drink? Eat? Do not concern yourself with eavesdroppers or time. This room is apart from all of it.”
“More languages I don’t know.”
Paxere smiled tightly as Erin looked irritated. It was old language, and a [Mage] might have known this one—the ‘Truthful Covenant’ was the rough translation of the room’s name.
So she wasn’t perfect. Still—Erin Solstice regarded her hands, looked up at that invisible light source, then lowered her gaze, and Paxere’s pulse accelerated.
Visophecin had lost in his deal here, even if he had stated it was due to his own complacency. Paxere was younger, inexperienced, qualities she had often thought she could make up for with effort and, frankly, talent.
Azemith and Igolze were dead. Paxere was expendable, hence her insistence on this attempt. There was some joy in it; her eyes narrowed slightly. Erin Solstice finished looking around and focused on Paxere. Her lips quirked.
“Nothing for me to drink or eat. Here I am again. How much do you know about the terms of the first agreement I made?”
She was probing. Paxere had not, in fact, had the chance to quiz Visophecin about the entire nature of the deal. He claimed it had been private and he was not allowed to show her more than the outcome. She had, of course, reviewed the final contract and seen plainly how the broad wording was a basic error.
The Lucifen had all but forgotten the use of this room themselves. Ever since the Infernal Court of Rhir, they had lost access to this place. Visophecin’s forebearers, who themselves had been dangerous, capable of accessing the rare Warform that only a few Agelum and Lucifen had mastered—hadn’t been able to gain entry to this place.
However. One person had summoned the Lucifen. So a way remained to regain access to power they had thought lost or locked behind inaccessible places, like Rhir or, perhaps, Roshal.
Roshal had refused to reactivate the contracts if they knew how. Erin Solstice had made that bargain and surprised even them. Maybe she didn’t know how extraordinary it was, so Paxere tried to speak and ran into a problem.
“…I am quite aware of the circumstances of your contract on board Roshal’s ship. I consider the matter fairly adjudicated by this room, despite the urgency of the moment. This is a place out of time. Fairness is sacrosanct.”
She could not lie. Not that Paxere really liked or wanted to lie; it was a useful tool, but her training as an aspiring arbiter of Ailendamus’ law made her averse to the idea. Things should be fair—and it seemed this room enforced that idea to the extreme.
Even the idea of lying was like trying to lift a mountain with your tongue. Erin doubtless had the same issue and spoke slowly.
“I’m not implying it wasn’t. Fairness, you said? Fairness to whom?”
“Fairness to the idea of a deal. Not to one party or another. You benefitted from that fairness yourself. If there is any justice in this room, it is that both of us know what we are agreeing to. Nothing more. Nothing less. Trickery is inherent to a negotiation. Inequity as well.”
Paxere’s eyes were glowing faintly at the table. The power in this place made her bones shudder. It was like she had spoken every day of her life and not realized she had used half the alphabet until now.
I feel alive. She craved that power. She felt like she might understand something of the Lucifen’s lost authority just by being here, but having had a taste, she wanted more.
Still. Erin Solstice made her wary. She was half-smiling now, despite Paxere’s explicit warning.
Two women sat in this room. It was unclear if either one was properly…Human. Paxere’s back crawled as Erin Solstice looked around.
“The first deal Visophecin made went poorly. You nearly died to reach me and make a second one. Why should I hear you out? I’m free to leave at any time, aren’t I?”
“Yes. We will not offer you that deal again. I am prepared to offer you a different deal from the first. The contract was invalidated by our side. Enforcing it would be—”
It felt like the room was pressing down on her at the very thought. Paxere half-glanced up, expecting to see a proverbial axe hanging over her head. Then she realized Erin was looking up too and stopped.
Ah. The accounts of past deals didn’t mention that. 
Both women stared upwards at the object hanging in the air as it slowly, slowly lifted back into the ceiling. Erin spoke after a second.
“Fascinating chains. That’s a very sharp-looking blade.”
“This room was made to make deals with everyone. Choose your words carefully. Let’s begin from the start. We would like to negotiate a new contract along similar lines as the last one. We would like a piece of you. Not me, specifically. A shared trust with the Lucifen. As well as knowledge of how you contacted us to begin with. In return, we will provide you with a fair price. Protection from your enemies, for one.”
Erin Solstice sat back, looking amused.
“I have the Fraerlings and Forgotten Wing company on my side. They seem quite good at their jobs of protecting me. They bested you quite easily.”
Paxere chuckled honestly.
“You must be joking.”
Erin paused and frowned.
“Are you claiming House Shoel of Ailendamus can do better than they can? Or are you speaking for the entire Kingdom of Glass and Glory?”
Another incisive comment. Paxere grimaced.
“I cannot…promise anything beyond House Shoel’s authority in Ailendamus, but we are well connected.”
“So I imagine. So one noble house?”
“One noble house in the heart of Terandria. We have access to Erribathe and the means, via magic and force and word, that the Forgotten Wing does not. You may be safe on Baleros, but what of Izril? What of the Blighted Kingdom? What of your inn?”
Erin fell silent rather than respond. Paxere went on, trying to keep her tone lighter and pace more fluid. She had practiced her skills in debate in the Court of Masks and met many species and studied even more. For instance, old books said sentient undead—not Revenants, but literal undead—were only able to be swayed by sustained logical rhetoric or the most extreme, basic emotions.
…No one had ever written a book on [Innkeepers], though.
“That’s a nebulous offer. Last time…”
Erin hesitated. She seemed unwilling to say exactly what had happened, so she switched topics.
“Dangling friendship in front of my face, or an ‘alliance’, is banal.”
It was, and Paxere had truly been hoping Erin was more desperate and that she would be able to rely on guilt or her own magic as bargaining chips.
“The previous contract was very generous. Visophecin liberated you and committed forty of House Shoel’s own to a battle at sea. All for a fragment of your soul.”
Your soul. What a strange thing to ask for. Paxere didn’t understand it herself. But she felt it. Erin had something in her the Lucifen wanted, perhaps even lacked.
They had died for her, fighting insane odds. Yet if there was guilt in her, part of Paxere had to admire the woman sitting across from her, because Erin Solstice demonstrated a quality that was purely Lucifen.
She raised her brows, sat back in her chair, and shrugged.
“As you said. The deal was struck. It was generous, in your opinion, but your side broke the terms. Now you’re back for another contract. Offer me something valuable and tangible. After all. Logic dictates that if I am to negotiate the contract for the same price, or more, I should get more than I was given last time.”
Ah. Paxere really hadn’t come into this place with an advantage. She refused to waver, though; Azemith had talked herself out of worse opening positions.
“State your position, then.”
“You came to me.”
“The Lucifen are prepared to safeguard your life in quantitative means. Fraerlings and the Titan of Baleros may desert you due to your choices. We will be bound to honoring the deal and not renege for any reason. If the terms are right.”
Erin’s eyes narrowed fractionally.
“I don’t trust you. Even with this room, I trust you like a Merchant’s Guild contract. By the letter, not the spirit. I clearly have something you want. My…soul.”
She touched her chest and paused a second.
“If I even considered a deal with you, I would want something that incentivizes you to value my life, not just the terms of the contract. Something worth the cost to me.”
Paxere was thinking rapidly, assessing what she could and could not offer on behalf of House Shoel, especially given last time. But as Erin spoke, Paxere heard a clicking sound, and both women froze.
The axe? They looked up, wondering if one of them had broken an implicit rule. But what descended this time was no hanging blade.
Instead, something far, far larger appeared. So vast it dwarfed the two, but appeared further away in the air, so they could look up and see…Paxere’s throat went dry.
“The Infernal Scales.”
They looked like a simple set of [Merchant]’s scales where you measured two weights. Only, these were literal scales from the hide of a long-dead Dragon, twisted red chains.
Appropriately, reddish scales. But not red. They were marred, even with a tacky resin, as if liquid had dripped upon the scales for ages, turning what had originally been some orange or brighter color darker. Even now, though, Paxere could see a huge scar across the back of one of the scales.
The chains were links of metal she recognized; Adamantium, each link smooth, without seam, but spiked, a superfluous edge added to each link. Laborious work from a [Smith]. A symbol? Or something else?
The scales were vast, and it felt like if one side were to fall entirely and unbalance the entire contraption, something terrible might happen. The room itself shivered at their appearance. As if it were waking up. And the smell that filled the room was of rust and iron and blood.
The Infernal Scales hung in the air, and the ancient clicks seemed to dislodge time itself.
Click. Click. Click. The scales were moving down on one side towards Erin. The [Innkeeper] glanced at Paxere, suspicious.
“What’s going on?”
So this didn’t happen last time? Paxere licked her lips.
“You just stated terms for me to fulfill. I must balance the scales.”
In fact, she understood what Erin wanted now. The scales seemed to press down on the very room, tilting it towards Erin.
 
Something to make certain the Lucifen had a vested, genuine interest in Erin’s wellbeing.
Something for her personally.
 
Fascinating requirements. Paxere would have thought Erin’s inn. Perhaps the [Innkeeper] had erred…could you err like that in this room?
Erin Solstice’s head rose as if studying the requirements herself. But instead of removing one or the other stipulations, her voice rasped.
“Ah. That’s right. If I did make a deal for something of me…I need that. No, I want it. Power. To never be helpless again.”
Click.
The scales dipped lower towards Erin. The reverberations of those chains ran through Paxere’s very being, and then she was smiling.
A prospective client had just stated something honestly. Whether intentional or not, Paxere had something to latch onto. And she…saw how to balance the scales. The room was not on her side, but facilitating this deal was half instinct, half understanding.
Lucifen had made this place to grant any wish. To make any deal. Of course they had built in ways to satisfy the most esoteric of demands.
The shadows were whispering in her ears.
“What we desire most of all is a piece of you, Erin Solstice. Believe me, we are not like anything like the poor myths you may have found. Strike a deal with me for a piece of you. So long as you live, I benefit from that fragment. Few things could be as important to the Lucifen as that.”
The scales clicked up a fraction as Paxere assured Erin of her first clause. The [Innkeeper]’s head tilted, eyes narrowed.
“You’ll take my power? Feed on me?”
“Oh, no, no. It’s entirely…symbiotic. There are more punitive methods that favor me. What I propose is an exchange. You give me a piece of your soul. We link. Power runs two ways. If you die, I lose the benefits. While the pact remains and I live, you gain some of my authority. Do you remember what you did last time?”
“What happens when I die? Does my soul vanish or return to me? The lands of the dead are empty.”
Erin’s eyes narrowed. Paxere coughed.
“The soul would revert to me, I trust—”
CLICK.
The scales slammed down back on Erin’s side, and Paxere froze. The [Innkeeper] gave Paxere a mirthless smile.
“That sounds like exactly what I thought would happen. Wouldn’t you hope for me to die in that case? Then you wouldn’t have to share.”
“—Then, naturally, upon your death, any claims on your immortal soul would be yours without any Lucifen interference. I can swear that on behalf of House Shoel, should we accept.”
Paxere gritted each word out through her teeth, reluctantly, like running a hand through a pile of broken glass. She wanted not to say it, but until she did…the scales moved back up two notches.
“Interesting. You do look like you’re being honest. For a given value of honesty.”
The [Innkeeper] was treating this like a game! She studied the scales, then Paxere.
“Go on. What about my other two requirements?”
They were one and the same, really. She seemed curious how Paxere could satisfy ‘personal power’. The Lucifen had some ideas, but she tried to prevaricate.
“Would you like to add another clause? House Shoel wishes to know how you summoned us—Viscount Visophecin. A full, replicable explanation of how to do so is my requirement.”
They looked up and saw nothing happen. Erin raised her brows as Paxere wondered if she had to fulfill Erin’s portion of the bargain first. Then she heard a sound from behind her.
Click.
