Whew. So this was the guy who liked Erin? Ryoka could instantly see why. She was smiling as they turned to the parlor. Niers recovered himself as he looked around with a hunted look that Ryoka thought you got when you had an invisible, annoying person you’d lived with for decades.
“Ignore Foliana. Actually, point her out to me at every chance you get. She’s like the lead weight tied around my neck—if she seeks you out, you can always shout for help, and I’ll chase her off. Everyone wants to speak to you, you’ll find. It comes with being a Courier.”
“I’d love to meet everyone, and talk to…”
Ryoka glanced at Geneva and was uncertain about why Beth was here. A Selphid? Was she a commander if Niers was letting her in on what Ryoka took to be an important conversation? Beth was nudging Geneva, who was giving Beth a pained look. As if Ryoka wasn’t in on…
“Beth’s appropriate for this conversation, and we are taking it by importance.”
Niers seemed to be waiting for Ryoka to figure something out, and Ryoka stared at Beth. Not an illusion. But she was a Selphid. So she knew…but why…?
She had a crazy thought, and Ryoka hesitated. Was that even possible!? Niers gave her an approving look, and then Ryoka couldn’t wait to talk. But the Titan held out a hand, stopping Ryoka.
“I want you to know that for multiple reasons, Geneva aside, your talents and unique perspective aside, and even friendship with Erin aside, it’s my intention to treat you like an ally and, frankly, asset if you’re willing to be, Ryoka. I have a war—two wars to win. The Dyed Lands and Jungle Tails, and I won’t pretend I have all the time, but I’ll make it to discuss matters with you.”
“Thank you, Lord Astoragon. That’s a high honor.”
Niers nodded. Then he paused.
“Well, you, Erin, and Geneva, feelings aside, warrant it. For instance, you seem to have an object Geneva tells me you got from the House of El. And I told Geneva you definitely didn’t. May I see the infamous Windsword?”
Ryoka blinked, and her heart leapt in her chest. She got a bit nervous. Now she thought of it…this was the guy a younger, more innocent Ryoka had always feared meeting. Not Magnolia Reinhart. The Titan.
But the Windsword was innocent enough—she activated it, aiming it far away from her, and Atmodeca shivered.
“Dangerous.”
“Magnificent. That’s not the House of El.”
Niers’ eyes fixed on the technology of the future and instantly called it out. Geneva Scala turned to Ryoka, and the pink glow revealed horror in her eyes. Beth?
“Damn. A lightsaber. Geneva, don’t look so appalled. Imagine a laser scalpel.”
Ryoka jerked and stared at Beth. She deactivated the Faeblade, realized she couldn’t give it to Niers, and let him feel the hilt.
“It’s, uh, a gift.”
“It had better be. Or Geneva’s been lying to me. Ryoka, would you let my people inspect it? That means Forgotten Wing and Fraerlings. I see you, Eirnos. No, your people aren’t allowed in our first meeting, but you can take a look at this.”
Niers glanced up, and Ryoka saw a bunch of Fraerlings gathered in a walkway high above behind a glass observation window. Instantly, she jerked the Faeblade back.
“Sorry, Lord Astoragon. But that’s, uh—I really respect the Fraerlings from what I know of them. But I don’t know them.”
The Fraerlings sighed; Commander Rozcal had to restrain one of the Fraerlings who looked ready to divebomb Ryoka for the sword. Niers just gave Ryoka a raised pair of brows.
“It’s not enchanted, is it?”
“What? Not fully—”
Hedault had tried to do a bit, but Ryoka had flown off, leaving the Dryad wand and a lot of her obligations behind. She had to go back, but here mattered more right now, especially after what Erin had said.
Her friend needed Ryoka. Maybe someone else would be better, but Ryoka would give Erin a hug and help her, even if it meant having to fly Erin back to Izril herself. Ryoka was glad she hadn’t shown the Titan the obol or Hedault’s experimental enchantments. Or the footwr—
She turned and snatched her footwraps back from Foliana. Okay, paranoia Ryoka was back in business, baby. The Titan clearly saw that he’d put Ryoka’s guard up, because he smiled guiltily.
“I want to respect your privacy, but that is a weapon. I saw you carving up undead with it, and I have to own, I’d want to inspect it myself. We can get Fraerling [Enchanters] on your blade. Asking where it’s from or the rest of your story would be top of my list.”
“I’ll share as much as I can, but I’m, uh, going to keep this on me. Sorry, Lord Astoragon.”
Ryoka was nervous as she bowed, and Geneva shot Ryoka an approving look. But the Titan didn’t seem as wrathful as, say, Rhisveri might have been. Nor was he as stupid as Rhisveri, who had passed up the Faeblade until he’d seen what it could do.
The Titan nodded at Ryoka, eyes lighting up.
“I respect that, Ryoka. And you. You’re a woman of beliefs, and I believe you did earn Courier-rank by your own deeds. Which is all the more amazing given your origins.”
“Oh, thanks…”
That was so embarrassing to hear. Ryoka flushed, and the Titan smiled at her.
“That’s why I’m not going to insult you by pretending to be something I’m not.”
Ryoka stared at him until the paw yanked the Faeblade off of her belt. She spun.
“Hey! Stop—”
Foliana had the Faeblade, and she danced back three steps. Then she tossed it up—it bounced off the Fraerling ways.
“Oops. Where do I put it?”
“Let Eirnos’ people take a shot at it. Don’t break it, Eirnos, or you might get a hurricane blasting down your city. Inspect! And be damn careful with it! You could damage it just by looking.”
“Wh—stop!”
Ryoka ran after Foliana, but the Squirrel Beastkin hopped down the corridor—dodged Ryoka’s jump—and someone picked Ryoka up.
“Excuse me, Courier. Your room is that way.”
Seneschal Atmodeca caught Ryoka by one arm, and Foliana vanished. Ryoka spun.
“What are—”
The Titan stood in the air as Geneva Scala gave him a stare and Beth exhaled. He didn’t flinch from Ryoka’s horrified gaze. He looked less pleased with himself now, but his nod was direct.
“No one in the entire world would see an object like that and let it just walk away. I am sorry. That’s a good way to start our conversation. Guard up. Eh?”
“You stole it. You—no one’s done that!”
Rhisveri had, but he’d given it back. Niers looked genuinely shocked, then he shook his head.
“Really? Not even Chaldion? Not Deilan El? Let me amend that statement, Ryoka: you’ve met half-rates and ‘nice men’ so far. Or disinterested women in Magnolia Reinhart’s case. Not [Strategists].”
Now, his tone was different, and his face was like a distant thunderhead. Like a storm speaking through him.
“I am the genuine article. Top of my game, not an heir or in decline. Let’s be friends with all that entails. If not—allies.”
He gestured towards the room as Ryoka glanced at Geneva Scala and saw the [Doctor]’s long stare and Beth’s considering one. The Wind Runner finally met the Titan of Baleros as Niers checked the sun.
“I wonder what meeting Erin Solstice will be like.”
Then, Ryoka Griffin hoped, for the first time, that the two of them would really meet. Because she felt like he might deserve it.
 
——
 
It took Paxere all day to get back home, and Vultapheles was so tired they didn’t even lecture Paxere on the deal or convene a meeting of the Lucifen; they just went to rest.
She, herself, was feeling energized by what had been done but refused to gossip as Lucifen and nosy Agelum located her and demanded to know what had happened. Paxere felt…different.
Every now and then, she’d turn her head and look back southwest, across the ocean, at a being she now knew to be alive.
Whom she was linked to, for better or worse. No—better.
Paxere shook her head as she felt the odd…soul, a well of power, in her chest. A piece of her.
More than that, as if it were a color, influencing part of Paxere as well. Power. Authority. And a connection. Perhaps not the earthshaking power Paxere had hoped for. Maybe it was the bargain’s nature or just Paxere being younger.
But she felt like she would be able to access more powers of the Lucifen and share the power…if not the soul. A success all around. Except—Paxere paused.
“So. She’s mortal after all.”
Erin was indeed mortal. Paxere couldn’t read Erin’s mind, but some emotions, yes. And what the Lucifen had found, to her surprise, was one emotion above all else in Erin. Buried deep, defining the woman.
Rage. So much of it that it was scorching even to the Lucifen. Erin Solstice was filled with a burning fury that was righteous, vengeful, petty, and more from the core of her soul. Who knew the [Innkeeper] was like that? Well…Paxere turned. And wondered what Erin Solstice felt.
She wondered what the [Innkeeper] would do next.
