The [Innkeeper] raised her brows as Ekrn, listening, glanced at Erin sharply. Lyonette paused, took a breath, and offered Erin a sweet smile.
“…Things have changed.”
“Yes. I imagine they have.”
Erin’s face was so straight that even the attention of dozens of Fraerlings bounced off. Nanette ran into the image, panting.
“Erin!”
Erin! Ishkr, Liska, Apista, and the inn’s staff peeked into frame before being chased off by Dame Ushar. Nanette’s delighted face turned into worry as she saw Erin’s half-smile.
That was it. A half-smile. It grew a bit wider at seeing Nanette’s face, and Mrsha held up a card.
Greetings, Erin! You look amazingly healthy for someone who got blasted with magic! We can see Rabbiteater on a ship, and Ryoka was in the company of the Forgotten Wing fellows. I, personally, have to tell you I have located the Horns of Hammerad and ensured they are well and written strongly worded letters to the rulers of each nation that has them, though Fetohep is in a spot of bother. You may ask how I am doing, and you see—
Erin glanced at the card, then spoke.
“I have to go soon. I’m glad you’re well, Mrsha. I can’t help anyone where I am; I’ll go after everyone on Baleros. Don’t message me or use the scrying spell often. Cut ties with me if you can—people want me dead. Keep the inn safe, got it?”
Mrsha stopped holding up her card. Lyonette’s mouth opened wider into an ‘o’ of shock. Nanette peeked at Erin as she bowed to Ekrn. Even the Sentry Commander seemed surprised. Because with that said, Erin turned and began walking towards Daly.
“Daly—I’m going to meet the Forgotten Wing company and go with them. It’s up to you if you want to join me. I won’t say no to Tallguard or your people. Siri mentioned it to me. But I have to thank you for your help. I won’t forget it, but it seems like things are moving fast.”
“What? Uh—great. Who the f—is that your Skill?”
Daly was focused on Lyonette and the others. Erin nodded, eyes flicking backwards as the Earthers ran over.
“Yes. My Skill. If you want to say hello, go ahead.”
“Erin! Are you mad? When are you coming…are you alright?”
Lyonette ran over to catch up to Erin. She windmilled her arms as she nearly ran over the dais’ edge and passed through Ken, who dodged out of her way with a shout of alarm. Suddenly, the Earthers were staring at the projection from the [World’s Eye Theatre], and Mrsha looked up, round-eyed, at Ken.
Earthers! They were unmistakable—and there were Fraerlings! Nanette was bowing.
“H-hello. I tip my hat to thee. Thank you on behalf of the Witches of Izril for saving Erin.”
Ekrn was growling into a speaking stone.
“—leaving, Architects. If you give me permission to put a team together, we can decide on the scope of—what?”
He looked at Nanette and hesitated.
“Oh. A [Witch]? Greetings. I’m Commander Ekrn…one second. [Air Platform].”
He hesitated, then hopped off the grappling hook and onto a platform in the air. The misty creation supported his weight as he gave Nanette a slight bow.
“Hello! I’m Lyonette—”
“A [Princess]? It’s the [Princess]!”
Earthers rushed over, and Priya looked delighted as Lyonette turned red and tried to protest. Suddenly, the inn’s people were mobbed as Earthers ran up—but they wanted a word with Erin! Including a young woman.
“Erin! It’s me! It’s me! Lyonette, you didn’t even mention! It’s me! Rose!”
Rose!? Daly’s head snapped around, and Ken spun like a top at the familiar name! Another famous Earther from the group call! Erin slowed, turned, and gave Rose a blank look.
“Oh. Hey.”
“Rose is back, Erin!”
“Right. Take care of her too, Lyonette. And Joseph and Imani…Kevin’s gone. Who’s the last guy? Right, Leon.”
Her voice wasn’t flat. It was—businesslike. Busy. Nanette broke away from trying to shake a finger with Noa in the air and stared at Erin. Nanette’s voice was low as Lyonette blinked and Rose hesitated.
“I wish I could see her emotions. She must be…”
“Is that all?”
The [Princess] looked Erin in the eyes. The [Innkeeper] stood there, and Lyonette saw that Erin had armor on. Bushrangers’ armor altered for her. A crossbow at her side, and a wand at the other. A shortsword as well, and the [Innkeeper] was taller and unsmiling.
She looked so foreign that the things Lyonette had wanted to say were lost with concern. Disbelief. Erin hesitated, and she glanced at Lyonette, Nanette, and cleared her throat. She closed her eyes. Then spoke.
“Lyonette. You saw everything? You know most of what happened?”
“I did. I didn’t ask about…Roshal.”
Erin’s eyes flickered.
“Don’t. If there are any changes in the—inn? Sort them out yourself, would you? Do whatever you feel is right. I don’t think we can speak of it here, or at all, safely.”
She glanced around. Then looked in Lyonette’s eyes.
“I’m paying for it. I have to go and keep moving, or I’ll bring even more trouble with me. Give me time; once I’m in the Forgotten Wing headquarters, we can speak longer, if you want.”
Mrsha had raced over and was staring at Erin, aghast. However, at this, Lyonette gave Erin a long, level look and let out a breath as if she’d found something she half-expected. Half-appreciated, for all it shocked her.
“You’ve become the consequences.”
“I guess so. Or they’ve found me. I’ll be in touch.”
Erin began walking, and Nanette shouted.
“Erin! I can’t find Nerry! Or Ulvama or—some of the others are missing!”
Erin half-turned, and the little witch made Ekrn jerk as she rushed through Ken after Erin. But the [Innkeeper] just frowned.
“Don’t worry, Nanette. I’ll find them. I swear. Take care of the other lambs for me, would you? They might send a replacement over.”
She met Nanette’s eyes. The [Witch] hesitated and nodded, eyes suddenly intent. Erin turned. Then she lifted a clenched fist.
“Tell Bird I said I’m happy he lived. I have to go.”
Then she walked off.
 
——
 
In the absence of the [Innkeeper], the others did the meeting and exclaiming without Erin, but in a kind of abbreviated way. Erin’s absence had actually pre-empted a lot of the ‘what the heck is this’ from both sides.
So Lyonette ended up bowing to Ken, who, to her delight, gave her a very good Calanferian bow!
“Your Highness, I am Kenjiro Murata of the United Nations company, a [Diplomat] with the honor of addressing you.”
“Oh my, a [Diplomat]? That’s wonderful! What a practiced bow. And are you all, ah—from the same place as Erin?”
“The same locale.”
His eyes twinkled, and Mrsha danced in place. Everyone was an Earther?
“Aw, she’s so cute!”
For a second, Mrsha’s face fell as someone cooed, but it turned out to be Nicoletta bending over and waving.
“Hello! I’m Nicoletta! Are you Mrsha? It’s so cool to meet a Gnoll!”
Mrsha decided on puffing out her chest, though this was a distinctly Rose-like welcome. However, Rose was almost dancing in place as she spoke to Daly, Paige, and a panting Luan, who’d run over.
“Yes! That was absolutely me! Oh my god. Oh my—wait, we don’t say that. Fuck! Which ones were you? Did you know Ryoka was ‘batman’?”
Luan nearly tripped, trying to get a look at Mrsha and Nanette—and Calescent, who had edged into frame and was trying to look cool while showing off his bag of spices. Fraerlings were everywhere, despite Ekrn shouting for them to cover Erin. Multiple conversations were happening at once. Paige was speaking with Rose and looked aghast.
“What? Ryoka was ‘batman’? Get out. What’s she like?”
“Super cool. She sort of flies, but she’s standoffish…actually, she’s exactly like the Batman. The hero, not the persona. She was warning off that poor guy—”
“We figured that out. Fucking [Slavers], right?”
Rose tried to high-five Paige.
“Thank you. They got Erin at the inn after the battle! I wasn’t there for that, but—is she really okay?”
Paige hesitated as Rose stared at Erin, who was heading towards the gates, arguing with Ekrn.
“She’s sort of intense, and we only got to talk to her yesterday.”
“What? She’s super nice! Normally. Sometimes, she murders things with a frying pan. Has she done any cooking? Done any [Innkeeper] shenanigans? I bet she hit you with an [Immortal Moment].”
Luan’s ears perked up.
“What’s that? That sounds amazing. No…she just talked.”
“Wow. She must be hurt.”
That was all Rose said. She stared at Erin with genuine concern.
“She has all kinds of [Innkeeper] and [Witch] Skills. She’s great, really. She saved me and Kevin—”
Her eyes began to water, and the other Earthers stared at her. But Paige just nodded.
“We heard one of your people died. Is he the guy who ran Solar Cycles? We’ve lost people too. How many survived on your side?”
How many survived? What a question. Rose stared at Paige in disbelief, but before she could answer, Lyonette passed by Rose.
“Lips sealed on Skills, Rose. All Skills. Sorry, but we have an audience.”
She gave Rose a significant glance. Paige half-turned. There were indeed people watching them as well as Forgotten Wing, but Paige lifted a hand.
“Don’t worry, I’m almost positive the Fraerlings have warded us. We’re reasonably safe.”
Lyonette hesitated, but she didn’t rescind the order. And a Fraerling did call out.
“That’s correct! Alchimagus Resk to the rescue! Hello, you darling child! And to you, Miss Witch! I met a Fraerling [Witch] once. We have a few.”
He waved at Mrsha and Nanette. Mrsha was trying not to look delighted as she stared at Resk with his pink beard, standing in the air with Noa, but she was annoyed by the comments about her being cute and adorable.
—That was until Resk gave her a serious look.
“We saw some of the Meeting of Tribes stuff. Horrible. You are a very brave, very lucky young girl. If you weren’t so well-guarded, we’d be sending over a ring of power, or something like that, to keep you safe!”
Mrsha decided she liked Resk after all.
No, no. One can always use another ring of power! What kind did you have in mind?
Unfortunately for her ambitions, she wasn’t the only fascinating person here. Because Noa burst out.
“Are you a Hobgoblin? Hi! I’m a Fraerling!”
“Oh. Hey.”
Calescent pulled a fairly good Numbtongue, pretending to just notice the stares and brushing a hand across his [Chef]’s hat. But he practically leapt over.
“Calescent. I cook.”
“Get out of here! No, not literally. I love eating food. Kirana, look! It’s one of Erin’s Goblin friends! He cooks!”
“With spices.”
Calescent felt the need to clarify this important fact, and Kirana brushed off pursuing Erin for a second to approach.
“I’m Kirana, the [Housekeeper] of the United Nations company. Hello! Would you care for an [Honest Gift Exchange]? I can only do it once a month. Unless there’s someone better, I would love to do it with you.”
Calescent’s, Mrsha’s, and Nanette’s eyes went round. Aiko, trying to quick-sketch Mrsha’s good side, looked up.
“What that?”
The Hobgoblin looked wary, but Kirana explained.
“It’s where you and I get something from each other. It’s not like we teleport each other’s items; that would be too useful. It’s what each of us would give the other as a gift. I was going to do it to a Naga living in the far north, but they can wait.”
“Oooh. Ooooh. I would give you my special, signature death spices. Very spicy. Great for cooking.”
No, me, me!
“I could do that, Miss Kirana! Hello!”
Mrsha and Nanette instantly began vying for the Skill. But they were distracted—or at least, Nanette was—by Luan. She ran over.
“Are you Courier Luan? Hello! I’m Nanette! I’m a huge fan of yours!”
And your abs! Luan took a knee, grinning.
“I’m a huge fan of your inn! Hello! Courier Hawk, Courier Mihaela Godfrey, Courier Ryoka, and Courier Salamani—you’ve got legends over with you, Miss Nanette, right? Do you think I could meet Joseph or Imani if they have the time?”
“Absolutely! I can get them now! C-could I get an autograph? Not here, because we can’t touch each other—”
Luan winked.
“Of course. Say, is Kirana doing her gift exchange? What about Lyonette—”
Nanette spun and squeaked. Too late! Kirana blinked and nearly dropped a wicker basket, and Calescent held a bundle of cloth wrapped with a sari! The Hobgoblin peered inside.
“Baleros food! And spices and recipes!”
It smells great! No fair, no fair! I deserve some!
Mrsha was outraged, and she hopped around then spun as Kirana gasped.
“Amazing! Look at this! It’s—”
Dawson hurried over, and she showed bags of Calescent’s spices. Each marked with flames to indicate where they lay on his personal death-scale. All of the Earthers who’d been complaining about ‘weak sauce spices’ and the ‘pathetic’ spice tolerances of Lizardfolk and their fellow Earthers brightened up. Dawson took a pinch from one of the bags.
“What’s death spice taste like? Huh. T—fucking hell! Bloody Spear Spider legs, it’s in my mouth! I’m gonna die! Shit—”
He began swearing as Calescent gave him a delighted thumbs up. Ushar tried to cover Mrsha’s ears, but she raced over to her favorite new person.
Use the power of yogurt! Don’t use water! Scrape it off your tongue before you swallow—oh, wait, you did. It comes out the other end too.
Dawson ran for yogurt. Calescent was pulling out a hand-made crossbow—unenchanted, but Paige-quality—and he had a delighted smile on his face.
Meanwhile, Kirana, inspecting the spices with considerably more care, realized why she’d almost dropped the basket. It tipped—and gold pieces fell out of it onto the ground. All the Earthers stopped and stared at a small pile of gold.
“Wh—is that your gift?”
Paige whirled, and Lyonette closed her eyes. She shot Calescent a glare, and the Hobgoblin shuffled his feet.
“What? Is good gift. I would have done same thing. Skill knows me.”
Luan started laughing. Noa was already giggling with delight before pointing at the Antinium. Of course, the Fraerlings had met the inn in a sense before, since they’d been in contact, but what a feeling it was!
Chaotic, delightful, and surprising. Ken just started nudging Luan, who was trying to talk to Lyonette and earnestly form a connection. However, Daly had drawn her aside for a serious talk, and the bastard was hogging the [Princess].
—However, Ken was pointing something out to the Olympian-candidate of Earth. The fastest Earther in the world on the water. Probably one of the fittest, if not the most fit, Earthers in any world—
And Luan’s true nature.
