There was no proper explanation Paxere could give, and she was waiting for the door to return. Erin closed her eyes as she sat, the light shining down on her from above. She was taller. Different. When her eyes opened, her face was composed.
She stood up, and Paxere indicated where the door had been. But the woman just walked over and placed one hand on Paxere’s shoulder.
Instinct told Paxere that this might be the moment when Erin punched her; she’d once famously ambushed people in her inn with a pot of boiling curry. The Lucifen flinched—but Erin just stared down into Paxere’s eyes.
“You’ll regret it. But I will not.”
Erin’s hand rose. Paxere froze. She stared down at the hand, suddenly worried. Wait—
“You’re certain?”
The Devil looked up into those eyes, and they sparkled with amusement. But they never wavered once. Erin Solstice whispered as Paxere’s hand slowly rose, flinched, and the scales groaned. A contract was waiting. Quill poised.
The room itself listened as the [Innkeeper] spoke.
“Oh, yes. I have no regrets now or then. I ran out of them longer ago than anyone thinks.”
Slowly, the Devil studied the woman standing before her. That strange being she didn’t understand. Her fingers twitched—then they grasped another hand. The room sighed, soft as a whisper and louder than a hurricane.
When she lowered her hand, the Devil stared down at a piece of herself, and it was a reflection across both eyes.
One and the same. Then two disparate beings with a piece of each in the other. The women looked at each other.
And both smiled.
 
——
 
The traveller departed moments after she’d come. Which was highly suspicious, but her identity and capabilities had been noted.
Someone actually tried to send down a homing killer spell, and not only did the Fraerlings and countermagic agents have to dispel it, but the senders needed blasting.
In a literal and figurative sense; not only did Alchimagus Resk manage to send a spark or something back down the connection and scorch the [Hex Mage] slightly, but an embassy in Calanfer got a visit from a [Diplomat] of the Forgotten Wing company in the middle of the night.
Say what you would about soft power, but with Skills, it became a pretty damn hard power when you’d just nearly attacked a general of the Forgotten Wing company.
[Proof of Crime] was a lovely Skill. You could show someone a misdeed—if you’d caught the evidence of it. Of course, Niers knew that Erribathe wouldn’t be that ashamed of being caught trying to murder Erin Solstice.
She’d done in their [Prince].
Hiring a [Hex Mage]? Now that was dirty by Terandrian standards. Niers made arrangements to have the [Hex Mage] impounded and questioned; if he was lucky, said [Mage] might fess up to having had Erribathe as a former client; at the very least, said [Mage] had other noble contacts.
The Kingdom of Myths would implicate a lot of powerful people by its deeds if it wasn’t careful. [Hex Mages] might be rare in Terandria, but Niers would have experts make sure a curse didn’t do in this one for revealing their secrets.
As Queen Ielane would say, it was a [Soldier]’s approach to diplomacy. Straightforwards. But effective and, frankly, Erribathe was probably worse at the dance than he was.
Kingdom of Myths. For one of the Sleeping Three, no one had run up and nailed it in the coinsack in a long time, and now Erribathe was learning that being an isolated superpower meant it had lost a step. Also, that a Great Company of Baleros knew how to slap nations around.
Not that I’d want to take them in a straight fight if I had to. Them coming to Baleros would be my turf already, though. 
The thought of the Kingdom of Myths trying to conquer the Forgotten Wing Company by themselves from another continent was pretty amusing, and Niers had a good chuckle over that as he reviewed the other attempts on Erin’s life.
Niers would have called it ‘uneventful’ as nights went, given her speech yesterday. He was still replaying it come morning. But the visitor did bother him…he knew it was probably just about Viscount Visophecin, who had joined Erin for the battle at sea.
But why? What secrets is Ailendamus hiding? First the Great General turns out to actually be the most deadly [General] I’ve seen in my life. Now House Shoel…
He had to investigate them. Niers never had enough time. Especially because Erin was only a day away now. If all went well, she’d be passing General Gloriam, who would be launching a Selphid attack come evening, and if she rushed, she’d get to Elvallian. If not, tomorrow morning at the latest.
I could fly out to see her, perhaps? Gloriam might rub her the wrong way, but he’ll keep her safe. I don’t know if I want him fouling a first engagement—er—meeting. Obviously, we’ve met before, but choose the right terrain. The worst thing would be if he runs interference. Or worse, tries to help. A Lord Pellmia he is not…and I think he fancies he is.
Niers was preoccupied with his thoughts at breakfast, he was eating, writing notes to his forces with one hand, and re-reading the night report from Foliana’s people with the other. Erin was just emerging from her tent in the scrying spell, and General Diomedes was stretching as he got up.
It was only when he looked up that he realized his regular breakfast partner was staring at him.
Foliana was eating mac and cheese. Which looked frankly disgusting; it was like a buttered noodle, which Niers respected. Only, instead of butter, it was cheese, bread crumbs, and bacon.
“What? If you have problems with that much cheese, I’m not getting anywhere near you all day. Did she lie about her favorite dish? Get over it.”
The Titan snapped at Foliana. She just kept staring, mouth slightly open and fork raised as Seneschal Atmodeca oversaw the food coming in via [Servants].
“Don’t fly out to meet her. Mm. No, wait. Do.”
“…What?”
Niers wondered if he’d been speaking aloud. He only did that sometimes to make people think he had the habit. But no, it turned out Foliana didn’t need to read his mind.
“I am using reverse psychology on you. Go fly out to meet with her. It will be extremely funny if you do.”
The Titan put down his report and snatched a newspaper sized for him. All the Fraerlings wanted a copy of one, and so he had a [Scribe] whose job it was to take regular newspapers and resize them. Niers read the headlines. Oh, it had Erin on the front page of the Chandrar International. Nothing on Terandria or Wistram’s newspapers…or Pallass’ or…
Rémi Canada knew what was actually going to sell and had dignified her with a front page spread. Foliana plucked the newspaper out of Niers’ grip.
“Frame this.”
She handed it to Atmodeca. Niers glowered as the Crocodile Beastkin took the tiny newspaper.
“I was reading that. I don’t need a newspaper of her framed. What am I, a child?”
Foliana lifted something in her paws. It was a complex object in the shape of a mask, but with multiple ‘lenses’. Niers knew what it was. An object to cast [Magic Picture].
One of the things Earth did a thousand times better than this world. Foliana began fiddling with it as she put it on.
“Hold still.”
“Why are you taking a picture of me?”
The commander of the Forgotten Wing company, Niers’ technical boss, and the most dangerous [Rogue], Three-Color Stalker, handed the mask to a [Servant].
“Print the picture. Two copies. Mm. Write one…‘the day before his happiest day’. The other, ‘before sadness’.”
She looked entirely too pleased with herself as she wiggled her bushy tail. Niers put down his paper.
“I can see the jokes have begun. Classic. Some things never change. What’s the betting pool among the higher-ranked officers?”
“We don’t have one.”
“Foliana, we bet on whether or not you’ll have diarrhea any given week. Come on, what are the bets?”
Niers was doing his best to not give in to her antics. The [Rogue] put a paw over her chest.
“We don’t have one. I swear on someone else’s mother. No one wanted to bet. It was too depressing.”
“…I have that much support after so long?”
That was sort of embarrassing. Foliana peered at Niers.
“No. The odds on you succeeding are too long.”
He threw a breakfast roll at her.
“Eat shit. So finish your plate.”
“Everyone wants to see you happy. The sympathy pool was too full. Everyone put money down for you being happy then sad. Diomedes closed the betting. Don’t go fly out to meet her.”
“Foliana, the moment I take advice from you in romance is the moment I give up on romance!”
Niers snapped at her. Foliana sat there and slowly took a bite of her meal. Niers shuddered—then remember that it was Erin’s favorite dish.
I don’t need to micromanage the [Chefs]. Original food has its own appeal, and a meal’s just a meal. A note to them wouldn’t hurt. No, wait, this is micromanaging. Forget about the meals. Focus on the big picture. 
He’d better make sure he knew where Rabbiteater was. Did he drop the information that he knew Rabbiteater was a Goblin now or later? Wait, wait, wait.
Condolences. Right. People emotions. She’d be worried about her friends. In that sense, they were on a time attack. Maybe it did make sense to fly out there with a carpet and demonstrate he knew what priorities mattered?
Niers was poking at his food when someone spoke.
“Niers? Is that you?”
He jumped.
“Perorn? How’s the leg? We’re not due for a checkup today—anything up?”
He sat up as a Centaur’s face appeared in a scrying mirror…held by Foliana. Niers instantly scowled, and Perorn, looking like she was actually on the move, spoke, peering at Niers as the image of her kept jostling as she ran.
“Don’t fly out to meet Erin Solstice.”
“Cat giants take it! I am not—what has Foliana been telling you?”
Niers roared. Unfortunately, his top officers were unmoved by war, calamity, or the Titan’s shouting, or they wouldn’t be his top officers. Perorn spoke drily.
“She didn’t. If she said the same thing, she and I know you too well. Did you buy flowers?”
“…That’s gauche. She just survived a war, and she’s finally left Paeth and had that speech on the television. She’s concerned for her friends.”
“You’re romantically interested in her, Niers. Show her you mean it. Don’t do flowers; do something. Let me give you some advice: don’t put on a huge show. Make it a moderate show.”
Niers hesitated.
“I would have thought you would say to be more casual than that.”
Perorn scoffed.
“She might not want it, but some acknowledgement of the fact that you two have missed each other and done massive favors for each other for nearly a year is fitting. She’s your famous chess partner. Play a game of chess. But don’t throw her a parade throughout Elvallian. She’ll hate it. Do expect her to have priorities, but make her feel welcome.”
“I know all that, Perorn.”
The Titan’s tone was acerbic, and he swept his dishes aside and pointedly glanced at the timekeeping clock on the wall. Then he half-turned back to her as if he’d had a minor thought.
“So—favorite dishes from the [Chefs]? Too much? Not moderate enough?”
Perorn’s sigh was mirrored by Foliana’s huge smirk.
“I’ll take over the event. Send me your itinerary, and I’ll run it through…who’s replaced Peclir? Some Crocodile Beastkin?”
“Seneschal Atmodeca. Wave, Seneschal.”
“Greetings, Strategist Fleethoof.”
Perorn grimaced when she saw Atmodeca.
“Ah. Combat specialist?”
“Actually, she’s good at managing things. Lots of Skills related to ambush or keeping a small group safe in the wilds.”
“Fair enough. I’ll just name the head classes if there have been personnel changes, Atmodeca. They can handle it.”
“You don’t have to plan out tomorrow or later today, Perorn. If you have that much time, remotely teach a class. Your students miss you.”
Perorn didn’t dignify that with a response.
“Don’t send her a message on the road, Niers.”
“I’m not going to. Though some acknowledgement I know she’s on her way is fine.”
“Don’t. Send. Her. A. Message. Because I know you, and you won’t be fine with a [Message] spell. You’ve already sent a speaking stone to someone, and you’re thinking of chatting her up and asking if she needs you to get started on finding her friends. Wait till you meet.”
Niers hesitated as Foliana peered at him.
“Don’t be ridiculous. That’s not something I’d have to do. Diomedes has [Mages] who can set up the spell.”
“I bet the speaking stone’s attached to a chessboard that some poor [Soldier]’s had to carry all the way there. Are you watching her right now? That’s creepy. Atmodeca, turn off the scrying orb.”
“Wh—I am not going to be given orders like I’m a teenager. Seneschal, put that down.”
Atmodeca, unfortunately, understood who was in charge in a given scenario. Worse? So did Niers. He listened, face a thunderhead, as Perorn continued.
“Go teach your classes and deal with finding Erin’s friends and getting all the answers she’ll want. Don’t pay attention to her. Don’t look at a [Scrying] spell of her. If it’s important, someone will tell you. If she does something amazing or hilarious, watch it tonight or after you meet her. I’ll have a list of notes when you two are about to meet.”
“Am I an [Actor]? You’ll have me second-guessing myself.”
“Better than you putting on the act you think she’ll like. If you only second-guess, I’ll buy every Centaur in my command a bottle of Firebreath Whiskey.”
A raucous cheer rose from behind Perorn, and voices shouted.
“You have this, Lord Astoragon!”
“Fast hooves and faster tongue be with you!”
“Ask her if she wants to go for a ride, then—”
Perorn’s glower silenced the voices. She gave Niers a long look.
“Just…try to focus on your job, would you?”
He glowered as he sat there, red-faced, and Foliana took another picture. He resolved to have her rooms burned down. At length, the Titan muttered.
“I suppose I should thank you for helping me not be myself around her. It might give me a shot, eh?”
Strategist Perorn Sadiluc’s eyes softened. When she spoke, it was kindly.
“Niers, that’s not what I’m trying to do.”
His head rose, and Perorn continued.
“She’ll see that soon no matter what. I’m just trying to make the ride down into the briar patch gentle.”
She hung up, and Niers sat there for a moment and reflected that, sometimes, he preferred annoying encouragement to honesty.
Just…every now and then. And it relaxed him, perhaps as that overgrown Centaur brat knew it would. Niers the Professor was going to make mistakes. Niers the [Strategist] was going to make mistakes. Niers the Fraerling would, too, but it would be fine, probably.
 
