Slowly, Paxere’s head turned, and the hairs on the back of her neck rose. A separate set of scales…different from the first. She didn’t know the name of this one. And they were different in other ways.
Those scales aren’t made of Dragon parts.
“Interesting. That sounds like a separate deal.”
“We can surely fulfill both. Information on how to summon the Lucifen. I can offer you [Knights] of Ailendamus to guard your inn. To the death. Protective spells on all of your friends. Even assistance locating and transporting them. Do you want to return to Izril? I can do that too.”
That had to be tempting. Erin Solstice hesitated, and it certainly seemed to move her. A free way back to Izril…
“No Lucifen?”
Her smile was teasing, and Paxere’s was icy.
“No. Believe me, the protectors we can commit are far more adept at their roles than we. I am prepared to offer nine uses of [Gateway]—to any spot in the world. Personal wards for seven individuals. Even the martial assistance of Ailendamus’ standard forces—on top of location and delivery within ten miles of each one of your friends lost on Baleros.”
She had to word that narrowly. No possibility of entanglement in battle. Even that much magical assistance wasn’t the worst, and she thought Erin would jump at it. But the [Innkeeper] kept glancing up at the scales.
“I can’t do that.”
She said it almost dreamily. Regret etched in her words. Paxere leaned forwards urgently.
“Would you like more [Knights]? If you want to claim an artifact or—”
“I can’t do it. No. The ways to summon more of you are off the table.”
When Erin Solstice looked down, her eyes glinted. Paxere hissed. The scales above her rumbled.
“But—”
CLICK.
The new set of scales returned to their original position and began to lift upwards. It vanished, and Erin Solstice shook her head now, eyes set.
“You’re not getting what you want. We’re not doing two deals, Paxere. Not here. Not now.”
Damnation. She must have understood what that meant to the Lucifen. Or she knew some of their old stories. Or perhaps…she couldn’t deliver.
Paxere drummed her sharp, painted fingernails on the table, then relaxed and tried to smile.
We can obtain that by other means. Or at least, make it a priority for him.
Knowledge of what they sought existing was enough. What the Lucifen wanted, nay, needed, was the time and understanding of what they were craving. The Agelum claimed to be feeling better these days, though in Paxere’s experience, kissing a puppy made Lord Uziel feel better. The weakness affecting the two peoples was not hewn of the same material.
“Let’s go back to our initial offer then, Miss Erin. The terms are simple. In exchange for your soul—to be shared, not manipulated, coerced, or influenced in any way—we would link. I gain that on behalf of the Lucifen.”
“What do you do with souls? Explain that.”
Paxere hesitated. Because she herself was uncertain. Erin’s suspicious look made Paxere answer as honestly as she could.
“…As I understand it, the very nature of a mortal soul influences us in some way. It is not like food. Not exactly. It is the foundation of the power of the Lucifen. Authority. Authority to us is not like it is to you. It is not a title or a class or even the ability to swing a sword harder. Authority is a quantitative force…and this is the only valuable unit of measure.”
“And you have none, do you? Just you? Or all of the Lucifen?”
Again, Erin Solstice demonstrated too much insight. Paxere flushed and looked away, and Erin leaned over the table. Grinning.
“Very well. I see that the request about my worth has been fulfilled. So long as I remain, I might be the only person you have access to. That was why he was so desperate, wasn’t he? But how could you possibly grant me anything more? Magic. [Knights] to fight and die for me. All of that isn’t yours or mine. It’s as fake as other forms of authority to the Lucifen, and you and I know it. You might as well be a…a…”
She thought and came up with an analogy, and her lips twisted.
“A Sariant Lamb cozying up to a [King].”
The insult rankled Paxere more than Erin probably knew. The idea of being put on the same level as Saranthine was so insulting Paxere decided to spend some of her stipend on anti-Sariant Lamb propaganda next month. Maybe a statue of one being eaten by birds.
“I have more to offer than deferred power. You are in the heart of the Lucifen’s might. The Verum Pactum itself is the arbiter of this contract.”
“Then say something interesting. Because we have all the time in the world, and I’m still running out of patience.”
Erin snapped back. She was in control of this situation, like a [Diplomat], not just throwing manipulation or jabs, but pressing, aggressive, and throwing Paxere off.
The Lucifen went hot—then cold. Her mind frosted over, and clarity overcame her ire.
Wait a second, what a fool I have been.
Erin had no real intention of taking the deal at this moment. Why would she? Paxere looked up…and the Infernal Scales hung in the air. Judging her.
It was as if she were a child again, making a mistake like insulting or harming a servant, and the older Lucifen were looking down at her as she explained it was her nature. Trying to justify a crime that she knew was wrong.
What a naïve child. Here she sat in the greatness of the Lucifen’s glory, and she had not even tempted Erin. Of course the [Innkeeper] had the advantage. Of course Paxere was flustered.
Am I predator to this [Innkeeper]? Mighty scion of immortal power and the authority of House Shoel?
Or am I what Ryoka said we had failed to be? What Lucifen have always been?
I am a servant of mortality, in my way. I judge. My role here is to give Erin Solstice what she desires. To offer it.
Ah.
Paxere’s eyes opened, and it felt like someone had punctured a hole in a huge vat of her ego and arrogance. It drained out of her. Bit by bit. Until she was shriven and, if not humble, at peace. She looked at Erin suddenly, and it felt like the scales, rather than imposing on her, were now a reminder.
Fairness. This is a room of miracles. For her and me. Paxere looked up and bowed her head slightly to the scales. She let the illusion on her lapse, and Erin jerked as a grey-skinned Devil, short, pointed, horns jutting from her head, looked at Erin Solstice and smiled.
“I apologize, Miss Solstice. I’ve been quite unprofessional. Let me begin again. You have a request. I have yet to balance my scales. You ask for power. I?”
Paxere stared at her hands.
“I have little to give. Would I teach you a spell? Give you mana potions to increase your potential? Assign you bodyguards? Work to give you a noble title?”
Her tone oozed disdain for these suggestions.
“Even placing the lives of a Lucifen—even one as mighty as, say, Visophecin—under your control is the work of [Slavers]. That is not power. You desire what I do.”
“I…asked for it.”
Erin Solstice was growing increasingly cautious. She was glancing at the door, but Paxere’s smile kept drawing Erin’s head back to her. As the [Innkeeper] tried to rise…as her instincts told her to go…
She had to hear it. Curiosity. Paxere drew upon this place and waited. Waited…and listened to the beating of her heart.
The voice of this room was not that of a sentient thing, but the weight of history and knowledge pressing down on her. She had not the time or, frankly, the authority to parse the deeper meanings. She was a neophyte to her own nature.
But Paxere had heard enough. The room did not even need to tell her the answer: it was so simple she should have divined it by herself. But she had not had the humility to do so.
When she looked up, Paxere of House Shoel smiled.
Her sires were dead. The woman of their end sat across from her.
Yet Paxere offered something fair, for her loss, her emotions, were petty, worthless things. This was a transaction.
She was Lucifen. What did she have to offer?
Slowly, Paxere raised a clawed hand to her chest and dug the claws into her flesh. Her blood did not run. It hurt terribly, but her hand passed through the grey skin and bones. She delved deeper, past her heart, as Erin stared at her and, with agony—with a smile—pulled something invisible out.
Invisible…but there. Lighter than a feather. Heavy enough to place on those scales above. And they—
Clicked. Until what was being offered on both sides was equal. Paxere, panting, looked Erin in the eyes.
“What else can I offer you for power, Erin Solstice? The answer is simple: a part of me. You want something beyond your mere classes? Take my hand.”
She reached over the table drenched with the ichor of countless species. In Erin’s eyes, Paxere now saw it.
I must lose something for this. I will gain something for this.
This deal will make the both of us greater than before. 
Her clawed hand opened, and Erin Solstice beheld Paxere’s true features. Horns. Sharp teeth meant to eat only flesh. A predator’s smile. Enough of the mortal form to trick them and beguile—but the strength to kill. The intelligence to judge.
Whether the Lucifen were worthy of that duty, they had never asked. The best of them had striven for that honor, though. Paxere understood all of this—just as she understood one more thing.
Ah, I feel proud of myself, Azemith. Mother. Igolze, Father, I am ready to be a Lucifen in my fullness, now.
Next time, I shall be better at this.
No part of Paxere expected Erin to actually agree. For guilt, Paxere had speculated she might sway Erin to give up something. In its lack? Even with the scales so magnificently balanced, Paxere knew Erin Solstice.
She’d read the reports from [Spies], first hand accounts. This was the woman who had opposed everything and everyone. One of the most infamously stubborn beings among mortals that Paxere had ever met. She had resisted the Cyclops of Pallass, another very impressively amoral being by Lucifen standards, for a year. Erin Solstice had, when she had been given the option to run or hide, faced down a being at her inn and dared an army of the dead. She had waved a white flag before Tyrion Veltras and the Goblin Lord.
The [Innkeeper] sat there, unblemished in body, but scarred in ways Paxere knew were there. Her eyes had the same intensity that so many had witnessed, but now…they held uncertainty. She stared at Paxere’s hand as the Lucifen panted.
A part of her was sitting on those scales. She felt naked, exposed. Like a bit of her was missing. She was afraid of what might happen if Erin took her hand. As Paxere waited for Erin to draw back—
The woman threw back her head and began to laugh.
The laughter was high. Mocking. Like no laughter Paxere had ever heard from Erin Solstice in any recording of her. It was not the giggling or joyous sound of wonder. It was amused and spiteful. Not even a cackle in defiance of the gods.
Paxere’s hand withdrew. A snarl crossed the Lucifen’s face, despite her newfound equanimity.
“A ‘no’ would have sufficed. I apologize for my conduct, but I have offered a deal I consider fair.”
She spoke, voice frozen over. Erin Solstice kept laughing, practically guffawing now, at Paxere across the table. She was close to falling out of her chair. How many words could you use to describe laughter?
Howling? Chuckling? Hysterics? Hooting? The sound fit none of them. Erin’s cachinnations were truly uncontrollable. The well of mirth they drew from was unknown to Paxere, but it made a joke of this room, of her, and of Erin herself. It was self-reflective, bitter, and yes, oddly happy—
And amused, oh, a world of it. When Erin finally managed to stop an eternity later—and this room was in a time out of time, but Paxere felt like it had gone on for ages—she finally wiped at her eyes.
“Oh. Wow. I don’t think I’ve ever laughed like that in my entire life. Today was worth it—just for that.”
“I’m delighted you found my offer so amusing. Shall we conclude? Was it that insulting to be offered…”
Paxere’s cheeks were enflamed, and her eyes darted to her very soul. A piece of a Lucifen, one of the proudest of peoples, offered in equal balance for Erin’s soul.
The woman sitting across from Paxere felt so much older than Paxere, for all Paxere was thirty-eight. But like how half-Elf ages were different…these two species had aged far differently. Erin looked at Paxere, shaking her head.
“I think it’s hilarious how much you believe my soul is worth.”
Paxere twitched. Even now, it felt like she was trying to offer an olive branch only for Erin to throw a punch. The [Innkeeper] continued.
“Anyone. You could have made this deal with anyone. But you came for me.”
We couldn’t have done this with anyone. Rather than say that, Paxere lied with the truth.
“We don’t like losing.”
Truer words were never spoken. But Erin Solstice arched her brows and almost burst out in laughter again. She shook her head and then gave Paxere a genuine smile across the table.
“You’re sitting in this room with me, Paxere. You’ve already lost a war.”
Alright. Paxere offered Erin a polite smile and made a show of standing up and adjusting her clothing. Time to leave with what little remained of her dignity. She half-bowed, hoping it was sardonic.
“I regret that we could not come to terms, Erin Solstice. Rest assured, I entered into these negotiations in good faith. I wish you the best with your pursuits.”
She paused.
“I mean that genuinely. Strange.”
With that said, Paxere walked towards the door. So this was how you kept your head high after negotiations you’d put your all into failed. What a splendid lesson. She sighed; telling Vultapheles about all this would be a chore. She had her hand on the doorknob when Erin spoke.
“I never said I refused, did I?”
Paxere’s hand twisted on nothing at all. She stood still for a second, eyes wide—then turned slowly.
“…Did you have questions? I assumed your amusement indicated denial.”
Erin Solstice sat there, arms folded, smiling.
“I don’t understand what I’m giving up. A soul. What a strange thing. Do you?”
“Not entirely. I only know that I want what you have. And mine…aches.”
Paxere’s eyes went to the soul resting on the scales. She felt terribly, terribly vulnerable. If they had been in the real world, she would have been frightened something might happen. What, she couldn’t say. The room whispered to her, but she was too young, too inexperienced to hear all of what it was telling her.
“Yet the deal is fair.”
“The fairest I’ve ever given. Perhaps a grave mistake. If it is—it is mine and mine alone.”
Paxere smiled at that with great satisfaction. Erin raised her eyebrows and looked up at the scales.
“So neither of us know what we are giving up. If I take your hand, we will change.”
“Most assuredly.”
