Now, the [Reporter] was nodding cautiously, glancing at the restless Forgotten Wing company. A [Magic Strategist] was whisper-screaming to General Diomedes, possibly with orders to halt this now. But Salex had to know this was the scoop of a lifetime.
“Thank you, again, for clarifying, Miss Solstice. Most people would, I think, apologize, even if they felt like the way events happened was not under their control.”
Erin didn’t even pause to think this time. She stepped back, stared upwards, as if remembering something, and spoke with a faraway voice.
“Do you know what I said, Salex? After I rescued my friends? After I killed Admiral Rosech and I was sailing away with all the wrath of the world coming down on me?”
“No. The scrying spells didn’t record that.”
The Lizardman’s eyes gleamed. Daly held his own breath; there was a fascination here that drew his attention and forced him to listen, like Diomedes’ voice. That was it, he realized. He and Erin had stories to tell. Ones that were true, unbelievable, and…the [Innkeeper]’s voice was low.
“I said ‘I have run out of regrets’. I have no more. Not for anyone or anything I did. Saving a Goblin’s life? Betraying one side? Killing [Slavers]? It doesn’t matter what it is. Listen to me.”
She looked into the scrying mirror.
“I have nothing to say to excuse myself. No reasons to give. If you want some, search for answers. But if you want to kill me—come to Baleros. Come after me. I’m right here. But be ready.”
“Ready for what? Another Bloodtear battle?”
Salex prompted Erin, and she smiled then. Daly was staring at her, and he kept thinking—
Well, damn. She does belong on Baleros. 
The [Innkeeper] looked Salex in the eye, then straight in the scrying mirror.
“Be ready to sacrifice everything for it. Prince Iradoren wasn’t prepared. He tried to kill one of my friends. That he was a [Prince of Men], that his country was Erribathe, that he had this reason or that? It doesn’t matter. Here I am. If you’re coming after me—”
She glanced up at the skies, mercifully clear, but perhaps that was because General Diomedes’ magical iris was pointed up, glowing, as if suppressing something. Erin finished her sentence as she turned.
“—I hope you’re ready for the cost.”
 
——
 
“What. The. Fuck. Was. That. Daly?”
That night, Paige punctuated each screamed word with a slam on the table as she called Daly. The Bushrangers’ leader had no explanation.
“That was Erin. How’s Ken, uh, doing?”
“Ken just tossed out all his plans to approach Erribathe. Out the literal window. He’s calmer than me, somehow. He just says there’s no point.”
Erin Solstice was the consequences. Lyonette had said that, and now Daly sort of got what was meant. She’d warned him Erin would do things that were unpredictable.
“You can either help her or get in her way, and believe me, she’ll make things difficult if you’re in her way. She’s the most stubborn person you’ll ever meet.”
As a Geneva Scala enjoyer, Daly had thought that was a bit hyperbolic but had taken the meaning. Now, as an Erin Solstice observer, he had to reconsider. Say what you would about Geneva’s own legendary obstinacy—she was a pacifist.
General Diomedes himself seemed rather impressed by Erin’s taunting of at least one major power. Though his take was it was ‘Niers’ problem how much we care. We might like you more, though, Miss Solstice.’
He meant his entire company. Even the hard-as-nails Dullahans with mithril armor, who turned out to be Diomedes’ personal vanguard, were giving Erin Solstice nods at dinner.
What Daly was sure of was that this wasn’t an accident, and he said so to Paige.
“Look, this is probably why she ducked out of Talenqual so fast, Paige. You don’t say badass lines like that and not know what you’re doing. She’s provoking them. Whether or not that’s smart, you tell me.”
“Smart? Listen, Daly, I don’t think you realize how dangerous Erribathe is. They could literally carpet bomb her! They’re one of the old nations with old tech—and she killed their [Prince] and just said he deserved it!”
“Yeah, well…maybe she’s trying to keep her inn safe. Maybe there’s another angle, but I bet whoever’s angry at her is more angry at her than the Goblin Slayer dude.”
Daly had been thinking—okay, Tofte had been thinking—and he’d speculated that no one had really asked why Iradoren had gone after the Rabbiteater dude. Obviously, the United Nations company wasn’t as invested in the whys and wherefores, but in hindsight, it was sort of odd.
Was he an Earther? Or maybe…Daly wasn’t about to repeat his ideas, even on the secure line, but Paige fell silent.
“Well…go with her and see how Geneva’s doing. Oh! And Marian and Umina. They’re back in class. And Kissilt and Cameral, I guess.”
“Come on, I like those two.”
“Okay. Okay, all four. But be careful, Daly. Erin doesn’t seem to notice who she might hurt right now.”
Paige pleaded with him, and Daly chuckled.
“I think she’s plenty aware of who she’s planning on getting hurt. But we’ll see. It’s not like she needs help tonight. If this General Gloriam is anything like General Diomedes—”
He glanced up at the Cyclops, who was sitting back, axe on his knees, for the night. His eye swept the camp like a spotlight; it could even project a beam of light, which he’d shown off as evening fell.
“—I don’t think we’re needed. Yet.”
That final word hung in the air, and Daly turned off the speaking stone. In truth, he thought when they met the Titan…that was when it would be time to talk. An alliance with the Forgotten Wing sounded ludicrous now, seeing what Niers Astoragon had. But the United Nations company did have some things on their side. Paeth aside…Daly just wanted to meet the guy and see if he was a monster, a genius strategist, or both.
He wasn’t sure where Erin landed, but he did think to himself as he prepared to sleep—whatever she was, she was brave as shit. Or just suicidal.
 
——
 
That night, sixteen death-spells came after Erin, though again, due to Silvenia’s magics warding her identity and location, they were all imprecise. Now they knew where she was, they were sending area-attack spells, the Forgotten Wing was playing defense with the Fraerlings.
And it was defense.
Cotm and Resk had been assigned to the job. Not Noa; she was Luan’s partner in a sense. Ekrn had told Cotm it would be a rough job; meeting the Titan wasn’t easy.
The [Almanac Captain] felt underleveled and undergeared, for once, and even Cotm was profoundly grateful for the Forgotten Wing company.
“Dead gods. I think General Diomedes just killed an [Assassin].”
Resk looked up from a bowl of noodles he’d been slurping.
“What?”
Cotm was listening to the Forgotten Wing’s chatter. He glanced up and saw Diomedes shifting a bit, but it just looked like he was yawning. His eye had opened slightly—Cotm listened.
“He squished them! Now he’s wiping his hand…there aren’t many [Assassins] actually going after Erin in person. Several clandestines, but they might just be observing her. They ran away or surrendered when Forgotten Wing jumped them.”
Resk stared at the Cyclops.
“Gee. I wonder why. You know, I wonder why anyone goes for [Assassin]. Obviously maybe they’re desperate, but it really has a high attrition rate as a job.”
“I know, right? Even Three-Color Stalker’s a [Rogue]. I’d rather be multi-purpose. Oh, looks like that last one was just a nosy [Snooper]. They’re begging not to be killed. Dead gods, I think Forgotten Wing has some secret agent types.”
“Makes sense. Foliana has to train some of her people too. I really want to meet her.”
Resk was remarkably upbeat about meeting all his legends, not the stress of the job. They were sleeping in hammocks, and Cotm sighed. At least he could trade off command with Resk in four more hours, and it seemed like Forgotten Wing was a splendid first defensive line.
However…the fact that Erin was now ‘visible’ meant that everyone was after her. And after only two seconds, Cotm yanked his spellbook open while Resk snapped an eye open and fell out of his hammock.
“Did you—”
“My spell’s gone off! Forgotten Wing! Did you catch that?”
“This is [Sentrymaster] Loul. No spells activated.”
Cotm was already out of the door, and Tallguard were moving rapidly. Resk bellowed into the speaking stone.
“Get to Erin’s tent! Now! Someone just opened a [Gateway] spell within a hundred feet of her! Not merely Tier 5; it was cloaked! That’s Tier 6 magic!”
“[Stalkers] moving. General Diomedes is awake.”
Now that was reassuring and terrifying. The Cyclops’ eye opened a fraction as Resk poked his head out the tent. However, Tier 6 magic? He could barely cast Tier 6 magic when linked, and he was one of the best Alchimagi among modern Fraerlings.
What—or who—had Erin made as enemies? Resk waited for screaming, explosions, or something. But all he heard was silence. Resk breathed into his speaking stone.
“Cotm?”
 
——
 
Erin Solstice sat in her tent. She felt things were going well, all things considered. The interview had been partly spontaneous, but she’d known what she was going to say.
She wasn’t…calm. She was afraid. She was tense. And she was resolved.
Tomorrow, she might meet the Titan; the day after at the most. She was due to meet General Gloriam. In a sense, she regretted not having more to say to General Diomedes, but he was preoccupied with a literal damn war.
Erin…wondered if Gloriam could help with her aura or train her. Maybe it would be better to just focus on Niers, though. She flexed a hand open and closed, and wondered, exactly, what Lyonette had seen and couldn’t say.
Or done.
Well, there would be time to talk and explain and figure things out when she was in an actually secure area, without putting the Fraerlings in danger. Erin was not blind. She knew she might die before reaching Elvallian. That was the thing; you could forget that any day might be your last.
Erin never would. She knew death could be any day for her. Ever since she’d woken up a month ago and realized she’d survived…
“I’m ready. I can do this.”
She was trying to get some sleep rather than wear herself out thinking about how to talk to Niers, or Foliana, when she heard a sound outside her tent. She raised her crossbow, but didn’t fire instantly.
“Hauspec?”
“Reindeer.”
Erin relaxed and didn’t fire. But she kept the crossbow raised—despite Cotm’s word about trigger discipline to keep her crossbow aimed at the floor. And in fact, it was Captain Cotm who entered with, of all things, a Lizardwoman.
This one wasn’t a fake Goblin, but a shadow, from her features to her eyes, which were inverted, white in color. She blended amazingly well, even in Erin’s lit tent.
“Erin, we have an intruder.”
“Assassins?”
“No, one of those is dead…we’ve been guarding you all night. That is. Forgotten Wing did, but it was mostly rabble. One [Assassin].”
One. Was that a lot or a little? Erin frowned. Cotm looked cautious, and the shadowy figure, a [Stalker], spoke. Their voice was as nondescript as their body.
“This intruder used a Tier 6 spell. They were apprehended instead of killed and surrendered.”
“Really? Too high-level to kill?”
Cotm scratched his head as he and the [Stalker] exchanged glances.
“More like…well, maybe too important, but just too weird. They’re not an [Assassin]. Or if they are, they suck.”
“Not a visible ruse. Tallguard and our people agree; she has nothing hidden on her.”
“Except an illusion spell, but no killing spells. High-quality gear. She wants to speak with you. She says you ‘owe her’. Ringing any bells?”
Erin frowned. She definitely had to be careful here. Of course, the question was…
“That could mean a lot of people. Do you have a name?”
Cotm nodded with a grimace.
“It’s ‘Andomexalitne’. Which I am almost certain is a fake name. Listen, she looks like she’s nineteen, and she claims to know you. That you owe her group a debt. For the battle at sea?”
Now, Erin’s hair stood up. Wait a second. If that was referring to who she thought it was…she paused as the [Stalker] spoke.
“The option is yours, Miss Solstice. We’re here to keep you safe. We can arrange imprisonment till we get to Elvallian, but we were threatened that others would come after her. We can dispose of her, but that may lead to entanglements. Your call.”
“I’ll speak to her, if you think it’s completely safe.”
The [Stalker] paused.
“I seldom do. This is an acceptable risk, however.”
The two spoke into their speaking stones, and Erin looked around. The tent they had given her was magical and actually very spacious on the inside; there was a large, queen-sized bed, a vanity, a chest to store goods—all kinds of stuff that would vanish into the tent when it was turned into its portable form. The ‘door’ was a literal one, and this was called, rather fittingly, a Traveller’s Home.
When they brought in the young woman who looked disheveled with a dried nosebleed, her black clothing a mess from being literally slammed flat by a [Stalker], red eyes flashing, Erin Solstice stared blankly at the young woman.
She was positive she’d never met the young woman in her life. But she hesitated as she narrowed her eyes and noticed an odd similarity in dress. Memory flared, and she had, instantly, a pretty good idea of who this was.
“Intruder’s present. We’re staying put.”
Cotm folded his arms as Resk and several Tallguard took up positions around the room. The [Stalkers] just vanished, which was more unsettling. Cotm glowered down at the young woman.
“Identify yourself.”
“Andromexia—”
“Actually, it’s Andomexalitne. Want to try again? You’re two seconds from getting a crossbow bolt through the head, and believe me, we have small ones and large ones. Your pick.”
Cotm’s bad [Guardsman] routine was supposed to be supplemented by Resk’s good [Guardsman]. Unfortunately, Resk went too far.
“Someone get a handkerchief for the young woman? We don’t have to be savages.”
After a moment of silence, a handkerchief appeared out of the air and landed on her face. The young woman spat in frustration.
“I’m here to talk to her. Don’t get in my way. Kill me and—”
Her eyes flickered.
“You’ll regret it.”
The Forgotten Wing had left the interrogation up to Erin—who was silent, thinking, eyes locked on the young woman’s face—and the Fraerlings. Which was sort of a mistake, because Resk jabbed a finger at the stranger.
