When one soldier quit, their buddies did. That was why you allowed relationships in the ranks, sometimes, or held back pay or did everything you could so that they said ‘one more tour’, ‘one more campaign’, or wanted that extra bit of gold that’d really pad out their retirement.
“Let’s see. Yep. Mauler’s Shorthands. Division here, battalion here. Oh, they’re not even pretending, they’re all quitting here…”
Niers was collating a bunch of different armies and sighing as he did what he did best: find a pattern. He made a note on a piece of paper.
‘Copy without exact numbers or locations. 40 200 copies. For class.’
He still had class, though he couldn’t take much time to teach. With Perorn gone and more of the instructors needed, doubtless class quality was dropping a bit, but then again, the students were getting a first-hand look at a Great Company actually mobilizing. He’d have the students look at the data to see if they noticed the pattern he did.
Good test of their instincts. Wil would get it. Was he back yet?
Sometimes, Niers was the Professor, the one who taught students. The snarky, impatient, and, yes, sometimes unkind one…but the best of the bunch. Other times, he was the [Strategist], who did what was best for Forgotten Wing and dealt with his pesky boss, Foliana, and worked long hours.
And sometimes, he was the Titan, and the Titan gave an order and told armies to march on Paeth and collect someone he wanted to meet and thought nothing of it.
“Lord Astoragon, Iuncuta Eirnos to see you in five.”
A voice spoke from a speaking stone. A Fraerling assigned to secretary duties. Poor fellow. Niers tapped the stone.
“No.”
A pause.
“Lord Astoragon? The Iuncuta—”
“I said no. Eirnos may speak with General…Gloriam if she wishes. Set up a secure line. I will have time later today.”
Gloriam was good with that sort of thing. Niers didn’t look up as the speaking stone fell silent. The door to the Fraerways that led into his room wasn’t locked. It was stupid to try to lock out Fraerlings in any case. Nor did Niers have the exact security you might want; Eirnos’ people were far higher level and had secured his Fraerways.
“Lord Astorag—”
Niers looked up briefly.
“Seneschal Atmodeca.”
The door opened after thirty-two seconds, and a Tallfolk walked in. She was slower than you might want; Peclir had always been there in under ten seconds, even if he had to run. But hopefully Atmodeca wasn’t a traitor. You had to weigh pluses and minuses like that.
Atmodeca was new, so she also had her quirks that Niers had to adjust to.
“I am still not a [Seneschal], Lord Astoragon. I remain [Wild Keeper].”
“I speak like the job you occupy. Mentality, Seneschal. Keep Eirnos from bothering me. I have a request here—and get me [Vanguard] Hoisq.”
A huge, clawed hand plucked a few times before it could pick up the piece of paper. Atmodeca instantly handed the paper off to one of her helpers and repeated the instructions.
“Keep Eirnos from bothering you. Fulfill request on paper. Get Vanguard Hoisq.”
That was definitely sort of annoying, but she walked away at a quick pace…for her…and she hadn’t betrayed Niers and left him to die yet, so he considered this all stress testing of the job. Besides, while Fraerlings didn’t normally acknowledge Tallfolk for being imposing aside from being, well, giants…even they were a bit respectful of Niers’ new seneschal.
A seven-foot-tall Beastkin with huge scales, wide-set eyes on both sides of her face, and a long snout filled with teeth made anyone hesitate. Niers hadn’t seen a Crocodile Beastkin in ages. He wondered how Foliana had gotten Peclir’s replacement.
What Atmodeca lacked in the right Skills or perhaps training for acting as a [Seneschal] in the Forgotten Wing company she made up for in adaptability and understanding what the job was, rather than what her class was.
Niers went back to work.
Eirnos did not bother him.
Resignations. Where was Niers? Part of him was thinking how he should dress when Erin got here. A stupid part, who wondered if he should have let her go to Izril if that was what she really wanted. Or find her friends. But he could help with that, and he didn’t want to know if she had time for him.
You poor, old, deluded fool. Niers was also back in the Labyrinth of Souls, ordering friends forwards.
“There was never a way back, Haspeta. Springwalker. They make good adventurers. I wonder if their village is special or if it’s just really miserable in Erribathe.”
Maybe he could recruit them. But how much work would it be getting a handful of half-Elves? Another Haspeta would be worth the effort. Or a Ceria.
Had the half-Elves ever believed him when he told them how she died? They hadn’t wanted the bow. They might still be mourning her; her parents were alive and lived in another time. It had only been a few decades. Nothing at all for half-Elves.
Hydra. A Hydra had killed Haspeta, he’d said. All true. A Hydra in the dungeon. True…and not the whole story. A Hydra like no other. A damn dungeon. Me.
The last part of Niers just read the report and decided he couldn’t stop it. He looked up when Hoisq walked in.
The Selphid had been at the door for a few minutes before he knocked. Probably nervous. When he entered, Niers saw the Selphid was resolved to die.
“Hoisq. Get in here, you old dog. Grab a drink. Seneschal Atmodeca, get him whatever he wants.”
She materialized at the door and nodded.
“Get him whatever he wants. Drinks?”
“Water. Thank you.”
The Selphid was no ordinary [Soldier]. He was a [Vanguard Captain] in principle class. His true class was [Terror of the Infantry, Vanguard-Captain of Selphidkind].
A good class. Somewhat generic, actually, for a Level 44 [Vanguard], but Hoisq wasn’t actually that imaginative a Selphid.
Don’t get that wrong! He was an amazing [Vanguard]. He wasn’t the kind of person who would make [Commander], who’d look at a bad situation and say ‘we’re breaking out, form on me’.
He was the kind of Selphid—when he was a he—who would keep advancing, even if he had to change bodies six times in a battle. In the last battle against Jungle Tails, he’d killed over sixty Lizardfolk himself, held his section of the walls, and followed Niers into battle despite multiple injuries. He was one of Niers’ elite.
The Titan’s literal vanguard.
The Forgotten Wing company employed Selphids en-masse, unlike Howling Maelstorm and the Iron Vanguard, and most of the major companies of Baleros. Dullahans, Lizardfolk, Nagas, and Centaurs all had a thing about Selphids, so their enlistment position was usually as the lowest-rung [Mercenaries].
Niers had taken one look at a species who could switch bodies in a fight and who feared no normal injuries, and seen the greatest shock troops he could ask for. They’d won wars for him, and Hoisq had been with Niers for fifteen years.
Fifteen years. He wasn’t going to quit being a soldier. He couldn’t. He had enough gold from being such a high-level Selphid to retire many times over, but he couldn’t. It was in his blood.
Hoisq accepted a cup of water and sat as Niers put his papers aside. The Fraerling himself took a drink of mango juice or something and grimaced.
“You don’t want this, uh…delightful mango purée shit?”
“Is that the stuff with the grass in it?”
“It’s healthy. According to the Last Light.”
The Selphid hesitated.
“Maybe a small cup. My taste buds aren’t so good these days.”
“Really? You need a new body?”
“Eh, it’s not all it’s cracked up to be. I’d rather have one I’m used to than keep switching…young Selphids are all about new experiences. How healthy is this?”
“Well, I’m supposed to approve it as a cure for scurvy, even as field rations. It’s got fruit in it, the right herbs and vegetables to replenish nutrients, and it doesn’t trigger allergies or any one species’ digestive problems. What do you think?”
Hoisq took a cup, and on his and Niers’ thoughts rested an entire initiative. Niers knew that there were orchards, an aspiring [Brewmaster], [Merchants], and thousands of jobs resting on this one stupid drink that might become standard in rations in…he thought he’d do a coastal army and see if the [Healers] and reports indicated anything different after a four-month trial period.
Imagine it. You drank a cup of this, no big deal. But what if the army had a hundred and twenty thousand members and each one had to get a cup on the regular for a trial? All resting on Hoisq’s pause as he sipped.
“I mean, it’s okay.”
“Right? It’s okay. For a fruit drink, I’d hope I’d be happier with it.”
“Is it that healthy?”
Niers sighed and wrote down a note to give it the go-ahead.
“We’ll see. It’s probably not noticeable in an actual, tangible way in battles. But I’ll trial it. Be glad I’m not making everyone here drink it.”
“Or trial the enemy’s stuff like those stupid salt shakers?”
Niers laughed at the old memory.
“I swore that they were made that way for some clever reason. Good times, good times…wait, were you even with us, back then? The King of Destruction was ages ago.”
Hoisq ducked his head.
“No, but the salt shaker was in the main barracks. Remember when you were copying what he was doing, including using the stuff he made?”
Niers closed his eyes.
“Those damn salt shakers he had his entire kingdom make and use. Yes…wait, that was years later. Why was it still there? Oh no…”
Hoisq grinned, as Niers sat up and groaned.
“No one knew you wanted to stop or they forgot. It really was bad; it would shoot out pepper inside like a stream if you weren’t careful. All the new recruits would dump all the pepper into their food—”
“The pepper allowance! Dead gods damnit!”
Niers covered his eyes, and Hoisq looked up. Niers searched around.
“I’ve seen a higher-than-average usage of salt and pepper on the books for twenty-six years. I always thought the [Cook] liked to use too much, and we never got that many complaints about their cooking—even when they changed, I put it down to someone passing on a secret recipe.”
“So for twenty-six years…”
Niers laughed to himself, and Hoisq covered his eyes. How much gold was that? And how many poor recruits had been forced to eat a salt or pepper covered meal? That was the kind of thing that happened in a huge group like this.
“I should go down to the mess hall and eat more. When did I stop?”
Niers sighed. Hoisq shrugged.
“You do regularly enough after the big battles. You were down there just after we spanked Jungle Tails, remember? But no one would give you the bad salt shaker.”
“Dead gods, it’s practically an antique. Tell you what—someone grab it and see if the King of Destruction wants to pay for it, or some [Curator] of trinkets. It’s an original from Reim itself. You never know, it might end up with a hundred gold coins in someone’s pocket.”
“Really?”
Hoisq had never lost his instincts as a [Mercenary] for free gold, and Niers bet the salt shaker would be gone by the end of the day. The Titan grinned.
“Absolutely. You take those kinds of gambles. Could be it’s worth nothing, but it’s got my name, and it was the King of Destruction’s creation back when he used one of his Skills to replicate them across Chandrar. Some idiot will shell out for it. Could be a nice little golden egg in your pocket when you quit. Along with all the other Selphids in my command.”
He caught Hoisq as the Selphid was relaxing and joking around. That was the thing. Hoisq knew what was coming. He knew Niers, and he still got got. He was a good soldier. Less good in a room like this, and Niers knew it, which was why he’d ordered Hoisq to come here.
Tactics. They were as close to friends as Niers got with the [Soldiers]. Hoisq had saved his life many times. The Titan. Did he feel bad as the Selphid went still and sat up straight?
He wished he did. That was almost as good as the real thing. And it was all Niers had.
“Sir, I can only speak for myself and the Selphids in the primary vanguard—”
“Let’s not waste time, Hoisq. Don’t tell me who gave you the order. Don’t lie to me. Let’s be respectful to the years we’ve known each other and fought side-by-side. Selphids are quitting. I noticed it last month. Do you think I’m holding a grudge for the Minds incident?”
Hoisq was silent. Nervous. He was sitting at his desk, sipping that stupid drink from a cup with a wooden straw, just sitting. He had good posture and one of those colorful, stuffy military uniforms you got if you dressed up like a Terandrian [General], but reminded people of his rank.
He’d definitely have to change for Erin. The Titan liked to think he looked relaxed, but Hoisq knew him. Fear was not something Hoisq gave into, but his salute was crisp, and his body was tense.
Seneschal Atmodeca was lurking around the corner of one of the adjoining rooms. Niers could tell, though she was completely silent. He had to tell her later that he’d signal her if he thought he was in danger. Hoisq wasn’t going to attack.
“…Sir, I only know what I was told. It’s not personal.”
“Of course it’s not. I’m not planning to go to war with the Selphids. Are they aware of that?”
“I don’t know—it’s not about Forgotten Wing. Exactly, sir. It’s about the situation with the dead Minds.”
“Ah. So you’re forming another company? Joining The Bodies of Fellden? Don’t beat around the bush, Hoisq. I have too many reports of Selphids quitting.”
Not all of them, of course. Not all Selphids were motivated by loyalty to home, but too many were quitting.
I’m losing my vanguard. Because of the Minds that he’d killed. Because of Geneva Scala? Or was it inevitable this moment would come? Niers was searching Hoisq to see if there was any give, but if there had been…Hoisq would have probably sought Niers out.
The [Strategist] was thinking up how to replace this loss in his forces. The Titan was waiting.
“…All I know is that we’re not going on a picnic, sir. It was very clear we should leave with the best of feelings with Forgotten Wing if we could. I—we—didn’t know how to say it.”
“General Gloriam isn’t leaving.”
“Gloriam refused, sir. I heard that as a rumor. It made some of us hesitate but—”
Hoisq was torn, and Niers’ last hope of saving some of the Selphids was dashed. Hoisq must not have known Gloriam was sick with the Wasting and dying, but that meant he really was resolved.
“I—I’m going to speak freely, Niers?”
“Go ahead. I value that, Hoisq.”
The [Vanguard] took a long drink and spoke.
