“Big words for someone who’s being held captive. You’d better watch out, young woman, because if we didn’t have a policy against killing captives—which is strictly against Paeth’s rules of engagement—we might actually do something!”
Cotm and the other Tallguard glanced at Resk, and the [Enchanter] looked around.
“What? Too mean for the good [Guardsman]?”
The young woman shot a glower at Erin, which didn’t hide the fact that her legs were trembling. She had black hair, red irises, and perhaps slightly greyer skin than normal? She was dressed in expensive clothing, even if it was subtle and messed up, and she had a noblewoman’s inflection.
At this point, one of the [Stalkers], the Lizardwoman, reappeared.
“The Forgotten Wing company does not allow anyone to encroach on our lands, especially when we are guarding a valuable target. Your death is acceptable to any reasonable nation. Even the Kingdom of Glass and Glory.”
The girl jumped and went pale suddenly, then tried to play it cool. But the [Stalker] went on.
“Even a member of House Shoel can be executed for rash actions. Lady Paxere.”
Oh snap. Cotm’s and Resk’s mouths dropped open. It turned out that Forgotten Wing counterintelligence was very good. Especially if they had a face and other clues to go on, like Resk tracing the [Gateway] spell.
Paxere of House Shoel stared at Erin, then burst out.
“I want to talk to the [Innkeeper] alone.”
Resk leaned over and whispered loudly.
“Uh. Is this the part where I point out she’s the captive?”
But Paxere’s eyes were burning.
“She knows why. I didn’t come to kill her. Even if—she owes me.”
Erin glanced at Paxere and remembered. Viscount Visophecin. Nobles fighting and dying and…so it was Ailendamus. House Shoel?
She had names and places to add to what she knew. And Paxere…Erin saw the Lizardwoman flicker to her and whisper.
“I would advise against this, Erin Solstice. She may have come with intention to kill. Her parents are both listed as missing. Not loudly announced by Ailendamus, but they were declared dead. After the Winter Solstice’s events.”
In other words…Paxere’s parents had been killed at the battle at sea. Erin’s eyes flickered.
She remembered a woman vanishing into a ring of flames beneath her. So that was how they died. Visophecin turning away with his comrades, covered in blood.
Erin Solstice sat there, and if she had been afraid of death, she would have balked. But since she had to know—her eyes flicked to the Fraerlings and Forgotten Wing company agents.
“I’ll speak to her alone.”
They didn’t like it, but they cleared out after Resk demanded to know on a truth spell if Paxere was planning something untoward.
She failed the untoward question, but could swear she meant Erin no direct harm, spell or otherwise. Erin insisted; the Tallguard hesitated. The [Stalker] did not.
Paxere instantly pulled out a healing potion and took a sip, wiping at crusted blood, glaring at Erin, as the [Innkeeper] checked her doors. Erin expected there were listening spells everywhere, but Paxere began speaking a complicated list of things.
“[Voice of Isolation]. I’m here. I’m with the [Innkeeper]—what? I’m fine, Vultapheles. They…yes, they got me, but I talked my way out of it. They know where I’m from, and that I’m from the House. No, I—I’m with her right now. Would you simply double-check no one’s here?”
She flushed slightly and waited. Then she raised her eyes and looked at Erin.
“There are no spells or observers.”
“A bold claim for someone who was detected by Fraerlings.”
Erin looked around and went to sit on her bed. Paxere’s eyes narrowed.
“My associates and I can tell. I wasn’t prepared for Fraerlings to be able to detect my magic, but they’re not ahead of us. As for Skills—only Three-Color Stalker could hide perfectly from us, and then, only maybe.”
“That sounds like a boast. Let’s assume someone’s listening to you and rolling their eyes. I trust the Titan, to a point, but are you completely sure?”
Erin sat back and saw the young woman bite her lip slightly.
“—I’m not going to get a better chance between now and Elvallian. [Purge Room]. [Prison of Word and Thought].”
A bubble seemed to grow from her and envelop them both before popping, dispelling harmful magics, and then glowing bars of light appeared around the room, sealing it off. Instantly, someone kicked the door in.
“Hey! That was a spell—oh, it’s just a ward spell. You okay?”
Resk balanced on a [Stalker]’s shoulder, aiming two wands around. He couldn’t hear Erin or Paxere, and the [Stalker] pressed at the entrance to the spell. Paxere had to dispel it, and Erin had to repeat to both that she was fine.
“Let her cast a spell, please.”
“Okay, but she’s cutting you off from the outside. I have an advanced solution to mitigate the risks and let you signal if you’re in danger. Alright? You sit with your back to the door and then…”
Resk had the [Stalker] hand Erin a length of rope, which he ran out the door and had someone hold. Then Paxere recast the spell. If Erin tugged, the rope would alert someone, but the room was soundproofed.
“I hate Fraerlings. I always thought their tales of magical acumen were exaggerations. You know he might be able to hear through the vibrations in the rope?”
Paxere was red-cheeked, embarrassed, but self-possessed enough. Erin put the rope on the ground, near a foot.
“Enchant it with something, then. There’s no guarantees in life.”
“It would be easier if it were any other species or not a Great Company. One second…[Mysterious Bubble]. There.”
Paxere muttered another spell, and Erin observed her. Her magic was definitely not normal. None of theirs were; she could tell just by the types of spells cast. Let alone [Gateway].
When they were alone, Paxere seemed like she didn’t know where to begin. She stared at Erin, not with animosity. Not exactly. At first, it was curiosity. Anger too, embarrassment. But a silent, wary curiosity. As if she was searching for something in Erin or identifying her.
Her parents were dead. Which ones were they? Had Erin seen them die? Had they said anything important to her? The [Innkeeper] wondered. For a girl who had lost her parents, Paxere was collected.
But still young.
“You know why I’m here.”
“No.”
That threw the girl. She hesitated, glaring, and Erin clarified.
“I have a good idea. But why don’t you state your case. There are multiple reasons why you would want me. Dead or for other reasons.”
It was her strategy to figure out what people wanted of her, to get a complete view of the picture, before showing anything she had or making a decision. In this case? Paxere lifted her chin.
“Don’t play stupid.”
“I’m not. I likely know why you’re here. But I imagine your leader, Visophecin, losing half of his people wasn’t in the plan. Is this now vengeance or what? Where is he?”
Paxere hesitated. She brushed a hand across her face, then her features went cold. Smooth.
“No, you don’t have to worry about that…assuming the talks go well. As for Viscount Visophecin, for his blunders, he has been removed from his position. You are speaking to the new representative of the Lucifen. I may not have his role, but I can represent the others for this.”
Erin Solstice raised her brows. Paxere’s eyes narrowed dangerously.
“Don’t underestimate me just because I’m younger in appearance than Visophecin. My words carry the entire weight of the others behind me. We had a bargain. It—may have been annulled, but the cost is still extant as far as we’re concerned. I have been sent to collect.”
The [Innkeeper] sat back on her bed. She nodded, staring at the ceiling.
“Understandable. That’s how all bargains work, according to my understanding of them too. If you annul a contract, you have every right to demand everything you think you’re entitled to.”
Paxere turned redder with actual shame, Erin thought.
“That—! It was an unf—the clauses were agreed to and fairly executed on both sides. Viscount Visophecin made the pact, it is true, and improperly weighed the terms. You are not in any way obligated to fulfill your side of the bargain.”
She said the words as if being stabbed by needles, but with a commendable accuracy towards fairness, Erin had to say. The [Innkeeper] gave Paxere a small, cruel smile.
“Thank you for reminding me of what I know. Have a splendid night.”
Paxere shot to her feet fast, alarmed and infuriated.
“I have come to negotiate a second deal! You may not be obligated to take it, but we have a relationship. And the losses we incurred with no gain are part of that relationship. You may be free from the terms of breaking the deal, but if we do not come to another one, that relationship is all that stands between us.”
“Ah, so you’re threatening me.”
“I am not. I am explaining the situation.”
“The situation is a threat.”
“I am—”
Paxere’s flush stopped, and again, she looked around, found a seat, and pulled the chair over, as if her temper had suddenly gone ice cold. No, Erin realized. As if her response to anger was actually to go colder, not hotter. When she leaned forward, her eyes were serious.
“It is in the nature of every person to consider past wrongs and, yes, favors in the relationship with each other, Erin Solstice. To threaten you for a contract we voided is inappropriate. I am here to offer you a second contract because we believe we both stand to benefit. To threaten you for failing to take the contract is also not my intent. You are in danger. Not from the Lucifen, but from your circumstances. Hear me out or turn me away. But if I depart empty-handed, that shall be the last of it.”
Her eyes glittered ruby-red in the moonlight coming from one window.
“The failure to reach a deal can also be harmful, even if the effects of failing to take an option are not immediately felt. Everything, even inaction, is a threat to someone. If we are done with the idle philosophy, shall we begin? This is a poor venue for our chat, anyways.”
She snapped her fingers, and time stopped. Erin jerked in her chair and looked around. She couldn’t articulate how she knew, but time froze in a way and she felt it. Maybe it was the movement of air freezing. The sense of a being that lived in time that it had halted.
A door opened. Not the one Paxere had been dragged in by. A red door leading to a room with a single table and two chairs. Paxere stood up and half-bowed as she indicated the room. Her eyes glittered with delight, wonder, and danger.
She hadn’t, honestly, known if the door would come without the right ritual. However, the door had been opened once. Paxere had guessed it would reopen for a second negotiation…especially if the right person opened it from the inside.
She saw the faintest flicker of movement, but the being inside vanished without a word. For a second, Viscount Visophecin had looked warningly at her through the crack in the door; Erin had not spotted him. He had seemed troubled, as if confused by what he sensed. Paxere dismissed him with a stare and nodded to Erin. He was only here becasue of the broken contract. This was her moment.
As well as…the Lucifen put her hand on the door and gestured.
“Shall we?”
Erin Solstice met Paxere’s eyes, and her pulse quickened. Alright. She sat there for a long moment, weighing her choices, then she stood up.
“After you.”
 
——
 
The room was not barren. Shadows seemed to play in the darkness. Oh, yes, it had only the table. The chairs. Yet it felt like things unseen were hanging just out of sight. Ready to be glimpsed if you turned your head.
But of course, you never could see it. If there was something or someone there…Paxere had to admit, she hesitated before entering.
Because part of her wanted to die.
The moment she saw the darkness of the room, a yearning emerged in Paxere’s soul, the same little voice that spoke when you stood over a cliff and told you to hurl yourself down. The urge to jump. To touch fire.
Walk into the darkness. Don’t sit down at the table. Don’t cling to the light. Walk into that void.
The room, the visible room, was small. Yet the Lucifen felt that if she abandoned the room, abandoned Erin and the contract, she would walk into that nothingness and let it take her. Perhaps Lucifen had.
What would she find there? What might she become? She jerked backwards, hand steadying herself on the doorframe, and pain lanced up it. Paxere took her hand away from the door and realized the wood of it was…splintered. Ancient, but fragmented, sharp as sin.
The red frame had the crimson of her blood on it. And now, the room seemed to groan and wake up.
Ah, visitors. The light above the table—flickered, and Paxere’s heart thundered in her chest. The darkness of the room was not from lack of light. Shadows seemed to twist around her.
Welcome.
A voice whispered in her mind.
Welcome home, dear one.
Thus, the Devil tarried at the entrance to the room a while, inspecting it while it inspected her. She hesitated.
Erin Solstice did not. She sat down at the table, sat upright in her chair, and waited. In some theories of negotiating warfare, the last to sit was the principle party, who could force the other to wait. Like how someone who came to a meeting later was implicitly the more valuable one because they had spent the other’s time.
That was…armchair negotiation from people who’d never done it. House Shoel did understand negotiations, and they weren’t about any one hard and set rule.
It was about style.
A young woman sat at the table drenched in crimson, sitting on a chair blacker than night. A spotlight shone down from above, harshly vibrant, but adding more shadows somehow. Her hazel eyes glittered, and she rested one arm on the table. Waiting without fear. Only expectation. Curiosity.
The Lucifen walked forwards and briskly sat down. She was angry, stressed. So she was cold, and the icy thrill of anger in her veins accelerated her thinking and also tamped down on her emotions, a mortal’s penchant to wild outbursts.
It was a rare trait that Lucifen shared with only one other major species in the world: ironically, Lizardfolk. Most of them went hot as well, but when you got a Lizardfolk truly, truly angry, they sometimes just went silent and still.
Paxere had never had a negotiation of this level before. Her assumptions about how easy this would be had been dashed. She saw that now; she had underestimated Erin Solstice in spite, blaming her for incompetence and killing so many senior Lucifen.
Now, Paxere reckoned with the truth.
It had been deliberate. It made her all the more determined. She could not fail. No—another trap.
