The nerd, anime-lover, and self-proclaimed weeaboo blinked as he saw someone peeking into the gathering. His eyes locked onto a pale face, a delighted smile, blood-red lips, and sharp teeth, and he remembered a scandal he’d heard coming out of Izril.
He and Ken began nudging each other in delight as Paige stared at them. Then they practically ran over to introduce themselves to Colfa val Lischelle-Drakle.
Just because she looked sorta cool.
 
——
 
The United Nations company and inn meeting was like the interlude between two acts of the play. Unimportant, perhaps.
Or the most important, depending on how you looked at it. Either way, Erin Solstice did not stand around and wait for it. She walked to the gates of Talenqual as if she were being pursued and stood just before them, waiting for the Forgotten Wing to reach the city.
What did she do while she waited?
Well.
She had a staring contest with the Cyclops.
Cyclops. A rare, monstrous species like Ogres that the rest of the world didn’t know much about beyond that they were semi-intelligent monsters. Cyclopes were even rarer because they, like Giants, had mostly gone extinct.
They were also a species defined by their eyes, like Gazers. But Cyclopes were the originals, accept no substitutes. They had one eye, rather than multiple, and powers associated with said eye along with the brawn and size only a half-Giant could even hope to match.
General Diomedes towered over Talenqual and even the other War Walkers; he was actually thirty-one feet tall, and thus Zamea of the Nomads of the Sky would have been almost of a height with him. However, Diomedes had no class or levels.
Yet he was the Forgotten Wing’s General. He did not wait for the diplomats riding ahead towards the city or for the welcome or negotiations. When he spoke, his voice rumbled across Talenqual, silencing the Earthers, the Fraerlings—
Not a deep, booming voice. Okay, deep, yes, and booming enough, but not like the solemn…pronouncements…of the great and mighty Cyclops of stories. Who spoke. Like. This, and gave each word the grave intonation of the mighty.
He spoke like a regular person. There was a weight to his words, yet his voice lifted slightly with humor.
“Long has it been since anyone tried to stare me down. So the Titan’s [Innkeeper] is enough to rouse me from my long duty watching Gazers. Where Jungle Tails itself would not move me, for romance, I walk.”
“Appropriate.”
“Predictable.”
“Embarrassing.”
Three voices, one female, two male, spoke at similar volumes. The War Walkers. They seemed accustomed to Diomedes’ presence, and as he neared, people could see the General wasn’t covered in heavy armor, either. He looked almost like his namesake; he had sandals and, due to his size, a length of cloth had been draped like a toga.
Perhaps he might have well fit a Grecian quorum of Earth—if they had all been Cyclopes—and Diomedes had a helmet on, altered to give his eye room but guard the rest of his face. So essentially open-face. It had a visor he didn’t move, and his axe was a huge, long thing; his shield was circular, engraved with an odd relief of a Cyclops—but he’d put the shield on his back, and the axe was at ease.
Now, he swung it down and leaned on it as the people on Talenqual’s walls flinched. This was not like seeing the War Walker who had fought for Talenqual, the deceased Bastiom.
In fact, the Gravetender’s Fist company had a War Walker still. That War Walker was eleven feet tall.
The ones around General Diomedes were all fourteen to sixteen feet. Commander Fezimet had slain Bastiom during the battle for Talenqual. But Diomedes was twice the other’s size, and as he halted and the horns began to play again, he held up a hand.
“We needn’t trouble the Fraerfolk with our tread, Captains three. It seems the [Innkeeper]’s come to meet us. Magpies descend on Talenqual.”
By ‘magpies’, he turned his head, and the army of outsiders, some holding scrying artifacts, froze up and backed away. Diomedes’ eye roamed upwards. And his iris did something odd.
The ring of yellow glowed—and remained there as the pupil and the rest of the eye slid downwards. The iris fixed in the air, glowing, then slid down to join the pupil. Now that was uncanny; Diomedes’ eye, iris and pupil, seemed capable of moving independently of each other!
“Look how Talenqual shakes at our coming. As if they had not seen our kind before. I feel like an invader or Giant of old. How does that saying go? Fe…”
“Fi.”
“Fo.”
“I hope they’ve got rum.”
The two War Walkers echoed Diomedes, but the third, the female one, interrupted the flow. The other two turned to her, and Diomedes’s head shifted slightly, but his eye met Erin Solstice’s.
“Greetings to Talenqual and Paeth by the Coast! I am General Diomedes, who walks in peace! With me, I name Calequin of Hammat, Loute of Elvallian, and Manma of Elvallian!”
Diomedes bellowed suddenly, and the people in the city—both cities—flinched at the address. The Cyclops indicated the War Walkers, and they spoke, again, one on top of the other.
“Hail to the Lizardfolk of Talenqual!”
“Hail to the Fraerlings who endure!”
“Hail to my mother, who may be watching on the scrying orb!”
Daly, who’d turned to the gates, heard the War Walkers speak, only this time it was Calequin of Hammat who spoke last—and the other two turned to stare at him. One reached out an elbow and nudged Calequin, who stood straight-faced.
Again, Diomedes paused, and Daly heard a snrk from the side. He turned, and Siri, his cool-eyed [Sniper], was red-faced. The United Nations company and Fraerlings had assembled along with Talenqual’s leadership to greet the Cyclops, but Siri was trying not to laugh.
“We do not come for war but to escort Erin Solstice to Elvallian. I say it again: we come as allies of Fraerlings, in peace and dignity. We shall not disturb this city with our steps. We are emissaries of peace.”
Diomedes continued, his face somber. He had no hair that Daly could see; no hint of a beard, but his skin was bronze, and his teeth were oddly flat. Was he…closer to an herbivore than Human omnivores? It looked so from his teeth. And again, the War Walkers chimed in.
“Peace and protection.”
“Escort and duty.”
“Good boots and attractive ladies.”
One of the War Walkers kicked the third speaker; again, the third, and again, a different jokester than the last. Daly saw Loute of Elvallian take the blow, and the slight ringing of armor died down, and he clarified.
“And men.”
Something strange happened. Siri began snorting. The deadpan humor was doing something odd to her—but Daly had to admit, all of it was throwing him off. He realized what it was.
“They’re doing fucking slapstick. What’s that old show?”
Rose blinked.
“The three stooges?”
Yes, that was it! The War Walkers were doing a deadpan bit where the third time one of them said something funny. And they were Dullahans, so it was even more off-putting than regular! In fact…Daly heard titters from Lizardfolk on the walls.
The excitable, easily amused, most plentiful species of Baleros had been apprehensive, no doubt remembering the last time a War Walker had come to Talenqual. But now they stared up at the War Walkers—and Daly saw the Cyclops’ mouth twitch.
He smiled.
—And with a sudden move, he stopped standing to attention and crouched! He was so huge that he was still visible, but everyone recoiled, and shrieks rose—but Diomedes didn’t raise his axe. Rather, he spread both arms, and his voice lowered and became, again, not doleful or booming, but operatic.
“That’s right. It is I, General Diomedes, whom you may have heard of. The Pillar of Elvallian! The General who slew ten Ogre Chieftains in battle!”
“Defender of Invictel!”
“Plainsfriend of the Centaurs!”
“The Cyclops who owes me ten gold!”
Diomedes’ eye twinkled. He continued, walking down the walls, nodding at smallfolk below.
“I was there when the King of Destruction’s servant was bested. I am Diomedes, who threw back Terandrians to their silly kingdoms. General of the Forgotten Wing company! We come bearing gifts from Elvallian! Tribute to the smallest folk with hearts like fire! Soon, my shorter Dullahan friends and I will walk against Jungle Tails. But look at me and know, for I so swear: you will find no wretched foe here. The last Cyclops General has arrived! Take note! Remember this day! But don’t shake my hand, and watch our steps! My short Captains have been known to trip.”
His smile was quick, and he moved faster than someone his size had any right to. It made Daly simultaneously laugh—and feel that if Diomedes had to, he could move that gigantic body as fast as Daly in a fight.
But it worked. A cheer arose, and the Dullahans behind Diomedes rumbled.
“Short? I object!”
“We never trip but walk in a dignified stride.”
“Is there a restroom nearby? Preferably one that locks. I can’t hold it. What about behind that tree?”
A finger pointed at Paeth, and Daly did chuckle then. General Diomedes walked around Talenqual, waving a hand and putting people into shadow as he reached over the walls. He spun, nimbly as could be, and bent to one knee as he reached the gates.
“Now, fearsome [Innkeeper], Erin Solstice be thy name. I greet thee; I am General Diomedes, of some acclaim.”
And he lowered a hand to a woman who strode forwards, and Daly let out a breath. He swore even Erin hesitated. But she offered Diomedes a smile of genuine delight, and Daly heard her voice, far smaller.
“It seems I’m to meet two Titans today.”
Diomedes’ one eyebrow rose.
“Today? I can’t make it to Elvallian today. Tomorrow, likely. Until that moment, I request the pleasure of your company and whomever you wish to bring. Is it your will to truly come with us? I was prepared to negotiate in good faith; I wouldn’t have Fraerfolk angry at me.”
He modulated his tone, so it wasn’t audible throughout the entire city, but Erin replied as Diomedes listened.
“I have things to do, and Niers is one of the people who can help me. I will go with you, General Diomedes, and it is a pleasure to meet you.”
Diomedes offered a pinkie finger for Erin to shake.
“Ah, I can see why the Titan’s smitten. I, myself, often find myself walking to help the people the Titan promises aid. But for you, brave [Innkeeper], at this moment I don’t begrudge my stride. As an aside—how about a game of chess? If I beat you first, I’ll rub it in the Titan’s face till the day he dies.”
A broad smile on Diomedes’ face. He was witty, and he had a kind of gravitas to him, like a born actor—or a Cyclops from an actual story. Daly looked around, started, and remembered his role in this. But all Erin did was raise an eyebrow.
“Do you actually like chess?”
General Diomedes threw his head back and slapped his chest with one hand.
“I hate it! But Niers won’t shut up about it. The rank and file knocked me out in the first game each time when you put your chess tournament on the news. Damn Lizardfolk [Soldiers]. Ah, well. Let’s introduce ourselves to our Fraerling friends. Hello, Fraerlings of Paeth!”
Diomedes bent towards the tiniest folk in the world. His pupil constricted hugely as he bent over people nigh-on-invisible to him, and he whispered in a voice that halted the United Nations company dead in their tracks.
“What’s the weather like down there?”
 
——
 
A Cyclops and Fraerling talking was actually harder than it looked, short and tall jokes aside. And wow, did they trade a few.
“Do you get tired of seeing above the trees and using them to wipe your ass?”
“Not bad in the forests where they get taller than me. Do you get tired of dodging leaves?”
Diomedes had the advantage; he’d met Fraerlings before. He had a huge scrying orb—still tiny for him—that he stared into and that let him see and talk to the Fraerlings without deafening or blowing them off his hand with his breath.
Alchimagus Resk hesitated as he tried to think up a comeback.
“I have it on good authority from [Historians] that your mother…was so allegedly tall that she bonked her head on the moon.”
“Your mother was so short I hear Foliana mistook her for a spoon.”
Siri was choking to death on a scarf as Diomedes walked along. Behind him, a train of [Soldiers] was jogging to keep up; Daly could have ridden one of the carts moving at a fast clip, but the Bushrangers that he’d ordered to go with Erin were jogging. Dawson was still red-faced from the spices, but they had all volunteered to come.
Guard-duty aside, like Resk and Ekrn’s squad—not Ekrn himself—they just had to talk to Diomedes for a while. Daly, Siri, Tofte, Dawson—and eight more Bushrangers along with Tallguard Cotm and Resk were all there to ‘guard’ Erin.
In truth, with Diomedes there, it was more a chance to see Elvallian and meet Geneva again. The War Walkers oohed and laughed with good nature as Resk paused. The tiny Alchimagus grinned in delight.
“You know, technically my mother was smaller than a spoon the average Tallfolk would use.”
Diomedes sighed and rolled his eye.
“I know. Smallfolk jokes are harder than they look. And there are fewer good tall jokes that I hear.”
“What do they say to you?”
Diomedes glanced at his War Walker captains. As one, they chorused.
“You’re so tall!”
“That’s literally it. The sky is blue. I am tall. Your mother made out with two dozen Selphids in a stall. That’s all.”
General Diomedes was unrelentingly, well, personable. Resk stopped laughing long enough to speak.
“I am actually an incredible fan of yours, General Diomedes. I never thought I’d meet the Cyclops who swam to Chandrar! You were fighting Terandrians before you joined up with Niers.”
“Yes—you know, he was just an up-and-coming adventurer back in the day. Of course, we had to meet, and I hit him with the best joke of my life. Took out every Named-rank adventurer; Foliana was unable to even stand up.”
“Really?”
Diomedes’ iris glowed a second, almost like a wink or glint of literal amusement. Resk was awestruck and rushed on.
“So was it an exaggeration that you swam to Chandrar?”
“Oh, no. I did that. You actually wade most of the time; swimming in the deeps gets you killed by Krakens. There’s actually a way to walk from Chandrar to Baleros; sunken land and all that. You know, there was once a bridge that connected all the continents.”
“I’ve heard of it! Dwarf-made—so you met the King of Destruction.”
“Of course! He met me. I think he was keen on offering me a position, perhaps in his Seven. I like to imagine that wasn’t a lie. If nothing else, I’d have made it to his top vassals. But I didn’t care for him.”
“Get out.”
