“That’s what his [Steward] said when I turned him down! Those half-Giants wanted to take vengeance; one of them broke my arm, and I had to fight my way back to Baleros. Swimming one-handed is not what I’d recommend. But I never cared for Flos Reimarch even as a boy. He already had one expert of eyes, anyways.”
Diomedes’ recounts of his exploits sounded like literal tall tales, but the Cyclops was apparently a hundred and forty years old. He didn’t look a day over, er…forty? Nor was he completely as arrogant as one might imagine. Diomedes’ head turned as Daly panted, realizing why all of his forces were in such damn good shape. A single stride, even slowly, forced all the people on foot to jog and keep up.
And the Dullahans are doing it in armor, straight-faced! A column of twenty Dullahans in what Daly swore was mithril armor were attentively glancing at the Fraerlings and Diomedes. So it seemed like they were as much interested in the Fraerlings as the Fraerlings were in the Forgotten Wing company.
“Erin Solstice, I hope we didn’t move too fast for you. Then again, you’re right to say kingdoms want you dead. The Blighted Kingdom won’t say as much to our faces, but Niers warned me I might have a few comets fall on my head. As for Erribathe, they make no pretenses; I will let the Tallguard work their wards, but I have a bodyguard of short people to add to the tiny people protecting you tonight. If there’s a fight, I hope you’ll stay behind me.”
“That’s fine. Will you carry me to Elvallian?”
The [Innkeeper] was sitting on General Diomedes’ shoulder on an actual chair attached to a shoulderguard. Diomedes sighed gustily.
“I would that I could. Seeing the Titan greeting you would be a sight enough—but I will pass you to General Gloriam after tonight. The Selphid; Gloriam the Invincible. Aura master and insufferable egoist in one. He won’t linger long in your company either, lucky for you. We’re merely here to keep the roads safe. Our true goal lies south.”
“So you’re going to war? Excuse me. Sorry to break in—is that why you’re here?”
Daly broke in, panting. He couldn’t get near Diomedes; for safety, no one was near the giant Dullahans or Cyclops, but Daly had a speaking stone tied to the conversation. Diomedes’ head turned.
“Ah! Daly Sullivan. Another one I wish I had time to speak with. Yes, we’re bound for a southern campaign. Gloriam and I will take the fight to Jungle Tails.”
“Not the Dyed Lands? Excuse me, Resk again—I heard that was another war front.”
Diomedes grimaced.
“It is, but the Titan and his Fraerling allies have that area to themselves. More’s the pity; I’d rather slay those monsters there than kill Nagas, but the Lizardfolk love to stare. And someone must remind them their eyes are third-best of Baleros.”
He tapped under his own massive eye, and his shoulders set slightly before he smiled at Erin.
“You’ve come to Baleros in a busy time. Any other year, I would call it one of the most peaceful times in my life. Alas, with the Eyes of Baleros always comes strife.”
“How is Jungle Tails doing, General Diomedes? Does Niers have time to spend on me?”
Erin’s voice was curious, if slightly tense. She might not have liked heights that much, but she was playing it cool for General Diomedes. Again, the Cyclops sighed.
“Niers never does things to one end. We’ve reassured many cities by our simple walk. Reminding Paeth’s foes of our presence is another reason for me to march. Whether the Titan aids you further is anyone’s guess, but he told me to swim after you if you got on a ship!”
He grinned, and Daly was about to—he realized that might not have been a joke.
“I’m not leaving before meeting him. Don’t worry. I’ve come too far to hide away now. It’s the opportunity of a lifetime. For both of us.”
Erin assured the Cyclops, and he gave her a steady look.
“Ah, you’re not like yourself on the scrying orb I saw, Erin Solstice. Not quite the woman sailing to her demise. But not the nice innkeeper either.”
“Call me the Goblinfriend of Izril if you want. Or Erin Solstice. Or the [Innkeeper]. Any one you choose.”
The young woman’s voice wobbled slightly as Diomedes took a larger step than usual. The General of the Forgotten Wing company rumbled.
“I know more names than that. Friend of the Antinium? Grandmaster of Scales? Queen of Khelt, so they say, or Crazy Human of Izril to read my reports. And who would you rather be if any?”
Erin paused.
“…It doesn’t matter. Here I am. But could you do me a favor and put me down? I think I might be sick.”
Diomedes obligingly stopped, lowered Erin’s chair, and she hopped off at the last moment, landed on all fours, and threw up. It turned out riding a Cyclops’ shoulder made you extremely motion-sick.
“Ah, perhaps the wagon after all. Apologies, Erin Solstice. And doubly sorry I am too, because the vultures have us. Begone. Shoo. If you displease me, I will kick you.”
Diomedes turned, and he raised a foot—and instantly, the horde of civilians, people begging for an autograph, just to listen in, and the huge number of ‘[Reporters]’ seeking an interview with Erin for Wistram News Network backed off.
The pace of Diomedes’ forces was such that most could barely keep up, but Erin Solstice attracted too much attention. A Centaur galloped around Diomedes’ foot—and ran straight into a [Tripvine] spell.
“Back! Back or we’ll open fire!”
Cotm shouted, trying to keep the Tallfolk back, but he had no practice in actual crowd control, and a Fraerling wasn’t that terrifying unless you knew what they could do. However, Diomedes’ forces were more practiced—if not at crowd control, certainly at maneuvering.
A rank of those mithril-coated Dullahans surrounded Erin in an instant, and one of the War Walkers unlimbered an axe. She swung it at torso-level as she strode forwards, and the bulk of the citizens froze in terror.
“Games and jokes we like—but remember this is Forgotten Wing. Cross this line and I swing.”
That stopped everyone cold. The War Walker wasn’t joking, either, Daly felt. Diomedes hadn’t drawn his axe, but his eye was flicking through the crowd and above, iris and pupil moving independently of each other.
“No [Assassins] yet. I owe another five gold pieces to you, Loute. Most idiots think I’m too slow to guard someone. Or too big to see. You there. Halt.”
He pointed, and Lizardfolk, the Centaur, and Dullahans drew back fast. But a Lizardfolk kept walking forwards slowly.
“If you kill me, does that say something about how the Forgotten Wing treats questions, General Diomedes? I’m not crossing the line, but I am going to shout.”
The Cyclops sighed as a Lizardman raised his voice.
“Miss Erin Solstice! People have a lot of questions for you! You’re live on the Chandrar International—the news network by [Journalist] Rémi Canada! Do you have anything to say to people? Any regrets? Any message for Terandrian nations, your allies, or the dead?”
“[Journalists]. More backbone than I thought.”
Diomedes snorted and turned away. One of his Captains shielded Erin, and the Cyclops knelt.
“You needn’t answer them. Faster we go, and I will have them stopped here.”
Erin wiped at her mouth as she got up.
“No. I’ll speak to them.”
“If you wish it, I won’t stop you. But I would advise caution.”
The gigantic eye blinked once, but Erin strode towards the Lizardman, who eyed the axe warily, but raised his scrying mirror. He didn’t have a team like Wistram News Network, but more of Diomedes’ soldiers backed the others off.
“Wait a second! Wait a second! We’re Wistram News Network! Let us interview—unhand me!”
The Cyclops boomed overhead.
“Break their scrying artifacts if they don’t move back. If the [Innkeeper] wills it, let whomever she wills speak.”
Erin half-turned her head and addressed the Lizardman and Diomedes.
“This one is fine. So you’re a new news channel?”
She eyed the Lizardman, who gave her a polite, and yes, nervous grin, but courage had already gotten him trading words with General Diomedes. He was angling the scrying mirror, checking on what it was reflecting.
“The Chandrar International isn’t actually new. But people are paying attention to it these days. Thank you for letting me interview you.”
“What’s your name?”
“Reporter Salex. You may look up my past reporting for my history, though I don’t run opinion-pieces like Wistram News Network. I’m a [Reporter], not a [Commentator]; I cover Baleros’ east coast. Miss Solstice, I have no doubt people are tuning in just to hear you speak or to see you are alive. And remarkably unharmed! It’s been about a month since your dramatic battle at sea and escape. I have a list of questions to ask, but if I only have the chance for one or two—firstly, do you have any comments on your actions against Erribathe? Terandrian Kingdoms in general? I suppose your alliance with a Goblin Lord, the Greydath of Blades, an infamous mass-murderer, also ties into that.”
Erin Solstice had a bemused look, as if she’d never actually been interviewed on the spot like this before. And perhaps she hadn’t, not like this.
“A comment. You mean why I did it?”
“Yes…or if you have regrets. I’m getting a [Memo] from our producers, one second…”
The Lizardman closed his eyes and repeated, seemingly verbatim.
“Is there anything you would say to those who lost someone during that battle? Any reason. Any…I’m being told not to say ‘excuse’ or ‘justification’. Reason it is.”
They waited. Daly, panting for breath, was wondering if Erin should back out now. Fair play to Rémi Canada: he seemed like a brave dude who’d gotten munched by fucking undead of all things. But this was aggressive, far more than Daly would have liked.
Good journalism? Probably. Daly liked the crack against the commentator-opinion types like Sir Relz and Noass, who were defined by their personalities.
But Erin? Maybe Rémi was trying to give her an out, something to say to the many, many nations she’d offended. The [Innkeeper] thought.
“…I guess I still don’t understand the full question. Which dead am I apologizing or explaining myself to? The Terandrians? The Iron Vanguard? Or the Bloodtear Pirates?”
Then a silence fell, and the Lizardman—he had a series of black speckles on his green-red scales, like exclamation marks near his brows and cheeks—checked his mirror. General Diomedes watched, no longer smiling, but eye aglow with interest.
“I suppose it’s implicitly ‘Terandrians’, or the world at large, but thank you for referencing the Iron Vanguard’s losses. The disaster at sea was framed primarily as Terandrian casualties by Wistram in my sole opinion. Few people are mourning the passing of the Bloodtear Pirates, some of which are still at large. Do you regard this as a tragedy equally shared?”
The scrying mirror advanced a bit, and Erin stood there. And again, her eyes flickered, and Daly saw her face was set. Grim, grim…then he noticed something change. Her eyes lit up, and that set expression changed to recollection. Then a cynical smile.
“No. I think the Bloodtear Pirates got what they wanted. I don’t have anything to say to them. Except maybe to ask if it was worth it. The Iron Vanguard entered the battle because of Archmage Verdan Blackwood dying. It was their choice as a whole. He died protecting me. I won’t forget it.”
“And the Terandrians? Erribathe is still mourning Prince Iradoren, whom you killed on live television. For our viewers, this moment came after Prince Iradoren attacked Ser Solstice of Izril, the Goblin Slayer, for reasons unknown. Erribathe had been clashing with Calanfer’s own forces and Hundredlord Cortese of Kaaz, but his fatal wound came from you, Miss Erin.”
Daly could remember that scene himself. The sudden cut to Iradoren for reasons unknown, seeing him attacking his own people—then watching the [Innkeeper] stride over the deck and thinking she was going to do something else. Something less…watching that bright blade run the [Prince of Men] right through the back.
Even Daly, from afar, had felt a tiny something at seeing Iradoren die. He’d questioned it, but even on its own…Salex went on.
“—However, we have no factual reporting of the events as they played out. Only the observations of the recording from above via [Scrying] spell. Would you like to clarify anything? Erribathe has sworn to avenge Prince Iradoren’s death. Was your action justified in your eyes?”
The Lizardman, Salex, was tense, like someone ready to jump or twist in response to something coming his way. Erin? Erin stood there, and a complex knot of emotions was behind her eyes. Thoughts unspoken. But that smile, which had faded, came back.
Uh oh. Daly felt himself tense, as if to move, but Erin’s words were faster than he could do anything. In hindsight, it might have been a better idea to just shoot her in the legs. The Forgotten Wing company could probably heal that. The words wouldn’t come back.
“To Terandrians and Erribathe? To the Blighted Kingdom and everyone who feared the Goblin Lord whose hand I took? I am a friend to Goblins. To Antinium, too. If you have a grudge…I’m right here. Come and get me.”
The [Innkeeper] spread her arms slightly and gestured to herself. Above her, Diomedes smiled, coldly now, like the true legend of a Cyclops.
“Oh fuck.”
That was Dawson, quietly, in the background. Daly saw Salex actually begin to lower his mirror.
“That sounds like an invitation, Miss Erin. Are you sure that’s wise? We have a five minute delay…”
“No. I’m sure.”
Erin’s eyes were level. Salex hesitated, then raised a claw to his temple.
“So—are you taking responsibility for your actions? You have no excuse?”
“Would it matter?”
The [Innkeeper] shot back. She stared into the mirror, and there was no guilt in her eyes. Just that blaring intensity.
“I killed him. I did it because he was threatening one of my friends. Erribathe doesn’t care about why I did it. Iradoren’s parents, if they’re alive, won’t care. His subjects won’t care. Do you think the Blighted Kingdom cares why I took Greydath’s hand? They tried to murder me. It doesn’t matter.”
“I see. So, no apology to the other Terandrian nations?”
Salex’s voice was mostly steady. Erin glanced at him.
“They chose to attack me. Verdan Blackwood defended me, and the Iron Vanguard attacked the Terandrians for killing their own. Everything was a choice. Do I wish the battle had gone differently? Yes. Are you asking if I feel personally guilty for being fired upon?”
Her eyes glittered.
“No.”
