“I wasn’t there at the Gathering Citadel in Ibedo. I understood why you did that, afterwards, especially when we got details they’d breached the Minacien Wall. I don’t have ill will about it. If what the Minds were doing was bad enough to make an Old One…”
Rumors had gotten out. Rumors Niers had allowed about what they’d seen. Soldiers talked, and it was good for people to know part of what had been done there, if not all of it. The Titan listened as Hoisq’s eyes roamed the room and went back to him.
“—But with the Minds gone, there’s less of them now. I suppose I got to thinking. With Jungle Tails on the rise…they’ve never liked us. Maybe we earned what happened there. But some of the Minds are calling for help, and my people might need a bigger company than the Bodies of Fellden.”
“Ah. Do you think I’d let them sit by and be attacked, Hoisq? Where do you think you matter most?”
Again, the [Vanguard Captain] hesitated, but when he touched his hand to his brow, he looked ready.
“I can’t say, Lord Astoragon. But I’ve tendered my resignation, and I have to stand by it. Not all of the crew’s going.”
And that was that. A Level 40 [Vanguard] sat in front of Niers, and while he could be replaced by others, he was one of too many going.
The Forgotten Wing company wouldn’t die for the lack of Selphids. Niers could use another vanguard force just as good. The holes in other armies could be patched. It was far from a deathblow or even a huge wound. But Niers felt it.
He wondered if the Duck had an opinion on this. The smallest Mind claimed it didn’t know anything about the ‘big Minds doing sometimes stupid things’. For all Niers knew, it wasn’t even the Minds but regular Selphids who’d called for the mass exodus.
Other Great Companies are going to see more Selphid desertions than us. It’ll actually affect their frontlines. They don’t realize how tough Selphids are—or how little loyalty they have when no one respects them. At least they’d all suffer, except damn Jungle Tails.
That was the calculation of the [Strategist]. The Titan just sat back and exhaled.
“Hoisq. If that’s how it has to be, I can’t change your mind. But you know I’m trying to put down Jungle Tails. You know what they’ll do. They’re after the Eyes of Baleros again. And they just want their old position back.”
Hoisq twitched at this, and Niers stared blankly into the distance. The Eyes of Baleros. If Thivian Stormless had managed to hide both…damn, Niers had thought he’d bought the world time. At least until his death, to not have to worry about the Nagas and their stupid temples.
Maybe it was fitting Erin had arrived on Baleros when it was all going to shit. A year ago, he’d be marching out to meet her. Today? He was glad she wasn’t here.
He didn’t know what face he’d have if he met her today. Hoisq didn’t swallow or sweat; a Selphid had too good control of their bodies to give in to such useless reactions.
“Lord Astoragon, I know. For what it’s worth, we want to be on the same side. The…other representatives of our people are proof of that.”
So he did know what the Duck was. Even most Selphids didn’t. Niers raised one eyebrow.
“Someone’s been promoted.”
Hoisq looked embarrassed at that, and Niers wondered if he should let Hoisq’s new employers know that the [Vanguard Captain] really was better as a follower than a leader. Then again? Maybe Hoisq had asked, and maybe he’d rise to the occasion.
The Titan exhaled.
“I have conditions.”
Hoisq stirred. The Titan of Baleros sat over his desk, resting one arm on the top.
“I cannot have my best Selphids just up and walk off. Your resignation, I accept. But I require your services before I can let you go. I’m not going to bother with a stupid contract, Hoisq. My word is good enough. You know that. So. Three battles.”
He raised three fingers, and the Selphid sat there, very still. Niers waited for any reaction.
“Over how long?”
“We’ll be done within two weeks. Three separate battles. I won’t make your group fight three separate times. Three battles across the Selphids wanting to quit. That’s my condition. Or this new Selphid force and Forgotten Wing have a grudge.”
Niers met Hoisq’s eyes across the table and left the rest of the words unsaid. Unthought, really. He didn’t need a threat beyond that. The [Vanguard]’s eyes were flickering.
“I can’t speak for—”
“It’s not a negotiation, Hoisq. Just tell them what I said, and it’s in their court. Prepare your people to move out. I have your battle waiting.”
The closest engagement would probably be in…three days? Niers had already begun moving other Selphid units closer to there. He’d need Gloriam to do the job. Unpleasant, but the [General] would keep his people alive, and Niers just had to move the enemy forces into the right conditions.
Jungle Tails and their Nagas. Hoisq sat there, and at last, the [Vanguard] exhaled.
“I warned them that you’d ask for something like this. One battle for us, sir? That’s good odds.”
He stood, saluted, and tried to give Niers a smile. The Titan didn’t bother trying. He just nodded to Hoisq with as much genuine warmth as he had.
“Good luck, Hoisq. I’ll write you a recommendation if you ever want one afterwards. Give Jungle Tails one last greeting for me.”
One battle. The [Vanguard Captain] nodded, then walked out of the room. Niers saw him relax as he turned to leave. A brave Selphid, Hoisq. He’d been prepared for this from the moment he walked in. Now it had come, and Niers doubted he’d run.
The Titan sat back in his chair, massaging the bridge of his nose for a while before he gave the necessary orders. Oh, yes. He wondered if Geneva Scala would put together the pieces of all this. He hoped she wouldn’t. It wasn’t her fault some stupid Minds had kidnapped her.
I could send them to an easier battle. Have them stomp another force for me. Niers stared blankly at the bow on the wall.
“We could run, Niers.”
A half-Elf was speaking to him moments before they cracked the door. Foliana had blood running down her face. Niers’ skin was crawling. An Old One was laughing as it feasted on their people and Jungle Tails alike, and he looked at her, like Hoisq, like he stared at a mirror and the bow.
“No. No…”
The Titan whispered back then and now. He began shuffling the forces around in his head. Not his people, but Jungle Tails. The city of Ramok? He’d have to check a map, but he knew the one. Fortified—and yes, if he swung left on that group and crushed them, they’d probably hold it hard…
“Ramok. They’ll need battering rams and siege ladders. Gloriam to bring surpluses of arrows and extra shields. No need for healing potions.”
What few they had, at any rate. Battles were getting bloodier, and even Jungle Tails was getting hesitant. The Great Companies were electing to retreat rather than lose their people. It was rare you risked a huge amount of high-level officers, anyways.
Collect as many Naga as he could in that city. They’d probably have a relief force marching the moment he shattered their westward forces to break the siege.
So Niers wrote down a simple order to Gloriam, listing the broad overview of what he wanted.
“Ramok. Siege battle. Bring rams and siege ladders, arrows and shields. Selphids under Hoisq to take walls within two days. No surrender or retreat, regardless of casualties. Keep your army back, and smash the relief force after taking the walls.”
Niers double-checked his plans. Then, wearily, he signaled Atmodeca for the note. The Titan was tired…so Niers decided he’d see if Erin was coming his way.
He’d like to talk. He’d like to be Niers Astoragon for a while, or Lord Astoragon.
When times were peaceful, when he wasn’t stressed, Niers never looked at the bow. When his eyes found it, time and again, he knew the decisions mattered. The Fraerling looked at his chessboard, then remembered something. He shrugged.
“Atmodeca. Send Eirnos to me. I’ll see her now.”
 
——
 
They said when a Great Company marched, the world moved around them. And it was true.
The cities along the trade roads to Elvallian were used to seeing companies on the move, but even for them, it was rare to see this many [Soldiers] moving at once. Much less some of the more famous members of the Forgotten Wing company.
One of the Titan’s Chess Towers was slowly crossing down the trade roads. Hundreds of Lizardfolk were lifting the tower itself, which was shaped like a giant bishop piece, as more waved from the top, and Lizardfolk flocked around it, staring up at one of the moving forts the Titan deployed.
Two were being moved across the trade roads. They joined columns of [Soldiers], who were waving to cheering people flocking the roads. Not just admirers of the Forgotten Wing company, though there were more than a few of them.
This was Forgotten Wing territory, and they kept the roads safe and even administered the cities. However, the Titan had sent more than just his troops.
He had sent fruits and goods from a harbor from where one division of Lizardfolk infantry was marching, and some of it was being handed out to people forming pushing queues. Another group of Naga were slithering forwards as they stopped at a town with the latest thing from Wistram—an ‘Adventure Room’ ready to be set up.
Each time a division of the Forgotten Wing company moved, it brought people wanting to travel, goods, news, and gifts where it went. And today?
Today, a War Walker’s footsteps shook the ground. A sixth War Walker had marched past the city of Yoill, visible above the ten-foot-high walls.
Yoill wasn’t a small city by any means; it was a metropolis, but the sudden advent of so many [Soldiers] marching into their city had begun a sudden parade. However, that wasn’t the true purpose of Forgotten Wing’s [Soldiers].
One of their [Strategists], assigned to every major force in Forgotten Wing, was leading nearly a thousand armed [Soldiers], a mismash of Lizardfolk, Dullahans, and Humans, down one of the less-popular streets in Yoill. They didn’t get raucous cheering, nor were they handing out gifts.
However, they did have a delegation waiting for them. A pair of Lizardfolk with heavy scarring around their hands were adjusting some hastily-thrown-on formalwear, and they were joined by a Dullahan—minus the head.
The Lizardfolk duo and Dullahan glared daggers at each other as their flunkies, literal [Flunkies], [Thugs], and [Criminals] of various classes, nervously eyed the Forgotten Wing company, who came to a halt.
The two rival gangs did not tolerate each other, but the Steelclaws and Armorbreakers had been summoned, and the Dullahan, at least, had done this before.
The two Lizardfolk had ‘inherited’ their gang from the previous leader and debated being here.
“This is wrong. If we scatter—”
“Shut up!”
They were arguing fiercely, and the Dullahan gave them a sardonic thumbs up. The scrying orb she’d attached to her body like the Seer of Steel spoke.
“I would be glad to watch that happen, Oills, Adroxia. Watching the Forgotten Wing company crush a gang would go well with my wine, today.”
The two Lizardfolk’s hands twitched towards their blades, but one look at the Forgotten Wing soldiers made them hesitate.
They were just…standing there. Not even menacingly, but cheerfully eying down the two gangs. All the levels of back alley fights, bloody [Thugs] who’d crushed people’s jaws underfoot—the ruthless reputation of both gangs?
A rank of [Soldiers] securing the street, shields held in position, not tense, but at the ready, suggested that the regiment of soldiers was ready. Confident. If either gang wanted to try them, they could.
“Good evening! I am Strategist Mella of Forgotten Wing! May we approach peacefully!”
The [Strategist] was a Human woman who cheerfully waved and, when she got a slow nod, advanced with a small guard around her. She had…a clipboard.
The two Lizardfolk leaders and the Dullahan had bags of gold and jewels. The Lizardfolk duo stared as a [Soldier] lugged over a chest of holding.
No one liked paying taxes. But it felt especially egregious to do it when you were a [Knifemaster Gang Leader]. Worse, Strategist Mella didn’t just take the gold and go.
“Please wait for our [Accountant] to make sure that’s an accurate sum and do the counting. Gemstone prices fluctuate, and he’ll have to check the gold coins…you know how it is. Pardon the rush folks; we have a schedule to keep.”
She gave them a polite, distracted smile, and the three leaders stared at the War Walker pausing by the walls. For a drink of water. Even the Dullahan, Fonlec, sounded somewhat off-put.
“It seems Forgotten Wing is on the move. Has the war with Jungle Tails heated up that much, Strategist?”
“I can’t say, Miss Fonlec. Confidential. But while we’re here, we of course wanted to conduct our meeting…my commander is interviewing the [Mayor] of the city as we speak. As leaders of Yoill’s underworld, I am delighted to meet you, Oills, Adroxia. I’m very pleased the shakeup with the Steelclaws didn’t result in any infractions upon civilian life, or we’d have to be having words right about now.”
“Charmed.”
Oills managed; Adroxia was just staring at one of the [Strategist]’s [Soldiers], who was eying her and her [Bodyguards] and everyone else. She’d never seen a Centaur [Swordmaster] before, and her scales were itching.
“We’ve obeyed all Forgotten Wing’s laws.”
Adroxia shot back. Forgotten Wing didn’t rule the underworld, but it had a few requirements. The Titan understood gangs and crime were a thing even his company couldn’t stamp out entirely. So he issued a few general requirements to avoid attacking civilians, to pay a small tax…and to cooperate with his people within reason.
It wasn’t that arduous. In fact, it was downright doable. The reason the gangs actually did it, of course, was that when a gang decided they didn’t have to pay the Forgotten Wing any lip service, they vanished.
Not ‘vanished’ as in poof, overnight, without a trace. They publicly vanished, sometimes with trials and imprisonment, sometimes from the realms of the living. Very quickly, too. Or sometimes they did just vanish and someone mentioned seeing Three-Color Stalker having a meal at a bar the night before…
“Wonderful! It looks like we don’t need to recalculate. You were within our margin of error.”
Strategist Mella ticked a box on her clipboard, and Adroxia jumped. She glowered at the [Strategist], but this wasn’t over. Now, the Human woman was running down her list.
