“While we have you…we’d like to ask if anything concerning has happened with either of your gangs. Unusual persons, competing gangs, anything worth mentioning. Even if you think it’s inconsequential, I have time to listen. Oh, and if you’ve run into any [Killers], know of any egregious crimes, or have anyone you’d like to bring to our attention, now would be the time.”
“Which [Killers]?”
Adroxia scoffed as she half-turned, about to say all of Steelclaw could count. But then she looked up and saw Strategist Mella eying her.
Wasn’t that name familiar? Oh…had she been one of the Titan’s students? Not the current generation, but a previous one. Maybe she had been, because she had slightly red-brown hair, a scar across her nose and right cheek, and some kind of wand-holster on her wrist.
Whomever she was, the [Strategist] didn’t blink.
“Not that sort of killer, Miss Adroxia. [Murderers]. Oh—I do have someone on this list. Harl the Hacker is apparently in this city, according to our reports.”
Harl the Hacker? That psychopath wasn’t part of any gang. The Steelclaws and Armorbreakers eyed each other as Fonlec began to disavow any knowledge of them. But the [Strategist] just smiled.
“No need to worry, Miss Fonlec, we don’t need information. Just a name. I think we have him cornered—”
Her speaking stone chirped, and the [Strategist] raised it instantly.
“Mella.”
“The [Serial Killer]’s dead.”
A gravelly voice whispered out of her speaking stone. The three gang leaders stared at the [Strategist]. The Hacker was dead? He’d killed thirty people over a dozen cities! He’d minced two Steelclaws who’d gotten on his bad side and—
Mella gave the gang leaders a bright smile, as if they were listening in on something confidential. Then her tone grew a bit harried.
“General Gloriam, I thought we agreed to let the kill team take care of it. For their levels?”
“I spotted their aura. The Titan’s got more work for us. Wrap up and kill whomever you have to. I’m out of the city in ten minutes.”
The Selphid, the General Gloriam, hung up, and Mella turned to the [Gang Leaders] with an apologetic, and now rushed, smile.
“That’s not about you, you understand. So! If you have anything to talk to us about…I’ll write down my name and a contact if you want to pass any [Messages] to the Forgotten Wing company. Anything? Anything at all? I can always catch up to the good [General] on the road.”
She waited, clipboard in hand, smiling, as Forgotten Wing [Soldiers] waited. And marched. The city of Yoill had very few incidents to speak of; nothing with the gangs. A [Murderer] was brought to justice.
When the Forgotten Wing company entered other cities, they made inquiries or brought gifts and reckonings. But that was just the business of travel.
As they neared Talenqual and Paeth, they broke out drums and horns. After all, for that city, they’d been told to look good.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice stood just inside Talenqual’s walls as the city panicked. Two cities panicked.
Earthers were pointing at the incoming [Soldiers] with considerable anxiety and, in some cases, trauma from the last time they’d seen that many mercenaries marching.
For Paeth? It had to be worse and better, because at least they knew this was the Forgotten Wing and thus a Fraerling-led company.
Or maybe that made it just worse. Erin had been due to tour Talenqual a bit. Maybe speak with some people from Earth now that she was fully cleared.
All her plans had gone out the window the moment Paeth had noticed an army coming down the road. Call it bad intelligence on Paeth’s part; they were used to scanning for threats around them, but they hadn’t been part of Baleros and hadn’t been monitoring the movement of armies.
They’d spotted the War Walkers and the army, though. And whether they could have done anything about it—that was in doubt.
“Jesus fucking Christ. That’s four War Walkers.”
Daly was on the roof of the tallest building in the United Nations headquarters using a Fraerling-made spyglass to zoom in on the approaching soldiers. He would have used the scope of his crossbow, which had just as good magnification, but he didn’t want to…alarm…the Forgotten Wing company if they saw him aiming it at them.
“Three.”
Siri corrected Daly. She was squinting without using any magnification spells. Daly gave her an incredulous look. He counted four huge figures, light glinting off their armor, marching with the beat of the drums.
Horns were blowing, a song, militaristic yet oddly cheerful, carrying to them on the breeze. Daly pointed.
“You blind, Siri?”
“One of them’s not a Dullahan. That’s a Cyclops.”
“You—what?”
Daly surveyed the four War Walkers, and when he realized one of them wasn’t an armored behemoth, but more humanoid—less hunched and massive, but striding along, a giant axe resting on one shoulder and shield in one hand—his mouth dropped open. Then his spyglass shifted up, and he saw a giant, green, slitted pupil staring at him.
Green pupil, orange-black sclera, and a strange ring that ran around the center of the eye, but vanished at the top and bottom of the slanted pupil, forming a strange design—this iris was bright yellow.
The Cyclops’ eye was also staring at him. At Daly. The Bushrangers’ leader dropped the spyglass, and he fumbled for it.
“Shit, god damn—”
He nearly grabbed it, and it slipped from his hands as things did when you were trying to catch them. It bounced off Daly’s hands, off Siri’s head as she swore; he fumbled it again—then it went rolling down the roof.
“Hey, someone grab—”
The spyglass rolled off as Daly nearly went off the roof, and it brained Dawson, who’d been climbing up for a look.
“Fuck, Daly!”
“Sorry! Toss it back up!”
The little slapstick show didn’t mean much around the street where everyone was either flocking to the walls or watching Erin Solstice. The [Innkeeper]’s arms were folded, and she was just watching Forgotten Wing coming at them as Fraerlings shouted into speaking stones around her. She seemed incredibly poised, or she had an amazing poker face.
Whereas Daly felt fumble-fingered and very nervous. But the stupid antics had one result; as he grabbed for the spyglass as it flew up—and he missed—and it flew back down and hit someone else, Siri made a comment.
“I think the Cyclops saw that, Daly. That must be General Diomedes. One of the Forgotten Wing’s big [Generals]. Like, their top brass.”
Even Daly knew that. The Titan hadn’t sent just anyone here. Flushing, he finally caught the spyglass and went back to staring.
“How’d you reckon that?”
“He’s laughing.”
Indeed, the Cyclops’ head was thrown back and revealed some gigantic molars—he was pointing at Daly and talking to one of the Dullahan War Walkers.
“Great. They’re blokes with a sense of humor.”
“That War Walker’s female.”
“Goddamnit, Siri, I don’t care. Let’s get down to Erin and figure out what we’re going to do!”
Or rather what she was going to do. Daly looked down and saw, to his mild disbelief…no, it was entirely appropriate with the Erin Solstice he was getting to know. The [Innkeeper] was watching the Forgotten Wing company moving towards the city.
She tilted her head back, listening to that cheerful melody trumpeting across from her. It sounded like a parade before a war to Daly. A military parade. A show of force. He looked at the War Walkers, here to send a message to Paeth.
The Titan of Baleros reminding people who he was and getting his way. In his way…as much like Jungle Tails as anything else. It left a sour taste in Daly’s mouth—fear—when he thought they’d earned a break.
All for her. What did the [Innkeeper] do when she saw all this?
She was laughing too. Grinning. Daly stared down at Erin and muttered darkly to Siri.
“I think they deserve each other.”
The Swedish girl eyed Erin.
“We don’t know anything about either one. Just what we saw on television. Which one’s actually worse? I sort of want to find out.”
 
——
 
The Titan had kindly requested the presence of Erin Solstice. Paeth’s Architects didn’t quite know what to say.
“Yes. Or no. What happens if we say ‘no’?”
Citivican Loust was speculating. Heish responded.
“Then…he comes in and grabs her? He could literally have a War Walker step over the walls.”
“Okay, let’s think. What if she was in Paeth?”
Heish’s eyes were locked on the projection of the oncoming forces. Thirty thousand soldiers marching with the Cyclops and three War Walkers. Not a full army. A small one, for a [General]. But if she counted up the other divisions securing the roads…she absently turned to the others.
“Then I think he marches his troops up to Paeth’s walls and asks her…politely…to come out. I doubt he’ll actually threaten or attack Paeth, but I bet they have orders not to leave.”
Judiciary Honst frowned.
“What about the killzone in that scenario?”
Enchanter Ilekrome replied faintly.
“I think…for the good of all, the killzone is not active as the Forgotten Wing marches up. And I think Guidance Heish understands the dilemma. If Erin Solstice wishes to stay, that is one thing, and I suggest we hear out her request carefully.”
Suddenly, it had become less of ‘the Titan can want what he wants, but she’s our guest’ and more ‘let’s see what Erin decides.’
That was what Heish had decided to call politics. Not ‘real world politics’ or ‘Tallfolk politics’, because both terms implied something else. Just politics. It was simply something Paeth didn’t do internally or were used to. The Titan was a Fraerling among Tallfolk, though.
Honst looked appalled by everything he was seeing.
“So this is what happens when you live outside a city so long. Was he like this when you met him, Heish? This—arbitrarily authoritarian?”
“I only met Commander Foliana and the rest of his company, not the Titan himself since he was absent. When he arrived in Baleros, he won a major battle then executed every officer he took captive. This is about in line with that. Even reasonable.”
The other Architects, unused to even the Tallguard, blanched. Heish just turned her attention back to the link they had to Erin.
What would she do? She hadn’t said a word yet, but as the Titan approached, all of Baleros definitely knew where Erin Solstice was, even if the [Diviners] were shooting down scrying spells like there was no tomorrow. In fact, Sentry Commander Ekrn had apparently decided it was time. His voice crackled through the speaking spells.
“Someone tell our [Mages] to stop burning mana. Focus on attack spells only or hostile [Scrying] spells. Most can’t even locate her. If anyone tries shooting a curse, cancel it, give them a warning, and flag it for Enchanter Ilekrome. The [Innkeeper] is in the open. Tallguard, ready.”
Poor woman. Heish saw Erin Solstice glance up, having heard Ekrn’s voice. Heish hoped Erin had rested enough, because once again—
More eyes than just the Cyclops’ were staring at her.
 
——
 
Too much was happening at once. The Forgotten Wing company was approaching Paeth, and a Centaur had just ridden to the gates to request entry. Horns were blaring. The tread of approaching War Walkers was a beat in the soil, echoed by the drums.
Her heart was pounding. She was afraid and exhilarated and as ready as she could be. Resolved. Grim?
Oh, yes.
Grim was a good word. Like Halrac the Grim. Poor, brave, glorious man.
Erin Solstice was ready. Or she hoped she was. No time to prepare or regret now; and now it was all happening.
People were busy preparing for the Forgotten Wing. She had a choice to make. So it was entirely appropriate that now, at this very second—
Lyonette du Marquin appeared. She didn’t appear right in front of Erin, at first, but rather, in the air.
“—Paeth if you can’t find Daly Sullivan! Okay, it worked! The Fraerlings really did let down the [Scrying] spells. Mrsha, tell—whoa! Erin!”
Lyonette whirled in delight—then leapt back as Erin twisted and aimed a crossbow at her. The [Innkeeper]’s finger squeezed on the trigger, and she fired a crossbow bolt through Lyonette’s chest as the [Princess] shrieked.
“Stand down! It’s the damn scrying spell!”
Ekrn roared; two Tallguard shot through Lyonette as well, and another, Noa, aborted a flying charge. She sailed through Lyonette and above the head of a gaping little Gnoll who stared up, open-mouthed. Noa’s mouth was also open as she stared down at Mrsha—then she slammed into the window of a house.
“Ow.”
“Dead gods! Erin? Erin!”
Lyonette flinched, put a hand to her chest, and then her image turned to Erin. She was there! Transparent, image shivering and glitching a bit, perhaps as the Fraerlings turned off their protections, but there.
Erin Solstice looked into the eyes of her friend, at Mrsha, who stared up at Erin, searching her face, sniffing, as if she wished she could inspect Erin all over, and the [Innkeeper] paused.
“You look healthy, Lyonette. Good. Do you know where Ryoka is? Rabbiteater? I heard about the Horns washing up on Chandrar.”
“Wh—Erin! You shot at me! Through me! Is that a crossbow? The Forgotten Wing company is marching towards you! It’s on the news!”
Erin glanced up at the sky. She nodded, half to herself.
“The Fraerlings have been complaining about how many [Scrying] spells they’ve been shooting down all day. I’m warded, but people can get my general location. Don’t worry; I’m under protection. Hello, Mrsha. Is Nanette with you? Tell her I’m fine, would you?”
Mrsha began writing a response, but Erin didn’t miss a beat. She gestured to one side at a Fraerling hanging from a grappling hook lashed to his belt.
“This is Sentry Commander Ekrn of Paeth. Ekrn, this is Lyonette du Marquin, from my inn. A [Princess], though she pretends that’s a secret. This is Mrsha, a Doombearer and ward of my inn. Family. I assume everyone else is okay over there, Lyonette? I know who’s died from your letters.”
The [Princess] was trying to get a word in edgewise. She was—staring at Erin. Like she’d seen a stranger.
“Dead gods, Erin. You look—you don’t have the scars I was expecting. Wait, are you taller or is it just me? You’re way taller! And how did you get back your original size, and—er, hello, Sentry Commander!”
Lyonette was so flustered she forgot to greet Ekrn, a rarity for a Calanferian-trained [Princess]. She looked Erin up and down, and the other woman gave her a ghost of a smile.
“Turns out I can alter my size with Fraerling help. I asked for a bit of height. Did anyone else get hurt?”
“Wh—no. I haven’t seen Numbtongue in a bit, but he’s fine, and Bird is due to come back today. Erin! We have—there’s—in your inn—”
