Niers the Titan, though, could wait to meet the [Innkeeper] as long as possible.
 
——
 
“Attention, class.”
When Niers strode into his classroom, it felt like the old days. They jumped and stared, and he looked over them, eyes lingering on faces.
They were back. He hadn’t known if they’d all make it, but there they were. His students in his special class had actually expanded to include Perorn’s best students and the new ones. But it was some of them that Niers focused on.
Wil, Umina, Marian, Venaz, Merrik, Peki, Yerranola, Kissilt, Cameral…
And no Feshi.
So he supposed one hadn’t returned, but she wasn’t dead. That was a victory. They were definitely changed, though.
Venaz sat with a huge, green, diamond greatsword prominently jutting from behind his back. He looked smug, having no doubt shown it off to the envious others like Jekilt and Kissilt, and some of the other students looked older.
Marian had aged like Yerranola, years in pain. Her prosthetic leg looked good; Perorn had had a word with Marian about recovering and processing grief. Umina looked sharper, as if she’d seen her genius run up against a real war.
Cameral—well, he’d actually been interning with Niers and gave the Titan a more confident nod. Kissilt had more authority, if not humility…it was hard to say if Venaz had humility, but the Minotaur looked more world-wise than before, which was to say he might have had his ego checked a few times.
Wil, Yerranola, Venaz, Merrik, and Peki had all been in Niers’ company in Izril, so they were more immediately familiar. Of the lot, Wil almost seemed more uncertain of himself than before, but he’d been through adventures. He and Yerranola sat together, and Merrik and Peki had graduated to this special class.
Merrik…didn’t seem to have changed as much. Dwarves seldom did. Something to do with their unique home, upbringing, and perspective. Peki looked troubled. Probably by news of home. When they saw him, Niers looked at his students and thought, as he often did, that this class had some of the most promising students that he’d ever seen.
He knew, by the end of next year, many more would not be sitting in front of him. Whether it was death…or graduation, he didn’t know.
“It’s going to be an interesting year, people. I hope you had a fine winter break. Nothing to report, eh? Good, good. Now today, I thought we’d review some supply sheets to see if you remember how to supply a company—I’ll want the reports done by the end of the week. We’ll run through some battles we just fought as well and see if you can do better than my commanders in the field.”
They burst into smiles, and the newer ones, like that [Princess], stared at Niers as he attempted a jocular tone and strode onto his podium. The students looked at each other, and Niers grinned—right up until someone raised a hand.
The Fraerling stopped, closed his eyes, and put a hand over his face.
“Venaz. Are you going to start this school year off right? Let’s find out.”
He pointed, and the Minotaur, to laughter from students new and old, who knew of his contentious relationship with the Professor, stood up.
“It’s good to be back, Professor! I hope I’ve learned enough to impress you.”
“Brown-nosing is not an upgrade. Is that all?”
Venaz was unmoved by the jab, which showed some growth.
“No, Professor! We were wondering if it was appropriate for you to be here given the fact that Innkeeper Solstice is about to be present. We’d quite understand if you left this to a substitute. Perhaps Iuncuta Eirnos or a Fraerling Tallguard would be a fascinating substitute! Sir!”
The class tittered, and Niers’ head slowly turned. It had been a long time since he’d felt his authority in the classroom itself challenged…he met Venaz’s gaze.
“The day I accept advice on romance, or even interpersonal relationships, from you, Venaz, is the day I drown myself in a cup of coffee.”
He got a few laughs, but the Minotaur was unmoved.
“With respect, sir, I didn’t mean that purely in a romantic sense, though it’s good you clarified it for the betting pool.”
Fallen straight into a trap. Niers debated punishments while the Minotaur went on, a touch smug.
“—I meant you may wish to gird yourself for meeting Erin Solstice. She is not what you expect, in my experience, sir. She may surprise you. In fact, I am sure she will.”
The class fell silent, and everyone stared at Wil, Peki, and Merrik, who nodded. Niers stopped inventing ways to humiliate Venaz and raised his brows.
“I don’t think I underestimate my foes, Venaz. I’m glad you’ve stopped.”
“Yes, Professor. But she’ll still surprise you.”
The Titan stood there a second, brows raised, as Venaz gave him a confident stare. After a second, Niers threw up his hands.
“Alright! Put down the reports! You don’t win credit for being too fast to do what I tell you, Princess Angelica.”
He snapped, and Princess Angelica of Morein jumped, dropped her paper, and turned red. The new students regarded her, and Niers waved a hand.
“Welcome to the new ones. Yes, look worried; I’ll bully you, and if staring makes you freeze up, you’re not going to survive this class. Get working on your introductions because I’m going to have you all make one to the class—and you’re selling yourself as if you’re a new [Strategist] the King of Destruction’s meeting. So make it as interesting as you think that means.”
His eyes twinkled, and he spun on a heel, pointing.
“But first! Venaz, report! Wil, Peki, Merrik, Yerranola, I suppose there’s no help for it. Everyone’s seen a certain Fraerling got up to mischief on his vacation—this is why I don’t take them. I want a full account of how it was from you five and what you did wrong and right.”
He stopped, glanced right dramatically, and nodded.
“You four as well. Marian’s got her first scars, and I have to commend her, Umina, Kissilt, and Cameral on the defense of Paeth, both as a Fraerling and as a teacher. Anything to say right away?”
“Glad to be alive, Professor! I hate fighting Lizardfolk!”
Kissilt shouted, and Niers smiled.
“But you did it and survived, and that’s a passing grade. Stop flashing that ring you got. We’ll talk logistics of that hairy mess in a second. And yes, I heard about what you got up to in the north, Jekilt. I want presentations, people! Your best and worst for a class of inquiring minds! Teach me something. Then, if we speed through our three hours, you can give me tips on dating, and we can envision a scenario where you’re about to meet a Level 50 [Innkeeper]. And what kind of Skills that kind of person has.”
The class sat up, and Niers knew he had them. Not just that he’d gotten their attention and motivated them, but that they’d drop the stupid romance thing until the end of class.
Dead gods, I’m good at my job. The Titan stood there, smiling, right up until someone waved a hand.
“Sir! Clarification before we dive into it?”
Merrik rose to his feet as his group prepared to give their exciting tales of adventure and woe—Niers didn’t want to tell them he’d booked a [Writer] to record their adventures at sea down for the next issue until the class was over.
“Go on, Merrik?”
The Dwarf paused.
“…I think she’s not a huge fan of Drathian dishes from what I saw, but she does appreciate a good ‘mac and cheese’, whatever that is. She never eats that, though, so I think the smart money is on a familiar dish from home. I was thinking a Shepherd’s Pie—no rats or similar meat—and you can bet my beard on it, sir.”
He sat down, and Niers stared at his class. He turned, picked up a piece of chalk, then hurled it at Merrik.
 
——
 
Fending off students’ well-meaning advice for three hours was tiring work. Having well-meaning [Servants] catch him and ask about this or that for the upcoming event was hard work. Meeting Fraerlings in the halls who had advice, like Commander Rozcal, was insufferable.
Knowing that it was Hoisq’s day to go into combat under General Gloriam’s command…that was actually difficult.
Was he ashamed that sometimes he focused more on meeting Erin than the deaths of people he knew or were under his command? Yes, yes, of course.
Sometimes, he was too busy to care. And other times, he didn’t know the people who suffered and died and could look at it objectively, like a [Strategist].
And sometimes, Niers Astoragon learned how to stop and let his heart beat normally, fill, and stand on a platform that led onto Elvallian’s palace and look up.
The sky was lightening, the winter fleeing. The air was still chilly, but Fraerlings were tough, and Foliana never got cold except in the north. She herself was there, visible for once, nibbling on a piece of dried macaroni. Looking up.
Getting the top two leaders of the Forgotten Wing company in one spot was something that royalty couldn’t always achieve. But that was because most royalty were boring. For the King of Destruction, Foliana and Niers would have been there, with Signim no less. Niers in front, Foliana behind Flos.
Niers had dressed up for today. Not for Erin, since her reaching Elvallian today was in doubt. For this, he’d thrown on a sky-blue coat and worked around it; he kept the iconic red hat with the counterbalanced feather that had become part of his look. He was smiling as he rubbed at his chin.
All of the annoyance, the nerves, and yes, the irascibility his students and colleagues had observed in him when Erin was brought up was replaced by a simpler joy. Some of his best students, who’d been allowed to join him, saw the Titan’s eyes glittering.
A pair of young women staring upwards glanced at Niers, then continued whispering—well, arguing—together. It reminded Niers a bit of himself and Foliana. He wasn’t sure who was who.
“Be nice, Geneva.”
“I will be. I want to check her condition.”
“Nice, I said. Do you even know what that is?”
“I’m able to be nice, Beth.”
“You say that, but I’m getting a blank stare like a sociopath from you. Okasha, back me up.”
“Geneva can’t be nice.”
“Thank you.”
“You two are being ridiculous. I’m getting a reputation like the Titan thanks to you two. Half the people I meet seem to think I’m incapable of smiling.”
“Oh, really? Then go ahead and smile. No help from Okasha.”
Two, no, three people were standing there. Only two were visible. Geneva Scala, Okasha, and Beth, the Selphid-version of Geneva, were arguing. Niers turned his head slightly and saw the taller of the two—Beth was a Lizardfolk today—pull a smile.
“Eugh.”
Geneva turned and saw Niers staring at her ‘smile’ with a faintly appalled look. Commander Rozcal leaned over on the dais the Fraerlings were using to see and began laughing his ass off. Geneva’s scowl was natural, practiced, an amazing one. Sheer, natural talent.
Beth gave Geneva a smug smile. Then she walked over and peered at Foliana’s snack. Foliana edged away from Beth.
“Go. Away.”
“I’m not going to take it from you. I was just checking.”
“I’ll throw you off this balcony.”
It was actually a sight; many of the students had heard rumors, but they’d never seen someone other than Niers, and rarely him, getting on Foliana’s nerves. Beth walked back to Geneva, and Niers laughed.
It was a natural, genuine laugh. He shaded his eyes and wondered what she saw.
He had to own, she knew how to make an entrance. She must have been flying for days now. After getting her bearings on the coast, and healing up, she’d caught the wind to get here. And it was always on her side.
A figure was flying towards Elvallian’s palace on a curious rectangle in the skies. A hang glider. The Fraerlings were hugely approving of this suicidal-looking stunt; only a single bar connected the young woman with the device. She didn’t even have a safety-harness.
Not these days. She looked properly mad and unique, as a Courier should. The Titan felt the breeze on his face as the Wind Runner came in for a descent. And before she’d even landed, he’d hopped onto Foliana’s shoulder.
He watched as the Wind Runner touched down easily, the wind slowing her as she literally touched down, let go of her glider, and rolled her shoulders. Even the Fraerlings looked impressed as Ryoka Griffin raised some goggles and looked around.
Foliana immediately turned invisible as people hurried forwards, and the young woman straightened, took in the crowd, and seemed ready to hop back into the air.
“Oh, fuck me.”
Ryoka Griffin audibly muttered, then she put a smile almost as good as Geneva’s onto her face and walked forwards. Foliana could make Niers invisible, and he sighed as Three-Color Stalker prowled up onto the platform, and someone spoke.
“I am Seneschal Atmodeca. Welcome to the Forgotten Wing company’s headquarters, Courier Griffin. Somewhere is Commander Foliana and Lord Astoragon. I have the pleasure of welcoming you as an honored guest.”
Ryoka’s mouth opened as she stared up at Atmodeca, and the seven-foot Crocodile Beastkin opened her mouth in an attempt at a smile.
Atmodeca actually won the contest for ‘worst greeting visage’, and Niers decided he’d tell her she didn’t have to bother with humanoid facial expressions.
“H-hi. I’m delighted to be here and honored.”
Ryoka did well; Atmodeca was legitimately unnerving, even to Lizardfolk. The Courier’s eyes swiveled the platforms, and she nodded to Venaz and the students. When she saw Geneva, her eyes went round, and the [Doctor] started uncertainly. Then Ryoka turned and glanced past Foliana, who was almost right on top of her, rifling through Ryoka’s belt pouch.
“Foliana, dead gods damn it, stop looting her!”
“Living people are easier than corpses. Ooh. Nice. Smells like feet.”
Niers and Foliana could also communicate silently when she did this. Foliana inspected Ryoka’s footwraps and wrinkled her nose. Then she pulled out an autographed card, and Ryoka’s eyes flickered back over Foliana with a frown.
“Is he here? Is Erin? Sorry, I know I came on short notice—”
She addressed Atmodeca, and her eyes kept flickering around. Ryoka spotted the Fraerlings, whistled silently, glanced at Atmodeca, who was explaining Niers and Foliana were ‘about’, and then, a third time, stared past Foliana—
Then straight at her. 
Niers, about to kick Foliana in the ear, stopped. No way. No way in cats—
Foliana had been reaching for Ryoka’s potions. Instantly, and reflexively, Ryoka slapped Foliana’s paw down.
“What the f—”
She sprang back. Foliana jerked back with actual alarm. The entire audience froze as Three-Color Stalker appeared. Niers blinked as Foliana stared at her paw, Ryoka—the Wind Runner was wide-eyed.
“Oh, sorry. I’m honored to meet—”
