She bowed toward Niers and Foliana—and Foliana kicked the Wind Runner off the balcony. That was almost definitely reflexive.
“Aaaaaaaa—”
Niers peered over the balcony and saw a blast of wind catch Ryoka by her windsuit before she hit the ground. He peered at Foliana, who blinked her own unique eyes and met his gaze for a second. When she saw his smug smirk—she tossed him off the platform as well.
 
——
 
Ryoka felt like bad first impressions were her specialty. At least she caught the Titan. Getting kicked like that hurt like hell, though; the wind had yanked her back, but Ryoka had gone flying.
“Apologies for the kick. You scared the hell out of Foliana. Back up we go—gently—gently—everyone, stand down. Foliana, back off. Just reach your hand out there, Miss Griffin. Thank you. Never squeeze a Fraerling even if you’re catching us. Good instincts.”
When they got back up, Ryoka gingerly extended her hand, and Niers hopped onto a platform that kept him more or less at eye-level. Everyone was staring.
Foliana, visible, not the shimmering veil drawn over her that Ryoka had spotted, was standing with a bunch of wary people relaxing and taking their hands off their blades. If Ryoka needed another reminder she was in [Mercenary] territory—
Actually, the kick was all she needed.
Wow, that hurt. However, the Titan was shouting everyone down.
“Alright, students, don’t push forwards. Atmodeca, toss Umina off the balcony if she tries to sneak in. You’re still students, and this is Forgotten Wing business. You can try to listen in if you want, but this is our guest. Foliana, no more kicks.”
“No promises.”
Three-Color Stalker dodged Atmodeca’s grab for her. She was peering at Ryoka, and the Wind Runner wished she’d played dumb.
Oh shit, my perspective trick is going to get me in serious trouble here. Outing herself as being able to see the world’s greatest rogue was bad news. However, Niers was speaking, and he seemed to dominate the attention space, even as small as he was.
Niers Astoragon was smiling.
“Ryoka Griffin, welcome to Elvallian! And may I add, thank you for taking Foliana down a peg. Does someone have a recording of the moment? No? Damn, we’ll have to commission a painting.”
Foliana didn’t respond, but she nudged the platform on which Niers was standing on, and someone swore.
“Watch it, Stalker!”
A one-eyed Fraerling caught herself, gave Ryoka a second look, and nodded. Niers stumbled but kept beaming.
“Ryoka, may I introduce you to Iuncuta Eirnos, Doctor Geneva Scala, Healer Beth, a rabid tree squirrel, Commander Rozcal…”
He made introductions rapidly, and one of the Fraerlings in armor, huge for his size but amazingly small, boomed in an incredible voice.
“Hah! And here I thought the [Innkeeper] was the only interesting Tallfolk I’d meet this week! Put it there, Courier!”
He shook a finger as Ryoka’s mouth opened. The Wind Runner’s eyes jerked to Geneva, then she bowed to Niers.
“I’m honored, again, to be here, Lord Astoragon.”
His eyes glinted.
“You can skip that, Ryoka. A friend of Erin’s is a friend of mine—and we are both honored associates of Mrsha the Great and Terrible, aren’t we?”
Oh. Yeah! He knew Mrsha! Ryoka relaxed, but the Titan was still—whoa. He was right there, and for all he was a tiny guy she’d literally caught and cradled in her hands, he had the ability to maneuver in both a physical and verbal space like he was a lot bigger. He walked forwards onto the air as his boots glowed, leaving a misty trail behind him.
“We don’t really shake hands as Fraerlings, so I’ll take my hat off to you.”
He waved the hat and the giant feather, and Ryoka half-bowed. She looked him up and down.
“No, really, thank you for letting me fly in and helping, Lord Astoragon. Your people were great. Especially when I kept flying from spot to spot and Lizardfolk kept trying to net me.”
He sighed.
“I’d like to believe they were just after a bounty I put to help you or even spot you—but the odds are Jungle Tails or someone else wanted a word with you. I’m just glad my forces knew how to talk to you.”
Ryoka nodded. Instead of trying to capture her, they’d taken the novel—and smart—approach of shouting who they were and, when she was unconvinced they weren’t also out to grab her, tossing a bunch of maps into the air until she got to a bigger city.
The Titan, it seemed, knew something about paranoia. And perhaps he knew how Ryoka felt at this moment, because he moderated his tone, which was clearly an attempt to be welcoming.
“—I blame Foliana for the kick. You’re in good company if you can spot her once, though. Elvallian is meant for extraordinary people, and you’ll fit in nicely. Fraerlings, officers, and students—we’ll back off a step. I believe Ryoka Griffin should start with someone more at home with her.”
He gave a nod to Geneva Scala, and for some reason, the other one, clearly a Selphid, walked forwards. And there was a duck perched on a railing.
“Quack!”
Ryoka stared at the duck. It was definitely a duck. She narrowed her eyes. Yes, it was a duck. It kept telling her it was a duck.
…It was a duck? Niers eyed Ryoka’s face as the definitely-a-duck quacked again. He raised his brows, smiled.
“Someone feed the damn duck and get it out of the way.”
“Quack, quack!”
The duck flapped its wings as a [Servant] picked it up. Now there was a damn duck—but Geneva Scala was staring at Ryoka, and the Wind Runner gave her a nod. Then she turned back to Niers.
“Thank you for the consideration, Lord Astoragon. I’m fine, really. If Erin’s out there, I could fly to her or answer any questions—”
“Don’t fly out to her, Ryoka.”
Niers chuckled. He shook his head at her and rubbed at his goatee. He was a pretty handsome guy, even if he’d definitely entered into his later years. Foliana was greyer than Ryoka had thought too.
An older Fraerling—but wow, he was intimidating.
“We have plenty of time, and I daresay it makes sense for us to chat before Erin Solstice gets here. You’re not overwhelmed? Well, someone will get you something for your stomach and refreshments. Flying that high up makes you damn cold and thirsty, if I remember right.”
Ryoka blinked and waved her hands as she nodded her head.
“Oh, I don’t need a potion—but I could use something hot to drink. You’re right.”
Niers nodded at a servant.
“One of the nice parlors. Don’t worry; we’re not so excessive we’d use a healing potion on you. No offense, Miss Ryoka. We have a low-level healing balm one of our [Healers] makes up. Not great, and it spoils, but it beats nothing these days. Or getting sewn up. We get thirsty when we fly. Why is that? It’s cold, and you’d imagine the lack of movement saves water.”
“Uh…atmosphere? It’s probably drier, and our bodies are working harder?”
Ryoka had to speculate. Someone cut in—Geneva Scala.
“If it’s flying back home, it’s the lower humidity in a controlled environment. For you two, I imagine it’s the air and your bodies working harder in an unfamiliar environment. I’d like to check Ryoka over, first. She had a [Healer], but she survived a significant incident at sea.”
Geneva Scala strode forwards and nodded to Ryoka. Someone actually stopped Geneva—Niers and the young Selphid called Beth.
“One second, Doctor Geneva. I’m sure Miss Griffin has time for a checkup—later. She’s not visibly dying, and this world has run well enough before you did a routine checkup of everyone in it.”
The Titan’s words stopped Geneva, and the [Doctor] began to scowl—before the Selphid, Beth, put a hand on her shoulder.
“And I think you meant ‘hello, Ryoka. It’s great to see you.’”
“Yes. I…”
The [Doctor] stopped and took a breath. She had spectacles, piercing light brown eyes, brown hair, olive skin, and something close to a lab coat on, in white. Her voice was rapid, like it was used to speaking fast. Ryoka tried a smile and held out a hand.
“Nice to meet you at last, Geneva.”
The [Doctor] focused on Ryoka’s right hand and the three fingers. She took Ryoka’s hand slowly, glancing down to the stubs, then at Ryoka.
“You’ll be safe here, Ryoka. I’m relieved to meet you.”
Beth rolled her eyes as she held out a hand with a friendlier smile, and Ryoka shook it while staring at Geneva and thinking—
Wow, she’s almost as not okay as me. Judging from the way the [Doctor] was performing a visual scan of Ryoka, from her bare feet to her windsuit, and noting the visible scars, the two were having a ‘this woman is in need of my help’…contest. And they both thought the other was winning.
But Niers just cleared his throat gently.
“I can see it was a good idea to invite you here. If you’ll let me, I’ll intrude on a good cup of tea in a parlor. No, Rozcal, you aren’t invited. Ignore him. He just wants to learn how to fly in armor. Adamantium. He has a vision of being a flying Fraerling in indestructible armor.”
The Wind Runner turned to the beaming Fraerling, who rubbed a hand across the back of his head as if to say ‘aw, shucks’. Ryoka was tickled pink and dipped her head to Niers.
“I’d like that.”
“Foliana—ah, damn. She’s gone.”
Ryoka’s eyes slid sideways, and Niers burst out laughing. A furry finger flicked his dais, and he swore.
“I love this. Okay, let’s make it four of us. You, me, Geneva, Beth. Tea? Coffee? Atmodeca, just get snacks. All of them.”
“Get snacks. Tea. Coffee?”
The Wind Runner brightened up, then grew confused.
“Oh, I could use some coffee. Wait, you have that?”
Niers winked at Ryoka.
“Of course we do. Scouring the jungles for the berries and making up a cup isn’t hard; growing the lot is. Do you need to send any [Messages] before we do that? Tell anyone you’re alive?”
“Uh—Tyrion knows, and Mrsha found me the day after the battle, so I’ve been in contact. Coffee’s great. Thank you. Oh, shit—”
“I know, I know. A [Lord] of House Veltras is coming, unsubtly, towards Baleros. I can’t stop him, and the Iron Vanguard is too busy to, but he’ll be in trouble the moment he lands, if only because from what I understand of the man, he’s denser than Venaz. Let’s solve the issue after we get on the same page.”
Niers forestalled Ryoka’s comment, preempted her clarifications, and they were being pointed to a parlor so fast she felt dizzy. Ryoka glanced at him.
Okay. He’s definitely one of the world’s greatest [Strategists]. Chaldion was like that, but I never got to know him as well as Erin, and he was old.
This guy didn’t feel old. He did give off a sense of danger and, yes, incredible competency. Ryoka searched Niers up and down and also realized he dressed amazingly well. This dude had apparently invented chess—oh, and he ruled a Great Company, and she’d heard he’d minced Gold-ranks as a Fraerling.
But Ryoka’s inspection of Niers resulted in something odd. She slowed as Niers perched on Atmodeca’s shoulder, and put a hand over her chest. Yeah. He really was a snappy dresser. The goatee looked great on him, and even his voice was far larger than his body, commanding and soothing.
Ryoka felt at her chest. Then she wiped at her brow.
“Whew!”
Whew? Niers gave Ryoka a sideways glance. The Wind Runner looked unaccountably relieved.
“Worried about Tyrion Veltras?”
“No, er—I was just sort of worried about—nothing. Nevermind.”
It was just a random thought, but Ryoka was really glad it hadn’t happened. Because that was the last thing she needed. Niers gave Ryoka a blank look for about a dozen steps—then his eyes screwed up, and he began chuckling.
“Is that—forgive me. Is that a common problem?”
Ryoka reddened.
“I am so sorry. It’s presumptive, but the last two times I was in a new place—”
Niers began chuckling, then he put his hand over his chest, and his eyes widened.
“Wait, House Veltras and Ailendamus? And it was reciprocal? Ha! Hahahahahaha—”
Ryoka waved her hands, denying the reciprocal part—at least in Ailendamus, but the Titan roared with laughter. Then he pointed a finger at Ryoka.
“Flying Humans are very charming. Flying Garuda? Passe.”
A Garuda trying to follow the conversation and join in gave Niers a wounded look.
“Hey, Professor.”
“Away, Peki! Shoo! No one likes someone who can do what everyone else can do. I can see it. You know, I think it’s also about your unique perspective.”
Earth. But Niers blazed on so fast, eyes twinkling, anyone could have taken anything from it. As if telling Ryoka to keep up.
“—You’re going to disarm a lot of people who think they’ve seen everything. Even more if you’re genuine where they’re used to a dissembler.”
“Oh shit, that’s sort of true. I mean, it’s also that I meet some people and—”
“—you’re chatting with them because you’re a Courier or on a task, and they haven’t spoken to anyone besides themselves for years? It happens. When I was young, there was this Archmage who married a City Runner who just delivered packages for him. Whether or not it was a good matchup…we’re all people at the end of the day. And now you’ve got one following you from Izril. You can tell him ‘no’, you know. Or I can. That’s where having General Diomedes—Cyclops—comes in handy. Even thickheads get it.”
Ryoka was speaking faster as Geneva, Beth, and the people being swatted back by the servants tried to get a word in or just listened.
“No, I—”
“Oh, so it’s fine? Perish the thought. Toss it in a bag, drown it in the ocean. Then it’s your problem.”
Ryoka blushed. Niers gave her a serious look.
“Just know that at some point Tyrion Veltras is going to be Tyrion Veltras, not Tyrion or however you know him. If it hasn’t happened already.”
She ducked her head and was so impressed with the Titan that she almost missed it. But a Squirrel woman rematerialized and whispered as the Titan grinned at Ryoka.
“Mm. So says the Fraerling who can’t even visit an [Innkeeper] without getting marooned in the High Passes for months.”
Niers twisted, reached towards his belt for something to hurl at Foliana as she danced away, and hesitated. He glanced at Ryoka, and his poise was suddenly shattered.
“Er—well, that’s another matter. Erin’s coming by, and I suppose you’re aware that I made my intentions clear. But rescuing her friends and helping her is clearly divided from personal affairs. So you know. Speaking of which, she’ll be glad to see you! Do you have anything you’d like to eat when you meet?”
Ah. Now that was almost a relief. Like Achilles suddenly getting kicked in the heel, the Titan suddenly floundered. And that incisive cut to his commentary turned duller.
