“I was terrified.” Ali spoke quietly, staring off into the dark cavern. “Not just of you. The Kobolds, the rogues in particular, and the withdrawal. Thanks for trying to keep my spirits up even when I had lost hope. I would have given up without you.”

Mato sat quietly for a moment, slowly realizing that Ali didn’t actually hate him. She is much more forgiving than I would have been.

“How long do you think your domain withdrawal will take to heal?” he asked eventually.

“It’s already getting better,” she answered, smiling. “Probably a couple of hours.”

“Will you be ok by yourself if I go report Calen and Malika missing to the garrison commander and see if there’s any news?” he asked. “I’m worried about them.” It had been over a week. I hope they’re still alive.

“Yes, I have my rogue,” she answered, pointing to the dark Kobold standing guard. “And I can make another one just in case. It will be good to figure out if they need help. Come and get me when you find out anything?”

Nodding, Mato got up and headed to the town above. I need to swing by the house. Mom will be worried sick. And Ali is probably starving.

Ali sat cross-legged on her moss carpet next to the shrine, savoring the sensation of her domain withdrawal slowly dissolving. She wouldn’t be able to do much until she had fully recovered from her withdrawal, so she had watched Mato head up to town on his own to see if he could discover what had become of Malika and Calen.

Alone with her thoughts, and in her familiar space, the panic and fear of the traumatic days in the underground ruins of her old city slowly began to fade.

When did this new Grove start to feel like home? It had certainly featured regularly in her dreams while she was struggling to survive. At first, she had grieved for the loss of her parents, her city, and particularly the Grove as it had been before. But now she felt like this new place was hers. Perhaps it was the familiarity of the shrine, but there were also the small details of her moss and the tiny beautiful glowing fairy rings of mushrooms she had created from her own magic.

Ali had told Mato she had been close to giving up. She hadn’t told him just how close she had come.

I am weak.

She recalled her terror as the rogue ambushed her. Her fear of the fire-wielding Kobold mages. Her fear of running out of health due to her domain. Ali had been so deathly afraid of everything that was happening to her, that often she had been ready to lie down in the darkness and simply wait for it all to end. As she sat in quiet contemplation, she realized that she had been carried along by the tide of events ever since the day Nevyn Eld had destroyed Dal’mohra. The only real decision she had made was her class choice. Even the choice of her level ten skill, Martial Insight, had been dictated by circumstance, rather than her own preference.

I need to start making more active choices. I’m weak, and if I can’t choose my own path, I will stay weak.

She opened the description for her newest skill.

Martial Insight – level 5Your mana empowering your summoned creatures now carries your accumulated experience. Your creatures gain +46.1% [40 + skill + perception / 10] to combat abilities. Martial Insight only gains experience when you observe your minions’ combat.Nature, Minion, Mastery, Perception

Even just at level five, her skill had already begun to show its power. The growing bonus to combat abilities had been vastly more effective than she could have hoped for. Her Kobolds’ damage and defenses had been incomparably stronger, and it was abundantly clear that this skill had saved them. There really hadn’t been enough time to find another exit, and Martial Insight had been the key that allowed them to pass the Kobold Swordmaster guarding the exit. And his skill, she thought. If she were honest, the sheer power of Mato’s Berserker rage had been just as crucial to defeating the monsters.

I wanted Arcane Insight.

The thought popped unbidden into her mind. It seemed like a silly thing now, perhaps a little petulant, but the ability to see mana and magic in action had always captured her imagination and her heart. Somehow, she couldn’t let go of it. If she hadn’t been in dire circumstances, she would never have picked Martial Insight over Arcane Insight, but now that she had experienced how powerful the skill was, she couldn’t discard it in good conscience. Maybe I can replace something else, like Mato did?

My two least used skills are Runic Script and Sage of Learning, she thought, scanning through her skill list. She was at least moderately annoyed with Sage for consuming her mana at the most inopportune moments – including in the middle of a life-or-death battle – but she was similarly reluctant to part with either of them.

They’re both a part of who I want to be.

She considered Barrier and Arcane Bolt briefly, but they were her combat mainstays. I definitely cannot afford to give up these. No way. What would Malika say?

Her gaze settled on Grasping Roots. This was the skill that locked down rogues from getting to her once she entangled them. And Ali was still traumatized by those dreams of rogues hiding behind her in every shadow, daggers ready to stab.

But I really want to see magic…

Ali agonized over her skills, vacillating for ages.

What if I need it?

But… mana sight!

Eventually, she sat back and sighed. Mato swapped his skill out, she thought, suddenly remembering that he had said his Primal Rage hadn’t gone away – it had simply been relegated to his list of unselected skill offerings.

That means I should be able to swap it back if I need to… I think.

She immediately selected Arcane Insight from the list of available skills.

No free skill slots available, choose a skill to replace.

Choosing Grasping Roots in response to the prompt, her notification chime sounded again.

Grasping Roots will be replaced with Arcane Insight, all skill levels will be lost.

She paused. I will lose all the levels I earned on Grasping Roots. Deciding that the experiment would be worth it, she confirmed the choice.

You have lost the class skill Grasping Roots.You have gained the class skill Arcane Insight. You have lost the aptitude Mana Sense.

She heard the chime and her vision exploded as her mind saturated with a sudden, enormous sensory overload. Searing light hammered into her mind like a dense green Fireball had been detonated within her skull.

What? She stumbled, falling to the ground.

She squeezed her eyes shut, but the brilliance continued unabated, projected directly into her mind by the unhinged skill. Consumed with confusion and pain she struggled with it for a while, eventually realizing she couldn’t turn it off. She brought up the skill description again looking for anything to explain what was happening.

Arcane Insight – level 1You can see mana. Arcane, Perception

Relieved that she could still see the notifications, she read over the text three times, but it gave her no answers. The description was simple, there was no cost to using the skill meaning it would always be on. Much like her Sage of Learning, she couldn’t control it.

The pain of her headache and sensory overload pounded inside her head, causing her substantial discomfort even though her endurance attribute was supposedly helping her manage it. It’s not quite the same situation, but maybe the same approach might help? Arcane Insight didn’t list exactly how, but the perception trait implied that the skill scaled somehow with the attribute.

It’s worth a try.

Carefully, she spent a point on perception, noticing that the intensity of the light shifted. It isn’t necessarily better, but something definitely changed. She spent points slowly, noticing how the light began to clarify. When she had spent ten points on perception, she could clearly tell that the light was emanating upward from the ground.

That’s odd. She tilted her head to gain a different angle, causing a sudden intensification of the stabbing pain behind her eyes.

Arcane Insight has reached level 2.

The distinction suddenly clarified dramatically. The extraordinary light emanated from the ground in viridian streamers, lazily trailing upward as it flowed like a soft mist or an aurora originating from below. The intense brilliance hadn’t faded, but it seemed much more manageable.

It’s coming from the moss!

Suddenly, it clicked. Of course! It’s my domain… A domain, by its very nature, was an intense aura of magical energy. No wonder it was so bright. I’m doing this to myself. Genius.

“Help me,” she said in Draconic, calling her Kobold rogue over. She made it guide her to the edge of the domain, stumbling all the way – she still couldn’t trust her vision. In the shifting brilliance of her surroundings, she noticed a core kernel of gold and green deep inside the Kobold’s chest. Ali puzzled over the effect. Is that my reserved mana?

At the edge of her domain, she was confronted by something just as inexplicable. The entire cavern was filled with swirling streams of brilliant darkness. She deliberated on the apparent contradiction in her mind, but it was the best explanation she had. Somehow, what she was seeing looked like a brilliantly intense light show, but the colors were inexplicably black and a malevolent dark purple. Watching it made her queasy in the pit of her stomach. Corruption? A different kind of mana? Is this Nevyn Eld’s legacy?

Ali retreated into her domain on the arm of her Kobold, who seemed worried by her strange behavior. She sat down, and then finally lay flat on her back, discovering that upward was the least painful direction to be looking. The moss tickled the back of her neck, a delightful reminder that she was no longer down in the ruins, forced to sleep on the cold and dusty stone floors, with creepy Bone Skitterers trying to crawl all over her.

After lying on the ground for a few minutes, Ali decided to try something. Raising her hand, she created a small barrier disk. Against the dark backdrop of the cavern roof, she studied the mana that created the golden magical construct. It glowed with far more brilliance than when she had viewed it with only her mundane senses. With her new sight, she could see how the mana structured itself within the construct – an ordered arrangement that seemed almost crystalline. Unlike her moss, which was spewing mana in all directions, her barrier neatly constrained the mana in what looked to be a much more efficient arrangement.

Next, she tried the same test with her Arcane Bolt skill, choosing a distant tree trunk as her target. The golden bolts appeared much like the barrier, but they manifested small eddies and flows of mana around the outside of each one.

Is that how it moves?

Whatever the reason, Ali was fascinated to see how the magic worked. Even if she didn’t quite understand how.

My headache is gone, she realized, and slowly sat up and looked around. The mana streamers were still just as active and bright, but somehow her vision was no longer being overloaded by the sensation.

Curious to see more, Ali pulled out her Grimoire, the book appearing in a riot of gold and green light. She examined the book for a while, taking time to get used to how everything magical now looked quite different to her. She flipped through the entries, studying the mana flowing within the runes inscribed on its pages.

Finding herself examining the chapter for her mushroom imprint, she decided to give it a try. The light show of her mana flowing into the script on the pages was spectacular. Each rune lit up in rapid succession and then the impression of that symbol rose from the pages as a floating runic structure of pure mana. Swirling together in an intricate dance, each spell structure delivered its unique payload, contributing to constructing the mushroom.

No wonder it’s so complex…

The spell finished and a mushroom appeared on the verdant moss beside her.

Common Glowcap – Mushroom – level 2 (Arcane)

Arcane? The mushroom was now identified with an additional Arcane tag she hadn’t seen before. Identify, she remembered, had some relationship with other skills.

Identify – level 7Mana: Discern information about a creature or item up to level 19 [class + skill]. Synergizes with any relevant Perception, Knowledge, or Information skills. Synergy (Arcane Insight): Identify will show the type of mana for any visible magic effects.Knowledge, Perception

This little mushroom has an arcane affinity? Ali spent quite some time studying the golden energy that slowly began to fill the small mushroom. After some time, the mushroom filled with so much mana it began to spill out into the surrounding air as tiny streamers of light – golden versions of the viridian mana being released by the moss.

Ali looked around, curious to learn more about her new skill and abilities as if an entirely new world had suddenly opened to her.

Verdant Moss – level 1 (Nature)

My moss has a Nature affinity! Ali was excited by that for a while, but then she stopped, a strange thought occurring to her. She had found the mushrooms and the moss within ten meters of the shrine when she had woken up, and so far, she had found neither of them anywhere else. And they represented both of her own personal mana affinities.

How much of a coincidence can it really be?

Her father had been a nature mage, and this had been his domain. Ali even recognized the moss as the same as that which covered large areas of his forest domain. But how did it survive just here, when everything else is decay and bone? She puzzled over the problem for a while.

Maybe the shrine protected this area? It had been charged with an astronomical amount of what was presumably her father’s mana. And mana, she knew, had the ability to influence things it came into contact with.

And that would explain the arcane mushrooms too, she thought, her gaze resting on the shards of her mother’s magic that still glowed with powerful energy – much more visible now in her new sight.

While she couldn’t really prove it, she was happy with her explanation for now.

“Let’s try something a little more ambitious,” she told her attentive Kobold.

“Of course, Ancient Mistress,” came the soft response.

