I’m going to have to do something about that ‘ancient’ part, she grumbled, but the excitement of discovery couldn’t be suppressed by trivialities. She paged through her Grimoire to the Kobold chapter and began summoning a new Kobold. Mana exploded in her sight into a riot of movement and light, vastly more complex than before. Halfway through the summoning, her chime sounded, and her vision dramatically clarified. She could see the strands and tendrils of mana flowing and entwining as it poured forth from her Grimoire creating all the parts of the summoned creature. As it completed, the mana flows settled into a pulsing gold and green core deep within the chest of the Kobold, right around where Ali imagined the Kobold’s heart to be.

Arcane Insight has reached level 3.Your reserved mana has increased by +80.Rogue – Kobold – level 11

Ali didn’t stop there, she continued creating gear for her new Kobold, watching the display of magic in action with rapt attention.

With her improved clarity, she took in the mana from her domain once more, noticing something unusual near the shrine. She got up to investigate. The shrine itself stood dark, as expected, but it was actually glowing now – just not particularly obvious against the backdrop of the magical light show created by her moss and mushrooms. All around the shrine, the mana swirled, forming thick streamers of magic that circled the black stone obelisk. It was as if the shrine was the eye of a maelstrom, sucking everything in toward it.

Is it consuming the mana? Filtering it? She couldn’t quite tell, but it was definitely doing something.

On an impulse, she Identified the shrine.

Shrine of the Ancient GroveAn ancient mystical shrine of unknown origin. Offers advanced class features and attunement of latent mana affinity.Owner: Aliandra AmarielMana Siphon (Active)Mana: Unlock class experienceMana: Unlock or enhance latent magical affinitiesMana: Unlock alternate classesOwner’s Mana: Recharge the shrine’s mana reserve. 79,325/1,250,000Shrine – Artifact

The shrine had substantially more mana in its reserve than it had when she had last checked it. As she watched, the number ticked up to 79,327.

It’s recharging!

While it had obviously been the best use of the shrine, Ali had been sad to have drained it. And so, she watched it recharging from her domain mana with excitement. She had initially calculated it would take her years to recharge it herself, but astonishingly, the shrine recognized her domain mana as hers and was on track to complete recharging in what looked like it might be mere weeks.

Perhaps that’s what the Mana Siphon ability is? She experimented by deactivating the ability. Instantly, the swirling of mana around the obsidian surface ceased, returning to a calm stationary field, and the shrine’s mana reserve ceased increasing. Happy to have figured it out, she activated it again, deciding to leave it on until the shrine was fully recharged.

Synergy detected.

Her notification chime surprised her right out of her celebration. What?

Requirements met for skill advancement. Able to perceive magic.Studied advanced magical systems.Directly observed at least three active complex magical systems.Sage of Learning gains Magical Analysis.Sage of Learning – level 8Your ability to learn languages, magical systems, history, and similar academic knowledge is significantly enhanced. You have enhanced memory for the content you have studied.Arcane, Knowledge, Perception, IntelligenceAccept this advancement?

Biting her tongue in excitement, Ali accepted the advance without hesitation. The only change to her skill description was the addition of ‘magical systems’ in the list of things Sage of Learning would help her understand, but it was more than enough.

Just learning Arcane Insight had triggered a potentially powerful advance for her Sage skill. Ali didn’t have to think hard to figure out which magical systems had helped unlock it for her: her domain, her Grimoire and its summoning magic, and the shrine itself would all be considered incredibly complex, intricate magical systems by all the researchers she had worked with. Notoriously difficult puzzles to unravel and understand.

Ali had motivated her skill switch in her mind as an experiment. But now she knew the change was permanent. There was no way she was giving up this skill. Going back would be like choosing to be blind. She was certainly not doing that to restore Grasping Roots.

She spent the next couple of hours experimenting with the abilities and limitations of her new sight, growing large swathes of moss and mushrooms to expand her domain, and pestering her two Kobolds for the draconic names for everything she could see. She examined and studied everything, learning that the Blackened Deathcap mushrooms had an affinity with death magic, watching with fascination as her domain mana slowly trickled into the moss she planted, and even stepping outside her domain to study the dark mana that was being emitted from various bone piles and mushrooms.

Ali felt happiness for the first time since she had fallen down the dark shaft. However, the memories of her experiences lent a serious cast to her efforts. She spent significantly more time and mana expanding her domain, knowing that if she had been more diligent before falling down the hole, she would have been able to summon another Kobold or two, making the last fight that much easier. After the battle with the Swordmaster, Ali was exquisitely aware of just how important mana was to her class.

Abruptly, she found herself rubbing the gooseflesh on her arms. Just think of how extensive a domain Dad needed… and still, it had not been enough. On that sobering note, she finished spending her attribute points, dividing the remainder evenly between wisdom and intelligence and settled in to study her domain more while she waited for the remnants of her domain withdrawal to dissolve.

***

Name: Aliandra AmarielRace: FaeTitles: AncientClass: Grove Warden – level 12- Arcane Insight – level 3- Arcane Bolt – level 11- Barrier – level 11- Grimoire of Summoning – level 9- Runic Script – level 7- Sage of Learning – level 8- Martial Insight – level 5- [Locked]- [Locked]- [Locked]General Skills- Reading – level 7- Identify – level 7- Sculpting – level 2Aptitudes- Languages: Ancient Dal'mohran, Elvish, Dwarven, Common, Draconic- Mana (Affinities): Nature, Arcane- Tiny (Racial): The effects of Strength and Vitality are reduced by 50%- Magical (Racial): The effects of Wisdom and Intelligence are increased by 50%- Domain (Class): Your maximum mana increases with the size of your domain, up to +100%- Domain: -10% maximum health per day domain withdrawal. You have Domain SenseAttributes- Vitality: 50- Strength: 4- Endurance: 15- Dexterity: 10- Perception: 21- Intelligence: 43- Wisdom: 47Equipment- Body: Tattered Robes – level 7Resistance: 67Magical Damage Reduction: 16.62%Health: 250/250Stamina: 150/150Mana: 611/745 (134 Reserved)Grimoire Imprints1- Verdant Moss2- Wood3- Crude Leather Armor4- Crude Dagger5- Starving Wolf6- Mushroom7- Stone8- Kobold9- Sword
