He cast his mind back to one of the speeches their generals had granted for morale, saying that Duke Waters would be focusing upon the Sects and Federation. He wouldn’t stop the Republic, with Grand Shaper Maya aiding their overall assault.

Oh, how wrong he was.

The generals were rushing forward at Duke Waters, and Lucius hoped that the seven of them could take, or more realistically, delay or distract the mage long enough for the rest of them to flee into chaotic space. That still wasn’t entirely safe for them, but Lucius was confident that most of them could follow the teleporter connections back to the Republic and reenter real space before their Domains and spirits were too weakened.

Lucius cursed his lack of an Aspect once again, as it would almost entirely shield him from the aquatic demon’s ravages, but he could still manage.

As their dwindling reinforcements attacked Duke Waters once more, Lucius threw his Domain at the fabric of reality and could feel the others near him doing the same, but it did nothing. Horror overcame him as he realized his life was at the mercy of the man slaughtering the strongest members of their army with his arms crossed above the fortress planet.

The fear started to make it hard to breathe, and Lucius struggled against it, but the horror turned to terror as he realized he shouldn’t need to breathe.

He tried to use his essence to cover that biological need, but found it was already doing so.

His body demanded air.

His body demanded he breathe.

Lucius started to panic as he felt his vision going black, as his brain started to starve.

He tried to urge his essence into providing for his body, but it seemed useless.

He needed to breathe.

The air seemed like a distant memory, but that could have been the fading grip he had on his consciousness.

It seemed almost like an unimportant afterthought, but his [AI] blipped out a message that he knew he needed to read.

With the last bit of his consciousness, he read that the seven generals were dead, and command had been passed onto one of the colonels, who thankfully initiated a surrender vote for the army.

Lucius never got to see the end of the vote as he passed out.

He woke up a second later as the power demanding he couldn’t breathe vanished like the tide drawing back.

He and his entire cohort coughed and sputtered as they tried to orient themselves. Lucius coughed so hard he felt his recently healed lung tear once more, and forced his body to stop breathing despite the instinctual horror that had held him. It told him he needed every breath of fresh air in case Duke Waters decided to change the rules of reality once more.

The monster himself snorted and waved. “Bah, I should have stuck with the Sects.”

Lucius twitched as he repressed a shudder.

It wasn’t cowardice to know when you faced an opponent stronger than you could handle. And when a solitary Tier 31 could repress tens of thousands of Tier 35s, they were officially a monster.

“Put down your arms and allow yourselves to be taken into captivity. Yada, yada, yada. I’m sure you know the drill. Try to fuck around, and you’ll find out.”

Lucius laughed.

Tens of thousands of dead for what? The Empire troops were freeing themselves from where they were captives in the Republic's base prisons, crawling out of their armored holes.

They had been on the brink of defeat, but they had still won.

Against all odds and reason, they had won.

Just because one man had shown up.

The only good thing was that Duke Waters couldn’t be everywhere at once, and if he was here watching them surrender, he wasn’t at other locations relieving their sieges.

As an Empire soldier with half their face burnt to the skull grabbed Lucius’ hands and cuffed them with a cultivation suppression manacle, Lucius let himself get led to a cleared-out area that they were all sitting in. Healers from both sides moved among the worst of the wounded, stabilizing them, and when one came to check on him, Lucius shook his head. He couldn’t get more healing if he wanted to.

They might have lost this battle, but he was just glad to be alive.

So many others weren’t so lucky.

***

Su Yu laughed as his fist surpassed the pitiful flesh of the Empire’s cultivator, vanquishing their arm in a single strike.

His [Thousand Fists of Heaven] once again proved its utmost superiority as his Sect’s greatest technique bypassed shields, slipped past armor, and annihilated the flesh of all those it struck.

A fighter sought to exploit a perceived weakness, striking from the side with a spear crackling with blue lightning.

But Su Yu was no novice; he had cast aside all of his foes within this chaotic melee, and had in fact withheld much of his aggression in anticipation for this very maneuver.

He gracefully spun, lashing forth with a kick carrying a perfected [What Was Once Complex Returns To Simplicity]. Mana rippled and splashed as though it were water from a cupped palm, and while the Empire’s cultivator sought to dodge and attempted to interpose her shield, trying to sacrifice a portion of her body to survive, it was for naught.

He had been personally mentored in his creation of this technique by Lady Yun Me, as a reward for exemplary service in a previous border skirmish.

It was his grandest accomplishment, standing proud above all else, and he hoped to live up to his previous legacy this day. [What Was Once Complex Returns To Simplicity] was an adaptation of Lady Yun Me’s own metal specialty. The Unyielding Anvil was a master of defense, armor, and protection, having forged five wondrous techniques of her own which she would only bestow upon those who proved themselves worthy through blood.

Three defensive techniques wrought to stop a mountain and two offensive techniques to flatten one.

Su Yu knew the simple truth, that to survive was meager when contrasted with the glory of victory. He had chosen his reward to enhance his capabilities of tearing the life from the meager barbarians, where he was close enough to feel the spray of their blood upon his jade like skin.

Even then, [A Finger To Tear A Hole In The Sky] had been truly difficult to decline. The Unyielding Anvil was truly set to become one of their most venerated Elders, such was her might and her wisdom.

With nothing remaining of the interloper but a dispersing cloud of essence, Su Yu returned to vanquish the man still recovering from his suddenly-missing arm, closing the distance with a smile. For each barbarian he slew upon this battlefield, the closer he grew to earning yet another personal lesson from the Lady, and the honor that such an achievement would bring him.

The glory it would bring his Sect.

With two lessons from Lady Yun Me herself, his petitions to his sect to permit him to ascend to Tier 25 would surely be met, and with his third Talent, he would bring them and himself honor and glory upon those hallowed battlefields.

For all that he may have been no Young Master or Dao Child, Su Yu had glimpsed the truth beyond that.

He followed the path of the Unyielding Anvil. The titles of the young meant nothing. The resources dedicated to those who were believed to be worthy were nothing more than a shortcut to power that he could reach through hard work and time. And power earned by one's self bestowed the greatest honor upon its bearer. Then, those around him would be forced to give him face.

Seven blows later, the Empire cultivator died with a grievance on his lips as he tried to surrender.

Su Yu couldn't allow that.

He needed to collect as many heads as possible before his Sectmates decimated this fortress enough for the Empire's cowardly leaders to surrender. For once that order was given, even he would not dare draw the ire of the Elders and Watchers.

Still, there was a silver lining to the Empire cowards being used to surrendering. The laughable wretches expected him to allow them to surrender, which provided the perfect amount of time to dart in and finish them off.

Fools, all of them.

The only way to fight was to remove the option of victory without the death of your opponent. It bred cowardice and weakness in cultivators that might have otherwise won the fight, or at least taken their opponent with them.

Su Yu was fortunate enough to kill two more foes before the general surrender was called for. Sadly, both of those kills had their merits shared with others, but he had gotten the lion's share, as was his right. The Flowing Hammers Sect warriors had been too weak to finish off their opponents themselves, and their failure stood as a blemish upon their honor.

His Sect brothers and sisters would have never needed help to kill weak Empire cultivators.

Returning to their mobile base, he was called into Senior Sister Song Zexian’s command tent, where he was bestowed the accolades and rewards he had earned. To his satisfaction, such rewards included a Natural Treasure to enhance his body’s strength.

The strong got stronger, as was their right.

To consolidate his gains, he returned to his quarters and began to meditate.

Five breaths in, three out. Two breaths in, four out. Su Yu repeated the same pattern until his heart and mind were calm, and he was able to reflect on the battles he had fought in the last year.

He could have finished off the dozen Tier 23s who ambushed him much more cleanly if he had held back a little. The scar on his abdomen was a reminder of his mistake, and why he had requested it be left. The fight with the ambushing Tier 24 had been as clean as could be, but he needed to be careful of letting future ambushers get that close.

The Empire was weak, but the Drowner proved even the most pathetic could possess hidden strength. It would not do to underestimate them.

Once he had settled his mind and body, Su Yu started to absorb the treasure.

They would be fighting once more before too long.

Of that, he was sure.

And he needed to be at his peak.

***

Darok sighed as they flew through chaotic space away from the teleporter tethers that linked the Great Powers.

Flying away from the established lanes was rarely done for good reason, and he felt the terror of being lost to the known realm to wander the emptiness of chaotic space, until they either went mad or found a planet through sheer time and chance.

He had seen the reports of such survivors, and he had no wish to be one of them.

Still, this was their mission.

That didn’t mean he liked it.

Shoving his lunch away from him, he went to the hangar where his crew was working on their armor.

The Cavalry and Juggernaut division's armor that had been devastated in their last mission were now fully repaired, and they weren’t sore thumbs when compared to the Skirmish Squadron.

As he walked through, his men returned his nods, and the ones not actively working on their armor called out greetings. He could tell the men weren’t exactly happy with this mission, but none of them had balked. Mercenaries were rarely picky, though. Darok liked to think his men just had more of a conscience.

It was good they were in top shape physically and mentally, as this mission had one way it could go right, but a million ways it could go wrong.

Still, the rewards were just too damn good to pass up.

On the far side of the hangar, he looked at the small squad of Sect cultivators slowly moving through combat poses. It looked almost meditative with how slow the movements were, but there was more to it than that. Even Dao Child Maven did those sets of movements daily without fail.

The woman had walked out of a meeting halfway through without so much as a word when it had run late, simply to join the others in their… stretches, he supposed.

He had seen some weird things from Sect fighters in his time, but this one took the cake for the most outlandish.

After checking in with his supply officer, Walter, Darok went to his meeting with Dao Child Maven.

The woman, with her snow-white skin and ink-dark hair, was objectively attractive. Contrary to most Sect stereotypes, she was a flirt too. Every woman on board who was even remotely interested in the same sex had been hit on. That could have caused problems, but Dao Child Maven took both polite and direct refusals with good grace and aplomb, which he was grateful for. Some other Sect cultivators wouldn’t have.

Thankfully, Maven had set her sights on his second in command, Emily, which was about as good of an ending as Darok could hope for. Emily wasn’t necessarily a lesbian, as Dao Child Maven seemed to be, but she identified as ‘horny’ and would sleep with anyone who caught her interest. She was also a consummate professional, and wouldn’t do anything more than flirt with anyone when on a mission, but the degree to which they were circling around one another kept them both occupied.

And that was all Darok could ask of his people. What they did in their personal time was none of his concern; what they did while under contract was.

Meeting up with Emily, he found her checking in with their squad leaders and waited outside the door for her to finish. It wouldn’t do to step on her toes after all.

When she exited the meeting to go to their meeting with Dao Child Maven, Darok asked. “Any new problems?”

Emily nodded. “Alliva and Miguel got into a fight, but their squad leaders handled it appropriately.”

Darok nodded. If it was officially reported to him, he would need to act as the mercenary company leader and punish them officially, but Emily wasn’t so tightly bound by the rules. That was by design, of course, as it allowed them to play good cop bad cop, and a number of things could be handled before becoming larger issues.

