A fight amongst the company was hardly unique, and half the company would happily break a glass over someone else's head while off duty. Fighting when they were underway, though, was another matter, and he’d have strung the two of them up if necessary.

The feud of the few couldn’t endanger everyone else.

Emily knew that, and if she said it was handled, he could trust that it was.

Changing the subject, he asked, “What do you think of the mission Dao Child Maven had outlined?”

Emily shook her head. “It's fucked. Capital ‘F’. I don’t like it, but no one is asking us.”

Darok nodded his head. Emily was right, or at least, she shared his viewpoint on the mission.

They weren’t technically breaking the set laws of war, but they were skirting damn close. Too close for his liking, even with the historical precedent backing them up.

Closing his eyes for a moment, he promised himself he’d retire when this mission was over.

This job was just too damn stressful.

When they reached the meeting room, they found Dao Child Maven waiting with a stack of paper in front of her. Her second in command, Yuan Chu, might have been a muscled wall for how he stood behind her without moving.

“Good day, Captain Darok, Lieutenant Emily. The Elders have finalized their designs for our approach, and desire that our first strike be as impactful as possible, to redirect attention from the primary engagements. This one trusts that you will keep a firm grasp upon your men, as we come ever closer to overstepping our proper bounds, and a single hair out of place will result in our unbinding from the rules of war, deep within enemy territory.” Her mouth worked for a moment before she gave a sardonic smile. “None of us will survive that, and I don’t intend to die so young.”

Darok nodded along with Emily. They were both worried about the same thing. Even then, one rogue Tier 36 could squash them all, even if they didn’t technically break the rules. Grief and loss were more than enough to push even the most sane of cultivators over the edge.

That was why they simply wouldn’t get caught.

A million ways to go wrong.

One way to go right.

“I have assembled a full list of contacts and reports, review it and inform me of any concerns you notice. This one has been as thorough as possible for it, but possesses not the experience the two of you have in such situations.”

Darok looked down at the packet of information Dao Child Maven slid over to him, and that Emily had labeled ‘Operation Ventillyria’.

They were so going to die.
