Forever passes as we look at each other. There’s still so much we don’t know. But she knows enough of me and I know her. She takes my hand. And it’s done.
I find Durene after the rest of it. She’s crying, holding a friend. I hold her close and feel her shaking. We lie down for a second and hold each other. For a second of rest. Then she gets up to help the wounded again. My [Paladin]. I close my eyes.
 
[Emperor Level 15!]
[Skill – Empire: Art of the Builder Obtained!]
 
[Skill – Undying Loyalty Learned.]
 
Sleep calls. But I hear the voice and know. In my heart. It pulls me up. I stand.
[Undying Loyalty]. A word for what I did. A chance. Just one.
So I sit with Gamel throughout the night. He alone lives. The rest, those who I called back from the grave—
Die.
 
Day 70
 
Durene leveled too. That’s the upshot of it. Wiskeria became a Level 4 [General] overnight—Prost leveled. I don’t think there was one person in the village who didn’t level or gain a class, come to that.
There’s no work to be done the next day. Just burying the dead and burning the Goblins. I feel like a ghost at times, so little do I speak. There’s no need for an [Emperor] to order anything at this moment. I just need to be there so people can see me. To know I’m there.
They still believe in me. They believe in a man who ordered them to fight and die. Because in doing so, I saved them. I cannot forgive myself, but there is nothing to forgive for them.
We are alive. I go on with that knowledge keeping me sane.
Durene and I sit together after the digging is done. The cold ground is rough, but she is tireless. Among her new Skills is [Lesser Endurance].
Now, in the quiet of mourning I finally tell her the truth. She sits cross-legged with me, feeding Frostwing and letting the bird nip her fingers. Frostwing flaps her wings and a feather floats down.
“A [General], a [Steward], a [Paladin]…all of these classes are rare. Special. Stronger than normal classes because they’re more important, you could say. Or so my theory goes.”
“So that’s why you gave it to me.”
“Well, that wasn’t my idea to begin with. That was…luck.”
“Oh. But it’s better than other classes?”
“Better than [Warrior]? Yes, I think so. I think some classes are just designed that way, in whatever system this world works off of.”
“But that’s not fair.”
“Of course not. But it has to be this way, Durene. How can a [General] be both a [Strategist], [Warrior], and [Leader] all at the same time? It’s because he—”
“Or she.”
“Thank you. Yes, or she—must be all these things and arguably just as good as an expert in all three fields. There’s a famous [Lord] in the north named Tyrion Veltras. Apparently he’s not only able to manage a vast amount of his lands, but he’s one of the leaders who commands the Human armies when they fight against the Drakes. To me, that sounds like he’s got at least two classes’ worth of Skills packed into one.”
“Oh. That’s good, then. So you’ll give more classes to other people?”
I nod, staring at my hands. This is one of the things I can do for them. I owe them this.
“I’m going to make Gamel my [Knight] if he wants me to. If not—there are other classes I’ve thought of. I have a few good suggestions, too. Wiskeria will offer the rank of [Captain] to Beniar to start with, and if I need to, I’ll give him a higher rank. If he doesn’t like that, I’ll see if he wants to wear armor. If there’s a [Cataphract] class, I’d love to see if his [Riders] could obtain it by wearing armor.”
Durene nods. She stares across the village, at the churned ground, still stained in places, where the fighting happened. She feels at her arm where the sword cut her.
“So how do you know all this, Laken? Claiming lands with markers, giving all these classes out—did you think of it yourself?”
“No. Actually, I…”
I break off and look around. But no one’s nearby to listen. Still, prompted by some hunch, I lean over to Durene. She obligingly bends her head down.
“I…was given this advice by someone. Let’s call it some insider advice. Ah…you don’t know what I mean by that, do you, Durene?”
“Nope.”
“My…informant, let’s call him, was rather strange. He seemed to know exactly how a lot of things would turn out and he knew a lot about my class. He admitted as much. So I’ve used a lot of his suggestions—”
“Like making Mister Prost a [Steward]? And turning Wiskeria into a [General]?”
“And the trick with the totem poles—I mean, markers. Yeah. It’s a bit odd how much was exactly like he said. I was wary about taking all the advice, but it was free, and there’s a saying where I come from…”
I trail off for a second. Durene nudges me.
“What? What’s the saying?”
“Oh, ‘don’t look a gift horse in the mouth’.”
She shifts and I hear her voice rumbling in confusion as we sit together.
“Why wouldn’t you look one in the mouth? It could be dangerous. What if it was a Dresh Horse? You’d be sorry for not checking, then!”
I have to laugh at that. Trust Durene to come up with a practical answer to a silly folk saying.
“What’s a Dresh—never mind. I get it. And you’re right. But I can’t help but think someone’s on our side out there. Or at least, we’re getting help because it suits someone for the moment.”
“Okay, but when did you meet him? I never saw—”
“I’m not around you all the time, Durene. In fact, I met him in Invrisil. While I was there.”
“Really? But—”
“I’ll tell you all about it. Later. Hold on, someone’s coming.”
I stand up, suddenly worried. Someone is coming. Someone on horseback. Odveig? Sacra?
It’s not her. Instead, a man on horseback rides into the village, staring at the Goblin bodies and asking for me. He’s escorted to me by the villagers, some of whom are holding weapons.
I’m not worried. The man showed Prost his Runner’s Seal. Some use horses. And he has something for me. The man clears his throat a few times and I hear him speak quite nervously as he half-bows in my direction.
“I have a letter addressed to an…[Emperor]? Emperor Laken of Riverfarm?”
“That’s me.”
I have no Runner’s Seal, nor any way to prove who I am. Nevertheless, the City Runner doesn’t hesitate for a moment to hand the letter over. It smells faintly of…orchids? Perhaps. Something close to that, a delicate perfume. Durene’s murmuring tells me the parchment is rich. There’s no name on the letter, just a wax seal.
A letter to an [Emperor]. I break the wax seal and open the letter. It’s short. I have to have Wiskeria read it out loud to me.
“To the esteemed [Emperor] Laken Godart of Riverfarm, I am humbly…”
Looks like it’s a greeting from a [Lady] Rie who lives in Invrisil. She greets me, invites me to her estate which is only a few miles away, offers me her congratulations…I listen to Wiskeria read through the letter, barely able to process it at this time.
“Well. She gave this letter to you, did she?”
The City Runner coughs nervously.
“Her manservant did, mil—your majesty. However, this—isn’t the only letter.”
“What?”
“That is the first letter, ah, your majesty. I have three more.”
He has three more letters, two from [Merchants] and one from a [Lord]. I hold them in my hands and sense the Runner fidget.
“Would you like to send a return message? That service has been paid for by each sender.”
“I’ll consider it. Please, stay for a while and allow me time to decide. Unless you’re busy?”
“No your majesty! My time has been paid for. I will wait wherever you please.”
“My [Steward] will find you a spot. And something hot. I will deliberate by myself.”
I wander away from the City Runner and hear him asking what happened. I wonder what Prost will tell him. Myself, I step away from the village and sit on a rock, brushing the snow off of it.
So much has happened. And this is just the latest development. It’s mind boggling. Insane.
“Strange. I can’t believe it.”
I whisper the words out loud. I stare at the letters, sniff the perfume. Each one addressed to me. All coming at once. From [Lords] and [Ladies], no less.
“It’s all happening like he said. Exactly like he said.”
I don’t know what to think. My head is whirling, my heart still bleeds. I look back towards my village and raise my head to the sky. Here it is. My empire. My people have bought it in blood and I am bound to it now.
My lands. My people. My love. All things start here. I open the next letter with my thumb.
“Well then. Let’s begin.”
After a second, I look around. I wander back into the village and raise my hand. Everyone looks at me.
“Hey, can someone read this to me?”
