That, or the site had been abandoned. After all, it was perilously close to shimagu territory. It was easy to imagine some tragedy had driven the place out of use.

But enough wagon tracks had been made recently enough that Ranthia decided to wait. She needed to wait for her cloak to dry anyway.

Ranthia ended up camping out under her drying tree for the night. Lingering felt dangerous, but pressing on by herself was just as foolhardy. Sure, there were other civilizations—including cities—further to the west that she might be able to find a caravan at, but she was already in unfamiliar terrain. She was an experienced traveller and well above average at foraging, but everything she knew pertained to Remus or that Xaoc-forsaken wasteland. Relying on what she knew when she ventured into climates wholly unlike those that she was familiar with would—at best—severely test her vitality.

And she felt some degree of aversion to earning her freedom, only to die in a ditch because she ate what seemed to be a familiar berry.

Yet if some patrol came from Remus as they secured the former shimagu territory, what would happen? Even if they didn’t recognize her, she was still quite obviously human. And just because she was done with Remus didn’t mean she wanted to cut down legionaries to protect her newfound freedom.

She’d worked herself into a somewhat disgruntled mood by the next morning, yet the risk of being caught by Remus remained a “what if” scenario, while the dangers of travelling solo were undeniable. She just wrapped herself up in her traveller’s cloak and, absent any more productive use for her time, activated [Chest of Experience].

Ever since she’d finally gotten the slot to take the Skill, there were more than a few memories that she’d looked forward to revisiting. Plus, she needed to level the Skill more if she ever hoped to make it easier to find specific memories. The drawers and divisions between how things were stored were so nonsensical that Ranthia chose to believe that levels would provide some guidance—even if there was nothing about that in the Skill description.

But until such a time came, she needed to fight against the convoluted chest of drawers that represented her memories. She finally had the opportunity to revisit old friends and cherished memories.

It was late in the evening when Ranthia’s ears drew her out of a particularly blissful memory. The phantom sensations of the silken ropes faded from her flesh as her focus returned to her true state—cold, vaguely uncomfortable, and still clad in her familiar armor. The cold also helped her recenter herself, calming her quickened breathing as she stumbled to her feet.

[*ding!* [Chest of Experience] has leveled from 39 to level 57!]

The sound of approaching wagons was unmissable, even if they weren’t yet in sight. Ranthia gathered her belongings and bundled herself in her traveller’s cloak as she readied herself to meet them.

Okay, yes, in retrospect, she really should have anticipated that each caravan—arriving as the day came to an end—would be in a rush to get their respective beasts fed, their wagons secured, and sleeping arrangements prepared. No one really had time or interest in engaging with a stranger; their sole focus was the race against the incoming darkness.

Thankfully, the caravans were in no rush to get moving the next day. Instead, many of them opened up their wagons and set up to trade amongst their peers, and even those that remained closed dithered while they caught up with friends or traded advice with other [Merchants]. Ranthia was an outsider, but most of the people she spoke to were generally welcoming.

The market gave her an opportunity. Changing her armor was out of the question—she was unlikely to find another suit that properly fit her, and even if she did, she wouldn’t have familiarity with it. She might not rely on armor for protection anymore, but she had learned the difference that having a reliable, tailored set of armor made. Besides, the actual issue wasn’t her armor, it was her adamantium—people were far more likely to talk about the exotic metal. Which was why she had wrapped her bracers in bandages. And it was why she checked the various dwarven goods on offer until she finally exchanged a few of the gems Avyna had left her for a pair of short swords that were reasonably close to those Remus favored.

Suitably armed, she was ready to find a caravan heading west. And the one with an elf standing next to its table of goods seemed like the ideal place to start.

“Hi! Sorry if this is rude, but are you heading west?” Ranthia asked as she neared, with as broad a smile as she dared contort her face into.

“Yes, we are. Is there something specific that we can help you with?” The short man seated behind the table removed his colorful hat before he bobbed his head in greeting, revealing a pair of short horns.

Huh, Ranthia actually hadn’t clocked the guy as an elf—she’d never seen one that short. The elf standing next to the table seemed at ease, but she didn’t miss the fact that his muscles tensed up as she drew near. Best case scenario: he was a guard.

The worst was probably some vocal anti-human sentiment.

“Right, so! I’m Prima, nice to meet you! I was hoping I could lend you my blade as a caravan guard, since I aim to head west myself.” Ranthia did her best to channel a blend of Lysia and Pyra into her voice and mannerisms. She puffed out her chest as she made her offer and made sure that inane smile stayed on her face. Her blindfold was in one of her belt pouches, but she was counting on the hood of her traveller’s cloak to help mask how unusual her eyes were.

She hadn’t spent a day lurking through her memories just to relive moments of passion that she’d shared with Avyna. Her memories of her old friends from Ranger Team 6 were just as precious, and the exuberant energy of the tiny shield-bearer and the young-at-heart firebug were about as far removed from Ranthia’s normal behavior as she could imagine. Her brown hair was common enough and many women in the Legions favored short hair—an incredibly common false name and an exaggerated persona were probably all she needed.

Besides, there were entirely too many risks involved in trying to use a distorted image for months on end.

“Mm, you may call me Danther. However, pleasantries aside, I’m afraid that my associates and I have no interest—we already have two protectors.” The short elf kept his expression and tone polite, even as he dashed her hopes.

“If I might be so bold, I think we should hear her out.” The elf standing guard cut in.

“Should I take this to mean that you’re now claiming that you and your daughter are unable to perform the duties you were hired for?” The short elf’s tone never changed, but there was still an undeniable note of displeasure.

“Not at all! I’m just saying that she’s a level… seven hundred and fifty-eight, I assume?” He waited for her to nod, before he continued. “[Warrior], which shows a significant amount of experience, given her mortality and apparent youth. Since she’s going our way, I bet she’ll work cheap.”

Ranthia offered another energetic nod, even as she inwardly winced. She really could have used more funds! But safe passage meant far more—she just wasn’t willing to try to buy a ride as a passenger unless it proved to be absolutely necessary. Using her more valuable gems might raise questions or start rumors.

With the unexpected assistance from her fellow caravan guard, the [Merchant] finally seemed to seriously appraise her.

The negotiations were swifter and a touch more brutal than Ranthia had hoped. She truly was selling her services for a song—one small arcanite per day, seriously?!—but at least it included two meals a day and the caravan was bound for the Tympestshard Council. They wouldn’t pass through the City of Arts, but it seemed like they would pass pretty close by it. She could always handle a short journey on foot; the important thing was to get into the right nation.

Though by the time they concluded their negotiations, Ranthia had regrets about the persona she had chosen. How had Lysia or Pyra managed to endure their bubbly personalities without living in a state of perpetual exhaustion?!
