“And why is it that the amount of mana to quickly move twenty-five tons of stone, which is about the size of a bedroom, which is about the same amount that is designated as ‘large’, is the same as the cost in mana to move the same size of air, which is considerably less heavy than the stone?”

Kiri paused. She looked up; thinking. She started slow, but picked up speed, saying, “This is because of the… the Elemental Laws… every… Every... Ah. The amount of mana spent is directly proportional to the amount of raw element affected because once mana is invoked these pure sources of element are much less subject to the natural Reality that we all live in, therefore, weight does not matter. Only size matters, because by invoking the mana into a Shaping spell, you are imposing your Intent upon Reality, and taking control of whatever element you are attempting to control. These pure elements are essentially weightless while you have them under your control.” She kneaded her bread as she said, “Furthermore, mana is always passively invoked in the case of pure elemental resources, and as such a relevant Shaping spell will be able to attain a full functionality, and even a greater-than-usual functionality, much easier than if a resource is contaminated with other, non-pure elements. A [Stoneshape] on a dry mountainside will move much more stone than a [Stoneshape] in a swamp.”

Erick asked, “Do you think that all of that is true?”

Kiri picked up her dough and put it into an oiled bowl. She covered it with a cloth, as she said, “Yes. It’s been proven time and time again. Especially that last part. You’re better off using [Watershape] in a swamp if you want to actively harm something— unless you were going for a [Quickstone] cutting attack. But even then, a [Water Slicer] is usually more effective just by virtue of not needing to refine the element so much in order to make it into an effective weapon, but even then, the effectiveness of these weapons only show themselves when you release your control from the given element, or when you give up precise control of said element.” She started cleaning up her workspace. “Why do you ask?”

“Because I was reading about all of that and then I read Everlin Etherspray’s biography —she’s the lady who made [Teleport] years and years before it was allowed into the open Script— and I got to thinking about a lot. Mana costs was one of those thoughts.” Erick asked, “Personally, I think it’s really odd that [Stoneshape] and [Airshape] each move the same amount of stuff, even with the explanation that it ‘becomes weightless’ when under control.” He added, “Anyway. Everlin invented [Teleport], and all of her personal [Teleport]s were all very low-cost things. She could [Teleport] for basically nothing, according to her biography.”

“I have to read that book, too,” Kiri said, “But: There are answers for that discrepancy. Favored Spell. Class Ability—”

“She [Teleport]ed hundreds of people, all at once, multiple times in a row. She blipped entire ships back and forth through mana storms.” Erick said, “She even helped to create the [Gate] network that the Old Dragonkin used, though the book was very clear that her direct involvement on that [Gate] network was unknown, you know, 1200 years ago when that book was made. But she did spend a great deal of time helping the Old Dragonkin people get out to northern Glaquin. The book wasn’t obviously censored like the soul magic bits of the [Polymorph] books, either. I think she just didn’t teach anyone any of her methods, and then the Death of the Halves happened, and anyone that she could have possibly taught died alongside her, and the Old Dragonkin [Gate] network was left to rot, until the Rage of the Orcols saw the rest of the world destroy those [Gate]s so that they couldn’t be used by the Horde.” He added, “Everlin died only 25 years Post Sundering, too, so everything was chaotic and deadly.”

Kiri’s eyes went wide as Erick spoke. She said, “Okay. So taking these books as true, which is something I’m not really sure about, how did she do it?”

“Mana costs are imposed by Rozeta, of course.”

Kiri paused. She frowned. She said, “I can see how you would think that, but these costs are not set costs. They’re emergent costs, and for those who know what they’re doing, the costs are a lot less than for those that don’t know what they’re doing.”

“Okay. Maybe. But Rozeta has determined how the whole Script works, anyway, so you can’t tell me that she doesn’t set these costs without some semblance of purpose.” He added, “Like! Isn’t it odd that [Teleport] and [Blink] are both Basic Tier spells, but you can only buy [Teleport] after you’ve leveled [Blink] to ten?”

“… You think that [Gate] is another Basic Spell that has nothing to do with [Teleport] at all?”

“Something like that, maybe. But I mean— [Gate] has something very much to do with [Teleport], and with [Blink], too. And maybe even with [Polymorph].” Erick added, “And maybe with all magic of every type.”

Kiri laughed, then said, “I guess if it’s all harmonics, there’s only so many ways for something to vibrate, right?” She added, “You know? That’s the main reason why I don’t think magic has anything to do with harmonics. How many ways can a string vibrate? Not many, I’d wager. Surely less than the spells we already have out there.”

Erick smiled, as he said, “There was a theory back home that the universe as we see it is actually composed of 11 different dimensions, but the only ones we can see are Length, Width, and Height.”

Kiri paused. She said, “That’s a lot of things to vibrate.” She frowned at Erick, saying, “I’ve read some of the books of other planar people in the libraries, you know? None of this stuff you talk about is in there at all. There was this one plant woman who was an ‘aeronautical engineer’, who briefly recreated flying vessels, like, 400 years ago, but even she didn’t know how it all worked, and all her ships broke down rather quickly. No one was able to recreate her work besides a few archmages here and there, like Tenebrae. Everyone else has been pretty normal. Even the guy who lived in a tube above a planet and was surrounded by ‘technology’ all the time, couldn’t tell anyone how any of the stuff in his fanciful stories worked. All of them claimed to not be ‘physicists’ or ‘scientists’, or their equivalent word for such a thing, too. And you’ve never claimed those titles either. So how do you know all of this stuff?”

Flying vessels seemed like a rather easy thing to make, what with airplane wings being rather simple in design, but Erick left that particular inquiry untouched. He simply said, “I overprepared for homework and filling in for a friend, by a lot.” He added, “I was watching videos on the subject and I just couldn’t stop. I told you about videos, right?”

“Yeah. You did.” Kiri said, “I guess so. If I could watch someone tell me the secrets of the world, whenever I wanted… I would have watched those ‘videos’ too.”

“But about [Gate]. I have an idea. It’s going to be dangerous.”

Poi harrumphed on the couch behind Erick, saying, “Please don’t experiment on [Teleport]ing yourself, sir.” He added, “Or on Kiri.”

“I would never!” Erick patted Ophiel on his shoulder, saying, “I have a very good helper already.”

Ophiel was twittering in gentle, quiet violins, but he switched to flutes rather suddenly.

Erick added, “Oh! It won’t be that bad.” He turned to Kiri, and began explaining his idea.

After an hour of discussion that rapidly evolved into several chalkboard drawings, another two hours for Erick to do a bit more work on the dungeon while Kiri read Everlin’s book for herself, and another hour of further conversation, it was time for Erick to rain on Spur. He did so, while he continued to discuss his theory on [Gate].

Kiri said, “I researched [Gate] a little while you were at the dungeon. You can’t find much on it, but what I was able to find was— You know how I said that some Spatial Mages had made themselves famous for having the spell?”

“I think I remember that, yes.”

“Well apparently they all accepted the Class Quest for the spell, and then bought it for 5 points.” She added, “Not every Spatial Mage has access to the quest, either. There has never been a consensus on why that is, and the Registrars are about as forthcoming as Rozeta herself.”

Erick said, “That’s unexpected.” He thought for a moment, then said, “If they all paid the 5 points, that means that they couldn’t do the quest, either.”

Kiri’s eyes lit green, as she said, “Class Quests are never impossible. This just either means the quest was too difficult, or that they didn’t know how to complete the quest. I’m banking on the second possibility.”

“… That’s a good point.”

“But anyway. You were saying something about some connection between [Gate] and [Polymorph]?”

“Right!”

Erick got back to talking about how [Gate] might relate to [Polymorph], and then to how their similarities might relate to all magic.

It was quite possible, that all magic, when you got right down to it, was just the imposition of personal ideas onto Reality, by taking a superposition of Possible Realities and collapsing it down to what you wanted it to be, and that all the math that mages did on Veird was a way to get the cost of that collapse down to manageable levels. Kiri conceded that this idea could be true, based on everything she knew, but she had never heard it stated quite in Erick’s manner, and certainly not like it was some sort of ‘Grand Unified Theory of Magic’.

(Kiri’s main problem with Erick’s idea was that there were certainly a lot of variations on a theme when it came to spellwork, like how all Shaping spells were basically the same spell but for a different element, but ‘all that math’ was very different between the different disciplines. For example, the equations to successfully utilize Stone magic were very different from those regarding Air magic. Kiri’s earlier explanation that Shaping spells made things ‘weightless’ was a gross oversimplification, and she said as much when the larger discussions happened. Beyond the simple Shaping spells, weight mattered a lot.)

Kiri didn’t want to call Erick crazy. But maybe ‘over enthusiastic’ was a better term. He was talking about magic that was outside of the scope of known magical Reality. She was struggling not to use the ‘W’ word.

Erick went ahead and laid it out there, “It’s not Wizardry, Kiri. It’s just Reality that you don’t know yet, and in the case of something like superposition, is inherently unknowable until it is measured. Measured by magic.” He admitted, “But I’m just guessing.”

Kiri frowned. Exasperated, she demanded, “But how can something be both Up and Down at the same time? And how does that relate to being in two places at once? And what does that have to do with red and green? Are these wavelengths?”

“The color thing is messing you up, I see.” Erick said, “That was just an example. It has nothing to do with superposition.”

“Argh!” Kiri said, “But what does superposition have to do with teleportation?! How can something being both Here and There on an Infinitesimal scale have anything to do with moving in a grand scale? On the scale of us? I can accept that this stuff might happen in the tiny scales, but if what you say is true, then we are emergent systems, and that which happens at these smaller scales has nothing to do with us.”

“Ah!” Erick said, “That’s where the magic happens.”

Kiri spat, “That’s where the wizardry happens.”

Erick smiled as he countered, “It’s not wizardry. Wizardry is creating the impossible, which, right now, I’m not sure what that means, exactly.” He continued, “But magic? Magic seems to be organizing the uncertainty of a nigh-impossible event into a probable and controlled outcome.”

“That’s almost exactly what I said hours ago, but you don’t mean the same thing I meant, so when you say it, it sounds wrong!”

Erick jokingly said, “Who’s the archmage here, Kiri?”

“Certainly not you,” she said, without missing a beat.

Erick just laughed.

- - - -

Erick stood on the open lawn in front of Windy Manor. A sunset breeze flowed across the grass, and through the trees and vegetable gardens nearby. Teressa stood near the garden with her eyes closed. She was feeling the manasphere; silently watching with her Mana Sense for any small people who might be flying around. From her silence, Erick knew there were none; for now.

He continued with the experiment.

Ophiel hovered in the air; ready.

Kiri stood beside Erick, saying, “Have you considered, instead of this notion of superpositioning, the fact that every single Elemental Body skill has a pseudo-[Teleport] at their ultimate rank? Maybe this has something to do with [Gate].”

“Yes. I have considered that. Since I do not have one, that is the fallback option, and honestly? It might be the real answer to this [Gate] dilemma. Everlin was born with the natural equivalent of [Airshape], after all.” Erick said, “I guess I’d go for [Lightwalk]; the dungeon will make that possible, rather soon. Anywho! You know how they call it [Blink]? Or how the word ‘sight’ is bracketed in the skill? Like it’s an alpha spell? I don’t think that’s a coincidence, so much as what the skill does to you when you use it.”

Erick [Blink]ed forward.

In that brief moment the world turned dark, like he had more than closed his eyes. It was like all his senses had turned off, all at once. He was adrift in eternity. And then the spell blipped him back into Reality. In the split second before Reality returned, first came the sense of Self, and then came his feet back on the ground, and then came his eyesight and every other sense, all at once. It was a disorienting feeling the first hundred times Erick had [Blink]ed or [Teleport]ed, but that was thousands of blips ago, and each time it was the same sensation. The exact same sensation.

