Better than he dared to hope. Bingwen thought to himself. “Excellent! We should prepare immediately to receive our Young Mistress and her guests!”

She would likely drop off the furnaces and then once more be off. Perhaps she would demand some of their disciples as well? That would be well within expectations!

“Come,” he said, immensely pleased. “Let us greet our Young Mistress.”

=================================

Bingwen should have known better. Xianghua, as ever, defied the expectations of the leader of the Sect.

Instead of their Young Mistress simply searching for a place to rest her head, she strolled straight into the sect with her Qi unrestrained.

Second Stage of the Profound Realm. Beside her stood Cai Xiulan, at the Third Stage, eclipsing every Elder gathered here, and Rou Tigu, also at the Second. Tie Delun, just behind her, was into the First Stage of the Profound Realm himself. Together, they had enough power to challenge all the Elders, and with Cai Xiulan there… they could win. She was stronger than all of them, a full step up on them. And this was after she had been injured and burned back down to the Third Stage of the Initiate's realm barely a year ago.

It was like a storm had just blown into the Sect, each and every disciple barely stayed on their feet as their Young Mistress stalked forwards.

Bingwen could only stare at the new power that had suddenly asserted itself in the halls of the Misty Lake Sect. For a moment, he was worried that she had come looking for blood, since… well, Xianghua could hold grudges.

Her eyes locked directly onto his.

“Elder Bingwen! You have served the Sect well, but there now arises a situation that I must take control of!” she said to him before turning to address all the gathered Elders and members of the Sect. “Elders of the Misty Lake Sect! This Liu Xianghua demands that you recognise her right to become Sectmaster!” Her voice was a thunderous boom. Her Qi was a furious well of power. Her tyrannical Aura pressed down on each and every one of them, a fierce heron ready to fish a dragon out of the heavens.

And then her steam furnace activated. The pulse of power sent some to their knees— and Bingwen knew in his soul that any battle with her had only one outcome. Complete and utter defeat. Even her father would be like an insect before her new power.

Xianghua shattered everything people thought of as common sense. Her absolute audacity had stunned everyone into silence, and even her mother, Sei Fen, had no words.

Just what sort of monster did Master Jin create?

Bingwen managed to find his voice, and there was only one response possible to her demand.

“We shall make the necessary arrangements immediately, Heir Xianghua,” he declared in firm and immediate capitulation.

“Excellent! Truly, you are an Elder without parallel, Bingwen! Additionally! I will announce my engagement to Xong Gou Ren! You may offer your congratulations to your Sectmaster!”

Her voice was a stern command. She strode forwards into the Sect and towards the meeting room, where she took her place at the head of the table without hesitation.

The rest of them could only obey and follow.

Bingwen could see the other’s shock and resentment at this sudden play begin to grow. He himself was still unbalanced by her words and actions, so he did the only thing he could do.

“What do you need the might of the Sect for, Young Mistress?”

“We have found the lost history of every sect in the Azure Hills, and a way to replicate and distribute it. We shall call a grand conclave to discuss this amongst the sects… and we will support the proposal Cai Xiulan brings forwards with the entire Sect—as its first supporters!”

“… I may need you to explain things to me more thoroughly, Young Mistress.” Bingwen said carefully, his voice unsteady at yet another revelation.

She did.

Bingwen had to sit down.

Be like water and mist, he told himself. Be like water and mist.
