You can visualize memories, objects, and mental models with a remarkable level of clarity and precision.

Skills

Active Skills

Acrobatics: 10

Evasion: 25

Foraging: 15

Light Armor: 7

Light Shield: 23

Pathfinding: 0

Size Up: 25

Stealth: 6

Sword (Journeyman): 31

Blade-Weaver: Wielding a sword requires significantly less stamina. This includes both the natural drain from moving your body and the cost of activating combat arts.

Tracking: 11

Vital Energy Manipulation: 7

Wand: 25

Inactive Skills (Inactive skills may be used but not improved.)

Throwing: 9

Inventory (Uncommon and above)

Blightbane (Legendary). Modifications: Living Artifact. Soul Forged. Blade World.

Adventurer’s Coat (Rare). Modifications: Durable. Self-Maintenance. Elemental Resistance. Force Distribution.

Bag of Molding (Rare).

Battlemage Armor (Rare). Modifications: Self-Maintenance. Durability. Flesh Guard. Otherling Resistance.

Battlemage Helm (Rare). Modifications: Self-Maintenance. Durability. Transparency. Mind Guard.

Elixir of Restoration (Rare). Modifications: Soulbound.

Explorer’s Boots (Rare). Modifications: Self-Maintenance. Durability. Elemental Resistance. Sound Dampening. Enhanced Leap.

Wand of Force (Rare). Modifications: Soulbound. Skill Activation (Wand). Living Artifact.

Arena Dagger (Uncommon). Modifications: Eversharp.

Adventurer’s Toolbelt (Uncommon). Modifications: Self-Maintenance.

Pugilist’s Gloves (Uncommon). Modifications: Durable. Self-Maintenance.

Cloak of Thermal Regulation (Uncommon). Modifications: Self-Maintenance.

Caster’s Buckler (Uncommon). Modifications: Durable. Self-Maintenance. Magic Resistance.

Half-Length Scabbard (Uncommon). Modifications: Durable. Self-Maintenance. Quickdraw.

Short Sword (Unidentified).

It was always satisfying to contemplate how far he’d come since waking up alone on an empty beach with his memory in tatters.

It made him wonder whose gaze he would meet in the mirror years from now—if he would even recognize the person he became. Somehow, he was certain that no matter how much he changed over the course of his ordeal, he would always remain true to himself. Be proud of the man he had been and look forward to meeting his future self.

On that note, Nick was happy with the path he had chosen, and he enjoyed his new life deeply.

Despite everything—all the suffering and loss he’d experienced since the System arrived and erased the world that was—he woke up every day filled with wonder, awestricken that magic had become an integral part of his life and gratified to work alongside such an amazing collection of individuals.

He brought his musings to a close when he realized Kenji was awake, which meant it was his turn to get some shuteye.

While he wasn’t as skilled in the arts of slumber as the veteran warrior, Nick had lived in the wild long enough that a bedroll over concrete felt relatively comfortable, and he was out like a light five minutes later.
