“Look little buddy,” I say, running my thumb over his leathery head, “You can’t come with me. It’s dangerous, okay? I’ll be back soon enough, but until then, stay here with Mama Bun.” Lowering my hand into the enclosure, Pong Pong squats down and refuses to leave, and when Mama Bun hops over to take him away, his clawed fingers dig into the flesh of my palm. Lifting him out of Mama Bun’s reach, I wrack my brain for a solution. Since logic didn’t work and using force is a terrible idea, maybe I can scare him into staying behind. Using my Aura, I share feelings of warmth and safety while pointing at Mama Bun and the enclosure. The tyrannical turtle’s grip softens and he lets out a sigh, basking in the good vibes I’m sending his way. After a few seconds, I cut him off without warning and make sure I have his attention before moving on. Careful not to overdo it, I use my Aura once again, but this time I share my cold dread and gut-wrenching uncertainty while pointing at myself and the west. Reacting as expected, Pong Pong retreats into the safe confines of his shell and I resist the urge to laugh. Lowering my hand back into the enclosure, Mama Bun’s paws reach out to bring Pong Pong away, and this time he doesn’t resist as my Aura shifts back to one of safety and Serenity.

As powerful and intelligent at he is, Pong Pong is still a turtle and his thought process is more like a child’s than a fully functioning adult’s. Survival comes first, and even though he could win in a straight up fight against an Ancestral Beast, when faced with conflict his natural response will be to flee or defend. He’ll only attack when left with no other choice, and even then he lacks the killer instincts of a true warrior, which is kind of a shame. I had this wild idea of hiding him in my pocket and secretly using his power to wipe away Defiled hordes, but reality reared its ugly head and ruined everything with cold, uncaring logic. Even if Pong Pong were willing to be my pocket monster and Hydro Pump the Defiled to death, doing so would alert everyone to his presence. Gang Shu isn’t the only one I have to guard against, who’s to say the Legate won’t try to use this to his advantage? Worse, what if the Enemy decides they want to kill Pong Pong and sends a half-dozen Divinities over to kill him? Even if Pong Pong escapes, I’ll be caught in the crossfire and unlikely to survive, so best to -

A light weight settles on my shoulder and interrupts my pessimistic spiralling. His lips set in a stubborn grimace, Pong Pong looks me in the eye and unleashes his Aura, so similar to mine it’s almost eerie. There’s warmth and safety, but also acceptance and tenacity as the tiny turtle settles in on my shoulder, determined to stick by me despite the dangers ahead.

It’s almost like he’s saying, “My home is here, with you.”

Or maybe he’s worried no one here will feed him. Who knows. Resigned to bringing him along, I turn back to pick up Mama Bun and double time it to the meeting area, secretly delighted to have a powerful Divine Beast watching my back and a floof to snuggle with. Two floofs, in fact, after I spot Blackjack perched atop my banner without a care in the world, his velvet black ears swaying in the morning breeze. How do they keep getting out of their enclosure? Do I need to put a roof on it? Whatever, so my plans to leave all my floofs behind fell through, but it’s no big deal. I mean, what’s the worst that could...

Oh no. I’ve learned my lesson. No more tempting fate, not again. It’s just war with the Defiled. I've lived through one already, so things will be fine.

Probably.

Hopefully.

...

Please?

Chapter Meme
