But this time the shopkeeper’s son didn’t come.

She’d seen the raiders before the alarm had been raised. They’d spread quickly through the town, unnaturally silent, and the girl had frozen, avoiding their notice. Then had come the sounds of battle: metal on metal, shouts of fury, screams of pain. Her fear shifted from frozen to flight. She sprinted across the yard, her father found her, thrust her into the cellar, and told her to hide. That’s when the explosions started. She’d thought they were bursts of thunder from a sudden storm; she had no concept for what a fire-arm was.

The time in the darkness had stretched.

When the cellar door had opened, she’d expected to see her father, maybe the shopkeeper’s son. Instead it’d been one of the hulking, blond brutes. He hadn’t seen her at first. Instead, he’d rooted through the supplies looking for something.

“And then, and then he…”

The girl teetered for a moment between letting it loose and shutting it in. Piety tried to convey compassion in her expression through she wasn’t sure the girl was seeing her. When the tears slid down the girl’s face, Piety hugged her impulsively. She kept herself open to the girl’s pain, and tears marked her own face.

She knew she could take all the pain, swallow it like stale, moldy bread, but she also knew that to do so she’d have to make the girl forget, like she’d done for Temperance, and making her forget wouldn’t remove her guilt and grief. Piety remembered thinking the same about a young soldier on a battlefield far to the south. It had felt right then and it felt right now. So, instead, she put it at a distance where the girl could look at it without reliving it.

“It’s not your fault,” Piety said, brushing the thought against the girl’s mind to lend strength of truth.

“How do you know? Bran and me, we’d been meeting for two weeks to… What if this is God’s punishment?”

Piety shook her head. “’Live, love, and find comfort in each other.’ That’s what Saint Zyta said. Even Saint David the Chaste said, ‘Passion is God’s gift, not God’s curse.’” The girl seemed unconvinced. “I was attacked once. Not as you were but… but nearly.” With the admission, she could see the thick brow, large nose, and squinty eyes of the man called Raimy. She’d given little thought to that night in the two years since. The comfort and support of Father Shane, Father Vytal, and Temperance had helped her weather that trauma and many others.

This girl didn’t have such support—her father and sweetheart were both dead.

“Pardon, Mother.” Adora stood in the doorway, looking from Piety to the girl. “Everyone’s gathered. We were hoping you’d be willing to say something. For the fallen.”

Piety gently extricated herself from the girl. “Of course, Adora.” Mentally, she added, “This girl needs you.”

Adora looked at the girl and, while Piety walked past her to the door, took the girl’s hand and squeezed it gently. That gentle squeeze spoke volumes and Piety, still open to the world around her, sensed that Adora needed the girl just as much.

“Mother, there’s something I wanted to give you,” Adora said. She held out to Piety a sunburst amulet on a leather cord, much like her own. “It belonged to Brother Peter. I thought you might be able to take it back to the High Temple.”

Piety accepted the amulet and smiled. “Thank you, Adora. I’ll see it gets where it needs to be.”

At what was once the edge of town, now a blackened, rubble strewn stretch of land, the bodies of the fallen had been gathered, laid out with care and shrouded in what cloth could be spared. It was a distressingly large group. Their gathering was lit by the just setting sun and a few torches born by the survivors to light the pyre at the conclusion of the rites.

Piety took a breath. She was tired. The walk from the patients to the funeral had proven to her that she was more tired than she’d thought. Her thighs and stomach were sore, her shoulders knotted, she was beginning to feel flush. Suddenly, she didn’t feel up to the task of performing funeral rites or even speaking loudly enough to be heard.

She blinked.

And in the space between seeing and not, the sun began to set behind the towering Western Mountains, and it seemed as though the time inbetween day and night, stretched out into forever. And beyond she could see an ephemeral place of twilight, a world of mutable form, of indirect light, of the space inbetween. It was the Twilight Realm, and it approached.

She opened her eyes a blink later, and the world was as it had been, the surviving residents of Redhill gathering at sunset to witness the funeral rites of those slain and send them to God’s warm embrace by funeral pyre.

They all looked to her, the Light Cleric, for guidance and comfort, and after glimpsing through forever into the Twilight Realm, she was further exhausted. She didn’t know whether or not she could give them what they sought.

“Piety?”

She looked at Temperance who had rested her hand on her shoulder. “You look pale. Perhaps you should sit?”

Sitting sounded like a good idea. She relaxed, and someone helped her to sit, someone with strong arms. She wanted nothing more in that moment than to sink into those arms and fall asleep. But the pain of Redhill hung over them like a bruise.

She tried to stand, but her stomach cramped so violently that her vision sparkled and she couldn’t breathe.

“Piety?” Temperance’s face was inches from hers, expression creased in worry. “What happened?”

“I don’t know, I…”

“We should get her to a bed,” said Tobias, and his voice vibrated in his chest against her back.

Piety tried to object, but another cramp stole her breath. So she spoke mentally. “No. Not yet.” She slipped to the room in her mind and the pain of the cramp receded. She avoided looking at the chessboard and sat at the desk where she imagined a bowl of still water, just as Hirrom had taught her at the High Temple years ago. But this time the water was not her power. Instead, it was a window on the world, she was looking down on the gathered from above.

“’Death comes for us all’, warned Saint Claes the Generous, but for some it comes too soon. This was a conflict not of your making, yet it fell to your shoulders and now, will you or nil you, its burden is yours to bear. And so you shall for it was also Saint Claes who reminded us that in each other we find strength.

“We send our kin to God now, and we know they are loved.

“So be it, Truth.”

The gathered echoed her words in a quiet chorus. Piety stretched her shoulders in the room in her mind and watched as Adora laid her torch at the funeral pyre, the girl at her heels. Then came another, and another, and soon the pyre was burning high and bright.

She dreamed she stood nude on the edge of shear cliffs of dirty white stone overlooking a storm-tossed sea. The wind blew her hair into her face and as she brushed it aside, she saw that it was not pure white but also pure black and all the shades of grey inbetween.

At a sound she turned her back on the sea to find the black and white armies at war while the storm raged above spreading twilight across the battlefield. The violent movement of the armies was slow and muted as though they moved through syrup.

The black clad army fought under the snapping banner of Kempenny Province: blue unicorn on a black field. The white-clad army fought under no banner. She’d expected the silver banner of Isabel Loreamer, but there was none.

And in the distance, beyond the muted field of battle, purple eyes. She was not as Piety had first met her, a frightened young woman uncertain of her gift and of her place in the world. Instead, she was as Piety first remembered her, wise eyes providing comfort in a storm. Minerva Aegis stood watching it all with a sad detachment.

Piety took a step toward her…

“Mother.”

Piety started. The storm wind dragged her multi-colored hair before her eyes again and when she shook it aside, a new figure had entered the dreamscape. Hirrom stood with her on the cliffs of Olytan. He looked hazy, indistinct, and uncertain, as though looking for something without knowing how to find it. Suddenly she was aware of her nudity and she shivered in the wind. Her rising blush was quickly covered by a simple white dress.

“Mother, we need your help. If you can hear me, please respond.”

The dreamscape wavered.

“I’m here, Hirrom.”

And she woke in the room in her mind. She could not keep from looking at the chessboard and the little slip of paper immediately caught her attention. She ignored it for the moment and instead her eyes went automatically to the bookcase, as they had done for years. And with sudden cold certainty, she knew she had supplied the notes that had allowed Devorah Kempenny’s forces access to the fire arms. Piety had so often searched the bookcase for new arrivals that it had become automatic. Certainly Devorah Kempenny had had the same habit. She’d discovered the notes Piety had taken from Temperance’s mind. She’d understood them, and she’d improved upon the design.

Piety bent to the chessboard and picked up the slip of paper on which was written a single word.

Yes.

“Mother, where are we?” Hirrom looked about himself with a mixture of awe and unease.

Piety crushed the slip of paper in her fist. “The room in my mind.”

He looked at her. “I never taught you to do this.”

“Hirrom, you gave the impression this was urgent.”

“Right. Yes. We’re under attack. Three Swords of the Church. We were hunting and Theodore had sighted an elk and…” Hirrom took a breath to steady himself. “I felt him scream. We’ve been practicing communication, everyone connected at once for practice and so that we’ll all know if one needs help with prey, but even had we not been connected, I’m sure I’d have felt him scream.”

“Where are you?”

“In the hills above Redhill; we’ve hidden in a cave.”

Piety looked at Hirrom, looked at his aura, a red and gold conflagration held close to his body, and she nodded. It had been a long day of healing and she’d been exhausted by its end, so she turned to the wall that served as a barrier between her and the cosmos, and she parted it easily. Behind her, Hirrom gasped.

“I’ll be there shortly, Hirrom.”

“What…” Hirrom stared at the cosmos with an awe that would not allow him to continue.

“Later.” Piety took hold of Hirrom by the arm and by extension his consciousness, and pulled them both from her mindspace. She was on her feet and at the window without thought. Through the cosmic void just outside her mind, she could feel Hirrom and his students in the foothills of the Western Mountains, and she could feel the Swords of the Church hunting them, each armed with a blazing sunblade.

With a thought she opened the window and leapt into the cold night sky.
