Thirteen vhamps sat in a semicircle around Father Hirrom Berek. It was nearly midnight, but, after weeks of traveling at night, Piety couldn’t sleep. She sat at the entrance to her tent, watching the vhamps, while Temperance breathed quietly behind her.

Her gaze was drawn to Tobias, remembering the feel of his strong arms around her as she’d fallen, and the longing way he’d said Isabel Loreamer’s name.

With a shake of her head, she turned her attention back to the vhamps. They had set their camp apart from the non-undead camp—four multi-layered tents, each facing south so as to receive as little sunlight as possible during the day. Despite being thoroughly wrapped in cloth, not a day went by that at least one vhamp didn’t wake with burns. Only Hirrom seemed immune.

Hirrom had resumed his role of teacher, putting the newly awakened vhamps through basic mental training; empty your mind, now picture a room, now picture a bowl of water…

A few days after starting the meditation lessons, Hirrom had explained their necessity to Piety. Those without telepathy have a natural mental shield, he explained, but becoming a vhamp bestowed telepathy without the training to create a shield or use the power, making vhamps open to control by other telepaths, particularly vhamp telepaths.

Their camp lay just inside the border of Olytan County, and Tobias had ordered a full day of rest, so they’d not be moving on again until tomorrow night. He sat with his back to a small fire, a long-necked, stringed instrument on one knee. She wondered where he’d gotten it. She didn’t remember seeing it before.

Tobias sat so he could keep an eye on the vhamps, his fingers plucking idly at the strings, coaxing effortless music from them. Piety walked the few paces between her tent and Tobias and sat next to him.

“Why do you dislike them?”

Tobias flickered a glance at her. “They’re dangerous, Mother.”

“I know that. But that’s not why you dislike them.”

He looked at her longer this time. His fingers plucked a familiar tune from the instrument. “They’re killers. Vhamps have eaten and terrorized and poisoned people all over Khulanty.”

“You’ve killed people,” Piety pointed out, “and so have I.”

“That’s different.”

“Why? Because Isabel told you to?”

Tobias stopped plucking at the strings and fiddled with some knobs at the end of the instrument’s neck. When he played again, the music was somber.

“When I kill someone, alive, undead, whatever, I do it to protect people. When a vhamp kills someone, they’re not thinking about the consequences.”

“They’re killing to survive. I’ve been inside their minds, Tobias. They’re like beasts when they’ve been starved. Do we execute beasts for doing what they must to survive?”

“Hmm.”

Tobias played a quiet, mournful tune. Piety tried to remember if she’d heard it somewhere before.

Hirrom’s steady, calming chant as he led the vhamps through the meditation was like the intermittent gusts of a gentle wind. Piety ran the fingers of her left hand over the points of her scarlet sunburst amulet.

“If I kill a man to save my life, is it justified?”

Tobias sighed, clearly hoping they’d been finished with the conversation.

“Yes.”

“What if I’m a vhamp and I’ll die if I don’t have blood?”

Tobias shook his head. He ran his hands quickly over the strings, producing a sharp, staccato, intricate melody.

“I am not without sympathy to their situation. But they’re dangerous, and I took an oath to guard Royal and Nation. Your super-powered blood may have given them a semblance of humanity, but in my estimation, that only makes them more dangerous.”

“I told them they had to control themselves, that I would destroy any who lost control and became a danger,” said Piety

“I know.”

“But I don’t think their nature is cause for dislike, Tobias. Caution, pity, but not dislike.”

“Did you come over here to chide me, Mother?”

Piety laughed, tugging a faint smile from the taciturn bodyguard.

“Not specifically.” She couldn’t help but gaze at his hazel eyes, large, strong-fingered hands, and muscled forearms. She had to clear her throat roughly to fight down the blush. “I can’t sleep and wanted company.”

“Then perhaps we could sit quietly?”

Piety nodded. She looked at the vhamps and her eyes were drawn to a girl. Her skin was paler than Piety remembered, but everything else about her was the same. According to Hirrom, vhamps stopped aging. Faith had never been nice to Piety, had been downright cruel on occasion. And now she was a vamp, forever caught on the edge of adulthood, forever in between.

In that moment, Faith looked up at her, and Piety caught her gaze. She wondered what Faith thought of her now. She knew the vhamps viewed her as a savior. Hirrom had told her they both respected and feared her.

Faith looked away.

Redhill was a mining town in the foothills of the Western Mountains. The mines were further up in the mountains and the town mostly served as a place for miners to get away from their stifling work, to rest, and for the owners of the mines to conduct business with proximity but without inconvenient mess.

When Piety followed Temperance and Tobias to the small town, the sun had only just risen. Hirrom had taken his thirteen students to the hills to find shelter for the day. Piety had asked him if there was anything he or the vhamps needed while they were shopping for supplies.

“My students, they fear that they’ll burn up in their sleep, go up in ashes and never know what happened. If you can find a way to block out the sun entirely, that would be helpful.”

“Like what?”

“I don’t know. But if you see something you think is likely…”

However, as they approached the small town, they found it in ruins: burned out buildings, belongings strewn in the streets, the dead lined up in rudimentary shrouds.

“Mothers, stay near.” Tobias had a hand on his sword hilt and scanned the landscape.

All Piety could see were survivors trying to clean up the mess, but she stretched her mind and took in what there was to be had.

There had been a raid; the terror was still fresh in the minds of the survivors. Giant pale men had come from the night like ghosts. Clad in fur cloaks, wielding great hammers and axes and under the banner of Kempenny Province, they had felled the small contingent of guards commissioned by the Magistrate of Olytan with hardly a struggle. They took the city with speed, efficiency, and great explosions from hand-held fire-arms. Once the soldiers and the civilian insurgence had been killed, the raiders looted the town for valuables. Those working now to clean up the aftermath had managed to numb themselves enough to do what needed doing. Piety pulled her mind back.

“Kempenny’s forces,” Piety said. “Warriors from the Mountain Kingdom. And…” she paused and looked at Temperance. “And they were using fire-arms.”

It took Temperance a few moments to understand the implications. When her expression fell, Piety hugged her one armed as best she could on horseback.

“None of the raiders are still here,” Piety told Tobias while Temperance struggled not to cry into her shoulder. “They left hours ago.”

“Even so, Mother, we should exercise caution.”

The townspeople were as wary of their approach as Tobias was of them. Several of them stopped what they were doing and fled into what was left of the town. By the time they were a stone’s throw from the ash marking what had once been the edge of town, they were met by a short, rotund woman in soot-streaked finery holding a pitchfork and several other women armed with whatever tools they could find.

“We mean no harm,” Tobias started.

“Then keep moving.” She brandished her pitchfork.

Tobias’ hand resting on his sword tightened just a bit.

Piety urged her horse forward. “We’re healers.” She gestured at herself and Temperance. Temperance had mastered her tears but her expression betrayed her dismay. “We could help.”

The woman looked at Piety’s sunburst. “The Church sent you? We haven’t had the chance to send out messengers yet. How did you find out?”

“We didn’t, ma’am. We’re just passing through, were planning to resupply.”

“And you’re healers?”

“Yes, ma’am.” Piety dismounted and walked toward the woman. “My name is Piety Churchstep. What’s yours?”

There were surprised murmurs from the gathered women, but the woman in front only frowned. Her pitchfork shifted slightly to point at a space just over Piety’s head. Piety felt Tobias shift.

“I’ve heard the name of course, but anyone can claim a name, or wear a sunburst. How do we know we can trust you?” Pain and fear were fresh on her face, radiated in her aura.

Piety walked toward her and nodded. She reached mentally for the woman and opened herself to her pain, became a willing vessel. “I understand. I’ve seen war, and I know that sometimes you see something so awful you think you’ll never be able to trust in the goodness of humanity ever again.”

Piety felt the woman’s pain and accepted it. She’d never taken on emotional pain with her martyr power before. It was different. Instead of feeling what the woman felt, it was like the pain poured into her. She might have filled to capacity, but a solution quickly presented itself. With a blink, she entered her mindspace and looked at the wall that stood between her and the cosmos, and then it was gone and she stared into forever. Instinctually she fed the pain into that limitless space.

“But there are injured among you. I can feel them. And I can help.”

The rigid cast to the woman’s face softened, the pain around her eyes eased as Piety allowed the emotional build up to pass through her into the cosmos, like draining the excess water from boiled potatoes. Piety knew she would be unable to remove the pain entirely without making her forget, but she hoped that by easing the burden, she’d help this woman handle it.

“Adora. My name is Adora. I can show you to the injured.”

All the public buildings had been burned, so the wounded had been gathered on the edge of town where there’d been no burning. No one building was large enough to hold them all, so the injured had been laid out in the houses of accommodating neighbors. After being moved though, little had been done to tend them.

Temperance took charge immediately, demanding from the small crowd that had followed them volunteers, clean cloth, and boiled water. Then she turned to Piety. “You’ll find those who need you?”

Piety nodded. She recognized her friend’s expression, grim determination, a veneer over horror.

“Be careful you don’t drain yourself.”

Piety hugged her. “You too.”

Piety closed her eyes and cast out her senses, searching for those most injured that she might save. The work was much the same as it had been at Pinefort. Piety sorted out those who needed her magic and those who would recover with non-metaphysical healing. Fortunately, there was no one so injured that only release from life would end the suffering.

Those houses chosen for the task of makeshift hospital buzzed with activity, and Piety sank herself in it. As each patient came under her hands, she examined their bodies with acute mental sense, removed foreign objects with telekinesis, and poured healing energy into them, encouraging bodies to heal quickly.

And she lost track of time.

When at last she looked for the next patient and there was none, she sighed and sat back, closing her eyes. The day’s work had required a lot of careful and subtle healing and while she wasn’t drained of power, she was mentally exhausted. At some point during her last healing, night had fallen and she realized she was hungry. She tucked the blanket up around the patient’s shoulders and absently patted his shoulder before standing and looking about.

The ground floor of the house was a single room housing a kitchen and seating area. Two other victims of last night’s raid were also laid out here. A young woman, a volunteer recruited by Temperance, stoked the fire over which hung a kettle of tea. She was young, maybe just about Piety’s age, and the thought made Piety smile—that she would consider someone her own age young when she never thought of herself that way.

“Thank you for your help today,” Piety said.

The girl started violently. In her haste to stand, she struck the kettle with her arm. Scalding tea splashed, sparks and flames flared, and the girl squealed in pain.

Piety was at her side in a moment, opening her consciousness and immersing it in the girl’s body. Within moments she had soothed the burns and eased the pain. The burns were gone without a mark. As she set about picking up the kettle and spilled tea with telekinesis, she smiled at the girl sympathetically.

“Are you all right?”

But the girl wouldn’t look at her. She’d hunched her shoulders, ducked her head, and squeezed closed her eyes. Like Adora, this girl was filled with pain, it burst from her aura in waves like the scalding liquid from the tea kettle. There was also guilt and revulsion; the girl was disgusted with herself. Piety cringed; the self-revulsion was like a greasy sheen on dishwater. But the emotion was strong and destructive, and though she was tired, Piety couldn’t leave without trying to help. She opened herself to the pain and let it drain into her, and when she did, she felt the physical pain as well, the pain the girl hid out of shame.

She’d been raped. One of the blond-bearded mercenaries of the Mountain Kingdom had found her in the cellar of her father’s home where she’d been hiding.

Piety stopped the memory before it could replay in full. She took a breath.

“You can’t blame yourself.”

“Mother. I’m sorry, I didn’t know you were still here.”

The room wasn’t particularly large. For the girl to not notice Piety meant she was focused inward, probably reliving the event.

Piety kept herself open to the girl’s pain, hoping to siphon away enough to help.

“My name is Piety.”

“Yes, Mother. You’re the Light Cleric.”

“You seem upset. Do you want to talk about the raid?”

The girl shook her head, but she’d gone still, looking into Piety’s eyes. Piety focused on keeping eye contact and waited.

“They came out of the night, like shadow demons in the Scriptures.”

And Piety couldn’t help it—she saw the events unfold from the girl’s mind. The men were huge, like bears, with wild, pale eyes, bristling with weapons and wearing the colors of Kempenny Province. The girl had been loitering in her father’s yard. He was a wheelwright and the yard where he worked housed a shed that could afford privacy. She and the shopkeeper’s son had taken to meeting there over the past fortnight.

