"That's my fault, I'm afraid," Cale said ruefully. "I had to expand my soul a few hours ago to deal with something, which messed up my mana core something fierce. Makes it harder to control my barriers, too. I normally mask my core a bit by default so I don't scare anyone—or blind them, if they look at me with their mana sense—but it's kind of all or nothing at the moment."

Thorn tried not to let that part about expanding his soul distract him too much, as staggering as that statement alone was. "That does not answer my question," he said instead.

"I'm getting there," Cale said. "I'm in the plainroot courses, as you noted, because my entire problem is that I have too much mana to cast spells conventionally. That also means my biggest problem is casting low-tier spells, not high-tier ones."

Thorn hesitantly lowered his blade, biting back the groan of relief as the pressure from [Topographical Bane] lessened. The explanation made sense, although... "You are suggesting you have too much mana to cast even the basic Standard Array."

Cale gave the dome around them a significant glance. "Well, yes. Why do you think we're such good friends?" he asked, nudging Professor Graystalk. The professor rolled his eyes in response. "Graystalk's been helping me with the Standard Array. Not that there's anything I can cast from it yet."

"You are indeed my worst best student," Professor Graystalk said dryly.

"You could at least pretend to be worried about me, you know," Cale said. "Or help in some way."

"It would only encourage the idea that you have me under an illusion or compulsion," Professor Graystalk pointed out. "If anything, I should suggest that Thorn stab you a little bit, as proof that I have not been turned into a loyal minion."

"On reflection, don't listen to this guy," Cale said.

Thorn couldn't help it. He snorted, dropping his blade and letting it retract into his palm with a wince; as he ended the spell, a jolt of jagged green mana spread up along his arm, and he rubbed his shoulder gingerly.

Cale glanced at it, evidently concerned. "You alright there?"

"It is nothing," Thorn lied. He wouldn't be able to use that arm for a while. "I... believe you, I think, but I have questions still."

"Shoot," Cale said.

Thorn frowned, confused. "You wish for me to fire a spell?"

"No, just... it's a phrase. Ask your questions," Cale said, gesturing vaguely. "I shouldn't keep this barrier up for too long. Also, the dungeon might help you remember what I said while we're in here, but I have no idea what's going to happen once we leave."

"We'll concern ourselves with that later," Thorn decided. "My question is this: you claim to be studying at Brightscale to master low-tier magic. How do you not possess this magic already? The Gift should have ensured your foundations."

"Oh, that's easy," Cale said. "I'm not from Utelia. I was summoned here about a month ago."

Thorn froze. His mind whirled and his vines coiled with agitation, reacting to the surge of emotion. Not from Utelia? This human was a summon?

That meant he wasn't from this realm. It meant he had traveled through the Abyss, and not only that, it meant he had survived the Abyss. It meant this human might have information from outside of Utelia, information that might explain what was happening to the Headmaster—

Thorn swallowed. He couldn't get ahead of himself. "You're—a visitor from beyond this realm?" he asked, just to confirm. "You have traveled through the Abyss?"

"Traveled through, swam in, soaked in it for a little bit," Cale said with a shrug. "I move around the Great Realms a lot. Not intentionally, mind you. It's a whole thing."

"And you remember your time in those other realms," Thorn said, intent. "Aside from the infernals, summons don't usually retain a clear memory."

"I'm a bit of a special case," Cale said. "Can't say I remember everything, but it's more because I have a bad memory than anything else. Also because I've been around for a really long time and there's a lot I've just forgotten."

Thorn shook his head, dazed. He conjured a seat of vines just so he could sit down—he really felt like he needed it, at this point, and he was less concerned about maintaining his image now that he'd established that Cale was not the existential threat he'd thought he was.

Still an existential threat, technically, but one that was attempting to play nice. Thorn could work with that.

"I have searched for so long for a means to travel the Great Realms," Thorn said. "And you claim this is something you do by accident? So much that you cannot even remember where you have been?"

"It's something of a curse," Cale said quietly. Something about his gaze grew distant and lonely again. "And not something I can teach. I'm sorry."

It didn't matter. Thorn's mind whirled with possibilities. "You are the Headmaster's apprentice," he said finally. "Do you know of his curse?"

"His..." Cale frowned. "Are you talking about the thing going around and trying to wipe out dragons?"

"Yes." Thorn let out a heavy breath. "Many of us owe him greatly. He believed in us when no other mage would, and it is only through his guidance that we have become the mages we have. We have searched in secret to find a means of slaying this hunter-of-dragons, and yet we have found nothing. If you have the ability to move between the realms..."

"I don't know anything, either," Cale said. "I've been looking into it myself, but I didn't even know this was a problem until I got here. Which is kind of weird, now that I think about it."

"And there is nothing else?" Thorn asked. There was an edge of desperation in his voice, now. "Not a hint as to where this hunter may hide? A solution for the spell of erasure placed upon the Headmaster?"

"Not yet," Cale said. "But I'd like to share notes with you sometime. Maybe after this delve?"

"Please," Thorn said, which was not a word he was used to saying to any other mage. "I would... value your thoughts."

Cale nodded. "I'll get rid of the barrier for now," he said. "Let me know if it starts affecting you again—"

Thorn was momentarily thrown as the human stopped mid-sentence the same moment the mana around them dissipated. Cale's stance had been relaxed through their conversation, but it snapped into something focused all at once. "Leo. What happened?"

"We may have a situation," Leo said, his tone nervous. Thorn frowned, turning to. see what they were talking about...

...Ah. Two of the apprentices were missing, and something strange was happening with the cot. It felt almost like spatial magic was twisting itself into a knot around it, with the result being that the cot was growing in a warped, duplicating fashion.

Despite Leo's nervousness, though, the minotaur was surprisingly focused. Thorn could sense his labyrinth magic weaving in with that twisted space, trying to corral it.

Perhaps this team would be suited for the tournament, although he was starting to think that including Cale might be considered cheating.
