“Here we are,” Veron said. He could tell that she had a hard time bringing up the reason for this little event. He could think of a few things but there was no rush. Instead, he took another sip and glanced over to the two supposed adventurers. “You know them?”

“No. They arrived yesterday and I'm told they will leave again this afternoon,” Ivera said, speaking with almost a whisper. She only gave them a quick glance and then returned her attention to him.

“Many adventurers that come through here?”

“Some.”

Veron took another sip. Then he looked at her and smiled slightly. “You're not easy to talk to. What's going on?”

She leaned back and grumbled something before drinking deep from her mug. “I had a fight with Aren. About you and Ian. Your training. And what we should do with Ian. He's obviously annoyed that I'm not training him but I'm not exactly training you either, I just gave you a few pointers and some things to do on your own.”

“You don't want him to be an adventurer?”

She made a grimace and then sighed. “I had hoped he would be happy here. Had hoped that he wouldn't have to fight, survive. I know that Aren is right, that we should let him make his own choices, that he wants to go out there and explore. It's just difficult.”

Veron didn't interrupt. He simply waited and drank more of the stout.

She looked into his eyes. “He is such a sweet boy. Hardworking, kind, well mannered.”

“He doesn't have to run off today, you know?” he said.

“But if he goes down this path, I know where it will lead.”

“Do you? So you know my path as well?”

She gave him an annoyed look. “You know what I mean. He shouldn't have to see that kind of bloodshed, that kind of pain.”

“You want to protect him forever.”

She crossed her arms and sighed, then let her hands fall onto the table. “I would. A part of me wants to.”

“You know he would hate it.”

She grumbled something to herself.

“You could teach him to protect himself instead,” Veron said. “Let him learn, let him make his own mistakes.”

She made an annoyed sound. “You're as useless as Aren.” She finished her drink and stood up, walking a few steps before she stopped next to the table, her eyes glaring towards the door. “He will join your training, starting tomorrow. Once you've finished your armor, you come out with me. Without Ian.”

“A test run? Before you take him out?”

“It's been a while since I had to protect someone in the wild. You're free to decline, but I don't think you will.”

Veron sipped from his stout and set it back down. “You got me there.”
