It turns out that the so-called ‘Crafter Wall’ is a natural side effect of the economic disruption wrought by dungeons. The fact that artisans and crafters seldom advance to the second tier is primarily due to the widespread availability of cheap dungeon gear. Dungeon farming produces an enormous supply, resulting in lower-level crafters having to compete with items that can be purchased far below the cost required to make them.

And of course, nobody in their right mind would pay extra to help out the crafters, so they are forced into guilds that can sponsor their leveling. Or they beg for patronage from a wealthy noble or merchant, or the crown. This further limits the development of the crafters because all the valuable plans, enchantments, and formulas become highly restricted, property of the guilds and reserved for the favorites. This practice has typically pitted the crafter guilds against the adventurer guilds in a vicious cycle of price wars and economic conflict.

Unfortunately, the largest side effect of the Crafter Wall is that adventurers cap out long before platinum rank because they cannot gain access to proper gear. At this stage, dungeons are so dangerous that they require specialized and optimal gear – something that can seldom be achieved without the customization of a high-level crafter. And because very few crafters achieve elevated levels, the reagents and components needed cannot be farmed out of dungeons due to the extreme risk inherent in under-geared delving.

This creates several opportunities for Silver Cog Trading Co. First, and most obviously, every assessor should be keeping their eyes open for unaffiliated crafters of high level, or with the potential to reach high levels. Decent contracts with such individuals can be extremely lucrative. Secondly, items in this level range tend to be highly valuable and easily traded – particularly on the Auction House.

- Internal Manual on Dungeon Economics by Bixi Bargainhunter, Silver Cog Trading Co.

After the quick breakfast Mato fixed, Malika headed up with him and Calen to visit the guild once more. It was clear that progressing past the Landing in the Emberforge Mines was going to take more than just a pretty hairpin for her to survive. Never had she been forced to spend so much stamina on her healing so fast, just to stay alive.

The Flame Broodmother had been a challenging fight, but she had been able to avoid the brunt of the flame blasts that the spider had used to melt the rock wall behind Mato. But against the Living Flames, she was forced to survive the aura and the blast just to hit it. And she was certain it had some form of retaliatory flame attack that burned every time she struck – something particularly problematic for her hasted melee strikes.

Soul Monk has reached level 45 (+3).+30 attribute points.Martial Artist has reached level 24.Soul Strike has reached level 26.Healing Mantra has reached level 28 (+2).Perfect Body has reached level 18.Soul Armor has reached level 21.Enlightened Evasion has reached level 27 (+2).Clarity has reached level 12.Soul Sight has reached level 9 (+2).Appraise has reached level 14.

At least she was getting stronger – the Broodmother had been worth three levels for her, presumably because her class level was lagging behind Ali’s by a substantial margin now.

But she had earned no breakthrough advances for all her study and meditation sitting in poison or fire. Frustration was beginning to wear on her. I don’t want to be the weakest in the team. If she didn’t do something, make some breakthrough, she was going to struggle when they returned to the Landing.

At least my Healing Mantra is growing fast, she thought, trying to find the silver lining. My Bloodline must help… but I had hoped it would give me more of an edge. Was taking this class a mistake after all?

Malika twisted her mouth as she considered her thirty attribute points. On one hand, she needed to survive, so vitality was a must. So was wisdom to boost her Healing Mantra. The monsters don’t just hit with fire, she thought, recalling just how hard their strikes had been – which meant dexterity and endurance were essential for boosting her defenses. And then, there was Rezan’s advice that she shouldn’t neglect strength just because her class rewarded accuracy over power. Ugh. She wrestled with the dilemma for most of the trip up to town before she finally decided to trust the Elder and spent ten points on strength, reasoning that she could drop five points into wisdom and vitality each to boost her survivability against fire by splitting the difference between health and healing power. Then she spent five on dexterity to improve her ability to dodge, and at the last minute, she traded endurance for perception, deciding to invest in her Soul Sight this time around.

They entered the guild hall, and Malika was greeted with the unexpected sight of a line of grumpy merchants waiting to talk to Weldin. While nobody was fighting this time, the mood was undeniably tense and sour.

She nodded and smiled to Lydia who was next in line and walked up to the front with Calen who clearly just wanted to give his mom a hug.

“If you give me the money upfront, I can put you on the reserve list, but only one essence can be reserved each. You get your money back if I can’t fill the order in a week,” the Gnome said. Weldin must have given the same speech multiple times and the bored look on his face vanished the instant he saw her entering his shop.

“Would you like to go first?” Lydia asked, offering her the front spot in the line.

“Thanks,” Malika answered with a sliver of a grin for Lydia, guessing what would happen next.

“Hey! No fair!”

“No cutting the line!”

“We’ve been waiting all day, you know!”

Yup, she thought, ignoring them and walking up to Weldin’s steel-topped counter and dumping out all the essences they had collected from their delve. Clearing everything all the way down to the Landing had been extremely lucrative.

The angry voices turned to excited gasps as the pile of flame essences grew larger and larger as she unloaded her stores.

“Eighteen today,” she said, as usual, keeping a few in reserve.

“Usual price?” Weldin asked, his eye gleaming with delight and no small amount of amusement at the theatrics.

“That’s good for these,” Malika said. “We found something new, though.” As Weldin stored all the essences, she dumped out a huge pile of Flame Web, recovered from the respawned Flame Spinners in the tunnels, and the Flame Broodmother herself. A new round of gasps or annoyed inquiries as to what the hold-up was greeted this new feat.

“Oh!” he exclaimed.

“Good delving?” someone yelled.

“Yes,” Malika threw over her shoulder. “Be careful with this, it’s very sticky.” She was certain he hadn’t seen Flame Web before, so he probably didn’t know who would buy it, but Lydia was right there at the front of the line.

“Would you like some help?” Lydia asked, pulling out a spool from her storage, and after a quick nod from Weldin, she quickly wound it onto the spool and handed it back to him. “I’ll buy all of this if you want to sell it.” To punctuate her statement, she produced a heavy purse that snagged Malika’s Appraise sense like a bloodhound catching the scent of prey.

“You can use it?” he asked.

“Hilda can turn it into cloth, and I can craft with that. I recommend you sell any more you get to her,” Lydia explained. “But I’ll happily take it all off your hands right now and settle up with her on my own.”

Malika quickly negotiated a price with Weldin and then left Lydia to purchase her web and essences and headed off downstairs to the training rooms, leaving a babble of excited, far more amenable voices in her wake. Vivian’s program had attracted a particularly enthusiastic group of fresh recruits, and she was excited to see how much progress they had made since the last time. Some of them should be just about ready to unlock their basic weapons skills.

Calen grinned as he darted up the stairs to the meeting room he had reserved for the strategy class, happy to have run into his mom at the guild store on the way in. Even before he identified her, he knew she had done something important. She was too excited for it to be anything else – all the despondency over her class being stuck had vanished.

But she had seemed busy, so he left her to her business.

Lyeneru had impressed upon him just how important these strategy classes would be for his own development, and Vivian had seemed excited to have a Pathfinder to help train the novices – even if he was just starting out. Even though he wholeheartedly agreed, he still experienced anxiety over the idea of taking the lead and putting himself on the spot.

At least it’s a small group. Admit it, Calen, he chuckled to himself, you’d rather face the Twin Wight’s solo, right?

He was more than ten minutes early, so the meeting room was empty when he arrived. He left the door open and sat to review his notes and the notifications he had received from their delve through the Emberforge Mines yesterday. He had planned to discuss the Flame Broodmother today, to dissect the strategy and take the opportunity to refine his plans – especially given they would likely have to kill it several times as they pushed deeper into the dungeon. It took less than a minute for him to finish adding the new details to his map and checking his notes on the abilities the boss had displayed during the fight, and then he turned to his class and skills.

Archer of Light has reached level 46 (+3).+30 attribute points.

Good. He had spent all his points immediately on receiving them after the fight – and a good thing too, given how badly the Landing had gone. Two points went to wisdom, endurance, and vitality. Eight each went to intelligence, dexterity, and perception. He made a quick note that he would need to shift things up a little the next time to get his points back on the curves he had plotted. Now, what about the rest?

Radiant Archery has reached level 29.Arrows of Brilliance has reached level 33 (+2).Motes of Light has reached level 17 (+2).Blessing of the Dawn has reached level 22.Eyes of the Archon has reached level 24.Righteous Fury has reached level 16.Azrael's Wings has reached level 15.Mirage Armor has reached level 8 (+2).Cartography has reached level 11.

Cartography? Huh – oh. He glanced up at the sound of the door opening to find Vivian Ross escorting four people into the room. Aiden and Teagan he recognized immediately, happy to see their class growth, but the two new people he recognized only from faces seen in passing at the guild hall.

Mage – Gnome – level 4.Priest – Dwarf – level 3.

By their extremely low levels and the copper rings he saw on their fingers, he assumed they had just recently earned their classes and they were part of Ali’s new crop of adventurer recruits for the guild.

“Hi Calen, I want you to meet Brena and Belmar,” Vivian introduced them. “I have selected them as provisional team leaders for two new groups, and I wanted to start them early on strategic thinking and planning – even if the fights are substantially more advanced than they will be facing, it will do them good to begin honing their thinking.”

“Hi,” he said, nodding in greeting. “I’m Calen.”

“You’re a Pathfinder?” Brena asked, staring at his cloak with the distinctive sigil of the Pathfinders Guild.

“I am, but I’m also a member of this guild. I’m part of Aliandra’s group, who I assume you’ve both met?”

They both nodded.

“Good to meet you,” Belmar said, dumping himself heavily onto a chair in the casual manner of most dwarves he had met.

“It’s probably a good thing they’re here,” Calen said, turning back to Vivian. “Did Ali mention the two new bosses she made in the sewer?”

“Yes, she did,” Vivian said, seating herself at the table, much to Calen’s surprise. He hadn’t expected that the Guildmaster would sit in on his discussion group. “What are we discussing today?”

“I wanted to break down a fight we just had. A monster called the Flame Broodmother – a fire-affinity spider with a Web Explosion skill that immobilizes the entire group, a swarm-summoning ability, and a breath weapon that melts stone. I was hoping we could brainstorm ideas to make the fight more efficient in the future because the dungeon will respawn it every time we go down.” He shared the results of his Explorer skill identifying the boss.

“You want us to help you with a fight?” Brena asked, wearing an incredulous expression.

“Active participation makes for better brainstorming,” Aiden answered, parroting one of the Guildmaster’s mantras. The obvious eagerness of the mayor’s son anticipating the discussion went a long way toward easing Calen’s anxiety.

Calen leaned forward. “Ok, here’s what I’ve learned about the boss and what it can do…”

Mato strolled through town, idly watching the weeds reacting to his aura as headed to Thuli’s Steelworks to pick up Ali’s order of plate armor for her Hobgoblins. Becoming something of an expert on heavy armor – at least for their group – he inspected the craftsmanship carefully, but if there were any mistakes in Thuli’s work it was well beyond his abilities to detect them.

After paying Thuli and thanking him for all the hard work he’d put in, he left on the rather strange quest his father had given him. He had crashed brunch at his parents’ place instead of visiting the guild with the others, and it had been at the family dining table that he had asked his father about new recipes for his cooking skill. But instead of sharing, his dad had told him to seek out a certain ‘Tabitha the Crone’ who lived in the slum district, and sample her cooking. According to him, it was a rite of passage of sorts for the Bahr family men, but knowing his father, and judging by the smirk on his mother’s face, he was almost certainly being set up for an elaborate prank. The only reason he was going at all was that his father’s pranks always yielded something of truth or value.

The streets grew progressively narrower and dingier, eventually becoming more like alleyways – strewn with trash and dotted with potholes. Yeah well, I’ve been practically living in a sewer recently, he told himself, stepping around an unfeasibly large heap of manure. Huh, maybe I should work with Ali on soil improvement skills to enhance her domain growth?

