“You saw the reaction to your robes,” Lydia answered. “The entire noble court is going to be bashing down my doors to get their hands on this. For many of them, the minimum level requirement of twenty is going to be exceptionally upsetting, but the exclusivity will just drive the price higher. Trust me, I won’t run out of money any time soon.” Then she leaned in a little closer, pretending to straighten the robe Ali wore, and whispered, “The book is more than enough payment for these.”

“Thank you,” Ali answered. She loved the robes because of the stats and enchantments, but she hadn’t expected them to be so beautiful.

“Is there any way to ensure that the web you sell to Mr. Thriftpenny gets to Hilda? It would be sad if someone else bought it all,” Lydia asked.

“I don’t know, but we could go ask him.”

“If I may, Aliandra?” Mieriel interjected. “You could use the guild’s quest service.”

“How does that work?” Lydia asked, and suddenly Ali was curious too. She had wondered how she might use it to collect more varieties of spiders and had wanted to talk to the Guildmaster about that today.

“A collection quest is a type of quest we’re authorized to offer. You set your price and pay a small fee to the guild, and we put the quest on that board. If any adventurer collects the item, we pay them your fee, and deliver the item to you,” Mieriel explained. “It’s a way to buy something when you don’t know who will get it for you. The guild shop is a way for adventurers to sell stuff when they don’t know who to sell it to. In your case, because Aliandra is sourcing the web and you’re buying, the quest system allows you to effectively buy it directly from her without upsetting Hadrik Goldbeard.”

“Will I be taking business away from Mr. Thriftpenny?” Lydia asked.

“He handles the item or reagent collection quests for us, so he gets paid for each one.”

“Oh, good. Can I put in the quest with you now?”

“Of course,” Mieriel said. “Will this timely information push me up the queue for your next piece?”

“It might,” Lydia said, a shrewd businesslike look coming over her in an instant. “You wouldn’t perhaps be going to Bastian Asterford’s party this weekend, would you?”

“I have an invitation, but I wasn’t planning on going,” Mieriel admitted. “Would you like me to spread the word?”

“No, I was thinking I’d make you a piece with my mana signature and you just show up and make light conversation for an hour or so. Why don’t you stop by the shop later and we can talk about what style would best suit you? I have a few ideas.”

“Perfect,” Mieriel said, a genuine smile gracing her lips.

Ali got the distinct impression of two predators discussing a hunt, and their prey had absolutely no chance of avoiding the descending talons.

After they were done, she placed her own quest titled ‘Spider Hunter’ – a simple collection quest for spiders she didn’t already have, inspired by Seth’s gift of Tunnel Weavers, with bonus bounties paid for interesting perception skills or even mana affinities.

I hope this goes well, she thought, watching as Mieriel pinned her quest to the board near Lydia’s one for collecting the Flame Webbing and Monstrous Silk.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
