As he strolled through the slums, he drew a rag-tag group of dirty children and stray dogs that followed along behind him, always hovering between fifteen to twenty feet away – just far enough that they could bolt if he got upset, but close enough to dip into his Sanctuary aura. This kind of thing had become more common lately – likely the kids had injuries or illnesses that they could not afford to have healed, and he was pretty much a walking regeneration potion that was always on.

He slowed down and took the time to check his advances from the battle in the mines, but mostly to allow them the time to fully heal. He was not in a particular hurry.

Druidic Shapeshifter has reached level 47 (+3).+30 attribute points.

The moment they had defeated the Broodmother, ten of his points had immediately gone into vitality. And it was a good thing too – he had needed it during the Landing fiasco with the Living Flame. For the rest, he split them five each to endurance, strength, perception, and wisdom.

Swipe has reached level 30.Brutal Restoration has reached level 32 (+2).Bear Form has reached level 29.Bestial Combat has reached level 27.Natural Prowess has reached level 20.Survival Instinct has reached level 21.Battle Trance has reached level 13.Last Stand has reached level 3 (+2).Herb Gathering has reached level 3 (+2).

It had been a great fight for him. The Flame Broodmother’s hasted attacks had pushed him to the limit, earning him skill growth in most of his defensive skills, and when it had enraged, he had required Survival Instinct to guide him as he used Last Stand to give him time to outlast the web.

And then again, when he got tossed into the Landing. He scowled at that memory, but hastily wiped the irritated expression from his face as several of the urchins startled, clearly primed to flee if his mood changed.

Finally, after getting lost twice, and having to ask one of the urchins for directions, he found the dilapidated wooden hut situated in a surprisingly open plot of unkempt land. Weeds sprouted everywhere, some as tall as himself, and the path to the half-rotted door, barely hanging onto its hinges, was a simple rut in the dirt, free of growth only because of the passage of the owner’s feet. The urchins and even the stray dogs vanished as soon as he entered the property, but he didn’t pay them too much heed, walking up to the door and knocking carefully. It wouldn’t do to break her door down because he forgot his strength.

“Go away!” the raspy thin voice echoed from somewhere inside, followed by a bout of chronic-sounding coughing.

He knocked again.

“I have no money, don’t bother robbing me.” There was more coughing followed by something that sounded awfully like choking before the voice called out again. “Piss off.”

Polite, he thought. “I’m not here to rob you. I’m here to talk to Ms. Tabitha.” He decided to drop the crone title because it sounded very much like an insult.

There was some stomping inside and then the door creaked open just a little and an eye peered out. “Oooh, nobody has called me Ms. Tabitha in a hundred years! Most folks call me ‘The Crone’, or ‘The Hag’ and throw rotten vegetables at me.” The door opened a little more, revealing an old woman clad in ragged homespun clothing, hunched over a walking stick that seemed to be nothing more than a branch hacked down to approximately the right length.

Laborer – Human – level 17.

He doubted this woman had lived more than a hundred years.

“Who be you, young man? You look handsome – have you come to ravish me?” She sounded surprisingly eager about the last suggestion before breaking into cackling that soon became another bout of hacking coughs.

“I was told to come try your cooking,” he said, a little nonplussed by her attitude.

“Excellent,” she replied, rubbing her hands together and a gleeful expression lit up her wrinkled face. “Come in. Come in.” She stepped away inviting him to enter the dark and messy home. “I just so happen to have a stew on the fire.”

He entered the room and followed her to what passed as a kitchen – little more than a firepit in the dirt floor with a cauldron bubbling on top. The aroma that wafted from the stew was… well, he wasn’t sure what it was, but it did not smell like any food he had ever had.

“Here you go,” she said, dunking a ladle into the pot. She pulled out a dripping helping of the steaming stew and offered it to him. “Eat up.” And then she fixed him with an expectant gaze as if waiting for something to happen.

I’m going to turn into a frog for sure. He hesitated, uncertain of the smell, or what he was getting himself in for, but his father wouldn’t have recommended anything dangerous. Well, maybe a little. He lifted the ladle and took a generous mouthful.

His mind literally froze as the taste overwhelmed his senses. It was by far the most disgusting thing he had ever tasted, more disgusting than he could imagine. It made his toenails feel like they would curl up and fall off. He manfully summoned his willpower and choked it down, clamping his teeth and throat shut against the powerful urge to hurl. His stomach turned into several painful knots as it violently clenched, trying desperately to rid itself of the violation he had just subjected it to.

“Delicious, isn’t it?” Tabitha said, cackling gleefully.

“It’s absolutely vile,” he croaked, which only set her off into gales of laughter and knee-slapping, punctuated by hacking coughs, but he still had enough presence of mind to notice the coughing seemed a touch less extreme and not quite as debilitating.

You have become Well-fed.+4 to Vitality.Duration: 6 hours.

Oh, wow, he thought, still unable to speak comfortably. That’s what he meant! Mato choked down the last bit. When his body had calmed down a little, he asked, “How did you get it to buff my vitality?”

“Aah, there’s a secret,” Tabitha gasped, still out of breath from her fit of laughter. She paused, looking at him expectantly, but Mato just raised an eyebrow. “Ach, fiddlesticks,” she said. “You’re the only person who’s been interested in ages. Here, this is my key ingredient.” She produced half a mushroom and waved it in his face like a kid displaying their favorite mudball.

“That’s…” Mato gasped, staring at the golden mushroom. The glow had faded a lot, but there was no mistaking where it had come from. As to how Tabitha had gotten her grubby fingers on it was anyone’s guess.

“Aah, you see it, don’t you!” she cackled, and then her voice dropped to a conspiratorial whisper as she glanced about furtively, as if there could be hidden ears in her tiny hovel. “The secret ingredient is dungeon-grown food!”

“But…” Mato said. He had cooked with Ali’s mushrooms before, and eaten her dungeon-grown fruit, and nothing like the ‘Well-fed’ buff had happened. “There has to be more to it than just that.”

“Oh, there’s a little trick to the preparation,” Tabitha said, tapping the side of her nose knowingly.

“Can you teach me?” Mato asked. “I can pay you for your time.”

“Of course, I can teach you, you seem to be good for my cough,” she cackled again, “But there’s not enough of this left,” she said, staring at the mushroom piece mournfully. “You would need to bring me some more dungeon-grown ingredients.”

“How about these?” Mato asked, summoning several large apples. He liked to keep them on hand for snacks, especially for Ali, given that she often forgot meals.

“Ooh!” Tabitha crooned, caressing one of the apples in a way Mato frankly would have preferred not to see. “How about apple pie?” Without even waiting for his answer, she moved about the tiny kitchen and began to explain her recipe and how she cooked it. As he listened to her words, he realized she must be one of the typical poor people – handed a weak or inappropriate class by chance, and then eking out a living by developing a general skill far beyond what was normal.

She was an incredibly knowledgeable and skilled cook, held back more by a lack of appropriate ingredients or decent cooking utensils.

What could you have done with a proper chef class?

He had just one burning question though. “Does it have to taste so foul?”

“Of course not,” she answered, grinning like a lunatic. “But where would the fun be in that?”

Several hours passed surprisingly quickly as he came to realize that he would need to visit the old lady Tabitha more often if he wanted to truly explore the possibilities of his cooking. And the apple pie tasted heavenly.

Cooking has reached level 12 (+4).

“You know, you could make a good living selling this outside of the Adventurers Guild,” he said after tasting it. “This one, not the first one. You could even buy dungeon monster meat or these apples from the guild to explore some of the more potent recipes you were telling me about.”

“Tch. I do not have the money for a cooking cart, and with these old bones and my cough, I wouldn’t make the walk. I’m so slow, even a sloth could mug me.” She brandished her stick at him for emphasis.

“Well, I think I can help you with both of those issues,” Mato said, earning a look of surprise from her for his trouble. “Here. This is for teaching me four levels of Cooking, and sharing your recipes,” he said, handing her a gold coin. It was probably way more than she would have even asked for, but if she was to set up a small business, she would need a little more to get started. At least her eyes grew satisfyingly wide and round at the sight of gold.

Then he said goodbye, leaving via the rickety front door, and picked a spot in her yard. Vitality Rejuvenation should do it, he thought, and planted himself among the weeds, shifting into his Tree Form.

“Well, there’s a nifty trick,” Tabitha said, hobbling out of her hovel and smacking his trunk a few times with her stick. “Put your back into it, young ‘un.”

As soon as his transformation completed, his aura bloomed outward, filling her entire yard and beyond into the slums – and the sense of her injuries and the blight that had infected her lungs for what seemed like decades began to slowly erode under the influence of his magic. If he had a mouth, he would have smiled as he felt first one, then another, and then a slow but steady trickle of people emerging from the surrounding shacks to sit for a while in the aura of his magic.

I think I’ll stay here for a while.

Ali entered the guild hall to discover Lydia sitting on one of the couches as if waiting for someone.

She zipped across the hall to meet her. “Hi Lydia, what brings you over to the guild?”

“I had some business with Mr. Thriftpenny, but I also have something for you,” she said. Her expression seemed calm, but there was an undercurrent of suppressed excitement in her voice and a bit of a twinkle in her eyes. On a hunch, Ali identified her.

Tailor – Human – level 64.

She leveled up! Lydia still had dark smudges under her eyes, but she seemed much happier than she had been in a while, and the two levels she had gained spoke to a very important breakthrough.

“Here, this is for you,” Lydia said, retrieving a flat box from her storage enchantment and handing it to her.

“For me?” Ali asked, eyeing the fancy flat white box tied shut with an elegant burgundy ribbon.

“Of course. Go ahead, open it,” Lydia smiled.

Carefully, Ali untied the ribbon and lifted the lid of the box. Instantly, her eyes were drawn to the fabric of what looked like a carefully folded robe. It seemed to be made from a fine white silk, but it shimmered with a life of its own. Deep red patterns played out through the material like dancing live flames. Echoing the mesmerizing visual effect, fire-affinity mana rippled and waved through the robe. It was undoubtedly the most beautiful garment she had ever seen.

“What… is this?” Ali asked breathlessly as she carefully lifted it out of the box.

“Fire Silk,” Lydia answered with a beaming smile. “It was a bit of a breakthrough for me. When you showed up with all that web, I had Hilda spin it into this cloth, and it really likes fire enchantments. It was so easy to craft that I was able to learn how to do a double enchant in only a few hours. Take a look.”

Elegant Robes of Fire Resistance – level 50Elegant robes crafted of the finest Fire Silk. The fabric shimmers with the dancing of red flame seemingly trapped within the weave. Resistance: 720+25% to resistance against Fire damage.+35 to VitalityRequirements: Intelligence 175Created by Lydia Avery.Body – Fire Silk

Ali’s jaw dropped when she identified the robe. Not only did it have the most resistance she had ever seen on a single item, but the twenty-five percent resistance to fire damage would be absolutely insane combined with the resistance from her new hairpin. The unexpected extra vitality would definitely come in very handy down in the fires, especially after what she had seen of the Landing itself. The fabric felt delightfully silky on her skin as she briefly ducked into a side room to put it on.

“Oh, my!” Mieriel exclaimed and came rushing over to see. “That is stunning!”

Ali spent the next few minutes doing turns and letting various people touch the robe as half the room wanted to know where it came from and how they could get one too. After they finally calmed down a little, Lydia produced five more flat boxes.

“Here, I made five of these,” Lydia handed her the entire stack. “These are all level twenty, which is the lowest I could get this fabric to go, cut to fit your Kobolds. The resistance percentage is lower because the item is lower level, but I hope this still works for you. I still can’t control the attribute for the second enchantment yet, so I’m sorry if some of them seem a bit random. I got lucky with your piece.”

“That’s perfect, Lydia, thank you so much!” She was honestly ecstatic; the extra enchantment was an entirely unexpected bonus, and anything was perfect. She pulled the robes out of the boxes one at a time and deconstructed them to the sound of an odd, strangled gasp coming from Mieriel, but she didn’t miss Lydia’s class leveling up again as she finished.

Variant completed, but the imprint is full. Make space or select a new chapter.

She chose her last remaining open chapter and committed the variant to her Grimoire.

Variant: Elegant Robes of Fire Resistance added to Imprint: Armor.

“How much do I owe you?” she asked.

“Nothing,” Lydia answered firmly.

“But you need to make a living,” Ali objected. She wasn’t just going to take such incredible craftsmanship without Lydia getting anything in return. “I’m not stealing the bread out of your mouth.”

