The serpent roared, its somewhat acidic spit dripping off the side of the barrier as it was eating away at it.

Oops.

I intentionally stroked the flames, of course. If there was a chance I could get my hands on its core, I was going to take it.

Peng Long was its match, so it should be fine… Not to mention the other elders.

And its kin didn’t really seem keen on wanting to help it. In fact, they’d run as far away as they could or slither, most likely. Swam? Well, they were Sea Serpents.

Anyway, the thing was not chasing after us, which was exactly what I wanted it to do. However, if Peng Long decided that fighting it was not worth it, then I wasn’t sure what else I could do besides baiting the serpent even more.

It was truly a shame that I didn’t have any skills I could use to weaken it or bait it.

And… no titles either.

Was I really that poorly equipped to deal with Spirit Beasts three realms above me? How shameful…

But I did have one thing that could help in an eventual battle.

Something really hungry and hard to control.

But Peng Long was here, so the chance of anything truly bad happening was low.

I doubted the sword could resist his cultivation.

Assessing the situation once again, it was pretty obvious that we couldn’t run forever. The other aircraft was still behind us, as safe as ever.

Peng Long was a smart man; he knew that as well. Therefore, I could only hope that he would stop and try to fight off the thing.

If he did, I could throw the sword at it.

It did seem like it really liked using lightning and water, and well, it was an elemental sword, and a very hungry one at that.

I didn’t do anything for five minutes, just observing the situation. Seeing that we were rapidly losing momentum, though, I took advantage of that and flared my bloodline once again.

The serpent let out a crazy screech and sped forward, this time going in front of the aircraft and opening its maw wide.

It was just about big enough to swallow us. Nice.

Seeing that, Peng Long abruptly stopped the aircraft, making everyone weaker and/or dumber fly toward the front of the ship.

I thought I saw someone piss their pants as well.

I watched as the serpent sprang toward us, its ugly, disgusting, and slimy mouth approaching us at a very rapid pace.

Thankfully, the barrier protected us, but by now the thing was in a frenzy. It threw almost all caution to the wind as it attacked again and again, its fangs not leaving a dent on the barrier.

That was mostly because Peng Long was supplementing it with his Qi, though.

If he wasn’t, then the barrier would have shattered a long time ago.

Now that the thing was in front of us, though, he clearly had no choice but to stop running and fight it.

Not that the serpent was really giving us a choice.

It really wanted the boat, and most likely me; well, it was definitely me. I was quite a catch.

Peng Long let out a quiet sigh and walked toward the front of the aircraft, a fair distance away from me. I was watching the sea serpent angrily maw at the barrier, which was now showing signs of falling.

The other elders from the Reaper Sect immediately took charge and stabilised it, but it required four people to do what a single man could.

That was simply amazing.

I didn’t know if he could see my expression, but I was quite a little giddy. Seeing such a large and impressive creature try to attack the aircraft was a little exciting. Something else that stood out to me was that the ocean was now empty.

All of the other sea serpents fled. That told me that this guy’s behaviour was incredibly abnormal.

Squinting, I tried to see past its outer shell, in a way. There was no way it would act like this, even if it really wanted me.

If they were tribal Spirit Beasts, then at the very least its elder should accompany it.

Interesting. I was of a mind to open a connection with it, and that was when I remembered that I had an identification skill.

Focusing, I used it on the Sea Serpent.

[Sea Serpent Gu Rao Lu, Lvl 59]

Thanks, as useful as ever… There had to be a way to rank up his thing…

Anyway, since it was level fifty-nine, was it possibly wanting to devour me so it could level up?

But that didn’t make any sense either! I was missing something; I had to have been. The mystery of why this guy wanted me kept getting more and more twisted.

But if it didn’t want to kill me for levels, which would probably not give him any, then maybe there was something on the Spirit Beast side of things?

Maybe it’s core? I did get a lot of benefits from absorbing cores, and I do want to absorb its core. Maybe it wants to as well?

But still, it should have detected that I was weak… What else did it sense?

My dantian was sealed off rather well, but with the system and everything else going on in this world, maybe it could detect the Little Emperor?

Or maybe… Mother?

It wanted to eat Mother?!

Anger rushed through my veins as I glared at the thing. You dare?

The thing was clearly intelligent; a level fifty-nine beast wouldn’t make it this far without sentience. It knew what it was doing; it knew Mother couldn’t defend herself.

What a fucking asshole!

My bloodline flared in anger as I made eye contact with its large, stupid-lookingeyeballs. They almost turned red from irritation.

I could almost laugh. It was really lucky it was almost doubling my level; otherwise, I would have jumped out of the aircraft and eaten its guts alive.

Peng Long stared at me, my temporary anger probably tipping him off that something was wrong. He didn’t say anything, but I was expecting some sort of earful once this was over.

But it could have been a coincidence as well. Either way, he couldn’t do anything to me, not with what he had anyway.

He let out a deep huff and pressed his palms together, then wove a series of hand signs as Qi gathered around his fingers.

A symbol formed in front of him, surrounded by trigrams. At the end, when the technique was successfully cast, he pushed his index and thumb fingers into a triangle, then sent the symbol forward.

It phased through the aircraft like it wasn’t even there and landed on the creature’s forehead.

In that moment, dozens of golden chains shot out of the sea, wrapping around the sea serpent and keeping it restrained.

The chains moved around its neck, or rather, body, since it had no limbs to speak of. Most of them were focused on the upper part of its body, and they were so tight that they perfectly kept the sea serpent still.

That was a pretty impressive restraining technique, honestly.

However, what interested me was what he would do next.

After the chains bound the sea serpent completely, Peng Long unleashed another series of hand gestures, creating a myriad of symbols that all came together at the end into a giant beam of light, which then shot out of the air and into the sky, turning dark and murky.

Once the color shifting was finalised, the ball became a giant soldier with armor donning its entire body and a scythe in each hand.

All of that happened in the time it takes for a spark to fly off a piece of flint, and before the sea serpent could react, the giant swung its weapons of its own upon it.

Unfortunately, they didn’t quite do the job. In fact, it didn’t seem like the sea serpent was hurt at all, which was rather impressive. I could feel the power behind that strike, and it was definitely filled with the strength of a Golden Core expert.

Still, Peng Long wasn’t done, and the giant hadn’t dispersed.

However, when the second strike came down, a barrier materialised around the sea serpent, protecting it. Strike after strike, and the creature remained unharmed, despite not being able to move.

It hissed and thrashed around, trying to break free. The chains remained resilient, although I couldn’t feel the Qi leaving Peng Long’s body anymore.

Something else was feeding them. That was very interesting. Such a powerful restraining technique…

Even though the serpent was leashed, that didn’t mean it gave up, though. Its maw opened wide, and a giant… greenish-blue ball of water manifested around its mouth, shooting it directly at the aircraft.

The ship shook violently, and the barrier cracked in many places. It was truly a powerful attack. However, the ship's ability to withstand all of this was even more impressive. I could scarcely believe that such a small thing was so powerful.

That was no doubt thanks to the many elders feeding it with their Qi; if it had relied solely on Spirit Stones, we would have been long since dead.

The other ship was also rapidly catching up to us, which was good, since they could assist.

Meanwhile, the serpent kept shooting off the same attack over and over again.

It was working, as the barrier was rapidly running out of Qi.

“Everyone, gather and offer your aid to fight this damned beast!” Peng Long shouted, and even the most scared of the cultivators came forward and offered their aid.

In contrast, I walked backward and sent some of my Qi inside. I didn’t want to give too much, since one could never know when an opportunity arrived.

With that done, the barrier began rapidly healing itself, and the beasts’ attacks became useless.

However, that wouldn’t last for long, and Peng Long knew that.

Yet, a crazy idea flashed through my mind. Without hesitation, I secretly flared my bloodline just as Peng Long was beginning another attack.

The angered beast let out a shrill screech, using a lot of energy to twist and turn, to thrash around, causing the entire ocean to ripple, and the chains began to shake.

They couldn’t hold on anymore!

I flared my bloodline again, just enough not to be suspicious.

The sea serpent’s eyes turned red, and its maw opened again, and at the same time as it did that, massive lightning clouds gathered above the ship.

It was not going to play around anymore… which worked out in my favor, honestly.

But one thing I wasn’t expecting was for it to start shooting lightning bolts out of its mouth. That was certainly a way to attack, and it seemed way more effective as well.

The ship didn’t shake anymore, but the carrier took far more damage than before.

Peng Long’s brows furrowed, and he hastened the speed of his sign weaving, sending out more Qi toward the annoying avatar outside.

Its scythes began to glow with an eerie light, and when it attacked the sea serpent again, the barrier melted like butter before it broke.

The scythe kept going, slashing the sea serpent’s face.

Signature Qi from the Reaper Sect had now entered its bloodstream, and unlike the one Peng Li used, the patriarch’s techniques were properly refined.

Stronger, more powerful, more precise, and definitely more potent.

I could feel the disgusting energy radiating off of the scythes and from the wound, and the serpent, well… He wasn’t having a great time.

It was far angrier than before

If such a wound were to be left unattended, it would die at some point or another.

Even now, it was actively pushing to remove the foreign Qi from its body; however, who was going to let it?

The scythe came down again, and I could tell that the serpent was already preparing another defensive skill.

However…

I flared my bloodline once again, and despite how smart and strong it was, it couldn’t help itself and thrashed again. The chains holding it began to break one by one as its scales turned to silver, Qi basically seeping out of its body in liquid form.

The golden chains began breaking one by one, snapping with loud bangs that made my ears bleed.

Finally, the last chain was destroyed, and just as Peng Long’s scythe came down, the serpent… Smashed its head against the aircraft!