ption, just a request bar. But once he asked for a type of weapon and input any amount of WP then after some time, one of his weapons would evolve or splinter off into a new weapon type.He once spent a year waiting on 'Spoon' after he blew over 9000 WP on it. The result was something he couldn't use without great cause.Spoon of Absolute Tasting: This weapon form comes in the form of a golden spoon. Its ability allows it to bypass all defenses to take a spoon scoop out of the foe once. No defense in this world can block it. The wound will never heal. Once used, this spoon requires 100 battles to pass before it can be used again.Gamma had gotten more than a few unique tools out of this feature.Skill research was something Gamma didn't bother with since his time with... 'her'. It allowed Gamma to bestow his wielder with some instant masteries or neat tricks.A training montage with no cool music.All wielders have increased strength.You can sense what weapons would best suit a new wielder.All your forms come in golden copies.Gamma didn't like looking at this menu. It would only cost him 40 points to get an upgrade but he didn't trust wielders now.Only Gamma could look after Gamma.Suddenly Gamma shivered and he turned in a direction."Gam-?" Esma asked and Gamma shushed her."Don't say my name aloud. Call me Sword for now," he said oddly as he felt pieces of old selves flowing back to him."Sword, what's wrong?" Esma asked with concern.Gamma was too busy looking at another screen.Given Forms:

What on earth?What was that weirdo doing now with his sloppy seconds?Japes... Japes...An image of a coyly smiling man with a shadowed face, as he took Gamma from the 'prison' to the bank of Verluan, was vivid in his mind.That Fairplay guy?It had been years since he thought of that guy. A hundred given forms for his freedom had been the sweetest deal Gamma had ever made.That prison was the worst thing he had ever known. It... drained his WP and 'she' kept Gamma in a glass box that prevented anything from touching him.A prison where he couldn't sleep and he was in the darkness nearly every day until she came to visit him. He pleaded for his freedom but she was sure that it had to be that way. Gamma could cause too many 'unworthy' people to come into power.'She' wouldn't let her kingdom, her children, be threatened by such a thing. Gamma was pretty sure he also went a little crazy in that box and it still affected him to this day.She was a good reason why he never ever allowed a Silence member to wield him since that day.She ruined the whole group for Gamma."I just got some old pieces back, but one of them..."Gamma stared at the bottom of the list of loaned weapons.344: Delta: Piece unrecoverable. It will now produce Gamma RaysThat was a horrible joke.It was so bad it soaked into Gamma's soul----"Gemma! You're so radiant today you must be a gem!""I am going to hang myself now.""No, wait, come back! You're coal! Dirt!"---"Uh, sword... you just turned into a ruler. Are you okay?" Esma asked slowly. Gamma took a slow intake of breath"Esma, I'm going to unlock 10% of my power for you so we can find your dog's killer today-""He killed my parents, but carry on,""-and you're going to do me a solid and head that way!" Gamma gestured with a nudge of his blade to the west."What's 10% of your power?" the girl asked as she picked the sword up. Gamma focused and his form shifted to a massive broadsword made of a swirling silver liquid adorned with emeralds that flowed over the girl's body, making similar armour which exploded with two massive wings of metal that seemed to move on their own."Valkyrie Armor mode: Light magic unlocked. Divine aura unlocked. Pine-scented air fresheners added!" Gamma roared."You can give me wings?! Why did you make me walk everywhere?" Esma yelled as the wings began to lift them into the air."I like seeing humans struggle for my amusement," Gamma added with a shrug to his tone.It also stopped the more crazy people wielding him from not wanting to let go. It was almost like Gamma acted like an unlikeable piece of crap to stop people getting close...Nah, he just enjoyed annoying people."I don't even know where to go," Esma said as they cleared the treetops."Magic light spell: SENSE EVIL!" Gamma commanded and his sword glowed with light.A few dozen miles in every direction revealed two swamp hags, a shadow stalker, three teens doing some heavy vaping action, some neighbour woman in charge of handing out fines for unkempt lawns or misaligned garbage cans... and aha! One vampire!No, wait. Two vampires!"How fast do these things go? Should we stick to the roads?" Esma asked as the sword turned them like a compass. Gamma mentally flicked down a visor."Hunny, where we are going? We don't need roads," he said as the wings flapped once, causing a minor boom of air and they were gone.
