The next incision led to a sort of shake, like her ex husband when he drank too much. It was weird, and gross, and a bit vulgar also. When the bald man stopped shaking, she knew he’d never move again.

The king grabbed the corpse and left, as did the other masked ones. Only the gray-haired one was left.

“I am Thirteen. You need help? Yes?”

“I…”

Did Lotta need help? She did, but she didn’t want to hold them back…

“The boy. We shouldn’t leave him.”

Maybe, just maybe, it should have been her instead. She was old. He had… he had his life in front of him.

“Hey. Stop. Come. I carry him. We go to the bunker.”

Lotta nodded.

She absolutely hated being part of history, sometimes. She very much preferred to be left alone.

“I need a drink.”

“Me too,” Thirteen said. “Me too.”

***

The dragon was here to avenge Judgment. He knew a human had killed him. The problem was that there were a lot of humans here. More than he even knew existed. And they were fighting each other. He was still smart enough to realize there were two sides.

In the distance, he saw that insufferable spiky bitch She-Who-Rides-The-Storm’s-Darkest-Clouds attack the ones that were closer to the forest. A white youngling did so, too, so the dragon decided he would do so as well. They were also here to avenge Judgment. He dove, then he hesitated.

There were just… so many of the squirming bipeds. Where should he even begin? He didn’t have enough fire for all of those either… After a moment of hesitation, he went for a group in better garments than the others. In his experience, they were usually important.

Hey!

She-Who-Rides-The-Storm’s-Darkest-Clouds‘ mind assaulted his, as spiky and infuriating as ever.

You brainless winged worm!

He ignored her.

Come with us! We need to explain how to fight!

What was there to explain? He was dragon. He knew how to fight already. The humans had committed the unforgivable, thus they would be punished. And severely! Below him, the colorful humans were screaming and pointing at him.

Foolish humans!

Tremble before Earth-Fire-Bleeding-from-a-Mountain-Flank!

He incinerated half of their numbers, but others fled and yet others managed to block his attack with shields. Spells roared overhead, forcing him to dodge as they were quite strong. There were, in fact, a lot of strong humans here. A LOT of them. For the first time, he hesitated. He made to accelerate. It never happened. A sharp pain seared his left wing. He roared, and fell.

There was a hole where his bone used to be. A human head-sized cut. He was shot? With a tool? He was shot with a tool! The pain was abominable. His grip on gray mana waned, not that it would have helped. He simply couldn’t beat them anymore.

With a crash, he landed on the ground to the clamor of nearby humans. A few of the more adventurous ones got a claw for their arrogance. He was dragon!

He was also scared and in pain. There were more humans moving than his mind could comprehend. It smelled terribly of blood and offal, and also of burnt things. The world around him was just moving too fast and it had too many smells and sounds and sights and he just couldn’t think.

You idiot!

Hold on!

Earth-Fire…. Was doing his best. He rose and fought against red-clad humans, and humans with ashen skin and curved blades that bit into his flanks. They charged him with suicidal rage and for each one he tore apart, two more jumped on him. Annoyed, he moved and rolled to get them off. He had to be looking silly. He was also feeling very stupid and very ashamed at the moment. And very confused. Who had even hit him? A human could do that? That felt… impossible. But then he saw one cut a spell apart.

Those were, he realized, the best of the best humans.

Above him, two of them flew low enough that he could perceive their mana. The black one was riding a dragon — the horror— and the attacks they threw at one another could kill him in heartbeats. Oh. That was… bad. Bad for him. Yes. He fought harder out of embarrassment more than desperation. The line between the two human herds was barely a hundred steps away at his back so maybe he could go to the humans who would not be hostile. There were… really a lot of them. And they were killing each other without pause.

In the distance, horsemen gathered with those long spears that pierced scales.

The possibility of death hung like a specter of his wings.

It was very uncomfortable.

Just as he prepared himself to attack, a hole in the fabric of space opened on the side. What came out looked like a beast, maybe a turtle, but skeletal and made entirely of some sort of steel. A long tube turned towards the attacking knights who scattered but not fast enough. A spear of liquid heat rushed at them, catching a few in a hissy conflagration. It was so intense he had to close his eyes for a breath. Other humans in steel skins rushed out, hundreds of them in a torrent of metal. Of loud, black, sharp metal. He didn’t attack them yet.

“For the Empire!”

“They have sinned!”

“Protect the Dragon!”

“Kill them all! Raaaah!

The newcomers charged into the messy pile of his torturers like a claw through meat. A lot of humans died, more than he’d ever killed, in moments. It was all fury and all carnage and it just never stopped, and now his head hurt. Earth-Fire didn’t touch any of the new humans, despite his pain and annoyance, because he’d really liked the ‘protect the dragon’ part of their speech. Another steel monster came out, spitting fire that wasn’t even magical.

“Mighty dragon! This way!” A mage said.

A powerful human with a scar and really nice silverite clothes yelled after the others. He felt very strong.

“Don’t get too far! We’re just here to delouse him. Liberators, use all you got. Linebreakers, if you don’t come back here this instant! Lord dragon, make your way through. Quickly, If you please.”

The hostile horse riders regrouped. Other knights in black armor with blue flowers on it smashed into them from the side that was not the portal. Earth-Fire watched this, very confused, but he also knew he didn’t want to stay and that tear in space was looking very inviting. He was just… struggling a little. But he went through anyway.

“Target extracted. Pull back, pull back. NOW!”

The steel machines and the sword humans fell back, then the window closed. They were now in the middle of an open ground far from the fight. It was much cooler and quieter here, but they were also on top of a very large spell thing that made his brain tingle. Also, the humans had molded the land around him so that nothing, not the flat space for tents, not the walls to block things from view, not even the paths leading elsewhere felt natural. It was all human-made, human-shaped, and human-dominated, and there were, as expected, a lot of humans around.

“This way, mighty dragon,” one of the lesser mages said while the steel beasts and shell-covered humans made their way to a larger tent.

Earth-Fire just decided to go with the flow because at this point, those humans were really polite but also unafraid and also somehow very subservient and very confident he would actually comply, and it was just so very weird he couldn’t or didn’t really want to resist. Also they were going to a place that had fewer humans. And also it smelled very nice suddenly. There were a few more tents away, a few fires, and men and women in robes waving him in. They smelled of human gods. And they looked happy and excited.

In his brain, there was only confusion.

Huh?

“Our apologies, Lord Dragon. We will start the surgery right away. Oh, Sardnanal, hear my prayer!”

“Efestar, show this defender your favor!”

Human divine magic numbed the pain. Meanwhile, young humans rolled something tantalizing his way. They practically shoved it in his mouth. Fish. Skewered together. And something thick on it.

It was the best thing he’d ever eaten. He grabbed for more.

“Regain your strength, my, uh.”

“He’s male,” another one said.

“Milord! There is more coming. You, bring him something to drink!”

Huh?

Someone brought him a barrel of fresh water. His wing was still hurt but the wound was visibly closing. The water was very clean and very refreshing. It was also very quiet here. Someone wiped his claws clean.

“That’s the work of the One Breath. She’s dangerous, milord. Where is that fish?”

“On the way!”

Huh?

A few moments later, She-Who-Rides-The-Storm’s-Darkest-Clouds landed next to him. She snagged a piece of fish from his barrel. It was very annoying.

Idiot!

Numbskull!

How could you get hurt in less than twenty breaths?

I can’t believe I let you sire some of our spawn, you beastling-brained poultry.

When you’re recovered, join my flight.

The griffin riders are on the run after that last engagement. The skies are ours for good!

I am this close to roasting the mages in the seventh circle but I need more sustained damage and someone who can hold a shield.

Hurry!

And then she was gone.

“We’re almost done, milord. We beg for your patience. More sauce, perhaps?”

The pain had completely gone. He was almost healed, something that would have taken weeks and might have very well killed him by making hunting so difficult. Someone had brought more of that delicious fish. A gaggle of humans waited, their eyes filled with calm devotion.

Huh?

***

“We need to focus on the Harrakans instead,” Crest explained.

The Helockian war mage didn’t agree right away, but he didn’t send him off either so Crest had his attention. It was nice working with Academy-trained mages again. Shadowlanders tended to be a bit too prideful sometimes.

“The witch gathered powerful allies but her vision is also her weak point. We are united as one, but only the Harrakans are truly hers. If we focus our efforts on them until they’re destroyed, the rest of the army will lose cohesion, not to mention she will be worried and distracted.”

He didn’t need to mention the effect it would also have on her leadership skills and the general reputation the Harrakans had developed. He didn’t believe the other Paramese when they’d told stories because they were not a warlike people, or at least not as much as the Shadowlanders. That idea had been disproven the day before after they whipped everything the Maranorians had thrown at them with frustrating ease. If they wanted to crack the witch’s aura of invulnerability and split her allies, the Maranorians only had one thing to do.

“Very well, but the other flanks will be unsupported.”

What choice was there? Crest thought his decision was the right one. Now he only had to convince the Hopecrusher to lead their most elite formations against the enemy. Something told him it wouldn’t be too hard.

***

“They are changing strategy,” Sahin said.

The merls were safe, for now. He hadn’t been told (which was a problem), but in a typical display of yries dickery, they’d given their obsolete catapults and spare fire wasp hives to the merls. For fun. It was true that bad artillery was better than no artillery at all, and now the Sheem were on fire and had probably developed a phobia for creatures with more than four limbs. The problem was that there had been no follow up attacks, even before they’d rallied. Where were the Maranorians pushing next?

“What? Speak up, boy. And why are the guns slowing down?”

Ah yes. The cannons. It was an important question. Sahin immediately turned his ‘radio’ to Lak-Tak’s frequency.

“You are slowing down. What’s happening?”

“Overheating,” the yries replied, voice clicking with an annoyance even Sahin could perceive.

“You mean they’re too hot to keep firing?”

“Yes. Tubes glowing. Cooling enchantments at capacity. Not designed for more than three hundred shells an hour. Shell supply: adequate. Tube status: overloaded. Inevitable bottleneck.”

“Can’t you cool them down with water and magic?”

“We are. That is why we keep firing. But more slowly.”

“Alright. Well, do your best.”

Harrak’s strategist returned his attention to the battlefield. The flow of artillery spells was getting redirected to Harrak, a foolish idea because they had so many shields.

Or was it?

“I think they want to crush us.”

“You’re only figuring it out now?” Jaratalassi grumbled. “They’re going for the anchoring unit. You’d better warn your people.”

“And what are we to do, oh my old teacher?”

It was a rhetorical question. They were both too experienced not to know.

“I’ll handle the punishment,” Jaratalassi said. “You keep your people alive.”

“Understood.”

“Shield breach!” One of the vestals said, her hand smashed against her ear piece. She placed a red flag on one of the regiments of heavies. “Sir, shield breach. Children of the scales formation.”

Sahin’s mind flashed. Panic rose in his chest, replaced by manic energy.

He was the fucking best and his new people were going to live. His fingers danced on the communicator.

“Arrays sixteen and eighteen, move forward to interlock. Keep those lanes cleared. The liberators will move forward and engage. Witch pact, fire at will.”

“Sir?”

A few of the operators exchanged confused looks.

“You heard me. We’re going on the offensive.”

***

“Shield break!”

The remnant of the artillery spell landed on the back of the heavies’ line. Young men and women in mail armor died a fiery death while the mage hastily opened the array’s back compartment for a spare core. He had fucked up. He should have changed it before but… he was supposed to wait for a lull in the bombardment and there had been none.

