Frosthawk would have his head on a fucking platter for this. And he deserved it. With quick gestures, he unlocked the exhausted core — it barely had enough reserves to maintain cohesion. He just tossed the eighty gold talents item to the side with shaky fingers to get the new one in faster. His mind slowed while he worked, taking in details with shocking clarity. In front of him, the others fought tooth and nail to keep the enemy infantry at bay. Another cart of corpses hurried past, a necessity to keep the line clear. It fucking stank.

The enemy mages had smelled blood in the water. More spells were arcing overhead, colorful comets that would kill him when they landed. The core lock mechanism was too hot. He burnt his fingertips on them.

“Come on, come on.”

One of the Tide Weaver’s apprentices rushed to him, blue robes scuffed.

“I got it.”

She cooled the mechanism with a spell. He wasn’t going to be done on time. The first of the spells was coming down. More of the kids were going to die under his watch. They were fighting and yelling and covering each other and not looking up. They couldn’t run. Nah, they’d live. It was his time to shine.

“When this is done,” he told the blue mage. “Just push the core in and the array will restart by itself.”

“Hey, where are you going? HEY!”

The mage pulled black mana from his core. He mixed it with the much more delicate colorless mana. It was a spell he’d only attempted a couple of times before, more as a bet than anything else, but now the sigils flowed into his mind and out of his fingers like it was fate. With absolute certainty, he was going to intercept those spells and with absolute certainty, just as he walked forward to get into the best position, the fragments were going to kill him. But he would stop the worst of it. It was a spell used by the empress herself. She’d said it was named after a rock-cleaving sword.

“Durandal.”

The spell took off beautifully. Whistles from crossbow bolts added a nice touch to the hiss of the falling death. Lots of bolts, suddenly. Red light from the liberators let him see another spell descending with perfect clarity. He cast again.

The first interceptor impacted the attack with a terrifying blast. Thank all the light gods he’d stopped it. He cast a third time. It would have to be enough. The heat of the first exploded spell grew closer, and he wouldn’t have time to dodge. But he’d done it.

The shield began to deploy. The blue mage had done as he asked. It wouldn’t do so soon enough to save him, but that was fine.

A white flash appeared before his eyes. Scales like snow. Then it was gone, and so were most of the remnants of the artillery spells. Above him, shields moved, covering each other. A blue spell blocked the very last piece of explosive mana.

He was saved.

“I… I’m alive.”

The blue mage slapped him hard enough to make him fall. He tasted blood but, somehow, he couldn’t be mad.

“What do we always say about last stands?” she asked him, voice threatening further violence.

He huffed.

“We don’t do them.”

“That’s right. Next time, help me replace the shield and then you can play hero while I shield you. Now hurry. We’re moving.”

“We are?”

It was true. The heavies were moving forward. In the distance, the red-scarfs of the Mountain Sons crashed into a unit of Ashlanders in thick bone armor. Liberators striated the smoky air with ribbons of fiery death. Drums roared, and someone had started singing. Even the witch pacts were leaving their ramparts, carrying barrels of bolts as they went. They were attacking? Now?

“Well, what are you waiting for?”

“I’m going. I’m going.”

His mind returned to the flash of white scales that had saved him. It was definitely Arthur, the heiress. He looked up. The two familiar figures were missing.

Where was the empress?
