A ringing crash jolted Gen to attention, the exchange over in a single pass as Viper Pang flew back, rolling across the tiled road. At the edge of the bridge, Gao Qiu stumbled and leaned on his axe, a small trickle of blood dribbling down his cheek. Howling with laughter, Viper Pang leaped to his feet, stalking towards the older bandit. “Fucking fool is what ye are, long past yer prime. Ye feel it, don’t ye? Just a scratch is all I needs and ye’ll be begging me to end yer misery. Come now, ask nicely and I might cut yer throat nice and clean, on account of all ye done fer the boss.” Pacing just out of reach, the slender killer basked in his success, gloating over his defeated foe. “No harm telling ye either, but that there ain’t no normal poison either. A genuine Wraith stands before you, which means ye won’t be healing from that little scratch.”

Gen watched with bated breath, waiting for the sweet moment when Gao Qiu crumbled. A damn shame, the Spirits loved the old man, circling around him and lending him strength, but their voices seemed unable to reach him. No matter, even if they did, it was too little too late. The old bastard insulted Gen, insulted Viper Pang, and worst of all, insulted Yo Ling. He wanted the old man to suffer for hours, screaming for death the entire time. Let these worthless Corsairs see the error of their ways, crumbling before the might of Gen's comrades.

Sweat dripping down his brow, Gao Qiu’s face reddened as he grit his teeth. Tottering in place, he seemed ready to keel over, taking deep breaths as he fought the pain. Eyes defiant to the end, he raised his head and laughed to the heavens, three, distinct sounds striking Gen like a hammer to the head. Echoing inside his skull, the sound tore his eardrums apart, shaking him to the core. Staggering back, the world spun as the Red Devil of Sanshu leapt towards the helpless Viper Pang, cleaving him from shoulder to sternum.

Without a pause, the Red Devil charged, eyes wild with blood lust as he cut through armour like butter, his mouth opened in muted laughter as the Spirits filled him with strength. Falling to his knees, Gen recoiled in horror when the berserk bandit turned towards him, the blood-covered axe raised to strike. Raising his hand, he threw a gout a flame only for Gao Qiu to stride through untouched, an inhuman grin stretched across his face as his axe fell.

A Devil cloaked in human flesh, how was Gen to win?

The world shifted and Gen found himself lost amid the crowd of Butchers, deafened and panicked as they fought to escape the Red Devil of Sanshu. Her pink arms wrapped around him, Bei held him close to her bosom for a single second before the world shifted again. Free of the crowd, he stood and shivered some distance from the bridge, suckling his wife’s fingers as he watched the carnage unfold. A single Gao Qiu routed their lines, such incredible power and blood thirst. It made no sense, Gao Qiu was so close to Enlightenment, yet wholly rejected it, and still the Spirits were unwilling to forsake him, helping the blind fool to victory. Was there no way to force him into the light?

The ringing in his ears died down and a moment later, his hearing returned, healed by his wife’s ministrations. Patting her fondly on the cheek, he tilted his head and asked, “Were you the one guarding me from the shadows?” A nod. “Good wife. Bring me to Yo Ling.” Dutifully obeying his orders, Bei wrapped her arms around him once more. How wonderful to have found the perfect wife, supporting him from the shadows as a proper woman should. With her at his side, it was only a matter of time before Gen grew strong enough to defeat the likes of Gao Qiu, but until then, Yo Ling would have to deal with his own problems.

Though he liked the old man, there was no way Gen would die for him.

Chapter Meme
