After sending his latest patient out the door, Baledagh leaned back to stretch, groaning as his bones cracked in sweet relief. Despite spending what felt like years in the dream world, he never noticed the absence of tiny details. The illusions satisfied all his major needs but left out minor things like the simple pleasure of stretching out a kink or voiding a full bladder. It was nice to have a real body again, even if only on loan. “Brother, you truly are a harsh taskmaster,” he thought, “Putting me to work only minutes after waking. We’ve been at this for hours and there’s still no end to them.”

“Sorry,” Brother replied, bowing in apology. “I seriously underestimated the number of infected. I thought it’d be like five percent.”

Baledagh scoffed in reply. “If it's less than fifty, then I'm a horse's ass. You’ve taken all these strays and vagabonds into your retinue, you’ll never be a respectable warrior at this rate.” Unable to resist, he teased, “You might as well embrace your fate and become a proper bandit lord. I don't see why not.”

“Please, if Mila doesn’t beat us to death, Akanai will.”

The next patient interrupted their pleasant banter, shoved into the room by two of Dastan’s retinue. Catching the unwilling civilian, he ignored the pleas and begging as he dragged the man towards the basin. “Stop struggling,” he snapped before rudely forcing the man’s head into the icy cold water. After counting to five, Baledagh opened his mouth wide, drawing out the Spectres and consuming them in one gulp. Once finished, he kept the weakly flailing man under water for another count of five before pulling him out. Gasping for breath, the man barely kept on his feet, his eyes rolling back into his head as Baledagh called for the guards to take him away.

From start to finish, the ‘ceremony’ took less than a minute, cleansing the tainted civilian of Spectres and leaving them weak and confused. That’s how the Spectres worked, handing out tiny morsels of power to tempt their victims. Then came the whispers, pushing their victims into more and more dangerous situations, whether it be to challenge a duellist, steal from their employers, sleep with a married woman, or whatnot, it became a gradual decline into depravity and sin. By lowering inhibitions and chipping away at morals, the Spectres moulded their now-reliant victims into a proper vessel, hoping to one day seize control and walk the earth once more. Such would have been Baledagh’s fate, if not for Brother and the Heavenly Water.

He refused to call it Blobby. Though not overly pious, he felt that if religious fanatics learned of Brother’s near-blasphemous moniker for the Tear of the Mother, they’d keel over in sheer rage.

“How are you feeling?” Brother asked. “There’s no need to rush, we’ve still got a long day ahead of us.”

“I’m great! I could do this for days without rest.” This was no exaggeration, Baledagh only wished they could work faster. Only the need for secrecy kept him from collecting all the Tainted and consuming every Spectre at once, keeping his affliction a secret. Distracting the infected by submerging them in cold water allowed him to work unnoticed, his patients attributing their sudden weakness and shortness of breath to the cold and lack of air. The water allowed Brother to claim it was all the work of his Blessing of Water, and if more intrusive and untrustworthy minds were to ask, he could reveal the existence of the Heavenly Water, but the fewer people who knew of it, the better.

While the Dastan’s oath-sworn retinue could be fully trusted, so long as Brother kept hold of the pendant, others couldn’t. The allure of Heavenly Water would be far too great, though neither Baledagh nor Brother were clear on what it could do, Demon devouring and Spectre purifying aside. Ignoring the former bandits for now, the unbound civilians were a major security risk, and Brother believed it best to treat them like fungus, ‘kept in the dark and fed bullshit’. They all believed the water was a ritual cleansing, though Baledagh's impatience turned it into more of dunk and run. The Tainted left a little confused and short of breath, but none the wiser to their plight.

Then again, it’s not like they had a proper explanation to give. Baledagh himself didn’t understand how he collected the Spectres, only that he could. It was as if there were a void within him, drawing in the Spectres against their will where they were immediately cleansed by the Heavenly Water. With their fouled taint scoured away, their purified remains became a sweet, revitalizing tonic for Baledagh, his mind sharpened and will fortified by every meal.

What a team they made, two halves of a whole and neither one able to do this without the other. Without Baledagh, Brother had no means to capture the Spectres, the Heavenly Water unwilling to venture out for mere scraps, while without Brother, Baledagh would quickly fall under the influence of the hordes of collected Spectres.

Brimming with energy, Baledagh jumped to his feet and threw out a series of punches, unable to sit still for excitement. Though lacking the Spectres’ guidance, he sensed an immeasurable number of techniques and skills flowing through his mind, fleeting wisps of knowledge dancing at the edge of memory. Like trying to hold onto a pleasant dream, the more he focused on each memory, the quicker it faded from consciousness, a bittersweet experience. Undeterred by the loss, he relied on his instincts to draw out his latent potential, engraving the movements into his body even as they escaped from memory.

A warm sense of bliss welled up from within, and Baledagh quickly noticed it wasn’t his own. Brother’s contented smile made him blush with embarrassment, realizing his actions were that of a child. “Don’t be shy,” Brother said, his love and amusement shining through. “It’s good to see you so lively and animated. Besides, you’re on to something. Even though you’re all over the place, I can see the Forms in your movements. You're getting stronger.”

Too bashful to retort, Baledagh stilled his body and waited for the next patient. It wasn’t only the purified energy causing him to act out. Having a purpose and being of use filled him with joy beyond compare, even if he received no recognition for his efforts. Who else could do what they did, cleansing the Father’s Taint from the Mother’s children? Taking pride in his efforts, he felt confident enough to ask the Mother for a favour when he met her, begging to be reincarnated close to his beloved Qing-Qing in the next life. Though uncertain of the chances, at least now, there was hope, however slim it might be.

The next victim- no, patient -arrived and Baledagh took her by the scruff of the neck, grinning at his good fortune. Perhaps with enough purified Spectres, he could continue to be of use to Brother, taking control in battle. “Don’t worry,” he said, ignoring the matronly woman’s protests. “This will be over in a minute.” Plunging her head into the basin, Baledagh sighed in contentment while counting down from five.

It felt nice to do good for once, making the world a better place one half-drowned person at a time.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

“Morning, my love.” Gentle fingers stroked Yuzhen’s cheek as she woke, seeing herself reflected in Gerel’s beautiful, amber eyes. Drawing him in for a kiss, he pulled back after a short while, leaving her hungry for more. “As much as I’d like to stay in,” he said, ignoring her heated glare, “There is work to be done. It appears the boy was up all night terrorizing unfortunate civilians.”

Pouting, Yuzhen huffed in displeasure, unwilling to leave the warm comfort of her bed. The manor was almost an hour's carriage ride away and she’d rather not make the long trip. “Why would he do that? He’s been pestering me all week for a solution to their woes, unwilling to execute them and be done with it. His heart is in the right place, but there’s no magical solution to all his troubles.”

Chuckling beneath his breath, Gerel slipped out of her grasp and dressed himself. “No need to convince me,” he Sent. “But the boy claims to not only sense the Defiled, but believes himself capable of cleansing their Taint. Says the Heavenly Tear showed him how.”

Her lethargy vanished as she bolted away, her emotions in turmoil. “Is it true?” She sent, wanting to believe. “Can he do as he claims?”

“I wouldn’t put it past him. Seems the boy’s beloved by the Mother, can’t do any wrong. The little miracle boy, ready to bring glory to the Bekhai, his insane and illogical actions leading to success through some twist of fate...”

Alternating between pouting and frowning, Gerel continued to grumble beneath his breath, cursing Rain’s ‘dog-shit luck’. “You’re jealous,” she exclaimed, covering her mouth in surprise. “How adorable. No wonder you get so agitated when I bring him up.” And with only six years of training? How strong will he be given another six? Between his resilience, regeneration, and Honed Aura, Rain’s future seemed limitless.

“I’m not jealous,” he snapped.

Sliding over, she wrapped her arms around his waist and pulled him close, rolling her eyes behind his back. “Not jealous at all. The boy’s a mere upstart, unworthy of challenging Lieutenant Colonel Gerel.” Despite being promoted two ranks, he’d been agitated of late, constantly brooding over his defeat at Yo Ling’s hands and unable to explain his overwhelming loss. To hear him tell it, the bandit lord somehow drained Gerel’s strength upon his approach, weighing his body down through some invisible pressure. To Yuzhen, it sounded like fear or anxiety, but she dared not voice her thoughts aloud. As strong and proud as Gerel was, his ego was surprisingly fragile, easily shattered with a single blow. Her poor, dainty hero, so brittle and delicate. No one enjoyed being upstaged by their juniors, whether it be in strength, beauty, or skill, but such was life, new waves overtaking the old.

Granted, Rain was more like a tsunami, sweeping away all before him in an unstoppable deluge of hard work, talent and luck.

Realizing the absurdity of his tantrum, Gerel chuckled beneath his breath. “Did I ever tell you how he learned to regenerate his arm?” Voice tinged with pride, he shook his head in disbelief. “He tackled it head on, ignoring all the pain and misery accompanying each failure. I'd stop for the day after failing twice, but not Rain. He’d fail six or seven times a day before being told to stop, and the boy would pout and insist he could continue. Don’t know if he’s mad or brilliant.”

“Either way, his claims can’t go ignored. Now, away with you, go hide in my carriage.” Pinching Gerel’s stomach, she pushed him away and called for her servants, her paramour melting into the shadows with his weapons before they arrived. No matter how many times she watched him disappear, it never ceased to amaze her.

Now if only he’d stop being so stingy and teach her how...

His mood much improved, Gerel made for good company during the carriage ride over. Upon reaching their destination, she stopped to readjust her hair and clothes, praying her driver hadn’t heard their muted gasps and stifled moans, but then again, the thrill of getting caught was half the fun. Stepping out, she distracted her guards with a few pointless tasks to let Gerel slip by unseen and unheard, a ghost in the wind.

As loathe as she was to resort to such things, Gerel would make for an excellent assassin, should she ever require one.

Entering the manor, she found the Bekhai readying to leave, their wagons packed with civilians, wounded, and supplies. It seems Falling Rain was determined to bring Dastan’s people away, no matter the consequences. The foolish, optimistic child, her heart ached for him, but if he was to be the Bekhai representative to the world at large, he’d have to grow a thicker skin if he hoped to survive. Finding a tired Mila to guide her, Yuzhen arrived just in time to see a sopping wet civilian stumble out the room, supported by a pair of slaves. Knocking as she entered, she found her red-faced lover lecturing Rain. “If you’ve no stomach for it, then leave with the others first. I’ll handle your dirty work, little princeling.”

Sneering, Rain’s hand rested on his sword, staring at Gerel in open defiance. “I won’t let you touch a single one.” There was no bashful smile or shy glance for her today, only a slight nod to acknowledge her presence. Standing tall, he seemed like a naked blade, ready to rend and tear at the slightest provocation.

Before the situation could spiral out of control, Yuzhen stepped in to take control. “Enough. Come now, you’re both on the same side. Gerel, act your age and stop provoking him. Rain, you must know how absurd your claims are. You’ve already tried this before, and it didn’t work. Why go through this again?”

Confusion flashed across Rain’s face, but only for an instant. Transforming before her eyes, Rain’s body language shifted so quickly she could hardly believe it, his tension and anger melting away into nothingness. How intriguing, to show such mastery over his emotions at such a young age, was there nothing this young man couldn’t do? “The difference is,” he said, his voice calm and steady, “This time, I’m certain. I can guarantee that everyone who leaves with me is not Defiled.”

Sighing, Yuzhen resisted the urge to smack him upside the head. The Mother save her from stubborn idiots. “It doesn’t matter what you believe, what matters is if you can prove it.”

“What if I can convince him?”

“Me?” Gerel smirked as Rain pointed him out. “And how do you intend to do that?”

“By cleansing you of the Father’s influence.”

And just like that, the situation spiralled out of control.

Trembling with rage, Gerel stood with jaw clenched and eyes wide open, his sword resting against Rain’s throat. “You dare? I am not Defiled!”

The younger warrior stretched his hands to either side, far from his weapons to appear nonthreatening. Relaxed and unworried, Rain ignored the threat and spoke calmly even as a trail of blood dribbled down his neck, making no move to defend himself. “Calm down Gerel. You’re not Defiled, but through no fault of your own, you’ve attracted the Spectres attentions. They’re what I call the intangible servants of the Father, and I see them swarming around you, whispering sweet lies to guide you down His path. It’s of no real consequence most of the time. You ignore them, too strong and stubborn to succumb to their manipulations, but they are patient, wearing away at you like termites gnawing on a redwood, breaking you down bit by bit.”

“Liar,” Gerel growled, his face twisted in bestial rage. “I should kill you right now for even insinuating it. Do you know who I am? Do you know what your accusation means for the Bekhai? You ungrateful slave, we should have left you to die where we found you.”

“Gerel,” Yuzhen said, moving to stand beside Rain. “Put the sword down. Please.”

A grave mistake. “So you’re taking his side are you?” His piercing glare sent a cold shiver down her spine, wholly empty of love or affection. “I should’ve expected as much from a faithless wh-”

“Whoa now,” Rain interrupted, drawing Gerel’s ire away. “Let’s not say anything we can’t take back. Focus on my voice Gerel. I know you’re not Defiled. If you were, I wouldn't be able to help you. You can display Purity, I’ve seen you do it, but it isn’t black and white, Defiled or not. Dastan could also display Purity, but he suffered under the Spectres influence, causing a good man to make bad decisions. Just like you, right here, right now. What will killing me prove?”

Shivering from head to toe, Gerel’s cheek twitched erratically, his chest heaving in pants as he struggled for control. “Won’t prove anything but it’ll make me smile, you arrogant little shit.”

“And to think, we used to be such good friends.” Rain’s sarcasm wasn’t helping things, but Yuzhen was too afraid to speak again, the trickle of blood flowing down his neck now a stream, soaking through his robes. “Just dip your head in the water for ten seconds and if you’re not convinced, I’ll let you kill me. How’s that sound?”

Reason and anger warred across Gerel’s face, and after a handful of seconds, anger won out. “I don’t need you to ‘let me kill you’ and I don’t need convincing. I know who I am. While you were still sucking milk from your mother’s teats, I was fighting the Defiled. I’ve -”

Using his distraction, Yuzhen pulled Rain back and intercepted Gerel’s sword with her body. The tip stopped a bare millimetre from her chest, his eyes filled with rage and betrayal. “Please, my love,” she begged, “Calm yourself.”

Her words were more effective than she’d expected, his eyes widening in surprise and... joy? “You mean it?” He blurted, lowering his sword. “You’ve never said you lov-”

With the thrill of battle surging in her veins, Yuzhen couldn’t stop herself in time. An Amplified right hook took him across the jaw as she knocked her lover senseless. Mentally apologizing, she kicked his sword away and snapped, “Grab the water! Do what you must! He won’t be dazed for long.”

Holding Gerel down while Rain bustled about, she focused all of her attention on her foolish lover. Seeing so much anger and vitriol directed at her, it tore her apart from inside, unable to bear the pain of his scorn. She prayed Rain was right and it wasn’t his fault, else she’d never forgive herself for betraying him like this.

After emptying the basin over Gerel, Rain clapped his hands and said, “Done.”

“That’s it?” Despair welled up within her chest as she cursed herself for a fool. A little water to wash away the Father? If only it were so easy.

With a shuddering gasp, Gerel came to, his mouth bloody and eyes unfocused. “Wha- What?” Gone was all his rage and fury, replaced by confusion and... fear? “You- You- You-”

“Yea, me, me, me.” Rain mocked. “Convinced?”

“...Yes. There was so much rage, it felt wrong, but... I can't explain. I could feel them urging me to take your life, demanding it... Were they the reason Yo Ling defeated me so easily?” Weak as a day old kitten, Gerel struggled to sit up. Lifting him into her embrace, Yuzhen held him close, unable to tear her eyes away. Taking her hand, he kissed her fingers and Sent, “Do what you must my love. I won’t fight your decision, but please, spare the boy and my people. The fault lies with me, and Rain is too valuable to risk, you must see this.” Out loud, he asked “How?”

“Told you. Spectres, whispers, yadda yadda.” Washing his hands in the basin, Rain clicked his tongue in annoyance. “Tch. I liked this robe too, one of the few I found that fits. Now it’s all bloody.” Still reeling with disbelief, Yuzhen and Gerel listened as Rain calmly explained how he believed the ‘Spectres’ worked and his ability to cleanse them away with the help of ‘Blobby’.

Carefully going over his explanation, Yuzhen narrowed her eyes in realization. “A thorough and detailed analysis. So detailed, one would think you’ve been Tainted yourself.”

Multi-talented though he might be, Rain wasn’t able to hide his emotions, stiffening in fear before shaking his head in surrender. “Okay. You got me. I heard their whispers and have tasted their power. If not for Blobby, I might have succumbed and become Defiled myself.”

Oh Mother above, he admitted it so readily, Yuzhen wanted to smack him upside the head. Why did he trust her so much? Swallowing her fear, she glanced between Rain and Gerel, but her decision was made long ago. She would keep their secret, no matter the cost. If word spread of this, regardless of Rain’s talents and abilities, it could bring an end to the Bekhai. Change never came quickly to the Empire, and no matter how miraculous he appeared, if word got out that Falling Rain was almost Defiled, that’s all they would remember. “Never repeat that out loud again.” Already her mind worked to spin this to her advantage. “Delay your departure. I’ll need you for two or three days.”

“Er... I was hoping to keep this under wraps. In fact, you advised me not to tell people about Blobby.”

“Yes,” she replied, her confidence growing by the second, “but I need you to look over a few people and tell me if they’re compromised. If necessary, I'll have them drugged so you can... cleanse them without being exposed.” This was madness, but Sanshu was too important. This would be the base of her power, and she couldn’t have it needlessly Purged. “We’ll go over your story with a fine-tooth comb and figure out which parts to keep and what to omit. If it ever comes to the light of day, we can’t leave any room for doubt, understood?”

Obediently nodding even though he didn’t, Rain set out to follow her instructions, leaving her alone with Gerel. Seeing the unasked question in his eyes, she kissed him gently and sighed. “Yes you fool. I meant it.”

His beautiful smile made all the coming hardships worthwhile.

Chapter Meme
