We continued on, the trail steadily getting stronger. Night was several hours from setting in, but when I scanned ahead with another {Pulse Sense}, I knew we had found our prey.

“Stop. Six humans,” I warned Grick and Lily. We all hunkered down in the thickets. Attacking at night would be preferable, and I had to verify that these were indeed bandits. Otherwise, we wouldn’t get credit towards the quest for killing them, and just might get us in trouble with Rin.

Either way, I didn't want to kill humans who were innocent, unless it were an emergency food situation. It's not that I necessarily valued human lives over monsters, or had qualms about killing them. It’s just that there were better food options. Either way, I'd have to be careful to never kill a human who was part of the empire, or a merchant who Rin wouldn't be happy about me killing...

Well, okay, maybe humans needed to just be off the menu in total. It would cause too many problems with my new allies if I made a mistake.

Anyway!

“Stay,” I told Lily and Grick, then prowled forward carefully, activating {Veil of Shadows} to further hide myself amongst the thickets.

As I slipped forward, my body melted into the dim underbrush, shadows clinging to my fur like a second coat.

Each step was slow as I crept up to the edge of a small clearing and lowered myself behind a fallen log, just enough to peer over.

Five of them.

Rough clothes. Patchwork armor. Mismatched weapons—one carried a chipped sword, another a woodcutter’s axe, and one a bow with only half a quiver left. Definitely not imperial soldiers.

So… Bandits.

Good.

Two of them were sitting around a stack of wood as one tried to light a fire, growling with frustration. Another was sharpening a dagger against a whetstone with slow, grating strokes. The other two stood watch… poorly. One leaned against a tree, half-asleep, while the other scanned the forest with all the awareness of a Mossgrazer.

Then my eyes narrowed.

Near the base of a tree, half-hidden in shadow—

There was the sixth person I hadn’t noticed at first. My hackles raised in anger, and I had to consciously stop myself from growling as I realized what I was seeing.

It was a girl, dirty and dressed down to rags, with a burlap sack pulled over her head. They had her tied to a tree with her hands behind her back, and her body was covered in bruises. The way she slumped against her bindings spoke of being worn and defeated, as if she was kept like this for a long time.

I used {Analyze} on each of them in turn.

Human – Level 16

Human – Level 14

Human – Level 13

Human – Level 16

Human – Level 15

Human – Level 3

I was level 16, so I could easily defeat any of them one-on-one, I was sure. However, Lily was only level 13, and Grick level 10, and we were outnumbered.

I realized we couldn’t just go for it; we’d have to be strategic and wait for nightfall. I just hoped nothing else terrible happened to that girl in the meantime that would force me to act faster.
