Though he did have some thoughts about the God of Death and Time, Erick wasn’t about to become his champion. If Phagar offered, Erick would not accept.

“So you’ve had offers.” Xelxex looked into her tea. “Atunir, for sure. Others?”

Erick eloquently uttered, “Uh...”

Xelxex said, “Monthly [Withering]s are acceptable. We will defend our vulnerable behind [Weather Ward]s— It is still blocked by [Weather Ward]s, yes?”

“Yes.” Erick could answer that question with confidence. “Tested and proven.”

“Let’s leave this discussion on a good note, then.” Helix said, “Thank you for your hospitality, Archmage. Feel free to call upon me whenever. I will be in touch with Silverite in the following days.”

Xelxex said, “I—”

Helix blipped away in white light.

Xelxex said, “Good riddance.” She turned to Erick. “Kal’Duresh will be in touch. Good day, Archmage.”

The purple glow faded from Zago’s eye. Her hand went to her forehead as she sucked in a breath through her teeth. She said, “Never pleasant, that.”

Silverite frowned at her. “I cannot believe you allowed yourself to be used by her like this.”

Zago said, “You never would have gotten them in the same room together without explosions. It was better this way, even if this action makes it look like Spur has been already infiltrated by Kal’Duresh interests.”

Silverite eyed her, “Are you sure it hasn’t been?”

“I know where I live, Silverite.” Zago said, “I stopped those riots. I slapped wrists. I am repentant.” She turned to Erick. “I’m sorry for how you were treated when you arrived here.”

Erick glared at both of them. “Some heads up for this sort of thing would have been nice.”

Silverite paused. Zago looked at Erick.

Poi stepped in to the room, saying, “Killzone decided to do it this way.”

Zago frowned.

Silverite laughed, saying, “I told Killzone to get Poi to coach you!”

“That explains a lot.” Erick sat down. He called out, “You made nice coffee, Teressa!”

Teressa grunted down the hall, out of sight. Zago began refilling coffee cups. Erick breathed out. A weight seemed to lift from Erick’s shoulders; he relaxed, the Silver Star on his chest once again a gentle, unassuming weight.

Silverite said, “You did well for someone with no time to prepare. Accepting the rads from the monsters you kill was a nice touch.”

“Thanks.” Erick asked, “What’s the fallout of Odaali going to be, with regard to us?”

Zago asked, “What do you know of the Halls of the Dead and the Incani afterlife?”

“Nothing,” Erick said, picking his refilled coffee back up.

Zago began, “The Halls of the Dead is the Wasteland Incani organization responsible for fulfilling the will of our demonic dead, by—”

“Ehm-hmm.” Silverite frowned at Zago.

“Fine. You do it, then.”

Erick said, “Academically, please.”

“Of course.” Silverite said, “When incani die, they become demons and join their ancestors on the pink moon in the sky. That moon goes by many names, but I’ve always called it Hell. Now, on Hell, which is the last remaining remnant of the Fathomless Hells, the demons live, and can be summoned by incani down on Veird, usually by one of their living descendants. The Halls of the Dead are a terrorist organization responsible for carrying out the will of the demonic dead incani.

“Humans, on the other hand, when they die and if they’ve fulfilled the desires of their angelic ancestors, they can join the angels on the white moon, Celes, which is the last remnant of the Infinite Heavens.

“The rest of that discussion is about religion, so let’s avoid that for now, and talk about the facts that we all can agree on.

“Point is: Incani automatically become demons; they have no choice. Humans have a choice.

“Except when human souls are ripped from their bodies by necromancers. The Halls of the Dead kill humans and force those humans to become demons.” Silverite said, “Undead, Demons, and Angels are all the same category of being. In the case of the Halls of the Dead attacking the Greensoil Republic, they kill someone then capture that soul as it leaves, then, with the power of their demonic ancestors, twist that soul into a new form and body, in this case: undead monsters to throw at their enemy, who, upon dying for a second time, go on to become a demon.”

Erick sipped his coffee, pretending he was listening to a horror movie.

Silverite finished. “According to all the necromancers I’ve beheaded over the years, humans are very malleable. Most other sapient souls are not as malleable as the human soul. By contrast, incani souls are the most solid on Veird; they’re always destined to become demons when they die.”

Silverite was evidently done, because she stopped talking.

Erick asked, “So… this is all common knowledge?”

Zago said, “I wouldn’t have said some of the things Silverite said the way she said them… but yes. The Halls of the Dead kill humans as a part of the Quiet War, to bolster the ranks of the demons, in order to fight back against the many angels whose goals are to kill as many demons as possible, and empty Hell forever.” She added, “When humans go to war against incani they bring soul-scouring weapons, to kill both the person and their soul; to kill our selves and our links to our ancestors, for the only way to kill a demon is to kill them on Hell or as they leave their first body.”

All of that was mildly terrifying, but what Erick focused on the most was how Zago said ‘Hell’. She didn’t say the word with disdain, or with hatred, but with joy, or maybe longing.

Erick asked, “What is ‘Hell’ to you, Sirocco?”

Zago smiled. “To see my mother and my father as they were when I was a little girl. To live in peace, among the red leaves, on cinnabar shores, talking to archmages centuries gone about libraries long lost and magic that has vanished on Veird. To be able to rejoin Sizzi whenever she chooses to summon me back to this world, or if not, to watch over those who have no one to watch over them.”

Erick asked, “And the Halls of the Dead wish this paradise on their enemies?”

“Some do. Others are just concerned with the Forever War; about bulking up our forces to combat the angels on Celes who desire the complete eradication of all incani.”

Erick tried to take that all in.

Erick knew he was missing a lot of cultural information, but to be missing this much? Wow. This Quiet war —and now this Forever War— sounded incredibly complicated, with cultural nuances and hatreds and way too many forces moving back and forth.

But killing people was still bad.

He could agree with himself that the Halls of the Dead killing people was bad.

… How the fuck had he almost thought that killing people and warping their souls was okay?!

Erick said, “That’s enough culture for me, for today. When do you want to do the first cleaning, Silverite?”

She looked at him, her silver eyes and skin perfectly placid. She asked, “That’s all your questions?”

Erick tapped the Silver Star on his chest, and said to both of them, “I’m not going to be a part of this cultural [Force Trap], no offense.”

Zago smirked, “None taken.”

Silverite smiled.

- - - -

‘Ring ring, ring ring! Hey, Dad!’

It was well past sunset, hours into night. Erick was cleaning up from dinner, but paused when Jane’s voice came to him. ‘Hey, Jane.’ He put the lid over the leftovers and placed the pot into the cold box. ‘Did you hear about the stuff with the Halls of the Dead?’ He moved out of the kitchen, and went to the sun room, sending, ‘It’s been a very busy day.’

‘I heard you identified the Daydropper, too.’

‘This world is very complicated, and I feel like I am losing something about myself.’

‘Maybe you’re just finding out who you are.’

Erick thought about that for a moment. He sent, ‘Are the moons, Celes and Hell… are they hospitable? I’ve looked up at them many times, but they look like dead rock. I need to invent the telescope.’

‘The moons are hostile to organic life, but if you look at them through Meditation, you can see the trees and oceans.’

‘… I’m going to do that right now.’

‘I’ll wait.’

Erick walked over to his back door then stepped out into the night. Rats called out behind him to wait up. Erick didn’t wait. He stared up into the night sky. Celes, the Silver Star, and Hell, were almost full. They shone down white, grey, and pink light, but with Meditation active…

Hell was still pink, but he could see white that might have been oceans. Celes was still white, but there was green and gold in there, too. The Silver Star was still almost completely grey, but even it had blue waters here and there.

All three of them clearly had atmosphere, too.

Erick sent, ‘Wow. There is an afterlife.’

‘I’ve heard that whichever god you pick guides you to your afterlife, and they’re all different. If you pick none, Rozeta guides you into the Mana Ocean into a karmic cycle. Sort of. Still not clear on that, actually. Religion is complicated.’

‘I don’t know about all that, Jane. All I know is that there’s more than enough problems to solve here without bringing the dead back into the equation.’

‘You know, I thought about ‘solving’ this Quiet War, back when we first heard about it. Then I actually looked into this 1300 year old war. I learned a bit, then considered my place, and I still thought it might have been solvable. But now? With this new stuff happening in the Greensoil Republic… I know those thoughts as pure hubris. There’s more than enough problems to solve right here. I’m glad we got labeled ‘planar’.’

Erick stared out into the night sky. Rats appeared at the doorway, but did nothing but scan the horizon, looking for threats.

‘Dad? You went quiet.’

‘I’m just thinking. They want me to [Withering] Frontier, Kal’Duresh, and Spur, now. I’ve agreed to do it. Also? I told you about Kiri? Well she’s applying to the Army, too, and she’s going to be my secretary.’

‘… You’re gonna have to give me more information than that.’

Erick smiled. ‘Tell me about your day, first. Did you reach level 40, yet?’

‘42! We rescued some dragonkin party from the lower city after they failed to respond to telepathic check in.’ Jane began, ‘There I was, slipping down the kendrythist sides of Forward Base, into the darkness below. I went spider for the darkvision, you know, and the place just lights up like a themepark, or Las Vegas —I’ve told you, but— It’s really beautiful down there. Anyway. We entered the [Teleport] locked part of the mid city, no problem; Shades everywhere, but none to be seen. We slipped past the Lock, into the lower reaches, and bam! Primal Wolves right there on the bridges! Big fuckers the size of a minivan, and fast, too. But we managed to kill them and then it was time to search for clues. First we...’

Erick listened to Jane talk about her day, rescuing people from the Dead City, as he sat down at the table beside his garden; Handy Aura active. He needed 200,000 more Aurify experience to reach Aurify 3. He needed that level; sooner rather than later.

Jane was doing well in Ar’Kendrithyst, and Erick needed to catch up.

Erick smiled at the night. Making contacts with people in Frontier and Kal'Duresh seemed like a good extension of his plans to rid the world of Shades.

- - - -

Erick stood on the massive white stone steps of the Courthouse. The midday sun shone down overhead. Poi and Teressa stood near him, while Silverite and Mog and Killzone stood nearby. Darenka, the silverscale dragonkin head priest of the Interfaith Church, was present, alongside Zago.

It seemed that everyone wanted to see the spell. Erick would not disappoint.

[Domain of the Withering Slime].

This time, the slime did not come from on high. There was no rainstorm noise. White light flowed around Erick, gradually solidifying into the shape of a medium sized dimly opaque [Ward], all around him. As that was happening, from every direction across Spur like a near-invisible, completely intangible ocean surge, thick air spilled into the sky. The body of the Withering Slime manifested from the manasphere, like it had always been there and was just hiding.

Shadowolf notifications started rolling in.

A monster cow notification appeared.

“Whoops!” Erick said, “Monster cow. This good boy slime reaches rather far.”

“Good to know that the meat is monstrous, though the city will have to pay for that one.” Silverite smirked, saying, “We can prevent that from happening next time.”

Mog laughed, saying, “I bet someone is screaming over there, though.” She mocked, “Oh no, my cow! It’s beef jerky!”

Erick laughed.

Silverite’s eyes glowed silver as she said. “Continue until I say otherwise, Erick.”

Erick watched as a silver [Scry] eye drifted up into the sky.

Crystal mimic and sewer slime notifications came next.

Erick let the spell run for as long as his audience wanted. His audience mostly just watched. They watched him, watched the sky, watched the slime as it moved across buildings, up and down, into the sewers, everywhere it could reach.

Monsters died.

Five minutes later, Silverite said, “You can cut the spell, Erick. Killzone. Mog. Please escort Erick to Frontier, then to Kal’Duresh, then back home.”

Erick released the spell. The white orb flaked away again, just like it did the first time he used this spell, but everything else about it had been different. No noise. No entity reaching from the skies. No invitation granted.

Probably because the invitation had already been granted well before today.

- - - -

Erick had never been on the streets of Frontier. He had seen it from the sky, sure, but being on the ground in peace time was a much different experience than watching the city get overrun by a dark tide, while blooms of color tried to fight against the darkness.

Killzone had teleported both of them into the center of a large town square somewhere in the center of Frontier. The nice-enough looking square might have held tents and vendors at some point in time, but now it held people.

Humans!

Not a lot; maybe twenty humans, but Erick felt like he had forgotten what other humans looked like. There were brown people and white people and tan people. There was flowing cloth and tunics and armor and leather; stuff you’d wear around town, or to the job, or maybe to see something, or to be seen by others. Some had jewelry, others had fancy hair. There were a lot more hair colors than the black-blond-brown-red spectrum Erick was used to. That person had blue hair. That one had orange hair. That woman’s hair was bright, bright green.

Some of the people were looking at him, but most were looking at Killzone.

