Seeing Dastan and the others kneel before Rain, Song was overcome with jealousy. Though unfortunate enough to become slaves, these few dozen warriors and their families should count themselves blessed to enter service under the Bekhai. They would be treated well, given good food and soft beds, never to be abused or humiliated, yet they dared show dissatisfaction. The new slaves cried and scowled while Dastan even dared to look his new master in the eyes, head held high in trivial insubordination, challenging Rain to exert his power. Foolish boy, glaring from behind blackened, swollen eyes, his prideful defiance did little to help his cause. No longer was he a favoured son of the Empire, and if he wished to spare himself pain, then he would be smart to learn his new place in the world. Were it any other master in any other faction, his attitude would have earned him a swift beating or worse, an example made of this audacious slave to put the others in their place.

Instead of meting out punishment, Rain absently stared at his new slaves, lost in thought as his fingers closed around the pendant. After a long silence, Master stepped forward to thank the still-bowing administrator and send him on his way before turning to Rain. Speaking quietly, she patted his arm and asked, “Don’t you think they’ve knelt long enough?”

Snapping out of his fugue, Rain blinked and shook his head. “Right, sorry. Please, stand.”

“By your command, Master.” Dastan and his retinue replied in unison while the civilians murmured their thanks, too slowly for Song’s tastes. What’s more, their response lacked vigour and zeal, unbefitting of slaves answering to their master.

Luckily for them, Rain was a softhearted fool, taking no offence from their lacklustre attitude. “None of that ‘Master’ stuff, please. Call me ‘boss’ or ‘sir’ like everyone else and a simple ‘yes’ will do.”

“Yes, boss.”

“Mister Rustram, if you could find our new friends a meal and some beds, I’m sure it’ll be much appreciated. Someplace nice and er... secure, with a few people to make sure they can recuperate in peace.”

At least Rain was smart enough to not trust the unbound servants. Though Dastan and his retinue were Oath-sworn, their family and retainers lacked the ability to do the same. These unbound commoners represented a grave risk considering their affiliation with the Coalition. The story had spread through the city like wildfire, with every tongue whispering of how Major XiaoGong, the most feared duellist in all of Sanshu and leader of the Coalition’s mercenary army, had succumbed to torture and turned Demon in the early hours of the morning. The question on everyone’s lips was: how many others would follow suit in the days to come? Any one of these slaves might be Defiled, with no Oath to bind them.

Even in the unlikely event none were tainted, there was always the possibility someone might kill Rain out of sheer greed. Forty-seven trained elites were worth a small fortune, especially in light of Dastan’s abilities. Already able to display purity and condense his Aura at the age of twenty-two, Dastan stood at the forefront of his peers, a close match for any young elite in the north, aside from Rain and his perverse talents.

But only until Master condensed her Aura. Once she did, she would stand unchallenged as the greatest young warrior the North had ever known.

Adjusting her sling, Song trailed behind Master and Lady Mei Lin as they followed Rain in silence, worried how he would react. It was one of his few redeeming features, Rain’s distaste for slavery, but it was too late to help. These slaves were Oath-sworn and only death could free them. As he ambled across the field, Rain seemed lost in thought, dragging his feet and mumbling to himself like he so often did. Stopping to grab a basket of apples, he carried the fruits over to the quins, interrupting their peaceful nap in the sun. Met with quivering whiskers and squeaks of joy, the sleepy creatures crowded around Rain with their clawed hands grasping at the air, too well-trained to steal. With a forlorn smile, Rain handed the fruit out piece by piece, his mood improving as the quins lined up in an orderly fashion to stuff their cheeks.

Less well-behaved than the quins, Jimjam pressed his belly to the grass and gracefully stalked towards the basket. Extending a meaty paw, the wildcat tried to snatch an apple out of the basket only to be met with a stern “No,” from Rain. Unwilling to give up, Jimjam moved out of Rain’s field of view before trying again. “Bad cat,” Rain admonished, snapping his fingers in front of Jimjam’s face. Eyes widening in alarm, Jimjam leaped backwards and arched his back, teeth bared in protest. Ears pressed against his head, the wildcat huffed and mewled, frightened by Rain’s rebuke. Odd considering Jimjam usually cared nothing for Rain’s stern tone. Wincing with guilt, Rain clicked his tongue. “I guess my Aura was a tad too harsh. I’ll work on it.”

With an alarmed gasp, Master pinched Rain’s arm while Lady Mei Lin crooned and ran to the wildcat’s side. Wrapping her arms around his neck, she soothed the terrified animal’s nerves with a few pats while consoling him with a piece of jerky. “Don’t bully Jimjam! Using Aura is too much, look, the poor baby is quivering, ya?”

“I’m not bullying him,” Rain grumbled, still handing out apples to the waiting quins. “I just gave him a stern ‘no’, let him know I mean business. I’ll dial it back next time.”

His odd turn of phrase went ignored as Master pinched him again. “What next time? Terrorizing your pets is no way to train them.”

Rolling his eyes, Rain shook his head. “Oh please, he’s just a scaredy cat. It was a tiny bit of anger, nothing terrorizing about it. Like this.” Unleashing his Aura, Rain explained his actions. Though nothing physically changed about him, he radiated a sense of steely disapproval, like a strict disciplinarian or authority figure, making Song think twice about disobeying him. “See? It’s nothing.”

Song’s mind raced to comprehend Rain’s actions while Master gaped in disbelief. It wasn’t the most flattering of expressions, but she could hardly be blamed. What Rain demonstrated was beyond common comprehension, twisting his Aura to a new, previously unattainable use. Aura was Aura, used to terrorize your enemies, bolster your allies, and nothing more. There was no second, third, or fourth function of Aura, at least not until now. How could Rain have such precise control to convey anger without inducing the mind-numbing terror and bloodthirsty fury which went with it? Then again, if anyone could do it, it'd be Rain.

Wholly unaware of their incredulity, Rain put the basket aside and squatted down with arms wide open. “I’m sorry my floofy baby. Come here.” The change was immediate as Jimjam’s ears perked up, padding forward with Lady Mei Lin in tow to happily receive a vigorous head-scratching. “What are you stealing apples for, dummy? You’re a cat. You don’t eat fruit.”

Recovering from her shock, Master asked, “How? You... You...”

Grinning and winking, Rain interrupted Master’s stammering. “I know right? It’s super easy to get him to come with loving Aura. Like this.”

This time, Song felt nothing as Rain directed his Aura only at Master, whose cheeks turned scarlet with embarrassment as she continue to choke on her words. Seeing this, Lady Mei Lin exclaimed, “No fair! Me too, show me, show me.” Wrapping her arms around Rain’s neck, Lady Mei Lin giggled as she climbed onto his back. “Ahhhh, so comfy and nice. Show Li-Li!”

The moment Lady Mei Lin spoke, Song noticed a tender warmth suffuse her, like submerging into a heated bath or being wrapped in a cozy blanket, soft and safe, a calm shelter from the raging storm outside and allowing her to focus on what lay within. Her worries washed away beneath the gentle tide of safety and stability, her worldly troubles unable to reach her through the protective embrace. Her brow unfurrowed and her shoulders untensed, her chest unrestricted and unshackled as she breathed deep, luxuriating in this newfound sensation. For the first time in her life, she was happy to be alive and loved.

Then, without warning, the sensation disappeared, leaving her empty and desolate. Blinking twice, she refocused on the world around her to find Master and Rain staring in disappointment while Lady Mei Lin hid a smirk. “Not even the hint of a smile,” Master lamented. “She looks sadder than before. Are you sure you’re doing it right?” Rain shrugged as Master huffed in displeasure. “Teach me. How do you do it? Start with the basics please.”

Taking a moment to gather his thoughts, Rain seated himself in the grass and Lady Mei Lin plopped onto his lap. Taking a seat beside them, Master watched the wildcats, bears, and quins jostled for a place around them. Pets and people alike, they all looked so content and Song couldn’t help but wonder if what she experienced from Rain’s Aura was how they always felt, like they were worthy of love and affection. A tinge of envy surged through her, not because she desired Rain but because she wanted what he shared with Master and Lady Mei Lin.

“Song,” Master called, waving her over. “Come sit with me?”

Though posed as a question, Song knew her Oaths would not allow refusal. “Yes Mila,” she answered, taking a seat as Atir dropped her head into Song's lap. Master didn’t understand, she couldn’t. No matter how well she treated Song, in the end, Song was merely a slave, a tool to be used until the day she died. In some ways, Song might even be happier treated as a slave, to know her place in the world and never aspire for more. To be shown such love and affection was almost too much, tormented by life’s bounty which would forever be denied her.

Pulling Song into her embrace, Master held her tight and Sent, “I’LL LEARN RAIN’S TRICK AND THEN I'LL SHOW YOU HOW MUCH I LOVE YOU. JUST YOU WAIT.”

With Master’s arm wrapped around her, Song swallowed her grief and closed her eyes. Taking a calming breath, she leaned against Master and discovered a hint of the warmth and safety from earlier. Whether real or imagined she couldn’t say, but she wanted to believe, needed to believe it was real. Before today, Song cared nothing for love or affection, but now she thirsted for it, for its absence made her pain all the more noticeable. Drained by the experience and her injuries, Song drifted off to sleep, lamenting her loss while nestled in Mila’s embrace.

Showing Song love might have been the cruellest punishment of all, rekindling something she thought long dead within her: hope.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

My explanation begins with a disclaimer. “I’m not sure how to explain Aura. It’s complicated, and I've pretty much been winging it.”

“Just try,” Mila whispers, “but don’t speak too loudly. Song fell asleep.”

Falling asleep in public? She must really be exhausted. It’s hard to remember she’s just a young woman and not some indefatigable, factory-made engine of destruction. I thought she’d have some reaction to my ‘loving’ Aura, but she barely even twitched. Taking a slave’s Oath must have really done a number on her brain. Ever since swearing an Oath to keep quiet about the Purge, if I even think of talking about it, the Energy of the Heavens presses down on me, a warning to not overstep my boundaries. It’s a suffocating feeling, like doom hangs just above my head. I can’t even begin to imagine what it’s like for Li Song, to be reminded of her mortality every second of every day. Slavery is bad enough, but to not even be allowed to dream of freedom? I'd beg for death before becoming a slave.

Putting my sympathies aside, I wrack my brain for an explanation. “Well,” I begin, voicing my thoughts as I go, “Using my Aura normally is like... Taking all of my rage, fear, frustration, and smashing my enemies over the head with it. There’s no direction, only intent, tapping into the reservoir of repressed emotions and unleashing them upon the world. My emotions are amplified through Chi before bursting out, like a wave of power radiating outwards with me at the epicentre. Was I helpful?”

With her head resting on my shoulder, I can’t see Mila’s reaction, but she shakes her head. “Not even a little. How can you condense your Aura by thinking angry thoughts? If it were so easy, then I would’ve long since had my own, with you vexing me to no end.” Sighing, she grumbles, “An idiot who’s a natural at using Aura, it shouldn’t surprise me you can’t explain it. A shame there’s no cure for stupidity.” Snuggling against my arm, she adds,  “If you come up with any better advice, remember to share.”

So cold with her words and so loving with her actions, I can't get enough of it. “Will do, my love.” Grinning, I add, “It’s difficult to explain my brilliance using mere words, such is the burden of genius.” I can almost hear her eyes rolling as she snorts, elbowing me gently. My mirth dies away as I contemplate the real reason I’m so adept at using Aura: All Demons awaken with one. I told Gerel, Tursinai, Tenjin, and the Guard Leader about my Beyblade Aura, but so far, none of them can replicate it, so I can only assume it’s something unique to my circumstances. It’s about time my transmigration came in handy, even if it was a few years too late. It’s an awesome advantage, but exhausting to use. I mean, I shredded six Aura’s and emptied my Chi reserves. In comparison, used normally, I can power my Aura and hack and slash on the front lines for three or four hours. A useful tool, but one best used sparingly.

At least I don’t have to worry about duelling against Zian anymore. I doubt his Aura is powerful enough to withstand my own, even if he’s somehow become ridiculously good at duels. Who fights seven duels before a battle? Is he even human anymore? Fung couldn’t say how much stronger my ‘rival’ has become, since Zian was hiding his true strength, making each duel look like a close match to buy time. He’s got balls, but if he challenges me to a duel, I’m confident I’ll end it in a heartbeat using my Aura.

Then again, now that I’ve jinxed it, I’m worried he’ll miraculously resist my Aura and kill me.

How quickly courage fades.

Pushing aside my melancholic musings, I savour the moment, cuddling with Lin and Mila beneath the afternoon sun. A chorus of snoring quins, cats, and bears forms a soothing atmosphere, easing my mind as my troubles melt away, allowing me to enjoy the peace and serenity of this beautiful day, surrounded by my loved ones and pets. “If I could speak to animals, I’d tell them to never become Ancestral Beasts.”

Craning her head back, Lin’s bunny ears brush my cheek, her beautiful brown eyes wide and questioning at my random thought. “How come?”

“Because animals are better than people.” Running my fingers through Mafu's fur, the fat quin smacks his lips in contentment. “I drop a basket of apples in the middle of a pack of quins and every single one of them gets something to eat. Try the same with people and money? I’d be surprised if there wasn’t any bloodshed. Look at Sanshu, the wealthiest city in the northern province. They fought and killed to amass wealth, comfort, and luxury, exploiting commoners in the name of profit and caring nothing for their lives or well-being.” Sighing, I point at the happy animals, and settling in for a nap. “These guys are happy so long as they’re safe and well-fed. If they became human, it’d only make them worse. People are terrible.”

“Hubby, you’re not being fair. Everything these animals do is about survival.” Cuddling the bear cub sleeping in her arms, Lin sighs. “The quins share because they’re well-fed and lack ambition, but what if they were starving? In the wild, animals will eat their young if there isn’t enough food. If you locked yourself in a room with Aurie or Mafu, it wouldn’t take long before they try to eat you. It’d be no different if they were human.” Poking me on the cheek, she continues. “You’re so sweet and caring, and I love you for it, but you can’t be so naive Rainy. I’m worried you’ll be taken advantage of.”

Lin believes I’m too sweet and naive, how cute. Puffing her cheeks as I laugh, Lin shoots me an adorable glare. “No laughing, I’m serious. Like how you’re being all mopey about Dastan and his retinue, acting like it's some grave injustice. They committed a crime, Rainy. They betrayed the Empire, killed soldiers, and almost killed Fung too!”

Uh oh. I’ve never seen her so opinionated about something. I forgot she saw it all happen, it must have been traumatic for her. This is why I didn’t want her to come along, to keep her innocent for a little while longer, but I suppose she’s never been as innocent as I imagined. Saddened by the sudden revelation, I nod in agreement. “Yea, they committed a crime, but two wrongs don’t make a right. I wouldn’t wish slavery on my worst enemy. I’m not even sure Dastan really knew what he was doing. I don’t think he’s a bad person, just someone caught in the wrong place at the wrong time.”

“Maybe you’re right, but the rice is cooked.” Lin nods decisively, the morality of the subject completely ignored, a non-issue for her. “They’re slaves now, but at least they’re your slaves. You’ll treat them well hubby, I know you will.” Putting an end to the discussion, Lin nuzzles against my chest with a yawn and smile. “Besides, if you’re really so against them being slaves, then you can just kill them, ya?”

Oh Mother have mercy, protect me from this bloodthirsty little bunny. Making yet another note to never anger my sweet Lin, I kiss her on the forehead as she joins the others in an afternoon nap. I don’t think I’ll ever get used to the stark difference in mindset, living in a world where even a pure, sweet girl like Lin considers slavery an acceptable punishment. To her, it’s merely the natural order of things, where stepping over others is the way things are done. Maybe I am being naive, thinking things could be different, that everyone could live in peaceful harmony.

Thinking back on it, my retirement plan wouldn’t have worked regardless of what happens at the Bridge. Without strength, I’m nothing more than a living corpse waiting to be stepped on. If I want to protect Lin, Mila, and all my loved ones, then I need to become stronger. Despite my accomplishments and newfound skills, this is no time to be complacent. I’ve only just stepped onto the Martial Path, with a long journey still ahead. Yo Ling was the most powerful foe I've seen to date, but there are people even stronger than him. I'm a talented 'youngster', but talent will only get me so far.

The question is: Can I become strong while still staying true to my nature? No, a better question would be: do I even want to? There’s a fitting idiom which says ‘Mercy to one’s enemies is cruelty to one’s self’. Maybe it’s time I adapted to the world instead of expecting the world to adapt to me.

Holding Lin and Mila close, I close my eyes and grieve for the loss of innocence, both Lin’s and my own.

Chapter Meme
