I figured diplomacy wasn’t an option at this point. I had killed about half a dozen of her skeleton brethren so far tonight, and kind of planned to keep going, so I couldn’t blame her for not being understanding about the whole situation.

But who am I kidding? I was only trying to talk my way out of this because I knew I was totally screwed.

Though, if she did nod and agree it was just an awkward situation and to let bygones be bygones, I supposed I’d have to give up on my skeleton hunting, at least in this city. I wasn’t one to go back on my word out of convenience, you know.

She slowly came forward, one cautious step at a time, daggers held backwards in her hands, and clearly she wouldn’t be as easy to slip past as the stupider skeletons I’ve fought. She knew she had me cornered and just needed to keep it that way.

She took a test swipe at me, and I jumped back a step. She came forward. Our eyes were locked with intensity.

She swiped again, and this time my back hit the wall, and I knew I was out of space to just keep dodging. I grabbed one of her wrists, but as I tried to catch the other dagger, it sliced across my bony arm, which started to bleed as if it were made of skin. Thinking about how weird it was to be made of bleeding bones is something I’d have to put out of my mind, however.

I’d never fought with a humanoid body, and old habits die hard as I snapped my fangs at the arm I had managed to catch.

{Crippling Bite}!

I may have had some weird flesh bones, but she certainly didn’t. Just like her skeleton brethren, it felt like an ordinary bone between my teeth.

I ripped back, twisted, and then pushed out at her.

She hissed, swiping her free dagger at me and it came just short of my face as I let my teeth go and sent her sprawling backwards.

But not only had I not quite succeeded at snapping her wrist, she proved she was quite agile as she spun with the fall, her cloak waving behind her, and she landed in a crouch.

She instantly sprang forward again the instant her feet touched the ground.

Oh, come on!

She could have maintained at least a little of the other skeletons’ lack of coordination, couldn’t she?

I barely managed to duck beneath the first dagger, then the second plunged into my shoulder.

I tried to twist away, but her skeletal leg came up, arcing across my path and close-lining me right in the midsection.

I didn’t know how to fight properly with this body!

As I was the one sprawling to the ground, I reached out for anything. My bare hands and teeth were clearly not doing the trick. I ended up grabbing onto the only thing available—one of those black sludgy pots.

It was stacked amongst some others in a pyramid, so I was easily able to heft it up, and I spun my whole body with it, then let go, tossing it at the skeletal assassin.

I saw her jaw hinge open as it came at her. She crossed her arms over herself defensively, unable to dodge it, but she deflected the massive pot off of herself, and it went crashing into another pyramid and shattering along with at least four other pots.

Black sludge went everywhere, and interestingly, the skeletal assassin completely lost her focus on me as she hopped away from the sludge spilling across the floor. She seemed afraid of it. And if I needed any more evidence, she started frantically checking herself, as if making sure none had gotten on her.

I mean, to be fair, just for the gross factor, I wouldn’t want it on me either, but she actually looked scared.

She looked over to me, and raised her daggers, and I instantly crouched towards another pot and got my hands on it. She froze in place.

“Yeah, that’s right! Take another step, and I’m pouring this stuff all over you!” I warned her.

Her daggers lowered.

We stared each other down for a moment until—

She suddenly turned and ran out of the room.

“Huh…”

I let go of the pot I was about to lift and watched the black sludge flood across the floor.

I got back to my feet and inspected my shoulder. Blood ran down the whites of my bony arm in a thin line. I figured I should leave before she came back with friends, and then I needed to disappear as far into the city as I could while I still might have a chance.

Luckily, she didn’t seem capable of controlling the dumber skeletons. Nobaru had warned me I might encounter some undead like that in the Black Pyre or the depths, which I wasn’t anywhere near yet based on the maps they showed me.

Still, I’d bet if I got into a fight with her out on the streets, I would aggro any passersby as well. The skeletons definitely seemed to get interested once they saw a PvP flag go up, after all.

As I went for the door, I glanced back once more, still wondering just why she was so afraid of this sludgy stuff. The answer to that little mystery revealed itself almost instantly, and I was left frozen in horror, wishing I’d just kept moving.

Something lifted out of the sludge and reached forward—it was a dripping hand!

Its fingers pressed against the ground and began to pull. I could see a strain in its muscles beneath the black sludge as an arm made itself known. It wasn’t just a skeletal arm; it had flesh attached to it, but there was no room in that puddle of sludge for it to be attached to an actual body.

I stared, mouth agape, and slowly backed out of the door.

I had to run, I knew I had to run, but I just couldn’t tear my eyes away.

As the hand pressed down, the forearm and bicep rose, attached to a shoulder, and then a head peeled itself up from the sludge. But it didn’t make any sense! The puddle was too flat to be containing a whole head! Or even the rest of a body for that matter!

I had never considered using Analyze on these pots before, but now I did, truthfully hoping I’d just get an error message for an invalid target.

{Analyze}.

Divine Dross - Level 1

Heh—

Okay, okay, so it was alive after all. But it was only level 1! So who cared, right?

Heheheh…

R-Right?

But then as the jaw slacked open on the head that was now staring at me, as I saw the strings of mucus connecting the upper and lower jaw, and watched as a thick tongue spilled out and it screamed at me—

“RAARARAHAGGHGAAAA~”

Yeah, I turned tail at that very moment and ran.

I stumbled over some of the wreckage in the shop, my gaze pivoting this way and that as I looked for the skeletal assassin lady, but didn’t see her, so I went right for the door and out onto the street where, unfortunately, I did see her.

She stood with some slight distance between us, daggers at the ready, and stared me down.

“Oh, come on!” I said. “We’ve just been through it together. Can’t we become unlikely allies now?”

No, that was not in the cards. She seemed to have no intention of just forgetting about me.

But I couldn’t fight her. I’ve defeated things five levels higher than me before, but with different Paths active, and under very different circumstances. In fact, the entire point of this Path was to assassinate sneakily, not square up to an opponent in a fair fight. I didn’t even think to snatch up my sword off the ground after running out of there in such a panic, not that I believed my limited skill with a sword would make me a match against her obvious mastery with daggers.

I’d get slowly torn apart and beaten down by those daggers if I tried to fight; I’d already gotten a taste of that.

Therefore, when she started to move, I turned and fled.

She was faster than me while I was on my human skeleton legs, I already knew that, but she wouldn’t be faster than my puppy legs.

So, I transformed—

{Veilform}! Hell Hound!

I instantly felt my bones popping and morphing, and I let myself pitch forward mid-run.

I awkwardly ran on all human-fours for a moment as my limbs shifted and bent and contracted into something a little more usable. I saw flesh appearing on my bones, knitting together and folding up and over my fingers as they morphed into paws, almost in the exact opposite fashion of my flesh peeling away last time, like it was in reverse.

I looked back once as my puppy legs finished forming, seeing the lady skeleton lunging down at me.

But proper hell hound paws hit the ground in front of me just in time, and I took off like a bullet, zipping out of her range and heading down the street.

I focused for a moment on simply going as far as I could as fast as I could, but when I reached a T in the road, I looked back.

Skeleton lady slowed from her run to a jog, and then stopped and stared from down the street, realizing she couldn’t catch me. She let her dagger-wielding arms go limp at her sides as she stared, perhaps assessing me. I wondered just how much brains she had in that skull of hers. What was she thinking right now? It felt odd with all the weirdness around me to think I was the strange one, but really, it was fair to say. She just watched a doggy-skeleton-person shapeshift into a regular dog. Even in this world, I knew I was probably pretty close to one of a kind.

But she gave up on the useless pursuit, so I picked a direction at the T and started running.

However, it didn’t take long for me to remember why I had to go around as a skeletal person in the first place, because the second I saw a couple mindless skeletons, they locked eyes with me, raised their swords, and let out that same familiar screech.

Man, I just can’t win!

At least these guys (or gals) were easy to run from, so I picked a side street and kept running.

I decided step one was finding a safe zone where I could stop and breathe and ponder over what the hell it was I had just seen that black sludge turn into.

Luckily, it didn’t take too long to find such a safe zone. I found an empty street and picked a house that had a collapsed back wall, so I had two escape paths should it be needed.

There, I sat down and inspected my wounds. They were deep but not fatal.

But as for that black sludge…

Just what the hell was that stuff?

Analyze called it Divine Dross.

Divine is a word that certainly disturbed me while it was attached to something so horrible.

But Dross? What does that mean? It didn’t sound good, but not for the first time I regretted not having a dictionary handy.
