“No. Again, it includes some arcanes, which, I suppose could be waved away, but it remains open to abuse given its ambiguity. Others have tried to define what a human is as a rational animal, but many animals show rationality, especially magical beasts in select circumstances. Anatalis is a perfect counter example as he is decidedly not a human.”

Lisa smiled. “True.”

“Others proposed ‘social’ or ‘political’ animal, or they attempted to quantify how our minds worked, or our view of Zeme. The most recent definitions, and those I think I hold most closely, myself, are that the soul is what makes the human.”

“Ahh, so a fount is human?”

Lea shook her head, not put off. “A soul—of a particular type—within a physical container. A fount is naked to Zeme, no longer human.”

Lisa's smile widened to a grin. “Oh, so a vestige then? Those are human?”

“Arguably, yes. That is one reason their imprisonment is so heinous.”

He tilted his head to the side, seeming to consider. “And the use of founts isn’t? Just because they are not in physical vessels?”

“That…” She frowned. “I’m not sure, but I don’t think anything is keeping founts in place, and many have naturally moved on. In contrast, vestiges prevent the soul from passing on without the destruction of the housing.”

“Much like a human body?”

“I suppose.”

“So, being imprisoned is a requirement to humanity?”

She quirked a smile. “I would say being tied to Zeme is a requirement to be human. If you are not tied to Zeme in a physical sense, you are not human, you are the soul of a human.”

“Is that not how we speak of vestiges?”

Lea shrugged. “The common means of speaking about something doesn’t make it so.”

That brought a full smile to the fox-kins lips. “Just so.”

“So, is that it, then?”

His smile shifted slightly. “Hardly. I noticed that you fall outside of your own definition.”

Lea hesitated. “Only if you go with your ‘imprisoned’ requirement. I am decidedly tied to Zeme.”

He nodded. “Good. You took yourself into account.”

She huffed a laugh. “Of course. I am human, so my very existence informs my definition of humanity. For it to be otherwise would be the height of folly.”

Lisa gave a satisfied nod, and the discussion continued.

Tala leaned back, enjoying watching her daughter think. She wasn’t sure she exactly agreed with what Lea was putting forward, but it was enlightening to hear the thought process behind the conclusion.

Her eyes skimmed over the stump of her arm, and she grimaced. Yet one more driver toward Reforging.

-Not that we needed more reason.-

Indeed…
