Oh, I tried to get the fucker. I tried every trick in my book, and then some. But soon, I was forced to realize that my personal book of tricks was more like a thin pamphlet. I tried using my Wave of Reflection, of course. But the beast kept far enough away that it had no trouble dodging my waves of energy. Deflect didn’t come into play; it didn’t bother to get close enough for that. On top of that, my Wheel of Magic was too slow, too cumbersome with just the single spoke active. If I’d had five spokes active, each raining bursts of magic… perhaps. But like this, it just gave the beast a bit of a workout, dodging and ducking my missiles. I tried to close with the thing several times, and every time, it’d just race away, too fast for me to follow.

What followed wasn’t pretty. Rather, it was a gruelling, painful and ugly drawn-out match of wills, attacks and tactic that made me curse my life, the lizard and everything and everyone in between. The worst was that, just when I thought I’d had enough, the damn thing would fade away into the tall grasses and disappear for several minutes, giving me a breather, which I could then spend agonizing over where it would reappear to launch its next fiery missile at me.

At first, I figured it was just being sneaky or clever about it. But after it repeated the act for the third time, I realized that wasn’t the point. Rather, the damn thing might be fast, bright, and magically intimidating. But it didn’t have the Fortitude and stamina to keep it up persistently.

I tried to abuse that. Of course I did. First, I bravely and consistently ran away. I kept up a running pace that stretched the limits of even my bountiful endurance. And I did manage to lose it. For a while. Whether it was due to a talent it had, or some racial attribute, regardless how far I fled, the Glimmerscale found me every damn time. I even deactivated my Wheel of Magic after a while, to save on Stamina and stop glowing in the dark. Same difference.

An hour or two in, once I’d gotten far enough away from our portal that I felt convinced we wouldn’t stumble on other enemies, I tried stalking the beast instead. Turning the tables sounded fair to me, and once it ran out of Stamina, it should be easy pickings. Except, for a beast called a Glimmerscale, it damn well did a crappy job at glowing in the dark for me. Sure, I could run the beast out of stamina. But then, it just… turned off its damned glow and faded into the night. The damn thing could deactivate its mood lights. How unfair was that?

The hours that followed were anything but fun, as I stumbled through the dark, constantly expecting attack, constantly dodging, running and trying and failing to come up with an effective defense. I’d also tried to escape, to hide, to stealthily make my way across stone and other hard surfaces, making it impossible for the Glimmerscale to find me again when it finished recharging. No such luck. The only satisfaction I could derive from the hunt was that it seemed the lizard was having just as little fun as I was.

Its attacks became more sporadic, less precise. Its approach became more random, as it tried different attack sequences, tried herding me back where it came from and a dozen other things.

Now, I had reached the end. Within the last fifteen minutes, the Glimmerscale got two good hits in on me. My back was throbbing from a full-on fiery hit, and my right arm was even worse. I was running out of healing items. I was also running on empty. I was below two hundred health, my stamina practically non-existent, and… I just wanted it to end. Even if I made it to dawn, I had no hope that it would be a help. Rather, I expected that would just increase the odds of the Glimmerscale locating a few of its friends to help kill me.

The beast had faded away, yet again, to chill, have a cold one and contemplate how best to grill and devour a Liam.

Meanwhile, I’d spent the last vestiges of my energy on a fool’s errand as I spotted a slight depression in the distance along with the subtle murmur of a stream running through it. I’d stumbled to the edge of the stream, hoping beyond hope that I’d be able to leap into the stream and have it carry me away from danger. I’d already used the old and boring trick of wading through a stream for a while to help obscure tracks, scent and all that stuff. And, of course, now that I got here, I realized the stream was all of ten centimetres deep – little more than a trickle in a large muddy basin - and no amount of movie-inspired plot points was going to help me here.

Somebody wiser than me would likely have other options. They’d have realized ages ago how the stupid gecko was tracking me and found ways to counteract it.

I wasn’t like that. Sure, this world was magical. However, I hadn’t changed. I was never going to be some deductive genius. Back on Earth, whatever I’d managed had been through dogged persistence, toughness and an unwillingness to back down, even when it was for my own good. Even as I felt the cold mud seeping under my shirt, I felt my muscles clenching, as my much-abused muscles contracted to get me back to my feet. My hand scraped a handful of mud away and I let it spatter onto the ground with a wicked snarl. No. I wasn’t going to just give in. Whatever else happened, I was going to go down fighting.

For a second, two, I just stood there, frozen in realization. Then I let out a shaky exhalation. Could it really be that simple? Maybe good old television would be able to save my bacon?

Ignoring the disgusting sensation, I hurried to act. I could be entirely wrong here. For all I knew, I might be entertaining a nearby lizard who was observing me, even as I tried one last Hail Mary. There would be no telling if it worked beforehand. The damn thing might have some system-granted talent that allowed it to track me without fail. Yet, for some reason I didn’t think so. So far, I’d ruled out several different options. It didn’t go invisible. It didn’t track my footprints – or if it did, its ability to track me was beyond me by far.

Right this moment, I was hoping that the damn thing either operated by a sense of smell or, more likely, that it had some advanced kind of heat sight.

I was running on borrowed time. It had only been a few minutes, but the damn thing rarely stayed away for more than five minutes at a time. Just enough to top off its mana or stamina reserves, and then back into the fray. With a grunt, I shuffled into motion, now burdened down by layers upon layers of heavy mud.

It wasn’t just awkward. It was downright draining. Not only did the heavy layers weigh me down. They were also freezing, chilling me to the bone mere seconds after being applied. I could only hope that my improved Fortitude gave me additional staying power against cold, or I’d be in trouble. I almost chuckled at that.

It took me a few minutes of wading through the stream before I found a suitable spot. A cropping of large rocks formed an approximation of a small island within the low stream, with the stream splitting in two and reforming beyond the island.

I grabbed a few final handfuls of mud from within the stream, fixing what few layers had fallen off as I moved. Then I lay down and draped myself around the largest rock, as if I were just another rock pressed up against this one. A large, weirdly human-sized, extremely dirty rock.

The waiting game began.

The uncertainty was the worst. I had no doubts that – even if I was right in my theory - given the chance, the mud would start drying and flaking off my face, giving away my position. So, I’d placed myself face down with my hands in front of me, hiding any parts of my skin from being seen. However, that also meant I had no way of being able to see if the damn lizard was roaming around, scouting or dancing a jolly jig right on top of my island.

The seconds ticked by like hours. Even if they were plugged with a heavy layer of mud, my ears were trying to detect any possible noise out there, deduct everything that my other senses were unable to. Yet, I heard nothing, apart from the subtle melody of the stream.

After a while that could have been five minutes or two hours, I was forced to reconsider my stance. The uncertainty wasn’t the worst. The cold was. My entire body was trying to adjust to the heavy cold in the way that a body does. Unfortunately, full-body shivers weren’t exactly the best way of trying to stay hidden. Meaning, I lay, clenching the muscles of my entire body, inches away from a full-body cramp, in an attempt to avoid my involuntary spasms giving the game away.

At a certain point, my mind went weird, proceeding into some sort of fugue state. I still felt the pain, the cold and the tiny tremors of my body. Only, they were slightly removed, seemingly inconsequential. In the greater whole, the demands of the body were just like any external sort of demand. While people would make it sound like there was no choice - there was always a choice. Always! It was merely a matter of whether you were willing to pay the price. I decided that I would take this thing as far as I possibly could. I’d deal with any price to pay, should I actually, against all odds, survive the night.
