“So is the Wizardly part of this experience to shorten the time spent in the alternate reality? To create a door between one part of this material space that passes through this alternate space inside the mana, to then exit in another location?

“As a side note, it could be possible to create a construct in the mana that [Teleport]s someone down the path, but this would go against the 1000km limit of [Teleport] and maybe this idea isn’t the full idea, or even part of the idea, but I speak of it anyway, for completion’s sake.

“But back to alternate realities:

“What does the Dimensional Ban ACTUALLY DO?” Erick added, “And then there’s more about how Fate Magic is actually Spatial Magic, but maybe both Fate and Spatial Magics are truly Fae Magic? Which is actually Dimensional Magic? I don’t know. I’ve got a lot of puzzle pieces here and very few definite answers.”

Tasar was on the edge of her seat, looking like she wanted to speak up right as Erick mentioned alternate realities, but then Erick continued to speak. As he went through his ideas, Tasar looked less ready to speak, and more ready to listen, and think. She also frowned a little for any number of reasons; possibly about the idea of ‘realities in the mana’, but Erick wasn’t sure.

Riivo had a much calmer reaction, just listening.

When Erick finished, Riivo said, “Mana is not an alternate reality. The Dimensional Ban prevents transitioning to new realities. What Fae Magic does is trick, and deeply. Deep enough that we can call a place like Ar’Cosmos a fragment of the Old Cosmology but it is not actually that. In my learned opinion, this idea of Fae Magic acting like [Gate] is likely a good ending point for the Worldly Path, for a Wizard could likely Paradox such a thing into working as [Gate] appears to work.” He sighed. “But now, if this is true, then that means you must find a Paradox Wizard who is also learned in Fae Magic, which… I must be honest. You will likely fail.”

Tasar found something to say in that moment. “Riivo is correct that we could spend our allotted year searching for a Paradox Fae Wizard, or… We could just go to Ar’Cosmos and take whatever Fae-aligned Wizard they already have, for they have to have at least one for Essence Shifting purposes.”

“Oh!” Riivo perked up. “Yes. That might work. House Fae likely does have a Fae Wizard locked up… Or possibly drugged into compliance. Or…” His voice trailed off as he wasn’t sure how to say what needed to be said.

Tasar had no such trouble speaking. “Politeness is for polite times, Riivo.” Tasar said to Erick, “To tell it like it is: House Fae likely has at least one Wizard soul-mutilated into Fae Paradox, and compliance. Such a kidnapping mission would be beyond deadly, but it has the highest chance of us actually finding and securing a Wizard before the year is out.” She added, “We could search for a Wizard on Veird. Such a search would be difficult, but with a lot less potential for danger, though we would likely have to break such a Wizard along the Fae-Paradox axis ourselves, which I am not comfortable with… Or the Worldly Path could provide.” She did not look happy as she added those last words.

Letting the Worldly Path decide anything seemed like a bad idea to Erick, too.

Riivo nodded. “Better to kidnap such a mutilated Wizard out from under Ar’Cosmos, fully break them to acquire [Gate], and also to release them back into a normal life.”

Erick was awash with a dozen different emotions, from relief that the two wrought had instantly tried to solve [Gate] in the way that Erick had ‘solved’ gate, but through more exact, specific means, to how Tasar spoke openly about how they would need to rescue a Wizard from Ar’Cosmos, which was also nice. But then she mentioned fully breaking the Wizard for their own uses, which was… What they were going to have to do, Erick supposed, or leave it up to the Worldly Path, and Erick wasn’t sure which option was worse.

And then Riivo suggested a ‘release back into a normal life’, which was also nice, but in a creepy sort of way, because he spoke like it was only right and proper for him to decide the fate of others. But that’s what wrought did, Erick supposed.

Erick went back to the beginning of Riivo’s words, though, to focus on what he needed to understand. “So this idea of mine where [Gate] magic is primarily Fae Magic, but also Spatial Magic and Fate Magic and the construction of a sentient passageway in the reality of the mana, has merit?”

Riivo said, “On the surface, I should say so, especially that part about sentience, for Twisted Visions certainly have sentience. But I don’t understand what you mean by ‘alternate reality’, exactly. Dimensional Magic is Banned, as I have said. It could be that I am misunderstanding you, though.”

Tasar said, “I would also like more information.”

“Okay. Then first...” Erick asked, “Can you tell me what you think the Dimensional Ban does? From the top, please.”

Riivo sat back a moment in thought.

Tasar got right to it, saying, “To understand the Dimensional Ban, one needs to first understand how the Old Cosmology worked. Back before the Sundering, one could deepen one’s connection to any of the Elemental Planes that existed inside the mana and thus create rifts that radiated pure mana from any of the planes one could reach. The planes of Fire, Air, and the like, were easiest to reach, but there were also many others. In this way, the old mages were able to take in Fire mana, for instance, and then use that Fire mana to cast fire spells. This form of magic still exists to this day in the form of Rift Magic, but it’s not the same function at all.

“Not all Elemental Planes existed everywhere, but the primary six usually did.

“The Sundering had the effect of creating—

“Let me back up. One of the major theories of the Sundering is that someone created a Primal Tear in Old Cosmology, which then manifested as Primal Lightning, which crossed the entirety of the Old Cosmology, leaving behind massive voids in the manaocean. Veird, and all of the rest of the Old Cosmology, was sucked into one of these voids, to end up here, in this New Cosmology. It was only through the efforts of everyone within the proto-Script that they were able to manifest the Grand Translation, thus bringing Veird into physical alignment with this New Cosmology.

“The Dimensional Ban was meant to maintain the veil on the other Elemental Planes that exist inside the manasphere, preventing us from reaching them as the mages of the Old Cosmology routinely did.” Tasar said, “Therefore, your idea that [Gate] is some sort of dimensional hopping spell is likely not correct, since that magic was specifically Banned.”

Erick sat back in thought.

Riivo said, “That is the short version, and there’s some discrepancy about how Wizards create new Elements, but I agree with Tasar’s condensed explanation.”

Tasar nodded, then sat back and waited.

“Could Melemizargo’s Wizardry be enough to break that Ban?” Erick asked.

“Yes.” Riivo said. “If this Quest looks to go in that direction I suggest you stop and make do with t-stations.”

Tasar was sad at losing out on [Gate], but only for a moment, then she nodded, accepting Riivo’s words, adding, “Any Wizard we find won’t be able to break the Foundational Bans, anyway, so if this goes that way, we need to stop as soon as possible, if only to prevent further death through Fate’s tribulations as we keep trying to reach for something that we cannot grasp.”

“… Well. The good news is that I do not believe we need to break the Dimensional Ban.” Erick said, “But also, I believe that Fae Magic gets around this ban. All magic gets around this Ban, as you have stated it to exist.”

Riivo frowned, hummed, and said, “Controversial. But please continue.”

Tasar was all ears.

“I can make a [Sun Rift] that pours mana out of it to boost and harm in equal measure. Boosting magic is sort of like the mana alignment that you spoke of when you mentioned ‘mages taking in elemental fire’, Tasar.”

Tasar frowned a little. She did not believe him, but she wasn’t about to countermand his ideas before he was done with them.

Riivo had much the same reaction.

“Anyway.

“Fae Magic is weird, because everyone’s Fae Magic disrupts everyone else’s Fae Magic.

“Some magics get along fine, like overlapping [Ward]s work well together. Two people can cast two [Fireball]s on the same location, and while there is some fluid dynamics stuff going on with that, mostly, the spells coexist. For a lot of spells, there are fluid dynamic interactions, or strict Health versus Damage interactions, but almost all magic can coexist in the same space because mana has a lot of space inside of itself.

“I postulate that the reason that Fae Magic disrupts Fae Magic is the same reason that it is hard to cooperative cast; all individualized mana is anathema to all other individualized mana, unless people work hard to smooth away that discrepancy.

“But Fae Magic is crushed into the same category by the Script.

“Therefore, all of the ‘alternate reality’ of Fae Magic is therefore trying to occupy the same reality, but it can’t. There is some wiggle room, of course, but broadly, the Script denies the breadth of magic that the Fae used to enjoy in the Old Cosmology.

“Perhaps this is why the fae were truly killed off. They could simply not physically or magically coexist.

“For all Fae Magic exists as a specific power/area in the manasphere; its own instantiated reality. Maybe not as strong as a true break in the Dimensional Ban, but it’s close, and if you go deep enough with it, you can reach beyond the scope of the Bans, but that’s not important for this discussion. It will be important for a discussion about assaulting Ar’Cosmos, though.

“Anyway. In all of these ways, Fae Magic is more like Domain Magic than any other magic out there because it inherently needs access to the alternate reality designated as ‘fae’ inside the mana and Script in order to function. You can see as much when you’re inside a [Fairy House] and someone tries to walk through the space. It is like they are illusions, and you are real, so perhaps Fae Magic is able to accomplish this because it is a true perspective shift, and… That thought isn’t fully fleshed out yet.

“Moving on.

“A Domain is an area of power attuned to your desires which automatically denounces the desires of others by the simple fact that you got there first. When two Domains collide, what happens there is that two people are comparing strengths of influence in the mana, and the stronger one wins.” Erick said, “Two different Domains cannot exist at the same time; they naturally fight.

“And when one Domain wins, their will becomes absolute. Perhaps even strong enough to evade the Script. So, in this way, I think that someone with a Fae Domain might be able to make their influence inside the mana near-absolute. Or perhaps just strong enough to produce all the effects that we know exist inside Ar’Cosmos; the ability to evade all outside Sight, differing rules of magic, a pacification of the Dragon Blood Curse, and the ability to control the length of reality inside a [Fairy House], for instance, thus producing an effect functionally identical to [Gate].

“So.” With his heart hammering in excitement, but also subdued by the fear of being wrong, Erick asked, “Do you know anyone with a Fae Domain I could speak with in order to verify any of this?”

For a long moment, no one said a word. Tasar looked quietly surprised, while Riivo frowned at nothing in particular, both of them thinking. Erick’s heart thumped loudly in his chest as he waited.

Tasar rhetorically asked, “A Fae Domain to mimic the workings of [Gate]? I… I could see that.”

Erick’s face broke into a smile.

And then Riivo both crushed and refined Erick’s hope, saying, “Only the Fae can get a Fae Domain. I know of no mortal or immortal with that capability.”

Erick cautiously nodded, saying, “I expected that.”

Tasar rapidly spoke, “But how would the math work— Perhaps the math is different inside Fae… Space? Fae Space? Sure. Let’s call it that, for now.” She said to the two of them, “It… It could be very possible that the math of Fae Space would allow for this sort of spatial transition that would mimic what we see when we look at [Gate].”

“I know nothing of math, but I assume you have a Spatial Domain, Tasar.” Erick asked, “Do you have [Fairy House] as well? We could test this right now.”

“No; I do not.” Tasar said, “Never cared for the stuff. I learned a bit about runic webs and illusionwork through Kydyr and knew many of his fae spells, but I never had a knack for that school of magic.” She frowned at nothing in particular.

Erick asked, “Would a Spatial Domain work inside a Fae Spell? What could you do with a Spatial Domain?”

“No. See.” Riivo said, “As soon as you activate a Domain inside Fae Space, the Fae Space collapses.”

Erick perked up, remembering how he had activated his Domain on Ophiel when Ophiel was inside the Twisted Vision of Ar’Cosmos, and thus Ophiel got instantly noticed and sucked all the way to the edge of the city inside. That was when he met that pink/green/white fiery smile, too.

And then he had another thought.

Erick said, “I… Had my Domain active at all times while with Kydyr. I could have broken it then?”

Riivo brushed off Erick’s sudden, new concern, saying, “You can compensate for other people’s Domains in a runic web; Kydyr had compensated for this.”

Sudden relief!

“I can work my own Spatial Domain to not disrupt Fae Space, but that’s about it.” Tasar said, “My own just cements my position and lets me alter the positions of others. Having a Spatial Domain is about the only way to make short-range Spatial Magic work in the Underworld; everything over line-of-sight is blocked. My Domain was what allowed me the insights into making the t-stations work, but I have no… ‘same reality’ [Fairy House] with which to experiment with.”

At that moment, Riivo decided, “This Fae Space angle has merit. Perhaps I need to take a walk through the old stories and read up on Fae again. I seem to recall many old, old tales of people getting lost in the woods and ending up thousands of kilometers away from where they started. Old Cosmology stories.”

Erick just laughed. “Yes! We have the same stories, specifically linked to rings of mushrooms; step into one ring of mushrooms and end up in another world, or somewhere far beyond where you first walked into the woods.”

Tasar smiled brightly.

