Erick and Tasar stepped down onto the beach near the t-station. Riivo had appeared less than a minute ago, looking like the kindly old iron man that he tried to be. A block of platinum a meter across held in the air next to him, shining bright with reflected light; it was 21 metric tons, and taking it through the t-station like Riivo had was the same as blipping 21 people, so it must have cost a fair bit of mana to move. Erick commented on that if only to be polite and to start the conversation. Riivo said it was no trouble at all, and then went through some pleasantries of his own. When those were done Erick introduced Riivo to Yggdrasil.

With a pleasant smile, Riivo bowed to the meter-wide iridescent eye of Yggdrasil, saying, “Hello, Yggdrasil. I’m Riivo of Archmage’s Rest. It is a pleasure to meet you.”

“Hello, Riivo. I am Yggdrasil of Erick.” Yggdrasil tipped his eye, saying, “It is a pleasure to meet you.”

Riivo had a little chuckle while Erick and Tasar grinned at Yggdrasil’s introduction.

Moments later, Erick set down the block of platinum inside his Privacy space, upon Yggdrasil’s boughs, while Tasar and Riivo sat down at the table. Yggdrasil’s tiny [Scry] eye prowled the Privacy, watching the newcomer as he had watched Tasar earlier. Ophiel did the same, but from his various perches around the room. Both of Erick’s summons had much the same reactions to new people in this space; they didn’t quite like it. Possibly because Erick didn’t quite like it, either, but it was what it was.

Erick offered, “Would you like any tea? We have some here, courtesy of Tasar’s mother, Otaliya. It’s quite good.”

“I have always enjoyed Otaliya’s blends, so I would gladly take some tea,” Riivo said, “I would also enjoy speaking of Kydyr’s final days.”

The mood was already somber because everyone knew that this was going to happen, but at Riivo’s declaration it was time to actually start that conversation. So, as Erick began making tea, talking all the while. He spoke a little of how his lessons with Kydyr went, speaking of how he had problems with shadowork and how Kydyr had helped. He still didn’t think shadows were ‘real’, but that didn’t really matter. Mostly, he spoke of how Kydyr had acted before the Fae Magic incident. And then… How he acted after. He spoke of how Kydyr had gone raging mad, and how he had no idea what he had done, so Kydyr explained, and then went on to explain quite a lot. Erick had never heard of Elemental Fae before then. Kydyr warned him away from further Fae Magic, and started warning of the ‘Flowery Murderess’ with a little rhyme that he purposefully didn’t finish, because he realized he was rhyming, and apparently that would have called her down on him. Eventually, Erick offered to kill the Flowery Murderess with Kydyr’s help, but Kydyr said no.

Erick said, “Then there was talk of the Worldly Path, and what sort of magic I should try to get a Wizard to make in order to complete [Gate] without Melemizargo.”

Riivo nodded solemnly. Tasar sighed.

Riivo said, “I would prefer to discuss the [Gate] business after we know of Kydyr’s full final day.”

Erick nodded. “Then Kydyr helped me to make the standard runic web spells, though he did want me to do the Object variants. I did not do that. I made the full [Concealment] and [Intangibility] spells, and then we moved on to runic webs.” He continued, “Several hours and meals later, Kydyr said I was as competent as anyone hoping to graduate from apprenticeship, but that I would forever have trouble because I have no Runic Class, or Class Ability which grants runic assistance.

“Kydyr casually spoke as though he wanted to move to Yggdrasil’s cavern, and I approved. I was happy about the move. So I began to set down some small rules, which mostly involved making sure Yggdrasil was comfortable with the move before the move… And Kydyr rescinded his desire, calling it a flight of fancy. I tried to get him to come, but…

“Since we were done, he told me to go.” Erick said, “He thanked me for killing Ar’Kendrithyst and I moved on toward talking of what was coming next, and how I hope the Headmaster didn’t ask me to go into Ar’Cosmos to kill a bunch of dragons for him. And then…” Erick frowned. “He spoke as though all dragons deserved to die, for they’ve all ‘done horrible things to innocent people’. I now believe that he knew what was coming for him, though I did not understand as much at the time.”

Tasar and Riivo had listened the whole way through. Both had sipped their tea, but most of the caramel-colored liquid remained in their cups, growing cold.

Riivo spoke first. “He always thought himself guilty of some great crime.”

Tasar scowled. “He was not guilty of anything. He tried, and he failed, to purge the world of Ar’Cosmos, along with a great many more of us. There was no crime committed except for the crime that can exist between nations attacking mass murderers.” She added, “And that whole thing was done with! We had a treaty. Our treaty enforced certain lines but the Flowery Murderess—!” Tasar glared at nothing. “She broke treaty.” She breathed, then she relaxed, and said, “Theoretically, anyway. If the Dark’s words prove to be true then there might be another war. A more solid one this time, too. Less small solutions to small problems. More permanent solutions to apparently permanent problems.”

Riivo frowned. “Outright war is likely not the best solution.”

“Ar’Cosmos is not going to give up their progenitor, and executing the Flowery Murderess’s current persona of Letter Killer is not going to be enough.” Tasar said, “The Shades are dead. Erick is going to make [Gate] within the year time limit given to us by Stratagold. We wrought will enforce peace and prosperity across this world, and that means inside Ar’Cosmos, as well. Kirginatharp is undoubtedly going to call for a purge—”

“I do not care for that bloodthirsty man.” Riivo said, “And you should be less eager for what the changing world will bring. Destruction will come before stability, and I am not looking forward to that first half of the coming changes. The dragons are not a threat at the current moment, even with the Flowery Murderess’s action, but if we push, they could become a threat. This is what almost happened last time.”

Tasar frowned at the old iron man, saying, “Ending an existential threat to the world should not be a problem for you.”

In that moment, Erick was conflicted. He saw in Tasar’s words his own words, reflected and changed but embodying the same sort of emotion as his own emotions, when he had spoken those same words about the Shades.

Riivo calmly said, “Tasar. To start: A Geode Guardian should be more concerned with defense than offense, but also, I do not wish to have this conversation at this moment. I wish to discuss Kydyr’s death; not the full implications of what his murder means for troop movements.”

Tasar pulled back. She relaxed. “Of course. I will say one last thing, though. The dragons threatened to march on the world before but the Shades dominated the Surface and stopped them. With the Shades gone, the dragons will choose domination again.”

Erick could no longer be a bystander in the conversation. “I have a question about that.”

Riivo froze, as though realizing Erick was here, and then he nodded. Tasar gasped a little, a sudden dark gleam in her eyes. Both of them had briefly forgotten about Erick, but now, they realized what their conversation looked like, and especially how it looked to Erick. Tasar had focused on the vengeance…

But Riivo had focused on… too much to narrow down. He was especially hard to read in that transformative moment.

Erick said, “To make sure I am understanding correctly, the dragons of Ar’Cosmos have Dragon Essence and therefore the Dragon Blood Curse, so they can’t enter the world, but the threat you’re talking about are the specific houses of Fae, Carnage, and Death. Correct? Those are the only ones that can actually enter the world, and search for more Wizards to bring back to expand their Houses, unless I misunderstand something. What are we actually looking at, if war were to happen?”

Riivo said, “An offensive war, delving into Ar’Cosmos itself, is going to be terribly bloody.”

Tasar had a great deal more to say, though. “There is an estimated half a million people living inside Ar’Cosmos, though personal accounts vary wildly between 5,000 and a few million. It’s a realm so deep in the mana that space itself is twisted and tangled, so there is some discrepancy on true numbers, and none of our scouting missions have ever been terribly successful. All we have are estimates.

“But the three Houses of Ar’Cosmos are somewhat known to us, and each one holds between 20 to 50 full powered dragons, with Essence that has been shifted to their house’s Element. Each one is as strong as a real dragon, though those strengths have been shifted toward their specific power base. Maybe 1% of the people in there are these dragons.

“Them going on the offense means we will have between 30 to 50 full powered dragons entering the world. We can actually deal with that, and mostly, they can escape at-will back to Ar’Cosmos, which is why they remain inside. The Shades would have ended them too if they stepped out, but that is not something we would have ever counted on.

“Almost every other permanent resident of that place is either a dragon working to be elevated to a House, or a dragonkin that has yet to try and grow their Dragon Essence into something large enough to where they can become a true dragon, and thus become eligible for elevation to a House. This is about 25% of the population.

“Then there are the transients that live in Veird, and participate in dragon society inside Ar’Cosmos. These people enter the Forest of Glaquin and call to that Twisted Vision, and the Twisted Vision answers with a [Gate], providing a safe and private passageway which leads to the city itself.” Tasar said, “Once inside the city, the guest dragons will sometimes bargain to store their eggs until they can hatch in the safety and power of the Old Cosmology, though that is rare. Mostly, though, the transient dragons try to have something of a shadow society with banned books and the terrible learning of harmful magics and stripping Veird of anything valuable to bring back to Ar’Cosmos in the hopes of elevation to a House.

“And we’re probably going to have to go there because they do have [Gate] magics.” Tasar frowned as she nearly growled out, “All because of that Flowery Murderess! I don’t understand why she had to kill Kydyr. Gods above!” She breathed hard, then said, “We had a good thing going. We had peace.” She glared. “But the dragons… And That Fae. They saw a weakness. They took it. That’s who they are. And we’re going to have to go the full distance this time. The Shades are gone.”

“I disagree.” Riivo said, “Emotions are heightened right now and though war will likely happen, it will not happen simply because one hermit of an archmage was murdered— And I know that was awful to say, Tasar, but it is the truth.”

Tasar buried her feelings, saying, “We have lots of good reasons for war, and absolutely no reason to let them strike us first. Or again!”

Erick needed to shove the conversation away from war before he started asking questions about dragons and likely received horrible answers in turn. So he said, “I want to talk at length about Ar’Cosmos, but there are other topics which need hammering. My first concern should go quickly, but then I wish to talk of [Gate].”

Tasar sat up a bit, most of her anger purposefully crushed down in favor of magical discussion.

Riivo smiled softly, saying, “I have lots of time today for this, for I too, wish to talk of [Gate].”

Erick nodded, then said, “My first concern is that I will be making a runic web here, with the metals you brought. But I wish to know if I have actually secured your vote for the inquiry.”

Riivo nodded in thought, then he said, “I have a question, in turn. About the kill spell the Dark has revealed and you have turned on its head with your stunt in the embassy. What is the nature of the boon, to counter the burden?”

And because Kydyr had likely already told Riivo…

Erick simply said, “She helped me select a race of people; sorting out the question mark on my Status.”

Tasar went wide-eyed; surprised and full of questions.

“And the nature of this race?” Riivo asked, acting surprised, but not, because Kydyr had already told him, no doubt.

Tasar glanced at Riivo, surprised that he would ask such an invasive question. Matters of meetings with gods were always private affairs unless freely given.

Erick answered, “Between me and her, and no other.”

Riivo frowned a little, then said, “Kydyr had told me something like that, but I wasn’t sure and he had no further answers… Very well. Thank you for answering my question at all.” Riivo said, “Kydyr also told me that you were rather competent for your experience, so I doubt I will need to verify whatever [Fairy House] you construct in this location, but I would ask that you allow me to do so, anyway, whenever you manage to complete the project, or sometime soon afterward. As for the inquiry: I ask that you fulfill a few outstanding quests at the Rest so that I can give you the vote you request. If you complete these quests before Bright Tea, then I will be excited to call myself your ally in that venue.”

Erick smiled, and said, “Then I can do those quests after this meeting. On to [Gate]?”

Riivo said, “Please, yes.”

“What thoughts have you?” Tasar asked.

“I’ll lay them all out there, and then we can talk as you want.” Erick took a deep breath, then began, “Mana is an alternate reality that we connect to through our souls, which touch upon all possible realities at the same time. Fae Magic, in particular, can form an alternate reality and actually allow the user to step into the mana. You can see this from inside a [Fairy House] rather easily; when another thing moves from outside the space into the space, that other thing appears to be an illusion, or at least what an illusion would look like through [True Sight].

“So does [Fairy House] allow the user to step into an alternate reality inside the mana? Possibly.

“Could [Gate] be a deep enough step into this alternate reality, and then the inhabitant steps out of another location? To an outside observer, this would appear like [Gate]. Only the time spent in the alternate reality separates such an action from being [Gate], itself.

