“Did he kill the orphanage, specifically? Or was it a result of war?” Both were horrible, but one was worse than the other.

“Specifically. As a way to weaken Ar’Cosmos for generations to come, even if their main attack failed.” Fairy Moon stressed, “Erick. Please understand that I am a Judge of Justice, first and foremos— Apologies. I did not mean to speak like that.” Fairy Moon continued, “All actions stem from that base. Kydyr deserved to die for crimes committed—” Fairy Moon frowned, then continued, “This is difficult for me because you are so very close to everything I desire in a complementary existence. You have been absolutely magnificent, Erick, and I truly wish we could have met in better circumstances. What you did with the orcol commune in Treehome? And then with Terror Peaks! Amazing.”

Erick said, “I find your sincerity hard to believe.”

“Proof of sincerity can only come with time, of course.” Fairy Moon paused, and then stated, “Stratagold will demand something of me in recompense for my rightful execution of Kydyr and I will demand something of them in return. I plan to involve you. If you do not agree to the arrangements I accomplish, then know that I have information about you that could be dangerous and disastrous for others to know. I do not desire to do this, but I will do what I must. I desire your freedom. I also desire for you to learn how to properly use the magic of my people, because if you’re successful then that means I, too, can finally leave this tiny, overly-controlled planet.”

And then she was gone.

Erick felt a sudden, complicated rush of tangled emotions flow through him, leaving his muscles cramping in their wake. She hadn’t cast any magic on him, for she probably couldn’t with that amulet around her neck, but… He had no way of knowing. He wasn’t under any spell he could see, though; he had been Sighting and sensing himself, the room around him, and Fairy Moon ever since he switched back to his Normal Form. He was not about to have a conversation with the woman until at least those many precautions were taken.

… Fairy Moon had never overtly cast anything on him…

But who the fuck truly knew!

Erick felt tangled in a Gordian Knot. He was going to have to cut this knot, and soon, before it strangled him into an early grave…

He contemplated not telling Tasar, but it was highly likely that Fairy Moon would speak of this meeting elsewhere, and he couldn’t take the chance of Stratagold thinking of him as non-trustworthy. That would lead to problems down the road. So he canceled the Privacy and went to Tasar.

He told her about the encounter.

Tasar flipped her shit.

Erick explained better. He left out the important parts about his own secrets being given away, but he told her about how she wanted an arrangement out of him that she would try to secure through Stratagold.

And then Tasar spoke about how it should have been impossible for someone to cross her Spatial Domain without her knowing, for that’s what her shadowy, green-glittering spell was; her Domain. Rather rapidly, though, Tasar calmed and calculated. Soon, she started telepathically talking to someone outside of the space.

While she did that, Tasar spoke to Erick, “Apologies about losing my temper. I had thought my defenses were— Doesn’t matter what I thought. The enemy is a fae who—” She glanced away, sending to someone else, then she turned back, saying, “I apologize for not realizing that you were this competent with fae for it doesn’t sound like you made any deals with her. I would like to remain with you until we discover the nature of whatever deal she is trying to conjure, though. I feel that you are still in danger.”

Erick hadn’t been too sure about what Tasar’s deal was when he first met her, for she was on-edge and they hadn’t met under the best of circumstances, but he was pretty sure he had a good read on her these days. Mostly, Tasar just wanted everyone to be secure and happy. She went about it like how a watchful mother would baby a teenager, so that was rather infuriating but ultimately forgivable.

Erick had played along with Stratagold’s orders for long enough, though. It was time to push back.

Erick said, “We might as well start living together for the rest of this Path if you want, but I will be putting up my own private spaces, and we can move into an actual runic web house. To that end, I wish to know more of your capabilities as an archmage. Mainly, what to expect and how to work with you. I saw a lot when we walked through the mana stream tunnels, but I know that you have more than that, and I know that you know practically everything that I can do.”

Tasar paused for a moment, then she said, “Of course. We can do that.”

“Also. Not to [Strike] overly hard, but this is my Path, Tasar.” Erick said, “I appreciate and understand your position as a Geode Guardian and your desire to complete this Worldly Path with me, and I appreciate all that you’ve already done, and all of the knowledge that you bring to the table, but I’m the one Walking this Path, this time. So unless you have good reasons for me to sequester myself in certain spaces and in certain ways, then I’m going to do my own thing, exist in my own private spaces when and how I want, and I ask that you accept this.”

Tasar went tense in shoulders and face as she considered how she wanted to proceed. Eventually, she said, “I will accept these limitations if you will accept my counsel when necessary.”

“I will always accept your counsel, Tasar. You have been around this world a lot longer than I have, and I respect that.”

Tasar relaxed a fraction, giving a stiff nod. “Thank you. My first counsel is that we should not be out of each other’s sight for more than five minutes. Less, if we can help it. This part of the Path is exceedingly dangerous, Erick, as you have just found out. No more sleeping in Privacys, please.”

“… Okay. No sleeping in Privacys.”

Tasar nodded.

“Then.” Erick added, “Tomorrow, I will start [Fairy Stronghold] experiments with regard to [Teleport] distances and otherwise, and I would appreciate your input on that. I will also attempt experiments with Ophiel and [Fairy Stronghold], though Yggdrasil will not gain this spell yet, for I don’t wish him to be instantly broken by that strange interaction. Perhaps if I gain a Fae Domain, then that will change.” He glanced toward the block of platinum sitting to the side, saying, “But for now, I’m going to work on a runic web for a [Fairy Stronghold] to live inside since my plans for sleep have gone awry and the failure-state of ‘meeting the dangerous fae’ has been rendered obsolete.” He asked, “I assume?”

Tasar simply breathed, then said, “Yes. Her power is vastly limited while out here, but… She’s a great deal more dangerous when inside Ar’Cosmos, and any interactions had with her out here might transfer into there. So. Be careful, when you meet her again.” After a moment of indecision, she added, “Many immortals cannot venture into Ar’Cosmos because of the small ways in which they have interacted with her before; she would kill them instantly, and without difficulty. I have not had interactions with her, so I am mostly safe. I would prefer if you maintained a similar distance from her, for the safety of us all.”

“Thank you for explaining the exact danger.” Erick said, “I will do my best to follow your advice.”

With a certain uncomfortable tension, Tasar nodded, saying, “Thank you for listening.”

Erick went to the block of platinum and started stringing it into lines. Tasar, meanwhile, spent a great deal of time telepathically communicating with others. Eventually, though, she began to help with the construction of a new, solid house in the crook of Yggdrasil’s upper boughs.

A day later, the new [Fairy Stronghold] had three floors and more than enough rooms for Tasar, other guests, a room for Jane, enough space for Poi, Kiri, and Teressa if they wanted to visit, and a private tower stuck on the side, for Erick. Tasar tested the space with the smaller Fae Magics she possessed, and there wasn’t even the slightest disturbance to the runic web, or to the house itself. It wasn’t as fancy or as structurally changeable as Kydyr’s house, but it was hidden from the world, and once inside, a person was literally untouchable by the outside.

It was perfect.

Erick went to his temporarily private space in his new room, [Renew]ed his Other Form, cycled mana till he was satiated, and then switched back, removed the Privacy, and went to bed.

Sleep came easy, either because he felt truly safe for the first time in a while, he and Tasar had come to a real understanding, or perhaps, because he finally knew all the players on the board.

… Most of them, anyway.

He still wondered about certain, smaller things that would likely come back to bite him on the ass sometime in the future, or sooner. The Patriarch of Terror Peaks was still out there with his mysterious soul spear benefactor. The Mirage Dragon assassin and her family of Fae Dragons, as well as that one dragon from Ooloraptoor, were still out there. Whoever it was that attacked Yggdrasil at Holorulo. Candlepoint with all its shadelings who were simultaneously their own person, and also potential mouthpieces for Melemizargo. Securing trade routes and nice lives for all the shadelings, even though no one would trust them, and as soon as Erick came out as a Wizard, people would descend on Candlepoint like locusts. The world would descend upon Yggdrasil, too. The Red Dot mage was either in the wind, or locked up in Messalina the Life Binder’s dungeons getting soul tortured. Fallopolis was still out there. The rest of the Shades were out there doing who-the-fuck-knows-what. Kiri’s mysterious encounter in the halls of that Old Dragonkin museum had never been answered. The cultists of Nelboor were trying something, but Erick wasn’t sure what...

And something was happening at Spur.

Erick hoped that Jane and the rest of them could resolve that problem on their own. He had given them a lot of help, or at least as much help as Silverite was willing to receive. It would have to be enough.

For now, though, he was comfortable, sated, secure, and ready to get on with Bright Tea and the inquiry, and then to leave Stratagold behind.
