Riivo nodded, saying, “That’s how a fair bit of Old Cosmology fairy tales begin, though this ‘mushroom ring’ is a nuance I have never heard before.”

And then Tasar couldn’t hold back her mirth. She giggled, saying, “It could be that this is the true secret to [Gate]. Maybe two spells, and that’s it! [Fae Domain] and [Spatial Domain]. Through probability manipulation at two different doors in two different locations I can make someone step through one and exit the other. I never managed this much with my summons holding onto my Domains, but maybe inside Fae Space… it’s different!” She rapidly added, “I would need to thoroughly investigate a [Fairy House], though, to check on the math of it all. Would you mind aiding me on this, Erick?” She scowled. “I need to make this spell myself.”

Erick said, “I’ll help you in both ways, Tasar.”

Tasar giggled.

“Such a combination of spellwork is a difficult proposition.” Riivo said, “I am unaware of anyone ever managing to combine Spatial Magic and Fae Magic, though the second is much more rare than the first. Combining Domains is even worse. Impossible, even.”

Tasar said, “The twisting of magic into something not normally possible is well within a Wizard’s capabilities, especially if they already have the two previous magics themselves. There’s one way to know if this is the proper Path, though!” She excitedly asked Erick, “Did you get a Quest update?”

“Ah. No.” Erick crushed Tasar’s sudden hope. “No update.”

“Ahh. Dammit.” Tasar frowned. “Ah… You might not ever get another update, I suppose, if what that Dark said was true; You’re already at the end.” She resolved herself to strength, then said, “These seem like big pieces. We just need to put them together, without the help of the Dark.”

“I would like some verification of your ideas about how Fae Magic operates on a small scale.” Riivo asked, “Could we do some experiments? I might as well see your [Fairy House] in action, and whatever proof you have of this ‘alternate reality’ idea. I confess, I too, never delved deep with Fae Magic. I wish Kydyr had survived.”

“It’s the Worldly Path.” Tasar said, darkly. “If Kydyr were alive we would be able to answer these questions. This is Melemizargo keeping us from solving these questions ourselves.”

Erick felt a sudden stab of guilt, but Tasar hadn’t meant it like that, and Riivo didn’t mention Erick’s culpability, either, so Erick simply stood, saying, “Let’s try some Fae Magic.”

Riivo and Tasar stood with him.

Soon, they were on the boughs of Yggdrasil and Erick had summoned some passageways with [Fairy Stronghold], creating short ‘houses’ with two doors opposite of each other, about five meters apart. First, he showed how objects not in the House appeared as Illusions when they passed inside the occupied space, and then Tasar tried to [Teleport] across the length of [Fairy Stronghold]. Normally, at this depth of the Underworld, [Teleport] moved the caster about one centimeter. This fact remained true even near Yggdrasil, and all throughout Stratagold. The only time this truth was broken was inside the anti-Dark protections of the t-stations, and then only when moving between t-stations.

But perhaps, inside the ‘alternate reality’ of ‘Fae Space’, this truth would break.

Tasar blipped—

And reappeared exactly where she had been. Perhaps a single centimeter forward.

Erick frowned—

But Tasar laughed loudly. “If that had worked I was going to be so angry! I would have needed to redesign all of the t-stations to include— well. No. That’s too much Fae Magic.”

Riivo nodded, saying, “People who dive too deep with Fae Magic almost always meet unfortunate accidents, which we had attributed to the last surviving fae, but perhaps that was attributing her too much power? Perhaps ‘going too deep’ is the very nature of Fae Magic itself, but without a Domain to secure it against breaking… Erick.” Riivo spoke strongly, “I must caution you on an unforeseen issue that I might just now understand: Perhaps, going too deep into the Fae Magic, and then getting that magic disrupted around you, is what kills all middling practitioners. It could be that they experience a [Partial Teleport] situation and they die to bifurcation, or other such horribleness. But! It looks like this is the Path to follow.”

Tasar calmly nodded, agreeing with Riivo.

Erick said, “The warning is sensible, so thank you for that, but also, I agree: Fae Magic seems like the way to [Gate]. Maybe I need to make a very, very large [Fairy House], along with a nested house, to see how deep I can go with the magic, to test your theory of [Partial Teleport] dangers.” Erick said, “I could send Ophiel into those depths to do some experiments with manual [Teleport]s.”

Tasar was unsure, as she said, “I would stick to the shallows, for now. Let me look into the maths of Spatial Magic in illusionary and fae spaces, first. See if someone else has done any research in that direction.”

“… Then I can experiment with that later.” Erick said, “For now, I’d like to explain a theory about planars, how we get here, mana streams, and some stories of fae on Earth…”

Riivo and Tasar were all ears.

They moved back into the Privacy, where they spoke for a few hours about everything from fairy stories, to esoteric [Gate] theories, to all of Tasar’s experiences on her own Path (which mostly involved running from Melemizargo; he didn’t like wrought on the Worldly Path, at all), to the creation of the t-station network and how the greater systems all worked.

Toward the end of the day, Riivo said, “I would ask after [Renew] before we finish up here. Have you any luck with that?”

Erick flinched, and then he realized he shouldn’t flinch. He played it off as nothing, saying, “I could do it at tier 4, I think. But that’s not what I want, so those theories don’t work for the final goal.” He shrugged.

Tasar said, “Maybe when we’re forced to capture a Wizard out from Ar’Cosmos you can have them make it for us.”

“Hmm. Yes. Ar’Cosmos seems like your final destination, Erick. Try to do what you can to not go there, though. Anyway!” Riivo smiled wide, then happily said, “Ah… This has been a good experience, but I would like to move on to my request for some monster hunts. Would you be willing to help with that now, Erick?”

“Sure.” Erick asked, “What needs doing?”

“There have been some reports of aquatic terrors crawling up from the underocean, beneath the Vibrant Falls. The Gemslicers have been unable to help in a satisfactory manner, therefore I need...”

- - -

Not too long later, Erick had cleared out some variant tangled hydras called abyssal decay seekers and a bunch of other horrors from the underocean, all around Stratagold. Riivo was pleased. He left Yggdrasil with a true joy on his face at having problems solved, and at having a profitable meeting; he said as much and seemed not to be lying, either.

Once the old iron man was gone, Erick began setting up a [Fairy Stronghold] according to the plots and plans he had made with Tasar. Getting some actual walls was rather nice, and though Erick would prefer not to have a keeper, Tasar was incredibly excited about getting to experiment inside Fae Space and to take measurements of everything. Her joy was infectious, and Erick gained a small bounce in his step as he spent effectively hundreds of thousands of mana making a simple longhouse with two short towers on either end, on Yggdrasil’s upper boughs.

A large central room, a kitchen, a library, a bathroom. Separate rooms on either side of the house. And above those rooms, two separate private spaces. While Tasar was moving into her space, Erick filled his upper room with a nested Privacy, and, to his joy, discovered that it did work exactly as he wanted it to; Tasar covered the outside of the [Fairy Stronghold] with her sensory magics, and Erick could retreat to his Privacy to have some alone time. But not right yet. It was time to eat.

Visiting the embassy was a lot easier this time, but only because Erick went in differently than normal.

Erick and Tasar went up the back way to eat in Tasar’s office, with her mother, Otaliya. The aged copper woman had been working with Erick’s EIPC people rather closely, once Melemizargo’s appearance got out. She had wanted to talk to him earlier, but that just simply didn’t happen, though the outcomes of his boon/burden revelation were quite another [Fireball] to ride out. With a professional, yet happy tone, and while Erick ate a nice burger and fries from the world diner’s market, Tasar’s mother launched into a wardlight presentation regarding all the major rumors going through the embassy, and how that talk affected public opinion.

“The boon/burden revelation has had profound effects among many of the staunchest opponents, which wasn’t too many people at this point, to be honest. Some of the barons who requested meetings with you, who you denied, are disappointed or angry, but since the goal is getting a good inquiry the people of the lands surrounding Stratagold are less important than the major players inside the Geode.” Otaliya said, “With the work you’ve done for Archmage’s Rest to clear out the underocean, and especially after the Offices of the Inquisition refused to comment on your situation, almost every detractor has gone quiet. Of the smaller voices out there, almost everyone believes that Rozeta does have a kill spell in your heart, and quite a few people are calling it an injustice, but not many.” She continued, “Of the farmworker fields, which are overseen by...”

Otaliya talked for quite a while, and it all sounded great. Toward the end, Otaliya suggested Erick wait a week to see if anything came of this Letter Killer stuff, but other than that, he was likely good to go to take Bright Tea, and then move on from there to the inquiry.

After that informative dinner, Erick bid Otaliya farewell and went back to Yggdrasil with Tasar.

But instead of going into the [Fairy Stronghold] that he had very ‘publicly’ made, since he was under no illusions (ha!) that he wasn’t being observed all the time, he and Tasar landed in a separate Privacy bubble that already had copies of various items, like a bed and a library. There was no actual [Fairy Stronghold] around this open area, though. The [Fairy Stronghold] was left completely alone, but with an Ophiel inside, watching, and waiting for someone, anyone to show.

They had a small discussion about sleeping inside Privacys, and Tasar reluctantly agreed.

So Erick bid Tasar good night and went to his room, where he cast a nested Privacy, and he relaxed. Tasar set herself down in a chair in the living room, cast her detection spell across the outside of the space, and began to write out a bunch of maths on a bunch of paper; traditional Spatial Magic.

Laying down on his bed in what was likely a private space, Erick kept his cool and his anger firmly shoved down for a little while longer. He had been fighting his rage for the last few hours. It had been hell getting through dinner with Otaliya, reporting on how he was close to being accepted, but it would still take effort to actually get there.

Didn’t these people understand the good he had done!

Ugh. But that was just his rage yelling at him.

Erick ground down his rage and cast another Privacy around himself, nesting himself twice over, hoping that Tasar wasn’t actually peeking in on him. If she was, then things were about to get very ugly. But if she wasn’t… Then everything would be fine.

… Erick switched to his Other Self.

Nothing happened.

Tasar remained where she was.

He channeled [Renew] into his body as he cycled his mana. Rage cooled. Comfort filled his muscles and his core as he stretched out on his bed and sighed a great sigh. He blinked, relaxing, and when he had cycled enough, he switched back to his Normal Self.

And then he regarded the woman lying in bed with him.

She looked human, 30 or ageless, with one eye bright pink and the other bright green. She wore an airy pink dress, but with a white leather corset around her midsection, with green lacing. Erick supposed she wore the leather because it was rather sexy, in a protective sort of way. Everything about her was either pink or white or green. There was a distinct space around her neck that Erick’s eyes slid across without finding purchase; he wouldn’t have noticed that discrepancy without his Perception. The slippery area was likely hiding the Amulet of Non-Presence; the only way she could have evaded all the tricks and traps Erick and Tasar had layered around this land.

She smiled upon Erick with the brightest smile he had ever seen on a person, like she had been given a gift of the highest order, or maybe she had finally identified her soulmate. She had not been there in his bed before he sat down. She had appeared somewhere in the middle of his cycling, but she had said nothing. She had just watched, calm and knowing all the while.

“This is very rude of you, Fairy Moon.” Erick sat up, saying, “I did not welcome you into my home.”

Fairy Moon smirked, then sat up, saying, “Veird’s values are all twisted and tapered so I go where I grant myself the motion to be, but in this instance, Melemizargo marked you, youngling. At Mel’s insistence, I insist on a true talk of weighty words, quick as a quip.”

“… Undo the utterances of this talking trap, and you may stay awhile while speaking plain parlance.”

Fairy Moon’s eyes went wide and her smile matched, then she got down to business, saying, “A true talking might make for—”

Erick glared at the woman; she was still talking in reinforcing rhyme.

Fairy Moon sighed, then spoke with a much more subdued speech, “When they discover you’re a Wizard they will try to end you, for the wrought are nothing but stagnation. I propose a different path. Come to Ar’Cosmos, learn how to break dragons of their Curse, and you can benefit from the same good fortune that I experience; safety and power and obscurity whenever I desire.”

“I would prefer to be left alone to my own devices.” Erick said, “Therefore, your offer has no weight. It will have even less weight in a hundred years when Yggdrasil finally starts spreading to other worlds, and I can get lost among Forever.”

Fairy Moon nodded, saying, “There will be war long before that. Wars, perhaps. Wars of dominance. Wars of control. Help me ensure that the wrought aren’t the only strong power in the world. Use your Wizardly breaks to cure the Dragon Curse, and we can protect you on this world or any other, for all time.”

“Why did you kill Kydyr?”

“He obliterated an orphanage as a way to weaken—”

