“Yeah. Bad luck to come upon them here, is all. And that’s a third step war caster, in case that wasn’t obvious, you dimwits. Fine. We’ll swear.”

“I’m not swearing anything!” The man about to lose his horse said. He stood up. Viv saw him grab a spear and lashed out. A thin line of destructive mana speared forward. The rebellious one jumped in fright but nothing happened, except that his weapon fell in two separate pieces.

“Next time it’s your throat,” Viv commented laconically. She hadn’t moved.

“But Thunder…”

“Maybe we can reach an arrangement…” the blade leader said.

Viv sighed and pulled the intimidating aura back.

“I’ll let you handle the details. I’ll be outside, I need a moment.”

“You should find a room and sleep for an hour or two, then we will keep going. Emlyg will be after us but if we can lose his team, we will stand a better chance of handling him while he’s alone.”

“Yeah yeah.”

Viv walked out with an overprotective Marruk around, then had her carry Solfis to a bedroom with a tiny window and Spartan furniture. The blades were being stupid. If they were stopping now then Emlyg would be around to make sure they stayed put. Now was the perfect time to find and kill him. Suspicion filled her heart. The blades could not be trusted.

//Your Grace?

“Can you assess the quality of a poison ring from its engraving?”

//Yes, Your Grace.

//And from the material.

//I can also monitor your health if I am close enough.

//Although, it is not entirely reliable.

//And would not function with fast-acting poisons.

“What about this one?”

She removed her skinsuit to reveal a finger, which took time and forced her to bare a shoulder.

//Excellent quality.

//It should have cost more than what Zan demanded of it.

“Hmm.”

Curious, but welcome.

“What about the blades? I find stopping here strange. And they should be going after Emlyg.”

//Their behavior is in line with bodyguards.

//Their first priority is to keep you alive and moving, not going after your enemies.

//Forcing Emlyg the Undying to distance himself from the rest of his men before tracking him down is logical.

//They just assume that I cannot help.

“But you can?”

//Of course.

//I am a strike golem, not a guardian.

//I am not designed for protection.

//I am designed for threat disposal.

“Then let’s eliminate the threat.”

Viv walked to the window and whistled. She heard a whoosh of displaced air, then a serpentine face nudged itself through the opening, looking for breakfast. Viv provided the tasty jerky and a fresh egg.

“Any humans outside, hunting for us?”

Yes.

One male.

Good cloak.

I steal the technique/glyphs/concept.

Sneaky dragon!

“Can you show Solfis where he is?”

Hunt?

“Yep.”

Hunt!

Viv let the two go first, Solfis sliding through an opening a child would have had trouble crossing. He was like a cat but marginally less psychopathic. She made herself some warm klod and sipped it before exiting her room. A dark blade stood at attention in front of it, which did little to comfort her now that paranoia had set in. They moved out with Marruk, and the man protested once she entered the courtyard.

“It isn’t safe.”

“Then follow me and make sure I am.”

Viv walked out of the door, ignoring the grumbling of the guard above. Something about frivolous casters and safety concerns. He choked on his protests when a blood-curdling scream rang through the meadow. Soon after, a man raced across the open field. He was on fire.

It sounded quite painful.

Viv mercy-killed him with a net through the head before approaching the smoldering corpse. Arthur landed with a victorious squee while Solfis walked lazily from the edge of the forest a moment later. She took the time to inspect the dead. He was covered with scars, some of them apparently ritualistic in nature. A few of his old wounds should have been fatal. Even his scalp was just a sea of red tissue. None of his preparation had helped him survive the ordeal.

“So, just Emlyg then?” She asked the corpse.

//He was amazingly durable for someone on this step.

//Although, it backfired.

“I would think that a guy like him would have pain tolerance in the high tiers.”

//Dragon fire ignores a lot of skills.

“Squeee!”

I win.

“That you did.”

I snuck up.

Sneaky dragon!

“Wonder if it will work when you’re house-sized.”

When house-sized.

No need to sneak!

“True.”

Sneak anyway.

“Alright, let’s get back. I want to be on the road before we create too many grudges.”

//I have a proposal that will prevent grudges from occurring.

“It’s leaving no survivors and it doesn’t always work.”

//Spoilsport.

They returned to the inn with Marruk dragging the body by its feet. The scared stable boy was done transferring her belongings to the new horses. They were smaller, studier beasts with thicker hair. The sentry hailed them.

“You a necromancer?”

“No, this is a golem.”

“Yeah. Alright. Dark blades wouldn’t tolerate a necro anyway. Just keep that thing away from me.”

//Leave your bow where it is and I won’t have to come up and say hi.

Draconic intimidation: Expert 2

Ah, whatever. The dark blades’ leader saw the body and berated Viv for going out by herself, following which they left in a hurry. Viv munched on a breakfast roll that tasted pretty fresh, waiting for the poison ring to warm up. It never did. They kept going until noon and reached a crevice running between two patches of forest. The path was barely wide enough for a small carriage.

“It looks like a perfect place for an ambush,” Viv said.

“That’s because it is one and we already have guests,” the leader replied.

“I sense danger,” Marruk added.

//I detect hidden ropes fifty paces into the passage.

Arthur landed.

Sneaky men!

“Yeah, ok, ok, I get it. Go around or go through?” Viv asked, out of patience. She had slept three hours in two days and didn’t have everyone else’s high endurance.

“Since we have reached this point… I have a proposal.”

Viv glared.

“There are bounty hunters after you and quite a few of them. You must have been recognized in Koltis. The smugglers employ mages capable of sendings, so now everyone knows where you’re going.”

“What do you propose?”

“A diversion. I will disguise myself as you and trigger the ambush. We will draw the pursuers.”

“And they will buy it?”

“I am an infiltrator, outlander. I could act like you and your own mother wouldn’t know.”

Viv huffed.

“Will they buy it if I appear without Solfis or Marruk?”

“Overestimating an opponent is just as foolish as underestimating one. They have your portrait, not a detailed plan of your traveling arrangements. I saw it on the table.”

“How do they have a portrait anyway?”

“Did you hide in Kazar every time troops walked through?”

Viv remembered a meeting in person with an Enorian officer and cursed. It looked like the man had gotten the last word after all.

“Right. Not important. We split, then what?”

The man pointed to the side of the road. A dry riverbed angled to their left. It was filled with rocks and branches.

“You take four horses and go that way. Follow the riverbed for as long as you can and keep heading north. Eventually, you’ll reach the edge of Lake Hydon, which marks the limit between northern Enoria and Kark territory. Then it’s just a matter of finding a ship to bring you downstream to Helock.”

“Yeah…”

She really just wanted to get to Helock. Just that.

“We are close to the Northern Deadshield Woods. So long as you keep out of the way and avoid villages, you will be fine.”

Viv recalled that no one had bothered her until she got into Koltis. Then the proverb had hit the fan.

“Alright. Maybe. We’ll do that.”

“Don’t slow down until tonight and if you find a river, use it to hide your tracks.”

“Fine.”

The blade leader nodded once.

“Now give me your cloak.”

“What? Why?”

“So I can impersonate you, Outlander. I have lost a friend and now I may lose more protecting you because I was ordered to do so. Please do not test my patience any further.”

“Fine, fine. And good luck to you.”

“And the same to you, outlander. May Enttiku watch over your path.”

Kind of weird to wish someone the attention of the God of Death but it didn’t feel malicious and who the fuck cared anyway? Viv dismounted and guided her mountain horse through the difficult terrain of the riverbed. They heard an explosion behind but never stopped. They kept going until nightfall.

“There is a large pine here. We can probably sleep under it.”

That night, they set camp in silence and slept immediately after setting alarms. They departed at dawn, still groggy. The happiness of the earlier days of travel had disappeared now that Viv knew she was actively hunted. Every shadow carried danger. They crossed a small path and she had to look both ways before crossing instead of just following it like a normal traveler. Marruk even stopped to hide their tracks.

They traveled like that for two days, making slow progress. Eventually, they found and followed a small trail going in the right direction, barely more than a beast path. In the late afternoon, they heard a shout in the distance. Someone was loudly calling for help.

“I just want to get to Helock,” Viv mumbled, “Nothing more. No pursuit. No mad dash. No distraction.”

But she hurried anyway. The horses trotted onto an overgrown clearing where the burnt husk of a farm rested. A man was desperately climbing a dead tree, screaming for help as he went and for good reasons. A monster had decided to turn him into lunch. It was, to Viv’s dismay, a giant spider. Huge. Hairy. Many-eyed and many-legged. It deftly jumped aside to avoid a heavy stone.

“Jesus.”

//A forest spider, Your Grace.

//They live in large colonies.

“Please no. Purge net!”

The first attack went a little wide because of the icky factor messing with Viv’s aim. The second went wide as well because the sight of severed, giant legs bleeding yellow ichor had sent Viv in panic despite her high willpower. The third one missed because the spider was jumping on her with the speed and grace of a cheetah on steroids. The last one missed again because Marruk had slammed the flying spider down with a ghastly crack of broken chitin.

“Nooooo…” Viv lamented to herself. The man crashed down the tree as soon as he spotted his saviors. He was young and suntanned with a solid build and a wide face, which gave him a slight caveman feel, although his eyes shone with intelligence.

“Oh, you are sent by Enttiku himself, great ones. Please, please help us! Our village is under attack! No one will answer our call! I beseech you, if you do not help us then we are all doomed.”

Viv spared one glance at the pulped giant tarantula, bent forward and screamed into her mount’s mane.

She just wanted to get to Helock.
