The now much larger slime writhed and twisted for a few moments, as the fluid within merged, and then it released a large cloud of mana, in what looked remarkably like a magical burp before Naia slowly began to shrink back down to her normal size once again.

“Thank you, Aliandra,” Naia said, her accent and language suddenly much better than before.

“You can speak better now?”

“New slimes give me more intelligence,” Naia explained.

“Can I see it?” Ali asked. Naia clearly had some skills similar to her own, and Ali was curious to see her summoning magic. Her class must be rather incredible – Ali would love to have a skill that increased her intelligence every time she learned a new variant. But she supposed Naia’s was restricted to slimes and oozes, and therefore having more potency might be a way to offset the limitations.

Naia extruded a thick pseudopod and slowly expanded the end of it into a growing bulb. Within the blue ooze of the bulb, Ali witnessed a remarkable sight. A kernel of yellow began to form, glowing with the unmistakable mana signature of light affinity. As Naia’s mana flowed through the extruded growing bulb within her body, it expanded further and further, taking on more and more of the characteristics of the Luminous Slime she had just consumed. When the bulb was about the same size as Naia’s main body, the connecting pseudopod suddenly constricted, and then severed, leaving the bulb separate beside her. Naia’s body reformed into her slightly flattened blue sphere, wobbling slightly, but the glowing yellow ball of slime continued to expand.

Luminous Slime – Ooze – level 18 (Light)

“Wow! That’s amazing!” Ali had expected a spell or some kind of magic, similar to her own Grimoire, filled with runes and summoning. But Naia had simply turned part of her own body into the Luminous Slime and separated, forming the new slime from within herself. It was a summoning magic she would never have imagined, and yet entirely appropriate for a Slime summoner like Naia.

She only needed one to learn it…

“It’s pretty,” Naia said. The little blue slime was circling her new creation, examining it carefully, touching it, poking it. Her obvious excitement and joy went a long way to alleviating Ali’s guilt over having just given a dungeon a new monster.

“I have one more,” Ali told her, making the decision easily. If Naia got an intelligence increase from learning new slime variants, then sharing even her low-level Toxic Slime would probably be a huge help for her.

Naia stopped caressing her new Luminous Slime and quivered expectantly as Ali used her Grimoire to summon a level two Toxic Slime.

“You can have this one too,” Ali encouraged, pushing the slime forward toward Naia when she didn’t immediately respond. “Be careful though, it’s poisonous.”

“Slime is immune,” Naia said. As soon as Ali permitted, Naia’s body flowed, reaching and grabbing until the nasty-looking greenish-brown Toxic Slime was fully ingested. Through the semi-transparent blue membrane, Ali was treated to the clear view of Naia’s magic deconstructing the second slime, just as quickly as the first. In just a few minutes, Naia had finished her meal and had split off two brand new Toxic Slimes of her own.

“Aliandra, why are you helping me?” Naia asked. “Nobody ever helps me. Are you going to kill me?”

“No, I’m not going to kill you.” It was amazing how much her language suddenly improved after just having consumed another slime. But the poor creature was still terribly paranoid about being killed. “And it’s just fair, I learned your Scalding Slime, Brine Ooze, and Stinging Jelly. I think it’s fair to give you my slimes. I’m just amazed you found something as powerful as the Scalding Slime in here.”

“I evolved that one,” Naia said, a hint of pride in her voice. “I put Brine Oozes in the steam vents for a week. Lots of them died, but I can evolve slimes… sometimes.”

“That’s clever,” Ali answered. In truth Naia’s admission was remarkable. The ability to evolve new monsters seemed incredibly powerful, even if she was restricted to just slimes and oozes. If Naia ever got out of here, she might become a terrifyingly powerful force.

And yet…

“Naia, what do you want?”

“You go. Leave without killing me.” But Ali couldn’t miss the little pseudopod that reached for the black polished stone wall behind her.

“Would you like to be friends?” Ali asked, walking over to the wall, finally committing to the terrifying, forbidden thought that had been searing a hole in her heart since seeing the wrenching despair Naia had facing the impenetrable wall of black stone.

And nobody ever helps you because you’re a dungeon. I hope this isn’t a terrible mistake, but I can’t just leave you here in their prison for another hundred years. I just can’t. Even if you’re a dungeon.

“Friends?”

Ali studied the wall closely, reaching her hand out to rest on its smooth polished surface and using Identify.

Aether-Fused Obsidian – level 31 (Earth)

No wonder Naia can’t get through. It was some form of magically imbued stone – and higher level than Naia’s class.

“Yes, friends. Help each other out and have chats now and then. Stuff like that.” Ali summoned her mana, activating her Deconstruction against the wall.

As soon as her magic activated, Naia froze, her membrane quivering rapidly. Ali pushed her magic harder into the resistant, incredibly dense rock, feeling how her spell was ripping at the very fabric of the stone, tearing it apart, and converting it into mana. She couldn’t imagine anything short of her potent deconstruction magic that would be able to destroy the mana-imbued stone.

Variant: Aether-Fused Obsidian added to Imprint: Stone.

It took longer than she normally needed, and a surprisingly large amount of mana for a spell that was typically exceptionally cheap, but suddenly the black polished surface exploded outward in a cascade of mana, leaving a perfectly round hole about half a meter wide leading to the darkness and unknown beyond. The tiny cave was suddenly filled with the roar of an unseen waterfall from the other side, and a gust of cold, damp air buffeted Ali’s face, blowing the floating motes of mana across the cave.

Ali turned to the quivering slime. “Well, shall we see what’s on the other side?”
