“Between you and me, Alrric, I gave the…person the ring because I thought she needed it. If she activated it in Invrisil, I doubt it was much use. But I assume she lived. If it had been Pallass, though…or Liscor? Well, Liscor might be too remote for the full effect. Even so.”
Alrric didn’t know what the rings did, but he was aware they had powers beyond just sending an alarm.
“I assume it would cause an incident?”
“Possibly a massive one. Better than letting her die. And besides—it is Pallass. No great loss if she turns the city on its head. But she’s not a bride-to-be. Does no one recall that giving someone the ring is a mark of respect as well as nuptials? ”
The Wall Lord shook his head. He sat there, for a second. And Alrric saw him sigh.
“What a waste of energy and time, Alrric. We have more important things to do. More important foes…”
The Antinium. The Wall Lord had always hated them. But his time in Liscor seemed to have turned that hate into an obsession. He looked tired. Alrric paused.
“Navine won’t get help from me, Ilvriss.”
“Thank you. It doesn’t matter. Navine’s no match for sheer insanity.”
That curious statement wasn’t followed by an explanation. Ilvriss sat up after a moment. The [Administrator] knew he was being watched, but he pretended to be working.
“Out of curiosity, Alrric? Why have you stuck with my organization so long? I know Gnolls change jobs often if they dislike working with a particular company. I can’t imagine I was the easiest to work with.”
“Then or now?”
The Wall Lord laughed.
“Fair enough. But I was far more…critical a while back. As I recall, when I had the old [Administrator] fired for incompetence, Tasilt pointed me to you.”
Alrric remembered that too. He’d been working for another Wall Lord and been very unhappy at being the ‘incompetent Gnoll’. Ilvriss glanced at him.
“You recall that Navine bid for you? Not just to spite me; she needed a good second-in-command. And she nearly won the bid. Why did you go with me in the end? She was far more pro-Gnoll than I was at that time.”
The Gnoll smiled.
“Funny. You don’t know, Wall Lord?”
“No.”
The Drake leaned forwards on his knees. Alrric put his papers aside.
“I recall the moment vividly. I was approached by the both of you. You two began bidding over my salary, incentives—but when it came down to it, you two were fairly matched in what you were willing to offer. In the end, there were two bids. And your sister, Wall Lady Navine, offered me 500 gold per year less than you. She believed her record and reputation for respect for Gnolls would bridge the gap.”
The Wall Lord’s eyes sharpened.
“I assume you didn’t think so.”
Alrric smiled.
“I calculated that the difference in respect between you two—as a monetary figure—was five hundred gold, Wall Lord. Respect is a number, not an idea. One of you valued me higher, and that’s what I wanted. Not words.”
Ilvriss grinned.
“Navine’s loss is my gain. Let her investigate. I suppose if Brilm and the others are distracted it’s fine. It’s just…”
He sat there, blankly, not finishing his sentence. Alrric was so concerned he stopped his paperwork.
“Have you had enough to eat, Ilvriss? You’re looking—wan.”
“I might have escaped my mother at breakfast. It’s not been an easy time of it, Alrric.”
The Wall Lord mumbled. The Gnoll waited.
“Do you have a moment, Alrric? I’ll make something to eat. I’d like to talk over something with you.”
“Of course.”
Ilvriss, cook? It was rare, but the headquarters had a mess room. Josial was there, chatting with a female Gnoll. Both fled as Alrric and Ilvriss came in.
“I need dried corn kernels. I’m sure they have some. Feed for chickens or whatnot. But I asked them to put some here. To entertain Brilm. Here. I’ve seen it done. You put a pot, fill it with a bit of oil and…”
Alrric watched as Ilvriss covered the lid and let the magical rune glow. Soon, there was a pop. The Gnoll jumped.
“Where did you learn this, Wall Lord?”
“Liscor. It was entertaining. Alrric, I miss that city. I must confess. I’ve been thinking of returning some days.”
The Wall Lord sat there as he and Alrric talked. The Gnoll gave him an incredulous look.
“Why? Are you telling me Ilvriss, the Wall Lord of Salazsar, wants to go to Liscor?”
The Drake nodded.
“That’s right. Liscor lacks for…well, all kinds of amenities. It’s a disgusting place, especially after the rains and dangerous. But what it had, Alrric, was—this. As an analogy, I mean.”
He gestured towards the pot. Alrric eyed it.
“…Novelty?”
“That. But I mean to say—things moved faster in Liscor, Alrric. And they still took months to play out. But I saw levels rising faster than anywhere but a battlefield. Bah, I misspeak; Liscor was a battlefield, numerous times!”
Ilvriss turned to the pot. He checked it—half a dozen popcorn kernels nearly hit him in the face. The Drake covered the lid as he dodged.
“Like that. I come back to Salazsar and everything feels slow. Complacent. Tradition maintains the order, Alrric. But we must change.”
“Who are you and what did you do with Ilvriss?”
The Wall Lord didn’t laugh as hard at that as Alrric expected. He gestured towards the pot.
“We need that. Pressure. And the kind of people who thrive under it. We need innovation. New leaders, be they Drake or Gnoll who can lead us forwards. Make things better, not traditional.”
The Gnoll’s ears perked up.
“I recall you saying that good education and breeding were what a proper leader needed, Wall Lord.”
The Drake made an expression as if the popcorn were the sourest of plums. He popped one of the fresh ones into his mouth and chewed as he took the pot off the burner.
“I recall that as well. Hm, it tastes done. Try some.”
Alrric took a puffy kernel gingerly and chewed it. He saw Ilvriss watching him.
“How about it?”
“Hm. Bland, but palatable.”
Alrric’s gaze flicked towards Ilvriss. The Wall Lord smiled.
“Don’t spare your true thoughts. It’s meant to be accompanied. With salt, butter…edible yeast for some reason.”
“Why?”
“I have no idea. It’s a Human tradition. Let’s spare the yeast for now.”
The two retired to Alrric’s office, eating the popcorn, now more edible. Alrric considered it was a great snack.
“This comes from Liscor?”
“As I said, Alrric. The city felt alive. I can’t just go back to running the company and growing the family fortune. I want this task force to succeed. We have a base of [Warriors]. Now, I want commanders. True elites. The kind that can stand toe-to-toe with even the King of Destruction’s Rustängmarder, for instance.”
Ilvriss named one of the most effective infantry forces in the world. Alrric frowned.
“I’m not a [Commander], Ilvriss. Can’t your Captain Shieldscale lead…?”
“She’s a [Captain]. Not even close, Alrric. I want genius. I met a young [Strategist] in Liscor. He was a [Tactician]—but he became a [Strategist]. I want about a hundred of him, in every class. Or failing that, one Zel Shivertail.”
The Gnoll was quiet as he thought.
“You can always hire [Mercenaries]. Baleros has many companies who’d travel here.”
“[Mercenaries] can always be rebought, Alrric. I want trustworthy Gnolls and Drakes.”
“True. Well then. You’ll have to poach them from other cities.”
“If I manage that, it means they can be bought. The best person to have is someone who can’t be bought. A hero from another city. But how do you get them?”
Ilvriss was struggling with the eternal woe of every commander, or corporate boss. How did you get the best? Alrric thought about it.
“There’s an aphorism among the corporate, Ilvriss: ‘If you have time, train ‘em. If you don’t, buy ‘em. But first, find them.’ I think you’re not seeing the problem for what it is. If you need people you can trust—you’re too narrow.”
The Wall Lord looked up sharply.
“Are there other groups I haven’t considered in my search, Alrric?”
“I can think of two. The first is Gnoll tribes. They might not be the most eager, but they will be loyal. Gnolls value that. Trust me.”
Ilvriss hesitated. But since this was the new Ilvriss, he didn’t dismiss that out of hand.
“…Are there good warriors among the Gnolls, Alrric?”
The [Administrator] shrugged.
“As many as Drakes. Have you heard about the Woven Bladegrass Tribe?”
“Didn’t they clash with several Drake cities?”
“Exactly. There are high-level Gnolls in every tribe. That doubles your search radius.”
“Hm. Well, I’ll consider it. But how do I get them?”
“Offer them what they want.”
The Gnoll realized he might be going too far. But Ilvriss waited.
“What do they want, Alrric?”
“Their own space. Give them permanent rights to land around Salazsar—or a floor—and you could get an entire tribe. The plains are large, but the tribes always fight over space. Too much Drake land.”
“Hm. And the Meeting of Tribes is coming up. You have…good points, Alrric. Incidentally, are you going to take a leave? I know we lose a lot of good Gnolls, like Chief Miner Ikrr…”
“Pass. I’m a City Gnoll.”
The lie was so casual these days. Ilvriss nodded distractedly and fiddled with a ring.
“Yes, yes. Well—what’s the second group I could draw from, Alrric?”
He glanced sharply at the Gnoll. The [Administrator] smiled.
“Rhir.”
The Wall Lord blinked.
“Rhir? Why in the—oh. Our detachments.”
“We send them there to fight Demons. They come back chewed on. But if you want combat-ready warriors and leaders—pull them from Rhir.”
“They’re always thought of as radicals. The ones who want to reinforce Rhir. Human-lovers. But that’s a foolish view. Dead gods, you’re right. That’s talent.”
Ilvriss stood up. He began to pace back and forth. Alrric felt pleased with himself. When Ilvriss stopped, he nodded. And his eyes were alight again.
“Thank you, Alrric. The Gnoll perspective is more useful.”
“You mean, the [Administrator]’s perspective, Wall Lord. Should I make inquiries?”
“No, I will. You’re overworked as it is. And in fact—I think I do have one piece of work for you that’s actually in your job description. I want to put some money into two new projects.”
Did he want to try smelting the Adamantium here? That was Alrric’s first thought. He leaned forwards, already ready to appraise and if necessary, veto the idea.
“Give me the summary.”
Ilvriss produced something and placed it on the desk. It was…a crystal. Fine quartz, yellowed, semi-translucent. Not the best, but not bad. Alrric blinked at it.
“Do you know what this is, Alrric?”
“One of the song-crystals? My daughter has one. She begged me to buy it for her.”
And it had been pricey. Alrric saw Ilvriss nod.
“I’m of a mind to invest in it, Alrric. This [Singer] uses crystals for her song recordings. I’m certain they come by way of Salazsar, as well as other mines.”
He wanted to invest in a Human? Alrric was so stunned he nearly didn’t reply at first.
“How, Wall Lord? Are you certain?”
“It’s good music. Also—Brilm put me onto it.”
Ilvriss tapped the crystal. He looked at Alrric.
“Offer her a complete discount. For a percentage of her sales profits. We can even manufacture by way of Fissival if we have the recordings. If she’s worried, have a signatory via Wistram confirm the deal magically. But make the offer, Alrric.”
The [Administrator]’s mind raced. It was a good idea. His daughter had told him how exciting and valuable the crystals were among her peers. His wife also wanted one—she wanted eight, actually. If they could get on the ground floor of this, not only could it be massively lucrative, he might not have to bankrupt himself. Points with his family also counted.
“I can back that without worry, Ilvriss. I’ll make an offer. But are you sure? Dealing with Terandria…”
“I’m already marrying a Minotauress. I think it’s fine, Alrric. I believe this is only the beginning of the Singer of Terandria’s career. So yes, I am investing in a Human enterprise. Brilm isn’t the only one who can do it. Or Tasilt, for that matter. Now, that’s project one. For project two…have you heard of Liscor’s development project?”
Alrric kept abreast of lots of news. He thought and his mind produced the information. [Quick Recollection]. And [Compartmentalized Knowledge]. A useful two Skills for anyone overburdened by knowledge.
“Ah, yes. They were working on expanding the city, weren’t they?”
“An ambitious project. I’ve kept an eye on it. But I’ve learned that to fund development—along with the money each Walled City is giving—the city is allowing its landowners to buy into the city.”
“Ah. To fund their project? Wise.”
Alrric saw Ilvriss nod. The Wall Lord drummed his claws on the desk and then looked at his second.
“Make them an offer. Eighty thousand gold pieces for my area of development. And if you obtain the land—start developing it.”
“Into what? Ilvriss! What do we need land in Liscor for?”
“I don’t know. A second headquarters? The High Passes can be mined! But do it. And spread the word.”
The Gnoll bit back his complaints. Ilvriss gave him a meaningful look. Alrric sat back.
“…How widely?”
“Enough to make Navine wonder if I’m going to make it my summer home for my Human wife.”
The two looked at each other. Then they started laughing. Alrric nodded.
“I can do that. I’ll develop it—at least it might be profitable as a residential district. Will there be anything else?”
Ilvriss was shaking his head. The spark was back in him and he was ready to work. He strode for the door, and then halted. A thought had occurred to him.
“Alrric. I had Tasilt over last week. I was meaning to do that. It occurs to me. I’ve never inquired after your family.”
The Gnoll’s jovial mood turned frozen. As it always did when someone brought it up. He shook his head cautiously.
“I—you sent a gift when my daughter received her first class. And we appreciate the birthday gifts, Wall Lord.”
“Yes. Well, that’s standard. You have one daughter, and a wife?”
“Yes. My daughter’s fifteen. Why?”
“Would you care to dine with me at my estates? Say, tonight?”
The Wall Lord caught Alrric’s expression.
“Just a thought. I’ve never made the invitation.”
No, and it was one of the reasons why he’d gone with Ilvriss over Navine. The Gnoll cursed. But there was nothing for it. He smiled.
“Of course. I—we would be delighted to.”
“Excellent. Please have Josial bear any particular favorite dishes to my estates. Tonight, then.”
