“I can’t just fire them.”
“That’s—”
Alrric held up a paw.
“If I did, they’d have half the Drakes working with them protesting. Chief Miners Yesh and Nisshail both have contracts that end this quarter. I promise you, they won’t be renewed.”
“That’s not good enough! Drag them in and ask them whether they said those things under truth spell!”
Ikrr growled. Alrric nearly growled back.
“Even if I did, Drakes shout the same at their underlings.”
“It’s not the same.”
“I know. But if I fire them now, the other Drake [Chief Miners] will call it favoritism by species.”
“As opposed to letting them kick us around? So you’re doing nothing, is that it?”
“You’re not listening to me—”
The [Chief Miner] was on his feet.
“I came to you as a fellow Gnoll! I should have known you City Gnolls don’t listen. You think I’m the only one? We’ve had enough—”
“Sit down!”
The [Administrator] thundered. Ikrr hesitated—but he slowly sat.
Every combed hair had gone up on Alrric’s body. It was going to take copious combing. He growled, but it had produced an effect. Ikrr waited as Alrric looked at him.
“I do not take sides, Chief Miner Ikrr. And before you say anything, yes. I know what it’s like working under Drakes like that. I also believe you. You think I’ve never had those kinds of shifts?”
“You’re not a [Miner]. You’re a City Gnoll. How are we supposed to believe you have our backs?”
Alrric slapped the desk.
“City Gnoll? As opposed to what? A Plains Gnoll? What difference does it make? Listen to me, you idiot. If you’d asked the older Gnolls, they would have told you.”
He jabbed a thumb at his chest.
“I worked in the mines since I was twelve, Ikrr, and I lied about my age to get in a crew. I went from there to my desk at the top of a tower. If the ‘crews’ have something to say about me, they can say it to my face and I’ll teach them a lesson about who’s a better miner and fighter.”
He waited, tense. Angry. Ikrr eyed him. But he didn’t take the bait. Instead, he just settled deeper into the chair.
“Spoken like a Drake, sir. A Gnoll would prove it without smacking us furbags around.”
That stung. Alrric’s eyes narrowed.
“I’m not about to fire two Drakes, no matter how credible the claims are, Ikrr. There are more Drakes than not who resent how many Gnolls are employed here. My job is to prevent fights and protests.”
“By stepping on us?”
“By being tactful. Listen. Those two won’t be fired. But their contracts will not be renewed. And in the meantime—they’ll be assigned to all-Drake crews. I’ll see to it their shifts don’t overlap with Gnoll crews.”
Ikrr’s fur settled down a bit. His ears also lifted and Alrric would have ventured a guess that his tail was doing the same. Alrric himself showed no visible signs; it was a trick he’d learned.
“That…could work. Yes. We’d be happy with that, Administrator.”
“Good. In that case, I’ll see to it. And both Chiefs Yesh and Nisshail will receive a private reprimand. I don’t want you or the crews rubbing it in. Drop it.”
A tighter nod. Time to bring in the sweetener. Alrric reached into his bag of holding and produced something.
“Now, this is for your crew, and all the crews who’ve lodged this joint complaint. [Earmarked Funds – Recompensation].”
He drew from something. The bag of holding was just for show. But if Alrric had reached for empty air, he still would have produced the fat, gold coins. They did not come from nowhere, of course. But they were his to play with.
“What’s that?”
Ikrr jerked at the small pile of gold. Alrric sat back.
“A monetary Skill. Haven’t you ever seen one? Take this gold and buy all the crews a night out in the city. A big one.”
“But that’s—that’s—”
It was a lot of gold. Ilvriss paid well, and a [Chief Miner] earned a lot, but Ikrr stared at the pile of gold coins. Alrric glanced at him.
“It’s project-dependent, Ikrr. Unable to be spent unless it’s used in certain ways. I generate it with enough profits by the company itself. I can’t increase your pay with it. A night on the town.”
“Of—of course, Administrator.”
Alrric nodded, smiling tightly. He had no doubt that Ikrr, well-meaning as he might be, would have been tempted to just spread around the wealth rather than use it on a night on the town, and kept a percentage himself.
“Tell the crews that the matter’s settled. Remember—not another word.”
“Thank you, Administrator.”
The Gnoll relaxed. And when he stood and Alrric grasped his paw, he looked more respectful. When he was gone, the money hidden in his belt pouch, Alrric sighed.
“What a mess. Those Drake idiots.”
Most of his job had been to listen to the Chief Miner vent his understandable fury. Alrric himself wouldn’t have hesitated to fire the two Drakes for his part, but it would breed resentment. So he waited a beat to calm down, and then opened the door to the smaller office.
“Get me Coordinator Calrida please.”
 
—-
 
[Coordinator] was a rank below [Administrator]. In theory, Alrric could have left the entire job to Calrida, his subordinate. But he wanted his face and thus authority known at the ground level, rather than being the top-floor’s faceless orders. No one respected that.
Besides which—Calrida was a Drake. So Alrric called for her. Because she was a Drake.
Wall Lord Ilvriss was a Drake. But he’d hired Alrric, a Gnoll, to manage his company. A lot of Drakes didn’t like that. Of course, the Gnolls did which was why they worked hard for the company and preferred Ilvriss’ employment over more lucrative offers when the job market was bullish.
But Drakes didn’t like reporting to a Gnoll. Some, like Josial, didn’t mind, but there were a lot for whom Alrric was intolerable. And you couldn’t fire all of them and replace them with Gnolls.
…Well, Alrric had considered it, but Ilvriss would object. So he’d done what Ikrr wouldn’t have thought of, and what you needed to succeed in running a company like this. He’d compromised.
Calrida was the only Drake willing to work directly under Alrric. A female Drake willing to be his liaison to troublesome Drakes. Alrric outlined the situation.
“Ikrr’s taken care of. I want these two Chief Miners on alternate shifts, working with Drake teams.”
“That will take some doing, boss.”
“Then do it. I don’t care if it messes with their schedules. They’re not coming back.”
The Gnoll experienced a bit of vicarious joy at that; Ilvriss’ company was a good one. Calrida sighed.
“I’ll do it today. Any chance of something to sweeten their moods?”
“…I can walk behind the stables and dig something up.”
She sighed again. But Alrric paid her to deal with this kind of thing and paid her well, so she nodded and left. Alrric waited there a beat.
This wasn’t an uncommon job of his. But Ikrr had rankled him a bit with that jab about showing his background to the other Gnolls.
“I haven’t been in the shafts for a while. Hrr.”
The Gnoll drummed his fingers on the desk. He came to a quick decision. Tomorrow. Until then, he had to deal with hiring the [Miners]. He rose, and checked himself. Then his eyes narrowed. His pulse raced.
“Close.”
When had that happened? The Gnoll caught something in the hand-mirror he produced. Ikrr hadn’t noticed, nor Calrida. At least, they hadn’t shown it. Sweating, Alrric reached for a vial in his bag of holding. One quick application and—he waited a bit for it to dry. Then, satisfied, he left the office.
He had to be very careful. Slip ups like that could cost him…everything.
 
—-
 
“Miners. Thank you for coming after a hard day of work.”
Later, Alrric addressed a crowd. Mostly split between Drakes and Gnolls—which was rare for a company in Salazar. In terms of gender, far more male than female—a 2-1 ratio. And age?
…Closer to thirties, with variations older or younger, but few as old as forty. Each one was tired, having come off a long mining shift. They had breaks of course, but they would trek into the mines that stretched into Salazsar’s mountain and exploit a seam, working on a shaft for hours in turns.
It was hot work. Dangerous work. Alrric knew from experience that cave-ins, magical gemstones with unpredictable effects, monster nests, as well as any number of other concerns plagued the crews of [Miners].
However, the rewards were valuable gems, ore, and any number of other materials from Salazsar’s mountain. It was unique in that it didn’t run out of goods for the [Miners] to find. Allegedly, some extremely high-level [Geomancer] had cast a spell which had concentrated the wealth of millennia into the mountain when the Walled City had been made. A grand ritual which would ensure prosperity for generations to come.
Well, another generation now stood in one of the ready-rooms for the mining crews. Usually it was reserved for an adventurer team, ready to go address a monster attack, or [Healers], or the various other classes that enabled mining.
Alrric had reserved it for 5th shift as they trudged back upwards, towards the main areas of the Walled City. He knew they were sweaty, tired, and wanted nothing more than to rest, not endure a lecture from ‘the bosses’. So the first thing he did was open a box.
“I’m aware I’m cutting into your time. Rest assured—this is marked as working hours. And this is a compliment. Take one, please.”
He went around the group of twenty or so and the [Miners] blinked. Expensive puffers, the very same that had nearly been purloined by the [Cargomaster], were sitting in the case Alrric was passing around.
He began handing out cigars from the glossy wood case. The [Miners] eyed the expensive puffers. Some lit up at once, with spell or borrowing fire from the candle on the desk for that very reason.
Alrric saw a few of them surreptitiously pocket theirs. He made no comment. That would be a nice bonus on a [Miner]’s salary if sold. Besides, the free cigar was meant to impress on them there was money here, and it did.
He walked back to the front of the room and clapped his paws together. The [Miners] looked at him, in his suit and combed fur. Alrric spoke briskly.
“I won’t waste your valuable time. You’ve been asked to report to me by your [Chief Miners] because all of you have a Skill or Skills that are deemed valuable.”
He nodded to them and saw them glance at each other. Skills and classes and levels were considered private, but Drake companies in Salazsar mandated that their employees inform them of Skills—they incentivized it for recordkeeping.
In this case, all twenty [Miners] had a Skill that Ilvriss had desired and Alrric had gone down the lists of every employee in his company—and the companies of other Wall Lords and Ladies who’d provided the records. Not all were as meticulous as his, but these were pulled from every shift.
[Enhanced Strength]. [Greater Toughness]. [Piercing Swing]. [Extreme Reaction: Dodge]. That one was a passive, very useful if a rock was about to fall on your head. [Cleaving Blow]. A room-clearer if you held a pick.
But they weren’t here to mine. Not if they took his offer. Alrric produced contracts.
“No one has to sign. You have a week to mull it over. But I’m authorized to pay gold up front. For one year’s service? Twenty gold. And that’s your signing bonus. You’ll make more than any [Miner], I promise you. And you’ll be geared up.”
“Administrator, why’re we being picked? I’ve never swung a sword or axe in my life!”
A female Gnoll raised her paw. Alrric smiled.
“Don’t worry—your training will be paid for. You’re receiving top-class instruction; you won’t be thrown into a battle without months of training. Make no mistake. It will be hard. But you’ll emerge from it with gold in your pockets, combat training and experience…”
“And if we die?”
That came from lower down. Alrric realized he’d missed a half-Dwarf Human who’d come late. Not all of Salazsar was two species. He handed a cigar out.
“If you die, Mister Dwarf, your family will be awarded your pension. Or next-of-kin. You are going to be seeing action.”
“Against whom? Other Drakes? Other cities?”
The [Miners] were thinking, inspecting the contracts which Alrric had drawn up himself. The Gnoll rested his paws on the desk.
“I can’t say. You’ll know more if you accept. Just think over my offer. Don’t rush. Think. You’re not being asked to be rank-and-file [Soldiers].”
“So we’re not front-fodder?”
A Gnoll asked bluntly and the other Gnolls in the rooms looked up. Alrric bared his teeth in reply.
“Never. If that was the case, I wouldn’t have asked you.”
The other Gnolls nodded, reassured by that. That was one of the reasons Ilvriss had asked Alrric to meet with them personally. They wouldn’t have trusted Drakes. Not with how other cities used their Gnoll [Soldiers].
In the end, eight signed on. Ilvriss’ 40%, right there. And another two told Alrric they needed to think it over.
He didn’t waste time. The eight who signed up were told to report to an area under the Gemscale family’s control. They owned entire levels of Salazsar. Alrric accompanied this group.
What he found was Wall Lord Ilvriss consulting with the Watch Commander, a [Weapon Master]—a half-Elf with several bruises—Shriekblade, Captain Shieldscale, four Wall Lords and Ladies, and a [Trainer]. To be precise, a [Field Trainer], who knew how to whip recruits into shape.
“—not going to be adopting shield-walls or pikes, Watch Commander. As I informed my peers, and you’re free to do the same, I want them armed with axes. Shields, yes. But this won’t be a formation-driven force. Ah, Alrric! There you are!”
The Wall Lord looked up. The previous recruits were already being drilled by the [Weapon Master] and [Trainer]. Alrric motioned the [Miners] towards the lines and walked over.
“I don’t get it, Ilvriss. Drake formations have stood the test of time!”
That comment came from Wall Lady Messele. She was younger, but taking an interest in this task-force. Ilvriss explained.
“It’s true that we haven’t needed to change our phalanx-tactics. A wall of Drakes with pikes or spears can fight Humans well, or battalions with military discipline in battle. But those are standard [Soldiers]. Captain Shieldscale?”
She saluted.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss is correct. Low-level [Soldiers] capitalize on their ability to fight as a unit, Wall Lady. However, these recruits are hand-picked for their existing Skills.”
“[Enhanced Strength]. [Greater Toughness]—there’s no uniformity in it.”
“Correct. So they’ll fight more individually. [Warriors], not [Soldiers]. We’ll provide enchanted arms, training—they’ll be shock troopers. Meant to take down hordes of enemies.”
