“We heard you knew the work, boss. But that was something to see, yes?”
“Hah. You think Stone Starers are bad? Once they can’t see you it’s fine. Try surviving a Creler nest. Well—lucky I’m corporate and I had a magic ring or you’d be getting another [Administrator].”
The Gnoll’s back hurt, but he’d taken a potion. One of the other Gnolls, Chief Ikrr, laughed.
“True. You shouldn’t be down here, Administrator! You’re showing your age!”
“What?”
Alrric twisted. Ikrr reassured him.
“Just a bit of gray.”
Gray fur. Alrric’s features flickered. He hesitated, and then grinned.
“Oh. Well, perks of the job include fur dye. Tell anyone and I’ll have you working under Yesh.”
The others laughed at that. Alrric put his back to the wall and left as soon as possible. It meant cutting his shift short, but that was understandable. He’d made an impression.
Wall Lord Ilvriss was in a good mood after that fight. Shriekblade…wasn’t. Killing the monsters didn’t seem to have improved her temperament. She sat in a void of space, ignoring the blood and singe marks on her. Killing just was, for her. Like taking a bath.
Neither noticed how pale Alrric was under his fur. He went back to his office as Ilvriss, satisfied with the boost in productivity, congratulated the company and assigned bonuses as he deemed fit.
After he’d gotten back to his office, changed suits, and reapplied the fur dye, the nervous shakes stopped. Alrric got back to work. But—it had been close.
Things returned to a normal rhythm after that. Alrric did his work, which involved sourcing weapons for Ilvriss’ forces—he wanted all-enchanted weapons, a pain to find enough, even if you could afford it—and a buyer for the Adamantium.
Of course, negotiations would take far longer, but Wistram wanted it, Deríthal-Vel expressed an interest, and so did Roshal…Alrric politely moved their offer to the bottom of the pile. Unless they really outbid the others. For some reason, Pallass wasn’t jumping at having their Dwarf work the stuff.
Why was Esthelm making a bid? Alrric had actually had to look up the tiny city. Magnolia Reinhart and two Human [Lords] made a bid. House El—he shuffled them below Roshal.
Politics.
When Alrric went home that day, he told his wife about the incident and received a scolding. His daughter criticized him too, which was…unpleasant.
“Don’t take risks, Alrric!”
“Yeah, Dad. Don’t be stupid.”
“I have to. The [Miners] don’t respect someone who can’t swing a pickaxe.”
“If Wall Lord Ilvriss doesn’t do it, why do you have to?”
“When did you start talking back so much, young lady?”
He frowned at her as he speared a slice of meat with thick gravy. His daughter sniffed. She was getting too big, too fast. He sighed and his wife nudged him. She was at the age where she should be apprenticing, or taking a corporate class. But he didn’t want her to go into mining…
Besides. She was special. In more ways than one. He wanted something else for her. In some ways, Alrric was a typical concerned father, looking out for his offspring. It was a surprisingly universal thing—although it manifested in different ways.
 
—-
 
“The company is making excellent profits, Wall Lord Zail. Better since your son’s return.”
“It had better. My son’s placed trust in you.”
By ‘you’, he meant ‘your kind’, as in, ‘Gnolls’. And Wall Lord Zail’s glare made it clear that he felt Ilvriss had been overly generous.
Talk about concerned parents. The next day, Alrric was dealing with unexpected guests. It was another of his unusual duties. He sighed.
“Wall Lord Zail, how can I help you?”
“I…I wanted to inspect the company. It’s my family’s holdings.”
The Drake’s grip trembled on his cane. He’d snuck out of his quarters without his minders. Alrric was impressed he’d made it here. Of course, the Gnoll had already alerted the elderly Wall Lord’s minders. As always—Alrric couldn’t help but glance at the indentation on Wall Lord Zail’s head.
“I think your son would prefer your company, Wall Lord. Ah. I see he’s sent someone for you. Why don’t you check on the new task force?”
“Task force? What task force? Ilvriss didn’t say it was underway!”
Alrric winced as two Drakes came to escort Zail back. He immediately began ordering them to show him this new army in progress. But at least he was out of Alrric’s fur.
Something had happened recently. So big it completely overshadowed the Adamantium discovery, at least, for other people. The [Miners] were all abuzz over the discovery, and Alrric had already refused offers to sell the rights to the seam from three other companies. But to his displeasure, his wife had thought it small-potatoes.
“Alrric! I know it’s a big discovery, but did you see the riots on the scrying orb?”
“In Invrisil. We found Adamantium. Dear—”
“Don’t be a Drake, Alrric. Just look.”
He was still grumpy about that argument. So what about that stupid scrying orb everyone was obsessed with? Salazsar had gone through upheaval as well over the Golden Triangle incident; he’d had to issue pay in advance for several good [Miners] who’d spent unwisely. Alrric hadn’t; he didn’t trust that kind of thing.
But the fallout led to more visits. For one—Wall Lady Navine.
She was Ilvriss’ sister and his match in many ways—his opposite in many more. She strode into Alrric’s office.
“Administrator Alrric. I have to ask about the ring.”
“Wall Lady Navine. What ring?”
The female Drake gave Alrric a look that told him she didn’t buy his blank tone and expression for a second.
“You know what I’m talking about. You have Ilvriss’ confidence, Alrric. No games.”
Alrric sighed. He put his paws together as he sat at the desk. It was Ilvriss’ go-to and he knew Navine hated it.
“I’m employed by Ilvriss, Wall Lady. But that’s as far as it goes. What he does with his personal affairs is not my business.”
She glowered at him.
“In case you didn’t know, Administrator, one of our rings broadcast an emergency signal. It was Ilvriss’ ring, so all of his family were alerted. As well as the Holders of the Wall.”
She meant the heads of each family. Alrric sat up a bit. One of the rings had activated? They were the birthright of each Lord and Lady of the Walls.
Alrric didn’t know what the rings did. And he said so.
“I fail to see the importance, Wall Lady.”
“The importance is that we know where the ring activated! And if someone activated it, they were in danger, Alrric! Salazsar nearly sent a force out—but it turned out the ring had activated in Invrisil! Ilvriss’ ring!”
“I see.”
That was odd. Alrric wanted to know what it meant as much as Navine. Well—perhaps not as much as her. Her eyes were shining and her purple scales moved as she stalked back and forth.
“Who did Ilvriss give his ring to, Alrric? He had to have hinted to you.”
Alrric closed his mouth. He had a few hints, but Navine was not his boss. The Drake mused.
“It has to be a non-Drake. Or he wouldn’t hide it. A…a Gnoll? Or a Human?”
“One can’t believe Wall Lord Ilvriss would do such a thing, especially given his views.”
Ilvriss was—had been—staunchly pro-Drake. Navine frowned.
“And he had Periss! I can’t believe he would have gone to someone else so soon. Before he even came back here? But why else would that happen? I thought it was in Liscor, but Invrisil?”
“Wall Lady, I have work…”
“It can’t be a Human, right? I hear there’s a Drake in Invrisil. Some…[Actor]? That has to be it. Wait, Celum’s not far and they’re called the ‘Players of Celum’…”
Alrric itched to throw Navine out of his office, through the door or the window. She’d survive; she had enough protective gear. But she was a member of the family. He drummed his paws on the desk.
“Wall Lady. I’m not one to question Ilvriss’ decisions. But he must surely have his reasons. Say it was a…Human he gave his ring to. What then?”
She looked up sharply. The Drake blinked, and then grinned. Not without malice.
“If it was a Human? He should marry her. In fact, I should insist on it. Alrric, do you have any clues? I’d be willing to compensate you.”
Handsomely. The Gnoll thought about it for only a moment. But he didn’t have anything and loyalty was rewarded. He ushered Navine out. And then he told Josial to inform Ilvriss.
Before the Wall Lord arrived, another Wall Lord came in to talk about the issue.
Brilm was less respectful than Navine. But he was still a Wall Lord. He glared as Alrric addressed him by name.
“Can I help you, Brilm?”
It was ruder than Navine, but Alrric didn’t like the pompous Drake. Brilm adjusted his silk robes.
“I’m here on behalf of your master, Alrric.”
“Ilvriss isn’t my master, Brilm. He’s my employer.”
“Well, this is in both of your interests! Ilvriss is treading a fine line. Tell me—is it a Gnoll, or a Human or…or a Selphid he’s given the ring to?”
Why did they think he knew? The Gnoll sighed.
“I’m not married to Ilvriss.”
“Aha! But if not you, then who? Listen, Alrric. You don’t like me. I don’t like you. But Ilvriss is my friend. As a friend, I’m warning you: the other Children of the Walls are wondering what activated his rings. There are rumors.”
“I imagine so. What is the issue, Brilm?”
The Drake fussed with a box of powder. He sniffed at it and brightened. More Balerosian stuff. Alrric wished he wouldn’t sprinkle it on the carpet. The Drake was calmer after that.
“Marriage, that’s what. It worries people. Ilvriss is respected. Tasilt was always insane for marrying…”
He paused as Alrric looked at him. But Brilm wasn’t one to hold back on niceties.
“…A Gnoll. Ilvriss now? Old Zail would kill him and it would be terrible for his reputation. It might even start—nastiness.”
Infighting, assassinations, corporate espionage…Alrric had a headache just thinking about it. Brilm waved a claw.
“However—there’s an easy solution.”
Alrric was curious despite himself. He leaned forwards.
“Enlighten me?”
The Wall Lord took another sniff.
“A wife is a problem. Meatbag Humans aside, a Gnoll is still better than a Selphid. Or a Garuda? Actually, a Garuda would work…now a Centauress…that would be weird. But I don’t think—”
He muttered. Alrric rolled his eyes. ‘Acceptable’ wives? Drakes. Brilm caught himself.
“Anyways, the point is that it’s all fine if Ilvriss recontextualizes it. Alrric, suggest to him, politely, that if he took a…mistress…it would be a scandal, but perfectly acceptable.”
“A mistress.”
“That’s right. Don’t give me that look! He can be single his entire life and Navine can get married, although one wonders who she’ll marry. But a mistress isn’t threatening. If he’s keeping his…Dwarf mistress in Invrisil, well, better that she’s here than worrying the others abroad. Let him know that, alright?”
“I will make a note.”
The Wall Lord nodded, clearly relieved. He paused at the door on his way out. The Drake poked his head back in and Alrric looked at him.
“Say…has Ilvriss ever talked about female Minotaurs? Half-Elves?”
 
—-
 
Alrric had a headache by the time Ilvriss arrived. The Wall Lord was not in a good mood.
“My mother nearly spat dragonbreath at me, Alrric. Please tell me you have good news.”
“I’ve been dealing with your father, your sister, Wall Lord Brilm, Wall Lord Tasilt…”
Ilvriss winced progressively more and more until Tasilt’s name came up.
“What was wrong with Tasilt?”
“Nothing. He just came by to speak. I asked how his wife was doing.”
Alrric had enjoyed that meeting. Tasilt was his favorite Wall Lord, bar none. Of course, he’d married a Gnoll. The ‘scandal’ that had nearly got him disowned. Ilvriss blinked.
“I had Tasilt over for dinner last week.”
“He mentioned that. His son—Feldir—caused a bit of a fuss, didn’t he?”
Ilvriss sighed.
“Somewhat. He’s adolescent. Trying to live up to his father, I believe.”
Alrric paused delicately.
“It must be a challenge, since his father is a Drake and Feldir’s a Gnoll.”
It was a funny thing. All the Drakes who came into Alrric’s office were like that. Ilvriss blinked as if he hadn’t considered that was the root of Feldir’s rebelliousness.
“Salazsar has had…Gnoll Wall Lords before. It is rare, but intermarriage happens.”
“When was the last time, Ilvriss? And even if it has happened, Feldir surely must have hostility from his family. It would be easier if his sister were the inheritor.”
The Wall Lord mulled it over.
“Fair point, Alrric. Well, at least he’s not the only one under scrutiny. What do the others want from me?”
The [Administrator] raised one brow.
“Apart from knowing if you’re taking your Minotauress mistress as a wife?”
It was lucky Ilvriss hadn’t been eating or drinking anything because Alrric wasn’t in the mood to hire another [Cleaner]. The Drake spluttered.
“My what?”
Alrric told him. The Wall Lord sat back, massaging his temples.
“Only Brilm. Please tell me Navine wasn’t doing anything…rash, Alrric.”
“Aside from speculation, nothing. She seemed to like the idea of you marrying a Human.”
“She would.”
Ilvriss cursed. It was public knowledge that he and Navine were rivals in more ways than one. Ilvriss was the heir and controller of the family’s power and Navine was powerful, but Zail had definitely preferred his son for inheritance. Ilvriss’ mother was on Navine’s side, though.
They were a smaller group of pro-Human, pro-peace proponents profligate in Salazsar. And a while back, Ilvriss had been profoundly disgusted by them. Navine especially.
She was in favor of peace with Humans. A radical element at odds with all that was Drake and good. A year ago, Ilvriss had been at dagger-points with his sister. Today? Ilvriss just sighed.
“Did she…have any theories?”
“None she shared with me, Ilvriss. Aside from a Human bride. You should probably be wary of her sending someone to Invrisil to find this…person and bringing them to Salazsar.”
The Gnoll watched his employer carefully. Ilvriss reacted to the suggestion with a groan and surprisingly—a laugh. He sat down, chuckling and shaking his head at the very idea.
“I’m not marrying her! Or anyone! Ancestors, that would be the last thing I need! And her? I can’t even imagine—”
He hesitated. Then he folded his arms.
“Hmf. It’d almost be worth it to see her unleashed on those two.”
Her. So it definitely was a her, and…Human? Alrric thought that was interesting. But Ilvriss dismissed the idea at once.
