Like the Antinium. Alrric shivered and saw the others doing the same. The half-Elf [Weapon Master] nodded.
“Antinium are thick. Their bodies are like thick, cheap armor. Swords and even spears don’t have enough force. Axes are the correct option, like if you were fighting undead. The Skills complement the fighters.”
He shot a glare at Shriekblade as she yawned openly. Alrric guessed from the half-Elf’s bruises that even the famed longevity of half-Elves hadn’t prepared him for a duel with a Named Adventurer. But Ilvriss seemed pleased.
“Elites, Messele. Elites. And remember—these will be the rank-and-file. This is the base upon which I want to form our task force.”
“Wouldn’t it be better to train up [Soldiers] with less levels? These…[Miners] will level slower.”
The Wall Lady looked at the [Miners], who were indeed decently high-level already. Level 15 at the lowest. Ilvriss and Wall Lord Tasilt shook their heads. Tasilt, the renegade who’d married a Gnoll looked pleased.
“It’s about combat theory, Messele. You want the most first-class of [Soldiers]? Sure, train them from childhood. But if you want fast, reliable fighters, take a bunch of [Farmers] and train them. A Level 5 [Warrior] with [Enhanced Strength] will take down a Level 15 [Soldier] in a single swing if you use him right.”
“Well—fine. But what about archers? I assume we want those. And [Mages]?”
The others laughed and Ilvriss stepped back as Tasilt explained.
“This is infantry, Messele! One step at a time!”
The Gnoll walked with Ilvriss a short ways. The Wall Lord nodded.
“Alrric, we’ve already got a good base. More than I expected.”
“Twenty gold is a lot for a [Miner]. We may come up with your two thousand soon, Ilvriss.”
“Well, let’s aim for four, then. Although that might be stretching how many we can gather.”
Alrric nodded. Even for Salazsar, finding that many [Miners] or individuals with the kinds of Skills and hiring them would be a challenge. But Ilvriss was willing to comb other cities. Ilvriss nodded to him. Alrric went back to recruiting.
Secret task forces to fight the Antinium. If he were one of the tribes, even those who came to the cities to work, like Chief Miner Ikrr, Alrric would have been secretly telling his Chieftain. Although the Gnolls had no reason to like the Antinium…
He sighed later, walking back down from his tower with the remaining cases of cigars. They’d make great gifts to his fellow Gnolls he walked with on his morning ascent. Yes…that was a funny thing.
Dealing with his fellow Gnolls was never fun for Alrric. He was a City Gnoll to them. A sellout, never mind that they were here to work as well. But how annoyed it made him when they said he didn’t understand what it was like to be a [Miner]! Well—Ilvriss had acceded to his request. Tomorrow.
The funny thing was that Ikrr was wrong. Alrric had only lied to Ikrr once.
He’d been a Plains Gnoll. And that mattered, so much.
And it didn’t at the same time. Alrric checked out after nine hours of work. His mind was taxed. He was tired. He was also seriously considering upgrading office security after the Shriekblade incident.
But therein lay one difference between him and Ilvriss. The Wall Lord was still bustling about, overseeing the new private army; the company headquarters even had overnight staffers just in case he needed assistance. Because Ilvriss’ job was his life: Wall Lord of Salazsar. Sworn protector, Son of the Walls, all that.
Alrric was different. He checked out and walked down the floors. Not all the way down; he stopped at a quite lovely district—mostly Drakes—and entered his home. Then he sighed, relaxed, and took off the stuffy suit.
He saw and heard a laughing Gnoll woman coming to meet him. His daughter had been working on something with her mother. A toga-like piece of clothing, hand-dyed for an upcoming party among Gnolls. They had some on their fur. She raced out and he caught her.
Alrric laughed too. A family Gnoll sat down for a dinner with his family. He listened to stories about education, the woes of itchy dye—and he considered himself a lucky Gnoll. He knew he was happier than his employer.
 
—-
 
The next day, Alrric had a surplus of energy. He led the way up the stairs with the other Gnolls.
“How do you have this much energy, Alrric?”
“Homemade breakfasts, Zeshi. Have a cigar.”
He still had his favors to pass out. The other Gnolls sniffed at them; some didn’t even bother lighting up. They just liked the smell, so they’d chew on theirs all day. Or address their Drake counterparts with the expensive puffers in their mouths.
But Alrric was in a good mood for another reason. He’d scheduled a bit of…fun.
It happened at around 10 AM, if you were counting by someone else’s standards. For Alrric, the shadow-clock he preferred using over a fancy magic tool was close to midday. He stood up.
“Wall Lord? It’s time.”
Ilvriss was in his office. He rose, adjusting his clothing.
“Of course. Josial? Hold down the office. Summon all the [Chief Miners] and corporate ranks below them. We’re headed for the tunnels.”
The Drake [Secretary] bobbed a nervous nod. Alrric, Ilvriss, both strode down the stairs as he sent an urgent message via speaking stone.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss and Administrator Alrric are heading down!”
The Gnoll smiled. He was checking his suit; he’d taken extra care this morning to dress up. Ilvriss glanced sidelong at him.
“You’re determined to make an impression, aren’t you, Alrric?”
“I am indeed, Ilvriss. It’s a matter of respect. Among Gnolls and Drakes.”
“Hm. Well, I’ll stay out of the way.”
It was odd for Ilvriss to ever say that. But this wasn’t his field. The Wall Lord, who was an accomplished swordfighter, scholar, buisnessDrake, leader, and all those other things—wasn’t a [Miner].
And Alrric was. The lower floors got the news about the descent of the bosses and were in a flurry to turn out. Gnolls and Drakes began to follow the march downstairs. The other towers and companies noticed the movement and entered a flurry of their own.
There was energy here. Alrric lead the way with Ilvriss. The others knew what was coming and were getting their crews in order. Of course, this was a surprise inspection of the company’s capabilities as well as…
“Wall Lord descending! Get the crews ready! Adventurer teams on standby!”
By the time they reached the Gemscale family’s shafts with the new seam ready to be exploited, there were fresh mining crews lined up. Alrric had donned protective gear; the expensive stuff like helmets designed to stop your head from imploding no matter what was dropped on it. That was a nod to his status. But he carried a pick, shovel, and his bag of holding as he walked past the crews.
“Listen up, you stone-lizards and dust-dogs! You’ve had an easy week so far, but I want all your effort today! It’s time to mine.”
Alrric bellowed at the startled crews of [Miners]. It was the same pithy language as a [Chief Miner] would use. Ilvriss stood back. The Wall Lord waited for Alrric to take his place. Then he raised a hand. His eyes glinted.
“[Productivity Spike]! All crews, to work!”
The [Miners] straightened. Alrric felt the nervous energy rush through him. He strode forwards, and a flood of personnel followed.
[Productivity Spike]. A Skill for an economic-focused [Lord]. It was one of those beautiful corporate Skills, like Alrric’s own [Earmarked Funds], for instance. It relied on organization. It took the best day the company had and ensured another day of the same level of quality. On a poor company, it was a poor Skill. But this one?
“Clear the way! Administrator coming through!”
Alrric ignored the shouting. He took his place at the ‘front’ of the mine, which was all stone. He lifted the pick and swung it into the wall. He saw stone shear away as if his enchanted pickaxe were running through butter.
“Dead Gods, Administrator! What kind of pickaxe is that and when do we get one?”
A [Miner] stared as the Gnoll calmly inspected the detritus, decided it wasn’t useful, and took another swing. He glanced at her as he set to work.
“Same as the [Chief Miners] get. This is all Skill. Try to keep up.”
He heard laughter. And the Gnoll grinned too. But then he was in motion.
Mining wasn’t a one-man, or one-Gnoll task. Not at the level Salazsar operated at. [Miners], including Alrric, widened shafts, hunting down gems or ore with Skill, intuition, or just dogged determination. Other members of the crew scrambled to remove the useless debris. Anything good went into bags of holding to be processed. More set up supports, checked existing work.
In a year, this shaft would be excavated and [Builders] and [Architects] and [Masons] would move in, to turn this into part of the city. But here, in this moment, with sweat running down his fur and dust on his suit, Alrric and the other [Miners] were moving stone with their strength and determination alone.
And oh, the stone moved.
“Administrator! I think we just hit Ancestors-damned Adamantium!”
The roar came from up the tunnel. Alrric dropped the geode he was inspecting. The other [Miners] let up cheers or redoubled their work. The Gnoll bellowed up the shaft.
“You’d better be right, Chief Miner Yesh, or I’ll bury you down here! There’s a bounty on Adamantium!”
Every [Miner] knew that. The crew and especially the [Miner] who’d uncovered the vein would receive a prize the more valuable the ore. And Adamantium? That was rare, even in Salazsar.
Alrric strode up the tunnel and followed the excited Drake. Even Ikrr was there, with other [Miners], [Appraisers]—inspecting a deep red substance mixed with rock.
“We went right through it, Administrator. But we stopped to investigate and it didn’t match the other standard metals of that consistency and color. That’s when we thought it had to be…”
The Drakes and Gnolls were milling about. Alrric’s fur lifted as he knelt. One of the [Appraisers] was muttering about quality, but was too nervous to give an official proclamation.
But Alrric had mined for years, working up the ranks. He picked up a chunk and tapped it with his pick, sniffed it, even tasted the soft ore. He looked up.
“Chief Miner Yesh? Tell your crews they just earned drinks on the company’s coin all night. This is Adamantium.”
The tunnel exploded into wild, quiet cheering. Drakes and Gnolls, forgetting the enmity that divided each other, hugged each other or celebrated for a moment. Just for a moment; they were cautious about cave-ins. But they were [Miners] in the end. And this was the mother lode.
“Get more crews over here. I want them digging in this sector! And I want the ore moved to the front of the queue! If it’s Adamantium, I want it processed today!”
“We don’t have a buyer for Adamantium! Who can process it, Administrator?”
One of the corporate Drakes followed Alrric. The Gnoll shook his head.
“Leave that to the [Negotiators]. Pallass has a Dwarf, right? Let’s see how big this vein is! Get moving!”
They weren’t [Smiths]. Or even [Smelters] or [Gemcutters]. They were [Miners]. Their job ended at finding the treasure. Let someone else find out what to do with it.
That was the good moment. The bad one came two hours later, as the [Productivity Spike] was ending—it lasted four hours. Alrric heard the shout from less than sixty feet away.
“Monster nest!”
“Back up! Back up! Call the adventurer teams in!”
Chief Miner Ikrr bellowed. The [Miners] broke off what they were doing and moved back. Not in a single rush; they had to see what it was. Alrric ran out of his area. He saw the huge, lumbering forms. A beam of light; a scream. He bellowed.
“Stone Starers! Move it!”
The [Miners] ran. The huge, eye-based stone monsters could be evaded. Something else—like Crelers or Rockmites needed different tactics.
But the angry Stone Starers, whose magical eyes were a product of the magical gemstones, advanced. Alrric saw one of the [Miners] trying to crawl away; the beam had gone through a leg.
“Get your emergency potion!”
The [Administrator] raised his pickaxe. When it came down, the midriff-high Stone Starer’s head imploded around the tip. Gray-blue blood gushed forth. The [Miner] fumbled for the quick-release potion, drank it. Alrric grabbed him.
“Go! Go!”
He whirled. Something hit him. But his protective equipment flashed. One of his rings glowed and the Stone Starer’s beam barely singed his suit. Alrric snarled. Two-handed, he brought down the pick again and another died. But there were at least eighty, coming out of a nest—
“Administrator! Run!”
The Gnoll backed up. More beams were crisscrossing the tunnel now, brighter than the safety-lanterns. He ran as they exploded chunks of the ceiling and walls, threatening a cave-in.
“Blockades set!”
A shout from above. Alrric and the [Miner] ran. The others had metal barricades, like the ones adventurers used, ready to seal the shaft.
“Not yet! The Administrator’s below!”
“Watch out! They’re coming!”
The [Miners] were shouting. Alrric felt two more beams hit his back and his ring gave out. He howled as something singed him in the back but kept running. He saw the crews waiting, ready to seal the gap—
Someone screamed. The sound came from above and the [Miners] clapped their hands to their ears or earholes. A figure leapt past Alrric as he halted, for a moment feeling primal fear. But he recognized the blur.
Shriekblade. She ran past him at the Stone Starers. Even they backed up as the Named Adventurer ran at them.
No tactics. No thought to it. She didn’t gauge the situation. She just charged and the Drake planted her dagger hilt-deep in the first Stone Starer. She tore through it and slashed into another, a whirlwind of blades.
“Keep running!”
Alrric grabbed the [Miner], who’d paused to stare. Lights flashed behind them; Shriekblade kept screaming. Alrric made it past the barricades.
“Don’t close it! Adventurer Shriekblade needs backup! Where are the teams—”
“Right here.”
A voice answered him. Wall Lord Ilvriss strode forwards with his enchanted sword, leading a team of Gold-ranks and privately-hired [Mercenaries]. They followed Shriekblade into the battle. Alrric saw one of the Gold-ranks staring down at the Named Adventurer and had a thought. He was more worried about Shriekblade than the monsters.
The [Miners] milled about, until their [Chief Miner] ordered them to move back, to clear the way for [Healers] or a retreat if necessary. Alrric walked among them; they were shaken, but not afraid.
This was what life in the shafts was like. He ignored their praise.
“Next time, run faster and I won’t have to cover for you lot.”
He growled, but smiled. One of the Gnolls looked at Alrric with new respect.
