In antiquity, the Walled Cities south of the High Passes had been constructed as a network. Not alone. Well, antiquity was a relative term.
If you looked, you could clearly find a time when the High Passes weren’t so…high. When Harpies were an indigenous race. When there were more than six Walled Cities.
But that was before Rhir had been taken and lost and taken and lost and…and certainly before the Demons and the Blighted Kingdom.
Long ago, Fissival’s teleportation network had reached every Walled City. It was based on the idea of the cities being besieged, sometimes for years. But if Oteslia grew crops and Fissival managed the magical network and Pallass supplied them and so on and so forth—you’d have linked Walled Cities who could instantly reinforce and resupply each other.
To destroy one, you’d need to have a force capable of taking on multiple armies from each Walled City—or besiege all of them at once. And good luck with that.
But Fissival’s magical teleportation network did not last. To [Historians], [Students], or just the interested, the downfall wasn’t some great event. It was just Fissival quarreling with other cities, refusing to perform maintenance regularly when the political winds shifted—until the networks broke down beyond repair.
First in Pallass, then Zeres, Manus, Oteslia…until Salazsar and closer city-states were the only ones with access to the much more limited teleportation network, which had developed flaws and errors.
There was some kind of lesson in that. But it was still history. And Fissival still did teleport stuff around. Erin Solstice’s magical door was, in fact, of little interest to Drakes compared to Humans. They’d long held what was new to her.
So—the routine was standard. The [Cargomaster] and a single worker prepared the teleportation nexus. The magical inlays in the floor, maintained by Fissival’s [Mages], had to be perfectly clean. Anything in the way might suffer…entanglement.
Now, a message via magical lodestone; cheaper than [Messages]. A five minute wait—the two Drakes relaxed. There were empty crates waiting for the packaged goods to be loaded into; when teleported they were spared packaging if possible to reduce the mana cost.
“Bulk transfer one commencing, [Cargomaster].”
The younger Drake called out. The [Cargomaster] nodded. The [Laborers], [Porters], and so on weren’t needed. He had a cushy job, overseeing the teleportation so he didn’t hurry as he waved a claw.
“Transfer one. Produce. Let’s see—”
A flash. A hum, so deep that it ran through stone and the enclosed building. The younger Drake set his teeth against the sound, and his white-blue scaled body tensed. The [Cargomaster] was used to the sound, though, and barely noticed.
“Let’s see. Pumpkins? Bah. Hm. Looks like two thousand pounds alright. We’ll compare weights.”
He noted the shipment. Pumpkins. Well, people ate them and all kinds of produce that weren’t sourced locally got shipped here. These days bulk-goods were shipped via the network. Anything expensive or living didn’t get sent. Mainly because…of the leakage.
“We might have lost some pumpkins, [Cargomaster].”
The worker anxiously pointed to a pile. It was inconceivable that Fissival’s side would have stacked the goods carelessly. But the produce had slid over; only half of a pumpkin had appeared.
“Teleportation loss. Make a note of the location and amount.”
The [Cargomaster] sighed. But this was normal. He made another note.
“Why pumpkins? [Cargomaster]?”
“They’re going to Oteslia, Pallass, and Zeres. Some big project. Not food. But Salazsar’s willing to send it on its way.”
That was trade for you. Salazsar was further west so Fissival was expediting the shipment. The [Cargomaster] waved his claw.
“Okay, bring in those lazy scale-sacks and furbags and get this cleaned up.”
The helper went trotting and after some shouting, there came the laborers. They knew the job; they loaded the pumpkins into crates and had them rolling out of the teleportation room in short order on wheeled transports. The [Cargomaster] paid no attention to that.
More transfers were coming.
“Bulk transfer two. Ink…Ancestors!”
A break in a crate as it was teleported. The spell must have smashed the crate by giving it some kind of momentum. Black ink ran across the ground.
“Get the [Cleaners] in here!”
The [Cargomaster] cursed at his helper and the workers. What a setback! It was thirty minutes before the floor was cleaned.
However, if those two minor incidents were bad, the other four teleports went flawlessly. No dropped items, nothing cut in half or lost. The [Cargomaster] sighed with relief; some days were bad where you worked overtime for hours if something went wrong.
The teleport spell could overheat something until it was practically explosive, or impart physics to the things teleported in dangerous ways. Which was why he and his assistant waited for the teleport behind an enchanted glass barrier. At least they didn’t teleport animals anymore. He’d heard stories…from his superiors.
But now he was the boss. And there were perks to the job.
For instance, he now had half a pumpkin. Which er…wasn’t that great. And if he’d wanted to, he could have saved some of the ink. However, the real find came with the last shipment.
A flash. A hum. The assistant braced, but everything was fine. This was the smallest batch, but the most expensive. The [Cargomaster] stepped around the protective barrier and eyed the neat stacks of small, lacquered boxes. They had an odor about them, but not an unpleasant one. He nodded.
“Bulk transfer complete. Eighteen hundred boxes of puffers from Titem’s port city. Whoops—seventeen hundred. Must be a glitch in the system. Again.”
The Drake bent down and selected a line of boxes to put aside. His assistant looked excited and nervous.
“A hundred, [Cargomaster]?”
“With the way the teleportation grid’s been going, we’re lucky we didn’t lose the rest. Hurry up and put them over there, you idiot.”
The two Drakes grabbed at the boxes before they summoned the transporters. They were hurrying over to a little cache near the office when someone coughed.
The sound was loud and it didn’t come from them. There was a murmur—and two Drakes appeared. The [Cargomaster] and his assistant froze.
“And there you have it, Tasilt. Alrric was right on the money.”
The first Drake was tall, distinguished. He carried a sword, enchanted armor, and he turned to his companion. The other Drake was less sharp; a family man and drinker. Nevertheless, Tasilt also looked quite good. The two were Wall Lords. And the suddenly pale [Cargomaster] stared in horror as Tasilt cricked his back.
“Did we have to wait the entire time, Ilvriss? I’m stiff!”
“We had to see the entire thing. It’s a pity, really. [Cargomaster] Dukss?”
“Wall Lord Ilvriss! I can explain. I—”
The Drake extended a sword. The [Cargomaster] froze as the enchanted blade aimed at his chest. The Wall Lord smiled as Tasilt waved an axe at the trembling apprentice.
“You are under arrest for charges of theft and corruption, Cargomaster. Don’t resist.”
The Drake thought about running. He thought about prison, penal sentences—which meant forced mining. He would lose everything. So he thought about running. But he was pretty sure he’d be stabbed through the back before he got halfway down the corridor. So he raised his claws and surrendered.
He could have been a hero or done something unpredictable. But sometimes things just went by the books.
 
—-
 
Later that day, Wall Lords Ilvriss and Tasilt were being feted as heroes of the hour for uncovering the corruption in the teleportation network. They gave modest speeches to the crowds, enjoyed the accolades of other Lords and Ladies of the Wall, accepted thanks from the Watch Commander, and were in general much the envy of their rivals and competitors.
“A neat little victory. But couldn’t you have shared it with me, Ilvriss?”
Wall Lord Brilm, more portly, jovial, was toasting Ilvriss in his tower. Ilvriss Gemscale, drinking a juice, took a gulp before replying.
“What makes you think it was a certain thing, Brilm? Tasilt and I just happened to be suspicious—”
“Don’t give me the same twaddle as in your speech, Ilvriss. You don’t ‘just’ get suspicious of our [Cargomaster]. You two had to have planned that.”
The other Drake raised his brows, looking at Ilvriss. The [Lord]’s lips quirked up.
“Well, I suppose I was tipped off. So I did Tasilt a favor. We took some invisibility potions for Tasilt—I have a ring—and waited. It wasn’t certain, but it was close.”
“How? Who told you? A conspirator? Come on, Ilvriss! I could use some popularity! Take me along next time, at least!”
The Wall Lord refused to answer, no matter how much Brilm pressed him. But it was true; this little scene had helped his already sterling reputation on multiple levels. And while he had taken credit for it, it was not his mind that had conceived of this scheme.
There was a Human saying that went ‘behind every great man is his wife’. Or something like that. There were variations, and in the Reinhart Family, it was more of a cautionary tale—better check if the wife has a poisoned dagger.
But it held true for Drakes, who had the same sentiments in large. However, Ilvriss wasn’t married. So the person behind him was a Gnoll. His name was Alrric. They weren’t married.
Look, at some point the analogy fell apart. The point was that what Ilvriss did was backed up by his second-in-command. Who saw it all and did more than people thought.
 
—-
 
Alrric Kerrfa was a Gnoll. Also, an [Administrator]. A rare class for a Gnoll, and his position as a manager of a Wall Lord’s company in Salazsar meant he was only one of two Gnolls in the entire Walled City with that kind of power.
He was quite pleased with himself, the next day. Even then, Ilvriss’ arrest of the corrupt [Cargomaster] was the talk of the city. No one mentioned Alrric, but a few people in the know gave him credit.
“So, Alrric. I don’t suppose Wall Lord Ilvriss owes anything to you?”
The question came from a female Gnoll [Consultant]. She was strolling up the steps towards the tall, shining towers of Salazsar. From the ground floors. The poorer classes lived nearest to the bottom, the [Lords] and [Ladies] in their towers.
So the Gnolls were used to the climb and those of a certain rank tended to walk together and talk as they climbed. Alrric saw the other fellow Gnolls—mostly [Consultants], [Secretaries], or [Accountants] in bureaucratic classes like his—glancing at him. They were all well-dressed. Few as well as he was; the Gnoll was wearing a custom-tailored suit, his fur was a matte chestnut; oiling one’s fur was a bit too sycophantic and it made things sticky, but extremely well-combed.
Unlike Gnoll [Miners], these Gnolls were sharp. Also—ridiculed, but not to their faces. They were the image of City Gnolls, those who worked paw-in-claw with Drakes. Traitors? Pets? Again, no one said it to their faces.
“Well, Alrric? Don’t just grin, spit it out, yes?”
One of the [Secretaries] growled. He adjusted his clothing uncomfortably; dress codes for those in the employ of Drakes were more stifling than among other Gnolls. Alrric just smiled.
“Fissival’s magical teleportation network has issues. But not as many as were reported. I noticed the discrepancy and alerted Ilvriss. That’s all.”
The other Gnolls snorted or growled.
“And you didn’t alert anyone yourself? You could have taken credit, Alrric.”
“I doubt the city would be making such a big fuss if I did, Zeshi. No, let Ilvriss take the credit. I’ll enjoy his gratitude. Which isn’t just empty words.”
The [Administrator] rubbed two furry fingers together and the others nodded. It was a universal gesture. He saw the others glancing at him enviously, admiringly—or with a difference of opinion. Not everyone liked that sentiment. But they began breaking off.
“I wish I had your job, Alrric. You’ve got a Wall Lord, a rank second to none—don’t mind the whispers.”
Zeshi, the [Consultant], saw the others leaving for lower points on other towers, crossing the zig-zagging bridges. Even this was un-Gnoll-like. They were not a species used to heights from the times of their primitive ancestry, like Drakes or Humans. Only a few walked higher, where their careers had taken them.
“I’ve been lucky, Zeshi.”
The Gnoll [Administrator] was modest. Zeshi glanced at him again.
“More than that. I don’t know how you have the time to comb your fur and look like…”
She gestured.
“I can’t get my fur to lie down. How do you manage it? Some cream, an alchemical thing?”
“Not at all. My wife and daughter help me each morning. You’ve met them, haven’t you?”
“Yes. Ah, that would do it. Well, here is my stop. If you need a good [Consultant]—I don’t think Wall Lord Helliten wants me around much longer.”
“Send me a note if you can’t find work within the week.”
The two Gnolls exchanged a cordial farewell as most began walking towards their floors. The little promise made Zeshi relax noticeably. It was a common thing, among the Gnolls in higher employment. They looked out for each other. You had to.
Alone now, Alrric summited the last flight of stairs. It kept him in good shape. When he reached the office—he was alone.
Not alone, alone. The Drake [Secretary], a young man, Josial, greeted Alrric with everything in order. And there were other employees. Five more Drakes, two Gnolls. But in this place, Alrric was the boss. He didn’t fraternize. He ran a tight ship. Desk. Whatever.
There was just one thing, though, that Zeshi had gotten wrong. Alrric was the most important Gnoll in terms of the Wall Lord’s companies, only matched by his counterpart under Wall Lord Tasilt, another ‘progressive’. But he wasn’t all-powerful. He was…second-to-one.
Wall Lord Ilvriss was waiting for him. In his office; the Gnoll checked his reports before going to see him.
“Alrric, good morning.”
“Ilvriss. I noticed the trap went off well.”
The two greeted each other. Ilvriss gestured to a chair.
“Please, sit. Is there anything new in the company I haven’t picked up on?”
It was the little things that mattered. The way Ilvriss asked, rather than told. Alrric’s use of the Wall Lord’s name sans title. It had been a delicate, difficult dance of establishing mutual respect, oh, years ago. But seven years later, coming on eight, the two were used to each other.
However. Ilvriss had changed since coming back from Liscor. And the Gnoll found the new Drake sitting across from him at his desk—entirely different in many ways. Not unwelcome, however. No, not at all.
