“Nothing to bring up at the moment, Ilvriss. I was thinking I’d call on one of your Skills for the new seam. Later this week?”
“Of course. Keep me appraised. I do have something for you, Alrric. Aside from my thanks over the teleportation scandal. Would you like instant remuneration for that, by the way? Or deferred?”
The Gnoll inclined his head. Drakes were refreshingly straightforward about that.
“I’ll take an increase to my pay at the end of the month. And a few of those cigars that would have been stolen wouldn’t go amiss.”
Ilvriss made a note.
“Done. How does…six boxes sound?”
“Fine by me.”
Another note. The two had no time to waste. Ilvriss’ company, the Gemscale family’s holdings in mining, gem processing, and more, employed thousands of Drakes and Gnolls and even a few other races in Salazsar. Ilvriss steepled his claws.
“I want you to begin recruitment for Operation Periss. Take the lists we drew up—begin making the offer. Can I rely on you? Do you need anything?”
The [Administrator] considered this. This was incidentally, not checking budgets or directing [Miners] to new places to search for gemstones, managing the refinement of said ores and gems dug up—his normal routine. This was something different. But Alrric did more than just make money for Ilvriss.
“I can do it. I’ll wait until they’re returning from their shifts. And I’ll advance the pay for those that sign up. Also—give me at least…yes…fourteen more cigar cases.”
“Done, and done. Josial!”
The Wall Lord rang a bell. The [Secretary] opened the door.
“Wall Lord?”
“Secure twenty cases of cigars for Alrric, on his desk in the hour. If you can’t get enough from the shipment, replace it from our stores.”
The Gnoll nodded. Neat as you please. The door closed; Ilvriss looked at the Gnoll.
“How many do you think you can recruit, Alrric?”
“I can only speculate. Let’s say thirty percent?”
“Hm. Try to make it forty.”
“Many have families, Ilvriss. It’s not easy to get them to sign up for more danger, even with gold.”
“Well, we shall make do. I need to consult with the [Weapon Master] and [Trainer] who are coming in today. I will be out of the office, Alrric. I leave it in your paws.”
And that was that. Alrric was used to being given command. And Ilvriss was a Wall Lord. He would pull all-nighters in the company’s headquarters at need, but Alrric knew Ilvriss was busy.
With Operation Periss. The Lords and Ladies of the Wall had voted to secretly create an elite fighting force to deal with the Antinium threat. Of course, it was top-secret, such that not even Manus or other Walled Cities knew.
Alrric knew because Ilvriss trusted him and needed him to help coordinate the affair. It was one of those things Alrric kept secret. He was good at keeping secrets. He had a few himself.
 
—-
 
Back at his desk, Alrric checked himself in the mirror. He produced a fine comb, ran it over his arm, and got to work. He had one eye on the sky; he’d be going downstairs after the morning’s paperwork was done.
But halfway through his daily inspections of figures and sums—which he could do without an abacus or other calculating device—the Gnoll had a guest.
“Enter.”
Josial entered, with a bag of holding containing the rich puffers that the nobility loved so much—straight from Baleros.
“Someone to see you, Alrric. Captain Shieldscale.”
Alrric frowned.
“Let her in.”
The Drake with bright, teal scales entered the room and hesitated for a moment as the Gnoll sat at his desk.
“Administrator Alrric?”
She did not salute, despite being a [Soldier]. Nor did Alrric rise to greet her.
“Captain Shieldscale. How may I help you? More instructions from Ilvriss?”
The Gnoll saw the female Drake’s face change. She was new to Ilvriss’ employ, and a bit uncomfortable at how he addressed the Wall Lord. She was…a mystery. Ilvriss had bodyguards, aides—but never one he’d taken into his confidence and relied on as much as this Drake.
Except for Periss. But that had been a different matter. Alrric waited, surreptitiously investigating the female Drake. He was almost certain she wasn’t Ilvriss’ lover. He would smell it—and also, know.
Half the [Gossips] wanted to know if they were entangled, or if she was the Drake who’d kept Ilvriss in Liscor for so long. But Alrric had been more than aware of Periss and Ilvriss’ romantic affairs in secret. It had happened once in his office. He’d smelled it the next day and called for a [Cleaner].
No, Captain Shieldscale wasn’t a lover. But then what? She hesitated for a second.
“I’m carrying out Wall Lord Ilvriss’ duties, Adm—Alrric.”
“Administrator Alrric, Captain Shieldscale. And I am as well. What seems to be the matter? Ilvriss has asked me to help you in any way I deem fit.”
The Gnoll was rather satisfied by the way the Drake pursed her lips at that.
“I…I’m missing one of our people. Shriekblade. They were supposed to report to me this morning, but…they’re nowhere to be found.”
Alrric’s fur stood up a tiny bit at that. He stopped nettling the Drake and sat up.
“Ah yes. Shriekblade.”
One of two Named Adventurers currently resident in Salazsar. And of the two—the more dangerous one and more unpredictable, by far. The other, a Gnoll, was steady. Akral the Adamantium. Or was it Adamantine? He lead his heavily-armed Named Team as Salazsar’s top adventurers in charge of security on a lucrative retainer for the city itself.
But Shriekblade…Shriekblade was very different. Alrric thought for a second.
“I believe Shriekblade may have wandered off, Captain Shieldscale. I can attempt to locate them.”
“Please.”
The [Captain] reddened. She wasn’t used to people lacking military discipline. Alrric rang for Josial.
“We need to find Shriekblade. Ask Street Runners to bear word of her—a four-silver reward. Tell them to check around [Alchemists] or [Healers]. I assume you checked her quarters?”
“I did.”
“Check the prison as well. She may have been arrested.”
The Drake shifted nervously. Alrric let Josial hurry out. He gestured towards the door.
“Why don’t you take a seat, Captain Shieldscale? If Shriekblade is present, I’m sure she will be found soon.”
The Drake sat. After a moment, Alrric looked up from his paperwork.
“Outside, Captain? Thank you.”
 
—-
 
As it happened, Shriekblade wasn’t found in the next hour. Captain Shieldscale went to search for the Named Adventurer herself. Alrric doubled the finder’s fee.
He went back to his paperwork. He was just about to head downstairs to meet with a [Chief Miner] when he noticed a smell in the air.
Blood. Alrric frowned. He sniffed himself. Then he looked up.
Shriekblade was holding onto the ceiling above his desk. The Gnoll leapt backwards with an oath and nearly hit the glass windows. The Drake stared down at him, like some gigantic, demented gecko.
“You were looking for me.”
She landed on his desk, as light as a cat. She stared at Alrric. The Gnoll looked for his bell.
“I was. Adventurer Shriekblade, Captain Shieldscale was looking for you—”
He reached for the bell. The female Drake twitched and he stopped.
Shriekblade, the Named Adventurer did not have a name. Or rather, she had a name. Tessa. It was just that she and everyone else preferred not to use it.
Her nickname was more appropriate anyways. Alrric had met Akral the Adamantium. He’d even shared drinks a few times, Gnoll-to-Gnoll. Akral was an adventurer through and through; his armor was powerful, and the maul he used—also adamantium—could crush a Gargoyle’s head with a single strike, but he had few quirks.
Shriekblade was all quirk. She had long, tight-clinging black silk or some other high-quality clothing. No armor. The cloth was probably enchanted, but it didn’t cover her gray-green scales perfectly. And everywhere her scales were exposed—there were scars.
Split scales, which didn’t regrow and showed scar tissue. Sword wounds, spell damage, monster injury—and cuts. Many self-inflicted.
The female Drake was younger than Alrric. A prodigy of an adventurer, they called her. She turned her head to stare at him.
“I am going to call for my secretary.”
The Gnoll slowly reached for the bell. He put his paw on it.
“Aaah!”
She screamed at him. The Gnoll nearly jumped through the enchanted glass panes. He saw Shriekblade collapse onto the desk, laughing.
For a second. Alrric rang the bell, glaring, and Josial opened the door.
“Administrator…oh.”
“Please inform Captain Shieldscale that we’ve located Shriekblade, Josial.”
“Yes, Administrator.”
The door shut hurriedly. The Drake laughed—and then abruptly, disconcertingly, stopped. She sat on the desk, and stared at Alrric.
“Is something the matter, Adventurer Shriekblade? You are on retainer.”
The Gnoll adjusted his suit and produced his comb again, mainly to hide his nerves. Shriekblade was…unpredictable. He’d been against Ilvriss hiring her, but she was a good mercenary. If you wanted to kill something, Shriekblade would do it. Everything else though—no. She had a terrible record of failure and success.
And she had been imprisoned twice for murder. Both times had been counted as self-defense, but…Alrric felt his fur standing up despite the comb’s best efforts.
“I know. I was supposed to go. But I don’t feel good.”
The Drake sat there. She shuddered. It was a full-body motion. Alrric eyed her.
“…Your potions have worn off, Shriekblade?”
“I want to visit the Healer again. But I’m out of money.”
The Drake whispered. One second she was laughing, mocking his fear of her, the next, she looked tired. Drawn.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss has provided you with several high-quality calming tonics. I have some here.”
Just in case. Alrric slowly went to a cupboard and produced a vial. Shriekblade stared at it.
“It doesn’t help. Not enough. I want the Healer. She makes me feel better. For a month. Then it’s worse.”
She meant the Healer of Tenbault, one of the most expensive and powerful sources for healing in the world. Most Gold-rank adventurers, if they were lucky, could visit her once, and perhaps cure a terrible affliction. If they were luckier, even reattach a freshly-severed limb.
But Shriekblade had visited the Healer of Tenbault many times. It seemed whatever the Healer did didn’t stick, though. Alrric knew her record.
“Why don’t you have a calming tonic, Miss Tessa—”
He was offering the uncorked bottle to her. She looked up.
“No! It doesn’t help!”
She drew her weapon, a long dagger. She slashed at Alrric so fast he only reacted to the blur as she sheathed the blade. The tonic fell onto the carpet as the enchanted glass fell down.
Alrric backed away. Shriekblade was breathing hard. She stared wide-eyed at him and then clutched her head.
“I don’t feel right. When do I get paid?”
Shakily, Alrric took a step back. Then caught himself. He was an [Administrator]. He adjusted his clothes again, and spoke.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss cannot send you to the Healer constantly, Miss Tessa. The potions do work. You’ve tried them yourself. What is wrong?”
“Everything.”
The young Drake—a girl compared to Alrric—sat there. She looked miserably around.
“I’m sorry. It’s all bad. Does Wall Lord Ilvriss have someone for me to kill yet?”
When she said that, Alrric’s concern for her turned to ice. Shriekblade asked it like she wanted to know if Ilvriss wanted his garden weeded. Killing people or monsters was all the same to her.
“Not yet.”
“Okay. Can I have a potion? I need one. I lost the others. No—I drank them.”
 
—-
 
By the time Captain Shieldscale returned at a jog, Shriekblade was calm.
“Reporting for duty, Captain. Apologies for the absence. What do I do?”
She saluted, her face blank. She’d taken three tonics, despite Alrric trying to stop her. Now—she was completely without emotion. Captain Shieldscale hesitated, but motioned towards her.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss wants you to test the [Weapon Master] coming on his or her abilities.”
“Do I kill them?”
“…No.”
“I’m going.”
She marched out of the room, a flicker. Not a [Rogue], or [Assassin], as Alrric understood it. Just…a close-quarters combat specialist. She’d seen more combat than Captain Shieldscale, four times over, despite being younger.
When she was gone, he rang for a cleaner and took a moment. Then, the Gnoll got up from his desk.
“I’m going to meet with the [Chief Miner], Josial. Hold my appointments until I get back.”
“Yes, Administrator”.
The encounter with Shriekblade had not been fun. But it was the hazard of the job—even if a new and unwelcome one. And despite her madness, Alrric would have almost preferred her to…well…
Gnolls.
 
—-
 
Chief Miner Ikrr was an angry Gnoll. He strode about the smaller office thirty levels down where Alrric had met him. Better that than making the other Gnoll climb all that way.
Besides, he had a good complaint, even if it came out in the form of growling, swearing, and pacing.
“It’s every shift! Not just one! Not just once a day—my Gnolls come to me and tell me that both of them are on their backs! My teams. Not anyone else’s, Alrric!”
“And you’re certain?”
Alrric heard the snarl, but he glowered and Ikrr stopped pacing back and forth in front of the desk. Alrric adjusted his posture, although he didn’t reach for his comb.
“Chief Miner Ikrr, when you make an assertion about a fellow Chief Miner, it is a serious matter that I and Wall Lord Ilvriss take seriously. Do you have witnesses who would testify under truth spell?”
The other Gnoll folded his arms. He didn’t have combed fur. His was unkempt, dusty; he worked side-by-side with his [Miners] at need be. He barely suppressed the growl in his voice.
“Eyewitnesses from every shift who will testify, Administrator. The other two Mining Chiefs—Yesh and Nis—they’re on us hardest.”
“Gnolls.”
“They overwork us. We get less breaks, they put us in the harder areas even if we’ve excavated better tunnels the day before—and they’re always calling my [Miners] furbags. Telling them to stop shedding. As if fur gets in the way of work!”
Alrric tapped a claw on the desk.
“Ikrr…”
“And before you say anything, I have brought it up. They deny saying it to my face, but when I’m not around I hear them saying it, or muttering it and denying it. You have to do something! Fire them or get them off our shifts!”
The Gnoll slammed his paws on the desk. Alrric rose.
“Ikrr, calm yourself!”
He looked at the door, beyond which the other [Chief Miners] of their shifts or higher-rank employees were doing paperwork, relaxing, or preparing to go to work. The door was thick, but he was conscious of Gnoll hearing.
The other Gnoll sat, glaring. Alrric sat down as well.
