And Ilvriss was gone. It was a good gesture. The kind of thing Alrric liked to see from Ilvriss. In all ways, this was an improvement. Except for the family-dinner. He began to sweat and checked his mirror.
This might be tricky.
 
—-
 
The first thing Alrric did was send a City Runner to his wife telling her to get ready. Then he took care of Ilvriss’ other request. He sent a [Message] to Liscor, inquiring about Ilvriss’ offer, and reassured them that yes, he was serious.
Then, carefully, Alrric wrote a little message on a piece of paper, and walked out of his office. His [Secretary] had already carried off the request for dinner dishes to Ilvriss’ estates. Now, Alrric handed him the message.
“Sell this to whichever Wall Lord makes the highest bid, Josial. Keep whatever you get. It’s a big investment Ilvriss is making. Top secret. I objected strenuously, but you know how the Wall Lord is. Mention how confident he was and how frustrated I was.”
The Drake brightened. He liked the perks of his job. And loyalty was rewarded all the way down.
“Eighty thousand to invest in Liscor? Wow.”
The [Administrator] winked and gave Josial the rest of the day off. Josial got to play the spying secretary, much to his delight. Alrric was sure more than one Wall Lord and Lady would follow Ilvriss’ lead, which was what the Wall Lord wanted. But why Liscor? Well, he must just like the place.
Or he wanted it as a bulwark against the Antinium. And Alrric couldn’t fault him for that. The Gnoll went back to his desk. And he began to prepare for a very fraught dinner. He pulled out the vial of fur dye and reapplied it. But that was a mistake.
He should have talked to his daughter instead.
 
—-
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss’ estates were as rich as rumored. Alrric had been there a few times, but it bore reminding: of all the Walled Cities, Salazsar was the richest by far. And so the Children of the Walls were among the richest individuals in the world.
And Drakes decided that if you had it, you didn’t just flaunt it, you rubbed other people’s faces in it. Compared to Alrric’s comfortable, somewhat plush home—well—those were actual artifacts on the walls.
“The rug’s from Chandrar. It’s hand-woven. Probably tens of thousands of threads. Stop picking at it, Sidinel!”
Alrric hissed at his daughter. He should have addressed her. How quickly they grew. His bright, loving daughter was in her rebellious phase. It felt like yesterday when she was still running about on all fours.
Now—her gaze was a bit too defiant as she sat at the table, chewing on a spicy cut of Giant Salamander steak. Alrric’s wife, Ximenes Kerrfa, was the most relaxed of the three. But she had less to hide. She was drinking the fine wine Ilvriss had provided. Ironically, she was doing it quite classily, but by instinct; Gnolls loved the smell of the bouquet and they could actually appreciate it.
“Relax, Alrric. Have some of the seafood. It’s so good. Pass the crab.”
He did so; his plate of couscous and almost raw beef of the Holden Cow—extremely expensive, delicious—was barely touched.
He was nervous. Sidinel was glowering.
“Is this plate porcelain?”
“Yes it is. Stop tapping it on the table, young lady.”
The young Gnoll opened her mouth to say something uppity when there was a sound. Wall Lord Ilvriss came striding back to the table, looking vaguely annoyed. But he smiled as he returned to his place around the intimate setting.
“Apologies, Alrric, Miss Kerrfa, Miss Sidinel. I was dealing with a problem among the staff. Adventurer Shriekblade.”
He glanced at Alrric. The Gnoll grimaced and rolled his eyes. Ximenes waved it off, laughing. Sidinel just looked at Ilvriss.
She didn’t like him. Alrric hadn’t been expecting that, but perhaps he should have. He’d complained about work enough and hadn’t he had to work overtime or deal with disasters? And Sidinel was…young.
“Wall Lord. You were telling us that my father’s ring should be upgraded to be more protective. Can’t you give him an artifact that covers all attacks? Or is that too expensive?”
Alrric tried to edge over to kick his daughter. At least she used his title. Ilvriss didn’t seem to take offense. He smiled, politely.
“As a matter of fact, Miss Sidinel—money isn’t the object. Accessibility is. Most rings are situational. I, for example, have one that protects me against physical harm if I twist it. Here.”
He showed them a large purple gemstone in his ring. Alrric eyed it.
“Shadowgloom Gem?”
“Violet Dusker. And it is quite powerful, Miss Sidinel. But specific. Even activated, it won’t protect me from magic in combat. Enchantments are difficult to make all-encompassing.”
Ilvriss corrected him. Sidinel looked at him. And to Alrric’s amazement, she tilted her head and nodded.
“I know. Physical enchantments are hardest because altering the spell to differentiate between any contact and harm is so situational. An arrow can be blocked by a simple spell, but that relies on calculating velocity and blocking anything over a certain speed. But then I could just slowly poke you with a dagger until you died. I know high-grade enchantments are hard, but what’s hard about making a ring that blocks everything?”
The Wall Lord blinked at Sidinel. Alrric swelled with pride even as he kicked his daughter and whispered ‘be polite!’.
“That’s very astute, Miss Sidinel. And you’re right. Full-protection enchantments do exist. But creating a ward that can block everything is so difficult and requires so much power that they’re simply rare, even as artifacts. You’re thinking of a Ring of Protection. We might have…one in our vaults, but even I don’t carry it for the danger of theft or loss.”
“So my father doesn’t warrant one? That’s all I wanted to know.”
Alrric’s wife spoke up before he did.
“Sidinel! I’m sorry, Ilvriss. She was worried over the Stone Starers incident.”
Ilvriss nodded, glancing at Sidinel with curiosity. He smiled apologetically at Ximenes.
“Alrric was courageous, Miss Ximenes. I assure you, we’ll upgrade his equipment.”
“I have an anti-cut ring, and an anti-spell ring. If it had been Crelers, I’d have run for it. Don’t worry, Ximenes. Ilvriss has me kitted out.”
Alrric assured his wife. The Gnoll woman nodded. And silence resumed.
But only for a moment. Ilvriss was a consummate host, and he filled the void at once.
“You’re quite knowledgeable about artifacts, Sidinel. May I ask where you were taught?”
The Gnoll teen glanced up as her parents imperceptibly froze.
“I like reading. I’m still in education.”
Salazsar offered more education via [Tutors] and [Teachers] than a lot of cities—to create the corporate bureaucracy. Sidinel was top of her class as Alrric explained. Ilvriss nodded with the polite respect of a non-parent. Then he made his first faux pas, completely by mistake.
“Sidinel is quite a striking name. It has more similarities to a Drake name than a Gnoll one.”
He must not have had many Gnoll guests. Alrric felt his smile growing pained.
“No. It isn’t. Ximenes was raised in Salazsar. A City Gnoll. We named Sidinel to match.”
Ilvriss twisted a ring on his claw.
“I see. How interesting.”
“It’s important that Sidinel’s name not be Gnollish, Wall Lord.”
Ximenes nodded to Sidinel, who’d folded her arms. Ilvriss looked blank.
“It is?”
“For her future, it is.”
The Gnoll woman met the Wall Lord’s eyes. His gaze flickered.
“I see. Ah—forgive me. I’ve been quite indiscreet. I beg your pardon.”
“At least you’re saying it. I should have a Drake-sounding name so I get hired if I become a [Secretary] or something.”
Sidinel cut up her steak. Alrric blew out his cheeks.
“I am so sorry, Ilvriss—”
“Not at all, Alrric. Tell me, Sidinel. You don’t seem to be interested in pursuing your father’s career. Or am I wrong?”
Ilvriss turned to Sidinel. She shot him a glance and Alrric closed his eyes. Sidinel was about to unload maximum snark, which was fine at their dinner table.
“I don’t see why. I’ll never rise to the top, so what’s the point?”
“Sidinel!”
Ximenes hissed at her wayward daughter. Ilvriss just raised a brow.
“Sometime later, Sidinel, when you are older, you may find work in the same company your father manages. He would be your superior. Everyone’s superior. Drake, Gnoll…”
“Except yours, Wall Lord. My father will never be your boss. So what’s the point?”
This time Alrric was ready to ground his daughter for the rest of the month. Ilvriss just sat there.
“I suppose that’s true. Pardon me. I didn’t think of it that way. If not the corporations, then, Sidinel, what then?”
He was far too calm. Ilvriss of last year would have taken a lot of offence already. Either someone had scooped out his brains and replaced it with someone else, or he’d changed beyond recognition. Alrric tried to breathe as Sidinel, undeterred by the silent threats of punishment coming from both parents, went on.
“I don’t want to be an adventurer. Well—not yet. I don’t like mining or paperwork. Running’s not that fun. But I like studying magic. I thought I’d go to Fissival next year and study there.”
“As a [Scholar]?”
“Maybe. Or perhaps I’ll learn magic.”
Wall Lord Ilvriss blinked.
“To my knowledge, the idea of a Gnoll [Mage] has long since been declared…impossible. By Wistram. Although they did exist in antiquity.”
“Well, maybe I’ll be the first one in a long while, then.”
Blasé, Sidinel reached for the wine. She caught both of her parent’s eyes and realized she’d gone too far. She desisted.
“Sidinel has grand dreams, Ilvriss. And who knows? A [Wizard], perhaps? But I think we’ll keep working with her. Gnolls at her age are…temperamental.”
“Feldir was. Completely understandable, Alrric. She’s strikingly independent. That’s not a bad thing.”
Ilvriss murmured, once they had retired from the dinner table and were having cordial drinks. Sidinel was finding books in the Wall Lord’s bookshelves. Alrric sighed.
“She has authority issues.”
“Most Drakes and Gnolls do at her age. Don’t worry, I found it refreshing. Rebellion is a part of youth.”
Oh, if only you knew. Sidinel had more of a claim to his frustration than most. Alrric checked himself in the mirror.
“This was delightful, Ilvriss. But we should really be going. Sidinel, put that back.”
“Let her borrow it. It’s a magical tome, but enchanted with anti-theft spells. Who knows? Maybe she can become a [Mage]. I’ve seen far stranger things. And that would be interesting…”
Ilvriss was amused by the idea. Alrric slowly drew a furry finger across his neck as Sidinel waved the book and thanked him.
 
—-
 
Well, Ilvriss didn’t think much more on that encounter. But the walk back down to their home was tense. When they were safely inside the soundproofed home, Alrric glared at Sidinel. Her ears were flat.
“I just—”
“You’re grounded, young lady. Don’t you dare lose that book. I’ll return it tomorrow.”
“Dad. But I could show it to—”
“Absolutely not! Why did you have to needle Ilvriss? He is my boss, Sidinel!”
“Now, now. At least it went well. He didn’t take offence. He was much calmer than I thought he’d be, Alrric.”
Ximenes reassured her husband. He glared, fur on edge.
“He’s changed. Sidinel—don’t you walk away from me!”
“I’ll hop, then.”
The Gnoll father was about to growl. He scrubbed at his itchy fur.
“Where’s the tonic?”
“Here. Sidinel, come back here—”
“I’m going to be a [Mage]!”
“You’re going to be ground beef if you don’t come back here and apologize, young woman!”
The family quarrel was interrupted by a knock at the door. Alrric, halfway through applying a tonic to his fur, froze. Ximenes looked up.
“Oh no.”
She turned to him. Alrric checked his fur. It was that glorious chestnut that his co-workers knew him by. But halfway down his fur, removed by the tonic, the dye had faded. And his fur was…
Sidinel looked at her father. She’d begun applying the tonic too.
“Into the bedrooms. Now. I’ll go to the door.”
Ximenes hadn’t needed the dye. She walked towards the door, opened it. Alrric and his daughter, behind a closed door, scrubbed at the dye-remover, but their fur was wet. The worst case was that it was Ilvriss, wanting to be sociable or get Alrric for something—
“Alrric?”
The Gnoll pulled the mining pick from his younger days off the wall. Sidinel stared at him, eyes wide. The Gnoll answered.
“Yes?”
“Casklal is here to see you. The door’s closed.”
The Gnoll [Administrator] froze. Then, he relaxed. He walked out of the doorway, scowling.
“Casklal! I nearly split your head open!”
The other Gnoll was beautifully black of fur. He had a hat on, and his eyes had a curious ring of green around the brown irises. He always told people it was a birth defect.
“I knocked. And it’s urgent. Sorry to alarm you. Sidinel, how’s my favorite pupil doing?”
“Casklal! Guess what? I was at Wall Lord Ilvriss’ mansion and I got him to lend me a book—”
Sidinel shot from the doorway with eagerness. Casklal chuckled. He carried a walking staff, by the way. And he wore something close to a trench coat for Gnolls.
“A book? That’s a tome. You naughty imp!”
He was an old family friend. Alrric pursed his lips.
“Sidinel was careless.”
Casklal glanced up at him.
“How careless?”
“Not enough to make Ilvriss catch on, but she’s in trouble.”
“Ah. I see. But a magical tome is something. I’ll scold Sidinel later. But I need you, Alrric.”
The Gnoll straightened. Sidinel deflated. Alrric glanced at his friend.
“Now?”
“There’s a gathering. Put your dye back on. We’re meeting in twenty minutes.”
“Alright. I’m coming.”
Ximenes watched, not exactly sanguine, but not more than her usual worry as the two Gnolls helped reapply Alrric’s dye. Then—they went out in concealing clothing, with two scent-potions destroying their distinctive odors. Alrric walked with Casklal. Of course, Sidinel had begged to come. But she was too young.
Alrric, Casklal, Sidinel. It was a heavy burden for his daughter and Alrric had hoped…but no. Ximenes was safe, but she had chosen to carry the secret. Sidinel though, she had been born with it.
Why? There was no answer. But the two Gnoll adults walked on. Casklal’s staff tapped the earth, and the Gnoll’s strange green-brown gaze swept the streets. He whispered a spell. Alrric walked, tense, disguised.
Two, plus Sidinel, safe at home. And two more waited in a secret place. Their fur was dark, or bright, or glossy or matte. It didn’t matter if it was chestnut or beige or blonde. The dye made it easy. The truth was that they all had a common secret. A shared danger.
They were Doombringers all.
 
—-
 
