“Yeah. I think so. My Shapeless Tides resisted it pretty good, but the darkness just keeps coming, and I don’t really have any way to hurt it.”

“Right. No idea how the darkness works. So. Best that we avoid it entirely. You can hold it back for a while, yes?”

“Yeah,” Shiv answered. “Why? What’s the idea?”

“Okay. We do this quickly and in bursts. I need you to hold the darkness at bay while I try to get Candles to use his flames. If that can disrupt the darkness, then our chances might not be as dire as they seem.”

“Got it. Oh, wait. I got these boots right now that let me dive into darkness for a while. You think that might do anything?”

“I have no idea, Shiv. But we best not experiment in the midst of battle unless we’re absolutely desperate. So. Maybe in about a minute.”

“A minute? Yeah, right, you optimist. Give it twenty seconds.”

Adam snorted. “I hope the Ascendant eats you and gets the shits.”

“Let’s keep that as Plan F for now,” Shiv replied.

Adam ended his Commander’s Foresight as Shiv launched himself at the encroaching darkness in a rush of activated vectors. He crashed into the black and braced himself in both mind and body. As the Ascendant clawed at his being once more, Shiv was prepared. Prepared to endure. And prepared to strike back.

“This is futile,” the shadows declared, driving themselves as if bladed lashes against Shiv’s body. He gripped a few tendrils and activated Dread-Tainted.

“Yeah. Daughter screams to differ.”

For a moment, the darkness around him shuddered as the trauma of another Ascendant pulsed through the black. A gasp sounded, but that gasp became a laugh of wry amusement after no more than a second.

“Quite the Feat. I see why she’s so scared of you now. Veronica was right. You’re worth keeping alive—”

A crackle sounded behind Shiv, and then there came a roar of flame. A loud moan of euphoric pleasure came from the burning man Adam called Candles. His Pyromancy carved a brilliant lane through the darkness now flooding the tunnel, and Shiv caught sight of a few Legendary-Tier prisoners writhing within a tightening nest of shadows. Yet, despite parting before the fire, the darkness mended itself nigh-instantly thereafter.

“Shiv! Sync!” Adam’s call came from behind, and Shiv cast his Psychomancy mana out as a net to trap Adam’s mind so they could continue their scheming. Time went still just as a wave of blackness curled over Shiv. A loud scream of bursting metal sounded from behind as well, and Shiv knew the knot of metal he'd made was compromised, and they were about to be pincered from two directions.

“Well, the fire did something. Just not enough. Can you get Candles there to spit out more?” Shiv studied the burning Pathbearer, and his jaw was open in an expression of delight as he rubbed his own shoulders. “Because the noise he made earlier didn’t sound like he was spent. It sounded like he had a lot more to give. And, uh, he kind of liked giving it. Where the felling hells did you find this guy, Adam? He doesn’t look like he’s all there.”

“Shiv. Don’t be rude. Are you all there?”

“I don’t sound like I’m about to empty my balls when I’m using my Pyromancy, so yeah, I’m more there than this guy.”

“It’s probably because your Pyromancy is too weak and soft,” Adam sneered. “Whatever the case, this is a good thing. Light does affect the Ascendant. We just need a sustained burn for a moment. Maybe if I can get him to channel it outward as a sphere…”

“I managed to hit the Ascendant with some of my Dread-Taint too.”

“Your what?’

“Dread-Taint. New Feat I got from scarring Daughter’s soul.”

A beat of silence followed. “You… scarred one of the Ascendants. And got a Feat for it?”

“Yeah. Legendary Feat. I can sprinkle a bit of fear into all my skills now. Lets anyone I target with it get a little taste of what it’s like to be Daughter.”

“Shiv. That’s absolutely vile. I… I love it. Damn the Ascendants. But… did it feel good? When you scarred Daughter?”

The Deathless grimaced. “Not really, man. She started screaming like a kid. I don't think she's really all there either. And she uses a bunch of kids as her Avatars. I didn’t like that shit at all.”

Adam’s enthusiasm dimmed immediately. “Ah. Sorry. I expected a more triumphant tale with you as usual, I suppose.”

“I didn’t really have a choice, and I was pretty pissed at her while I was doing it, but that didn’t make it any easier.”

“Because you’re not nearly that much of a bastard, Shiv,” Adam said. He spent a few seconds considering Shiv’s capabilities and sighed. “Alright. So. There’s something else we can try on top of Candles’ flames. If he can keep the dark at bay, I need you to dive in and out of context in the dark. Is your Dread-Taint Feat cumulative? Does it add up each time you use it on someone?”

“I… don’t know.”

“Well, time to find out.” Adam sighed. “And we’re desperately experimenting already. I think that took about 15 seconds. Fantastic.”

Commander’s Foresight came to an end. The curled wave of shadows crashed down upon Shiv, but failed to fall completely as Shiv caught it with a pair of raised hands. He was a man holding a falling tsunami at bay. The mass was immense. Shiv’s bones creaked, and his spirit shuddered. It wasn’t nearly as bad as trying to contend with Cripple, but whichever Ascendant he was facing right now was far stronger than Daughter in a direct clash.

The Deathless gritted his teeth as he tried to keep the dark at bay. Smaller tendrils erupted from the wave he was wrestling and stabbed into his torso. Pangs of hopelessness spread through him while blood spilled down his body. Instead of succumbing, Shiv struck back at the Ascendant’s mind in return. He channeled his Dread-Taint through his Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides over and over, and the darkness he gripped twitched.

“Candles! Make a ring around us. Or a dome!” Adam’s frantic cry echoed in Shiv’s ears, and he felt the repeated shudders of someone using their Chronomancy Skill repeatedly.

“OR A CASTLE!” Candles screamed. “Don’t mind the heat!”

“Wait! Don’t burn Shiv too—” Adam’s yell went ignored as something smashed into Shiv from behind. If not for his Shapeless Tides, he would have disintegrated in an instant. Because of it, he only suffered third degree burns. The back of his Voidmantid armor dissolved into nothing, while his skin turned to a raw-red stretch of pulsing boils before sloughing away in patches. Shiv winced and grunted with something between pain and annoyance as the new Innate Tides he generated finally arrived to drive the Pyromancy back.

My Legendary Skill still has openings. Times when I’m slightly vulnerable to magic. I gotta keep cycling, and cycle faster.

Multi-Tasking 29 > 30

A colossal, blazing structure with the rough outlines of a castle exploded out from Candles as he laughed manically, his voice booming like the heart of a burning star. Massive stretches of the structure surrounding them were outright vaporized, and Shiv thought that the entire thing might come crashing down on them if this kept up.

Adam and the golden-quilled goblin were mostly spared, as Candles seemed to half have a mind to direct his burning mana around them. Darkness dashed itself against the flame, but the sheer brightness unleashed by Candles became a near impenetrable bulwark against the Ascendant’s foul touch.

But that didn’t mean Adam was safe. Even without standing directly in the pulsating inferno, his Hydromantic body was turning to steam at a staggering rate as he protected the goblin within himself, and Shiv doubted Adam’s evolved Toughness was going to hold up to this even at Heroic-Tier.

Need to work fast. See if I can get us an opening.

He left context. As soon as he did, the darkness pressing against him faltered briefly, unable to remember who or what was holding it at bay. The answer returned with Shiv as he blinked in and out of reality, ripping through the shadows around him like they were shrubs. Though the dark was fluid, Shiv’s blows carried with them doses of fear, and slowly, the Deathless felt a rising swell of terror rush into him like fuel.

He was injecting bits of terror stolen from one false god into another. And it was working.

Shape of Monstrosity 121 > 123

Then, there came a flash of azure light that cut through the dense walls of fire surrounding Candles, Adam, and Gone. For a moment, Shiv thought Adam was trying to empower the Pyromancer some more, just like he did to Shiv earlier. Instead, Adam’s Unique Skill slashed into the shadows, and for the first time, Shiv heard the dark-born Ascendant let out a weary gasp. “What… what is this?”

“The wicked get burned, asshole,” Shiv sneered. He vanished back into his Vitae once more and felt his lifeforce veer toward the cold precipice of oblivion. Okay. Time to see if I can take a quick sip of Vitality from the darkness too. Can’t really sense any lifeforce there, though…

Outside Context Problem 95 > 97

Shiv surfaced once more and reached out into the darkness. As soon as he did, he felt a rush of warmth wash into him. A feeling of elation lit his soul as he discovered the darkness was rich with vitality indeed. Yet, somehow, it masked that fact from him. The Ascendants were capable of all kinds of strange powers, and so were their—

Shiv’s stomach dropped. “Shit. Where the hells is your Ava—”

And from the darkness before Shiv emerged an old, weathered face. It was the last thing Shiv saw in that life as a needle-thin rapier was thrust up under his chin and out through his skull.

“Nearby,” the old man said with a low chuckle. “And the name is Legend-Councilman Anthony De Diego, at your demise.”

Inertial Overdrive 137 > 140

Farsight 60 > 64

Outside Context Problem 97 > 100 (Skill Evolution Imminent)
