Ren took out another gold coin. He put it on her desk, holding it on it's edge, then flicked it with his finger. It spun in place for several seconds and then fell over. He did it again, but hit it a little harder and the coin slid across the desk towards the female dwarf, spinning the whole time. It came to a stop in front of her and she picked it up.

“What's this?” She said, with a slight frown, looking like she might get angry. “We're not allowed to...”

“It's just a nice toy for you to play with, if you want.” Ren said and smiled as he turned away. “It spins nicely, doesn't it?” He said and walked away from the desk towards the door.

*

She watched him go out the door, and didn't call him back to take his 'toy'. She chuckled and spun the coin on her desk. “Who would have thought?” She said and spun the coin again. “To come up with such a simple way to tip someone, without actually tipping them, or insulting them...” She shook her head and sighed. “...and he's taken.”

*

Ren left the Main Keep, quite happy with how things were turning out. He walked down the street and took the turn to go to the lumber yard. 5 minutes later, he was at the main desk. The receptionist looked at Ren and smiled.

“How can I help you?”

“I'd like to order some planks, a few 4x4s, and nails.” Ren said.

“That's no problem.” She said. “How many would you like?”

Ren thought about it. “It would depend on how thick and wide the planks are.”

“We have several widths and thicknesses.” She said. “Would you like to see?”

“I would, thank you.”

“This way.”

Ren followed her and she took him into the main warehouse. “Here we have the 1 foot wide, the 8 inch, the 4 inch, and the 2 inch.” She said, and pointed to each stack. “Everything is 8 feet long.”

Ren looked at them and saw they were all 1 inch thick. “Can I ask the price?”

“The foot wides are a copper each. The others are multiples per copper. Three 8's for 2 copper, Three 4's for 1 copper, and five 2's per copper.”

“I don't know how big the rooms I'm trying to fix are, or how wide the floors are.” Ren said. “I think I better play it safe and order 10,000 of the foot wides.”

She gasped. “Are you serious? You want 10,000 foot wide planks?”

“At a copper each, that's only 1 gold coin; but, you're right. I'll need something for the edges. Better add in 900 of the 4's for a silver coin.”

She stared at him and blinked a couple of times. “I... I think we only have about 5,000 of the foot wides in stock.”

“That's fine. I won't need them all at once, anyways. Why don't you just deliver 1,000 to House Neram tomorrow, with a half dozen or so 4x4s and a crate of nails. I doubt I'll go through them before the end of the week, so you can deliver another 1,000 planks then, and each week afterwards.” Ren said. “I wouldn't want you to go through all of your stock, and have nothing to sell when someone else comes in.”

“That's very kind of you, sir.”

“I've got other things going on, so I won't need them all right away.” Ren said, then looked at her. “Does the cost go up because you have to get workers out to harvest more trees?”

“It does a little, but we've never had an order of your size before.”

Ren smiled. “Would another gold or two cover that?”

She looked at him in shock. “You want to pay more?”

“If it'll help you get the work done.” Ren said.

“You're crazy.”

Ren chuckled. “That's what everyone says.”

She smiled. “Alright, let's go back to the main desk and fill out the forms.” Ren followed her to the desk. She sat down and took out 2 forms, as Ren walked around to the front of the desk and put 3 gold coins on the top.

“You're paying for it?” She said, surprised.

I think everyone will be shocked that I want to pay for things. It's so ingrained into their society to work off their debt, that no one even questions the logic anymore. Ren thought and smiled as she put one of the forms away then filled out the other. Ren signed it and she took the 3 gold coins.

“Thank you for your order, sir.” She said and beamed a smile at him.

“You're welcome.” Ren said and smiled back. “I might need more than that, but I'll wait until I go through what I've ordered first before ordering anything else.”

She had a surprised look on her face, as Ren left the office. He walked down the street, and over 2 blocks to the stable. He knocked on the office door and was surprised to see it had a window. A hand waved him inside and he entered.

“Be with you in just a minute.” A female voice said. Ren looked at her and admired her clothing. It was a classic riding outfit, with the beige pants, red overcoat, and black hat.

Is it just me, or does the majority of these businesses have women running things?

“It's not just you.” Teepo said. “They either have a better head for business, or can deal with customers easier.”

I'd agree with both of those. Ren thought as the female in question tried her best to pull a nail out of the top of her desk.

“Ugh!” She exclaimed.

“Can I offer to help, without you taking it as an advance?” Ren asked.

She snorted a laugh and waggled a hand out for him to see the iron ring on her hand. “Married.”

Ren chuckled. “Then please, allow me to help.”

She let the hammer go and stepped aside. Ren looked at the mess she'd made of her desk. “Were you trying to fix it, or break it?” He asked and grinned at her.

“Fix it.” She said. “My hand keeps slipping, and the wood is thick and hard.”

It was Ren's turn to snort a laugh and he clamped his mouth shut, so he wouldn't laugh out loud. Teepo had no such problem; he chittered in laughter, and rolled around in the hood.

“Is everything all right?” She asked as she saw Ren's expression. He took a deep breath and smiled.

“Yes, I'm fine.” Ren said, and easily popped the bent nail out of the desk's top. He turned the nail on it's side, and hit it with the hammer twice to straighten it out, then nailed it into the hole he'd just pried it out of. She marveled at Ren's skill, and handed over a few more nails.

“You might as well do the rest.” She said. “Please.”

Ren examined the desk and saw where the nails needed to be, and nailed the desk's top down in seconds.

“Where were you 10 minutes ago?” She said in surprise.

“Ordering wood and nails, actually.” Ren said, then smiled as he saw she was only 2 inches shorter than him.

“That's oddly appropriate.” She chuckled. “Now that you've fixed my desk, what can I do for you?”

“I'd like to rent a cart, or several carts, and horses to pull them... and maybe workers to drive them, and do basic labor. Shoveling dirt in and out of the carts.” Ren said.

“You don't want much, do you?” She said and laughed.

Ren shrugged. “I figure you'd know people that can drive the carts safely, and can handle the horses properly. The work would last a few weeks, depending on the number of carts, trips to the mine, how many hours they work per day...”

“Okay, okay!” She said and laughed again. “You've obviously thought about it. How many carts and drivers do you want?”

“How much is the rental?”

“It's a gold a day for each cart and pony. That includes feed and a driver.” She said.

“How many carts do you have?”

“At the moment, 6 of them.”

“Can you spare them all?”

“All!” She exclaimed.

“Sure. If I have 6 carts, and they only did 2 trips an hour for 8 hours, that's almost a hundred cartloads of dirt a day.”

“But...”

“Will the driver be willing to shovel? What about an extra worker?”

“But...”

“With 2 people working, I might get 3 loads an hour per cart...”

“WAIT!” She shouted. Ren looked at her with a raised eyebrow and she smiled. “You're serious? You want to rent 6 carts a day at a gold each?”

Ren nodded slightly and she stared at him.

“I can get another worker for each cart, as long as you don't mind women working for you.”

“Of course I don't mind.” Ren said. “Do I pay you the gold each day, or the driver?”

“You pay me for the cart and driver, but for the extra labor, you pay them.” She said.

“When can they start?” Ren asked. “Is tomorrow too soon?”

Her mouth dropped open. “Ah...”

“It's okay if tomorrow's no good.” Ren said. “I want them to start as soon as possible, though.”

“I... I think I can get everything ready for tomorrow.”

“That would be great!” Ren said and grinned. “Send them to House Neram. I assume it'll be after breakfast?”

She nodded slightly. “They have families to take care of before going to work.”

“That's not a problem.” Ren said. “They can even leave early to go home and make supper for their families, too.”

She looked at him like he was crazy, and Ren chuckled.

“I'm not trying to work them to death, Ma'am. I just want as much as I can get from them in the limited time available.” Ren said.

She took out 2 forms and Ren smiled. “Just the contract is fine, Ma'am. I'll pay for a month upfront.”

“A-a-a month?”

Ren nodded slightly. “Is a day off each week, okay? I don't want them to get overworked.”

“A... a day off a week is reasonable.”

“Good!” Ren smiled as she filled out the single form. He signed it and handed her 2 platinum coins. She stared at them and looked back at Ren.

“Oh, sorry!” Ren said and took 1 platinum coin back, then handed her 100 gold coins. “I keep forgetting that people might not have change.” He said and smiled. “That's enough for 3 extra days, just in case I need them longer.”

She stared in shock at the pile of money on her desk.

“Make sure you tell the drivers and extra workers that I pay well for a good day's work.” Ren said.

“I... I will.” She said as Ren left her office.

That went well. Ren thought as he walked out to the street. It's all coming together, Teepo!

“It sure is, Ren.” Teepo said as Ren started to run.

I better get back to House Neram for supper. Ren thought. I need to fill Nathalia and Narhilda in on everything I did today.

“Do you think they're going to like what you have planned?” Teepo asked.

With the silt from the mines?

“Yeah.” Teepo said.

I'll have it far enough away from the house that they won't even notice. Ren thought then ran all the way back to House Neram, and went inside to have a great meal with his fiance and her mother. Ren told them all about what had happened since he'd left that afternoon. His deal with the mine, hiring the carts, buying the wood, and visiting the Main Keep for information and buying the land around the mountain.

“You did all that this afternoon?” Nathalia said, surprised.

“I might have done a bit more, but I wanted to get back here to enjoy a wonderful meal with 2 beautiful women.” Ren said and grinned. “I definitely didn't want to miss spending this time with you.”

Both Nathalia and her mother blushed a little at Ren's truthful admission.

“Things are going to be hectic around here for a while, with all the things I have planned....” Ren said. “...but I won't sacrifice time with you to do it.” He said and stood. “Of course, now that I've said that... I have to get to bed.”

Narhilda laughed. “Sleep needs some of your time, too.”

“Only enough to keep me going.” Ren said. “Any more than that is a waste.”

Nathalia stood up and held out a hand to Ren. “Goodnight, Ma.”

“Goodnight, dear.”

Ren took Nathalia's hand and bowed slightly to her mother. “Goodnight, My Lady.”

“Goodnight, dear.” Narhilda said and smiled.

They walked through the main room and down the hall to the old bedroom. Nathalia led Ren inside and to the bed, then went back and shut the door.

“I really do need to sleep for about 4 hours, then I need to take care of some Adventurer's business, probably for the rest of the night.” Ren said to Nathalia as she came over to the bed.

“I know.” She said and crawled onto the bed and laid down almost in the same spot as before. Ren smiled and crawled over beside her and laid down himself. Nathalia cuddled into his chest and Ren gave her a half-hug and let his hand rest on her hip. They both took a deep breath and exhaled together.

Teepo, wake me in 4 hours if I'm not up.

“Sure thing, Ren.”

“Goodnight.” Ren said, and Nathalia lifted her head to look at him, and he kissed her. She reached up and stroked the side of his face for a moment, and then broke the kiss.

“Goodnight, Ren.” She said and cuddled into his chest again.
