The skeleton suddenly ran at me, shrieking like some tortured demon out of hell that blamed all of its suffering on me!

I’ve fought a lot of things before, but never something like that, and I was severely underpowered right now with my current path, so I turned tail and sprinted back a short distance until I saw another skeleton coming from one of the other side streets.

Okay! Going that’a-way, then! I thought as I turned and headed for another street, but it had another two skeletons coming down it.

Okay, okay, ummmm. Right, this is a new type of foe, so let’s collect some information!

I went ahead and doubled back to the statue, pacing a slow circle to keep my distance from all of them as best I could as I fired off Analyze a bunch of times.

Skeleton - Level 17

Skeleton - Level 18

Skeleton - Level 17

Skeleton - Level 16

Okay, not bad! I can definitely deal with this! I’ve definitely dealt with worse before!

I supposed the only problem would be if a bunch more started…

My head whipped around at another screech. Three more skeletons came stumbling out of a fourth street, their jaws hanging open, and then the sound spread. One scream became two, then five, and moments later, the the whole town square was a chourus of shrieking skeletons.

Welp, that was about a dozen skeletons now, with even more pouring in behind them. They might not have been faster than me, but they didn’t need to be if every street kept vomiting up more of them.

So, yeah.

Time to run!

I turned tail and bolted for Fifth Street, and of course, I saw another two skeletons. They were a bit slow to react upon noticing me, dragging their swords lethargically just like the first one, and by the time their glowing eyes registered me and they started raising their weapons, I bolted right between the two of them.

I glanced back just in time to see the two skeletons working on getting turned around, only for the shrieking horde behind them to crash into their backs. One went down in a clattering heap, and the rest trampled right over it without slowing.

Okay, at least these things seemed pretty stupid. Defeating a bunch of mindless skeletons would certainly be easier than beating a group of humans that might communicate and strategize amongst each other to get the better of me!

I checked the first alleyway and immediately saw another skeleton dragging itself up in the narrow passage.

Nope! Not that way!

I skidded past it and found another alley instead. This one ended in a collapsed wall, with chunks of stone piled high at the back.

Perfect.

Well, maybe perfect.

The skeletons didn’t exactly look like expert climbers. Honestly, they looked like they’d need a few minutes to figure out stairs. But my agile puppy legs could scramble up and jump over that rubble easily! That meant nothing could sneak up behind me while maintaining an escape route, and anything following me into the narrow alleyway would have to face me one at a time.

I barked, “Alright, I’m ready for you spooks! Who wants some?” A skeleton with a raised sword appeared around the corner a moment later. “And there’s our first taker!”

The skeleton charged right for me, sword raised high, jaw hanging open as it let out another screaming wail.

I tucked low and waited, watching the skeleton’s hips, its shoulders, the way its whole body leaned into the swing before the sword even came down.

Yep, no control at all.

The moment it committed, I shot forward. The blade smashed into the stone behind me as I ducked under it, clamped my jaws around one of its leg bones, and kept running through it.

Its feet flew out from under it like I’d yanked a rug out from beneath its feet.

The sword hit solid ground, and so did the skeleton’s head, cracking its skull on stone! I spun around and leapt onto its back, going right for the sweet spot like I would for any other prey I’d ever tried to kill. I latched onto the back of its neck, which felt quite awkward going straight to bone and not having meat to cushion my teeth, but in theory, this should actually be even easier. I shook, grinding my teeth, working on breaking its neck, and I soon not only heard the snap of the vertebrae breaking apart, but I watched its head fly off and smack into the wall beside us.

Okay, that was easier than I expected!

I turned around to see lucky number two revealing itself at the end of the alleyway. As I sized it up, watching it raise its sword and begin running, I felt a slight tickle in the back of my mind. Like I was forgetting something.

Something important.

Well, I couldn’t afford to let myself get distracted now while a spooky skeleton was coming right at me! So I went for the same exact maneuver. Why fix what isn’t broken, right? And since my strategy successfully broke the last one, I’d say they’re the only ones who need fixing!

I dove for its legs just as it lunged forward, snagged its bone, flipped it forward, then went for its neck.

I bit down and shook, snapping the vertebra and sending a second head flying!

I have to admit, killing these things was a different kind of satisfying!

I couldn’t believe I was ever worried about these guys; they were actually not hard to deal with at all! Well, sure, there were a lot of them, but using this strategy, I could spend all night popping their heads off one at a time and get some crazy experience!

Wait… experience.

There was that tickle in the back of my head as I once again felt I was forgetting something. But what was it?

No time to think about that now!

Two more skeletons appeared at the end of the alleyway. It seemed this time I wouldn’t be able to use the same strategy of simply running through one, as that would leave my back exposed to the second. Maybe I should go up for its sword arm and yank it down toward me? Yeah, that seemed like a good way to go.

But then, as I heard some clinking and rattling behind me, I finally remembered what I forgot.

I looked back. My confident wolfy smile faded, and my tail drooped as I saw the two headless skeletons I thought I had killed rising to their feet.

Right! There was no system message! No Foe Elimination thing! How stupid of me!

Now I had two skeletons coming at me from both sides, and I didn’t know what to do!

Okay, well, I knew there was a whole swarm of them back the way I had come, so—

I spun around and dove beneath the first headless skeleton as it lunged.

Its sword hacked down at empty air above me.

Good!

Then the second one moved.

Not good!

I twisted, but not fast enough. Its blade scraped across my side, hot pain tearing through me as I hit the ground and scrambled back to my feet.

No time to think. No time to whine.

I slammed my shoulder into its legs, knocked it backward, and ran straight over its clattering bones.

I scrambled up the rubble, ignoring the pain in my side, and looked back only once to see several more skeletons coming down the alleyway now. Thankfully, I wouldn’t have to go back that way, because that would just be impossible.

But on the other side of the rubble, I jumped down into a new, completely abandoned alleyway and quickly ran to the other end of it. I cautiously peeked around each corner to make sure nothing was waiting to ambush me, then let out a relieved breath.

I sniffed at my side, inspecting the wound. It was a pretty deep cut. I’d definitely have to be more careful! I did a quick vital check, and it was about what I’d expected.

Vitals

Health: 620 / 720

Mana: 880/ 930

Stamina: 390 / 638

It was a pretty deep cut, so it took a hundred health points from me. As for stamina, I’d been walking all day but not exactly exerting myself, so it was about where I’d expect. As for mana… well, this Veilfang stalker path was kind of useless, so I’d only lost mana from firing off some Analyzes.

I took a moment to get a quick refresher on what skills were available, considering I’d not used this Path for fighting yet; I couldn’t remember.

Active Skills

Crippling Bite LVL 4

Target limbs and snap bone to weaken your target and affect their mobility.

Veil of Shadows LVL 3

Conceal yourself in darkness, muffling your footsteps and obscuring your outline. Breaking the veil with an attack moderately increases damage based on Strength and Dexterity.

Intimidate LVL 2

Let out a vicious roar, temporarily inducing fear and paralyzing creatures who are inferior to you. The weaker the target, the longer the duration.

Play Dead LVL 1Suppress heartbeat and breathing to feign death.

Analyze LVL 2

See the level and species of a target. Analyze will fail against targets that are significantly higher level than you.

Veilform LVL 1

Reweave your flesh into a studied form. The veil is limited by knowledge, clarity, and biological plausibility.

Elemental Absorption Lvl 2 (inactive)

Elemental Swipe Lvl 2 (inactive)

Elemental Cocktail Lvl 2 (inactive)

Pulse Sense LVL 3 (inactive)

Marrow Sense LVL 2 (inactive)

Death Mark LVL 2 (inactive)

Soul Rend LVL 3 (inactive)

Passive Skills

Backstabber LVL 2

Enhanced Smell LVL 3

Basic Fighting LVL 4

Night Vision LVL 3

Poison Resist LVL 1

Lightning Resistance LVL 2

Elemental Mastery Lvl 2

Burn Resistance LVL 1

Piercing Fangs LVL 1

Apex Ambush LVL 2 (inactive)

Traits

Give Chase lvl 1

Increase speed and reduce stamina reduction when actively pursuing fleeing prey or foes

Moon Harvester Lvl 1

Under direct moonlight, the potency of your spells is improved, and magic-related mana costs are reduced

Camouflage LVL 3

Bonus to stealth when not moving.

Night Hunter LVL 3

Improved camouflage in addition to improved strength and dexterity scaling at night.

Wolf Among the Flock LVL 1

You receive bonus experience points when assassinating a target who had perceived you as one of their own.

Pack Bond LVL 5 (inactive)

Man, I had a lot of inactive abilities! I really hope that whenever I unlock that Aberrant Triune thing, it does what I hope it does and lets me use things from multiple Paths at once while becoming a monstrous three-headed pup like my dad! Though I bet I won’t exactly be a “pup” anymore at that point.

Anyway, for the most part, direct combat abilities were not available to me. However, I thankfully got to keep my stealthy abilities and most of my passives, which seemed to carry over between Paths. Also, with the sun sinking even lower, my bonuses for fighting at night would be taking hold, so that’s another benefit.

But what were the advantages of this Path?

Play Dead… Uh— Heh, kind of ironic, but no. I was not going to give that skill its first test against a horde of mindless skeletons that might just chop me into little bits anyway!

Veilform… I mean, so far I’d only used it to turn human. Could I just turn into a skeleton with it? It specifically says reweave my flesh, but in practice, it also has changed my bones. As far as the qualification that I understand the form I’m taking, it really is just human but less… so… I guess it could work?

If it did work, then I’d finally get some use out of Wolf Among the Flock as well. I’d have to figure out how to actually kill these things of course, but that would mean some serious experience farming. And they were so dumb, they’d never figure out a traitor was among them!

Uuuhg… I really didn’t like the idea of going skeletal, but I guessed it was worth a shot.

I took a deep breath.

Okay, here it goes. Time to make like a skeleton!

{Veilform}!

At first, it was much like every other time I’d use it. My body stretched and my bones popped and reformed. It didn’t hurt, but it was very much an uncomfortable and disturbing feeling. Except this time, it got even worse!

My fur began to disappear, which was normal, but then my skin started feeling like it was getting tighter! It was like being… I don’t know, I don’t have anything to compare it to! But I instantly felt claustrophobic as if something was squeezing tight all around me.

Then, as I looked down at my partially formed human hand, I saw the flesh of my fingers begin to crawl backward as if my fingers were being peeled like bananas.

Okay! Screw this! Abort! Abort! Terrible idea! This is the worst idea I’d ever come up with!

But it was too late; the skill was already taking effect, and my flesh was peeling back from my arms in the same way. There was no blood; it was like I was made of papier-mache or something, and it was wet and being peeled away. But it didn’t go anywhere; as it peeled back, it just disappeared.

I howled in panic as I watched the skeletal human arm lose the last of its flesh, and as I looked down at the rest of my body, I saw organs and guts under my ribs and between my pelvis, but even they peeled away and shrank as well.

Enough already! I said abort! I cried internally.

Achievement! Bad to the Bone!

You have assumed a skeletal form for the first time. Congratulations! You are now significantly less huggable!

Moderate bonus to all stats!

Bonus Development awarded!
