She clutched her stomach, letting out a wheeze as it rippled through her like a hard strike to the gut. Behind her, she heard a yelp and a thump. Through watering eyes, she looked back to Sixiang blinking up at the dark canopy as they lay in the grass.

“Ouch. Crotchety old bastard.” Sixiang winced as they rolled to their feet. They were cut off, Ling Qi realized, wholly cut off from the liminal realm.

She heard a pained hiss and turned back toward Xuan Shi to see a crouching figure rising from the grass beside him. It was tall and gangly, long and thin limbs sticking out in its crouched pose. Around its shoulders were what she took at first for a cloak but swiftly realized were pale wings spotted with eyelike marks. A ruff of white fur concealed the figure's neck. Their face resembled Sixiang’s with glittering black eyes but instead of a rainbow-hued hair, they had a shifting hair of white and black.

She heard an intake of breath from her side, and Sixiang spoke. “Oh, it’s you, asshole.”

Ling Qi blinked at the uncharacteristic vulgarity as Xuan Shi turned toward his own dream muse. “Kongyou, have you come to harm?” he asked.

Ling Qi’s eyes narrowed as she focused, penetrating the miasma-like apathy and despair that filled the grave to feel the muse’s aura. Her memory flashed back to the underground expedition where they had been lost in the dream, and she, injured and confined by Sixiang. She remembered the giggling voice who had nearly convinced her to hurt herself further by trying to fight despite her injury.

Kongyou gave her a helpless and not at all guilty grin as if to say “oops.” “I’m fine, Shi. Don’t you worry about me.”

“Xuan Shi, that thing is a nightmare spirit,” Ling Qi hissed.

He blinked at her. “This one knows that.”

“They tried to trick Ling Qi into getting herself killed back in the dream,” Sixiang accused, staring at their fellow muse with intense dislike.

Kongyou put a finger to their lip, cocking their head to the side cutely. “Ehhh? I was just trying to help.”

“As a spirit of the deeper dream, they do not understand mortals well,” Xuan Shi said apologetically, wincing.

“But Shi is a great instructor. I’m getting better all the time!” The nightmare displayed a grin full of razor-edged teeth.

“Xuan Shi—” Ling Qi began incredulously.

“Bicker elsewhere,” the powerful grinding voice of the sword cut in. “Boy, are you still dissatisfied with my answer?”

Xuan Shi grimaced, and Kongyou patted him on the shoulder. “Don’t worry about me! I’ll just go stand with my cousin and their friend.”

Ling Qi glared at the muse as they ambled over. Their feet were bare, and underneath their cloak of wings, they seemed to wear only a nearly skin tight pair of black pants that glittered like the night sky. Their narrow but well defined chest was wholly bare, but it was almost dollike in its lack of hair or features.

The muse smiled at her. “Hey, totally sorry about before. I’m real sorry I almost hurt you,” they tittered.

“That lies more transparent than glass,” Sixiang snapped back.

Ahead of them, Xuan Shi squared his shoulders as he prepared to speak again. “Honored Elder, this one will not be driven off by such tactics. Although the Honored Elder has no obligation to speak, this one would have more than a vague platitude from thee.”

“Hmph. Bold child. But foolish. You know what that thing is yet harbor it all the same.”

“Dreams change,” Xuan Shi said. “Nature is not the whole of things. Thy master knew this and wrote it.”

“Stories are stories,” grunted the sword. “He was wrong. You are a fool. You cannot change your nature once your path has begun.”
