But he is dead, along with every other bristleboar and all the slaves who wronged me.

So why do I still feel this burning need for revenge? I want to kill every bristleboar alive and geld their sire to keep him from spawning more, but even that isn’t enough to sate my thirst for vengeance. Simply hearing the words ‘Canston Trading Group’ sends me into a rage, as poor mistreated Rustram discovered. I’d love nothing more than to reduce their headquarters into smoking ruins, both here and anywhere else in the Empire they might have roots. It’s not rational, but why do I have to be the rational one? They weren’t. If they needed slaves to mine, then let us mine. It’s still a horrible existence but they didn’t have to torture us. It was senseless, mindless violence, and after I asked Fung’s torturer Fu Zhu Li, he confirmed my suspicions. Those guards were fucking experts, they had to be. How else could they use Chi to torment me, make my skin feel like it was on fire or lock me in place in the most agonizing poses? Those grotesque, hideous bastards were fucking Martial Warriors, and all they did day in and day out was use their skills to torture a group of helpless slaves. What sort of fucking monsters... could do something...

Wait...

Coming awake with a start, I frighten poor Banjo who was sleeping in my arms. With a protesting grumble, the rotund bear ambles off to join his brother napping in the crook of Ping Ping’s neck. Rubbing my eyes, I focus and try to hold onto my thoughts, the dreams slipping away even as my mind regains clarity. I’d stumbled across something, something that made so much sense in the dream, but I can’t-

“Nightmare?” Interrupting my train of thought, Guan Suo drops my water-skin in my lap.

“Yea.” Uncapping the water-skin, I take a swig to wet my throat, but once the water hits my tongue, I realize how parched I really am. Fear will do that do you, even if it's fear which should have long since passed by now. It was six years ago. Get over it. You’re Falling Rain, Second Grade Warrant Officer of the Empire. You can’t afford to show weakness or everyone will come crawling out the woodwork to take your head.

What better way to cement your place as a young rising dragon of the Empire than by killing the number one talent of the North?

Tapping his pipe to empty it, Guan Suo Sends, “Don’t know what grudge you’re holding with Canston and can’t say I care, but tread lightly. Far as proper merchant companies go, they ain’t worth a damn, but everyone knows they exist only to provide for Zhu Chanzui. If he finds out you been meddling in his business, he’ll come for a reckoning and the Treaty be damned. Newborn calf like yourself might not fear the tiger, but even I’d think twice before crossing blades with that one. They might call you Undying, but he’s The Immortal.”

“Noted,” I reply out loud, immediately regretting my decision to nod. Fucking concussion. Tuck and roll, Rain, tuck and roll. Chin to your chest, don’t let your head pendulum back into the ground, it should be instinct by now. Then again, my memory of the whole thing is kinda spotty. Maybe I literally landed on my head. It’s possible, Ping Ping’s spit really packs a wallop. I wonder how much hang time I had? Patting my rumbling belly to quiet it, I ask, “Is there any food? I’m starving.”

“Ate most of it. Fed the rest to your pets.” Shrugging in a quasi-apology, Guan Suo continues, “You slept a long while, missed most of the show. Your sister is finishing up her last match, following a set of impressive victories from Vichear and Gerel.”

Turning towards the stage, I make it halfway before stopping on a familiar face, sitting on the balcony of the building beside the duelling stage. Dressed in the tightest tunic I’ve ever seen since coming to this world, the colourful silk hugs her skin and reveals curves I don’t remember her having. Through the wooden railing, I catch a glimpse of her shapely, slender legs, also snugly wrapped in silk and leaving little to the imagination. Still wearing her hair in a pixie cut, she’s grown her bangs out and swept to one side, a marked improvement over the rough, self-styled cut she favoured as a Sentinel, pragmatic, yet stylish. Though filed shorter than I remember and no longer curving back on themselves, her horns are sharper than ever and wrapped in a silver mesh interspersed with glimmering pink diamonds. A hint of eyeliner accentuates her piercing brown eyes and wearing a smidgen of rouge on her lovely pink lips, the sight of her sitting there is enough to make me swoon.

Or maybe it’s the concussion again. Either way, Adujan looks gorgeous, like a flawless, ivory-skinned, ebony-haired goddess given flesh.

Ah, no, I suppose it’s Du Min Yan now...

As if sensing my gaze, Yan catches me staring with wide eyes and open mouth, both of which I have little control of at the moment. Flashing the same saucy smile as always, she winks and mouths something before turning away, setting my heart aflutter.

Hmm... I have no idea what she mouthed. I was too distracted by... other thoughts. Maybe I should go up there and ask her. I mean, we haven’t seen each other in forever so we’re due for a chat, and still I need to deliver Mila’s message...

Which makes me oh so sad. 100% chance it’s to warn Yan away, my freckled beloved is not one to share.

Still... I should say hi. Just a harmless, ‘hey, how you doin’ sort of thing, bit of catching up between old friends. As I take my first step towards the building, a familiar voice barks, “Falling Rain!” Freezing in place, I turn to find the unnamed Guard Captain standing next to me, looking all stern and businesslike unlike a few days ago when he’d been all smiley and drunk. “The Legate commands your presence.”

Tch. Horrible timing.

...

Shit. Did I say that out loud?

...

Did I say that out loud?

...

Fucking concussions.

...

Okay, I definitely said that out loud.

Chapter Meme
