The coiled, cut chains suggested it was once a drawbridge, but now it was both stationary and so well barricaded that it looked like a mini fortress. How was I going to get past this one? It didn’t look like I could slip through, and peering over the edge, a gaping chasm offered hushed suggestions that I perhaps don’t try to swing down and climb under. I’ve gotten pretty good with my tentacle control—But I wasn’t that comfortable with them. And my human arms? Noooo way were they going to carry me around like spiderman. So, over and through then.

CRASH!! CRASH!!

My stomach dropped when a roiling crash more violent than the rest rumbled down the tunnel, followed by a stampede of hooves.

“Flare, please!” I demanded politely, and quick as I said it, it appeared in front of me— “Oh, Thanks!”

「 System: Happy to be of service. 」 “What did it say again? Pull the pin, mix the ingredients, make a light, yeah, that’s it. The rumbling hoard blocking my way, the wall to my back, yet I couldn’t help but smile in spite of it all. I squeezed down on the spoon, and gripped the plunger, yanking it to mix the ingredients. The solution became a vortex, then, the vortex lit up like a star!

I squeezed my eyes shut and lobbed it straight up, as high as I could.

“Gnostic Power: Tachyonic Sight”

I activated my first trick, a visual technique, for no more than a blink, but burning through 6% of my power. In one glance, I saw the past, present and future. The cluster bombs coalesced from three directions; the bombardment wiped the bridge clean. Nothing remained.

【 GNO: 20% 】

My shoulders grew heavy again, a dull ache reaching through my every nerve. It was a short-lived power up, but what’s the point in a resource that you don’t spend?

The ghouls scrambled, a deadly hoard at the end of their successful hunt. And then, a sharp whistle pierced the air like a needle through silk. “Gnostic Power: Sojourn”

I watched from all around as the cluster of explosives scattered like seeds, explosions blooming like flowers. I was deaf to the sound as it unfolded, like watching a live stream of artwork being drawn in real time.

The ghouls vanished in the bombardment, the flash of fire imprinting their moment as an ashen photograph on the memory of the stout bridge. The battle-weathered barricade disintegrated, biding its last moments to a duty it’d upheld for heaven knows how long.

The bridge trembled with each bomb, and groaned with each dazzling explosion, an attack so ferocious that it turned scores of ghouls into a memory, but this was no decorative bridge, and it weathered the strike dutifully.

The last bomb detonated. I could imagine the thunder of its blast and the roar of its flames over the silence, and, as the last light of the bombardment faded, the spectacle over, I stepped back into reality, my edges realigning with the subtle crackle of static.

【 GNO: 7% 】

Had I achieved Chim? I asked, walking through the smoke and smolder. God mode, toggle clipping, state reload—These Gnostic powers felt far more like dev cheats than skills that should be in a player’s hand.

「 System: Chim is not included as one of your achivements. 」 The system voice answered. I sighed.

I assume the war between the Mirachi and Alferatz was just set dressing for the level—Irrelevant to the actual game design. But it was thanks to them that I was able to progress this far. And after decimating that gaggle of ghouls, my level had shot up.

It wasn’t just the ghouls that were gone though. The cat was nowhere to be seen either. He probably got away, right? There’s no way a guy like him was anything but an essential NPC.

At the end of the bridge was a fortified hill—whats known as a bailey. A winding path lead up the hill to the fortification, but at the front of the hill, set up like a toll booth was a small enclosure; some simple fences, a basic campsite with a single lit fire in that same smokey blue as had illuminated the last safe area I’d found.

Sitting on a stump was a weathered-faced, red eyed gentleman. His ruby eyes were a sneer, his lips framed a toothy smile, and with a flourish that addressed the whole empty camp, he extended a bony finger to the rim of his tall tophat, and then bowed flamboyantly from his perch.

“Well met, lassie.”, he intoned with a snarled lilt, and theatrical flare.

And he had no name.
