For the first time all Trial, I will myself to interfere, and a moment later, I am inside my own body. My human body, sitting across from my treacherous half-brother. With my fork halfway to my mouth, I pause, then slowly lower the scallop back to the plate.

“Is something wrong?” asks Aleksandr.

“Oh, sorry,” I say. “I just got a text.”

“Ah, but it can wait, can’t it?”

I ignore him, my phone already in my hand and open to my text messages. I quickly scroll to Vitaly, and send him a quick passphrase we came up with to make sure we weren’t compromised. A few seconds later, the response arrives. And it’s wrong.

With a sigh, I put my phone away and instead pull out my gun.

“Wh–” Aleksandr starts.

A bloody hole appears in his forehead, and he slumps forward, dead. The guards come rushing in, freezing when they see me calmly sipping my wine in front of Aleksandr’s corpse.

“He tried to kill me,” I say. “I acted in self defense.”

The guards share glances, having a silent conversation. I’m sure that Aleksandr bought most of them off, but I know him well enough to know that none of them are truly loyal. He was not capable of inspiring loyalty. Now that he’s dead, they have no more reason to follow him.

“Of course,” says one of them. “I’ll get some men on cleanup duty.”

“Thank you,” I say. “And make sure no one eats any of my food. It’s poisoned.”

“Yes, ma’am.”

“The rest of you, escort me back to the house.”

Cleaning up Aleksandr’s mess is so easy it’s almost disappointing. I text a picture of Aleksandr’s body to Vitaly’s number. There is no response. When I summon all of the people working in the manor, one group of them fails to arrive, presumably the ones panicking about having the body of the family head to take care of.

“Aleksandr is dead,” I announce. “Vitaly most likely is as well. That’s why I killed Aleksandr. From now on, I’ll be in charge.”

I give them a few seconds to whisper amongst themselves before continuing. I was hoping that would be enough to finish it.

“All of you are to write reports and tell me of what you have been doing, both over and under the table. Also, find Vitaly’s body if you can. He deserves a proper burial.”

Still not enough?

“And one final thing,” I say. “Spread the word. Zima is back.”

[ You have completed the Trial: Yona, Winter! ]

Finally. Now get me the hell out of this place.

The System does not respond immediately, but I am kicked out of my own body, forced to watch as my human self goes upstairs to the office that once belonged to my father, and later to my brother. I sit down in the chair, and my spirit self is moved so that I am floating right in front of the desk. Then, the me behind the desk adopts the same exact pose depicted in the painting, with the exact same expression. The only difference is the drop of blood on my face that I failed to wipe off after killing Aleksandr. The world freezes, then warps, and suddenly, I’m back in the white hallway, staring at the painting of Yona, Winter.

The painting has changed. It’s now identical to the final scene I just saw, with me in a simple dress instead of a suit, and with a drop of blood on my face. I let myself daydream for a moment about what could have been, then turn away.

“That sucked,” I say. “You’d better have some good news for me, or else I swear to the goddess of bitches that I am going to find out where you live, and I’m going to do something that you won’t like. And it won’t just be an inconvenience. There will be blood. I have never been in a worse mood in my life, and it is entirely your fault.”

I wait for a full minute, but there is no response.

“Coward!” I call.

Finally, a response arrives.

[ I am so incredibly sorry that I don’t even know how to put it into words. If I could go back in time and do it all over again, I would never make the same decision I did. I doubt you’ll forgive me, but I truly did not intend to force something like that upon you. I take full responsibility for letting my petty anger get the best of me. ]

“Hmph. Well, that’s a start. Maybe only a little bit of blood. What about my Evolution?”

[ Fortunately, I do have good news on that front. The process is still ongoing, but you’re out of the danger zone. The combination has more or less already succeeded, and we’re just waiting on the final results. However, there is also bad news, and I have to apologize once again because it is once again entirely my fault. The Trials and Evolutions are decoupled on my end, and my boss assured me that while the Trials are created for the Evolutions, but they don’t determine the Evolutions themselves. That is mostly true, but it’s also not completely true. ]

“What’s that supposed to mean?”

[ Well, in short, probably nothing. Your selection determines your Evolution, and that’s final. However, by completing that Trial, you have also earned the Name Yona, Winter. Frankly, I have no idea what that will do to you, and neither does my boss, but we are both working overtime on this to make sure that it does not inconvenience you in any way. In the worst case scenario, we will do a manual override to make sure it doesn’t affect you, and that you still get the Evolution that you chose. But, I also cannot guarantee that nothing will happen. ]

“That’s a lot of words just to say that you have no idea what will happen.”

[ Yes, but I want to make it clear that nothing bad will happen. Whatever happens, your Evolution and Name will be whatever the combination function spits out. I just cannot guarantee what else may or may not happen. ]

“Hmph. Well, I guess that is better than nothing.”

[ Once again, I am incredibly sorry for all of this. ]

“I know how you can apologize.”

[ How? I’ll gladly make it up to you, if it’s within my power. ]

“You are my minion now.”

[ …What? ]

“You’re my minion. You are now the Annoying Red Box that will help me with my Evolutions, and that’s that. You can’t refuse.”

[ I don’t think my employer would approve of this arrangement. ]

“Don’t care. You’re my minion now, and you have to do what I say. Now, Annoying Red Minion— Hey, that’s actually pretty good. You’re Arm now. Now, Arm, tell me how long my Evolution will take to finish combining so that I know how long I can nap for.

[ Actually, your Trial was on the longer side, so it should be finishing up any— ]

Before I can finish reading the message, the world spins, and my vision goes dark, and when I can finally see again, I find myself back in the dark room beneath the city, feeling stronger than ever.
