I walked forward into the stairs of the stadium. I gained another 44 levels from the spiker, so I put all my remaining points into constitution. The increase in weight and power flooded my system like a narcotic. It was subtler now though, probably because I was already so heavy. I mean five more pounds is hardly noticeable if you’re already a ton.

I gained more than that though. The extra weight from constitution made telekinesis far easier as well. I was quite a bit heavier now, and pulling on the spiker may have been possible now. Letting go was a better choice tactically speaking, but having the option should the situation arise was nice.

Glancing up from my screen, I noticed the hallway we walked down. The stairs leading into the stadium split into two divergent paths, each leading to different parts of the stadium. During an actual game, you’d be able to hear the roaring of the crowd echoing through the tunnel. I shut down oppression as I reached the end of it, the light from outside leaking in.

As I walked outside, the first thing I noticed was the open sky. The stadium cover had been left open for some reason. The rows of seats stretched for hundreds of feet down, the stairs creating little segments on each stair case. This was a football stadium, one with a grass field at the center. There was still grass, but the eldritch had created a something else too.

There was a large hole at the center of the stadium. The gaping expanse lead deep down until the edges of the pit were black. The walls of the pit were slimy, red, and fleshy. A few writhing, giant insects darted on the walls, searching for food. The lining of the tunnel stretched out from the entrance, a few tendrils of meat reaching the walls of the stadium.

At the center of the entrance, several named ones sat around the center. One was like a humanoid mantis, with cleaving, sharp arms and wings along its broad back. Another was covered in feathers made of steel with two wings along its back. Another was far larger than either of the others, covered in giant bat wings.

The rest of us reached behind me, Kessiah stretching her neck to see. She mouthed, “What in Schema is going on?”

The sickle guard guy, Aatrox, said in Torix’s voice,

“This is a portal reaching into the eldritch. It’s grotesque, and it serves as an important obstacle for us.”

I glanced back at the guard, “You can talk through those guys?”

“Of course. Free will is something only the naivest summoners participate in. These creations, they are tools. Nothing more.”

Based on how he treated his other creations, I highly doubted that was the truth.

“Back to the matter at hand, this is a physical manifestation of an eldritch rift. It’s the beginnings of a rift. You all are here to crush it before it spreads further.”

I glanced at Aatrox, “How in the fuck are we going to do that?”

Aatrox lifted a finger into the air, mimicking Torix’s body language,

“It’s not a matter of us. It’s a matter of you. These portals are much larger and more frequent in fringe worlds. Once they’ve opened, you can only close them by entering the portal and killing the rift keeper.”

I frowned, “So it’s basically just like a dungeon?”

“In essence, yes.”

I spread out my arms, “Why does Schema make the dungeons the way they are then?”

From the rift at the center of the colosseum, a white centipede squirmed out. Large as bus, it snatched one of the insects feeding against the wall of the rift. The smaller insect squealed before the centipede pinned it down, injecting liquid nitrogen into the creature before feasting on the bug. As the icy cold met the bug, the sound of its insides freezing matched the sounds of its screams.

The bug squealed like that for a solid minute, the icy centipede’s mandibles slowly munching away at the creature’s face while it was alive. The insect squirmed, struggling to escape, but the centipede didn’t care if it was dead or alive. It was like the tinier bug was just a packet full of food. Once the centipede had grabbed onto that packet, it would start feasting until the packet was empty.

Once it finished, the centipede glanced around at the entrance of the rift. Its beady eyes met the named ones, but the centipede seemed satisfied. It was like a full lion. You didn’t have to worry about it if you didn’t mess with it anymore. It squirmed back into the tunnel, leaving icy spots where its feet touched the ground.

Torix murmured through Aatrox,

“If not full, that creature would escape into your world. I doubt most earthlings could handle such a thing, no?”

I nodded, “Yeah. Most people would get fucked.”

Althea frowned, “Those places are bad. Very bad. My memories are fuzzy, but I remember my parents mentioning those things. It’s hard to fight inside the portals. You lose your HUD and all connection with Schema.”

I raised an eyebrow, “You lose connection with Schema? Holy shit…No wonder fighting against a fringe world is so hard. Why would you bust into a portal and try to beat the rift lord? You don’t get experience or anything, and you can’t see your health bar, and shit…there’s all kinds of reasons not to go in there.”

Torix nodded in Aatrox’s body, crossing the guard’s arms,

“Indeed. For most people, it is a death sentence, especially considering how much people tend to rely on Schema’s assistance for most fights. Rifle men rely on him to aim. Fighter’s rely on him to streamline the use of their skills. Even mages rely on him to help ease the casting process. On the other hand, you and Althea don’t have to worry about those drawbacks.”

Althea turned towards him, “What do you mean me and him? I thought it was just him.”

I turned to her, “What do you mean just me? Fuck you.”

Althea turned to me, “Of course it’s just you. You’re the, ‘look at me, I live for battle,’ person. I just want this to be over with.”

I rolled my eyes, “Ok, have some perspective. You honestly think I want to crawl into a giant entrance into a different dimension? Fuck that. I don’t want to, but I will because I choose to. That’s what makes us different from animals. Animals go by instinct. People, we can do more than just live from our instincts. We can live for our future.”

I raised my arms into the air, “Besides, do you want to be at the mercy of all this bullshit forever? There’s a light at the end of this shit covered tunnel.” I pointed a finger at Althea, “You can either stay in this shit covered tunnel, or you can get with the fucking program and move on.”

Althea sighed, “Ok, ok, I’ll go.” She glanced up at Aatrox-Torix and spit her words like venom, “Please tell me the next time you want something like this. Nobody likes awful surprises.”

Torix shrugged, “And you’d never have come if I hadn’t gotten you this far. Unlike Daniel, you tend to avoid unpleasantness.”

I narrowed my eyes and frowned, but Torix continued, “That means at times you need a push, Althea. Daniel, on the other hand, needs someone to curb his fervor. If you two could find a balance between each of your approaches, then perhaps you would both be more effective. Regardless-“

The Torix pointed with the guard’s arm at the center of the stadium,

“It’s time for a little dive into the unknown. I’m sure the experience will be…enlightening.”
