Now, Adriana sat on one stone bench, with her arms rested on her knees and her hands clasped together. On the facing bench sat her sister-in-law, Gentiliana.

"I don't leave the House of Claudius for small matters, Adriana," Gentiliana said pointedly. "This better be urgent."

"The Healing Trial is in two days," the blonde said, looking deep into the middle-aged woman's eyes. "I need Lily to pass."

"Lily hasn't yet acquired a Light Affinity," Gentiliana frowned. "What else is there to do? Your daughter won't pass. Why are you obsessing over this? I understand Lily's your only child at the moment, but maybe when the next—"

"There's not going to be another one," Adriana said plainly, unable to hide the rest of the pain in her voice. "Whatever granted me a child, Gentiliana, it was a miracle. There's not going to be another one."

Dawn's Mercy, Lumius mentally swore. He wasn't stupid. He immediately understood that this was going to be a very important conversation that he wasn't supposed to hear. That's why he started sweating profusely, praying not to be noticed by the two adults.

"Adriana," Gentiliana said warily. "What are you trying to tell me? And why didn't you bring my brother into this? Why call me?"

"If Lily fails the Healing Trial, she'll have no basis to claim the Great Skill of the Family in any context, Gentiliana. I know she can be the Champion I couldn't be, the leader of the Gens Claudia you couldn't be."

Gentiliana frowned at that but just pursed her lips.

"But for now, I need to give her the time to get there."

"What are you asking?" Gentiliana said curtly.

"Rig the trial," Adriana said with a straight face, extending a small amulet toward Gentiliana.

Gentiliana didn't reply and simply took the trial.

"That's what Lily's going to be wearing. You put this," Adriana took out a small crystal, "on a small animal's body. You tell her to try and heal that animal. When her Mana will come out, it will be converted by the amulet into Light Mana and a minor [Heal] spell will be triggered. It won't dazzle anyone, but she'll have the legal basis to claim the Skill as far as the requirements of your family go."

"This is treason, Adriana," Gentiliana said, frowning. "This would warrant a sentence that would lock any one of us in the Dungeons for years. Even you. If the Inquisitors were to come and check—"

"Your niece is the most talented child to be born in the Papacy as far as I know, Gentiliana," Adriana said icily. "If I have to risk imprisonment—and I'd like to see them try that—I will. I won't let my daughter suffer my fate. Whatever I need to do for her, I'll do—that's who I am. I'm her mother. That's what a mother does."

Gentiliana took one last look at the amulet and gave it back to Adriana.

Adriana raised an eyebrow but then the middle-aged woman rubbed her face. Some of the weariness of her life emerged on her features, making her look older than she was as she shook her head and sighed.

"Idiotic men would hold Lily being late to the Light Affinity against her, Adriana, I know. But I've seen what Lily could do. There's something in that little girl. Something special. Beyond what I will ever be capable of. Just… give me the stone. Tell her to go for the white rabbit—I'll have one arranged just for her."

Adriana sighed in relief and smiled at the woman.

Lumius, from his point of view, made himself even smaller, his eyes wide.

"Found you!" Lily shouted, pointing at Lumius.

Lumius had remained under the gazebo even after his Aunt Adriana and Gentiliana had left. He looked up at Lily, the little blonde brimming with Mana, with her eyes currently shining with Mana Sense as she looked at him.

She said something else but Lumius wasn't even listening.

Everyone seemed to recognize what an incredible talent Lily was, but no one—especially in his own family, had ever praised his own talent. Not when Cassius was there as a term of comparison the entire time.

Looking at the smug little blonde towering over his form on the ground, the silver-haired boy smiled widely, knowing his time to outshine the little pedantic girl had just come.
