But all of that was outside of Jane’s influence, or capability to influence. She didn’t want to be involved in the politics of House Benevolence at all. She wanted to run missions; boardrooms and meetings and actual decisions were not what she cared for in life. So she shook her head and dispelled her concerns over the politics of it all. Daylight was figuratively burning, or at least it was burning about a thousand kilometers up, at the Surface.

Jane and her team were still in the Underworld. They had spent the last week doing ‘side quests’, walking down the Main Roads of the Underworld between semi-major settlements far below the Crystal Forest, circling this area called the Slanted Roads but not actually going there, burning time because all of them had agreed that Jane was probably a target of the Sovereign Cities. It pissed Jane off that she ‘needed to be protected’, but she saw the value in not giving her father a headache by trying to join his war.

And so, they wandered, solving problems.

Ages and ages ago those major settlements had been much closer together, and nearer to where the Geode Kendrithyst used to be, but now those major settlements were scattered to the depths. A thousand years after Kendrithyst raised to the Surface, those settlements were also more like cities themselves.

They were currently in a city called Downhere, which was close to a major Upways that eventually led to the Hole in the desert north of Spur. As Jane got up off her chair and went into the hallway of their rented suite, she glanced out the picture window of the rental, and saw Downhere in all its glory.

Much like all the cities of the Underworld, Downhere needed extensive protections against the threats down here, and it needed certain architecture in order to accomplish those protections. The entire city of Downhere looked almost like a normal city at first glance. Streets, buildings, markets and towers of various sizes. But this was only the bottomside of ‘The Rock’. Gravity was rather subjective when it came to the Underworld, for when you got a big enough rock, that rock floated and every surface of that rock was ‘down’, Downhere was actually a slate rock with a topside and a bottomside, both filled with streets and buildings, and the whole thing floated. Downhere was almost like Enduring Forge, with the whole thing floating in the middle of a massive, kilometers-wide cavern, air-gapped from the rest of the Underworld. There were no chains keeping this place centered in the cavern, but there were a lot of continually-cast magics that locked it in place, and ensured that gravity worked how it was ‘supposed to work’.

A lot of people in Downhere were very excited for the [Renew]-based Node magic that Jane’s father had created recently at House Benevolence, for it would solve a lot of maintenance issues, but neither Jane nor any other member of their team had been able to actually connect with the rulers of Downhere in order to make that happen. Not when there was a war going on with House Benevolence and the Sovereign Cities.

But eventually Downhere would get those sorts of Node magics, Jane was sure, and then they could probably fix up this city properly, and actually expand the borders, or something. Of course, that could be a problem, for if they stopped teaching the newer generations how to cast magic properly, then Downhere could face a collapse-situation eventually, once all the older generation died out and the magics lapsed… or something.

Jane muttered to herself, “But maybe that won’t happen...” and then she turned the corner, and saw Ravan, the Mind Mage who formed the communications-hub of this party. Jane said, “You heard the conversation; Looks like we’re good to go home! I’m ready when you are.”

Ravan was a silverscale dragonkin with scales more the color of smoke. She nodded, then got up off her chair, new tendrils of thought spilling away from her. “Then we shall begin the journey to the Surface as soon as everyone is back. It is a shame we never found your sword, and that you failed to gain a Domain, but I am glad for all the good we have done otherwise.”

Jane shrugged. “I’m close. I’ll figure it out later.”

“These things take time; not simply familiarity with magic. It would be a miracle for you to understand your Domain before you were 35, but it would have been nice.”

Jane smiled softly. “Yeah. It would have been.”

After a nod, the middle-aged dragonkin woman asked, “Do you wish to show before the Feast, to take part in it? Or afterward? Because if afterward, we could pass through the Slanted Roads and take care of a good ten undead infestations we heard about before they become truly impassable.”

Jane’s fragile smile faltered. “We wouldn’t have gotten into nearly as many side quests without you around, and so I am very grateful for your presence. It’s been a joy, Ravan, but it’s time to get back home… Before the Feast.”

“Yes; There is no telling what might happen this year.” Ravan added, “But we could always go out on more journeys afterward. There’s always more people that need saving.”

Jane’s smile returned in full force. “You’re not tired of this? Of roaming everywhere?”

“If I didn’t like this sort of life I wouldn’t have signed up for it, and it’s a rare thing indeed to be able to journey with people who can get the job done without complaint and with minimal danger. Though I do wonder if we have too many heavy hitters on our team. Usually, splitting up all this power is better so that more jobs can be done at the same time.” Ravan said, “If I have one real complaint about this team, it is that we are too strong physically; we don’t have an archmage with us, and none of us are really learning anything new in that magical direction either. All the knowledge we do have could be better shared with rookie adventurers.”

Jane joked, “Hizogard and Danaro are certainly learning a lot from each other.”

“Bah!” Ravan tried not to smirk, but Jane had gotten her good. “Those two are only learning carnal matters; nothing important at all!”

The front door to the rooms opened and Sitnakov walked in, joining the conversation like he had been here the whole time, saying, “We could still hit the Slanted Roads without losing too much time, and going up against against soul magic monsters is about the only thing we haven’t done yet.”

Jane looked up the large black orcol wrought, having almost asked him where he was to be able to listen in like that, but she had long ago learned that Sitnakov’s mana sensing range was at least 200 meters. He could have been all the way on the topside of Downhere and still listened in. “I’m more than willing to tackle the Slanted Roads, but do want to be there for the Feast.”

Sitnakov’s face held concern. “You should not ask to be involved in that, Jane.”

“… Maybe not for the 3 days at midnight, but for everything else, yes.”

Sitnakov frowned. “Gods above— Well I’m not going to try and change your mind, but I’m not going to the Feast at all, so if we’re headed back before then, then I’m going to pass through to Stratagold and prepare for possible war on the homefront. We might even ask for your father to close all the Gates before the night falls.”

Ravan stood straighter. “You’re not going to be at Candlepoint for the Feast, Prince Sitnakov?”

“No. If my duty here is ended, then duty drags me onward. Perhaps we can reconnect after the Triumph of Light provided nothing serious happens between now and then, but I must prepare for the waves of monsters that usually happen after the Feast.”

“But that didn’t happen this year?” Jane asked. “It was part of the treaties.”

“The unsaid, unsigned, unknowable treaties that we only rely on the Dark not to mess with? Those ones?” Sitnakov asked, sarcastically. And then he added, “The Dark is going to ask something strange of your father at this Feast and your father might not agree, or maybe he’ll talk the Dark down to some lesser show. Who knows! I try not to even guess anymore. Either way, the world might change again, and we must be ready.”

Ravan was stoic in the face of sudden facts just laid out there.

Jane felt a little lost as she said, “Well… those are... a lot of good points.”

Ravan asked, “Do we have time to kill the largest of the undead at the Slanted Roads? I would have us attempt that, if we can. A full purge is likely out of the question, but clearing the main blockade might be possible.”

Sitnakov shrugged. “Send out a call to Hizogard, Danaro, and Lyrical. Get them here fast enough and we might have time, though we will need to go in blazing quick, and with soul monsters that could be bad. That whole place is constantly falling apart, too, so we might run into a real blockade and need to find another path.”

Ravan began contacting the others, saying, “If it is too dense of a problem we can clear a path and escape through the opening, like the caravaneers. That will be good enough.”

- - - -

Jane stood to the side of their [Sneaky Traveling Platform], as Danaro guided the spell through the right-of-center part of the tunnel, deep in the dark. A bunch of Danaro’s spells had fun little names like that, and Jane appreciated that about the man; that, and his incredibly powerful healing and Blood Magic. Ravan had complained about their team not having a real archmage, but Danaro had a ton of utility, and that was useful enough.

This version of Danaro’s Platform spell was a translucent Force spell that surrounded the Platform, providing active camouflage and various anti-Sight magics, as well as a speedy vehicle with which to travel the open parts of the Underworld. The inside of the sphere was vaguely illuminated, but the outside world was completely dark in a lot of places, so the team sometimes ran into unexpected obstructions and the Platform popped, sending everyone tumbling.

This was not a safe way to travel the dark. But it was fast! And they could recover if they ran into something, while also being able to talk as much as they wanted to this way. Currently, that talking was a bit of an argument.

Danaro, who was incani, and who had also been shadeling for a brief time, said, “Look, Hizogard. I am not saying that I don’t think the King’s response to the war was unfounded, but I am saying that he should have just killed them all and been done with it. Like Jane said; murder is cleaner. Our King could keep killing as necessary until the Cities changed, and that would have been good enough.”

Jane frowned a little. “Maybe I shouldn’t have even brought it up.”

Hizogard, the former half-dragon, now human, from Ar’Cosmos, exclaimed, “But the Cities never change! That’s what I’m saying. They’ve been killed a thousand times over and they never grow back right. The Cities are not some tree that could be pruned into something better. They are Propagating Decay; an anomaly of all that is wrong with the world. Now I hate soul mutilation as much as the next man, but if anyone deserved it the Cities certainly did. They needed this sort of change. Maybe they might actually change this time.”

Sitnakov was staying out of the conversation, and Jane could guess why. Before today, Jane would have guessed that Sitnakov was staying out of it because he didn’t like arguing; he never joined in these spirited discussions unless it was ‘how to best kill a monster’. But now, Jane knew he stayed out of this topic —which was pretty close to ‘how to best kill a kingdom’— because Sitnakov had participated in Forgotten Campaigns before, and he knew that Soul Magic worked to change people a lot better than anything else available. He had even participated in Forgotten Campaigns against Ar’Cosmos.

Which had added a whole new layer to this conversation that Jane had not been fully aware of until after the conversation started. Jane was certainly fully aware of that layer now, though.

Danaro said, “Yes. And the Cities might change to be true angel lovers. That’s the danger with all these humans everywhere.”

And that right there was yet another trap-filled aspect to this conversation that Jane had unintentionally triggered.

Their team had been getting along so well, but now…

A lot of old hates were surfacing.

And Jane was so very, very sorry that she raised this topic at all.

Hizogard gave Danaro a Look, saying, “That better have not been a jab at me.”

“Bah! It wasn’t a jab and you know it,” Danaro said, returning Hizogard’s Look.

Lyrical, their former half-dragon, now orcol, from Ar’Cosmos, said, “I’m sure our King knows what he’s doing, and Hizogard is right; the Cities needed a major shakeup to change. I also do not appreciate the massive use of Soul Magic, but… I’m not sure exactly how bad it was back before Hizogard went into [Stasis], but the Cities of today are mudholes that spawn murderers and thieves all the time.”

In a heavily sarcastic but-not-sarcastic-at-all sort of way, Hizogard said, “The only thing I’ll miss about that place is that I won’t be able to walk into a city square, know that I’ll get mugged and attempted-murdered, and be fully within my rights to kill a fucker that needs killing.”

Jane’s eyes went wide, and she was not the only one.

Danaro gasped. “Hizogard!”

“What!” the man said. “Nothing wrong with taking out the trash.”

Lyrical said, “If there was one thing the Cities were good for, it was knowing that killing any of the nobility there was doing the world a service. Though I tried not to kill the muggers. They’re just products of their culture, Hizogard.”

“Bah! Products of their culture my ass.” Hizogard said, “If all the bad people make a culture that makes more bad people, then the whole thing needs to be killed so that others can bring about something better.”

“Tactical killing is better,” Lyrical said.

Everyone looked at Lyrical and Hizogard.

In a semi-deadly sort of way, Sitnakov asked, “Did you kill commoners for the fun of it? Or did you have a plan?”

Hizogard glared at the big black man. “I was entrusted with a duty to root out a branch of the Dragon Stalkers and I went to one of their known bars and pretended to be a dragon in bad disguise. It worked very, very well, and every single person I murdered fully deserved it.”

“… Ah,” Sitnakov said, then he pulled back out of the conversation.

Danaro looked a little chastised. “The Stalkers are… hmm.” He went silent.

