Lyrical spoke up, “I did two Speaking tours in Killtree, pretending to be a human and to find out who was targeting the nests of some dragons of House Carnage. It was some people from the Adventurer’s Guild who thought that the gem-like eggs of a freshly laid nest were real gems, so they’d been thieving them. I executed those people. Couldn’t do that more than twice though, not with my half-dragonness progressing every time I was outside Ar’Cosmos.”

Hizogard nodded. “That’s how mine progressed, too.”

Jane connected a few dots. Besides the stark reminder that every single person in this party had done horrible things before… Lyrical, the orcol (previously half-dragon), and Hizogard, the human (also previously a half-dragon)…

Jane asked, “You both took Familiar Forms from people you killed?”

“They were already dead.” “Yes, and I’d do it again.”

Jane had some complicated thoughts on that. Murder in the name of securing your state was one thing, but taking someone’s Familiar Form was face stealing, and that was crossing a line. It seemed that Sitnakov had a few odd feelings of his own, according to his mess of facial features and body language; he was mostly opaque to Jane, though. Danaro wore his disgust as concern, though.

Ravan was the only one to not participate in this discussion, because she knew what she was about, and she wanted nothing to do with anything that was not helping other people…

Which made Jane ask, “Do you have an opinion, Ravan?”

“I do,” Ravan said, uncharacteristically strongly. As everyone turned to her with mild surprise, Ravan said, “I feel you should all stop talking about shit that does not matter. We’ve been very good about staying away from these topics while we’ve been down here, and we should return to that arrangement.

“We’re in a new world, and this new world is being made by a Wizard Dragon King who is allied with all the gods and all the powers of this world, including the Darkness. We are in a new age. Old hates, old terrors, and old scars do not need to be reopened. What needs to happen is healing, and since everyone here already knows another major truth besides Danaro, I’m going to just tell him that Soul Magic is what makes this world work at all. Make of that what you will, Danaro. Perhaps with enough mulling over it you will eventually come to the right— Ah. You got it. Yes.”

Danaro, wide eyed, looked to Sitnakov, saying, “Oh. Soul control and Forgotten Campaigns.”

Wait? Did he not know about that? The only one? Well… Okay then.

It seemed everyone was suddenly on the same page, then, and everyone was looking at Sitnakov, for his response.

Sitnakov sighed. “We do what we must for the integrity of this world, and yes, Soul Control magics have been used before, and extensively. Erick’s particular brand of magic is rather subtle, and therefore probably fine. We’re keeping an eye on it, though.”

Danaro shut his mouth, falling deep in thought as he locked his eyes forward, gazing into the dark of the Underworld as he flew the Platform forward. Hizogard smirked, but he did not revel in that ‘win’, because he was from Ar’Cosmos, and this team with a wrought in it was new for him, and in that moment, he was likely thinking about all his old hates of everything not-Ar’Cosmos. Probably. Jane wasn’t sure; she wasn’t empathic like her father. Lyrical was having a complicated set of emotions, too… Probably—

Lyrical brightened in a completely false-hope sort of way, holding up her strummer strapped to her left hand, asking, “Anyone want to hear a flying song?” She began to flick her fingers on the strummer, eliciting music from the air. “Ohh~ There once was a Platform flying~ flying high~ flying~ flying high~…”

Ah.

So back to ignoring the dragon in the room, Jane supposed.

She was sorry she ever brought up the subject of the Cities War.

… Even Jane had to admit that Lyrical’s song was eventually a catchy little tune. Eventually, her quiet singing did a lot to disperse the tension of the argument, and when everyone else started joining in on the singing, it got actually-enjoyable.

After that first song, but before the next one, Jane said, “I really have appreciated your songs, Lyrical. But I think I like the story ballads better than the marching songs.”

Lyrical smiled brightly, strumming her strummer with a rapid, hard flick, accentuating her words,

“Have you heard the story of the Ribbonriver Runner? It’s a tale best-told with a tiny travel strummer! And look, oh~ here now, on my hand! It's one of those best hummers! Now listen lass to this tale told true. It starts at the end of summer…”

- - - -

Lyrical’s stories never ceased to amaze Jane. The woman could sing and dance and play her strummer all the while using magic to put images into the air about whatever story she was spinning. But even discounting all that, her stories always took exactly as much time as they needed to take. As Lyrical’s song of the Ribbonriver Runner ended, she had long enough to add a minor epilogue about how the Runner’s kid went out to the Ribbonriver just like his father, before the story ended, and their own team was a minute away from the Slanted Roads.

They had not met a single monster on the way here, which was pretty damned strange, but eminently possible.

Jane and the whole team watched as the Main Road leading away from Downhere ended, like a tunnel of darkness giving way to an endless void. Donaro slowed their Platform and they glided forward to the lip of the Main Road. They stopped.

All the space beyond was a grand cavern, larger than Ar’Kendrithyst, by far.

The Slanted Roads was a catastrophe zone of continental-sized slate shelves, all broken and scattered atop each other, with many of them laying at the bottom of the cavern, so far, far below, and many of them at the top, so far, far, above. A few haphazard angles of stone were near-vertical inside the cavern, lodged between various broken bits of world here and there, but the space was simply too deep, and vaguely too dark, to see much more than that; the atmosphere, and the Elemental Gloom and Shadow, got in the way.

The distance a person could see through clear air was rather hard to judge accurately back on Earth, with sight lines often less than 50 miles deep, but here on Veird the sight lines could go on for a thousand kilometers or more. The Slanted Roads was one of those spaces on a good day and though it was a good day, Jane could still not see the other side.

Jane marveled. “Holy shit. I didn’t think it would look… So big.”

Hizogard scrunched his eyebrows a bit; he wasn’t impressed. “There’s a reason we didn’t come here before now, right? I mean. We’re right below Ar’Kendrithyst, right?”

Sitnakov smiled as he asked, “Because it’s a trash heap half the size of Glaquin?”

“I’m rather sure I didn’t come through here; I think I would have remembered it if I had,” Jane said. “But maybe we should have checked this place anyway? Gods. This is worse than I had imagined.”

The Main Roads wound all around the Underworld like ten thousand rings of empty cavern space, spaced rather evenly within the globe, save for where Geodes and plumbing diverted those rings. The Side Roads connected the Main Roads together, like staircases, but sometimes more natural up-down caverns. This space that would become the Slanted Roads were supposed to be a living space for the refugees of the Old Cosmology, with the Geode Kendrithyst in the center of this space, but then Melemizargo broke the Underworld. But Ar’Kendrithyst was only about 150 kilometers across.

So there was a discrepancy.

Sitnakov spoke from personal experience, “These here Slanted Roads exist both because Melemizargo captured Kendrithyst and ripped it up from the Underworld, all the way to the Surface, and due to the year-long war that happened before that fateful date, about 900 years ago. Millions died. It was a nightmare.”

Silence.

Jane asked, “About how deep are we?”

“About 800 kilometers below?” Sitnakov guessed. “We’re a bit below where Kendrithyst used to be, I think.”

“I guess monsters are the problem for why no one builds down here,” Jane said, “But this looks like good space? Someone should be using it?”

Sitnako shrugged.

“There’s a lot of good space down here,” Hizogard said, looking up to Sitnakov, trying to build a bridge of cooperation as he added, “But I’m guessing this one is all filled with some of the worst sorts of monsters in the Underworld in a constantly shifting biome that has nothing that anyone wants at all?”

Sitnakov shrugged.

“The biome here rarely shifts; it could be built upon. But the problem is monsters, yes.” Ravan said, “Even still, this is the fastest multi-level trade route through these lands. The Surface areas are all crunched down together, but down here the Slanted Roads are about a thousand kilometer wide, 1,500 kilometer deep hole. If you can navigate this land then you can cut off a lot of travel time. Otherwise you have to go around, and that can add multiple days and even weeks to a normal caravan trip.”

Sitnakov said, “Everything that this area used to be has been rerouted. The waterways, the airways, the manaways. Everything. There’s many safer ways to trade through the Underworld than through this disaster zone.” He smiled. “And subsequently, because only the brave or foolish or strapped for time come through here, this disaster zone is consistently one of the more dangerous places in the Underworld.”

Danaro scoffed. “You say that about everywhere we go.”

Sitnakov nodded. “Most places down here are equivalently dangerous, but in different ways.” He pointed toward one of the larger lights on the broken continental shelves ahead. “That’s our target, yeah Ravan?”

“Correct,” Ravan said, “That largest light in the center of the Slanted Roads marks the largest ephemewights congregation of this land, but every single one of those larger lights marks another congregation. We could spend a week here, killing them all, and make this land much, much safer for all possible travelers. But we can’t; we’re on a schedule. Therefore, we will attempt to clear the main problem and then take a rather straight path up toward the Main Road that leads to the Side Road that leads to the Hole. People come by and clear the main congregation all the time but it comes back rather fast all the time, too, and those who fail to clear it will end up a member of the chorus, constantly wailing their final death throes into the Slanted Roads alongside all the rest who have died down here in ages past.”

Danaro waved Ravan off, saying, “Whatever it is, I am sure our meat shields here will kill it good and well. So let’s get ready?”

“Descend to Main Road floor,” Ravan said, “Standard killing formation. It’ll be about an hour flight toward the center. Be prepared to lose magical capabilities when engaging the ephemewights, but be prepared for all the other normal monsters that live in the gloom down here to attack us long before we get to the actual threat. Those ephemewights require proper [Reflection]s in order to survive their attacks and to withstand their choral [Dispel]s. Anything you wish to add, Prince Sitnakov?”

As the Platform settled down onto the lip of the Main Road below, Sitnakov smashed his adamantium fists together, happily saying, “Nope! That’s it! Reflections if you got ‘em! Be prepared to lose external magics anyway— Oh! And melee does nothing, they learn from the deaths of their neighbors, and they swarm if they sense weakness. We might need to retreat after fifteen minutes because they might become immune to everything we can do. The order in which we’ll likely become useless is Hizogard first, for Force Swords are one magic and they’re probably already immune to Force due to that being a rather common magic.”

“I’ll stay back on defense,” Hizogard said.

Sitnakov nodded, continuing, “Lyrical will become useless next, due to Thunder being mostly physical anyway.”

“Buffing you and Jane then,” Lyrical said.

Sitnakov nodded. “And then I’ll lose effectiveness, and then Jane. Jane will likely be able to outlast us all with her Prismatic style.”

Everyone but Ravan looked at Sitnakov. Ravan kept her eyes on the vast, twinkling space ahead.

“Really?” Jane asked, “Even with you all having Domains?”

Sitnakov smiled. “Domains are what will allow Hizogard and Lyrical and I to fight this battle at all, because the ephemewights will simply become immune to our normal damages after we kill a single one, and they’ll be striking back with cooperative cast anti-magics and thunder-based attacks the whole time we engage— Oh. Lyrical can countersong.”

Lyrical looked unsure. “I can certainly do some countersongs. But what do you mean anti-magics? Like a Void Song?”

“… Somewhat like that,” Sitnakov said, after thinking for a moment. “Pretty sure it’s a Shadow Song.”

Lyrical remained unsure. “I suggest we engage as little as we can, to begin.”

Agreements all around.

Ravan said, “Ignore the light in the center. It’s a trap. The real center of each swarm is always inside the last surviving member of a congregation, and that monster will likely flee if the swarm is destroyed enough. That monster will attempt to join another swarm. We likely will not be able to find nor kill it before that happens. The goal is to kill the main congregation as much as we can, and force it to break apart. Doing this much will save many lives, and it will have to be enough.”

Sitnakov lifted into the air on tidings of black wind, saying, “So we work our way in from the outside, pull back, and repeat ten times!” He shrugged. “But we’ll likely have to move on. These things are dangerous the larger they get, and that central one is maximum size.”

Ravan stepped into the air upon near-invisible [Telekinesis], her full body armor covering her and her very large backpack completely. She linked the group together, sending, ‘Clear as much as we can in ten minutes. Pull back. Go again. And then we leave; straight past and up to the north-northwest at a 2:15 am angle.’

Everyone was now wearing their full armor, or otherwise. Danaro and Ravan, being back-line support, both had very large backpacks incorporated into their [Conjure Armor], while Sitnakov and Hizogard were completely unencumbered. Lyrical had a medium-sized backpack.

