‘Thanks, Poi. Talk to you later.’

And then Jane signed off.

For a good minute after the morning communication with her father, and then a few minutes with Poi to hear about what else might be happening, Jane simply sat back in her chair, feeling some kinda way. She had spoken with her father multiple times during the ‘war’ with the Sovereign Cities, and he had told her to stay away because, for the longest time, her father had suspected that the royalty of the Cities were specifically looking for Jane in order to use her as a bargaining chip against him…

Jane and her team had laid semi-low because of that suspicion.

But now, the war was over, and the truth of it all was revealed, as much as a truth involving several worldly powers could be revealed. According to first reports, the Cities had gone to war with her father in order to solve the supremacy of their royalty once and for all. The war had not started off that way, of course, and the only one able to give an honest accounting of that reason was Queen ‘Crissi Benev’ Pearl, for that was why she had gone to war…

Oh, sure, there were hundreds of smaller powers working in earnest to kill Erick, but...

King Killtree was probably the most die hard warmonger among them; the man had truly wanted to kill ‘The Dark Wizard’ and rip apart Candlepoint, and all of that. Apparently, the king of Killtree had been embarrassed that Erick had cleared out the ballooning spider horde last year, and that had snowballed into people taking pot shots at him, both in the propaganda plays of the city squares and in the form of assassination attempts, so, in order to ‘regain his honor’, Killtree had needed to take a hard-line stance against the Wizard. This then snowballed further and further. King Killtree’s reasons for war were as simple as a man who had to double down and then double down, again and again, or else he would be swallowed by his own nobility.

King Charme, like Queen Pearl, had gone to war because he saw the opportunity to kill all of the other royals and claim supremacy of the Cities. The Cities had been going to war for exactly these sorts of reasons, over and over and over again, since hundreds of years ago, but only when large events came along did the royals actually go to war, and here now, with Erick, was a big reason to break out the big war. If any of Charme’s various assassination attempts against the other royals would have panned out, then he would have sued for peace, but then Erick proved himself as completely unwilling to accept the kind of peace that the royals would have accepted, and so, at the very end of the war, Charme had planted some explosive, soul-killing disease magic in King Killtree and King North Curio Sook. He likely planted the same Disease Magic in the other royals, but those other royals had managed to purge that magic, or something. Solving every part of this particular war would be the work of Knowledge Mages for the next few years.

King North Curio Sook had gone to war in order to inflict as much damage on South Curio as he could. According to the nobility of the North, Sook and other members of the Crushing Depth’s style had had plans to roll the ocean up and over South Curio’s harbors, crushing South Curio. But when Erick and Kromolok and all of Erick’s allies had ended that first polite battle with a decisive win, and then began the actual war, Sook had abandoned those plans against South Curio. No one was really sure what part North Curio played in the greater reasons for the war, but perhaps they were simply swept up in the whole thing, without any real control over what happened once the ball started rolling. And yet they still had control, and they still chose to go to war.

South Curio was in a boat very similar to North Curio, with a few major changes.

King South Curio Xaro had recovered fast during the change-up from polite war to real war, for when Erick had taken out the onlookers at that polite battle he had also taken out many of the people who were guiding South Curio to real war. South Curio had been an absolute political mess, apparently, and the only reason they had gone to war was because anti-Wizard sentiment was popular in the Cities, and much of the nobility was using that propaganda to control their people and distract them from real problems in their own part of the world. And so, South Curio’s nobility had been fully mobilized by promises of power from various organizations, like the Church of Original War, and refugee children from Terror Peaks, and the Book Burners.

Erick suspected that the Dragon Stalkers were also involved in South Curio (and all the other Cities) somehow, but they had never actually shown themselves during the war, so maybe they had escaped or pulled their support once the war got up and running in earnest. Whatever had happened in South Curio was a combination of land-grabbing maneuvers (as the cities usually tried to do to each other) and deep plots that would likely take years to untangle. Whatever had happened to the Dragon Stalkers in the war was currently being worked out between Kirginatharp and the Dragon Stalkers at Oceanside, too, and Erick wasn’t privy to that talk quite yet.

And then there was the final Sovereign City, Pearl, led by a Queen who was somehow still in charge after the war, who had entered into the war with the express purpose of uniting the Cities behind a single power; her own. Queen Pearl had therefore ‘won’, sort of.

Jane didn’t know how to feel about all that.

Her father had mixed opinions, too.

But ignoring the fallout of the war, and the reasons for the war for a minute...

Jane had a lot of mixed opinions about the use of Soul Magic to solve a war. [Reincarnation]ing and Empathying all of the nobles of a society in order to turn them into better people was an idea that her father had toyed with a few times, but Jane had never thought that he would have actually gone through with it. Murder was cleaner, ethically, for Jane.... People had been murdering others for a long time in order to solve problems. Once a person was gone, they could no longer directly influence events. This was slightly less true here on Veird, where some specific people could turn into angels, or demons, or undead, and reclaim their influence…

So perhaps murder wasn’t the best solution to war? Well, the humans and incani had been fighting each other for a long time, and they had been using soul-twisting powers to make sure their enemies stayed down once they were put down…

But maybe the Cities would be better off for this war? Maybe this Soul Magic had been a good thing?

All of this was very confusing for Jane in a way she was not used to being confused. Even Poi had been confused. The two of them had spoken for a little bit on all of that, but they’d likely have more talks on that later.

Once, months and months ago, back in the land of Songli when Erick, Jane, Teressa, and Poi were all walking to Eralis and pretending to be different people, they had been attacked by bandits; ransomers who would capture people and then try to sell them back to whoever wanted them. Those people had been face stealers with mana drain collars on them, and they had tried to capture ‘Ezekiel’, ‘Julia’, ‘Tiffany’, and ‘Paul’. Those bandits had lost, and Jane and her family had won, and afterward…

Jane didn’t remember it all so well, but Poi certainly had, and he had even added in more information for Jane that Jane had never known until then. His experience of that event had been slightly different, after all.

- -

Erick said, “Silverite said that soul magic is a slippery slope. Best not to fall down that path this early. Let the gods judge them.”

“No,” Jane said.

Erick startled, and looked to his daughter.

Jane stared at her father, then at everyone else. “You’re all overthinking this. The options are to kill them, or to make them better people. There’s no reason to think that changing who they are is a bad thing.” Jane stared at her father, saying, “Do it, and don’t look back. Or, if you need to have a line you won’t cross, then only do this to those people who personally try to murder you, which every one of these people tried and failed to do.” She stressed to her father, to Poi, to Teressa, and, it seemed, to the very mana itself, “This is not a dark moment; don’t make it one. This is righting a small part of the world into something better.”

Poi cut in, “The problem is not here. The problem is in escalation. When does the solution not become soul-control, once soul-control is on the menu? It’s the same problem of [Mind Control]. When does the evil action that’s used for good become just another evil action?”

Teressa sighed, unhappy that Poi was making decisions for the group, but she said nothing; she had already said it all.

Jane said, “I already said when: when they come after us directly and they could obviously use some empathy. Besides! We’ll never see these people again, either way, but if they’re Blessed, then they might do some good after doing all the bad they’ve done. Do you see those collars? You don’t even need to tell me that they’ve done wrong! I can see it already.”

“You have this concept of Free Will.” Poi said, “You understand the need for this. Why is this a hard concept for you?”

Jane said, “Because we had jails to lock up the bad guys. Not everyone should be free, but since there’s no jails here, except for jails of the mind, then we should use these ‘jails of the mind’ against those who deserve such treatment.”

Poi went dead silent, trying not to give away anything, for he had no idea how to tell Jane everything that was wrong with what she had just said, or how the problem was much more nuanced than Jane’s imprecise language had allowed for.

Jails of Mind Control had been tried before, and though it worked, it was also horrible and led to the destruction of the Mind Mages via a wave of political opposition, and also faltered control causing criminals to rise up against them all. The Mind Mages almost all died because of that.

But by contrast, soul control did work. It worked very, very well, for all Forgotten Campaigns were partially soul-control campaigns. And yet, Poi knew he should not say as much, for while soul control and mind control were different, and one worked while the other did not…

That was not a conversation he was willing to have. Both options were horrible.

Teressa looked on, deciding not to be a part of the conversation anymore.

A minute passed.

Erick said, “I’ve decided.”

Poi looked to Erick, and was thankful that Erick had decided on the only way to make any of this ethical at all.

Teressa simply crossed her arms.

Jane asked, “What are we doing?”

“In what is likely stupid, but the only way to be sure: I’m giving them a choice.”

- -

Those bandits had chosen death.

And Jane’s thoughts on Soul Magic and death had changed a lot. Poi had experienced a similar shift.

And so, today’s conversation with Poi had gone a lot differently.

- -

‘So Mind Control is terrible because it makes people go crazy, but Soul Control works?’ Jane sent, still disbelieving all of that.

‘It’s rather more nuanced than that, but according to what I’ve been studying of soul control, and of what your father has shared with me, his Empathying works perhaps the best way that Soul Control can possibly work; just a small, cascading effect that points a person in a general direction. No real ‘control’. No real mutilation. A simple, true Blessing that allows people to connect better to others. I haven’t actually been allowed on the field of battle, though, so everything I have heard about it has been through daily communications with your father, and through the Mind Mages.’

‘You’re a lot more open about this stuff than you used to be, Poi. It’s weird.’

‘We’re in weird territory, Jane, and you need to know ‘this stuff’ as much as I need to know this stuff. Everything is changing, and it’ll be an age before anything settles down.’

‘I still can’t believe that dad is shacking up with Quilatalap, the Archlich of Necromancy Itself.’ Jane, exasperated, added, ‘And now he’s the king of a million-plus people! Holy fuck, Poi. Gods… And all that Blessing… I think… I think killing is cleaner, even with all the ways that people don’t actually die when they are killed.’

‘I’m more comfortable with keeping people alive and changing them through Soul Magic for exactly that reason; people don’t always die when they are killed. Changing the soul is the only way to be sure that a killing hasn’t delayed the problem for another day— But this is a conversation I should not have with you; there is propriety to consider.’

Jane almost laughed. ‘At least you’re actually telling what’s really happening at home, Poi; Dad sugar-coats everything.’

‘Yes; this is why I try to keep you in the loop, but we have passed that specific point right now.’

- -

And now, Jane sat there, thinking.

It didn’t take her long to come to her own personal conclusion; that killing all the worst nobles would have been cleaner. By miring himself in Soul Magics, her father had… mired himself in Soul Magics. It just wasn’t clean. Jane couldn’t really articulate herself very well, to Poi, to her father, or even to herself.

But killing was cleaner. Death was still a very large barrier for a soul to overcome. Most could not. Most people who became angels or demons were not the same people they were in life, at all.

And so, destruction was better than uncertain change, for allowing those who have deeply wronged others to retain power over those people who they had wronged—

That was it.

Jane was mad that Queen Pearl had ‘won’.

No matter what else her father had done, Erick should not have allowed Crissi Benev back into power. No way, no how. The Sovereign Cities needed the head of the snake on a pike, and it needed to be Crissi’s…

And yet.

Perhaps that would happen? Eventually? Erick had put Crissi back into power, but Crissi still had enemies the world over, and especially over in the incani/demonic Wasteland Kingdoms. Crissi was very much angel-aligned, after all, and to hear her father talk of the aftermath of the war was to hear a litany of assassination attempts against the self-named ‘Blessed Nobility’.

… That name ‘Blessed Nobility’ irked Jane, too, and by a lot.

