Jane was her usual blue-tarantula form. It felt wonderful to shed her human form and finally be bigger than every single other person in her team. She was ten meters wide and four meters tall, and also floating on shadows. The only thing that made her obviously-not-a-monster was a specialty summoned armor that covered her thorax and brightly proclaimed in big white letters on top and bottom, ‘I’M A PERSON, TOO!’.

It would have been funny, but there had been incidents.

And now was not a time to hold back, so Jane was a spider. As she took to the air, flying behind her team, Jane was both sad that they were so close to the end of their adventure, and hopeful that they could get back to this some other time. But a part of Ravan’s earlier words had stuck with Jane; this was an overpowered team, and the world would be better off if every single person here split off into a new team, to guide the young into higher echelons of power.

The 400 kilometer flight over to the ephemewights would take a short while, so Jane had some time to think about what came next. Did she want to reform this overpowered team, after the Feast? Provided the Feast went well and there wasn’t some sort of world-ending—

A falseDark opened its maw in the air to the left, like an abyssal anglerfish with a million gently-glowing white teeth spearing up and down from a 200 meter wide maw that led straight into a gloomy death. A thousand tendrils of gloom lanced out from that deep pit of a mouth, into the sky, mostly trying to capture and eat Jane since she was the biggest target of the group.

The team instantly reconfigured their flying formation. Jane went Prismatic. Sitnakov went Full Storm. Hizogard billowed with cutting edges, slicing apart every tendril that went for himself, Lyrical, Danaro, and Ravan. Lyrical waited, poised to face a secondary threat if it should show, or to back up any of the others. Danaro waited, poised to heal if needed, but it shouldn’t be needed. Ravan coordinated.

The falseDark died mostly to Sitnakov, the gloom-based monster becoming a scattering of barely-there flesh that vanished into the otherwise clear air. Jane went after and cleaned up the second, smaller falseDark, lying in wait for the first one to finish.

The group resumed their flight toward the lights of the central, most major ephemewight congregation; the most visible and therefore most dangerous threat in the area. Things didn’t draw attention to themselves down here unless they could do so without being targeted by a thousand other threats.

A moment after the group resumed flight, Danaro sent, ‘It would be stupid to say that I’m almost not scared of those falseDarks anymore, so I will not say that.’

A few chuckles filled the probably-not-empty air.
