“Either you’re lying, or your definition of fine has gone way off-kilter. Doesn’t matter which right now. Just get yourself back home. Don’t worry about your aunt. I’ll make some calls right this second, and she’ll be easy for you to teleport in when you’re ready. And I’ll look into your friends. They called me, too. That might take a while longer to arrange…but anyway, I’ll put some money in your account so that you can pay for them—”

“No!” Alden almost shouted. “I don’t need money!”

She looked startled.

“They paid me for my time on the moon,” he said. “They paid me a lot.”

Her face split into a wide grin. “Oh yeah? And, I hear you’re a Rabbit. Congrats on the rare class.”

Right. She would know.

“What does a Rabbit even get for being stuck on the Triplanets for more than half a year?”

“I have twelve million dollars now.”

She coughed. “I wasn’t serious! You know you don’t have to answer rude questions like that!?”

“But I’ve never had twelve million dollars before. It’s really strange. I feel like I should tell people.”

Cly laughed. “Re-think that one. At least as far as just announcing it out loud. Buy yourself a mansion or something and let them guess.”

“Okay.”

“You can pay for your own teleports, though.”

“I can,” Alden agreed.

“Put me on your priority contacts list. If I know someone’s blood type, I should be able to phone them whenever I want.”

“That sounds fair.”

When the call ended, he realized he was smiling. He had just talked to a human. His first in ages. It was nice.

The talk that followed with Aunt Connie lasted a lot longer. And it involved a surprising amount of shouting from her about how he was living dangerously, which was out of character, and a lot of apologizing for being a terrible aunt, which was also out of character. And unnecessary.

“You never had to be a perfect aunt,” Alden said for the third time while Connie sat on the curb outside a strip mall and wiped her nose on her tanktop. “You’re my aunt. And I love you. And I’m sorry I asked my friends to lie to you. I was going to tell you I was an Avowed at some point when I got back home.”

“But you didn’t tell me, and you d-didn’t c-come back home!” she bawled.

His heart clenched. He couldn’t think of anything to say to that.

“Do you mind teleporting to Anesidora tomorrow? I…really want to hug you. For an awkwardly long time.”

“Okay.”

“I don’t think you understand. Awkwardly long. Like a couple of days at least. You should take off work.”

She blew her nose on the tanktop.

***************

After the call with his aunt, Alden didn’t think he had another long heart-to-heart in him. So he texted Boe and Jeremy, letting them know he was alive and that he’d get in touch soon.

Then he brushed himself off as best he could and thanked the tree that he had been using as a seat all this time. It dropped a bright green leaf onto his head with accuracy that could have been coincidental but probably wasn’t.

He tucked the leaf into his new magic bag with his new magic books, then went for a walk, following the guiding arrow the System had provided.

Sunset was approaching, and the forest was much darker now. But there was no undergrowth, so it wasn’t hard to navigate. Alden considered buying something from the Wardrobe, or having the cargo pant/hiking boot set he’d purchased on his first day as a Rabbit teleported in from Earth.

But why spend a bunch of his new money to get himself ugly alien clothes when he didn’t really want or need them at the moment?

He was going to buy himself good old-fashioned human shoes when he got home. And as many other good old-fashioned human things as he could think of uses for.

I want a normal toothbrush. And some jeans.

He was a little trepidatious as the miles ticked down and he approached his destination. He expected to be stopped by guards of some kind. The art’hs were about as important as people on the Triplanets could be as far as he could tell, and important people were supposed to have guards weren’t they? Or at least magic walls.

Regular walls even.

But Alden had already passed by the first evidence that he’d entered an occupied area before even he realized it. It was a low building, about the size of the small house he’d shared with his aunt. It had mirrored sides that perfectly reflected the forest around it and a flat roof covered in fallen leaves.

The structure was so well camouflaged that it took a few seconds to make out the whole shape of it even when he knew what he was looking at. It was pentagonal, and it had a pair of dark wooden chairs in what Alden assumed was the front.

That can’t be the whole house, can it?

Alden approached, wondering how to figure out where one knocked on a mirrored building. He tried not to feel spooked by the fact that the mirrors showed everything around them but him.

While he was squinting at the place, struggling to find something that looked like a door, a panel beside him suddenly slid aside, and three kids around Kibby’s age stood there peeking out at him.

They were all wearing loose-fitting clothes, and behind them was an open space that looked like it could have been meant for anything from meditation to dancing to martial arts. There was something inside making a hollow tocking sound with perfect rhythm, like a metronome.

“I told you it was human,” one of them whispered to the other two.

“Don’t call her ‘it,’” hissed another. “The Instructors say humans think that is rude.”

Her? Nobody’s ever made that particular mistake before.

They didn’t seem surprised or worried to see him. Just curious.

“Hi,” he said in Artonan. “I’m looking for Stu-art’h?”

“He’s probably at the main house,” said one, pointing in the direction Alden had been heading.

“He could be anywhere else though,” another said.

“But he’s probably at the main house.”

“Thank you,” said Alden. “Sorry I interrupted your…thing you were doing.”

He headed in the direction they’d pointed, noting several more of the small camouflaged buildings and a couple of larger ones. He passed half a dozen Artonans. A couple were in wizard’s clothes, but most wore the knight’s uniform. They all looked at him curiously, but nobody seemed concerned about his presence.

I’m an Avowed, Alden realized. They think there’s no way for me to be here unless I was summoned.

Also, this place was on a ginormous piece of privately governed land. He doubted they got many uninvited guests.

I feel like a spy in the castle.

It was kind of fun.

Finally, he came to a place so large that it had to be the ‘main house.’ There were well-trodden paths leading to and from it at different angles, and the home had been built around several of the giant trees. It was at least three stories tall by his estimate.

He followed the path that looked the most frequently used and stood waiting for someone to open a door for him. The kids had known he was around. He’d be noticed eventually. Better to be patient, instead of banging on walls that might, for all he knew, be one-way windows into the Primary’s own bathroom.

A door did finally open, just a few inches from where Alden had guessed it would be. The mirrored surface faded to reveal smooth wood, which slid aside. Alden took a step back in surprise as a person of a type he’d never seen in real life loomed over him.

That is a giant, four-armed…mole, he thought.

He’d seen pictures of them before in a xenobiology book. He knew they were called the Mleirt, and also that there were basically none of them. They had a population of just under twenty thousand. Alden hadn’t even realized they had Avowed, but this one was wearing a pair of wide fabric belts diagonally across its body, and they had embroidered designs on them reminiscent of the one Alden had just earned under his privileges tab.

The Mleirt had glossy bronze fur, no visible ears, and a snout with pinkish tentacle-whiskers.

<<You smell new to me. Did you forget where the door is?>> the alien asked. According to the System, anyway. The snout tentacles waved but there was no sound that Alden could detect.

“I’ve never been here before,” he admitted, staring up at the Mleirt’s chin. “I’m looking for Stu-art’h?”

<<He is studying in his room. I was about to take him third meal.>>

Interesting. They did three meals. Culture class and Kibby had taught Alden that two was more normal. First meal was usually either breakfast or lunch, depending on the eater’s preference. And then there was an evening one.

On the other hand, Joe had just scarfed things out of his own pockets whenever it suited him.

To each their own.

“I can take Stu-art’h’s dinner with me?” Alden offered, thinking it would be a good way to get directions without having to wander the whole massive place.

<<You smell like soil.>>

“I brushed off, but I am covered in dirt. Sorry. That’s—”

<<I like soil. More people should smell like it. Come inside. It is pleasant to have a new person around.>>

“I’m not staying long. Just here for a quick…thing.”

<<That is a shame. I enjoy to be called Murmur.>>

“Murmur,” Alden repeated. “I’m Alden.”

He followed the Mleirt into a house that somehow managed to be cozy and inviting despite its size. Alden took in everything with interest. It was the opposite of an open floor plan. Rooms connected to other rooms which connected to hallways lined with seating nooks and bookcases.

I’m so going to get lost.

And there were really a lot of people in residence. Wizards and knights everywhere—chatting in nooks or seated around tables in rooms with soft lighting and music. There were quite a few kids running around, too. And a baby was crying somewhere.

Somehow, despite the small rooms and the busyness, the house still clearly belonged to very rich people. It wasn’t like there were tons of conspicuous jewels or gilded furniture. It was just that every spot Alden’s eyes landed on was somehow too appealing.

Armchairs snugged up against a fire pit made him long to sit down. The rugs were so plush he wanted to rub his face on them. In some spaces, candlelight—and who even used candles as a serious light source these days?—reflected off of polished floors and wall panels mesmerizingly. And in other locations, windows were beginning to glow softly to replace the sun as twilight fell. Even the curtains seemed to be drawn exactly right in every single room.

Alden had never paid attention to something like curtains before. And he felt way too welcome and relaxed for a spy.

They must have someone with Tailor Environment come in monthly to tweak this place. There’s no way it’s this absurdly delightful through happenstance.

Alden definitely didn’t fit in. He drew startled looks in every space they passed through. But nobody ever said, “Hey? Who is this guy?”

It must be the number of people living together. They see something odd, and they all just assume another member of the household is responsible for it.

Plus, he was following Murmur around.

On what was turning out to be a very roundabout mission to get to the kitchen and fetch Stu-art’h’s supper. There was no way this was the fastest route, but the Mleirt seemed to have a curious sort of purpose in wandering the entire ground floor of the building like this. It was like the point of it was to stop by in every single room.

Alden thought Murmur was the housekeeper. Maybe even the person who was making the environment so nice. They did stop to tidy scattered toys and discarded dishes on a couple of occasions. But the big alien also paused their trip through the house to grab a full-grown wizard out of a chair he’d been napping in and hold him still while sniffing him thoroughly. And the guy just submitted to the treatment with a sigh.

The wizard gave Alden a look as if to say, “Do you see what is happening to me?”

And Alden really wondered what expression he wore on his own face, because he had no clue what was going on.

Murmur set the fellow down, patted him on the back with all four of his clawed hands, and then they resumed their trip as if nothing had happened.

So a housekeeper that grabs people and sniffs them regularly enough for it to be no big deal?

Why not?

They finally made it to a formal dining room—the one truly large space in the house so far—and through there, they passed into an ultra-modern kitchen that didn’t fit in with the rest of the place at all. Here, Alden finally saw adult Artonans not in wizard or knight clothes. A man was cleaning dishes, a woman appeared to be cataloging the contents of a freezer, and a couple of people were assembling to-go containers that looked like smaller versions of the high-tech takeout tiffins Alden had encountered before.

One of them checked a tablet and gave Alden a container to take up to Stu-art’h. And then, since they assumed he was a helpful volunteer, they gave him five more to deliver to other people on the same floor.

How did I end up as room service? he wondered as he climbed the stairs Murmur had pointed out to him. Is this just the fate of Rabbits? I don’t even work here.

He’d explained that he didn’t know where any of the rooms were upstairs, and they just gave him door numbers to remember.

As he emerged from the stairs into the hall, he took in the environment. Very different from the ground floor. It was a long hallway lined with widely-spaced doors. Up ahead, it made a sudden split to go around the tree trunk that was visible through floor-to-ceiling windows.

