Alden counted four doors, smacked his hip into the access panel to get the resident’s attention since he didn’t have a free hand to knock, and a moment later, a woman in a long gown that he assumed was pajamas took her food from him with only a briefly confused look on her face.

These people need to be more suspicious, Alden thought. They are the protectors of the universe apparently, and I could just poison them all.

Door number seven, just before he got to the tree, belonged to a familiar face. Rel-art’h, the instructor in charge of the class at the…ceremony…Alden had seen. He was wearing the same knight’s uniform, and his black hair was pulled back at the temples with the same small jeweled clips.

Alden froze.

Rel-art’h seemed confused to see him, and unlike everyone else in the house, he was a little less inclined to brush it aside.

“Who are you?” he asked, taking the food in one hand and setting it on a small table by the door. Behind him, Alden could see a seating area, and there were three different screens on the wall covered in logograms.

“I’m Alden,” Alden said. He’d already decided not to lie about stupid stuff. If someone ever got around to caring enough to ask him why he was looking for Stuart, he’d just tell them it was because he wanted to go home.

Rel-art’h frowned at his answer. Alden braced for further questions, but instead, the man just said, “Like the ryeh-b’t?”

What? Alden blinked. He was positive his reputation shouldn’t have proceeded him because as far as he knew, he did not have a reputation. Unless it was as that guy the Primary met once who’d died almost immediately afterwards.

“Yes?” he said.

“It must be a common name for humans…” Rel-art’h muttered.

Then he closed the door in Alden’s face.

It could have been a coincidence, but as Alden traveled down the hall, the residents seemed to get younger. And more stressed out. He delivered one of the meals to a room shared by a pair of seemingly identical twin girls—really rare on the Triplanets despite the high rate of fraternal twins compared to Earth—who looked like they hadn’t slept in days. They appeared to be just a few years older than him, and one of them was in the knights’ uniform while the other was wrapped in an oversized towel. She was swearing tearfully at what Alden thought was a pot full of red moss.

“You’re new,” the not-swearing sister said in a dull voice. “Thank you for third meal.”

“You’re welcome.”

She started to close the door, then she looked at him again and swept some of her dark lavender hair out of her face to see him better. “You look tired.”

If she’s saying that, it must really be showing.

It wasn’t that he was tired, exactly. Physically he still felt awesome. Mentally, he was really curious about this place and these people, and he was enjoying the diversion of being where he shouldn’t.

It was that the thing he’d been diverting himself from was starting to weigh on him too much.

He felt fragile.

And while he knew he wasn’t about to break, and it was just his authority aching, he was beginning to lose his determination not to curl up in a ball somewhere quiet to suffer in peace.

“I’m not exactly tired. Just having a busy day.”

“You should rest,” she said.

“I’m planning to rest for ages starting tomorrow. Stu-art’h’s room is at the end of this hall, right?”

She nodded.

Just one more quest to complete, he thought, turning to go. And then I get the present. And then I get to use the nice, pain-free summonarium. And then I get to go home.
