[Not that you are what you are. They will assume, correctly, that you were re-routed here so that they would be on hand to execute you if you turned into a chaos-generating monster during your repair session.]

“Is that a thing that happens?” Alden asked. “Earth mentioned having to take extra precautions to prevent ‘abominations,’ too. What the heck?”

[It almost never happens these days. Because everyone is careful about it.]

“That’s good. I suppose. What’s in the present?”

[It’s a surprise. One far too extravagant to give you for free no matter how charming you are. Help from me doesn’t work like that.]

“I get it,” Alden said. “I know you’re not a genie. Thank you. After I’ve thought about it a little more, maybe.”

There was a pause.

[Stu-art’h is home from college for his weekly study days.]

Ah. He got in. And got started. Months passing changes a lot. “Did you want me to say hey to him specifically, or…?”

[Talk to whomever you like.]

Alden nodded.

[But he was upset you died. And you have seen the worst moment of his life. And you’re carrying around a piece of his foot.]

***********

Alden spent a lot more time after that sorting out how he wanted to handle the return to Earth. He tried to consider his options—all of them, not just the obvious ones. Because once he left this forest behind, he wasn’t going to get many chances to undo whatever choices he made.

He could really go anywhere on Earth he wanted. That was a rare opportunity, and the System wouldn’t rat him out. He could drop himself in Hawaii. He was already dressed for it after all. And he didn’t know how much money it took to go on the run for a lifetime, but he was betting it was less than he had.

He had the same amount of argold he had been in possession of before he left. Plus full payment for his work at LeafSong. Plus a pending amount that was large enough to earn the attention of even the part of his mind that couldn’t stop focusing on the abused state of his authority. Alden wondered whose pocket it was coming out of. The Triplanetary government’s? The university’s? Joe’s?

It didn’t say who it was from. Only what it was for—service in a corruption field unsuited to his rank, accidental deprivation of his rights due to loss of Contract oversight, and exceptional acts of bravery unrelated to an official summons.

Unless the currency exchange rate was very different than it had been when he’d left home, Alden now had more than twelve million dollars.

That’s too much. What does a person even do with that much money?

Although…if someone told him he had to give it all back or else return to Moon Thegund for another half year, he would gladly hand over every dime. So maybe it wasn’t that much.

On top of that, the [PRIVILEGES] button was pulsing on the interface’s main menu. When he selected it, he saw a few new things. One was a decorative design that had been awarded in addition to the extra pay for the “exceptional acts of bravery.” From now on, it could be embroidered on the shoulder of clothes he purchased from the Wardrobe if he wanted.

Like a medal, I suppose?

It had been issued by Alis-art’h several hours ago, so she must have known by now that he’d made it safely through the strange teleportation process and his second affixation.

It didn’t have any attached benefits Alden could see. But the embroidery patterns on their outfits obviously meant something to wizards. Maybe it was just a mark that indicated people ought to be nice to him, since he was an extra awesome Rabbit.

He was also now an Authorized Witness for certain kinds of System-related actions and legal contracts. It was more of a convenience than a power. It would remove a hoop to jump through for things like the class trading process.

Finally, he had a privilege listed that was only a single word. No description of what it was or how he’d obtained it.

Not that he needed one.

It just said, “MOTHER.”

With his mind, he flicked through the interface, examining everything else.

Money. Stats. Privileges. Skill.

He even had an Anesidoran ID now, issued a few days after he must have officially gone missing. He didn’t know if it was standard protocol to give newly-minted Avowed who vanished on their first assignment the benefit of the doubt about their intent to register, or if someone had pulled strings.

It can’t be something that happens often.

Alden had never heard of it happening to anyone else.

I guess my last known location was the consulate, too. So Boe and Jeremy could’ve told people I was there to register when I got called, and it would have looked pretty legit.

He had a form letter in his inbox welcoming him to the island and instructing him on what procedures he’d have to go through when he arrived. He also had a System notification that he had thousands of text, voice, and video messages in storage on Earth. They could all be transferred over in one packet for just the standard connection fee, so he paid it.

And immediately regretted it.

His inbox turned into an emotional minefield. Connie, crying, had called him twelve times a day at first, then gradually fewer and fewer, and then the System had apparently switched him from Missing to Presumed Dead at one point, and the calls had peaked in number. Then tapered off again.

Three weeks ago, for some reason, she’d sent him a photo of Wummy sitting on top of her dresser in her bedroom. The text below the smiling wombat said, “Don’t worry. Jeremy and I didn’t put him in the attic with the rest of it.”

That was her last message.

Alden had to take a few deep breaths. And then a few dozen more.

The other messages weren’t quite as emotional but they were still overwhelming. Jeremy seemed to have been using what he assumed was the ghost of Alden as a diary for a couple of months now. The entries were getting way too personal to share with someone who was only presumed dead.

Boe had initially sent five messages. Each twenty-four hours apart right after Alden went missing. The fifth one said, “Yeah. You’re probably not ever going to read these, and sending them is making me feel like shit. I hope I’m wrong and I get to see you when you come back.”

A sixth and final one had appeared a couple of months later, though: “They had a thing for you at school today. You would have loathed it. Connie’s fine. Jeremy is, too. So’s the cat. Gorgon is very alien, the same as always.”

The thing at school had been a large public memorial service. Which was definitely not what he would have wanted for himself if anyone had ever asked him.

They’d had one at his middle school for two girls who’d died in a car accident, and the event had been disturbing. Alden had hated the way so many kids, and even a few of the teachers, suddenly became posthumous best friends with the dead girls even though they’d barely spoken to them in reality. The number of fake criers had exceeded the actual mourners.

Apparently, when you died as an Avowed at fifteen, it was even worse.

Alden had messages from classmates whose names he didn’t know. More than a few of the videos had obviously been recorded not for Alden, but for posting on social media. They were incredibly insincere. A couple of them referred to entirely made-up events he had supposedly shared with the creators. It made him wonder what percentage of people were hiding the fact that they lacked a normal human conscience.

He did worry about the messages from people who seemed to really be upset about his death even though he barely knew them. Apparently he’d complimented one of the school lunch ladies more often than any other student, and she was devastated he was gone.

Some people had no hearts. Others had big ones.

Alden felt like someone had just dumped an entire wheelbarrow full of life on top of his head. It was foreign, and he didn’t have any idea what to do with it.

Aunt Connie probably liked the giant messy funeral at least.

She was a fan of overdoing things like that to begin with, and though she had a bullshit detector, she preferred not to employ it. Alden was sure she knew better, but she enjoyed living in her own version of the world. It was one where handsome men were never scumbags, charities couldn’t be sketchy, and it was illegal for reality tv to be fake.

Alden had the System hide all of the messages away to be sorted through some other time. When it would be less confusing.

If I went on the run in Hawaii, Aunt Connie and my friends would have to keep my existence a secret. It wasn’t like he was going to let them go on thinking he was dead. Sounds hard for them. And pretty nerve-wracking for me. How do you even exchange argold for dollars if you’re in hiding, anyway?

He glanced at the Anesidora ID.

Island it is.

There had never really been a better choice. And back when he was more sure of who he was, Alden had been looking forward to being a proper, Anesidoran Avowed. So despite weird circumstances and less certainty, the plan is pretty much the same.

Get into a good school, learn to use my powers, gain some survival know-how, get stronger so that if something like this ever happens to me again I’m not so helpless…figure the rest out from there when I’m not so burned out.

“Great,” he said to the woods. “So, now I just have to get myself to the right planet in the right way and get started.”

He was very tempted to just show up in the Chicago consulate.

Pros: he could talk to Gorgon and make sure the alien was okay after the Rite.

Cons: He and Gorgon didn’t actually have much to say to each other that could be said. It would just be a social visit. Probably a brief one. Because even if Alden pretended like he’d just been sent there because it was the location he’d originally been summoned from, he couldn’t very well act like he was ignorant of where he was supposed to be when they’d given him a new ID and a welcome letter.

If he openly wandered around Chicago for a while and visited home, he might get a pass for being a teenager coming out of a bad situation. Or he might be banned from legally returning to the U.S. for family business and hero work.

Not worth it.

He made a decision. And shortly after it, his first phone call in a long time.

A few seconds later, a woman appeared. She was wearing a flawlessly tailored dark green suit jacket with a rainbow-colored pin on the lapel that said “Toronto,” and she was standing between someone in long, glittery white sleeves and another person in gray camo. Alden couldn’t see their faces, just their arms thrown over her shoulders. Over her head in the background, two curved, glass buildings rose against a cloudless blue sky.

Lights flashed. Someone said, “Smile, everyone!”

The woman did not smile. Instead, she stared at Alden with her mouth hanging open slightly.

He blinked, trying to process the scene. Then he exclaimed, “Ms. Zhao, you didn’t have to answer right in the middle of a photoshoot for your job!”

Cly Zhao shook her head and ducked out from under her teammates’ arms. “Kid, you’re alive! Oh my god!”

“I can wait and call back in a few minutes—”

“Are you crazy!? Where are you? Are you hurt? What happened?!”

Alden saw the other heroes on the Toronto team asking her questions, and she waved them off with both arms.

“I’m fine,” Alden said hastily. “I’m not hurt. I just got stuck on a moon without a System for a while. There’s nothing that urgent. We really can talk lat—”

“I’m not going to hang up on a dead person to have my picture taken!” She was run-walking away from the group of superhumans.

Alden was a little embarrassed. He’d only wanted to ask her a quick question.

“Uh…thanks,” he said. “I’m going to be coming back to Earth. To Anesidora. Probably in a few hours. I’m about to call my aunt and let her know I’m okay, but since I know she’s going to be…pretty shocked…I wanted to be able to tell her when we’d get to see each other in person.”

“You haven’t even called Connie yet?!”

“You know my aunt’s first name?”

“I know your blood type and where all your birthmarks are. She seemed to think that might help me locate you. In outer space. After you got eaten by a teleport cycle.”

“Ohhhh.” Alden winced. “I’m so sorry. You and I don’t even really know each other, and I’m sure she probably drove you—”

“It’s fine. Trust me. What do you need?” She’d stopped walking in front of a large water feature.

“I wanted to tell Connie exactly when we could see each other face to face. I was hoping I could get her a teleportation pass to the island. But I don’t know how to do that.”

There was no option for it on his interface.

“That’s all? That’s easy. She’s your immediate family. It’s basically just paperwork on the island’s end of things that hasn’t been done. Because you haven’t been living there. If you tell me exactly when you’ll be arriving, I can make sure your aunt is waiting for you.”

“It doesn’t have to be…I’d rather it not be right away like that,” Alden said. He needed more of a chance to get his head on straight. “When I see her in person, I’d like to be clean and wearing normal clothes and being more normal than I feel right now. Is tomorrow okay?”

“Of course.” She examined him. “You’re wearing a very dirty tropical shirt. And you said you got stuck on a moon. With no System? Where are you again?”

“I’m also barefoot and in wizard pants that don’t fit. Artona I. It’s a long story. I’m really totally fine.”

