“How many did we just kill?” Malika asked, a little out of breath, exactly echoing Ali’s thoughts. Previously, these bone elementals had been incredibly challenging to take on, even one at a time, with a long rest in between. With just the advancement of a few levels, they had torn through a host of them, sometimes fighting two or three simultaneously, and they had come out at the other end breathing a little heavier and needing to take a bit of a mana break.

“Sixteen, if you don’t count the Spitter Drones,” Calen answered.

Mato stood near the edge, gazing down into the darkness below. The dim greenish-yellow light filtered upward but whatever lay down there was well beyond his ability to make out. It smelled though, of rot and growth, a stark contrast to the dry bone dust that covered everything up here. There was no railing or wall, just the treacherous-looking bone stuff layered on top of the underlying stone of the enormous supporting platform that held hundreds of encrusted buildings in various stages of ruin. Off to the side was what looked like a giant toppled statue, but it was hard to tell what lay beneath all the layers encrusting it, attaching it to the floor.

The ground shivered lightly underfoot.

He looked down when it happened again. What’s that? The vibrations grew progressively more powerful in a regular rhythmic pattern.

“Whoa,” Malika exclaimed, noticing the effect.

As dust and small loose chunks of bone began to bounce, Mato looked up catching a flash of white down one of the adjacent alleys. He didn’t wait, shapeshifting immediately to his Bear Form. When the monster stepped out of the shadows, he was ready.

Piercer Scorpion. But it was pure white and towered at least twice the size of every bone elemental they had faced so far, its spear-tipped limbs thicker than his leg, its stinger gleaming with unnatural sharpness as it quivered upright, ready to strike.

Mato charged without hesitation on all four paws, tearing across the clear space at high speed. Survival Instinct flared as the spears blurred into action, stabbing down viciously. He triggered his Brutal Combat block a hair before the spears even moved, reacting to the premonition of danger rather than relying on his vision to track the immense speed. But as the spears ripped through the stone pavement, the ground beneath him erupted with a devastating pincushion of stout yard-long spears of bone, impaling him through the ribs from below.

He roared in pain but still managed to imbue his voice with his Challenging Roar skill, while he twisted, snapping the spears of bone, and spraying his blood across the ground.

“Mato, it’s a boss! Be careful!” Calen yelled.

I kinda figured that one out for myself, he thought, settling his focus on his Survival Instinct as it began screaming for his attention. He swiped at the monster, spending mana to empower his strike using Brutal Restoration, but his heavy paw bounced off the dense armor while the nature magic of his Brutal Restoration barely penetrated to do the minimum damage.

Suddenly, the heals from the Kobolds landed, beginning to slowly force the shattered pieces of the spears out of his body, but he was already bracing against more as the giant scorpion of bone lashed out, making bone explode from the walls and the ground wherever it struck.

Mato roared, lowering his center at the last possible moment avoiding the powerful tail strike that punched clean through a stone wall sending shards of bone and rock ricocheting off his armor.

He narrowed his eyes against the brilliant flash of lightning, delaying his attack slightly to better exploit the damage the magic would do.

Again, the urgent awareness of Survival Instinct burst in his mind as the scorpion’s tail raised and he recognized the potent bone magical attack.

“It’s using magic!” Ali’s voice carried clear across the battlefield.

He calmed himself a little – these attacks were well-telegraphed and easy to avoid. But instead of the expected spear of bone, the ground exploded with a violent eruption of bone spears and shards in a nova that shot out in all directions, picking him up and flinging him ten yards to bounce off a wall.

“Calen! No!” Ali screamed, and for a brief moment, Mato saw his childhood friend impaled through the stomach by a large spear of bone, suspended in the air out over the darkness with nothing but yawning emptiness below to catch his fall.
