Well, we’re off to a great start. “The soldiers of the North heed their appointed Legate’s order, the highest ranking Official of the Outer Provinces. Quibble about my age and capabilities all you like, but the Warriors of the North make ready to march on the Enemy. Why are South and Central not joining us as planned?”

“Because I have not given the order to.”

Infuriating bastard. He’s doing this on purpose, stirring the pot to get a rise out of me. The worst thing to do is to lose my temper, but I tire of these political games. “But I have given the order, and the last I checked, a Legate outranks even a Commander General.” Unable to help myself, I straighten up and rest one hand on Peace’s hilt and say, “So it’s treason then.”

Now is not the time to laugh or scream nonsensically dude. This is serious business.

Eyes widening ever so slightly at my direct approach, Shuai Jiao’s arm shoots out to bar Yong-Jin from standing, his other hand pressed flat against the table in a show of visible restraint. “Careful who you accuse of treason, child,” the Commander General replies, doing away with all pretense of cordiality. “Lest you find your accusations turned back upon yourself.”

What? How am I the treasonous one? Struggling not to let my confusion show, I purse my lips and ask, “One last chance Commander General. I have given my command. Will you obey? Let me hear your answer, plain and simple.”

Taking a deep breath before releasing it slowly, Shuai Jiao appears both resigned and committed to his decision. “I reject your command, because I cannot in good conscience order so many soldiers to their deaths for a fool’s cause.”

“A fool, am I?” Not the part to focus on, but it irks me too much to ignore.

Slamming a fist down on the table and overturning his cup of tea, Shuai Jiao snarls as the last vestiges of calm slip away as I inwardly applaud myself for not jumping out of my skin. “A fool or a traitor, which I cannot say for certain, but it can only be one or the other. Having contributed greatly to the defence of the Empire and saved countless lives with your efforts, you once had my respect and admiration, but no more. I have made my objections clear time and time again with regards to your intention to retake the West, and every time you wave them aside without care or concern. Your intentions are good, but your foolish ambitions can only end in misery and death. You have set your eye on an impossible goal with no benefit to be had, aside from appeasing your ego or wasting our efforts. We will take the fight to the Enemy and win, and then what? We will have sacrificed thousands of good soldiers all so we can slaughter untold millions of tortured captives.” Visibly shaking from agitation, Shuai Jiao looks older and more conflicted than I ever thought possible, a man who knows what needs to be done, but cannot stomach the thought of doing so.

A good thing too. If he wasn’t affected by the prospect of slaughtering millions of innocents, he’d be just as bad as most other Nobles of the Empire. Maybe there’s some truth to his reputation after all.

Stifling the urge to sigh, I keep my cool and reply, “And I told you so many times before, this is not a matter that concerns you. I will do what needs to be done.” Which is not the same as agreeing with his version of events, and he should realize that I have an ulterior plan in place.

“Just because you say it, does not make it so.” Fixing me with a glare brimming with indignation Shuai Jiao continues to tremble in righteous fury. “I have overlooked the grave risks you took in accepting Major Gao Changgong’s refugees, because I could not bring myself to consign those good men and women to death after they fought so hard to escape the horrors of the west, but a few thousand soldiers is nothing compared to the millions of civilians still struggling to survive in the West. What is your grand plan then, hmm? Smuggle everyone North where they will be ‘safe’? Or move them to the Arid Wastes for the Brotherhood to ‘convert’? What will you do about the Defiled malcontents who slip through your webs? Or those who profess to accept the Brotherhood’s teachings only to turn against the Empire like the former Wisdom Vyakhya?”

His visible disdain makes it clear how he feels about any of those options, though even without my ability to Cleanse the tainted, I think some could out in the end. The Brotherhood would need an objective observer to overlook their efforts, but having seen the progress they made with the tribal Defiled village that took root outside the monastery, I’m fairly certain Shuai Jiao isn’t giving the monks enough credit. “Like I said, it doesn’t concern you. I have plans in place to deal with the survivors, which is all you need to know.”

“The arrogance of youth.” Huffing with indignation, Shuai Jiao rights his cup and grimaces at the waste, even as one of his aides mops the tea up with a cloth. “Though my association with the Brotherhood was brief and fleeting at best, I am still privy to many of their secrets. You and I both understand how insidious the Enemy can be, so surely you cannot be so arrogant as to believe none will escape detection.” A subtle hint telling me he was once Defiled? Is he saying it to make me trust him more, or as a warning that he could reveal this secret to the world at large? “Even if you have the Spider MuYang under your employ, it matters not how many precautions you take. Some Defiled will slip through your nets and live to spread their foul taint, and what then, boy? Will you oversee a purge of your home province? Of course not, because you lack the determination to do what is necessary. You know this for true, even if you won’t admit it. You will enact half measures and watch in horror as the destruction you have wrought escapes your control, and I cannot understand why no one else cares enough to stand against you.”

Belly burning with anger, I force myself to let go of Peace before I do something stupid. I hate being talked down to, especially by someone who is just plain wrong. Okay, he’s right in that I lack the will to order a large-scale purge, but only because that’s a shit solution which is entirely unnecessary. “My arrogance?” I ask, wishing I could just walk away and be done with all this discussion, but if I do, blood will be shed. “And what of yours? You think you have all the answers, but you are merely a frog trapped in a well who knows not the heights of the Heavens or the breadth of the earth. Your ignorance has brought us here, Commander General, and I hope you are prepared to accept the consequences of your actions.”

Though I only said as much out of regret, everyone listening misinterprets my words as a threat, which isn’t all that surprising in retrospect. Yong-Jin comes to his feet and takes his stance, and this time, Shuai Jiao does nothing to stop him, while Aunty Jeong shifts in her chair to face me head on. Sendings go out from both formidable Peak Experts, and the guards and aides all make ready to fight. Even Da’in reaches for her swords, but Seoyoon crosses her arms and settles heavily into her seat, a silent protest if I ever saw one. A shame she’s set on marrying boring Yong-Jin, because even though I’m not her biggest fan, she’s got spunk and I can tell she’s been a great influence on Fung.

“Hmph.” Hands resting lightly atop the table, Shuai Jiao emanates an air of threat and violence, responding in kind to my apparent threat. “Consequences you say? What consequences are those? The Divinities of the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains? Even they are not so estranged from the Empire as to risk a battle here in the heart of the Citadel.” I’m not so sure to be honest, as Hua Lie would probably kill every last person in the Citadel if Lin-Lin were to come to harm, but whatever helps Shuai Jiao sleep at night. “Or are you counting on me being wary of the Ancestral Rat GangShu lurking in the shadows nearby? Contrary to what others believe, I know he will not move to save his half-breed son at your side, nor has he wholly sided with you and yours.” Yep, I know that too, which is Jorani’s a distraction. I even said as much. “Or do you speak of the Spider MuYang, hiding on the rooftop three streets south with his fearsome ranged weapon at the ready?” Stroking his beard, Shuai Jiao visibly relaxes in his seat and continues, “A formidable threat, but one which has now been neutralized. My people followed him from your boat, and have now taken him into custody, for the Spider surrendered without a fight.”

Shuai Jiao’s smug expression slips as his people report that even though they have MuYang in custody, he was not carrying his Spiritual Weapon, but rather a mundane replica that lacks the ability to fire bullets, because he was just another distraction. This little nugget of information has thrown the Commander General off his game, which is exactly what I’d hoped would happen, occupying his attention to keep him from spotting my real intentions. “Believe it or not, I didn’t come here to kill you.” Shrugging, I gesture at my paltry Death Corps escort and say, “If I had, I would’ve brought a lot more soldiers and Peak Experts with me to this meeting.” Implying I purposely came to meet him without Dad, Akanai, Nian Zu, Grandpa Du, or any of the other formidable Peak Experts supporting me.

“You are posturing. Your second, your assassins, your Peak Experts, you brought them all with you, yet now that you are here, you claim you have no intention of using them.” Narrowing his eyes, he asks, “Why?”

“Because it’s expected.” Shrugging again, I add, “You’d have been even more on edge if I didn’t make these moves, worrying about the unseen dagger and what not.” Which is true, but leaves out the fact that I actually have one in play, an unseen dagger that is, one final resort I pray I will not have to use. “I believe my actions have shown you that I believe there’s little to be gained from killing you, even if I could successfully pull it off. You’ve admitted to treason, so you can either kill me here and now, or let me leave alive so I can report this to the Disciplinary Corps. Your choice.” Pulling out the chair in front of me, I finally take a seat and interlace my fingers in front of me, doing my best impression of a man with a plan. “But before I make my final decision, I’ve a few more questions to ask.”

So far, things are going as planned, so I Send a message to my unseen dagger for the first time all day. “Stand by and follow through as planned if violence breaks out or I don’t contact you within ten minutes.”

There’s no response, but having sensed my Sending, Shuai Jiao knows I’m in contact with someone, even if he doesn’t know who. Not surprising really, but it sets him on edge, which is counterproductive to my purposes, though he barely blinked when I mentioned the Disciplinary Corps, meaning he truly does not fear them. “Earlier, you called me a fool or a traitor,” I begin, tilting my head in feigned innocence as I believe I already know the answer. “I suspect I understand your meaning, but I ask you to clarify regardless.”

Because it’s possible he means I’m a monster for not considering the outcome of my actions and the widespread death and suffering it will cause if a Defiled ‘plague’ takes root inside the Empire. You never know, so best not to assume he’s talking about me being Defiled or worse.

Taken aback by my calm and logical demeanour, Shuai Jiao strokes his beard while everyone else settles back into their seats, save for Seoyoon who has yet to lower her arms and is still wholly unrepentant for her behaviour. Loyal and a good judge of character, I’m liking her more and more, but I can’t fight Fung’s battles for him. If he wants her, he needs to ask for my help, because it would be super awkward if I broke off Seoyoon’s engagement with Yong-Jin only to find out Fung is no longer interested in marriage anymore.

Seriously… just imagining that scenario is enough to make me cringe. I want to help Fung, but I can’t steal his love away from another man for him, nor would he thank me if I did. Some things, a man’s gotta do on his own, and that’s the cold hard truth.

Having studied me for what feels like an eternity, Shuai Jiao shakes his head and doubles down on his decision. “Things have come too far for it to matter now. You are either a child playing at being the hero, or the Falling Rain we knew is dead and gone, while a monster sits here in his place. There is nothing anyone can do or say to prove the truth of your identity, so I must act regardless of the truth, and I will not stand idly by as you lead the Empire towards destruction.”

...He thinks I’ve been taken over by Zhen Shi? Didn’t I clear all this up with Shen ZhenWu already? Then again, he did get attacked by a bunch of powerful Wraiths shortly after, while hanging out in my room no less, so I can see why he might still harbour doubts. Damn it, is this why I was abandoned? Because they weren’t sure if I was still me inside or just a meat puppet for Zhen Shi? Well... fuck! Shuai Jiao’s right, I have no way to prove I am who I am, not without leaving room for doubt, because how am I supposed to prove a negative?

Resisting the urge to close my eyes and rub my temples, I wrack my brain for a proper solution, but the only thing I can think of is asking Monk Happy to vouch for me. It’s worth a shot though, so I look up at the Commander General and wryly ask, “I don’t suppose you’d take the word of the Abbot’s Disciple as proof of my intentions, would you?”

