Before Shuai Jiao can even answer, Monk Happy emerges from Concealment, not behind or beside me, but rather at a neutral corner of the pagoda between myself and Shuai Jiao, leaving only one section of the table empty, the area between Shuai Jiao and Aunty Jeong. “Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo,” the sneaky monk intones, lacking his customary smile. “This monk regrets to inform Junior Brother that even if the Commander General were willing, this one would be lying if he claimed to harbour no doubts as to Junior Brother’s... circumstances.” In response to my look of utter disbelief, Monk Happy at least has the good graces to look ashamed as he explains, “Junior Brother claims he Healed the Abbot, and while it appears he is recovering, he still has yet to wake after so many weeks.”

...Fair enough, I guess. “Would’ve been nice if you mentioned this earlier,” I grumble, crossing my arms in pique before realizing I should probably keep my arms free to defend myself, fat lot of good that’ll do against Shuai Jiao. “Now I just look stupid.”

So what now? Regardless of Shuai Jiao’s stance, I am still Falling Rain, Legate of the Outer Provinces. Even if the Disciplinary Corps refuses to act, which is more than likely considering they serve the Yang Family who are probably still miffed I got their scion killed, I could still strip Shuai Jiao’s rank away with little more than a public declaration. Fat lot of good that’ll do, considering it’ll lead us straight to civil war, one which only the Enemy will benefit from. Shuai Jiao knows this too, but his overblown ego won’t let him accept any possibility besides victory and success. Fucking hell, he wholly believes we can conquer the West, and his only issue is with what comes after we win the war. If that’s not ego, I don’t know what is.

Short of offering him undeniable proof to put to rest all his worries, proof which I do not have, Shuai Jiao would rather fight me to the death rather than allow my plans to go through. So what now? Take a step back? No, I cannot afford to show weakness, because doing so would be all but handing him command of the outer provinces on a silver platter. Not the worst idea, but he’ll leave millions to suffer in the West because he sees no other option. Stupid, prideful bastard. I don’t see any way forward besides killing him and all of his loyal underlings, a grievous blow to the Empire’s strength, but one we can still afford.

And so I am left with no choice but to kill a good man for following his convictions.

Heaving a sigh, I look Shuai Jiao in the eyes and mourn the loss of a hero fighting for the wrong cause, and cannot help but try one more time. “Have you considered what will happen if I simply ordered the North to withdraw from the Western border? The ships are already waiting in Sui Hua harbour, so it’d take less than a week to empty the Northern Citadel, leaving South and Central to hold a border they cannot possibly maintain.”

“Better to spread the shepherds thin than leave a wolf to guard our flank.” Ready with an answer, Shuai Jiao comes to his feet and gestures for me to stand as he takes his stance, both palms forward with right arm extended and left held back, ready to fight me head on. This is not just a defensive measure, but a move to make it clear there will be no further cooperation between us, a clear message to me and all those watching. “The time for talk is finished, but I will not strike first to justify your actions. Make your move and show us your truth. Are you foolish child, traitorous scion, or something in between? Whatever it is, Grasping Vine Shuai Jiao stands ready to oppose you.”

Having exhausted all my options, I sigh and push myself slowly to my feet, averting my gaze from everyone at the table before turning to leave without a word. The first few steps are laden with fear and hesitation as I continue forward, knowing this is the perfect opportunity for Shuai Jiao to kill me, but I am banking on him keeping his word to refrain from striking first. I don’t think he expected me to simply leave, but that is my choice because a direct confrontation is not only not to my advantage, but it’s also a move that only benefits the Enemy. Alas, I am not a man of honour, so I prepare to order this heroic General’s death, one that will come unseen and unnoticed long after I have left.

Only to be interrupted by Jorani, who I kinda forgot was still here.

“Err, bossman?” he begins, tugging on my sleeve to hold me in place before I step off the pagoda. “Mebbe it ain’t my place to say and all, but uh...” Scratching his head, he leans in close and whispers, “Well... is there any reason ye can’t just... ye know... tell him the truth?” Seeing my confusion, he adds, “Ye know, about what ye did fer me and Awdar and the others? Seems like that’d solve yer problems, ye? Bet on the man, not the dice, and I reckon’ if anyone can be trusted, it’s the Commander General. Though I dunno what he’s talkin’ about ye bein’ a monster and whatnot, so mebbe that’s the problem. If so, then pretend I just didn’t say a thing and we can just...”

As Jorani yammers on, I stop to consider his suggestion. Tell Shuai Jiao about my ability to Devour Spectres? Rejecting the thought even as it comes to me, I stop and reconsider it once again. Why can’t I tell him? I mean, I’m preparing to Cleanse millions of Westerners as we free them, so I’m sure someone will notice something... right? Then again, sharing this secret won’t prove I am who I am, nor can I even really prove I can do what I claim, though I suppose Monk Happy could support these claims, if not the others. Will telling Shuai Jiao change anything? Maybe? I don’t need his complete and absolute trust, I just need him to trust me enough to believe that I’m not leading him into a death trap. Looking at things from his point of view, I suppose I am awfully suspicious, having gone from crippled man to where I am today in the span of a few months. How can he not suspect Zhen Shi’s influence in circumstances so implausible, especially when the alternative is to simply accept that I am talented beyond all belief? I mean, shit, I know I’m me and even I can’t believe I’m so talented, which is not a humble brag.

But if I explain everything to Shuai Jiao and tell him about my ability to Devour Spectres with impunity thanks to Blobby’s presence, then maybe that’ll be enough to convince him I’m not the meat puppet of an eight-hundred year old monster. What’s the worst that could happen? News of my ability to Cleanse the Defiled will undoubtedly make it back to Shen ZhenWu’s ears, but I’ve moved beyond caring about the Imperial Clan. If they want a fight, then let them come, because Runic Cannons do not differentiate between Defiled or Imperial, and I’ve a few more aces hidden up my sleeve. Me and the Emperor were always going to come to blows, so this is just pushing up the timeline a little.

Hopefully they’ll have the good graces to wait until after I’ve dealt with Zhen Shi, but I suppose I could always just abandon the war and run home if things get too rough, just like I threatened to earlier. Why work so hard to defend an Empire that wants me dead?

...

Because even if the Emperor doesn’t give a shit about his people, I doubt I could just stand idly by and watch as the Defiled run rampant through the outer provinces. I doubt Dad, Grandma, or even my wives would either, and I don’t have it in me to convince them. Life would be so much easier if I didn’t have a conscience.

Heaving a sigh as I seat myself again, I take a minute to gather my thoughts and discuss matters with Dad and the rest through Sending. Ignoring the curious stares from everyone present, I keep my attention focused on Shuai Jiao in an attempt to gauge if he is truly the honourable man that everyone seems to think he is. Why am I so damn suspicious of him? Is it intuition? Or am I just paranoid and jaded? Since Dad and the others have left the decision to me, I face Shuai Jiao and say, “You know, I was about a bee’s dick away from ordering you killed.” Still can, since my hidden dagger is waiting in the wings, but Shuai Jiao’s arrogant huff shows how little he cares for my threat. “Instead, I’m considering taking my second’s advice and trusting you with my secret, but first, I need to get something off my chest.” Leaning forward as I look the Commander General in the eye, I utter, “I don’t believe I can trust you.”

The sound of Jorani’s face sinking into his palms is almost deafening in the ensuing silence, but Shuai Jiao merely cocks his head in almost amused curiosity. “I don’t understand why you do what you do,” I continue, gesturing at the manor around us. “Like all this. Real estate in the Citadel is expensive, but even though you spent so much on the land itself, you built this manor with an over-emphasis on poverty. Those who deny the loudest are oftentimes the most guilty, but this alone is not enough to suspect you. You can drink your shitty tea and wear your plain robes all you want, but how am I supposed to believe that you are a man of honour and justice when you thrive in an environment that is sorely lacking in both?”

Faced with my thinly veiled accusations, Shuai Jiao remains silent, still standing with hands ready to aggressively defend while maintaining the noble bearing of a man who is in the right. Hardly actions to inspire trust, but to be fair, my suspicions are largely groundless and based solely on his success. “You know what bothers me the most?” Turning my gaze to Happy, I purse my lips in annoyance. “None of the monks will tell me anything about your time as an initiate, which makes me wonder about what drew you to them in the first place.”

“We say nothing because it is none of your concern, Junior Brother,” Monk Happy replies, essentially telling me to mind my own business, but I only turned to look at the monk to make Shuai Jiao think I wasn’t paying attention to him. Out of the corner of my eye, I catch the Commander General’s surprise and discomfort, which leads me to believe there’s a dark secret in his past, one I do not begrudge him. We all make mistakes, and if he’s the fine, upstanding man he appears to be, then he’s more than made up for his sins, but...

I need to be sure.

“Before I share my secret, I ask that you answer one question of mine, Colonel General.” Looking Shuai Jiao in the eye, I ask, “Why did you choose to part ways with the Brotherhood, yet continue to uphold so many of their precepts?”

My money is on the castration bit, but to my surprise, Shuai Jiao’s eyes flash with a glint of emotions I know all too well, guilt and self-recrimination. After a long pause, the Commander General lowers his hands and looks to Monk Happy, who nods in encouragement. “Because,” Shuai Jiao whispers, lowering himself none too gently back into his chair, “The Brotherhood believes that in order to take the first step along the Noble Eight Fold Path and accept the Right View, one must first come to terms with the sins of their past and seek forgiveness, both from the aggrieved parties and from within.” Eyes tearing up with emotion, he heaves a sigh that paints a picture of sorrow that has haunted him for decades past, and will continue to haunt him for decades to come. “Alas, I was unable to do this, because some sins should never be forgiven.” Heaving heavily to control his emotions, he continues, “Instead, I have devoted my life to making up for my mistakes, in hopes that one day, the Mother will weigh my Soul and find it in Her heart to forgive me, for I can never forgive myself.”

...And here I thought he was an honourable man without flaw, but instead, he’s just ridden with guilt and hell-bent on making up for past mistakes.

Somehow, I like him more already.

Taking a deep breath, I close my eyes and Send, “Abort mission. Return to the courtyard as discussed.” Out loud, I say, “Thank you for choosing to hear me out. You’ve heard of my misadventures in Sanshu? Well, after I was swept away by the currents of Western Treasures Lake, I came into contact with what I now know to be an Elemental Spirit of Water...”

