Silence ensues in the wake of my admittedly disdainful inquiry, and I refuse to be the one to break it.

Power games 101. I’ve made my demand in the form of a question, which means I should wait for an answer. If I speak now, that’s tacitly accepting silence as my answer, blunting any and all further demands I might make, so the ball is in Shuai Jiao’s court now. The bald, bearded Commander General shows no sign of anger or vexation as he calmly sips his tea, his sharp gaze studying me like the hawk studies its prey. There a hint of mild curiosity in his expression as his eyes flick over to take in Jorani, no doubt wondering why I would introduce him as a distraction. Am I being honest? Or is it a double bluff? He’s not sure, and this bothers him, because now he doesn’t know how to proceed. In his eyes, Jorani is the ‘favoured’ son of GangShu, a neutral Territory Lord who has already taken injury in the War against the Enemy, so it would not do to upset so powerful an ally by having his son killed. What’s more, according to the Old Wolf, who refuses to actually give me a name, GangShu has been hanging around Jorani for a few weeks now, still recovering from his wounds and making it look like he’s thrown his lot in with the People, without actually committing to our cause in any way shape or form. Of course, Shuai Jiao doesn’t know that last part, so he must think Jorani’s presence here is an unspoken threat, one that says, “I’ve got another Ancestral Beast on my side who is also nearby, so tread lightly, bitch.”

Totally sounds like something I’d say. I guess Grandpa Du really has my number, as I do have a tendency to antagonize my enemies, but what can I say? It’s a terrible habit, but the insolence just slips out before I can contain it. I can’t help it, I’ve got this thing against authority figures. It’s that whole holier-than-thou attitude that irks me so, reminding me of all the time I spent under Gortan’s boot, both figuratively and literally.

Even the supposedly humble Shuai Jiao has that same arrogance baked into his bones, sitting upright and sipping tea from his cup with both hands, all while emanating a sense of general antipathy at having been so rudely interrupted. There’s nothing to hint at personal disdain in his gaze or demeanour, but the implication will be there to everyone watching, whether it be in person or through Scrying, showing them all how he is firmly in control of his emotions while I am a brash and headstrong savage who barged in uninvited. I don’t mind playing my role, because I am brash and headstrong, which means no one will think twice if I stomp my feet and throw a tantrum, the political equivalent of what I’m doing now. Truth is, I don’t need an answer, or at least not an honest one. It doesn’t matter what Shuai Jiao says next, because unless he agrees to stop withholding troops for the upcoming offensive, then there will be a new Commander General come tomorrow morning.

The time to strike back at the Enemy was last month, but we won’t be ready until next week, which means we cannot afford to delay any longer. So far, the Defiled armies are still gathering along the border between West and Central, which means I need to put my plan into action before they are fully prepared. I can hardly launch an attack the same time the Defiled attack a Citadel, and according to reports, the Enemy is likely preparing to target the North and Southern Citadels next, striking at both fortifications in tandem in hopes that my Runic Cannons cannot reinforce both. While it sounds silly to attack on two fronts instead of using overwhelming numbers to ensure the downfall of a single target, I’ve run the numbers and come to the conclusion that the Enemy would take less casualties by splitting up. Even if the Defiled hordes outnumber the Empire ten-to-one, there’s only so much room on the battlefield for Warriors to fight. Add in the Defiled tendency to devolve into infighting, the slower pace of the armoured Chosen infantry, and the Enemy’s complete and utter lack of logistical support units, and it becomes much easier to simply split your massive army into two than try and corral everyone towards the same target.

All this and more means that our window of opportunity is closing, but Shuai Jiao wants to twiddle his thumbs and play politics instead. Infuriating as this is, it’d be so much more palatable if I knew what he wanted. It’s not glory, because I already offered him command of the offensive and he graciously declined, essentially saying that he was willing to step back and let me command as this was my project from the start. His actions aren’t directed by anger either, because even though he’s been vocal with his protests, he still sat in on the brainstorming process and helped shape our plan of action, with much helpful insight offered. Nor is it wealth he’s after, because despite the sizable tract of land his manor sits upon, it was clearly built as cheaply and efficiently as possible, with little to no thought going into the decor. The steel reinforced walls are bare of any art or hangings, with only square, cast-iron candle holders and rectangular door handles to break up the monotony. The windows are little more than square holes cut into the walls, with ugly hanging shutters on the outside that open up to let light in. The courtyard is devoid of flowers or plants aside from the grass floor and boring hedges lining the walls, with irregularly shaped pave stones laid out in an almost haphazard manner to line the walkways, which make up the only non-right angle lines in the entire manor aside from the pagoda. Though newly constructed, the hexagonal outdoor pavilion is so plain and austere it hasn’t even been coated in varnish, much less paint. The unfinished wooden construction looks like it was made by a couple of friends who were paid in beers, just a raised platform and a slanted roof to shelter them from the rain, lacking any sort of artistic elements or even a plain old railing.

There’s ascetic decor, and then there’s Shuai Jiao’s manor, which is about as bright and cheery as a graveyard. Less cheery, in fact, as graveyards tend to have statues, trees, flowers, or at the very least, ornate tombstones to brighten the place up.

While I respect Shuai Jiao’s minimalist lifestyle, it means there’s no way to bribe or tempt him into seeing reason. Marshal Yo will go wherever the profit is, but the Commander General is a man of principle who will not be swayed by earthly desires. So no sending someone to seduce him, not that I have anyone I could send if I wanted to, which leaves me at an impasse when dealing with Shuai Jiao. Hence my readiness to go straight to extreme measures, though I’m torn on what to do next.

Moving my gaze a few empty seats over to the mature and dignified Jeong Hyo-Lynn, I take in her stoic demeanour and unperturbed posture, seemingly completely at ease despite having been utterly dismissed out of hand during these so-called wedding discussions. Truth be told, I was considering having the formidable woman take up Shuai Jiao’s mantle of Commander General, but now that she’s allied with him, that doesn’t seem like the best move. Then again, she wasn’t my first choice for the job anyways, but I doubt even Shuai Jiao’s enemies would stay quiet if I promoted Akanai or Liu Xuande to Commander General. I like the former not just because she’s my Mother-in-Law, Grandmother, and Grand Mentor all wrapped up in one person, she’s also one of the foremost military minds in the entire Empire, and the latter because he is the best strategist alive bar none, but neither one would be easily accepted by the soldiers of Central, much less the other two provinces. Aunty Jeong was a compromise, and a poor one at that, but the best of all the bad choices I had, except now she isn’t even an option anymore because I simply can’t trust her.

Odd how calm she appears considering it’s clear I’ve come here to demand action and have likely brought the means to force it. A facade? Or did she anticipate this would happen? If so, then Shuai Jiao expected it too, and likely has measures in place to respond with.

With this in mind, I take quick stock of everyone else present in the courtyard. Seoyoon and Da’in are difficult to read, but not impossible. They both put up an icy, emotionless front, but the eyes give it away as Seoyoon refuses to meet mine while Da’in straightens up with self-righteous hubris. The former feels guilty while the latter is reassuring herself that she is in the right, which does not bode well for me, but it’s Yong-Jin’s conflicted expression that really throws me off. His clenched fists hint at restrained anger over my insolent manners, but his clenched jaw and wavering torso tells me he’s fighting the urge to turn towards his Mentor and speak up, rather than direct any of his ire towards me. Odd that, but after thinking it through, I decide its perfectly reasonable. Perhaps Yong-Jin actually agrees with my plan to go on the offensive, being the young, glory hungry Warrior that he is, and is unhappy that his Mentor would rather hide behind his walls now that it’s all but guaranteed the Defiled won’t target the Central Citadel.

As for the guards and military aides posing as servants, there’s little to be said about them. They’re all outraged and chomping at the bit to come teach me a lesson, even though none of them are Peak Experts and would be fodder before my blade. Then again, even though they’re really only here to open doors and pour tea, I would assume that most are Junior Officers hand-picked by Shuai Jiao to teach them the ins and outs of not just military command, but political dealings as well, because what better way to learn from him than to serve at his side twenty-four hours a day? It wouldn’t surprise me to discover that there’s a few spies sprinkled into the mix too, reporting Shuai Jiao’s every move back to their masters, reports the Commander General is undoubtedly aware of and uses to his advantage. Like right now, as he would want word of this marriage alliance to spread as quickly as possible, and he’ll even have the added bonus of third-party testimony to this showdown between Legate and Commander General.

All of which I expected beforehand, and if push comes to shove, my twelve Death Corps Guards can make short work of Shuai Jiao’s entourage, though I doubt Kuang Biao can stand up to Shuai Jiao in single combat. My fate would be all but sealed if Aunty Jeong joins in, but from the looks of things, she’s here as a witness rather than eager participant, though I can’t take that for granted.

I don’t expect this meeting to devolve into bloodshed, but it’s always best to be prepared. Putting together a plan to deal with everyone in the courtyard is simple enough, as my only option is to run and hope someone strong is close enough to pull my ass out of the fire. Discretion is the better part of valour, because even though I beat Gerel a single time in a spar, I’ve no grand delusions about where I stand on the scale of strength. I’m more than a Peak Expert in some ways, but less in most that count, meaning I rate somewhere close to Da’in in terms of threat. I have fifty-fifty odds of beating her in a fair match, but if blades are drawn here, the fight will be anything but fair.

Having slowly drained his cup dry, Shuai Jiao utters a small gasp of satisfaction before placing his cup back down on the table, and only then does he break eye contact with me to refill his cup himself. The Commander General favours Brittle Needle tea, which is a rarely seen white tea with a flavour palette so light and subtle the water used has more of an effect on the taste of the final product than the leaves do. This is the only luxury he allows himself, and not much of a luxury at all, as the only reason it’s difficult to procure is because the tea ‘leaves’ are minimally processed on account of the fact that they’re dried nettles which only the poorest of the poor would care to turn into tea. This makes it difficult to transport and store the tea for long, so the only way for Shuai Jiao to keep himself supplied with enough tea to drink each and every day is to pay someone local to grow them, which is not at all worth the expense, but he insists on it anyways. Every morning, his household receives a full brick of freshly processed tea which the Commander General uses up over the course of the day, with enough to last him until breakfast to allow time for the next brick to be processed and delivered.

I spent way too much time studying Shuai Jiao’s habits in preparation for this clash, but I pray we come to an arrangement and all my hard work goes to waste. The alternative is that all my efforts pay off in the end, which contrary to what one might think, is not an outcome I look forward to.

Having refilled his cup, Shuai Jiao sets the empty tea pot aside for one of his aides to bring away, as each tiny pot only holds enough for three cups. It’s to keep the tea from steeping too long and becoming bitter and unpalatable, yet another detail I picked up on and hope to never use. Outwardly however, I let none of my reservations show and focus on emitting an Aura of steely determination, declaring that I am ready to do whatever it takes to see my plans through. Tapping the sturdy hardwood table, which is as plain and boring as the rest of his decor, Shuai Jiao takes a deep breath and exhales slowly before fixing me with a pompous glare. “Your soldiers? The Warriors of the North have thrown aside their pride to bend knee to a child, but the Warriors of South and Central still stand tall. They are not your soldiers, but steadfast defenders of the Empire, and they will remain where they are until I order them otherwise.”

