My tale is long in the telling as I spare only a few details regarding my ability to Devour and Cleanse, laying bare so many of my secrets despite my instincts screaming at me to keep quiet. I am not someone who easily trusts, and I still don’t trust Shuai Jiao, not entirely at least, which is why I keep quiet about losing Blobby to bind the Azure Sea and how Spectres get turned into usable Heavenly Energy, though more knowledgeable members of the Imperial Clan might be able to fill in the blanks. As I tell my unbelievable tale however, I get an inkling that the Commander General was not the Imperial Puppet I believed him to be, merely a pawn on the board rather than a player in their games. My story is long in the telling, but his reactions seem too genuine to be faked, from wholehearted disbelief to grudging admission that parts of my tale might be possible, especially with so many examples to draw from and Monk Happy vouching for my abilities. I even tell him about my ability to Devour Heavenly Energy and turn it into Chi, which I demonstrate by emptying my Core and drawing so much Heavenly Energy that every Martial Warrior in the Citadel can feel it. When all is said and done, the afternoon has come and gone as I fight the urge to sink back in my chair and sigh, because my work here is not yet done. “So there you have it,” I say, spreading my hands in a ‘take it or leave it’ sort of gesture. “The truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.” Which is technically a lie, but he got enough of the truth that it doesn’t matter. “I don’t need any schemes to find the Defiled. I just need to be close enough to identify them. Anyone who is less than Defiled, I can Cleanse from afar, meaning I can guarantee that not a single Defiled will make it past my inspections.” Shrugging, I feel the need to add, “I mean, some might still turn Defiled later, on account of the trauma and whatnot, but we take the same risk every time a slave is whipped or a wife is beaten, so I don’t see a big issue in taking these people in.”

Which is the harsh truth, but still the truth. People are tougher than the Empire gives them credit for, because the human spirit will not surrender so easily.

After rubbing his beard raw and digesting my words for some time, Shuai Jiao finally lifts his head and says, “I require time to consider your words carefully, and ask that the reverend monk remain behind to help clear this sinner’s doubts.”

Since Monk Happy agrees to it, I push myself to my feet with a tired grimace. “Don’t take too long. We’ve a schedule to keep, and I intend to stick to it. If you still refuse to march with me within the week, then I will have no choice but to explore other options.” Without breaking eye contact, I say, “Alrighty then. Time to head home.”

Which is Pong Pong’s key phrase to stand down, one I taught him during fun times with floofs in the Natal Palace with help from animal trainer extraordinaire, Lin-Lin. Dropping Concealment from around his ward while keeping himself hidden, the Divine Turtle reveals the masked Siyar to everyone in the courtyard, sans his easily identifiable Spiritual Weapon of course. Blades are drawn and curses shouted, but no one attacks Siyar, not even the startled Shuai Jiao who bolts back out of his chair and stumbles a few steps towards the would be assassin, only to stop in place with hands raised and mouth open in slack-jawed disbelief while standing between the former bandit and the empty seats. My plan was to have Siyar show up unexpectedly at my side and give everyone a bit of a scare, but the cheeky smuggler decided it’d be funnier to appear from behind the Commander General, and to be fair, he was right. Purposely making his way around the table without paying heed to Aunty Jeong’s drawn swords or those of her daughters, Siyar marches over to my side cool as a cucumber while lacking all his usual swagger, the perfect picture of a bold Sentinel assassin rather than the scoundrel he truly is. That’s the image I was going for, and truth be told, the fear and shock on Shuai Jiao’s face makes this totally worth the possible headaches it might cause later. Leaning into the big dick energy, I make my way out of the courtyard while speaking over my shoulder. “I spared your life today, Commander General. Do not make me regret it.”

First show him the carrot, then bring out the stick. We’re not friends, but rather allies of convenience united by a common Enemy. Let Shuai Jiao believe Siyar was there to kill him with cold steel, but the truth is, even with Pong Pong keeping him Concealed, I doubt the smuggler could’ve killed the Commander General in a single strike. No, Siyar’s job here today was to poison the Commander General’s brick of shitty tea, using the same medicinal agent that almost killed me back in Nan Ping, during Luo-Luo’s ‘wedding’ banquet. A tasteless, colourless powder, that when ingested in enough quantities, creates impediments in the intestines which throw out blood clots that even my Medical Saint of an Ancestral Beast teacher couldn’t resolve with Chi alone, not without spending weeks or even months by my side breaking down blood clots as they form until the impediment resolved itself naturally.

Hell, with luck, Shuai Jiao would’ve gone to sleep and died from a blood clot to the brain, a clean and natural death which would’ve absolved me of all blame, or at least cast enough doubts as to whether or not I was responsible for killing him. That might’ve been enough to avoid civil war, but I’m grateful we didn’t have to find out the hard way.

Yet.

Because who knows? Shuai Jiao might well still refuse to help me, at which point, I’d have no choice but to send Siyar and Pong Pong back for another visit. I pray it doesn’t come to this, because honourable man or not, Shuai Jiao’s life is a price I am more than willing to pay if it means driving the Defiled out of the Western Province. As for what comes after... I’ll cross that bridge when I get there. For now, all I can do is wait and see if Shuai Jiao’s reputation is well deserved. If not, then maybe I’ll feel a little less terrible bad about ordering his death, though I doubt it.

Because I am nothing if not irrational.

Chapter Meme (Volume Warning!!! ITS LOUD!!!!!)
