A beat later, he considered the contradictions in his words. He was fourteen, and worried about misunderstandings? No, I live in a medieval world. It’s possible. Though, looking at the mages around him, they didn’t seem eager to marry young, so his initial contradiction still applied.

Her eyes widened. “Where’d you find that?”

“The trash.”

Tarais stared at him. “No way.”

Rhys shrugged. “It’s true.”

She waved her hand. “It’s not important. Go harvest your herbs. I’ll introduce you to Sorden once you’re done.”

“I can do that myself. You don’t need to hang around,” Rhys said.

Tarais gave him a look. “How many classes have you been to?”

“One.”

“Right. One of her classes—”

“One class total. And it was hers! She should be honored,” Rhys said. He picked up his potion textbook and skimmed through it to the part about harvesting herbs, then crouched next to the bushes. One at a time, he deliberately harvested the herbs according to the instructions.

Tarais stared at him in stunned silence while he worked. At last, she sighed and pressed a hand to her forehead. “I don’t know whether to be disappointed or impressed.”

“Hmm? Disappointed, probably.”

“But you bested me in combat without ever attending a battle class.”

“Well, I did spend the last two years fighting against the Strawman,” Rhys pointed out.

“You—what?”

Rhys stood, tucking the last of his herbs into his storage ring. “Don’t worry about it. Let’s go see Sorden.”

“The Strawman? That horrifying Remnant?” she asked.

“Yeah, him. Is he fine, by the way?”

Tarais hesitated, then nodded. “We’re safe, now. He’s been sealed once more by the Celestial Rose Maiden, the leader of the Bramble School.”

Rhys nodded. He hadn’t asked until now, not because he didn’t care, but because he didn’t want to rouse suspicion. For all that no one seemed to care about him, he didn’t want anyone to think he still cared about Straw, either. But he did. He owed the man… weapon, whatever—a serious debt, and he intended to repay it, however he could. It just so happened that he couldn’t do anything about it until he was much, much stronger. In other words, the best thing to do was to keep his head down and get stronger. But Tarais seemed like the quiet sort, so it was worth a little prodding.

“Are we, uh, friends with the Bramble School?” he asked.

Tarais laughed. “You aren’t serious, are you? Our school peaks at the Tier 4 level. Even our Schoolmaster barely brushes the border of Tier 5. The Bramble School’s weakest students are at least Tier 3. Our school can only dream of being spoken of in the same sentence as The Bramble School.”

Rhys pursed his lips. In other words, his dream of rescuing Straw was still far off. He shrugged to himself. He’d already known that from the start. After all, rescuing Straw meant making an enemy of everyone who’d come together to seal him. Until he could overcome all those people, rescuing Straw could only be a dream.

But that just meant Straw was that powerful. And not only that, but he could also be considered trash, which meant he’d synchronize with Rhys’ path. When he eventually unsealed Straw, he’d gain a powerful ally.

They took off walking back toward the rest of the school. As they walked, Rhys glanced at Tarais. “Do you know what school a man in white-and-gold robes might belong to? He’s probably a martial artist, with a battered-looking sword.”

Her brows furrowed as she thought. “Battered sword, white robes…” Her eyes widened. “You’re not talking about Luc Sion, are you? The Sword Saint? The most powerful martial artist on the continent?”

“Maybe…? He would have taken a new disciple recently?” Rhys added.

“That’s right, Luc did recently take on his first disciple. It was big news… I can’t believe you didn’t…” Tarais paused, looking at Rhys. “I can believe you didn’t hear it. It was big news. The noble mage families and Schoolmasters have been pressuring him to take on their children for centuries, and out of nowhere, he picks up some no-name child that the Strawman had kidnapped? The rumor mill went wild. People were guessing everything from him having a secret child to a generational debt to a mortal family. No one’s seen him since, though, so the rumors have died down. Everyone thinks he’s busy training whatever prodigy he must have found.”

Rhys let out a sigh. Just like with Straw, he’d been afraid to show too much interest in Bast’s future, but in this case, not for his sake, but for Bast’s. He didn’t want the boy to hear that Rhys was asking after him and come looking. Better that he pretended not to care and let Bast gain the full benefit of wherever he ended up, rather than waste time asking after Rhys. Now, it sounded like not only was Bast receiving the best possible education, but he was also in a place where Rhys could safely keep tabs on him, without Bast ever hearing about it. He nodded. “Good.”

“Good? Did you know him? Right, you were also kidnapped, weren’t you?”

“Er… yes.” Rhys shut his mouth, not wanting to talk on the topic anymore. The less interest he expressed in Straw, the more likely people were to think he no longer cared about the Strawman, the more likely his eventual, inevitable heist would go off successfully. He had to prepare now, so that people didn’t immediately suspect him later.

Tarais glanced at him. She clearly wanted to keep asking questions, but at his hesitant answer, she simply looked away and respected his wishes not to talk.

Halfway there, Rhys paused. “Tarais, where do they sell herbs here?”

She shook her head. “We don’t have an herbalist.”

“Oh. How much do they buy herbs for, then?”

Again, she shook her head. “I don’t know. I’m not usually involved in the supply side of things.”

Rhys frowned. Not ideal. No, ideally, he’d have a week or two to do market research. But he’d foolishly grown his herbs before doing market research, so now he had to sell them before they went bad. To be fair, he hadn’t known ahead of time that he’d be so successful with his trash conversion art, or that Tarais, and by extension, other senior mages would realize what he was up to so quickly. He was rolling with the punches, but soon he’d be ahead of the game. All he needed to do was get things rolling.

Ultimately, it was fine. If there was one thing he was good at, it was improv. He could pivot. Think on his feet. He wouldn’t lose out, even if he didn’t know exactly what he was doing.

At last, the two of them arrived at a sturdy house at the edge of the lower school. Tarais gestured. “Sorden Tagg lives—”

BOOM!
