Warren grabbed the potion and removed the cork, carefully opening Veron’s mouth and pouring in the contents, making sure he didn't cough anything out.

He didn't know if it would be enough, even knowing that it was well made.

Tenya watched with her mouth slightly agape. “You really used it. On a Feeble Path.”

“If he really was at the Feeble stage before, I don’t think he would still be now.”

“Feeble, Weak, Durable, a true healing potion is wasted on a weak adventurer. If he makes it, he's just going to die to the next thing he faces.”

“Probably.”

“Then why? I thought you were supposed to be smart.”

“Careful with that tone.” He gave her a glare and her mouth shut instantly. “This isn't the Academy with its back stabbing cutthroat...” He stopped himself. “We live in Eyra. The Holts have taken him in, and Ivera has bothered to train him. It would be a waste if he died now.”

He wasn't entirely honest. He was intrigued, yes, but he also just liked Veron, and he liked the little agreement that they had made, but more so, saving someone like him with a Hallow Bristle, here in Eyra, it would make any of his former peers fume at the mouth.

He wasn't over it, he could admit that much, and in a way, this all felt like yet another cut at everything they stood for and prided themselves in. Everything he had stood for and had prided himself in.

He was the innkeeper of the Downwater Inn. And this young man was attacked in the forest. This was the least he could do.

“Go inform the Holts.”

“I'm not allowed on their property,” Tenya reminded him.

“I'm sure this warrants an exception. And it might help mend your relationship.”

She gave him that look of disdain she liked to throw around at anyone and anything she deemed responsible for her little luck in life, and then she left.

Warren grabbed a chair and sat down next to the bed.

He took a wet piece of cloth and put it on Veron’s brow.

“I hope you survive. Beasts so close to Eyra, even with Ivera’s presence. I don't know if you chose the right time to become an adventurer.”

Things were moving, he could feel it. In the long looks of the adventurers passing by, the low whispers they spoke in. And for once, it didn't feel like it was just the approaching winter. He hoped the rumors were just that, as far-traveled as they were, but it had been a while since his gut had been wrong.
