Mei smiled and bowed her head, seeming much more at ease. “It is nice to meet all of you. Th-Thank you so much for helping me!”

I lay down, giving her plenty of space to work on the fire without too close proximity to me, as she did seem a little nervous about my presence.

But as I watched her arrange sticks and then get low to the ground to blow at the coals, I thought of how it looked like she had done this many times before. Perhaps being a magistrate's daughter isn’t exactly the same level as Palace nobility, but you’d still not expect her to have skills like that…

She cupped her hands carefully, shielding the coals as she blew, slow and steady, and soon she had healthy flames. She added more sticks, quickly bringing it to a respectable cooking fire.

She had almost said something else when Grick asked her name…

Yeah, she was definitely lying, but it’s not like that mattered to me. What did I care if someone was nobility or not? As long as she didn’t end up being a burden, I was fine with her tagging along with us, and if we had a chance to lead her back to the boundary wall, she’d be free to work out safety for herself amongst the empire from there.

I let out a yawn and lay my head down as “Mei” sat by her freshly built fire. I could feel her taking glances my way, but I kept myself idly staring into the dark forest and keeping my ears open for whatever may be around us. That is, until her uncertain glances turned into a steady assessment of me.

I turned back towards her, and she quickly looked away and acted as though she were inspecting the fire, but then eventually looked back at me and asked, “Um… c-can you understand me?”

I flicked an ear.

She stiffened.

“…You can,” she whispered. Her eyes widened just a fraction, and then she looked down at the fire again, clearly trying to process that. If I were in my Veiledfang Stalker Path right now, I’d like to change to my human form and have a proper conversation. But it wouldn’t be worth waiting out the cooldown again even if I could.

“Um… I don’t know why you’re helping me, but I’m very grateful. Um… Y-You if you want, you can come closer to the fire. I-I’m not scared of you anymore. I’m sorry I was just scared at first.”

Well, not being scared was at least partially a lie from her. Every time I shifted, she flinched. But I couldn’t really blame her. As I got up and padded closer to the fire, I could see how much she tensed.

But once I lay down, she relaxed again, drawing her knees up and resting her arms on them. “Grick said you work for the empire. Is that true?”

I couldn’t really respond, so I didn’t bother.

“I’d heard rumors about that. Um… servants try not to say it out loud if anyone important is listening, but… Um… I heard how the empire uses monsters in war. Some say it’s a sign things were getting desperate, others say it means the empire is blessed. There are also some crazy rumors about the Emperor being a frog.” She chuckled. “But I’m sure that’s just um… propa-propa-propagan… uh…” She gave an embarrassed shake of her head. “You know, stories people make up.”

I raised a brow. So, it wasn’t common knowledge what the emperor was? But they didn’t necessarily seem to be trying to hide it either. I’d think if she really had a noble-adjacent upbringing, she would have known, and likewise wouldn’t struggle with the word propaganda. At least that was an assumption I could make. Nobles should be educated and certainly within the loop on such things. Not just hearing whispers from servants. Not that it mattered to me.

She looked over to me and smiled, and lifted a hand from her knee. “Um… Is it okay if I pat you?”

I let out a slight huff and let my ears fold back. It didn’t bother me, and if it made her more comfortable, then fine.

She reached over and lightly patted my head, and before I even realized I had let it, my tail gave a single wag.

That made Mei chuckle, but I was glad to see the smile on her face. That alone made my tail give another beat against the ground.

She scratched my head a moment more then returned her hands to her knees. She stared into the fire a bit longer until she suddenly jolted as if remembering something.

“Oh! If Ser Grick is bringing meat, I should find a spit to roast it on.” She got up and turned to me with a proper bow. “I’ll be right back.”

Yeah, bowing like that certainly was something of a lower-class person. I was certain she wasn’t who she had said she was.

She didn’t go far, though, searching the ground just on the edge of the fire's light and testing a few larger sticks before finally deciding on one and bringing it back.
