As soon as I focused on my next target through Death Mark, and they burned clear in my mind’s eye—Give Chase took hold.

Power surged through my limbs. I shot ahead of Lily, overtaking her in a heartbeat. She was normally faster than me, but this skill strongly tipped the balance.

I felt powerful.

Bounding through the dark, locked in on prey that had no hope of escaping my sight.

But I reminded myself not to take that for granted. Not to get careless.

He was level 16, he was still a threat, but the environment was to my advantage, and I knew I was stronger than most who had a similar level to me.

I couldn't see the girl in my mind's eye, but I could see how his arm reached back, yanking her forward through the dark forest. After getting some distance from the campfire, he slowed his pace and climbed down something, perhaps some little alcove he thought might be safe, and yanked and pushed the girl down with him.

Once they settled down, his hand clamped over her mouth. He forced his own breathing to be quiet, along with hers. She struggled, and he hissed words at her, tightening his grip, perhaps causing pain, and her struggling stopped.

His other hand gripped his sword. It was a real blade, far more dangerous than the crude weapons the bandits had carried.

He listened.

Waiting. Remaining silent.

I wonder what his plan was? Hide out until morning and hope the monster in the woods doesn't find him, or simply loses interest?

Well, he couldn't know how there was no hiding from me, and I was determined to end his life.

I slowed as I drew closer, letting my mind’s eye fade from my focus. His red silhouette hovered just ahead now, but slightly below as the terrain dipped. There was a fallen tree atop the small cliff, and it seemed they had crawled down under its roots to hide.

I crept forward, placing each step with care. The faint sound of their breathing reached me through the dark.

I activated Marrow Sense.

The girl’s bones glowed red, faint and fragile. Weak. No threat. I had no interest in her as prey and would let her live.

The man, however, was different. Dense. Strong. Built for violence. And he had turned that strength towards victimizing someone who couldn’t fight back.

That alone was enough to eliminate any empathy I could have for him.

It was okay to hunt prey. Hunting was natural. Killing was necessary. Survival demanded it.

But there was a line drawn at cruelty. That was something unforgivable.

He betrayed his empire and threw his lot in with cruel people who didn't blink over victimizing this girl. Even if she was their hostage and a valuable resource to their survival, they didn't have to keep that bag over her head, and they didn't have to taunt her with water. They knew what Rook was; they didn't have to leave her in proximity to him, when given the opportunity, he would have done something terrible to her.

That wasn’t survival; that was cruelty and disregard for another’s suffering, and I would not forgive it.

I prowled down the slope, arcing wide around them, keeping my distance so my footsteps would be less noticeable.

A twig snapped.

Takashi’s head jerked up, his body going still. He tightened his hand on the girl’s mouth.

But he didn’t truly notice me. Not yet. And by the time he reacted, I already had the angle I wanted.

I no longer needed Death Mark to track him. Between Night Vision and my heightened Sense, I could see them clearly—the girl still hooded, the man cradling her roughly, his hand clamped over her mouth. They were wedged into a hollow beneath the roots, his sword pointed outward.

That sword would be a problem.

I lowered myself down to my belly and watched, assessing. He was covered on all sides. The only way at him was head-on.

Magic would have been quite useful here, but it was such a tradeoff for losing the amazing tracking abilities of the Whisperfang Juvenile Path. It'd have taken me hours to sniff him out without Death Mark.

Perhaps Lily could flush him out with her clones?

The only other option was diving straight in and grabbing him by the leg, but I'd undoubtedly be stabbed in the process. Not that it would kill me, and we did have potions, but such things hurt, and if he got one of my eyes, then it would make the fight even harder to win.

I didn't want Lily and Grick taking any risks for this one. He was at a much higher level and could hurt them, so they were only backup.

I lifted my head slightly and reached out through Pack Bond.

“Lily. Grick. Where are you?”

“Close!” Lily sent back immediately. Even through the brief thought, I could hear and feel her excitement. She loved hunting as much as her big sister!

A moment later, her purple eyes appeared at the top of the cliff, Grick riding on her back.

“Stay there,” I told them. “Prey below you. Hiding. Stay quiet.”

“Okay…” Lily replied, her tone dimming as she understood. She lowered herself to her belly while Grick slid off and crouched beside her.

I returned my focus to Takashi.

He had no idea how surrounded he was.

Do we wait for him to fall asleep?

No. He might stay awake all night. That would take too long, and I wanted this done.

I'd like to end this quickly so that we could get some rest ourselves and then spend tomorrow hunting our next pack of bandits. Completing that quest might be enough to push me to my next development stage, and maybe even Grick, for that matter.

I hadn't checked either of them in a while, so I decided to do that while we waited.

Name: Grick

Body Development: 78%

Name: Lily

Body Development: 33%

Yup, assuming Grick had similar quest rewards to mine, he would likely be pushed up to his next stage and maybe even evolve to a new Path. I hoped so.

I didn't have a stage 6 path myself, so I guess not much would change for me other than getting a little bigger---and older in my human form.

Yeah, that'd be nice, I did hate looking like such a vulnerable child.

After a time, both Takashi and the girl's breathing slowed, and he finally took her hand off her mouth. Did he think they were safe? He certainly had no idea the monster in the woods was watching him this very moment.

I lowered myself even further, belly brushing against the ground as I crept closer. Each step was slow, deliberate, silent. The distance between us shrank, inch by inch.

His sword wavered slightly.

Something rustled in the distance. His head shot towards the sound. He was listening, but to the wrong thing. That was some other creature, perhaps a Mossgrazer, who was being obvious and careless.

The true predator was getting closer and closer, right in front of him now; if his human eyes were a little better, he would see me.

My muscles coiled. I held my breath and inched just a little closer.

I waited.

One heartbeat.

Two.

The girl shifted. Just slightly.

Takashi’s attention flicked to her, and that was all I needed.

I moved—a silent blur through the dark, then lunged low. My jaws snapped around his ankle.

He reacted fast, his sword swinging down in a desperate arc.

Pain flared across my side as the blade clipped me, sharp and hot—but shallow.

I didn’t stop.

My jaws closed around his calf. Piercing Fang sent my teeth right through his leather armor and down to flesh. I twisted and pulled with a {Crippling Bite}.

Bone and flesh crunched between my teeth as he screamed, and I wrenched backward with all my weight.

He tried to swing his sword again, but it snagged on something as he was dragged from the hollow. His other foot kicked at my face as I snarled and continued to pull, every inch I dragged him was another inch away from retreating into cover.

Behind him, the bound, blind, and gagged girl wailed in horror.

He finally managed to lift his sword again, and I released him, surging back out of its range as he tried to stab it at me. A direct stab like that could have done serious damage,

He slashed wildly from the ground, back and forth with wide-sweeping arcs, just trying to keep me back despite the ruined leg.

I circled to the side, low and tense, making quick lunges to force another opening. To his credit, getting past the sword wasn’t easy, and as he waved me away, he pushed himself back towards cover, dragging the mangled leg with him.

That is, until he was just shy of the moderate safety of the tree roots and his wailing captive.

That’s when Grick jumped down, landing on his back and stabbing his dagger into him with the fall. “BAD HUMAN!”

The man screamed, threw his arm back, but Grick dodged it, and before he could make a serious attack against the goblin, Lily slammed into his side, teeth gnashing and chomping at the side of his head. I barreled into the mix as well, subduing his sword arm with my powerful jaws.

He screamed and thrashed around as Lily sought out his throat, Grick standing back looking for any opportunity to get another slice in himself, but soon it was all over.

“AAAUAUUAAHGHH!!!”

The man’s scream died out as Lily ripped out his throat.

Foe Eliminated! Level 16 Human Bandit

Experience Gained!

Lily lifted her bloody muzzle, tail wagging and panting happily.

I yipped. “Good job, guys!”

Her entire body was shaking, and she was trying to make herself smaller, as if she curled up tight enough, none of us would see her.

I nodded at Grick. “Cut her free.” He took a step towards her, and I added, “Wipe off your dagger first.”

Grick looked at his bloody dagger, then scampered over to the dead x-soldier and wiped it clean on his sleeve, then approached the girl.

“Don’t worry, Grick helps nice human.”

She wailed in fear despite his reassuring words. I couldn’t blame her, we might have killed her captor, but we still just tore someone apart right in front of her. I looked down at his corpse, wondering if I should drag him away before Grick finished cutting the rope.

But he was pretty quick about it; the dagger the empire had provided him was quite sharp and tore right through. Grick then scampered away from the girl, as she instantly pulled the sack off her head and pushed herself as far back into the little hollow as she could.

She continued to watch us with wide, fearful eyes and trembling lips even as she pulled the gag out of her mouth. “P-P-Please d-don’t—”

Lily sat on her haunches, panting innocently while I stood beside her. Grick walked over to stand between us and patted our sides.

“These are nice puppies! And Grick is a nice goblin! Only hurts nasty humans!” he explained as reassuringly as he could. He put his hands on his hips and shook his head. “Girl not nasty human, puppies don’t hurt.”

Her gaze flicked between all of us. Two Hell Hounds with bloody muzzles, and Lily—who everyone who knows her knows she’s a sweetie—had black miasma leaking from her eyes and around her paws.

“Y-You’re monsters,” the girl whimpered.

“Good monster better than nasty human,” Grick pointed out.

Through Pack Bond I told Girck, “Tell her we work for the empire. Tell her she’ll be safer following us, but she’s free to do whatever she wants.” With that, I turned and walked away, leaving it to Grick to handle things.

Not usually the best policy to leave a goblin in charge of diplomacy, I suppose, but I felt like our presence remaining there would only serve to scare her more and more.

But it seemed, however, that Grick managed to explain things. As I looked back not too long later, I saw Grick running to catch up with the girl, lingering just a little behind us. She was rubbing her wrists, which were badly rope burned and blistered, probably from being tied up like that for days.

She seemed scared of us, but more scared of the dark woods that surrounded her as she looked around with wide, fearful eyes. When she heard the distant moan of a monster, probably something else's prey, her steps sped up a little, closing the distance between us considerably.

“S-S-So… Um… Grick. You’re the master of these monsters?”

I winced. I can almost get why she would think that but—

“Puppies Grick’s best friends!” he said.

Yeah, at least he’s clearing it up—

“Grick teaches puppies to hunt, brings puppies lovelies. Keeps puppies safe!”

I huffed in frustration. No! No, that’s not quite right at all!

“Woooww…” the girl awed. “You must be a powerful goblin.”

He flexed a scrawny arm. “Grick powerful! Empire needs Grick’s strength. Begs him to join!”

That’s not how that happened!

“So you really work for the empire?” she asked. “That’s amazing… I’ve heard rumors about them employing intelligent monsters. A-Anyway, are you a beast tamer class, Ser Grick?”

Ser Grick!?

“Grick just makes good puppy friends. Puppies protect Grick, and Grick protects puppies.”

Okay… that’s a little better…

I let out a huff as I slowed down. I figured it was time to find somewhere to rest for the night, and we still needed to hunt dinner as well!

I stopped, looking at the girl. She took a step back and fidgeted her hands together, staring at me a bit fearfully now that I was paying attention to her. Through her raggy clothing, I could see how thin she was. She probably hadn’t had a good meal in weeks, if not longer.

Humans couldn’t eat raw meat, and it’d be hard to find berries and things for her at this point. I huffed and told my pack, “This way, back to the humans’ camp.”

By the time we arrived, I saw the fire wasn’t exactly roaring anymore, but there were some good coals nestled into the bottom. I looked at Grick and told him, “Tell her if she’s hungry, try to bring the fire back to life so she can cook meat.”

Grick scratched his head, confused, then looked at the girl. “Puppy says make fire live.”

Her eyes widened. “You can speak to them?”

“Smart puppies!” he said, patting my head. “Puppies get meat and then nice human cooks! Gets a full belly!”

“Oh! O-Okay! I understand, Ser Grick.” She bowed respectfully and then started searching the ground for sticks, though she didn’t seem willing to move too far away from the fire’s light.

I looked at Grick and Lily, “You two hunt. I don’t want to leave her alone, so I’ll stay here.”

“Okay! Grick brings back tasties.” He began to walk away with Lily, but Lily lowered herself down and looked at him expectantly, tail wagging. “Okay Grick rides puppy!”

Lily let out an affirmative, “Yip!”

It wasn’t really necessary at the moment, but I got the impression Lily just liked carrying him.

Before she trotted off too far, Grick called back. “What’s nice human’s name?”

She looked up in surprise as she was half bent down to grab a stick. “Oh, I’m Saku—ah—Mei. Mei Shuyin.”

I raised a brow.

“Okay! Grick is Grick, this Lily, and other puppy just Puppy!”

Mei smiled and bowed her head, seeming much more at ease. “It is nice to meet all of you. Th-Thank you so much for helping me!”

I lay down, giving her plenty of space to work on the fire without too close proximity to me, as she did seem a little nervous about my presence.

But as I watched her arrange sticks and then get low to the ground to blow at the coals, I thought of how it looked like she had done this many times before. Perhaps being a magistrate's daughter isn’t exactly the same level as Palace nobility, but you’d still not expect her to have skills like that…

She cupped her hands carefully, shielding the coals as she blew, slow and steady, and soon she had healthy flames. She added more sticks, quickly bringing it to a respectable cooking fire.

She had almost said something else when Grick asked her name…

Yeah, she was definitely lying, but it’s not like that mattered to me. What did I care if someone was nobility or not? As long as she didn’t end up being a burden, I was fine with her tagging along with us, and if we had a chance to lead her back to the boundary wall, she’d be free to work out safety for herself amongst the empire from there.

I let out a yawn and lay my head down as “Mei” sat by her freshly built fire. I could feel her taking glances my way, but I kept myself idly staring into the dark forest and keeping my ears open for whatever may be around us. That is, until her uncertain glances turned into a steady assessment of me.

I turned back towards her, and she quickly looked away and acted as though she were inspecting the fire, but then eventually looked back at me and asked, “Um… c-can you understand me?”

I flicked an ear.

She stiffened.

“…You can,” she whispered. Her eyes widened just a fraction, and then she looked down at the fire again, clearly trying to process that. If I were in my Veiledfang Stalker Path right now, I’d like to change to my human form and have a proper conversation. But it wouldn’t be worth waiting out the cooldown again even if I could.

“Um… I don’t know why you’re helping me, but I’m very grateful. Um… Y-You if you want, you can come closer to the fire. I-I’m not scared of you anymore. I’m sorry I was just scared at first.”

Well, not being scared was at least partially a lie from her. Every time I shifted, she flinched. But I couldn’t really blame her. As I got up and padded closer to the fire, I could see how much she tensed.

But once I lay down, she relaxed again, drawing her knees up and resting her arms on them. “Grick said you work for the empire. Is that true?”

I couldn’t really respond, so I didn’t bother.

“I’d heard rumors about that. Um… servants try not to say it out loud if anyone important is listening, but… Um… I heard how the empire uses monsters in war. Some say it’s a sign things were getting desperate, others say it means the empire is blessed. There are also some crazy rumors about the Emperor being a frog.” She chuckled. “But I’m sure that’s just um… propa-propa-propagan… uh…” She gave an embarrassed shake of her head. “You know, stories people make up.”

I raised a brow. So, it wasn’t common knowledge what the emperor was? But they didn’t necessarily seem to be trying to hide it either. I’d think if she really had a noble-adjacent upbringing, she would have known, and likewise wouldn’t struggle with the word propaganda. At least that was an assumption I could make. Nobles should be educated and certainly within the loop on such things. Not just hearing whispers from servants. Not that it mattered to me.

She looked over to me and smiled, and lifted a hand from her knee. “Um… Is it okay if I pat you?”

I let out a slight huff and let my ears fold back. It didn’t bother me, and if it made her more comfortable, then fine.

She reached over and lightly patted my head, and before I even realized I had let it, my tail gave a single wag.

That made Mei chuckle, but I was glad to see the smile on her face. That alone made my tail give another beat against the ground.

She scratched my head a moment more then returned her hands to her knees. She stared into the fire a bit longer until she suddenly jolted as if remembering something.

“Oh! If Ser Grick is bringing meat, I should find a spit to roast it on.” She got up and turned to me with a proper bow. “I’ll be right back.”

Yeah, bowing like that certainly was something of a lower-class person. I was certain she wasn’t who she had said she was.

She didn’t go far, though, searching the ground just on the edge of the fire's light and testing a few larger sticks before finally deciding on one and bringing it back.
