Swallowing his rage yet too angry to dare risk speaking, he internally messaged Kyung who relayed his words with a sneer. “Little girl, when your commander returns, you will see that she reports to my master, else I shall show her how little her rank means to me.” He continued to try to intimidate the little aide, but to her credit, she seemed unafraid and unintimidated, simply returning to her games with a shrug.

Putting everything out of his mind, Min Gyu returned to watching the incense burner, the joss sticks slowly burning down, replacing them when they were little more than smoking stubs, all that he could do for his dead disciple. It was through teaching Kai that he had learned the joy of guiding a young mind, but the foolish boy had always placed too much emphasis on personal strength, never relying on his soldiers. Min Gyu had lectured the boy time and time again, one man cannot hold back a thousand, no matter how strong he was. In order to protect the citizens of the Empire, soldiers would be needed as well as experts, the strong and the weak working together. it was only through strength of unity that the Empire managed to hold back the Defiled. When the outer provinces faltered, the central province would step in to aid, without expectations of reimbursement. Only as one could the Empire withstand all of their enemies, and rebels and dissidents were the greatest threats to the survival of the Empire.

And now, another soldier had fallen in defense of the Empire, made weaker for the loss. A brilliant warrior, not even 45 and already a Brigadier, Kai had once had a promising future ahead of him, but that had all come to an abrupt end, out here in the northern wilds. Time passed, and he changed the joss sticks every half hour, the oily smoke clinging to his robes despite the wide open space. After some hours, his little aide began setting up a chess table, the nerve of the little mongrel, but a harsh word from him dismissed them, Kyung warning them only to return with Akanai, the lack of title a poorly veiled insult.

At some point Kyung brought him lunch, and Min Gyu ate mechanically, barely even tasting the food. His hands were covered in ash, the incense burner almost full, and still he continued to burn the joss sticks. There was a moment where they had run out, but a few words and the soldiers were fighting to bring some for him to burn, the rank and file gathering to pay their respects as they should. They chatted of Kai's exploits, but they were few and often repeated, and there were even muttered grumbles of how he had failed to protect his soldiers. He made note of the soldiers who grumbled, but otherwise left them alone. Complaining was a soldier's lot and Mother-given right, and were it not for his sharp hearing, their words would have gone unnoticed.

It wasn't until he was in the midst of dinner that Akanai arrived with the little aide, along with several, fully armed mercenaries, all of them striding up without a word. Kyung and his guards moved to intercept her until his meal was done, and without breaking stride, she single-handedly swatted them aside, easily defeating his slaves one by one as if they were children, avoiding serious injury, leaving several of them groaning as they lay on the ground. With that impressive display of strength, much of his anger melted away, his resolution for justice unable to stay heated in the face of stifling proof. If she had wanted Kai dead, she would have legally killed him in single combat. There would have been no need for elaborate and over complicated plans to have him killed in the line of duty, nor was she worried about offending others, as she so aptly demonstrated. Kai had only met his fate, dying a soldier's death, too young, too soon for Min Gyu to accept.

The little aide quickly produced a chair for Akanai and was dismissed with a wave, moving back to watch the proceedings along with the other mercenaries. He continued to eat his noodles, studying his opponent, sizing up this barbarian general. Dressed in soft, black leather armor lined with black fur, her clothing seemed a second skin, her leggings almost indecent. With strong facial features and a stern bearing, she sat with her back ramrod straight yet still giving the illusion of being at ease, her fingers interlocked atop the table, staring right into his eyes. Her attitude demanded obedience, her gaze sharp and confrontational, she was a beautiful and thorny flower, emanating with pride and anger.

Sighing inwardly, Min Gyu offered a small complaint to the Mother at the injustice she inflicted upon her natural children. This woman was older than he yet appeared young enough to be his great granddaughter. He envied the long lives of the half-beasts, something he grew more bitter over as age continued to rob him of his strength, but what good was long life without family to share it with? The lesson had been learned too late, and now he was left with nothing but a worthless weapon, a stark reminder of the boy he had raised and the man that he had become.

Putting aside his grumblings, he continued to eat in leisure as the silence wore on, comfortable in the status quo, enjoying the inaudible power struggle between the two of them, a worthy opponent. Her attitude spoke volumes, that she had come to meet him not because he had demanded it, but because she wished it, and was waiting for him to acknowledge and greet her. However, to greet her first meant that he took a weaker position, but he could tell that she was stubborn enough to sit here all night.

Unfortunately for her, so was he, and he was far more practiced with veiled insults and silent struggles. Motioning to one of his still conscious slaves, he signaled for more food to be brought to feed both himself and the General, as well as the little aide and her slave, flipping the situation. No longer was he a guest in her camp, but rather she a guest at his table. She took the gesture in stride, whether graciously accepting the change in position or just accepting the food, he could not tell. A worthy opponent.

His dinner finished and his hip twinging in pain, he had one of his slaves fetch his pipe, packing it full and leisurely puffing away, enjoying the sweet, musky smoke, letting the medicine do its work and relieve his pain as he reminisced of better times spent with better company. The little aide once again set up her game of chess and a sharp look from him set her to grumbling, but a second look from Akanai had her sheepishly putting the board game away as she whispered condolences to her slave. Foolish child, playing at being friends with her slave. A slave's place was to serve and to treat her as a friend would give rise in resentment and unhappiness when ordered to carry out unpleasant tasks. Better to have clear delineations in treatment and allow the slave to know her place.

His mood lightened as he continued to smoke beneath the heavenly canopy of stars, staring up into the stars of the night sky, wondering if Kai was looking down upon him at this very moment. A story he had heard in his youth, some claimed that the stars were windows to the Mother's cove, where she stayed and watched over her children and creations, the twinkling stars signs that she was looking through her windows at them. It was a child's fancy, but as good an explanation as any. Perhaps they were giant ever-burning fires, to light up the night sky, an even more fanciful idea, causing him to chortle to himself.

His attentions returned to the little aide, standing silently behind Akanai with a sulky pout upon her face, her slave clutching the chess set to her chest, her little cat ears pressed against her head. He rather liked the expressive ears and tails of half-beasts, amusing to him to see their emotions so openly displayed. Cocking his head, he studied her oddly familiar face, unable to place where he had seen her before. His pipe in his mouth, he continued to smoke in peace, his mind fixated on identifying the girl.

On the floor where his guards had moved him, Kyung groaned quietly as he regained consciousness, his head in his hands as he tried to stand. Quickly looking at his prized slave to ascertain his condition, his memory jolted in recognition of the little aide's slave. Slapping hard against the table, he roared in delight. “Of course, of course, you are of the same lineage as Kyung! I bought and trained you for Jin Tok, you were to protect him during the contest, a talented little slave. What are you doing here?” A goofy grin was spread across his face, delighted that he had remembered who she was, but he quickly returned to a stoic, stern look, anger quickly rising up in his chest.

These Father-damned barbarians let Kai die alone and then they plundered his valuables? They stole his slave and flaunted her in front of him! Smacking the table once more, he broke the tiny piece of travel furniture and roared, this time in anger. “You will return Kai's property to me immediately or I will see you all dead!”

Summoning the Divine Wind, the air around him began to move, slowly, ponderously, slowly building up speed as he readied himself to lash out and kill. These savages had no respect for the dead, and he would pile their corpses upon Kai's death grounds as high as they would stack, a tribute in honor of his memory.

Standing tall, he watched as Akanai narrowed her eyes, still seated and calm. “I refuse. Li Song is a Khishig and -”

“Then die.” The world exploded into motion as everyone reacted to his words, and a tranquil vigil quickly degenerated into chaos and violence.

Excellent. He needed to work out a few of his frustrations.

Chapter Meme
