Vivian’s eyes shot up connecting with hers, but this time Mieriel held her gaze, refusing to look away.

“I remember when they came for me,” Mieriel whispered. “When they wanted to kill me because I have a dangerous class. Mind Mages are too dangerous, they said, when they tossed me into that dungeon, naked and bleeding, food for the monsters.” Mieriel held her locked gaze until she felt the flutter of uncertainty in Vivian’s anger. “I will never forget the sight of my savior – my knight in shining armor – fighting her way down into the depths of that dungeon to save me. Do you remember what she said?”

“She never did anything wrong. She doesn’t deserve to die.” Vivian answered quietly, echoing the words she had spoken all those years ago. “Damn dungeons!”

“Vivian, don’t turn into those people you stood against. I couldn’t bear it, you’re better than they were. This Fae girl has a dangerous class, just like me, and she doesn’t even know it. She deserves a chance.”

“I… I’m sorry Mieriel. I’ve lost so many good people to dungeons, and I’m terrified to lose the few I have left. I don’t want to lose you, too.”

“Nor do I want to see you turn into the monsters you stood up to,” Mieriel said, holding firm. Vivian was stubborn, and this was the only way to make her see. But inside she was scared, too. She still had nightmares of the warped and twisted monsters that had lurked in that dungeon.

“Can you take her to her friends? Make sure they take care of her? I need some time… time to think,” Vivian said, her voice rough and subdued and her face blanched to the color of a sheet. Her heart was a maelstrom of conflicting, agonizing emotions. Self-loathing and guilt mingled with fear and anger to crash up against her Empathy. For all her skills, Mieriel had no idea where Vivian might land in the end.

Bending down, Mieriel drew the small, frail Fae into her arms and carried her out into the guild hall.

“What did you guys do to her?” Malika asked, leaping out of the couch and snatching Aliandra from her arms.

“She’s just exhausted and needs some rest, will you take care of her for me?” Mieriel asked, channeling a little mana to increase the weight of her words, and layering in a little of her Misdirect Attention skill, drawing Malika’s attention to Aliandra instead of herself. She wove a little of her Memory Coercion more broadly to encourage their minds to forget.

“Ok, I’ll take her home,” Malika said, turning her back and walking to the door.

I hope you’ll forgive me, Aliandra. If you ever remember this conversation.

***

Name: Mieriel DawnbloomRace: Sun Elf

Class: Mind’s Eye – level 49- Empathy – level 25- Heightened Perception – level 35- Memory Coercion – level 30- Augmented Deduction – level 26- Mind for Espionage – level 36- Misdirect Attention – level 22- Inconspicuous Presence – level 31- Convincing Story – level 24- Charm Person – level 20- Astral Projection – level 10

General Skills- Reading – level 15- Identify – level 14- Politics – level 21- Etiquette – level 16- Acting – level 5

Aptitudes- Languages: Elvish, Dwarven, Common- Mana (Affinity): Mind- Alert (Racial): +11 to Intelligence and Perception

Attributes- Vitality: 50- Strength: 14- Endurance: 17- Dexterity: 46- Perception: 315- Intelligence: 363- Wisdom: 276

Equipment- Head: Analyst's Glasses of Perception – level 35- Ring: Silver Guild Ring – level 30

Health: 500/500Stamina: 170/170Mana: 2208/2208 (+552 Reserved)

“There is definitely something fishy about her. I don’t trust her at all!” Malika was adamant about it. Something was off-kilter. They had most certainly done something to Ali – and that made her furious.

“I don’t know what you mean. Mieriel is nice – she seems perfectly trustworthy,” Calen answered.

“That’s the problem. She’s too nice.”

“You just don’t trust anyone,” Mato chipped in. He was already making some soup at their campfire, just in case Ali woke up.

“Yes. Other than you guys, I don’t trust anyone.”

“See, you should try trusting people more. That’s what normal people do,” Mato said.

“I don’t think you’re getting it. I don’t trust anyone normally. So why do I feel that Mieriel is as trustworthy as you guys? I don’t even know her well enough to know her last name.” It was honestly the strangest feeling. Every time she thought about Mieriel, which was strangely infrequently, she felt uneasy. But when she was in the guild hall, Malika felt like she could trust her with anything.

“Oh,” Calen said with a soft voice. “That’s what you mean.”

Finally, someone gets it. “Yes, it’s weird.”

“So, a normal person wouldn’t notice someone messing with their trust because they trust many people by default. But for you, that trustworthiness is incongruous against the backdrop of a default distrust?”

“Yup, but I don’t know what we can do about it if she’s fucking with us.”

At least Calen was smart enough to figure out what she meant. It had been hard enough to explain it even to herself. The minute the words came from her mouth, she realized the truth. Mieriel was dangerous. She had hurt Ali. Hurt her! What surprised her most was the sudden rage, the vengeful thoughts, that had her picturing wrapping her fingers around that nice woman’s neck! No. She was not Tala and never would be – but damn, she would –

“I have a few ideas for this kind of thing,” Calen said, pulling out his notebook.

“Like… what kind of things?” Malika asked. Trust Calen to have thought of something like this already.

“We plan things out down here, and we write it down in the book. Then we try it out up there and compare notes after the fact. The notebook will remind us of what we planned in case we’re made to forget anything,” Calen explained.

“I haven’t forgotten anything,” Mato said firmly.

“You’ve Identified Mieriel?” Calen asked.

“Of course,” Mato answered confidently.

“What level is she? What kind of class does she have?” Calen asked.

“Yes, it’s …” Mato blinked. “I know I’ve identified her…” A look of surprise and confusion flickered across his face. “I can’t – why can’t I remember?”

“Yes, same for me,” Calen said, writing something down in his notebook. “That’s our first test. Can we Identify her and remember what we see?”

“How do we fight something like that?” Malika asked.

“Wisdom is the mental fortitude attribute,” Calen said. “When we go through the remainder of the dungeon, and level up, you should all spend points on wisdom. Especially you and Ali.”

“Wisdom will help?” Malika asked. If it was just a matter of spending some more points that was something she was definitely going to do. Wisdom was one of her class’s primary attributes.

“Yup,” Calen said. “And Ali should wear her adventuring gear that mom made for her. Magic resistance will help a lot too.”

“I’ll tell her when she recovers,” Malika said. If wisdom and magic resistance were their defenses, she’d keep an eye out when she visited Weldin too. Perhaps a few items could help.

Ok, now we’re getting somewhere, Malika thought. Mieriel would not get away with this. She and Vivian were up to no good, she knew it! Are they planning to steal Ali’s shrine? Or… worse? If they suspected her, why hadn’t they just killed her?
