Gathering into an impossibly narrow point, the energy poked the tiniest hole into his spirit. Like a needle filled with liquid just a tad too cold for his liking, Matt shivered as he felt the remaining wisp energies pour into the hole they’d made.

It both expanded the small space now suspended in his Domain, and made it slightly easier for Matt to feel the fabric of space itself a little better.

As the last bits of power infused him, his full attention was yanked away from the process and over to Aster as she started to claw at herself as she lost control over her flight.

Falling wouldn’t hurt her, but a thought caught her even as she writhed.

Blasting through the mental barriers they normally kept on their bond, Matt tried to figure out what was going wrong, but she didn’t know any more than he did.

Thankfully, the initial panic lasted only a moment. Some of the other groups looked over to see why one of their members had fallen to the ground, but none of them cared enough to pry when they saw everyone else ready to fight.

When she got herself under control, Aster grabbed Matt and Allie’s hands, transmitting what had happened. “A part of the spatial reward tried to affect my Tier 25 Talent. It obviously failed, but it wasn’t pleasant about trying. I’ve never had a reward try to stab me so many times. Ouch!”

Using skin contact, they passed the message on to the rest of the team.

Matt wasn’t sure he understood the full implications of that.

Talents, with very few verified exceptions, weren’t able to be modified by strange realms. It was no more possible than Minkalla doing it.

Except Aster had felt that part of the strange realm’s reward had tried, repeatedly, to affect her Talent.

That normally only happened for skill type Talents. They came in many flavors but they were the main type that could sometimes be modified but they were all inherently malleable.

Unique spatial Talents weren’t on that normal list.

However, that only raised the same question Aster had started pestering him about.

Was her Tier 25 Talent spirit space not unique to her Talent?

If a strange realm, something that never deliberately tried to affect Talents, tried to modify her Talent, then the answer would seem to be yes.

If that was the case, why had they never heard about other people having spirit spaces without a Talent?

Matt had no answers, and neither did Aster, as everything they learned about her Talent indicated it was something only ever seen via that singular method. He did know he’d be helping her look into the mystery when they returned to the Empire though.

Far from a negative, it implied her inclination to expand and grow her Talent might be something deeper than it appeared at first glance.

Depth in the Tier 25 power Talent was far from rare but if Aster could develop her Talent via outside methods she could possibly turn her Talent from something useful to something core to her fighting style.

It was a bit of a distant dream but they had a glimmer of hope.

Talking to the others while waiting for the second strange realm, the others learned as much as they could about their new spaces. According to the guild running the place, they hadn’t figured out how to expand the spaces from their current size, but Matt didn’t mind.

According to Allie, the spaces were entirely contained within their Domains, which meant inside their spirits. So while small, they theoretically offered a way to bypass a lot of the normal spatial item checks letting them smuggle items where they shouldn’t have them.

Unless the space operated on foundationally different logic than other strange realms that gave domain powers, they should be able to expand it if they could fully assimilate the power and make it truly a part of their Domain.

Matt didn’t mind either way. It was damn useful on its own.

Slightly larger than his head, the space was immediately filled with a few of his better healing potions as well as other life-saving measures and some extremely potent offensive talismans. He planned to test if weight mattered with his neutronium ingot but he wasn’t holding his breath.

There was a small maintenance cost when he wasn’t accessing the space but it was negligible and well below his general willpower regeneration making it a non-factor most of the time.

So long as their Domain’s weren’t entirely suppressed they could bring things out under even fairly strong restrictions.

Thankfully, the bloodline strange realm came and went with no complications. Once twenty five people with bloodlines had arrived, they entered into the strange realm together and came out a month later.

He spent the time working on his mana tests inside a rift and hardly noticed its passing until his timer forced him to stop.

Twirling one of the tubes of crystalized mana he’d created, he sent a gentle stream of mana into it.

Not enough to trigger its throughput phenomenon, but enough to see what his mana wanted to do.

Something even the original research team had noticed, the weave pattern almost acted as a buffer for when mana inevitably ran into it. Like any fluid, there was friction when mana ran into other materials, but that wasn’t quite true when it ran into more mana.

Mana wasn’t self repulsing nor self attracting, but seemed to have its own preferences.

Watching his mana exit just as disorderly as it entered the tube, Matt once more tossed around the idea that he needed to do something to his mana.

Mana turbulence, while a factor in the tube, wasn’t really a concern when casting a spell in his spirit. It could occur, but as the skill was using mana it was unlikely to be a major problem when his spirit automatically corrected such fluctuations.

Testing internal flow pattern changes, he only made things worse but he wasn’t fazed.

The only thing that seemed vaguely successful, in that it wasn’t actively harming the mana flow rate, was sending a tiny amount of mana the ‘wrong way’. That should have caused massive turbulence and ruined the flow patterns, but it ended up doing nothing at all during quite a few attempts, contrary to all of his expectations.

Before he knew it, the others returned, having secured their rewards.

Aster, still in fox form, though masked to look like a normal red fox, sauntered back to them and hopped into Matt’s lap before climbing onto his head.

From her perch, she drummed her paws on his head transmitting a word with each thump. “Today is the day I have officially finished my bloodline adjustments by finishing my expansions to my definition of ice. Now I only need to make the mana type in question. Easy.”

Turning, she looked at Zack who immediately started shaking his head. “I can only help so much. It is very di—”

Dumping the fox off his head and letting her barter with Zack for his help, Matt turned to his wife who'd returned to human form after exiting.

“How did your modification go?”

Liz sighed but there was no weight to it. “Fine, I guess.” Grin shining through, she added, “Okay, it was really nice. I lowered the time it takes for me to molt by almost a quarter. I considered a lot of things, but that's the one thing every phoenix I know complains about, and I can’t say I love losing at least year every time I do even a small molt. Given how much worse that will get as I Tier up... Well, it felt appropriate.”

“That’s fantastic. Your siblings will be jealous.”

Liz launched right back at him. “Dad is going to be jealous of you. He always melodramatically pined away with soot-covered clothes while mom molted. It was very dramatic.”

Matt could easily picture his father-in-law playing the part.

Filling the idea away for later, he started planning to give Leon a fireplace sweeper set the next new year they celebrated together. Maybe they could match?

Strange realms accessed, they continued to their main destination.

The elemental cost reduction strange realm.

Speculating about their latest powers, they navigated their way through a dozen already-looted planets to the planet in question where it lingered near the outer barrier of the breach.

Their good moods vanished when they arrived.

They’d expected to arrive to a Tier 31 world with a strange realm teeming with people wanting to delve it. Instead, they found a still-burning wasteland with no strange realms in sight.

The ground where the strange realm should have been was still molten. Deep pools of liquid still rock, miles wide and hundreds of feet deep, scared the landscape along with dozens of similar impact craters. He wished that was all but the damage was anything but isolated.

The world was midway through an apocalypse.

Tidal waves from the battle had destroyed most of the planet's shoreline habitation. Any animals which managed to survive the battle and the waves were further displaced by the fires, smoke, and ash. Huddled in any safety they could find, the planet's wildlife tried to survive the only way they knew how.

New mountain ranges were visibly forming as the planet's tectonic plates tried to find a new equilibrium. One of the cultivators fighting must have been an earth cultivator, and an irresponsible one at that. He saw clear evidence they pulled tons of material from the depths of the planet, heedless of the consequences.

It was everything civilized society tried to prevent, and seeing it made Matt burn with a level of anger he hadn’t felt since Soerilia.

While the devastation was thorough, the world had been intended to be exploited long term. As such, the original team had followed protocol and put a recording device in orbit which captured the whole ordeal.

Not intended for detailed observation, the unobtrusive satellite’s details were middling at best, but it was clear enough to tell the story.

A Clans Tier 33 team found the strange realm and after experiencing its effects, partnered with the mapping corporation to share the location, but the publicity brought danger with it.

Three months ago, a Tier 35 Empire group took the world over from the Clans team, but they were in turn challenged by a larger same-Tier Republic group who wanted it for themselves.

Except, instead of retreating when it was clear they were going to lose, the Empire team decided to destroy the strange realm, which infuriated the Republic team who stopped holding back.

They were looking at the result.

Seeing both teams’ identifying information, Matt spoke to the devastation around him. “There will be consequences.”

His friends silently indicated their own agreement, but he’d only said it to placate the world itself. He knew he couldn’t have prevented this even if they hadn’t stopped at the two strange realms but that wasn’t what made him so mad.

It was how childish and unnecessary both sides' reactions had been, but most of that was on the Empire team.

If both teams were in front of him at the moment, he was confident he’d kill them if he could punch that high but he knew his vengeance would have to be served cold. The Empire team he had much more control over, and as such, his punishment would probably be enforced before they even got to sell their loot.

Death was probably off the table if he handled it publicly, but he’d much rather they learned why the rules were in place instead of no punishment at all.

If he wanted to handle it privately…

Pushing the tempting but distracting thoughts away, he focused on the planet. While not unrecoverable on its own, without intervention, the world would completely spiral into various feedback loops until things found a new equilibrium.

The planet might survive, but it would never be the same.

Reaching out with his various manipulation spells, Matt silently started putting things back to rights.

Snuffing out the fires around them, he moved on to the ash that would have choked the sky for months when he felt Liz start dealing with the rogue fires farther away.

Without its cover, natural light returned to the world, but it only made the devastation more glaring.

Working together, they curbed most of the damage done to the planet's ecosystem over the course of two days.

The coming years would be hard on the non immortal wildlife, but they at least had a fighting chance. True normal was at least a decade out even with their efforts but that was better than.

Groups came and went while they worked, but no one stopped to help or tried to hinder them. Matt wanted to be disappointed at such behavior, but he knew that was an unrealistic ask for most teams capable of entering the breach.

They had only moved two worlds away when they encountered a stream of higher-Tier fighters running as fast as they could across the sky bridges, despite knowing it was inefficient.

A passing Tier 33 Empire team was kind enough to stop to warn them off their current path.

“You guys really need to turn back. Take advantage of this opportunity and check out some of the surrounding worlds while everyone stronger is standing off against each other, as we try to claim the planet. That situation will turn hostile shortly and you guys aren’t strong enough to get involved.”

Such tantalizing words demanded more information and when they pressed, the leader sighed and fully explained. “A Tier 36 crystal-aspected world has been found and every side is clamoring for it. Factions around Great Powers are already forming. If that wasn’t bad enough, the rumors say it's got a strange realm that can do something to growth items. Details aren’t clear yet, but it's going to cause a bloodbath if things aren't settled amicably. All the Great Powers are already vying for dominance. A battle is likely to break out any day now given every side is calling their Tier 31’s and higher to assist. Take this time and go loot some other worlds. It's too dangerous.”

