The following morning passed much as their previous one; drinking deep of each other's presence, watering their budding relationship. How far it would go, neither of them could really tell. All that they knew was that, at this moment in time, the well they were filling with each other's love felt bottomless.

But there was plenty to do while it filled! Niala's shop had to actually open, and David had to start looking at he local courier postings.

A messenger boy arrived early in the afternoon, letting them know the greenhouse panes and armature were ready to be picked up and assembled. Niala was ecstatic, David hoped he wouldn't break any of it.

As they surveyed the area where the greenhouse was to be installed and discussed which tools they needed, someone knocked at the front door.

Out front, Niala found Karline, who looked a bit ragged and downtrodden.

“Hi Karline! Is something wrong?” Niala asked, concerned.

The courier woman griped her satchel tightly. “I'm sorry, I couldn't find him.”

Niala tilted her head. “Find who?”

“David. I waited for him at the departing autocar yesterday. When I didn't find, him I hopped on, thinking he might have left on foot or something, but I didn't see him along the road. When I got to Bellharbour, I asked around and asked the gate guards to keep a lookout for him, but he never showed up. I hopped on the return autocar this morning, and I just got here.” She disgorged.

“I'm really sorry. He might be a great courier, but he's an idiot. Doesn't know what's good for him. Are you sure you still want him around? I can put up a posting on the board for his whereabouts.”

“You... but why? Why go through all that trouble?” Niala asked.

Karline moved her lips to the side before throwing her hands. “I don't know! After you cried in my arms I haven't been able to get rid of that nagging need to see you happy again!” She grabbed her head and threw her hands again.

“It doesn't make sense! I barely know you!” She crossed her arms and turned to the side.

She felt a tap on her shoulder. She turned around just to have Niala pull her into a hug.

“Thank you, Karline, for caring.”

There it was again. That little kernel of warmth in her belly, spreading its wispy heat throughout her being.

Karline had always prided herself on being independent and self-serving. Sure, help others when it helps you, don't abuse others' trust, and trade fairly. Those were all good rules to live by, and so was not attaching yourself, staying self-sufficient, and looking out for number one.

But the thing about the dark and the cold, when you live in them for too long, is that you get accustomed to them. It becomes the norm, you forget what it's like to form attachment.

And this little, silly, weak catkin had somehow plunked a giant anchor into her in an instant, and now she couldn't get away from it. She just wanted her little sister to be happy.

Which was stupid, she didn't have a little sister, she was an only child, estranged from the rest of her family, like so many other free couriers.

But, a little voice said deep within, if she were to have a little sister, Niala would be a good template.

After a few moments, Niala let go of her, wiping an errant tear from her eye.

“Thank you, really, but I'm ok. In fact-”

“Niala? Who is it?” Someone shouted from inside the house.

David's voice.

He was here?!

Karline's mouth hung open as she saw David step up behind Niala.

“Oh. It's Karline. Hi Karline.” He bowed his head.

“What are you doing here!”

“Technically, I live here now, I think.”

“You...” She looked at Niala, who was beaming a giant smile at her.

“Oh for the saint's love...” Karline slumped.

She straightened back and marched around Niala, bringing a finger up to David's face. “You. Take me as your apprentice in repayment.” She demanded.

He flinched back, glanced at Niala, who happily nodded.

“I'm being told I should. Why should I?”

“She was trying to find you and drag you back here,” Niala answered before Karline could say anything.

David hummed. He brought up a hand and slowly pushed Karline's finger away.

“Thought I'd told you to keep to your affairs?” He gritted out.

“She cried in my arms. She cried in my arms!” Karline pointed at Niala.

David winced, alternating his gaze between the two women, before letting his head down and sighing.

He returned his gaze to Karline. “I understand. No force in the world could withstand Niala's meekness. You're forgiven.”

“What does that mean?” Niala demanded.

“You are extremely meek.”

“I'm not meek! I'm a strong woman!” She argued, ears raised and tail straight.

“Very strong, but extremely meek. One trumps the other.” He said, nodding.

“What!? No-”

“I'm sorry Niala, but David is right on this one.” Karline butted in.

“I'm not meek!”

“It's your saints-given power. Your meekness will conquer the planet, display it with pride. Now, Karline my apprentice, come with me and receive my wisdom. Let me start with this: There is no shame in knowing what your strengths are and letting people know, something Niala would do well to learn.” David said as he led Karline deeper into the house.

“Stop stealing my father's words!”

With only a few days to go before Panacea Potions' grand opening on the first of Mid-Summer, Niala busied herself distributing the flyers they had ordered. The advert would be running all week in the newspaper, and people were starting to talk about the new potion shop.

Things seemed to proceed apace until David, while returning lost jewellery to complete one of the local postings, overheard a conversation about how the new shop's owner was incompetent, that her potions should be avoided.

The gossiping man and woman were approached by a slab of menace, casting its shadow upon them.

David leaned forward, the approximation of a smile on his face. “Sir and Madam. I am furiously curious as to what you were both just discussing.”

The woman shuffled behind the man, who himself leaned back and away from David.

“I-I-I was saying, the new shop owner, she's Brenson's old student, ain't she? I heard she'd given folks the runs from one of her slop, an' now she's openin' shop?” The man repeated the rumour.

“I see. And who did you hear this from?” It was far from being a question.

“I... from my mate Stints.”

David thanked the slightly terrified duo and went on to find Stints, who'd heard it from someone else, and so on. Like a salmon swimming up the river, he went from gossiper to gossiper, back up the rumour stream.

To his utter lack of surprise, the trail led back to one of Brenson's customers, and then to the man himself.

He sat in view of Brenson's shop and waited, counting the customers going in and out. When he figured there was nobody left inside, he got up and marched to the door, entering the shop. The little bell slammed aside, screaming the arrival of a new customer.

Brenson looked up, the beginning of his smile aborting into a frown before being forced back up.

“S-Sir, welcome back to my shop. What can we help you with this time?” He said, clenching his hands.

“Let it go,Brenson.” David's eyes were fixed on the man, his hands balled.

“I fear I don't understand.”

“Panacea Potions, Niala. Don't spread rumours, let it go.”

This time, Brenson's smile reverted to a frown and stayed there.

“The catkin girl? I'm not spreading rumours. I'm warning people.”

David advanced towards the counter, landed his hands on it, and leaned forward.

“You are spreading lies. Stop. I'm not going to ask another time.”

“Wh-” Brenson huffed. “What are you accusing me of?! I protected the little pest's honour by lying about the potion, telling people it was a mistake instead of a voluntary act! Now she wants to open a shop and poison people at will? Why should I not warn people?!” He said, standing as tall as his short stature would allow, face reddening.

David blinked. He blinked again, his features softening somewhat. “What kind of delusion are you living in? Niala poisoning people?”

Brenson might as well have told him fish farted gold nuggets.

“Yes, poison. When I had her instruct my son on brewing his first digestive, she gave him the wrong instructions! Turning the potion into a laxative, trying to discredit my shop!” Brenson spat out.

David's head spun, then a flash of insight.

“Your son. He told you that.”

“He did.” The man said, crossing his arms.

“He's lying.”

“My son wouldn't lie to his father!” Brenson shouted, spittle flying.

David leaned back over the counter and held Brenson's stare.

“He. Is. Lying.”

The rotund man's face crisped up, his arm shot out, pointing at the door.

“Out. Out with you. I will not allow my family to be insulted! Out or I call the guards!”

David didn't budge, searching deep within Brenson's furious gaze. He eventually snorted and let go of the counter, turning and leaving.

He walked some distance away, forcing his anger back under control.

He didn't want to tell Niala. He knew she'd get angry, and stress over it, but she'd find out eventually, and, more importantly, he didn't want a relationship where either of them hid things from one another.

He'd tell her, he'd listen to her, and then he'd hug her and tell her it was going to be fine.

Because she wasn't alone anymore. He was here, with her, for her.

And if Brenson was going to be a problem, he'd deal with it, for her.

“That lying pig-born pit-bound bastard!” Niala cursed. “Poison people? I'll show him poison! I hope he likes turning shades of purple and having warts the size of apples that smell like raw sewage!” She spouted as she paced in their living room.

David tilted his head. “Can you do that? A potion that gives sewage apple-warts?”

Niala stopped cold, head rotating towards him. “...Why is that important? That fat viper is trying to ruin me before I even get started!” She shouted, ears erect, tail frazzled.

He approached and embraced her, pulling her in, stroking her head. She gripped his shirt and forcefully burrowed her face into him.

“When I confronted him about it, he didn't look like he was lying.” He said

She snapped her face to look up at him. “What?!”

“Shhh.” He soothed. “I know you wouldn't do anything he said you did. I meant I don't think he's the one who's lying. I think he believes his son.”

She rested her forehead on his chest. “That little pervert. He fails the potion and blames it on me?” She looked back up to him. “Do you think everything Brenson said was because of what his son told him?”

He unlaced from her, holding her hand and leading her to the couch, sitting down. She sat down and curled up in his lap, resting her head on his chest. He put his arms around her and laid his cheek on top of her head.

“It's that or he's a really good actor.” He finally said.

“...I don't know what to do.”

“Hmm. I'm not sure we have anything to do. It might hurt you at first, but your potions are top quality, right?” David asked.

“Of course they are!”

“Then don't do anything. People will figure it out by themselves soon enough, and then the rumours will die down. The only thing left will be how good your stock is.” He kissed the top of her head.

She pulled her head back, staring into his eyes.

“...thank you. You know, you're really good at being nice when you want to.” She said with a grin.

“There's something else I'm really good at.”

“What is it?”

“This.” He gently pulled back her head and bent his own, locking lips with her.

Her content whimper and droopy ears told him he was right.

The next day, they received a convocation from the town hall. An investigation into Panacea Potions posing a health risk to the townspeople had been opened.

David discovered a few new choice words that day.

Apparently, cursing was another one of Niala's powers.