“No.” Elise said. “You can't just...” She took in a deep breath. “Sir, you don't understand.” She stopped talking and squinted her eyes. “If it was just a small mistake, then why can't they fix...”

Stella saw Elise's face start to turn red from anger, and she reached out and touched the side of her face. Elise looked at her and Stella pointed to her belly. She sighed and her face went back to its normal color as she took Stella's hand and held it.

“Sir, Ren owns 40% of the company.” Elise said calmly. “You need to fix this right now.” She listened to his response, then chuckled. “Either you fix it and put things back to the way they were, or we won't be dropping the lawsuits against the company.”

Stella caught her breath at that. She's using the big gun right off the bat.

“I agree that firing the head programmer was the right move, since it was his job to check everyone's work, except you should have waited for him to fix the problem first.” Elise said. “He would have been motivated to repair the damage since it was his fault, and then you could have quietly let him leave.” She waited for a moment and spoke. “Because now you've got a room full of terrified programmers that won't try to fix things like they should, because they could be fired for it.”

Stella watched the play of emotions on Elise's face, and she couldn't help go through them, too. The game and what Ren has done there means a lot to him. She thought. If they take all of that away because of a mistake and won't... or can't... fix it...

“You told me before that you took my advice and started to implement it.” Elise said. “How far along...” She listened for a few moments, then sighed. “It was a waste of time telling you, then.”

Stella wondered what she was talking about, then Elise straightened her posture.

“Don't underestimate us, sir.” Elise said with steel in her voice. “I regret having to remind you of this; but, we have an entire law firm on retainer, including the senior partner.” She said. “We won't hesitate to use that to our advantage.” She didn't talk for a moment, then nodded. “I'm sorry, too.”

“What's going on?” Stella asked when she hung up.

“Apparently, instead of restoring things to the way they were before the world event, the update is resetting everything.”

“Oh, no.” Stella said. “Poor Ren.”

“Poor everyone, you mean.” Elise said. “It's game-wide and affects everyone, players and NPCs alike, not just Ren.”

Stella caught her breath at the implications. “Then... doesn't that mean...”

“Nearly everyone Ren has in his life will be affected in some way.” Elise said, and they both looked at Ren and then at the television in the hopes that he would wake up soon.
