“All the gods are evil for what they and the Mind Mages and the Wrought have done to us, time and time again. All is Darkness. Even the Demons and the Angels are a part of this trap for humanity, to keep us in a cage and raise us as livestock.” He relaxed, his magnum opus given. Then he said, “Terror Peaks is the only civilization of True Light. So if there was any chance at all that you could be brought into the Light, I had to take that chance. This is why I let myself be captured by you. These are the circumstances in which we fight. Not some petty war with Songli, but with all the gods and all the powers that seek to milk us for all we are.

“This is the world that we live in.”

Silence filled the room. Raidu’s form had become even more misty at the edges. He had given up some deep part of himself in order to give that speech.

Erick said, “Maybe you’re right.”

Everyone in the room startled to a varying degree except for Tyli-as-Headmaster, and Poi.

Raidu laughed. “Maybe one can talk to Wizards, after all!”

“Maybe. But you’re dead, and I have no one else to confirm what you’ve said.” Erick said, “And besides that: I will never believe the words of a dead man, especially one who says he doesn’t want to rejoin the war he left behind, and then goes on to talk about why I need to join his war.”

“Is there a way to convince you properly?”

“Where is Patriarch Xangu?”

Raidu opened his mouth to speak, but then nothing came out, and he looked perplexed. “Er. Maybe he’s…” Raidu frowned. “I don’t know. He’s in the Underworld somewhere… Right? I think he is?”

Erick gave Raidu a moment more to collect himself, to maybe come up with a lead.

Raidu just frowned, more disappointed in himself than in Erick, and said, “I thought I knew. Apologies, Archmage Flatt. My father could tell you more, but I know not where he is.”

“Then I am sorry we couldn’t work things out, Raidu.”

Raidu sadly said, “My time is over, but you still have options, Erick.”

“It’s over. I am done.” Erick said to Hangzi, “Pass your judgment.”

Raidu looked about to say something else, but then he realized what Erick had said, and his eyebrows furrowed. He frowned, his gaze shifting from Erick to Hangzi.

Hangzi startled a fraction at Erick’s words. He recovered quickly; a tiny smile appeared upon his face. Then he dropped that smile, and proclaimed, “This Patriarch Ha—”

“Patriarch?!” Raidu laughed. “What the fuck happened to Yorza! Oh! That’s right! I happened, you shadow sucking twat.”

Hangzi let the world pass him by, then he came back to the moment, and with a beatific smile said, “The judgment is thus: a Sundering for the man who tried to sunder Songli. To be carried out—”

Raidu’s face contorted into madness. “SUNDERING! YOU IMMORAL FOOL!”

“—while I watch; right now.”

Raidu’s body contorted into hard edges and hateful eyes. His face turned into three as one pair of eyes locked to Hangzi, another turned to Erick, and the third face turned to Ari, who stepped away from the side of the altar. Raidu screamed in fury, about the gods taking joy from his death, and about how Songli was playing the part of kitchen servant to Rozeta, serving up souls; farming for the gods.

The overall calm discussion had turned into a one-sided rant.

Erick ignored the rants.

Instead, he watched as Ari went to the edge of the room and opened up a small panel. Erick had already seen the object therein, but now he saw it with his eyes. The overall shape was that of a globe with a diamond-cut gem on top, but the gem was inverted to hold above the globe like a pointed hat, while the whole thing was also a swirl of curling, curved metal and stone. The ‘globe’ at the center of the object was actually a mostly perfectly spherical grand core; bright white and glowing. Now that he focused on it, the gem could actually be glass, and it probably was. Or maybe it was crystal glass; yeah, it was crystal glass (probably wasn’t made crystalline through the addition of lead, though). The whole thing was a work of art. If Ari hadn’t brought it out to commit a sundering, and if she, and Tyli, and Hangzi, and Ari’s guards didn’t look so concerned about it—

Ah. Poi knew what the object was, too.

Everyone else, including him, looked at the object like it wasn’t a heinous torture device, but they were all quickly making the obvious leap of logic necessary to understand what they were seeing. Raidu’s rant increased tenfold when the object came out, so he obviously knew what it was.

Ari stood behind the altar, holding the sundering object in her hands but also in some telekinetic grip, no doubt, for it looked quite heavy with all that gold and stone spun around the thing.

Raidu banged against the invisible cage that stretched up from the altar to the ceiling. In a flashing, angry moment, the Scion of Terror Peaks became a storm of red gasses that filled his cage. His fists and face and feet appeared out of the mist as he struck the surrounding invisible walls with all his ethereal might. Raidu screamed.

Erick watched.

Ari moved the sunderer into the altar’s space, and Raidu’s ghastly form suddenly crashed up, back to something somewhat human as he held against the ceiling, trying to get away from the object down below. As Ari took her arms out of the space, she twisted a knob on the side of the contraption, and the inverted diamond ‘hat’ slipped downward, to touch the spherical core.

And that was all it took to make a magical object.

The air above the altar began to move.

Pulling at Raidu.

He cursed the world and everyone in it and especially the Wizards and the pawns of Darkness that led him here. He cursed Erick. He cursed Songli. He cursed Rozeta.

With Raidu’s voice roaring over hers, Ari calmly spoke as though reading from a script, “The judgment of sundering has been initiated in accordance with the laws of Songli. Raidu Terror Peaks will become nothing, giving us everything in return.”

Almost clinically, Erick dissected what he saw.

Grand cores had this ability to sustain themselves that was unique to them. They could only grow when inside a living monster, though. Thanks to what he knew about the shadelings of Candlepoint, and other monsters, normal, small cores could not sustain themselves forever without being inside a living being.

Shadelings had to cycle their mana in order to sustain their cores, otherwise they would degrade, and even with proper cycling, they still had to ‘eat’ the cores of other monsters every so often, or else their own core would degrade. There was a lot of maintenance to being a shadeling that went above and beyond what it took to live a life as a normal person. There were some bonuses, too, but Erick felt it would be a hassle to be a shadeling, and many agreed with him. Back in Candlepoint, many chanced getting back their human body through communion with Melemizargo; through attempting to undo their [Reincarnation] that made them shadelings in the first place.

Erick suspected that if a shadeling ever developed a grand core, that would make them a Shade.

For grand cores had this ability to pull mana into themselves. Grand cores didn’t grow when outside a physical form, but they could certainly sustain their own existence. If you dropped off a depleted rod of [Whatever Spell] next to a grand core, that grand core would even help to stabilize and [Renew] (ha!) the spellwork inside those rods of [Whatever Spell]s. You couldn’t put too many depleted rods next to the grand cores, or else the grand core would eventually dim and die just like normal cores, for the rods next to it would suck up the mana instead of it. Eventually, this would break the grand core.

There was a way around that, though.

Erick had once seen an arrangement inside Brightwater, inside the Temple District, where some mana-focusing arrays had been laid down on the ground in a small room, and grand rads had been piled into the middle, and the walls of the room were full of cubbyholes, each absolutely filled with magic wands. That particular arrangement caused the grand rads to act as the tiny motor in an inducement array, causing so much more mana to flow through the space than would otherwise happen naturally.

With that increased flow, those grand rads could sustain themselves as well as refill the power of every nearby wand with all of their cast-off mana.

What Erick saw now, was sort of like that, except there were no wands to fill with power.

The mana draw was a simple draw, but it was also filled with teeth.

The sunderer stood below the misty, raging Raidu, as the spirit of the man struggled to not be pulled into the object. He was failing.

Tiny mists of his soul had filled the entire trapping space above the altar, no matter how much he tried to keep himself away from the object of his demise. Before Ari had placed the sunderer, those tiny bits had nowhere to go. Now they had a destination.

The glass focuser had a few white glows; trace magics from the white grand core in the base, no doubt. Now, though, there were red glows. Now, Raidu’s misty form flowed downward, pulled by the inexorable power of the grand core.

Erick watched with his mana sense.

A critical reaction took place inside the glass diamond.

Red light turned iridescent white, and then, like the breaking of a dam, new mana flowed into the world from every part of the glass, like light, like air, like water, and like none of those things at all. Only a tiny bit of Raidu had been consumed; practically nothing at all. But what came out was a tsunami of thick air. The room was somehow designed for this, though, and the walls directed the thick air up and out of the building, instead of washing through all the nearby rooms, alerting everyone that a sundering was taking place.

Erick pulled his mana sense away from the sunderer itself as he felt himself get pulled inside; cycled into the mana like Raidu’s spirit was being cycled. As he metaphorically stepped back, he noticed his own clothes were rippling as thick air fluttered past them in inordinate quantity. It was the same sort of tsunami that happened when he [Cleanse]d the Shades that one time, except it wasn’t a flow that took an instant to travel, and then was over. It was a flow that only grew stronger, and stronger. A roil of power, a flow of mana.

And in that turmoil, Erick caught memories that were not his own.

He saw the first stab of a sword into a monster at age 7, killing the mist stone glutton and receiving the praise of his uncle.

He saw Raidu, at age 23, killing his uncle for being a Pacifist and siding against Raidu's father, Patriarch Xangu.

He saw Raidu bed his first woman.

He saw Raidu single-handedly save people he didn’t care about from monsters that they should have been able to kill themselves. And then Raidu went back a year later, at the same yearly monster surge, and watched as those same people died to the same problem they could have prepared against, but didn't. Raidu listening to them cry out for help and called them worthless in turn. He told them to save themselves, and they could not.

Erick saw too much.

He saw a life being sundered, after all. Every path taken. Every choice made, or time of rest, and even every path not taken, converted into possibility, into mana. He saw Raidu kill his father and side with his uncle. He saw Raidu bed his first man. He saw Raidu save people who he had chosen to leave to die.

A sundering wasn’t a simple death. It was the conversion of everything a person was, or could ever be, into pure possibility.

People naturally exuded these possibilities every moment of existence. Every moment the soul existed, it filled the world with chance and option, with thoughts and feelings and logic, and when tied to a body, souls filled the world with action, and influence, and more. Souls made mana.

People made a lot of mana.

Raidu wasn’t even a smidgen gone. His nearly-full spirit still clung to the roof of his cage, but his unguarded self, the bits that had drifted down and away, had been sucked into the sunderer. Those bits pulled on what remained, like a thread pulling from an afghan, eventually pulling apart the entire blanket.

The bits that had already gone into the sunder, pulled in the rest of Raidu.

Ah

Yes.

Erick saw it now.

This is why the Headmaster called this a fate worse than death.

He still watched, though, as the thinner parts of Raidu pulled at the larger parts of him, and it wasn’t long till thready mists pulled in a hem, and then a hand, and then the final sundering came as the remaining half of Raidu couldn’t hold himself away anymore. He snapped into the sunderer like the closing of a trap.

A storm of thick air billowed away from the sunderer, filling the room with a wash of rainbow light.

The lightshow passed; directed upward and out of the building.

The air above the sunderer was clear.

Raidu was gone.

Ari reached into the altar space and cranked a mechanism on the sunderer, disconnecting the surface of the glass diamond from the spherical core. As she took the sunderer back to its hidden alcove, Erick was surprised that the core was still white. Erick expected it to be pink, or something. But no; Raidu’s soul was not trapped in there. His soul was gone forever; made into mana.

Pulled apart into potential.

A year ago, Erick would have puked out his guts. Now, he just said, “It is over.” He said to Hangzi, “I approve of the paddy house you’ve placed the other Blessed in. I did not know such a location existed, where people cared for the mental health of those who have been broken by this life.”

