His words might have seemed out of place, but Erick had a reason for the distraction. He had needed to get Hangzi’s mind onto something better than what he had just seen, for he could tell that Hangzi had not expected to see what he had seen.

At Erick’s words, Hangzi came out of a disturbed fugue like a man coming out of a horror movie. He had obviously never sundered someone before. He had heard of it, for sure, and he knew the basics, no doubt, but the sight and the sounds of it… It was a good thing these rooms were somewhat soundproof.

Hangzi said, “Ah.” He elaborated, “Ah. Yes. Severing Crescent’s paddy houses are good for soldiers suffering from War Response and other maladies of the mind. We had to shuffle some people around to get all of the Blessed in one location, but they seem to be showing progress already.” He rapidly went back to Raidu’s final rant, half-desperately asking, “What was that part about ‘manaminers’? What was that, and…” His words trailed off, as desperation for answers turned to realization that he shouldn't be demanding anything of Erick, for various reasons. And then, another realization came upon Hangzi; he needed to speak his words for he was the Patriarch of Devouring Nightmare. He stared Erick in the eyes, saying, “None of Raidu’s words were a surprise to you.”

Erick was incredulous for half a moment at the hidden accusations in Hangzi’s words, wondering what sort of implications were going through the man’s mind. Then he calmed his own odd emotions.

Erick simply said, “If Raidu had said anything about war or angels or coordination— Anything at all about actionable intelligence, then I would have given his final rants some thought. But all that? He likely suspected that you would let him exist in some form or another, and was therefore planting seeds for a future harvest. Those words were merely twisted versions of the truth. If you want to know about the darker parts of magic, you should consult your Elders of Lore. But in the case of manaminers, knowing what they are is like knowing that Veird revolves around the sun, and the moons revolve around Veird; interesting, but not useful for daily life. And very much not how Raidu described them.” Erick added, “As far as I know.” He added, “And I have no idea what the fuck that was about Rozeta being a Dark God. Another ploy, no doubt.”

“But why did you say Raidu was right?”

At that, Erick was surprised, and then a little pissed off. Could Hangzi not see why he did that?

Really?

No, no, Erick. He’s still a kid at 19, no matter that he’s the Patriarch of a High Clan. He doesn’t know what he doesn’t know. But he should know this! Maybe he’s just upset. Yes. That must be it.

Erick decided to go with the diplomatic response. “That was me trying to get him to reveal his knowledge of Xangu. It almost worked, too, but then his memory blanked.”

Hangzi looked like he had been slapped, but then his royal mien returned. “Right. Of course.” He looked to the altar. Not even bones remained. The surface was pristine, with gold runes glittering in the white stone. Hangzi declared, “The sentence has passed. Justice is done. There’s still a lot of rebuilding to do, so it’s time to get back to work.” He turned to Erick and bowed his head only, then said, “Your expertise is appreciated. Please send to Elder Varo if you have time for a dinner while you are staying with us. I would like to consult with you about various needs and wants. Good day, Archmage Flatt.”

Erick bowed in turn. “Good day, Patriarch Hangzi.”

Hangzi and his guards walked out the door, and away.

Tyli looked to Erick, asking, “Will you be able to search for our suspects, now?”

Erick said, “Please see me at my house on First Devouring Nightmare Mountain in an hour with everything you need searched for. We’re going to have a small talk before we do that, but I don’t foresee any problems.” He dismissed her, saying, “It was nice to meet you again, Tyli. I need to talk to Elder Arilitilo, now.”

Tyli stood straight, then bowed, saying, “Archmage.” She walked away.

Somewhere in the last minutes, the Headmaster had turned his sight away from here, but Erick did not know when, exactly, that had happened.

Ari waited with her guards at her back.

Erick turned to Ari, saying, “Thank you for this, Ari. I was not aware what a sundering entailed, and I can honestly say that I hope to never see it again. I will be staying in Holorulo for a while because my daughter is still contracted to work for Star Song. I am still interested in the lessons we had planned, if you have time to give them. Would you be available for such?”

Ari said, “Unfortunately, I will not be able to assist you with Blood Magic at this time. Elder Xue should be able to—”

“I insist.” Erick said, “Please find a way to make time.”

The guards behind Ari did not flinch. They didn’t do much of anything, except to look at Erick, then look away, straight ahead.

So Ari was a prisoner, eh?

Erick had suspected, but that confirmed it.

Ari did not frown, but only because she was holding that emotion back. “I have a great many duties to attend to now that the majority of our high ranking Court Necromancers are dead and dispersed due to the actions of Terror Peaks. If I may, I will look to make time for your needs, Archmage Flatt, but as of right now I cannot. I ask you instead, to seek out Elder Xue, and ask of him what you would ask of me.”

“… I see.” Erick said, “Then I will be doing that.”

Ari bowed, and held there.

Erick looked down at the woman, and then turned and walked away. When he was out of the room, Ari stood straight. When Erick had reached a further hallway, Ari was exiting the room they were just in, with one guard walking in front of her, and another guard walking behind. They were guiding her elsewhere; somewhere out of sight.

And in every other summoning room with a summoner, the summoner had two guards with them; not directly with them, in a lot of cases, but positioned outside of the rooms, or in the corners of rooms, or nearby. Every summoner had a prominent gold necklace around their neck, too; they were easy to pick out of a crowd.

And what was stranger still, was that Erick had tried to telepathically connect with Ari a few times this whole time, but Ari had gently denied every connection. She hadn’t even tried to subvocalize her concerns to him. Her guards would definitely see if she had a tendril of thought hanging around her head, too, so that was probably why she didn’t return his calls.

Erick almost asked Poi what was going on, but he had no doubt that people were mana sensing him, too, just as much as he was mana sensing everyone else. Only a few people gave away that particular game in their glances and their flinching tells; they must have been new at this. But there were quite a few people capable of mana sensing in this Palace of the Eternal Court.

That made sense, since you needed that skill to be able to purchase [Soul Sight], which seemed absolutely necessary for any potential necromancer, and particularly for the jailers of the necromancers.

There was something deeply disturbing about this house of souls, and Erick was going to get to the bottom of it.

Sooner or later.

Ari had saved his life; he would be damned if he couldn’t do the same.
