“When you break one of the fingers off it becomes a fantastic but incredibly selective absorbent. One sample of what you want it to absorb, and the not-sponge sponge starts to only absorb that specific compound. I’m thinking I can use it with my cauldron to extract more waste products in the initial refinements.” Leaning in, she whispered while covering the item, “Despite its appearance it's not even a sponge, but rather a type of grass, as strange as that seems. Best of all, it's not that hard to grow. I figured I could shove it in my terrarium and prune this plant every once in a while as we wait for new saplings to grow up.”

Left unsaid was the item being Tier 36 which meant she’d be able to use it until at least Tier 40 if they let it Tier up, making the sample worth quite a lot, given its status as one of only five of that Tier.

Lila immediately started hemming and hawing the moment she noticed Liz's choice. “Hey now, I said you can have Natural Treasures or other loot, not naturally occurring and growing wonder plants. I intend to patent the seeds for these babies and turn this into my retirement fund.”

As shocked as everyone else, Aster climbed from between two large boxes and asked far too loudly, “You’re retiring?”

Lila pulled back slightly and snorted as she started sketching her ideas out mid air with her claws. “It's about time I settle in for my last grand adventure before I ascend. One final voyage into the deep chaotic space. However, to do and afford that properly, I need funding. Lots and lots of it, so you can’t sell any if you take that plant, Liz. Or I want my cut from any you do sell. I've already worked out reseller costs and I can give you the friend discount, but I want my cut.”

Phoenix Liz squawked at the larger dragon, even as human Liz ignored her.

Matt was going to offer his help as the idea of a deep chaotic space voyage sounded right up his alley, when an interested Rah poked his head out from a pile of loose ore he was sorting through. “I heard the words voyage and chaotic space. What's the goal of this voyage if you don't mind me asking?”

Lila preened at the question, even as a star speckled ear popped into existence, indicating she had everyone's attention. “Thank you for asking Rah, and I don't mind sharing at all. Currently, I’m not entirely sure about our destination, but my ultimate goal is exploring the very border of the third layer of chaotic space.”

Matt whistled at Lila’s audacity. Wanting to explore the fourth layer of chaotic space was the stuff of legends. There was always at least one team per immortal generation that got themselves killed trying to explore that deep, but apparently, she wanted to take a crack at it.

She… probably expected Matt to power the shields, and he didn’t have any issue with that, so long as he got to go along.

Seeing their interest, Lila’s smile grew devious. “Don’t worry. For genuinely completely unrelated reasons, it will probably take until you reach at least Tier 40 or so before any such expedition occurs.” Grinning, she teased, “Might be fun, don’t you think?”

Allie’s agreement was immediately followed by a yelp of pain as a nearby shelf wobbled. “Ow, I deserve a hazard present.” Seeing Lila’s unamused expression, she continued without missing a beat, “But we’ve actually been planning our own little voyage in a few Tiers and wanted to pick your mind and crew on how best to explore when not during a breach.”

“Would you like to borrow the Unsparing once more?”

“Why would we have to borrow what we already bought?”

Lila opened her mouth as if to reply to Aster’s comment before finally growling out, “The berthing fees will eat you alive. I’ll make sure of it.”

Matt was thoroughly happy with his own Nine Life Ring as it solved one of his problem items. In fact everyone but Allie found it easy to select an item, she however waited until the moment before they were kicked out to finally pick one. Lila and her group needed to get ready for the auctions. Everyone else had long since prepared and were only waiting for the highest Tiers’ return, so no one expected it to take long for a date to be set.

In fact, it only took a week before Empire’s auction date was set for a year and a half later. They might have set the date sooner, but even the fastest ships required travel. To make that slightly easier, every kingdom level capital would be hosting their own smaller scale auctions, catering to the Tier 25 and lower explorers. The highest Tier explorers would all be flocking to the Capital, centralizing the most valuable items and making it easy for interested buyers to find them.

Thanks to Allie, they were able to show up only a day before the event and skip the travelling part.

The first thing Matt noticed when they arrived on the Capital was the moon, which was in its ring phase. Because of that, it cast a dazzling kaleidoscope for everyone, both those in space and planet side, to appreciate during the celebrations.

The second thing he noticed was how busy the capital was. He couldn’t quite say it was at the same level as their Ascension ceremonies, but it was one of the closest that he’d seen before or since.

Ships were everywhere. Some still even had battle damage, no doubt left deliberately, but most were cleaned and polished in time for the auctions. At the same time, all of the exploration ships were centered around the four megalithic space stations subordered for the auction.

Rather than teleporting to the venue with the others, Matt and Liz boarded one of the many shuttles going in and out of orbit all over the Capital system’s planets and moons. They wanted a little time to themselves before meeting up with the rest of their friends who intended to show up.

To that end, they decided to play mortals for their first day. Not that it was hard to do. The price for a day trip to the auction was low enough that anyone local who was interested could spend at least one day exploring the month-long event.

Matt was more interested in scanning the shuttle's interior than his surroundings. It was a new model, purpose built for orbital jaunts, but the way they’d done so was unconventional to say the least.

The first and most obvious change was the dual engine setup they’d gone with. Far from unusual in new orbital shuttles, who needed both the raw power of traditional engines to get off the ground when fully loaded, but also wanted the cost savings a travel mana engine could provide for the majority of the flying. The initial response had been to use a slightly undersized normal engine and have a small travel mana engine which they could engage once they left the local planet’s gravity well. Such changes could be made to existing designs and made retrofits easy.

The shuttle they rode up on hadn't been treated the same way. The entire ship was built around one of the largest travel mana engines they could fit in their flight profile, with a smaller normal engine squeezed in, rather than the other way around.

Matt didn’t quite understand how that could work, until he looked closer at the engine design. It wasn’t nearly as normal as he first thought. A quick consultation with his [AI] showed it was actually based on specialised engines used for drag races, if downtuned to not need a dedicated mechanic fussing over it after every use. Fantastic acceleration, but the mana efficiency was truly abysmal. With that context, the idea became clear. Use the acceleration to get to the point where travel mana becomes more efficient as fast as possible. The time saved accelerating and the greater efficiency of the larger travel engine, which also seemed to be a new iteration, must make up for the greater mana cost of the drag engine.

Monitoring the mana usage as they took off, it seemed to bear out and Matt couldn't help but be impressed. The little engine guzzled mana for a short time, and now that he looked at it, the inertial dampening runes were also somewhat overbuilt and draining more than normal, but it got them to top speed in record time. There was probably some minimum distance it needed to travel to come out ahead, and it really was basically locked at either idle or top speed, but within those limits it was better than any shuttle he had seen so far.

Tapping into the EmpireNet and looking up the information about the new shuttles, Matt realized why he hadn’t heard of them: this was their public reveal. That was a very bold marketing strategy, but had the potential to massively pay off, so long as nothing went wrong.

Once they arrived at the auction, they moved along with the crowd until they found a place that was somehow more crowded than the shuttle. The inspection areas.

Personally, Matt would have preferred to have the Minkalla inter-Great Power auction first, but none of the Great Powers as a whole were too keen on allowing their citizens to empower foreigners. Something he’d just run into, not that it always worked. Some cultivators would deliberately keep some of their best and rarest items for the Minkalla auction. Even in the Empire where they didn’t mandate sales, the Imperial government still set the local auctions first, relying on the fact that most would rather sell everything at one place.

“Oh come on, this line will take hours to get through.” Even as Liz spoke, phoenix Liz hopped onto Matt’s head to get a better view.

Instead of trying to leave, Liz leaned into Matt using him as a convenient wall as they settled in for a wait. “I’ll bet three people drop something in the next ten minutes. Has to make contact with the floor and can’t be intentional.”

Thinking about it for a moment Matt offered, “Over.”

“Really?” Both Liz’s looked at him strangely.

“Look at how many people are distracted. Sure they are immortals with theoretically perfect bodily control, but everyone is excited and nervous. Seventy percent of them are fidgeting or idly messing around with some object. No way four or more people don’t fumble something. Oh look, right there is one.”

Seeing a Tier 20 man lose control of the playing card he was fidgeting with, Liz cursed under her breath. “Okay, I’ll go with sneezes. Seven in the next ten minutes, has to be in this room, not the whole station.”

“Under. Definitely under.”

Liz chuckled, even as she shook her head. “Wrong choice. That Tier 15 definitely still has his allergies and is standing right next to a cat. He can barely keep it together, but he’s not got enough spiritual control to stop the reaction.”

Seeing the same thing, Matt cursed into phoenix Liz’s plumage as he started looking for the next thing they could bet on.

Their banter continued until they reached the front of the line, where the assistant froze upon seeing their identification codes, which did not match their physical appearances. Plucking a feather that turned golden from the masked phoenix, Matt blocked anyone else from seeing it even as he smiled.

The Tier 10 man’s brain dumped cortisol and adrenaline into his body at an alarming rate, but to his credit, he remained perfectly professional as he led them to a back room where any items they wanted to sell would be reviewed before being listed. It was only after he’d shut the door and walked down the hall that he let himself slump to the floor, laughing.

Wanting to be nice and reward the surprisingly young Tier 10, Matt and Liz both signed the feather he’d plucked before dropping it into the kids lap. Without any treatment the lone feather was little more than a curiosity piece magically speaking but it more than enough to make his day.

Rather than intrude further into the private moment, they got ready for the inspection. While it might technically be a waste of time for those who’d already had their items appraised, no one wanted to buy fake or altered goods, leading to a second round of checks.

Dropping three specialty made boxes on the table, they’d barely settled down when two appraisers entered the room, already bowing.

“Ascender Legion, Ascender Titan, it's a lovely day to see you. W—”

Seeing the ass kissing from a mile away, Matt did his best to tune the two out as they went over each item, wishing the two immortals could have learned from the Tier 10. To their credit, they did their jobs without trying to artificially increase or decrease the value of their items.

As dukes or Ascenders, they could have skipped the line or simply submitted their items for verification, but they were following Lila’s advice in getting their items checked manually. Sure, she was skipping the line directly while they waited in it, but it amounted to the same thing.

Once all of their items were processed, the best were chosen to go to one of the many auctions that would happen over the next month after they nodded. Everything verified but not picked was and handed back to them so they could sell or barter with it as they decided.

Instead of meeting up with their friends immediately, the two of them wandered through the areas targeting the mortal Tiers, slowly exploring the various shops selling lower Tier Natural Treasures.

The prices were anything but reasonable, but that didn’t stop items from being bought constantly. Even non-Natural Treasures were being snatched up for exorbitant prices, but even some Natural Treasures were flying off the shelves despite the prices.

Sadly, they didn’t have all that much to sell. All of their mortal Tier items had been sold in their own duchies when they first returned, so they happily browsed, looking for deals or the rare misidentified item. There were always rumors about someone finding a rare variant Natural Treasures and striking it rich, and it being the first day, they weren’t the only ones trying their luck mingling with the mortals.

