Matt blinked. “I hadn’t intended to ask that, though borrowing power from Tiers higher than oneself does make sense as being blanket banned. As for monetary compensation, we can hash out a number but I’m thinking something starting around a Tier 40 mana stone in value to cover the initial costs of the experiments as well as guild expenses. Throw in a few hundred of those Domain vials as well if it's possible. They’d be very useful to our guild in general. As for other things, what do you have? I know Aunt Helen has stashes of goodies and while I might be interested in some of that, I have a different request in mind if you are open to it.” When he got a nod to continue, he bluntly stated what he wanted. “Powers. You are old enough to have seen that develop from nothing and claim to have one. I’d like tutoring for myself and my friends, Allie, Zack, Susanne, Aster, and Liz.”

Qin Jiang frowned but slowly nodded after conferring with his guildmates. “I am amenable to that, but I can not promise anything in such endeavors. Powers are hard to explain to one who doesn't ‘get it’, but if any of you can get your foot in the door, I am willing to teach you what I know. I would never call myself an expert but I am quite skilled with them. As you said, I was there when they were popularized. However, do remember they existed in various forms for far longer than the Guilds’ existence. We simply quantified and standardized them. I am also willing to throw in a number of rare resources if the training doesn't succeed.”

Matt nodded, sticking out his hand. “Deal.”

Once they had agreed, Matt stood. “Feel free to keep using the room if you like. I intend to leave for Palustris via Allie in another week or so but I can get started while a few of you make the long trip. It was good meeting you, but I can see my poker deck being ravaged as we speak.”

Sitting back at the table, Matt moved phoenix Liz to the spot next to him, grabbing the cards she had been struggling to deal and shuffling them back in with her beak and talons. Half of the combined deck was already gone.

As he worked, Allie knocked over her pile of chips as she looked at Manny. “In addition, I want to know where you have been.”

“I already told you where I was,” Manny retorted with a knowing smirk.

“Saying you were busy isn’t a location.”

“That tells me you need to work on your imagination. Busy can be a location.”

“No, it can’t! I already checked all the locations called Busy, and you definitely haven’t been hanging out at any of them.”

Manny simply smiled back at her. “Then I guess you'll never know.”

Aster leaned over. “Ok, but what if you tell us if we guess it?”

“No.”

Aster just nodded. “Ok he was somewhere called ‘no’.” She sounded out the word like it was a foreign curiosity.

Lila shook her head. “He was clearly just relaxing and doesn't want to admit it. Give the man a break.”

Liz shook her head as she stared at Manny. “No, I don’t buy that. He was up to something. He's got a look on his face that screams smugness. He was pulling one over on someone I know it.”

Carissa shook her head. “He's not going to tell you, just give up.”

“Obviously, he's not going to tell us. We are going to guess. Duh.” Aster tisked sadly as if Carissa had said something truly foolish.

Aiden shook his head knowingly. “I’m telling you guys he was spying on the war effort. Peering into everyone's secrets and grabbing Talents. It's the only thing that makes sense if he wasn’t in a rift.”

Allie shook her head. “And I'm telling you that's not what he was doing. It's too obvious and the other Tier 50s would have felt him given how long he was gone. He was doing something inside the Empire. Had to be.”

Aster shook Susanne’s head hard enough to make her braid swing. “If it was in the Empire, he would have responded to messages. So it has to be clandestine, which means outside the Empire.”

Manny looked pleadingly at Matt and the cards he was still shuffling. “Can you please give them something else to speculate about. I’m about to go back to where I can’t specify just to escape.”

“Ha! So it was a vacation.” Allie pounded the table.

“Or just less bad than your badgering,” Zack sniped right back to whoops from most of the rest of the table.

Allie’s head rolled off her shoulders as she clutched at her chest dramatically.

Matt just shook his head as he started dealing once more while thinking about who else he wanted to open this first round of specialized aura rifts to.
