Qin Jiang thankfully explained. “My Power, excuse me, my Domain and Talent, allow me to create growth items that empower Domains. They also let all of us share a Domain pool. Each of the members passively add a portion of their Domain into the pool but can also call upon the others for a power boost. It is a collective effort which means the Domains need to be hyper specific. A general Justice Domain won’t work. At least not usually. If a person wants to bind with a circlet, they need something that will fit with everyone else's Domain. Our numbers are few and have never crossed over a hundred, even in millions of years. There are millions of outer guild members who passed our rigorous personality tests, and they go on to do good for the Guilds as a whole. Many of them even create variations of a Justice Concept but they still can’t bond to one of the circlets. After seeing how Brother Mathias was able to turn one of your aura potions into a suitable Domain, our guild tried to replicate the success but it failed. Our hope in coming is that you and your guild might be able to create an aura rift that might allow us to make aura potions that can increase the probability of an appropriate Concept by directly using our Domains as a sample.”

Matt hadn’t known such a shared Domain pool was even possible and mulled over the possibility and its implications. He also gave in and started reading some of the information about the guild and its history in detail.

The guild was truly as presented and unless there was something missing in the Empire’s private reports on the guild of the Crowned, as they were locally known, the guild seemed like a force for good.

Good being so incredibly subjective, Matt looked into it further, and the guild’s interpretation mainly boiled down to a general effort to stop people from interfering with civilians, especially higher Tiers who would otherwise just treat those weaker than them as tools or unimportant casualties in their pursuits.

It was a fairly laudable goal and their impact was actually very impressive relative to their small size. But it rather paled in comparison to the sheer scope of a Great Power, despite heading off numerous would be disasters.

It was a good start but the main thing Matt wanted to know however was how many of the guild had turned ‘evil’ and how the guild handled that. Digging through the Empire’s files on outside forces he found his answer. He had been sure it had happened and was proven right, just not to the degree he was expecting.

In the last several million years, there had been a whopping one guild member who had turned ‘bad’ and they had been cut off from the source of power they collectively shared and then hunted down by their former guild members with ruthless efficiency. In fact, most of the reports he found on the guild was of their members dying as they prevented various disasters. That would have been a bad sign to their reputation but uniformly the guild members seemed to act several Tiers above their actual cultivation, which understandably made even a single mistake lethal.

Matt could see why Aunt Helen thought they would get along. He liked the group and what they stood for. They seemed like genuine sources of good in the Realm and that was all too rare.

“Do you have an unbound circlet? I also need a demonstration of the power. Mathias, give me an attack if you please.”

Matt held out a hand which the boy immediately launched an attack at. An attack he recognized as a slightly modified [Solar Flare]. It was also several Tiers stronger than it should have been, backed by a robust Concept that no mortal should have had time to build. It was a little hard to estimate, but Matt put the blow at peak Tier 9 or low Tier 10 which, for a Tier 6, would have been beyond impressive if not for the power not originating from himself.

Not that Matt considered it a downside or a slight. Everyone had their advantages and the circlets were just one of many and an interesting one.

Smiling at Mathias, Matt said, “Good showing. A nice modification to [Solar Flare] as well. The variable aiming will serve you well; doubly so if you intend to add in a tracking function or do it manually with [Fire Manipulation].”

Even as the kid stammered out a thanks, Matt looked at the unbound circlet he was handed.

Sitting back down, he took a sip of one of the drinks that had arrived letting his spiritual perception and other various senses sink into the circlet. As he did so, he felt the perception of the guildmaster intensify, and he was quite confident that if he made any untoward move, the circlet would disappear from his hands faster than he could react. Possibly not faster than anyone in the next room could react but Matt doubted they would interfere just so he could inspect the item so long as he himself wasn’t in danger.

It truly did feel like a growth item in that it felt like a simple Tier 5 item. The materials were made out of simple common metals: steel, copper, and a little silver and gold for the enchantments. Even the gem was artificially grown if he wasn’t mistaken. But that was only the physical side of the item.

Its spirit was robust, complicated, and clearly Talent-made as Matt saw several runes and formations that had no possibility of being stable let alone creating appreciable effects yet clearly did.

Holding out a hand, he made a grabbing gesture. “Let me see a bound one.”

The one he was handed was of similar make, although if he really focused, he could see tiny signs the craftsman was fractionally less skilled when crafting it.

Its physical metal was all also Tier 37 and its spiritual make up was so complex and detailed, Matt didn’t bother doing more than a scan.

After a few more minutes of inspection, Matt handed back both circlets and asked, “Can I get a sample of the Concept? The specific brand of Justice as you called it?”

Qin Jiang conjured a wisp of power that wavered like a heatwave as it sat in the cage of his fingers.

Matt carefully took and inspected the Concept willpower and let his own Domain brush up against it.

The Justice Concept he had been handed was interesting. It wasn’t what he would call strong, deep, or robust, which made him confident this wasn’t actually Qin Jiang’s own Concept, but it had a sturdiness to it that Matt felt would both make creating an aura rift out of it technically possible and fiendishly difficult.

Having confirmed that it was theoretically possible he could actually create a rift out of this sample, Matt started considering if he wanted to.

Several teams in Titan’s Torch had been branching off into more esoteric aura types in recent years and, while he hadn’t encouraged that, he hadn’t stopped it either. The research, even without many major successes, had led to a veritable flood of requests to make custom aura rifts for various factions but Matt had pushed all of them back using the excuse that his guild wasn’t ready for that yet.

That excuse would no longer hold water if he helped this guild with their aura problem, but Matt wasn’t against that outcome.

One of the answers to Cameron's and the other low level members’ worry in Titan’s Torch was that the guild would run out of funding. He and Kees had discussed giving the guild members what they wanted and a visible source of income. Taking on orders for custom auras was one of the best ways they had come up with but they hadn’t wanted to loose the arrow on that too soon, as once it was released, there would be no way of pulling it back.

However, Matt was considering it for several reasons.

First was Aunt Helen’s recommendation. Matt trusted her and her word was good enough of a reason for him to reconsider his position on most topics.

Second was that this guild, more than most, was a true force for good in the Realm. More than the noble families, Empire-based guilds, and Knightly Orders who had all come knocking for bespoke aura rifts. They would come back once he did this and he wouldn’t be able to so easily dismiss them as he would this outsider guild.

Third, Matt just liked the idea of trying to tinker with this power. He had a million and one things on his plate but he really wanted to play with this Domain and see what he could do with it. It was the least of his reasons but an important one.

Still, he had questions. Many questions.

“What do you guys do when someone eventually turns bad? I saw you guys were able to turn off the power sharing last time but I’ve seen more than enough reports of people who slaughtered cities in the name of ‘goodness’ or ‘rightness’. Righteous fury and all that. For as much as I agree Aiden isn’t exactly normal, he is a good person. His Domain may be a little eerie but he himself is a good person who genuinely cares about those around him and doesn't act out in cruelty or maliciousness like someone with a ‘better’ Domain might. I don’t want to help expand any organization that might start slaughtering kids to free them from poverty or some shit like that.”

Everyone in the group nodded as he finished almost in perfect unison.

Luis waved a hand, and a more chaotic mixture of energy appeared. “A good question and one that speaks of your character. Too many people try to distance themselves from the ill they assist in creating just because they don’t wield the knife themselves. To answer your question, we have a few ways. First and foremost is that our collective pool of power inherently judges everything we do and will cut off anyone who deliberately acts against that. That stops the worst offenders who knowingly try to do evil, but as you mentioned, that mechanism does nothing for people who believe they are doing good. For those, we can cut them off with either twenty percent of all circlets, the closest five, or any of us over Tier 45. We don’t take in members lightly, there are stringent requirements to even join our outer guild, but people can and do change. Sometimes that change isn't for the better. But the main way we deal with them is frankly preventive. Any time any of us start to cross a line, several of us pull them back. It is one advantage of our small numbers, that we all know everyone, and can intervene and counsel before it's too late to right our course. We are still human and can become jaded and overwhelmed with our self-imposed tasks.”

Matt took that in while trying to see how it could be abused. The main ways he could think of were incredibly unlikely and having more members didn’t increase those odds if the automatic shut off was as robust as Luis implied it was.

“Ok, I’m willing to work with you guys. I can’t guarantee a time frame or anything and I’ll need samples of the circlets—”

“No.”

Matt was taken aback at being rebuffed that bluntly.

“No unbound Circlet is leaving the guild hall outside of one of our most senior members’ personal supervision, let alone be given into the hands of a research guild in another Great Power. Nor is it or its inner working at all relevant to our request. If you need some way to verify that the created aura is suitable, I’m confident I can craft an item to verify that. And if it turns out you truly need more insight, we’ll see if we can arrange for one of our senior members in need of some calmer duties to be stationed at your guild to provide said insight at their own judgment.

Matt wasn’t exactly happy about it, but he was asking them to just hand over the source of their unique power. He imagined the Knightly Orders would react the same way if asked for their methods of imbuing Natural Treasures to make the rifts they want.

The petty side of him considered if he should do that at first, just to see their reactions.

Nodding, he acquiesced. “That’s not ideal, but okay. We can work with it. Just so you’re aware, this will most likely slow things down. Items are a good source of rift anchors.”

“We’ve been going for over a million years without aura, we can handle a few more.” Qin Jiang seemed entirely unfazed.

“We will still need samples of compatible Domains and preferably the mana types of those who hold them. This one is non-negotiable, without those we’re basically dead in the water and can’t even start. You can see how the rifts are made as it's all shared.” Matt was expecting a fight.

“This is entirely expected, and we came prepared,” Qin Jiang pulled out a case filled with a carefully sorted set of mana crystals and little vials holding samples of concepts. Containers able to hold samples of Domains stably were very rare and very expensive to the point that even Matt had been struggling to source them for his guild in any reasonable quantity. It was hardly a surprise Qin Jiang was able to create them and he made a note to try and get more.

That settled, Matt moved on to the awkward part of the conversation. “As for the price. These experiments aren’t cheap, and they might never work. How invested are you?”

For the first time in the conversation, Qin Jiang seemed genuinely unbothered. “I am willing to do whatever I need so long as there is a possibility of success. I am old and have accumulated much wealth. What do you desire? I can accommodate a lot but I can not make an item to boost your Domain so please don’t request that. I truly can not do so. Not to mention wielders of my items are banned from wars anyway.”

