Technically, Lin-Lin asked Luo-Luo to plan the wedding because if my sweet wifey had her way, we’d get married in the bamboo grove with only family for guests. A woman after my own heart, but unfortunately, I have social obligations to uphold which dictate the necessity of a public marriage ceremony. Of course, I know better than to nitpick about the details with Yan, a woman who is clearly set on championing Luo-Luo’s cause, but what can I say? Love is a complicated affair, and I am a complicated man. “And what sort of reward would you say is appropriate? I can’t give her what she wants most, and there’s hardly a title I can bestow upon her that is loftier than the one she already holds. As my Secretary of Office, she essentially speaks with my voice, making her ostensibly the second highest ranked civil authority in all the outer provinces.”

“And why can’t you ‘give her what she wants’?” Showing off her expressive range in tone, Yan’s smirk comes through clearly as she adds, “I’m sure it’d be an enjoyable experience for both of you, and me too if I’m allowed to join in.”

This coming from a woman who just called me a horrid lecher and faithless cad for taking a third wife. Not without reason and not even remotely seriously, but the point still stands. “Sex is one thing, love another. Were Luo-Luo simply an Imperial Servant in my service, things would be a lot less complicated, but Shen ZhenWu just had to appoint her as my concubine without even asking.”

“True, that would’ve been less complicated.” Pinching my side with a girlish giggle, Yan continues, “Because then you might’ve already bedded her by now, if not married her in truth. You always were the contrary sort, never happy to do as you are told.” Sighing as if she were the aggrieved party, Yan shakes her head once again before finally relenting. “On that note, I suppose I should stop talking now, though I will say that Luo-Luo is a sweet and lovely woman who has more than earned your trust by now.”

Implying I need to stop keeping her at arm’s length in matters of love and intimacy. So I have trust issues, sue me, but Yan’s not wrong. I trust Luo-Luo enough to let her handle the business of running the outer provinces, so maybe I should trust her enough to let my guard down and get to really know her. Thing is, I resent the fact that she was dumped into my lap and I am contrary enough to not be affectionate with her based on resentment alone, which now that I’ve thought about it, is neither punishing Shen ZhenWu nor is it fair to Luo-Luo. Though there’s something to be said about being true to myself, I cannot overlook Luo-Luo’s contributions solely based on the fact that she was thrust upon me without asking, not to mention the fact that she’s a dutiful, submissive, long-legged, big-breasted beauty who will do anything I ask of her, which is just all sorts of awesome.

One wife at a time though, and once my wedding and honeymoon with Lin-Lin has concluded, I expect I’ll be off on a crusade to retake the Western Provinces soon after, so it seems Fate insists on having Luo-Luo wait just a little bit longer. Kissing Yan on the forehead and murmuring that I’ll think on what she said, I close my eyes and sink into her warm embrace while Mila clutches me close on the other side. With Ping Ping, Mama Bun, and the Spice Buns all huddled against my chest, I have no idea how the bedroom logistics will work out once we introduce Lin-Lin, Banjo, Baloo, and Jimjam into the equation, not to mention the hypothetical addition of leggy Luo-Luo as well, but where there’s a will, there’s a way.

...

I’m gonna need a bigger bed.

The sweet oblivion of senseless slumber seizes me without warning and time stands still as I revel in the peace and serenity of sleep’s warm embrace, an addictive indulgence I crave more than I would care to admit. Life is exhausting, but even though I fear losing all that I have, there is no denying that I am happier than I have ever been. Much of it is due to my family, friends, and floofs, but I deserve some of the credit as well for finally allowing myself to be happy. While I’ve been working hard to train and prepare for whatever might come, I’ve been careful not to let myself be overwhelmed by doom and gloom as per usual. I’ve been putting in a hundred and ten percent effort, but part of that has been learning how to relax and enjoy the journey along the way, to lose myself in the moment as I taste Tali’s latest culinary creation or appreciate one of Taduk’s Spiritual Plants in full bloom. Being forced to spend a few hours in the bamboo grove each day has done wonders for my mental well-being, not because the grove is a magical place of natural balance, but because the love and company of family is a balm for the soul, one I have finally learned to properly indulge in.

A lesson I learned from none other than the best boy himself, Buddy. Greeting me with a chorus of delighted yips, my long-eared, brown-eyed doggo runs circles around me as I arrive upon the concrete dock inside my Natal Palace. Though I feel bad for leaving him here all alone when I’m awake, Buddy doesn’t care about any of that, because he’s just happy I’m here. His excitement only grows as Ping Ping, Pong Pong, and Mama Bun arrive a few moments later, as he is particularly enamoured by the latter, who is more or less his size and equally enthused to see him. The dog and rabbit pair hop and roll about in joyous greeting as Ping Ping tippy taps around them, sharing in their joy and receiving more than her fair share of kisses while Pong Pong patiently watches from his place perched atop my head, the older, wiser, smaller turtle just happy to be in our company and impatiently awaiting our journey out to the Sea. Alas, the Spice Buns are nowhere to be found, meaning they either never received my subconscious invitation, were unwilling to accept, or simply unable to cross over into my Natal Palace. Whatever the reason, I heave a soft sigh of regret and steel my determination as I look up at the skyscraper which houses my room and Natal Throne. Yan expressed her frustration at being unable to join us here in my Natal Palace, and while I was honest about how I have no idea how these shenanigans work, I didn’t share an inkling suspicion I’ve harboured for some time now.

I believe it’s possible that I might subconsciously be reluctant to invite Yan or Mila into my Natal Palace because it could lead them to ask questions I don’t really want to answer, like why do I have a modern condominium inside my Natal Palace or how come I look so different in here compared to my physical self. Maybe that’s why they’ve never received an invitation, because I’ve never actually sent one. Then again, I could be barking up the wrong tree and my wives simply lack the ability to visit my Natal Palace, alongside all the other floofs I’ve tried this with, so who knows?

Denial. It’s a wonderful thing sometimes, but I doth partake too much.

Having failed to summon my wives and bunbuns, I set aside my worries for another time and give myself over to the moment. The animals take off into the water and I follow closely behind, laughing as Buddy runs over top the waves with Mama Bun bounding after him in hot pursuit with help from her magical flying raft. Ping Ping and Pong Pong both join in on the fun, helping one, then the other, then taking their own turns at being both predator and prey in this chaotic, unstructured game of tag. There are no rules other than to have fun and do no harm, and that’s all they really need. This is a diversion in every sense of the measure, but even in their festive frolicking, I can see the subtle signs of training and exercise in the animals’ movements. Mama Bun is always on the lookout for danger, real or feigned, and her hops have grown more speedy and graceful in recent weeks, while Ping Ping’s Deflection has levelled up to the point where she can create literal whirlpools around her. Buddy has picked up a few tricks as well, and can now dodge, duck, and weave anything Pong Pong can throw at him, whether it be unexpected pillars of water bursting out of the sea, a sudden riptide to slow him in his tracks, or a barrage of non-lethal water bullets meant to bring him low.

As for Pong Pong, I can tell the tiny turtle is holding back quite a bit, but he’s been having a grand old time playing with the rest. He especially loves pulling me down into the watery depths and being chased around the sea floor, but even though I have complete mastery of the currents within this Natal Sea, I have yet to come close to laying a finger on him, as he’s just too fast and slippery for me to catch. If we were keeping track of winners and losers, Pong Pong would undoubtedly stand on top, but I’m probably the only one who cares about winning, as the rest are just here for the love of the chase.

Which is something I tell myself every time I see Pong Pong’s smug turtle smile, lording his superiority over me as he stays just out of arm’s reach. One day, I will catch that turtle and see him panic for just a little, then cuddle him for all I’m worth. One day...

While we play our games, I keep one part of my mind occupied with studying just how I’m doing what I do, but thus far, I’ve nothing to really show for it. How does Buddy run through the waves without ever breaking the surface tension? How does Ping Ping propel her water bullets and keep them from just splattering harmlessly on impact? How does Pong Pong ride the currents and evade capture even when I have control of the water around him, or even manipulate them to his own advantage? Most people use their Natal Palaces to practice Chi skills, but I’ve always found that those skills come too easily to me here in my own Domain. Raising a tidal wave is as easy as imagining it, but there are no opposing forces at work here, because this Natal Sea is not filled with water, but rather Chi masquerading as water. While I understand the basic concept of controlling Chi, controlling Water Chi requires more than an effort of Will, as I’ve been unable to utilize my Blessing in any useful way whatsoever outside of my Natal Palace. The problem is even though Water Chi is easily controlled in here, that’s not how things work out in the real world, so I’m a little lost as to how any of this is supposed to help.

The answers are so close though, I can almost taste them, like a word on the tip of my tongue that I’ve somehow lost and cannot find again...

At least these games are fun and the only thing I have to lose is my worthless pride, so I’m more than happy to come back night after night. Of course, I still need to actually sleep, which means we can’t play in here all night. Though time is difficult to track in here, I’ve gotten the hang of feeling out when I’m too tired to keep going, but long before that moment arrives, I cut play time short and bring everyone on a walk through my Natal Palace. Mostly because I genuinely enjoy walking with Buddy and watching him sniff every nook and cranny, but also because it’s an opportunity to give everyone the grand tour. That’s what Ping Ping and Pong Pong did for me when I visited their Natal Palaces, so it only seems right to respond in kind, sharing with them the sights, sounds, scents, and everything else I can remember from this life and the last.

“See that?” I say, pointing at a raised dais by the sea shore, where we last left our tour yesterday night, when I manifested some ice cream and shared the memory with everyone present. “That’s where I stood when I declared myself as one of the People. Mom, Dad, Alsantset, Charok, and Taduk were all there to support me, as well as Gerel I suppose, and it’s still one of my most cherished memories.”

Even though the animals don’t actually understand my words, a deluge of emotions emanate from me as I tell the tale of my homecoming to my attentive audience. There I stood, upon that stage, where I introduced myself to everyone in the village as Rain, and they all cheered because a child who was lost had finally come home. I’ve never really thought about it, but that moment meant so much to me, because it was the first time since coming to this world that I felt safe and accepted. I suppose that’s also why it hurt so much when I was almost exiled, and why I’m afraid to go back again. Outside of my family, I’ve never really interacted all that much with the rest of the People, nor have I ever really considered myself as one first and foremost, but now that I’ve had time to reflect upon my life, my Path, and the steps I took to arrive where I am today, I realized that this might well have been a defining moment in my existence.

