Lungs burning and muscles aching, I gather my wits and steel my determination in a desperate attempt to fight on in this continuing conflict. Working in tandem with flawless coordination, my assailants grind away at my resolve without mercy, lost in the moment as our back and forth plays out in a haze of reckless abandon. Our movements harmonize to the beat of our pounding hearts and panting breaths in this struggle of strife and unity, a conflict and collaboration akin to both duel and dance. Soon enough, our continued efforts pay off in dividends as we all reap the harvest of our endeavours before collapsing in breathless exhaustion to bask in the afterglow of a match well played, with all participants appeased and contented for yet another night.

Yan’s throaty chuckle and Mila’s appreciative murmurs stoke my ego as I sink heavily into the bed sheets and gasp for air like a fish on dry land. Hardly the most dignified demeanour one can present, but if there ever were a place where I could do away with dignity, it would be here in the bedroom I share with my two beloved wives. Say what you will about the perks of being a Martial Warrior, but superhuman strength and stamina only matters in comparison to regular humans, and I find my vitality just barely up to snuff when it comes to satisfying these two wonderful and formidable women.

But where there’s a will, there’s a way. As I bask in the heat of their bodies and gaze upon their bared flesh in the dim gloom of the moonlit room, I find my second wind and ready myself for yet another bout. “Enough,” Mila pleads, but her weary, plaintive tone only sets my lust aflame, especially when her movements fail to match her words. Yan is also more than ready for more as we lose ourselves in lust yet again, our bodies intertwined and hearts interconnected in so many ways. Only once we are all wholly spent and exhausted does our ardour cool and abate, and as I collapse into the embrace of my beloved wives for the umpteenth time, I curse the Heavens above for burdening me with this feeble mortality and a libido that cannot be matched. The mind is willing, but the flesh is weak and spongy, even flesh that has been Refined into a Spiritual Heart. Though Yan and Mila seem close to their limits, I suspect they could both keep going long after I fainted from exertion and are only feigning their feeble enervation for the sake of my manly pride.

Then again, maybe not, as Mila falls fast asleep and Yan seems soon to follow suit, though alas, life is not so kind as to oblige us all. Sex is not at all like in the movies, where the man and woman do the deed then just roll over and go to sleep. It’s a sloppy, messy, sordid affair and doubly so when more than two parties are involved, so I drag myself out of bed and over to the washbasin to wipe down and freshen up so as to avoid any unpleasant messes the next morning. Yan follows suit while sticking close to me, her pale skin glistening with sweat as I wipe her down, an act which makes me curse my frail mortality once again.

An added benefit from the herbal baths, one that showed after two weeks of steeping in Spiritual Plant water, as now both my wives have flawless, silken skin, so soft and smooth to the touch with a pleasant, natural fragrance that I cannot get enough of...

“You are insatiable.” Yan’s husky laugh only stokes the flames of ardour as she pulls me into her naked embrace for a deep and passionate kiss, one which leads to yet another bout of frenetic lovemaking that is understandably hampered by our lack of bed and exhausted bodies. Never one to be outdone, Mila wakes from her stupor and rejoins the effort with renewed ferocity thanks to her competitive nature, leaving me weak in the knees and revealing that her earlier concession was all an act designed to stoke my furor.

Some time later, when our passions are played out and our bodies are wiped clean, I finally get around to changing the bed sheets and hold off sleep’s warm embrace long enough to throw on a robe and shuffle over to the bedroom door. Cracking it just wide enough for Aurie to fit through, I welcome the yawning wildcat with a hug and a kiss while Mama Bun and Ping Ping trundle on in, bearing Pong Pong and Guai Guai atop their backs respectively. Ginger, Cinnabun, Pepper, and Peanut (or the Spice Bunnies as I’ve taken to calling them, even though ginger and peanuts aren’t actually spices) were supposed to be parked out here as well, but they’re not yet used to this new system of napping by the door until happy fun times have come to an end. Though Peanut is laid out where I last left him, the other three have absconded to sleep among the flowers in the courtyard garden, and no amount of Loving Aura or gentle Sending will rouse them. Chuckling beneath my breath, I close my eyes and envision myself fading out of reality, not to turn myself invisible, but to make my presence less palpable to the human senses. A strange skill, Concealment, one which I do not wholly understand, but in my mind’s eye, I conceptualize it as taking the material and making it more immaterial, the physical made metaphysical if you will. A complicated effect that should really not be possible utilizing the laws of physics as I understand them, but the Energy of the Heavens works in mysterious ways I have yet to even begin to unravel.

What I do know is that Concealment does not affect my actual physical form, but rather the signs my passing leaves behind and the ability for others to perceive those signs. Were I a ship upon the waters, my sails would still flap and the ripples would still spread, but the disturbance would go unnoticed thanks to the lessened impression of those signs. The strange thing is, Concealment doesn’t seem to have a maximum range of effectiveness, which put to rest my first theory that it was similar to an alternative Domain that affects everyone within its sphere of influence. It made sense in so many ways, but it turns out, my theory was wrong, because Concealment is effective even from several kilometres away while being watched through a rudimentary telescope, one of Diyako’s latest inventions that has made its way from the pages of my book and into the Azure Empire proper. Considering this was much further than even the largest Domain could conceivably stretch, I could only accept that my initial theory was wrong and try again from there, though Domain is another iffy concept I have yet to wholly comprehend, as recent developments have raised interesting questions regarding previous perceptions.

Such as the whole Domain Manifestation thing and how Hongji was able to cover the entire Central Citadel with his Domain when even Akanai can barely cover more than a full metre around her. In diameter, not radius, and not perfectly circular of course, as her Domain stretches out from her skin rather than a central point, but the measurement still stands.

Either way, all my testing led me to believe that Concealment isn’t actually affecting anyone’s perception directly, but rather covering up the signs of an individual’s passing before said signs escape beyond the area of Concealment for others to perceive. To put it simply, signals like sound, light, smell, and whatnot are able to make their way into the area of Concealment, but it simply passes through without impacting on the Concealed individual. That’s why even though I wasn’t able to see Mahakala’s Concealed form, I was able to notice the missing stars which should have been present behind him. I wasn’t looking at him per se, but rather at something his physical form was blocking which should have been plainly visible to my eyes, and luckily my mind registered the objects as missing. It’s like looking at a painting of a familiar landscape that left out an important feature, like a distinct house or tree or whatever. Only someone familiar with the setting would really notice, or someone clever enough to spot signs of absent objects, while most would only see what the artist painted.

How Concealment actually does any of this is a question I have yet to answer, not to mention I have no idea how one finagles the skill to hide specific objects, like say clothes and weapons, while leaving others untouched like the grass beneath their feet. I’ve eliminated one possibility at least, namely that it is able to directly affect an outsider’s perspective. A minor difference, but an important one, because if it was possible to use Concealment to hide things from people, we could theoretically also use it in reverse to show things that aren’t really there. Thankfully, this isn’t the case and I don’t have to worry about real-world illusions just yet, unless you have the unknown Elemental Blessing shared by all Wraiths. Even then, they're not exactly solid illusions, since they don't affect me, so it's still up in the air as to how they do what they do. Maybe someone with the Blessing of Light could craft illusions, but there hasn’t actually been a recorded instance of a Demon or Martial Warrior Blessed by Light in several millennia, even though Lightning is one of the most common Auxiliary Blessings in history, followed closely by Sand and Metal. Technically, Fire and Air can result in either Light or Lightning, which begs the question as to why the former is so much less prominent than the latter. In fact, I’m confused as to why Fire and Earth make Metal instead of Magma, though I suppose the second one totally exists in some way, shape or form. Maybe with a bit of water splashed in or something. Who knows.

In fact, now that I think about it, Gen Shi was very specific about being the Emissary of “Earth’s Fire”, which just had to be intentional. Knowing what I know now, it’s clear his Blessing was of Metal, rather than just plain fire, but what would change if he’d been the Emissary of Fire’s Earth? Fiery Earth? I dunno, but it’s worth a thought or two.

What I do know is that no one can see me as I stride barefoot out into the courtyard wearing little more than a loose robe. I also know that a Sound Barrier is merely a very specific form of Concealment, one which only hides sound and nothing else. With help from the Death Corps and some very large drums, I discovered that Concealment will block both sound and vibration, while a Sound Barrier will only stop the former and leave the wall-shaking vibrations unaffected and perceptible. It was a fun experiment which proved exceptionally useful as I no longer rely solely on Sound Barriers to cover up my nightly sordid activities, because it does nothing to stop the creaking floorboards or shaking walls from being sensed by others in the house. Instead, I utilize Concealment to keep our nightly bouts from affecting others in the household, which is more difficult and Chi intensive than I would like, but well worth the effort.

What can I say? My wives and I are three, passionate, athletic individuals who are very much in love and lust, so how can our trysts be confined to a single bed? Even a single room is almost not enough, but I can only sit and wait for the new manors to be built so my parents and in-laws can all move out to become neighbours rather than house mates and I can really start breaking my home in. A home isn’t a home until you’ve made love in every single room and atop every single surface. Gross yes, but it’s my home and I’ll do what I want here.

The sheer amount of flak I got for having sex in the baths was downright criminal, not to mention humiliating, and though I love my family dearly, I never want to have to sit through such a conversation ever again.

While I am able to utilize Concealment and should probably leave it at that, my curiosity knows no bounds and will not allow me to leave things be. I want – nay, need to know how these Chi skills work, because only then will I understand how to best use them. What separates a good Concealment from a bad one? There is a discernible difference in quality between Pong Pong’s Concealment and what everyone else can do, but it’s difficult to explain. Most Concealed Martial Warriors can remain unnoticed so long as they don’t do anything to draw attention to themselves, but more skilled individuals can bump into or move other people aside without being noticed. Then there’s Pong Pong, who is on a whole other level all by himself. I’ve seen Peak Experts and brilliant minds alike sit down at the table with me, take note of the box of raw shrimp, and later notice the box has been emptied, yet dismiss it all without even thinking due to Pong Pong’s Concealment, a feat which I’ve never seen matched by any one else, not even Kukky who is easily noticed once you see the food disappearing from in front of him. To test the limits of Concealment even further, I asked MuYang, the sneakiest git I know, to help me with an experiment in which I invited him over for dinner without telling anyone except Grandpa Du and Kyung, mostly so they could help protect my spymaster should anyone react adversely to his hidden presence. As planned, MuYang arrived early without anyone noticing and took his seat at the dining table before anyone else arrived, Concealing himself and his seat from anyone and everyone, but Akanai took one look at the dining table and asked if we were expecting a visitor, as she’d noticed the extra place setting and empty space meant for MuYang.

