Before I stood upon that stage, I was Rayne, a transmigrator who was lost and confused in a strange and unfamiliar world. Then, my family pledged to take me in and take responsibility for me, to feed and clothe me, to love and nurture me, to teach and guide me, and I was no longer just Rayne. I became Falling Rain of the People, no longer a stranger to this world, but a boy with a place to belong. A wise person once said, “You don’t know what you’ve got ‘til it’s gone,” and I cannot agree more, because I never realized how much the People meant to me until they tried to exile me. After my recent attempt to consign myself to oblivion, I also realized how much I would’ve missed out on had I truly succeeded, such as Tali’s delicious Spiritual Cooking, Tate’s continued growth and accomplishments, Rakky’s adorable aquatic antics, or my upcoming marriage to my beloved wifey Lin-Lin, not to mention all the adventurous bedroom antics Yan and Mila have been cooking up. There’s still so much more I want to experience in this life, I can hardly believe I was ever stupid enough to want to run away from all that I have. Though I am still not sure where I stand in the grand scheme of things or how my existence in this world came to pass, I have finally learned to accept one, simple truth that I have denied for so long.

This world is where I belong. I am not Rayne nor Rain, not as the world knows me, nor am I Brother or Baledagh, but rather an amalgamation of them all. Without one, I would not have the others, and I would be someone else entirely, so I must embrace myself for who I am and accept my unconventional place in this world. Though there are trials and tribulations aplenty, I will fight to keep this life, to protect and safeguard both myself and everyone I care about, because I love this life. It’s not perfect, but it’s pretty damn amazing if I do say so myself, so it’s high time I stopped wallowing in misery and sadness and focus on the good parts instead. The Brotherhood believes life is suffering because life is impermanent, but I say the fleeting, transitory nature of life is what makes it so precious, so I should enjoy what I have while it’s still here. Much like how Buddy doesn’t mind being left alone so long as I come back, I shouldn’t mind the lows so long as there are still highs to strive for and enjoy, a lesson that is easier said than done. I’m trying my best to remain optimistic and enjoy the moment, so while I still have my moments of admittedly reasonable despair, I will never allow it to consume me once more.

Because when it comes right down to it, I have too much going for me to give it all up. I might not have bear hands, but I have a loving, supportive family, a menagerie of adorable and affectionate floofs, two beautiful wives with a third in the works, and a host of friends that would literally march into the Father’s Maw at my side. I am truly living the dream, which is a whole lot more than most ever have. I am both humbled and gratified to be so blessed, and I would be a fool to let it all slip by. A fool I have been, but that was yesterday’s Falling Rain. Today is a brand new day with a brand new me, and I look forward to what the future has in store.

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2
