So what differentiates Pong Pong’s Concealment from MuYang’s? Why can Pong Pong’s Concealment hide even the aftermath of his actions, while MuYang can’t even hide the fact that there’s an extra seat at the table? Once we understand what separates the two instances of Concealment, we can better study how to improve our abilities, an outlook which is not limited to Concealment alone. What makes Mitsue Juichi’s Mountain Collapsing Stomp so much more effective than mine? Or Mei Lin’s Lightening? Or Gongsun Qi’s Reinforcement and Amplification? Hard work and dedicated effort will ultimately still be required, but things would go so much faster if I knew what I needed to improve upon in order to progress along the Martial Path.

Lofty aspirations aside, I collect the sleeping spice bunnies and bring them back to the bedroom to snuggle in the comfort of my own bed, one which I share with two of the most beautiful and amazing women I know. Already fast asleep once again, Mila is laid out flat on her back and looking oh so adorable in her night robes with Guai-Guai in her arms, the clingy red panda snuggled tight in her embrace. Propped up on one elbow beside them, Yan silently awaits my return while restraining the all-too-excited Mama Bun, who is well-rested after a long day of napping and ready for an excursion into my Natal Palace. Ping Ping is equally excited but much more reserved about showing it, waving her butt from side to side while planting her chin against the bed in a downward dog pose, a mannerism she picked up from playing with Buddy these past few weeks.

Making room for me to crawl in between her and Mila, Yan’s fetching pout reminds me of the taste of her lips, but my weary efforts to secure a kiss are thwarted by Mama Bun’s enthusiastic headbutt of greeting to my chin. Settling for a kiss between the sweet rabbit’s nubby horns, I try to subtly extract a strand of stray fur from my mouth as Yan laughs and shakes her head. “Even after so many nights,” she whispers, laying her head down next to mine as we finally settle down to sleep, “I still can hardly believe that you bring them into your Natal Palace every night, but it’s hard to argue when Mama Bun and Ping Ping are so excited for bedtime.”

“Yea, because bed time is play time for them,” I reply, kissing Mila’s temple before turning to nuzzle Yan’s nose with mine. “I don’t think you can see him, but Pong Pong is equally excited too, tippy-tapping his feet about on the back of Mama Bun’s head.” An Aura of impatient excitement thrums through the air as the tiny turtle responds to his name, eager as the others to visit my Natal Palace once more, because after a lifetime of trials and tribulations, he’s finally found a place where he can cut loose and have fun without fear or apprehension. Home is more than a place to rest your head, and after a lifetime of searching, Pong Pong has finally found his, which is here by my side.

Touching as the sentiment is, Yan’s attempt to hide her pique does not go unnoticed and proves to be a hair in the soup of this sentimental moment. “What’s the matter?” I ask, teasing her a little. “Jealous of two turtles and a bunny rabbit?”

“Yes.” Contrary to expectations, Yan readily admits the source of her ire, smushing Mama Bun’s cheeks ever so gently before pulling Ping Ping into her embrace. Despite her hard, irregular shell with its rounded protrusions, Ping Ping is surprisingly squishy in a solid sort of way, not at all uncomfortable to hold and cuddle. A good thing too, because the sweet girl does so love her hugs, and a hug with Yan is no exception. Unable to hold fast to her grudge in the face of Ping Ping’s delighted squeaks, my wife smiles and throws a halfhearted, accusatory glare in my direction. “You bring your pets into your Natal Palace, but there’s no room for your wives? We’ve been sleeping side by side for weeks now, and not once have Mila or I ever received anything that might be construed as an invitation, subconscious or otherwise.”

Stirring at the sound of her name, the sleepy, redheaded beauty’s response is to roll over and curl up around me, with her bared leg laid out over top my own in delightful skin on skin contact. Resisting the primal urge to act any further tonight, I take a deep breath and sink back into my pillows under Yan’s amused gaze, one she breaks off to curl up against my other shoulder. Much like Ping Ping’s shell, Yan’s hard antlers have ‘softened’ in recent days, likely due to the effects of the herbal baths. They’re still hard enough to shatter bones on impact if she should so choose to headbutt, and they make for great head protection in lieu of a helmet, but they’re no longer as coarse and grainy as they once were. In fact, they’re almost downright comfortable to press my cheek against, a cool, smooth surface that reminds me of Yan’s soothing and supportive presence.

Already half asleep as Mama Bun flops down hard atop my chest, I kiss her twitching nose and smile as the Spice buns settle in around her. “Sorry beloved,” I murmur, fighting to stay awake just so I can savour this blissful moment for even a heartbeat longer. “But in my defence, I have no idea how these Natal Palace shenanigans work. Besides Ping Ping, Pong Pong, and Mama Bun, none of the other animals have ever cared to visit, not even Kukky or Tai Tai.” I tried with Rakky too, but according to Akanai and Grandpa Du who watched over me as I slept, the stupid tiger didn’t sleep a wink all night until he slipped out of my embrace and made his escape up onto the roof. Despite all the food and love I share with him, Rakky has yet to really warm up to anyone besides Lin-Lin, and even then it’s more like he tolerates her a tiny bit more than the rest of us. He’ll heave a sigh when my wifey throws herself atop his back and pad around slowly when she urges him to run, whereas he would simply maul and murder anyone else who tries to get on his back. Believe me, I’ve tried, and that was not a fun experience, so I’ll stick to quins as a means of conveyance, thank you very much.

“I know.” Speaking in a sleepy whisper that is barely audible even to me, Yan kisses my neck and sighs in contentment. “I’m just teasing, and only a little irked about having to share the bed with so many more animals as you rotate through them to see if they’ll accept an invitation into your Natal Palace.” Slipping her slender arm in between Cinnabun and Peanut and into my robes, she nibbles on my collarbone and squeezes my chest while adding, “But how’s a woman supposed to grope her sleeping husband if he’s hidden underneath a pile of floofs?”

And she calls me insatiable...

“Apologies, dearest wife. I have already taken steps towards mitigating your concerns, first and foremost by ordering a larger bed and making preparations to expand the bedroom to a more suitable size.” Mostly so I don’t have to go wandering around the courtyard in a night robe to collect all my bunbuns and can just leave them in another room. Dignity aside, it also presents a security risk when I slip out from under the noses of my own guards, a lecture I have heard too many times from too many different people.

Pinching my bare chest with slender fingers of steel, Yan shows no mercy as she gives me the purplest of nurples. “Only because you’re getting ready to bring a third wife into our marital bed, you horrid lecher and faithless cad.”

Despite the painful physical abuse, I can tell Yan is mostly joking by her noble and somewhat archaic choice of words, parroting lines she heard in a play or read in a novel. That being said, she brings up a good point, as I am set to marry Lin-Lin in the Central Citadel less than two weeks from today, an event I am nervous, afraid, and excited for all at the same time. Most of the aforementioned plans were made in preparation not just for my sweet wifey to join us here in the bedroom, but also for the bevy of animals who come with her as well. Blackjack is tiny and doesn’t take up much space, but Lin-Lin has been monopolizing Banjo, Baloo, and Jimjam ever since we got them, which means I can finally cuddle one of my sweet bears to sleep. Granted, even though black bears are the smallest of bears, they’re only small in comparison to other bears, which means they’re both still much bulkier than the wildcats, albeit nowhere near as long. This means they’ll need a big space on the bed dedicated for them and them alone, since we can hardly all pile on top of them like Lin-Lin does, nor can I really afford to leave them to pick and choose their own spots. If they were to lay themselves across my legs like Aurie does, I’d likely have to perform a double amputation come morning.

The hazards of being a hardcore floof enthusiast are not to be underestimated. Why, this week alone I’ve nearly been mauled at least two dozen times, though to be honest, it’s all because I have no respect for Rakky’s clearly defined boundaries. It’s not fair. How come Ping Ping is allowed to rub her cheeks in his floofy fur, but when I try it, the claws come out? Stupid tiger and his stupid, sleek, soft, voluminous fur. I will love you, and you can’t stop me!

Yan’s rumbling chuckle brings me back to reality as I realize I’ve let my mind wander and Aura slip, but in my defence, I am thoroughly exhausted for reasons that have everything to do with her. It takes an effort of will to get my brain back on track, only to curse myself for drifting off on such an important topic. Even if she’s only teasing, I know it can’t be easy for Yan to accept her lot as one of three or more wives, and I feel like I’m being unreasonable by expecting her to remain faithful to me and me alone while I have more than one wife, but I can’t accept even the mere thought of another man in her life. Not now, not sixty years from now, unless I’m long dead by then, because like she says, I am a petty, jealous, lecherous cad of a man.

“I’m sorry.”

My apology only earns me another twist of the man titty, though this time, Yan means business. “Don’t be stupid,” she says, even though I would like to point out that she’s the one who brought this all up. Can’t say that out loud though, because it won’t change a thing, and I’ve learned to pick my battles wisely. “If you won’t let me collect a harem of handsome husbands, you should at least let me tease you about your harem of beautiful wives without battering me with a deluge of unreasonable guilt.”

“Apologies my love.”

“But not for the right reasons.” Craning her neck to look me in the eyes, I lose myself in her soulful gaze. “I chose you,” she declares, punctuating her statement with a kiss. “I could have had my pick of any eligible bachelor in the Empire, whether it be BoShui, Fung, Geom-Chi, Tam Taewoong, or what have you, but instead, I picked you, a man already betrothed to two women. You know why?”

“Because Mom wasn’t lying and I really am ruggedly handsome?”

“Rugged no. Handsome yes, but not as handsome as others, though you are rather pretty when you try to be.” Easing this most devastating of blows with a kiss and a nibble, Yan grins and says, “I chose you because I love you, and I cannot imagine a life without you. I know you feel the same way about me and the biggest reason you cannot accept another man in my life is because you cannot bear the thought of having to share me. You worry that if you have to compete with someone for my affections, you will eventually lose me, without knowing that you have already won me a thousand times over. While your jealous insecurity is not your best quality, I accept you for who you are and love you all the same.” Nudging me none too gently with her horns, she adds, “So keep this in mind the next time I tease you about your insecurities, you stupid, handsome, jealous man.”

Ha. She thinks I’m handsome, so which of us is the stupid one?

“Speaking of your harem,” Yan continues, her devilish grin clear as day even with her face buried against my shoulder, “How are you planning to reward Luo-Luo when we see her again?”

I am a very smart man, with a huge, wrinkled brain, so even tired as I currently am, I know enough not to ask, “What for?” Alas, the Heavens seek to strike me down once again as my Aura gives my inner turmoil away.

Again, I can just hear her lips pursing in disapproval as Yan slowly shakes her head, which has the (hopefully) unintended effect of grinding the base of her horns against my cheek. “You left her in the Central Citadel to not only handle most of your responsibilities as Legate of the Outer Provinces, but also plan your wedding with another woman. As far as I can tell, she’s done a phenomenal job in your absence as Legate and I doubt the woman is even capable of poorly planning anything much less a grand event like a wedding, so would you not say all her hard work deserves some kind of reward or recognition?”

