“I have tried to instill your people with a sense of decorum but I suppose there is no accounting for dragons,” the Baranese countess admitted.

Mother.

Your underlings finally accepted me as their rightful leader.

There is hope for the species yet.

“Don’t let power get to your head,” Viv said, but Arthur was off again parading all over the place. That gave Viv an opportunity to let everyone get acquainted. The meeting was brief, everyone knowing there would be a troop review and that it would take time. Strangely, Lana and the mages were quite curious. Viv prompted her about it as they walked on.

“Many northern cities allow women to walk the path of warriors but I had never seen such a vast number before. It appears you told the truth.”

The first group to be reviewed was the knights, as was tradition. It was Rollo who introduced them. Their visors were open but the knights stubbornly looked front as if nothing could faze them.

“You know of my… proclivities,” Rollo finally whispered in a low voice.

“You know I dated a woman, right? I don’t care that you are gay.”

“I have spread the word among my friends that Harrak would respect us and our choices, that you would not force us to live lies so long as we served the crown faithfully.”

He stopped as if to test Viv.

“Yes?”

“I hope you will not prove me wrong.”

“I said what I said,” Viv replied, finally realizing why her gaydar was blaring at her. She had the most homoerotic knight group in all of Param. Perhaps even in the world!

“Just hire straight people as well please.”

“Naturally. Javis here hopes you can heal his wife and daughter. They were blinded by a political rival.”

“I’ll regrow everyone’s everything once we have settled. No worries.”

Rollo seemed satisfied and the inspection continued. Arthur joined them when her curiosity overrode her pride. She didn’t ask the knights if the armor was hermetically sealed for optimal flavoring which Viv took as progress. The next group on the list was the heavies. They had grown remarkably in numbers since she last was here. They had also been split in several companies, each one led by an officer. Ban introduced them as they passed by.

“Those are the Hightree Company. They are mostly new arrivals and veterans from other militaries. A good group. Solid and reactive if less unified than the others.”

Viv observed that those heavies had swords, short spears, and maces, not just the usual full steel pilum she was used to. They were the most diverse group as well in terms of age, gender, and ethnicity, basically a representation of the entire continent. Viv recognized many of the veterans she had healed, and they’d kept the weapons they were more familiar with. All of them bore the tree of Kazar as their emblem.

“... because that’s the first thing a refugee sees when they arrive. Next we have the Mountain Sons. You know where they’re from.”

Mountain people bearing red scarves waited at attention. Viv recognized many of them from the first battles against the Enorians. They had filled up now that food was abundant. They were also the second most homogeneous group.

“Next we have the Children of the Scale, who will have latrine duty for the next month for breaking decorum.”

Oh! Oh! Oh! My servants!

Arthur waddled among the ranks while the soldiers beamed. They bore insignias in the form of a white dragon and Viv realized she recognized many of them. They were graduates from the Arthur fanclub.

“Youngest company, that’s why they wear mail instead of full plate. They do not have the physical stats to operate normal gear yet but I thought it would be good to train them to Harrakan standards anyway. Some girls have joined. I didn’t stop them so long as they could pass the physical contest.”

“It was a good idea.”

They stayed until Viv convinced Arthur to stop inspecting ‘her’ soldiers. When she walked on two legs, she towered over even the tallest soldier. It was very strange.

“And now we have the One Hundred. Best of the lot. Toughest fuckers this side of the ocean,” Ban said with pride. “I have recruited them from the best and drilled them mercilessly. We take monthly runs in the deadlands with a life orb, trigger it, then fight off the revenant tide for three days.”

“Wow.”

Armored to the teeth in runic armor with plates, grim, unmoving, the One Hundred were an intimidating force to behold. Their pennants and tabards were white and unadorned. Viv inspected one at random.

[Harrakan Imperial Guard. Third step.]

Yeah, Viv had to get crowned. It would be a shame not to. Napoleon had done it before so it would be fine, right? She just had to watch out for the pitfalls of hubris. That would be easy. Just watch Arthur and stop before becoming like her.

Viv’s satisfied inner gloating stopped when she came across a surprising sight. Among the One Hundred, there was one, exactly one, woman. Viv blinked. Ban leaned to whisper in her ear.

“We call this one Brick,” he began.

“You can speak normally. I used a sound barrier.”

“Ah, thank you. We call this one Brick because she is as dumb as one. She forgot her name.”

“What?”

“I am serious. We are not sure where she comes from but I highly suspect she took the acceptance test by accident. I also suspect she didn’t realize she could give up.”

“Huh. Solfis knows several exercises that help with mental stats, especially when they are very low.”

“We tried that. Now, she can complete tasks in the most imbecilic way possible with unerring accuracy. She will not forget any of the steps. She just won’t do them in a way that makes sense.”

“Okay.”

“But she does well in the shield wall. So.”

He shrugged. So did Viv.

“As long as she conforms to your standards. Shall we move on?”

“Yes,” Ban said with pursed lips. “Poacher will tell you about her own… troops.”

“Poacher?” Viv asked.

She turned to the gray-haired lady. Poacher might have a better suit of gambeson now but she still had gaunt features and the dodgy air of someone who had never worked a legal job in their entire life.

“Your name is really Poacher?”

“T’wasn’t until you started calling me that.”

“You didn’t have a name?”

“Nah.”

“But… how did people call you?”

“‘Hey, you!’ Or ‘Damn mudling’ or ‘that bitch over there’.”

“I… see?”

“Let’s go see my louts.”

The next section of the army gave almost an opposite feel. While the heavies stood in tight formations, the marksmen lounged, leaned, and just hung around in loose squads. They also wore face paintings, mostly in the shape of human skulls though they were also bears and other creatures. It reminded Viv of the Dia de los Muertos.

“Koro’s idea. It’s a southern tradition to wear the skull or painting in the shape of the strongest prey you have killed. It promotes competition.”

The marksmen wore darker clothing and gambeson with bits of mail added in. The bling came from their yries-made crossbows, each one unique and fine-tuned to their owners. Many of them also brought close quarter weapons and Viv spotted a few shields, targes worn on the back.

“Those lots are the Sisters of the Eye. The first company.”

Viv recognized many of the women from the battle with Lancer. The sisters were the only entirely female contingent here and also the most defiant one. They looked a little cocky, Viv thought, though that might just be because they were next to the One Hundred.

“Most of our best marksmen are here. They’re also good at hunting.”

“And causing trouble,” Ban grumbled. “Half of the disciplinary issues come from this lot.”

“You’re just a sour old man,” Poacher retorted.

“Hey hey, no open conflict in front of our people,” Viv said, and they both simmered down.

“You got them to stop bickering? Tell me your secret,” Lady Azar added with a wry voice.

“Moving on,” Poacher interrupted. “Here are the Fingers.”

Viv recognized many of the scouts from the old Kazar days, including their leader who had married a Hadal woman. They were a mixed group. Most of them had bows instead of crossbows. Viv recognized a few Enorian siege bows as well. Kazar’s original scouts and the veteran marksmen were here.

“The Hadals who joined the army joined this group. They are not here today. They hate standing at attention.”

“Understandable.”

“And next we have the Bitter Hearts.”

The last group was… a surprise. Contrary to what their names implied, their numbers consisted of older people, mostly women who lacked the hard edge of the other soldiers. They were more subdued as well. Most avoided looking at her.

“Those are widows and widowers who have lost everything. Or people who have abandoned their paths for one reason or another. Not our best. They are… the glue that keeps us together. They mend, they teach, they listen.”

“They are also the last company to leave any battlefield, not until they’ve found everyone. We’ve lost a few of them to revenants because of that,” Ban said with grudging respect.

“They train hard,” Poacher continued.

Ban nodded in agreement.

“Good people. Reliable.”

Viv ignored Lady Azar’s delighted surprise. The Bitter Hearts were in good shape and clearly more disciplined than their wilder counterparts. She remembered that wars were won through disciplined troops, not just supersoldiers.

The next contingents were different. There were temple guards, though they were few in numbers with most of the group stationed in Kazar. City guards stood at attention as well. Those were police, technically, and their skills reflected that. They would still man the wall in case of a major battle. The last group was the one that filled Viv with pleasure.

Yries.

And tanks.

Well, technically they were portable shield arrays on metal frames. There were also the more classical takes with catapults and ballistas. The Yries manning them wore armor and their signature crossbows. They also wore war paints on their strange, owl-like features, something she had never seen before. Viv greeted them with a smile and promised to spend more time making sure everything was working as she intended. It was the last group as well. Beyond them waited the path up to Sinur’s Gate.

“We call them the Shrill,” Ban said. “They love testing new things to throw at people. Fire wasps. Poison jars. Stone. Strange gas. Fucking fire ants. They always try the weirdest things.”

Viv’s only concern was that they followed her orders without objections. The yries were quite strange. By nature a peaceful people, they had no limits once tickled enough. A bit like the Canadians.

All in all, it looked like the army had developed into an array of competing groups bickering and squabbing for resources, each more prideful than the other, each pushing the others to greater heights. Except the Bitter Hearts who were just mothering everyone. It was just perfect. Viv forfeited a speech this time. There would be opportunities later.

There were more people on the path up, civilians this time. Less than in Kazar yet the inhabitants of the surrounding fortified villages had come in droves. Viv noticed that there were a lot of maimed people present. Many seemed hopeful.

“I decided to move them all here for your convenience. That way, you may rule and regrow their limbs at your convenience. I have notified the Hadal hunters that monster meat would be required.”

“Excellent.”

Once again, Viv resorted to baby holding and hand clasping to get to know the people of Sinur’s Gate. Many of them were new arrivals, mostly craftsmen who benefitted from being close to each other. She passed the double gates to find the city transformed. Colors had returned to this vertical place. Vines and blue roses clung to the towers, falling from its many bridges in bright curtains. Stalls sold food and trinkets while smiths worked their forge, their duties suffering no interruptions. There was still plenty of room so the city was not as cramped as it might have once felt. Blue enchantments kept the water flowing in the many small fountains.

“We have not yet cleared the sewers. All the entrances have been shut, I have been unwilling to send your men in without mage support,” Lady Azar said.

“Probably for the best,” Viv agreed.

Her online friend Gevaudan was always complaining about sewer monsters. At least, the place should still be relatively odorless since they had not been used in three hundred years. There was hope yet.

The group made their way to the palace, having picked up a tail of soldiers and civilians with their many petitions. The main entrance had been cleared and Viv was delighted to find that the inner courtyard now hid a fragrant garden. The throne room with its overhead dome still felt a little cold and impersonal even though the resident lich’s belongings had long since been cleared.

“We have prepared your room upstairs if you want to rest,” Lady Azar said.

“No, I will hold court since I am back. We have the entire day for that.”

“Very well. Many of the topics should be inconsequential. Many of the newcomers will want your confirmation that their relatives can be healed. There are also a few more important matters including, and I am sorry to say so, a meeting request from the Manipeleso bank and exchange.”

“The bank?” Viv asked. “What could they want?”

The bank?

Viv winced. She’d hoped Arthur might have forgotten.
