the puddings began to gather around Doctor like a plague of locusts. They lashed out with tentacles and knives. The downside was that Doctor couldn’t progress and defended himself by turning to stone.Vanguard was there like a vengeful angel. His weapons cleared a path forward which Doctor took without slowing down.The panic in the slimes seem to rise and a few began to blob together into some horrid wave of trash and acid. Dragon responded by swooping down in a storm of fire. The light and the dark clashed, sending flaming bits of pudding everywhere but the hole left behind was used by Doctor to rush deeper.The cauldron was working overtime, shaking and hissing as it spat out puddings like no tomorrow.“You can do it!” Delta cheered. The oncoming wave was torn apart, squished, and blown away by Gnashly, Jeb, and Dozer. Doctor was so near that he burst into a sprint.Delta felt Doctor’s mind go crazy, he never felt more alive. The moment of victory was near but at the last moment, a pudding that had no items and no weapons rose out of a crack and tripped Doctor. He face planted, almost breaking his beak mask right off. Delta cried out as Jeb’s brew bounced and rolled away.The slimes didn’t touch it but made the path to the jug a nightmare of acid and bladed weapons.“Damn it all. I’ll make them regret that,” Doctor hissed, his foot crushing the slime that had tripped him. The numbers flowing from the cauldron and the side rooms was staggering.The air became fouler as the slimes gave off noxious fumes. Delta had little doubt a normal person would have their lungs scorched trying to breathe in here. The walls moved like water as the slimes ran out of room on the ground and began to claim the high ground.This was… this was a nightmare.And what was worse that they hadn’t breeched the inner sanctum of the lab yet. That cauldron kept spitting out more and Delta had a horrible feeling she had started it up like a long dormant auto-factory.They would keep being produced and Delta wasn’t sure how she would begin to fix this.Inside, she began to feel like a slime was crawling around her heart. It burned and every second felt like a dark morbid understanding that she might be in over her head here.She opened her mouth… to say something? To call her friends back? To yell in frustration and fear?She didn’t know. Delta wouldn’t be given the chance to find out as the jug rolled forward on it’s side like a barrel out of a comedy movie. Jack the Kobold on the top.“Move it or lose it sisters! Remember me?! I FRIGGIN REMEMBER YOU! TODAY WILL BE THE DAY-” he hollered and screamed as the barrel crushed the slimes, the burning muck hiss on Jack’s feet as the jug spun around and around.Nothing could stop him.Jack let the jug fly over the edge, himself still on it.“-THE DAY YOU ALMOST CAUGHT MAD BURNING JACK KOBOLD AND FRRRRIEEEENNNDS! ” he yelled with mad glee and the jug, the kobold, and several trapped slimes on the jug crashed into the cauldron, the cork on the jug flying off.The thick brown liquid seeped into it and the cauldron began to give off a high keening noise. The Troll soup, Jack’s mad laugh, and the jug itself sank and the cauldron began to crack, dark light seeping out between the stone fissures.“SHE’S GONNA BLOW!” Delta screamed. Her monsters ran as all the black puddings had gone stark still, shaking in time with the cauldron.Jeb and Gnashly formed a trollish shield around the goyles as the cauldron gave one last shriek and the whole room shook.Delta felt it ripple through her body.Her whole Dungeon was shaking.---Seth paused as the trees and rocks shook fiercely for a moment. The Queen and her subjects became a noise of furious buzzing.“Mother…” Inchy whispered. Renny took the bird and passed it to Seth.“Renny! Where you going?” Seth called. The Mime didn’t answer, funnily enough.“He’s going downstairs. Momma needs help,” Inchy said quietly. Seth looked at the bird.“I could go?” he offered. Inchy looked up before shaking his little feathered head. He hopped to Seth’s shoulder.“We gotta have faith. Renny is strong! And you gotta finish the tour! That was my job! To give you the tour,” Inchy said. The bird must have been worried because it didn’t even pun once.Faith?Seth felt the tremors stop and honestly knew he couldn’t offer faith. The best he could do was trust.So he put on his best smile and let Inchy lead him onwards. His senses flickered… his mind being brushed gently by a stroke of magic.An assurance… a promise. The hot smoky aftertaste told him that Quiss was already heading to check things out.The concern and softness in the embers of Quiss’ magic would surprise most people but Seth knew the man had the deepest warmth for those he cared about.Seth smiled, relaxing truly as he felt Quiss move on to follow Renny.Between those two? Perhaps he could have a little faith.---
