Erick smiled a little. “Seems like you still have a lot of concerns of your own, too.”

“Always and forever, Erick.”

“I’m letting Destiny loose on the world more.”

Rozeta suddenly sighed. “Really now.”

“Yes. I’m giving you a heads up. She needs to work more than she is. Yggdrasil sees lots of problems with the world, too, and he also wants to help. He considers Solomon and Destiny his uncle and aunt, you know. I love that, so I am encouraging it.”

“… Solomon and Destiny are truly together, then?”

“I found out myself the other day.” Erick asked, “What are you going to do with the Computer Mage?”

“Nothing, for now, if you can keep an eye on her through her time at your school.”

“I can’t do that. She would be singled out, and that could be bad. She doesn’t even have a Benevolence ring around her neck right now. It’s a very ‘in the air’ possibility that she’s the Computer Mage.”

“But you believe she is, and Yggdrasil does too.”

“Yes.”

“Is Yggdrasil going to attend school with her?”

“That was the original plan. Did he say one way or the other?”

“He said he was, yes… But Erick... Every immortal ever, always falls in love with a mortal to start. This has the expected result. Some people arrive at immortality because they lead normal, mortal lives, and they experience mortal death, and they decide to never go through that ever again. Some immortals try to pretend they’re something smaller than they are, and this has the expected result, too. Immortal and mortal culture is vastly different, and you have made a right mess of that usual divide with [Reincarnation], but the divide exists. Yggdrasil is going to have a tough time in a hundred years. He’ll have a tough time in one year too, though, so maybe all that other stuff is premature.”

Erick smiled. “Maybe a little premature.”

Rozeta said, “I have decided that if you want your kill switch removed, then you need to put it onto Solomon.”

“… Rozeta.”

“I’m serious, Erick. You have a personal interest in keeping Destiny under control and you’re vastly stronger than her, so, if the worst should happen with her, I trust you to fight against her and win. But Solomon is different. If you were blocking you from resurrecting Jane, I would expect you to win against you, which means I expect Solomon to win against you, should you fight.” Rozeta said, “You, but with a goal, would be able to beat any goalless version of yourself every day of the year.”

While she might have been right in normal circumstances, Erick had a very clear goal right now, and Solomon wasn’t going to hurt anyone with his pursuit of his Jane… And yet.

Erick was already going to do some shenanigans with his kill switch and Status and all of that, in his upcoming plan to fight the Red, to escape Veird, to become a True Wizard, and to get a message out to whoever was out there. Nothanganathor had specifically prevented Erick’s Star Map ritual from escaping Veird, so that meant that someone was out there… So this was perfect.

Fate was intervening here.

It seemed that an unknown actor of the mana was on Erick’s side, again. Once he became a Full Wizard, though, could Fate help him at all? No. He’d have to make his own Fate.

Erick said, “I’ll make it part of my plans, Rozeta. Probably during the Lifeblood Heart extraction if things look to go sideways. Right before.”

Rozeta smiled. “Good. Thank you for agreeing. That was the last bit of preparation to make on my end. Plans A, B, and C, as Solomon calls them, are maybe a day away from being ready.”

“A day? I asked Solomon and he said 20 days— three days ago. So 17 days. I assume people are working behind the scenes? What are the plans, anyway?”

“Stratagold and Bluite are on the job. Plan A is the standard event. A Void Well that I have had built to specifications will grab the Heart and the whole thing will be slowly and stably drawn down to Veird’s Core, along a relay route that goes through the down ways whirlpool at the center of the Glorious Land.

“Plan B is the risky one, but it has a higher chance of working. The Heart will pop out of the Dark and some people we have will catch it in their soul, and then they’ll step through a [Gate] down to an open tunnel to the Core. Once there, they will let it go and shoot the Heart into the Core Lands where Void and Particle magics will funnel it into orbit down there. To use [Gate] itself will likely fail, but I will be working on some modifications to a special [Gate] that should make it work well. To use a [Gate] on the Heart itself is likely a fool’s errand, so we won’t be doing that. I’m not sure why, for I never personally interacted with the Heart, but people have tried to use [Gate] on it before and that never worked.

“Plan C is Solomon will catch it himself and run it down to the Core, flying as fast as he can through the whirlpool between the islands of Glorious Land. We expect him to get as far as he can and then hand off the heart to others, forming a relay event to the Core.

“Once the Heart passes the boundary of the Core Wall then I will have complete control over the flow of mana in the area and I should be able to lock the Heart into an easy orbit around the Core. I’ve already done some experiments with designating weightless blocks of foam as massive mana producers that double the mana all around them, and because of those tests, I am 99% confident that we can grab the Heart and solve all of Veird’s mana worries for the foreseeable future.” Rozeta finished with, “Plans might change a little, but those are the main plans.”

Erick said, “Sounds good. Plan C is Solomon’s goal, then.”

Rozeta smiled softly. “I have accounted for that. Once the Heart is in the Core, I plan on allowing Solomon or anyone to use it at my discretion. I have already vowed to do this. Solomon would be first on the list. As soon as the Heart is secure, everything gets more secure, including using it, so there is absolutely no reason for him to want to backstab that idea.”

“And yet you want to put a kill switch in him.”

“I am rather cautious, yes. Cover all bases, etcetera, etcetera.”

“Solomon wants at least 20 more days till go-time.”

“I’ll take that conversation up with him later, then, but I suspect that was only because I was going slow because I wasn’t quite sure how to get him to agree to a kill switch. He doesn’t have quite the same problems that I can solve as I was able to solve with you, with your needing to hide your core and your self from the world.”

“Ha! Been a long time since then.”

“It has been a wonderful, amazing time since then, Erick. I’m glad I trusted you. I hope I can trust Solomon and Destiny and Yggdrasil and Ophiel going forward, too.”

Erick felt all warm inside for a moment. “I’m sure you can.”

“I’m sure you can, but I don’t trust that quickly.” Rozeta asked, “Are you going to go back to the House now that Yggdrasil is released?”

“Not yet. Gonna plan for the True Wizard thing and then do that. I thought I knew what I needed to do, but things changed a little. I was actually wondering about how mana must be in this New Cosmology, and what sort of ‘mana’ like magic existed out here.” Red threatened to knock the conversation to a Bad End, so Erick made a Lightning Path that did not trigger the Red Sparks, and he took it. “How do you protect Veird from that sort of stuff? Is that something you can tell me? Or will I have to stumble my way into protecting myself from that stuff on my own? This includes protecting myself from Banned Magics, and all the other worlds to come, of course.”

Rozeta smiled a little, saying, “This concern of yours is where I spend most of my days fixing broken spellwork and trimming up the spells people make on their own, for a lot of people make malformed magic all the time due to the various factors of the physicality of the New Cosmology interfering with their spell creation and implantation in their soul. My solution to those problems is constant vigilance and many, many redundancies, because I’m overseeing the soulwork inside every single living thing in the world.

“Your solution will be much simpler.

“All you have to have is enough mana to drown out all other spellwork, effectively making it so that other magics cannot touch you through distance. This would include any possible magics from other universes, too.”

“Fair enough.” Erick asked, “You sure you don’t want to talk about the various space ships in the Vaults?”

“Let us not discuss that,” Rozeta said, a flicker of Red appearing in the far off space beyond her white wrought eyes.

“How about mana outside of the manasphere? How does one deal with that?”

“Struggling to hold onto it as best one can.”

Which explained a lot, actually. Rozeta was purposefully denying herself the ability to understand that mana existed beyond the Edge of the Script. Her denial was probably a defensive measure against the Red.

Rozeta asked, “Are you going to try and make a space platform? I hope if you do, you don’t try making a staircase like Holo if you plan on exploring in the void past the Edge.”

“The Wizard of Anarchy went about that all wrong. Sometimes I wonder about that. Why did he make such a giant staircase? People just wouldn’t have seen him as a problem if he hadn't done that.” Erick said, “I wish that would have worked out better.”

And as Erick tried to recall that whole battle, he wondered how much of his scattered memory of that time was due to the Red Sparks, his [Onward] accident, or due to the Wizard War with Holo and the traumatic nature of all that. Dealing with the Blue Wizard had been a lot easier, since that had occurred entirely inside the Script.

Rozeta said, “Wizards are always major turning points upon which entire worlds spin, Erick. He and you were on opposite sides of a brief, furious war that ended like those sorts of things usually do. I’m very glad that we won that, and the confrontation with that Blue Wizard when she attacked Oceanside.” Rozeta added, “Speaking of Oceanside… Have you spoken to Kirginatharp recently? He asks me if you’re purposefully avoiding him.”

Erick paused. He was purposefully avoiding Kirginatharp, the dragon with the Sun Style, who was Second to Rozeta, who was Rozeta’s son, while Nothanganathor was likely related to Melemizargo and also Rozeta and thus Kirginatharp, and who held the Dragon Curse which kept down all non-Paradox’d dragons in the world. But Erick shouldn’t avoid Kirginatharp. Perhaps he was doing that subconsciously? Erick considered a trip to Oceanside…

Erick would just need to force a good Lightning Path and thus he wouldn’t fall off the God Pact world.

Erick said, “I’ll visit him later, actually.”

“Ask him about mana beyond the Edge.”

“… That’s a good idea.”

Erick wouldn’t be doing that, and he hated implying that he was going to, which made him something of a liar. He did not like that. … But. Was it a good idea to talk to Kirginatharp about mana beyond the Script?

Maybe Erick could make that happen, too.

Rozeta grinned softly. “I have good ideas occasionally.”

Erick asked, “Have any good ideas about using Computer magic to make the Script easier?”

“Oh my no. Not happening. But for travel between worlds and the organizing of logistics and the recording of information in smaller areas than what Book Magic can do? Yes. I expect Book Magic to be better for almost all normal means, but Computer Magic should be able to do computation and other such tasks well. I expect there will be explosive growth in the use of gridwork in spellwork, but that’s about all I’m expecting Computer Magic to be able to do… Unless you have other ideas?”

“I have a lot of theoretical ideas, actually. Want me to start at the top?”

“Yes. I have time.”

Erick smiled, and began, “Math in magic is never something I got into, but a lot of people have, and so Computer Magic should be able to easily do things like the Crossing, facilitating point to point communication. The threat of information leakage and information threats will be the worst aspect of Computer Magic, and while the Crossing is vigilant against that, Computer Magic will need a lot of people working to keep the systems running well, while only a few bad apples might ruin the whole thing. But at the same time, computers run on parts and programs, and if the programs are corrupted, then the parts should still be usable. In the short term, a proper signaling machine should be able to link up multiple worlds together a lot better than most magics can, using radio waves, or through mana shenanigans for faster than light information communication…”

They spoke for a few hours.

It was nice.
