The Shades’ version of the creation of the Old Cosmology had the Dark Dragon making a middle path between Light and himself, thus creating Shadow, and thus the first God of Magic, in order to allow people to commune with the Dark. There were a lot of similarities between the two stories, but the actual attributions were different in both tales.

Erick believed the Fae version of events a tiny bit more than the Shade version. Fairy Moon had never lied to Erick, ever, but the Shades were born on Veird and they had grown up under an insane Melemizargo. The Shades might not have lied, either, not exactly, but they weren’t anywhere near Fairy Moon’s first hand account of simply being there for the birth of their universe.

Guile’s fur fluffed out in fear, at the thought of Nothanganathor targeting the Mantle of Magic. Perhaps he had made a whole lot more connections than Erick had in that possible revelation of intents. And then Guile shook himself and settled down. “Let us move on, please. I would speak of True Wizardry in the New Cosmology now.”

Erick, Solomon, and Destiny were also glad for the switch.

“In the Old Cosmology, a Wizard was a focal point of depths too deep for anyone else to change. Throw a fireball at them, and they could stop the fire any ten thousand ways, or they could just let it hit them and it would be like throwing a drop of water onto an ocean; not accomplishing much of anything at all. A Wizard achieved this by transforming into a full crystal that was also themselves and alive, but it only looked like a crystal. They were basically a mana ocean unto themselves. Their crystal self would be very, very dense, containing billions of mana effortlessly.

“In short: if a Wizard was enough of themselves that nothing else could touch them, and they remade the universe in their desired images always, then they were a Wizard in True.

“That was in a universe of pure mana, though.

“In the New Cosmology, a Wizard is much the same as in the Old Cosmology, but infinite multiverses complicate things. Perhaps you distribute damage among everyone? And healing among everyone? Perhaps you become a gestalt of all others, like Solomon is becoming? All good possibilities.

“I believe Yggdrasil will become an Old Cosmology sort of Wizard, growing ever larger and containing more and more mana of very high density, and such and such. Trees grow big. It is easy for them. But perhaps Yggdrasil will go the other way? I do not know. I don’t know how he could be a New Cosmology Wizard, but I have been surprised a lot lately. Either way...

“You cannot grow larger, so you have to go the other way, as most Old Cosmology Wizards would do, though they would also be partially on their own plane of mana at all times, too, so they did not have to deal with concepts of infinity, except with regard to Creation Wizards, who were the most largest of Wizards… Usually.

“Wizards are complicated. You don’t need to be too complicated, though.

“Just grow infinitely inward.”

Erick nodded a little, having already had a lot of these thoughts, but Destiny had never been exposed to this idea before, and Solomon was only most of the way, mentally, to where Erick was right now.

Destiny asked, “What the fuck? Infinitely inward?”

“We have examples.” Solomon said, “Some of those metamond crystals from the Glittering Depths. Are there any here— Ah. There’s this one. Wheatly?”

Solomon’s bracelet uncoiled from his arm, becoming a 3 meter tall solid gold mirror in the shape of a staff with a coil of gold at the top that surrounded a brilliant white sphere. The mirror reflected wheat fields, while the white sphere was filled with the silent radiance of Benevolent lightning.

Solomon said, “Wheatly’s sphere is an infinitely-inward space of power and intent. Or at least it can be.”

“… hmm...” Destiny narrowed her eyes on Wheatly’s core, as she asked, “Please explain the concept of infinity-inside to me. So we’re on the same book.”

Erick held up two hands, separated a little, saying, “Imagine the number 1 here, and the number 0 here. Pick a point between 1 and 0 and you’ll always be able to move left or right without crossing over a previous point. You can go from .5, to .4, to .45, to .44, to .445, to .444, to .4445, to .4444, and so on and so on, never reaching a point where you cannot go deeper into the space between.”

Destiny cocked an eyebrow. “Ah. Well. That explains that. And since mana is possibility, it can just do that.”

Solomon said, “Correct. Though it does take some convincing and the laying of a framework to get that started.”

Destiny held up a hand and mana began falling inward, into a spot of power that never grew brighter or bigger, but which fell inward and inward and inward. “That’s not that hard.”

“… How much mana did you put in there?” Solomon asked, as Destiny kept pumping the tiny dot full of what appeared to be Benevolence.

“At about ten thousand right now.” Destiny added, “That’s 20,000. Yeah. This is easy. Huh.” And then she snapped her hand and the mana exploded and then did not, flowing back into her body without damaging anything. “Okay. That’s simple. I’m going to expand my core using that method.”

Erick and Solomon paused. And then both of them laughed.

“That’s fantastic!” “Ah, that’s great.”

Erick wasn’t sure how she had managed that so effortlessly, for the Script actively prevented mana crystals from forming, and yet she had done exactly that. She had created a metamond outside of any no-Script space. Of course it had exploded in short order, but that was normal.

Solomon added, “You’re amazing, honey.”

“What! Like it’s hard?” Destiny said, smirking, knowing exactly how much she had impressed them. And then she admitted, “It might have been a little hard. The start was the hardest.”

Erick asked, “Can you do that with every single kind of mana, all of them along different axes, in a multi-resonant sort of crystal?” He said, “I’m pretty sure that’s how to get True Wizardry, but that is, I believe, impossible inside the Script, for many reasons.”

Guile spoke up, “While the nature of the Script simply preventing True Wizards is something we should discuss, I would advise all of you to not speak of your personal Wizard Ways. Every end goal of True Wizardry is the same; to become a slice of reality unto yourself. The ways in which you get there are as varied as the numbers of stars in the sky, and to use the methods of others is to impair your own Truth.”

Destiny said, “I’m really not interested in pursuing True Wizardry right now, because I am absolutely sure that Nothanganathar doesn’t like that, because why else would there never have been any True Wizards on Veird… Which makes me wonder if he put some shit into the Script to stop us from claiming our Truths.”

“He is the ‘Dragon Who Could Not Ascend’.” Solomon said, “And the Script is an adversarial system, accepting all valid inputs, because otherwise it could not exist. So yeah. Nothanganathor probably put shit into the Script, just like Melemizargo did, just like the Old Demons did. Just like everyone does.”

“He’s a malevolent asshole,” Destiny said, then added, “Times infinity.”

Erick and Solomon grinned at that.

Guile asked, “What specific things are you referring to, Erick, when you say you believe True Wizardry is impossible under the Script?”

Erick nodded, then said, “In the worlds where I escaped the Storm, the Storm destroyed the Script first, and I started releasing mana almost like a gentle fog. No exploding. Nothing deadly at all. I’m not sure what, exactly, the Script is doing to us, but it was meant to curb the excesses of Wizards anyway, so there’s no way to ascend to Wizardry inside this manasphere… Which is about all I want to say on that.”

Solomon frowned a little, but he saw that Erick didn’t want to talk about his plans, so he let it be.

Destiny hummed. Then asked, “So you’re planning on escaping Veird somehow and accreting resons out there? Or something?”

Solomon huffed a tiny laugh, as Destiny said what he had been planning on letting go unsaid.

Erick smiled, and said, “I’m not sure.”

“Yeah yeah. I get it. Fine fine. No talk of plans.” Destiny asked, “So how do we accrete resons and what good are they if mana is so much better?”

Guile said, “You must have a concentrated reason for what you want, and the resons make that happen. Controlling that power is something that must be learned. I do not know how.”

Erick thought he understood what Guile was saying, but he wasn’t sure. “Are you speaking about the act of Wizardry, as in ‘I will it into being, and thus it is so’? We must accrete that capability? We must accrete the very capability of ‘intent’, ‘communication’, etcetera?”

Guile nodded. “Yes. There is no true mana in this New Cosmology. Every single act of magic is Wizardry, no matter how small, all of it communicated through the multiverse of infinity by resons, which bring those possibilities here, to this current instance of infinity. Of course, the same could have been said for the Old Cosmology, and that would have been partially correct, but not fully.”

“So you’re saying that our acts of intent created resons, Guile?” Solomon asked, to see if he was understanding this new concept completely.

“Yes,” Guile said. “I imagine you will be able to use your mana production gained from the Dark dungeons in order to fake your way to reson capability, but none of you are reson-based Wizards, except maybe Erick, and that is a big ‘maybe’. I imagine that the overall difference between an Old Cosmology Wizard and a New Cosmology Wizard are a lot smaller and more nuanced than we might think. I do know that the Old Cosmology had a separation of general Wizardliness between Creation, Destruction, and Paradox. I imagine that perhaps only Paradox exists in this New Cosmology, though that feels wrong for me to say.”

Erick and Solomon thought for a moment—

And Destiny rapidly said, “Yeah yeah. A universe where only Wizardry exists; no small mages and magics. Sure. What about how Wizards have bodies on this side of reality and mana realities on the other side? Like Erick with Benevolence? How do resons work with that?”

Guile said, “A great question. I have no idea.”

“Well…” Erick began, “In the Old Cosmology, everyone was mana, and that mana created side realities and personal bodies, right?”

“Correct,” Guile said, “Everyone made mana and made themselves in the process, but everyone also started off as a collection of Other, and purging the Other while keeping oneself intact was an important part of the ascent to Wizardry. That’s the crystallization of True Wizardry we speak of. If a person failed to maintain oneself and their full Wizardry self at the same time, Paradoxically, they would die. Many people never went further than archmage levels of power to avoid that final ascension, which is simply the gathering of a lot of mana in one’s core, to use as one wishes.”

Erick said, “So maybe True Wizardry with resons and infinity involved, in this New Cosmology, is just the same. The Wizard becomes a person who can step through infinity to their other selves and ensure that they never die or are harmed through the use of multiversal shenanigans.”

“So those other realities of infinity correlate with the realms of mana?” Solomon asked.

“Probably more complicated than that, but yes,” Erick said. “I imagine a capable Wizard could even start using their other selves to produce resons, if they become one with all their other selves or something like that. That seems like it would be ‘stealing the darkness’ from others, though; what Jane called ‘demon cultivation’ that one time.”

Solomon huffed a laugh. “ ‘Demon cultivation’! Ha. The incani did not like that.”

Erick smiled. “Yeah.” Then he said, “But if you ask for the resons from others, thus empowering yourself, then that seems more ‘cooperative cultivation’.”

“Plus, we’ve already invented [Renew], so that seems like it would…” Solomon paused. “Yeah. That’s probably the Benevolent Path working, isn’t it. Making mana of all types able to feed into other mana types. It probably works across more than just your own other selves’ mana, too.”

Erick nodded. Solomon had gotten to the thought at almost the same time Erick had. Erick expanded that thought, saying, “Maybe we could ‘cultivate’ whole other worlds. Maybe it’d be like using Mana Siphon. We could siphon the mana of a billion side universes that weren’t using that mana anyway, to use that mana here.”

Solomon went, “Huh. Have you tried using Mana Siphon on the Red Sparks?”

“I have not. Not directly. And yet… I think that’s part of how Benevolence is working at its base. How Yggdrasil is protecting us. How all of that is working. Mana Siphon is a reverse [Renew] that picks at the stray power of whatever spellwork we’re touching, using that power to bring power to ourselves. It doesn’t work that well against direct strikes, but it does work really well at sustained magical conflict on wide scales. The more surface area we expose to the enemy magic, the more disruption and siphon that occurs.”

Destiny went, “You lost me there.”

Guile and Ophiel simply watched.

“Okay. Well. Back on subject:” Erick said, “Cultivating resons—”

“We’re not calling it accreting?” Destiny asked.

“I’d rather not; that would be confusing,” Solomon said.

Destiny nodded.

Erick continued, “Cultivating resons sounds like performing Wizardry to enact a will upon a space. Perhaps there is a base unit of power? What does 1 reson do? How many resons does one person produce in a day? Where do they actually come from?”

Guile said, “No idea. No idea. No idea. No idea.”

Solomon said, “Well look on the bright side. I’m rather sure if there is a ‘demon cultivation’ versus a ‘cooperative cultivation’ then Nothanganathor is for sure the first, which would explain why he can’t find us. There’s only one of him.”

“So we need to go wide,” Erick said, “To escape him fully.”

“That does seem logical,” Solomon said, “But we just don’t know what we don’t know.”

“And then there’s the whole ‘what about time and space magic’ thing,” Erick said. “Can resons even do Time Magic? Soul Magic? Anything like that?”

