Guile spoke up, “Considering the nature of the Old Cosmology as a thing-that-could-be-destroyed-in-days versus this New Cosmology which contains infinity in multiple ways, and considering that this universe does have a beginning in the Big Bang —according to Solomon— and is growing, then that means that this universe is stable. Perhaps quite a lot more stable than the Old Cosmology. In my opinion, this means that this New Cosmology is much more limited in what magic can do. Time Magic is probably not happening for New-Cosmology-Only spellwork. But also! This means that you, as Wizards with Old Cosmology powers in this New Cosmology, have access to mana and those powers, which will likely stick around through whatever other powers you encounter in this New Cosmology.

“It is certainly due to the powers of mana that we have been able to escape the Red Leviathan for all this time.”

Erick took that in, thought for a moment, and said, “Interesting.”

Solomon nodded—

“Okay okay!” Destiny said, “Let’s circle back to what we do know. Let’s go over your Mana Siphon and the Red Sparks… Are you saying you’re eating Malevolence? I find that very interesting. It mirrors what he is doing to us.”

Erick paused.

Solomon paused.

They looked at each other.

“Want to go try it?” Erick asked. “See if we’re actually doing that?”

Yggdrasil appeared. “Not necessary. I am doing this right now; question answered.”

And then he vanished again.

Erick called out, “You and I are having a talk about everything that happened and soon, Yggdrasil.”

Ophiel grinned happily.

Destiny eyed the ceiling, then the room, waiting for Yggdrasil to show. He did not. So Destiny said, “Okay. Then what about how we’re surviving outside of the Script, and how to come back from being caught by the Red Sparks. I want to talk about that now.”

Solomon said, “Which leads to a different question, first: There’s mana out there, outside of Veird. But it’s outside of our control. Can we leave the Edge and not be instantly dead due to the vacuum of space?”

Destiny frowned at Solomon. “Obviously.”

“Well okay then,” Solomon said. “I wasn’t sure it was obvious.”

Erick nodded, then began, “The first time I came back from Sininindi’s Death World, Sininindi helped me, and I felt home, here, like Benevolence leading me back through cracks in reality, widening the path. Lightning suddenly connected me from where I was, to where I wanted to be. The second time I did that on my own. It was the Lightning Path.”

Destiny’s eyes sparkled as she leaned forward, asking, “So you saw the Lightning Path and walked it?”

“… Do you see a Lightning Path right now?” Erick concentrated on the conversation and saw the best way forward—

Erick and Destiny spoke at the exact same time, “It’s like this, then. A simple view change. A Benevolent way forward. We simply have to find the Path and walk it well.”

Erick dropped the Path. “Ah. Freaky.”

Destiny blinked out some lightning from her eyes, smiling as she said, “That’s my Benevolent Chaos! You found it!”

Solomon leaned forward, “We need to try doing that again, Destiny.”

Erick and Destiny both held out a hand to him, as they held out a hand to each other and linked grips, the two of them saying, “Take a hand, man.”

Solomon laughed, and then put his palms into Erick’s and Destiny’s.

Lighting met Lightning. Path met Path.

A Way Forward opened.

And all three of them spoke together, “Everyone has to get there on their own, but no one is ever alone.”

They released hands at the same time and lightning sparked across those fading touches, like the breaking of power lines, white jolts tracing moss and mushrooms across the round table between them. The mushrooms glowed white.

Solomon smiled.

Erick grinned.

And Destiny said, “Okay! So. Loved that. Moving on to actual plans for the fight, now?”

Erick said, “I have a plan. Solomon has a plan. But what I want to know is where you’re going to strike first, Destiny.”

Destiny grinned wildly, saying, “To start, I want to tackle the lending houses of the Wasteland—”

Erick opened his mouth to object.

“—Let me finish! I know it’s a bad look with the incani/human stuff, but I was talking to Avandrasolaro, and he wants to get into overhauling all of Hell’s contractual law, and...”

The conversation went on and on, with many topics circled and tackled from different angles, multiple times. They spoke of resons and infinity. Of the Lightning Path. Of Destiny’s plans for problem cleansing. Of a lot.

And all the while, the Benevolent Sky, with its ‘death of Benevolence Marker’ hovering 450 years out, began to recede. To fall further out of sight. To fracture and change and become ten smaller events that spread out far and wide, none of them too certain at all. That wasn’t too surprising. As Wizards moved they changed the world, and there seemed to be more and more Wizards around these days.

And yet, the Sky was not perfect. For every tangle of black in the Sky that denoted some good possibility, some axis upon which everything could be made better, Benevolence still tangled dark and deadly here and there.

Red Sparks hovered inside some of those black tangles.

But not too many.

The Red Eye itself was nowhere to be seen.

- - - -

Erick stood on the viewing platform in front of the Benevolent Sky. A permanent gate to House Benevolence held to the side, surrounded by a complicated series of defensive structures both magical and mundane. Beyond those Illusion Magics and Blood Magics and Scanning spellwork and adamantium door, lay the Benevolence Research Center. Overseer Aisha and Teressa Rednail were in office today, with Teressa doing prognostications for official visitors asking for prognostications and Aisha sometimes doing the same. Teressa was fully pregnant right now, though, so she couldn’t do too much non-Script magic without endangering the baby, so her schedule was light. Neither of them were in Benevolence Itself right now.

It was just Erick.

Not even Ophiel, for Ophiel was hanging out with Destiny and Solomon at the house. Erick, Solomon, and Destiny had spent the last three days talking about everything under the sun, which was a funny way to think about their conversations. ‘Under the sun’. Hah.

Solomon and Destiny were getting along well with each other, and also with Ophiel, though Ophiel was only a tenth there at any one time, except when one of him died trying to rescue people from around the world from various dangers. Really now. Erick was very tired of Ophiel getting himself killed, but… He wasn’t really dying.

Erick hoped Ophiel never died.

He hoped Yggdrasil would be okay. Erick had showered Ophiel with love every chance he could get, but Yggdrasil was distant right now. They had only shared a few quick words since Yggdrasil swallowed the sun’s power and spat Veird into a better universe at his birth, which Erick was still coming to terms with.

Jane, Abigail, Bethany, Candice, and Evan, were all working together with Champion Fallopolis and the former Champion of Melemizargo, Verrod of Vast Skies, in order to do some stuff with the dungeons; Erick wasn’t wholly sure. The Shade messes from the release of all those Shades from Sininindi’s dungeon were all cleaned up, but the girls and Evan were still working with the Shades. Erick didn’t get into it too much with them, but he would soon. When he got back to reality.

Erick, Solomon, and Destiny were all going back soon. Not right now. But soon.

Erick hoped they would all be okay when he was gone. They should be. Ophiel was already sad, knowing what was coming. Solomon suspected Erick’s plan, and probably knew 90% just from pure deduction. Destiny probably knew the general shape of the plan, but only in the vaguest of ways. Yggdrasil knew the whole thing, for sure.

He knew.

They all knew something big was coming.

Erick breathed deep, and then Called out, “Rozeta. Can we talk?”

Rozeta’s white wrought form stepped onto the platform with Erick, smiling a little. “You look good, Erick. Your soul isn’t tattered much at all.”

“Thank you,” Erick said, feeling melancholy and trying not to show it.

“… Is something wrong?”

“Just plans being made. I feel a lot smaller than I used to be.” And then he got right into it, saying, “I’d like your death switch relaxed, please, but not removed. I’m going to need to use part of that whole thing soon.”

“… You’re going to try and do the True Wizard thing.” Rozeta said, “I don’t believe my switch is interfering with you.”

“Everything is interfering. The switch is just one such interference.”

“Ahhh. I see, then. I can do this ask of yours. This is not a problem.”

Erick smiled. “Thank you.”

“… Are you okay, Erick?”

“It’s ascension, and I think I know what to do, but the bad outcome is death and that happens to most Wizards that try, yes?”

Rozeta said, “I don’t believe that will happen to you. You already tried several times and didn’t 100% die, so the only way you might die is if you don’t have anyone there for you, and you’re not going to do that, because you’re not careless. I know you, Erick, and I believe I know what is truly bothering you, and it is the lack of [Familiar]s, and your changing life. You don’t have Yggdrasil or Ophiel there all the time anymore, because now you have to look at them from the outside, like all the rest of us do.”

Erick grinned. “That has a lot to do with it, yes.” And then Erick lost his grin, saying, “Ophiel is constantly pulling people out of danger the world over due to prognostication telling him to help people in certain places, but he keeps getting himself killed. It’s like he forgot how to defend himself, and his low regeneration isn’t helping him at all.

“I think I pissed Yggdrasil off a lot by telling you about the Computer Mage.

“I have no idea what the girls and Evan are up to, and Destiny and Solomon are an item now, you know.

“The House is the House and I really should get back to that but I have a lot of other things to do for Melemizargo still with this Sundering Search, but also with this Lifeblood Heart thing.” He breathed. He asked, “So where do you want to start fixing some problems? Any problems of your own?”

“Let’s go through your concerns first.” Rozeta conjured some chairs and sat down, pouring Erick some hot tea as she began, “Ophiel’s Status is a special case.”

Erick sat down. “He showed it to me, and while it is odd, his mana regeneration is what concerns me. How long till he’s paid back my debt?”

Rozeta nodded. “You did an extensive [Death’s Approach] with him, using 20-odd years of mana regeneration well before it was actually here. This would have burned out much of his soul, as [Death’s Approach] does. Normally, he would simply have died from that, but the Script can do a lot, and one of the things it does is ensure [Familiar]s survive. Ophiel is going to be fine, and it won’t take him 20 years to pay back that mana he used, either, for that sort of debt is just something that cannot be repaid. So it will be a gift, from me to you, and one I was not exactly expecting to give, but which I am happy to do.

“Ophiel will still have about a year of downtime, though. I can mitigate his issues, but time is a better healer than I by far. If I were to try and actually fix him I would need to replace the broken parts of him and that would be soul surgery, which would change him, which I will not be doing. In the meantime, the Script gives him mana as it does everyone, though he is only receiving a tenth of what his Status says he produces. That I can’t fix either.”

“Can I pay some of his debt? Or all of it? It’s my debt.”

“No, you cannot. You produce a lot more mana than you actually use on most days, so you would think that would give you a surplus, but mana is not something like money. It cannot be transferred that easily.”

Erick gave her a Look. “[Renew].”

Rozeta rolled her eyes. “If you want to do some [Renew] magic, you can, but I cannot do that. I won’t do that. Before you try, though, I urge you to simply let Ophiel grow up in Benevolence. Let him have a childhood with you or with the people of House Benevolence, and even with random adventurers he rescues from the world. He doesn’t need to be out in the real world right now.”

“… Fair enough.” Erick asked, “Yggdrasil and his girlfriend?”

Rozeta froze for a moment. And then she thawed. “Ahh. Girlfriend. That explains a lot.”

“I haven’t had much chance to talk to Yggdrasil for he has said he’s busy, but I have talked to him a little bit about the Computer Mage.”

“Let’s circle back to that later.” Rozeta asked, “Are you going to keep working with Solomon and the Black Gate?”

“He’s doing well with that on his own, and I want to let him have that. I want him to succeed. He’s very focused on getting Debby back; his Jane.”

Rozeta was purposefully calm as she said, “You believe his delusion of Debby, then.”

Talking about anyone taken by the Red always drew the Red, and this time was no different, except no Red spilled out of the air, or out of anywhere inside Benevolence. The Red flickered behind Rozeta’s white wrought eyes. The Script itself was infected with Red, but then again everything was infected with Red, except for Benevolence.

To poke further at the Red was to invite it, though.

So Erick said, “Perhaps it’s a lie, but it is one that keeps him going, which grounds him in purpose and power.”

“And what happens after he gains his purpose?”

“… Are you worried about the Lifeblood Heart rescue?”

“Of course I am worried about that. I am worried about Solomon’s delusions, but of the Heart itself, I am worried what it might do that I have not accounted for, and all the problems it might solve, even though it will bring along new problems of its own. I admit, my worries are less right now, because of a whole slew of worries that have been removed from the board, from that Prophesied Storm, to Ophiel’s birth, to Yggdrasil’s birth… Melemizargo hasn’t tried anything yet, which is surprising. He is waiting, though. Preparing.” Rozeta said, “Though to say that makes me sound like a broken record—” She grinned. “—To use the phrase you have brought to Veird from Earth, and then made real through the invention of records. You should know that Ezekiel is doing amazing things with small technologies. I hope to link him up with the Computer Mage in some way… But now you tell me that Yggdrasil has feelings for the Computer Mage, and thus my original plan is out the window.”

