Every single nature-affinity monster she had respawned in Myrin’s Keep began to shine with the same radiant power, and the battle against the Death Knights and the Eldritch Horror was engaged in earnest.

“Ten percent.” The words dragged Ali’s attention back to the battle.

“Two minutes remaining,” Calen added.

“All out!” Ali commanded, granting Tol’brekk permission to burn his health. Instantly, his enormous life pool vanished and then suddenly spiked as Last Stand triggered. He roared within a billowing cloud of red mist, his eyes bleeding from the power of Bloodlust and the grip of his rage. With the experience of long practice, Ali clamped down on his mind with the full weight of her willpower and locked his focus on the boss.

Myrin’s Keep shuddered and shook as the Death Knights reached the battlements. People fled screaming from the sheer aura of oppression and insanity pouring from the Eldritch Horror. And the enhanced stone began to crack.

“Give him ritual infusion,” Ali demanded, her focus split, directing her bosses and minions to converge on the assault that was crushing the town’s defenses.

“As you wish, Seeker,” her witch doctor said, and Kir’vella’s health vanished, offered to Tol’brekk instead.

Instantly, it was spent for more power, and the pair of giant greataxes whistled through the air, tearing great slices through the Avatar of Annihilation. A spray of black shards and viscous fluid burst forth in the wake of the brutal axe strikes. A ribbon of incandescent, viridian green pierced the giant troll’s great chest, and his health skyrocketed. Only to be spent yet again for another giant overhead slash.

Without her advanced perception skills, Ali was certain she would not even have been able to see the boss. The ground shook like a never-ending earthquake, her mana sight flared with intense blasts and bursts, and the air filled with the stench of burning ozone and the refreshing scent of pine and wildflowers from her shaman and druid’s vastly empowered healing magic.

But her sight and senses were assaulted by a second mirror of chaos and magic as her minions unleashed everything into the breach, as the Death Knights advanced through the gaping hole in the battlements and entered the town.

“Thirty seconds,” Calen calmly announced.

Please run, she thought, and her distant minions screamed her wishes to the terror-stricken townsfolk. She had not been able to keep the dead from entering the town, as she had hoped, but they were more powerful than she had guessed. Scrambling to save them, Ali sent all her lower-level minions to snatch cowering townsfolk out of the rubble and houses, dragging them out of the path of immediate harm.

Then the Horror entered, and her minions began to collapse.

“One percent.”

“Twelve seconds.”“I need help!” Ali shouted. And right at that moment, her chime sounded.

Your group has defeated Avatar of Annihilation – Elemental – level 247 (Arcane / Death)

“Go!” Lyeneru shouted, but Ali was already gone.

Raya launched herself into the roiling clouds of billowing dust and smoke at a dead sprint, dodging the shattered chunks of the battlements raining down into the street. She snatched up Kyle’s comatose body as two bolts of sizzling black energy she had not even seen seared past her left ear, disappearing off into the smoke. The ground bucked violently as the thumps of heavy explosions were followed by the grinding crashes of more collapsed buildings. She leapt for the dubious safety of a shattered wall, but broken bricks rolled treacherously underfoot, twisting her ankle and tossing her against the sharp rock. The jagged edges sliced painfully into her back, and she tumbled, landing heavily on her shoulder. Bone shattered with a loud snap, and it took every ounce of her will and endurance to cling to consciousness.

“What the fuck is happening?” Kayleigh stammered, her voice high-pitched and shaking. “Uh, Captain?”

“Death Knights,” Raya ground out, grimacing, and not just from the pain. She had pushed herself hard ever since Commander Brand authorized using the dungeon for training. And she had progressed enormously. But she had never imagined anything like this could even exist. If she hadn’t just downed that ludicrously expensive Mental Fortitude elixir, she would have ended up just like Kyle.

Or worse.

She had no idea where the rest of her squad was, or what had even happened to them. They were all guards who looked up to her, relied upon her. She knew their spouses’ names and had gone to their kids’ birthday parties, and yet, in the face of these Death Knights, she could only flee, abandoning them to their fate.

She couldn’t even remember when she’d lost her spear.

A sudden, eerie silence descended on the hazy street. An ominous blue glow from beyond the shattered battlements cast shifting shadows that stalked through the smoke and dust like insubstantial wraiths. Raya shivered as the temperature suddenly plummeted, staring in horror as creaking fingers of frost reached rapidly through the rubble.

A monstrously heavy boot crunched on ice. From beyond the feeble protection of her shattered wall, a dark figure emerged. All she could see was the shroud of blackness, but an aura of oppressive power radiated from it, claws of ice scratching like fingernails on the flimsy ward protecting her mind. It turned, searching, and twin points of blazing blue light transfixed her with its terrible gaze.

Her heart quailed, and her mind screamed for her to run. But she couldn’t leave Kayleigh and Kyle.

A second Death Knight emerged from beyond the wall. The two of them shared a silent look and then both marched forward unhurriedly, crushing rubble and ice beneath their boots.

A spindly leg, the black of nightmares, as tall as the battlements, stepped with incongruous lightness between the pair of Death Knights. Another leg. And then another. And something that should never have been, clawed its way through the sundered wall. A terrible chorus of whispers echoed in Raya’s mind, just below the threshold of understanding, and she recoiled in abject terror. She clamped a hand over her eyes, a desperate attempt to prevent them from betraying her sanity by looking. She bit her lip to prevent herself from screaming, but her throat betrayed her. And still, the sheer presence of the Horror overwhelmed her wards. She could sense its gaze piercing through her, flaying her memories and leaving nothing secret.

But despite her fraying willpower, her limbs betrayed her. Her head tilted upward. Her fingers pried themselves apart. And her eyes refused to blink.

Her mind began to disintegrate as it gorged itself upon fear incarnate.

What was left of Raya saw a glittering golden platform snap into place high above the monster. A giant roaring shadow fell, trailing thick red mist, and two gleaming mithril greataxes crashed down, slashing through the nightmare, leaving trails of crimson blood and dark ichor floating upon the air.

The beast landed. The ground announced its arrival, shattering under the sheer force of its momentum. The pair of aloof Death Knights turned at the sound, to be met with a whirling maelstrom of mithril and blood.

Somehow, she recognized the four-armed sylvan creatures leaping from the floating golden platform, unleashing a barrage of lightning from their bows. Was it a dream?

A gentle hand touched her shoulder, and suddenly her mind was whole. “Who?” She turned and saw an elegantly dressed elf crouching in the debris and smoke, incongruously dressed in a business suit and wearing red heels. She identified the stranger.

Analyst – Sun Elf – level ???

“Don’t look too closely at it,” the stranger said, reaching up to adjust a set of expensive, silver-rimmed glasses perched on her nose.

“Can you help Kyle?” Raya asked.

“I already did,” the elf replied, getting to her feet and placing herself between them and the approaching Horror. The pressure instantly vanished.

But it was the incandescent green ribbon that shot down from the platform to pierce the giant axe-wielding troll that grabbed all her attention. Leaving afterimages upon her retinas, it bounced through the giant, arcing toward her, piercing first Kyle, and then Kayleigh, and then herself, before arcing over the boulders to somewhere under the rubble.

In an instant, Raya’s shoulder popped painfully, bones resetting themselves. The pain from her throbbing ankle vanished, and the chunks she had bitten out of her own lip and tongue healed flawlessly.

She let out a ragged breath.

“Get them to safety,” a soft, familiar voice called out. “I’ll take care of this.”

Raya’s eyes snapped upward at the sound, catching a glimpse of a small figure with long green hair blowing about her head, and amber eyes that shone with unfathomable arcane power.

Aliandra… she’s here!

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
