“I think we might have celebrated a little too soon,” I sigh at the three glass containers of engraving ink sitting on our workbench.

In our excitement, Sandra and I completed the second batch of engraving ink; and seeing how both the first and second batches appeared stable, we couldn’t help but make a third. We should've stopped after the second batch, but what's done is done.

It's been a little over two hours since the first batch of engraving ink was completed, and if by now it hasn't turned into black sludge on us like all the other failures, I think we’re in the clear.

But as if to spite all our success, I think I see one more problem we have to deal with.

“What is it?” Sandra asks me, removing her face mask for the day.

“It’s the first sample,” I tell her.

"What's wrong with it? It isn’t going bad, is it?" Sandra moves over and picks up the glass container of brownish-black ink, holding it up to the dipping sun to get a better look at its contents.

“No, I don’t think it’s going bad. The problem is how much mana it’s absorbing,” my frown deepens.

“Is it not completed?” Master Del asks, walking over to see our final results. Tabitha walks next to master with a blank expression, seemingly not interested in what's happening. Tabitha might not be interested in the crafting aspect of my life, but I notice her eyes focus on the engraving ink in Sandra's hands and the other two containers on our workbench. She looks interested for a second before all her excitement seems to vanish like it was never there in the first place.  I bet she’ll be more excited after I figure out how to enchant my gear.

But first, we still have one more problem to solve. "The mixture itself is completed," I explain to Master and a seemingly bored Tabitha. "All that's left is to let the engraving ink absorb ambient mana until it's ready."

“Then what’s wrong with it?” Sandra offers me the first batch of engraving ink.

I take the offered container of ink and focus on it with Sense Mana. "It's been two hours since we completed this batch, and I can hardly see a change in the amount of mana it's absorbed. I'm not sure how much time it will take for the ink to absorb enough mana.”

“Is it that bad?” Sandra frowns, understanding the problem.

“After we bottled each batch, I took note of roughly how much mana was in each of the solutions," I move over to our workbench and pick up the little notepad I use to record ideas and observations. "The first solution had roughly 157.38 points of mana in it. That’s pretty low considering the ingredients it’s made from.”

“Hold up,” Sandra interrupts me. “You can tell exactly how much mana is in each of those solutions!”

“Not exactly,” I shake my head. “I can only sense to a hundredth of a mana point.”

“Only a hundredth, she says,” Sandra huffs under her breath. “I need to pick up my training.”

“I’m used to monitoring my mana levels when I practice my magic skills, so it’s not that hard to gauge the rough amount of mana in an object if it isn’t too massive or too small,” I explain to my friend. “Each container holds about half a liter of ink and weighs about 75 ounces,” I read from my notes. “We can assume the solution needs to at least double or triple the amount of mana it currently has.”

"So, how much mana has the solution absorbed over the last two hours?" Sandra asks me with bated breath.

"In the last two hours, the ink has only absorbed .13 mana."

Sandra hisses ad recoils like she just touched something hot. “That’s it; that’s nothing,” she exclaims.

“I know, but I think I might have a solution,” I grin back at her.

Sandra puts her hands on her hip, “Then you were just trying to make me worry?”

Sandra’s accusing glare is dangerous, so I explain myself before she has another mood swing and tries to throw a fireball at me. Again. "I'm not sure how we can improve the inks mana absorption rate, but I was thinking, why do we have to wait for nature? I can just inject my own mana into the ink until it's saturated enough."

“Are you going to stick your finger into the ink and release all your mana?” Sandra sarcastically asks.

"I thought it'd be a little more refined than that." Moving back over to our workbench, I swap out my notebook with my engraving pen. I uncork the stopper from the engraving ink container and start stirring the mixture with my pen. “My engraving pen is a great conductor for mana. I’ll push my mana through the pen and into the ink, all while stirring it.”

“Just expelling your magic won’t have that much of an effect,” Tabitha offers her opinion with a blank expression.

I smugly grin at my combat teacher, “Who said I’d only be using Expel Mana?”

Thanks to all my recent training, it's child's play for me to expel my mana and inject it into my pen. That's where my control would typically start to become muddled, but thanks to my practicing with Mana Threads, I can use Mana Manipulation to keep control of the mana channeled through my engraving pen like it’s an extension of my body.

I essentially use Inject Mana twice to pour my mana directly into the ink. Today I've only used my mana to keep Mana Skin active, so I essentially have almost an entire mana pool to experiment with the engraving ink.

"Let's see how much mana the engraving ink really needs?" I say in a boasting manner, dumping my mana into the solution.

I start off with a confident smile on my face, but maintaining it becomes strenuous after I continue to dump more and more of my mana into the few cups of engraving ink with no end in sight. Sure, some of my mana is lost in the transfer, but not much. How much mana does this ink need!?

“Are you ok, Aaliyah?” Sandra notices my strained expression and the sweat starting to form on my forehead as I continue to feed my mana into the ink. Sandra knows Mana Skin keeps the air around me at a perfect temprature, meaning the only reason I would be sweating was if I was overexerting myself.

“I’m fine,” I grit through my teeth. “It’s just taking a lot more mana than I expected.”

300 mana, 400 mana, the engraving ink devours every bit I pump into it.

“I think that’s enough, Aaliyah,” Master warns me when my arm starts to tremble.

I choose to ignore Master’s recommendation and push forward; I know my limits, and I'm not there yet. 600 mana, which's over half my mana pool channeled into the engraving ink. That’s close to what I used to blow up those bandits back then. And yet, the engraving ink is still readily devouring the mana I feed it!

“That’s enough,” I hear Tabitha’s cold voice behind me. At the same time, I feel her gauntleted hand grasp my shoulder.

“I know when to stop,” I grumble, pushing the last bit of mana I’m willing to spend today into the engraving ink. Tapping my engraving pen on the rim of the glass container, I make sure not even a drop of engraving ink is wasted as I remove my pen from the solution.

Seeing how I'm following her orders, Tabitha removes her hand from my shoulder and moves back next to Master.

“How much mana did you use?” Sandra questions me.

“Can you hold this for a minute?” Instead of answering Sandra, I offer her the container of engraving ink.

“I can feel the difference in it now,” Sandra gasps in amazement when she takes the ink from my hands.

"You should; I poured 650 mana into it," I finally answer Sandra's question while wiping the sweat from my face.

“650!” She exclaims, looking at the glass container in her hands. The ink has become glossier than it was, and as Sandra shakes the container in her hand, you can tell the ink has become less viscous.

“Well, more like 627, I lost some of my mana in the transfer,” I point out to her.

“That’s still a lot of mana,” Sandra remarks. “It’s amazing how much it can hold,” she holds the ink up to the falling sun again.

“And it’s not even done absorbing mana yet," I can't help but look at the other two containers of engraving ink and frown. "At the rate the other two are absorbing mana, it would take them 400 days to match the first sample.”

“There must be a way to speed up the process. There’s no way alchemists or enchanters would wait that long,” Sandra suggests.

“My people have no problem with waiting,” Master offhandedly remarks.

I’m about to point out to Master we humans aren’t as patient as Stone kin are when Tabitha takes a step forward, drawing everyone's attention. "Most likely, a mana gathering array is used,” she notes in a bland tone of voice.

“Mana gathering array, what’s that?” I curiously ask Tabitha.

"It's a large enchantment engraved inside cabinets, closets, or even an entire room; it all depends on what you're charging. Most nobles have them installed somewhere in their house so their staff can charge multiple magic items without the need to call in a mage. The enchantment draws in ambient mana and condenses it, so magic items designed to recharge on their own do it faster," Tabitha explains it to us like it was common knowledge.

"Then an alchemist puts the ink in one of those enchanted cabinets, and it charges the ink faster," Sandra summarizes Tabitha's mini-lecture.

“Then we need to place the engraving ink in a place with a lot of mana,” I think aloud.

“The bottom of the mine!” Sandra shouts out my idea before I get a chance to.

“I was just about to say that,” I sulk.

“Should’ve been faster,” Sandra playfully sticks her tongue out at me.

“You-,” I start to say confidently but quickly realize I don’t have anything snappy to say back. “You grab the ink while I grab a crate from master’s house,” I turn away from Sandra so she can’t see the embarrassed look on my face.

“Hurry up, we’re running out of daylight,” she playfully shouts at my retreating form, holding back her laughter.

"Yeah, yeah," I grumble, fetching an empty crate from Master's house. Sandra puts the three glass containers in the box and takes it from me with a smile.

I grab my war hammer just in case, and we start making our way towards the mine. Tabitha stays behind with Master knowing we’re just taking a quick stroll.

"It will be interesting to see how quickly the ink charges at the bottom of the mine," Sandra strikes up some friendly conversation as we walk down the forest trail. "Want to take a guess at how long it will take? I say fifty days.”

I balance my hammer on my shoulder and rub my chin with my left hand. So, she’s guessing it will charge eight times faster, huh? I think back to the mana levels at the bottom of the mine. The mana there is roughly twenty-two times what it is on the surface, but just because it’s that high doesn’t mean the ink will absorb it that fast. Plus, I think Sandra is forgetting the first sample isn’t finished charging all the way yet. “I’ll say forty days, but it doesn’t matter that much.”

“What do you mean?”

I grin at Sandra. "No matter how long it takes for the ink to charge, it will always be quicker for me to do it myself."

“What about the mana cost?” Sandra raises a questioning eyebrow at me.

"That was just because I was trying to see how much mana the ink needed. I could spare 100 mana a day to speed up the process. Even if it takes me fifteen days to fully charge the ink, that's still a lot better than four hundred or even forty for that matter.”

"You're only saying that because you have the mana to spare," Sandra looks down at her midsection. "Part of my mana pool is protecting my baby, and the rest I need to practice my skills and spells. I don’t think I can waste 9% of my mana every day charging engraving ink.”

“You make it sound like you’ll be pregnant forever,” I joke.

“It feels like it,” Sandra groans.

“Isn’t it a little early for you to be saying that?”

“I’m allowed to complain all I want,” Sandra glares at me with fire in her eyes.

“Point taken,” I take a quick step away from Sandra.

I give Sandra some space for a few minutes and wait until we enter the quarry before I move back next to her. “Can you handle the light? I’m a little tapped out at the moment,” I grin at Sandra, trying to judge whether she’s still mad at me or not.

“I’m not that tapped for mana,” Sandra beams back at me.

I have officially given up trying to read Sandra.

Would I ever act like that if I ever decided to have kids? As soon as that question pops into my head, I nearly stumble over a rock at the entrance to the mine. Sandra is too busy casting her magic to notice, but that random thought throws my mind into chaos.

I'm a woman, I've long come to terms with that fact, and I'm quite comfortable in my own body. But I have been focusing every minute of my time trying to improve my skills and overall level to reach my goal of traveling the world someday, that I've never considered any other goals in life. Do I want a family of my own someday? And what would that family look like?

Somehow, I can’t picture myself as a typical mom, and that’s ok. I'll continue working towards my goals, and if I should have a Disney moment where I meet my significant other someday, I'll cross that bridge when I come to it.

“You ok, Aaliyah?” Sandra’s question pulls me out of my thoughts. “You’ve been quiet for a while.”

Glancing around, I see we are nearly to the end of the mine already. Wow, I really wasn't paying attention. "Just thinking about my future," I chuckle, trying to reassure myself as much as my friend.

“Oh, were you thinking about traveling the world, slaying monsters?”

