“Something like that,” I just smile along with Sandra. There’s no way I’m telling her I was thinking about the prospect of a family. I have a feeling I’m not prepared to open that can of worms with a pregnant Sandra. "I was thinking about all the progress we made today and what the results might be tomorrow,” I shift the conversation without Sandra realizing it.

"Yeah, but you forget one thing," Sandra tells me.

“Yeah, what’s that?” I ask.

“We still need to clean up when we get back.”

"The best part of the day," I sarcastically remark with a straight face. Sandra and I laugh together all the way back to master's clearing.

**********

“Goodnight, master,” I wave to Del. Sandra joins me in waving, while Tabitha locks eyes with Master with an expression that screams, 'fight me!'

"Night; I'll see the two of you tomorrow." Master nods encouragingly to Sandra and me but purposely avoids acknowledging Tabitha in any way, shape, or form.

Too bad for master, Tabitha isn't discouraged so easily. "Yes, see you tomorrow, Del-Razen. We may spar then."

I snort through my nose, trying to hold back my laughter, while Sandra has her hand up to her mouth, barely holding herself together. When did Tabitha learn master's full name? Master was not prepared to hear his full name and freezes just long enough for Tabitha to consider his silence as a sign of agreement. "I look forward to our rematch tomorrow."

Master doesn’t even recover after Tabitha disappears down the forest trail leading to the village. He just stands there with his mouth open, not understanding how his goodbye could be turned on him in such a way.

“I think she broke him,” Sandra whispers to me.

“Probably,” I whisper back.

“Got to give her credit, though,” Sandra remarks. “She doesn’t take no for an answer.”

Sandra turns to leave, so I yell one last thing to Master, breaking him out of his stupor. “Don’t stand out here all night!”

As Sandra and I start walking towards the village, we hear Del yell behind us, "What just happened?!"

At least I’ll get a small break when the two of them spar; I chuckle to myself.

The sun is almost entirely over the horizon by the time we make it to the village and walk past Sandra's house. I probably shouldn't consider it Sandra's house anymore since she’s moved out, but that doesn't matter at the moment because Camden is waiting outside with a letter in his hand.

“How’s my little girl doing?” Camden spreads his arms and ambushes Sandra with a hug. “I haven’t seen you in forever!”

Sandra awkwardly returns the spontaneous hug. “It’s been two days, Dad,” Sandra deadpans.

While the two of them have their lovely father-daughter time, I cast a glance at Tabitha, who's watching everything take place before she retires to Camden's house for the evening.

“Dad, why are you waiting for us outside the house?” Sandra asks, finally separating herself from her emotional father.

“Oh, right,” Camden straightens himself out and hands me the letter. “This came for you thirty minutes ago. I figured you’d be stopping by soon, so I didn’t send one of my boys out to deliver it.”

“It isn’t for Tabitha?” I cock my head to the side. The last message sent to the village was an update for Tabitha from Pacore, and I can't think of a reason someone would send me a letter… unless it were urgent! The letter isn't sealed or anything, so I have no idea who it's from.

I unfold the paper to see three words staring back at me:

“Contact Giovanni immediately.”

I glance up from the letter at Camden, wondering if anything else was sent with it, but he only shrugs his shoulder.

Alright then.

I turn to Sandra and ask, “Can you make it back to your house without me?”

Sandra gives me a ‘really’ look. “I’ll take that as you trying to be a good friend and not you looking down on me.”

"Thanks, see you tomorrow," I offer a quick farewell before taking off jogging towards my house. Mom is going to be mad when I tell her I need to take a quick trip into the forest before dinner.

**********

When I get home, I’m forced to explain why I’m heading back out again after grabbing the hidden magic transceiver from my room, but after mentioning the emergency message I received, Mom nods in understanding. "Alright, but be safe and hurry back quickly," she tells me before giving me a quick hug and an encouraging push towards the door. I smartly choose not to comment on Mother’s generosity and take the chance to bolt out of the door before she changes her mind.

My plan was to sprint into the woods as soon as the door closes behind me, but I'm frozen in place as soon as I step outside and come face to face with Tabitha. The way Tabitha is standing suggests she had been waiting for me.

“Going somewhere?” Tabitha asks with a blank expression that is honestly a little terrifying in the fading sunset.

“I have to take care of something really quick,” I start inching myself to the side, not taking my eyes off the woman.

“I’ll join you then,” Tabitha takes a step closer to me. Damn, how do I handle this? Giovanni told me the communication magic tool is incredibly rare and not to show it to others. Plus, I doubt Giovanni would be happy if I brought Tabitha along with me to our emergency meeting.

"That's quite alright," I tell her. "I just have to handle something private."

Tabitha’s eyes narrow, “You aren’t running away, are you?”

I can’t help but snort at her question. “Yes,” I sarcastically reply. “I’m choosing now of all times to run away.” Shaking my head, I let out a sigh. “I have no intention to run away from you and Pacore. There’s just something private I need to take care of. If you’re that worried, you can wait here until I return. It should only take me an hour at most.”

Tabitha stares me down, thinking over my proposal. “Alright, I’ll wait here for you. Just this once.”

“Thanks,” I offer a smile to the stony-faced woman. “I’ll be back soon,” I reassure Tabitha one more time before running behind our house and into the woods.

Pushing Sense Mana to the max, I use my skill to navigate the almost pitch-black forest and make sure Tabitha isn't secretly following me. I only gave myself an hour, so I need to hurry.

Though I'm rushing through the forest, I don't drop Sense Mana for a second. Not only am I using it to navigate, but I also need to keep an eye out for predators. The chameleon spiders are all but a thing of the past now, and the hunters have once again started spotting farkas tracks around the village. The wolf-bear hybrids are most active at night, and objectively speaking, I'm a tempting snack.

Sure, I could turn them into meat paste with my hammer, but I’m already on a time crunch. Luckily that thought doesn't jinx me, and I make it to the spot I can connect with Giovanni in record time. I wasn't able to move this fast in the woods before I started training with Tabitha. Both my footwork in and out of battle has seen a lot of improvement as of late.

Pulling the communication device out of my pocket, I start channeling my magic into it. Gods, I hope this connects quickly. I don't want my mana pool to drop much lower while I'm out here all alone. Maybe I can figure out a way to extend the signal after I get used to enchanting things?

"Aaliyah?" Giovanni's abrupt voice pulls me out of my thoughts. We've never connected this fast before. Was he waiting for me to call him?

"I'm here," I reply to the magic tool. "What's the emergency that required me to take a moonlight stroll through the woods?"

"Has anyone shown up to your village?" Giovanni answers my question with his own.

"Not that I've heard of, and people showing up is kind of a hot topic around here," I joke, hoping to break some of the growing tension I'm feeling.

“You need to keep an eye out for anyone suspicious over the next couple of days,” Giovanni tells me in an ominous voice. I can’t help but glance around me when I hear such a warning, even though Sense Mana tells me nothing is in my perception bubble.

“What’s going on?!” I demand. “What happened?”

The line goes quiet for a minute before Giovanni answers in a solemn voice, “Grey has fled Drey.”

So that’s why he wanted me to contact him, “You think he’ll come for me?”

"No," I hear Giovanni sigh on the other end. "We have reason to believe he's heading for Teeburn. However, Grey still has plenty of associates in the area, and we can't take chances that he'll try something nefarious with you."

“We still have a contract with one another,” I remind Giovanni. “Grey would be crazy to try something when he already thinks I’m bound to him.”

“Normally, I would agree with you," Giovanni responds in a sorrowful voice that makes me nervous. "But I can't underestimate the man any further than I already have."

It doesn’t sound like Grey left the city quietly. “What happened?” I swallow a nervous lump in my throat.

“Grey fled the city, but not without leaving an alchemical bomb in his office.”

“Oh shit!” I can’t help but exclaim.

“Indeed,” Giovanni continues explaining. “The fire is out, but news of the devastation is still trickling in. My people report a third of the branch is destroyed along with countless documents. Fourteen people are confirmed dead, while three others remain in critical condition. One of the injured being my best receptionist.”

“The lady who worked the front desk,” I mumble, recalling the nameless receptionist that seemed to read me like a book.

"Yes," Giovanni confirms my suspicions. "She was… is, one of my best people," Giovanni corrects himself. "She was the one closest to the explosion," Giovanni tells me with anger building in his voice. "Grey warned all his people to leave the building beforehand, and we can only assume she was his target."

“And she’s still alive?” I can’t help but ask. I have experience with surviving explosions, and though I don’t know how strong an alchemical bomb is, I can guess it’s stronger than my overcharged flame spell. The receptionist was intimidating to deal with but not in a physical sort of way; I can’t see how she would survive such a blast.

"She was lucky," Giovanni cryptically tells me, barely holding back his growing anger. “Grey!” I hear Giovanni growl out the name like itself is a curse.

I can’t believe Grey would do such a thing.

No, that’s not right. I can't pretend like I know the man. After all, I've only met him twice, and both times I didn't see how much of a snake he was. I just find it hard to believe a man could do such a thing.

Bringing my arms up, I wrap them around myself in a comforting manner. The magic and wonder of this world sometimes makes me forget evil people aren’t exclusive to my past life. There will always be people who don’t care who they hurt as long as it furthers their goals.

This is a grim reminder that I can’t take everyone at face value. When I finally leave the village, I'll come into contact with a lot of new people, and it would be foolish of me to think a few of them won't try to use me, whether it's for my blacksmithing skills or my relationship with Pacore.

“Do you think my family is in any danger?” I ask.

"I'm not sure," Giovanni honestly replies. "Even now, I have my best agents tracking down every one of Grey's people, but I can't be certain we'll get them all. And Grey himself is still on the loose; it's anyone's guess as to what his plans are now that he's committed an act of open rebellion in Scholl's territory."

“Scholl is aware of what he did?”

"They are," Giovanni informs me. "I've sent letters to Lord Bullok; he's the person sent by Scholl to run everything, as well as Pacore, detailing Grey’s horrendous actions. By tomorrow morning, Grey will be the most wanted man in this corner of the world.”

“But you don’t know where he is,” I point out.

“We don’t,” Giovanni replies dejectedly. “That’s why I needed you to contact me immediately.”

“Is that the only reason?” I question Giovanni.

There's another long pause in the conversation. "Is it right that you can still break your contract with Grey? The distance doesn't matter?" Giovanni asks me.

“I can,” I answer.

"And you can force the backlash on him?" Giovanni further questions.

“If you want to ask me something, be clear about it,” I say into the magic tool.

“I want you to make him suffer!” Giovanni finally snaps. “The bastard stole money from the branches vault, betrayed the company that’s supported him all these years, and worst of all…!” Giovanni takes a few deep breaths between all his yelling. “And worst of all, he hurt my people! If there’s anything you can do to make Grey suffer, I’ll be eternally grateful,” Giovanni pleads to me.

“I think I can do that," I respond in a reassuring voice. Grey was already on my shit list, and hearing about what he's done only strengthens my resolve. "I'll contact you tomorrow morning, letting you know how it went."

“I appreciate your help, Aaliyah. Remember to be on the lookout for anyone suspicious. Once you terminate your contract with Grey, he’ll see you as fair game,” Giovanni reminds me.

“Let them come,” I grin into the magic device. “I’d like to see Grey’s lackeys try anything with Tabitha here.”

“All the same, be careful. I have to continue coordinating with my men in Drey. If anything, and I mean anything at all happens to you or your village, contact me immediately."

“I will,” I agree to Giovanni’s demands. I can only imagine what struggles he must be going through at the moment. “Best of luck to you.”

“To you as well,” Giovanni replies before our connection is cut.

