When my tears finally slow and the pain fades away, I find myself lying underneath my cubicle with Mama Bun in my arms. Pong Pong is there too, clambering out to look me in the eye. “Home,” he declares, using a jumbled mix of warmth, safety, and comfort to convey his meaning, before using those same emotions again to express a similar, but altogether different concept. “Family.”

That’s the same Aura I used to lure him out of the Azure Sea, the message which drove him out of hiding to come find me in the first place. Granted, at the time I was looking for Blobby, but Pong Pong was the one who responded, and since then, we have become family. Now, he’s telling me that whatever my problem might be, he’s here to help me, and this support means more than he could ever know. I can’t even begin to fathom the trials and tribulations he’s been through, but having felt the depths of his despair and dejection, I can’t imagine it’s been easy. However, based on the promise of home and family, as well as an offering of shrimp, Pong Pong invited me into his Natal Palace long before I understood the dangers that entailed, all because he wanted a family to love and cherish.

Isn’t that what we all want? To love and be loved, but animals are just more honest about it. We all have our struggles, our own personal trials and tribulations, so it’s time I stopped running from mine and reclaim all that is good in my life.

Glancing around at the call-centre of the Void, I do away with this stifling, depressing atmosphere and bring us back to my bedroom, complete with all the fine comforts of home. The ceiling to wall windows offer me a glimpse out into the world, not the world I first hailed from, but the world I ended up in, complete with so many of my loved ones watching over me. They all have their own inner demons too, demons which have nothing to do with Spectres, the Father, the Enemy, or Zhen Shi, and while they also struggle with their problems unseen, unlike me, they have not given up.

Mila has a volatile temper and is prone to internalizing all her frustrations, while Yan has abandonment issues and worries about losing the people she loves. Luo-Luo is a smart, confident, capable woman, but wholly lacking in personal identity or ambition, and Mom cares too much about what other people think when they see her with her ‘young’ husband. Dad and Alsantset are a little too in love with bloodshed, a flaw they both acknowledge, but one Dad has no intention of rectifying, unlike my kind, caring, devoted sister. Not to say she doesn’t have other problems of her own, but she manages them without blinking, almost as well as Li-Li deals with her various traumas. Taduk can never focus on any one issue unless it captures his interest, and Akanai is a control freak who needs to take charge whenever possible, but out of everyone here, the person I empathize with the most is someone I rarely truly interact with, and now I understand why.

Because Husolt, the happy, friendly, bear of a blacksmith who is both my Father-in-law and Grandfather, has been struggling with unresolved issues of burning anger and ponderous guilt for the last five decades.

Unlike with everyone else, Husolt’s emotions speak clearly to me, emanating off of him in crashing waves as he struggles to find Balance in the bamboo grove. His anger stems from his blind eye, an injury he took many years ago fighting alongside his beloved wife. I once asked him about it, and he told me it never healed due to an unresolved grudge, and in a way, he was telling the truth. Fifty years ago, the Sentinels responded to an Imperial call for aid wherein Akanai rescued Fung’s father from a Defiled incursion, a feat which earned her an Imperial summons to Central. Husolt went with her, hoping to finally see his wife receive her due recognition, for she had worked herself to the bone for centuries to defend and enrich the people of the Empire she so loved.

But instead, he saw her derided and humiliated, before being run out of Central and hunted like a prize to be won, all while he was helpless to defend her.

It was during one of those many battles wherein Husolt lost his eye, a wound which I now see has festered and taken root in his very soul. It became a part of his identity, the blind fool who should have seen the truth sooner and spared his wife the pain and misery, and thus resisted all attempts to Heal it. The injury lit a fire within him, a blazing conflagration of rage and hatred, one he keeps carefully banked and contained for fear of it consuming him whole. This forced him to put aside his weapon for fear of Defilement, but now, half a century later, he hopes to conquer his anger so that he might once again fight at her side, a sentiment he broadcasts to all who might hear, which is sadly limited only to his wife, his son, and myself. Even Mila and Song know nothing about his problems, because he is deeply ashamed of his flaws and terrified of the consequences should he ever lose control.

Seeing this part of him leaves me filled with regret, for I have seen a part of him which he is deeply ashamed of and never wanted anyone to know about, but now I do, and I cannot forget. How can he blame himself for the actions of others? I myself saw firsthand how his anger took a hold of him, when Husolt beat the nineteen-years-young Dugu Ang to death for daring to threaten Mila. The worst part is, his brush with Defilement is not solely due to Spectres, for it is in his nature to be passionate and quick-tempered. There’s nothing I can do for him, because these are his inner Demons, and he must overcome them or be controlled by them, a battle he has struggled with in silence for his entire life.

But not alone. He has his loving wife to lean on, who has supported him through these trying times as best she could, and now, a daughter, a son, and so much more to go along with it. He has family to rely on, as do I, and while I fear this might one day no longer hold true for me, I cannot keep hiding from what might be. I, like Husolt and so many others, can only make my way through life one step at a time, and hope for the best.

“Anger is not the enemy,” I whisper, hoping to offer what little aid I can. “Nor is fear, shame, or anything else. They are all a part of being human, so do not try to eliminate them. You must embrace them.”

Advice I could use myself, though I’m still terrified to tell the truth about who I really am.

...Well, worst comes to worst, at least my floofs will always love me. It’s something.

Climbing onto my giant bed, I lay down with Mama Bun and Pong Pong and share my love with both of them before closing my eyes. It’s not so easy to leave the Void, not with all the measures I put into place to separate my mind and body, but soon enough, I will return to the world of the living and face my fears once more. Maybe I’m wrong, and maybe Zhen Shi will be there waiting to snatch me up, but this time, I refuse to go down without a fight.

I am not Falling Rain, Warrior and Legate, nor am I Rayne, call-centre employee and fish out of water. I am... someone else, someone in between, and while I don’t know who that is exactly, it’s high time I stopped denying it and figured out who I really am.

This is my journey. The path stands before me, and for better or worse, I must see it through to the end, because despite having tried my damnedest to do so, I truly do not know how to quit.

Chapter Meme
