Whistling a happy tune, I go about my business for the day, setting up the play mat and dice in my secluded little clearing, preparing for my merry band of disabled students. The wine is cooling in the river, a number of meat skewers ready to be grilled over a small fire, and plenty of bowls for everyone to drink from. With all of this, and the added touch of a screen of leaves to better hide us, should anyone come upon us unannounced, it will look like a gathering of unsavory drunks and degenerates, here to gamble and drink away the day.

All according to plan.

Resisting the urge to laugh ominously, I continue making sure everything is in place for my secret meeting, nervous and excited about my subterfuge. Hidden away from plain sight are a selection of tourniquets, bandages, unguents, and irons, all things that I will need if things go south. Also scattered about are a few more eclectic items that may come in handy, like a sharpened spoon. That's for Ravil, in case shit goes bad with his eyes. Shuddering at the thought, I mentally go over my checklist once more, ending with a small prayer to the Mother, asking for smooth roads ahead. This will be the first time we meet, as I spent the last three days making preparations while hiding everything from Tokta and Akanai.

Practicing the Forms while I wait, my handicapped friends arrive in ones and twos over the next hour, leaving the camp separately so as not to arouse suspicion, a precautionary measure I insisted on that earned me a few odd looks. I don't mind, all they're risking is the growth of some super tumors, I'm the one taking the real risk: disobeying Akanai. You can never be too careful when it comes to Akanai's instincts; her ability to sniff out guilt or wrongdoings is just short of supernatural. I don't even understand why she wants everything to be kept secret, something like this is world changing and should be shared with everyone who will listen. It can change the quality of life for so many, what with this world being filled to the brim with danger.

Once all of my participants arrive, I clear my throat to capture their attention, smiling as they quiet down immediately and gather around the dicing chart, their attention fully focused on me. I wouldn't say that I like to be at the center of attention, but being in charge is kind of nice. “Welcome, I'm glad to see you all here.” Their demeanor has changed a little, most of them better dressed and cleaner, Rustram's hair having been washed for what may very well be the first time in weeks, Ravil's eye bandages changed for fresh ones, little things like that. Even Bulat cleaned himself up and trimmed his beard, looking scruffy yet handsome, despite all the jagged scars on his face. No homo. It's amazing what a little hope can do to a person, and I just hope that I don't fuck this up.

“I want to take this time to remind everyone of the risks before we begin.” I already went over them a few days ago, but they need to hear it again. “If something goes wrong, I may have to dismember you, and keep in mind: I'm right-handed.” Waving my stump around earns me a few nervous chuckles, and I wait for quiet before I continue. “If everything is done correctly, and that's a big if, then you have nothing to worry about, but you know what they say, hope for the best and prepare for the worst.”

“Get on with it, little hero. We know the risks you were very clear about them. If things go awry, then you just cut old Bulat's throat, no need hesitate or mourn. Me Ma will at least get some blood money if I die in the field.”

“Yea... In that scenario, I would face the penalty for murdering a soldier, which is death, so … Let's try to avoid that. Besides, killing you would defeat the purpose of everything I'm doing here.” Fucking fatalism, it's just a missing leg. Sure it sucks, but things could be worse. “Moving on, even if nothing goes wrong, I cannot guarantee success. All I can do is teach, and the rest is up to you. Bear in mind once again, you seven will be my first students... ever. So, trial and error, and all that.” Test-subjects just doesn't have the same amiable ring to it.

There is the tiny matter in which Tokta has been unable to replicate my success, despite his constant barrage of questions and invasive monitoring during my healing process. If I can't teach a top-tier healer how to do it, what chance do I have with these guys? I spent the past few nights going over details of this venture and I came to the conclusion that I have no idea what I'm doing.

With that in mind, I opted for full disclosure about my ineptitude, and began showing off the implements and what they should do if things go wrong. I figured that would scare them away, but even after seeing all of my extensive preparations and listening to my worst case scenario's, not a single one of them stood to leave. Most were a little pale and frightened, but the possibility of regenerating their injuries without too much cost is simply too tempting to pass over. Once again, it crosses my mind that I may have made a terrible mistake, but I've already gotten their hopes up. Stupid drunk me and my stupid mouth making stupid promises.

While going over yet another worst-case scenario, Bulat waves me off, cutting in. “Little hero, we understand, you have made many efforts to save us should things go wrong, but I said it before, if the worst should happen simply cut our throats and be done with it. The others will help you hide the evidence, even lying for you should that be required. We all spoke of it before coming here, there is only death or triumph ahead of us.” The other six all nod and reiterate what Bulat says, a few even smiling at me as they do so.

It astounds me that their dismissal from the army is a forgone conclusion without room for appeal. Bulat grew up in the slums of Shen Huo, joined the army when he was sixteen, two years of training and four years of service in and around the city, fighting bandits and beasts. He fought on the wall during the invasion, survived a night attack while under the command of Kai and the slaughter of the Demon that spawned from Vivek Daatei. All of that, and the loss of a single leg is enough to have him thrown him away without care. The others have differing backgrounds, but all of them enlisted young, served in the war, and were now fated for dismissal and worse unless I can help them. No pressure.

The worst thing about this all is that no one finds anything wrong with any of this, leaving these soldiers without aid. No pension, no extra pay, just given their dismissal papers, each and every one of them know and accept this as their fate, blaming nothing but their own weakness. No wonder they risk death, because to them, death is only slightly worse than the alternative.

“Alright.” Looking at them each in turn, I see the determination and resolve each of them have, hoping to rise up once again and regain their strength. “Let's get started then. So, what do you all know of healing?” Seeing their blank expressions, I power through, telling myself that I am helping, that this is a good deed and worth the effort. “Okay, let's start with the basics. When you are injured, what do you see?”

A pause occurs while a round of shoulder shrugging and beard scratching takes place, and Rustram tentatively answers, “Blood?”

…

This is going to be more difficult than I thought. Thinking back to my training with Taduk, I begin teaching them a few basic inner examination exercises, mentally revising my plans as I go along. It seems like the education in the cities is worse than I thought, but I guess with even the children working hard to help support their families, there's no time to learn frivolous things like how to read and write, or check your body for illness. Cultivation is a rich man's game and I'm only just beginning to appreciate how hard the village works to allow every child to receive both the education and the nutrients required to become a warrior. Even if every child doesn't make it, at the very least everyone is given a chance.

For this specific scenario, their lack of knowledge actually makes them a good test group. This way, I can control just how much knowledge they have, and expand upon what they know slowly, limiting the information they receive. No need to worry that someone will leap ahead and try something stupid while I'm not around, and the best part is, I don't think my method of healing will need much more than basic skills in healing. All that's needed is to learn how to encourage the creation of the panacea, and their bodies will take care of the rest. I can hear my pitch now: 'Learn my revolutionary, one-step process to fix all your injuries, available now at your local apothacary. Act now, before it's too late!'

Smiling to myself as I watch my first and only students settle down to meditate, I take solace in the fact that I'm doing the right thing, as well as the fact that I have yet to actually break my promise to Akanai. The details of my healing technique haven't been discussed, only that I can teach them how to regenerate, so even if word spreads today, I can just wholly deny having disobeyed Akanai. I don't think that would stop her from stringing me up by my heels, but at least I can feel morally superior while she does it.

Gotta look at the bright side every now and then. Optimism.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Carefully contemplating her next move, Song struggled as she stared at the chess pieces, deliberating on how to proceed. If Master were playing in her place, she would sacrifice her chaplain to take the skirmisher, then move the archer into place to threaten the Monarch. It was a superb move that would grant her control over the middle of the board, but it would cost her the chaplain and a Soldier, and she was loath to lose them. All of the pieces were hers, a gift from Master, the only things she had ever been given besides her saber and it would be disrespectful to lose them so easily.

Choosing to save her chaplain instead, she sat back and stealthily snuck a look at Master, who sat off to the side chatting away with the two sisters. Both bears, they bore a striking resemblance to one another and even after many days in their company, she was unable to tell them apart by sight or sound. Their voices grated on her, but Master seemed to enjoy their company, leaving Song to play chess with Huushal. The large wolf annoyed her as well, with his oafish mannerisms and disregard of the rules, she wondered why Master wanted her to play with him.

As if he could read her mind, Huushal moved his skirmisher in an illegal move, crossing through a soldier to take her lancer and she silently mourned as it left her side to sit next to her two soldiers, earlier conquests of his. That lancer should have been safe, the path blocked by the soldier, but Huushal merely smiled his idiot grin, nodding in his clumsy way as he cheated without remorse. “You didn't see that coming, did you? Don't worry, I'm no good at this game either, too much thinking.” Some men liked to mock and belittle but she was used to worse treatment, accepting his words without complaint. She had learned early on that if she displayed no reaction, her tormentors were quicker to leave her alone.

Checking Master's reaction once again, she thanked the Mother that Master was not upset, chatting nicely with one of the sisters. Yesui she thought, or perhaps it was Yosai, it was impossible to tell. Needing to think over all her moves once again, Song listened to their conversation as she tried to save as many pieces as she could.

“... so we were thinking of having the ceremony in the grove by our village, the trees are a rich viridian hue in the summer almost shining. You must come to the wedding Miss Sumila, Papa and Mama would be so thrilled to have you there, and they would be honored if the Chief Provost and the Divine Blacksmith came as well.”

“I would be delighted to attend, but I cannot speak for my parents. The Mother only knows how busy they both are, but I will mention it to them.”

“Oh, but listen to me go on about myself, what of your wedding? I hear you were betrothed to Rain, that's so... nice. It's a shame he's so unruly, I heard he fought with a cook in the soldier's camp, demanding more rations, quite shameful. Both greedy and ill-tempered, that one, I wager that you will be able to rein him in with little trouble, Miss Sumila.”

“I am quite happy with my betrothal to Rain.” Master's tone seemed a little curt, implying that Yesui (Yosai?) was overstepping her bounds, a magnificent performance. Even as mismatched as they were, Master gave face to Rain, not disparaging him in public, even defending him now. “He is a very kind person, and the thought of having my best friend Mei Lin as my sister-wife fills me with joy.”

A fire burned in the pit of Song's stomach, wanting nothing more than to cut the savage runt's throat open. Master was so lovely and sweet, heroic and kind, how dare that ruffian covet her. How he had managed to trick the General into betrothing Master to him was bewildering, the only explanation she could come up with was that he sold his new medical discovery to the General for her daughter, a sad state of affairs for Master, but she put up a cheery appearance with no outward signs of distress.

“Of course, Rain will make a wonderful husband Miss Sumila.” The other sister spoke up to smooth things over, likely sensing her sister had erred. “His healing skills are the talk of the camp, everyone has noticed how quickly his arm grows and even now he's hard at work regenerating. All Huu ever does is follow us around, the big sweetie unable to ever get any training done.”

