That was not correct, today was Rain's day of rest, and Song had been prepared to fight off his lecherous advances, to be a shield for Master should it be required, but he had not shown himself since breakfast. As soon as she had learned of her Master's fate, Song had silently sworn to protect her from Rain's lecherous ways, even if it meant sacrificing herself. She would gladly suffer Rain's perverted attentions to keep him away from Master, she was good to Song and if she could protect Master even a little, then she would be content, having served her purpose.

It was telling of his character, how he acted since becoming betrothed to Master, no longer taking action to court her and only exchanging polite pleasantries at meals. It seemed that in his mind, he already owned Master and no longer needed to exert efforts to woo her, a fiendish scoundrel. Master only needed to say the word and Song would cut him to pieces, hiding the evidence of their wrongdoing. She was even willing to admit to killing him if that was what Master required to be free. Song would be forever shackled, but Master was still unrestricted, and Song would do everything in her meager power to keep it that way.

Her eyes lit up as she considered the board carefully, almost shaking in excitement as she moved her skirmisher into place. “Check.” Eagerly waiting for Huushal's move, she made her next two moves quickly, herding his Monarch into place before her archer leaped forward to win her the game. “Checkmate?” Turning to look at Master, she cocked her head inquisitively, unsure if she had done well.

“Congratulations Song!” Master seemed thrilled, clasping Song's hand in both of hers, the warmth of her skin spreading through Song's body and filling her with joy. “Your first victory, how exciting! We should celebrate, I'm sure Alsantset will be happy to hear the news.” Quickly saying their goodbyes, Song followed Master away, the two of them hand in hand, escaping from the affectionate trio with a bit too much haste to be properly polite. Once out of sight, Master began to stomp and mutter, her anger plain but the reason unknown. Worried that she had not been supposed to win, Song readied herself to beg at Master's feet for mercy, watching carefully for any hint of her error.

“The nerve of them looking down on Rain, he's every bit as good as Huu, if not better.” Surprised, Song almost stumbled as they continued forward, heading towards the clearing where Rain spent most of his time. It seemed that Master was upset about Rain, venting her frustrations about the accuracy of the comments. “Rain is studious and hardworking, with a lucrative career and exceptional skill. Maybe he has a bit of a temper, but who does Yesui think she is? As if she were in any position to judge others, she only met Huu for a week before jumping into bed with him, so indecent. At least Rain has been gentlemanly enough, leaving Yan unmolested despite sharing a tent for so long.”

Unable to help herself, Song uttered in disbelief, “Master is happy to be betrothed to Rain?”

Caught by surprise, Master looked at her for a moment before breaking into a grin, linking arms with Song so they could be closer. “Winning at chess and asking questions, today is a day of firsts for you, Song. We really need to celebrate now.” Pausing to consider the question, she tilted her head to rest on Song's shoulder, a familiar gesture that Song rather enjoyed. “Hmm... I guess I should say that I don't mind being betrothed to him. He is rather outstanding, suitably handsome, very sweet with children, and hardworking as well. For now, I've not met anyone better.” Poor Master, she was under the spell of that fiendish man, to think that there was no one better. As wonderful as she was, Master was young and naive, easily fooled. Song would have to watch for his tricks, perhaps show Master how he was fooling her.

While Song thought long and hard on how to expose Rain, Master continued to converse, seeming happy to vent her feelings. “I don't think I'm in love with him, but he does make my heart flutter at times, like when I was injured by the Society. He was so sweet and caring while he tended to my injuries, I could see it in his eyes that I meant something to him. Then when he called me love and said I was beautiful, that set my pulse racing, but that shouldn't count, it was just a dream. I like that he's very casual, not caring about who my parents are and able to relax around me, unlike everyone else. If I hear 'Miss Sumila' one more time, I might just tear my hair out.”

Sighing deeply, Master slumped heavily on Song and she struggled to hold up Master's deceptively heavy frame. “I just don't understand Rain at all. I told him at breakfast that I would be free for lunch, but he just smiled his stupid smile and said 'That's nice', lost in his own thoughts. It's like he doesn't want to spend time with me, but if that's the case, why not just refuse the betrothal? If things are already like this now, won't I just be starved for affection after he marries Lin and Yan?” Thankfully, Master straightened up before Song collapsed under her weight, once again skipping along happily, their arms intertwined. “Maybe he just lost track of time while meditating. We'll quickly check in on him, and then we can go find some sweets to celebrate, okay?”

As they approached Rain's clearing, she heard a series of panicked whispers followed quickly by the sounds of people shuffling about and dice rattling. They pushed past a flimsy barrier of leaves and saw the reason for Rain's absence, a number of soldiers strewn about as they diced, Rain sitting in the dealer's position. “Er... Hi. Hello.” His nervousness was clear as he coughed, awkwardly smiling at Master. “Didn't expect you to show up, guess you caught me gambling.”

By now, Master was frowning, likely upset that her betrothed had ignored her invitation to lunch to gamble with a group of disabled soldiers, but something seemed off to Song. As Master began to lecture Rain on his vices, Song looked about the area, studying each soldier carefully, not a single one willing to make eye contact. They were hiding something, letting Rain distract Master with apologies and promises while they sat silent, trying not to draw attention to themselves.

Realization struck her like a hammer, and she turned to Master, waiting for a pause in their conversation as she gathered her courage. Once Master had finished extolling the immorality of gambling, Song carefully uttered, “Master, this lowly slave believes that Rain is deceiving you, that he was not truly gambling.”

“What do you mean?” Master's look of confusion made her worry, but Rain's look of panic hardened her resolve. “There are soldiers, a mat, dice...” her eyes narrowed as she noticed what Song had seen, turning slowly to Rain with an accusing glare. “... If you are dicing, then where are all the coins?”

While Rain stammered and stalled for an answer, Song idly caressed her saber hilt, imagining a future in which Master ordered her to kill Rain and dispose of his body, burning it to cinders before spreading the ashes, removing the scoundrel from their lives forever, the most favorable outcome she could imagine. Unlikely, as Master was far too kind, but at least she would now be more guarded in her dealings with him, her eyes opened to his false words.

Scratching at his neck, Rain looked away shamefully, avoiding eye contact with Master while looking at the soldiers, who mirrored his actions and looked away, none of them willing to speak. Master was patient, waiting in silence, the sounds of her dainty breaths growing heavy as her temper began to flare, Rain silent the entire time, until finally, he capitulated to Master's unyielding gaze. “Okay look, don't get angry, but I … I was going to teach them how to regrow their limbs with my method. I mean, worst-case scenario, they fail and everything stays the same, no big deal right?”

Carefully watching the crippled soldiers and Master's reaction, Song inwardly delighted at the turn of events. Rain was truly arrogant, willingly and deliberately disobeying a direct order from the General while thinking no harm would come to him. Gripping her saber, she prepared to draw her weapon as soon as Master ordered it, taking him into custody to be tried. Perhaps Song's dream would come true after all.

One could only hope.

Chapter Meme
