First, he had to get his soldiers in place though, which was turning out to be a trial and a half. The minutes passed slowly as he made his way down the passageway as quiet as could be, but it wasn’t quiet enough. The mining shafts ran deep, but this passage was dangerously close to the surface and only getting closer. Though they’d long since fallen out of use, there was a time when every building in Pan Si Xing had a cellar connected to these tunnels so that miners could make the long trek to the mines without having to brave the elements above. More importantly, any mined products could also be carted back to the warehouses without having to hire Warriors to guard against rebels or bandits, though from what Siyar could tell, the people of the West had more use for rice and bread than salt and diamonds.

According to the locals, once the mines dried up, the tunnel entrances were sealed and boarded up since there was no need for them any longer, and leaving them open was all but inviting criminals and rodents to raid their purses and larders. That was almost six-hundred years ago, well beyond the lifespan of any locals, which was good since it meant Bai Qi probably didn’t know about the tunnels either. He likely knew of some of the more obvious exits and would have guards watching those, but these underground mineshafts and passageways came together to form an entire under-city that an army could get lost in, meaning there was no way the Enemy could know of and watch each and every exit.

With his hand still brushing the wall, Siyar made his way past hundreds of openings that could have lead him right out into the city or the cellar of any number of occupied buildings, but Brigadier Hongji had pinpointed the exact location he wanted Siyar to come out of. Though he had to backtrack five times and carefully carve his way through three barricaded doorways to get there, he found his target easily enough. According to the maps they’d brought and the information the locals provided, the door in front of Siyar should lead up and out into an old alleyway that was blocked on both ends, which the locals only knew about because the local children liked to come here and hide. No doubt the Defiled weren’t all too keen on letting their slaves play in the streets, so the chances of them discovering this exit was minimal at best, but Siyar wasn’t taking any chances. Using his Honed blade, he slowly but surely carved an opening into the door, wincing as the flat surface of his blade scraped against the clay bricks used to barricade the door shut. When the first ray of moonlight broke through the surface to illuminate the tunnel underneath, Siyar held his breath and listened for a full minute before daring to put his eye up to the opening. Even though dawn was still the better part of four hours away, the Westerners were rich in oil and kept their streets lit up all night to accommodate the fact that most of them slept through the days to avoid the worst of the heat. Seeing and hearing nothing that would dissuade him from continuing his efforts, Siyar set to work carefully widening the opening while his soldiers held a cloth underneath him to catch the stones and sand before they could land on the hard floor below and make even more of a din than he already was.

It wasn’t the safest way to infiltrate the city, not by Siyar’s standards, but this was the only way for his soldiers to make it this far in without being detected. He could’ve made it in if he was alone, but there wasn’t much one man could do in the grand scheme of things. Besides, even if they were discovered, tunnel fighting benefited the Imperials more than the Defiled since the natural choke-points prevented the Enemy from surrounding and overwhelming them through sheer numbers. Granted, this meant his six-man squad might survive a few minutes instead of getting slaughtered outright the moment they were discovered, but he’d take any advantage he could get.

Freezing in his tracks, Siyar signalled his people to silence just as they were depositing their latest load of sand and stone to the side. The whisper of footsteps sounded overhead, close enough that they might hear the clatter of sand and stone, but thankfully, Ronga was paying attention and stopped pouring, but just a hair’s breath too late. Just as he righted the cloth and froze in place, one last pebble came tumbling out and was thrown up into the air. Time slowed as it traced an arc though the moonlight, and Siyar reached out to grab it, catching the errant projectile in mid air to keep it from clattering against the ground or floor.

Then, his foot slipped on a layer of sand and scraped across the stone steps in a near deafening din.

Everyone in the tunnels collectively held their breaths as the footsteps continued overhead, and Siyar prayed the passerby was a slave rather than a Defiled or Chosen who might overhear and feel compelled to investigate. Hell, even a commoner might’ve heard that, for the footsteps were so close he could reach out and grab a leg if it wasn’t for the wall and floor in the way. Thankfully, the passerby came and left without pause or hesitation, but still Siyar did not relax. Fingers clenched around the hilt of his sword, he listened to the footsteps fade into the distance and counted to a hundred before tentatively accepting that they probably hadn’t been discovered.

Heart pounding and back cold with sweat, he went about his work as calm and collected as could be given the circumstances, though he liked to think his nerves weren’t showing. That was the trick to staying calm under pressure, to never let it show, because once things progressed that far, there was little to no chance of recovering. It took a full ninety odd minutes to make an opening big enough for all his soldiers to squeeze through, mostly because he had to stop work another four times as more Defiled patrols passed by. The Enemy was making the rounds every fifteen minutes like clockwork, which meant security was much tighter than expected, almost overkill in fact. The paranoid part of Siyar wondered if the Enemy had already discovered his presence and were merely waiting for him to crawl out of his hole before slamming the trap down on him, but the rational part of him pointed out that even if this were true, he had no choice but to walk willingly into the fire. His wasn’t the only group working to infiltrate Pan Si Xing, and like he mentioned before, getting discovered wasn’t the worst thing in the world. In fact, that was pretty much the end goal of the plan, though he would much rather delay discovery for as long as possible since it meant he’d have more allies to hide behind once the fighting started.

With nothing else to it, he divested himself of his belt and crossbow, took a deep breath of fresh air, then gingerly poked his head out the hole. A quick study of his surroundings uncovered nothing suspicious, so he quietly pulled himself up and out of the tunnel and into a readied crouch, all without even the faintest hint of a sound besides the pounding of his beating heart. Still sensing nothing amiss, he reached down to take back his belt and crossbow before moving away to make room for the next person through. Wincing at the sounds of his soldiers coming out of the opening, he prayed that the next patrol wouldn’t come early, because if they did, there was no way he’d hear them before they heard his people. Graceful as a herd of drunken deer stumbling down the hillside, but they made it through undetected, which said more about the Enemy’s lacking vigilance than his soldier’s skills. The constant patrols were undoubtedly due to Bai Qi’s influence, but even the best commander in the world couldn’t instill discipline into Defiled tribesmen. Might as well ask a man to spin mud into gold, but Siyar still wasn’t taking any chances.

Feeling exposed in the flickering lantern light shining overhead, he made his way over to the darkest corner of the cramped alleyway before pulling himself up to peek over the wall. The city streets weren’t exactly bustling, but they weren’t empty either, and the lanterns made it difficult to escape detection. Difficult, but not impossible, so Siyar signalled for his soldiers to fall in behind him as he slipped over the wall with ease. Sticking to the shadows, he moved from point to point while avoiding notice from the slaves going about their business, and went to ground every time he noticed an oncoming Defiled patrol. Just as he suspected, the tribesmen weren’t doing their due diligence as they followed their set routes, hardly paying any mind to their surroundings save to torment any slave that drew too close. The callous cruelty of the Enemy was difficult to stomach from this close, for even the sickest Imperial bastard had the sense to avoid too much attention, but the Defiled were so casual with their inhumane actions it was almost second nature. One tribesman took a slave’s toe off with his spear, then beat the poor man to near death for screaming. Another forced himself upon a woman carrying two buckets of water, and the quiet way she simply put her buckets down and accepted it was far more chilling than any screams or struggles she might otherwise have put up. Slaves were prodded with spears to hurry them along, punched in passing for coming too close, slapped and mutilated for mere laughs, and no one, not even the slaves, blinked an eye. This was life under Defiled rule, the so-called Martial Peace Bai Qi envisioned, proving once and for all that he was truly a madman rather than some visionary rebel working to overthrow a corrupt government.

Suppressing the urge to set fire to the city and let the Mother sort through the ashes, Siyar reminded himself that the buildings were mostly made of clay and stone. There was next to no wood used in construction, so fire wouldn’t spread all that fast or far even with so many oil-filled lanterns scattered about. Killing a few Defiled wouldn’t change anything for the people of Pan Si Xing, so he focused on his mission which might well secure their freedom.

Or see them dead, which Siyar felt might well be an acceptable alternative. Mother knows he’d rather die than live like these people, whose spirits had long since been ground to dust beneath the cruel, iron boots of the Enemy.

It wasn’t a long walk to reach his destination, a traveller’s inn the Enemy used to house their resting slaves. Here, there was solace and respite for the poor people housed within, for once inside, they had a few hours to rest their weary heads without fear of their tormentors coming in to disturb them. Apparently even the Defiled understood that slaves needed to sleep, but they were none too generous about it. The slaves slept in five hour shifts, and the next changeover was soon to arrive, which was exactly when Siyar was meant to act, but first he had to get into position. The sky was brightening as the sun approached the horizon, not yet visible but close enough to illuminate the skies, so Siyar picked up the pace. Stealing into an alleyway and around the back of the building, he set to climbing the outer wall as quickly as he could. To him, the bricks and balconies might as well have been a staircase up to the roof, but his soldiers were not yet skilled enough to follow him, so the second he reached the top and cleared his surroundings, he found an anchor point to tie a rope which he then lowered to his people waiting in the alley below.

Siyar always thought it best to clear a building from top to bottom, because that usually limited the points of entry one needed to cover. There were no guards on the roof, only rows upon rows of tanning racks that reeked something fierce, as well as materials for making hide shields scattered about. Bai Qi’s latest countermeasure to the archers and crossbowmen of the Empire, giving every Defiled a hide shield to defend themselves with, which proved exactly why the man needed to die. Didn’t seem like much, shields to block arrows, but the sheer scale of oversight required to make it happen wasn’t so easily done. The Enemy was fearsome enough as frenzied, blood-crazed barbarians, but the Lord of Martial Peace was doing everything he could to mould the Chosen and tribesman into a disciplined fighting force.

Not all too successfully, considering what Siyar saw in the streets, but he shuddered to think what would happen if the traitorous general should succeed...

