As he slipped into the building through the rooftop staircase, he let none of his vigilance relax. There was no guarantee the slaves would keep quiet if they saw him, or wouldn’t turn them over to the Defiled guards in hopes of a reward. He’d seen brothers turn on one another for far less, so he wouldn’t put it past the slaves to give in to their captors. There were no closed doors inside the former inn, with every scrap of wood, stone, and iron having been salvaged for other use, which gave Siyar and his soldiers a clear view into every room as they made their way down the hallway. The slaves were sleeping eight to ten to a room, with barely enough space to lay out flat, though few cared to even try. Most curled themselves up with arms wrapped around them, ready to defend themselves even while deep in sleep, and Siyar’s heart bled for them. He never did like slavery, and he thought he’d seen the worst of it in the Canston Trading Group’s manufacturing facilities, but this was a whole new level of cruelty. The walls stank of blood, shit, and piss, with not even a chamber pot or latrine left to them, and he saw more than one rotting corpse which had clearly been left out for some days, with slaves sleeping as far away from them as possible. A reminder of what would happen to them if they should try to resist, or at least that’s how Siyar interpreted it, but for all he knew, maybe the Defiled thought they were being kind by sprucing up the decor with a dead body or two.

Room by room and floor by floor, Siyar moved ever downwards through the inn in search of any errant Defiled, and while he managed to evade detection all the way down to the end of the second floor, his luck had to run out at some time. Had the slave been walking, he would have heard her coming and hidden away in time, but the daft fool was simply standing around a blind corner at the top of the staircase and staring at the wall in a lifeless daze. Or at least, she had been before she spied Siyar walk up right beside him, and they both froze like deer that’d come bounding out of a clearing and straight into a pack of wolves.

The smart thing to do would be to snap the slave’s neck. Would be easy as turning a hand, seeing how the poor woman was little more than skin and bones, but Siyar hesitated because he was soft. A few years back, the slave would’ve died before she even knew what was happening, but he was a different man back then. Not necessarily stronger, but more willing to do anything he could to survive, because even though he now had more to lose than ever, he didn’t want to be that old Siyar anymore, the man with no friends, no lover, and no real purpose in life besides living to see another day. Things were different now, better, and he knew that if he didn’t change, didn’t work to become better than the old him, then he’d fuck it up and things would just go right back to the way they were before.

And now, it might be too late.

The slave’s eyes widened in fear, then shock, then flashed with something Siyar couldn’t quite put a name to until she straightened up in alarm. For a moment, he thought it was all done, thought that the slave would scream, beg, plead, or otherwise alert the Defiled nearby, but to his surprise, the woman didn’t utter a peep. Instead, she raised both hands to show seven fingers, which were all she had as the rest had been sheared off, and none too cleanly at that. Then, she closed her hands into fists before showing five more fingers, again using both hands. All this was followed by a gesture pointing downstairs to indicate a total of twelve Defiled, as well as a cautionary, ‘back up’ sort of motion as if to say that the time was not yet right. Going against his every instinct, Siyar followed her prompting and backed away from the stairs, which earned him a knowing nod. As the woman limped forward to follow them deeper into the inn, Siyar winced at the noise her club-footed steps made, but the Defiled didn’t raise a fuss which meant they were still in the clear.

Following the woman’s silent directions, Siyar and his soldiers retreated to the furthest room on the third floor where they stood awkwardly around a bunch of sleeping slaves. His squad was doing something right since they had yet to wake anyone, but part of that was due to how exhausted the slaves truly were. Only once they were all settled in did the Western woman dare speak, in no more than a faint whisper. “The shift change be soon,” she croaked, her voice raspy and ruined in a way that was in no way natural. “If you wait but a few minutes more, it will be hours before anyone comes to check on the guards below.”

Something Siyar should’ve thought of himself, but then again, he wasn’t sure if the guards and slaves changed shifts at the same time. “Won’t do you a lick of good, now will it?” Siyar replied, even though he knew he shouldn’t engage.

“What is one more shift in the mines after so many?” The woman shrugged, and her ragged and bloodied wrappings slipped aside to reveal an old wound on her shoulder, a missing chunk of flesh that’d been torn out in an irregular pattern. Teeth marks, he realized, which was what happened to the woman’s fingers as well, not cut off, but eaten, which was somehow just so much worse. In spite of her horrific injuries, the woman’s gaze hardened in grim determination as she added, “And with pick and shovels in hand, perhaps we can be of service. Need you a distraction to do your work?”

“No.” That’d only see them dead all the faster, though Siyar was of the opinion that a slave rebellion might just be the distraction they needed to lure Bai Qi out of Concealment. “I just need to get to the cellar, while you need to keep quiet and go about your business. No more, no less.”

“Understood, Great One.” The woman offered her best rendition of a military salute, and Siyar couldn’t help but return one in kind. “The West still resists.”

“That you do, friend, that you do.” Meeting her eyes, Siyar went against his better judgment and said, “I’m Siyar of Sanshu. Yer name?”

“This one be Winoa, Great One.”

“No more of that now. You’re no Warrior, but you’re a fighter for sure, and that means you call me Siyar.”

“Yes... Siyar.”

A ghost of a smile flashed across her sunken features, and Siyar’s heart sank to see it. “Now listen here. You keep your head down, Winoa, you hear me?” He’d already said too much when he mentioned the cellar, but he had to be sure she would listen. “Don’t you do nothing stupid, got it? You go to the mines, you do what you normally do, nothing more, nothing less. All you need to do is survive.”

“By your will, Siyar.”

Despite her agreement, he could see she wasn’t so easily swayed, but there was nothing more he could do about it. “Just... survive. Be safe. The West has resisted long enough. Time for others to pick up the slack.” Damn it, any more and he was going to give away the entire plan, but thankfully, Winoa asked no questions. Instead, she woke the sleeping slaves in the room and ushered them out quietly before they had a chance to speak to Siyar and his soldiers, but every last one of them bowed or saluted as they passed. With nothing else to do besides stand there, Siyar returned their greetings as best he could, then waited as the Defiled started shouting and the slaves filed out of the inn to make room for the next shift to sleep.

When it came time to move out, the Defiled were none too gentle with Winoa and her ilk, and as Siyar stood and listened to the abuse they heaped upon the poor people of the West, it took every bit of self control he had not to charge down there and kill every last Defiled in sight. Instead, he counted his breaths and waited as Winoa’s people left and a new group of slaves arrived to lay their weary heads to rest. These ones took Siyar’s presence in stride as easily as Winoa, merely acknowledging them without making a scene which spoke volumes to their grit and proved the bossman right. The Father had no hold over the hearts of the valiant, and slaves and commoners though they might be, Siyar had never seen anyone more valiant than the people of the West.

“The West still resists,” he whispered, offering everyone a salute as he led his soldiers out to do what they’d come here to do. Sprinting down the stairs without so much as a creak, Siyar threw himself at the gathered Defiled and struck before they even knew their foes were upon them. His Spiritual Sword sang and his daggers flashed through the air as the world blurred around him in a haze of blood and gore. There was no burning fury, no mindless rage, only cold, violent wrath come to exact vengeance upon the Enemy. Death was too kind to them, but he delivered to his foes nonetheless, because to do less would only bring the Westerners more pain and suffering. Though he was not wholly confident the Imperial Army would succeed here today, when the last body fell and Siyar’s bloody work done, there were twelve Defiled who would never raise a hand against the West ever again, which was better than nothing.

“Fuckin’ hell... ye did all this without makin’ a peep?”

Ronga’s whispered exclamation sounded off like a cannon in Siyar’s ears as he returned to his senses once more. His soldiers were still on the stairs, watching him with wide-eyed respect and more than a little fear, but Siyar wasn’t one to preen. “Daylight’s burning,” he hissed, flicking his sword clean of blood before retrieving his thrown daggers, each one embedded in the throat or eye of a Defiled tribesman. Now that was some fine throwing, except he didn’t remember how it all went down, or how he managed to kill twelve tribesmen on his own without his soldiers hearing it. That didn’t matter though, because Siyar had a mission to complete and a burning desire to kill more Defiled. As his soldiers did what they could to clean up the carnage and keep watch on their surroundings, Siyar brought Ronga down into the cellar and started knocking on the walls and listening for a response. When one finally came, he waited to the count of three before driving his Honed sword into the wall, while Ronga did the same a few metres away. Eager as he was to get on with the bloodshed, Siyar still took it slow and steady so as not to make too much noise, and soon enough, he and the people on the other side had opened up a hole in the wall large enough for everyone to come through.

Clasping his fist in a military salute, Siyar greeted the Officer who stepped through. “Welcome to Pan Xi Sing, Major Zian,” he whispered, eager to move onto the next phase. “The building is secure and my men are watching the streets. The slaves upstairs are aware of our presence, but they have yet to give us away.”

“Not ideal, but we work with what we’re given.” Striding out in his Runic Armour and looking like a true Dragon among men, the noble young hero marched out into the cellar with his zealous soldiers behind him. “In your opinion, will the enslaved westerners prove a hindrance to our plans?”

“Depends.” Struggling to decide what to say, Siyar settled on the truth. “They’re burning for a fight, I’ll say that much. When the bloodshed starts, I wouldn’t count on them following orders and leaving through the tunnels, not if they see a chance to pay back what’s owed.”

“All we can do is offer them the choice,” Major Zian replied, sounding far more mature than his years. “If they choose to fight, then who are we to deny them the opportunity? Is that clear?”

For a moment, Siyar thought the Major was talking to him, and he had no idea why he felt the need to clarify, but then, an old man appeared out of thin air, one wearing robes bearing the Situ sigil. A Peak Expert then, but one with a foot in the grave, his face half slack as if he’d suffered a stroke and a back so hunched his shoulders were almost higher than his head. “Yes yes, I’ll refrain from heavy handed tactics to drive the slaves into the tunnels. I’ll lose no sleep over Defiled killing Defiled.”

“They ain’t Defiled.” As the old man turned his full attention upon Siyar, he suddenly didn’t seem all that old anymore, but it was too late to back down now. “They’re citizens of the Empire,” Siyar insisted, matching the old man’s glare with his blackest stare. “After all they been through, they deserve that much at least.”

For long seconds, the old man said nothing, but then the slackness in his face disappeared as he straightened his back and stretched. “Oh how far the clan has fallen,” the old man said, huffing a sad sigh as he completed his transformation that somehow left him looking exactly the same, but stronger and more vital, a Warrior through and through. “When even a damned bandit dares show such disrespect before I, Situ Chi Gan.” Drawing a longsword from the scabbard slung across his back, one Siyar hadn’t noticed until now, Chi Gan brandished it casually about in a fierce and precise pattern that came dangerously close to Siyar’s neck. “But,” the elder added, before Siyar had time to decide if he wanted to kill the old man or appease him, “I suppose you are correct. The people of the West have done well to endure this long, so perhaps their continued survival will not lead to the Empire’s doom as I feared.”

