The stifling darkness of the pitch-black mines was unsettling to most, but Siyar felt right at home in the tunnels under Pan Si Xing.

Arm outstretched and fingers brushing against the bedrock walls, he followed the tunnel due west without so much as a whisper. The same could not be said for the six idiots following closely behind. They thought themselves quiet and stealthy, but they might as well have been clanging pots and screaming bloody murder for all the noise they were making. To Siyar’s vision-sealed senses, their every breath and shuffle rang so loudly in his ears he wondered how it was possible the Enemy had yet to descend upon them with blades drawn. The thud of their boots on hard stone underfoot echoed along the shaft walls in time with the rustle of their pant legs scraping against one another as they moved, all to the beat of the clapping scabbards, creaking leathers, clacking crossbows, and clicking bolts. All problems that were easily fixed mind you, as all you had to do was shift your scabbard, wear better fitted pants, oil your leathers, cradle your crossbow, and line your quiver with a folded up cloth, but these blockheads couldn’t even be bothered to stifle their breathing instead of huffing and puffing up a storm. The last part wasn’t entirely their fault, as the stale air and rock dust was irritating to say the least, but the same face coverings that protected them from the blowing desert sands proved useful here, provided his soldiers were smart enough to use them.

His soldiers. Siyar didn’t much like that, not at all, because it burdened him with obligation and responsibilities he’d spent his whole life avoiding. Some men went to great lengths to seize the reins of command, mostly so they could lord themselves over others and feel better about themselves, but he never saw the appeal. Too much work having to tell idiots what to do, like trying to wrangle hogs out of the mud except people were usually dumber. Least hogs knew enough to keep quiet when danger reared its head, but these particular idiots were acting like they wanted the whole city to know they were coming. Stealth specialists is what they called themselves, which would be worth a laugh if Siyar wasn’t stuck right in the middle of them. This was the Legate’s idea, tasking Siyar with the burden of training other soldiers to be quiet and stealthy like him. An impossible demand, because there was no one like him, else he wouldn’t be the best at what he did, but there was no explaining that to the half-rat. “I’m not asking for miracles,” was the Legate’s response to Siyar’s well-reasoned refusal to his ridiculous demand. “Just train them until they’re good enough to sneak past the Khishig guards.”

As if that were so easy. Even Siyar had to work at it to avoid most Khishigs’ notice, as keen a bunch as any, but that’s what mountain life did to you. Out in the wilds, it was the danger you don’t see that gets you, a lesson the Khishigs learned well else they wouldn’t have made it this far in life. He’d have given his left arm for a Bekkie or two here with him, but they were more useful as light cavalry in the grand scheme of things, and Jorani wasn’t so terrible a commander as to waste them. Huntsmen from the Protectorate would’ve been Siyar’s second choice, but they were skilled archers who also couldn’t be spared, leaving Siyar to choose from the best of a rotten bunch of farmers and street rats. The only consolation was knowing that the murderous bastard Ravil had a similar lack of success imparting his sneaking skills to the soldiers assigned him, who were now off in a different mine shaft with their own objective to complete. Teaching was just so much harder than Siyar thought it’d be, because so much of what he did came as second nature, but when he sat down to write out everything his students needed to know, the list went on and on and on. Things like how to walk on the balls of your feet without straining your calves and keeping your focus wide instead of fixating on your target. Kid’s stuff really, but somehow, even former sneak thieves like Jinoe and Ronga didn’t have the knack for it, leaving Siyar wondering how they survived to adulthood with both hands intact.

He’d seen more skilled thieves lose fingers for less, which just went to show how unfair the Heavens truly were. Better lucky than skilled, that’s what Light-Fingered Yu used to say, right up until his luck ran out while fighting Butchers in Sanshu. A damn shame too, because he would’ve made for a better teacher than Siyar. The man could cut a throat and walk away clean before anyone knew what was happening, the target included, but more importantly, he was a silver-tongued devil who knew how to get his point across without needing to yell. He’d have had these soldiers dancing to his tune right quick instead of stumbling along like a herd of drunkards lost in the city streets, but that’s just the way things worked out sometimes. It wasn’t always the better or more skilled or smarter man who survived to the end, because life was a gamble and sometimes, the dice just refused to roll your way.

That’s how it felt in recent months at least, ever since the Legate tapped Siyar for increased responsibilities. He’d rather risk his neck sneaking into Shuai Jiao’s kitchen each and every day than have to deal with the burdens of command, but the Legate was not an easy man to say no to. Not because he’d string you up and punish you for refusing, or twist your arm and remind you how much you owed him, but the opposite really. Had Siyar turned him down, then Falling Rain would’ve sighed and accepted it without saying another word, except maybe to ask for a suggestion regarding a replacement. Thing was, Siyar knew this, and he also knew there was no one else who could teach those soldiers. Too much of what the Bekkies did was ingrained into their culture, the culmination of centuries of experience living out in the wilds, so it wasn’t always applicable in cities and plains. They were a right sneaky bunch alright, but they only knew how to stay hidden, whereas Siyar was an expert at moving unseen even when walking in plain sight. It might seem similar on the surface, but the two skills were anything but, so Siyar took the bossman’s offer despite his better judgment because what other choice did he have?

Somewhere along the way, the scrawny, piss-eyed little upstart had earned Siyar’s respect, and damn it if he didn’t hate the runt for it.

The change in Siyar’s surroundings was so subtle he doubted anyone else noticed it, but he felt it so keenly he could pinpoint the exact moment when he moved from mine shaft to underground passage. A difference without distinction, some might say, but they’d be wrong and stupid to boot, because it made all the difference in the world. A mine shaft was for working, which meant it followed the ore veins and nothing else, while an underground passage was made specifically to get from one point to another. The walls straightened, the floors were smoothed, the air moved faster due to better ventilation, all of which meant that they were getting close to their destination. Without slowing his pace, he turned to get a better sense of how close his soldiers were behind him, the answer to which was not close enough. The darkness made them anxious, and their anxiety made them stupid and slow, having forgotten all the lessons he’d tried to drill into their heads. “Tsttt,” he hissed, soft as a fluttering eyelash, but to his credit, his soldiers froze in place with only a bare minimum of quiet collisions. Still enough to give them away if there were Defiled abound, which was why he’d done it here and now when there was still minimal risk of discovery. Wishing he’d picked up the bossman’s trick of Sending to multiple people, Siyar turned to his soldiers and whispered, “We’re out of the mines and into the city proper.” Or would be soon enough, but if they couldn’t tell that just yet, then all the more reason they should be more careful. “You all know the plan, so stay tight and stay quiet.”

He could hear the idiots nodding like chickens pecking grains, but Siyar’s talents didn’t extend to seeing in pitch black darkness. Even the Defiled needed clear skies to see at night, but these idiots seemed to think he could see clear as day down here through some magical means. They’d see just as much as he did, but what they didn’t do was pay any mind to their other senses, ones which gave almost as much information as their eyes did in full light. Siyar had taught them all the tricks he could, like moving your feet in semi-circles when walking to sweep for obstacles and counting to hear how far the echoes carried and how long between each interval, but he might as well have been describing colour to the blind. Using the wall to orient himself facing forward once more, Siyar tensed up as Ronga, the soldier directly behind him, blindly groped at his back before looping two fingers into his belt, which was one more than he needed. He hated having to do this, but if he had to lead the blind, then he had to make sure they did it quietly, because everything was fucked if they were discovered before reaching their target. Not entirely true, but close enough for his tastes, as they would need every advantage they could get if they wanted to succeed. Taking Bai Qi’s head would be a real prize indeed, and Siyar was mildly irked no one came to offer him the job. Some of the most famous killers had tried and failed to assassinate Bai Qi, and Siyar was curious how his skills measured up, though any assassin whose name was well known couldn’t be all that good at their job, seeing as how the work was so much easier when you had anonymity to rely on. MuYang knew that well enough, though that man was a damned master of the craft, so good even Siyar had trouble keeping track of him in a crowd. It wasn’t a fair comparison though, as the spymaster admitted that most of his skills relied on a prodigious use of Concealment, which was why he saw value in Siyar’s teachings. It was a strange feeling, instructing Peak Experts and religious fanatics alongside lowly rank and file soldiers, but they were idiots all the same once you took away their Chi. That being said, an idiot of a Peak Expert was still a Peak Expert, and he would’ve loved to have a few in his pocket for this mission, but MuYang and his ilk were off doing their own thing elsewhere.

Soon as Siyar figured out External Chi, Concealment was gonna be the first skill he worked on, sure as sure, but until such a time, he’d just have to be sneakier than the opposition.

A double tug on his belt told Siyar that Ronga was ready to set out, a signal he wouldn’t have given before receiving the same signal from the man behind him, and so on and so forth. Moving out with right foot first, Siyar set out at a slow and steady pace and kept to it while everyone else struggled to match him, which was a little like trying to pick out an individual bird call amidst a symphony of squawking. It only took ten steps for them to fall into the right rhythm, but for Siyar, those ten steps took more mental effort than carrying on a conversation with Kimi for a day and a night, which was really saying something. The woman used to hate talking, which was one of the things Siyar liked about her most, a no-nonsense sort of girl who knew what she wanted and didn’t dance around the subject, but that changed somewhere along the way and now she couldn’t stop talking. Not that he minded it all that much, since she had a devilish voice he liked knowing more about her, like where she’d come from and how she got here. The girl still had family in Sanshu, a mother and two sisters, and she’d been hinting at heading back to see them after all this was said and done. Why she was being so shy about it, Siyar couldn’t say, but she always mentioned going back without ever making any plans, and it always led to a lull in the conversation as if she expected something from him. He’d tried encouraging her to go and asking if she needed a loan or anything, but that only made her angry, which made about as much sense as trying to get milk from a bull.

Madness is what it was, but that was nothing compared to the fact that he was glad Kimi still stuck around after it all. He’d gone full domestic now, which wasn’t the worst thing in the world, but not something he’d ever have expected from himself. A part of him wished she were here by his side right now, but she wasn’t one for sneaking. Had a vicious right swing though, and handled her spear like a real noble now, with all the twirls and flourishes you’d expect. In a straight up match without Aura, she’d clean him out right quick, but that was about to be expected given how little he cared for fighting fair. That was just stupid, taking even odds against death, but the world was filled with idiots. Hell, Siyar had hitched his wagon to maybe the biggest idiot of them all if this was the metric to measure by, but Falling Rain had his Path, and Siyar had his.

The right tool for the right job, is how Brigadier Hongji put it when he filled the vanguard in on the plan, which was fitting indeed, because they needed killing to be done quietly, which was right up Siyar’s alley.

