“I HAVE DONE EVERYTHING TO STOP THE DEMON KING. DO YOU NOT UNDERSTAND WHAT HE HAS PLANNED FOR DEMONKIND?”

“And what’s wrong with Regnorex’s plan, huh?”

I challenged Belzu, baring my teeth. I approached his hulking figure without fear.

“I dislike Regnorex’s plan because he’ll endanger my companions. But what about you? What do you have against this merger?”

And the illusion froze. I eyed the giant insect as it hovered over there without buzzing its wings. A smile crept across my face, and I tilted my head.

“Surely you have an answer, don’t you, Belzu? Or maybe… I am right. Maybe you are wild.”

At my taunting, the illusion broke free from its frozen state. The giant insect came diving down at me as I stood steadfast.

“THE DEMON KING’S PLAN WILL RUIN DEMONKIND! HE WISHES FOR US TO GIVE UP WHAT MAKES US DEMON! HE WISHES FOR US TO LIVE LIKE MERE… MORTALS!”

And the massive apparition of Belzu crashed straight into me. But I didn’t flinch, even as his figure exploded into a billion buzzing insects. Locusts, roaches, spiders— they swarmed over me. I was thrust into a sea of pestilence. It overwhelmed my senses. But it did not harm me.

So I closed my eyes. I tuned out my hearing. The world grew eerily silent around me, and I was once again submerged in nothingness. However, this time, I did so willingly. The creeping feeling of insects crawling all over my body faded away. I had mastered control of what I perceived thanks to [Manifestation of the Old Gods].

Belzu’s illusions wouldn’t bother me. I understood he was just trying to delay me. I tried to see through my spatial senses, but my vision was distorted by the warping of space by the summoning ritual. No sight. No hearing. No smell. No touch. No taste. No magic.

I just walked forward anyway, unable to perceive anything. And [Angelic Premonition] guided my actions.

“You’re right. The world of mortals is unlike our own. The world of mortals rejects us. The world of mortals despises us for simply existing. But so does our world! So does the Netherworld!”

I spoke, but I couldn’t hear my voice. I took a step, and lowered my head. A deluge of chittering magical insects flew over me. When it dissipated, I continued.

“The Netherworld is cruel. It is teeming with wild Demons that want to tear us apart. If we can somehow escape that life, wouldn’t it be for the better?”

I moved, even while lost in my own head. I sidestepped a falling boulder, and I thought of the others. Even now, I recalled what they looked like. Each and every single one of them. Every little detail of their bodies. I recalled it all.

An Infant Demon with a pair of antennae. An Infant Demon with light blue skin. An Infant Demon with large brown eyes….

An Infant Demon with a single eye. One of the highest-leveled of them all. He had abandoned us when we met the large Demon, only to be killed by Simag at that valley for daring to flee.

An Infant Demon with little nub-like limbs. She had been the kindest to me, waiting for me when I was lost. She had extended me companionship, even when I didn’t know what that meant yet. As brief as it was, perhaps I wouldn’t be who I was now if I hadn’t met her, and the memory of her being crushed by the large Demon was still as vivid as ever today.

Finally, I recalled an Infant Demon with black and yellow spots. He had been there with the others, but I only reunited with him after I learned magic. I saved his life, and he had followed me for it. He became my first companion.

Haec.

We went through so much together. It seemed like so long ago, but even if the memory was distant, it remained close to my heart. He was the reason for everything I did in the Mortal Realm. It was all so I could get back to him.

And I wanted to get back to him so I could bring him back here.

“The world of mortals is beautiful…”

I continued walking, speaking in a trace. It was like I was ascending a set of steps. I rose above a pulse of curse magic and let my scythe dissipate.

I remembered my very first day in the Mortal Realm. I remembered wondering why the sky was blue, and I remembered watching in awe as butterflies fluttered peacefully around me. Not everything here wanted to kill me. Sure, I had fought against Dark Wolves and angry Humans, but I had also met friendly wolves and watched crawling caterpillars. I made plenty of companions here in the Mortal Realm.

I gritted my teeth and came to a halt. I leaned back, and something just barely brushed by my cheeks. I took in a deep breath, before exclaiming as I snapped my eyes open.

“So what is wrong with living in the world of mortals?”

And I thrust a hand forward, tearing through the illusion. I pierced through the veil with the tip of my fingers. The darkness around me collapsed like broken glass, and a warm liquid poured down my arm.

I looked up and saw Belzu right before me. We were both standing atop the domed roof the Demon King’s castle. He had his back against the wall, and his clawed hands were but an inch over my head. He had swung for my head and missed. But I stabbed him in the chest, and I didn’t miss.

There was no scythe here. No flaming magic. No artifacts. Nothing. I impaled Belzu with my right arm alone. And I drew back.

“I win.”

Why was Belzu against the Demon King’s plan?

When the Lord of Lies had first heard of it, he had been outraged. He was a measly Greater Demon who only cared for his own survival. He had lived for so long in inaction, watching as Genesis repeated itself again and again. He was beholden to his own terrors. A slave to his nightmares. And yet, he was more than happy to embrace these shackles.

After all, they were his very own shackles he had placed upon himself. They weren’t the collars of the Demon King which he had worked so hard to avoid. And he was more than happy to remain in bondage to his own fears… until his anger had emancipated him.

But what was wrong with Regnorex’s ambitions? How did it drive him so greatly?

The Demon King wanted to bring Demonkind to the Mortal Realm. He had said the Netherworld was too harsh and cruel— he had promised a better life for all Demons if they followed him. And Belzu found it ridiculous.

But why was it ridiculous? If Belzu didn’t have to live in constant fear of dying, his life would have been vastly improved.

However, it was the fact that he had already lived through such a grueling struggle of a life that upsetted him. Because it was what made him a Demon. Or… so he thought.

Belzu once again recalled his sister. His savior. He remembered the way she had acted. And it wasn’t just her, but the other Infant Demons with them too. Their brothers and sisters. None of them were bloodthirsty. They weren’t rugged and cruel creatures who only thought for themselves.

They were innocent creatures. Kind and social. And most of all, they were all Demons.

Back then, none of them had experienced the true terror of the Desolation just yet. They were completely unsuspecting of what was to come. But that didn’t change the fact that they were just as much Demons as Belzu.

So his opposition to the Demon King’s plans were never about being a Demon in the first place. It was a lie the Lord of Lies told himself so he could rise to the occasion and challenge the greatest power of the Netherworld. But the truth was, he was upset that he was never given such a better life in the first place.

Because it was unfair to him.

And if he couldn’t have it, then no one else could have it. That was his drive. His goal. And he finally realized it as he sighed.

“So once again, I was but a slave to my own desires.”

Belzu closed his eyes as Salvos drew back. A gaping hole was left in his chest. He felt the black blood pouring out, and he crumpled to the ground. He lay there, dying as Salvos shook her head.

“There is so much in the Mortal Realm for me to explore. I have yet to see the full extent of the Kobold lands. I haven’t even visited the rainforests of the Elves. I want to fly to the Endlands. I want to meet a Dragon one day.”

She spoke wistfully as the world rumbled and tore around her. Belzu hardly even reacted. He just stared at her as his body went numb.

“And that is why I will stop Regnorex’s plans. Not for the sake of Demonkind, nor for the sake of Humankind.”

“But for your own sake.”

Belzu spoke, and Salvos paused. He eyed her as his vision blurred. He could barely keep his bulbous eyes open. He just watched as she glanced down at the summoning ritual. The spell circle was growing brighter than ever, although the reflective image of Regnorex and his army had vanished.

And she looked back up to meet Belzu’s gaze.

“For my sake, yes. And for my companions.”

He stared at her for a moment, before chuckling with his clicking mandibles.

“In the end, we are not so different.”

“But we are.”

Salvos replied in an instant. Belzu mustered up the strength to shake his head.

“We are both beholden to our desires. You will ruin the only chance of a better life for all Demonkind for your own sake. So we are but the same.”

“And yet, I am Salvos, while you are Belzu.”

She spoke over him as if that was a rebuttal. It was ridiculous. But Belzu knew what she meant. He understood the distinction between them. In acting for her own sake, Salvos would act for the sake of others. Whether it be her companions, all of Humankind, or some baby Wyverns. She fought for them because she cared for them, and that was ultimately a selfish thing.

The same could be said for the Demon King. His grand design was not for himself, but for all of Demonkind. And that was why both Salvos and Regnorex were going to inadvertently clash.

But Belzu’s selfishness was limited only to himself. In acting for himself, the Lord of Lies would act to the detriment of others. There was no one else in his schemes. Only he would benefit, while others would suffer.

Closing his eyes, Belzu wondered if he had ever done something for the sake of others.

And he remembered.

It had happened so long ago. He must have forgotten the truth. All this time, he must have lied to himself. But now, the buried memories resurfaced, and his oldest memory was breathed with new life.

Belzu hesitated as he heard the approaching [Hellhound]. He knew it would soon arrive. Its footfalls drew closer, and he made his decision.

He turned to his sister and met her gaze. He stared at her into her deep black eyes. She didn’t know what he was doing, and he didn’t know what he was doing either. He just moved. Belzu started forward, ready to sacrifice himself to the [Hellhound].

But he was stopped by a sudden movement. His sister got in the way and shook her head. Belzu’s eyes widened as he realized she knew what he was doing. And she wasn’t going to allow it. He was his sister. She was his savior. There was only one way for either of them to survive.

And he wasn’t going to let him be the one to die.

She leapt out of the alcove as the [Hellhound] snapped its gaze towards her. Belzu watched his sister edge up to cliff, and the [Hellhound] pounced. She fell back with the wild Demon as he let out a silent cry and rushed after her. But she was already tumbling down into the darkness as the [Hellhound] ripped into her side.

Belzu stared at his savior as she vanished down that hole. He watched as she nodded his way before finally disappearing into the eternal darkness, saving him once again.

“One final lie.”

Belzu whispered as he no longer could feel his body. He didn’t even know if Salvos was standing there over him anymore. He could no longer hear the roaring of the summoning ritual. He didn’t feel cold. He didn’t feel afraid. He felt nothing at all.

An all-encompassing darkness encroached on him, and the Lord of Lies let out a soft sigh.

“I do wonder… if this time… that was… the truth…”

Defeated [Hellprince of the Desolation - Lvl 168]!

More experience is awarded for defeating an enemy at least 10 levels above you!

Less experience is awarded for defeating an enemy with the help of others!
