Choices, choices… Delta just didn’t know which to pick.

“Nu, how’s my resources?” she asked and a dark blue screen appeared.

“You make the 1% of the world weep in envy.” Nu said bluntly.

“Fabulous,” Delta said and dragged her finger down the screen with one smooth motion.

---

Wyin looked up as she continued to peel dried honey off her branches.

“I sense a Delta-ning,” she muttered with wariness. Suddenly, her awareness began to spread and she saw some horrid looking statues that formed a spiritual bond to her power.

“So ugly they become cute,” Wyin mused with a blink. They must be some sort of dryad hag made to serve her!

Oh, the fun she would have with this.

---

Delta looked over the second floor, rubbing her arms to fight off the ache she felt.

“What the second floor is missing is a figure… a presence to urge them to hurry,” she muttered and snapped her fingers, shifting the sky from bright sun to a dark night.

“Second floor weather system:Make every hour shift the time forward. 6 hours of day and 6 of night. During the night, the first hour is a new moon and the sixth hour is a full moon. 40 Mana.”

Delta purchased it, and a moon formed above the jungle, tinged slightly red.

She went to the secret flower garden and opened her menu. It seemed Prim had been following her thought process, because several ideas were already waiting for her. Luna was nearby, collecting the herbs she needed for her springs.

“Oh?” the young frog said with a coy smile as she watched Delta work.

“Floor Guardian:Colors of the Bloody Wind: A wind elemental that is made up of a dozen toxic flower petals. It has no defined form but sometimes looks like a see-through fish. 200 Mana.

Big Hoop Bear: A monster bear that seems to move through the jungle without disturbing the trees. Those who have eaten honey in the last six hours will never be able to escape this bear’s nose. 200 Mana.

Boss Bunta: A 12-foot tall frog of demi-divine lineage. The combined skills of all the frogs on this floor become this warrior’s tools. To bring it forth requires all the frogs to truly embrace its myth and believe it. 200 Mana.”

Delta hummed but didn’t pick any.

“This is sort of tough,” she admitted, not able to just buy them all this time since it would only let her pick one.

She would have to consider each’s strength in relation to her current floor’s abilities already. Think of what she had and what she lacked.

Delta supposed she could ask the other monsters for opinions and-

“Random Floor Guardian. 250 mana.”

“Oh no, someone stop me,” Delta said in a very faint voice as her finger rose.

“I can stop you if you want?” Nu offered and Delta hit the red cross symbol at the corner of his screen.

“Shhh, no adulting. Only gambling,” she said with a soothing voice.

She hit the random option and waited with excitement. Before her, the flowers shifted and the winds picked up as above, the blood moon glowed ominously.

Before her, what looked like a very pale, but normal girl appeared in the midst of the flowers. Delta stared at her simple neck-length brown hair, scratchy-looking dress, and innocent expression.

“I got a child. I’m sure this is terrifying to most young adults, but I wanted firepower,” she called to the system. The blood moon shone once more and there came the sounds of tearing and fabrics ripping. Delta turned to see a maw filled with canine-like teeth belonging to a ten foot tall creature with white fur streaked with red lines, a dozen tails behind it whipping and lashing in a destructive manner as the glowing yellow eyes snapped to her.

It was hunched over, but clearly walked on two legs.

It let out a roar that was part shriek, part scream, sending a dozen petals flying into the air as it shook the jungle.

“I thought it was a pale moon that did this,” was all Delta could mutter.

“Haha, everyone’s in danger!” Luna clapped her hands in delight.

Lyre: Red Moon Beast: Floor Guardian.Only appears in the final hour under a full moon.This creature has simple goals and to feed off others fear and hunt the slow. Most of the time, she is just a normal looking girl who doesn’t think or do much but any ill-actions taken against her will be repaid double when she changes.

On higher difficulties, the full moon lasts all six hours.

The creature bent down to allow Delta to pet her. It was undeniable but when Delta looked into her eyes, she understood one thing.

“Not much going on, but you do your best,” she praised and the creature’s tails thumped.

This was helping, but she wondered how her ‘secondary core’ was getting on?

---

“Did you hear about the girl with three feet-”“Why did the chicken catch the bus-”“You have contracted Lig-”

Beta was sweating, ready to end it all as she tore through the spongy black mushroom flesh with her transformed claws. Every inch was a new layer of worse jokes. She was moving slow as the damn stuff was regenerating faster than she could cut it at times.

Before, it had even trapped her and she had to eat the foul stuff. It was the worst experience of her life and she had been dunked in a vinegar pond by evil dragon ducks the day before.

She paused to catch her breath as the flesh before her turned orange instead of black.

“Why should you never sing in the shower?” said a much clearer voice, a woman’s voice.

“Because if you get soap in your mouth it becomes a soap opera!” she laughed and Beta’s heart twisted painfully as if the voice meant something.

She pulled at the new layer and it was heavy, tough, and unyielding.

“It’s okay to be angry. You can be angry here. Your emotions are valid.”

“Shut up! I don’t know you! I don’t know anyone!” Beta screamed.

“It’s okay if you want to hate me. As a teacher, if it helps, I can bear that.”

Beta sagged and her energy felt spent, but for some reason the mushroom had stopped regenerating.

“I… don’t want to hate you. I don’t hate you. I just don’t remember why,” she whispered to the ground.

She tensed.

“And not remembering is pissing me off!” she roared and began to tear and rip. She would not be denied!

She would get to the heart of this thing. It called to her.

“I asked a dog what one minus one was. He said nothing.”

Also to murder the jokes.
