A dozen [Shadow Beam]s and a good fifty [Shadow Bolt]s descended from the shadowed air. Dust flew up, as a wash of Shadow Magic impacted hard dirt, making a noise like a sudden storm on a tin roof; there and gone. Jane cut her [Shadow Beam]s short; no need to let them go their full duration.

Jane watched as Kordon lost his smile, then said, “See? Just learn your Elemental Body better.” She waited for him to say something, and when he continued to stare with floating, ashy eyes, she turned to the audience. “Did you guys really think I was cheating this whole time?”

“It’s not a big deal.” “Yes.” “Well yeah.” “Yes.”

One man’s jaw dropped as his eyes bugged out at his fellow audience members. He shouted, “She didn’t cheat! Of all the ignorant—”

Everyone looked the man’s way.

The man stood up. He was a normal enough looking orcol man, maybe in his sixties, and wearing normal clothes. He said, “She lied about the three abilities she’s using, but if you ignorant children can’t figure out which one, then you don’t deserve to know.”

Jane could accept that. She gestured to the guy, saying, “Thank you!”

The man sat back down. Two other audience members instantly bothered him with questions, but he waved them off and went back to eating his caramel apple.

How had she not seen those apples until now? Did the store just open?

Jane turned back to Kordon. “Done whining?”

He frowned. He lost his frown. He went, “Huh.” And then he regarded Jane again, saying, “I guess I am. Apologies.”

Jane instantly unloaded a good two hundred [Shadow Bolts] at him.

“Apology accepted.”

Kordon’s ashy body went sailing out of the ring from the force of the condensed attack. When he landed, he rolled, his body turning from ash, to bleeding, bloody flesh. For the briefest of moments, he was conscious, and sitting on his ass. He glanced to Jane, said, “I deserved that,” and then his eyes rolled backward. He smacked the ground with a thud.

Jane was already at his side, casting [Greater Treat Wounds].

He didn’t get up till ten minutes later and under the care of the other healers on stand by, but by that time a different pair of would-be hunters were already in the ring, duking it out with fire and water, and in a much more normal way than Jane and Kordon had fought. Jane could have had that! If only some less excitable guy had challenged her— Wait. Where did Kordon go? She only looked away for a minute.

Ah. Whatever!

- - - -

Jane sat upon her bench, waiting for another challenger, but doubting that she’d get one. By now, word of her prowess had gotten around, and the few people who came her way all ended up veering off at the last minute, because they saw that everyone on the nearby benches were watching, and waiting. Some of the would-be new-friends even had the audacity to bow and call her ma’am, before finding someone else to fight!

Of all the chicken shit things to do!

“What the fuck.” Jane asked, “Why no more challengers?”

Teressa said, “There’s holding back for a fun duel, and then there’s being a punching rock.”

“Dammit all.” What was she gonna do now? She leaned over to Kiri, asking, “Got anything you want to do?”

“I’m already doing what I want to do with Sunny, out in the Forest.” Kiri spoke seriously, “That place is dangerous. Sunny’s already been popped a good ten times already.” The little ‘couatl’ on Kiri’s shoulders glittered green in response to her name. Kiri patted her, eliciting a minor riot of rainbow colors from the feathered snake.

Jane turned to her other side, to Teressa, asking, “How about you?”

“I’m already doing it, too.” Teressa said, “I’m [Scry]ing… I’m doing whatever. Don’t worry about me.”

For all her even tone, Jane could tell Teressa was hurting.

Jane asked no more; not wanting to get pulled into the slightly older woman’s tragedy. Sure, she could be there for her if Teressa asked, but she was not comfortable with putting herself out there like her father had when they first got to the hotel room. Even thinking back to what she overheard yesterday…

Jane cringed.

She knew it was silly. She knew Teressa had done right by her father, and therefore she should do right by Teressa. But Jane just couldn’t be that emotional kind of person. It wasn’t happening—

Kordon stepped into sight, looking contrite, with his tall friend at his side. But even better than knowing the guy was actually okay, was the fact that he had a bunch of caramel apples on sticks in one hand.

Jane whispered to herself, “Oh oh oh. What’s this?”

Kiri and Teressa whipped around to see what Jane was seeing.

Kordon and his friend walked toward Jane.

Jane smiled as he approached, saying, “You’re not dead of internal injuries somewhere, so that’s good!”

Kordon dispersed his subdued look, turning back into the hothead he was before, saying, “Of course not! I have healing spells too!”

Jane teased, “Are you sure you’re using them right? Don’t want to end up with accidental bones in your body, or an extra spleen.”

Kiri mumbled, “Honestly, Jane.”

Teressa smiled.

The very second he got close enough, Kordon shoved the caramel apples toward Jane, saying, “Here! As agreed!”

Teressa teased, “You should [Cleanse] those. He could be trying to poison you before a rematch.”

“I would never!” Kordon squeaked.

Kiri got into the spirit, saying, “You stopped the fight halfway through because of suspected cheating. Could just be a strategy.”

“That’s right!” Teressa added, “You’re still technically in your first fight because that was only one ‘down’ out of three.”

Jane laughed.

Kordon shoved the caramel apples at her, again. “You won, alright! Take your prize!”

Jane happily took the apples, saying, “Thank you very much, Kordon.”

Kordon instantly turned demure. Standing there, wearing just a kilt and some boots and being three meters tall with enough muscles to put human bodybuilders to shame, lessened the effect, a bit. But Jane was sure she saw the man blush. And then Kordon steeled himself, and asked, “Would you three ladies like to Hunt together, tonight? So far it’s just me and my friend Gweko here.”

Jane asked the other ‘ladies’, “I’m game if you two are.”

Kiri said, “I don’t want to actually hunt.”

“I’m going!” Teressa happily said, “Sounds great.”

Jane had been hoping that she could get Teressa to come out to the hunt, but until this moment, the woman had been waffling on actually joining the Celebration Hunt. Her newfound enthusiasm was welcomed, though. Jane might not have been willing to be there when the woman went to visit the graves of her family, but this? Jane could be there for this.

Jane happily said, “We two would love to go on a hunt with you two.” She flicked a [Cleanse] at the apples. Nothing happened, except Kordon frowned, and his friend, Gweko, laughed. Jane said, “So let’s have fun, okay!” as she handed the caramel apples out to Kiri, Teressa, and back to Kordon and his friend, saving one for herself, of course.

She bit into it—

Ohhh. She had been right! They looked good, and they were good.

Kiri spoke up, “But what’s happening until the hunt?”

Kordon’s friend said, “Beer?”

Jane agreed, “Beer.”

“Then this is where I sign off.” Kiri got up from the bench, saying, “I’m going back to the hotel room to take a nap. See you kids later!”

Teressa scoffed, “You’re the youngest one here.”

“Coulda fooled me!” Kiri said, walking away, waving her caramel apple as she went.

- - - -

Kiri tossed the caramel apple stick into the trashcan on the street corner, and then she paused. To the right was the road leading back to the Holy O’kabil. To the left…

She looked to the left, toward Arbor Redarrow. The massive tree loomed above a district of volcanic-rock buildings, looking like a copse of grey-barked trees, fifteen in all, with a shared canopy of red clouds, atop a land of black. It was quite an elegant sight, in Kiri’s mind, which was appropriate, since Redarrow’s District was home to the Old Dragonkin Expedition Center. The largest repository of ancient dragonkin knowledge anywhere on Veird.

It would also be appropriate to say that the ODEC was the largest repository of Old Dragonkin history anywhere in the known universe.

… And wasn’t that a thought. ‘In the known universe’. Wow. The enormity of that fact had never touched upon her until that moment. Some things were just too big to think about until you actually considered them.

Kiri sharpened a talon against a talon, absentmindedly, as her thoughts drifted.

And then she headed left, toward Redarrow’s District.

- - - -

Giant black buildings reminded Kiri of what she had seen of Candlepoint, and gave her ideas of what Candlepoint might look like if given a few undisturbed centuries to grow. But everything here was sized for orcols, and orcol-heritage dragonkin, like that son of Erick’s friend, Al… Savral! That was his name. That guy was huge. As Kiri looked around, she mentally added, ‘Not as big as these guys, though.’

Kiri didn’t know what she expected, walking into this district, but she certainly didn’t expect to continue to feel small.

… Maybe it was just nerves, making her feel small.

Ever since Erick had walked out of Ar’Kendrithyst, Kiri had felt odd. Half the time, she felt as though a weight she didn’t know she had been holding, was suddenly gone. The other half of the time she considered the Absolute Vacuum of the Void Beyond the Script, and wasn’t that just terrifying in a whole new way. The AV and the VBS were just sometimes-frights, though. There were many others beyond that one. Like the fact that every shadow on Veird contained Melemizargo. Or that without a Domain she could and likely would be crushed in an instant, considering what Erick got up to when he wasn’t changing how the world viewed magic.

The Holy O’kabil had just walked into Erick’s [Prismatic Ward], without a care. Now that was an interesting expression of a Domain’s power. And then there was the fact that the Holy O’kabil was able to project a body outside of her own body, which was interesting enough to make Kiri reevaluate what she knew about [Familiar]s and magic. As thoughts turned into more thoughts, and Kiri felt on the precipice of a descent into Underworld madness…

She found herself at the Old Dragonkin Expedition Center well before she was ready to walk in. So she sat down across the street at a public garden full of lights and smaller red trees to watch the crowd, and to think.

The ODEC was a primary part of Redarrow’s District, situated directly below the outer boughs of the Arbor’s main grove, and composing over half of the center buildings. The other half of those central buildings were private spaces which were blocked to the public, but which housed the people who worked here at the ODEC, and the people in charge of the Redarrow Tribe.

Chieftains? Was that what they had? Kiri couldn’t quite remember.

It was either Chieftains or Patriarchs (or Matriarchs), one of the two.

The Old Dragonkin Expedition Center was a massive edifice of black stone that looked as though it had been chipped out of obsidian, with hard edges everywhere and shiny surfaces between. Kiri knew that most of that was just lightward coloring and one-way glass, but the effect was beautiful to see. The main archway of the building led directly to the main museum, and Kiri wanted to go in, but then she saw the sign hanging over the door, and everything changed.

The time and tragedy of Ika-lan! A land of revived gods and nascent imperialism!

On loan from Tower Town.

Now on display in the traveling wing!

She didn’t want to go in.

Bad memories surfaced, and it was suddenly as though all the growth she had done as a person was laid low, and all her old hatreds resurfaced. She thought of the nobility of Tower Town, and the institutional bullying, and the boot on the neck of every dragonkin back home. How that one idiot shitstain of a noble’s son used to talk about how ‘all dragonkin are good for is wyrm food’. Kiri didn’t even want to think of his name, but it came to her anyway. Teddric Watfield.

Fuck that guy.

Fuck the Greensoil Republic, too.

And fuck her ancestors for dying and leaving this world a mess for all the dragonkin to come.

She was having irrational thoughts again. Her ‘ancestors’ were not the Old Dragonkin. Those assholes weren’t responsible for their own deaths. Kiri’s ‘ancestors’ were the bastard sons and daughters of dragons that couldn’t keep their dicks and cunts to themselves, after the Old Dragonkin were all dead.

Fucking dragons! Those ‘people’ are the real problem. They spawned children the world over, then left their ‘weak’ halfbreeds behind when they ‘couldn’t keep up’ with their fathers or mothers! It was their actions that forced their abandoned children to live like second class citizens the world over, because not only could they not keep their genitals in their pants, but they couldn’t keep from going to war with one another if they ever met another dragon on the street, either!

All the problems of dragonkin were connected. But one of the main one was that there was no ‘dragonkin country’ on Veird, for the only times anyone had tried to make one, it was out of the children of other nations, and those other nations always got involved to destroy those nascent dragonkin countries from the inside out, or through total war. The rest of the time those dragon parents came along, and then they met other dragons, and proceeded to do what dragons did: cause destruction.

Fucking city states dying to fucking terrible shit…

That was another problem!

