He had searched out ‘Moon Reacher’ and ‘Wyrm’, though, and after a quick check in with O’kabil, he ended those threats before they could become much of a danger to anyone in any of the hunts on this night. Jane and Teressa’s Celebration Hunt was only one of a thousand Hunts going on all around Treehome, and while a good ten-thousand monsters would fall to the raging —but not Raging!— horde, no one wanted the more dangerous monsters to upset anyone’s lives.

Erick allowed himself this much hovering.

O’kabil, in her aristocrat-ish orcol form, frowned, as she spoke from her seat beside Erick, “I did not imagine that we had Moon Reachers that close to the city.”

Erick sipped his tea, savoring the flavor of Soul Palm Balm, then casually, but very much not, asked, “Want me to scan all of the Forest for them? If you have some agents up to the task, we could exterminate them tonight.”

“… Though I want to say ‘yes’, I am hesitant, for though the Moon Reachers are a terrible monster, they also kill other terrible monsters, and removing predators from an ecosystem can cause vast and unknown harm.” O’kabil paused. She thought, then she said, “I and my fellow Arbors will consider your offer and give you an answer in a day, after we have had a chance to speak to experts in the field that might offer useful perspectives. I suspect that our answer will be ‘yes’.”

Erick admitted, “It would likely take several days to find and cull them all, anyway, and my daughter would want to be involved.”

O’kabil sat straight, her eyes falling upon Erick like a merchant deciding whether or not to buy the offered goods. Erick sipped his tea, and waited for her to speak.

Eventually, she asked, “How much will this service cost us?”

“Room and board for a week.”

O’kabil narrowed her eyes. “Again, you ask too little. Do you not value yourself? Or do you think us paupers?”

“Oh please.” Erick mocked her expression with one of his own that was decidedly more sarcastic. “I want them dead, too. If they’re gone, then that would make the Forest that much easier to explore when I decide to get out there and find those old Gates.”

“If you think Moon Reachers are one of the more dangerous monsters out there, then you are in for a dangerous awaking.” O’kabil said, “There’s Twisted Visions. Deathsoul shrooms. Dragons.”

Erick shrugged. “I can’t solve all the problems in the world, but I can help to solve some of them.” Again, Erick considered a particular magic that he first thought of back during Shadow’s Feast. Again, he banished that thought without giving it much thought, saying, “And I shouldn’t solve all the problems in this world, either. No one person should, for that is nothing short of tyranny.” He added, “I won’t be going forward with this Moon Reacher extermination unless you, the beings in charge around here and the people you work with, decide to move forward. And if you want to kill all the Deathsoul Shrooms instead, I would need some help with that. I never heard of those monsters.”

O’kabil looked away, turning to face the windows, to watch the night and the northern Forest. She said, “You have no problem with eradicating a whole species, do you.”

Erick almost exploded in anger at the implication of her words. And then he calmed, before he spoke words he did not want to speak. He considered another direction. He asked, “Would you eradicate a particular parasite, if you could? Snap your fingers; destroy a plague.”

O’kabil didn’t speak. She certainly looked to be thinking, though.

Erick sipped his tea, feeling something inside of him slip back together with each sip. Soon, he finished his second cup of the day of soul healing tea. Syllea had given him enough for ten days, which should be more than enough. His first one had gone down smooth and his resulting nap had been wonderful. But he wasn’t tired, now. He was ready to relax even more! He reached over and opened a small wooden box; another gift from Syllea. He pulled out a blueweed blunt, lit the end, and took a puff.

He held the blunt out to O’kabil.

She easily took the blunt, and this time, she didn’t inhale the whole thing in seconds. She just took an easy drag, then handed the blunt back to Erick.

Erick took a drag.

O’kabil blew out a small cloud of blue smoke, and said, “Your earlier words have merit, but I would not personally snap my fingers and kill a parasite the world over. I would instead put that power into the hands of a committee of individuals concerned with many different and acceptable goals.”

Erick nodded. “Would you accept a partial vote for eradication?”

“No.” O’kabil said, “A full consensus would be needed.”

“Then the Moon Reachers probably won’t be eradicated by this time next week.”

“… Probably not.”

They passed the cigarette between them both, while Erick watched Jane and Teressa from afar, and O’kabil did the same for her own people.

- - - -

“Oh yeah!” Erick jokingly asked, “Where’s my Mist Rabbit comforter?”

O’kabil slowly turned to him. “It’s not here?” With a glance around, she answered her own question. “It’s not here.” She looked away, blue smoke trailing from her lips as she crushed the roach of the last blunt in her fingers, turning it to thick air. “The crafters are sleeping at the moment. I’ll figure something out tomorrow.”

Erick smiled, saying, “I’m just teasing.”

“Even if you are, you should have had the agreed upon exchange paid in full hours ago.”

Erick lit a second blunt and handed it to her, saying, “Want something to drink?”

O’kabil took the blunt, saying, “This body needs no sustenance.”

“I’m gonna make myself a drink, then.”
