The entire negotiation ended up taking two more days, with Angeline methodically cornering the chancellor with a mix of his own words, bluffs, and a whole lot of verbally manoeuvring the poor man into logical dead-ends.

By the end of the second day, the haggard chancellor looked reticent to even speak; he would listen to Angeline rattle off her demands and counter with nothing but numerical values, not even bothering to hide them behind a veil of words.

Ironically, that was when he had the most, if still limited, success in getting her to concede or compromise on some of the points.

When the negotiations concluded, and the final proposition was penned by everyone involved, the man got up, took his recording orb and signed copy mechanically, and let his legs carry him out of the room.

David had never seen a man so done with life. He had looked at Angeline with something adjacent to wariness, like finding and petting a cute animal, and it suddenly bites through a slab of stone in front of you, and you look at the hand you've been using to pet it in a new, terrible light.

His new sister-in-law seemed to notice and gave him a wink before picking up their signed copy and storing it away. He let his gaze roll onto his father Jacob, the Patriarch of the Wardenfel family, and found much the same expression on his face as everyone else: shock and awe.

Except Cornelius. He was just looking at his daughter with all the smug pride of a father who knew his progeny would one day rule the world.

And, maybe Rinka, as well; the woman had begun taking notes and collating data soon after the start of the second meeting, and had been detached from the abstract murdering happening in the room. She was impressed by the list of concessions, and that was it.

What a list it was, though.

David idly wondered how the king would react upon reviewing the proposal.

He shrugged. Not his problem, although...

Angeline would have to be properly rewarded for her help, and...

Oh.

She probably wouldn't want money; she was rich, after all.

He looked back at her, with a new pit of dread forming in his stomach. What, exactly, would the woman find a satisfactory reward?

She noticed his stare and smiled back, with just the tiniest hint of a smirk showing through.

His face fell.

No matter what she asked for, Niala would insist she get it, and with their soon-to-be position of prestige, what she could ask for would be exponentially more valuable than money.

She knew. She'd already planned for this. He'd been trapped in her web since the beginning.

He was glad she was on their side.

Right?

King Isadore Amberfall sat at his private desk in his study, reading through a very... peculiar proposal, brought to him by his best and most trusted negotiator. Willard Haggleman.

The 91-year-old suzerain, with the body of a mid-50's man from repeated youth potion use, looked up from the file and at his chancellor, something like worry in his face.

He observed the man; shoulders slumping, eyes staring at the horizon... nothing like the professional man who took pride in his work. “Willard, be honest; did they threaten you? Do they have a member of your family hostage?”

The question jolted the chancellor out of his torpor. “I- No, your majesty. They... this is the best I could do, given the circumstances.”

Isadore squinted at the man, returning his eyes to the document, going through the major points:

A claim of sovereignty over the area north of Riverwall, from the north sister river, to the end of the Hungerwoods, from the foot of the Brokenjaw mountains to the east, to the coast in the west. Roughly as much land as all of Amberfall.

The full endorsement of the Amberfall crown to this claim.

Recognizing the new “Reign Ascendant” as a full and intrinsic allied nation to Amberfall.

Yearly stipend from the Amberfall Crown for the next twenty years, for the “Rebuilding of the Reign.”

Open borders for the traversal of people to and from the Reign Ascendant.

Complete economic independence for the Reign Ascendant.

Taxation limited to trade between the two countries.

Full Diplomatic immunity to all recognized officials of the Reign Ascendant.

Twenty volunteer Azure Guards willing to emigrate to the Reign Ascendant to form the core of the Reign Guards.

Declaration of the Reign Ascendant as a protectorate of the Amberfall kingdom.

Nomination of a governor to the protectorate of the Reign Ascendant, vested with full discretionary power, under the approval of the First Scion of the Reign Ascendant.

And dozens more smaller points. This... wasn't a proposition. This was a demand. Had he lost a war and didn't know about it?

He looked at his chancellor again. “Willard. We'd basically be funding, guarding, and caring for an entire new nation, in exchange for what? Access to mana crystals and ancient knowledge? Both things that we could acquire in other ways? This is what you call your best?”

The chancellor weakly nodded. “I'm afraid so, your majesty.”

Isador let go of the document and leaned back into his chair. “Then, explain it to me. Tell me why I should ratify this... parasitic polity into existence?”

Willard closed his eyes and took a deep breath. He knew that this thing on his king's desk was a travesty. They were essentially agreeing to everything with very few control mechanisms in place, and expecting all of their demands to be met based on goodwill alone.

Yes, the woman had manoeuvred him to agree to all of these, and she had given impeccable reasoning behind every demand. The king could still veto everything on it if he so wished.

But King Isadore was a wise and principled man. When he offered someone an important position, he did so because he trusted them to fulfill their duties properly. That was why he was willing to even consider the proposition before him, why he was giving Willard a chance to justify it.

And he, as chancellor, would have never agreed to present it to the king in the first place, if not for two incredibly bothersome elements.

He let out his breath, reopening his eyes and looking at his king. “Your Majesty, I would like to bring your attention to one element of this proposal; one of the minor ones, on page five. It read: “In its status as a full protectorate of the Amberfall Kingdom, the Reign Ascendant land may be divided into administrative regions and further into counties. The land thus divided may be assigned foreign oversight to the purview and benefit of the Amberfall Kingdom.”

Willard cleared his throat. “In summary, your majesty, they are allowing us to rent their land, and allow us to assign vice-governors and counts to them.”

The King read the passage, listening to his chancellor as he did, and grabbed his chin, running the words in his mind.

At first read, it simply looked like a more complicated way to parcel out lands to ambitious nobles. Land that had been left alone thus far due to a lack of will or drive to even attempt exploring it. The well-above-average number of man-eating beasts and dangerous ruins was reason enough to do so.

But...

It was basically unclaimed land. Amberfall could grow that way, without treaties or war. The crown could have directed its efforts up north. They hadn't, because they didn't need it.

Or rather, hadn't needed it. Their current lands were relatively well developed, and Amberfall was the biggest, strongest nation on the continent. Their only true rival was the Sonnel Empire, across the inner sea, which was of comparable size and power, if a bit more mercantile and underhanded.

That was probably going to change soon, however. For whatever reason, the Pakag clans to the south of Sonnel were on the warpath, seeking conflict with the Empire.

While the Pakags were fierce warriors, they also had a fraction of the population that Sonnel did. The fighting would be long and gruelling, but there was no question about who would be the ultimate victor.

And that meant that Sonnel would, within ten to twenty years, gain a fifth again more land than they already had, and land rich in mineral resources, at that. Minerals that they had to trade for with the Pakag thus far, who themselves traded with many other nations, including Amberfall.

Now, the solution was simple: claim the land north, and expand manpower and money to civilize it. The difficulty in doing so was simple: wherever land was claimed, the nobles would clamour for it, like a feeding frenzy of fish.

Such times always resulted in an uptick of unexplained but fortuitous deaths among the peerage.

But here, the nobles could do nothing. It wasn't, technically, Amberfall land. It would be Reign Ascendant land; their “Scions” would have the final word on who would be allowed a parcel of land. A piece of land they would rent out for a tax, or a cut of the county's income.

Except, the Reign Ascendant would be directly overseen by a crown-appointed governor-general, being a protectorate, who would have rule of law under the oversight of the scions.

In effect, the Amberfall Crown could choose who gets assigned which part of land, who would then pay a tax to the Reign, which would send a large portion of it back to the crown, while the remaining portion would be under the control of the governor.

The best part is that everything was a white lie. Everyone would know exactly who was in power, and yet no one would say it out loud. It was a gate made of smoke, which everybody would respect and enforce, because doing otherwise would dispel their own intangible gates, the ones that kept their power in and new ideas out.

Genius.

Except nobody should be aware of the growing tensions between the Pakag and Sonnel outside of his court. Was this just a timely coincidence?

Isadore looked up at his chancellor. “I believe I understand. They are giving us a shadowed key to the north. I assume they mean to approve any and all requests we submit to them once they are declared a protectorate?”

Willard dipped his head. “Within a few restrictions, yes.”

“And what are those?”

The chancellor clasped his hands in front of him. “For the most part, they are aimed at guaranteeing the respect and quality of life of any Luminous Reign descendants found to still inhabit these lands. There are also a few minor considerations for culturally significant structures found within the region, but they were open to negotiations on a case-by-case basis in those regards.”

The king scrunched his mouth. “Hmm, if it is noted as such, then it's acceptable. This will put us in a position to exploit any resources we find, according to our laws, under the oversight of those we deem fit to do so, and having them pay us to do so.”

He looked back at his chancellor. “This is simply a scheme to give the crown complete control of the north, out of reach from even the noble houses and merchant empires.”

Willard bowed slightly. “Just so, your majesty.”

“And I assume that any attempt at curbing their demands simply made this 'minor' point more expensive and cumbersome?”

Willard winced. “Just so, your majesty.”

Isadore leaned to the side, resting his head on his left hand. “And what stops us from using the same idea, but with someone of our choosing? Have one of those apparently Reign-descending noble houses offer one of their offspring, and have them claim the north, with much more reasonable conditions?”

Haggleman rubbed the back of his neck. “Ah... well... the nature of the two families that are supporting them; the main Wardenfel family and the All Brews.”

Isadore grimaced. “Ah, yes. Powerful backers who would throw up a stink if we went around their back. I assume they are related somehow, those petitioners and those families?”

Willard nodded. “Yes, your majesty. Son and daughter from each, respectively.”

“...I see.”

The chancellor let out a deep breath. “The woman, their appointed negotiator, also submitted a very compelling report.”

The king quirked an eyebrow. “How so?”

Willard opened his satchel and retrieved a bound stack of papers. He stepped forward and handed it to his king, who took it from his hand and gave its cover a cursory look. Stepping back, Willard spoke. “This is a rundown of all possible complications should we not go along with their proposal.”

Isadore looked up at his chancellor with narrowed eyes. “A list of threats?”

The man shook his head. “Nothing of the sort. It is a mental exercise, where she attempted to predict the ramifications of our choices. She then assigned a monetary value to all of them, based on how much they would cost in time and resources to control, or the cost to the economy as a whole.”

The king turned his eyes to the report in his hand and flipped it open, perusing its content. Each new page made his brow lift a little bit higher.

He eventually looked up to his chancellor, his mouth uncertain of what to say, only to find a knowing look of someone who had the same reaction.

Isadore grunted. “It's very... thorough, but how accurate do you think it is?”

Willard sighed. “My team and I stayed up late last night, going over each of its entries. We could spend a few more weeks just deconstructing every prediction to its fullest, but our opinions were mostly unanimous on the major points.”

His shoulders slumped at the ridiculousness of his next words. “We believe it to be as accurate as anything we could produce. Probably even more so.” He levelled his eyes at his king. “This woman has demonstrated an incredible grasp of kingdom politics and nobles' psychology. The thought of her working against the kingdom is... concerning. We hope to never see the day.”

The king let his chancellor's words sink in. Willard Haggleman was the best he had, the man he sent when negotiations seemed impossible. If he was saying that this woman was his equal...

He looked up to his retainer. “How probable is that possibility?”

The chancellor shook his head. “It doesn't matter. If she can predict with this degree of accuracy the sixth-degree results of a single decision, alone, we would have no way of knowing who she truly serves. But... she seems to genuinely care for and love her sister. I believe that if we give them what they want, she will be inclined to support us.”

The king nodded, scrunching his mouth. “Because by doing so, she would be indirectly supporting her sister...”

Willard nodded.

Isadore leaned back in his chair, tapping the report against its armrest. A mutually-beneficial relationship, where both sides help keep the other afloat, but with a hand ready to stab should either let go. The second-best kind of alliance.

As his king pondered the proposition, Willard thought back on the pit-bound woman who had dragged his wits into the trench for two days straight. Had she offered this report in the first place, things would have been much faster and easier.

But, no; she had made him bleed for every word, had watched him admit defeat on nearly all demands, and had still asked for more.

He internally snorted. Just like he usually did with the other petitioners, he admitted. She had wrung everything out of him, and then confirmed her victory in a way that let him know he had lost from the start.

And now... he would always be wary of her. She had carved out a place in his head, for he would never forget this woman.

A stray thought crossed his mind.

Could... could that have been her goal from the start? Had his mind been that woman's actual target? Were these negotiations nothing but a diversionary assault?

Surely... not?

His face drained at the realization.