Its head had rolled beneath a table. The skeleton’s body seemed to know where it was. Erin watched as it blundered over to its head, knocking over chairs and running into tables.
The skeleton picked up its head and placed it back on its neck. The lights reappeared in its eyes, and it stared at Erin.
“Bad!”
Erin didn’t know why she was talking to the skeleton like it was a dog. She pointed at it.
“You do not attack them. Got it?”
The skeleton hesitated and then nodded. The light in its eyes dimmed. Erin stared at it another second and then turned to Pawn.
“Sorry about that. I’ve got, uh, a skeleton problem.”
Pawn inclined his head.
“I bear no offense, Erin. And I thank you for protecting us.”
The two Workers bowed their heads as well. Erin waved her hands.
“No, it’s my fault. I just got this skeleton-thing, and I—sorry. Um, come on in.”
Awkwardly, she stood aside to let Pawn and the other Workers file into the inn. They glanced at the skeleton, who was still watching them. Erin stalked over and poked at the skeleton until it moved away.
“Right, how can I help you guys?”
“We have come to play chess if you are willing, Erin Solstice. We would also purchase flies for consumption.”
“Sure. No problem!”
Erin moved towards the kitchen and stopped. She pointed at the skeleton.
“Stay. There. Don’t do anything.”
When she returned with a heaping bowl of dead flies and blue juice, the Antinium had already chosen a table and set up a game of chess. Erin sat with them and began playing Pawn. It was a quick game as he’d tried a new move, which failed spectacularly. But Erin helped show him a better way to attack the enemy with the knight piece and let the other two Workers challenge her one by one.
As she played, she talked with Pawn.
“What’s happening with the Antinium? Are you guys bothered by all the Humans in the city as well?”
Pawn shook his head, watching as Erin started collecting the Worker’s pieces one by one.
“We work. We live. We die. All is unchanged among the Workers, Erin Solstice. But we hear of—things. Something happens below.”
“Below? You mean where the Queen lives?”
Pawn hesitated. The two Workers looked up at him and then down at the board.
“Yes. Our Queen moves. She is doing—something. We do not know what it is, but we sense it. And there is another Prognugator.”
Erin’s hand froze over a piece. Then she moved it.
“Really? Another one? This Prog—this guy, he’s taken over Klbkch’s old job?”
“Yes. He guards the Hive and watches. But no Worker has seen him yet. He walks above.”
“Right. Um. Right.”
Distracted, Erin lost a knight before she got back on track. She quickly crushed both Workers and then sighed.
“Okay. Good game, guys. You’re getting better.”
Pawn nodded.
“We level quickly. It is rare for Workers to level. We owe you a debt, Erin Solstice.”
“Really? I didn’t do much.”
“You teach. You help. You care. We know, and we learn from you how to be Human.”
Erin grinned mirthlessly.
“Being Human isn’t that great. But I’m glad I can help a bit.”
She suddenly had a thought. She glanced sideways at Pawn.
“And maybe you could help me? I’d like to hire you and the other Workers—if you’ve got time. I know this is your break day, but—”
Pawn shook his head.
“We would be happy to assist. What do you desire?”
“Bathroom.”
Pawn tilted its head.
“Bathroom?”
“I mean an outhouse.”
Erin tried to explain. She pointed outside.
“Right now I, uh—I have to dig a hole. Which isn’t fun. I don’t know if the Antinium have to go to the bathroom, but us Humans like a nice toilet seat.”
“Toilet seat?”
“…Never mind. How do Antinium, uh, excrete? Do you have anything like a bathroom?”
“We have designated areas where waste is accumulated. We recycle such products within the Hive.”
“Ah. Um. Humans don’t do that. Ever. And I’d really like a bathroom. Nothing fancy.”
Pawn and the two Workers nodded.
“We are familiar with the construction of such facilities. It would be a simple task to construct one for you. I am a [Carpenter]. Level 1.”
She recalled him saying that. But hadn’t he told her he was Level 1 a while back? He hadn’t levelled up since? Erin had passed her first level on, like, the second day of the job. Antinium really didn’t level. Erin blinked and then smiled.
“Oh. That’s—great. I’ve got some wood around back and nails and stuff. I can get more if you need it. Do you, um, need anything special?”
“We are Antinium. Building is in our nature.”
Sometimes, it was really hard to keep the conversation flowing with Pawn. Erin cleared her throat awkwardly.
“And how much will I owe you?”
Pawn hesitated.
“We would not wish to charge you for this service.”
Again, Erin wasn’t sure what to say to that. She thought for a moment.
“Tell you what—I’ll feed you and your friends for the rest of the week if you build it for me, no charge.”
Since there were four days left in the week, Erin thought this was a fair offer. Pawn apparently did too, because he nodded.
“It is agreed. We will begin at once.”
As one, the three Antinium stood up. They marched over to the door. Erin got up and then remembered. She turned her head and saw the skeleton still standing where she had left it.
“As for you—”
Erin glared at the skeleton. It didn’t quite flinch back from her.
“Do not attack my guests, got it? Not unless they’re attacking me or doing something dangerous. Otherwise, I’ll have the Workers toss you in the outhouse and bury you. Got it?”
The skeleton meekly nodded. Erin turned away.
“Okay, let’s get to work. Try not to get in the way.”
 
——
 
No matter how many times Erin saw it, she was always impressed by how efficient the Antinium were at…well…anything really. As soon as she’d chosen a good spot for the outhouse—just a little ways away from the inn where untoward smells wouldn’t be blown towards her—they immediately began excavating dirt and laying the groundwork for the outhouse.
Fortunately, Erin still had quite a bit of spare wood left over. And Pawn knew a good place to buy quality wood, so she gave them some money and let them go at it. She might have had a [Basic Crafting] as a Skill, but that didn’t mean she was good at constructing things. An outhouse was a bit beyond her capabilities.
And apparently, the Antinium didn’t need Skills, at least not for something like this. They were just good at building things, and their bodies were naturally suited for tasks like digging and machining. Four arms were better than two.
The outhouse was a simple affair, at least by modern toilet standards. A solid wood building stood upright, shielding its sole occupant from weather and prying eyes while a small pit caught whatever fell down through the toilet hole. It was functional, sturdy, and that was all Erin needed at the moment.
It took them all day, but Erin supposed Workers didn’t need to be fast. Then again, was building an outhouse from scratch really hard? Pawn and the Workers kept talking about a foundation whenever she brought them Acid Flies for a snack.
The skeleton scurried around, pushing dirt out of the way for the Antinium, refilling Erin’s water buckets, and checking her Acid Fly traps. She had to explain to it how to do everything the first time, which was a major pain, but once she had, the skeleton remembered how to do it.
Erin had to admit—grudgingly—that the skeleton was quite useful. It was efficient, in that it didn’t stop to take breaks or complain like a certain Human. Thanks to it, her inn was fully ready when the sun started lowering in the sky and the evening rush began.
Today, Rags and eight Goblins visited Erin’s inn. Then Pisces came by, full of his self-importance, the Antinium walked in and announced they were done with the outhouse, and Gazi appeared out of nowhere.
It was a record-breaking crowd that sat in The Wandering Inn. They barely occupied more than a fifth of the common room, although you wouldn’t know it, spread apart as they were.
Well, it was only to be expected really. The Goblins might not be too afraid of Erin, but Pisces was just another Human to them, and Gazi was bad news walking. They stayed away from her and the skeleton. Erin thought they’d all run when the skeleton opened the door for them, but Rags had kept them from fleeing into the hills.
The Goblins’ reaction had been the normal one. Pisces obviously hadn’t batted an eyelid at the walking skeleton, and the Antinium just treated the skeleton with a certain wariness. When Gazi had seen the skeleton, she’d just blinked her massive eye and frowned for a bit without comment. Now she kept staring from the skeleton to Pisces as she ate, but she didn’t directly engage the [Necromancer] in conversation.
So all of Erin’s guests sat more or less in their own bubble. The Antinium played more chess, Pisces scarfed down food, Gazi watched, the Goblins ate and chattered amongst themselves, and none of them talked with each other.
But they all spoke to Erin. Or at least—the Goblins grunted at her, and Rags nodded or shook her head when Erin talked. But everyone else talked to her.
“I noticed your new building. I take it is meant to act as a bathroom?”
Erin grinned at Gazi. She pointed at Pawn and the other Workers.
“Yeah. They just put it up today. Isn’t it great? Now I don’t have to keep squatting in the grass. Ahem.”
Gazi smiled as Erin coughed and blushed a bit.
“It is useful. Although I would warn you that maintaining such a spot can be difficult. You did well to build it away from water and your inn. I’ve seen many killed over fouling water, accidentally or not.”
Erin blinked a few times before nodding. Pisces seemed to be developing a third ear in his corner, but Erin just gestured to the Antinium.
“Pawn told me about all the problems an outhouse causes. They smell. And they attract flies. But I think I can solve that problem with the world’s greatest cleaning fluid.”
Gazi raised her single eyebrow, smiling slightly.
“And what would that be?”
“Acid. I have more than I can use, and it eats through anything that’s not stone or metal or glass really fast. I toss a bit of that in there every morning and voilà! Problem solved!”
Gazi blinked again. From his table, Pisces looked up and shook his head.
“Once again, your fascination with such a dangerous substance is alarming at best, Miss Solstice. I trust you at least have a few healing potions prepared for the day when you drop the acid on your person?”
Erin glared at him.
“I’m not going to be the one carrying jars of acid around. Too dangerous. I’ll make that guy do it instead.”
Erin pointed at the skeleton, who had just returned with another basket of blue fruit. She gestured to the kitchen, and it speedily walked inside.
Pisces stared at the skeleton incredulously.
“Are you—making it gather fruits? And you want to make it clean your outhouse? You do realize it is here for your protection, do you not?”
“Sure, sure. But it’s more useful helping out around the inn.”
Pisces scowled at Erin as she swept around with a refill of blue juice.
“That is a warrior skeleton, designed for combat.”
She glared back and filled his glass up with water.
“It’s weaker than I am! I punched it this morning, and its head came clean off!”
Pisces turned red and gave Erin what she recognized as his prelude-to-sulking expression.
“My creation is a work of art, but it must grow to its full potential first. It is not meant to be used for menial labor.”
Erin rolled her eyes.
“Menial labor is about all it’s good for. If I sent it out to try and kill one of those Rock Crabs, it’d get squashed in a heartbeat. You’re a hotshot [Necromancer], aren’t you? Can’t you raise a Level 15 skeleton or something?”
Pisces shook his head.
“I could certainly create a stronger undead—but not a higher level one. Do you—do you not understand the significance of this skeleton?”
“No. Is it that special?”
He blinked at her.
“Ah. Well, it is.”
Gazi spoke up. Her eye strayed towards the skeleton, which paused as it brought bowls of Acid Flies out for the Antinium. She murmured into her drink.
“A Level 1 [Skeleton Warrior].”
Pisces nodded. Gazi blinked at him and tipped her cup in some sort of acknowledgement. Erin didn’t get it, but Pisces appeared incredibly smug and self-satisfied all of a sudden. Right up until he saw Gazi staring at him. Then he went white.
Yet all Gazi Pathseeker did was lift a cup to her lips. She addressed Pisces and Erin at the same time.
“I would not mention that fact ever again were I you two. Either of you. Even that Drake would behead the [Necromancer] for this.”
“And you won’t? I thought you were a famous adventurer…”
Gazi’s smile was pointed, and her large eye flickered to Pisces, who looked ready to run. Yet she just shook her head slightly, sending her braided hair swaying.
“I do not care. If anything…it may suit me very well. Nor am I of this continent or Terandria. Mine is a different land, and I have known [Necromancers] and their kind. An accomplishment is an accomplishment.”
This time, Erin had to ask. She leaned over the table.
“You said you saw people stabbed over fouling water? So your place is like—desert-y?”
Pisces snorted, and Gazi gave Erin a frown as if trying to tell if Erin was making fun of her.
“Chandrar is not entirely desert, but my adopted homeland borders a vast desert, yes. Hence my familiarity with what this young [Necromancer] has done. But even Khelt’s King would call it extraordinary. If he did not behead that one for the deed.”
Pisces looked uncertain whether or not he should be sick or pleased, and Erin decided she should drop the topic.
“Fine. It’s great. But I still wish it was stronger.”
She grumbled her way around the room, topping off glasses with her pitcher. Pisces looked relaxed enough to focus on his meal. Only after a good few minutes had passed and he was engrossed in wolfing down pasta did Gazi stop Erin again. She murmured to her as Erin passed by her table, and Erin saw her twisting a brooch that had been hidden in her armor.
The air dulled or felt heavy, and Erin felt a strange hush in the air. Pisces didn’t seem to notice, though Rags frowned at Erin and picked at one ear with a claw. Gazi spoke louder, then, gesturing to her meal, though her words didn’t match her actions.
“So, how did you meet that young man? Where does he hail from?”
“Pisces?”
Erin glanced at Pisces. He was smiling at his skeleton as it moved about the room.
“Oh, he’s just this weird guy I met a while ago. He’s—well, I guess he’s a good mage. Does necromancy stuff, but the skeleton is the first undead thing I’ve ever seen him do. He also does other spells. Why?”
