[Innkeeper Level 12!]
 
Someday, Erin was going to hear that annoying message in her head and jump off a cliff. But at least she’d gotten eight solid hours of sleep afterwards.
Blearily, Erin got up and wondered if she leveled because of the skeleton. Something to do with the skeleton? Did [Innkeepers] level up from getting bodyguards? Or…bouncers?
“Can skeletons bounce? Figuratively or literally?”
Erin blinked around at the room for several minutes. It was too early to think about complex things. She wanted a few things in no short order. Bathroom, food, and…that was about it.
The bathroom issue was hard. There were no real toilets in her inn. Erin had no idea why, but some shattered pottery upstairs and a terrible staining around the general area in each room made her think chamber pots had been in style here.
Erin wasn’t about to use a chamber pot. So she had gotten into the practice of digging (and then covering with bits of sawdust and dirt) a latrine around the back of her inn. It was messy, disgusting—and she really wasn’t happy about squatting in the open.
Something had to be done. That was what Erin decided as she finished her mercifully quick business and grabbed the roll of toilet paper. At least this world had something like toilet paper, if not as fluffy and easy on the skin. But the bathroom issue was bad. Someday, someone was going to walk up, and then Erin would die of shame or possibly stab them to death.
Once the bathroom issue was finished with, Erin could then wash her hands with what water she still had in one of her buckets and get breakfast. She was running low on water, too. That meant another trip to the stream, possibly combined with dodging flying fish if they were in a bitey mood today.
At this point, the thought of ducking a several-hundred pound monster full of teeth barely even bothered Erin. It was just another chore. She mechanically opened the shelves in her kitchen, wishing again she had the preservation runes. But they were expensive, and she ‘only’ had just under ten gold pieces. 
Not a bad amount of money to have, really. Most families might have that much stored if they were lucky, according to Selys. If a week’s pay could be a single gold piece for some—well, it turned out fighting monsters was very profitable. If exceptionally dangerous. Erin supposed that checked out. Regardless, it was a good amount for food—a low amount for anything magical. She wondered how much it cost to build an outhouse.
Another thing to worry about later. She’d put it on her list.
Erin turned, jar of milk in one hand, and nearly tripped over her sleeping area. She grabbed a counter to steady herself and added moving her sleeping area to the list. She really, really didn’t want to trip someday and splash boiling water all over herself.
But it was such a nice sleeping area. And it would be so much…some work to move it. Plus, there were all the handy knives and weapons close-by if trouble came calling again.
She had a lovely little blanket and pillows she’d used to make a semi-permanent bedspread in a corner of the kitchen. True, it would have been nice to have a mattress, but Erin had been counting her coins until recently. Now that she could spring for one, Erin dreamed of a queen-sized bed with silk sheets. She’d never tried silk sheets, but maybe Krshia had them…? Probably not.
Still half-asleep, Erin walked around her kitchen, assembling a breakfast of sorts. There was actually a quite acceptable cereal that went well with the rich cow’s milk Erin bought. Sprinkle a little sugar in there and it would be delicious.
Since sugar was too expensive for that, Erin instead sliced up some blue fruit into the bowl. That was nearly as good.
Food, done. Erin walked out into the common room and set her bowl on the table. She pulled a chair out—and then noticed something was standing behind her. Slowly, she looked around.
Two glowing, blue flames in empty eye-sockets illuminated a fleshless head. Erin stared into the back of the skull and yellow teeth magically fixed into a permanent, deathly smile. A skeleton grinned at her, inches away from Erin’s face.
“Aaaaaaaaah!”
Erin screamed even as she punched. The skeleton caught a fist to the head and staggered backwards. It fell down. Erin clutched at her fist.
“Ow! Ow, ow—go over there!”
Obediently, the skeleton got up and walked over to the corner. It watched as Erin waved her hand around and cursed for a while. When she was done, Erin marched up and poked the skeleton in the ribs.
“Hey! I thought I told you to stay upstairs!”
It shook its head. Erin blinked and then got mad. She poked at the skeleton again, and her finger went straight into the rib cage. Shuddering, Erin pulled her finger back.
“I distinctly remember telling you to clean the rooms upstairs.”
The skeleton nodded. Erin glared.
“Well? Why are you down here?”
It stared at her. Erin supposed it was just as well the skeleton hadn’t responded. She glared at the staircase.
“Okay, wise guy. Let’s see just what happened while I was asleep.”
She stomped up the stairs, the skeleton following her close behind. Erin walked into one of the dirty rooms—
And stopped.
“Whoa.”
Something had changed. It was like one of those spot the difference games in newspapers, except that the difference here was everything. Erin blinked around at the spotless room and wondered if she was hallucinating. If she was, she preferred not to wake up.
Slowly, she stared at the walls, the floors, and the windows. All were spotless. All were clean. She could even see the original color of the floorboards. Instead of their dirty grey-brown, they’d transformed into a lustrous golden brown that was actually pleasing to look at.
“Okay. Okay, that’s, um—”
Erin turned and blinked at the skeleton.
“Did you do all the rooms like this?”
It nodded. The skeleton walked over to a corner of the room and picked something up. It brought a bucket over to Erin and a scrap. She squinted at it. It looked—it looked like a piece of a dustrag. A tiny piece.
“Where’s the rest of it gone, then?”
The skeleton shrugged. Erin wondered where the rest of the dirt and grime had gone. There was a sludgy substance in the bucket, but it looked like the skeleton had just tossed the grime out the window for the most part. Erin could get behind that cleaning style.
And each room was spotless. Well, there were some spots. Despite the skeleton’s best efforts, it still couldn’t clean away mildew. Some of the rotted boards still needed replacing, but Erin had [Basic Crafting] and a hammer. She was a god of minor repairs.
The entire upper floor was suddenly, miraculously habitable. Erin wandered around each room in a daze. She returned to the first room and wondered if the floors were softer here than in the kitchen. Well, the skeleton had done a good job after all. Erin wasn’t sure what to make of that. But the rooms were clean.
Then she had a thought. Erin looked up.
“Hey! You missed the ceiling!”
The skeleton stared at her and then up at the still dirty ceiling. Erin scowled at it.
“I said clean everything. The floor, the walls, windows…and the ceiling. I said that, right?”
The skeleton shook its head. Erin scowled at it.
“Well, I thought it. And you should have done it anyways!”
There was no way to tell if the skeleton was angry, sad, or…skeletons didn’t have emotions, right? But the flames in the skeleton’s eyes dimmed for a second as Erin glared at it.
She felt bad. Not because she cared much about the skeleton’s feelings, but because Erin could at least tell when she was being a jerk. She relented.
“Okay. You did a good job.”
The skeleton seemed to brighten at that. It followed Erin downstairs. She sat down with a sigh at her breakfast and then paused. The skeleton was standing right next to her. She pointed.
“Go over there.”
It walked over to one corner. Erin eyed the skeleton and spoke again.
“Turn around.”
It did. At last, Erin was able to enjoy her meal without twin glowing eyes watching her every bite.
Breakfast came and went, fairly quickly too. Erin was hungry, but she wasn’t savoring her meal like she normally did. Instead, she was thinking. When she was done, she pushed her bowl back and stared with narrowed eyes at the skeleton. Well. What was the saying about lemons and life? If life gives you lemons…burn down the lemon factory? Something like that.
Anyways, it was time to get to work. Erin cleared her throat.
“Hey, you.”
Instantly, the skeleton turned around. She shook her head.
“Get the bucket and follow me, okay?”
She got up and walked into the kitchen as the skeleton immediately ran upstairs. Erin was rich enough now to have more than one bucket, and so both she and the skeleton were equipped as they left the inn and walked to the stream.
It was a quiet walk. Erin told the skeleton to follow her further back, and she tried to ignore it mostly as she strolled along. Maybe she could have talked to it, but—no. The day Erin started holding conversations with skeletons was the day she finally snapped.
They got to the stream. Erin told the skeleton to thoroughly wash its bucket out first before they filled both up with water. It was just as well she had a bucket for drinking water and a bucket for washing water anyways. She’d deliberately marked both buckets with some paint to avoid drinking…whatever was still clinging to the bucket the skeleton was lifting.
“Okay, let’s go.”
Erin reached for her bucket, but the skeleton got there first. It seized first the handle of its own bucket and then hers and tried to lift both. It strained and pulled, but it could barely move either full bucket more than an inch. Erin shook her head.
“See, that’s just sad.”
The skeleton clattered its teeth together. Erin shuddered. She grabbed her bucket and lifted it up. It was heavy, but she was stronger than the skeleton.
“Don’t do that. Take one bucket and follow me.”
Awkwardly, the skeleton hefted one of the full buckets of water and staggered after Erin. She walked quickly, trying to balance speed with avoiding losing too much water over the sides.
She was used to the trek from the stream to the inn, but her arm still vaguely ached by the time she got back. But ever since she’d acquired the [Lesser Strength] Skill, the trip had become far less painful. And this time, she didn’t even have to make two round trips.
“Okay! Water’s done. Now, let’s get some food.”
Erin left the two buckets inside the inn, grabbed a basket, and walked off. The skeleton followed her obediently as the two walked across the rolling grassy landscape. They walked for about six minutes before Erin threw her arm out and stopped the skeleton in its tracks. It stared at her, confused.
“Watch it. Rock Crab.”
She pointed. The skeleton looked and saw, about two hundred meters away, a large boulder slowly moving across the landscape. Underneath the large shell of rock, the skeleton could see massive legs slowly propelling the boulder around.
When the skeleton realized what the Rock Crab really was, it immediately raised its fists and tried to charge the slow-moving monster. Erin had to grab the skeleton by one bony arm.
“Hold it! What are you doing?”
The skeleton fought to run at the crab. Erin ordered it to stay still.
“Don’t try to fight that thing! It’ll eat you. Or—snap you in two like a bunch of twigs.”
Reluctantly, the skeleton subsided. It stared hard at the Rock Crab, which ignored both Erin and the skeleton as it wandered off. When it had disappeared over a hill, Erin let the skeleton go.
“Don’t be stupid. Come on and follow me.”
The skeleton walked after Erin. Eventually, they came to the blue fruit orchard. Erin showed the skeleton how to gather fruits.
“See the basket? Fill the basket.”
So saying, Erin handed the skeleton her basket and sat down. Instantly, the skeleton began running around the orchard, gathering up fallen fruit and kicking trees to make the fruit fall. Erin sat under a tree and took a quick nap.
 
——
 
Having a skeleton was quite useful. In a few minutes, the skeleton had filled Erin’s basket to overflowing. It carefully walked back to Erin, trying not to spill the ripe fruits.
Erin didn’t react as the skeleton approached. She was sleeping. The skeleton hesitated and then placed the basket at her feet. It stood and waited, but she slept on. She was truly asleep.
The skeleton hesitated. It seemed to be thinking. At last, it turned and began scanning the landscape around Erin. Was it checking for threats? Erin couldn’t tell.
One of her eyelids had been cracked open ever so slightly as the skeleton approached. Now that it was looking the other way, Erin sighed inaudibly and sat up. Well, at least the skeleton wasn’t going to try killing her in her sleep. She’d had a terrible night last night worrying the same thing. But Pisces seemed to have done an okay job on the skeleton. Still, she’d keep an eye on it.
It was useful, but she still didn’t quite trust it.
Erin clapped her hands together. The skeleton whirled around and then relaxed when it saw only Erin.
“Okay, good job. Show me the fruits—actually, I’m gonna teach you how to sort them. Then we’ll go back to the inn.”
 
——
 
Erin showed the skeleton where to place the basket of blue fruits and then stretched.
“Alright. Chores are mostly done. Now what?”
The skeleton stared at Erin. It certainly wasn’t going to come up with ideas on its own.
“I could go to the city.”
Erin mused, eying the skeleton. She really didn’t want to leave it alone just yet, but there was a lot more to do in Liscor than here. She was wondering if she could give the skeleton a simple task—like gathering Acid Flies from the traps—when she heard the door open.
She and the skeleton looked around. Erin saw Pawn and two Workers step through the doorway. She smiled and waved at them. The skeleton had a different reaction. It opened its jaw, and the twin flames in its skull flared.
“——!”
The skeleton charged Pawn and the two Antinium with a wordless, rattling whisper-shout. It was a sound that sounded like someone sighing, only far louder.
Pawn and the two Workers froze, uncertain. They backed into one another, but they were too big to slip out the door. The skeleton leapt at them—
“Hey!”
Erin’s fist caught the skeleton in the head and knocked the skull clean off the rest of the body. Pawn and the Workers stopped. The skeleton flailed around wildly. Then it stopped. Erin stared at it and groaned.
Oh no, she’d just broken the only magical tool she had! Again! She was about to curse when she saw the skeleton hadn’t collapsed like she thought it would. The body was still flailing its arms, and Erin saw it twisting about. Searching for…the skull?
