Gazi stared at Pisces, and then her eye moved away as he looked towards her. She nodded imperceptibly at him as she let Erin fill her glass.
“He is—talented.”
“Oh.”
Gazi nodded. After a moment, Erin shrugged and walked away. Really, what were you supposed to say to that?
 
——
 
About an hour had passed, and Erin was continuing to innkeep while her patrons ate, chatted, and, occasionally, used the new outhouse. Gazi didn’t do much from her seat, but her main eye kept following Pisces, the skeleton, and Erin.
Then, as the sun began to touch the mountains and the light truly began to fade from the sky, Gazi’s main eye swiveled towards one window. She tapped her lips and then smiled again.
Erin noticed the half-Gazer getting up and leaving coins on the table. Gazi nodded to her as Erin bustled over.
“Pardon me, Erin, but I must attend to some business. I will return shortly.”
“Oh, sure. Have fun?”
Gazi smiled and left quickly. Erin shrugged and went back to serving. About ten minutes later, she heard someone knocking at the door.
“Come in!”
The door opened. Erin turned with a smile.
“Hey, welcome!”
The male, Human adventurer who opened the door smiled broadly at her.
“Thank you. Me and my friends were looking for a place to stay and—”
He caught sight of Rags and the Goblins first. The adventurer swore and grabbed at this sword.
“Goblins!”
Erin’s stomach lurched. The adventurer fell back, and his two companions—two other burly adventurers in armor—immediately seized their weapons. Rags and her crew looked up, suddenly tense. Pawn and the Workers froze in their game. Pisces was already gone.
“No, no, wait! Don’t do anything!”
Dropping her pitcher of juice on a table, Erin ran forwards, putting herself between the adventurers and the Goblins.
“They’re friendly! Don’t attack!”
The first adventurer stared at her. He was wearing a metal helmet that made his head look vaguely pot-shaped.
“What are you, crazy? They’re Goblins!”
His two friends shifted behind him. One exclaimed as he caught sight of Pawn and the Workers.
“It’s the bugs! And—a skeleton?”
The first adventurer was white in the face, whether with rage or fear it was hard to tell. He glared at Erin, hand tight on his sword hilt.
“What’s going on here?”
“Look, everyone chill! Calm down! These Goblins are peaceful. Didn’t you read the sign—?”
The third adventurer, a huge man who dwarfed the other two, turned red in the face. He growled at Rags and her Goblins, all of whom were standing, weapons raised.
“Shut up! Those creatures aren’t peaceful. They’re monsters! I’ve lost good friends to them!”
He went for his axe. Erin grabbed his hand.
“No, wait—let me—”
“Get off!”
The burly adventurer growled and threw Erin off him. He shoved her back, and Erin crashed into a table. She blinked stupidly up at the ceiling as the world spun for a moment. Out of the corner of her eye, she saw a flash of movement.
The adventurers were moving towards the Goblins, weapons raised, when the skeleton leapt over a table, charged the first adventurer, and smashed into him. The undead skeleton was unarmed, but it just raised one bony fist and sunk it straight into the helmeted adventurer’s head.
The metal faceguard caught the skeleton, but it couldn’t protect the man from being bowled over as the skeleton rushed him. The undead kicked, and the sword flew out of the man’s hands. He cursed as the two other adventurers spread out. One of his friends pulled out his sword, but suddenly Rags and the other Goblins covered him.
The big adventurer roared and raised his axe, but Erin tackled him. She tried to pull his arm down, but he was like a piece of granite. He punched her in the side, and Erin fell off him. That hurt. Not as much as being stabbed, but she couldn’t breathe. He snarled at her, and then Pawn was in front of him. The Antinium swung two fists on his left side, and the adventurer stumbled backwards.
The adventurer on the floor cursed and swung at the skeleton, trying to get to his feet. The skeleton leaned back as the adventurer swung wildly. When it punched the man in the side of the head, he didn’t shift much. But the skeleton punched and punched and punched—
The helmeted adventurer caught the skeleton’s foot as it swung at his head. He growled and heaved upwards, and the skeleton toppled over. Then he reached for his sword.
His hand had just closed over the hilt when Erin walked over and kicked him in the side of the head. Down he went again, considerably harder than when the skeleton had hit him.
She looked around. The second man was fighting with the Goblins, slashing at them while they danced around the chairs and tables. He didn’t have any room to swing, but they had a lot more freedom. They lunged at him, cutting his legs, battering him with clubs, throwing plates at his face—
A Worker crashed into a table next to Erin. It lay on its back, stunned, before it got up. She looked over. The big adventurer was fighting all three Antinium at once as they surrounded him.
He swung at Pawn, but Pawn caught both fists and then hit back with two more. The big adventurer blinked and then shoved the Antinium back. Pawn went flying, but two more Workers closed in. He battered at them, but the Antinium were far tougher than they were strong.
It was all a mess. Erin didn’t know what to do, but when one of the adventurers grabbed Rags and threw her to the ground, she moved. He stomped on her stomach once as the Goblin cried out in agony. Erin raised her fist, and then the skeleton smashed the adventurer in the back of the head with a chair.
Down he went. Now only the biggest adventurer was left, but he was somehow managing to take on all comers by himself. He hit one of the Workers in the chest so hard the Antinium’s carapace cracked and then punched the skeleton into the ground before kicking the undead in the chest. Two ribs shattered as the Goblins swarmed around the man.
Erin hesitated and then ran inside the kitchen. She came out with a heavy object in her hands, just in time to see the skeleton crashing into another table, the axe buried in its chest.
The biggest adventurer kicked a Goblin several feet, backhanded Pawn, and snarled. He turned, and the flying frying pan cracked him straight in the forehead. Erin felt like she’d wrenched her shoulder with that throw, but her Skill had placed the pan right where she wanted it to go.
The fight was over. Erin still had to call the skeleton back and stop Rags and her Goblins from knifing the downed adventurers. The skeleton was trying to stomp on the helmeted man while Pawn and the other two Workers picked each other up and assessed their injuries.
Erin stared around the inn. She looked at her skeleton, with the axe hanging out of its shattered rib cage, the injured Goblins, the downed adventurer trio, Pawn and his injured workers, and then at her common room. Half the tables and chairs were splintered beyond repair, and all of her food and dishes had been strewn about the room.
She felt like crying. But the first adventurer was starting to wake up. Erin stared at the groaning men on the floor and pointed at the skeleton.
“You. Bucket.”
It hesitated and then marched into the kitchen. Erin looked around. She walked over and picked up the frying pan.
 
——
 
The cold splash of water woke up all three men in one go. They spluttered into wakefulness, gasping, only to realize they weren’t drowning. Instead, they were on the floor of an inn.
The three adventurers stared up into the face of justice. In this case, it was the back of a cast iron frying pan. Erin stood over them, flanked by a group of Goblins on her left and a Skeleton and three of the horrific ant-monsters known as Antinium on her right.
“You wrecked my inn.”
Erin stared down at the three men. She was trembling. Half with nerves, but the other half was sheer rage.
“You—”
The helmeted adventurer hesitated. He struggled to get to his feet, feeling for his sword. He saw it in the skeleton’s hands. He pointed a trembling finger at the skeleton, backing away as his two friends got to their feet.
“What kind of inn is this? It’s full of monsters!”
“They’re not monsters! These Goblins are my guests, and no one hurts them here! Didn’t you read the sign?”
The biggest adventurer lumbered to his feet. His fists were clenched, and he was red down to his neck. Rags and the other Goblins retreated from him, but Erin saw Rags pulling out a jar full of green liquid. She shook her head at the Goblin.
“You’re crazy! You—you freak! You’re feedin’ these freaks that kill Humans! And you’re feedin’ bugs and an undead monster! We oughta burn this place down and turn you in to the City Watch!”
“Burn down my inn? I don’t think so.”
Erin gripped the handle of the frying pan tighter. The Antinium loomed behind her, and the two smaller adventurers stepped back.
“You bitch!”
The big adventurer shouted at Erin. His spit practically covered the skeleton interposing itself between Erin and him.
“This ain’t over! We’re gonna round up all the adventurers in the city and come back here. Then we’ll see if you want to protect these freaks!”
“I don’t believe that will happen.”
Someone tapped the big adventurer on the shoulder. He whirled around, threw a fist, and nearly screamed as a grip like steel crushed his wrist.
Gazi the Omniscient stared at the adventurer she had caught like an entomologist studying an insect caught in their backyard. Without much interest, she flicked the man’s hand away. When she turned to look at Erin, she smiled slightly.
“Erin Solstice. You are full of surprises.”
Erin blinked.
“Oh. Gazi.”
The two adventurers behind the big man reacted to the half-Gazer’s name—and her eye—but the bigger man was still caught up in his rage.
“If yer gonna protect this monster-loving b—”
Gazi didn’t move. She didn’t move, but her eye twitched. Its yellow pupil seemed to widen and glow for a moment, and Erin felt a flash of unease. Gazi was suddenly terrifying for no real reason. And she wasn’t even looking at Erin. The effect on the adventurers—particularly the big man—was immediate. They shuddered, paled, and backed away from her.
“No one will attack this inn. Or I will find you and you will suffer. And you will all leave now.”
Helmet adventurer shuddered. His eyes flicked to his sword, still in the skeleton’s hand.
“But—”
Gazi’s eye swiveled, and her large yellow pupil fixed on the adventurer’s face, and the words stopped.
“In the name of Reim—begone.”
The adventurer stared for one second into Gazi’s large eye. Then he ran. He didn’t say a word, and his friends ran after him, legs and arms pumping. Erin watched them race down the hill so fast one tripped and went flying, but they got up and kept running even after slamming into the ground. Gazi just turned to Erin and smiled with her lips closed as if nothing had happened.
“I am glad that you are unharmed.”
“What?”
Erin blinked at Gazi stupidly and then realized she was still holding her frying pan. Lamely, she put it on a table.
“Um, thanks. Really. You saved us there.”
Gazi flicked her hand dismissively.
“I merely prevented them from causing more trouble. But you would have handled them most admirably had I not been here.”
Her smaller eyes moved around the room.
“Still, I see that they have caused much damage. I apologize. I should have forced them to repay you for the damages.”
“Oh, it’s nothing—”
Erin broke off. Rags limped over to her, clutching at her stomach and poked her in the side. The Goblin offered Erin a bag of coins.
“Oh. Oops?”
Rags shrugged at Erin and then winced. She clutched at her stomach where the adventurer had stomped on her. Erin immediately forgot about the money. She bent down, staring anxiously at the Goblin.
“Are you okay? I have some healing potions I could split—”
Rags shook her head. Clutching at her ribs, she pulled something out of her pouch. A healing potion. The Goblin pulled the stopper out and drank a mouthful of the purple, brackish liquid.
Erin was sure the Goblin didn’t own any healing potions. She was also sure that it wasn’t her healing potion or Gazi’s. She looked at the other Goblins and saw they were doing the same with a few healing potions as well. She knew exactly where they’d come from.
The adventurers had come here with belt pouches and carry bags along with their armor and weapons. And while they’d left with their armor, it seemed someone had cut away their belts and bags of healing potions while they’d been downed. The Goblins were already fighting over the spoils.
Erin had a feeling that she was going to get the blame for most—all of that. But right now, looking at the injured people in her inn, she didn’t really care.
“Here.”
She righted a table and made Pawn and the injured Workers sit down. Erin found some bandages in her packs, helped pull the axe out of the skeleton’s rib cage, and let Pisces get to work on the skeleton. It seemed he had been invisible during the entire confrontation.
She was so busy attending her friends—saying thank you and feeding them a second dinner—that she never noticed that Gazi had left the inn.
 
——
 
Gazi the Omniscient travelled back to Liscor, the ground blurring beneath her feet. She had no further business at The Wandering Inn at the moment. Erin Solstice was too busy attending to her wounded patrons for conversation, and Gazi had seen all she needed.
More importantly, she had found one. At last, she had found one. And not just one.
“Two.”
She smiled to herself. She’d searched far and wide for individuals worthy of waking up her lord and liege. For years. And she had despaired. But now she had found one. Not just one; two.
“A mysterious child with a unique Skill, and a [Necromancer] who can create new undead.”
Erin Solstice. She was unlike any Human Gazi had met before, save one. She had met only one other being who could unify so many races outside of her own. And that she had stepped in to protect them against her own kind only made her rarer in Gazi’s opinion.
But there was more to her than even that. Erin’s origins, her ways of thinking, and yes, even the [Immortal Moment] Skill Gazi had never seen on an individual before were all unique. She was worthy. The mage was also worthy, but in a different way. He was simply a genius.
“But she is different.”
Gazi frowned, letting her single eyelid droop over her central eye. Yes, Erin Solstice was different. She passed through the city gates, nodding at the guard who stared at her and slowed to walk idly through the streets.
