Erin Solstice. She was the one, and if Gazi had to choose, it would be her. But it was better not to choose. Better to wait and lay plans. Gazi could act now of course, but if she wanted to do this properly, it would take time.
Time and patience were both things Gazi did not have, but she did not want to ruin things now, right when she had found not one, but two worthy beings. She yearned to begin, but patience—patience was a virtue she had learned to practice.
Yes, perhaps it was better to wait. She had come far over the course of thousands of miles and countless years. Her King still slept; he would wait a while longer to be woken. Those she brought must be truly worthy of his attention. Yet she had a good feeling this time.
At the very least, Fetohep of Khelt alone would pay a king’s ransom for Pisces—a [King]’s ransom a hundred times over. Whether he made the boy rich or had him executed—that alone might be enough to wake her King. Perhaps. Perhaps…though Fetohep had every reason not to want her King to wake.
As Gazi walked through the streets, she noticed she was being followed. She kept her main eye straight ahead, but her lesser eyes could detect movement around her. Gnolls. Two shadowed her at a distance, pretending to be late-night shoppers and pedestrians going home.
No doubt they were courtesy of a certain Gnoll [Shopkeeper]. She had doubtless organized them to tail Gazi, unaware perhaps of the half-Gazer’s ability to see all. Or perhaps she knew and was letting Gazi know she was being watched. Either way, it mattered little. The Gnolls were the least experienced of Gazi’s watchers, but they were hardly the only ones keeping an eye on her. 
Pallass had sent their observers…for a time until they realized the cost was too high. They had their own kind of watcher, the Cyclops, though his role and Gazi’s—and their natures—were far different. She had passed through his realm mostly quietly. He knew better than to make unnecessary foes.
But it was the Gnolls’ presence that decided Gazi. Not because they were dangerous, but because it meant there was more to Erin than even her eyes could uncover. She would wait. Wait, and learn more about this strange Human. Perhaps there was another worthy one. Three was better than two.
As Gazi passed by the market street, she noticed a flicker of movement. A small Human grabbed several items from a stall while the shopkeeper was looking the other way. Gazi pretended not to see, but one of her lesser eyes tracked the female Human as she darted away.
The thief ducked out of sight in the alleyway, but Gazi’s eye wasn’t weak enough to be stopped by mere objects like walls at close range. Her large eye moved, and she saw not only the thief’s figure, but her name and nature. Such was the power of Gazi’s eye.
But in this case, Gazi was disappointed. She shook her head.
“Ah. Just a [Princess].”
She turned her eye away. She had no time for Human royalty. Petty lords and princesses of small nations could not arouse her ruler’s interest.
Gazi cast her eye upwards. She saw the changing winds and, miles overhead, saw the cold front sweeping in at speeds even her eye had trouble tracking. Yes, winter was coming. And quickly too. This land had few seasons save for the rainy one, but the fell chill would still freeze the land for a week at least. Time, then, to wait and observe both Humans.
“Yes, time.”
The adventurers had been a stroke of good luck. Their foolishness had given Gazi plenty of insight into Erin’s nature. She would ensure no reprisals came—at least in the form of a mob—but she would continue watching Erin Solstice.
She wanted to know everything about her.
 
——
 
Erin sat in her inn, staring at the recently cleaned room. Half of the tables and chairs were now fireplace fuel, but at least the spilled food and broken dishes had been cleaned up. She’d buy new ones from Krshia tomorrow.
Everyone was gone. They’d limped off or walked back to the city or, in Pisces’ case, done his disappearing act. They were gone, and Erin was left alone.
With the skeleton, of course.
It was fully repaired and sweeping up dust. Erin stared at it as it worked. It paused as it glanced up and saw her staring.
“Yeah. You don’t like it either, huh?”
After a moment, the skeleton got back to work. It stood up, dustpan in hand, and walked outside to dump the dust. Then it came back in and stood to attention, staring at Erin.
She sighed. The skeleton looked at her expectantly.
“Skeletons. You know, I hated biology class in school. The skeleton there creeped me out, and it didn’t move around all the time.”
No response. Well, Erin was getting used to that.
“I don’t like dead things. And I don’t really trust you.”
The light in the skeleton’s eyes dimmed for a second. Erin sighed again.
“But. I guess you’re alright.”
The flickering sparks in the skeleton’s eyes ignited. Erin nodded to herself.
“I’ll keep you after all. You’re useful, and you can fight. Sorta. Just don’t do anything stupid, got it?”
After a beat, the skeleton nodded obediently.
“Cool. Now I guess—I guess you’ll need a name?”
No response. But the skeleton seemed expectant. Erin scratched her head. She really needed to sleep, but this was important.
“What would be a good name for a skeleton? Papyrus…? Nah. You’re not nearly cool enough for that.”
The skeleton didn’t react. Erin tilted her head, thinking hard. She snapped her fingers.
“I guess I’ll just call you Clatter. No—Claptrap! But even you’re not half as annoying as that…thing.”
Erin scratched at her head as she began pacing around the room. The skeleton’s fiery, blue eyes followed her as she began throwing names out at random.
“Mr. Bones? Way too generic. How about Carnage? But that sounds horrible. Silent Steve…? No. Smitty Werbenjagermanjensen? Too long.”
After a while, the skeleton turned around and walked upstairs. It still had the order to clean, and it supposed upstairs counted as ‘the inn’. So the skeleton began cleaning a decade’s worth of accumulated filth from the ceiling as it heard Erin still talking to herself down below.
“How about Napoleon? But you’re not short. Skeletron? But I’d get confused. Paul Hendrickson the Fifth? Whitey? Wait, is that racist?”
The skeleton quite deliberately tuned Erin’s voice out of its head, at least as far as it could ignore the voice of its master. It scrubbed the ceiling with the fragment of the dustrag hard, wishing—as much as it could wish—that it held a weapon instead. Erin had made it leave the sword and axe in the kitchen while it was cleaning.
It had no will. Skeletons weren’t supposed to have free will. But they weren’t supposed to level either, and the [Skeleton Warrior] was now Level 2. It didn’t know how to feel about that. It had one function: to serve. If leveling helped in that capacity, it would level.
It just wished Erin would stop talking.
“Bojangles. Bonerama. Bonehead. Friedman? Spinal Tap. Harambe. Jack? Jack Sparrow? Jack Skellington? Mr. Skeleton? Smiley Face?”
A pause. The skeleton did not sigh in relief.
“…Mike?”
 
[Innkeeper Level 13!]
[Skill – Loud Voice obtained!]
