“Um... I...” Denise tried to speak, and Ren looked at her expectantly. She sighed and slid in to copy Lisa, cuddled with Ren and very gently laid her head against his chest. He wrapped his arm around her shoulders and kissed the top of her head.

Denise tensed up a little as she waited for Stella to cuddle in close to her like Elise had with Lisa; but, Stella only put a hand on her shoulder and gave it a squeeze. Denise reached up and took the hand, then slid it across her to put it on Ren's chest. Stella still didn't cuddle in completely, mainly because she knew that one little move was a huge step for her friend.

Stella leaned in close to Denise and whispered in her ear. “Thank you.”

They all took a deep breath at almost the same time, let it out, and drifted off to sleep.

*

Barbara held her husband tightly several hours later as they cuddled in bed. She had told her husband Donald about everything that had been happening since Ren's accident.

“The poor little guy.” Donald said. “He must be heartsick after being hurt again in such a stupid accident.”

Barbara nodded, then shook her head.

“What was that motion?” Donald asked and smiled.

“I think he should be sad about it; but, I don't think he actually is.” Barbara said.

“Huh.” Donald grunted. “Good for him. You told me he was tough.”

Barbara nodded. “I just wish I was there... or that someone saw what happened.”

“It's a big place.” Donald said. “Even if you had been there at the time, would you have been close enough to make a difference?”

“I don't know.” Barbara said.

“Hey, don't most big homes have security cameras or something?” Donald asked. “I mean, if it was me, I'd want the place secured. If there's cameras, maybe they recorded the accident.”

“Oh, my god!” Barbara said and hopped out of the bed. “We never thought of that!”

“Where are you going?” Donald asked.

“I've got to ask Elise about security systems!” Barbara said and ran to the door.

“BARBARA!” Donald yelled, and she froze at his command voice. “It's the middle of the night and no one is awake over there next door.”

“Oh, right.” Barbara sighed. “I guess I can tell them in the morning.”

“Plus, you're still naked.” Donald said.

Barbara looked down at herself. She was as naked as the day she was born, and her face flushed beet red.

“That could have been quite the shock for them.” Donald said and laughed.

“It's not funny, Donald!” Barbara said. “I would have been so embarrassed!”

“I'd never let that happen.” Donald said. “I'd have stopped you... once I stopped laughing.”

“You... you...” Barbara stomped over to the bed and grabbed a pillow. She proceeded to smack him upside the head several times with it, and all he did was laugh.
