Isabel didn’t seem inclined to resume the conversation and Piety, reluctantly, let it slide. Instead, she focused on Isabel’s request. Could she go into a region heavy with ravenous blood-drinking undead that had bested the most powerful clerics the Church of Khulanty could send? When Piety had finished her stew of mutton, carrots, and potatoes, sopping up the last of the gravy with a heal of the loaf, she sat back in her chair, contented, and decided.

“I’ll do it.”

Temperance sighed unhappily.

“You don’t have to come,” Piety told her and was rewarded with a glare. She reached to Temperance and squeezed her shoulder gently. “Thank you.”

“Good,” said Isabel. “I want you to start in a place called Valley of the Three Rivers. There’s a town there called Appledel…”

“Appledel,” said Piety and the word caught in her throat. Her skin buzzed.

“Do you know it?” Isabel asked.

Piety nodded numbly.

“Is there a problem?”

Piety shook her head. “No. We’ll leave tomorrow, first thing.”

“Good. Tobias knows the details of the reports and how to get reports of your findings sent directly to me. He’ll be accompanying you.”

“Your Majesty.” Tobias took several steps toward them, concern etched to his forehead.

“We’ve had this discussion, Tobias,” Isabel forestalled the argument. “You’ll be guarding the Light Cleric on her mission.”

“And who will be guarding you?” Tobias demanded.

Piety was surprised, the bodyguard showed far more will than she had expected of someone in his capacity. Arguing with the Royal seemed like a function a bodyguard wasn’t supposed to engage in.

“There are plenty of guards at the palace,” Isabel said.

“That’s what I’m afraid of.”

“I’m ordering you to accompany the Light Cleric.”

Tobias stiffened and returned to his place at the door. Isabel stood and returned her attention to the two young clerics.

“One more thing,” said Isabel. “Based on Church Council vote, you two have been promoted to the rank of Mother.” She turned then and walked to the door. Tobias opened it for her, carefully not looking at her.

“Isabel.” Piety had one more thing to say. “Your Majesty. I was sorry to hear about your parents. I know what it’s like to be an orphan.”

Royal Isabel Loreamer nodded acknowledgement. Then she walked to the doorway and, instead of walking through the space, she paused. Piety could feel the pressure of her power as she stepped through and was gone.

• • •

As Piety changed clothes for bed, she felt an awkward lump in her dress pocket and withdrew the small, blue flower the little boy of Vale had given her. She swallowed hard.

“Temperance, do you remember…” But she couldn’t force the words past her throat.

Temperance looked at her and at the flower. “The pale blue flower that grows in the mountains of Western Artio.”

She held her hand out for it and Piety gave it to her. Carefully, Temperance pressed the flower into the book that Father Vytal had given her for her birthday.
