Piety considered fleeing the coming conversation. The awe and adoration with which the people of the village looked at her, the reverence with which story spread, made her uncomfortable.

Piety turned to see the three still-kneeling men who had watched her burn the undead creature and the approaching coterie of villagers. Soot-stained, mud-splattered, fatigue-thinned, she caught unwanted glimpses of herself through the eyes of the villagers. They did not see her as a bedraggled girl in a dirty dress but as a warrior Saint descended from the heavens in a ball of fire to deliver them from story-book monsters made real.

The villagers parted so their mayor could approach. Many of the villagers held torches that guttered in the rain and Piety let the light she’d been generating fade. Soon, only the torches lit the mountain forest.

The mayor spared only a glance for the kneeling villagers, he kept his eyes on Piety. “Where is the vhamp?” he demanded, a veneer of authority over a boiling pot of fear.

Piety narrowed her brows at the now familiar word. Piety assumed the word was a shortened form of Frederick Vahramp’s name, though how it had become synonymous with the minions he’d created, she didn’t know.

“You can see for yourself, mayor.” Piety gestured behind her at the tree, though Piety could sense he had seen the greasy smoke marks and had determined the progression of events.

His gaze flicked to the tree behind her and back. “I know who you are.”

“And who am I, mayor?”

“You’re the Light Cleric.”

Several of the villagers gasped at his pronouncement, some of them even knelt in the mud, like the first three who had followed her into the wood.

Piety resisted the urge to sigh. Her reputation had spread through Khulanty, much like the stories of the vahmps.

“Your men,” she said, “who were attacked by the creature. Are they dead?”

He nodded.

Piety sighed. “Very well then, I should be off.”

“Won’t you stay and rest? You look like you’ve been traveling for quite some time.”

The offer was tempting, but Piety shook her head.

Temperance waited for her at a comfortable inn in Silvervein, the provincial seat of Artio Province. It was a large city, a hub for trade through the South Pass of the Khulanty Mountains. It was an easy place for a pair of wandering clerics to get lost and be anonymous, to cut their ties with the Royal Army. Piety longed to join her.

Before she could launch herself into the sky, a small boy approached, pushing through the adults. His deep golden aura caught her attention and she waited for him.

“It only grows in valleys hereabouts,” he said, and he held out a small, blue flower.

Piety had never seen the flower before, but she recognized it. She accepted the flower with smile and a nod, letting the tears slide under the rain. She tucked the flower into a pocket.

• • •

Piety soared through the cold air above the Khulanty Mountains clad in dry clothes and warm power. The rain had washed her clean and a careful telekinetic shield kept her warmth in but let the rain evaporate.

She was exhausted.

As morning eased into midday, the city of Silvervein crested the horizon. A part of Piety, the part that had tracked for three days straight, in the rain, wanted to take it easy, to just soar on into the city, right to the door of the inn where she and Temperance were staying, unconcerned if everyone in the city saw her. But the practical part of her, the part that could look beyond the immediate, reminded her she was in hiding and word of a girl who could fly would get around. And so, she landed in the forested foothills of the South Pass and hiked to the city. At the gates, she rented the services of a hand pulled cart, giving the young man with bulging muscles a silver coin to taxi her to the Rising Sun Inn.

The common room was filled with merchants and merchants’ servants and merchants’ families as they brokered deals over an early luncheon. Though the scent of warm, quality food drew from her stomach an aching growl, she threaded her way through the tables to the inn’s office, a quiet room staffed by a stern woman named Whillamina.

Whillimina looked up from her ledger and fixed Piety with a stern gaze. “Welcome back, Cleric. I trust your sojourn went well?”

Piety smiled. “Yes, ma’am. Is Temperance in?”

Whilimina flicked her fingers across a small stack of papers, but Piety was certain that she had all the messages memorized except when they were meant to be private.

“She has not left a message for you, Cleric.”

Piety nodded her thanks and went to the stairs at the back of the building. She and Temperance had rented a small, but comfortable room using the money earned from odd jobs as they traveled across Kempenny Province to Artio. The room was more expensive than Temperance liked, but Piety had insisted that they be comfortable, reasoning that they had been uncomfortable for most of their lives and that change would do them good.

When she got to their shared room, number three on the second floor, she knocked twice and turned the handle.

“Temperance? I’m back.”

When Piety saw who was in the room, she went physically still and psychically defensive.

Temperance sat at the small table drinking tea with a tall, silver-haired young woman. The woman was dressed simply, like the last time Piety had seen her, in a soft grey dress. It occurred to Piety that she had never seen the ruler of her nation in the full regalia of her office. Between the open door and the table stood a young man dressed in grey military uniform with a sword at his hip. Temperance and Royal Isabel Loreamer stood when she opened the door. The young man put his hand on his sword hilt.

“It’s all right, Tobias,” Royal Loreamer said. Her voice was quiet but held the steel confidence of command.

Tobias removed his hand from the sword hilt.

The woman who had once been Heir Isabel Loreamer was now the Royal, the ruler of all Khulanty. Piety had heard the news while traveling cross-country with Temperance. It had been in the common room of an inn much like this one: Royal Sean Loreamer and his Consort Margaret were dead, and young Isabel had taken the throne. Margaret Loreamer had been ill, but no one knew how Sean Loreamer had died—speculation stirred like poison in tea.

The Royal looked at Piety and Piety felt the other woman’s power flex and reach out to her shield. She did not press, but Piety could feel the strength of the woman. If the Royal wanted to test her strength against Piety’s shield, Piety knew it would be a challenge to stand up to her.

Piety entered and closed the door behind her. “What do you want?” she demanded.

“Piety!” Temperance chided.

Piety’s gazed flicked to Temperance and away. Temperance was genuinely shocked. Piety could feel Temperance’s disappointment, and she blushed.

But Royal Loreamer shook her head. “It’s fine, Temperance. She has every right to be angry with me. In fact, I’m surprised you aren’t.”

“Why should I be angry with you?” Temperance asked.

Royal Loreamer turned her attention to Temperance. “You don’t blame me for the war or your part in it? You don’t blame me for Tristam’s death?”

Temperance gave a small shrug and sipped her tea. “No.” But her voice didn’t hold the same conviction it had when she’d scolded Piety. “I could have stayed at the temple in Kinswell. I made my choice, just as Father Vytal did, as General Kempenny did, and as you have.”

Royal Loreamer looked at Piety. “And you, Light Cleric? Do you blame me?”

Piety leaned against the closed door, not wanting to proceed into the room. “It doesn’t matter what I think.”

Royal Loreamer regarded her silently for several minutes. Temperance fidgeted uncomfortably in the silence, the bodyguard, Tobias, watched Piety carefully.

Royal Loreamer broke the silence. “I need you, Piety.”

“I’m not fighting in your war anymore, your Majesty. I bought the patriotism and honor fairytale once already.”

“I know. And I’m not asking you to.”

“Then what do you want?”

“You’ve spent the last couple months roaming the country hunting the minions of Vahramp. What have you noticed?”

Piety held back a biting retort. She did not tell the Royal that she’d seen fear, bloodshed, and sorrow in the wake of even the least of the creatures. Instead, she tried to give the question proper consideration. Was there something she should have noticed? An anomaly? She recounted her most recent fight and how the vhamp hadn’t burned in bright light.

“They’re changing,” she said.

Royal Loreamer nodded. “They are. Do you know why?”

“No.”

“Me neither. I’d like you to find out for me.”

“How do you propose I do that?”

“Marcus has dispatched warriors and investigators all over Khulanty, to find the scattered remains of General Vahramp’s minions.”

It took Piety a moment to realize that Marcus was High Cleric Radden. Royal Loreamer had the same habit of calling everyone by first name that Father Vytal had practiced.

The Royal continued. “Many of them ended up doing what you’re doing, hunting down and destroying the creatures. But in the west of Shannon Province, we’ve lost three teams of clerics and the reports indicate there is a high concentration of vhamps there.”

“Wait,” Temperance interrupted, “You want to send Piety into a situation where the High Temple’s best clerics have gone missing?”

Royal Loreamer nodded. “It’ll be dangerous.” She looked from Piety to Temperance and back again. “I’m sorry for that. I need someone powerful. Someone I can trust.”

“Why don’t you do it then?” Temperance asked, “Everyone says you’re powerful.”

Piety was as surprised at her friend’s audaciousness as Temperance had been at hers. Temperance’s stubborn streak chose to show itself at odd times.

Royal Loreamer nodded. “I’ve learned the hard way that I cannot do everything. I have a country to run, no matter the crisis at hand, and I have this damn war to fight.”

“No,” said Piety, “You have a war to end, Isabel.”

She hadn’t done it on purpose, addressed the Royal by first name like she was a friend, or even an acquaintance, respect was important to Piety, but in saying the Royal’s name, she felt like the ruler of Khulanty was no more or less a person than she was. She wondered if that’s where Father Vytal’s practice had come from.

Isabel sighed. She opened her mouth to speak, paused, then, “He was my first teacher. He taught me to find the room in my mind, to focus my power and still the dreams, the nightmares. He taught me that my powers were a tool, that it was my choice how to use them. He taught me that all are equal in the sight of God and the whim of the cosmos. He taught me how to look at every situation as an opportunity to learn. I loved him too, Piety.”

Piety took in a deep breath and it held the shudder of long since shed tears. The scent of tea still hung in the air and she remembered she hadn’t eaten recently. Her stomach’s whine was insistent.

“Is there any tea left?” Piety asked, and she pushed herself off the door. Tobias, the bodyguard, let her pass. She sat at the small table and poured herself a cup of tea from the small pot. It was still warm.

Tobias took up a position by the door.

“I’ll go get more tea,” Temperance said quietly, and she slipped from the room.

Isabel sat next to Piety and poured the last of the tea into her own cup.

Isabel shrugged. “Sometimes, when I… when I access my power, there’s a space, like a part of me has been torn away. It’s always been there, but I can’t always see it. When I do see it, it’s like I can see into everything and nothing at the same time and my power… is more.”

Piety went still, her body tingly, and a subtle sweat touched upon her skin.

“Devorah Kempenny looks similar to me, but then, so do my cousins and aunts and nieces in the Loreamer family. For that matter, so do you and so do others throughout Khulanty, I imagine. But once, Devorah told me that she experiences the cosmos too.”

Piety had to lick her lips and swallow hard before she could respond. “A cosmic void,” and she knew she had Isabel’s attention. “Like the wall had just gone and in its place some vast… I thought it was God. And I stood on the edge forever and never and teetered between here and infinity.” Piety looked at the wall of the small room but she was looking beyond, to the room in her mind and the wall replaced by forever.

Piety felt Isabel touch her hand and she blinked, brought back.

“Have you ever fallen in?” Isabel asked.

Piety nodded and found in Isabel a knowing look. “Have you?”

Isabel nodded.

Piety took a sip of tea, swallowed, and said, “Temperance once told me that I look like Devorah. The first time we met her, in Sunslance.”

Isabel nodded. “You do.” She patted Piety’s hand gently.

“And once you said I looked like I could be your little sister.”

Isabel nodded again.

“What does that mean?”

“I don’t know.”

She took hold of Piety’s hand and Piety returned the gesture. There were several moments of silence while Piety gathered the courage to ask her next question.

“Isabel, do you ever feel like you’re sharing your mind with other people?”

Isabel looked at her askance. “Are you hearing voices, Piety?”

“No. I mean the mindspace. Mine is a room. There’s a chair and a desk and bookcase, and ever since I was little, there have been books on the shelves that I’d never seen before. I’ve been playing chess against someone for years and I used to try to convince myself I was playing against my own subconscious, but now I don’t know.”

Isabel looked carefully away and didn’t respond.

Piety cleared her throat uncomfortably. “I only bring it up because you’ve also stood at the edge of the cosmos. I thought I was alone in that experience.”

Temperance returned then, knocking twice before opening the door. Tobias stood at the ready and didn’t relax until he shut the door behind her. Piety had almost forgotten Tobias was in the room; he played the silent bodyguard routine well. Temperance carried a tray laden with a new teapot and three bowls of savory stew and a loaf of bread with a small dish of butter.

Piety’s stomach growled with such enthusiastic anticipation that it felt as through it might tear through her middle to get at the food. Isabel laughed lightly, almost a giggle, another reminder that the Royal of Khulanty was just a person.

