Year 3

Piety Churchstep tensed and relaxed the muscles in her shoulders rhythmically—once, twice, thrice—then her arms, her legs, and back up to her shoulders, counting each tense and relax to keep her mind from wandering, keep her senses sharp. The small muscle exercises were to keep her body from cramping as she crouched on the branch of a large tree, not moving but to tense and relax her muscles in turn. This tree looked out over a small valley within which was nestled a small village.

Artio Province was almost entirely mountainous, making farming a difficult prospect. Instead there were orchards of hardy trees that produced hardy crop: olives, nuts, and apples, but mostly the people of the mountains made their living from goats, sheep, and woodcutting. This particular village was on the western most edge of the mountain range, putting it at the westernmost edge of Khulanty. Idly, Piety wondered if the people of the village even knew they were citizens of Khulanty.

A cold wind gusted through the branches, shifting the remaining leaves with barely a whisper and making Piety shudder. The wind was particularly cold against her rain-soaked clothes. She had been hiding in this tree since before sunset, three hours ago. She had been tracking her quarry for the past three days, when it had begun to rain. Here, in the mountain, the rain of late winter was much more likely to turn to snow than it did back in the Valley of the Three Rivers or on the plains where the war between the Royals of Khulanty and the Governor of Kempenny still raged.

She remembered, years ago now, a drop of rain that had cast her consciousness into the clouds and how she’d delighted in it. This rain was bitterly cold. She sniffled.

She hadn’t slept much in the last three days and staved off exhaustion by force of will and just a little power. She’d gotten used to the wet and cold by now, though she was sure Temperance would have harsh words for her if she got sick because of this little adventure.

Her mental senses drifted from her in ghostly tendrils, picking up the surface thoughts of the nearby villagers. Piety scanned quickly but gently through those thoughts, looking for any that did not belong.

A man sat in the small tavern and drank a small glass of whisky, the last of the night before the tavern owner kicked him out, genially but firmly. A woman sat at the bedside of her two small children, a son and a daughter, and crooned softly to them as they drifted to sleep, and she wondered about their father, who was up in the mountains, tending goats. The mayor of this small village sat in a small office on the second story of the only building so tall in the valley: tallying sums, recording supplies, and figuring taxes, which satisfied Piety’s curiosity about whether or not they knew under whose rule they lived.

The man from the bar walked loudly and clumsily down the muddy street, not bothering with the boardwalks. He made his way to the edge of town, abutting the forest, to relieve himself. Piety’s telepathy brushed the man’s tired thoughts and prepared to move on, when she found what she was looking for. It wasn’t in the relief of a man emptying his bladder, but in the creature lurking nearby. In that creature’s thoughts she recognized the savage, hungry nature of the undead minions of Frederick Vahramp.

Quick as a thought, Piety focused her energy on a spot only a hand span from the lazy drunk’s left shoulder, and a bright light flared into existence just as the undead creature was about to strike.

Upon Father Vytal’s death, Piety had generated light from power and instinct. She hadn’t realized she’d done it until she’d heard the stories of the “Light Cleric”, and Temperance told her she’d glowed. With meditation and practice, Piety had found she could create light at will, and she used that ability now to drive back the undead creature.

The creature and the villager both screamed, the one with pain, the other with fright. Piety felt the creature’s scream bounce off her mental shield, but it wasn’t enough to stress her power. She wondered if this creature was weak or if she had gotten stronger.

The villager ran for the village, seeking the safety of walls and lights and people, his gait awkward as he held up his pants with one hand and balanced with the other. The creature, though stunned by the blow of light, gathered itself quickly and leapt after the man.

“Curses,” Piety muttered.

Usually, a burst of light was enough to destroy the undead creatures, just as sunlight did. Unfortunately, though stunned and disoriented, this creature did not burn to a pile of ash.

The creature leapt at the man again. Piety thrust with her telekinesis, striking the creature mid-leap in the center of its back, driving it into the muddy ground where it created a deep furrow in the mud.

The villager’s shouts gained the attention of the near edge of the village. Those folks still awake poked their heads from their homes to laugh or shout questions. A few approached, but Piety could tell from their surface thoughts that they didn’t consider this disturbance to be of particular note, that this man was a notorious drunk after the autumn harvest when his orchards were still and he had nothing to do.

The creature pushed itself to its feet in a blink and roared its fury, a deep grumble beneath a high-pitched scream that defied the physical capabilities of a human throat and struck at the nearby villagers psychically, staggering most and inducing throbbing headaches.

Piety’s shield held.

She threw a lash of telepathic energy at the creature and felt her attack slide around the creature’s own oily shield. The creature turned its attention from the drunk and looked to her perch in the tree.

“That’s right,” she whispered. “Come get me.”

It sped toward her tree and she struck with her telepathy, forcing it to the ground. But the creature was fast and resilient and it tumbled to its feet, continuing its frenzied charge. When it reached the base of the tree, Piety changed tactics. She thrust down against the pull of gravity and launched herself into the air.

Looking down, the lights from the windows of those still awake and those newly awakened were far below, and she could see little other than a pale glow and franticly moving shadows. She could feel the thoughts of the villagers: panic—they realized what the human-shaped creature at the edge of the village was. Even in this remote area, the stories of the monsters known as vhamps had spread. And she could sense the creature’s thoughts: with the immediate threat gone, hunger had reasserted itself.

Piety let her telekinesis touch the air around her. She had come to realize that air was a physical, tangible thing, and she had learned to push gently against the air, thereby gaining a fine control over telekinetic flight.

Like a bird shifting its tail feathers, Piety adjusted her telekinetic powers and let herself plummet to earth. She tucked her knees against her chest and shifted forward so she looked down at her destination. The position had the added benefit of tucking her dress against her body so it didn’t flap into her face. Since that first flight, she had always made sure to venture into the field wearing long pants and stout boots under her dress.

The villagers had taken up lit torches to fend off the undead beast, and she approved. By now, it was common knowledge that these undead monstrosities burned faster than dry grass. And yet, she worried this one was different. When she had struck it with light, it hadn’t combusted. Perhaps it was that her light wasn’t enough like sunlight to achieve the desired effect, but maybe it was that this creature would not burst into flames like others of its kind.

The creature was primed to strike again, and no matter how effective fire was, the creature was far faster than the humans it preyed upon. Many would die before it would. Uncertain that her freefall would be fast enough, Piety wrapped her power around her, let it emanate from her. She hoped the light would draw the attention of the creature. By the time she hit the ground, propelled by her power, she shone like a miniature sun.

She thrust her telekinesis at the creature as she landed, and the force cushioned her landing putting the creature into a small crater in the mud. The villagers were flung back with shouts and curses though Piety was happy they were further from the undead beast. The creature had taken the full brunt of her telekinetic thrust and lay prone, pressed into the mud at her feet, body shattered.

Ignoring the cries of surprise, the shouts for explanation, Piety held her hand out and concentrated on the physical world around her. She felt the clothes on her body, the mud at her feet and splattered across her face. She felt the prone creature and the clicks and creaks as its body put itself back together alarmingly fast. She felt the villagers and their torches and their clothes and, among many of them, wood axes and hunting spears and utility knives. She focused on one of those hunting spears, wrapped her telekinesis around it and drew it from its owner’s hand.

In the next moment, the haft of the spear slapped into her hand. It was a spear meant to hunt boar, a fact she picked up from the surface thoughts of the man she had snatched it from. It had a long sturdy haft and a thick iron crossbar to stop a charging beast from charging all the way down the haft to the spear-wielder.

But she wasn’t fast enough.

The undead creature’s body had mended rapidly, and now it swept its arm at her legs, knocking her feet from beneath her.

Piety grunted as she was struck, but reacted quickly, throwing her power at the ground so she tumbled through the air without touching the ground and landed on her feet, skidding in the mud. The creature was on its feet as well, its ire in its glowing, red eyes. It did not shy from the light emanating from her body.

Piety knew she was no good with weapons. Facing the creature with spear in hand would be worse than doing so bare handed.

Before either she or the creature could make their next move, two of the villagers rushed in, torches blazing and struck at the creature. They were large men, used to hard work from sun up to sun down. Their attacks flanked it, were timed to work together rather than hinder one another, but the creature was too fast. Showing no fear of the fire, it lashed out with one clawed hand and snatched the torch from the hands of the villager on its right before thrusting that torch at its second attacker. The burned villager screamed. Then the creature raked its claws across the belly of the now torch-less villager. Cloth and flesh ripped and a second scream joined the first.

Piety couldn’t spare a moment for the horror of two ruined bodies falling to the mud. She released the spear she held with her hands while at the same time taking hold of it with her power. Aiming for the creature’s chest, she thrust the spear at the creature. The weapon streaked toward its undead target, flashing in the light, meanwhile she prepared a second attack. Piety had not intended the flying spear to be a feint, she just knew that she couldn’t afford for the strike to fail without preparing a follow up.

The creature slapped at the spear and it sank into the mud all the way to the crossbar. Piety’s follow up attack caught it unawares. Thrusting both her hands at the creature, palm out, she knocked it through the air, her telekinetic strike pushing her back with the recoil. Her sliding feet left furrows in the mud.

The creature’s body tore through the trees surrounding the village. Without hesitation, she flew after the creature, prepared to attack again, but when she found it, several meters into the forest, it was impaled upon a tree branch. The branch was encased in glistening blood and viscera that stank of rotten meat and open latrine. The creature gasped and spasmed, clutching at the branch protruding from its chest, though it seemed more a physical reflex than actual struggle

Piety relaxed, though she knew her work was unfinished. With its heart destroyed, the creature would be comatose. It would regenerate much slower than normal and not at all until the object that had destroyed its heart, in this case a tree branch, was removed.

Behind her, a small coterie of brave souls approached slowly, warily. She turned to address them. There were three of them, each so much like the next in his plain woolen clothes, smelling thickly of wood smoke. And yet so very different. Unique. Without trying, she knew so much about them.

The one with the scar above his left eye was a grizzled veteran of the mountainous woodcutting life, experienced enough to be properly wary and yet steadfast in a crisis. The large one was new to the mountains last month but had an elderly mother and three younger sisters to look after; he was in the mountains to make a living with his girth that didn’t involve putting weapons into other men’s bodies and sent most of his money to his family on the plains of Kempenny Province. The youngest hadn’t shaved for the past month and a half, just so that he would have stubble enough to be reprimanded for it by his mother, who spent her days at a loom.

Each villager held a torch in one hand and a boar-spear in the other. When Piety turned to face them, they dropped to their knees in the sodden undergrowth of the forest. They bowed their heads in deference.

The veteran said, “Peace, mother, we mean you no disrespect.”

Shocked, Piety said the first thing that came to mind. “I’m not your mother.”

For the space of several heartbeats, Piety and the villagers said nothing, only the faint creaking of their armor as they shifted made her realize what he had meant—he had been granting her a title of respect.

To cover her embarrassment, Piety held her hand out to them. “Give me your torch.”

The veteran villager held out his torch without question. Piety tugged it from his grip with her telekinesis and caught it easily. The villager bit back a curse but she heard it in his mind. Blushing again, Piety turned to the impaled creature and held the torch to its feet. This time the creature caught quickly and in minutes it was ash. It burned quietly, without physical or psychic noise, without struggle.

Still staring at the smoking ashes she said, “In the morning, scatter the ashes. Until then, post a watch on this spot.”

“But mother, it couldn’t regrow from ashes, could it?” It was the young man with the weeks-long stubble.

“This one was more powerful than normal,” she replied.

“Yes, mother,” said the veteran.

More villagers approached through the forest from the edge of the village. They preceded the village’s mayor. She could feel the mayor’s weary concern radiating from him in time with his heartbeat.

