Xue started off with, “Looks like you’re the paranoid one, now. I saw how you eyed that drink, thinking it might be poisoned.” It was meant to be a dark joke, some gallows humor.

Erick appreciated it for what it tried to be, and not for how accurate it was. The two of them had talked in passing in the last few days, but nothing substantial; nothing beyond the ‘this is happening over here, who is doing something about that’.

Now, here, Erick said what he had failed to say for the last week. “I’m sorry about Sikali. I didn’t hear about it till afterward. That time was… It was quick and terrible and many things happened outside of my sight.”

Xue froze, then wiped away a quick tear, then downed his drink and then refilled it again, saying, “It happened outside of my sight as well. I didn’t hear about it till three hours after the fact. When I heard, I was arms deep in the guts of some initiate, trying to heal out the decay spells that someone had cast into him. That kid survived. Many didn’t.” He said, “Thank you for coming to the funeral, and the wake.”

Erick nodded, and downed his drink, feeling the burn as it went down.

Xue refilled his glass, saying, “So it looks like you’re having some trouble dealing with the aftermath of the war.”

Erick reflectively recoiled. “Aren’t you?”

“Yeah. I am. But your world was much simpler than this one, and now you have power you never expected to have. I bet a dozen people have already yelled at you for not doing something larger, and sooner.”

“… That is not incorrect.”

“You once gave me some good advice, to not jump at shadows and thus make them real by jumping. To separate out those who were truly out to get me, from those who were just being who they were.” Xue said, “I’m going to give you some advice now, from one man who grew up powerless but who gained power through a knack for magic that many others never possessed. The scale is different, obviously, but the fact remains: People have to look out for themselves. You can’t save everyone.”

Erick felt like he had been seen through, and he probably had.

But the immediate feeling after that overwhelmed the first.

Erick asked, “But what if you could.”

Xue paused, then laughed once. He shook his head, and said, “I suppose I should say ‘you shouldn’t save everyone’. The only truth in this life is violence and death. If people cannot handle the first, they will arrive at the second well before they are ready.”

Erick frowned. “Then why does Songli have the Void Song? And all that suppression?”

“The lands outside of the main three cities have no Void Song.” Xue said, “I feel like you have gotten the wrong impression of Songli, Erick. You see us as people to be saved. You see this Worldly Path you’re on as some—” Xue paused, as he saw Erick’s expression.

Erick softly asked, “You knew?”

Xue said, “The Worldly Path does not make wars happen. This war was always going to happen. As soon as that alchemist stumbled upon the cure for the Elixir, which you had already known as chelation, this was the destined outcome.” Xue added, “Maybe, the only reason your Path brought you here, was to prevent a full-scale annihilation, or to help us figure out chelation before it was gone forever. We’re still uncovering most of the reasons and preparations for the war… But Terror Peaks had prepared well. We could have lost half of our people, with the rest broken and divided amongst the invading clans who plotted right alongside Terror Peaks. It would have been like leviathans feasting on the corpse of a whale turtle; everyone taking their pieces and running.

“But now, Songli will expand.

“The pirates of the Highland Ocean are gone. The warlord clans to the north have been brought to heel. Terror Peaks, that ancient enemy, is gone.” Xue said, “Those northern warlords are actually talking of incorporating a new city, at the headwaters of the Wanzhi River. It’s been in the works for a long while, but now that Songli has proven itself as strong and our enemies are laid low or eradicated, we might have a fourth main city added to the Highlands.” Xue said, “If your involvement here has done anything, it has done that.”

That was nice to hear, but a part of Erick could not let go of one question. He stared at the clear liquid in his glass tumbler and sloshed it back and forth. Then he downed it all, and stared at Xue. Xue waited.

Erick asked, “If you could have pressed a button and eradicated Terror Peaks 15 days ago, would you have pressed that button?”

Xue’s face went a little slack. He breathed out, and thought. He downed his drink, then refilled it, then refilled Erick’s as he said, “You once told me to never attribute to malice what is explainable by ignorance, but the continuation of that, is that sometimes the malice is malice. The danger is real. On small scales, this is fine. This is life. But you also proved to me that first strikes are sometimes in error. I was so paranoid about you… and then you went and said all what you said.

“I think it is right that you allowed Terror Peaks to prove who they were… to you.

“We all knew what was going to happen, and we told you, and if it were up to some of the people in charge around here then they would have ‘pressed that button’, as you say.

“But still. Peace must be given a chance. Prosperity cannot happen without people judging in compassion and fairness. War leads to war, as all of Nelboor can attest; it is only through breaking this cycle that prosperity can flow.” Xue asked the air, “Did you make a mistake?” He answered, “No. There were no mistakes. You are not responsible for the actions of others.

“But above all else: Deciding the fates of other nations— Especially nations that are not your own! Deciding the fates of nations with a wave of your hand is nothing more than tyranny. If you go down that path, someone will find something worse to use against you than that soul spear.” Xue said, “If you had eradicated Terror Peaks on your own, Songli would have needed to oust you, for in such an action, we would have suddenly found that Terror Peaks had become a martyr, and all of their allied forces would rally under a new banner, for sure.”

Erick sipped his drink and felt fractionally better for the decisions he had made. “Thank you, Xue.”

Xue smiled, and said, “At least I don’t have to give you the brutality speech! I have to give that one to new clansmen all the time.”

“Ah?” Erick asked, “What’s that one?”

“A kilogram of brutality when it is necessary will buy you a megagram of easy days later.” Xue explained, offhandedly, “It’s something you have to tell the young ones who’ve gained a modicum of power and wealth and yet those young ones are still getting bullied by childhood evils that have grown up right alongside them. I always tell them, to let the bullies prove themselves as wrong, and then you put them down. Hard. And then no one will stand up against you again.”

“… Ah. Yeah.” Erick said, “Took my daughter and a lot of various forces a long time to get me to understand that. But now I worry about going too far.”

“You’re walking a difficult line; swords on one side and the Abyss on the other.” Xue said, “I don’t envy you, but I do thank you for coming here. You’re a lot easier to talk to when I’ve had some drinks in me, too.”

Erick startled, then laughed. He asked, “Did you think I was a dragon, or what, back when you saw me look at that sculpture out front?”

Xue lightly shook his head as he dropped his volume, “That was the worst-case scenario. No one really knew what that sculpture meant, but we all knew it had something to do with dragons.” He said, “I didn’t find out it meant the Worldly Path until after I became an Elder, and even then… Zalindi was supposed to tell you something about that, but he’s gone. Not coming back, either.”

“I’m pretty sure I know what it means, anyway.”

“Oh? What?”

“To seek out the dragons.”

“To seek them out!” With a pointed look, Xue said, “There is a saying: When the dragon is buying drinks at the bar, calmly make your way to the exit, and pity the bartender.”

Erick laughed. “They can’t be worse than Shades.”

“Power wise? They are on the same level. The problem is that while Shades can work together, which makes them much worse, dragons can’t ever find another of their kind or they go into homicidal rages, so the switch to violence upon being found out is… Always a large switch.”

“I’ve heard that.”

“Have you ever seen a dragon fight, though?”

“No.”

That black dragon and the Flare Couatl didn’t really count, did it?

Xue noticed, but did not press, as he said, “I heard Eidolon had a dragon fight back when something happened in the Toxic Jungle and that event spilled into the city. Luckily, the dragons moved outside of the city rather fast. A good hundred square kilometers of forest, razed to ash and lava. I heard that the dragons were totally normal traders, too, until they met, and one thing led to another, and then— Boom! A dragon fight.”

Erick frowned, and nodded.

“We do have…” Xue looked to be internally debating something. He decided to go for it. He said, “We have some dragon that kills all the rest that try to start a fight. Once a year, maybe twice, there’s always some dragon turning to their true form somewhere in Songli, right alongside another doing the same. Half the time the fight just ends— no one is sure why. The other half the time, when they actually fight, a third dragon shows. A long red dragon. Decisively ends the other two before they can do much, then they go back into hiding, all within ten or less seconds.” He said, “The Void Song works on them, too, so we can keep much of the damage contained to small areas, thank Rozeta.”

Erick focused. “And the Headmaster hasn’t come out here and made something of that? Try to kill the red dragon?”

“Nope! No idea why, either. Don’t think anyone ever asked him, for fear of what might happen.” Xue said, “But he has to know, right?”

Erick decided, “Of course he does.”

Erick also decided that he would never raise that topic with the Headmaster, or with the elites he was sending to see about that soul spear.

The conversation moved on to easier topics, like rebuilding and Blood Magic, and fashion. And oh wow, did Xue have opinions and ideas about fashion. Erick smiled at the mundanity of the conversation. He needed this, and he felt that Xue did, too, especially when, drunkenly, Xue told him as much.
