The dining room was fifty meters long and half that wide, while the ceiling hung a good thirty meters above, and dangled with white stone chandeliers. The main dining table, at ten meters long and two wide, sat to the side, atop a wide platform. Smaller tables were scattered around the rest of the large gathering space, with much of the structure of the room reminding Erick of the gathering he had attended back when they announced Tadashi’s antirhine treatment. Those smaller U-shaped tables were also situated upon platforms, with walking aisles open between each of them. The chairs here were not simple drums this time; they were ornate carvings of airy stone.

Everything was white stone and gold leaf, with nuance given over to yellow in the fabrics of the chair cushions and in the drapery upon the entrances and windows. Gold and white fires glowed everywhere, providing soft light and no shadows.

Everyone in the room, of which there were at least a hundred, wore either white, or white with gold trim, or full-on gold, though the latter was reserved for three people in particular: Matriarch Lingxing, Matriarch Tipanri, and Patriarch Hangzi. Each of them sat at the main table, each separated from the next by two meters, each facing the main gathering down below.

Erick sat to the side of the main table, at what some back on Earth would consider the ‘head’, but which was here just a place of honor. He wore his best white robes, and so did his people, but Teressa, Poi, and Jane, were each seated down below, at the first table near the main one.

He wondered, briefly, how a ‘small dinner of no consequence’, ended up like this formal affair, back when he arrived in this space, lightstepping down into the stone garden just beyond the archway. Most people arrived from that direction.

Back when he arrived, the room had been empty, and it seemed like it truly had been a small dinner, done in a huge room. But after small introductions, with Erick seated for three minutes and the first meal served, others had started to arrive.

And people kept arriving.

Erick barely knew any of them for most of them had to be from Holorulo. Every single person came in and bowed to the main table, and then took their spot at the various other tables, according to some arcane methodology, for sure. Mostly, people of high standing went to the front, near the main table, but then Scion Caina went all the way to the back of the room, and Erick lost his understanding of the seating arrangement.

Hangzi, seated only a few meters away and closest to Erick, spoke softly, and his voice carried to the whole of the table; there was an enchantment upon the white stone to ensure they could hear each other, but others could not hear them. “A large change from your first experience at one of these gatherings, I assume.” He gave a wan smile as he sipped his rice wine, and picked at his first dish; a small bowl of fried wontons, stuffed with cheese and meat. The young man’s voice was full of false cheer, masking itself as real. Hangzi was hurting, for sure, but he was putting on a good show.

Erick had his own small bowl of the same appetizers. With one wonton on a fork, as he answered, “You are correct. I’m not quite sure what I was expecting from the invitation, but a gathering was not it.”

Hangzi kept his sad smile, as he said, “There’s no better way to get over tragedy than with shared meals and kingdom rebuilding.”

“Ah.” Erick said, “I haven’t gotten the chance to give my condolences, but I do so now. I have heard your father was a great man, and that he and Yorza both gave their lives saving others.”

“They did.” Hangzi’s demeanor solidified into strength. “Thank you for your words, and for your actions these last ten days. From your attempt to end the war before it began, to what you did for us all afterward. It would be correct to say that much of Songli remains strong because of your actions.”

Tipanri, seated next to Hangzi, spoke, and her voice also carried across the table, “You have done much for us, Archmage Flatt. If there is something you need in return, just ask, and we will attempt to make it happen.” She added, “Aside from what you already asked of us, that is.”

Erick asked, “How is Tadashi and his treatment progressing?”

Hangzi answered, “He has suffered injuries that will take months to heal, but he has survived the worst of it, though he will not regain his lower legs until chelation is understood and implemented upon him.”

Erick almost shivered. Long term disability was practically unheard of on Veird. He said, “I’m sure they’ll figure it out soon enough.”

Lingxing was seated furthest away from Erick, but her words carried as easy as a normal conversation, “We recognize the necessity of this new alchemy, and so Eralis will be devoting a few more resources Star Song’s way to ensure that they develop and solidify chelation. Repair and restructuring take precedence, but chelation is a close second.” She added, “Alchemist Tadashi is doing well, last I heard.”

That was good to hear, but Erick still offered, “If you need more help with anything else I was doing, I could still help.”

Lingxing said, “We appreciate what you’ve done, Archmage Flatt, but Songli is a strong nation. We can support ourselves at this point.”

They always could support themselves, anyway. Erick had only helped because he needed to. He said, “Then I am glad I could help while I could.”

Hangzi said, “I could still use that mana sense blocker for Warzi.”

Tipanri and Lingxing glanced at Hangzi, who in turn gave them no mind.

Erick smiled, and said, “Thank you for that reminder! I had almost forgotten. I haven’t gotten a chance to do that yet, but it is a good experiment for me now, because of a few other facts I heard. It is my understanding that you have City Shields here. Could I get a look at one? I’m thinking I could have one of those sustain other magics. A mana sense shield for Warzi should be applicable.” He added, offhand, “Theoretically.”

Hangzi said, “It will be done. We can also provide you with rooms suitable to your needs, if you are interested in staying in Holorulo for a while.”

“I am interested in that.” Erick said, “Not sure how long I would be here, but I still have some aura control training to undertake from Sister Kaffi of Void Song, and that plan hasn’t changed. Though everything seems to have changed, hasn’t it.”

Lingxing said, “The only constant in life is change.”

Erick nodded, “Very true.”

Food came out on white stone carts, upon gold leaf plates. All in all, it was a nicer dinner than most, and the company was as proper as needed. While Erick and the heads of Songli spoke over small things at the main table, under spells that hid their own discussions from the rest of the room, people at other tables spoke of both small and large things; everything from commoners that stepped up in the time of need who were thus marked for advancement to clans, to reconstruction efforts and monetary flows, to missing people, to found bodies and funeral timings.

Erick had expected an interruption of a [Gate] and bombs to appear the entire time he ate nice food and sipped on watered-down rice wine. He had expected assassination attempts, just because this was a gathering of many, many high ranking people. But Songli seemed to expect that, too. No one was truly happy at the gathering; the mood of the party was somber and apprehensive, and for all that was spoken, the conversations were guarded.

But the food was good, and nothing happened, and many people talked of deals and trade and of better times, with people who would never be there ever again. Erick listened to it all, absorbing the names of people he never met. He also heard of districts in towns that were gone, and of Border Clans who were wiped out, and of how Songli had not been prepared for this war, at all.

That was a sobering idea.

In the matter of a few hours, Erick’s entire notion that Terror Peaks was ‘always going to lose’ had been shattered. Terror Peaks would have won.

Songli had only survived because of him. Millions of lives, saved, because of his actions.

Several people came up during the gathering to speak of these truths to Erick, himself, to tell him of lives he had saved, and of how Ophiel had flown through the sky, delivering light to break the shadows of Terror Peaks.

Already, people were talking of Terror Peaks like they had been invaded by Shadow; their ideals twisted to horrible ends. It was a new idea that a few people floated out there, but which many upheld.

Erick watched, almost detached from himself, as the narrative was built and reinforced by people speaking ‘This is what we say about them’ and ‘This is how we say it’. The number of people using those actual phrases were minimal; those particular phrases were merely trotted out to gauge where to go next. When the next direction was decided, other voices took up the narrative, adding their own thread to the weave, to see toward their own needs.

The night wound down with the first of many desserts, and then others leaving, passing by the head table as they did so to give their farewells, and final words to the heads of Songli, and Erick. Erick and the heads of Songli remained, watching it all happen. And then Lingxing and Tipanri left, as well, giving Erick small words of thanks and offers to further talk, whenever Erick desired.

Soon, Erick and his people, and Hangzi and his people, were the only ones left. This was by design, for Hangzi had asked Erick if he could stay till the end with him. Erick had agreed, and now, they were relatively alone. Even the musicians had vanished, though they had only come in after some noble had wondered where the music was, Erick barely paid attention to them until they were gone. Now, silence stretched in the massive room.

Hangzi leaned back in his chair, and broke that silence, “It was simpler when you were some unknown Scion from the middle of nowhere.”

“I would have preferred that.” Erick said, “And then other people went and had other ideas.”

“Yes. They did.” Hangzi said, “You didn’t know any of those people in the gathering, did you?”

Ah. Here’s where the twist came. Erick had recognized something happening all night, but now, Hangzi was speaking openly of whatever it was they had been doing.

Erick said, “I recognized Caina Small Scare, and Gerella White Wood, and a few others. But not many of them; no. I didn’t even understand the seating arrangement.”

Hangzi smiled, a small expression, then said, “The Court is rather good about being circumspect when they wish, for you don’t get to be part of the Court until you can prove yourself skilled at politics. Usually. It’s an appointment, you see, and many of the nominators are dead and won’t be replaced for months, so we had to go with what we had. We had talked of the small all night, but I had promised you we would talk of the large, as well, and this was it: Tonight was actually a Judgment. Of you.”

Erick felt a sadness creep upon him. With reluctance, he asked, “Did I pass?”

“Yes, but not for the reasons you might think. Tonight was a complicated affair.” Hangzi said, “We don’t have half the pieces to this recent war, for it came out of nowhere for many of us. Less than twenty days from start to finish, with the count starting at the posting of that Quest to retrieve Tadashi.

“But there are a few facts that lead to certain awful conclusions, and we needed to judge based on those conclusions, to determine where Songli would go from here.

“Fact one: the Court here used to be filled with Reformists and Traditionalists and Moderates. The Reformists, for the most part, already approved of Archmage Flatt, and when they found out you were Ezekiel, they approved even more. After what you have done for us to help end this war before it could get truly bad, every single Reformist truly believes in you.

“Fact two: The assassins of Terror Peaks overly targeted the Traditionalists, your main detractors. Even if it was a fluke, we used to have three hundred people in the Court, with 45% of them being Traditionalists. Now, we’re down to 130, with 20% Traditionalists, and with the stronger Traditionalist voices silenced forever.

“Fact three: Queen and Goldie are active in Nelboor. Raidu never lied about that. They’re not active here, though. Songli is just their plaything.

“Fact four: Though you have acted with perfect aplomb, from the outcomes of this war, Queen and Goldie have set you up to win.

“Fact five: When you spoke to the Rain Mage, Shendeng, you seemed distraught that Goldie was giving out notes on pillows, but you also spoke like you could find her if you wished.

“Thus, leading us to believe that you are either an unwitting pawn of the Shades, or you control them now, or any one of a hundred such ideas.

“Thus, tonight’s judgment.” Hangzi said, “You came out justified in your actions, of course, for that is all we can truly judge, but you still needed to be judged. But on a personal note: I am glad that Warzi might finally be freed of his mana sense problem, but it would have been nice if you did not come here while on your Worldly Path. I miss my father; he was much better at this than I am, though I suppose I will have to learn by doing.”

Hangzi’s words were a rapid-fire series of punches to Erick’s chest. Mentioning the Worldly Path and then his father was a sucker punch to the jaw.

