Eight days that Miranda would spend menacingly sitting right outside the gazebo, taking note of every single person who became an Administrator, while also making damn sure they knew that she knew.

Better safe than sorry when it came to the Chief Administrator Selection, which was what truly mattered. Ideally, these hundred days with the Administrator Test would end up being a complete waste of time besides any gains from the experience itself, as Jake ended up being the one selected anyway.

But unfortunately, things often didn't go ideally.

“I’ve been called back by the Malefic One,” Jake said to the Great Sea Serpent whom he’d invited into his cave. He motioned to his surroundings, making the ritual circle give off a faint glow. “In my absence, you are to defend this circle, as its destruction would be an inconvenience.”

The peak A-grade nodded in acknowledgment as he carefully inspected the ritual circle, something Jake had hoped the snake would do. It would help sell Jake’s competency as there was no fucking way the Great Sea Serpent could understand head or tail of the damn thing. Jake had no idea how it worked; he had just followed the blueprint to the letter.

“Truly a marvelous creation,” the serpent said, full of admiration. “If you are required elsewhere, would I have the honor of escorting you past the Boundary? I will warn you, though. I have detected several of the major forces keeping track of my location, including the Bog Lord, who appears to have been informed of your presence.”

“That’s of no concern,” Jake said, shaking his head. “This magic circle will allow me to travel directly beyond the Boundary in a fashion entirely undetectable to the natives of this world. Since no one has dared look inside the cavern during these last few months, they will simply assume I’m still here if neither of us leaves.”

“I see. Truly, our ignorance knows no bounds. The power of the Malefic One is truly beyond comprehension, which is why this may be presumptuous of me, but could I be witness to the activation of the ritual?” the Great Sea Serpent asked, striking Jake as very nervous.

“Very well,” Jake simply agreed, knowing the snake wouldn’t get much out of it. “Also, regarding your promise of bringing me to meet the other factions again within a year, I’ll try to think of a solution.“

“Pay it no mind, I shall address that situation when the time comes,” the peak A-grade said, seemingly not even thinking about it as a real problem.

“I’ll think about the matter nonetheless,” Jake said as he raised a hand in a theatrical manner. “May we meet again.”

“If and when the Malefic One wills it, so we shall,” the Great Sea Serpent answered, slithering back as Jake activated the teleportation circle.

A faint connection was established that Villy took hold of, and through his power, Jake was whisked through the void and back to the Order of the Malefic Viper, where his final preparations for the Chief Administrator Selection would take place.

That, and what would come after. Because once the Milky Way’s Seat of the Exalted Prima had been claimed, it was time to look towards the other myriad galaxies of the ninety-third universe that had their own Seats.
