The dragon moved his claw. A thick earthen wall rose to block them. Most of them pierced but they’d lost too much speed, they would be useless. At the same time, Crest was done opening his own portal. The second group of ballast shot through it, and down towards the dragon’s back. In his blind spot.

Crest felt the dragon’s mana touch his portal, fighting him for control. He winced but resisted.

His eyes traveled to the dragon’s gaze firmly on him.

And the opening maw.

“Oh SHI—”

Only his acuity reflex skill saved him as he opened a portal in front of him and pushed himself through it. Right behind, the world turned into a second sun. Dragonfire ate through the projectiles, through the siege engines, through their servants, through the rocks, and trees, and the air, and even Crest’s portal itself. Dragonfire devoured everything and nothing remained.

Crest looked back from the promontory he’d fled to, watching the dragon grab Nero by the boot, then stomping him.

They’d used three parts of their plan and Aragan’s special skill she had to charge in advance, and they had nothing to show for it. The dragon wasn’t even wounded.

They were being demolished. Even Nero was being toyed with. Perhaps seeing the futility of their efforts, Maranor’s champion fell on his knees, arms spread wide.

***

Silence reigned over the massive room. If Maranor was disappointed, she showed no signs of it.

“I warned you that there would be a price to pay,” she said.

Her champion looked beaten and bloodied, not the best look even if it wouldn’t really matter. He was The Immortal.

“Anything for victory,” Nero replied.

“It will not intimidate all of the dragons. Some will pull back and wait, moved by self-preservation, but others will fight you.”

“And I shall kill them too. There can be only one dominant race on the three continents.”

Maranor nodded. It was order. It was sacrifice. It was everything she embodied.

“Then,” she said, “Wield it well.”

She stood. Her hand reached the hilt of the sword suddenly hanging at her side. It was on the short side for her, dull and aged and made with more care than talent. As she pulled it from its hilt, whispers spread through the room. Yells. Cries of pain and of disbelief. The blade danced with the soul shards of all the creatures it had killed, even those that believed themselves beyond the reach of mortality. It was the God-ender. The single most powerful artefact ever forged by mankind’s deeds. It was the Slayer. She handed it to Nero guard first. He screamed when his fingers closed around it. His soul fissured when he struck.

***

Viv watched Rosea walk away from the meeting with a hidden smile, the last of her advisors holding the council room’s door open for her. The Queen of Baran had agreed to her terms in less than two hours of discussion, pleasantly surprised, from her expression. Viv imagined the woman had come expecting Viv to bring Baran to its knees. After all, the archwitch had the better army, if she included herself, and scary assassins. What Baran had was land, people, and money, all things that could be bargained for.

But Viv hadn’t. She had only asked for teeny tiny trade concessions: tariffs so low they were basically a disguised income tax, free circulation of people, the ability for Harrakan citizens to create guilds. It felt like a boon, but of course, Viv had an ulterior motive. She wouldn’t be a conqueror by force. It was so 1900’s and she was a modern girl at heart. No, Harrak would grow economically thanks to sweeping social reforms and technological innovations thanks to yries and her own budding university. By the time the other sovereigns realized what she was doing, all their economies would be so enmeshed and Harrak’s presence so widespread, going to war would be the same as going to ruin. Arthur was already on the case.

“I never thanked you for starving the Maranorians so cleverly, by the way,” Viv told the large dragoness.

My pleasure.

Arthur uncoiled, her body so large they had to rebuild the gates to most important rooms. Even half again as tall as Viv at the neck, she remained lithe and sinuous but it was a bus-length kind of sinuous. She would always lack Meadow’s girth. That one was a unit.

The Enorian army is on the move.

They will cross the Deadshield woods in a week, with Crest assisting them.

I still believe we should assassinate him.

“We want their army to come quickly now. If we resist their advance too much, they might reconsider it. Right now, they’re right where we want them… and Crest is a survivor. Oleander keeps a close eye on him. Killing him might be riskier than we can afford. I need Irao in the battle. With that said, we have enough supplies for weeks. The trains can now carry shells. I will give the order.”

The edge villages to the east and west still need to be evacuated.

“Oh, right. Yeah.”

Arthur rose to her feet, the heat of her body basking the council room in a toasty aura. She smelled the air.

Do you feel that?

Viv did. Fate magic, and powerful too. Both of them were out of the room in moments. A group of civil servants yelped when they raced by, dodging the stacks of papers. It was coming from the throne room! At least nothing was on fire just quite yet.

I recognize that mana but… it is strange. Nobody is there?

Viv didn’t, but when they sprinted from behind the throne, they figured out why. Under the massive, painted dome of Sinur’s Gate’s throne room sat a black dragon so massive he took all the room where seats ought to be. Guards stood paralyzed at a distance, their spears hopelessly pointing forward. He shouldn't even be able to get in there…

“Judgment?”

Hello, Viviane.

The guards stumbled and fell as whatever aura kept them from sounding the alarm released them. Viv thanked them and sent them on their way while Arthur approached the ancient creature. Hope warmed Viv’s chest. If he joined them, if he attacked Nero’s army, then victory must be hers. Judgment was just too strong. That hope evaporated almost immediately. It wasn’t just that it would go against everything he said he would do. Something strange was going on. It almost felt like his existence was …wan.

She couldn’t feel his soul. What was going on? She took a step back. Arthur looked confused as well.

Do not be alarmed.

As you can tell, I am not really here.

A peculiar fate spell allows me to, shall we say, manifest what could have been had I picked a different path. Temporarily.

“Judgment, you never come unless something really important happens. What is going on?”

I am currently fighting Oleander, who is fueled by revenge and the fate-driven need to claim a victory you have denied him so far.

He is going to kill me.

“No fucking way.”

Arthur jumped as if startled. A pained roar escaped her maw.

Noooooooooo!

The old dragon remained much calmer.

It is the fate I have decided for myself.

“Dying?” Viv erupted. “How? Why?”

The old dragon’s yellow gaze found hers. They were so disturbingly calm.

When you’re as old as me, you will realize that the ultimate freedom is choosing how you go.

My death is not a failure to me.

It is a necessity so that the future I see comes to pass.

“But there must have been another way!”

He looked away, out of the windows.

There are always other ways.

They are just… not as good.

I accept that my life would be a price to pay to steer the species of Nyil on a better path.

Returning his attention to them, he snorted, and a puff of hot smoke pushed Viv’s hair away. Arthur let out a terrible, keening sound. Her claws raked the stone. Viv didn’t give a shit; she just didn’t want the old fucker to die. He was too old and too wise and there was such a dearth of not-assholes… and they’d already lost Dean Tallit and who knew how many other people?

“Come on, man, just fly here.”

I appreciate the pain in your heart, for me.

Now be quiet. My time is short.

In order to slay me, Maranor will grant her servant a boon: her sword.

Once drawn, it will kill its opponent without fail. Only a god could resist such an attack, and even then, it can still end them.

“Can’t you have the dragon god shield you then?”

No. I will not trigger a godly war over this.

Your battle plans must take the Slayer into consideration.

Drawing the blade will crack Oleander’s soul. Doing so again in a short time will crack it even more. He will only use it as a last resort.

“So…”

For the best outcome, you must push him into that last resort. Do your best to kill him.

“Ok I can live with that.”

And that is all. My time is almost up…

He breathed out in what Viv interpreted as a bitter smile. Arthur trotted up to the much larger dragon, bumping her head against his jaw. She was still keening a bit. Viv’s tear ducts were getting a little ticklish. Fuck.

You have hadals, yries, kark, merls, dragons, and humans fighting for you, Viviane the traveler. This is the first such instance in the history of this world. It will remember that such a thing is possible. The people will remember. So, win.

“I will. I promise.”

I will be counting on you. One last thing… show me that shield of yours.

The cumbersome implement was lying against her throne. She grabbed it, feeling the familiar, slightly damaged leather of the brace against her skin. Judgment had a look at it. It was nothing special, still, just a big piece of layered metal.

He plucked a small scale from his chest. It reddened as it approached the object, then melted itself in between three half-submerged sigils.

You carry more than my hopes.

Judgment’s voice faded at the end. With the last word, he disappeared as if he had never been there. Even the displaced seats were back where they belonged.

The only traces of his passage were the cooling scale and Arthur’s sobs.
