“And so, to make a long history short, we retain our Evil nature, but we have grown softer in the spread of our power, and ruthlessly crush greater Evils in order to keep our power spreading and growing.

“We don’t kill anyone that we can turn.

“We speak with words instead of actions here on layer 0. Layer 1 is fair game for war and ultimate ends of all kinds, but even there our representatives represent hope for a great many people.

“We rescue people from true death all the time, and only ask that they give back the resources that were used to resurrect them, with interest of course. If they don’t pay their tab then we keep them soul shackled until they do, making many people technically slaves, but not really. If there were a better way to ensure that people don’t just run off into infinity when their bill comes due, then we would love to hear it.

“And we help everyone who comes to our land, as long as they help us, first.

“As for this Nothanganathor issue: we would be your lawyers in this fight if you can pay us more for your prosecution against him than he can pay us for his defense against whatever case you might bring against him. If you do hire us, then everything that he has done under our powers will be revealed to the courts, as his actions would no longer be protected by the Seal of the Tower, because someone else bought him out; namely you.

“Because we are an evil organization, True Wizard Flatt, trying very hard not to be True Evil.

“We support ourselves, and if one of our contractors runs enough afoul of the good powers out there then we give them up for the greater Balance of us all. Nothanganathor seems like he has finally tripped that line.” Tower Ghost added, “We warned him he might fall this way, and it seems he finally has. His Malevolence is a form of mana that is inherently tuned to subterfuge and twisting outcomes to bad ends that favor him. Your counter, Benevolence, is inherently tuned to be powerful, first, and then helping others with the power that you gain yourself. Quite honestly, the Tower believes you are poised to spread far and wide. Nothanganathor has yet to seize the power he has so long wished for, and is likely at a dead end.

“With that sort of understanding, us remaining with Nothanganathor is a losing bet.” The Tower Ghost finished with, “And yet! The Tower always cleaves with those who would deal with us, versus those who would tear us down.”

As the Tower Ghost spoke, Erick followed the path.

He ended up at a wide road that was more ‘entryway to a big business’ than a road. Stone sculptures of men and women and otherwise lined the road, all of them wearing something different, from robes to armor to furs to skins. Little plaques underneath them told how they were to be woken up in case of emergency assault against the tower, and what they would do if woken. There was a guy who would animate the bones inside the bodies of all non-tower residents, causing them to kill their friends and make those people watch from their own eyes as their own hands killed their friends. There was a woman who simply turned people into blood amalgamations, also with the characteristic ‘you get to experience this as you do horrible things’. Another one would simply cause people to turn into voids that would then turn other assailants into voids.

Erick fully believed those plaques, because each stone statue held fascinatingly strong souls within. Each one shone like a beacon in the dark. Even to common eyes, the stone appeared asleep instead of simple stone.

Erick sighed a little, as Tower Ghost’s words ended right as they entered the Stone Parade, as a plaque in the middle named the entryway road. He said, “An impressive collection of evils, Tower Ghost.”

“One cannot be a power without being powerful, so yes, we try to collect everything that could give us an edge in any confrontation.” Tower Ghost said, “As for our Great Evils... We would prefer it if the big threats could remain behind an air of mystery for now, though some threats do need to be openly stated for them to be understood. In that spirit, I must clearly say this: We would go to war against you and Veird, if you cross us. We would drown you in unending misery.”

The air was cold. It smelled like stone.

Erick easily said, “I’m not looking to make permanent enemies right now, nor will I be looking to make permanent enemies in the future. I accept your offer of your complete separation from Nothanganathor and one of your lawyers to assist me against him in an Enclave court, but only if you would consider a complete eventual dismantling of the Evil core of this Tower, and the replacement of a different powerful source at your center, like perhaps Benevolence.” Erick said, “I’m sure you're able to resurrect people right now, but I can do that, too, and make them effectively immortal through Reincarnation, resetting their age and species to whatever I desire. You asked for how to make debts last forever without soul shackles? Then how about simple Reincarnation into less-good forms, without soul control at all. If someone wants their original body back, then you can reincarnate them into that sort of body.” He finished with, “Unless, of course, you already have that knowledge.”

Erick’s Lightning Path was telling him that they didn’t have that knowledge at all, or at least that Erick’s offer was tantalizing in some way.

It was the same problem as the Necromancers on Veird experienced. Surely these people had more resources than simple Elemental Death, but every single one of those Veird Necromancers, including Quilatalap, had been very impressed with how well Benevolence took to soul work, and Benevolence made a lot of established spellwork simply irrelevant.

Tower Ghost betrayed none of the thoughts that Erick knew he was thinking, as he said, “Your counter proposal is taken, and will be deliberated upon. Would you like to speak to someone in charge, instead of the Tower itself?”

Erick looked around and asked, “I see lots of individual towers, but I’m not sure where you are, exactly? I expected to see the base of the Tower when I came through. Not a cityscape.”

“You’re located in city 1-87; one of the many business areas of this land, which many would consider the main one. This is a space about a thousand kilometers wide and with an atmosphere several tens of kilometers tall. Each one of our lands is set next to each other, and then more rings of our main lands extend below this one, forming a multi-layered ring-like system that spins around the base of the tower, up there by the Evil Death Sun.”

The white sun flickered and, like an illusion fading, grey seeped into the world. Color and brightness faded from everyone and everything. The populace all around Erick almost panicked, but then the sky came right back, the grey sun turning white, the sky around it turning blue once again. There were fluffy clouds. Color returned.

Some people on the streets moved faster, opting not to linger around anywhere at all.

Tower Ghost said, “This is the business district upon the first floor. The second floor, below us, is residential. One floor below that is for monsters. All of the true monsters are in our bases around our Evil Death Sun. The actual Wraithborne Tower is more of a private residence now. We can go visit that, if you like, but I would strongly suggest against such an unannounced visit. The Death Emperor does not appreciate uninvited guests.”

“Morbion Blackthorn is the current Death Emperor, yes?”

Tower Ghost said, “As the current Death Emperor, Morbion Blackthorn is the undisputed ruler of the Wraithborne Tower, sitting upon his throne of bones and souls at the Apex of the Tower. We, his lowly servants, pray that we are enough to deal with all of your needs, and that we shall never draw his ire.”

“Sure sure.” Erick asked, “So which evils around Margleknot do you feel should be destroyed?”

“… Uh.”

“Yeah yeah. That’s probably too forward of a relationship right now.” Erick said, “But the Slaver’s Den is much smaller than you guys, right? Only a continent of people? Most of them slaves? How much to buy some propagation spellwork from you guys? I’m thinking of eliminating slavery as a concept. Elemental Vile and Contract? How about Elemental Nope! Eh. I’m playing with you. But not really.”

Tower Ghost looked at Erick, and then softly said, “I. Uh. Must inform you that the Wraithborne Tower has contracts with the Slaver’s Den, the Slaver’s Union, the Slaver’s Pit, and the Slaver’s Ransom.”

“Lotta those places, I think. Too many, by far.” Erick said, “You’re going to have to cut down on most of those evil sorts of contracts if you want to tie your fate to the new universe order.”

“… I feel this conversation has gotten away from me in a way I did not foresee. Could I please take your words to others to make decisions? And get back to you at a later date?”

“Of course, of course.” Erick said, “I hope for good news! I’ve been checking myself and our surroundings all this time, and haven’t noticed anything too untoward. At the beginning you tried to subtly press a Contract-ish ‘walk and talk with me’ magic, but then you noticed it wouldn’t work, and you stopped. I suppose it’s in your nature to attempt to soul shackle everyone though.” Erick added, “You gotta try, right? How many people here have shackles on them? All of them? All 3.2 trillion people? Or just the living ones? I bet all of them, actually.”

Erick’s true hatred probably came out too much.

Wide-eyed and not able to contain his worry anymore, Tower Ghost vanished—

With a flick of his hand, Erick ripped dragon-sized claws of softly-glowing Benevolence through the air, grabbing Tower Ghost back into this space. Erick held the ghost for a moment, setting him down on the ground, and then he let him go. Tower Ghost rapidly abandoned his horror at being brought back so easily. He simply stood, looking like a proper butler waiting for his execution with aplomb.

Erick ignored the statues of Stone Parade turning to face him.

Erick said, “Just because someone tries shit, doesn’t mean that I automatically resort to violence. I don’t like being run away from, though. And now, to make sure I am perfectly clear: I have forgiven lots of people for lots of wrongs, and am very much about second chances, even for the worst evils in any universe. I have certain lines that result in the extermination of my enemies, though. Nothanganathor has crossed all of those. He will not be forgiven. Please do not test my lines yourself, and please accept the Benevolence that has been offered to you in the manner in which it has been gifted, because everything can be made better, even evil.

“And now, I hope I have delivered my own message.” Erick said, “I look forward to having productive conversations with someone in charge, at some later date—”

One of the statues came to life and threw a beam of some sort of Void power at Erick. The spellwork was black at the center and wide as three people, and ringed with Golden, reson-empowered Death.

Erick stood there and took it.

He split some of his attention to watch his Status, to see tens of thousands of Mana, Health, and Psyche flake away from his body. It wasn’t a large drain. The Golden Death Void also obliterated the ground and everything beyond Erick, though, carving a hole through the floor and then to the next floor and the next. Erick was in no danger. He wasn’t even activating Mana Siphon yet.

So that’s what he did.

The spell beam broke upon Erick’s glowing white sunform, soaking into his body, attempting to claw its way through his Mana Siphon and into his very core. It didn’t even get past his surface protections. The Gold Death Void was like ink trying to flow up a river of lightning.

Erick consumed that spellwork through Renew turning mana into more power, and even his [Reson Wallet] started to flicker upward, increasing that particular number of his Status by several points per second, as he absorbed the resons inside the Golden Death Void.

Erick made a show of ignoring the Golden Death Void. He turned and gazed down the hole that the black beam had created. “That goes down pretty far. I hope you’re not open to space down there? Seems you might be, though. Well I certainly didn’t kill your own people. That’s on you.”

The Golden Death Void mage continued to thrum power at Erick, snarling and roaring, his stone flesh turning to real flesh with every passing moment, his black beam turning thicker and denser with emptiness. Void was usually a very difficult attack to do anything against. That’s why Quilatalap used Void in his most dangerous spells. This particular magic didn’t appear that difficult for Erick right now. The guy was either furious that Erick was able to stand inside the beam —and sure, that was happening— but it seemed like he might just be insane. A sacrificial pawn, then? All he was doing was spilling out power, unable to do anything else.

Welp!

No one better to test this next magic against than him.

Erick flashed, lightning stepping to the stone statue’s side, surrounding him with his sunform and shutting down his spellwork.

And then he hit the Golden Death Void mage with a reson-empowered [Reincarnation]—

- - - -

Erick stood on a field of desiccated bodies. The sky was red with two dark suns. The air was dry enough to kill, and the mountainous horizon crumbled in that dryness.

A man stood four meters away. He looked like the man who had been a statue, who had become a snarling madman, who was now transitioning to someone else.

Erick asked, “I assume you’re Derock Caver, from the statue. That was the name on the plaque below your stone prison.”

The man stared at the sky. He looked at his hands. “… I think I was Derock for a long time, long ago, before the Contracts and the ensorcellments, and the duty.” The man flexed his hands and dried blood flaked away. “I haven’t been Derock in a long time. I don’t want to be him anymore. I feel… free of the constant hate.”

“Got any requests?”

“… A loving family and hardly any death— Water. Nice, clean, deep water. Big enough to swim in.” Derock smiled. “I want to teach my sons and daughters how to swim.”

“And so you shall.”

Lightning flashed out of the red sky and struck Derock.

The man who had been Derock was gone.

- - - -

Erick came back to himself.

Lightning finished striking a pedestal that held a man who had become a weapon, and who was not that anymore. Mosses and flowers grew from the pedestal.

