And like, yeah. You do that for your parents. You help them out when they don’t know better. ‘Oh son, I can’t figure out the remote control or how to connect to the internet. Can you help?’ ‘Sure, dad. Let me do it for you.’

… Erick should be less mad about that. Maybe he should even apologize to Yggdrasil.

He should probably apologize.

Erick started walking toward the bigger mountain. It was a good walk, because it gave him more time to think, and more time to let time make some more resons for his wallet. He had only had his wallet for maybe 2 hours so far, and it had helped him a lot already. Were other people able to requisition resons from Margleknot’s bank? Erick assumed so. But Erick’s wallet was usable in all parts of this universe and others, so he was glad he had made it.

He was currently sitting pretty at 3.8 resons per second; self-created.

Resons: 22,973 [+34 = +3.8]

Minus the few thousand he spent with Lyra —which seemed like a really good investment, now that Erick was thinking about it more and more— he was sitting pretty.

Lyra was obviously a ‘Knowledge Mage’ sort of person. A good person to know, and to be friendly with, even if her entry in Yggdrasil’s book labeled her as an elven thief. She obviously sold information to other people, and that was probably a knock against her, but maybe she would find some good contacts for Erick to use to combat Nothanganathor? Seemed a high possibility. He’d have to go back and ask her about that.

Erick hoped whatever that special reson-crystal he gave her would help her how she needed. Erick still wasn’t sure what he did there, exactly. Probably something that would fully help one person out? Maybe imbue them with Benevolent Luck? … That might be exactly it.

Anyway.

Nothanganathor had tried to win the Mantle of the God of Magic back when he and Melemizargo were in the running for the same thing. Melemizargo won, while Nothanganathor lost, and in that losing, Melemizargo cursed him to never be able to ascend… For some reason. So that made sense. Nothanganathor was a total asshole who needed to kill Melemizargo, but not really, because the Mantle of the God of Magic could only be given away, and so Nothanganathor had needed to kill the entire Old Cosmology first…

“Oh shit.”

Erick paused there on the crystal skyroad, his eyes going wide as he realized something big.

In order to kill a god, you first needed to kill all that god’s people. But Nothanganathor did not want to kill Melemizargo. He wanted Melemizargo’s mantle. So first, he Sundered the Painted Cosmology.

That’s what people tried to suggest to Erick, way back when he first fell to Veird; that if he ever wanted to ‘solve the problem of the Shades’ he needed to kill Melemizargo, which meant killing all of his believers, first.

Erick frowned. “I find it very fucking unusual that no one here believes Nothanganathor Sundered the Painted Cosmology… But all I have is circumstantial evidence that he did that. To hear people talk about it, Nothanganathor already has defenses against those circumstantial evidences. He was ‘just in the neighborhood’ and ‘invested with the universe already’, so of course he ‘moved to contain the only remaining part of the Painted Cosmology’, to ‘keep that apocalypse from spreading’.” Erick’s voice was filled with hateful sarcasm, both because Erick was rather furious, but also so that the people out there listening to him could know what he was about. “I suppose, if I hadn’t come up from Veird myself, then I might have believed whatever lies Nothanganathor was spinning.”

… No one responded. Well that was fine.

Erick kept walking.

Someone would come out to talk to him soon enough. They were there in the air near Erick. He felt them watching. Or maybe it was just [Scry] spellwork from a long distance away. This was the Celestial Observatory, after all. Even if Erick couldn’t see the [Scry] spellwork, it was out there. Watching.

Soon, people did start to appear, but not beside Erick.

Up ahead stood a massive gatehouse that was dwarfed by the crystal mountain behind it. Behind, at the other side of the large, crystal bridge, stood a similarly massive gatehouse that was much larger than the mountain behind that one. Erick had been walking toward the bigger gatehouse.

The gates at both mountains were closed. The side entrances opened, though, and people moved out from those to stand and present arms, if Erick was reading that right. Maybe-paladins in shining armor stood with maybe-archmages in voluminous white and blue robes. They had floating shields, or floating staves. The whole arrangement of people looked rather polished and practiced, but also done in a large hurry. They didn’t seem angry.

They were getting prepared, though.

It’d be several minutes before Erick got to the gate by the big mountain. He took his time. People were still moving around by the time he got close enough to not need to yell to speak to them.

And then he got a bit closer.

Aside from the scattered archmages and paladins in lines to the side, three main people stood directly in front of the closed gate.

There was an elven woman with long ears, with three pairs of disconnected white wings floating behind her back.

There was a man who was wreathed in black.

And an entity made of blue-white crystal with a bunch of organs hanging out in his crystal body—

“Oh shit! I know you.” Erick stared at the crystal person from 15 meters away. “From a vision of a Grand Wizard Tower of the Painted Cosmology in the Dark. You were walking with some sort of sun god. You look… exactly the same.”

The winged elf, the dark mage, and everyone else were a little surprised by… Well probably a lot. Erick wasn’t sure what surprised them more. Perhaps his expletive?

The cyan crystal seemed to sigh. “Ah. You could have heard that from Shadow, but I don’t believe she knows I’m here, so I guess you’re the real deal.”

“Apologies,” Erick said, “I don’t know your name. I assume this is Moonarcher and Darkcaller?”

“Yes yes. I’m Crystalmaster. Moonarcher and Darkcaller are good friends of mine. They’re not going to help you. None of us are.”

“… Okay. I got a letter from you asking for me to appear, though. So… Why?”

Crystalmaster said, “The Wraithborne Tower has issued a preemptive edict against us assisting you in any way, threatening destructive action if we should entertain your anything. They are demanding you speak with them if you wish to pursue any actions against Nothanganathor. That is why we sent the letter to you.”

Erick had some anger, yes, but it was a distant sort of emotion. “And what if I wanted to free all of Margleknot from slavery of all sorts, and destroy a few different evil institutions along the way? The Wraithborne Tower may or may not be on that list because I heard it’s the biggest one, but I haven’t decided. The Slaver’s Den is for sure on that list.”

Contrary to any sort of eagerness at Erick’s brash declaration of… whatever that was, he wasn’t even sure himself, Erick only saw defeat in the eyes of every single person there.

Good had been defeated.

Erick had already assumed that, anyway, at the start of this whole mess, when he saw Yggdrasil’s Guidebook and knew that there was only one Good place on Margleknot, and several Evil ones. But to actually see that resignation in the eyes of the people here… it was both sad and infuriating.

Erick held his tongue.

Crystalmaster said, “It’s a non-war between us and them. A stalemate. We flourish, and they flourish, and we don’t fight each other directly. Individuals are allowed to fight individuals, but the Celestial Observatory cannot fight the Wraithborne Tower, or any of the splinter lands of Evil. It’s a balance in homage to the Balance. If we moved against it, we would surely perish in mutually assured destruction. And worse than that—” He moved his aura around, saying, “Every single person here except for Moonarcher, Darkcaller, and I, have soul shackles upon them. If we let you into these gates, these people die directly; soul sundered. If we tamper with their shackles, they die; soul sundered. Others are then triggered to die, for every person like this is paired with another person which changes daily. You get the painting. It’s standard Wraithborne Tower anti-war protocols.”

“… Okay.” Erick took a moment, then said, “I’ll be back.” He asked the sky, “Yggdrasil? Portal to the Wraithborne Tower, please.”

A portal opened up behind Erick.

He stepped through.

- - - -

The portal closed behind him.

He stood in a business district.

Tall, sleek buildings. Stone roads. Normal-looking trees growing in cut-out sections of the road. Enchanted parts of the road that were clearly for walking fast upon, as evident by the glowing arrows that colored those lanes of the road, and how people were walking upon them but also zooming—

A spirit floated up from the floor in front of Erick. It was a man dressed as a butler, and partially transparent, except around the eyes and fingers. Those parts of him were a lot more solid. He spoke draconic with a funny accent, “Wraithborne Tower greets the True Wizard of Benevolence, Erick Flatt, planar of Earth and Veird. Welcome, please. We hope whichever message of ours you found was one of the more agreeable ones. I’m the Tower Ghost, a conglomerate entity created to help the people of our land with normal tasks, and to assist all guests who should journey here, to help them achieve whatever cooperative goals that the Tower and our guests might decide to cooperate upon.”

Erick rapidly got over the fact that they knew who he was. ‘Incognito’ simply didn’t matter with some powers. Erick briefly wondered if Lyra truly hadn’t known who he was, or if she had been pretending.

“I got your message at the Celestial Observatory. The one where you threatened to kill soul shackled people should they speak to me without me coming here first.” Erick’s voice had an edge to it that he couldn’t quite erase, even with all of his experience with dealing with untoward elements like evil necromancers. He was fine with that edge. He purposely tried to be more personable, though, as he said, “I understand that things are done here in Margleknot through slavery and other terrible ways, so I cannot fault you for doing what you have to do to survive. I would hope that you would understand that things do not have to continue to be done the same way, though. In that sort of spirit, I would like to discuss the complete, peaceful transition of all of the Wraithborne Tower to a more good-aligned conglomeration of people, if your people are open to such a thing.”

Without missing a beat, or having any sort of reaction at all to Erick’s larger words, the ghost simply said, “My superiors would love to discuss that with you. Would you like an air wagon to pick you up? Or we could walk to Center, and I could show you some of Tower City along the way? This is the main city of Wraithborne Tower, after all. It is quite impressive, if you ask me. We’re home to 3.2 trillion souls here, and over half of them are alive!”

He said the last part like some sort of inside joke.

Erick wasn’t very jolly right now.

The ghost did not seem to mind that his joke fell flat.

Erick said, “Let’s walk, Tower Ghost.” Erick started walking forward. “I would like to know more about this land, from your perspective. What I read about you is that you’re all about different types of slavery, and I do not approve.”

Tower Ghost floated alongside Erick and a subtle path lit up on the ground, like a white carpet glowing just above the stone underneath, stretching out several meters in a straight line. As Erick walked forward the path behind him vanished, while the path further ahead materialized. It was a navigation system, obviously, but the end point of the navigation system wasn’t there yet; only the next several meters.

With his senses looking out from all of his body, and not just his eyes, Erick spotted other people using the same sort of navigation system on a street one over from this one, and far, far behind Erick, following this same road that Erick walked.

Tower Ghost said, “I would start from the beginning, if you do not mind. We have a bit of a walk ahead of us, but the fast path will get us there in a decent amount of time.”

Erick nodded.

Tower Ghost continued, “Wraithborne Tower started off as a truly Evil organization, in the classical sense. Elemental Evil was at its core, and we still have that core to this day, in the center of the tower. That is where we have our armies and our defenses and our most malevolent magics. Those malevolent magics include some Malevolent gifts from Nothanganathor, given to us when he was in this land, before he set forth on his plots to erase the Painted Cosmology from existence. His trinkets are the least of our powers, but they are still capable of great, propagating destruction.”

Erick got the sudden, very distinct feeling that he would have to cooperate with these assholes, if only because they surely knew everything that Erick needed to prove in court. He said, “So you believe that he succeeded in destroying the Painted Cosmology.”

“Oh yes. He succeeded. He came in here, looking for help. He received help in exchange for services rendered, primarily with propagation-type magic. And then he went out and killed a universe. Technically, that’s all circumstantial. The Fae Enclave does not accept circumstantial evidence and neither do we. But we understand that circumstantial evidence does exist, and may hide true evidence one way or the other.”

… Yeah.

Erick moved on, “You were saying about the start of the Tower?”

“The tower retains its Evil nature because Good is… Well. We have a saying here. Evil wins because Good is stupid. Or weak. Or soft. There are a thousand variations of this saying, and all of them are true in certain ways. But this is not a true statement at all. We learned this the hard way over many setbacks and full-scale destructions. Once you get too Evil, Good arises to smite you down, so in this way, unchecked Evil, while great for the individual, is not something you can build societies upon. Evil is just as idiotic as good.

“And yet, Evil will always exist, because to be Evil is to be selfish and smart.

“And so: we learned that a proper evil is one that does not seem evil, but one which wears its label with pride and shows how prosperous it can truly be when it is allowed to be prosperous. Those are the evils which stick around. And yet, small evils lead to Big Evils, if evil is allowed to exist without checks.

