Erick flashed with Benevolence, crafting himself some fake clothes for now. And then he turned back to the conglomerate mass of souls that was the Wraithborne Tower. The ghost stared hard, accepting whatever was going to happen to him.

But nothing was going to happen right now.

Erick said. “I’m not sure where Derock is anymore. He’s certainly not under your control. I assume this was enough proof of power for your needs?”

Tower Ghost said, “It was more than sufficient.”

Erick nodded. “Yggdrasil. Portal somewhere else, please.” A swirling portal opened up on to black crystal streets, and Erick said to Tower Ghost, “I look forward to a peaceful changeover of power, or at least something indicative of smaller, productive changes, for now.”

And then he walked away.

- - - -

Morbion Blackthorn, Emperor of The Wraithborne Tower, stood behind a window in the public offices of the Tower Itself, at the top of the building at the end of the Stone Parade. He watched as the Wizard of Benevolence walked through a Margleknot portal. The portal closed behind him.

Morbion had… concerns.

A few of his primes, sitting behind him at the war table, also had concerns. From the Skeleton Prime, to the Soul Prime, to the Officer of Paper and the Prime of Future Projects, not a single person in the room looked sure of themselves. Every one of them had been secure in their place in the Tower and in Margleknot last year. Morbion had been guiding the Tower towards true prosperity, anchoring the Evil side of the Balance, suborning all others who dared to encroach upon his people or his power.

For the last 7,500 years, the Wraithborne Tower had been gaining strength and influence through accepting that they could not have everything, though Morbion still wanted everything. Every world, every nexus, every Power, all under his black fist, or at least allowing him to put a pinky on any scale he wished to weigh upon. It was the softer way, and it was working well. Even the Celestial Observatory, their largest foe, had fallen to them, to their softer powers. Or at least they pretended. That was enough for now.

And then here comes the new Father of Margleknot, a man who could erase the shackles upon their strongest tools and rip those tools from the Tower in a miracle instant.

Tower Ghost appeared out of the floor, already kneeling. He waited for acknowledgment.

Morbion said, “Speak your assessment, Tower.”

“Apologies, Emperor. He saw through everything.”

“Well of course he did.” Morbion asked, “Have we tracked down wherever Derock went?”

Tower Ghost said, “No. The man who had been Derock vanished through a slip of Benevolence, entering into the Margleknot tangle, whereupon he vanished from all tracking. That’s as far as our systems have been able to detect. The shackles upon his soul were completely removed. Even the reson-empowered ones that should have remained through everything. The Witches At The Board are attempting to prognosticate Derock’s destination but they have already expressed doubts that such a thing is possible. They will, of course, continue to attempt to divine his fall, should you desire it.”

Morbion sighed at that. “It takes a special sort of person to make a Reincarnation that good. None of us have managed it, and the Good-aligned places don’t touch soul magic that well at all. It appears Ascended Flatt’s Truth is the real deal, and that he is open to true cooperation.”

Tower Ghost said nothing.

Morbion turned to his people and declared, “Ignore the Reincarnation fall. Set Pernicious and the Witches on discovering the viability of realigning the Tower with Benevolence; what needs to go, what can we keep, what can we gain. Draw up tentative plans for conquering all of Margleknot through Benevolence; I want a full battleplan. Set the Magic Finders on the Reincarnation we witnessed; I want to understand why his Reincarnation was able to do what it did. Was it simple reson magic? Or was it something more explainable? Get the Culture Bureau on propaganda proposals for adjusting our culture to Benevolence, while the Mindfulness Bureau determines how our people would react to this change-of-base, and who we would need to eliminate or adjust to make it smooth. Ask the Old Liches if they would support this action. Erick would probably give them Reincarnations if we asked him for that as a part of any sort of agreement. Kakalakot and Odarimisu would be willing for a Reincarnation, unless things changed for them. Ask their opinions.”

Tower Ghost vanished.

The Primes and Officers began debating everything.

Morbion sat down at the head of the table as he thought over Erick’s words and listened to his people debate a ‘new universal order’. Gradually, inexorably, the conversation turned confused and solid and angry.

And then Witch Agatha gave word to what everyone was thinking. “Emperor Morbion. I am able to shift paths as much as any witch, but the fact is that we are built upon Evil and we cannot adjust certain inalienable facts of our nation, like the Susurrus of Souls, the Grand Bindings, and the Call of Death. Breaking any of those would open us up to complete anarchy. Our entire empire would come crashing down on every front where we hold power through shackles, or softer powers.”

Morbion said, “I agree. And I also doubt that Ascended Flatt would be willing to give us his Reincarnation magic and then spread that power in corruptive ways for our own gain. I still want the battle plans drawn up in case this thing should somehow turn out viable.” He said, “It is quite possible that we could be both Evil and Benevolent at the same time, and in doing so, find a form of Benevolence that solidifies everything we’ve already done while allowing us to ally with Ascended Flatt in a solid, undeniable sort of way. That is something that I might consider replacing as our core. The Fire World and the Ice Tundra do very well as Balanced powers. We could, theoretically, be Balanced, and step out of this Balance War.”

The gathering turned less confused at that.

Witch Agatha thoughtfully said, “I will get the Witches working on Evil Benevolence… though I must say right now that I doubt such a thing is possible under normal circumstances. We would have to implement Fate magic upon worlds and hope that such a being would naturally arise… And yet, if such a thing were to happen, then the same thing might happen to us that is going to happen to Nothanganathor.”

“Ah!” Morbion pretended to remember that issue. “Yes.” He lifted his chin. “Someone send some lawyer to Erick for that matter. Help him clear away Nothanganathor to his satisfaction. Perhaps Blighter? Unless he’s busy.”

Lawyer Prime, Hadrago, said, “Blighter is currently trying a case in the Enclave. He’s drawing it out for a better conclusion. He would want to be on this case, though, and could easily end that case in our client’s favor at any moment. If he decides not then I can send his understudy. I would want Blighter and his understudy to be involved in this case, if Flatt would agree to such a thing, but he did say ‘one person’. I felt he meant that.”

“Push that line; send both Blighter and the other person,” Morbion commanded.

Hadrago bowed in his seat, and then he started typing away at his tablet.

As his people spoke, Morbion imagined a few different ways to assassinate Erick… That would probably not work out too well. They couldn’t simply kill him, first of all. That would break the Balance too much and cause a universal backlash against the Wraithborne Tower. Such a backlash would instantly go to Total War and likely end in the decoupling of the Tower from Margleknot…

Decoupling from Margleknot wouldn’t be that bad of an outcome, at first, except that it would open them up to being Outside the Balance, on Layer 1, and thus free game for anyone who wished to go to war for any reason at all. Such an outcome would completely ruin Morbion’s goal of total control of Margleknot and thus the universe, so that would be reason enough to avoid that outcome.

Morbion listened to his people debate and talk, while he made plans for the future of them all.

Some of them brought up rather good points and Morbion added those points to his own thoughts.

- - - -

Erick had spent a moment in the Black Crystal District, but then he moved on. He stepped through a portal onto the grasses outside of his house—

Resons started to generate from his skin, crystallizing like sweat, and then crusting outward like amber diamonds. He discarded his clothes and then used his aura to control where the resons fell from him. Instead of piling against his skin, resons sloughed off the air around him in continuous sheets of sparkling gold crystal. He checked his Status.

Erick Flatt, [60-ish] [Current Year: 1453 (Veird, layer 789), ??? (Margleknot)] [CURRENT REALITY=Layer 0, Margleknot]

Mana split; Soul, Body, Mind: 31%, 30%, 30%

Reson allocation rate: 9%

Soul: 47.3m per day / 547.45 per second , [Darkness Level = 3.19x Ascension baseline]

Body: 212

Mind: 317

Overall Stability: ↑↑ [+498, -3] Basic upkeep

Mp: 5.5m/∞, ↑ [+167, -1] Basic upkeep

Hp: 5.5m/∞, ↑ [+164, -1] Basic upkeep

Pp: 5.5m/∞, ↑ [+164, -1] Basic upkeep

Resons: 37,017 [+49.23 = +5.47]

Erick watched resons fall in sheets out of the air, as he said, “So my Darkness went up… a lot. Thus the reson expulsion... and it appears my Stats are going up, too.”

… Maybe they would stabilize at a new, higher level?

Erick watched gold fall from the air around him for a while, just to see what would happen.

He had a lot to think about regarding that confrontation back there.

Erick decided he would forgive the assassination attempt. Any real attacks against him were unforgivable, but a simple ‘see if he can back up his claims of power’ sort of attack? Sure. Reasonable, even. He had probably put too much pressure on them, so of course they were going to test him…

Honestly, he should lower his scope.

He wasn’t going to change the universe. He wanted to save Veird. Margleknot and all of this stuff? This could be a long term goal. The more important goal would be saving Veird.

And besides that, if Erick pushed too hard with any of the forces around here they would push back hard. If the Wraithborne Tower actually decided to try and kill him it wouldn’t be with some half-crazed stone-locked killer…

Erick laid back on the grass

Erick looked to the sun-filled sky and wondered at Derock’s new life.

“Hopefully it’s somewhere nice, with lots of water.”

… Erick went for a swim in his own lake. It was delightfully refreshing.
