“Better now?” Ameliah asked, following patiently. “All calm and collected?”

Rain smiled, basking in her amusement mixed with concern, trust, protectiveness, and, above all, love. “I know, I know, I’m a hot mess,” he said, then laughed. “Let’s go find a party before someone unexpected turns up, yeah?”

Back in the foreign market, an old man sneezed as he dropped off a crate of salted fish from the cart he’d rented, not having been able to find a porter to help him for a reasonable fee. Truly, he was getting too old for this. He stood up, arching his back in a stretch and most assuredly not turning to look through a number of buildings at the souls of the lovely young couple he’d been chatting with. Because that was not a thing he could do.

The man in chains floated within the Maelstrom, staring into the empty heart of the void. Around him, the world’s essence hurtled past, pouring out into the great nothing beyond. Once, that nothing had scared him. Now, it called. All he needed to do was to step through.

Step through, and the world would be safe from the danger he posed.

It would not, however, be safe from itself. There would be no release. Not for him. The work was not done.

The man in chains turned, rubbing at his wrists as he floated back through the calamitous wind, away from that terrible edge. Fecht had done this. Fecht, the man who’d shown him how the world must be controlled to avoid just such a disaster. Fecht, who’d sworn his Empire would prevent just such a thing. Fecht, who’d known such terrible power could rest in no more than a single pair of hands. His hands.

Now, he was gone. There could be no more denial of that fact. No more doubt. The Empire had been forced into a crucible. Already the fires of starvation were spreading through the heartland. It would grow worse. It was already growing worse, not helped by increasing reports of the mysterious, systemless monsters.

The Empire would survive.

It would emerge stronger, taught the price of weakness. He would guide it. He was the only one that could, but for it to work, there would need to be sacrifices. Rot, cut away so the body could live. Only then, once he stood alone and order was in place, could he step down. Only once he’d ensured that power such as his could never rise again could he rest.

He could not do it as he was now. He would need to become stronger.

“Lightbreaker!” a voice called out as his magic returned. A panel of light formed beneath his feet, sputtering system magic replacing the dwindling force of will as reality reasserted its hold. The forces trying to tear his physical body asunder relented, lifting the strain from his mind. After only a few moments more, the voice called again, and Lightbreaker used it to orient himself.

“There you are!” Dominus Bekerim yelled as Lightbreaker alit on the rocky crag beside him. Dominus Alarus and Dominus Illus were there too, bearing wary expressions. The winds were still howling, but Bekerim had erected a barrier of Force around the tip of the crag—the mana twisting as the system struggled to keep it under control. Bekerim was of course oblivious to such nuance. His unneeded volume was born of frustration, which was born of stupidity in turn. “Damn it, we ordered you to—“

“Silence,” Lightbreaker commanded.

Bekerim took a step back despite himself, but then rallied. “We’re in command here. You can’t tell us—”

“I can,” Lightbreaker cut him off. “I claim the throne.”

“What is your will, Potentate?” Alarus asked, falling to one knee, Illus following soon after.

Bekerim looked like he was about to burst, grinding his teeth at the betrayal he was too much a fool to have expected. He dropped to one knee, then bowed his head. “Fine, you fucks. We could have taken him together.” He spat to the side. “I’ll serve.”

Lightbreaker suppressed a sigh, wondering why his captor-turned-mentor had ever tolerated such blatant incompetence amongst those who’d been granted the right of power. He had real problems to deal with. Problems like the High King. Problems this idiot could in no way help him solve. He raised a hand, power gathering at his fingertips. “Your service is not required.”

“What? No! Wait!” Bekerim said, scrambling back to his feet. “You need me! The Reach won’t follow an Osaran!”

Lightbreaker shook his head slowly. “What was it you said outside Fel Sadanis? The last time you tried to tell me what to do? You wanted to hear the screams?” He unleashed his magic without waiting for a response. Not even a smoking pair of boots remained when the silent light faded. “I prefer not to.”

This close to the tattered edge of reality, there hadn’t even been a limit for him to break.

“Adamant Unbending!” Illus’s terrified voice rose over the crack of the wind, unleashed as the malfunctioning system finally realized the barrier’s caster was no more.

“Adamant Unbending,” whispered Potentate Vannon, his words hollow beneath the storm.
