Stuart smiled a little. He drew closer, without moving a muscle. Alden’s brain tried to decide what to compare the feeling to, and all he could come up with was the idea of knowing, with your eyes closed, that something good was in the room with you. Like a friend, a delicious meal, or a purring cat.

“I think growing up without a wizard vocabulary makes me pretty confused about how to describe what I’m experiencing with my authority sense sometimes. That’s a comfortable, friendly thing you’re doing right now. What’s it called in Artonan?”

<<Closeness.>>

A different word for closeness than the ones he already knew. Specifically for this thing. Probably better than thinking of it as the purr of a nearby cat. “That’s a good one. What’s in this chest?”

“Part of a demon Father’s sire killed.”

Alden took a step back.

“There’s no danger. The demon had interesting abilities, so efforts were made to salvage some of it. It’s really a piece of the demon’s skin that was transmogrified into something like the demon’s skin in a way that, remarkably, kept the most useful properties. I’m sure Father’s sire intended to have it turned into armor or a tool, but it’s a difficult material to manage. The kind a great craftsperson might work on carefully and still ruin. So it just sits here.”

Alden took note of how Stuart was describing his paternal grandfather. “Sire” implied that Jeneth-art’h acknowledged no more than a genetic connection. Since Murmur was Grandpa-Grandpa to Stuart, that meant the Primary considered the Mleirt to be more of a parent than the man who’d technically fathered him.

And when Stuart had talked about how home could be something Alden imagined for his future, he had said that his father and his father’s siblings hadn’t liked their first one much.

“So your Father’s sire was a knight?”

“Yes,” said Stuart, moving toward the cabinet that had held the framed map. “Father, Alis, and Tesen were among the last children he sired. It’s a story from a different time, but we should talk about it some, so that the history doesn’t catch you by surprise when it leaks into the present.

“Hn’tyon Renjen-art’h fought many battles against <<encroaching>> chaos throughout his life and was among the most powerful Artonans ever to live. Perhaps without him, our people would be much worse off. He has been acknowledged as a great hero in many places, though more quietly these days. My father, my aunt, and many knights of their generation consider some of his actions, and the actions of others like him, repulsive.”

“He was a bad guy?”

“He sired at least sixteen hundred children,” said Stuart, “to help keep the training facilities full. The students in those facilities were raised for the purpose of being bound, with no care for whether knighthood suited them.”

“They were forced?” Sixteen hundred…

“Technically not, but they were taught that becoming a knight was the only decent way for them to live. They had almost no interaction with the world outside the facilities, and they were pushed toward accepting their first binding the moment they were old enough. Under circumstances like that, hardly any refused.” He spoke bleakly. “If hundreds of thousands are churned through the process, then those with surprising capability and resilience will be found. At the cost of all the others. Father was lucky in several ways. He was raised in the art’h dormitory after Murmur was given the job of watching over the children there, and he was very close to Aunt Alis and Uncle Tesen. The list of high priority skills his trainers wanted him to choose from happened to include one he has been able to make his own. And Aunt Alis was deemed extremely talented, so their early assignments were given with more care for their safety.”

What a fucked up story, thought Alden, looking around him, taking in one floor of the massive siblinghold, thinking of how much life was going on up above them.

“Enough of those children grew into their knighthood. They learned what parts of the world had been taken from them and saw almost all of the people who they’d been raised with die,” said Stuart. “The way we do things now—our oaths, our choosing seasons, so much more—is what they should have had. They guard it for us.”

He was looking at the cabinet, at the empty slot where the map had been. “Aymeg took the best of the Goldbush maps.”

“Some are better than others?”

“These are ingredients for the spell he’ll use. The map he selected will be consumed. It took him a long time to make that one. Having them for everywhere a member of our family may go is important to him.”

Alden looked at the labels on the edges of the drawers. They mostly seemed to be the names of planets. There were quite a few of them.

“Now, the lives of young knights are precious to us,” said Stuart. “Many people will look for whoever is lost. It’s a better time. We’re fortunate, you and I.”

On the way back to the elevator, Stuart opened the door of the wardrobe with the tent in it and pulled out a different bag. “This is for you, too,” he said.

“Is it a tent?”

“Of a sort. It will block sound. Even Lute won’t be able to hear through it. You can use it when you’re on Earth to practice spells that require chanting. You might not be able to cast most of them, but you should at least have the option of trying some without worrying someone will hear you.”

“Thank you. This will be useful.”

They made their way slowly back toward the elevator. Stuart seemed out of sorts, but not too much so. He kept up the new kind of existential closeness, and Alden tried to meet it with something similar of his own. Though half the time he just ended up turning it into a pat-pat like he might give Kibby. It was hard to do new things like this and simultaneously listen to Stuart’s explanations about how some of the different gadgets they were walking past worked.

Stuart stopped abruptly when they were finally in front of the elevator, right after Alden had overcorrected into another pat-pat that had felt less moderate than his usual ones.

“Sorry,” said Alden. “Did I just punch you? I didn’t mean to.”

“I don’t think,” Stuart said quietly, “that we should tell my parents about you  yet. Despite what I said this morning.”

Alden saw him swallow hard.

“No?” he asked.

Stuart shook his head.

“Is it because of Aymeg?”

“I don’t trust them,” Stuart said, his voice even smaller. “I don’t trust them to treat you as they should.”

Alden hadn’t been eager to tell Stuart’s parents. But he felt a stab of disappointment that let him know he had been eager to be accepted by them. It had worked out so perfectly with Stuart, why not with just a few more?

“It’s okay,” he said.

“It’s not,” said Stuart. “I do not trust my parents to treat my friend well. Especially at this time, when they still hope to push me toward a path I don’t want. I’m so sorry.”

Alden didn’t know what to say.

“We’ll tell them at some point after I’ve become a knight,” Stuart said. “And demand their help then. Or maybe we’ll wait and tell Father first. Or even Aunt Alis. After I’m a knight.”

“After,” said Alden. “All right.”

“They’ll be terrified of upsetting me then,” said Stuart. “Probably. And you’ll have had time to learn more about everything.”

“Until a few days ago, I was still trying to convince myself that I could keep it a secret for ten or twenty years. You knowing about me is more than enough for now.”

Stuart must have heard the sincerity. He lightened a little.

“Did you like the tablet I showed you in the car?” he asked. “When you were  explaining to me what Olget-ovekondo was doing with his auriad?”

“The small one that projects a hand and shows three-dimensional auriad patterns? Yes. I wanted to ask you if I could borrow it, but I couldn’t think of a good reason at all.”

“I’ll give it to you,” said Stuart. “It’s upstairs in my room.”

Alden moved closer to the elevator.

“I notice you’re not rejecting that offer.”

“That’s because it’s a very necessary object that my life has been lacking.”

“I’ll record some things on it for you, too,” said Stuart.

“I’ll never freeze your grapes again.”

******
