It just turned itself off without his permission. Even though he was still carrying Kibby.

His feet sank an inch into soft dirt.

Yeah. This is worse than bad, he thought tiredly, kicking up soil and sand as he trudged forward. Gotta keep the willpower and the focus up somehow. Abusing my adrenal glands with reverse peace of mind isn’t going to cut it from here on it.

He was so tired his vision was tunneling.

He planted his last sprinkler. It hadn’t worked well for its past two uses, and it didn’t for this one either. It just dribbled water down its plastic sides and he had to wait a long time for his bag to catch enough to make a decent amount for drinking.

This time it didn’t.

He got a measly cup before it quit for good. Alden gulped it down, saving the last sip in his mouth while he fumbled with fingers that had once been kind of dextrous for the very last of his last resorts. He pulled out a small silver pill bottle and poured the contents into his palm.

“This one keeps you from throwing up. This one keeps you from passing out. This one temporarily inoculates you against Thetet Fever, and this last one makes you unable to register physical pain.”

He still remembered them all.

He ditched Thetet Fever. Kibby said it didn’t even exist on Moon Thegund, so who needed it?

He tossed the other three into his mouth and swallowed them with the last of his water. It took less than a minute for the effects to kick in.

Just as he’d remembered from his trip to the hospital with Stuart, the Artonans were great at drugging people.

His vision untunneled. He could straighten his spine without the agony of a couple of different pulled muscles. He could put his full weight on the ankle he was pretty sure he’d just sprained.

He felt normal. Physically.

If he didn’t have common sense and authority sense, he would have thought they’d given him a healing miracle in a bottle.

But he did have authority sense, so even though he felt great in one way, he felt like crap in another.

He took a few steps forward easily, trying to get Azure Rabbit back online. Come on, come on, he thought, pushing at the part of his bound authority that belonged to the trait. You only do one trick, so you’d better do it.

It was going to be a really slow walk without it.

Maybe pushing isn’t the right thing, he thought. Maybe its more…

He tried to picture the way the trait was designed. The thing the System had built for Alden to use. He had been poking at it angrily for ages now, resenting it even as he knew he needed it. So he knew what had gone wrong when he took a closer look at it.

It wasn’t just turned off. It was slightly askew.

This wasn’t something perception or positive thinking was going to fix.

The trait itself had weakened and wobbled. It didn’t want to recover. And now that Alden examined it with his mind free of the burden of a host of bodily aches and pains…it was a big crack in his overall stability, and that crack was deepening.

Not good.

There’s got to be a way to mold my authority back into the proper shape of the trait. Like manipulating it to fill in the empty panes when I make patterns with the auriad. I know I can’t alter the trait, but trying to patch what’s already here by asserting its existence deliberately should be doable, right? Like…

He took another step, and his foot finally left the ground in the way he wanted it to.

“Ha!” he said in a rasping voice as he jogged forward. “Alden can do magic intelligently now. He’s an Avowed with kinderwizard training.”

Admittedly, he was also hyped up on alien drugs and talking about himself in the third person. But it was still an impressive achievement.

**********************

The good-bad thing about feeling a little better was that Alden actually had enough presence of mind to think again.

He could imagine clearly all the terrible things that lay ahead.

The worst, by far, was the thought of what would happen when he collapsed. He was sure that when the drugs gave out, he finally would, too. Permanently.

Kibby would have to see that.

He didn’t want that for her. But there was nothing more he could do to prevent it from happening.

Since running didn’t hurt anymore, he was running.

The whumf, whumf sounds came again. So much louder. He could see the ground shake clearly now. Soil jumped around him every time.

In the distance, on the edge of the horizon, the sky looked strange. Far too dark. Like an approaching storm on a moon that never had them.

Hours passed. The sounds stopped.

The storm clouds grew closer.

Alden let his body move as if it wasn’t being destroyed and focused all his attention on asserting his trait and his skill.

Not even the rest of himself anymore. He’d had to stop. He’d had to choose. So he chose just those two things.

They seemed like something the System had taken from Alden and written onto reality. They chained him. He’d never be rid of them. But if they were the only thing holding him here now, he’d rely on them.

The kept wobbling and cracking, and he kept reasserting them.

Who has language for existing harder?

Me. Now. Apparently.

A lot can change in a little while, I guess.

He could feel his heart racing like it wanted to escape from his body. He could feel himself gasping like his lungs were begging him for air. Under his coat, his clothes were drenched, and he wasn’t sure if it was sweat or blood.

But none of it hurt.

And he thought, maybe, that storm was his destination.

So he didn’t stop.
