“ARGH!” Artemis hollered, but she didn't move her arm out of the way. It had happened in an instant, and horror filled Ren as he realized what he had done.

“I'm so sorry, Artemis!” Ren said and looked at her arm. “I forgot I shouldn't smack myself in the forehead like that anymore.” He said and saw her arm as the damage started to fill out, thanks to her boosted regeneration. “Please forgive me for being so stupid.”

“I'm... glad that... I stopped you in time.” Artemis said, and tried to deal with the pain. “Imagine if that had been your forehead instead of a metal arm.”

Ren closed his eyes and absorbed her feelings of pain with his Emotion Siphon ability, and rested his head on the back of her hand. He activated his Restoring Hands ability to pour good feelings into her and help heal her, then he opened his eyes to watch her regenerate.

“Thank you so much for sparing me from both the damage and the embarrassment.” Ren said.

Artemis could feel how sorry he was that she had been hurt because of such a stupid mistake. “You're welcome.” She said. “Although, I thought I would be protecting you from external threats, not from yourself.”

Ren smiled and didn't say anything until her arm was reformed and in the proper shape. “I didn't realize that myself.” He said and ran his hand over her healed arm and caressed the metal. “Can you feel that?”

“I can, although it's a duller sensation than if you touched my skin.” Artemis said. “The armor is a part of me, and it can be healed and regenerated.”

“I'm glad for that.” Ren said, gave her hand a very slight squeeze, and let her hand go. He walked over to Tee-one so they could get to work. “I assume you've got the supplies we need for the model.”

“Yes. I've got glass for the windows; wood for the floors, roofs, and accents; and stone bricks and paving stones for the roads, retaining walls, and facades on the administration buildings.” Tee-one said. “Not to mention the steel bricks for the main structures, outer walls, and central tower.”

“That's great.” Ren said. “We just have to add the church to the design.”

“A church for the High Elves?” Xuunah asked, and Ren nodded. “They won't like that.”

“It's a church for the 9 elements.” Ren said. “I've got one here down the road, and one in the Dwarven Kingdom.”

“I would suggest you leave it out.” Xuunah said. “I've spent some time as a High Elf, and they do not take kindly to the paganism of the masses.”

“I don't understand.” Ren said. “I thought the elements, and their deities of course, were all there is.”

“Currently, that is a strong belief.” Xuunah said. “Albeit wrong.”

“Tee-one, go ahead and start making the plans for the human city model, with a 10 foot by 10 foot area.” Ren said and gave him a copy of all the plans for the buildings he had. “Make the outside wall angled just like we did for the High Elf round version.”

“That's going to make the wall look like a square jewel.” Tee-one commented.

“Seems appropriate, doesn't it?” Ren asked, and Tee-one nodded. “I'm taking these lovely ladies over to the bakery to get some fried dough, and I'm going to ask Xuunah to fill me in on Vasalor, and why the elements aren't the highest rung in the worshipping ladder.”

“Can you take the time to listen to this with everything else that's going on?” Xuunah asked.

Ren took out the All-Seeing Mirror and asked it for the biggest ghoul gathering. It showed a small nest of about 20 ghouls, and they were huddled together for some reason.

“Show me just outside the nest, please.” Ren asked the mirror, and the view shifted to show a troop of 40 High Elven Swordsman as they marched around. “Thank you.” He said and stored the All-Seeing Mirror. “It looks like I have a quick errand to run while you wait in the bakery.”

Xuunah nodded, then Ren and Artemis ran over to Princess' house to get her help again. Xuunah led Officer Holly next door to the bakery to get some fried dough pieces while they waited for Ren, so she could tell him a story. Or rather, the story.
