Playing the part down to the micro-expressions would have been much harder without the Outer Courts waking from their slumber. Each halo added its personal touch to the Left Imperial Expanse, but they all had two things in common. They expanded the barrier to the inner regions, making it easier for trial takers to reach the courts.

Secondly, the halos unlocked new memories from his stored identities. It was like the trial had been running at minimum capacity in the beginning. There were still more missing pieces than intact memories, but Zac’s understanding of Terea, Tam, and Everit had greatly deepened. It was a bittersweet experience.

Tam’s struggles on the battlefields had left him shaken. The same could be said for Terea’s memories of studying under her father. While they were fallen nobility, Kristvan Wendimar had never given up on turning the clan’s Fate around. As such, he’d given his sole heir a comprehensive education on the empire. Their combined knowledge added much-needed context to the complex political climate around the courts.

With everything settled, Zac sealed himself to focus on recovery. Invitations and inquiries arrived all the time, and the Lawkeepers outside became a perfect filter. Those who could be intimidated by Maina’s glare weren’t serious contenders for Zac’s attendant slots. Those who persisted weren’t as forceful as the Magistrate. They simply left their contacts while hinting at what they could offer.

Zac avoided arranging any meetings because of his wounds. It wasn’t an empty excuse. Kaltosa Lu had done a number on him, and he would have to focus on recovery if he wanted to get back to fighting condition before the ceremony. The fact that the offers got more mouthwatering by the day was a welcome side-effect.

Five days passed in a blur. The opening ceremony was tomorrow, and Zac finally emerged from seclusion. His wounds weren’t completely healed, but he couldn’t delay gathering information any longer. If nothing else, he needed to visit the docks and personally inspect the [Peregrine Gondolas]. As luck would have it, there was finally a reaction inside the Shrine of Kanba.

“We’re safe. How are you doing? Are you okay?” Zac asked the second Esmeralda emerged from her deathly cocoon.

“I’ll manage,” Esmeralda sighed. “I’ll have to stay inside the shrine a few more days, though. I’m still technically an undead creature, and I’m too tired to maintain my spatial insulation. I’d get poisoned the second I stepped outside with this much energy abound. Just where have you taken me?”

“Transformation Docks,” Zac said and explained what had happened after the ambush.

“So it really was the Pryer’s kid. Just wait until I’m back at the top. I’ll start spelling my name backward if I don’t rob the Centigrade Foundries blind,” Esmeralda said with smoldering anger. “So the trial really needed someone to finish a thread fate to progress. What a crock. At least we’re back on track. Have you seen any other trialtakers?”

“Not yet, but I haven’t left the manor since I arrived,” Zac said. “Some might have snuck in, but there can’t be too many of us outsiders at this stage. My other side only reached the border two weeks ago.”

“The bulk of the trial takers should start arriving in around two or three months, provided the inner domain’s borders keep expanding,” Esmeralda nodded before asking curiously. “Your other team still hasn’t entered?”

“Ogras is still inside the memory domain,” Zac explained, not without worry.

It had been twelve days since Ogras and Ventus entered the latest memory domain, and Zac had received no updates in the past week. The Hollow Court team had followed their original plan during the journey. Zac stayed outside while his companions entered memories to investigate and look for opportunities.

Ogras’ earlier joke had proven prophetic. The demon clearly had Destiny with the path they followed, and his career as a Nameless Blade had seen a meteoric rise over the past two months. He’d also picked up a second identity belonging to a criminal informer.

Zac didn’t dare enter, but that didn’t mean he wasted his time doing nothing. While his companions explored the past, Zac headed for the closest tainted zone. Using the corruption, he’d focused on revising his skill blueprints. It was only through his Human half’s efforts that Zac escaped Kaltosa Lu. Zac had already upgraded [Abyssal Drive] to Late D-grade.

Having mainly focused on improving survivability, Zac had also finished the blueprint for [Profane Exponents]. He still hadn’t found the time for the actual upgrade. Esmeralda’s pouch wasn’t suitable for cultivation that required arrays, and Zac wasn’t confident in upgrading Late D-grade Skills without external assistance. The challenges didn’t benefit from skills, so Zac had only been willing to take five days off to upgrade [Abyssal Drive].

A worrying miscalculation had left Zac’s human side more time to work on his skills. Seeing Ogras’s extraordinary gains, Zac had been eager to get back into the domains. However, they had underestimated Mox’s vindictive streak. Zac was hit by a growing sense of danger any time he entered any memory domain, including those that should be protected by Imperial Authority.

Not even the latest domain, which pushed right against the inner region’s border, was an exception.

“Are you going to look for them?” Esmeralda asked.

“I’ll give them a week unless another halo appears,” Zac said. “I have the feeling I need to pull the trigger anyhow.”

“Have you thought things through?” Esmeralda asked. “Hunting Gods is no laughing matter.”
