Sure enough, she was there. This time, she wasn’t sitting, instead lying on her side and exposing her white underbelly. “Oh, there you are. I was starting to think you had given up.” Her whiskers knitted. “We can take a break, if you like.” Her fangs flashed. “Maybe just do some practice on those dummies for a little while? Hitting a target seems to be something you need a little work on.”

Okay, listen…

I knew she was just saying those things to get under my fur.

I knew that!

But damn it! It was working!

Fox’s tail swayed smugly behind her as she rolled back onto her paws in one smooth motion. “You know, it’s wise to give up on prey that you can’t catch. Only a foolish hunter expends so much energy while not getting a meal out of it.”

I flattened my ears hard.

Oh, I’m going to catch you, alright!

Fox stretched, lightning crackling faintly through her fur. “Honestly, you should be proud, though. You’ve managed to touch me with, what, two whole attacks now? Hmmm, or was it just the one?”

My eye twitched.

“Truly, I’m impressed!”

“GRRRRRRRR!”

I charged at her once again as she bark-laughed and sprang away, heading for the trees.

{Elemental Cocktail}! Earth and Wind! Terra Bullets!

I aimed them at the trees, blocking off her escape route. She realized my plan and quickly skidded in the dirt, heading back into the opening, but I was already chasing after her.

{Elemental Cocktail}! Ice, Electricity, and Wind! Ice Missiles!

The ice missiles whisked through the air sporadically, twisting and coming at her from all angles. She wouldn’t be able to dodge them, and I had moved her too far from the tree line!

Therefore, she had only one line of defense.

This time, when she hunkered down, I pressed forward. I knew exactly what she was going to do next!

The blue lightning field burst around her, but as I suspected, she had to stay still when using that skill. She fizzled my ice missiles into nothing, but I wasn’t done yet!

I swiped my paw against the ground for a wide spray of rocks that her field couldn’t just evaporate!

{Elemental Swipe}! Terra Claw!

She saw that coming too, but instead of trying to dodge back, as it was too late for her to turn, she did exactly what I was hoping!

Lightning crackled from beneath her paws as she ran straight at the spray of rocks. She was going to blast right through them and probably knock me off my feet just to make a point—

But she didn’t know I had my ultimate attack winding up before she even moved.

{Elemental Cocktail}!

EARTH!FIRE!WIND!WATER!HEART—

I mean, ELECTRICITY!

The elements coursed along my fur as she barreled straight towards me at high speed, and when she saw the wolfy smile spread across my muzzle, I could see it in her golden eyes that she knew she had screwed up!

PENTACLYSM!

The mixture of elements formed as a rainbow orb in front of me and then flattened into a sudden lightning-fast beam.

Fox let out an audible yelp of surprise as she took the shot point-blank to the muzzle, and it threw her back! The impact let out such an explosion and was so close that it even pushed me back!

I tumbled head over tail once, but caught myself on the second flip.

I hunkered down, breathing heavily, looking for her through the lingering cloud of smoke, but before it cleared, several System messages popped up in front of my face.

Elemental Cocktail leveled up! 2 > 3

+5 attunement

Achievement! Going All Out!

Sometimes, overwhelming violence is the only way to break through and even the odds!

Guess a little temper tantrum can have its uses once in a while.

+3 strength

+3 Dexterity

+3 Attunement

Achievement! Bop A Vulpyr on it’s Nose!

Foxes are naturally mischievous creatures.And sometimes that gets them punched in the face.

+5 strength

+5 attunement

Achievement! Point-Blank Pentaclysm!

You unleashed the five elements point-blank for maximum power!

Hard to believe anything could survive that!

Moderate bonus to all stats!

My tail wagged as I read through the messages, but as I read the last one, the excited wagging started to slow down, and then my tail drooped behind me.

My happy panting turned to concern when I realized Fox hadn’t said anything yet. No teasing remark, no smug declarations or complaints about me just getting lucky. Not even a “not too shabby, pup.”

I flicked the system messages away and stared through the smoke. As it cleared, I could see Fox’s silhouette lying in a heap.

I pawed forward slowly, ears folded flat against my head, and I whined, “H-Hey… Fox? You okay?”

Finally, the smoke cleared enough to see her. One eye swollen shut, muzzle bloody and still steaming with a crispy, open wound. She winked her other golden eye open, and weakly said, “Eheheh… g-good one, pup.”

And then she fell limp, head sagging to the ground and tail lying flat behind her.

“Fox!” I barked as I ran to her.
