Sabri wiggled happily. Cozy, she seemed to say, nuzzling up against her owner, and Flia smiled.

Deep within her, the palewater she had been struggling to keep cycling through her core seemed to shift in some minute but fundamental way. It seemed to flow more easily, somehow? Flia straightened, startled by how much easier it suddenly felt, and Professor Enqis grinned at her.

"Just as talented as Tarbloom said," the lich praised. "Not many students adapt so quickly to their lessons! And already at palewater... Goodness. The dark lord of this era might have some trouble indeed, if he plans to compete against you lot."

"I doubt it'll be that easy," Flia said, and Enqis chuckled.

"Such cynicism," he said. "In my youth, I was chasing legends! Did you know the lizardfolk of the Golden Sands have tales of a Wanderer who bears a great connection to the Great Realms? All the critters that man must have seen. I joined the dark lord in part for a chance to search for this Wanderer, you know."

Flia blinked, wondering if she should say anything, but Enqis seemed entirely lost in thought. "Alas, I am starting to believe he is simply a legend after all," he continued, shaking his head. "And I can hardly attempt the same thing again. My contract prevents me from simply joining the new dark lord. I do wonder how this cycle would turn out, though. You are correct in that a battle against a dark lord is never easy, but you have such a fascinating little academy here. I can't help but find myself intrigued."

YOU SOUND KIND OF EVIL WHEN YOU DO THAT, Tarbloom wrote.

"By design, I assure you," Enqis said, beaming. "I find it terribly amusing how afraid your students are of a simple skeleton. Why, many of you have one yourselves! There is nothing to be afraid of."

Flia snorted. Yeah, she wasn't going to say anything about the whole Wanderer thing. She was looking forward to seeing what Cale made of this guy when they finally met, though.

Akkau had a headache.

It was a common enough occurrence now that he wondered if his healers would allow him to take some scalefire draught to alleviate it. Fortunately, Sternkessel was around to dissuade him from making decisions that were that impulsive (though this was also possibly unfortunate; Akkau hadn't entirely decided yet.)

This particular headache was, admittedly, not one he could blame on his "apprentice." Cale was off helping Professor Imrys with her latest ploy at advancing the field of artifice; Akkau had assumed this was some unrelated tangent she had acquired an interest in, at first, but she'd mentioned in passing that this new magic was closely related to some new artifact she wanted to build.

In order for that to work, she needed to gather data from a multitude of different realms. The Streaming ritual allowed her an incredible opportunity to do what would otherwise require decades of dungeon delving to accomplish, and she had been very insistent on being allowed to carry out this new class. Akkau had originally been somewhat hesitant, but...

Well, Imrys seemed quite certain this new magic would be of some use in helping them with their current predicament. She kept her secrets close to her chest, but Akkau suspected it had something to do with the rise of the dark lord. He knew they would need every advantage they could get against him—the kingdoms were being complacent and overconfident, but Akkau had lived long enough to know that a dark lord could not be underestimated.

"Though I suppose that is not the only reason I am allowing her to move forward with her project," Akkau muttered to Cyte. The voidcyte purred and curled a tendril around his wrist, feeding eagerly on the mana he offered it. Adorable little thing. Feeding it his mana actually seemed to help with his headaches, strangely enough. "The Great Realms have changed too much since Cale conjured that truebridge. It is best we understand the nature of that change as quickly as possible, and these Streaming rituals will help us accomplish this."

Our star has changed the worlds! Cyte agreed happily. Akkau let out a grunt of amusement. He wasn't certain Cyte understood anything other than the fact that Cale had been involved in this change, and it was happy to hear any news about the man. It really was attached to him for some reason.

"And then there are the implications of that Inspiration I received," Akkau murmured. He struggled to understand it in its entirety still, but what he did understand worried him. He had been granted unprecedented insight into what was causing the extinction of all dragonkind, but even after days of research, he didn't know what to do about it.

Leylines. Vekorax, as Cale had chosen to name the beast, lurked somehow within the leylines that connected the Great Realms. He should have figured it out earlier—the fact that he could no longer communicate with others of his kind could only mean that their means of reaching out across the Abyss had been compromised. Of course Vekorax lurked in the leylines, as impossible as that should have been.

More than that... those leylines had something to do with true dragonfire, that now-lost magic that all dragons had once shared.

How long had Vekorax lurked within the leylines, feeding on their fire, before going on the offensive? It had bided its time in just the same way a dark lord would have. Akkau couldn't help but wonder if the two were somehow related. If Vekorax was somehow a dark lord attached not to a realm, but to the species of dragonkind itself. The thought seemed worryingly plausible.

It was also the primary reason for his headache.

He had spent the last few days researching the Dark, trying to understand the link Vekorax might have to it. He thought if he understood, he might be able to stop the extinction of dragonkind, perhaps even reverse what it had done—he knew that was unlikely, of course, but he couldn't help but hope. He understood more about Vekorax now than he had ever dreamed of understanding before, so there was every chance he would find something to help him restore his kind...

He wondered, briefly, if Cale felt the same way about humanity. Their journey into the Bitter Path must have felt the same to him. How had he really felt about being forced to leave them behind? He'd masked it all behind his usual cheer, but Akkau knew him well enough by now to recognize where he was worn at the edges.

"I do believe I told you to take a break," Sternkessel said, interrupting Akkau's thoughts. Akkau blinked. When had he entered the room? The Greater Indictment had his arms crossed and was leaning against the frame of the door as if he'd been standing there all the while. "You do have classes to handle today, you know."

"I know," Akkau grumbled, pulling himself from his desk with a sigh. How long had he been sitting there? His entire body ached, which was unusual for a dragon. The pile of books he had to the side nearly collapsed from the movement, and would have if Sternkessel hadn't flicked a spell out to catch them. "I must be close to a solution now. It is difficult to remind myself to take breaks."

"And so I must continue to station myself in your office," Sternkessel said, shaking his head, though his words were fond and teasing. "You would forget to eat and drink if I were not here to remind you. I trust you remember our deal?"

"Yes, yes," Akkau muttered. He'd driven Sternkessel away because of this before by allowing himself to be consumed by his work to the exclusion of everything else. He wouldn't do that to him again, no matter how close to a solution he felt like he was getting. "I will join you for lunch. The work can always wait."

"Very good," Sternkessel said approvingly. Akkau reached out, his arm settling around the Indictment's shoulders, and they made their way toward the cafeteria.

Apparently, Alina had unlocked a new tier of recipes. Akkau still had no idea what that was about—she had been very secretive about the whole thing. The only thing he knew was that it had something to do with her own Inspiration. Did recipes even have tiers? That sounded unnecessarily complicated.

He found he was looking forward to finding out, though. Besides, it was an excellent opportunity to meet and speak to some of the new Brightscale professors. Akkau still wasn't exactly sure how Cale had managed to pull off what seemed essentially like some kind of resurrection, but judging by the magic these ancient beings knew...

Well, even their wyldfire students were signing up for classes now. That upcoming tournament was no doubt going to be interesting.
