Flia wasn't sure how she felt yet about the shadowy thing following Professor Tarbloom around and acting as their secondary professor for the class.

She'd been excited about the class at first. Critter Synchronization was everything she needed to develop her magic, especially since she'd had difficulty repeating her feat with Sabri outside the confines of the Bitter Path. Without the pressure of her life being in danger, her [Leviathan's Touch] simply couldn't seem to last. There was some kind of dissonance between her and Sabri that stopped the bond from being as smooth as it had been then.

The Inspiration she had received during that duel between Cale and Astiviya should have helped, but unfortunately, Flia couldn't make heads or tails of what she'd seen. She'd been hoping that this class would help resolve some of those issues and help her take the next step with her magic. She could produce palewater, now, but until she better understood the nature of her own mana, her core would have trouble adapting to it.

That, and it just didn't flow as well as it should have through her mana channels. She didn't know exactly what she should have felt, but she knew what she had seemed... incomplete, somehow.

The problem now was that the class wasn't quite what she had been expecting, and that was at least in part due to their somewhat creepy new professor. Every other student had very quickly decided he was trouble, perhaps because he had all the looks of an evil mage here to steal their souls. He was some sort of skeleton lich made of pure shadow.

Flia knew better than to judge mages by their appearances, though, and Professor Tarbloom seemed outright delighted by his presence. Mylo Forgan Enqis the Third, as he apparently called himself—Flia privately thought that this was a little much for a name—was supposedly a famed explorer from centuries back, which explained Tarbloom's enthusiasm.

At some point, Professor Enqis had either been forcibly recruited or had voluntarily joined the forces of the reigning dark lord of his era. He was rather reticent about the details, which really didn't do much to help his image. Many students took it to mean he had committed a number of atrocities in that time.

Flia wasn't as certain. Besides, she was Cale's apprentice, so judging Enqis by whatever atrocities he had committed centuries ago felt like it would be hypocritical. More important to her was the fact that he had authored hundreds of books on the various critters that could be found all across Utelia during his era, and enough of them had survived that Tarbloom had dozens of those very books occupying one of their many shelves.

He did know what he was talking about. The problem she had was not Professor Enqis's credibility nor his threatening appearance. It was the fact that he was as much of a nerd as Professor Tarbloom was, and while Flia very much enjoyed learning about Utelia's critters, the combination was not at all productive for the whole "learning more about her magic" thing.

"Oh my!" Professor Enqis gasped at one of the diagrams Tarbloom had written out on the chalkboard. "Is that a skulking haerophant? It looks so different from what I remember!"

Professor Tarbloom's gelatinous form wobbled in excitement. YOU RECOGNIZE THESE? they wrote rapidly. I WAS NOT CERTAIN IF THEY WERE THE SAME SPECIES! I CALL THEM PROPHETIC GRAYFLIES.

"They've changed greatly since I last documented them, if your diagrams are accurate, but these grayflies of yours undoubtedly evolved from the haerophants I encountered centuries ago," Professor Enqis said, studying the chalkboard intently. "They are significantly smaller, so I can see why you did not recognize the similarities... perhaps the lack of ambient mana has caused them to shrink over the years? They're a rather short-lived species, yes?"

QUITE, Professor Tarbloom wrote. THE LONGEST LIFESPAN I HAVE DOCUMENTED IS TWO WEEKS. IT IS UNFORTUNATE. THEY PROVIDE GREAT INSIGHT INTO MAGICAL DISCOVERIES.

"Yes, that's always been the tradeoff with the skulking haerophants," Professor Enqis said regretfully. "They have all sorts of brilliant insights on magical development, but they get them only in flashes before their death. Couple that with how hard it is to even find them and they don't help us nearly as much as they should."

"Um," a student spoke. Flia glanced at him—that was an elf named Garret, if she remembered correctly? He kept looking nervously over at Enqis. "Professors, are you suggesting these grayflies are, um, sapient?"

"Oh, no," Professor Enqis said, clacking his teeth together dismissively. Garret flinched. "You must understand, grayflies and haerophants are... hm... they belong to a class of magical critter I suppose you might think of as knowledge digestors, though that classification leaves much to be desired. They do not understand and produce these insights with their minds, per se. Instead, they consume what is understood about a particular phenomenon, then excrete a refinement of that information."

WHICH IS ONLY USEFUL IF YOU HAVE A MANA-READER OR A TELEPATHIC SPELL, Tarbloom added helpfully. AND IT LASTS ONLY FOR AN INSTANT BEFORE DISSIPATING INTO AMBIENT MANA. THEY CAN BE VERY USEFUL! BUT YOU MUST BE LUCKY TO GET THEM AT THE RIGHT TIME.

"Indeed. They're terribly difficult to train," Professor Enqis agreed. "Trying to utilize them deliberately makes it far more likely they will digest some unexpected, unrelated tidbit of information. Suppose you're a mist mage working on an iteration of [Invoke Mists], for example. If you kept a caged population of haerophants nearby, they would be more likely to feed on your knowledge of the classic [Fireball], and grant you some insight into how to make a better [Fireball] instead."

THEY ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR MANY SUDDEN INSIGHTS, THOUGH! Tarbloom wrote. MANY TALES OF A MAGE EXPERIENCING A SUDDEN FLASH OF INSIGHT IS A RESULT OF GRAYFLY EXCREMENT.

Garret looked mildly ill. "You didn't have to put it like that," he muttered, clearly thinking back on some flashes of insight he'd had.

Tarbloom didn't seem to notice. They were, Flia had noticed, remarkably matter-of-fact when it came to the reality of dealing with magical critters; the fact that a mage would have to deal with their waste and excrement was simply part and parcel of the subject. They moved happily on from the subject and began drawing a new sketch on the chalkboard, this time of a dragonfly-looking critter that Enqis also seemed to immediately recognize.

This was all very interesting, but Flia wondered idly if either professor remembered that this was supposed to be a Critter Synchronization class. Was this all necessary to teach them to better synchronize with their familiars, or were the two professors just getting distracted?

Flia did love critter trivia, and at any other time, she might not have minded the two professors distracting one another. She was learning so much more about the little creatures of Utelia than she had ever imagined she would. One day, she knew, all this knowledge would become a part of her magic. None of what she was learning here was wasted, exactly.

And yet...

A lance of dragonfire burning past her and straight into Elizabeth's heart, breaking through every barrier she had prepared in advance. The properties of dragonfire preventing that wound from being healed, even though they were in an era where healing magic should have worked.

The look on Erick's face when he realized what had happened.

Flia knew all too well that she couldn't let what happened in the Bitter Path control her path forward. She had spoken to Cale, her friends, and the professors she trusted most about it, and she trusted their advice.

But that didn't mean she'd managed to let it go. Far too little time had passed for that. It simmered over her still, ever-present in the back of her mind, and at this moment it felt like the thought of her failure was louder than ever.

There was so much more Flia needed to know about her magic. She needed to learn. Even having finally taken the step to palewater, even with the knowledge that she could beat mages that technically commanded more power than she did, it felt like she was too weak. If she had been stronger, she might have been able to stop Elizabeth from getting hurt. If she had known beforehand what she could do with Sabri...

As if the little shadeling could hear her thoughts, Sabri crawled out of her pouch to nuzzle against her, and Flia smiled faintly as she scratched along the shadeling's back. Sabri buzzed happily in response, vibrating in a loud purr and pressing herself against her hand.

She had been much more affectionate ever since their trip to the Bitter Path, Flia thought. It was almost like she knew that Flia needed comfort.

A gentle tap on her desk got her attention, and Flia looked up to see Tarbloom holding up their chalkboard. IS EVERYTHING ALRIGHT? they had written.

"Everything's fine," Flia said, offering them a smile, though it was a little less steady than she would have liked. "Just, uh..."

She hesitated for a moment, then decided to go ahead. Tarbloom never seemed to mind criticism. "I feel like you and Professor Enqis are distracting one another a bit," she said. "I was hoping I'd learn more about synchronization and familiar bonds today. I've been having trouble properly merging with Sabri again."

The other students murmured in agreement. Tarbloom and Enqis, however, only looked at one another knowingly.

"What do you suppose is the most important part of synchronizing with a familiar?" Professor Enqis asked. The shadow-lich's words were surprisingly gentle, and Flia took a moment to think it through.

"Understanding," she answered after a moment.

"Indeed." Professor Enqis beamed, though how a skeleton could beam she hadn't quite figured out yet. He was definitely smiling, though. "And what is the greatest obstacle to understanding?"

Flia frowned. When she merged with Sabri, she hadn't spared much thought to there being an obstacle; they had wanted the same thing, and so they simply... Became one.

But she had struggled to cast the spell again, presumably because without her life being in danger, her thoughts didn't line up quite as well with Sabri's. It wasn't that the spell failed, exactly, but it kept ending far earlier than it should have.

What was the greatest obstacle to understanding her companion?

Sabri buzzed inquisitively on her desk, then headbutted her. Flia couldn't help but laugh softly.

"Our differences, I suppose," she said, now smiling as she stroked along the shadeling's back. "I don't necessarily know what mood Sabri is in when I want to merge with her. I don't really understand how she experiences the world. I don't really even know how she sees me. I know she likes me, but I don't know what that means for her."

VERY GOOD, Tarbloom wrote out, beaming at her. AND THIS GOES FOR ALL OF YOU! YOU MUST UNDERSTAND WHAT IS THE GREATEST OBSTACLE TO SYNCHRONIZING WITH YOUR CHOSEN FAMILIAR(S). OFTEN, IT IS YOUR DIFFERENCES. WE MAY APPEAR DISTRACTED—

"In part because we are," Professor Enqis interjected, amused. "We do bear some blame for this. That said, it is, in part, intentional. You must learn to adapt to other modes of thinking, including our own. As foreign as it may seem to you, your little critters will have minds even more foreign than ours."

THE MOST IMPORTANT THING TO LEARN IS THAT EVERY CRITTER IS DIFFERENT, Tarbloom continued to write. THE MORE YOU LEARN OF ALL OF THEM, THE MORE YOU WILL UNDERSTAND THEIR PLACE IN THE ECOSYSTEM AND HOW THEY PERCEIVE THE WORLD. IF GRAYFLIES CONSUME KNOWLEDGE, WHAT CONSUMES GRAYFLIES? HOW DO THEY SEE THE WORLD?

Something within her stirred at that, and Flia's thoughts slipped back toward her Inspiration. It had seemed incomprehensible to her at the time, but...

As she thought, Garret raised a hand. "How are we supposed to use this to eliminate our differences?" he asked. "I mean, my familiar is a foxfire wisp. I don't see how learning about grayflies is going to help make us the same."

Professor Enqis cracked his teeth together. "If you believe the goal is to eliminate your differences, you are missing the point," he said. He turned to Flia, and the hollow sockets of his eyes seemed to glint with recognition. "Ah. Fascinating. Miss Flia, if you would? You seem to understand now."

Flia blinked. It was true, she realized—her mind felt surprisingly clear. Part of it was focused on her Inspiration, still but the other part had relaxed thanks to Sabri, who had taken to lying on her back and was now wiggling her legs in a desperate attempt to get a belly rub.

Strangely enough, it helped.

"The differences are the point," Flia said, hesitant at first before gaining confidence. "If grayflies feed on knowledge, then we know they have a way to sense it. They might see the world in shades of magical knowledge. If you know that, you know they probably gather around academies and mages and libraries, and that they'd be excited around any great source of knowledge. Or around any new knowledge."

Come to think of it, it was a miracle that Cale wasn't constantly swarmed with the things. Maybe he had some sort of filter on his barrier that kept them away?

...Or maybe they just kept away because he was too much like them. She snorted at the thought. Grayflies could be lured and captured with any hoard of magical knowledge, and she was pretty sure the same applied to Cale.

"Our differences highlight the ways in which we're the same," Flia murmured, finally giving Sabri her belly rub. The shadeling squeaked happily at her touch. It was remarkable how physical Sabri was, now that she thought about it. Shadelings were ambush predators, weren't they? They sat in a shadow and did nothing until some unfortunate soul stepped on them.

The fact that Sabri had so easily attached to her suggested that shadelings weren't just that, though. Perhaps they hadn't always been ambush predators.

Once more, she thought about her Inspiration. At the time it seemed incongruent with everything she knew about her magic, but now that she thought about it, maybe that was just because the vision hadn't been from her perspective.

She remembered light and darkness. She remembered cold—a long memory of cold in fact, broken only by the presence of something flowing and liquid. She remembered a sudden, reliable offering of warmth.

"Ah," Flia murmured. "You're hungry all the time, but you don't exactly feel it as hunger, do you?"

Sabri cooed up at her, white eyes blinking curiously.

"You feel it as cold," Flia continued. She pulled a large slab of meat out of her purse—the other students flinched, but that was only because they weren't yet used to the apparently endless supply of meat she kept in there—and gave it to Sabri, who immediately swarmed around and devoured the thing. "Do you just like food because it makes you feel warm?"

