 they gingerly took some of his cheese finally.“Are you stronger than him?” Alpha asked curiously and Haldi liked the boy, he was so forward. Haldi inhaled and the sun seemed to dim through the grimy windows and the fire in the place flickered down as if cowering.Shadows loomed in the room and the various pieces of cheese trembled.“Well, they don’t call me Haldi TheBigCheese for nothing, my boy,” Haldi said smoothly.Inside, he giggled at their pale faces.Being an old fart had its benefits and this was just one of many.---“We’re lost!” Estal announced after Hazhur slid down a wall in defeat.“There’s no airflow to follow and the vines aren’t staying still. I can’t track a way out,” Karn agreed as they looked around at the hallways.“We’re going to turn into dart-covered skeletons! Wasting away,” Estal gasped, holding her figure as if someone was going to steal it from her.“Excuse me...” Silver spoke up.“We should eat Hazhur first, he has the most meat,” Karn said quickly, eyeing the muscular man.“I don’t mind. Get me away from Estal’s whining faster,” the man muttered.“Um... I think they’re-” Silver tried again.“I wanna club him. A final mercy from ‘family’,” Estal said, raising her staff in annoyance.“The walls are literally telling us which way to go!” Silver yelled, mana-voice pulsing. Everyone paused and looked at Silver. He was pointing to the wall where the symbol of little men running towards a key was moving to their left, but the other showed Pygmies despairing at a deadend.“...I knew that, I just didn’t want to show off,” Estal said, smoothing her robe down before gesturing onwards.“To the key! Together!” she declared and there came a rumbling from all around them.Around them, in the eyes of monsters and stories, little wooden instruments poked out of the stone wall.“Oh, little straws,” Karn mused before looking a lot closer. Countless little puffs went off and only a thin barrier from Estal kept them all from being punctured by a dozen little darts.“You can thank me now,” Estal insisted with her eyes closed.A wall slammed down behind them and began to grind forward, crushing rocks and vines as it raced towards them.“We can outrun it at a brisk walk! It’s not that threatening!” Estal tried to assure her teammates, but a dozen little holes opened up on the wall and little spears poked through, creating a spiked-wall effect.“...I’m going to shut up now and run,” Estal said with a quiet tone.“It’s not the time or place, but I’m going to treasure you saying those words until I die,” Hazhur said, urging her along, putting himself between her and the wall. They ran along the wall and at the next split, Hazhur and Karn went to the left as Estal and Silver accidentally went right. Hazhur skidded to a stop and tried to redirect his course, but the hallways slammed down like a hammer.“Estal!” Hazhur yelled as his cousin vanished behind thick rock barriers.The wall he was about to start beating on sprouted more spikes and began to chase him. Karn grabbed Hazhur’s arm and dragged him away.“Find them at the key. All roads go to the capitol!” he called and Hazhur stopped resisting and raced on.---Estal slowly lowered her hand, everything going quiet as she stared at the wall behind which Hazhur and Karn had vanished behind.She turned to Silver and they stared at each other.“...We should move on,” Silver said and Estal stiffly walked past him, trying not to imagine what was under his robes. The twisted melding of monster and human...“I don’t see any key signs on the wall,” Estal finally said and Silver looked around, taking it all in.“But there are new symbols,” he said, pressing a crooked finger to a symbol being prayed to by the Pygmies. Some sort of burning mushroom on an altar.Estal spotted another symbol, a mushroom made up of two grinding cogs.The burning mushroom lead to the left and the cog to the right.They had a choice to make.---Hazhur stared at the large door with the single symbol dominating the walls.A mushroom-shaped cloud that almost looked like a skull.“Only one choice,” Karn said slowly.There was no choice to be made.
