Convinced they can’t escape and thanking my lucky stars for their silence, I raise my head to study the surroundings. With no point of reference, it's impossible to tell how long I spent staring at the cage. I don’t breathe, I don’t get hungry or tired, my muscles don’t cramp or ache. The void surrounds me, envelopes me, yet at the same time, I have all the room in the world, though there’s nothing to mark the distance travelled. Forward back, up, down, no matter where I go, it’s exactly the same. Screaming just to hear noise, I’m not sure if I’m actually screaming, or just think I am.

I hate it here. Nothing to do but get lost in my own thoughts.

But are they my thoughts, or is an echo of thoughts I’ve had before? How do I think without a mind? Am I using part of Baledagh’s brain, even while dormant? Or do spirits have their own... physiology or whatever?

Holy shit, is this what it was like for Baledagh before I built him the Manor? No wonder he slept for years, this shit is unbearable. Forcing myself to take a breath, the ‘air’ rushes through my ‘nostrils’, filling my ‘chest’ and ‘lungs’. Ugh, fuck me. Focus dude. Concentrate. Out of the Void and into the World.

My mind is overwhelmed by all the sensations. Sunlight bursts into view, children cry and adults shout, the acrid scent of sweat and fear, the coarse texture of my clothes, a thousand things coming into awareness in an instant. The Militiamen march through a tiny village while the unmistakable voice of Ravil screams obscenities. The villagers gather in an empty field, lining up in single file at his directions, men and woman, children and elderly, close to fifty in total, huddling together for comfort as they try to make sense of things.

After a few seconds, I can even feel Baledagh’s emotions, a hollow, empty pain emanating throughout his body. Poor kid. “Baledagh, what’s going on here?”

Tensing up at the sound of my voice, Baledagh checks to make sure no one is watching before closing his eyes. His voice booms from every direction, echoing into the void. “Brother, it’s good to have you back. You slept for so many days, and when you woke, I found you staring at the Spectres, lost in thought, my voice unable to reach you. Are you well?”

“I'm fine, I think. I was exhausted, then I was checking the cage and... lost track of time. You didn’t answer me though, what’s happening here? Are we robbing these people?” Wait... what? “I’ve been out for days? How many?”

“Yes brother, close to seven days, and we’re here searching for the Defiled. I can feel them here, but I cannot tell who.” Ravil calls out to us and Baledagh steps forward, his face hidden by a hat and veil. “I need to concentrate brother, but know that the Purge has been called. You couldn’t have stopped it, but worry not. We’ll save those we can, including anyone here who has not been tainted.”

Swallowing my protests and questions, I quiet down as Baledagh clasps his hands behind him and walks up to the first villager, an older gentleman with greying hair and clouding eyes brought forward by a Sentinel. After a few seconds, Baledagh nods and the Sentinel brings the old man out into the forest, while another Sentinel brings the next villager forward.

I’m not thrilled that the purge is coming, but then again, he might be right. We couldn’t have stopped the purge, but he’s doing something about it at least. We'll figure something out. Little Baledagh, still in mourning, he toughed it out for days while I slept, even working to save villagers. He’s growing up and I couldn’t be prouder.

The inspections continue without change until a meek young woman is brought forward, carrying a girl no older than Tali in her arms. An adorable child, her eyes are red and swollen, her tears staining her mother’s shirt as she stares fearfully at us from her mother’s embrace. Poor little thing, we’ll make it up to her later. I can cook up something sweet, or let her play with the bears.

While lost in my thoughts of cheering her up, Baledagh nods once again, as his fingers flash behind him, signing ‘Kill’.

“What are you doing?” The words burst from my mind before I can stop it, frantic as I watch the Sentinel lead them both away. “Wait, stop, call him back. You didn’t tell them to spare the little girl.”

Stopping in his tracks, Baledagh speaks carefully, his anger smouldering beneath the surface. “Brother, they are both Defiled, woman and child alike. I can sense the taint in them, weak but unmistakable.”

My innards twist at the sound of his words, our eyes watching the doomed pair walk away. Pleading with him, I try to take control, to make his mouth utter a single word, all to no avail. “Baledagh, stop them, take the time to think this through. You said it was weak, she’s just a kid. We can teach her, we can save her. You don’t want to do this, I know you don’t. We'll find a solution for this, together.”

“You’re right, I don’t want to have her killed.” His sorrow is palpable as he sighs, but quickly overshadowed by determination. “I wish there were another way, but there isn’t. They are Defiled, and will grow in power, given time. You are too weak... no not weak. Too kind, too empathetic perhaps, but I am not the same, so I will shoulder this burden for you. That child is not the first, nor will she be the last, and this will be a mercy compared to leaving her for the Empire.” The void closes around me as he sends me away, his words heavy with regret. “Go back to sleep brother. This is all I can do to help. I’ll wake you when we reunite with the others.”

The darkness consumes me, and all I can see is the little girl’s face flooding with relief as she’s brought away, blissfully unaware of what fate has in store for her.

Baledagh... why are you doing this to yourself?

Chapter Meme
