Alden suspected she thought everyone ought to kneel properly on learning cushions when her wizard was speaking and save the lazy, ass-allowed cushions for lesser performances. She probably wasn’t going to get what she wanted since the first class had been almost four straight hours of stories from Warin-doyis and even the members of the class most concerned with appearing respectful had opted not to kneel for that amount of time.

Nothing that might distract others from listening was supposed to be brought into the circle they all sat in around their glass fire, so everyone left their bags and props on a cart that the assistant pushed up against a wall as they settled. Their circle was one with a gap in it, the storyteller’s position, and Warin-doyis went to occupy it.

“My students,” he said in Artonan, “I gave you a complex task. To listen to stories oft-told among your people. To remind others of them even as you tell something new. To carry this new story as well as you can into the language of another species so that an audience of both your own people and mine will understand the same things from it. And to speak to senses beyond the ears. All at the same time! And after only one class. Did you think maybe I’d made a mistake?”

He looked around the circle. “Any one part of what you’ve tried to do for these past days could be the subject of years of study. I told you to do it as soon as we met because this way I will learn more about how you sound. And I will tell you all that I hear. Don’t be too upset with your instructor for giving you work he can’t do himself! I have Avowed helping me to refine my own stories so that they’re nearer to perfection when I want to tell them in the languages of your world, but I asked you to do it yourselves.”

This was the only season-long class Warin-doyis was teaching during his time on Earth, but he’d be performing all over Anesidora and learning from people familiar with different human storytelling traditions.

“It’s best to ask you to experience much of what being a storyteller demands for yourselves now. And then we will devote ourselves to the individual petals that form the flower. But maybe some of you are nervous because it was a whole flower I asked for! I know about someone who was nervous to tell stories. Would you like to hear about him?”

Alden gave his yes with everyone else. Then, the lights dimmed, and Warin-doyis began the story of Yott, who was called Yott the Useless in his youth because every time he tried to learn a trade to help out the people of his town, he caused havoc.

Warin-doyis could have told a story about a can of soda slowly going flat and made it enjoyable. He had endless voices for his characters, and he seemed to understand which ones would be subtly funny to his human listeners. He could use a plethora of different magical effects and props to enhance his words, but he tended to strategically choose just one or two per story to accompany his main tool—a wand that he used to draw shadowy shapes on the floor or in the air.

Alden thought it would have been tempting, if he were in control of that wand, to make more images with more details. Like he was creating a whole movie. But Warin-doyis slowly drew a single, mysterious lump of a shape while they were all laughing about the main character’s worst mistake yet.

Yott had painted the town’s main meeting hall with an oil that attracted wild animals instead of the oil he’d been told to use.

It was only as the laughter ran its course that the edges of the dark blur Warin-doyis had drawn in the air sharpened more to become the figure of Yott cowering in the middle of their circle, hiding his face in his hands.

Realizing he was part of a mob that was mocking someone who was scared and ashamed of his mistake stole Alden’s breath for a few seconds.

Warin-doyis had told the first part of his tale in a way that invited them all to laugh, but knowing it was a set-up didn’t lessen that initial impact.

“Come here, boy.” It was the voice of one of the town’s most beloved residents, the woman who told stories. Alden had heard her earlier, laughing along with the rest of them. “I’ll teach you my trade. I’m too old to keep entertaining these hungry ears by myself. And maybe a heart like yours will finally show its goodness through words since the work of your hands keeps betraying you.”

But the last of Yott’s confidence seemed to have been lost. He tried to refuse. The storyteller, he said, used words to make the dying laugh like children and to guide children in their growth. She recorded all of their lives and remembered the dreams of their forbearers.

“You fill our winters with warmth,” he said, “and sweeten truths so we won’t spit them out. How could someone like me ever be as good as you?”

“If I am telling stories in the meeting place, once they’ve driven all those animals out, do you plan to come in and scream a story louder than mine?” she asked him.

“Of course I won’t,” said Yott.

“Then does it matter if your words don’t hold the experience mine do? Your skills may be measured against mine by others, but don’t let that confuse you. I am not your competition. Silence is.”

“Silence?”

“You must only be sweeter, truer, or more useful than silence in the place where you speak. That’s all it takes for your story to be worth telling.”

“What if…what if I’m not better than silence?”

“You surely won’t be sometimes. Try sneaking into someone’s house while they sleep and see how much they appreciate your voice at a time like that. But there are weaker silences. Unwanted ones. Some that are dangerous. People appreciate even a clumsy tongue if it comes to fight those. One eye always on your listener, and another pointed toward the story you seek to tell. You don’t have a third for comparing yourself to others. Go, and find someone who will welcome the death of silence.”

Yott, terrified of failing again, searched the town for days. And he began to see what the old storyteller meant. If he kept one eye on others, he noticed them enjoying some silences and being made bored or lonely by others. He began to imagine what words those people might like or need.

Finally, he found a man who sat all by himself for a whole morning, trying to untangle a net. And he worked up his courage to offer a story.

Warin-doyis had them all rooting for Yott by then. So when he began to tell the story Yott had decided on, and it went wrong, Alden was wincing in sympathy.

Yott stumbled over his words. He had to backtrack to retell an important part he’d forgotten. And instead of giving the story any kind of moral that made sense, he ended it with, “That is why you should always check the label on a bottle of oil three times before you paint a building with it!”

The story he’d massacred had been about someone going fishing every day and finally being rewarded for their patience with a great catch. Yott had obviously let his eyes drift off of his audience and his topic there at the end.

Warin-doyis’s hands were moving like he was working on an invisible net.

“A little peculiar at the end there, wasn’t it?” he said in the character’s voice. “You’re really not much good at this, are you? But you’re better than the wind in my ears. Go on. Tell me another.”

“So Yott killed the silence again. And with his next story, he didn’t even think about his past mishaps. He thought only about how to make his listener’s day a little easier,” said Warin-doyis. “After several stories, the net was untangled, and when Yott stood to leave, he discovered he’d been speaking to more ears than he’d realized.”

Warin-doyis turned his head, and Alden followed the direction of his gaze across the circle toward Kelly. At some point, one of the pieces of fabric had dropped from the ceiling, and it was now behind her. It looked like a child, all bundled up, peeking around her to see the storyteller better.

“Yott told stories the next day and the next,” said Warin-doyis, drawing his wand through the air to make a shadow of Yott that began hunched and seemed to grow taller and straighter as the instructor talked about some of the places where he traveled with his teacher and how he grew better and better at his craft through the years.

“And by the time he was an old storyteller himself, news of his arrival in the town meeting hall had the power to kill silence before he ever spoke a word.”

Rushing footsteps and the flap of cloaks filled the room as all the fabric fell dramatically from the ceiling and gathered around the circle with them, shaping itself into new audience members who were eager to join them for Yott’s next performance.

“So don’t be nervous, my students,” Warin-doyis said. “Look to your audience with a good heart, give them something sweeter than silence, and you will be a storyteller. Becoming a better one is on the other side of many imperfections.”

The fabric people collapsed.

“Now, I told you to think of an audience of both our species. Some guests will come soon so that your audience is bigger! They will hear you and tell stories of their own. Do not be nervous, do not be nervous. All of us would rather hear you than silence this morning. We will talk a little more about Yott, and then I will introduce you to them.”

Several minutes later, after a discussion about the story and how they could apply what they’d learned from it to what they were about to do, Alden was calm and actually looking forward to his turn a little.

I’ve got an okay story for this audience, he thought. It has something to say. It’s better than silence. The version that never got finished wasn’t really something I wanted to give this collection of people.

Maybe it’s an eyes-on-myself story. A wish I needed to process, instead of a gift to be shared.

Who would I talk about a frog swimming in the dark to anyway?

He decided he was happy it had turned out this way as Warin-doyis went to the door to collect the guests who would be joining them.

Several Artonans walked in. Alden only saw two of them.

Esh-erdi and Lind-otta, side-by-side, in coats studded with metal instead of embroidered with thread. Here they were in his classroom to listen to storytelling students for a few hours.

Lind-otta who’d slowed the ocean as it drowned him.

Esh-erdi who’d made him try to croak to a story about sacrifice.

[Lute: Alden! Why staring like knight pals killed your cat?]

The message from Lute was momentarily confusing. Then Alden realized he was staring at Esh-erdi and Lind-otta like that.

And they’d noticed.

Two eyes were locked on him, one from each of them, even as they exchanged greetings with Warin-doyis.

Ohfuckno! My stupid face. They’re going to think I hate them.

He sent them a series of messages so fast it might have been a new record for his mental texting.

[Alden: I swear I’m so glad you’re here!]

[Alden: I think I want to tell a different story if it’s you two as my audience, and here you are, but that story isn’t finished yet, so I looked like that.]

[Alden: I’m happy to see you.]

[Alden: Thank you for coming.]

[Alden: Please don’t leave. I’m going to try to make a klerm sound. You can record it and use it to make fun of me a hundred years from now if you want to.]

Maybe if Esh-erdi hadn’t laughed right then and nodded at him, he’d have kept going.

Out of control, caution to the winds, maybe Alden would have said, “It’s a story about how I love wizardry. It’s about how I want to be myself in two worlds. It’s about how I’m underwater like I was on the night we met, but this time when I reach the surface, I don’t want to be someone you have to save. I’ve decided to try to stand beside you and fight in the dark. I wish… for your welcome.”

But Esh-erdi did laugh. And Alden remembered the many reasons why those things shouldn’t be suddenly and lightly said.

His turn came, and he took the storyteller’s position.

“Once,” he said, “when wishing was having…”

And for a while, he killed a silence with his tale about royals being transmogrified into the klerms they despised.

If Esh-erdi pitied his attempt at a klerm shriek, he didn’t show it. And when Alden tried to embody the overworked witch, cracking his knuckles and sighing at the thought of klermifying a whole palace, Lind-otta seemed especially into it, mimicking the sigh herself.

Another silence remained.

Alden couldn’t kill it today, but he took a swipe at it just for himself by improvising a new ending.

The gold ball found its way back to the pond, and it fell down through the dark water toward eyes that had never seen anything like it before. Maybe, he told them all, “The Klerm Prince” had a sequel.

I’m still a pretty quiet Rabbit, he thought as he went back to his seat amid his share of the applause. Not as quiet as I was, though. And it’s heavy, but I’m not carrying it alone.

He touched one of the logograms on his learning cushion. We’ll get there. We’re getting there. They’ll hear us when we finally reach them.

******

******

They took a break during the middle of the long class for people to go to the bathroom and visit with the guests. Refreshments were under one of the palm trees.

Alden introduced Lute to Porti-loth. The healer shared his medical opinion about the lasting effects of turning people into klerms and back…assuming the witch in Alden’s story wanted to fix anyone. Then he pulled Lute away from Alden to make him try one of the meat-based snacks on the table.

Esh-erdi strolled over at the same time.

The knight’s face was dramatically contorted. If Alden had to name the expression, he’d call it “constipated disappointment.”

“I didn’t look like that!” Alden said.

