“I’m afraid you did. And I had been looking forward to surprising you.” Esh-erdi shook his head.

“If I did look like that…a little…it was directed inward, I promise. It’s really nice to see you here instead of at Matadero. And it’s nice that it’s for something like this instead of after a problem has happened.”

“Grand Senator Servin-ith wishes you and Lute well. I was supposed to say that to you on her behalf some time ago.”

Probably around Christmas, thought Alden.

“You’ve been busy with more important people, though,” said Esh-erdi. A trio of braids hung over his right shoulder. As usual, the hairstyle matched Lind-otta’s. Alden could see her on the patio talking to a group of four of his fellow students. They were all either overanxious or overzealous about meeting her, judging by the amount of gesticulating going on.

“As your first and favorite storytelling instructor,” said Esh-erdi, “what is this special story that is intended for us? Hm? I’m sure I can help you with it.”

What’s wrong with me? I really did tell him I had a story for the two of them. Just blurt out whatever you want to, Alden.

“It’s unfinished.”

Esh-erdi looked intensely curious.

“It’s very unfinished,” said Alden.

“But since keeping it secret has such a horrendous effect on your features, you should consider releasing it in its rough form! Just to me. I’ll never share it with anyone.”

“Not even with Lind-otta?”

“I’ll only share it with Lind.”

Alden smiled. “I remember you promising that before, but a third person somehow heard about me croaking at you.”

Esh-erdi looked almost embarrassed for all of a second. “That’s because I thought he was <<an exemption>>. I apologize.”

“No, you were right. He’s an exemption. You can tell him whatever you want about me.”

“Can I?” Esh-erdi asked, eyes scanning Alden. “All right.”

“I still can’t tell you that story yet, though,” said Alden. “I’m sorry.”

“Well, the only solution is to turn you into someone who is ready as quickly as possible. Come with me this weekend to practice on an insatiable and unforgiving audience.”

“Really?” Alden was trying to imagine what he meant. “You want me to practice storytelling…with you. This weekend. This Earth weekend? Like tomorrow?”

“Yes,” said Esh-erdi.

“Where?” Alden asked.

“Have you ever ridden a terackerin?”

******
