296

******

Pacific Welcome House stood at the back of a botanical garden on the university campus. It was the residence for wizards who were being hosted by the school, and although there wasn’t space for large lectures, Artonan instructors could make arrangements to hold classes there for smaller groups if they wanted.

Kelly’s suggestion that Alden and Lute let her talk to the people who could get them into the storytelling course had been casual. And Alden had been busy. He really hadn’t understood the quality of the treat he was getting until he and Lute were going through the rigmarole of their etiquette orientation. Even then, it was only last week, during their first lesson, that he’d finally realized the two of them had slipped past a crowd of other people and into one of the most inaccessible courses being held at Celena North right now.

The walk to class was an event all by itself. The garden was part of a national project to bring Anesidorans closer to the rest of Earth through plants. Narrow pathways snaked between different climate pockets, and if Alden’s eyes rested on a particular area for several seconds, information would begin to appear. Upon first setting foot in the garden, he’d chosen the touring experience that emphasized human connection, so wherever his gaze lingered, a video of someone else interacting with the same kind of plant in its native environment would be shown.

Some of the people who’d been recorded explained what they were doing. Others didn’t. The ones who said something tended to finish by thanking the watching Avowed for doing their part to protect the planet and its wonders. After hearing that the first few times, Alden preferred to move along before the recitation of gratitude happened. He liked seeing all the different people living their lives in corners of the world he knew nothing about, but being reminded that he was a special type of human who couldn’t go see those places for real without breaking laws made the tour less enjoyable.

“Do you watch the human connections stuff?” he asked Lute as the walkway curved between bushes covered in rose hips.

Alden’s learning cushion was coming with him today, wrapped in the cloth that had protected it when Stuart had had it teleported to Earth. There wasn’t ever going to be a safer classroom or a better group of students to use it around at Celena North, so he’d decided it could have an outing. He was still trying to keep it a mile away from scratchy-looking plants and the garden’s water features.

“I started with that tour, but switched,” said Lute. His arms were around a cardboard boot box that held his puppets. “I’m doing the one that highlights everything here that can be used as poison or medicine. It’s not telling me what I want to know, though. If I mix all the poisonous plants here together, does it make super poison? Or do they counteract each other?”

“That’s an important question. System, would it be safe for me to eat all the poisonous-labeled things in this garden if I mashed them up together and swallowed a large spoonful of the mix?”

“You’re bringing the System into this?”

“The ones on foreign planets have responded to questions about food safety when I’ve asked. So you’d think that ours would do the same. Of course, since it knows I’m not serious…it’s already answering.”

“Maybe it’s worried you’re the kind of person who would actually eat assorted dangerous plants for the fun of it.”

[Doing that would be damaging to your health.]

“It says doing that would be damaging to my health,” Alden told him.

“What else does it say?”

“Nothing. That’s it.”

“You’re light on the details there, System,” said Lute.

The path they were on turned at a tall wall of bamboo growing so thickly that they couldn’t see through it to the other side. Following that wall led them to a wide gap where the bamboo framed a view of the tropical setting that had been designed for Pacific Welcome House.

The building was crescent-shaped, like Apex, and the open side faced them. Two tall stories built of a sandy gold brick were skirted by hibiscuses, and Alden and Lute walked over the shadows of palm trees as they headed for the left side and the exterior door of their classroom.

Most of the other students were already on the patio there, waiting for the instructor to invite them in. The sight of them all undid the bit of composure Alden had gathered on the walk here. He’d been leagues beyond most of the students in his Conversation class last quarter, not only in terms of his ability to speak the language but also in how dedicated he was to learning more about it.

Among these people, that wasn’t the case.

The eighteen original slots for the class had almost all gone to graduate students like Kelly who were language or culture focused. The youngest member of the class other than Alden and Lute was a college junior from an extraterrestrial art studies program at a university in F-city. He was one of eight people who came from other schools.

Sharing the Artonan instructors who visited Anesidora was common. As the host school, Celena North University had reserved ten spots for its own students, and then they’d selected some applicants from elsewhere to round out the group and make sure Warin-doyis had worthy minds to bestow his knowledge upon.

Lute and Alden hadn’t taken anyone’s seat. They’d been added on to make the original eighteen a class of twenty, with Warin-doyis’s enthusiastic permission according to Kelly.

Alden saw how neatly the two of them fit into the picture. If he were the one trying to build a class that could both benefit from Warin-doyis and show him that his time was needed and valued, he’d have stuck himself and Lute in it. And all of their classmates did act like it was either natural or pleasantly surprising to have two teenagers in the mix.

They were greeting him and Lute with waves and hellos now.

I think it’s only me who feels like there’s a risk of me being much worse at this than everyone else. But what good does knowing that do me? It just means they’ll all be extra disappointed if I’m abysmal in class today.

A couple of Shapers and a Morph Brute were talking about how they planned to use their powers to enhance their stories. Lute was refusing to show Kelly what he had in the box because it would spoil the surprise of his performance.

He’s thinking about the element of surprise, and I’m over here worried about barfing peanut butter protein shake on the floor mid-story.

It really was a wonder how quickly he could fall from the heights of his success in this morning’s Coursing class to this.

I’m fine. There’s no reason I shouldn’t be fine.

<<I’m not taking any other courses right now,>> said a man who Alden thought was one of the students from Naya Din. <<I want to fully commit myself to Instructor Warin-doyis’s teachings.>>

Alden studied him. He wore a lightweight shirt with a high collar and pants that fit loosely in the leg, which was an outfit worn in only slightly different variations by three-quarters of the people here, including Alden. He had an Avowed-average face, a mustache, and one of those engagement rings that had half of the “forward together” logograms on them.

He looks so normal.

<<I quit my job at Chuck’s, too. He understood that I need to use my time wisely.>>

He even quit his job to spend more time on this class! A normal-looking grown man has quit his job to focus more. And this is the only class Lute’s even thinking about at all because he likes it. I thought I spent so much time on it, but I didn’t compared to them. What if Stuart’s right and I need to be better at this than I thought to get along with people in the future? I’m going to…

“Alden, is that your learning cushion?” Kelly asked, brushing past Lute to take a closer look. “The one you mentioned you might bring last week?”

“You lured me into this,” said Alden.

“What?”

“Nothing!”

She looked more like an adult here than she had smacking gum and firing finger pistols at their Convo class. Her red hair was neatly pinned back in a twist. Last Friday, she’d started talking about the etymology of a word Warin-doyis had used like she expected Alden to keep up with her. He had kept up fine, but that conversation about how a particular word for “scared” had its origins in an ancient misunderstanding about the behavior of ibblers had shown him she was definitely years ahead of him on the studying front even if he didn’t feel like he struggled to talk with her smoothly in the language.

He started unwrapping his cushion. “If I’m ever going to use it in an actual classroom, this seemed like the one. And you said you’d appreciate seeing it, so…here it is.”

He held up the cushion in both hands, and she peered at it.

“What gorgeous craftsmanship! Mine’s an authentic import, too. Special ordered it from a shop that takes requests from Avowed. Took forever to come. Let’s see…whoever selected your embroidery mixed some infrequently used words in there. I don’t know a few of these. You said it was a gift?”

“It was.”

“Lucky guy! Don’t tell me what any of the logograms mean yet if you know them all.”

“Of course I know what all of them mean,” said Alden as she started reading. “What kind of person wouldn’t care enough to learn the meanings of the wishes someone chose for his own cushion?”

“Excuse me, fellow nerd,” said Kelly. “But I have a sister who had a big flower tattooed on her back without ever asking what kind it was. Just thought it was a pretty shape and was fine with it. Some people flow differently through life. Georgi, Mills, come see if you can identify all of these! Alden’s got a cooler cushion than we do.”

A man and a woman came over to discuss some of the—apparently obscure—words and phrases Stuart had chosen for the cushion. Alden was glad they seemed to appreciate it. Lute, suddenly made aware that he’d been sharing an apartment with something all these college people found intriguing, leaned around Kelly to see the cushion better, too.

He’s got books full of chains made up of weird old Artonan words he has to learn for the Palace of Unbreaking. If he pulled his stash out of System storage, these guys might start a brawl over who got to look at them first.

Nothing embroidered into the decoration of Alden’s cushion said anything truly odd in his opinion. There were encouragements for open-mindedness, creativity, and “attention to thoughts that whisper true”. But he supposed more of it than he realized might be uncommon Rityan words Stuart favored because of his childhood.

Kelly, Giorgi, and Mills were having fun fighting about a part of the decorations Alden knew meant “to climb in stillness,” and none of them were all that close to guessing that was what it said when the door opened and their teacher welcomed them into the room.

Warin-doyis had small, dark eyes that darted over the whole group before settling together on each individual’s face as they left their shoes in a row on the patio and entered. An inky purple braid hung between his narrow shoulders, and he beamed at everyone as if he was truly happy they’d shown up for their second class.

He wore as much jewelry as most wizards, and the voluminous pants and embroidery-adorned outer garments, as well. Every bit of it, including the accessories, was in only two dark purple shades.

“Hello, Lute. Have you eaten well since we last saw each other? Are there any discomforts that might trouble you during today’s meeting?”

“I’ve eaten my fill for every meal, and I’m untroubled,” Lute said. “I look forward to learning from everyone here.”

Alden was used to him sounding utterly fluent with anything he could practice in advance, but today it seemed a little unfair that he could pronounce “untroubled” better than Alden, who’d taught him the word.

“Hello, Alden,” said Warin-doyis as Alden stepped in after Lute. “Have you eaten well since…”

Alden answered like a competent student instead of telling the instructor that his breakfast seemed to be taking on a life of its own within him. He followed Lute into a space that would have looked good even before a professional storyteller put his personal touches on it.

Windows on two opposite sides were covered by wooden blinds, and the floor was made of big shards of toffee-colored stone that were warm underfoot thanks to a heating system. The ceiling could only be glimpsed between folds of dark cloth Warin-doyis had hung up there. He’d also brought a bunch of glowing orange hunks of glass that were piled in the center of the floor.

Because this was a class where entertaining and learning went together,  students were supposed to make sure they were comfortable whenever a performance started. In addition to some particularly clean Celena North learning cushions that waited for those who didn’t have their own, the instructor provided pillows that were the enchanted equivalent of Stuart’s senva seed cushioning spell.

Warin-doyis had assistants on Earth with him. He’d introduced all four of them to the class last Friday and explained the work they did. Only one of them was here now, passing out the comfy cushions and making sure all students remembered they could message her if they wanted something in the middle of class.

“Story first,” she said, giving Alden and Lute their pillows. “But all of his stories are the lesson.”

