Inconsistency is the greatest wound a soul can sustain. Beyond just damage, beyond losing parts of your own history, there is the danger of being seeded by someone else’s Legend—for your soul will see to right the scales by destroying the inaccurate. If the progress of your feats, challenges, successes, and failures are rendered compromised, then your skill will be as if a cancerous tumor rather than a power you can wield.

Such is the greatest danger posed by Animancy: a misrepresentation of who or what you are, inflicted by the caster.

There are spells specifically meant to induce these negative effects in Pathbearers, either to torture them or simply to leave them as permanently broken fixtures of who they were. These spells have a specific name: Entropic Revisionism.

To cast an Entropic Revisionist spell, you simply have to do a few things. First, you must access a Pathbearer's skills and install bits of your own history into them. After 20% of their skills are compromised, usually, they will begin a process of narrative rejection, and the mana within them will also become unstable due to spiritual destabilization.

Note that you cannot drastically change what happened before, or the System will turn its ire on you instead. However, if you've made a few incorrect changes, minute though they be, and they add up over the many skills you compromise, the effects will follow without impediment, for you are simply transplanting someone's flesh back into them, as the analogy goes. Yet, you are moving pieces wrong, placing them in the wrong order, and now the body does not know what it is anymore. It accepts the flesh, but the architecture and the function is broken, and soon the organism can only do one thing: die.

That's all. And a story is not so different. After all, you can tell a story with mixed chronologies, using the end as the beginning and the beginning as the end, but if there are flaws in the beginning and end, and enough details are missing, and should these details not be of your own legend—details that build up to a critical mass of apocrypha—then dissolution is the only path a soul can take.

-Valor Thann on Entropic Revisionism

189 (I)

Anticipate [I]

"Now, before I begin my demonstration of this Entropic Revision spell, let us give thanks to Vicar Sullain for being our most stalwart volunteer." Udraal clapped the badly mutilated Sullain on his shoulders, and the Vicar let out a piercing screech of pain.

The orcs around Shiv laughed at Sullain's misery, but the Deathless just frowned. He cared little for Sullain as a person. Indeed, Sullain had a great many things coming to him for what he did to Blackedge, for what he tried to do to the people Shiv cared for. But ever since Shiv emerged from his Legendary Skill Evolution, something in him had changed.

The weight of his actions felt heavier, especially after facing everyone who'd died because of his carelessness. Sullain wasn't exactly the same as the slave boy someone killed or Guardshead Leu, but something within Shiv's awakening ethics told him that this was wrong, that this was pointless torture.

Worse, usually Adam would be the one outraged. Right now, the Gate Lord glared at the badly burned Vicar, his eyes filled with venom and hate. Shiv couldn't blame Adam. Sullain had done catastrophic damage to Blackedge and killed countless people there, all for the sake of murdering Roland Arrow. More than that, he'd unleashed an Undying Tarrasque that now threatened all of Integrated Earth. But it wasn't a matter of death or being slain, but of living with torment. And it just seemed like such an orc thing to do. A vile thing to do.

Something tightened inside Shiv. And I don’t want to be this kind of animal…

Psycho-Cartography: You can torture someone to punish them. That is true. But ignoring morality and general ethics, if you're trying to torture someone to feel your own pain, it might not be that effective. It's also just as possible that our appetite for revenge can be boundless as well. That's probably why we just want to kill Sullain and move on. Because torturing him might be fun for a while because we hate him, but if we start enjoying it, then maybe that'll give us another bad habit. That'll make us like an orc. And there’s no easy way back from that.

That thought made Shiv cringe. For all the orcs were capable of, for all the benefits and advantages that came from being their leader, Shiv didn't want to be anything like them. Existentially, enjoying struggles and challenges was one thing, but becoming addicted to pain and suffering seemed like a poor drug to choose.

"Let’s begin," Udraal began, waving his hand. A burst of Animancy came free, and from the vagueness of faint blue mana came shapes of all complexities and sizes. They coiled around the mutilated Vicar like chains, and then a few of the larger shapes spread out, becoming as if planetary bodies orbiting a star.

With every passing second, more of these shapes sprang free, and Udraal continued gesturing at Sullain, even as the vicar struggled and cried out to the Great One for deliverance. “Great One! Please! Deliver me from this misery! Deliver me!”

Udraal mouthed Sullain’s words as he wailed them and giggled. "This, as I mentioned before, is an Entropic Revisionism spell. It is meant to do one thing: collapse the soul into a state of instability and cause the death of a Pathbearer or a mana core it is connected to." For the first time, Adam flinched. For all the hate he had in his heart regarding Sullain, the concept of collapsing a soul was still a staggering thing to face. "How it works is quite simple, but it's best for you to do rather than to observe. Now, please, Deathless, join in. Use your Vitaemancy. Press yourself upon his soul and follow my spellcraft. Your unique magical lore has its own eccentricities, but it's close enough to Animancy that I can control it to some extent, and that means that you can mimic some of what I can do as well."

Shiv hesitated for a moment. His Psycho-Cartography warned him that participating in this act of torture would cleave both ways, yet the eyes of his orcs were upon him. Surprisingly, it was Adam that broke his stalemate.

"Do it," Adam said. There was a hint of venom in his voice as he glared at Sullain. "Do it. We'll need to bring down the mana core and leave this place. And he deserves worse." As Adam fell silent, he frowned. "Wait, why can't we just strike the mana core using Necromancy? If I can recover my equipment?"

"The mana core here is closer to a Category 20 core than a Category 1," Udraal replied. "You know what that means, Young Lord Arrow. It means that even if you spend all day firing arrow after arrow into it, the damage you deal will be paltry at best. And mana cores are well guarded, well defended, and are overwhelming compared to a singular Pathbearer. For the same reason why I cannot just assail it with my Animancy; yes, it will suffer some extreme damage, damage that will be near impossible to fix for someone who does not wield Animancy, but it will not be enough to break the prison immediately. No, to do that, you need to induce a structural vulnerability, and that is what I am teaching you right now. So, Deathless, if you would, please."

Tentatively, Shiv hooked a few tendrils within Sullain, who flinched and wailed. Udraal's grasp held the Vicar still. He shuddered and fought with all his might as he saw the white and red of Shiv's mana slowly encroaching. A fear chain, harder than anything Shiv had felt before, solidified between him and Sullain.

"No, no, Deathless, no, please! I was wrong! I was wrong, Shiv!" Sullain's shrieks were near hysterical now, and it was bad enough that Shiv stopped.

Udraal noticed his hesitation and narrowed his eyes. Then, with his other hand, he channeled a burst of translucent mana into Sullain. At once, the tears and screams came to a halt, and a smile pulled at Sullain's nightmarish features. His melted flesh swung from the barred bones of his skull, and the joy he offered Shiv was a hollow thing; his grin the kind found on a lifeless doll. "Please, reach into my soul. Twist me to your heart's content. There is nothing I would enjoy more." He grinned at Shiv. His few remaining teeth felt glistening, like pearls upon a patch of melted flesh and ruined soul-stuff.

Shiv's stomach churned. The disgust in him only grew.

"Does that make it easier?" Udraal asked, seeming oblivious to Shiv's true discomfort. “Or is it the deed itself?”

By now, Adam was shaken as well. He still hated Sullain, but to watch Udraal just casually twist someone's thoughts, someone's mind into yearning for torture...

Psycho-Cartography: Uva does this all the time. To some extent, at least. You don't complain about her. Her actions don’t burden you with worry.

Shiv nearly shuddered at his skill's declaration. A feeling of offense followed. No, she doesn't. It's different with her.

Psycho-Cartography: It's different because you are romantically and sexually attracted to her. She is also more aware of what she is doing to some extent compared to him. Perhaps she even cares more in certain ways. But fundamentally and functionally, she is not much more moral than he is. He is simply self-serving. She does things with the justification that she operates for our benefit, or to help and protect you and Adam, and her people.

The sourness inside Shiv became near-unbearable. Supposed to make me feel better, Skill? Feel like shit now.

No, I am not supposed to make you feel better. I am supposed to make you realize the psychological truths you are avoiding. Now, either commit to a bad decision or tell Udraal no. You are wasting time.

"Can you do it now?" Udraal asked, sounding impatient.

The feeling of disgust lingered in the back of his throat, but he accepted that he needed to understand the spell Udraal was casting. He didn't have to like it.

"No, no. Halt," Udraal said, interrupting Shiv. The Deathless looked to his maker, and Udraal shook his head. "Before we begin, explain to me why you are so uncomfortable."

"Aside from the fact that you just twisted someone's mind and soul without any care whatsoever?" Shiv replied.

A contemplative look filled Udraal's gaze, and then he nodded. "I see. You value personal agency. That makes sense, especially after a lifetime of being treated like something less than human."

Psycho-Cartography: Be very careful what you reveal to him. He is learning to manipulate you, just as you are learning to understand him.

The Deathless flinched as he realized that, but Udraal moved on without a care in the world. "I do find it odd that you are so shaken by such a trivial matter. You are a lion of the flesh, fearless when it comes to pain or risking your own life, and yet this..." Udraal frowned as he hummed. "It's best that you be fearless, Deathless. There will be many uncomfortable choices you have to make, so be the lion of your heart as well as of your flesh. I will not judge you if you think poorly of my methods and means, but I need you to be committed. These spells cannot be learned halfway. Information in science is not something you can master while holding yourself in reserve. Commit, always commit fully, or back away. Are you committed?"

Shiv met Udraal's gaze without flinching. "Just show me the godsdamn spell."

The Abyssal Lord nodded as a faint smile flickered across his features.

For the next hour, Udraal instructed Shiv on the finer aspects of entropic revisionism. The process of learning the spell, however, was far harder than Shiv expected. Shiv and Udraal's understanding of magical theory was light-years apart. The Abyssal Lord had mastered practically every magical lore in existence, on top of pre-Integration science, and was possibly the foremost genius of integrated Earth when it came to Animancy.

Shiv, meanwhile, didn't even have the Magical Theory Skill yet.

Adding to this the fact that an Animancer required in-depth knowledge of both Necromancy and Divination for them to fully begin their journey of weaving another's soul, Shiv found himself asking for clarification regarding every other word Udraal uttered. His explanations then begat more explanations, as Shiv found himself faced with a deluge of magical theories he had never heard of. He simply lacked the context to fully understand. Even Adam looked overwhelmed. He knew a few things Udraal was talking about, but only at a surface level, not truly deep enough to contribute or aid Shiv in his endeavor.

To Udraal's credit, he was a most patient and superb teacher. He adapted halfway through teaching Shiv to utilize the Deathless's intuition. Ultimately, it was about teaching Shiv the process he needed to engender and the intent he needed to hold in his mind for his spell to truly take shape. Shiv saw echoes of Valor in Udraal. He did things strategically, with oversight, and had personalized plans for everyone he spoke to when it came to training them.

The difference, however, was the feeling of detachment. Valor still prodded and mocked, albeit in a warm way, when Shiv disappointed him or said something stupid. Udraal, though? There was a sense of alienation there, that he had divorced himself from his own humanity at some point, and was now going through the motions of social interaction when dealing with Shiv, or anyone else, for that matter.

Even so, Shiv's understanding gradually built. An Entropic Revisionism spell was a horrible thing to comprehend. Effectively, you were breaking someone's skills apart from the inside out, changing small pieces of them, and then shuffling them until they became a mess. Thanks to Shiv's Vitaemancy, he could do this directly. His skill infusions allowed him to infuse pieces of his own skills inside Sullain.

