Udraal had to use Animancy like a surgical tool. He cut away at himself and moved it into Sullain. The process for the Abyssal Lord was far more complicated. Every cast of Animancy mana would use the user's own soul as a foundation. There was far more danger involved for Udraal. One mistake, one miscast or drastic incongruence created while rewriting a skill's legend would see him suffer soul damage—or worse. And unlike Shiv, he couldn’t fix himself so easily either—or so it seemed.

But Udraal never made a mistake. And as he showed him just how much of a skill needed to be broken and reshuffled until the collapse began, Sullain never stopped smiling throughout the process. He cheered Shiv on and whispered about how he deserved this. It unnerved Shiv the most about the entire process.

Sullain wanted to live. Sullain deserved to die. And now there was practically nothing left of Sullain, nothing behind those eyes. All it took was a single wave of the hand from Udraal, and Sullain was practically gone before he was truly slain. A mind was a fragile thing, and a Psychomancer was a murderer of the ego before they were a slayer of the flesh. But Udraal, Udraal was an absolute killer. He could take your mind from you, and then he could reach in and mold your body, and finally, he could collapse your soul itself.

An unsettling realization dawned on Shiv. He felt like a frog that had spun out from the bottom of a pond, and as he got to shore, he realized there were still mountains looming in the distance, and still a sky above that mountain. The Legendary Tier seemed like the culmination of many a Pathbearer's journey. Shiv had reached it. Shiv thought he knew power. But when faced with the Ascendants, and now Udraal, he realized it might never be enough.

He had to keep growing, keep learning, across all disciplines, across all fields, if they wished to face the true monsters that lurked across Integration.

After Udraal showed Shiv how to compromise the first skill, he made him do the second alone, correcting him every time he made a mistake. By the time he got to the third, Shiv was mostly moving on instinct and memorization, repeating the actions he performed earlier.

Udraal sighed as he watched Shiv progress. "I must confess a certain envy as to your Vitae," he said. As Udraal spoke, a ghostly effigy that resembled Shiv manifested over him, superimposed upon his body. A swirl of Vitae twisted around that Shiv, and he grinned at the original.

"Cut that shit out," Shiv growled under his breath. He made a mistake then, and part of Sullain's skill collapsed. A section of the vicar's lower back burst apart in a spray of red, but it was immediately remedied as Udraal did something. A sealing symbol of Animancy slammed into the Vicar's wound, and as it ground deeper, burrowing past the point of Sullain's physical body, it reconstructed the damaged skill in an instant, allowing Shiv to try again.

The Deathless blinked at how easily Sullain's skill was reconstructed. Udraal held up a hand. "Don't be disheartened by failure now. Remember, be the lion for your mind as much as you are the lion for your flesh. Failure is just another data point. It is interesting to encounter failure. Fail, review, study, move on. Such is how you should live."

Shiv centered himself and began pulling bits of detail out from the depths of the skill. He still didn't fully understand what he was doing, only that he was drawing away specific legends recorded in Sullain's past. The effect was even greater as there were bits of Sullain inside Shiv’s history as well.

As Shiv worked, Vitae bubbled free from his torso, becoming spell shapes that vaguely resembled a few of the patterns Udraal created with his Animancy earlier. Shiv's spells were quivering, unstable, but ultimately they came together. Despite the awkwardness of his process, Shiv learned to ape Udraal's Animancy. While he failed to grasp the greater nuances of magical theory, he could still follow the basics of analogy, and his Vitae made it easier for him to alter the skills from within.

When he was done, a profound change overcame Sullain. He shuddered, and the burns coating his body briefly faded. He returned to who he was a few moments ago, untainted by Shiv's vitality cycling. His flesh was whole, his beard flowed pale and white, and between blinks, his mind was his once more.

"Udraal, why! How could—" and then Udraal reasserted his Psychomancy over Sullain, and the complaints ceased right then and there. As Sullain seemed healed, Shiv looked at him, expecting the Abyssal Lord to instruct him on what he had done wrong. This was supposed to cause some kind of collapse, but thus far Sullain looked better than he was moments prior.

"Just wait," Udraal said, holding up a single finger.

And so Shiv did. After about five seconds, the first sign that something was wrong arrived. Cracks began to spread across Sullain's being. They weren't cracks that fit on someone's skin, however. Blood didn't spill through. Instead, Sullain was coming apart as if he were wood. Mana began to seep free from his compromised being, unattuned mana that choked the lobby of the cube as a dust cloud of a dull-gray. Shiv took a step back as Sullain started to dissolve. Bits of him flaked away, and even the unattuned mana began to die down. The pressure choking the air softened, and Udraal began his explanation.

"His skills are attacking one another, you see. It's a bit like..." Udraal paused. "Do you know much about immunology?"

"Some," Shiv said. "Not fully versed in it, but I got the basics."

"Well, with what you do know, it's a bit like having your immune system attack your eyes. Your immune system usually doesn't notice your eyes. But with what you just put in him, you made his soul notice his so-called eyes. And now it’s tearing itself apart, trying to expel these foreign elements. But since everything has been mixed in, and the changes are only minute, it is effectively collapsing the overarching architecture holding itself up."

And soon, as Udraal got to this point, Sullain's legs crumbled, and he crashed down to the ground. He splattered apart, not as a melting corpse, but as a collapsing marble pillar. More unattuned mana flooded the air. Sullain reached upward, his gaze vacant and blissful. Did he even know that he was dying? Did he even care? Shiv would never know.

Bit by bit, his body came asunder until he was dust dancing through the wind.

Vitaemancy 110 > 112

An orc held out a massive paw, allowing Sullain to trail through his fingers.
