As my mind fills with lonely, cold images of this soul artifact, each one lasting billions of years, I begin to understand its wavelengths far better. In reality, the dormant states it rests in without reacting to me are nothing compared to the silence and darkness it's lived out the majority of its existence in.

However, the more images pass, the more patterns begin to line up again.

I start picking apart images where this artifact holds strands of silver threads and overlapping them together to find that there are many similarities in these memories compared to the seemingly random memories without them.

The timelines and galaxies where there is nothing but black matter or lower-tiered energy left in the artifact, these are mostly dead, cold regions of space. Some even send energy signatures of civilizations that do not even wield divine energy or ether. They are just normal mortals that come across some strange floating artifact and worship it like a god.

It is an unpredictable and random set of events with no direction and no connections I can pick apart.

The smaller amount of memories where there are silver threads remaining actually all seem to be falling in a similar, strange direction.

At first it was impossible to tell, but now that I am far more attuned to the spatial fluctuations that occur in this dark void, it is far easier to pick up new energy readings in memories of strange bends in space I never would have seen before.

The instant I pick up on this fact, the outside of my mind begins crackling with golden light trying to seep in and destroy everything I'm linking together.

Yet, since the last collection of memories that were deleted by this overwhelming aura of golden light, my consciousness has gone through a number of extreme changes.

Not only has it been shattered to pieces billions of times and refitted together using strengthened primordial aura, refined ether, and the presence of the void, but it has also been in direct contact with the essence of its own immortal threads.

Even if it was only for a fraction of a moment in time, when the overlapping of my cores created an inner skeleton of pseudo silver threads, my mind has mentally mapped their structure into my instincts.

It allows me to see these webs of golden threads that pour down around my mind in a far different light.

In fact, I can slip through the first few waves of golden lightning from the sky that invades these thoughts. The weaker waves of threads are easily avoided by directing the full strength of certain thoughts elsewhere while focusing on the true problem I'm trying to solve as a background task.

It is not entirely perfect, parts of my consciousness are still booted out of my own mind back into the reality of the void—but other fragments seep through the automatic defenses built into these memories.

I'm able to watch the images of the past and begin backtracking where this soul artifact is truly coming from.

I can see collections of overlapping memories now playing in reverse.

The raw material of this oscillating artifact appears to be falling down from a place just like this, where there is only darkness, into each plane of existence that these memories show it living out its life.

However, all of them appear to be shedding silver threads into both the darkness that they escape from and into the origin plane of deep space or even planets that they eventually land on.

Not a single one of them retains the silver threads within them for long.

Unlike ether or lower-density divine threads, these silver threads of glistening light disappear the instant they fall off the artifact. Even sensing the memories through the soul weapon's point of view, it's extremely difficult to tell why or where they disappear to.

The moment this chain of concerns piles up in my mind to the point where it is affecting the way I sort memories, I feel a pulse of crimson aura coming from reality outside.

As the many broken and bending strips of the Realm Wave start to weaken, it becomes easier and easier for me to slash through them. It gives my mind even more energy and focus to dig deeper, but it also allows for the silver threads to be digested faster into my blade.

A whole new set of images flash before my mind while my sword strikes start tearing wide open holes in the Realm Wave where no more silver threads can even snap back.

The visuals of the shadowy soul weapon wielder return, but this time he is far less active.

There are no grand battles against demonic creatures or domination of entire galaxies.

This set of memories is just a collection of observations, watching civilizations grow, studying massive ancient arrays, and large-scale structures made from both magic energies I can identify and some that I still cannot fully comprehend.

Though, there is one detail that quickly catches my attention.

It is that at the center of all these formations and civilizations, there is always either a machine like the reactors I witnessed in the Upper Realm, or an entity that appears to hold a silver core.

Flashes of Overseers burst through my mind, but there is something very strange about all of them.

I don't know why, but the threads that hold these constructs together, and even the threads that reside in these Overseers' cores, they feel familiar.

Viewing the scenes through my soul weapon's senses, I can feel the subtle emotions it gives off, and can confirm my thoughts are true.

These are the same silver threads that this artifact shed from its core when falling into these galaxies.

Every single time, wherever the threads have fallen to, they are somehow being harnessed and used by other beings.

The instant this idea clicks in my mind, the memories turn violent and fast-paced again.

I watch billions of wars pass in an instant, and every time in the end; this very weapon drains the silver threads stolen by its enemies back into its core one attack at a time.

The flashing memories overlap with reality as I rip apart the Realm Wave surrounding me, and the exact same sensation washes through me. All of these silver threads surrounding me are meant to fall into my blade.
