“We might’ve just won,” said Reinhard. “Their track runner’s about to reach the gym and have to dig. Maricel took Heloísa out at the knees, and it was pretty severe. She’s belly crawling toward the rope climb…frighteningly fast…but we can count her out. I think.”


“Let’s push for the finish line,” said Haoyu. “All of us.”


Alden began prepping his cord. Since we’re all going for it, priority order over the line is easy to figure out.


He’d put Njeri and Lucille up and over together. Njeri would head for the finish with Jeffy’s help. Reinhard would target someone on the other team as soon as she was over.


Lucille would be able to haul people up with the cord from up there as well. Everly would go through, then Alden and Haoyu. Versus this team, it was fine for Reinhard to stay in his sniper position until the last minute, so he’d finish the course off with the three S-ranks.


Surprisingly soon, Alden was up on top of the wall himself, looking down into the water. The tank was a giant L shape, with the longer, vertical side of the L abutting the wall. There were small floats that had to be dragged underwater and put in wire traps along the way before the escape hatch at the other end of the L would unlock. The traps periodically set the floats free again.


It wasn’t complicated, but it was exhausting to get the floats all down.


Unless you had an Aqua Brute on your team. Jeffy was down at the bottom of the tank now, trapping one of the floats. Thanks to his skill he could drag all of them at once if he wanted, and just walk around at the bottom holding them in complete defiance of buoyancy.


He’s probably a little disappointed it’s all going so well.


They had promised they would send him back out to the track at least once to help and protect whoever had died so that he could show off his “land moves” to the principal.


We’ll have to let him attack someone next time.


Alden jumped. Haoyu was right behind him.


He held his breath as he hit the water, and before he could resurface, a hand grabbed him around the ankle, and he sank like a rock despite the lungful of air. He kept his eyes closed as they went down. The vertical portion of the tank was about thirty feet deep, and when you reached the bottom, you swam through a passage toward the escape hatch. Jeffy was supposed to shove them right toward it, so it was very low effort.


I wonder if he could’ve caught the mishnen.


Probably. At the very least, he would’ve had more options than stripping down to his underwear and trying to bait it with his own pants.


They reached the bottom and a hand pushed Alden forward. He opened his eyes and swam. A few seconds later he was emerging from the escape hatch, the magic barrier letting him slide right through.


The final obstacle was simple—a tightrope walk. The metal cable they were supposed to walk across was only a couple of feet off the ground, but every fall punished you with a five percent total body movement penalty.


I’m pretty sure this is going to go really well, Alden thought as he hopped up onto it.


It was exactly the kind of challenge his new wordchain should turn into a non-challenge.


He took his first couple of steps and smiled.


Thanks, Lute.


He strolled the rest of the way over the finish line. Everyone who’d gone ahead of him was waiting with big smiles on their faces.


******


“I see,” Lesedi Saleh said, holding the magical device she was using as a megaphone when it suited her down by her side and staring at a notice she’d just receive through her interface, “that one of our students has earned some jealousy already.”


“Only one?” Torsten Klein asked. He was watching Maricel stumble over the finish line and beam as Astrid and Everly patted her on the back. “We have several stand-outs.”


“They should all be exceptional in some way,” the principal answered. “But I meant Alden; someone just used the reporting system to share their suspicions that he’s ‘using some kind of performance enhancing drugs.’ They obviously didn’t appreciate his jaunty demeanor as he finished the race. A shame. I rather liked it.”


“It’s a wordchain,” Klein said, shifting his gaze toward Alden. “We told him not to bring it to class again until he could cast it himself. I thought we wouldn’t see it again for a few more weeks, if he kept up with it at all.”


“Do I detect a hint of approval?”


“It depends on whether he actually did cast it himself.”


“Does he strike you as a cheater?”


“He doesn’t.” He frowned. “Do you think he plans to supplement himself more extensively than usual with wordchains?”


“It will be a lot of studying if he does. We have a few students who try, but we don’t really leave them much time for it. I’ve always thought shoring up wordchain knowledge was more of a post-graduate endeavor.”


Klein nodded once. “Leveling to secure more foundation points and talents offers an improvement with no drawbacks. But his unusual Dexterity and Speed allocations…maybe he did it specifically because he was hoping to make up for his rank and class with chains? He should have mentioned it during his interview if that was the case.”


“You could just ask him,” she said mildly.


He sighed through his nose. “Maybe after I’ve seen more evidence that it’s actually a good idea for him and not a waste of his time.”


“He can also do several things with his skill that he wasn’t capable of a few short weeks ago,” she pointed out.


He didn’t answer.


“Morrison wants him to catch bullets with it.”


Klein rolled his eyes. “It’s a robust skill,” he said. “We’ll find out how robust soon enough. And then…we’ll see.”


******


Once they were all over the finish line, giddy with excitement at their first win and drinking from their water bottles while the other team used the remaining minutes on the clock to struggle through the course, Jeffy watched the drone footage of Maricel’s epic attack. He’d been able to hear them all talking about it under the water, but he couldn’t see it. He felt like he’d missed out.


“That was so cool!” he said, gnawing on a strip of jerky.


Maricel beamed. “Thank—”


“It looks like their pipe is pooping if you watch it in reverse.”


Maricel’s smile froze. “What?”


Alden tried not to laugh.


Everly snorted. “I thought so too.”


“What?!”


“Your creation did look a little like a giant…” Haoyu caught a glimpse of her expression and quickly changed tactics. “But everyone was totally focused on your perfect Shaping! You looked awe-inspring. Definitely the MVP. It’s not your fault you wanted to plug a pipe, and pipes are pipe-shaped.”


“Oh no,” Maricel stared back at the other team.


“Maybe nobody else noticed what it slightly resembled,” said Njeri. “Except for Jeffy, Everly, Haoyu, and me.”


There was a pause.
 
 “I noticed,” said Lexi.


Maricel groaned.
 
***
