When people correctly identified Olive, she asked them how at the end of class. So that she could improve. Alden could only use “it was luck” and “not sure, maybe I noticed something subconsciously” so many times before she thought she had some subtle tell he wasn’t revealing and started to agonize over it.


“I’m almost positive I picked the right one,” Haoyu told the team. “Second-guessing doesn’t do any good unless we see some sign.”


He was right.


Alden knew because the gremlin said that particular Olive was a no-no. Alden couldn’t eat her without her permission.


“What are you sighing for in the middle of an epic battle of magic and wits?” Haoyu was raising an eyebrow.


“I wish I was less weird sometimes.”


Before Haoyu could reply, Maricel said, “Ready!”


She sounded excited.


“With Heloísa’s positioning right now, I think I can do even better! I’ll have to start farther from the target, though. And once I’ve made the Shaping gesture that qualifies as the official attack, Principal Saleh will give us a penalty if I make another gesture to adjust my dirt’s position. I might miss. Maybe I shouldn’t try for more if it’s risk—”


“Always try for more,” said Astrid from her spot at the finish line.


“I agree,” Njeri said. “Give Victory her sustenance.”


“If you all don’t mind…okay!”


A moment passed, and then Maricel came into view. She jogged up the ramp at the end of the weight challenge. She didn’t have any dirt with her.


Yet.


“Do you know what she’s doing?” Haoyu asked Alden.


“I don’t. We talked about knocking people off the top of their wall with sandbags, but it’s obviously not going to be that.”


Shrike was headed for the wall again. He would probably perch there with his “severed” leg for a couple of minutes, hoping they would get careless and knock him off so that he could get a fresh start.


The other team was cautious. They knew an attack was incoming. They just didn’t know what it would be or who would deliver it. Reinhard had an arrow nocked, and that was drawing most of their attention toward him.


Maricel was pretending like she was just repositioning herself. She wasn’t looking toward the enemy team at all, not even Heloísa, who was shifting her weight from foot to foot and staring at Reinhard like she fully intended to dodge an arrow if it came her way. She was grinning eagerly.


“She knows I’m an Avowed, too, doesn’t she?” he groused. “I’m not a kid playing with a toy bow, and she’s not Febri.”


“Don’t shoot her just to prove you can,” Haoyu said. “It’s not your turn.”


Alden watched Maricel. Good luck, he thought as she suddenly stopped and lifted her arms. You’ve been doing great since school started. Get them.





Everything had gotten better since Maricel Alcantara left intake.


She’d never expected it, and she still couldn’t quite believe it was happening. But for the past two weeks, a lot of the good things that had been stolen from her the moment the System chose her seemed to be coming back to her all at once. They were slightly different than before— this island’s version of those good things rather than identical replacements for what she’d lost—but she still recognized them.


Friends. School. Teachers.


Until six months ago, Maricel had had those. She’d always been welcome among the other girls her age back home. She’d looked forward to seeing them every day and being with them…not as the most popular or exciting person, but as a comfortable background character in their world.


Right after her family had made her register, she’d gone back to her junior high for what she’d thought would be a final week of classes and a chance to say goodbye to everyone. That was what she’d been told it would be by her handler, the Avowed emigration people, and all those other adults who’d started buzzing around her the moment she’d been announced as a newly selected S.


Instead, the week had been more of a big celebration. Supposedly, it was all in her honor, but she’d soon realized that although her name was everywhere, none of what had been planned was intended to make things better for her. Lots of people needed their piece of the earthquake that had shaken the foundations of her life.


Let this news crew film you during lunchtime, Maricel. You won’t even know they’re around. Make sure you smile. Be happy for the reporter. And there’s an interview tomorrow. You’re so lucky! Everyone is so curious!


No, you don’t have to, but it’s already arranged. Think of the community, the school, everything we’ve done for you. Would it really be so hard?


A girl in your position should be grateful.


Now come here and stand beside this important stranger for the camera. Then this other one. Just one more.


She felt like she was being spun around in circles for days, and then just like that…it was over.


They’d had their fun, they’d gotten an Avowed fairytale story, and the school didn’t really want to manage an S-rank in class. She would be a hazard and a distraction, and she was required to have her handler with her at all times around large groups of people. So inconvenient for everyone. Parents would complain.


There was a farewell assembly on the last day. It was all right for her to cry then. It was touching if she cried after the celebration was over.


People said that if she became famous, they might name the school she was no longer allowed to attend after her.


She went home with a brand new computer, donated by a local company that wanted a picture of her wearing a shirt with their logo on it, so that she could sit in her bedroom having online classes. Safely tucked out of everyone else’s way until she was banished to Anesidora.


Even she thought it was for the best, since she wanted to spend as much time with her family as possible. But maybe not. Maybe listening to conversations through her door and imagining how in the future her name would be spoken less and less in the house until she didn’t really belong there anymore had been bad for her.


Then in intake, lots of the new arrivals were sad just like her. But they snapped out of it. So fast. And they wanted to leave the sad behind.


And there she was, still going through boxes of tissues and trying to find ways to get back home.


I guess I really will have to be famous enough for them to name a school after me, she’d decided. I guess I’ll just have to be one of those Avowed who can break mountains. I’ll have to look pretty and smile for cameras and shake hands with strangers…and if I do that for them, they will let me stay.


It was her ray of hope. It also made her so furious that she wanted to rip up the floor of the sea.


She practiced with her powers so that she could one day.


In intake, she learned that a girl with an S beside her name was supposed to be grateful, even here. She was supposed to complain less than everyone else, not more.


Only the other gloomy, furious people thought she had a right to her unhappiness. So she’d hung around them a little. It wasn’t really friendship. Just shared misery and resentment.


It seemed natural to hang around people who felt the same way, she thought as she stood inside the re-frozen Workshop. She carefully targeted points within and around the big cylinder she had built for the team. She used her hands, her skills, and the curious mental focus her active spell impression gave her to direct her magic. But it just made it harder to move on.


Things weren’t perfect, and yet they had been getting better ever since she got away from intake.


And telling Jacob, once and for all, that she wouldn’t go with him if he tried to leave again had relieved some pressure she hadn’t realized was crushing her. She hoped he’d talk to the System, like Alden had suggested, and tell it he wanted to be summoned. Trying to escape from Anesidora that way sounded much safer and more likely to succeed.


But as for Maricel, she was here now. On this path home. She had to start walking it. She packed more clay into her cylinder. More sand. She pressed and pressed.


A slightly wrong motion or a misplaced compression point, and her magic would break the shape apart instead of hardening it.


Mistakes weren’t usually a problem. It was only dirt. But today she was nervous.


I don’t want to disappoint them all. It’s been so much fun.


The long hours at the library, having everyone on calls with her in class, even teasing Vandy and Tuyet this morning before they’d left the apartment…


Everly had been joking that their team had spent all their time coming up with surefire methods to counter Dart Meisters and Sky Shapers specifically, and Maricel had gone along with her. Tuyet had threatened to pin pictures of them to her dartboard in retaliation.


I like being on the team.


After their terrible runs on Wednesday, she’d thought they might fall apart. She’d been sure Alden must feel terrible after getting targeted so many times. But he’d been calm and collected starting off their meeting, and it had just gotten better from there.


I wish we could run the course together more. We could get so good at it.


They only had today. She wanted to make it count.


And she wanted to impress Fragment, who was watching from the stands.


The older Ground Shaper saved people from disasters with her power. She had two brothers several years younger than her, just like Maricel. She had been forced to leave them behind when she was fifteen, just like Maricel.


“And I never suspected,” she’d said, offering Maricel a coconut taffy from the tin she kept on her desk, “that one day the younger one would be selected, too! I was so glad I’d gotten my feet under me by then. I’d just bought my first apartment. Didn’t even have a spare bedroom, but he moved in with me the day he arrived on the island.”


Siblings of globie Avowed didn’t usually become Avowed, too. But it happened much more often for them than it did for the general population.


You never know.


Maricel Alcantara was trying to get her feet back under her for a lot of reasons.


She quit shaping and looked down at the large tube she’d made. She’d had to use more sand than she wanted, but with the slightly damp clay and the intense compression it should hold together well enough until it reached its destination.


“Great,” said Everly from where she stood watching. “That should really frustrate them.”


“Ready!” Maricel called to the rest of the team.


A few moments later, heart racing with nerves, she was hurrying down the course.


Her Shaping attacks on the other team needed to be either massive or very accurate to be effective. She was allowed to move something into position on their side for just a few seconds, and then she could make a single gesture to direct it toward someone or something in an aggressive fashion.


Otherwise Shapers could just fly their element around for ages without committing to a proper attack, creating an extended threat that would interfere with the other team’s ability to maneuver.


She stopped just past the weight ramp. She glanced toward Reinhard. He was distracting the other team for her. Heloísa was looking at him.


Maricel eyeballed the other girl’s position, almost directly opposite her own.


I think I can do it. I think she’s standing in exactly the right spot. But it’s going to have to be really fast to catch her by surprise.


She lifted her arms.


Maintain shape with the left hand. Three gestures with the right, she thought. To me, away from me, down the enemy course. If I’m not accurate, it’s going to be very embarrassing.


But Astrid had just said they should always try for more.


This narrative has been purloined without the author's approval. Report any appearances on Amazon.


“There’s all of our dirt!” Haoyu said. “It’s moving really—”


“Fast,” said Alden. “Holy—!”


A large tube of dirt flew through the air toward Maricel. People shouted.


Her right hand pressed forward as the cylinder shot over her head, and its direction changed in a heartbeat. It rocketed across enemy lines, smashed toward the floor—which should have broken it to bits or, given its shape, sent it rolling off into the sunset—and stopped dead for a split second.


Heloísa, standing a couple of yards away from the end of it, whipped around to face it just in time for it to crash into her legs and send her flying as it barreled in a perfectly straight line along the floor down the enemy course. It left a large trail of dirt across the white floor in its wake.


“GO!” Maricel shouted.


She wrapped her arms around herself, perhaps to keep herself from accidentally using her magic anymore. The cylinder shot dead center through the fire obstacle, out the other end, and into the pipe, the very thin edge on the bottom of the obstacle shaving off some more dirt but doing little to halt the juggernaut’s progress.


“NOW STOP!” its creator ordered. <<Don’t go all the way through!>>


There was no way for her to control the dirt with her voice, and Alden fully expected to see it launch itself out of the pipe like a bullet given how fast it had entered. But it did stop. Not in the middle, where Maricel had probably wanted it. Instead, about half of the bulk, crumbling from its violent journey, emerged from the end.


“No! I threw it too hard! They’ll be able to dig it out easier from there. I’m so sor—”


Her apology was cut off by cheers and laughter from the rest of the team.


“That was awesome,” said Haoyu.


“Heloísa, we’re sorry!” Everly called.


Njeri shouted, “Your aim is AMAZING, Maricel!”


“It really is,” said Alden. “That was a super long shot. And you hit Heloísa on the way.”


