“They’d have to be present to call rains, Ryoka. And it’s not possible. Unless they could move like a Courier—”
“It’s possible! And there’s someone else who could extinguish the blaze!”
Ryoka suddenly seemed hopeful. She whirled to Lady Rie.
“Magnolia Reinhart.”
“Reinhart?”
Lady Rie recoiled, but Ryoka grabbed her shoulder.
“She can do it! She’s got a magical carriage! She could send it to Invrisil! Lady Rie, tell Nesor to send her a [Message]! Don’t argue—Nesor! Nesor!”
Wiskeria saw Ryoka race off, dragging Lady Rie with her. The [Witch] looked around. Nanette hesitated.
“I have to pack my things. And saddle the horses. I’ll—I’ll go help Miss Califor after that. We won’t need the horses, right?”
She glanced from [Witch] to [Witch]. Neither Eloise nor Wiskeria could find the words for reassurance. Nanette hurried off after a second. Eloise regarded Wiskeria. She seemed old. And worried. Wiskeria looked around. People were rushing down the streets, but some had stopped to stare desperately at them.
“What should we do, Eloise? Help Califor and Mavika? Or Hedag?”
Eloise pursed her lips. She shook her head after a moment.
“I’m not one for picking up sticks or digging, Wiskeria. And Califor and Mavika have the preparations well in hand. As does your mother. No, I think our purpose is to keep Riverfarm from falling apart. The people are split. Some would flee. They would die. The fire is too thick and moving too fast. We must keep them here. And calm. Draw on your craft.”
“I—I don’t know. I’ve never soothed a group, let alone so many people—and I don’t have magic to call on, Eloise.”
Wiskeria wavered. Eloise studied her.
“I cannot do it alone. And you have your craft. Or was earlier today a fluke?”
Wiskeria blinked. And then she remembered. Slowly, she looked around. The people were desperate. But the ones watching her—she spotted Jelov. And Chimmy.
“Miss Wiskeria? Miss Wiskeria, we ain’t going to have to flee, are we?”
Chimmy’s eyes were wide with fright. She looked up as Wiskeria strode over to her. The [Witch] hesitated. Then she knelt.
“We might, Chimmy. But my coven and I are doing our best to keep Riverfarm safe. Trust in that. And keep a calm head. Jelov, what are you doing?”
The [Carpenter] sucked at his teeth.
“Waiting, Miss Wiskeria. Not like I can pack up and move a second time. Emperor Laken made me his best [Carpenter], didn’t he? Reckon I’ll trust to him to get us out of this. Got all my stuff here, and it burns easy. Hey, what should we be doing?”
They looked at her. And Wiskeria felt something in them. Justice. Unity. She pulled on it, taking some of it. And she spun it, used it in her voice. In her craft.
“Help me keep people calm. Stop them from packing! We need people expanding the firebreak or gathering supplies under Prost’s direction! We don’t need valuables like clothes—we need barricades the fire can’t move past! Walls of dirt, even! You—Ram! Stop!”
She shouted, and Mister Ram stopped from trying to grab people and forcibly tow them towards the fields. And her voice was the voice of command. More people stopped, and Wiskeria shouted. Her pointed hat stood out. It marked her as [Witch]. And that wasn’t always a bad thing.
“People of Riverfarm! Stay calm! Don’t pack your belongings; there’s no time to waste! Help dig the firebreaks or follow Mister Prost and help evacuate what needs evacuating to the fields!”
“Stay calm. Follow us.”
Eloise’s voice was no less loud, but it had a confidence in it like steel. The [Witch] swept down the street, and people halted, their panic subsiding. It was a [Lady]’s presence and a [Lady]’s Skill mixed with a [Witch]’s craft. Wiskeria followed, shouting.
Some refused to go. People who were suspicious of [Witches] or too out of their minds with fear to listen. But more and more people stopped racing about, controlled by fear. Prost found Wiskeria and Eloise, and his expression was written with relief. He pointed as they came towards him.
“To the fields! Children, anyone who can’t grab something there first! The rest of you—we’re hauling barrels of water there! If you have a shovel, get to work on a wall or just clear away the brush over there!”
He pointed towards the hundreds of people feverishly trying to build a safe space around the fields. The watered and tilled grounds and crops were the safest place to be. Wiskeria saw the logic in that. And already, people were building a wall to keep the fire and smoke from hitting them. The firebreak, already wide, was spreading out.
In any regular fire, it would have worked. No—the firebreak around Riverfarm would have been enough with a vigilant firefighting team watching for embers. But the wind! Wiskeria felt it whipping hot air into her face. The ritual had to work. It had to.
An hour seemed to pass in minutes. Wiskeria was busy shouting at people, trying to use the emotions she was taking from them, suppressing fear. She only looked up when she saw her mother striding towards her.
Belavierr was holding the vessel of wood. The aquamarine hung in a web of threads, a magical design. Just in time; Wiskeria could see Califor striding towards them.
“I call upon this coven!”
And her voice summoned every [Witch]. From Alevica, surreptitiously holding her broom, to Nanette, leading two horses whose eyes were wide with the scent of fire. Mavika stood in front of the ritual place as Wiskeria walked with Eloise and Belavierr. And the people of Riverfarm watched, desperate. Wiskeria felt their hope.
She wished she shared it. None of the other [Witches] seemed as hopeful as the people watching them. Because—Wiskeria could see the others thinking it. [Witches] didn’t trust everything to magic. Against things like fire, they much preferred to trust to a bucket of water, a firebreak. Nature wasn’t something you could just order around.
But they had to try. Wiskeria stopped when she saw Ryoka standing close to the ritual spot. The City Runner’s face was pale.
“Ryoka. Is Magnolia Reinhart—”
The other [Witches] regarded the City Runner. Ryoka shook her head.
“She’s too far away by carriage. She says her [Weather Mages] will try to send rain. And the person I asked for—I think he’s asleep.”
“Then wake him up!”
Alevica snapped. But Ryoka’s expression was her only reply. The [Witches] paused. Califor glanced around, and her tone snapped.
“The ritual awaits. Take your positions.”
It was a simple working Wiskeria saw. Califor and Mavika had placed river stones in a diagram, laying out an eight-sided star on the ground with radial lines connecting to the center. In that center, Califor placed the vessel with the aquamarine and thread. She had filled it with river water. Then she planted her staff in the ground, like a lightning rod, and stepped back.
“That’s it?”
Wiskeria heard an uneasy voice behind her. It sounded like Charlay. The [Witch] bit her lip. She could feel the doubt. But this was all the coven could have prepared. And it was all they needed. She told herself that as the [Witches] took their spots around the octagram.
The ritual began as a hot wind whipped towards them. Smoke made some of the audience cough. But the [Witches] stood silent. Their pointed hats didn’t move in the wind. And their gazes were distant.
Their shadows deepened. They seemed to twist towards the circle if you stared at them long enough. And a silence fell. The coven breathed in. Breathed out.
Ryoka saw they were all breathing the same. Nanette to Belavierr. They blinked as one. Ryoka’s hair stood on end despite the desperation and fear of the moment. She felt a charge rising in the air, but not of static. Of intent.
Then a [Witch] spoke. Belavierr. Her ringed eyes were wide as she spoke, raising a cloth-bound hand.
 
“Someone tries to bring fire and flame to those without blame.
Whose malice brings death and grief without end.”
 
Two [Witches] spoke. Wiskeria and Nanette.
 
“Let crying earth mend
Let nature’s wrath end!”
 
The [Witches]’ gazes were fixed on the aquamarine stone. And it glowed. The water in the cup moved, restlessly, obeying neither the wind nor physics. Califor continued with Alevica.
 
“Magic bows before nature’s will
Let not it be used further ill.”
 
Hedag and Eloise chanted the next lines in tandem.
 
“And give us your blessing, by river’s flow
As from the sky we ask for the same, by a coven’s will, an [Emperor]’s name.”
 
Mavika raised her hands. Her voice hissed and called, like the birds flying overhead.
 
“So come water, come relief and rain!
Here to end Riverfarm’s pain!”
 
And all eight [Witches] drew a blade. Nanette, Califor, Hedag, Eloise, Alevica, Mavika, Wiskeria, and Belavierr. Ryoka knew what was coming.
All eight [Witches] cut themselves across the wrist. They sprinkled blood on the river stones. Belavierr continued.
“By blood we call water.”
“By river we summon rain.”
Who was speaking now? Ryoka couldn’t tell.
Now, the [Witches]’ lips moved as one.
“We call.”
“We implore.”
“We beg.”
Belavierr whispered with all their voices as a refrain.
“We demand.”
A second cut. So deep that Ryoka felt ill seeing the blood run down Wiskeria’s arm. Nanette stumbled. But she spoke with the rest.
“Rain.”
And the aquamarine shone. The water in the wooden vessel trembled. Ryoka looked up. She felt the winds pause. The hot, angry, controlled air shivered.
In the sky, the pyrocumulonimbus cloud formed by the smoke slowly changed. Ryoka saw the distant cloud begin to darken. And in the distance, moisture gathered. Days of unspent rain began to gather. The air grew thick with humidity.
It was so fast that it looked like an illusion. It didn’t seem real. The wind blew faintly, and Ryoka’s skin chilled as a vast cloud, dark but oh so merciful, filled the skies.
It was, she realized, coming from the cup. A near-invisible something—vapor—was billowing up, marshaled by the [Witches] into the air. Spreading out until it covered all of Riverfarm and was growing wider.
Miles wide. Filling the sky. Alevica’s eyes were wide, and even the older [Witches] seemed to be silent with the knowledge of what they were doing.
Changing the weather. Until their great working had the mountain in shadow. Ryoka looked at the people of Riverfarm, and many had their mouths open like her.
This was great witchcraft. Wild and wondrous. Then, Ryoka heard a rumble from the skies. A crackle of sound—something wet struck her on the shoulder, and she flinched.
A drop fell from that dark sky. One, then a dozen pelting down. The rumble came again, vast, as the cloud continued to expand.
It began to rain. Riverfarm’s people turned. In the distance, sprinkles of rain began to fall from the saturated sky. Ryoka heard a whoop of delight, then wild cheers. She turned, beaming. And saw the [Witches] had frozen. They were staring at the gemstone. The trembling water. And then Ryoka saw them each raise a hand as one and point.
“Rain.”
They spoke as one, continuing the chant. And the gemstone began to pulse. Ryoka turned. Something—
 
—–
 
The Oldblood Drake saw the rain begin to fall. He whirled, snarled with fury. He grabbed at a scroll from his belt, desperately unfurled it.
“Oh no you don’t. [Weatherchange]!”
The rain’s fall began to slacken. But the cloud formed by the smoke wanted to rain. And there were days of rain waiting to fall. But not now! Not now!
The [Infiltrator] dropped the scroll as the magic went out of it. Those damn [Witches] were casting a spell! But he had more scrolls. Manus had predicted interference with the weather. The Drake pulled them out, reading from the burning magical inscriptions, calling upon the magic contained within. [Witches] would not stop this fire! They couldn’t!
“[Weatherchange]! [Weatherchange]!”
The scrolls flashed and fell from his claws as they used up their magic. In Riverfarm, the [Witches] began to chant. And the rain stopped falling. Started.
“They can’t do this! They can’t!”
The Drake cursed as he battled the coven. With each scroll, the rain stopped, but the [Witches] were pushing. He could feel it, feel the cloud above him trying to disgorge its contents. But the scrolls were holding them off.
And yet—there was a limit to how many he had. The [Infiltrator] cursed as he reached for the last of his scrolls as the [Witches] silently battled him, pulling at the sky. He raised it desperately and pulled something out. A speaking stone reserved for emergencies.
“Requesting magical support. I need a dozen [Weatherchange] spells on my position—now! Hang the cost!”
He heard a terse affirmative. But even as he burned through his scrolls, a fortune from the City of War—the flickering air refused to change. The cursing Drake spat flames, howling as he saw the fires beginning to wane.
It couldn’t end, not after all this work! They almost had the damn [Emperor]’s lands and the Spider herself!
 
——
 
The first few spells they fought off, like someone shoving at them, hard and heavy—but unskilled. Eight [Witches] in unison could repel the magic of a scroll, even if it came again and again.
But then more spells began to activate, distant, yet fast, like a flurry of blows—and Wiskeria felt the strain. She tried to resist, fighting for minutes as the rain continued to intensify, but now every [Witch] was fighting.
So much magic! Far too much for any one individual to cast. Someone was unleashing spell after spell on them. If it weren’t for her mother, the coven would have failed then and there. Belavierr’s magic and craft was a deep web, even now, and she deflected spells trying to wrest control of the air from them.
This was not their land, but they had the river before them and drew on it, their will and unity. The river groaned and, Wiskeria thought, woke up a bit. The sky rained, and the [Witches] fought—straining—
“Hold fast and we will win! They cannot best us with mage’s magic alone.”
Eloise called out. Nanette was trembling with effort, her cut braids levitating with the force of the magic around her.
They could do this! The onslaught was slackening, but something was wrong. A whining sound filled the air, and at first, Wiskeria didn’t know why. Then, she looked up from her trance and gasped. The other [Witches] broke from their spell. Wiskeria pointed.
“No—”
Strain. The pressure of the conflicting magic, one to erase the rain, the other to bring it on, was pressing at each [Witch], but their will refused to break. However—the rest of their grand ritual was not as strong as they were. A weak point began to shiver in the cup in the middle of the octagram:
