She gaped at Ryoka. And the young woman only gulped because she didn’t know. She turned with Lady Rie.
“Where are they?”
Then Ryoka really looked around. She realized the [Witches], always so noticeable with their pointed hats, were nowhere to be seen. And Riverfarm’s people, many of which would have given anything to see the end of the [Witches], realized that at the moment they were needed—they’d disappeared.
Fear began to turn into panic. And the flames came onward as the sky turned black and red.
 
—–
 
The coven was, by universal consensus, one of the worst covens to have ever formed in the history of [Witches]. No one would debate that. Mother and daughter? [Witches] at odds with each other? Having to meet to discuss crises instead of gathering for a monthly or bimonthly meeting at most? That was not the function a coven should occupy.
But sometimes, a coven handled disasters. And so they met. Eight [Witches]. Alevica had to be helped into a chair; the Witch Runner was still pale and weak. Even Belavierr looked focused. The [Witches] sat down, murmuring.
“Tea, anyone?”
“Just a cup.”
“Got anything to eat?”
“Stale jerky.”
“Pass it over.”
Rustling. Chomping sounds from Hedag and Mavika. Silence. And then a voice.
“Well, this is a mess, isn’t it?”
Wiskeria looked at Hedag. The [Executioner] leaned against the table, and her smile was bitter.
“Looks like it’s a mess of a war, then. The Drakes and Humans fighting. Messy business.”
“Not what we came for. But what we are needed for, clearly.”
Califor’s cup was steady in her hands, but she was glancing at Nanette. Belavierr just sat there, unmoved by the warring of species. Her eyes were focused on something else.
Her promised death—and her daughter, who refused to meet Belavierr’s eyes. Wiskeria glanced out the window. All the [Witches] could feel it. The fire was a distant power, growing in strength. Wiskeria shuddered. Alevica looked pale and weak as she met Wiskeria’s eyes. Nanette was frightened. The older [Witches] glanced at each other. Eloise put down her cup.
“The odds we could stop something like that?”
Mavika hissed.
“I cannot conjure rain. And that blaze the Drake sets would devour my flock. Him, I mark and blame. But I can do nothing of the flame.”
Hedag nodded.
“If it were a regular forest fire, I’d trust to fire breaks and the river. But the wind blows ill. I’ve seen it blow like this twice before, and both times the villages were lost in front of that fire. It will travel across rivers and consume before rains take it. And not a moment before. Califor? Could you wake the river?”
The [Witch] tapped a finger on the table as the others looked to her. Her voice was…cautious, which said a lot about the risks if a forest fire was bearing down on them.
“He’s slept long and deep, and the water’s low. Waking him might do little at all; the river might well flee. I would rather summon rain. A grand working.”
At this, the coven stirred. Alevica burst out, nervous.
“Wait, a real working? Oliyaya’s only ever taken me to one, and that was with two full moons and a place of power! We have none of these things, and it’s not even our land! Do we have the magic for it? Is this even our fight?”
The question went around the circle. The other [Witches] shrugged or frowned. Wiskeria held her breath. Califor’s gaze focused on Alevica.
“We have the need, Witch Alevica, and that must be enough. There is time yet to stop this—if the wildfires keep growing, it will become a force no [Witch] can stop. Before that moment—we will try.”
Her words about the wildfire becoming unstoppable earned a faint scoffing sound—from Belavierr. However, when Califor stared hard at her, the Witch of Webs simply nodded her head.
“Your plan is sound…if the goal were to save this village, Witch Califor. The coven came to entreat an [Emperor] on behalf of [Witches]. In face of this Circle of Thorns and old threats returning. But if there is no empire, our purpose is gone. Is the magic worth the cost?”
It was the most pragmatic thing anyone had ever heard from her—and at the worst time.
“Witch Belavierr! We cannot leave this village in front of the flames.”
Eloise snapped as she put down her cup. Califor faced down Belavierr.
“Better we attempt to stop the fires to save ourselves, Witch Belavierr. Or do you believe we ourselves could escape this fire unhindered? It has the width and breadth of wildfire.”
“I could. I can.”
Belavierr looked unconcerned. However, it was Wiskeria who snapped back.
“Then leave, Mother. Run away again. But I’ll tell you this—I will stay with Riverfarm’s people. I’ll throw all my magic and craft into that working and face the fire alone, if I must.”
The Witch of Webs’ eyes shifted sideways to Wiskeria, and her look of impartiality faded. Slowly, she exhaled.
“Ah. And thus my death remains. Very well, Witch Califor, a grand working. It can be done, even with my reduced power. If there are enough catalysts; string and needle are my crafts. Fire I have never been proficient at. And that man who burned me…”
She grimaced, and for a second, everyone remembered the burnt effigy of a woman hidden by Belavierr’s magic. Califor nodded.
“One attempt. Let us attempt it—quickly. Mister Prost should continue preparing to evacuate the village. Witch Alevica, I have a job for you.”
“Who, me? I don’t have that much magic—”
“No. You are to take Nanette to Witch…Agratha would be the closest. Failing her, Oliyaya.”
The youngest [Witch], who had been listening to all this discussion, sat up, and Alevica blinked.
“What if that Drake tries to get me in the sky?”
“Outrun him. I will cover your escape with Mavika.”
The Crow Witch blinked and nodded, but Nanette protested.
“No, Miss Califor! I want to stay and help! You need me for the grand ritual! Eight is better than six! Six isn’t even a powerful number!”
On this, Califor was adamant.
“Fire moves fast, Nanette! It can outrun people on horseback if the wind is right. And this Drake has plotted his vengeance against this Emperor Godart and his people. If he is backed by a Walled City, it explains the magic that we were unable to move. With a ritual, we might defeat his control over the weather. But by that time, flight will be even more difficult. I will not risk your life or this coven’s should we fail to halt it. You are my apprentice—”
“No! I won’t go! This matters, and I won’t abandon Riverfarm!”
Nanette stubbornly dug her heels in, literally, when Califor tried to drag her towards the horses. Alevica hesitated. Califor’s voice was a snap.
“Nanette, do not argue with me when every second counts!”
“You told me a [Witch] has to be brave. And help people when it matters! I won’t let the villagers die, like Mister Prost’s family—or Durene or Ryoka—”
Nanette was begging to stay. She looked up tearfully at Miss Califor. The older [Witch] hesitated. Alevica made a clubbing gesture behind Nanette, and Califor’s glower made the Witch Runner back up.
For the first time, Nanette tore away from Califor’s grip. She held her hat tightly as she faced the other [Witches]. Belavierr’s stare might have been the first time she ever looked at Nanette, and the girl flinched. But she raised her chin and spoke, earnestly and nervously, vibrating with young courage. Even Wiskeria looked at her and remembered what it had been like to be…
Young. That was it. Pure earnesty shone from Nanette’s voice.
“I like it here. The people aren’t always good. But there are good people among them. They have been kind to us [Witches]. And—and if we could try, surely we should? I ask the coven to hear my request. To use everything to save Riverfarm! Please!”
“Nanette…”
Wiskeria breathed. But then she looked around. The other [Witches] exchanged glances. Belavierr paused and regarded her daughter. And Califor studied Nanette’s face and sighed. She stopped trying to pull Nanette away.
“I taught you too well.”
Nanette beamed at her and looked at the other [Witches]. One by one, they nodded. Mavika tipped her hat.
“By your request, Witch Nanette, and Witch Wiskeria’s, this coven will try. The fire builds with each passing second. So the ritual must be done within the hour.”
“If we must do it, we will need a place. A focus. And a purpose.”
Eloise spoke briskly. Califor was nodding impatiently. She sighed as Nanette beamed in relief.
“Hold on, what if we’re for leaving? I could, uh, get Agratha—”
Alevica’s protest was met by seven cold stares. The Witch Runner gazed around.
“Damn it. Fine. What about the river?”
“Sympathy. I agree. We have no place of power, so it will do. Even if we don’t wake the river, we’ll draw on its strength. The purpose should be to call rain, obviously. We don’t have the moons or anything else for a great working. And the focus? My staff may well do; it was made of a tree from one of the Great Forests.”
Califor looked around, hefting the staff. Hedag sighed and reached for her bag.
“I have something. I traded for this a time ago. It’s yet to be polished, but it might do if no one else has better to offer. ‘Tis no ordinary stone. A [Merchant] had it with thousands from Salazsar. This one alone had magic in it. The weight of time and power.”
She produced a small aquamarine, uncut and unpolished, but sparkling. A glow in the stone that drew Mavika’s eye greedily. Califor nodded. Belavierr peered at the stone, as if it were a curio, but produced something as well.
“In that case, I will add a binding of thread, a weather-pattern charm, to both. Flame Wyvern’s heartstring. Give me vessel and focus.”
Eloise produced a carved cup, large enough to be held in two hands.
“Sacrifice this. It was a gift from the Kingdom of Keys; a half-Giant’s cup. Weighty in value and age. Best used to save lives.”
Another piece of power. Mavika hesitated—then reluctantly produced something long and ragged, a piece of dirty orange-red. Yet when she said what it was, Nanette gasped.
“This is a Phoenix King’s feather. No more do they fly. For this, an appropriate sacrifice I give. For a [Witch]’s request, that the unworthy might live.”
She turned to Alevica, and the Witch Runner, red-faced, dug in her pouch.
“Argh! Fine! Here’s a stone filled with all my mana. It’s not that great.”
She slammed down a lesser piece of quartz, and Wiskeria produced all she had—
“A pristine piece of Ember Salamander skin. I have nothing else related to fire to use.”
Belavierr inspected each piece, before arranging them in the cup.
“It will do. Seven. Eight…”
She looked at Nanette, and the little [Witch] hesitated. She had no real possessions or old craft. So she produced a knife and sawed at one of her braids.
“If—if I can’t do anything else, will my hair do?”
“That or blood—”
Belavierr fell silent as her daughter glared, and Nanette’s hair went into the bowl. Hedag handed over the aquamarine. Belavierr produced a needle and, using Nanette’s hair as thread, wove a loop around the blue gemstone before beginning a complex pattern that tied it to the wooden vessel. To that, she added each gift until the brimming cup seemed to be one object, of mismatched parts, and kept sewing.
…Until it almost looked like the piece of quartz were part of the cup and the salamander skin was melding with the feather to create something brighter. The [Witches] watched for a second, then stood up.
“Thank you.”
Wiskeria said it to the others. Eloise smiled. Hedag laughed.
“I have given my word to protect the children here. And it is a Hedag’s word as well as a [Witch]’s. While Belavierr prepares the ritual, let us do what we can.”
Califor was urgent as she rose to her feet.
“I will prepare the site. It must be done quick; Witch Belavierr has our sacrifice. Nanette, pack your things. Then come and find me. Witch Mavika, if you would join me?”
“Yes.”
The two [Witches] headed out the door. Eloise, Nanette, and Wiskeria followed. Alevica hesitated until she realized Belavierr was staring at Alevica unblinkingly as she worked. She got up and hastily went after the two.
Panic in the streets greeted the [Witches]. Prost was shouting, trying to organize people to expand the firebreak while others tried to pack their things. But where would you go? Wiskeria saw smoke in every direction but the mountain and forest that bordered Riverfarm. And she had a feeling that fire was already building unseen there as well.
“Wiskeria!”
Ryoka and Rie found her. Califor and Mavika strode past them. Ryoka halted.
“Look—Laken’s asking your coven for a favor. Wiskeria, he knows it’s a lot to ask, but if you agree—”
“We’re performing a ritual. Don’t worry, Ryoka. We’ll fight the fire together. No one’s leaving.”
The City Runner sagged with relief. Eloise raised one finger, eying Lady Rie.
“Yet. However, I would not place all your hopes in this ritual, Miss Griffin, Lady Rie.”
“It could fail?”
Lady Rie looked sharply at Eloise. Wiskeria did too, heart pounding. She’d seen rituals go wrong. But they had so many powerful [Witches]. Her mother was on their side.
But it wasn’t the full moon, and they didn’t have a place of power…Eloise was clearly thinking the same things. The [Witch] shook her head.
“Wiskeria and Nanette have convinced some of the [Witches] to stay. And I have agreed to give the ritual an attempt. But should that fail, we must all flee or attempt to stand. And this fire would consume us all, I fear.”
“Laken’s told Prost to put everyone in the fields. He says that’s the safest space—cleared grounds.”
Eloise paused.
“Perhaps. Certainly, it has the river to its back. But the smoke the fires are giving off and the wind—I think many would die either way. In either case, if this ritual fails, the coven will leave. And we will only have the power to shield ourselves.”
The thought made Wiskeria cold inside. Lady Rie paused, licking her colored lips.
“Could you—take a group with you? If you left earlier?”
“If we had decided to leave now? Yes. But the fire is growing. And I cannot walk through flame unhindered. Belavierr might. Califor could ride through it, and Mavika fly. But Hedag and I will have to run or ride. We will try if it comes to that. But we must use every option. Have you any left? Hedag is going to clear more space at the firebreak.”
“She is? Durene’s there with some people. They’re trying to give us more space—”
Ryoka pointed towards the fields. She looked around. Then she slapped her forehead.
“Of course! Let’s call for help! What if we got a [Weather Mage] here?”
Wiskeria shook her head.
