Ryoka hesitated, then bit her tongue nearly hard enough to break the skin. Belavierr turned her head.
“What?”
“Nothing. Uh…Wiskeria doesn’t want gold. Treasure? Power? She never asks for any of it? Not even once?”
The [Witch] stared at Ryoka. And then she shook her head slowly.
“When she was young, she asked it of me. Toys. Small things. I gave them to her. And then—she asked a favor of me. On behalf of a boy she knew. On the day she became a [Witch].”
“Will you tell me what happened? Since we have time?”
Belavierr nodded. She gazed up at the burning sky.
“It was a different time. We had fled the village where she grew up. My craft had enraged the villagers. Perhaps she hated me then? But she never said it. And I found a second home. One in a city. I believe she struggled then, because of me. But for her, I used my craft for gold. And I attracted attention. I cared not for it, but for her I worked my spells. And she made friends. One of them was a boy. I do not remember his name. But one day, my daughter came to me with a request.”
Ryoka waited. Belavierr’s eyes were lost. She spoke on dispassionately. Her face unchanged as it glowed in distant fire’s light.
“She wanted me to grant his request. For he was a [Prince]. The prince of his nation. The Griffin Prince? That was it. The new one. And she called him a dear friend. So I agreed. And the boy told me he wanted to be proof against blades that he might be the mightiest [Prince] his kingdom had ever seen. A worthy [King].”
She paused. Her face changed not one whit. Ryoka spoke.
“And? What did you do?”
Belavierr looked at her oddly.
“I did it, of course. I gave him his protection against blades. To do it, I cut him apart, piece by piece. And I wove him of my magic again. So long as my craft endures, he will be proof against blades. I did that for my daughter, but she fled me. And she cursed my name. That was the day she told me she hated me, Ryoka Griffin. That was the day…she became a [Witch]. And she left my side thereafter. Then, I did not understand why. I am trying to remember why it could be now.”
She paused, frowning. Ryoka just stared at her and felt cold. Here sat a monster. Or if not a monster…someone else. Mortal, yes. But…she cleared her throat, coughed.
“Was he screaming when you cut him apart and…sewed him together?”
“Who?”
Another blank expression. Ryoka paused.
“The Griffin Prince.”
Belavierr stared at Ryoka. And then she blinked and sighed.
“Oh. That was why she hated it.”
She shook her head. Ryoka was silent. Belavierr looked at her hands, mystified, and then tired.
“It has been a long time since I took my first life. So long that I cannot even remember who it was or how. Or why. But—I still remember a young woman who swore she would never forget that day. Yet that day itself? I am old. Too old to have been a mother to my daughter.”
“Why did you do it, then?”
Ryoka was endlessly curious. But she felt the moment coming to a close. The fire tornado was moving again, ever so slowly. But she and Belavierr clung to this conversation. Both feared the future. Belavierr shook her head.
“I don’t know. But there she lay. And she looked up at me. And she would have died had I not picked her up. So I did. Because it filled something in me.”
That was it. A monster. Immortal. Unfeeling. Distant. A [Witch]. But it was her, Wiskeria, alone who grounded Belavierr. Ryoka just didn’t understand why. So she asked.
“Why? Why are you going to die for her? Why can’t you leave her or let her die and not care like so many others? Belavierr the Stitch Witch, why does Wiskeria matter to you?”
The Stitch Witch peered at her. And she took a long time in replying.
“In any sewing, there is a first stitch and a last stitch. And there must be a knot. An ending, or else what is made must unravel.”
Ryoka nodded.
“So is Wiskeria the first or last stitch?”
Another look.
“She is my daughter, not a thread. I am making a comparison. We each are a tapestry, a weaving. And she was not the first or last thread in mine. I am my own work. And yet, somehow, though my first stitch was sewn long before hers, her threads and mine are interwoven. We are tangled together. But separate.”
Belavierr wove her fingers together, staring at them. She went on quietly.
“And yet, somehow, despite my daughter’s youth, despite that she and I share no blood save for the original blood of humanity, she matters to my tapestry. She is bright color on darkest cloth. Without her, night is the same as day. Without her, contrast fails. And I would have no meaning.”
She looked up, seeming slightly…
“It is how I can explain it. Does that answer your question, Ryoka Griffin?”
“Yeah.”
The City Runner glanced away. And she stood up. She avoided Belavierr’s eyes as the [Witch] looked questioningly at her. Then Ryoka turned and nodded.
“I wish my mother had said she loved me like that. So that’s why it’s your death.”
Belavierr nodded. There she sat. And the moment passed. Ahead of her, the tornado burned. Ryoka gazed ahead. Belavierr spoke.
“I would like to be loved. I am afraid of death. My daughter must live. But I fear death. So I search for an alternative. Perhaps there is one. But a mother’s love holds me here. But you. You have no child. Why do you run to your death? You fear it too, don’t you?”
“Oh yes.”
Ryoka looked ahead. And the fire howled. The wind blew hot on her face, and she shivered. She was afraid.
“Then why do you run to yours?”
The young woman turned. And she smiled at Belavierr. At the curious face. Ryoka breathed in. And she sighed. She reached for her belt and touched a bit of frozen courage. A bit of friendship.
“Because I have a choice. And I’m afraid of who I would be if I left. I’d like to be a good person.”
“How strange.”
Ryoka laughed. Then she began to run. She left the [Witch] where she sat. And she ran forwards, trotting, jogging, and then running. Ahead of her, a twister of ash and flame bore down on her.
“Wind. Come on. I know you’re more than a tool for someone to use. You’re free. Come on. Run with me.”
Ryoka whispered. She shouted. And the wind blew around her, clearing the ash. It was all fire. Embers blew past Ryoka, smoke and sparks mixing. The ground burned. Ryoka’s soles blistered as she came close to the blaze. But she looked up. The tornado was blowing waves of heat at her. She raised her arm. And she shouted.
“I am the Wind Runner! And I call the wind! Be free!”
She turned. And she began to run. Fast. Faster than she had ever run. The wind howled behind her. And the tornado raged. It blew towards Riverfarm, caught by the wind that pushed at its back. Until it sensed the second breeze. And the young woman who called it.
The whirlwind of fire turned. It began to blow after Ryoka. And she laughed. She ran, trying to outrun the pillar of flames that swerved after her. She had never known the wind could turn to fire! She ran, and the ice in her hand froze her as the fire burned behind her. Chasing her.
Once, Ivolethe had told her that she didn’t understand the wind. And Ryoka still didn’t. She could not fly. She could not run with the wind. But she could lead it. And she did.
She ran. The tornado of fire raced after her over barren grass, turning away from Riverfarm. Chasing the young woman who dared it. She ran on, laughing, screaming as it burned her. Carrying it as far as she could with every step. Faster and faster until she ran with the racing fire. Across scorched ground. Through ash and embers.
Faster. The wind howled at her back. And the fire caught her. It touched her and embraced her, but she did not let it consume her. And she ran with fire. Until the fire was spent and flickering, far from its fuel. Then the young woman stopped. She glanced back and saw the trail she had run. And the fiery winds had nothing left to burn. Ryoka Griffin spread her arms, laughing. She looked at her charred body and fell.
“Impossible.”
Overhead, the Oldblood Drake stared as the whirlwind of fire changed course. He stared as the young Human woman ran and it followed. She should have died in that first hundred feet. But she ran on. And the tornado blew after her. It lost the fire that gave it strength and heat. The winds refused to blow to Riverfarm! The Drake screamed his fury. He watched the City Runner fall. And he contemplated her death. But she was already burnt.
The Drake turned his gaze towards the village. The wind now blew where it pleased. And the tornado was gone. But the fire was still advancing, devouring the dry landscape. He whispered as he flew lower. He had long since used his fire breath past its limit. But he had a mission to finish.
“It will still happen. The village will still burn. And so will they. If I have to finish it myself.”
So the Drake dove. He breathed, and the fire raged. It raced over the fire break, fanned by his breath, which set the very earth alight. Until it met the five [Witches] who stood against it.
 
—–
 
“Hold it back. Hold. It. Back.”
Wiskeria stood shoulder-to-shoulder with Hedag, Eloise, Mavika, and Alevica. The [Witches] faced the flames as they raced across the edges of the fire break. Wiskeria’s palm was raised. And all of her force was directed towards the fire.
Embers burned as they flew towards the villagers. Sparks and smoke parted as the [Witches] held their ground. The people of Riverfarm were gasping, falling back towards the river. They were surrounded by fire. On the other side, the fire was licking at the village’s wooden buildings. When they went up, the inferno would trap them on both sides.
It was hot. Wiskeria was trying to hold back heat and ember and smoke. She could feel the blood vessels bursting in her eyes, her nose. She staggered. The four other [Witches] stood with her, combining their power. They wavered, and the fire advanced.
Durene was still trying to fight the fire with dirt and a shovel. The others had fled backwards towards the center of the fields. A shrinking circle of people huddled together as the smoke and heat drove more and more towards unconsciousness. Wiskeria gritted her teeth. Just a bit longer. A bit longer and the flames might extinguish themselves! Run out of fuel!
Then a spark of light made her turn. She looked across the river and saw it. Bright flames. Burning brighter for what they consumed. A low groan escaped her lips. Riverfarm was on fire.
But the fire could not spread by the wind. Ryoka had set it free. Wiskeria watched the village begin to burn. Then she turned her attention ahead. The fire had halted. The fields gave it so little to consume, and the firebreak had stopped it. Wiskeria held her ground. And she held it. They could do this. They could!
Then her death fell from the skies on copper wings. The Drake breathed fire, and his breath ignited the earth itself. The [Witches] glanced up and scattered. And the fire, unblocked, raced forwards.
“Burn! All of you!”
The Drake roared his fury. Wiskeria fell to one knee as the other [Witches] dodged. She saw Eloise raise her hand. Together, they tried to stop the flames. And the fire’s backlash set Eloise aflame. The old [Witch] screamed.
Wiskeria saw the fire racing forwards, burning and adding to the Drake’s flames. They went straight for Riverfarm’s folk, who cried out in fear and despair. The Drake laughed. Wiskeria lay on the ground, spent. She looked up as the fire touched her and began to burn her.
“I tried.”
She tried to cry. But it was too hot. She lay there, burning. And the scream bubbled at her lips. Her people were screaming behind her, catching flame as the Drake burned them, as the fire burned them all.
Riverfarm.
People.
[Witches].
 
——
 
The flames were covering the people, the [Witch], and embers fell from the sky like a mockery of rain. An inferno that would kill even if the fire didn’t burn; the very air was impossible to breathe.
An [Emperor] was screaming, unable to do a thing. A Drake was laughing as he looked down at enemies he had never met before this month.
Fire. It could not be stopped, but perhaps—
Perhaps it did not have to kill all.
Wiskeria, burning, saw a figure riding towards her across the river. The river was almost gone, yet the horse leapt across the gap, and a woman lifted her glowing gaze. The inferno did not touch her. The horse she rode was black. And she sat on it, her hat pointed. Her eyes flashing. Her voice was like thunder.
“Halt, fire! You race and burn everything away! But I? I have a life I must save! So burn and follow me!”
Choking. Flames covering her, searing her with an agony—Wiskeria’s eyes were blurring. She could barely hear; her hair was on fire. She whispered.
“Mom?”
The [Witch] rode forwards. Her voice called the flames.
They halted, across the river, as they licked at Riverfarm’s houses, and the tornado caught the Wind Runner. The flames on Wiskeria stopped burning and—turned.
Towards the [Witch]. She lifted her hand, beckoning them, spreading her arms wide, welcoming them, and the fire ran. It leapt off Wiskeria. She felt her agony cease, saw Prost, shielding his family with his arms, turn as flames jumped off his back.
Such a cry of relief. Of life. Wiskeria’s voice was the same until she saw where they headed. Then she grabbed at them.
The [Witch] was riding past Wiskeria. Her back was straight, her blue dress fluttering, the only color in a world of opposites. Red and black, streams of orange and yellow, flashing around her. Then it was as if the entire world followed after her.
A stream of blue and her ringing voice and the hoofbeats sweeping through all the death, drawing it away from the others. Now, she was riding, fast, racing ahead—but the fire was faster.
It caught the [Witch] in a moment. Raced up her horse, and the stallion caught fire. Then the flames touched the woman and covered her in burning light.
The [Witch] screamed. Wiskeria was screaming too, running after her, reaching for her. But it was too late.
The flames on her had gone out. The [Witch] rode on, and the fire leapt from the people. It abandoned the ground and raced after her. She clutched her hat to her head as she galloped, a fireball.
“Come, flame, I offer my magic and craft. I offer a [Witch]’s bones, a mother’s love! I offer my life to turn your wrath! So come and burn away. That my daughter might live one more day.”
“Mother!”
Wiskeria shouted, but the [Witch] didn’t look at her. She was riding away, now, towards the open fields with nothing left to burn but her.
The flames burning the forest, the village—the entire region ablaze followed after like a stream of destruction. Bound in a single woman’s wake. Still, the [Witch] rode on, though the horse was stumbling, and her skin was immolating, turning molten. She was pulling, now.
