“Stay on the saddle, Nanette. We must keep moving. And keep an eye on the skies for that Drake.”
The [Witch] cautioned Nanette, and she urged the horse forwards. Nanette was still crying. She didn’t respond. The two cut out of the fire as Califor slashed a hole onto a cleared section of burnt road. No one would be able to follow; it was too deadly.
However, someone was ahead of them, standing on the road.
Belavierr halted next to her dark horse, who stood there, stock-still, not even pawing the ground despite the flames being so close. Nanette blinked incredulously.
She’d made it! No—she looked burnt; getting through the flames had to be dangerous, but the Stitch Witch would live if she fled.
But her daughter was in Riverfarm. Nanette gave Belavierr a betrayed glance, almost as much as her feelings towards Califor.
—Until she saw Belavierr’s face. The Stitch Witch had halted in the burnt road, her eyes cast backwards. A flaming tapestry was burning on the ground away from her, and the beautiful piece of magic…a twisting girl was caught in the flames. Then, a woman.
Belavierr didn’t move. She stood there and watched them. Califor and Nanette halted.
“Belavierr. Your daughter wouldn’t come?”
“No. I escaped, but she would not run. She will die there, wind or not. For the lives of the villagers. I foresee it. Witch Califor—you had the strength to escape the fire.”
“The others might, if they stick together.”
Belavierr raised her hat, giving Califor a lost stare.
Nanette saw Miss Califor grip the reins tighter. The horse Nanette rode snorted, eyes wide. It was as wary of Belavierr’s beast as the fire. Nanette froze. But the Stitch Witch didn’t say anything more. She just sat astride her horse, regarding them. And then she spoke.
“Witch Califor. The fire is vast. A blaze without magic. But in its way, more terrible than a [Knight]’s fire. Few Archmages I remember could defeat such a blaze alone.”
“Perhaps you remember them. But fewer still could put out a fire today.”
Califor’s voice was sharp. Tired. Belavierr paused, then nodded.
“My daughter remains. She refused to leave. I cannot save her. Not without facing—”
She stared at the flames and shivered. They seemed to reach for her, even as they advanced, and Belavierr’s gaze swung to the tapestry. Her death.
Nanette’s breath caught. She looked at Miss Califor. The older [Witch] bowed her head.
“Stubborn girl. She made her choice. We are all selfish witches in the end.”
Belavierr’s gaze didn’t waver.
“Yes. She is a fool, but my daughter. Ever my daughter. I have never counted the cost of her to me. We are one thing.”
Almost, she turned back, but the flames were licking higher, and in the distance, a tornado rose. Belavierr shrank from the flames.
“Tell me, Witch Califor. Do you know of a way to stem the fire? I can think of only one way.”
Miss Califor paused and nodded.
“I know of the same way myself. But the cost is not one I would pay. Nor do I think you wish to pay it. But it is possible.”
“Yes.”
Belavierr whispered the words. She looked back, and Nanette saw she was afraid. Her eyes turned back, and Nanette stared into that ringed, orange gaze. Belavierr paused.
“She is my daughter. But the choice is mine. I do not wish to pay it.”
Califor’s voice was sharp. She sat on her horse, wand raised, in, Nanette realized, a standoff. The smoke was choking the air, and Nanette reached up and felt at her burnt, messy braids. They itched and seemed to rustle as Belavierr glanced at Nanette, then Califor. Califor put her own hand out, shielding Nanette.
“That is every [Witch]’s decision. I would not fault you either way. To protect Nanette, I abandoned the coven. I would do it again.”
Miss Califor’s voice was quiet. Belavierr nodded. She paused—then reached out—and Califor caught her hand. Belavierr had taken a step forwards, a dozen feet—and Witch Califor had rode forwards as well. Passed eight feet in a single horse’s hoof—caught Belavierr, and rebuffed her, so the other [Witch] rocked on her feet.
“Let us part ways now, Witch Belavierr. Fire surrounds us. Not your element. We have seen too much loss. Do not push it further.”
Califor’s eyes were warning, her voice overly loud. Nanette saw Belavierr staring at her, and the Stitch Witch’s eyes swung to Califor.
Califor twisted Belavierr’s arm, and Belavierr grimaced. She backed up.
“I merely wished to ask—”
“I decline to talk. Nanette, don’t let her touch you.”
Now, the two were circling, eyeing Nanette, but the flames were making Belavierr flinch. Nanette didn’t know what to do, so she lifted her hat.
“I—I bid thee farewell, Witch Belavierr. If I should meet other [Witches], I will speak your name.”
A traditional farewell. But it came out of her throat hard. She felt a cold shiver, like something running down the back of her neck, as she saw Belavierr’s eyes on her. So desperate, now.
So very afraid. Belavierr’s eyes flicked to the fire, her daughter’s burning tapestry. Nanette’s face.
“Once, Wiskeria was as small as you. I remember those days.”
She waited as Nanette put her hat on her head. And then she turned. She seemed old and tired as she sat on the saddle. But she straightened. And the Stitch Witch, Belavierr, looked back at the fire. It blazed behind the three [Witches]. Belavierr sighed. And she turned and nodded at Miss Califor.
“For my daughter, Witch Califor. I might do anything.”
Califor only nodded in reply and gripped her wand tighter. Belavierr tipped her hat, then bent over the tapestry. A burning Wiskeria stood there, and Belavierr reached for the dying flame.
All will die. None will remain. Nanette was weeping again.
Witch Califor had no time to watch Belavierr hesitating. She jerked her head urgently.
“Move, Nanette.”
She led her apprentice past the Stitch Witch, watching Belavierr, but the Stitch Witch just raised her head and looked at Califor, defeated. And now Califor was urging Nanette to gallop, carrying Nanette across the burned land to safety. Miss Califor kept her gaze ahead as her apprentice kept crying.
“Miss Calif—”
Nanette’s voice cut off. The girl made a strangled noise and scrabbled at her neck. Califor halted.  Califor, heart pounding, stared at the little, brown ribbon and fumbled for a knife.
When she looked up, a woman stood behind Nanette, tipping her hat.
 
—–
 
Ryoka saw it burning ahead of her. So much fire that it didn’t seem real. It looked like the entire world was on fire. It was like staring at hell. A vision of it.
She was afraid. Terrified. The wind wasn’t coming to her aid. It was shackled. Forced to blow against its will. But fire and pressure had created that tornado. And now it raged, hurtling towards Riverfarm. Ryoka had struggled to stop strong breezes. How could she stop this?
The City Runner ran on. Coughing, choking as the smoke grew heavier. She tried to keep low, but beyond this point had been when Charlay passed out. She tried to call the wind—ran on.
Past a hill with a burnt stump and ruined grass. A bit of unmarked soil marked a traitor’s grave. A [Witch] with a huge hat sat at the base of the hill. Her clothes were dark. Her eyes orange and ringed. She glanced up as Ryoka passed by.
“Oh, hello. Terrible weather, isn’t it?”
The City Runner stopped. She stared wide-eyed at Belavierr. The Stitch Witch was just sitting there. She nodded ahead at the burning oblivion and tornado growing in the distance.
“Miss Ryoka Griffin. Would you like to speak for a moment? Or is now a bad time?”
Ryoka nearly laughed. It was the same Belavierr. The same—but different. She still didn’t know what to say. She still guessed at being normal. But she was Human. And she looked weary as Ryoka halted.
“I can stop for a moment. But I’ve got a date with the fire.”
“As do we all. You run towards it.”
“Yeah. I guess I think I can do something about it. Why’re you here? I thought you left.”
“I have not decided yet. My death comes. But my daughter stays. So I wait. I am wondering. If.”
“If?”
Belavierr’s eyes glinted.
“If I should take her by force. If I can avoid my death.”
Ryoka glanced at the tornado. It hadn’t grown larger. So she hesitated. Gestured back towards Riverfarm.
“You seem certain. Aren’t there a lot of ways you survive?”
Belavierr shook her head.
“No. My death is fairly certain. I have seen it. I wove the tapestry with a [String of Fate] that I might see my deaths. And I saw the [Knight] and fire. This is the second of my deaths.”
“Yeah, but you could leave—you don’t have to stay for Wiskeria’s sake. Or abduct her.”
The [Witch] sighed. Loudly. She glanced up at Ryoka again.
“If it was that easily avoided, it would not be my death. I know myself, Ryoka Griffin. So long as my daughter remains, I do too. I only wonder if my death would save her. Or if there is a way to escape it. The last time took the death of a man. A traitor’s choice. And my immortality. This time, I have neither to give.”
She stared at the fire in the distance. Ryoka watched it. But—she still had time. So she walked over to Belavierr. She looked at the Stitch Witch. Belavierr glanced at her. She was holding threads in her fingers. Was she playing some…convoluted game of cat’s cradle? It seemed like it, with threads as thin as hair. She noticed Ryoka staring at it, and the threads vanished into one sleeve. Belavierr paused, peering at the City Runner.
“Tell me something. Once, before, you called yourself my daughter’s friend. And you proposed to help us reconcile. How did you intend to do that, Ryoka Griffin? Or was that a lie?”
Ryoka shrugged her eyes on the fire. It had slowed down, definitely.
“I had a plan. I was going to get you to do some magic with Wiskeria. Something positive. Like—making more charms. She’d have to help you and maybe learn something. And you’d show her you could do good. I thought that was worth a try. I mean, I know I’m not an expert. But no one else was trying to help.”
“Hm. Strange.”
“What is?”
“You. Few people wish to aid me. My daughter has told me she hates me. What makes you wish to help me?”
The young woman hesitated. She sat down across from Belavierr, keeping one eye on the fire.
“I don’t agree with Wiskeria. I don’t think you’re good or evil. And I think…it’s good you survived. I just wish Ser Raim didn’t die. And the [Hunters]…”
She paused. Embarrassed. Ashamed. But that was her thing. She liked immortals. Despite herself, she still liked Belavierr. Vampires, Dragons, the fae—there should be a place for them in this world. Even for the [Witch] who sat there.
“All you do is offer deals. And it’s the people who take them that suffer. There’s a justice in that.”
Belavierr half-smiled.
“I’m capable of offering poor deals, Ryoka Griffin. Of making threats. I sewed your lips together, as you recall.”
Ryoka ran a tongue over her lips.
“True. Do you do that often?”
“No. My craft demands I am fair. Things taken by force have less value. But my daughter does not lie when she calls me a monster. I think.”
“Right. But I can’t help…respecting what makes you not fit in my world. My best friend was like you, in a way.”
“Hmm. Strange. You are much like my daughter, Ryoka Griffin.”
“How so?”
Belavierr looked up. She shrugged.
“I do not understand you. Nor my daughter. I do not understand her. Despite losing my immortality. But I would rather she lived, especially now that she has found her purpose. I was…happy to learn of it.”
“What? Her craft? You mean when she hit you with lightning? And she used justice against you? You liked that?”
Ryoka had her own opinion of that moment. The idea of calling on a collective will like that made her feel uneasy. It spoke to her of lynch mobs and public will. But she was hardly about to debate that with the tornado—Ryoka cast a quick glance ahead. It hadn’t moved? Or had it barely crept closer? What was going on?
Belavierr just smiled, though.
“Justice? Oh, that. Well, Wiskeria is free to make mistakes.”
“You think it’s not her craft.”
Ryoka blinked at her. The [Stitch Witch] nodded back the way Ryoka had come.
“Justice is a fickle, untrustworthy thing. It twists and bites, and it is a harsh ruler. It can consume everything or ignore half-wrongs. It is a stupid choice for a [Witch]. But that is not what gives me joy, Ryoka Griffin. It is my daughter discovering she could take it.”
“I don’t follow.”
The Stitch Witch paused. She glanced up and shook her head.
“When she took it from the villagers, she did what no [Witch] could. Not one of us. She became a new [Witch] in that moment. A [Witch] for the new era. One who can harness the power that belongs to law. The power of order and rules. That is Wiskeria’s true craft. It will make her strong. Perhaps—stronger than the old ways ever could. And most importantly—I know what drives her.”
Slowly, she tapped her chest.
“Me. Her hate for me let her find her craft. And it was what made her a [Witch]. And what stopped her from finding her path before now.”
“But that’s…”
Ryoka held her tongue. Belavierr glanced at her.
“What?”
“It’s so…isn’t it painful?”
The Stitch Witch paused. For a second, something like that flitted over her face. Then she just shook her head.
“Better that I am the source of her strength. Far better that I know it. I…have given her nothing. My daughter. From the day I found her and took her as my own, I tried to give her many things. I have given her food. Shelter. What I knew of…love. But poorly. I know that now. And I have given her nothing since we parted. If I could—if she asked—I would give her what she desired.”
“What, exactly?”
Belavierr stretched her hands out.
“Gold. Fame. Power. If my daughter asked, I would find it and give it to her. Whatever the cost. Because she is my daughter. But she does not ask. And she never will.”
Ryoka paused. She sat across from Belavierr. She studied the Stitch Witch.
“Can I have—”
“No.”
“What about a little charm? Like the one you put on Wiskeria…?”
“No. I offer nothing for nothing. My daughter is the one exception.”
Ryoka sighed, staring at the distant fire. Time hung still around the two of them. At last, Belavierr seemed to notice Ryoka’s worry.
“Do you wait for the fire?”
“Yup. I’ve got to do something before it gets to Riverfarm. But it’s not moving closer. Are…are you doing that? Or is that Drake out of wind? It’s still blowing. So why…?”
Ryoka frowned, licking her finger and feeling the air. Belavierr smiled.
“You need not worry. We sit together in an [Immortal Moment].”
Ryoka jumped.
“A—?”
“A useful Skill. I learned it the last time I leveled up. Recently.”
