Almost all the [Witches] were here. However, Hedag and Califor weren’t present. Hedag had gone to help with Riverfarm’s folk, now digging desperately along the riverbank, and Califor was outside, though for what, Ryoka didn’t know.
Perhaps they had seen Belavierr’s injuries and just didn’t…care. Wiskeria did, and she bent over the bed.
“Mother? Can you hear me? How dangerous is the fire to you? Mother?”
Belavierr didn’t answer. She might not have been able to; her face was barely a face, save for the eyes staring out of burnt-off eyelids. Her fingers, though, were moving despite the trail of ash and blood they left.
She was still moving, though this time, she was…stitching? Sewing something together. A bunch of failed tries lay around her, and as Ryoka watched, a promising bundle of thread that moved like an odd, twisting symbol of magic—fell apart.
“Her flame wards are failing. I doubt she can mend her weakness easily. It will take weeks, perhaps months.”
Eloise observed, not without a bit of satisfaction. Wiskeria’s head rose, and she snapped.
“Well, now she’s unable to give us aid when it matters most! Mother! The wildfires are coming. Can you help stop them? Califor’s trying, I think.”
Belavierr’s vague gaze turned Wiskeria’s way, but for once, she was silent. The burnt witch simply stared at her daughter, and Wiskeria’s hand hesitated. She was holding onto Belavierr’s shoulder, burnt cloth and skin, and the woman flinched.
“Mother, you have to have some artifact or relic in—”
“Wiskeria. You’re hurting her.”
“Hurting?”
Wiskeria saw her mother’s flinching and suddenly let go. She stared at her hand, her mother, and backed up a step.
“Witch Wiskeria, you will do no good here. Leave her.”
Mavika advised Wiskeria. Alevica was just shaking her head as Belavierr tried another ward, a knot, and it just…fell apart. The charred Witch of Webs stared at the mess on her lap.
Fear, defeat, mortality. All things not usual to Belavierr clung to her. Ryoka gave her this: no normal woman could be that badly burned and, without painkillers, just sit there and look a bit upset.
But Wiskeria looked completely torn apart, and only the reminder of Riverfarm’s danger—and now the threat to her mother—got her out of the house.
“This isn’t going to end well. It’s all gone bad. We should get out of here…”
Alevica muttered. She cast around the dark house—all flames had obviously been banned—then hurried out, hunching her shoulders.
Ryoka was tempted to say something to Belavierr in this moment. Perhaps something unneeded, but maybe something about mothers and daughters. One look at Belavierr’s features, which became a grimace of agony, and she decided to leave.
The Witch of Webs actually glanced at Ryoka as the Wind Runner backed up. And her gaze seemed to invite…what? Pity? Ryoka wasn’t sure she could manage pity. Even now, she remembered how Raim and Tagil had died.
If only you had been able to do a good thing. Now you’re in it, with it. That was the kind of—of feeling some of the [Witches] and even Ryoka had. Only one person actually seemed to have pity for Belavierr. Even Wiskeria had only shock.
“U-um, Miss Belavierr? I’m awfully sorry about how hurt you were. You tried to make it rain. T-thank you.”
Nanette approached the bed cautiously, and Ryoka hesitated. Belavierr’s gaze swung to Nanette; she was stitching again, painfully trying to make something, anything. The smallest [Witch] tipped her hat, eyes wide.
Nanette was tough too—she didn’t flee shrieking at the sight of Belavierr. But her eyes had tears in them.
“You got hurt trying to save Riverfarm. I—I tip my hat to you. And this is from me. It’s not much, but Miss Califor made it for me. A cream for burns.”
She offered a tiny, half-empty jar of something herbal to Belavierr. It was probably like putting a bandaid on a cut artery…but it seemed to move Belavierr. At the very least, her fingers stopped desperately dancing, and she stared at Nanette, looking her over.
Slowly, very slowly, Belavierr accepted the jar. Then she patted Nanette on the head. The girl flinched, but Ryoka saw Belavierr hesitate…then produce something and twist it together. She beckoned and offered Nanette something.
It was…a ribbon. Brown, the same color as Nanette’s hair; the Witch of Webs had seen Nanette’s hair, lopsided from Nanette’s sacrifice, and motioned.
“Oh. For me? I, um—”
Nanette hesitated, but then she turned, and Belavierr gingerly, but with some expertise, wove the ribbon into Nanette’s braids. She did it fast, undoing and redoing Nanette’s hair like, well, another type of thread.
When she was done, it was almost invisible, but it had restored Nanette’s braids, so her hair looked as if it hadn’t even been shorn. It was so well done that only if you stared really closely would you see the braid.
“My hair! Thank you, Miss Belavierr!”
Nanette seemed touched by the gesture. She curtsied, remembered to raise her hat, and Belavierr sat back. She held the jar of ointment in her hand and stared out the window, no longer trying to sew wards.
Somehow…that made Ryoka realize how desperate things were. The Wind Runner beckoned, and she and Nanette left the house silently. Belavierr sat there as her death came for them all.
Fire and flame.
Was she afraid? Ryoka glanced back once, and the witch was staring at her and Nanette. Even now…she was a bit terrifying. But Ryoka thought—yes.
She was afraid. But one thing occurred to Ryoka.
Belavierr hadn’t left.
She was still facing this for her daughter.
 
——
 
The fires were spreading across the land. Merging. Becoming a single blaze surrounding Riverfarm. Oh, they spread in every other direction too, but the wind was being used to send the fire one way.
It might have hit Riverfarm that very night, but the rainstorm and one other factor kept the wildfires back. The flames slowed in gathering ground over the briefly-wet terrain, and so Riverfarm dug like mad.
No magic, but just what the [Witches], villagers, and Ryoka knew. Fire breaks. Cleared terrain that would hopefully keep a fire back.
…Unless the heat and wind just murdered everyone standing downwind of the fire, even if they were thousands of feet or a mile away. The smoke might kill them, but the hour had passed for anyone to run.
Groups had gone out, desperate, and many had come back, including Councilwoman Beatica, finding fires in the ways they had hoped to flee. As if someone—that bastard in the skies—was igniting any escape route.
Three times now, the orange glow of one of the wildfires itself had been spotted. Twice in the forest, once rolling down from the northern road. Riverfarm had been given time to lug their possessions away to continue clearing land by the other factor holding the fire back.
Witch Califor. She had taken a position in an ironic or perhaps fitting place.
The hill where Ser Raim had died. It gave her a larger view of the area, and the [Witch] stood there, staff in hand. When the third blaze appeared, she thrust the staff down into the ground.
“You, who knew the great forests. You, the last fragment who remains. This is not your land. These are not your people. But I ask you in mercy’s name—burn. And spare them all this flame.”
She lifted her quarterstaff up. When Califor drove it down, for a second, you could see the forest it had once been part of. A vast land untouched by any buildings of wood or metal. The power of that ancient earth coursed through the wood of the staff, and it flexed and burnt as flames scorched the ancient wood.
A relic of old. A memory—the ash had consumed two-thirds of its length. The third time Califor performed this spell, the fires engulfed the quarterstaff entirely. She held it as it crumbled to ash and looked up.
Sweat was pouring down her face, matting her grey hair. Her hat was lopsided, but Califor’s gaze was triumphant—and regretful. And despairing.
The fire had gone out. In the distance, the patch of burnt land smoldered, but Riverfarm was spared. A third time.
—There were too many blazes. Califor could sense them coming. Her staff had eaten three great fires away. Now, she bent, picking up some of the ash and scattering a handful in the air. The rest she put in a pouch of her belt.
“I am sorry. I should have carried you a hundred more years, found a way to regrow you. Forgive me.”
She said that, then looked around.
“Forgive me.”
The second time, she said it to the land, to Riverfarm. And perhaps…to the young woman who halted there.
Ryoka Griffin had wanted to speak to Witch Califor for a while. When she stopped, wide-eyed, Califor sat down.
“That was all I had left. My staff is gone. My cloak frayed. Too many fires remain.”
“You—you just erased the fire?”
Califor didn’t respond. Ryoka had seen the flames, thousands of feet wide—just disappear. She stood there looking at Witch Califor. The Witch Califor, Alevica had said.
“We have failed Riverfarm. At least, I have. I do not see a solution, Ryoka Griffin. Without Belavierr—we have been bested. Bested by the Drakes, the Walled Cities. Unless the Wind Runner of Reizmelt has an idea. Great magic cannot solve every issue.”
Califor sat with her back to the burnt tree as Ryoka opened and closed her mouth. Then squeaked.
“Me?”
Witch Califor was rubbing at her face, leaving trails of soot on her skin. She was distracted, clearly, exhausted.
“Where’s Nanette? I…I should return.”
She tried to get up, and Ryoka bent to offer her a hand. Califor was lighter than she looked, and Ryoka stuttered.
“I—I was checking on Belavierr. Nanette’s fine. She’s helping dig. I wanted to find you to ask…isn’t there something else?”
“She does what she can. No, Ryoka Griffin. I am out of magic. All I have left is…me. Tricks. Enough to kill that Drake, perhaps. Not halt nature itself. That is the hardest thing for [Witches]: to halt what should happen.”
“But that bastard started the fires! This isn’t nature!”
“Fire is nature. The hand that started it might well have done so for selfish, cruel reasons. Fire does not care. The dry wood that yearns to burn will do so for whatever task it is about. Be it to burn an innocent woman or boil water. It is hard to oppose fire. True, the storm that we conjured was sent away. It might be back with a vengeance. But not today.”
Califor was so tired she was rhyming a bit, like Mavika. She looked at Ryoka.
“Belavierr is wounded; the flames shall be her end. Mavika is the least-suited of all of us to oppose a natural disaster with her flocks. Eloise and Hedag are powerful [Witches], but not in grand scales. That role falls to me. And I have failed.”
She sounded so bitter about it Ryoka hesitated.
“M-maybe I could help? I’m—you know my name?”
“Wind Runner of Reizmelt. Yes, you’re the wind’s friend. Perhaps…though a wind will stoke most flames. And that Drake has control of it with spells. Can you best him?”
“I can’t. I’m sorry.”
Ryoka had tried to free the angry wind under his command. Califor’s voice rasped.
“Not your fault. Though I would have asked where the power came from. It’s not witchcraft nor the magic of druids nor a Skill nor regular spell. You’re an odd woman, Ryoka Griffin. I meant to ask where you came from. But it was never the right time. Now?”
“I…could tell you. We have time, a bit.”
As if to defy Ryoka’s words, the dark sky grew with another glow. Califor’s head rose, and Ryoka saw another fire, smaller but no less deadly, creeping through the forest.
“Fuck.”
“I am curious. But no…I think it has to wait. I do not know you, and you do not know me, Ryoka. If I could—ah, well. What about this?”
Califor suddenly seemed to have a thought. She produced something and handed it to Ryoka. It was a tiny finger…saucer? Yes, just a dimple of beautiful porcelain.
“What’s this?”
It looked vaguely familiar to Ryoka. Without a word, Califor produced something and poured it into a copy she held balanced on two fingers. Then into Ryoka’s.
“A thought. You don’t recognize it?”
Her glance at Ryoka was quick, and Ryoka stared, and the almost odorless smell…her tongue tasted the liquid in the tiny bowl on her fingertips.
“Wait, is this…sake?”
Califor looked amused.
“Ah, I don’t know that word in Drathian, but you recognize the custom.”
Ryoka did a double-take. She stared at the way Califor held the saucer towards her—then took a sip.
“I’m not from Drath. Not exactly—”
“No. You don’t have the accent. But you recognize this. You’re a strange woman. If I had time, I would ask you all of it. Right now? You’re clumsy, like Nanette. But you’re good-hearted and brave. The wind sings your name. You would have made a good [Witch], Ryoka. Though I say that of most women I’ve ever met.”
Witch Califor sipped, and Ryoka took a gulp of the liquid, which was actually fairly mellow. It warmed her up, and she glanced at Califor.
The moment of weakness was gone. Califor stood there, merely regretful as she studied the blaze.
“They turned to me, you know. Prost, those who heard my story. Hoped that Califor could save them. As if I were the better [Witch]. Belavierr has a thousand stories for every tall tale about me. I never relied on my reputation because I couldn’t answer it.”
Califor glanced at the trees near them for some reason, and Ryoka glanced at the shadows, but sensed no lurking Drake. She took another sip as Califor refilled their tiny cups.
“I’m—but you have done great things?”
She was hopeful, and Califor looked at Ryoka.
“Say, rather, I am capable of it. As are you.”
The Wind Runner flushed, both in embarrassment and gratification, and scuffed her foot on the ground.
“I haven’t done much great with the wind. I—I was trying to think of something I could do.”
Her eyes rose towards the flames now consuming the forest in the distance. Wind. Fire. Usually complementary forces, unfortunately. She couldn’t create a void, and failing that, wind only turned regular fires into hellstorms. Like fire tornados. She’d seen one of those on the news once…
Her mind was racing with ideas, a helpless desire to answer all the witchcraft and effort she’d seen.
Califor looked at Ryoka, and her eyes softened.
“You are a brave girl. I wish I had the time to have actually taught you anything. If you have an idea—do it.”
Ryoka hung her head, embarrassed at even suggesting it.
“I can’t. I don’t know how. It’s not like something I can just…push and achieve. And even if I could, I’m not strong enough.”
The [Witch] exhaled.
“I know the feeling. Witchcraft is not strong, Ryoka.”
At the Wind Runner’s incredulous look, Califor clarified.
