“Not strong like [Mages]. Compared to an Archmage? One of them could snap their fingers, produce rain, and all of this would be over. A lot of my magic revolves around sympathy. One thing affects another. Like my staff. I made it burn in the place of the forest. Sacrifice is part of witchcraft. Emotion, too; ritual.”
“You do a lot with that, though. Heck, you hid all of Riverfarm! Isn’t that powerful sympathy?”
Ryoka protested, and Califor smiled.
“I have Skills. And experience. But yes…where I come in is providing the answer to that gap between a single staff and a wildfire. It is not enough. Yet if I may—”
Her head turned, and she lifted the cup to her lips, sipping. Looked Ryoka in the eyes.
“—The secret to success in my magic, and perhaps yours, is to take the tiniest of things. A bit of leeway. A chance in a million. Then you grab it and twist until you do what you must. However hard it must be.”
The Wind Runner stared at Califor, and her eyes flickered.
“…I—I can try. If it comes to it.”
“That’s all a woman can do.”
Again, Califor glanced sideways, then at the flames, and Ryoka knew she should go. To practice or…Califor exhaled, dropped the little saucer, stumbled, and Ryoka reached for her. But the [Witch] just caught herself, held up a hand, and Ryoka stopped.
“I truly have let Alevica down. She knew stories of me. In my experience, Miss Ryoka, it isn’t wise to walk about claiming you’re a woman who does great things. Or else everyone expects it of you.”
“Right. I get that.”
Ryoka thought about reputations. And it made sense. Califor was murmuring, hand on the tree for support. She had the little bottle of alcohol in her hand, and she stared down at the delicate piece of porcelain from the Empire of Drath.
“…I also don’t want to give Nanette the wrong idea. I am not that strong or wise or good. The secret, though?”
She pushed herself upright and exhaled. Her chin rose, and she touched the brim of her hat. Her eyes, like a grey storm, glittered in the darkness. Califor Weishart lifted her hat, and her voice sounded resonant.
“The secret is being able to do great things. Then you seldom have to.”
The Wind Runner looked her in the eyes, and the [Witch] smiled. Then she raised her foot—and shattered the beautiful bowl into pieces on the grass. It made a soft cracking sound, and Ryoka stared.
Califor tilted her hand—and the bottle of spirits from another land poured onto the pieces on the grass—and behind her, the sky bloomed.
Ryoka whirled. The fourth fire coming her way suddenly roared into the air. Terrifying Riverfarm. A blast, a pillar of heat and sound—burning high, high—
As if someone had just poured something flammable on it. Califor lifted her hands, as if compressing something, and Ryoka saw the fire burning a hundred times stronger halt—
Raging fire. Incinerating wood, turning it to charcoal—burning out even the embers. Until Califor released her grip, and the wood was smoking—burnt black—
The fire extinguished by its own volatility. Witch Califor leaned back against the tree. In the silence, the Wind Runner offered her the remainder of her drink, and Califor took a sip from the saucer.
“The fires will reach Riverfarm soon. What time, I cannot say. I will find Nanette in a moment. Will you have her meet me at our cottage?”
“O-of course. Thank you, Witch Califor. For the advice and—”
Ryoka stared wordlessly at the woman. Califor simply tipped her hat to her.
“Don’t thank me, Miss Griffin. All I bought was time. Tomorrow—”
Her eyes were faraway.
“—I will let you down.”
 
——
 
The Wind Runner had nothing to say to that. So Witch Califor leaned against the tree until Ryoka had gone, a breeze flowing with her. Then, Califor slowly slid down the trunk and onto the burnt soil.
Showing off to younger women. She would have chuckled if it were not so dire nor things so weary. Califor waited as the second person trudged up the hill to find her.
“Witch Califor. I didn’t want to interrupt. That was splendid magic.”
“Your mother could do better.”
Wiskeria bowed her head, not denying that, as she sat down. Califor wearily opened her eyes. At this moment, the wariness between the two was gone, any gap closed.
“I neither helped nor hindered her greatly when the Order of Seasons sought to end her. Had I done either, we might not have come to this.”
Wiskeria shook her head, shamefaced.
“I should have been more honest with you. I should have—done more with my mother when Ser Raim appeared. I just didn’t believe she could ever lose. Witch Califor, I’m sorry. I know you must disapprove of me, being such a poor [Witch] despite my mother being—and not stopping her.”
Califor’s head rose slightly, and she gave Wiskeria a startled look.
“I don’t disapprove of you, Witch Wiskeria.”
“Really? But I thought…”
Wiskeria trailed off. Califor shook her head, sitting more upright.
“You did what you felt was right. Few children could find it in their hearts to oppose Witch Belavierr, and she was your mother. You saw her; you regretted what had been done. Could you have done something later or as she came here? Perhaps. But no one in the coven, be it Mavika or Eloise, will judge you. Least of all me. I am a selfish witch, as we all are.”
Wiskeria protested.
“You? You’re the least selfish. You’ve been doing nothing but helping Riverfarm! That’s why I came to—to—ask if you’d teach me magic. My craft. Make me your apprentice.”
Witch Califor blinked. She turned to Wiskeria, actually surprised, and Wiskeria blushed.
“I know this isn’t the right moment, but I—you’re the only [Witch] I’d want to teach me a craft.”
“I am honored. But Witch Wiskeria—”
The rejection in Califor’s gaze was faster than Wiskeria had anticipated, but they were [Witches]. They didn’t like prevaricating, and Wiskeria hung her head.
“It is nothing to do with your mother. Or even you.”
Califor clarified, and Wiskeria glanced up.
“Then it’s because Nanette’s better?”
Her look was annoyed, competitive, and Califor clarified with a smile.
“Nanette is my greatest and only apprentice. If you and I had met before her, for you, I might have reconsidered my policy on apprentices. But as I said: I am a selfish witch. Tomorrow, you shall see that, Wiskeria.”
The younger [Witch] tilted her head, but she didn’t try to gainsay Califor like Ryoka. At last, she looked at Califor. Staff gone. Cloak gone. These were just things, but Wiskeria knew she was greatly spent.
…She had not bled for Riverfarm, though. Merely wearied herself in its defense. That was selfishness. For Mavika, or even Eloise, it was understandable, but the Califor of stories should have done more.
“Ask.”
Califor whispered, and because Wiskeria was a good [Witch], however young, she asked the right question.
“Is—is it talent, Witch Califor? The reason Nanette’s your only apprentice?”
At this, Califor laughed. She laughed so ruefully, with such amusement, that Wiskeria stared, then began to bristle in Nanette’s defense. But there was nothing unkind about it. Califor shook her head, chuckling.
“No. It is the most obvious accident and reason in itself, Wiskeria. Your mother might understand. Nanette is my apprentice…and you will be a great [Witch]. I am sorry you did not meet the Witch Califor. I am indeed a coward.”
With that, she rose and bowed to Wiskeria. The younger [Witch] looked up, eyes flickering, and Califor wondered if Wiskeria understood. When she rose, she tipped her hat to Califor.
“I’m grateful. I have admired [Witches] since meeting you all.”
That hurt most of all, but Califor embraced the pain and bowed.
“May it continue.”
Then the night fell, and she turned her head towards the smoky landscape. By the time dawn rose the next day, the pale summer’s light caught on vibrant orange and flaring red, on murky ash and carmine and crimson oblivion.
Then the landscape caught flame.
 
 
Day 70
 
When dawn came and they saw the fires that Califor had delayed on the horizon, the people of Riverfarm digging along the riverbank put down their shovels. They gathered in the village with their belongings taken from the houses.
Some people had found horses and were prepared to ride again rather than stay. Mister Prost did not gainsay anyone, save for people trying to loot what didn’t belong to them.
Yet his eyes were on the [Witches]. So were many of the villagers’.
It was so close, hope and hatred. Distrust became desperation—and they had seen Belavierr almost stop the fires. But while Belavierr had regained her feet—
She was hunched, hat hiding half-fixed features. Good skin seemed to sag and reveal the burnt flesh beneath, and she was hiding, huddling away from the oncoming flames.
At least she had solved her immediate burning issue: the few sparks did not ignite her. They swerved towards her, then extinguished themselves on her clothing. But it was clear she was still a match ready to go up.
—Besides, it was not her that Prost and others looked at, but Witch Califor. She stood there as morning dawned, reading each and every fire from the smoke they sent up, vast trails through the sky. Nanette was coughing as a wet handkerchief covered her face; Ryoka herself had woken up choking on the smog.
Califor looked around, meeting Prost’s eyes, the gazes of children, folk of Riverfarm, the rest of the coven, who watched her curiously, or in Eloise’s case—a kind of calm, smiling resignation.
Last of all, Wiskeria’s and Ryoka’s gazes. Then Califor’s gaze travelled lower. Her apprentice looked up with wide, worried, trusting eyes. Califor gently bent over, and her grip tightened on Nanette’s shoulder.
When her eyes rose, they were filled with grim resolve.
“I am leaving, Steward Prost. I regret that I could not do anything more. Nanette, mount up.”
Her apprentice’s mouth fell open in horror, Califor glanced at her hair with a frown. But the little girl’s eyes were wide with shock—then she saw the pony and horse trotting towards them, saddlebags made up. Ryoka couldn’t believe it. Neither could Nanette.
“What? Miss Califor! But the flames—”
“Nanette. We are going. We can do nothing more here.”
Prost lowered his head. He looked at Califor, and the woman’s face was impassive. Nanette tore away from Califor.
“You can! We might not be able to do another ritual! But we can use smaller spells! Hold the fire back! If we raise the wall higher, we could hold the flames away, conjure enough cool air to outlast the fire—Miss Califor, please!”
Wiskeria pleaded with the older [Witch]. Califor hesitated again. Wiskeria held her breath. So that was what she’d meant last night.
Was she just leaving? Alevica was incredulous. Even Mavika looked shocked. This was Califor. Hadn’t she heard stories of the [Witch] pulling off feats just as grand? Surely—
But then Califor shook her head. It was at Nanette she gazed. And she shook her head as she addressed Wiskeria.
“I am sorry. But Nanette comes first. In that, I understand your mother. You should go with her.”
She pointed. Belavierr was walking towards Wiskeria. And her face wasn’t expressionless. It was intent. Wiskeria gazed at her.
“Mother.”
“Wiskeria. It is time for me to leave. I cannot halt the fire any more than my death. Come. I will bear you out of this place. I have the strength for that.”
Califor’s decision had, it seemed, helped Belavierr come to a decision. A low moan rose from the people of Riverfarm. They had no horses or magic. Belavierr ignored them. she reached for Wiskeria. The [Witch] drew back, horrified.
“We can’t just go!”
“You must. Or you will die. The chance of surviving this is slim to none. Wiskeria, listen to Witch Belavierr. She speaks with your interests at heart.”
Califor snapped as she crooked a finger.
“No arguments, Nanette. I will not risk your life.”
“But I want to stay! They’ll die! Miss Califor, please!”
“No.”
Nanette sobbed, then began to kick and struggle, but Califor picked her up and put her on the horse. The other [Witch] mounted and glanced down. Wiskeria looked up helplessly at her.
“There’s a chance.”
“There is. But part of raising a life is putting that life first. Witch Wiskeria, you may hate your mother. You may disagree with her. But she has ever put your life above her own. She has tried to protect you. And I cannot fault that. I would fault the rest of Belavierr. But never that.”
Califor studied Wiskeria and met Belavierr’s eyes. The Stitch Witch dipped her head slightly. Califor raised her hat.
“I am sorry. But this day, I am a coward first. I cannot let Nanette risk her life. Goodbye. I hope you all survive.”
“Miss Califor!”
The plea came from the [Witch] girl. Nanette made to jump off the horse, and Califor reached out to snatch her back, but Prost interrupted.
“Go on, Miss Nanette. I can’t fault Miss Califor her decision.”
The rest of Rivefarm clearly could, but Prost had something in his eyes. He nodded to both Califor and Belavierr for some reason. Nanette hesitated, and Ryoka called out.
“Go, Nanette.”
She didn’t get it, not right now, but she couldn’t bear the little [Witch] getting hurt. Nanette hesitated, and Mavika spoke.
“Go, child. Do not argue with your master!”
“But—”
Nanette whispered, and Califor ignored her. She steadied Nanette, then pointed and whistled, and the horse and pony took off. They shot past the crowd, out of the village, and Califor didn’t look back.
Ryoka respected that, at least.
 
——
 
Califor raced south with Nanette following. Nanette shot one agonized glance backwards. And then they were moving south between two plumes of smoke. And Belavierr’s gaze followed them.
“She is right, you know. She understands what it is to be a mother more than I. Daughter, come with me. I can protect you. You and perhaps a few others. Is that not enough?”
She reached out to Wiskeria. But her daughter recoiled. Wiskeria still couldn’t take her mother’s hand. Too much lay between them. And she gazed around and saw the desperate faces.
Stories. Once, Wiskeria had watched an army die. They had called her their [General]. And she had seen them buried. She had come to Riverfarm and protected it. And she had once loved her mother. For this and so many other reasons, she couldn’t. So Wiskeria begged.
“Mother, please stay! Please! For me?”
Belavierr hesitated. She looked into Wiskeria’s face. And she hesitated. The immortal, distant gaze was gone. A far more mortal one was there. Uncertain. She looked at Wiskeria and stepped away.
