Even patted her on the head, and a finger lifted Ryoka’s chin. Belavierr whispered, a smile on her face.
“Do not make me angry, girl. You are alive, and I am in the finest of moods. Step back, be silent. Or I shall make a new pact.”
She caught Mavika’s hand as the crow-witch began to grow.
“The same to you, sisters. In this place, at this time? You have everything to lose. I swore to let Califor’s daughter live in exchange for one great deed. Nothing else.”
Belavierr pointed a finger at Nanette, who didn’t move, reaching toward her mother’s corpse. The [Witches] hesitated.
“Belavierr. You will pay for this. No [Witch] in the world will give you shelter or aid, I swear it by my hat. You have a witch’s grudge—you wretched thing. You worthless pile of shit.”
Eloise was trembling with fury, her voice ringing like someone else—and Belavierr glanced at her dismissively.
“From Mavika that might be a threat, but she knows better than to earn my grudge. The only other woman who could make it well is dead. Begone, broken [Lady] and humbled, little witch. Now see, my daughter, what I have wrought? I am my old self, as you never knew. Do you see? I did it all for you.”
Belavierr swung one arm out, and her smile was a terrible thing. She walked forwards and bent towards her daughter. She reached out, and Wiskeria raised a shaking hand. It had a knife, but Wiskeria was shaking so badly that she could barely hold it. Belavierr captured Wiskeria’s hand, ignoring the blade. Her voice was soft, delighted, as she stroked her daughter’s head. Gently. So lovingly.
“My beloved daughter. You will remember this day forever. You have found your craft, and you will be the first [Witch] of a new era. One of law. Of order. And you will be the greatest [Witch] of us all. This is my love for you, Wiskeria. This is what I can give you. I will be your craft. Stop me. Hunt me.”
Belavierr bent. She kissed her daughter on the forehead. Then she held Wiskeria’s face in her hands, turning it right and left, as if memorizing it. Belavierr’s hands tightened a second—and for a second, she seemed to hesitate, as if about to do something else. Twist? Then she let go.
“What a strange weakness you are, my daughter. I do not hate it. I have enjoyed being a mother. I will watch you grow and delight in your every stride. Until the day I die, we are mother and daughter, Wiskeria. Until the day I die.”
And then she turned and walked away. She looked back once at Wiskeria, waved, and then she was gone.
