Day 69
 
Fire. Fire for Manus. Fire from the skies. Fire, lightning, acid, fog, ice—the elements of the Dragons. And their children, flying through the skies, bringing death to Human lands. It had come to Riverfarm.
Laken could see it. The Drake was lighting up the entire countryside. This wasn’t undirected arson. There was a strategy to it. The [Emperor] spoke, his throat constricted.
“He’s—igniting every patch of forest in thirty miles. Not just around Riverfarm. Anywhere there’s a settlement. Cities, towns—some of the villages are already in the path of the flames.”
Laken couldn’t see into the villages he didn’t own. But he could see everywhere else. For now. Once again, his map of the landscape was burning. Totems made of wood burned like everything else.
It was too dry. The grass, the forests—everything—was fuel ready to go up without a drop of water in over a week. But that was by design as well.
“Your village must flee, Laken. Now.”
Yitton Byres snapped. The caravan heading towards Riverfarm was stopped, and the [Lord] stood, communicating with the [Mage] frantically sending spells. Laken shook his head.
“Where? And how, Yitton?”
“Towards us. Or towards Gralton’s lands. Anywhere out of the flame’s path!”
“But he’s still moving, Yitton. And he’s cutting them off.”
The [Lord] looked up.
“Who?”
The villagers. One group tried to flee as the flames sprung up near their home. Laken could see them fleeing their village, belongings on their backs, some with wagons hitched to frightened animals. They’d moved fast and left their village quickly, within less than ten minutes of the flames burning towards them.
But the Drake had seen them too. He simply flew down the road and set a fire in the direction of the fleeing villagers. Laken clenched his fists.
“That monster.”
There was a beautiful simplicity to it. Laken Godart didn’t see it, but the Oldblood Drake did. He flew up again, letting the fire do the work that would have taken dozens of Drakes. The villagers would run into the fire. Some might escape if they found a path through the flames or if they were lucky, had Skills; their homes would be gone either way. And so would their livelihoods, the value of the region.
And it had taken only one Drake to do it. One Drake, a few weather-changing scrolls, something to dry the land out, and the right timing. Not only that, he’d engineered the conflict with the Order of Seasons. Weakened the only spellcasters able to do something about this situation—and cast doubt on their actions. Now, the [Witches] were right in the path of the fire. The wind blew towards Riverfarm, fanning the blaze.
It had been less than twenty minutes since it had begun. Already, the fires were linking. Growing bigger and bigger. Laken had heard stories of wildfires before. Australian bushfires. Californian wildfires. But he had never been able to picture them. Now he saw them.
“There’s no way they’ll get through the flames. The fire’s already a hundred feet wide. The villagers aren’t going to make it. They’re turning left—”
But the smoke. The burning embers. Laken shook his head. And it was coming for Riverfarm. He forced himself to turn his attention back to the present. The caravan was staring at him. Goblins, Humans. The [Emperor] looked around.
“Yitton. We’re too far away. We won’t make it. Send word to every city and town in the region. Tell them to prepare for fires headed their way. Evacuate the ones I’m going to name.”
He began reciting names from memory, directing Yitton to find others based on their geography. Trying to find the safest routes away from the blaze. All the while, that damned Drake flew. He was still setting more areas alight.
And he wasn’t the only one.
 
—–
 
Tyrion Veltras’ ears rang. The lightning striking his family keep kept falling. The enchanted stones shook. The wards began to give way. The entire building was trembling, but the [Lord] ran.
“Ullim! Sammial! Hethon!”
He bellowed the names of his [Majordomo], his two sons. He found Ullim in his sons’ room. They were hiding under their beds, as if this were an earthquake. Lord Tyrion stared at them.
“Lord Veltras! What’s happening?”
Ullim’s shouts were half-lost in the roar of falling lightning. The room kept lighting up with blinding light. Tyrion bellowed.
“We are under attack! Get my sons into the safe rooms! Move!”
“Father!”
One of his sons shouted, panicked. But Tyrion was already whirling. He ran, shouting, as his servants and guards raced through the keep.
“Jericha! To me!”
The [Mage] raced towards Tyrion, half-dressed, a wand in hand. Tyrion pointed at the windows.
“Drakes!”
He didn’t need to see them hidden in the cloud to know what was causing the lightning. Besides a [Mage] as powerful as Archmage Amerys, only one species could fly and command that much lightning. Jericha nodded.
“There are at least four, Lord Veltras! They’re hitting a city and villages as well! There are two above—I will rally a force of [Archers] and hold the battlements!”
“No. They’ll destroy you. They’re using the storm. Get me the Banner of House Veltras! And my shield! Gather every [Mage] and prepare to sortie!”
Tyrion snapped. Jericha nodded, and both raced through the keep. Lord Tyrion himself strode to the armory where a portion of his house’s treasures were kept. The Banner of House Veltras could shield him from lightning. With it, he and his retainers could hold the keep.
But when the [Lord] strode onto the battlements armed for war, the lightning had already ceased. The Drake Oldbloods had failed to destroy the keep and the enchantments. So the lightning was already falling elsewhere. Tyrion stared across his countryside. And he saw the lightning falling, hitting fields, buildings. People—he raised his sword as Jericha hoisted the glowing banner.
“Warn every city in a hundred miles! There are Drake fliers in the air!”
“We can’t see them or catch them! Lord Veltras—”
Tyrion was already calling for his horse. But he could feel it too in the pit of his stomach. It was a trap. And he realized, as more frantic [Messages] came in, that he wasn’t the only one being targeted.
 
—–
 
“Lord Erill’s lands are beset by flame. Lady Ieka’s are suffering from lightning—as is House Veltras! Lord Erill is reporting multiple deaths—Tyrion Veltras is confirming it’s a Drake attack!”
Yitton read the [Messages] being transcribed with shaking fingers. He looked up, pale-faced.
“My home.”
“Does your wife report anything?”
“Nothing. She’s checked the weather, and my guards are on alert—”
“Then House Byres wasn’t considered important enough. Focus, Yitton! They went after me and Gralton instead of you! Can he send any [Riders]? Anyone who can fight a blaze like this?”
Laken snapped at Yitton. The [Lord] looked up. He reached for a message.
“Gralton—the plague. He hasn’t responded, Laken. We received word his kennels were filled with sick dogs—the Drakes must have—”
“Damn his dogs! People are dying!”
The [Emperor] shouted. He whirled. He could see Riverfarm coming alive. They had gotten his messages. But they were so slow. Fire moved too fast. Faster than people could run. Laken turned, his closed eyes seeking Yitton’s voice.
“The Drakes. Tell them to call the attack off. I know it’s them. Tyrion can’t prove it. I can. Tell them it’s the Drakes.”
The [Emperor] saw nothing with his eyes. He heard an intake of breath, Yitton’s voice issuing quick orders. In his head, he watched the flames moving. Saw the [Witches] gathering. Ryoka, Durene, Prost, Rie—his heart—and his people gathering.
Laken Godart waited. But he learned the same thing Ryoka had: it was not just his story. The purpose of [Witches], a pair of City Runners’ journey, the crusade of the Order of Seasons, the return of an [Emperor] and the fate of Goblins—and yes, even the vengeance of Drakes—was all part of a whole. Try as he might, he couldn’t change it all. He was only an actor.
After an agonizing wait that might have taken minutes or hours, measured only by Laken’s furiously beating heart, Yitton replied.
“A—an accusation has been leveled. But the Walled Cities claim ignorance. They reject the idea that Drakes are causing these incidents. Manus suggests this might be unusual Wyvern migrations combined with freak weather—”
Laken whirled away. He clenched his hands. And then he slumped.
“We can’t do anything, then. Just watch. Yitton.”
“Laken?”
“Get the caravan moving. Towards Riverfarm.”
“But the fire—”
The [Emperor] ignored the [Lord]. He turned his head back towards his empire, his home. His people. He shook his head.
“By the time we get there, the fire will be gone. Can’t you see? It’s everywhere. And there’s nowhere to run. Get the caravan moving. And tell Prost—retreat to the fields. The mountain’s no good. That Drake’s setting fire to the forest. The fields. Tell Durene I love her. To stay alive. And ask the [Witches] for help. It all depends on them now.”
 
—–
 
At first, the people in Riverfarm refused to believe Ryoka’s warning. They listened to the picture she had put together at last and laughed skeptically, uneasily. But even if they agreed with her—so what? They didn’t understand. After all, how many had even seen a Drake? They couldn’t imagine what Ryoka could, what Laken’s [Message] had made her realize what the [Infiltrator]’s plan was.
But then Mavika screamed as her crows burned, and the smiles left the skeptical faces. Riverfarm and Lancrel’s people looked up as Rie ran into the village, shouting for Prost and calling the alarm with Nesor hot on her heels. Then they saw the smoke in the distance. And above it, the huge, ominous cloud that filled the clear sky.
“Pyrocumulonimbus cloud. That’s what it’s called.”
Ryoka panted as she and Charlay ran towards the closest plume of smoke. Riverfarm was in a growing panic, and Prost was corresponding with Laken. But Ryoka had to see it herself. The Centauress stared at her. Charlay frowned.
“What?”
“The cloud. That’s what it’s called. It’s a cloud made of all the fire.”
It was the most useless piece of information Ryoka could think of in this situation. But her mind wasn’t being sensible. She was panicking. Because she could see the smoke. It was already in the air blowing towards Riverfarm. Ryoka wasn’t controlling it. Something else was. That Drake and his scrolls. Charlay coughed. The whites of her eyes were showing.
“Yeah? How’s that help us?”
“Doesn’t. The fire—”
Ryoka didn’t see it. There was too much smoke coming this way. Charlay groaned, and Ryoka crouched lower, as if that would help. The wind was blowing it straight at Riverfarm.
“That’s a big fire. Ryoka. That’s…really big. As bad as the jungle fires in Baleros. We have to get out of here!”
The Centauress was terrified. She began pawing at the ground, looking around frantically. Ryoka felt it too. Humans had used fire, but some animal part of her was terrified. It could sense the flames. Worse—the rational part of her agreed.
“It’s—there’s too many spots. Damn it, the fire’s everywhere!”
Ryoka pointed. The flames weren’t coming in any one direction. There was smoke directly ahead of them. And another patch to the left, a third far to the right—was that a fourth plume of smoke behind it? The young woman coughed as she turned back to Riverfarm.
It made so much sense. Normal fires didn’t happen like this. Wildfires happened in her world, but even arson was limited. Fire had been used in war, but this was different. That Drake could breathe fire and fly. Moreover, he was changing the wind to amplify the flames. The lack of rain had prepared this area for a truly deadly fire. This was beyond anything from her home.
“It’s coming.”
The two Runner girls felt the smoke intensify. Coughing, Ryoka turned.
“We have to go. Charlay? Charlay!”
The Centauress was frozen. Then she turned and galloped past Ryoka. But not before Ryoka had seen her head turning wildly, trying to find a path of escape. That was the problem. The fire had engulfed the north and was spreading east. But more fires were popping up. If they ran south—
The Drake was still out there. Ryoka could see it clearly. He wanted them to run. He could set a fire anywhere he wanted. If they stayed, they died. If they ran, they died.
But Riverfarm was innocent! She wanted to scream it at him. Riverfarm’s people hadn’t participated in the attack on Liscor! But Laken had. Riverfarm’s [Engineers] had made the trebuchets. And did it even matter? The Drakes wanted to hurt the Humans. What was easier than destroying villages, farms, cities? Destroying the infrastructure of the north with a single Drake?
They had to stop it. Ryoka ran back into Riverfarm with Charlay, coughing and panting. Now, a crowd had gathered and was staring at the horizon. Ryoka panted as Rie rushed out of the house, a slip of parchment in her hands.
“Is it…?”
“Fire. It’s everywhere. North, east—and more’s coming.”
Ryoka pointed to a smoke plume to the west. Encirclement. Lady Rie looked uneasily down the south road. Ryoka stared west. The mountain that had once buried Riverfarm lay that way. But to get to it, they’d have to go straight through a forest. And she wondered if the fire was already growing there.
It reminded Ryoka of the wildfires that would torch California back home. Prost was giving rapid orders, but Riverfarm’s people were trying to grab valuables, thinking of their village.
If they were not out of the reach of the flames now, they were dead. At the moment, the blazes might be small enough to avoid, but soon they would become a vision of real hell, a storm that would leave only embers in its wake.
How fast would the fires move? Ryoka had no idea how far away they were, but she feared the worst. This wasn’t an accidental fire; this was arson, and more and more patches of flame kept appearing.
“What did Laken say? Rie, is there any way for us to take?”
Ryoka looked desperately at Lady Rie. Laken could see the countryside! If they could make a break for it—there were thousands of people in Riverfarm. They’d lose everything. But…stay? Riverfarm was made out of wood.
Rie’s face was pale. She looked around. The crowd was pushing forwards. Someone screamed.
“What’s going on? We demand answers!”
Councilwoman Beatica looked as terrified as the rest. Ryoka spun. Beniar and the Darksky Riders were dismounted, keeping people back. Rie looked at Ryoka.
“The [Witches].”
“What?”
“His Majesty says flight is unlikely to succeed. He is calling upon the coven to stop the fires if they can. Can they?”
