Pulling the flames—all of them—after her. They roared across the ground, leaving the village, leaving the [Witches]. Burning her.
And still, her back was so straight. Her head rose, despite the agony, and she sat, dignified. Proud.
A [Witch] of legends. Wiskeria’s eyes were blurring with tears, but she had to see. The [Witch] rode ablaze with light, slower, now, the horse stumbling through that empty field. And she laughed. She cackled. With triumph and regret and all her craft. Wiskeria sobbed.
“Mother. Mother!”
The tears ran down her cheeks, and she screamed. Far ahead, the rider was slowing. The horse was failing. And the woman slumped in the saddle. But on they went. A blazing pair, their steps slowing as the flames found nothing left to take. They burned the [Witch]. Devoured her down to her bones, now. And there she stopped. Still sitting upright in that saddle, a skeleton holding onto a burning hat.
Wiskeria ran towards her mother, weeping.
“No. No.”
The Drake flew downwards, screaming. He was spent, coughing. But he had his spear. He dove. And Alevica’s crossbow bolt struck him in the chest. The Drake twisted, and the [Witch] slashed at him, cutting his arm. He snarled and slashed at her, and she flew backwards.
A shriek pierced the black sky. Mavika dove, a monster of wings, and the Drake screamed and struck at her. She ignored the jabbing spear and tore at him.
To earth he fell, snarling. He stood, bleeding, and drank from a bottle. He charged with his spear raised at the old [Witch] who he saw first. And the [Executioner]’s axe caught him across the neck.
“[Headman’s Last Cut].”
The [Infiltrator] jerked. The Oldblood Drake, the smiling man, twisted. He looked into Hedag’s eyes as the axe cut into his neck and shoulder. He jerked away, stumbling. His life’s blood spattered to the ground. Hedag lifted her axe for a second strike, but the Drake spat one last plume of fire, warding her off.
“Healing potion. Healing…”
He reached for it. And he drank it. Splashed it on the wound. But it refused to close. The Drake gazed up into Hedag’s eyes. And she smiled like the sun.
The Drake searched around. The [Witches] stood around him. He reached for his spear. But his arms were out of strength. He gasped, trying to slow the blood with one claw.
“I am one. Just one. Someday, Humans. We will bring you all to justice. Every last one.”
The [Witches] said nothing. They watched as the Drake slowly sat down. He gazed at the blood on his claws. Faintly, slowly, the [Infiltrator] looked up.
“I’m cold.”
He stared up at the sky and died. The [Witches] watched. Then they turned as Wiskeria wept and the last of the fire went out. They bowed their heads and removed their hats.
Rain began to fall.
 
—–
 
Charlay found Ryoka. The Centauress was weeping, running from burnt logs to felled trees, calling Ryoka’s name. She found the young woman lying on the ground. Her potions had been destroyed by the fire. Her clothes were barely intact, more fused to her charred flesh than anything.
But she was alive. Charlay hugged her and gave her potions, her hands slipping. It was wet. The rain was falling on the charred landscape. A light drizzle. It hurt Ryoka until the potions did their work. Gently, Charlay carried her back to the others. Ryoka muzzily kept asking whether the others were okay.
Some had died. Two-thirds of the people who had tried the river had perished. Mayor Rodivek had died along with many of Lancrel’s folk. Somehow, Councilwoman Beatica had survived. As if to prove that the fire had taken lives without discrimination.
Those who had fled by ground had perished almost down to the last person. The fire had been too much for anyone on foot or even horseback to outrace. Only Riverfarm remained.
What there was of it. For the fire had eaten away at a number of houses on the edge of the village of Riverfarm, but it hadn’t consumed the village. Nor had it touched the people who’d sheltered in the field. Between the [Witches] and the…end…Ryoka found most alive. Many were burned, but there were healing potions and bandages.
She saw the corpse and rider and the gathering as Charlay brought her through the crowd. Durene helped Ryoka off Charlay’s back and carried her. Ryoka asked to be put down, though she had to lean on her friends. She had to see. She stumbled forwards as the people parted. And her sigh was the only sound in the world.
“Belavierr.”
The fire had burnt her away. Her and the horse. It had made her thinner, burnt at her flesh, reduced the horse into barely…but still she sat there. There was no orange glow in her sockets. No clothing left. Just a body. She and the horse still stood upright. Two charred figures fused into one.
The [Witch] had died mid-laugh, her head thrown up to the sky. Ryoka wondered what Belavierr’s last expression had been. Happy?
People were kneeling around her, staring up at the woman. Not a single person had been spared the flames—but she had taken their death. Ripped it from them. Saved them all.
A bad witch? Ryoka had never seen a better one. She had saved Ryoka, too. The Wind Runner whispered numbly.
“I thought I could stop it.”
One of those gathered around the body glanced up. Wiskeria was kneeling by her mother’s corpse, unmoving. Mavika looked at Ryoka. She bled, but the poison had been tended to. Her expression was sad. Nothing more. She nodded at Ryoka as the other [Witches] gathered around her. Eloise was speaking to Wiskeria, her eyes on the corpse disbelieving—but her words resolute.
“You could not prevent her death. But without you she might have died in vain. She made her choice. And she died a true [Witch].”
Ryoka regarded what remained of Belavierr. It was true. It had been a truly epic magic to end it all. She had contained a wildfire’s inferno in her body and carried it away from Riverfarm. All of it. The fire that had spread for miles had gone out with the [Witch].
And she was dead. Ryoka didn’t know what to say. Searching around, no one did. The people of Riverfarm silently looked on as Wiskeria wept for her mother. They had hated and feared her in life. She had killed Ser Raim, turned Tagil against his companions and to his death. She had manipulated, stolen life, and she had committed atrocities Ryoka couldn’t even imagine. But she had died for her daughter.
Her coven stood around her. Mavika watched in silence, her crows circling, her raven perched, watching. Eloise gazed at Belavierr, mystified, her hat resting in her hands. Hedag leaned on her axe, seeming old and tired and full of grief. Alevica was just sitting, staring up at the [Witch].
Wiskeria wept until there were no more tears, and she just lay there. At last, Prost spoke. He jerked his eyes away from the corpse.
“She deserves to be put to rest. We’ll cremate her? Or should we bury…?”
He looked around. Ryoka stared at him, and the man regarded her blankly.
“She deserves a proper funeral.”
Wiskeria raised her head at that. Her eyes were swollen, but she had finished weeping. At least for now. She stood, Mavika and Eloise supporting her.
“Fire is fine. She won’t mind. It’s only her…body. Besides, it was her death. She wouldn’t care.”
The villagers looked at each other. And slowly, they found wood. Still—glowing embers. They took the remains of houses. Built a pyre larger than any Ryoka had ever seen. It surrounded the [Witch], still mounted. And Wiskeria herself lit it. She had no words to say beyond a whispered goodbye. No one else could say anything.
“Goodbye, Mother.”
Ryoka watched the fire burning upwards, licking at the wood that refused to burn in the light rain. The fire slowly, reluctantly, built.
A pyre for a great witch. One last painful flame…and as they were about to light it, one last time, the last of the coven appeared in the distance.
A woman on horseback and a short figure on a pony. Ryoka had hoped—expected that if anyone had survived, it would be these two.
It gave her a slight smile, and she raised her hand. Riverfarm’s people murmured, without surprise, and Ryoka wondered how Witch Califor would arrive. Ashamed? Unapologetic for riding away?
Ryoka could not blame her. The two rode forwards, the girl on the pony riding hard. The older [Witch] rode slowly, a strange languid motion to her passage, and Ryoka’s lips moved to shout.
“Nanette! Calif—”
A sudden hiss from beside her made Ryoka pause. Mavika, eyes shaded, had stared at the two distant figures. Her crow-eyes had seen something Ryoka had not, and as the Wind Runner turned back, she saw Eloise blanch.
“No. She didn’t—”
The [Witches] looked ahead, then behind, and Ryoka, like a silly girl, stared at their faces. Then the racing girl, riding on horseback, leaving the [Witch] behind. Then—Ryoka heard a shout from Nanette, who rode, crying something out.
A horrified, weeping shout from a daughter. A desperate scream.
“Mother!”
The fire was rising around the burnt [Witch]. As Nanette rode towards Riverfarm, she saw the blaze rising higher. But she almost threw herself onto the flames. Ryoka stared at her until Hedag seized the girl, and the pony reared, screaming, and fled from the flames. But Nanette kicked and tried to leap onto the pyre. Hands outstretched, tears in her eyes.
“Mother! Mother! Mommy!”
The sound broke the silence. It twisted the solemnity, turned it to confusion and discord. Ryoka raised her head. She saw Nanette struggling, tears running down her face.
Wiskeria stared at Nanette. She looked at the burning corpse. Her mother.
“Mother? Nanette, that’s Belavierr. Wait, was she your…?”
No, that couldn’t be right. Belavierr, Nanette’s mother? Wiskeria stared at Nanette without comprehension. There was nothing to support…
Ryoka turned slowly. She felt it. The coven gazed up. Wiskeria held Nanette as the blood drained from her face. Slowly, Ryoka looked to Hedag, who had let go of Nanette and stepped back. And Hedag’s eyes were fixed on the woman riding towards them in the distance.
“Miss Califor?”
She was so distant, yet. Unhurriedly returning after it was all over, sitting tall on her stallion. A tall, imposing woman. Robes so dark as to be almost midnight, but blue, with a splendidly large hat.
Witch Calif—Ryoka’s head swung back to the burnt figure on horseback, to Nanette, screaming as she reached for the dead [Witch]. Then back to ‘Califor’.
And her treacherous eyes revealed the truth: it was not Witch Califor, a tall woman, but not that tall. Face calm as she surveyed the devastation and death.
Relaxed, even triumphant. Regarding the ash-filled sky and mourning people as if they were amusements she were passing by.
Then, Ryoka understood and lost the ability to speak or even think.
Belavierr rode back into Riverfarm as the people looking for Miss Califor turned and saw not the woman who had saved so many, but the Spider, the Witch of Webs. They fell back in shock, turned to statues themselves. Looked up and met her callous eyes. And she?
She smiled in the best of moods and tipped her hat, and they flinched and fled. Stumbling away from her like scattering leaves.
Wiskeria’s eyes were locked on her mother’s face. The coven turned to the burning witch—and now Ryoka saw Nanette’s face. Filled with tears and grief and guilt. And her throat—
A brown choker, a ribbon, tight around Nanette’s neck. As Belavierr dismounted and lifted a hand, it unravelled, and Ryoka recognized it. The ribbon Belavierr had given Nanette.
Hidden in her hair. Then—Ryoka was sick enough to vomit, and only the horror kept it in. Belavierr walked forwards as the ribbon slithered away from Nanette and towards her. She tucked it into her cloak.
When she halted, she just stood there. In front of the coven. Surrounded by Riverfarm. Facing the burning [Witch]. A monster dressed in darkness, the greatest smile of satisfaction on her face.
Belavierr spread her arms wide, wide, and her beaming grin grew. She turned to Wiskeria, the folds of her robes fluttering in the breeze. With ash and death drifting from the folds of her dress. With damnation falling with each word from her mouth.
“My beloved daughter.”
The mourners looked up. Then they turned to the burned [Witch]. And they understood. Ryoka stared into Belavierr’s eyes, and she saw Belavierr’s true heart. The Stitch Witch’s spread arms beckoned Wiskeria, a mother inviting her daughter to leap to her arms.
“I found a way to live and save you, Daughter. Come to my arms.”
Wiskeria stood there, looking back at the real Miss Califor. The burnt witch. At Nanette, who had begun to scream until she had no voice—and then at her mother.
Her mother who had done what she always did: trade.
In this case, a life for a life. Nanette’s…the brown ribbon…for Wiskeria and all of Riverfarm’s. And Belavierr’s.
A glorious bargain. She looked so satisfied with herself. So pleased—
Belavierr didn’t react to Ryoka until the Wind Runner was almost on top of her. Then her gaze flicked sideways, and Ryoka, screaming, punched Belavierr in the chest. She drew something—a knife—and stabbed Belavierr in the side.
Or tried to. Her blade skidded off Belavierr’s dress. Ryoka punched Belavierr in the face, in the chest, and her fist nearly broke. Belavierr tilted her head.
“Ah, Ryoka Griffin. What a fine day it is, isn’t it?”
The Wind Runner tried to murder her—and Belavierr stared at Ryoka and flicked her aside with one hand. Then she looked up.
“Hello, my coven.”
The [Witches] looked at her. A [Witch]. A fellow [Witch]. They had not judged her, not before this. Now?
Alevica drew a wand and sword. Mavika’s claws were talons. Eloise drew a wand, and Hedag lifted her axe.
Mavika slashed across Belavierr’s face. Eloise fired a glowing, pink spell into Belavierr’s side, and Hedag brought her axe down as Alevica fired two shots from her wand at Belavierr’s leg.
The Witch of Webs did not react. She tilted her head as Mavika slashed through her features, claws rending her nose, tearing apart her face and eyes—
And in the next second, Belavierr’s features were whole. The three spells struck her robes and did nothing. Hedag brought her axe down—and it bit deep. Belavierr lifted a hand and caught the axe as Hedag tried to drive it deeper through her shoulder to cleave her in half.
She gently removed the axe and tossed it aside.
“Ah, a coven no longer, I see. I grant you those blows, sisters, as proof of the friendship we shared. But I tell you it was the best deal I struck. For Riverfarm, for me, and for thee. Now, begone, little women. I wish to speak to my daughter.”
They kept attacking her, and Ryoka, sobbing, tried to tackle Belavierr, grab a leg—move her. She could not. Belavierr’s head swung down towards Ryoka, and she gently picked Ryoka Griffin up. Put her on her feet.
