Hedag’s aquamarine gemstone. It hadn’t been cut. And perhaps it had a fault or it was simply that Hedag’s focus wasn’t strong enough to contain the magical battle. The aquamarine ensnared in the vessel of water cracked. The web of string binding it snapped apart. The [Witches] went flying as the magical backlash boomed and threw them from the circle into the river.
Wiskeria pulled herself out, screaming.
“No!”
She tried to get back, but it was too late. The octagram was shattered, and above—
The cloud began to fragment and dissolve away. The rain stopped falling.
 
——
 
In the sky, the Oldblood Drake went flying as well, the scroll bursting with the backlash. He was falling! He flapped desperately, righting himself before he crashed on the ground—and then gazed up and crowed triumphantly.
“Agent? Successful casting after 34 burnouts of scrolls. Confirm!”
“Confirmed! We did it! Going dark and—”
The gleeful Drake began to respond when he saw the fragmenting cloud above him. The raincloud had begun to dissolve in patches as fast as it had come. Literally breaking apart. His smile froze on his face.
“No. Wait—”
In horror, he saw a patch of cloud fading away stop—shiver—and halt. Then it joined the patch it had left as a strand of black laced through the sky. Almost like—
His eyes lowered to Riverfarm. And there she stood.
The Witch of Webs reached up—and began to stitch the cloud together.
 
——
 
They called her the Spider. Temptress. The Eater of Threads. The Witch of Calamity. Mistress of Strands.
She had many names, but she had never shown them any of it. Even when Ser Raim had come to kill her, the armies and monsters she had summoned had been defensive.
Not once had Belavierr worked her great magic a-purpose. So even the other [Witches] could be forgiven for forgetting her talent.
Only her daughter had seen Belavierr work. Now—the [Witch] stood on top of the river’s waters. She balanced on the surface, as if the roiling water were simply an uneven piece of ground. And her head was turned skywards.
Her eyes were aglow with wrath. Anger. The ritual was shattered, their raincloud dissolving. No one bested her.
So Belavierr reached up, and with a thread made of air and wind, something even Ryoka could barely comprehend, she began to reknit the sky, gathering the rain and clouds back together again.
Even the other [Witches] seemed unable to believe what they were seeing. Hedag, Eloise, Alevica…only Califor and Mavika traded significant glances.
“Rain. Come now, harder, to drown the land. Remember my name. I call you down. Pour harder, a storm for the ages. Harder, this witch calls! A maelstrom rages!”
Belavierr’s arms were thrown wide. She spun slowly, and the sky began to swirl like the beginnings of a hurricane.
Someone was laughing. Wiskeria realized—it was her. She looked up, and her mother was there, like the mother that Wiskeria had loved, who had called the moon and caught gigantic fish by the sea.
All for her. Belavierr’s eyes flicked sideways as Wiskeria stood there, laughing, hat raised. Then, for one good moment, the mother saw the daughter was proud of her, and the daughter could be so unabashedly.
The sky began to truly bring a torrent down, and smoke was rising in every direction as Riverfarm’s folk cheered wildly. The wildfires were going out! The dry land was begging for the rain, and Belavierr smiled at her daughter, beckoning.
“Come join me, Daughter, and I will show you how to command the sky.”
Wiskeria hesitated at the edge of the river and began to step onto it. Magic was flickering in the air; that damn Drake and his city were still trying to kill the rain, but they were up against Belavierr’s magic.
What could they do? Strike at her? Califor glanced up and seized her staff.
“Magic attacks.”
“Too far and too few. Guard me, coven. With me, Daughter.”
A bolt of lightning flashed down, and Califor tossed her staff like a spear; the bolt of lightning followed the staff as it landed a hundred paces away and struck it. Two more hit the staff like a lightning rod, and Belavierr smirked at the skies. Eloise lifted a hand.
“Valmira’s Comets, now. Oh my. I can do one…[Deft Hand].”
She was far less showy than Belavierr, but one of the two comets moved, and its trajectory carried it into the forest.
“Argh, a Hedag I am, not some [Battlemage]! Still—this one I can take.”
Hedag was more direct—she just picked up a crate filled with someone’s possessions, dumped the clothing and goods to the ground, then hurled the crate skywards. It hit the falling comet, detonated—
Belavierr, laughing, saw the last feeble attack coming her way. Mavika called upwards.
“[Flamestrike]. Guard her, flock.”
It seemed as though a cloak of feathers whirled across the air; birds by the hundred. They blocked a glowing jet of flames coming down and dissipated it high above. The birds circled, cawing victory, and Wiskeria began to cackle now, joining her mother’s voice.
All of this, and they couldn’t match a [Witch]’s might! The air was filled with rain and flame—she felt the unnatural fires in the distance, struggling, as Belavierr forced them to die. Water in the sky—triumph in her mother’s eyes.
Dying fire in the skies. The [Flamestrike]’s magic was just mage-magic; once defeated by Mavika’s magic, it became aimless fire magic, rapidly vanishing. Whorls of random fire drifting down amidst the rain.
A single spark drifted down as Wiskeria raised her eyes. A fading, dying ember. Just like Ser Raim’s eyes.
Wiskeria’s triumphant laughter halted. Why had she remembered that man’s face? Wiskeria looked up and then at her mother, and suddenly, her joy in her mother’s craft was bittersweet.
The spark fell down, then another, seeming to condense out of the air. Nothing like the spell itself…a tiny bit of light smothered by the rain.
But not going out. Belavierr was too busy luxuriating in her triumph, the power of the storm above, and her daughter’s delight. Yet Wiskeria’s eyes tracked a third falling spark, and her time as an adventurer told her something.
Strange. That magic shouldn’t do this. The sparks showered down—more, now—and Califor, watching for another attack, noticed.
“That’s not a spell. Witch Belavierr—”
She called out, but Belavierr didn’t hear. Wiskeria stumbled on the moving river; she couldn’t walk it like her mother so easily.
“Mother—”
Belavierr heard that, as ever, and saw Wiskeria point up. At a falling spark. She looked annoyed, at first, by the tiny thing and flicked her hand. The dying ember fizzed as rain struck it…spiraling downwards.
Straight at the Witch of Webs. Then Belavierr’s face grew puzzled. Her ringed gaze focused on the tiny fragment, and she stared at the burning spark for a second. Then her expression changed to one Ryoka had seen only once before.
Fear.
Horror.
Wiskeria remembered Ser Raim driving his sword into the Spider’s heart. A purifying flame. A burning torch, an inferno of her magic and tapestry of power, turning it all to ash.
Two deaths, Belavierr had said. The [Witch] tried to take a step back. She flung out an arm, and the needles shot forwards, trying to stab the tiny fragment out of the air. But the burning spark landed on her dress like a fragment of Ser Raim’s flame.
Like a match—
Belavierr burst into flames. It was as if she were made of oil; one second, she was recoiling, eyes wide, mouth open—the next?
Burning, like the moments before Ser Raim had died. Engulfed in horrific flames.
She stumbled and suddenly lost her footing. Belavierr splashed into the river, and Wiskeria, losing her mother’s aid, landed in the water.
“Mother!”
Above her, the clouds suddenly unknitted, and Califor shouted.
“No!”
She reached up, straining, trying to keep the rainclouds together, but they broke apart. And below? Wiskeria, treading water, thought her mother would rise, the flames gone out. Then she looked into the turgid waters and saw—
A burning woman flailing in the water itself. The river heaved—Belavierr stumbled out of it, pouring water and steam.
The flames refused to die. Then she was writhing on the ground, shrieking.
“She’s on fire! Help, put it out!”
Wiskeria was swimming for shore as Ryoka said the unnecessary, but the Wind Runner tried to help smother the flames—and recoiled from an insane heat. She looked around, grabbed a blanket someone had been meaning to use to carry their possessions, and tossed it, wet, onto Belavierr.
The blanket caught flame. And Belavierr’s scream was growing higher and higher pitched now.
“W-water! Get—”
The river water was useless and burnt into steam the moment it touched Belavierr. Wiskeria was trying to pull the flame off her mother with magic, but it was the same. The exact same.
An echo of Ser Raim’s flame. Her mother was still—
She was still burnt. And a single spark had the same effect as an ember to a vat of oil. Wiskeria was about to leap forwards and use her very body to try and smother the fire when someone shoved her aside.
“Move!”
Eloise tossed what turned out to be a full pot of tea over Belavierr. It was a good toss; the tea extinguished much of the flames, and Belavierr ripped at her dress, tossing the fragments away. She was burnt; not badly, but burnt, and she leapt away, unnaturally quick.
“His flame—”
Califor strode forwards to grind her boots over the burning dress. She snapped at Belavierr.
“Get back!”
The Witch of Webs did just that. She backed away—and Ryoka saw the same thing happen again. A spark, multiple sparks, burning from the dress flickered into the air. And instead of going out—
They homed in on Belavierr. Hedag grabbed one with her bare hand, grimacing, and Eloise trapped another in her pot—
The rest of them set Belavierr aflame. Once more, the [Witch] was screaming. And now—she was running.
Not back towards the river. Towards Riverfarm, through the village. Wiskeria ran after her, calling for Belavierr to come back, but her mother was fleeing. As if trying to outrun the fire itself clinging to her.
Running through the village, and as she passed by abandoned houses, Wiskeria saw a lantern in a window flicker as she passed. A fire from one of the kitchens blazed—
Anything, a candle, an oven’s fire—jumped to her and added to the [Witch]’s agony. Belavierr left the village, fell to the ground, and began to roll—then stopped.
Burning as the rain stopped, the skies cleared, and a Drake shrieked triumph—
Her daughter halted in horror as Belavierr lay there, burning, burning, eyes wide, mouth open in incredible agony until slowly, slowly, the fire died. She lay, smoking, skin charred black, eyes too-white in a body filled with ash. No magic to cloak her injuries this time. Belavierr lay there, then flinched as she stared at the sky.
Smoke was rising again, and now? She reached for the sky, and her arm fell back, limp. She lay there, and Wiskeria spoke.
“Mother?”
“Ah. I see my death remains. So that was how it came.”
That was all Belavierr said. So this was her second death. She looked up towards the skies and waited. The fires resumed burning. Her eyes stole to her daughter, and she lay there, now, seeing it.
Fire. Flames she would have laughed at a week ago—now, each spark a mortal conflagration. Death for the Witch of Webs. Death for Riverfarm.
Here it came.
 
——
 
The disappearance of the stormcloud seemed like a trick, at first. However, as the minutes grew, the flames that had almost been smothered regrew. Some had gone out entirely, but the embers had lingered under peat or other burnable fuels.
It would have taken more than a brief shower to end this. Yet it almost had ended—the Drake didn’t understand what had happened. He put it down to providence as he relit flames and watched them grow. If this was some trick of the [Witches]—no, he doubted they were willing to let the fires rage. Something had taken out the Witch of Webs.
The sky was dark with smoke, but no rain fell. The Drake breathed out, and he unsteadily glared at Riverfarm. Then he unfurled the last two scrolls and nodded. His expression was dark as he watched Riverfarm, no longer confident. Wary.
He bared his teeth as he flew, searching for the final spot to finish his mission. Almost…then it would be over. Ancestors, he was weary, but he murmured a promise.
“Time to end this.”
 
—–
 
“She has been marked for death by flame. It has burnt away every protection Belavierr had, made her weaker to it. A single spark carries a dead man’s vengeance. Should the fires reach her, even she would not remain.”
It was Mavika who diagnosed what had happened hours later. Belavierr, the Witch of Webs, sat in the house allotted to her.
In a bed.
Ryoka had never actually seen Belavierr lying down. It had felt like she didn’t need to sleep, and in truth, she was not really sleeping. She was staring blankly ahead, fingers twitching, so badly burnt that they hadn’t even been able to undress her; her clothing had fused with her skin.
She looked…horrible. Like she had after fighting Ser Raim, but the difference was that this time, she didn’t disguise her ruined flesh. The fires had burnt Belavierr badly. Worse, in a way, than Ser Raim.
No, this was all his doing. It was clear Belavierr was now weak to flame in an extraordinary way; a single spark would actually follow after her and try to set her on fire.
If that wasn’t vengeance, Ryoka didn’t know what was. It was odd to think the [Knight] had cursed Belavierr in a way that even Mavika found impressive. As it was, the Crow Witch’s voice was flat.
Grim.
“Each flame saps her power; if it were mere flesh, she would endure.”
“Is this—is this permanent?”
Poor Wiskeria. Ryoka was here to observe and report back to Riverfarm. All the hope and jubilation of the ritual succeeding had turned back to fear. The [Witches] had called the rain; the Drake had broken their magic. They might have bought time with the brief rainfall, but not much.
And now Belavierr, their trump card, if a deadly one, was almost comatose. Mavika hissed a reply.
“I doubt it is. Your mother can remake any ward, repair any damage, from flame to sword. But that takes time she does not have.”
Time none of them had. Wiskeria took a breath and nodded.
“You’re—you’re right, Mavika. She’s mentioned being cursed like this before. Of all the times—!”
The irony was that Raim’s vengeance had come at the one moment when Belavierr was doing something good. And now—Ryoka got it.
Belavierr’s second death was more dangerous than the first. She would have laughed at the wildfire before this. Now? It was the most deadly thing imaginable.
We’re screwed. No—Ryoka was determined to do something. She cleared her throat, looking around.
