“Death is a far more complicated concept than merely being the antithesis of life energy,” Lyra explained. “Death is both a state of being and a transformative process. Yes, while it’s true that the most common expression of death is through the layman’s definition of the end of life, the concept is far broader than merely that. It’s the process of something ending, changing into a state of nonexistence. Death is when stars burn out and disappear, when a river evaporates and turns into a canyon, or when metal rusts and corrodes, turning brittle before eventually falling apart. In some ways, you can say death is not only the transformation of life, but the transformation of existence into a state of death. Compared to many other concepts, it just happens to be primarily focused on erasing the one thing all entities share that allows them to be classified as alive: souls.”

Jake had expected a brief answer that would leave him with plenty of follow-up questions, but instead, he got a far more in-depth explanation than he’d imagined. It definitely gave him some food for thought, though it still left him with some questions.

“If death is the end of existence, how come undead beings can even exist?” Jake asked, knowing this was definitely a far too complex question for C-grades to possibly know the true answer to.

Casper looked in thought for a moment, and as Jake was fully prepared for another semi-joking answer, he got a very genuine one that also allowed the Risen to get around knowing the answer to something that complex himself.

“While I would love to sound as knowledgeable and insightful as Lyra, I’ll just parrot what my Patron said instead: the Risen are not dead; we are undead. Beings who once met death, embraced it, and found existence after the fact. But being undead still means we are susceptible to death. That we exist. We are not immune to the concept; nobody and nothing is. Everything can die, even the gods and Primordials, and one day, perhaps even the multiverse itself shall experience the true finality of death.”
