In my eyes, the remnants weren’t soul fragments; they were moving chunks of experience; and not in the ‘if I kill them, I’ll earn experience’ kind of way. No, the remnants were experience points shaped and animated by death energy. Using my skill on the remnants didn't cause any feedback as living people did, so I could stare at them indefinably, meaning there wasn’t truly a soul in any form there.

I wasn’t 100% sure, but I’d wager these remnants were composed of the experience that naturally dissipates after something dies. Somehow the death energy must have gathered them and made the specter before me. They were the outer part of a goblin’s soul; that's why they take on their appearance. And if that was true….

I could devour these ‘ghosts’ without fear of repercussion. They weren’t alive by any definition, so it should be ok. So, holding my hand out, I start to activate Soul Devourer.

“They won’t bother us while we sleep; if anything, they'll keep any local wildlife away. You, ok?” Tabitha’s voice brings me back to the present.

I swallow a lump in my throat. What the hell was that; I almost activated my tier 6 skill even though Tabitha is right there! It was like as soon as I justified absorbing them, I didn’t think about anything else!

“I’m fine,” I force a smile. “Just getting used to their presence,” I add when Tabitha doesn’t appear to be convinced by my lie.

Tabitha’s eyes narrow, but she doesn't push me more than she already has. "Alright then, you took first watch last night, so I’ll go first tonight.”

“Sounds good,” I quickly wrap my rain poncho around me and use it to cover my face, so Tabitha can't see my panicked expression. I roll on my side, facing away from her, and question why I almost did something so stupid. And perhaps worst of all, why a part of me still wanted to devour the remnants, consequences be dammed.

Since the Grey thing, I haven't used Soul Devourer; I thought I was above being affected by the skill, especially since Mental Resistance recently hit level 60, but I guess I was wrong.

This was not something I wanted to deal with right before I entered the most dangerous place I’d ever been in both my lives and that included the mine I lost my life in.

I try to bury my feelings of unease, but my usual tactic of hiding my emotions deep down wasn't helping me this time.

Tonight was going to suck!
