Most vexing to him was how the boy seemed resistant to Zian's Aura, despite clearly being affected by it. It should have been impossible, no person could withstand an Aura without either condensing their own or being protected by another's, and the boy's lack of Aura was apparent. The Bekhai cheated somehow, he was sure of it, but those worthless Justicars ignored his accusations, only stating that there was no indication of wrongdoing. That only left the possibility that those savages had some method to escape detection, otherwise it would have been impossible for the boy to fight whilst suppressed. Even the greatest warriors would be unable to act without adequate protection when facing an Aura, it was the way of things.

Coughing to draw their attention, Lin Xiang Gu's jowls wobbled as he spoke, feigning disinterest as he sipped his tea. “The Lin Clan will be withdrawing their support in this matter; it is a fruitless endeavor.” A loud slurp followed his declaration, finishing his cup before slowly standing to leave, clasping his hands in an empty gesture. “My condolences to you all on your losses.”

“Hold!” Yang's palm crashed into a nearby shelf and the heavy wood blew apart, showering the area with splinters. To his credit, the fat, bulbous toad did not flinch, turning calmly to meet his murderous gaze. “Your Lin clan sat by, expecting to reap without sowing, and now you think you can walk away without consequence?” Wei Sheng and Duan Fu chimed in agreement, three warring adversaries united against a common foe.

“Reap without sowing?” A sickening smile pasted on his ugly face, Xiang Gu feigned innocence before them. “True, the Lin Clan sent no champion to fight, nor did the White Lotus Sect, but you took it upon yourself to make that decision. We did not ask to have a slave represent us, nor did we agree to surrendering, you made those decisions on your own, hoping to save your precious nephew. I do not fault you for your actions, but your actions have made it clear that the Lin Clan is unneeded in your mind.” Turning to leave, he spoke over his shoulder. “Perhaps things would have been different if a Lin championed the match, but now, we will never know.” The White Lotus Elder quickly followed, scurrying out without a word with her entourage, rats escaping a sinking ship.

Damned politicians, a few sentences from him and the room turned against him once more, every person present choosing to lay the blame solely at his feet once more. The accusations flew furiously, both remaining factions uniting against him, shouting loudly over one another to be heard. His face grew ugly as his anger mounted under the barrage of insults and disrespect, none of those present noticing until too late.

Bursting into action, his arms swept about him in two heavy-handed swipes, batting aside Duan Fu and Wei Sheng with a single strike each. Their guards reacted almost instantly, but still not quickly enough as his Aura crashed into them, suppressing them into inaction, frozen in their fear. Smashing into the press of bodies with a roar, he set about breaking bones with reckless abandon, venting his fury on these upstart dogs. Even in his rage, he made sure not to kill them, crippling a dozen soldiers within seconds before moving on to the next group to draw his ire.

Within seconds, there were no guards left for him to beat, the only sound in the room their pained moans as they lay upon the floor, beaten and broken. This was how it should have been, Zian killing the savage runt without a struggle. Turning his murderous gaze to the two leaders, he felt immense satisfaction in seeing them cower before him, knowing their lives depended solely upon his mercy. He spoke slowly, his deep voice heavy and hoarse. “What's done is done. I will hear no more of our failures, but know this to be true: I will have my vengeance against the Bekhai. Their day of reckoning will come.” Staring at one, then the other, he made sure they acknowledged his words before continuing. “You are left with a choice. Either aid in my efforts and be given equal portion of the spoils, or leave now and earn my enmity, like those other cowards.”

Quivering like children before their father, Duan Fu and Wei Sheng both looked at one another before gingerly picking themselves up and turning to leave. Yang watched them closely, marking them both for death in the days to come. “One more thing.” They cringed at the sound of his voice, thoroughly cowed by his oppressive Aura, and would remain so until they were well away. “Have your people to retrieve this trash laying about. This is my meeting room, not a garbage heap.”

Once out of sight, his mood turned darker as he stormed out and back to his bedroom, cursing his lack of control. A great man would always have enemies, but this time, he allowed his temper to get the better of him, needlessly making enemies of allies, a foolish mistake. Ying followed him in silence, taking a seat on the divan, still clutching Zian's weapons, her face impassive, although he knew her thoughts. Sighing deeply, he sat down next to her and cradled his head. “What am I to do now, sister? Without their aid, I can not defeat Akanai and Du Min Gyu, not with the forces here at my disposal.”

Her fingers brushed through his hair, reminding him of their time as children. She was always there to comfort him in his times of failure, offering kind words and advice, tending to his injuries dealt by his father. “It's simple brother, we do nothing.” He looked up at her in surprise, and she smiled at him, naked pain and fury displayed in her eyes. “We will then meet their demands and my son will be returned to us, before moving on with our lives as if nothing has changed.”

“We are to let this insult stand?”

Scoffing, she waved dismissively. “Idiot, of course not. Here, today, they are united, while you just assaulted our would-be collaborators. Soon however, they will scatter, their cause at an end. Du Min Gyu will return to the Central province, a dangerous journey where anything can happen. Tong Da Hai will be busy rebuilding and reinforcing his city. Akanai and her savages will return home, with our finest scouts shadowing them, learning of their weaknesses. The Bekhai will grow complacent, arrogant in their little victory, all while we will gather information, allies, and resources in the shadows, ready to strike when their guard is down.” She returned to clasping the twin sabers, and Yang watched her rock softly as she hugged the weapons, beside herself with worry for her son.

Shaking his head in amazement, he patted her arm to comfort her. “The Justicars will not mistreat Zian, and even Akanai will not dare refuse mercy. He will be fine, in your arms again tomorrow.” His entire life, his sister had been the smart one, the calm and calculating advisor on his rise to fame. She would have made an excellent Matriarch, far more worthy than Rang Min, bringing untold glory to the Situ Clan under her direction. A pity that the elders were such short-sighted fools, standing against her for mere tradition.

Murmuring a few more reassuring phrases, his mind began to work, pondering over possible allies and options. The Arahant Elder, the one who stormed out of the meeting, he seemed to have a personal grudge against Rain and would make for a good figurehead, distancing himself from any fallout. The merchant Chuwon was another person he should meet with, to discuss the purchase of slaves to aid in the attack.

Within the hour, he was ready to meet with the first of his allies, fondly plotting out his revenge, starting with that maddening child. It would bring him great pleasure to watch the smile fade from his arrogant face, before plucking out his defiant eyes while he still lived. He could be patient, a tiger lying in wait for the stag to lower its guard.

And when the time came, there would be a balancing of scales, in blood and in fire.

Chapter Meme
