The light pulled her from herself. She let it because it was familiar and friendly. She saw herself from the other side. The Viv there was a harbinger of doom and terror, a killer whose aura terrified those around at thirty paces. It spoke of powerful talons, of impenetrable skin, of an unbreakable will and a cloud-like breath that would destroy anything in its path. The Viv in front of her didn’t have a pleasant, diplomatic smile. Auburn hair didn’t rest on her shoulders. Her stained dress and missing sleeves, her bandages had disappeared under a nightmarish armor the color of the abyss. Dark spikes emerged from its surface and danced at the whims of an unseen current. Some of them angled towards her would-be victim. Her green eyes were the only visible parts of her body and in them, there were no signs of mercy. The monstrous woman bore a steel shield covered in unknown sigils and she wielded a blade of pure dark energy. The girl’s family was dead. The green-eyed calamity had slain them where they stood, like the avatar of vengeance the girl thought might come one day to punish them for their crimes. The girl only wished the children could be spared, but she knew, looking in those emerald stones, that they would not.

Viv saw herself and the golden light faded, but with the last spark came a tired request.

STOP.

Viv stopped.

She blinked.

She pulled the draconic intimidation back in.

Neriad’s will had come and gone and she felt more herself. There were five children in front of her, four of whom couldn’t be older than ten years old. They were utterly terrified and mewled pathetically. It smelled of piss. Her gaze crossed that of the older one, the only one with a hint of defiance on top of the terror.

“Run,” she ordered, then she turned around and walked out. Right in time to see a man grabbing the dead hunter’s bow. In his teary face, Viv saw hatred and despair in equal measure. Then she saw surprise.

“SkraaaAAAAA!”

The assassination attempt on Viv’s life ended with a faceful of pissed off dragonette. Arthur bounced to Viv with eagerness, her improvised landing pad not having survived first contact with the enemy.

“Ma petite chériiiiie,” Viv gushed, dropping the cloak to hug her timely savior.

She bent out of habit but soon straightened when she realized Arthur’s head rested on her shoulder without issue, though the dragonette stood on her hind legs.

“Wow, you grew up again.”

Spider queen.

Delicious.

Helps.

I am biggest and strongest!

“Maybe one day. Right! Let’s get out of here, but before that I need to wrap things up. Arthur?”

“Squee?”

“See that house there?”

“Squee.”

“Burn it to the ground.”

The dragonling jaw hung open, though stars shone in her eyes.

Whole.

House?

“To the ground.”

“SKREEEEEEEE.”

Viv let Arthur go incendiary on the accursed place and kneeled on the ground. She used black mana to carve the holy symbol of Neriad into a nearby stump and prayed, immediately feeling the drain on her mana as it was offered to the God of Righteous Combat.

“Since you seem to be paying attention,” she said, “or at least enough of it to make me spare cannibal kids, I’d like you to tell whoever’s responsible out there that I have a message. The message is simple. I have had it with the civil wars, succession wars, gender wars, assassination, coups, and power grabs. I am fed up with the monster attacks, the beastling tides and whatever fucked up thing that tree worm was. The necrarchs and abductions and politics and intimidation and mad races under the moonlight can get fucked as well so now I want to make it absolutely clear that I FUCKING HAD ENOUGH. I am going to have a NICE and RELAXING journey to Helock or I swear to fuck the first thing that stops or sidetracks me will get a disintegration ray the size of a Redwood shoved up a natural orifice so filthy the dark gods themselves wouldn’t touch it with a ten-meters-long rusty poleaxe am I making myself ABSOLUTELY FUCKING CLEAR? HUH?”

Nothing answered but the blazing inferno of the dragonfire-wracked cannibal den. Viv coated herself in mana again to block the heat and left, the scaled menace by her side, like death come to punish the sinners.

***

Far up in the City of the Gods, Neriad stood flabbergasted at the message he had just received.

“But… I had nothing to do with any of it…” he complained.

Meanwhile, Maradoc believed he had found his most entertaining outlander to date.

***

Viv left the burning compound behind her, having spared the outbuilding where the kids lived and, hopefully for them, enough to survive and reach the closest city. She couldn’t be arsed to care about the little shits. They were already lucky not to be screaming minced meat like their previous protein supplements. With the way to Losserec clear, she followed a beast trail due east, only stopping to drink a bit. Arthur was exceptionally protective. No spiderweb escaped her vigilance. More than one squirrel perished between her mighty jaws so they wouldn’t threaten Viv with accidentally dropped nuts or something. Viv appreciated the thought, and the incredible babble of explanation that came with it.

I breathe fire on people behind you!

I am behind you!

Then, you are so far!

I know.

So I fly fly fly.

Flap wings very fast.

Only stop for seven snacks and one bath.

Saw a big bird!

But it didn’t see me.

Sneaky dragon!

Did mother see the big bird?

It was so big!

Looked stringy.

That spider tasted weird.

Oh, pretty flower!

I saw a big tree and smelled you.

But you were gone.

Tree says you were here an instant before.

Senile!

Then I find a mountain.

But you were gone!

And I flew over you.

But couldn’t see.

Searched searched.

Oooooh, what is that thing?

Blegh, it stinks.

Found mother again.

I want meat, can we have meat?

“As soon as we’re inside the city, I’ll get to the bank and then we can have some food and a proper bath.”

If mother… if mother needs gold…

Arthur looked despondently at her pouch, nestled preciously between her claws.

I could… lend you some.

Arthur blinked back a tear of horror at the horrible idea.

With small interest.

Moved by her incredible sacrifice, Viv provided scritches.

“I should have waited before explaining that. In any case, parents should lend or give money to their children, not the contrary. I will accept your proposal only if we cannot get to the bank.”

“Squee!”

“No, we cannot burn it.”

The dragonling’s presence brought with it a sense of normalcy that took away the shadows of what had happened. Viv realized she had fired, no, cast, same difference, on fleeing people.

She had almost killed children. That wasn’t acceptable, even if they had consumed human flesh. They were not responsible for their actions. She had just gone into a dark place, something that had never happened before and should not have happened period. Her high mental stats should have protected her. Or perhaps they had, but she had been through a bit too much, a bit too fast. She didn’t think there were therapists around but she did know she needed a serious break from all the bullshit. Hopefully, Losserec would provide that. She knew Helock could be reached by river ship from there, so a nice eventless cruise might be for the best.

Near noon, Viv was warned of the presence of humans by songs. She reached the edge of the nearest copse and found the end of the forest. A meadow appeared before her, a calm expanse of nice grass with a couple of open tents protecting long tables from the summer sun. Women danced in two concentric circles around a smiling one crowned in flowers, her dress long and well made. As she watched, the music accelerated and the circles swapped, the inner dodging under the extended arms of the outer. They moved clockwise, then back. Some swirled and clapped. The song was a joyous one, wishing the bride much success in Enorian. Men were drinking and playing a distance away around a pair of duelists planting wooden swords in pillow armor. Everyone seemed to be having a merry time around the clearing.

First, one of the women noticed Viv, then another. Her presence soon brought the dance to a stumbling halt. The normalcy, and apparent wholesomeness of the situation had been so weird, so… just not what the world had been for a moment. Viv took a step forward and showed her empty hands for the second time that day. A matronly woman approached her, with a fist gripping her skirt close.

Friends?

“Maybe? Be nice,” Viv said. She used the opportunity for a quick inspect.

[Wise woman: not very dangerous, one who follows the way of the physical and spiritual healer. Minor caster. Life mana user. Resilient. Observant. Pillar of the community.]

The woman came close enough and gasped.

“My poor dear, what happened to you? Come with me, quickly. Are you safe? Are you being pursued?”

“Hmmm I think I’m safe and I don’t think I’m being pursued.”

“Come here, come here. Estrella! A chair and my bag, thank you. Irelle, bring me some boiled water, quickly. The rest of you lot better continue that song. And you dear, come. We will take care of you.”

“Hmm. Thank you,” Viv said, taken by surprise by unexpected kindness.

“Is that a marsh drake? Lord Selok has one, in the city. Expensive beast, I heard.”

“She took good care of me.”

“Good, good, pets are family, I always say. Sit there. Let me have a look at you. ESTRELLA! Ah, here she is. Silly girl. Except the head and arm, are you hurt anywhere?”

“Only scraps and bruises.”

“Let’s see everything. Do you want to eat something? Some meat? We have spit-roasted deer.”

“I couldn’t eat a piece of meat right now, but Arthur might want some if it’s no problem.”

“Squee!”

“Aw she’s adorable.”

The girl called Estrella dropped a massive cotton pouch filled to the brim with supplies and dry herbs on the table.

“The men are here.”

“Hmph,” the matronly woman eloquently replied. “Give me a moment, dearie, old Sanle will make sure we’re safe.”

The conversation happened outside of the tent, and could summarized in the local patriarch asking questions and Sanle telling him to check the perimeter and otherwise leave Viv the fuck alone. Viv took the opportunity to realize that she looked like absolute shit. There was a large scab in her scalp, she had no sleeves to speak of, and a large bandage protected her arm on top of quite a few minor lacerations. Her dress was absolutely ruined and covered in several layers of dry blood.

Sanle returned with a washbasin and started with Viv’s head, checked she didn’t have a concussion, then moved to the arm. The wound had bled quite a bit and it was red and angry. Some pus stuck to the filthy cloth. Sanle cleaned everything thoroughly then grabbed a very thin bone needle with some thread. All the while, she had been smoothly interrogating Viv about her circumstances. The witch had no problem telling her about being lost in the forest following a battle, then monsters inflicting the wounds. She shivered at the memory of the necrarch.

“I need to seal the wound shut before I cast, or else you will have a large scar.”

“Hmm, fair warning. Life mana doesn’t work very well on me,” Viv said, and seeing Sanle blink, decided to elaborate.

“I have a strong affinity to black mana.”

“I see? I didn’t know it worked that way, although I could tell you were a caster from, well, please don’t be alarmed but I have inspection as well.”

Viv did nothing, and when the woman realized that she started to work on stitches. Viv endured in silence. Estrella brought her tea, her eyes widening at the sight of the wound. Viv had a sip and found it nice and fruity.

“This isn’t your first wound, it seems,” Lanse commented idly. She finished and decided to wait until everything was clean before trying to cast.

“It tires me a lot, and it will tire me more if your body resists me.”

The matron returned to cleaning the last few cuts on Viv’s back while the witch had some more tea. She should have checked if there was poison but to be honest, if the old woman wanted to poison her, she could just use an unguent or something. Viv had to calm down. This was civilization.

“Look you have been evasive but as far as I can tell with my skill, truthful as well. If you have secrets, you can keep them. I don’t need to know. I’ll help you anyway.”

“Even in times like these?” Viv asked with some surprise.

“The war never reached Losserec. The borderlands have it tough, we only have higher taxes this year but the harvest has been good. Besides, it’s almost over now. The tyrant’s army surrendered at Green Edge. His majesty Sangor is taking cities as fast as he can reach them. He will occupy the southern capital before the harvest festival, it is said. And you are a witch. The other side doesn’t employ witches. As I said, you can keep your secrets or you can share but no matter what, I’ll send you on your way to the city.”

“Are you sure? I could be a criminal,” Viv retorted, unable to accept any kindness at face value right now.

“Criminals don’t have the lingering aura of Neriad about them, dearie. I am not the strongest but I can see very well.”

The old woman nodded to herself and Viv found that she believed her. It was the same with the inquisitors, who shared a similar skill. They could tell no falsehoods themselves.

She decided that she wouldn’t share who she was because she saw no way that would benefit her, but she would tell the woman about the cannibals. They lived only a few hours away and the smoke of her fires ought to be visible already, or would soon be visible. It was better to give her version first.

