“I was attacked before coming here. An estate by the river. They tried to kill me and when the door of the larder opened…”

Viv let her emotions twist her traits. It was better to appear genuine than tough here.

“There was a woman’s body, or what was left of it anyway.”

“Are you sure?” Sanle whispered, horrified.

“Completely sure. Young woman. She even had a tattoo near her flank, something like an anchor. I didn’t have a good look.”

“Sardanal’s mercy upon us I knew there was something weird with those FUCKERS.”

Sanle stood and approached the tent’s flap. She gave a few orders to get the local patriarch coming. Viv felt kind of bad for ruining the marriage but, well, cannibals.

A short explanation later and the village sent a runner for the local lord, especially after learning that Viv had left survivors. Honestly, it didn’t look like anyone would have regretted her wiping them out, but Viv had to draw the line somewhere. Besides, as she told Sanle, the children could corroborate her tale. The use of a complicated word made the matron frown.

“Right, let’s see if I can close that nasty gash you got. Could you pull your aura in?”

Viv did so. It just required her to push her mana down her conduits towards her core. It wasn’t difficult, just unpleasant.

Despite her efforts, whatever mana Sanle managed to pull failed to make her flesh comply. Viv’s body remained soaked with magic, and what was hers only let itself be pushed languidly, like a sleepy tiger consenting to moving only after much coddling. Sanle stopped barely a couple of seconds after starting.

“I cannot do it. I will collapse before I have closed half of those. You, my dear, are powerful.”

Viv realized the woman had never asked her name. It was an interesting decision.

“Would alchemical healing work?” the matron inquired.

“It has so far.”

“Oh, good.”

Sanle retrieved a small mending potion from a pouch and applied it with much care, first to her arm and then to her head. Viv was healed.

“Thank you.”

“Think nothing of it you poor dear. Have a quick wash and then join the party. They must have exchanged the vows by now. It’s time to eat!”

“Squee!”

“Oh what a clever little girl you are, yes we have meat for ya. I’ll have it ready, don’t you worry.”

They brought her warm water, soap, and a change of clothes. Estrella barged in on Viv mid wash with clean shoes and blushed, which was not expected. Finally, she was invited to the feast. The married couple welcomed her and jokingly asked her if she was a good omen. Viv elected not to reply so she wouldn’t traumatize the poor darlings.

“The bride is my granddaughter, Nissa,” Sanle explained with pride. Viv gave the expected compliments.

Somehow, the sight of her clean and healthy while Arthur ate meat with all the dignity of the baroness relaxed the guests. They kept offering her apologies and well wishes.

“I always said those were some good for nothing dark gods worshippers!” a white-haired busybody growled at her, “Just like that scoundrel my nephew married. From Koltis. Whores and thieves the lot of ‘em!”

“Yes, grandma, why don’t you have some more liquor?” someone else offered.

All in all, Viv had a good time until mid-afternoon. Even the passing guards didn’t give her more than a passing glance after she was vetted by Sanle, though a few guests whispered about her appearance. No one questioned her eye color to her face. In fact, the going theory was that instinctive casters like Viv were strange and had quirks, which Viv found utterly ridiculous. She didn’t have quirks. It was the spark of luck’s fault.

Eventually, the party winded down for the extended family and a taylor family offered to take her back on their cart. Viv accepted, but not before a farewell to Sanle.

“The custom is to offer gifts during weddings, and when you are a guest as well,” Viv said. “So I’d like you to have this. I’m sure either you or your granddaughter will find a use for it.”

Sanle looked at the tiny green-flecked stone on Viv’s palm. It was the brown core she had found on the weird insect thing. It was probably worth half a gold talent or even more, which still represented a large sum for laborers. Sanle understood immediately.

“I can’t accept this,” she said, blanching a bit. “It’s too much for an old wise woman, dearie.”

“Look, you were here for me at a very difficult time. It would make me really happy if you accepted it, and I’m sure you can find a use for it for your family. Please?”

“Oh, you are going to insist, are you not?”

“And I will leave it on the table if you don’t take it.”

“Then… I accept. Thank you. May I ask your name?”

“I’m Viv.”

“Are you sure you are human Viv, not a benevolent spirit?”

“I am definitely human, and most definitely not benevolent. Thank you for everything, Sanle. I really needed a bit of humanity.”
