Before the demon had a chance to ask him what was going on, Callan suddenly blurted, “When I was exploring Magrath, I heard these rumors.”

Pyre raised an eyebrow, but she kept quiet. The ghost was clearly in the middle of one of his rambles, and by now she’d learned that it was best to let him keep talking until he got it all out. It would start to make sense eventually.

As predicted, Callan barrelled on.

“The rumors were about this healer in Galen, by the coast. A really powerful one.” The ghost shifted. “And I know there’s a ton of rumors like this—I swear, everyone freaks out when someone’s got even slightly decent healing magic—and most of it’s fake, but this guy sounds like the real deal. There’s a ton of sources backing him up.”

His eyes darted briefly behind him in the direction of the clearing, and the pieces fell into place. Maybe this healer could cure Daphne, the ghost didn’t say, but the implication was more than strong enough.

“It’s a little out of the way, but it’s not that far off course to Pereth,” Callan continued, words still spilling a mile a minute. “We’ve still got time before we need to get Pax’s… item, whatever it is, and it wouldn’t take long to stop by. Just to check if the rumors’re real. If we follow the main road, we could—”

“Callan,” Pyre interrupted, cutting him off mid-rant once it became clear that he wasn’t planning on stopping anytime soon. The ghost’s jaw clicked shut. He stared at the demon with wide eyes.

“You don’t need to justify it,” she continued. She gestured vaguely around them. “It’s not like I’m in a rush to help Pax. We can check out this healer dude. It’s not a big deal,” she said easily.

Callan opened his mouth, then closed it again. This had clearly not been the reaction he’d expected.

“Really?”

Instead of answering, Pyre tilted her head. One eye honed in on the warmer splotch that had appeared a little ways behind Callan, carefully concealed behind a tree. She raised an eyebrow.

“You good with it?” the demon called out. Callan spun around just in time to see Daphne slowly stepping out from behind the trunk.

The mage was frowning, eyes narrowed as she looked between the two monsters. Her eyes appeared a little more red than usual, Pyre noted, but her expression was hard. She crossed her arms.

“I didn’t join you just to be a liability,” Daphne said. “If you’re going to Pereth, go to Pereth. We don’t need to stop by Galen just for me.” Her words were firm, chin jutting out stubbornly. Callan looked sheepish.

Pyre hummed, considering. Her left arm continued to pulse, the flesh still regenerating. Even at her current level, it took a while for wounds to heal.

“Not really a liability,” the demon finally said. She raised an eyebrow. “A good healer sounds pretty useful to have around.”

The full implication of what she was saying seemed to hit both mages at once. Daphne’s eyebrows shot up.

“Are you… planning on kidnapping this guy?”

At that, the demon just waved dismissively. “Only if he’s actually good,” she drawled.

Callan buried his face in his hands and made a vaguely strangled sound. Daphne shook her head, a disbelieving laugh escaping her throat, but a smile was quickly forming on her face. Pyre settled back against the tree trunk.

“Well then, that’s settled,” the demon said casually. “Next stop: Galen.”
