Legruz took it with a frown. “If you are selling such things, it is not the Illuminators you should worry about, but the Foundry. Do you have a letter for them as well?”

“If we did, it would just say ‘get bent’ in big bold letters,” Ameliah said. “Same for Havenheild, though they at least haven’t tried to kill us yet, so maybe we wouldn’t put Dunch clippings in with that one.” She held up a hand. “We’re not worried about the Bank or their subsidiaries, not in the light of day. We have a plan for dealing with them.”

Rain nodded. He didn’t doubt for a second that Luna had gotten out before the Empire finished their sweep across the continent. He also suspected the Banker would be more willing to deal fairly now that the bulk of his holdings had been seized. Ascension would be his only hope of keeping his status after the Bank’s next wealth assessment—and even that, a thin one.

“This is unbelievable,” Bryz said, looking up from the paper she still clutched. “You really went through all this? How are you still alive? How are you…functional?”

“Determination, luck, and friends,” Rain said.

“Friends we need to get back to,” Ameliah said. “Rain, the time. Remember, we need to get tickets.”

“Right, let’s wrap up,” Rain said. He wasn’t looking forward to the stress he was about to be under. The lift was said to be quite slow, which meant his trip to the surface was going to be an excruciating journey through self-inflicted anxiety. He and Ameliah had both camouflaged their palings to the point that their souls looked precisely as they had upon their descent, but the Guild shaft was called that for a reason. It emptied out in the very house of one of the monsters they’d sensed upon their arrival in the city.

Rationally, he knew it made no difference. If Burrik proved able to see through their countermeasures, he’d see through them no matter where they came out. It nevertheless felt like they planned to take a shortcut through a bear’s den.

“You cannot reveal revelations of this magnitude and then simply leave!” Legruz cried, bringing Rain back to the present. The Illuminator was waving his hands wildly, one holding the flapping Common Knowledge article and the other the as-yet unopened letter. “I have so many questions!”

“Finally, someone who gets me,” Rain said. [Dozer, wake up. Time to go.]

[Not sleep! Guard!]

“He’s a good actor, I’ll give him that,” Genn said, scratching his chin as he watched Legruz’s antics.

[You can guard Grannybrain later. Did you hear me say it’s time to go? That means we’re leaving. This could be your last chance to play with Pitterpatter for who knows how long.]

[!!!]

*Pop*

Ameliah laughed, catching Dozer out of midair before he could launch himself at anyone. “We are going to be so late.”
