The Marilith demon sighed and moved back slightly. “I got that feeling when you stopped fighting to eat.”

“It smelled too good to resist, didn't it?” Ren grinned. “I'm tempted to carve some more of it up to take with me.” He said. “I'm pretty sure you want to keep it for yourself, though.”

“You are so perceptive.” She smiled. “I did summon it, so I should keep it.”

“I agree, and since it's such a huge pig it should last for a while.” Ren said. “Back to the task at hand, I've got most of your measurements, but...” He looked down at her abdomen. “I'm going to have to guess about your... ah... private area.”

“Hm.” The Marilith demon said. “Have I found your weakness?”

“Wh-what?”

“Is the brave Adventurer afraid to touch a monstrous creature...” She ran all 6 hands down her body at once. “...completely?”

“Afraid? No.” Ren said and looked at her face and not at her roaming hands. “Respectful? Yes.”

She bent over and put her face right in front of his. When their noses touched, Ren felt a deep prod in his brain and he didn't try to fight it. After a few moments, the Marilith demon started to breath heavily and the hands on her 2 middle arms reached out and held his upper arms, and the hands on her 2 lower arms took a hold of his wrists.

“Oh... oh, you... you beast.” She puckered her lips and kissed him as the hands on her upper arms touched his shoulders and slid around his back. Since her mouth was almost twice as big as his, her lips covered his mouth and his chin. She broke the kiss a moment later and leaned back, and Ren saw a look of pleasure on her face.

“Um... ma'am?”

“No wonder you are not afraid of me.” She said and smiled sweetly at him. “You are the Royal Consort of the Dark Elf Queen.” Her lower hands pulled his hands in to touch her abdomen. “Please, feel free to 'measure' me in any way you wish.”

Ren blinked his eyes a few times. “Um... why are you... I mean, I appreciate you letting me touch you; but...”

“I 'saw' you together with her.” She smiled sexily. “You alone have done for her what no one else has ever done.” Her upper hands cupped the sides of his head and her middle hands went around his back as she slithered herself closer to him. “You satisfied her.”

“I... ah... can't do that with you.” Ren said, a little sheepishly.

“I know.” She said and used her fingers to fluff his hair a little. “You have commitments you must abide by.”

“Then what...”

“Oh, dear one.” The Marilith demon said and pushed his hands down closer to the piece of cloth that covered her private area. “I don't want my sister to have all the fun.”

“S-s-sister?!?” Ren exclaimed; and Teepo chittered in laughter.
