She tracked the hail of arrows flying out of the inferno with her eyes. All her eyes. Her mind forked a hundred ways, tracking every single one of them. Estimating trajectories. Summoning fist-sized segments of barrier magic in their paths to slow or deflect them. A feat made possible only by her more than two thousand intelligence. And yet even so, tracking all the dangerous attacks, ensuring the arrows didn’t fork into the people she was trying to protect, tracking her minions, and watching the boss – the sheer intensity of it burned in her mind.

Domain mana surged, but it was not the Mass Summoning of the Anarchic Atrocities. The formation eluded her. A deafening peal shook the battlefield, and a searing beam of green and white blasted upward from Nendir’s bow, smashing through Lyeneru and sending her body spinning wildly through the air. The legendary Night Elf’s health vanished, slashed instantly to the tiniest remaining sliver as a horrific explosion of dismembered bits and burning blood rained down upon the adventurers.

Several spells flickered. Healers reacted with emergency spells. The remains of Lyeneru’s tumbling body reassembled itself nearly instantaneously, and she caught herself as her wings re-ignited. How she still had the presence of mind to do such a thing was beyond Ali, but there was no time to dwell on the near disaster.

Another surge of domain mana grabbed her attention. Again, with no discernible spell formation for her to read. A powerful arrow – this one powered by the tainted magic of the pulsating crystal – shot through the center of her Berserker’s torso, splitting in two on the way out and striking a mage and a priest along the way.

The berserker, the mage, and the priest all suddenly froze solid, abruptly encased in an explosive growth of towering jagged purple crystal which was shot through with the dark taint of death magic. It burst outward from within their own bodies to encase them entirely. Through the connection with her giant troll, Ali read the notification.

You have been afflicted with Arcane CrystallizationA corrupt crystal of arcane and death magic has entirely encased your body. It pulses with energy, draining and disrupting your life and mana.+517 health siphoned per second.Mana Corruption (you cannot use mana).Immobilized (you cannot move).Physical Immunity.On death, your remaining mana summons an Anarchic Atrocity.Curse – Domain Magic – Duration: 2 minutes.

Swirling death magic tore life from the victims of the Arcane Crystallization imprisonment, siphoning it away in a dark torrent to feed the Wight. Ali tore a portion of her attention away from her barriers, diverting it to time-critical healing of the imprisoned.

Suddenly, the towering five-meter edifice of crystal trapping her berserker shattered, as her troll’s Blood Rage dispelled the movement-impairing crystal bindings.

One less thing to worry about.

But the domain magic surged again, the cycle repeating. Another dozen Anarchic Atrocities burst forth from the exploding meteors of magic. Moments later, another blast of incredible power vaporized one of Lyeneru’s legs, resulting in yet another mad scramble among the healers. Then, a fresh purple-and-black arrow sprouted an enormous growth of crystal from one of the rogues.

This is insane. How can we even win? Ali had barely enough attention to study the curse, in the vain hope that she might be able to dismantle the crystalline domain magic spell. A brief moment of relief flared within her at the sight of the Legendary Pathfinder righting herself in mid-flight and resuming her artillery bombardment.

Legendary…

Wait. A sudden moment of inspiration struck her. A revelation of pure simplicity – two unrelated ideas connected by a single concept: Legendary.

She reached into her storage enchantment and pulled out a ring.

The Eye of the Lich – level 205The silvery runes etched into this twisted, gleaming band thrum with a dark, malevolent power. The ring is set with a faceted stone forged in the Well of Eternity and cut to resemble a dark eye that continuously leaks a dread energy surrounding the wearer in a noticeable shroud of darkness. +336 Intelligence.+25% spell power to all skills.+273% to Death damage.+200% to Health, Stamina, and Mana Regeneration.+25% to Movement Speed.11% chance to cast level 143 Summon Lesser Undead when hit.Summon Supremacy (percent increases and decreases that apply to you also affect your minions).Mana: Store or retrieve an item. Capacity: 0 / 15000 kg.Requirements: Intelligence 2154.Created by Nevyn Eld in the Well of Eternity.Ring – Nether-Forged Darksteel

With only a moment of hesitation, she slipped the ominous ring onto her finger, replacing her guild ring. Instantly, the world darkened.

Several things happened simultaneously. Every single one of her minions suddenly, inexplicably shrank dramatically, and then sped up. Her healers shone with radiant power, suddenly casting their spells nearly twice as fast. And, if her incredulous senses were to be believed, their spells were landing with vastly more potency. Her mages accelerated, burning from within with spell power and haste so intense it seemed like it would burst from their chests. And all her minions suddenly began regenerating far faster.

Tol’brekk dropped to the ground with a crash, several arrows protruding from his neck. Dead. Gone so fast she couldn’t even react. What the heck? What was that? Moments later, Kir’mogan died. Then her rogues began keeling over like flies.

Panicking a little at these unexpected setbacks, she racked her brains for an answer, but she was interrupted by Malika’s shout.

“Hide! Everyone, take cover! Now!”

The urgency in Malika’s voice was underscored by the sudden vast surge that rippled through the domain, igniting Nendir in a pyre of blazing magic that outshone the inferno of destruction Lyeneru was raining down upon him.

Ali whipped her head around searching for something, anything, but the only cover nearby was Belmar, encased in a gigantic crystalline prison. She dove for it, throwing up barriers everywhere.

The air exploded, filled with a storm of powerful arrows so dense they blotted out the sky. An immense whistling rush surged around the crystal barrier, magic, arrows, and the wind dragged along with them. The deafening roar of a thousand impacts per second blotted out all hope of hearing, an assault on the mind that did not abate in the slightest.

Barriers shattered under the onslaught, and the few minions that didn’t make it to cover were obliterated, ground down, and disintegrated by the storm.

Ali cowered behind the impervious crystal, glancing around at the others who had chosen the same cover, recalling the sheer weight of fear she had experienced under the rain of bone spears the first time she had faced a Skeletal Wyvern. This attack was incomparably more potent, and yet, while her body was shaking, her mind remained remarkably clear.

She studied the curse, Arcane Crystallization. The giant crystalline growth had to weigh several tons and was by far the largest working of curse magic she had ever seen. Death and arcane mana, normally incompatible, blended in intricate formations made miscible by the subtle corruption of both. She could clearly see how it was holding both his life and his mana in a strange, fixed lattice of stasis, while rapidly siphoning his health away on insubstantial trails of mana that seemed to be drawn into the pulsating crystal in Nendir’s heart.

I can’t get hit with this, she realized. She simply did not have enough health. It was a good thing Belmar had more because the healers were having to work hard to keep him stable. Despite the precarious situation and the roaring storm of arrows smashing themselves against the impervious crystal, she found herself fascinated by the subtle intricacies of the magic Nathaniel had wrought. It couldn’t have been Nendir, could it? No, this work smacks of the Archmage himself.

As she studied it, a small portion of her awareness tracked the remaining duration on the other half-dozen crystallized people through the perceptions of her nearby minions, preparing for the worst. If the storm of arrows persisted much longer, she was going to need to save at least one person as the crystal curse expired, and she very much doubted her barriers would be enough.

The last Anarchic Atrocity exploded violently nearby as Mato, with a virtuoso feat of tanking, contrived to keep himself behind a crystal while leaving his attacker exposed. The speed with which the arrow storm destroyed the giant corrupted elemental was terrifying.

Quickly, she mustered extra healing for him and for the strangely weakened minions she had nearby. For a few moments, she puzzled over the novel sensation. Martial Insight and Empowered Summoner were both in the second tier now, and her sense of her minions was far more detailed.

And something was wrong… Very wrong.

In the unexpected downtime, hiding behind an impervious crystal curse with her mind mostly freed from the frenetic chaos, she considered the conundrum. Her minions felt both weaker and stronger somehow. It had all happened when she put on the legendary Eye of the Lich. She glanced down suspiciously at the silvery band on her finger, emitting a strange aura of darkness.

And why did they shrink? Of all things, that was the most inexplicably bizarre.

Then she had it. Realization and understanding crashed down in a deluge of certainty. It was obvious, in hindsight, and something she would never have missed if she hadn’t been so pressed by the demands of the fight. Afraid of being right, but certain she was, Ali examined the ring – specifically the legendary enchantment, Summon Supremacy.

Summon Supremacy (percent increases and decreases that apply to you also affect your minions).

Decreases…

And there it was, in plain sight under the rest of her Aptitudes. Something she had seen all her life.

Tiny (Racial): The effects of Strength and Vitality are reduced by 50%.

Fuck.

She ripped the ring off, inwardly cursing at her mistake.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
