What if they’re prophetic dreams? The night is still young, we might come under attack yet. And what if everyone really resents me? I mean, I’ve brought the People nothing but problems, and since I've arrived they’ve gone from reclusive mountain dwellers to front-line soldiers. I literally ruined paradise for them. No, calm down, it’s not true, it was just a nightmare, everyone is fine. Except those Purge victims and dead soldiers, they’re still dead, but Baatar and Alsantset don’t hate you, and Akanai at least tolerates you. Everything’s fine...

Against my better judgment, I fall back to an old argument. “Mila, in the morning, we’re heading back to hand over the prisoners. When we do, I want you to bring Lin back to the Bridge.”

“I would, but she won’t go.” Mila’s reply is quiet and sleepy, the poor girl exhausted from riding for two days straight. “Lin’s made up her mind and nothing will change it. You’ve never had to deal with how stubborn she can be because you always give in so easily. She’s staying and so am I, accept it and move on.” Squeezing me tight, she asks, “Are you afraid of losing us?”

“Terrified.” Probably shouldn’t have answered so quickly. “I lost seven soldiers today. I could have lost you. Don’t say it won’t happen, all it takes is one mistake.”

Kissing me on the cheek, she sighs. “Maybe Gerel was right, you’re too clever for your own good. If you’d lost soldiers fighting against Elder Ming then you’d be better prepared for this. Dealing with your first losses won’t be easy.” Before she continues, she forces me to look in her eyes. “You’re right, I could die at any moment, but the same could be said of you. Stop trying to send me away, I’ve made my choice. Better to fight at your side than fret at home waiting for your return.”

“But--”

“No buts Rain. What is there to be scared of? Death? You’re so strange, fearless in battle yet so meek outside it. You risk your life without a care in the world but when someone else does the same, you fall to pieces. Does your life hold so little value? Do you think Lin and I will move on without a tear after your death?” Her eyes fill with tears as she presses against me, holding me close. “You’ve done a spectacular job keeping everyone alive so far. Learn to trust yourself love, everyone else already does.”

“Ha!”

“What?”

Kissing her lips, I rest my forehead against hers, unable to contain my smile. “You called me ‘love’, sucker. Finally got you to admit it.”

I can almost see her face turning bright red. “Idiot. Stop worrying and go to sleep, we still have an army to kill and you’re no use to anyone like this.”

“You love me.”

“Goodnight.”

“Love you too. And thank you.”

My worries melting away, I bask in her warmth and scent, falling asleep as soon as I close my eyes.

Everything’s gonna work out fine.

...

Wait, that wasn't even remotely close to what she said...

Chapter Meme
