And more still, I put pain onto this monster. My hits carried kinetic bullets, and the rippling echoes of momentum bent Kryaa's entire cerulean shape. He cracked as wave after wave of devastation transferred through my constructed body and into his. My guildmates watched in awe but also in action.

They contained the forces. They already carried nearby individuals away and out of the impact zones. This level of force would kill anyone even miles in proximity, yet we had prepared for this. My golems each held a psionic command to grab and take people far from here, and they had begun a mass evacuation the moment Kryaa appeared. Despite that necessity, my guild did more than save people.

Althea pelted Kryaa using her spears. Mana oozed off her body, its thickened fog oozing from her many elixirs and boosting compounds. Torix commanded armies of necrotic corpses and empowered skeletons to carry others away as he offered support magic. Plumes of his magic crashed against Kryaa between my attacks, elemental blasts disabling the interdimensional horror.

Plazia followed suit, his eldritch assisting for miles in every direction. Most fearsome of all, Shalahora bore the full extent of his mind magic onto Kryaa. As I tore apart the physical world, Shalahora unmade the psionic one. He tore out chunks of the nested, enormous, and swollen minds that protected Kryaa. What would take me months took Shalahora hours, and my demented aura fed on the psionic shards all the while.

Kryaa's armor crumbled in minutes, the tenacity of his form becoming a curse as I pummeled him into submission. After his cerulean plates sheared off, the amber lining began to form and crumble in sync. However, the most damaging part of our offensive came from Althea's bursting rounds. As with all her enemies, she pierced Kryaa's defenses utterly and absolutely.

She ignored them to a total extent, leaving the writhing shadow defenseless. After several minutes of being ragdolled through the sky and ground, Kryaa ceased lessening the force of my blows. My punch to its guts sent it spiraling away, miasma drenching my arm before soaking into my skin. Needles of cold pierced through my hand, and I bolted towards him. Before I could hit him again, Kryaa wrenched open reality, and his armada of shadows escaped.

The horrors from another reality poured forth, becoming a tide of deformity and corruption. They caved reality in, screaming out in madness and harmony alike, a beautiful chaos that splintered the world into something alluring and grating, like honeyed tar. It rushed at the guild, and an all-out melee erupted.

I leaped from shadow to shadow, destroying one group of dark spirits after the next. My blows created a backdrop of kinetic rippling, the air struggling to demonstrate the otherworldly forces involved. Althea killed them by the dozen, her piercing bolts firing through armadas of enemies before exploding in bone rains of death.

Torix's magic spiraled, supporting our guildmates while unloading elemental magic in trembling blasts. Void ice shards formed from Helios's gauntlets as he lobbed shards of the hardened material through exposed and weakened monsters. Plazia opened another portal to allow Chrona and Krog through from Blegara. The silver gialgathen coated us in a time field, one that slowed the enemies and gave us a hastened temporal flow.

In tandem, Krog roared out, his voice a grand, booming echo that weakened and reverberated into the incoming deformed abominations. The resonance of Krog's roar built over time, entire groups detonating from the incoming sound. Plazia closed the warp before whipping his spear in differing directions, culling the masses as his low laugh echoed into the distance.

Armies of Plazia's insects arose from the ground, glowing magma forming basalt amor over their carapaces. They met the charge of the shadows, their forms matching the monsters. Gushing wounds erupted in all directions, and the insects' life force pooled out of their dying bodies. Plazia spread his arms, the light around us dimming for a moment.

All darkened before a beam of arcane energy burst forth from his armor and runic glyphs. It cauterized reality, a swath of the darkness left empty and void by the light of day. Another portion of insects fell as Plazia drew their life into his palms, and he robbed the sun of its light once more. A shearing wave of arcane mana covered the monsters, and Plazia's swarm flowed from the ground.

Glowing insects, many embedded by elemental furnaces, devoured the corpses of the enemies and other dying insects, and their number swelled as they split into versions of themselves. The mass expanded, growing into a mound of writhing hunger. Plazia bent his spear back, the humming blade palpable and charged in energy. In a single swipe, he tore another group of shadows away from this world, arcane light swallowing all it touched.

On the other side of the battlefield, Shalahora left entire groups of horrors falling from the skies. The death he wrought was a silent kind, the quietness haunting and indifferent. As if having their souls stolen by a reaper, the abominations fell and flopped. Shalahora stood motionless and gazing at Kryaa all the while. The pile kept growing until it became a mountain, one that Shalahora floated over.

An omen of his ability, Shalahora stood over bodies. Menacing, silent, an imposer of a dark will, his mere gaze stole the lives of thousands. Their slaughter gave me a window to think, and I took that moment. I ceased my blows before turning to the rend in reality. Swarms of changing shapes erupted from it like a bursting pipe full of oil. While the guild destroyed most of the monsters, a few escaped into the distance. Taking a breath, I raised my arms and began charging an unrealistic volume of mana.

It plumed into my runes, leaving a physical indent on the space around me. A locus formed as a ripple coursed out of my body. A bright glow subsumed my entire frame, and I liquified while energy coalesced into a near-physical form. I became a monument to the concept of power, my body radiating out as a volatile hum, one to usher forth calamity.

In a quick jerk, I pulled my arms down, unloading the energy onto the coursing mass. Singularities swallowed everything. They overlapped like hundreds of dark orbs, each of them forming simultaneously. They coated the entire mass of monsters before a single cascade of energy radiated out in its physical form. That pulse evaporated the remaining horrors, and the barrier around Springfield tremored from the overwhelming volumes of mana involved.

Before Kryaa could cause any further havoc, I bolted up towards the gap in reality. As my dimensional wake suppressed him, Kryaa slinked into the dark ether of the portal, where silence overcame all. I followed him inside, the eternal dark oppressive and eerily resonant. It carried a saturated kind of darkness as if it held the potential of all worlds and realities inside the umbral ichor. Somehow, someway, that was lost in a blended chaos that stole the potential away.

And my armor screamed to indulge upon it.

Event Horizon stretched out, feasting on the dark. As I soaked in the volatile energy, shapes in the distance emerged. A monster made of concepts peered at me, its body immutable yet everchanging. Another beast held a sopping body drenched in spines and fluid, eyes peering underneath the pink mass beneath.

A maroon suit of armor peered at me, the faceless plate lacking any expression aside from eyes. The light of the spatial rip peered in, sheening off the armor yet reflecting a shadow of its polished plates. The tumultuous bodies and shapes left me reeling to even understand my foes, and Kryaa let out a laugh.

"A simple deception. Lured like a fool."

They reached out of the dark, and I smiled. My armor let out a laugh, mana drooling out of the maw as a glowing red and as streaks of ascendant lightning. I spread my hands. Mana pooled into my body, and once more, I glowed bright. Energy coalesced until I brimmed into a resonant, shining ball of power.

I kept fueling myself, pouring more energy until I threatened to explode. I swiped my hand, my instinctual understanding of the mana allowing me to guide it. It surged into singularities, the dark around me swallowed by another, more absolute darkness, one spurred by gravitational vises. After the physical shearing and shockwaves, Althea's spears unloaded from behind me.

She danced around the deformed remnants while carving them apart like a blade dancer. Her bone swords cleaved off pieces of them, the squiggling fragments squirming as they floated in the eternal dark around us. They tried escaping, but tendrils from my armor impaled the falling pieces. I dragged them to me, and my armor feasted on their flesh.

The monsters retaliated by splintering reality where the spears came from and over me. It left no effect on my body and Althea already faded from reality. Like a liquid, I coursed towards them. As I did, Kryaa fell back into the endless dark, leaving his supposed army alone and defenseless. The other monsters turned to him and followed into into the dark, and Althea spat out a stream of acid at them.

It carried the same characteristic lethality of all her attacks, and the enemies let out howls of agony in languages that even Schema didn't understand. As they writhed away, tendrils of my armor followed them into the interdimensional ether. I extended Event Horizon, soaking in the surrounding energy and creating a larger, safe sphere within the dimensional tear. As I did, a low rumble surged in some unseen distance. Flashbacks of the horror in the abyss came over me, the one that I met when Marcella died.

I swallowed my fear. Letting these entities escape wasn't an option after Kryaa left. Althea understood my ire, and from her changing position, several shots impaled the scurrying abominations. They splintered, their bodies letting the interdimensional energy in. The worst came from the maroon-colored knight, its armor splintering like the shell of a crab.

It swelled and grew over itself, tumors amassing from underneath its polished armor. Like flesh flowers blooming from blood, its body became a terrifying amalgamation of its old self. It was as Kryaa had said - they never touched the interdimensional energy. The others fell to the same poison, and their once indefinite forms became solid, blurry bodies taking shape.

I blended them with gravity wells before unleashing singularities in all directions once more. As the cascading forces erupted, the other entities scrambled away.

I dragged them back using strands of my armor. Taking a moment, I inspected one of them.

Unknown Horror | Lvl: 42,392 | Class: ?*$&@ | Guild: (>""@!) - This is, hypothetically, a spatial anomaly with a consciousness. How it lives, what it wants, and who it serves are mysteries that must be unraveled, but there's little we can do to discern its origins. Without those specifics, we can't pin down the organization behind them.

These monstrous entities lack any discernable shapes or bodies, though this could also be the result of a cognitive hazard that spreads from the origin of these creatures. To most sentients, they are almost impossible to kill. Overseers have eradicated their forms using antimatter, but conventional attacks do little.

And you must slaughter the horde, Harbinger.

I pulled the incapacitated bodies close before wrapping them in my armor. They writhed for escape, but my armor held and assimilated them. I walked out of a bunched portion of the horrors, a portion of my body holding them in shivering mass. They let out cries of anguish, yet I felt nothing aside from a deep chill.

The icy coldness began saturating my body, and I gazed at the dark infinity around me. I let my voice swell to a roar.

"You hear them? Can you feel their suffering? If you continue to attack me, know that you all will follow the fate of these beings."

They tried escaping the coursing metal, but they couldn't peirce past the confines of my dimensional fabric. I pulled my mind out of my body, not wanting to experience their terror so closely. As I gazed at myself, I looked upon a monster as terrifying as any eldritch. It left me numb as Althea and I floated in the secured interdimensional space.

To my horror, it took several hours for the entities to die. Compared to the white-hot pace of the earlier battle, this was an exercise in the folly of durability. They could not perish quickly, having been treated by some strange method similar to Valgus and his physical potential. Still, time passed, and they soaked into the metal like oil into a whetstone.

After they succumbed, I gazed at my surroundings. Memories of the dark leviathan I found in the dark surged, and I closed my eyes. Memories from that advent sparked to life. The beast hadn't spoken to me, but it had rumbled out and induced a strange feeling, as if speakign with emotion. The surge carried hunger and a territorial warning. Once it howled at me, my mind wiped for several minutes before I returned from a total psionic death.

It hadn't even tried to attack me, merely warned me to leave its feeding grounds. I shook my head before opening my eyes. I turned back to the warp and floated back away from the darkness. Althea flew alongside me, her hand on my shoulder. She murmured.

"I know what it's like to be that way. It's never easy walking away from it."

I remembered our first meeting, where she became a ball of flesh. I sighed.

"Thanks, but let's just go and see what the others have to say about this madness."

At the end of the spatial rip, she jumped out. She turned to me.

"What's up?"

I held up a hand.

"Just...One moment."

She nodded.

"Sure. Take your time. We'll let you know if anything happened outside."

