He was starting to feel around this new mental image when Matt found himself without a new enemy to fight, which kicked him out of his zen state better than anything else.

Instead of trying to force it, Matt stepped back and watched as Susanne fought the boss to a standstill.

It was something she and Rah had started to do and something the other ascender hadn’t managed to continue.

Logically, Matt understood both of the non-Ascenders pushing themselves to improve, but they had both nearly died trying to solo their personal bosses.

Rah wasn’t necessarily weaker, but his cultivation method limited him, and even Matt could read his irritation at the difference in raw power.

That was only exacerbated by the rest of them reaching or nearing Tier 29 at a rapid rate.

Ambient cultivation, no matter its upsides, simply couldn’t keep up with the speed that cultivating monster essence offered in rifts or strange realms.

With dozens of rifts-worth of over-Tier monsters killed every day, the rest of them were advancing quickly; Susanne, the only other non-Ascender among them, leaving Rah farther and farther behind.

Nearing the peak of Tier 28, she managed to fight the Tier 30 boss to a standstill and was slowly, agonizingly slowly, whittling it down.

Despite that lack of speed, Matt could see Susanne’s recent improvements.

Even as her eyes bled macabre lines down her face under her helm, she never blinked, taking every move of her future sword in her gaze.

Sidestepping, Susanne left a clone in her place, cutting up into the ant queen's mouth. The destroyed clone reverberated back to her, causing some spiritual damage, but Susanne’s real body’s blade flicked out, finally completing its stroke.

Blood and essence rained down and flowed around like a pool, Susanne unable to absorb all of the energy and shunting the rest to himself and Zack.

Matt didn’t shy away and pulled the essence into his core, approaching Tier 29.

Susanne pulled her blade out of the monster while finally looking up. “That's probably my last one. At least until we Tier up. That should make things a lot easier.”

Zack didn’t say anything but Susanne shot him a small smile.

After giving them a moment Matt clapped. “Then lets go clear the next one. I think we can all reach Tier 29 today if we push a bit.”

That excited all of them and they were quick to leave and start flying to the next location.

Their contentment vanished when a massive pressure wave slammed into them even through the oppressive and ever present fog.

Triangulating the location, Matt wasn’t surprised to find it somewhere between the Federation and Monster Collective teams.

Things must have finally gotten desperate for one of the other teams and they might have decided to strike out.

They could ignore it, but that would be foolish.

Without a word, the three of them changed directions and raced toward their base and the explosion.
