Having visited three other teams before them, Matt didn’t expect much different from the Corporation team, which was why he was surprised by the fact he was noticed before he did his well practiced light show.

Not approaching any farther, Matt watched as a deceptively plain woman flew into the air in civilian clothes, of all things.

He had expected a lot of things, but a mask he couldn’t see through combined with presumably an illusion of civilian clothes put him on edge immediately. That apprehension doubled when she got close enough for him to confirm the illusion's existence, even if he couldn’t pierce it without directly attacking the construct.

The woman floated in front of him just a few thousand feet away, far closer than even the Empire team had dared approach.

In perfect Empire she asked, “What have we done to deserve the honor of your presence, Ascender Indomitable Titan?”

Matt didn’t immediately respond, letting his spiritual perception search their surroundings, but finding nothing out of the ordinary beyond the woman in front of himself, he shared what information he had.

Unlike the other teams who were all joyous at the thought of controllable natural treasures, the woman just watched him impassively.

When he finished, she nodded once before turning away. “Thank you for the information. As for your unspoken threat, we have no intention of fighting amongst each other, but we will not hesitate to retaliate against any who attack us first.”

Having said her piece and not seeing any reason to linger, the woman floated back down to the sanctuary they had built next to a picturesque lake and into the robust defences the Corporation team had set up.

They were, in fact, the best defences they had seen so far, with signs they had been prepared for such an eventuality, with prebuilt defensive formation plates set into the walls. That would have made their setup easier and would improve the quality of their defences. It was something Matt made a note of to work on when they flew to the next world for himself. A small but possibly useful side project.

Zack appeared next to Matt as the two of them floated and watched the team below.

Not taking his eyes off the base Matt asked, “They spotted you?”

Zack nodded. “They were so fast, I suspect they were already aware of us long before we even started our approach. Even without the fog limiting our perceptions, that isn’t easy.”

Matt mulled that over but eventually shrugged. “Maybe they can see through the fog.”

He suspected the team was a Corporation elite army team trying to keep their identities under wraps, but they could just as easily be a mercenary team with a bad reputation trying to keep their heads down during the exploration of the Rasdale breach.

Getting revenge in the Great Powers’ settled space might be impossible, but during a breach, there were endless opportunities to mete out retribution.

Having felt the woman at such close range, he wasn’t in any rush to start a fight, but he wouldn’t shy away from one if it came to that.

Finally, they visited the Clippers’ base, dropping off the same news about the pocket spaces, with the only difference being Zack wasn’t spotted.

Returning to the others, he and Zack explained all that they had seen to Allie and Aster, who were defending the base, knowing they would pass the information along.

From there, he and Zack flew off following the directions Liz and Zack had noted monsters came from when they were defending the base. It wasn’t the best method to find the hidden spaces, but it was their best lead other than the tips Clare shared.

Spear wielding salamanders weren’t exactly what they had been aiming for, but when they flew directly over the compressed space that was their home in the center of a small valley, the two of them stopped and cleared it.

In their planning they had considered the variance that the monster type would have on the resulting Natural Treasures, but they had ultimately decided to deal with that only if it was a true factor.

Wanting the pocket space to be their first Arcane area, Matt was more than happy to play it slow. Repeating the slow and methodical approach, they cleared the rift while ensuring Zack got the final blow with an Arcane spell.

Almost instantly, the desert valley around them started to sparkle with the pearlescent energies usually only seen with Arcane mana.

Matt could only hope he’d end up with a Natural Treasure that could aspect his mana pool. To bolster their odds, they created two more Arcane areas before moving onto Void.

That pocket space was a lot tricker. His own [Void Claw] was the only Void skill the group had, and with how long its cooldown was, they couldn't afford to mess up the boss kill. They managed it, but that pocket space would take additional effort to clear.

Void was so dangerous, they started with a pocket space that was exceptionally far away from their base, just in case they lost control of it and something bad happened.

With Zack being there and able to counter the mana type, that was unlikely, but still very possible given how dangerous Void mana was.

Matt suspected that wasn’t part of the strange realm’s normal challenge, but one they would face.

From there, he and Zack went and cleared dozens of strange areas, creating their planned Natural Treasures.

They needed to hurry if they wanted to get ahead.

***

In a stroke of good news, it took only twelve days for the pocket areas to fully convert into the desired mana types, but that was the only good news.

In return for their ability to change the natural treasures that spawned, the monsters had started becoming far more dangerous with each passing day.

From a few skills used at the worst times at the beginning of the strange realm, the monsters now used spells with every strike and move, making the boss fights exceedingly difficult.

That would have been bad enough on its own, as the monsters were now difficult enough that they were moving around in teams of three instead of pairs, but the pocket spaces they didn’t enter weren’t sitting idle.

No, they produced empowered monsters and dumped them into the nigh impenetrable fog with seemingly zero rhyme or reason to their timing or numbers. The monsters’ mana types didn’t change from their baseline without one of them to kill the boss each day, but they saw the same increases in power the cleared pocket spaces did.

All of those downsides came with one glaring inadvertent upside.

Unlimited monsters to kill.

With the spiritual dampening fog combined with the sealed off pocket areas, they were able to unleash their strongest cards.

Liz benefited most of all, as she found that so long as she stayed in the base, she had just enough spiritual range to cover three of the pocket spaces, letting her pull double duty, gathering essence at a speed even Matt couldn’t match.

Tier 29 was a massive cavern of needed essence, being the tenth step, which he would be grateful for. Matt had never considered the fact more than when Rah arrived and brought with him cultivation techniques where the five and ten larger increments were also present. It was a strange constant between systems, indicating it was a deeper spiritual cause.

That would let them catch up to Aster, who was already trying to fill in the larger than normal Tier. Tiering up would also let them actualize their current Tier, improving their strength drastically as they actualized so much of their essence.

The Tiers were getting steep, so closing the gap by one would help a ton.

With Liz handling their defences, Matt wasn’t about to be left behind, and so with Susanne and Zack, they headed to one of Susanne’s pocket areas.

The formerly simple ants had long since transformed, their pincers having morphed into swords that bled Divination energies mixed with Wind and Metal.

Unlike the rest of them who had gone all-in on a single mana type, Susanne never put the same mana type into the boss twice. Each kill was a carefully thought out addition, trying to create herself a truly perfect Natural Treasure.

Given that they couldn’t inspect any of the Natural Treasures before they were sucked into their heart gems, they couldn’t be sure her idea was working, but the monsters were some of the strongest creatures they had to fight, indicating she was doing something right.

Matt reached out and grabbed a pincer in his left hand while cutting out with his blade in the right, bisecting a distant ant who made the mistake of giving him its profile. The [Mana Slash] sent it slamming into the far cave wall, where Zack finished it off with a piercing spell.

Easy monster taken care of, Matt gave his full attention to the monster trying to eat him. Two weeks into the strange realm, the enchanted steel of the ant's pincers now managed to cut through the outer layer of [Cracked Phantom Armor] but not the inner. He suspected in two more days it would manage the feat, but that day wasn’t today.

Twisting with all of his might, he exposed the left side of the monster to a Susanne clone who darted in and gutted the massive ant.

Bright blue acidic blood exploded outward, as if the creature was under great pressure, but Susanne darted over the wave, her eyes glowing a silvery golden hue as they bled.

The air crackled and the cave was illuminated for a brief moment when Zack cast [Chain Lightning]. Instead of a simple golden-white spell, it crackled with blue and silver energies. Ice froze the monster’s exoskeleton, while the silver metal mana sliced through the more vulnerable joints with pinpoint precision.

Matt didn’t bother with any such finesse.

Rushing past the real Susanne, he cut two rushing ants down with as many quick swings, but as the two were replaced by a dozen crawling from deeper into the strange space he cast [Cosmic Pressure], keeping the range to only a few feet from his body.

The loose earthen ground was instantly compacted downward until they hit something incompressible, probably the edge of the strange realm or pocket space.

The monsters didn’t fare any better than the ground did. Their larger than normal size meant they experienced greater strain from both the normal gravity and Matt’s strengthened area at the same time.

Only two days ago that had been more than enough to crush the ants, but now it only slowed them down.

Blue acidic blood leaked out of their joints, but that didn’t stop them from biting at Matt.

A lucky pincer attack wrapped in wind mana slipped past Matt’s guard, letting the ant bite his leg. Automatically focusing on his leg, Matt used both layers of [Cracked Phantom Armor] to slow down its gnawing, even as the ant tried to lift and slam him when its blades didn’t work.

Matt didn’t stop it beyond casting [Cosmic Pressure], instead giving most of his attention to the ants that were rushing from deeper in the nest.

Flooding his arms with his willpower, Matt felt his strength increase and his raw physical power transcended the Tier 30s’ defences; his blade screamed as it cut through their hardened shells, acidic blood covering but not harming him in the slightest.

Knowing he would lose his Power boosted strength in another moment, Matt launched himself forward, letting his leg remain behind instead of slowing down enough to deal with the ant that was still trying to chew through his layers of defence.

Matt brought his longsword down on the large shield headed ant, trying to plug the rest of the tunnel with its own body.

[Tribulation Strike], [Mana Slash], and [Mana Charge] obliterated the ant’s head and killed the wave of monsters that rose behind it.

Trying to keep his Power going for a moment longer, Matt roared, feeling things tear and break only to be healed by [Regeneration], only to be torn again and restart the process. Through it all, Matt concentrated on amplifying himself without slipping out of his harmonization.

It was like trying to juggle with his feet, but Matt managed to keep the empowerment going for a moment longer than he had the last time.

Progress, even if incredibly slow and tedious.

Through it all, as well as the recovery, Matt couldn’t help but feel as if he was doing something wrong. His gut wasn’t as helpful as he’d have liked, but he couldn’t stop wondering what he was supposed to be doing.

Matt didn’t mind beating his head against a wall until the wall broke if that was what it took, but he had spent far too much time under Luna’s tutelage to accept mediocrity.

Letting his body go into autopilot as they killed their way deeper, approaching the ant queen, Matt focused on his internal world.

As he harmonized but didn’t amplify his Power, Matt groped at himself blindly.

He dismissed his pride and arrogance at having done so much instinctively when it came to his Domain. He also dismissed everything he knew and had been taught about Powers, letting emptiness fill him.

He was punching one of the ants queen’s summoned mini-bosses to death when his mental image slipped from the braided cords into… something else.

If he didn’t know better, he would have said it was Rah’s cultivation technique, a river of stars sparkling like cut and polished underwater gems.

Except it wasn’t Rah’s cultivation technique, rather, it was Matt.

A river of stars pouring from a blank emptiness to fill the sky.

The rivers entwined like ivy trying to climb a tree; the whole tangle was an ordered mess.

Matt thought he was onto something, but found that while the image felt good, right even, he couldn’t actually interact with it.

That didn’t mean it was wrong, but the methods to which he empowered himself with his cable image didn’t work when focused on this new attempt.

