It flowed down her throat, and its increased potency became apparent as her veins turned black within seconds. A desperate howl of terror was followed by Serena's body rapidly breaking down and twisting to take on the form of a tree. Her pale skin seemed to carry over to her tree form as the bark was snow-white. Branches sprouted from where her ears had been, and dark blue leaves with streaks of black grew from them.

The whole process took a few minutes—sped up by the lack of Qi in Serena's soul core to resist, and surprisingly, Elysia's imagination as she fed Serena with mystic Qi from the rotating ritual circles.

"So they weren't just for show," Ashlock thought as the process concluded. Serena was now a five-meter tall snow-white tree with blue and black leaves floating high above the arena. Since it was in his Inner World, he could direct his ethereal roots to rise from the arena sand and fuse with Serena's dangling roots. "This is good, but I could do even more..."

Idletree Daily Sign-In System

Day: 3642

Daily Credit: 76

Sacrifice Credit: 2780

[Sign in?]

"Gained around 1500 credits, wow." Ashlock hadn't been expecting so much in such a short time. The show really was working. "Hmm, what if I turned Serena into a Bastion right now? Wouldn't the spectacle end up paying for itself?"

[Do you wish to activate the Skyborne Bastion? The cost is 1000 sacrificial credits and the required materials to form a Bastion Core]

"Yes," Ashlock said, targeting Serena.

[Forming Bastion Core...]

The entire Inner World began to tremble as waves of power began rippling out.

[Bastion's Qi source has been designated as {Ashlock}]

[Bastion's operator has been designated as {Serena Blacktide}]

[ERROR: {Serena Blacktide} cultivation too low to operate Bastion Core]

[Initiating tribulation...]

[ERROR: Heavenly tribulations cannot reach inside an Inner World. Mobilizing divine energy to simulate a tribulation]

"Huh?" Ashlock hadn't been expecting that. He felt his system take over as it pulled divine energy from around his Inner World and gathered it above the arena. Just like the heavens, thousands of golden eyes manifested like clouds, followed by lightning that struck Serena.

One, two, three... the onslaught was brutal, and at some point, an explosion erupted out of Serena but was then forcefully brought back in.

[Forming Star Core...]

Most would never witness a Star Core ascension in their lives, let alone this closely and for a human turned into a tree no less.

[Star Core Formed]

[Bastion's affinity type set to Cordierite (Abyssal Tide)]

Sand, rock, water, and more began to rise from the arena as if gravity had been reversed and gathered toward the floating tree. A giant bowl solidified from this mixture around Serena, which was then filled with water. Ultimately, it looked like a snow-white tree growing in a lake of abyssal waters.

[Skyborne Bastion Active]

Ashlock lowered Serena down through the spinning ritual circles and flying leaves. The moment she touched what was left of the arena's ground, Elysia canceled out the ritual, and everything fell quiet. Even the thousands of demonic trees she had manifested faded back to the beyond.

Stella stood from her throne and announced from the booth, "Everyone, the All-Seeing Eye has granted a new life to the criminal. Serena Blacktide, the wandering murderer, is no more. She is now a sacred tree that will serve as the new overseer and protector of Ashfallen City."

[An immense influx of divine energy has been detected...]

The system informed Ashlock as the crowd cheered. He couldn't even tell how many he had gained as the number kept climbing, and a quick glance at the Divine Flesh Tree showed the forest of sacrificial credits rapidly expanding.

"Oh, this is going to be big." Ashlock had basically gotten a Bastion for free and even more credits on top of that. The number was already over 3000 and still climbing...

"Today's events are now complete!" Stella announced and turned to leave.

Ashlock couldn't believe such a chaotic day was finally over. "I'll have to get Douglas to help me build an area in the center of Ashfallen City to put Serena. She doesn't seem responsive so far, but after a few nights under the healing moons, she should start speaking to me—"

"Wait!"

Ashlock was broken from his thoughts by a shout. Looking down at the arena, Celeste Starweaver stood among the destruction, staring at the booth.

"Yes?" Stella asked, confused by the girl's outburst.

"My brother has been wanting to tell you something, but you keep ignoring his attempts at a meeting."

"Oh, that..." Stella frowned. "I'll meet him sometime in the coming days, okay?"

"No." Celeste shook her head, "It's an urgent matter. Our Grand Elder received a divination." A strange aura began to surround Celeste as her eyes glowed, and she began to recite.

"A new god is born to challenge the roots of old. Along the winds of change comes a wrathful storm. But the storm is not a message—it is the prelude. Shadows of ancient beasts loom, drawn by the storm's call—a tide of claws and fangs, hunger and rage, they are coming. The storm is their herald, their veil. Prepare, for the sky's fury will give way to the beast tide that will flood the land with blood and despair."

Celeste closed her eyes to recover for a moment before opening them again and looking right at Stella. "The beast tide. It's coming as we speak."

Evander Starweaver appeared beside his sister in a flash of cosmic power. "Sister, what have you done!" He was enraged. "How could you announce such a thing before all these people?"

Ashlock was shocked out of his stupor by Evander's shouting. This strange storm that had been battering his lands wasn't a mere storm but a prelude for the beast tide?!

Stella vanished in a flash of white and reappeared before Celeste. She shrouded her voice with Qi, but it didn't escape Ashlock's notice.

"Does Vincent Nightrose know?"

Evander Starweaver clicked his tongue and nodded gravely. "Not only does he know, but he has called for a summit. It's time for the Blood Lotus Sect to flee, but things are different this time."

"So he's awake again?" Stella looked to the floor for a moment in contemplation before looking back at Evander. "How is it different this time?"

Evander exchanged a look with his sister before taking a deep breath, "Well you see... not everyone plans to leave. A civil war is about to begin, and it's time to pick sides."
