“Thanks, Mato,” she said, the tight band of worry around her chest unclenching. His easy familiarity did a lot to dispel her fears, and she sat beside Malika and began to eat, finding her ravenous hunger from last night had returned in full force.

“I can change my class,” Ali said, finally broaching the subject that was on everyone’s mind. “I know it means starting over, but I did have some other decent class choices.”

“How the heck are you going to do that?” Mato asked, looking up with surprise written clearly across his face. Everyone else stared at her in surprise.

“I can just get it removed at one of the advanced shrines. I was hoping you guys could tell me where one is, and that I have enough money to afford the teleport. I think this will be the best solution for everyone.” If she started over, then nobody would have any reason to hate her – she could just be a regular mage. The Arcane Mage and Runic Sage options she had been offered had both been quite good classes and, provided they were still available, she could try one of those. It would cost her, though – she would no longer have the Forest Guardian, or Arcane Recall – her treasured links to her parent’s magic.

“Ali, there are no shrines like that. Those are just stories,” Malika explained, staring at her like she had suddenly sprouted an extra head.

“Ared Culyn is not too far, and they have one at the Academy,” Ali countered. The shrine in the city of commerce had been well known throughout the continent. It was expensive, she had heard, but with a little help, she could probably afford it.

“Ared Culyn was real?” Calen gasped.

Ared Culyn… gone? Calen’s surprise drove home the visceral and shocking weight of the passage of three thousand years in a way that the numbers simply failed to capture. Many things would have changed over the thousands of years, but Ared Culyn had been such a fixture in the minds of all the cultures on the continent; the city of trade, the place to go whenever you needed something impossibly rare or fantastic. Her mother had even taken her there on a trip once, but she had been too young to remember much.

“What about Aalion?” Ali asked, trying a different tack. It, too, had boasted a powerful shrine. Surely the Sun Elf City of Light had survived? It had stood as a tall radiant beacon in the north for countless centuries, steeped in the tradition and magic of the elves well before Dal’mohra had even existed.

“Aalion?” Calen cocked his head to the side a little. “The great elven city of legends? It was destroyed in the Necromancer Wars several thousand years ago. Nobody even knows where it was after the Breaking reshaped the land.”

“Mi’ir Valdanis?” Ali asked, the Night Elf capital had been a thriving underground city; she had never visited, but she was certain it had a shrine.

“Ali, I don’t even know what that is,” Calen said, shattering her last hope.

“I think I’m lacking a lot of history,” Ali finally answered. She didn’t know what the Necromancer War was but, having personally witnessed the destruction of Dal’mohra at the hands of Nevyn Eld, she could imagine. Shocking as the changes were, they simply drove home the irrefutable truth of the new world she found herself in.

There are no advanced shrines left, she realized. It explained a little more why Malika was so impressed with her Shrine of the Ancient Grove. But that means I’m stuck with my class. Surprisingly though, she didn’t feel anxiety, just a sense of relief that she could keep the magic and skills that gave her so much joy.

“Ali, I don’t think you should try. In the stories, people do not recover from changing their class,” Malika cautioned, concern written across her face. The shrines Ali remembered had been widely used and considered perfectly safe, but she chose not to argue, finding Malika’s concern for her wellbeing to be comforting.

“Mato had the courage to throw away a skill when it was bad,” Ali said. Part of her problem was that her friends had been branded as outlaws simply for their association with her as a dungeon.

“That’s different,” Mato interjected.

“How is it different?” Ali asked. “That skill made you hurt your friends, so you replaced it. You guys were attacked by the Town Watch because of my class. Isn’t that the same thing?”

“My skill made me into something I’m not. If I was in control, I would never have hurt you,” Mato answered quietly. “You are still yourself, always. You’ve never tried to hurt any of us on purpose.”

“I have no memory of what I did in the jungle, and I did attack you with my Guardian,” she countered.

“That’s not because of your class, you were just scared.”

“What about when I shoot you with fireballs? That’s on purpose,” Ali retorted.

“But I kinda like that. It’s nice and warm,” Mato chuckled, the somber melancholy mood he always got when reminded of his attack on her evaporating quickly with her attempt at humor.

“Seriously, though,” he continued, “don’t try and hide your class, or pretend to be something else because of what people might think. If you’re going to be a dungeon, be a dungeon, you know? Be legendary and show everyone who you are. I will support you no matter what.”

“I… You really don’t care that I’m a dungeon?” Mato’s opinion had to be the most Mato-thing she had ever heard, but his overly straightforward approach to her issue touched her heart and made her feel welcome in a way that no amount of reasoning her way through the problem could have ever hoped to do.

She saw Malika shake her head. “Right.”

“I like it,” Mato said firmly. “The plants and trees are cool, and I want to help you build an amazing forest. You’re very strong and reliable in fights – we would never have defeated the Skeletal Wyvern or the Wights without you. I don’t care that you’re an unconventional adventurer, I want to do more of that with you.”

“You really mean that?” It surprised her greatly. Mato was not making excuses for her class or trying to cover over the problems – which is what she had instinctively been looking for. He wholeheartedly supported it, and that was a perspective she would never have considered.

“You know he’s serious because he used a lot of words,” Calen chipped in from where he sat listening.

“You’re ok with it too?” Ali asked.

“Yup,” Calen nodded. But from him, a single word was all she needed to be certain of his sincerity.

“Malika? Your family was killed by a dungeon, and I know you’ve carried a lot of hurt from that. Are you really ok with me?” Ali was most worried about her, and the tremendous burden of pain she had shared. She knew she would do anything for her, even tearing the continent apart, searching for a shrine to change her class, no matter the risk or cost.

“I’m ok, Ali,” Malika answered, staring off into the distance as she spoke. “You are not the dungeon that killed them.” She fell silent for a while, but then she collected herself and glanced at Ali, meeting her eyes. “There was a time when I wouldn’t have made that distinction. I was terrified of earning a class that would define me as bad, and I was so relieved when I got one that was good. But you have a dungeon class, and you’re still Ali. It was when Calen told me that I knew who you were that I think I finally realized the class doesn’t define the person unless they allow it.”

“Thank you,” Ali answered, feeling profoundly moved. Malika’s shift in her perception had to have been painful and challenging for her, especially considering the weight of her past experiences.

“May I join you?” The soft voice carried a resonance and vitality that had been missing yesterday.

“Lira!” Ali exclaimed, jumping up and running to her. “You look so much better!” Indeed, there were no signs of the blight that had afflicted her, and her color was deeper and richer, as if rejuvenated. She moved with an entirely familiar poise and grace – no longer so frail.

“Thank you, dear. I do feel much better,” she answered, returning Ali’s embrace and joining them by the small cookfire.

“Can I make you something to eat?” Mato offered.

“Thank you,” Lira said, “but I’m more tree than creature. I am sustained by mana or sunlight – although I do occasionally enjoy some tea.”

Without a word, Mato pulled out a bag of tea leaves and set some water on the fire to boil.

“I’m glad to see you’re talking with your friends again,” Lira said, looking down at Ali.

“Thank you for your advice yesterday,” Ali said. “I was really upset and not behaving well. We were just sitting here talking about my class. Did you know Ared Culyn, Aalion, and Mi’ir Valdanis were destroyed?”

“I did,” Lira said, “and the shrines were destroyed, too.”

“What? They can be broken?” Ali exclaimed. She had grown up believing her father’s shrine was indestructible. “My shrine…”

“Yours is probably fine,” Lira reassured her. “It takes immense power to destroy one, and I don’t think anyone in this town is capable of it.”

Ali breathed again, but the worry didn’t entirely vanish.

“One advanced shrine remains at Aman Rak,” Lira offered.

“The trolls?”

“Yes, but for what it’s worth, I agree with the young Mato here. I don’t recommend changing your class.”

Ali glanced at Lira, recalling something she had revealed yesterday, that she had forgotten among the many shocks and emotional events of the day. “Can you tell me more about my dad?”

“Orian? About him being a dungeon?” Lira asked, understanding her curiosity instantly.

Ali nodded.

“Even back then, many people feared dungeons,” Lira said. “He was not accepted by all, but the Council of Kings saw his value and supported him. Over the many decades he lived in the Grove, he freely provided thousands of youths with potent classes through the services of his shrine. In a way, you could say he created the backbone upon which Dal’mohra achieved its glory and prosperity. He also provided the city with many resources from his magic, but it was the abundance of powerful magical classes that truly set Dal’mohra apart from ordinary cities, and that was entirely due to Orian’s life of service.”

Ali sat in silence for a while, considering Lira’s words. It painted her father in quite a different light. While she knew most of what she had said, she had never been told that his class was a dungeon. The information had been right in front of her – he regularly conducted class advancements at his shrine, he could summon monsters, and it was he who had taught her about domains and withdrawal. His quiet humility had hidden a greatness that she had never explicitly been aware of.

“Another friend?” Lira interrupted her thoughts, and she snapped her head up to see a violet-tinged golden mana formation appear in the atrium.

Ali panicked for a moment, recognizing it as a teleportation spell, but as it completed, it was Ryn that appeared, her gossamer butterfly wings flowing gently to keep her aloft.

“Ali! Are you here?” Ryn called out.

“Over here, Ryn.”

“Oh, thank goodness you’re ok,” she exclaimed, swooping down to join them. “The town is in uproar. The Town Watch is claiming they killed a dungeon down here, and a lot of their members died. I was worried you had been hurt so I came as soon as I heard the news.”

Ali’s words caught in her throat as her excitement at seeing her friend was banished by sudden anxiety. I must tell her.

With a deep breath, she braced herself. “Ryn, it’s me. I’m the dungeon – they were trying to kill me.”

“I figured as much,” she answered, her lips drawn into an earnest pucker. “I’m so glad they didn’t get you. Here, I brought you a change of clothes, some apples, and a book to read.” She handed Ali a bag that had the familiar Reading Corner logo on it. “Sorry I couldn’t bring more; food prices have suddenly skyrocketed and even just these apples were hard to find.”

Ali was stunned speechless for a moment. She doesn’t care that I’m the dungeon? She looked into the bag to find a couple of apples nestled on top of a book she had been meaning to read and a neatly folded bundle of warm clothing. It was not like Ryn had misunderstood – she had acknowledged Ali’s admission – it had simply not mattered in the slightest.

“Thank you,” she told Ryn. While she made it seem like she was saying thank you for the thoughtful gifts, she was most deeply grateful for Ryn’s indifference to her class issues.

“They’re looking for all of you in town. Well, not you Ali – word got out that you’re the dungeon that they killed – but the Town Watch identified Malika, Calen, and Mato as having killed the dungeon hunters. The mayor wants you all brought in for questioning. I heard Vivian Ross was furious about the whole deal.”

Ali raised her eyebrow, she hadn’t expected the Guildmaster to be so upset, but she had seemed protective of her guild members. “Do you know if Havok and the other novices survived? Roderik tried to kill them.”

“I healed Havok and Aiden before I came down looking for you, Ali,” Malika answered. “He was ok when I left the guild.”

“Oh, thank goodness,” Ali breathed. “Any chance you can tell Eliyen and Basil that I’m ok? And perhaps Thuli and Kavé too? But perhaps best to keep it quiet.”

“My mom will be worried sick,” Calen added, looking pretty worried himself.

“Ok, ok,” Ryn tutted with a smile. “Let me make a list. I can try to get whatever supplies you need too, but people are hoarding fresh food, so that might be difficult to find.”

Lira was right, Ali thought, her gaze drifting to her Aunt’s knowing hazel eyes. I have amazing friends.
