Mato roused himself quietly and sat up. Without a lit campfire nearby or the benefits of their tents and sleeping bags, the library was chilly and dark, and the hard, cold stone he had slept on had left him with a few aches and what felt like a new bruise on his hip.

He stretched, hearing his spine pop several times before he got to his feet and glanced around. Everyone was still sleeping, but he knew that they would soon wake, and they would probably be hungry – at least, he was. It had been a trying day yesterday, but he was glad everyone had finally gone to bed in good spirits.

As he busied himself setting a small fireplace, he reflected on what had happened. It had not been his preference to hide Ali’s secret from her, but even then, he had not imagined… any of this. What she had experienced when the Watch attacked must have been terrifying.

Poor Ali. He glanced over at her lying on the stone ground, shivering in her sleep. She had the roughest time. We won’t let that happen again. Never. He might not know if it was a nightmare or the cold, but he checked his storage quickly and retrieved a small blanket, placing it carefully over her small frame, trying not to wake her.

He smiled as her shivering stopped and then busied himself setting a new fire. Most of his cooking gear had been lost in the forest cavern – including his favorite large saucepan – just one more insult to add to the Town Watch’s tally. Serves me right for trying to save space in my ring, I guess. At least I still have a decent pot – we can have oats.

His thoughts returned to the events of the last couple of days while his hands carried out the familiar tasks of preparing breakfast. The Kobolds in the cavern above had hardly counted – all of them being far too low-level to present a real challenge, but the Spectral Wolves had been something else. He frowned, recalling the stench of undeath on them and the blight that had ravaged Ali’s Aunt.

That necromancer is going to be trouble, I just know it. The problem was he couldn’t just waltz into town and tell the Mayor, the Guildmaster, or the Garrison Commander. Sorry, Mom. Your son is an outlaw.

Malika and Calen had agonized for days over the necessity of killing the Town Watch pillagers, but they had attacked first and offered Malika no quarter. Or Ali, he thought, frowning. They had it coming. He wasn’t about to let squeamishness get his friends killed. It had been a great fight though; a perfect test of his skills. He had taunted the entire melee group off of Malika and used Charge to group them up on top of the ranged classes – the mages and archers – before they had time to react. Once he had the battlefield set up the way he wanted, he had abused his Swipe: Battle Master advancement to impose total control. More than half of the squishy classes hadn’t even figured out that trying to run would get them punished before they died to his claws.

He stirred the pot slowly while he visited the large tree in his mind, checking the roll-up of his progress over the events of the last few days.

Druidic Shapeshifter has reached level 39.+10 attribute points.Arboreal Sanctuary has reached level 20.Swipe has reached level 27 (+2).Brutal Restoration has reached level 28.Bear Form has reached level 27.Survival Instinct has reached level 17.Battle Trance has reached level 10.Identify has reached level 10.Cooking has reached level 7.

Hmm, one more level to forty. He glanced over at Ali, shocked to see how many levels she had gained while she had been stuck down here. What on earth did she do? The two fights were worth a level for him, but Ali must have been fighting constantly for the last four days to advance as much as she had.

I’m just going to need to work harder. He spent three points each on vitality and strength, improving his health and his attack power. Then he added two points to endurance to improve his tanking skills and resilience. His final two points went to wisdom, reinforcing his mental defenses and improving most of his Druidic magic skills.

That’s a good start.

Ali’s awareness struggled, mired in the tar pit of deep slumber, but ultimately it was the delicious aroma of Mato’s cooking, and the crick in her back, that finally roused her to wakefulness. Where… bleary-eyed, she glanced about her unfamiliar surroundings. She lay on a hard stone floor, covered with a warm but unfamiliar blanket. Where is my sleeping bag? My tent? Encrustations of bone protruded from the walls, and a heavy, cloying mana seeped into the space from somewhere behind her. Oh, the library. And with that, the awful memories of the last several days crashed in on her, instantly obliterating any possible remnants of sleep from her mind.

Off a little way to one side, she could hear the voices of her friends, muted as they tried to allow her to sleep. It had been hard to take Lira’s advice, but she was grateful for it, and the fact that she had been able to reconcile with them. However, who knew how long it would take to fully restore their sense of camaraderie, if ever. Can I still trust them?

Wait, I usually wake first, don’t I? She was used to having a couple of hours to herself before the others woke, but she still had a blank spot in her memory, and just the image of the devastation in the jungle to explain it. It must have taken more out of me than I thought. While she lay quietly in the dark, she wrestled with her situation. She was certainly wanted dead – not alive, they had been very clear on their preference – by the Town Watch, for the crime of having the wrong class. But she had her friends. And, beyond all expectations, Lira was alive.

Carefully, she browsed through the parchment pages of her gold and green book – her mind’s representation of her notifications and status – trying to piece together what had happened.

Grove Warden has reached level 45 (+5).+50 attribute points.

Apparently, I’m level forty-five now? She searched backward till she found the notifications. No unspent attribute points remained, so she must have spent them at some point over the last couple of days. He was a level sixty-two Ice Mage? Killing Roderik by herself had earned her two class levels. The three subsequent levels had been earned by wiping out the jungle, it seemed.

Painstakingly, she pieced everything together, adding everything from Roderik through the twisting of her domain to accommodate Lira’s mana.

Minion Teleport has reached level 8 (+7).

A whopping five of the levels in Minion Teleport had been earned in her frenzied flight from Roderik. She shivered involuntarily at the memory of his ice magic creeping through her flesh after piercing her. The rest of her skill increases must have been earned for using her skill in the jungle – for what, she had no idea.

Arcane Insight has reached level 25.Sage of Learning has reached level 18.Domain Mastery has reached level 12 (+5).

Her skills were all over the place. Arcane Insight, Sage of Learning, and the insane five levels in Domain Mastery had all come from the astonishing mana bending she had performed to save Lira and herself from the dungeon-rage caused by their domain mana clashing. She still had no idea how she had pulled that off, but she was grateful she had been able to do it in time to save her. At least most of these skill levels she remembered earning.

Barrier has reached level 33 (+3).Grimoire of Summoning has reached level 28 (+3).Martial Insight has reached level 26 (+3).Empowered Summoner has reached level 22 (+2).

The growth in her Barrier and Grimoire of Summoning skills had to be the result of the devastation and incursion of her domain into the jungle, along with two of the levels in her Domain Mastery skill. Her combat skills, Martial Insight and Empowered Summoner, only leveled in combat, so that had to have been from fighting.

Gaining skill levels in Grimoire of Summoning seemed particularly surprising – she had always struggled to get it to level fast enough for the imprints she wanted, but it had leveled three times. Perhaps the extensive use in combat? She had a feeling that her entire time in the jungle – which must have been a couple of days – was all spent in continuous battle. How she had found the time to summon things mid-battle remained an impenetrable mystery.

Arcane Recall has reached level 5 (+4).

She stared at the last one for a long time.

Mom…

Arcane Recall had undoubtedly saved her life. She had been far too busy at the time to dwell on it, but lying in the darkness clutching her mystery blanket, the emotional impact of the skill suddenly crashed in on her. It was undoubtedly the same magic her mother had used to save her: at least a nascent version – her mother’s spell had been a legendary invocation of breathtaking elegance and power. It was that unforgettable flickering gray landscape and the sense of frozen time that left its indelible imprint on Ali’s mind. There could be no doubt.

I lost Arcane Bolt. It had been a sacrifice she had made in the heat of the moment, a desperate grasp for a thread of hope in the moments before dying at the hands of Roderik. When she had first been offered Arcane Recall, she had eventually passed on it in favor of Minion Teleport because of the steep cost of a twenty-four-hour recharge. Had she known what the spell truly was, she would have taken it in an instant. Now that she had it, there was no way she was giving up her mother’s spell to recover her old Arcane Bolt. But it did leave her with a ton of questions.

Does that mean I’m no longer a combat class? She quickly dismissed the idea though. While it was true that her discarded Arcane Bolt – and her earlier Grasping Roots skill – were her only personal damage skills, she still had minions to deal damage for her. Barrier was a Defense-trait combat skill, although the forest of sharpened barrier shards impaling corpses in the jungle might call the defense part into question.

It would most certainly fundamentally change how she approached combat. I should probably discuss it with Calen and Malika, she thought, and then suddenly realized that they were sitting close by, and the fact that she actually could discuss it with her friends was quite a precious thing. I won’t take it for granted again.

The bigger questions would likely remain unanswered for a while. How do I have this skill? And what is it? Mana affinities and even some skill traits or types were known to run in families, but this seemed something more. With just the description, she would have guessed it was a true bloodline skill, but her status page showed nothing like that. Is it related to my arcane mana being golden instead of purple? Is it a Fae thing? But no answers were forthcoming. Just as opaque was the nature of how the spell even worked. She was far more widely read than most, especially on the nature of magic. Scholars seldom agreed, but there was almost unanimous acknowledgment in the literature that true time manipulation magic was impossible – a fantasy. It would cause far too many problems with the fundamental rules of the universe and mana itself. However, haste came in many forms, and could be incredibly fast, resulting in spells that were functionally equivalent to stopping time briefly. This was nothing like that. That place she went when she had activated the skill had seemed like being transported into a dream. Something real, and yet imaginary at the same time. Those flickers that showed snapshots of the world at what must be prior events were just as real to her as the current moment, and yet… how could that be possible?

Shaking her head with far more questions than answers, she pulled up her class for a summary of all that had happened to her.

Name: Aliandra AmarielRace: FaeTitles: AncientClass: Grove Warden – level 45- Arcane Insight – level 25- Arcane Recall – level 5- Barrier – level 33- Grimoire of Summoning – level 28- Runic Script – level 18- Sage of Learning – level 18- Martial Insight – level 26- Empowered Summoner – level 22- Domain Mastery – level 12- Minion Teleport – level 8General Skills- Reading – level 8- Identify – level 13- Sculpting – level 3- Inspiration – level 7Aptitudes- Languages: Ancient Dal'mohran, Elvish, Dwarven, Common, Draconic, Goblin- Mana (Affinities): Nature, Arcane- Tiny (Racial): The effects of Strength and Vitality are reduced by 50%- Magical (Racial): The effects of Wisdom and Intelligence are increased by 50%- Domain (Class): Your mana increases with the size of your domain, up to +100%- Domain: -10% maximum health per day domain withdrawal. You have Domain SenseAttributes- Vitality: 59- Strength: 6- Endurance: 17- Dexterity: 36- Perception: 80- Intelligence: 158- Wisdom: 164Equipment- Body: Tailored Cotton Clothing – level 25- Hands: Wooden Bracelet – level 11- Ring: Silver Guild Ring – level 30Resistance: 360Magical Damage Reduction: 22.22%+21% to mana regenerationHealth: 295/295Stamina: 170/170Mana: 1724/2787 (1063 Reserved)Grimoire Imprints1- Stone2- Armor (Body)3- Arrow4- Bone Bracelet (Hands)5- Book6- Bow7- Dagger8- Shield9- Sword10- Creeper11- Grass12- Moss13- Mushroom14- Tree15- Wildflower16- Dragon17- Elemental18- Goblinoid19,20- Kobold21- Ooze22- Wolf23-28-

Her intelligence was far lower than normal, but that was the result of her having lost the mage she had been using with Empowered Summoner. She still had minions, somewhere out in the jungle, but they were all too far for her to use. Easy to fix. All she needed was to resummon her usual Kobold retinue.

What the heck? Somehow her semi-conscious mind had decided to spend eight of her attribute points on dexterity… and two on strength! Was I punching things? But it was her mana that was the most problematic. Most of her domain had been destroyed when the Town Watch burned the forest, and now she was left with just what she had made in the library and the jungle – and the little extra in the cavern above the library for Lira. Without a full domain, her mana pool had nearly halved – and it was not a problem she could fix with a few minutes of work.

But the loss of her domain was something she could feel deep inside, and not just in the numbers on her class sheet. It was as if she had sustained an unseen wound, something that would take a while to heal.

Speaking of things that will take a while to heal, she thought, rolling over and sitting up. Glancing worriedly at her friends, wondering how they would see her now that it was a fresh day. Carefully, she got up and walked over to where they sat, trying to ignore the sudden burst of anxiety and the racing of her heart.

“I saved you some breakfast,” Mato announced without preamble, handing her a bowl of steaming hot oats and a few slices of fruit.

