But how was she supposed to distract the Tarrasque? She turned her eldritch gaze on the ground again, and the countless writhing bodies, along with jutting edifices of past destruction, turned to brilliant hues as they were swallowed by the Outside. Uva's eyes widened further, and she devoted all of her power to her Dreamtaker's Gaze.

The Eldritch Unique Skill once again carved a gaping wound through the Tarrasque's mind, and it briefly let out a very Shiv-like yelp of pain, but then the yelp died down, and the Tarrasque began to laugh.

"Ah! New place, new prey."

Dreamtaker’s Gaze 25 > 26

A gap briefly opened within the Tarrasque’s Delve, and a pathway to the Outside formed. Strange, formless monstrosities flooded the Delve—and were promptly devoured by the merciless downpour and wilting winds.

The feathered serpents Uva had used against the Recollector undulated into the Tarrasque's Delve as well, but they, too, were withered; they, too, were extinguished, first deprived of color, rendered dull and gray, before they finally dissolved into motes of ash.

Uva's heart plummeted. If that didn't work, then what else did she have? She brought up her skills, and her attention settled on the only other Heroic-Tier skill she had: Shaper of the Aberrant Fractals. She remembered how she'd created the Fractals, remembered what they could do. And as she looked around her, she saw so many bodies here, so many bodies infused with trauma and consumed by madness.

A nervous breath escaped her. This would either work, or she would be completely and utterly doomed. But she had a feeling that the Tarrasque was about to learn what it was like to have a swarm of screaming shrapnel rip out from the inside of its being.

Her mana strands exploded out in all directions, and she screamed as the pain ravaging her increased a dozenfold. It felt like streams of acid were trickling through her flesh, ripping her asunder from the outside in. But as the Tarrasque roared with glee, Uva unleashed her Aberrant Fractals, compelling them to arise as she pulled at the broken people around her.

Victims cried out and shuddered.

Hundreds of writhing bodies went stiff as Uva's many strands were drawn taut. And at once, she pulled. She pulled like she was trying to reel a particularly tenacious fish free from the grasp of a frozen pond, but with a final cry of effort, she wrenched them free.

Dancing shards of strange geometries glided through the insides of the Tarrasque's Delve. Space itself was shorn apart, and Uva directed them outward, directed them with a single command: "Rip and tear until I am free!"

The Fractals heeded her command, and as they did, they began to shred through the bodies, the collapsed buildings, and through the fetid ground as well.

Blood, dust, and other matter sprayed free into the dark sky, and though the Tarrasque tried to crush the Fractals, the space around them always bent, for geometry was twisted around the Aberrant Fractals, and so the destruction of her newest assets was delayed. Her cloud-shaped eldritch nightmares tore through matter like a swarm of locusts, and they narrowed and thinned, extending in all directions as they left gouges and gashes across the mindscape.

Uva found herself grateful that the Starhawk was empowering her once more. Originally, when she invoked one Aberrant Fractal, fatigue washed through her body. A lingering fatigue that lasted hours. Now? Now she'd summoned hundreds, and she was barely breathing heavily.

Shaper of the Aberrant Fractals 111 > 114

“Cutting my… planneeee…” the Tarrasque groaned. A bit of its sapience was seeping away. Its grammar was collapsing, and its words became slurred. Perhaps she was right. These dead bodies and the minds they were connected to did host its greater intelligence, and as more corpses were wiped from existence, the effects were debilitating.

The winds around Uva began to die down, and the black miasma staining the air abated. But as the winds all but halted, the oil-slick rain escalated into a torrential downpour. She realized that the miasma hadn't disappeared; it had merely left the winds to unleash itself from the rain with renewed focus, and the cascades of wretched liquid now hammered her Fractals.

Though air, wind, and matter parted around the Fractals, the rain came with a festering aura, and that made her Aberrant Fractals decay. Their glass-like shards grew dull and black as cracks spread along their lengths. One after another, they began to split and shatter, but the Tarrasque was no longer looking at her, too focused on shattering the eldritch intruders, and she reeled herself back with a final exertion of will.

This time, nothing held her in place, and she zipped free from the Tarrasque's mind and returned to her own body.

Puppeteer of the Formless Strings 146 > 149

As soon as her mind slammed back into her flesh, she found Roland and Rose leaning over her, along with Valor holding her still. Uva blinked and found blood spilling down her lip, her tongue partially bitten through. She wanted to say something, but Valor simply held and pressed a hand against her head. "Uva, Uva, are you well? Are you whole?"

She turned one of her strands into Valor's mind and sent him a telepathic confirmation. “Yes. What happened?”

"You touched the Tarrasque's mind and went mad. You were twisting and writhing on the ground. We only managed to sedate you thanks to Roland’s servants." Uva looked to her side and found a short-haired woman and a stout man staring at her warily. The woman was a Psychomancer, while the man was Roland’s surviving Biomancer. She offered them a grateful nod, but then noticed that the dense nest of Psychomancy protecting the Perch was still in effect.

That should have collapsed with my incapacitation, Uva thought, blinking. How did it not?

The Eldest smiles upon you.

They want you to know that they will not let you die so easily, Seeker.

Skill Altered: Parallel Thinking (Adept) > Splitmind (Master)

Uva understood what had happened, then. She clenched her teeth and tasted the blood running down her throat. Right now, she was bound together with the Dreamtaker and the Starhawk on a level tighter than most could ever conceive of. Of course the Eldest would use this moment to intrude and seize another one of her skills.

Still, it was helping her. And that was what she needed right now. All the help she could get...

Another roar shook the world, and the Tarrasque sounded furious, but at the end of its call, a new notification appeared within Uva's vision.

Feat Gained: Dreamer of the Black Gnosis (Unique) - Allows the Pathbearer to sense, absorb, and dwell within spots of psychological madness. Absorbing madness will hypercharge the Pathbearer's Psychomancy and Eldritch Skills.
