“Okay, I've seen you do this before.” Stella said. “Why am I surprised by it now?”

“It's because you're nervous.” Ren said and took out several steel squares with a single Illumination rune on them. They barely threw off any light, just like a candle, and he scattered them around the room.

“What are you doing?” Stella asked.

“Setting the mood.” Ren said and took a handful of flower petals and sprinkled them over the blanket on the bed.

Stella put her hands on her hips and frowned. “Ren.”

“Yes?” Ren smiled when he turned to look at her.

“You're acting weird.” Stella said. “So, I have a serious question for you.”

“What is it?” Ren asked.

“Because of my title, everyone that saw me was immediately infatuated with me.” Stella said. “Even the succubi could feel it a little.”

“Uh huh.” Ren said and walked over to her. “What's your question?”

“If everyone else is affected, wouldn't you be, too?”

Ren gave her a big warm smile. “I would have been, if it wasn't for one of the main drawbacks and necessary safety features for both of our titles, or similar spells, and even the special abilities of the succubi.”

“What is it?” Stella asked, curious.

“They don't work on someone that already loves you.” Ren said and took her hand. “I love you, so you can be all sparkly and dance around half-naked if you want to, and I won't be more crazy about you than I already am.”

Stella just stared at him. “Is... that can't... it's true?” She said in disbelief.

Ren nodded. “All the various abilities, titles, and spells do is open the door with the suggestion. People decide for themselves if they want to go through with it.” He said. “I've seen it a lot, especially with my Tainted King title. Everyone is supposed to notice and acknowledge me in some way, and I've had lots of people pointedly ignore me or pretend they didn't see me.”

“But... that's not...”

“It's still an acknowledgement.” Ren chuckled and stepped back towards the bed.

Stella thought about what he said. “That's actually really clever.”

Ren nodded and sat down on the bed. “I hope you prepped yourself well for this.”

“Excuse me?”

“I've got you all to myself for the next 11 hours, and I'm not going to waste a second of it.” Ren said and gave her hand a tug. Stella didn't even try to resist as he pulled her down onto the bed.
