Delta grinned and hit it without thinking. The entire room began to shake as the walls and pillars warped, stretching further.From the very top, a chandelier, much grander than Jellagon had in his throne room, appeared like molten gold, all the lights were made of fire and water crystals, their lights pulsating to form a soft shimmering lilac colour over the room.Nearby, a wall pulled in on itself, forming a grand stage where a band could play, but at the top of the marble steps, a platform lowered, showing Maestro’s form as he was lowered down, his majestic cane propping him up as he leaned on it sideways, hat tipped down.The shaking did not stop and Delta threw herself to the ground in hopes of avoiding blame if Nu came looking.“Ah, panic in the ballroom,” Maestro declared grandly as at the top of the room at various spaces, large observation windows for people to sit appeared, each of them having a personal sign. Delta couldn’t quite give them a decent look over as the shaking hit some sort of crescendo.A double set of doors formed on the far side and it felt like it stretched and looped elegantly to the surface, connecting to her entrance hall.From the first window, a confused Sir Fran and Bacon appeared. Fran had lost his usual armor and weapon, appearing in some sort of elegant tuxedo. Bacon, his calm piggy self, had a cute little bowtie around his neck.“I... see,” Fran said after a moment as a chair appeared for him to sit. The next window showed a smaller version of Wyin who had a beautiful black cocktail dress on and actual legs, her hair trailing back into the shadows behind her chair, she smiled holding up an ornate fan that had a bloody red sunset on its surface.“Delta... it’s only been a day since you consumed the pest. I shouldn’t be surprised,” Wyin smiled mischievously. Jellagon was gone and appeared on a... booster seat in the final window, a top hat on his dragon skull.Three windows were made across them, showing Fera, Muffet, and Lord Mushy in attendance. Lord Mushy was in his usual royal regalia, Muffet had a ghostly white dress around her body and Fera...Fera wore a giant puffy pink ball gown and had a massive powdered wig on her head along with cherry red lipstick.Delta stared but then it clicked as Fera reached under her dress and pulled out a massive bottle of spirits, throwing one to Fran, the bottle sailing across the room easily, before she uncorked her own.Only Fera would wear the most ridiculous things to smuggle contraband into the ball.Delta quickly pulled open her new window to see what she had ‘accidentally done.

“I might have done something,” Delta admitted and she was spun in surprise.“Sir Maestro, a waltz please,” Doctor said pleasantly as he managed to hold Delta’s hands, her avatar becoming stronger by the day.“Aren’t you supposed to ask a lady to dance before you sweep her off her feet?” Delta asked, relaxing as Maestro spun his cane.“This one is dedicated to all those foxy boys and girls out there waiting to shake their moneymakers, Delta’s Grandest Ballroom is open for business! The greatest show is here!” he announced, making the music flow from the marble pillars as Delta was led away by Doctor.She laughed as he spun her under the twinkling lights of the sky.A moment later, Dozer stepped forward, taking over as the judges all applauded politely.Delta laughed as she was spun around and around.She felt... a little like a princess.She couldn’t wait to share this feeling with everyone. Deo, Quiss, Ruli, and everyone!Everyone deserved to feel like a princess.---High above, unseen by anyone unless they were looking, the grand royal court of the spiders all gossiped and chatted elegantly in their web-seats. Nearby, Mharia looked down, a little sadly as the ballroom was fantastic... but there were just enough hints of her home ballroom to make her quiet.Quee, easily the largest of the seated spiders, made awkward gestures with his hands.“No, I don’t want a cough drop,” Mharia muttered.“I said ‘you sound sad’,” he replied curtly. Mharia wanted to speak a dead language at him and make him feel like she did... stupid.“But you weren’t far off. You're improving rapidly,” Quee insisted. A silence settled over them as Delta was doted on, favoured by all her monsters. Acting as nothing had happened between her and Mharia.Was it spite or just normal for Delta to abruptly move on with her life?“I pretend not to remember,” he announced and Mharia gave him a look that said she had no clue what he meant.“Before I was me. I was another. I was ‘her’. She was not a nice person... or really a person so to speak. For Delta, the great mother of us all... I don’t want to burden her with the knowledge I remember being broken down... burned by her rage. However, I know what it is somewhat like to feel like you are in chains without any manacles or iron links. You feel alone, an outsider... like it will all come crashing down,” Quee said quietly.“How can you not hate this then?” Mharia asked and Quee thought about it.“Because when I was reborn, I saw who I was through the eyes of a new person. Delta was utterly in her right to destroy who I was... and it would be her right not to return me, but she did. She saw something in me worth saving I suppose and that makes me feel more positive towards Delta than who I was. I feel good being here. It’s that simple,” Quee shrugged after speaking.“Simple...” Mharia repeated, spreading her wings in thought.She looked down at Delta bringing some of Turtog back... even if accidentally.Perhaps simple... but Mharia would struggle with her reality for some time. But for now? She’d simply enjoy the music and her fr- companion, Quee’s, company. At least the half-spider monster was sophisticated and mature!“Ria! Look, look! It’s Maestro!” Quee abruptly gushed, squealing as he nearly hopped out of his chair. Mharia was tugged forward with blinking eyes.“A singing mushroom man, yes I see him,” Mharia responded dryly. Quee looked scandalized.“That is the supreme Star of the Dungeon! The singing darkness, the gentlemanly specter, the voice of a thousand songs! It’s Maestro!” Quee flailed his arms in disbelief at her lack of interest.Mharia thought about it.“He ravaged me and my supreme forces with his powers and a bunch of mushroom and spider fusions. Then he multiplied by three and surrounded my gaping dragon,” she mused aloud, thinking back.“Urgh... jealous,” Quee muttered.“He was coming to kill me,” Mharia reminded him flatly. Quee sighed in a daydream-like tone.“What a way to go,” he agreed.Mharia looked away in disgust.Boys... spider-boys... and their stupid crushes on singing mushroom men that could be giant piles of spiders and mushrooms.Now, if it were Wyin? There’d be a figure to admire.Strong, scary, and commanding.Now, that was a death!They both sighed, oblivious to the other.---
