… After the debates… Which came after lunch, first.

Jane and Nirzir had brought back food from Pale Cow’s cooking yurts. Over that hearty stew, Erick sat down and extended his senses half toward the debate stage. No one there, yet. Looked like they were still setting up—

Erick asked Nirzir, “Do you have [Viewing Screen]? I keep meaning to get it, but I’ve never bothered.”

“I do have that spell, but only the low-grade and medium-grade versions.”

“What spells did you use for it?”

“The usual.” Nirzir said, “[Force Wall] and [Scry]. I’ve used [True Sight] in a separate spell for when that’s needed. None of my Screens are stable, though, but I don’t want to make the stable versions because I don’t want to be a hermit.”

“No popping protections?”

Nirzir nodded. “Correct; anyone on the other side can pop the sensor if they want to.” Nirzir said, “I don’t even use [True Viewing Screen] that often, as it’s too expensive for most long-term viewing. Usually, [Viewing Screen] is good enough for me. Neither are as good as a mana sense on-site, though. Or even a proper [True Scry]. That whole suite of spells is rather niche.”

Erick said, “I’m going to make a [Viewing Screen], then, so we can watch the debates.” He held out his left hand and rapidly channeled mana through the appropriate spells until they clicked together, into something harmonious— Erick stopped. “It’s missing something.”

Nirzir nodded as she stuck her fork into a piece of meat in her stew. “Yeah. That’s another reason I never made any high-grade [Viewing Screen]. You can go in almost any direction with that, and none of them sound complete. [Force Platform] makes the Screen move as you wish. Shifting the sound and intent can make the Screen appear at both locations, so that you can communicate with someone without using [Telepathy]— Ah. You need to add [Prestidigitation] for that one, so that the other side can hear what you say. [Prestidigitation] needs to go into any [Viewing Screen] you make, if you want anyone besides you to hear what’s happening on the other side. In a different sort of way, [Telepathy] can allow both sides to communicate with each other, but that can make for some nasty False Damage headaches if anyone on either side doesn’t want to participate.” Nirzir said, “You can go a lot of ways with that spell.”

Teressa spoke up, “The Army puts out a book on all sorts of [Viewing Screen] defensive and offensive measures. We could get you one?”

Poi nodded; this was easy enough to do.

Erick said, “Eh. I’ll just make the basic spell right now. Work on something better, later.”

And so he did. [True Sight] was massively expensive, though, at 25 mana per second, but he could handle those sorts of costs, so Erick included that into the spell. He did shuffle [Force Wall]’s 100 minute duration into something smaller, though, to lessen the final costs.

Near the end of his combination, Erick got the distinct impression that he was somehow using a magnifying glass and a sound amplifier to watch a TV that someone had placed at the other end of a stadium. It sounded odd, but it sounded clear, too, so he went with that, and continued onto the next part. After adding in the usual ‘renew-like’ magics that he included in most of his magic these days, the spell sounded clearer, like he was viewing some far away part of the world through a fiber optic cable.

It was weird, but it worked.

True Viewing Screen, instant, super long range, 12,250 mana

Conjure a quick sensor at a known location which sees through all nearby falsehoods, and projects an image of the location onto a screen in front of you. Lasts 10 minutes.

Recasting this spell on the same screen will renew the duration of the spell.

Erick felt a bit lightheaded as mana swirled out of him to create a ‘television screen’ that hovered to the side of the dinner table, showing the empty debate stage near the water. He smiled. “It worked.” He handed the spell out to Jane, who wordlessly wanted to know how his spell had turned out, and then, seeing the inquisitive eyes of Nirzir, he handed out the spell to everyone. “A bit expensive, but not too bad.”

Nirzir’s eyes went wide. “That’s a… large duration, there. Mine lasts a minute.”

“Yeah, but I can afford it. Anyway.” Erick turned away from the screen, asking Nirzir, “Have you gotten far with your self-repairing spellwork?”

“Haven’t managed it yet, though I have been able to see what you were talking about when it came to the natural degradation of a Permanent wardlight, and the wardlight’s ‘desire’ to recreate itself.” Nirzir asked, “Have you managed a new [Personal Ward]?”

Erick smiled. “Not yet. I’m pondering a simple Blood Magic, Variable Cost Variable Defense, though. Have you tried that?”

“It’s better than the base defense provided by [Personal Ward], for sure, but that comes with a few severe drawbacks that makes that option rather useless for most people; one more than most.” Nirzir handed Erick a blue box, saying, “Here. This is one of those I made a while ago. You can see the problem.”

Bloody Personal Ward, instant, personal ward, 100 mana + Variable

Conjure a defensive ward across your body that prevents 90% of damage, and up to a 2x Variable amount of damage prevented.

“Oh yeah.” Erick said, “Even if you can prevent 300,000 damage, you’d need 30,000 Health in order to make use of that protection.”

Nirzir nodded. “Exactly. I abandoned that path early on since I’m not a Scion of Balance, or a Blood Mage. If you’re a Blood Mage you should be able to get that percentage up to 95% and with a times-five Variable multiplier. For a Scion of Balance, [Bloody Personal Ward] is also an attractive option. But not for me.” She added, “Though, Health isn’t everything. Health-theory states that the natural body has a 5 to 10 damage resistance, so if all you’re taking is 100 Health hits, and you have a 90% modifier, then even without any Health at all, you won’t take actual damage— Well… Not dangerous damage. Usually”

Jane perked up. “If you had natural armor, though, you’d have a lot more effective Health, right?”

Poi instantly said to Jane, “Blood Magic is generally heavily restricted; outlawed, in a lot of places.”

“Yet another problem with Blood Magic.” Nirzir said, “But if you can do it, monsters almost always have a high damage resistance, and Polymages can easily take advantage of this benefit.” She waved an empty fork, saying, “I’ve gone pretty far down the ‘damage resistance route’ with my [Personal Ward]s, but it’s hard to do that without [Polymorph], and… No offense, but I’m not turning my skin into chitin. There is obvious useful overlap with some of the [Stone Body]-like magics we spoke of the other day, and there is merit there, but not enough to pursue.” She said, “[Bloody Personal Ward] is just not good enough for me.”

Jane glanced to Poi, then turned back to Nirzir, asking, “But if you had chitin, then you could Blood Magic up some really, really impressive defenses?”

“Only numerically.” Nirzir said, “Which is good enough for most uses, but not enough for me and my goals.”

Erick said, “Might be good enough for me. I’ll try it, after lunch.”

Poi sighed. “Of course you will.” He added, “You know Blood Magic is dangerous, right? Long term unforeseen effects pile up when you use Blood Magic, and this is a [Personal Ward] you’re talking about.”

Teressa hadn’t spoken much, but she clearly agreed with Poi, if her expression was anything to go by. Jane suddenly, silently agreed with him, too.

Nirzir nodded. “He’s right. That’s another reason I didn’t go that route. In the blue box, [Bloody Personal Ward] looks good, but in reality, it fails to live up to the numbers.”

Erick frowned. “Ah. Well. Hmm.”

Erick discarded that idea.

Poi made no attempt to hide his relieved expression, or his light, happy chuckle.

Teressa joked, “Disaster averted!”

Jane said, “But I have the monster ability Perfected Body, which makes me immune to all the long term effects of Blood Magic. I could use a [Bloody Personal Ward] just fine.”

Erick’s eyes weren’t the only ones to go a bit wide.

Nirzir exclaimed, “Lucky! Ugh! That’s the one thing I would want out of Polymage. Everything else I could do without.”

Jane looked like the cat that caught the canary.

“Would that work?” Erick asked Nirzir.

“It does work exactly like that,” Nirzir said.

Jane chuckled lightly.

Poi looked to her, saying, “You need a license.”

“Then I will get one!” Jane confidently declared.

The conversation moved on to other magics, with questions and answers passing back and forth between Nirzir, and Erick. They spoke of the metals outside, and of electromotive forces. Erick asked after what she knew about steel, and Nirzir admitted she had no idea about any of that, but it was an interesting challenge; to make metals strong and resilient to the normal damage that occurred through regular use. Usually only Smiths managed to make anything worthwhile, and those gains were mostly due to their Class Ability, Metal Sense. That Ability allowed rather fine observation of metals in a way that normal mana sense did not.

And that was an interesting problem. Teressa and Erick spoke of mana sensing the interiors of metals, wondering what it was that Smiths could see that they could not. Nirzir shrugged; she wasn’t privy to any Smithing secrets, either.

Erick renewed the Viewing Screen as needed. Jane, Poi, and Teressa, each eventually moved on from the table.

By the time Erick needed to go out to the meeting platform and help the people out there, the debates still hadn’t begun. They were an hour behind schedule. Once at the platform, and since he was already running around with Ophiel, Erick asked a few people here and there about the delay, concerned that something bad had happened. Niyazo and his leaders were in heavy discussions in their gathering yurt, though, so he didn’t disturb them.

Apparently, nothing was wrong; the debates would simply be three hours late.

So Erick went back to work.

Except for the monster hunts, which he could do on his own time, Erick completed all of the major problems people brought to him well before the debates actually began.

When the debates began, Erick was already sitting on his porch, watching through the [Viewing Screen] that hovered in the air, like it was a giant television.

Jane sat beside him, munching on some fried rice balls and sipping a beer. Teressa, Poi, and Nirzir sat behind Erick and Jane. Sitting down and settling in, Erick only now noticed that everyone had a snack except for him. All of them had gone out into the ‘temporary city’ of Ooloraptoor at some point in time, except for him.

Erick asked, “And no one got me a snack?”

Nirzir almost panicked, gripping the last cookie of her bucket of cookies. She had already taken a bite out of the cookie, too.

Jane pointed. “All of your snacks are waiting for you to buy them way over there, at the food vendor street about four kilometers that way.” Then she held the bag out to him, “Or, we can share, but this one is the really spicy kind.” She added, “And I have no idea what sort of stuff out there you’d like. It’s all weird, dad.”

Teressa held close her own large paper bag of near-raw beef strips, not wanting to offer, but offering anyway, “You want a klorztal?”

Poi said, “I got dried fish. You don’t like dried fish.” Almost happily, he added, “No one likes dried fish.”

Erick said to them all, “I think you all purposefully cultivated a joy of terrible snacks in order to not have to share them with anyone else.”

Teressa laughed loud.

Poi just nodded; of course he had done this, for this was what you did while in the army.

Erick glanced to Nirzir’s empty cookie bucket, saying, “Nirzir gets a pass since she ate all of hers before the debate actually began.”

Nirzir just looked at the bite mark in her cookie, unsure of what to do. And then she held it out to Erick.

Erick smiled. “No thank you, but thank you for the offer.”

Nirzir, still unsure, took the cookie back.

Erick looked at Jane’s bag and the clumps of balled rice within. They were made of savory marshmallow fluff and dusted with something green. “I am going to try one of these, though.”

“It’s spicy~~~” Jane teased.

Erick plucked one from the bag and smelled it—

Olfactory pain ripped through nostrils, throat, and mouth. He tossed the treat back into the bag as he turned his head and sneezed into the crook of his arm as his eyes watered.

Jane laughed, saying, “Gross! Don’t throw the snack back in the bag!”

Erick kept sneezing. Tears rolled down his face.

Nirzir said, “I think I need a new snack, too. Anyone else want to come with me?”

Erick blinked out tears and regained himself, saying, “Sure!”

Poi set down his dried fish.

Soon, the three of them were at the food vendor street. Erick got snacks enough for everyone, and they were the good kind. ‘It’s all weird’; phssh! Erick was delayed getting back, though, because a lot of people noticed him and wanted to talk to him, though almost everyone was rather decent about not actually talking to him. Those that tried got told to take an application at the platform outside of his yurt.

The three of them made it back to their seats minutes before the debate started.

… Erick had a strange need for a soda, at that moment. No carbonated drinks on Veird, though; or at least none that weren’t also alcoholic. Meh; whatever.
