The day ended with Erick dismissing a hundred groups of people, almost all of which only wanted to talk to him for various, unconcerning reasons. There were people who wanted silver rains, or who wanted diamonds. There were those who had ‘fantastic opportunities’ that Erick ‘must invest in right now!’ for their products were surely going to be flying off the shelves in the coming days. He still helped those who needed help, but the line between necessary and frivolous was blurring.

Sitting down to dinner with everyone, Erick laid it out there, “I think I might have been wrong about there ‘always being’ monster problems. I think the people who needed help, who were in actual danger, were quick to ask for that help. I only had 20 monster kills today. Oddly enough, all of them were hydras.” He added, “I never thought hydras were such a big problem, but they are, aren’t they.”

“It’s the regeneration.” Teressa said, “Regenerating monsters sometimes learn to escape a conflict and to come back twice as strong. Most monsters fight and fight and then die after the fight is over. Wounds, and such.”

Jane nodded. “All the worst monsters are either the ones that regenerate, or breed quickly.”

“There’s also the monsters who don’t look like monsters when they’re juveniles. The hidden ones.” Nirzir said, “Like the mist stone gluttons. The parent monster is a tiny lizard that will transform into a mist stone glutton if it gets damaged in combat, or if it suffers a sickness. Both events will prevent it from expelling its core dust and becoming monsterized.”

“There’s a species of bird in the Wyrmridge Mountains that’s like that, but only if the mother suffers damage in mating season. Elbow Twits.” Teressa said, “The monstrous version lays eggs everywhere, too, with each tenth egg turning into another elbow twit. That one is both a ‘breed quickly’ and a ‘hidden’ type.”

“Well, I’m just glad that the problem here seems to be lessening.” Erick asked Teressa, “But why are they called elbow twits?”

“They like to attack joints. It’s the cartilage.” Teressa said, “They like all cartilage, actually. Noses and ears are fair game, too, but people try to defend their faces and ears and leave their elbows out there, so that’s how they got their name. A group of them can leave an unprepared group of people as no more than dismembered body parts.”

Erick shivered. “Oh. That’s awful.”

“They’re mostly insignificant monsters.” Poi said, “Only low-leveled, unprepared people are ever vulnerable to them.”

Teressa nodded. “Most monsters are insignificant once you get strong enough. Elbow twits usually end up killing other animals, though I have heard that they can be a problem in the Greensoil Republic.”

Erick said, “Anyway. Looks like I got most of the major monsters around here. Or at least the ones that people are willing to come to me about.”

Jane said, “Only the ones that people survived.”

“… Ah. Yeah.” Erick stopped, and considered.

He should just kill every single monster out there, shouldn’t he? Or at least all the big ones. Every single tangled hydra would be a good start. He almost did, right then and there.

Except…

That would be messing with the ecosystem, too much. Treehome had done a significant amount of prognostication to discover if killing all the moon reachers and deathsoul shrooms would be good, or bad, and Erick would need to do the same before he decided to erase any monster lineages from the world. After all, tangled hydras ate a lot of everything, all the time, including other monsters.

And with that thought coming to him…

Looking back on it, he hoped that he hadn’t fucked up the Tribulations west of Songli when he went on his money-replacing spree a few weeks ago. Killing the fast-breeding crystal mimics was one thing, but mist stone gluttons came from normal lizards, and they were not actually endless.

He hoped that he hadn’t fucked up the grassland ecosystem for the grass travelers, since he had killed almost every large monster out there in the last week. Something different and unknown might come in and take over, now that the major monstrous threats were no more.

Jane asked, “Whatcha thinkin about, dad?”

Erick said to Jane, “I could go kill every single tangled hydra out there, but until I know more about the long term effects of such an action, I will not be doing that, for I won’t always be here to solve whatever horde-type monsters come later, after the major predator had been removed from the environment.”

Jane smiled a little, as she said, “Probably for the best.” She added, “I doubt many places were wiped out completely, anyway. Most people can escape a tangled hydra. You probably heard about all the actual problem hydras.” She asked Teressa, “But that brings up a good question: How is Treehome doing now that the reachers and shrooms are gone?”

“From everything I have heard, Treehome is doing well. The Forest got a lot safer.” Teressa said, “There have been some unexpected hordes of shroomspawn exploding out of the Green here and there and there are some sort of beetle problems in the west, but other than that, it’s been good—” She looked west. “Warlord Niyazo is coming over.”

Erick almost panicked at the sudden shift in Teressa’s focus, but when her words weren’t disastrous, Erick calmed. He said, “Yeah. I see him, and Koori, too.” He ate a few more bites of dinner as he spoke through his lightform, as he did when he was speaking through Ophiel, “You all don’t have to be there for that, if you don’t wish. I think we’re going to talk politics.”

- - - -

Erick invited Niyazo and Koori into the dense air of his home. They declined to go inside, which Erick expected, so the four of them sat on the front porch. Jane came out of the house with a small keg of hot rice wine and four cups, though she declined to sit in attendance.

The night crept in as the sun set in the west, but bright wardlights shaped like tiki torches kept the darkness at bay. Up above, the [Undertow Star] glittered in the nearby sky. Celes, The Silver Star, and Hell, shed their wan lights onto the surrounding land, their white, silver, and pink reflections captured in the shiny metals scattered across the front yard, their diffuse glows barely illuminating anything else.

Steam rolled up from Erick’s cup as he raised it to Clan Pale Cow, smiling as he said, “Congratulations on your easy win today.”

“Ha,” Koori said, then she sipped her drink.

They all took a small drink.

“It is only thanks to you that we won, today.” Niyazo said, “Until a week ago, Green Grass was one of our harder prospects. It could have gone either way.”

“I’m glad to help, then.” Erick said, “Now that I’ve seen some of your land, and talked with your people, I believe that Integration is a bit more important than I thought it was.”

Koori asked, “Is that why you are still here? I thought that after finding your dragon, you would have either killed them or kept traveling.”

“All I did was talk with him. Or her. Not sure about that.” Erick said, “But the danger is still there. Do you wish I was gone? So that the dragon could move around unhindered?” He had asked the question sarcastically, if only because he was unsure of what answer they would give him.

Koori frowned. “I did not mean it like that. But this is not your land. Unless you are making it your land?” She asked, “So? Are you making it your land?”

Erick said, “I’m moving on as soon as I’m sure that I haven’t left a problem behind me, but I don’t know if the dragon is a problem or not. He seems to have only gone after me because I was hunting face stealers and exposing the shadows everywhere, and thus, they thought me a threat.” He shrugged. “Maybe I am an existential threat to someone like that. Maybe the dragon is a face stealer themselves. They probably are; it’s easier to move and hide quickly by abusing [Polymorph] in that way, than it is to use [Polymorph] in the correct manner. Or it could be that they only became a face stealer because they had no other choice; it was either that, or death.” Erick said, “But they’re likely not a face stealer; we got all of those.”

For a long moment, Koori sipped her wine, not saying a word. Thinking.

Then Niyazo said, “I would have you at tomorrow’s debate with Blue Sky, if you would be there.”

“Eh?” Erick asked, “Wouldn’t that be dishonorable? I mean… I know the elders have no actual power. But.” He waved his hand at the landscape of Ooloraptoor, saying a lot and nothing at the same time.

Koori said, “The elders are moderators. Nothing more. They certainly wish to be more than that, but as we are not actually Integrated at this point in time, what the elders say is little more than hot wind.”

“They’re useful for helping to establish a culture of Polite War and to keep actual conflict to a minimum, but many of them are actively against Integration.” Niyazo said, “What they want is power without responsibility, and one must push back against that sort of thing, or else you will wake up one day to find a collar around your neck without ever knowing how it got there.”

Koori added, “Still. There is some merit to adhering to the words of the elders. But only if we won’t lose by doing so.”

Niyazo said, “Which is why we would have you at tomorrow's debate, if you are willing. It need only be for a single 5 minute segment. The elders would push back, but we would win another debate without bringing out our big arguments, and this might be necessary for when we face Brown Dog. We saved a lot of audience goodwill today by not dragging out the talks, and I would keep that goodwill if possible.” He added, “Plus, I am sure that everyone would want to hear you speak more fully.”

Erick said, “I’m sure you can win on your own merit, and I need to think about more than Pale Cow. I will abide by the elders’ decision.”

Koori’s eyes went a bit wide at Erick’s stark refusal. She smiled, then rapidly hid that smile from Niyazo. She was delighted to hear that Erick chose to step back, but she had needed to come and support her husband, and so she spoke on his behalf. She was glad they had lost this tiny ‘debate’.

Niyazo stoically took the news like a man hearing that tomorrow’s weather would be bad, and yet he still needed to go out and work in the rain. He nodded, then said, “Understandable, and acceptable. Thank you.” He continued, “I would hear of your ideas of governance, anyway. If you would be willing to share them. What does a proper government look like to you?”

Well…

Sure. Erick could do that.

“Any design works, as long as it fulfills a few basic needs:” Erick explained, “The people are safe, without being constrained. Ideally, the average person is educated in the basics of how their world works, so that they can one day become one of the ruling class if they so wish. Social mobility is achievable in a myriad of ways, but all of that mobility comes from contributions of the individual to the rest of society, or through anything non-violent, really.

“The ruling class needs to be accountable to both themselves, and the people they rule, and everyone must be judged using the same set of laws. The law needs to be compassionate, with the enforcement of the law bending based on circumstances, and yet it must not bend so far that the whole system breaks.

“Anything that fulfills those needs works for me. Pretty much all the cities of the Crystal Forest fulfill this need, though each one of those is more ‘adventuring hub’ than actual city.” He paused.

Erick almost spoke of Portal, and how they were the exception to the rule, and how shitty that was for everyone else, as Portal was the Crystal Forest’s main trade route to the rest of the world. He was still mad at them. He was still not over what the Pearl King allowed to happen with Lower Trademaster Caradogh, and the destruction that erased Spur’s Farms. He chose not to speak of that, though, because something like that was surely able to get back to Portal, and Erick didn’t need to give himself a future headache. The Pearl King was very much capable of making life at Candlepoint harder than it had to be.

… Erick found he had no more to say, actually.

When it became clear that Erick was done, Koori said, “An admirable set of requirements. But trying to apply the law equally to those of true power usually results in the destruction of stability. Placating them into going away or indulging them long-term is usually the safest course of action.”

She was purposefully antagonizing him, wasn’t she? Bah.

“That might be true.” Erick said, “But one must have a shape they wish their society to take, or else their society will take whatever shape other people impose upon it. It’s okay if it’s not perfect, as long as the vast majority of people are free, and even the lowliest person —even those trapped by the most awful of circumstances— has a chance to break free of those circumstances.” Erick said, “Plus, if you have a solid code then you can tell visiting powerhouses what is okay, and what isn’t. Perhaps they’ll follow your lead, if you have an established lead to follow.”

Niyazo smiled wide. “I’m going to steal that line for myself, if you do not mind.”

“Go right ahead,” Erick said.

Koori was not satisfied, though. “I wish idealism was that simple to implement. Just tell them to behave? As if it is ever that simple.”

Erick felt a spike of anger rise up from the absolute depths of his soul, catching him off guard with its ferocity. Later, he would realize that his anger came from how he felt when everyone didn’t want to murder all the Shades. He kept a lid on much of that anger, but some of it came out as he said, “Then make it that simple, Koori.”

Koori’s slightly-widened eyes glinted in the false firelight all around.

Niyazo was almost forgotten to the side.

Koori asked, “How?” She asked, “How does one treat with Shades, and dragons, and all the other powers of this world, and come out stronger for it, without falling to the depths? How do you keep being a good person, when reality requires you to be evil? How do you—” Koori was conflicted in that moment, perhaps more than she ever had been before, and yet she made a decision to continue. She asked, “How do you forgive yourself for all the mistakes you have made?”

Ah.

