Erick said, “Pick a good goal, and then stick to that goal, yet know that deviations will occur because no plan survives contact with reality. Be ready for those deviations. Acknowledge the mistakes you make, and then fix whatever mistakes you have made along the way, if you can. Always deal with the problems that come at you; never let them pile up. Always act with compassion. Don’t fall into thinking that the problems others create because of your actions are somehow your fault.” He added, “Unless they are your fault, and then you gotta fix them.”

Koori listened, breathlessly. Then she nodded.

Niyazo spoke up, shifting the conversation away from his wife, “I would hear how you think your three-branch government would work on Veird, if you were to implement it here.”

Erick felt a moment of whiplash, then he came back to himself. He thought for a second; did he want to tell this stuff to Niyazo? Jane had been right that it was nice to be able to talk to your leader, on Veird. It was nice that the space separating the average grass traveler from the ‘ruler’ was so small. But then again, any form of government that oversaw millions of people would suffer the same sorts of ‘disconnected from the common citizen’ fate that came from a three-part government. But at that same time, having a system in place where everyone was replaceable, meant that it could last long past the people who invented the system.

Erick decided to answer Niyazo’s question. He started off circumspect, saying, “Now, this probably won’t work on Veird, because a three-part system is not responsive to existential threats in the same way that most governments around here are responsive to existential threats. This is both good and bad. Good, in that malicious forces cannot bring down the system in one fell swoop. Bad, in that such a system should not be able to respond in the timely manner necessary to avert certain disasters, like monsters. And yet, with some tweaking, you should be able to make a three-part system that is responsive to monster threats, or what-have-you.”

“But what does that look like, exactly?” Niyazo asked.

Erick spoke.

Soon, they switched to coffee.

Niyazo asked questions, and he posed interesting arguments. More than once, he understood exactly what could go wrong with a three-branch system of government, long before Erick got to the specific warnings of what could go wrong. ‘If the majority of people thought a certain way, then there would be no room for minorities in your system’; ‘Which is why special care must be taken to ensure minorities have a voice, with leaders voted in who bring those voices to the table’. ‘We grass travelers often have to combat lies, which is why we have elders to show the easily-swayed what is truth and what is fiction. Where would you put the Elders in your system?’; ‘Anywhere people would vote for them to be, but probably as judges’.

They also spoke of voting, and local elections, and representatives which would form a council which would communicate the needs of their territories to the ruling party. And then Niyazo spoke of voting problems, where people either voted for a single party, or their vote was useless. Koori spoke up about how a ‘two party’ system was also a possible problem. To this, Erick brought up a novel form of voting, where people voted not for a single person, but instead ranked their top three or five people in order of who they want for a certain position, and then those people won council positions based on how many votes they received, and how many positions needed to be filled.

“That’s called transferable voting, and it does prevent the ‘party rule’ problem.” Koori said, “They use that in the Greensoil Republic.”

Erick smiled. “Ah! They do? I didn’t know they did that.” He chuckled. “I’m glad to see that the theory actually works! No one does that back home, and I wish they would have.”

“Their implementation only resembles the ideas that you speak of. Only nobles are allowed to vote over there, which is something we would not allow here.” Koori said, “But at least they’re not the Sovereign Cities.”

Erick nodded. “That place is still at civil war.”

“And they will be, as long as the nobility exists. Which is why we cannot have a nobility happen here.” Niyazo said, “I would say that is most everyone’s actual fear when it comes to Integration; the rise of a nobility. Too much power passing down into the hands of children who have done nothing to earn that power besides to be born into it.” He added, “And at the same time… Transferable votes are a headache and a half. Better than the clan system they have in Songli, though.”

Koori nodded, humming in acknowledgment as she sipped her hot rice wine. Mostly, she stayed silent as Erick and Niyazo spoke, her mind and her thoughts her own, but more than once she shared those thoughts.

The night wore on. Eventually, it got to be too late, and Niyazo and Koori went back to their own home. Erick wished them well in their debate with Blue Sky tomorrow. He might watch, but he would not participate…

Unless something horrible happened. But Erick didn’t say that part; he wasn’t willing to tempt Fate that much.

- - - -

As the sun rose in the east, Erick set to work making a better DC engine. He started with metals—

But before he began, Niyazo and Koori showed up at the edge of the property, walking his way. Erick re-enabled their [Prismatic Ward] permissions and welcomed them into his workshop, asking if they wanted a cup of coffee. He didn’t want to say it, but both of them looked exhausted, as though they had been awake all night long, talking to people. Maybe they had.

“We cannot stay overlong, Erick,” Niyazo said, standing next to a new pile of copper ingots Erick had purchased not ten minutes ago. “We came to inform you that we will be using some of your ideas in the debate today, so that you are aware of it before it happens.”

Erick’s eyes went wide. “You are? Well. Okay. Good luc—” He warned, “The systems I spoke about are likely not compatible with the realities of life on Veird. Here, you need to respond to danger and to the changing world in a single moment, and if you can’t, then you die. Back home, all the big problems were caused by the system’s inability to respond to existential threats, for everything was too entrenched, but at that same time, a lot of big problems were avoided, because everything was so entrenched; some wacko couldn’t come along and destroy everything all on their own. The system itself remained intact.” Erick said, “I think that the politics of my homeland and the reality of life here are intrinsically incompatible, and to attempt to map them together would only cause problems.”

Niyazo said, “The politics of your homeland were what they needed to be to allow your people to break the nobility that plagued your people, just like it plagues ours. Most of the ideas you spoke of don’t translate perfectly, but there are many that do. The main one is the establishment of a system that will last long after the creators are gone, that has checks against abuses and avenues for justice that the systems we have around here simply do not have.” Niyazo said, “That is much of what our arguments will focus on, going forward. With that, we hope to ensure that a nobility will never rise from the systems we lay down.”

Koori said, “We thank you for your assistance and your words and your knowledge, but we’re taking it from here. You are welcome to watch, if you wish.”

Erick looked at both of them for a moment, then he realized another problem that they didn’t discuss nearly enough. He said, “The city you want to make out of the clans of the grass travelers is not going to look how you want it to look. They’re going to want a lot of magic in their lives. They won’t be orthodox. You’re going to need to change.”

Niyazo’s eyebrows went up, as though he couldn’t believe that Erick was putting to words his own concern. Then he turned to see his wife’s reaction.

Koori stood resolute, like she was facing the executioner’s block with strength. She had some ‘big red buttons’ of her own, didn’t she? In that moment, she pressed one of those buttons; she stepped down a path that she did not want to go, but that she knew she must. Her voice was solid, yet smaller than usual, “I understand.”

Erick looked to Niyazo again, and then back to Koori, his gaze settling on the woman who a Registrar once offered to help become empress. He saw her in that moment, more than he had ever seen her before. Perhaps what he saw was a trick of the manasphere, or a particularly deep moment of mana sense; probably both.

Koori was dressed in a raiment of impeccable shadows made of thick air. A [Cleanse]d darkness that draped from every surface of her body and layered downward, like an ephemeral idea brought to this side of reality. Something dark swirled around her hornless head, resembling a crown, but also horns.

And then it was gone.

Erick would have said something, he would have asked questions, except, all he had seen was a figment of the manasphere; like a [Scry] eye that was only visible when under Meditation, or like one of the many monstrous forms that lurked in the un-Reality that surrounded them all.

So all Erick said was, “Good luck.”

Koori nodded. Hers was a stiff gesture, as though she was also trying to understand some odd thing in the moment. Perhaps she had seen what he had seen in the manasphere, though most people didn’t run Meditation unless they were expecting problems that required a magical solution, and two people almost never saw the same odd figments unless they were of like minds.

Niyazo noticed the oddity that passed between his wife and the archmage, but he just smiled a little, and moved on, saying, “Thank you, Erick.” He bowed a little. “Archmage.”

Koori just nodded deeply.

The two of them walked away, back to their clan.

Erick took a moment to actually mana sense toward the near past. He looked at Koori again, in that odd moment. She had no shadowy garments on this time, but there was a wispy sensation in the air around her. It almost looked like a garment made of nothing, for it was ‘made’ of the ‘blanking’ that occurred when someone purposefully erased the history of the manasphere, or when powerful magics tainted the manasphere. It was a weak effect, whatever it was, for as Erick watched that moment, frozen in time, the manasphere filled itself back in, and Koori just looked like Koori. No dark raiment; no thick shadows.

Odd.

Erick fully came back to himself.

He turned toward his metals…

And he got to work! What else was he supposed to do about an oddity such as Koori? Whatever he had seen certainly wasn’t a trick of the light, or a trick of Meditation. But whatever it was, it was not Erick’s problem…

… But he wanted to pick the brain of someone who might know more about this sort of thing. Teressa was still in the yurt, so it was easy enough to get to her. She was organizing monster-killing lesson plans out of a book for children.

Erick stepped into the room, asking, “Teressa. You’ve been reading up about fortune telling and stuff like that, right?”

Teressa looked up from her book. “...Yes?”

“Have you ever [Future Sight]ed around a person and seen something…” Erick wasn’t quite sure how to phrase it, so he said, “Seen something solidify? Around them? The notes I got from Redarrow spoke a bit about seeing someone’s future in the manasphere, but most of his words were open to interpretation, and I have not done nearly as much [Future Sight] as you have.”

Teressa looked up at nothing in particular, then she looked to Erick. “Did it look… malicious? Like death? Or did it look more like a blossoming?”

“… The second one. Pretty sure.” Erick said, “I’m not sure what I saw, so it’s bugging me more than I thought it would.”

Teressa’s eyes briefly unfocused, then she came back to herself. “I don’t see any— Ah. You saw something appear and then vanish, and now it’s not even in the manasphere, is it?”

“That’s exactly it.” Erick asked, “Do you know what it was?”

Nirzir, Jane, and Poi watched on, listening. Nirzir and Jane looked worried, but Poi was not worried at all.

“And it did not look like death to you?” Teressa asked, a little bit worried. She rapidly added, “If it looked like a good thing, tell no one what you saw.” She glanced to Poi. “If it was a good thing, it’s bad enough that two people know about it now.”

Poi shrugged.

Erick said, “It seemed neither good nor bad; just something that was.”

Teressa nodded, her worries falling away. “What you saw was likely a glimpse of the future. I’ve never seen them, but the best Prognosticators see them all the time... If they focus on seeing them, anyway. I’ve focused on large events and big happenings since Poi does the small stuff, so I doubt I’ll ever be able to see the small details.

“Fortune Tellers, for instance, focus on seeing those glimpses. Those types can study a person and see their path through life, or at least the larger events. There are Death Tellers that are either very good at predicting death, or very bad, but no one but them and the Mind Mages would know if they were good at their profession and Class, or not, because the future changes once people know of it. And a lot of people get the Death Teller Class specifically to stop the deaths they see.

“But any lay-person can see those glimpses when the events are large enough. Or at least... That’s what I’ve heard. I’ve also heard that glimpses aren’t spoiled by telling people about them. Except...” Teressa turned her head toward Clan Pale Cow, to where Niyazo and Koori had walked off. “I’m tempted to ask what you saw, but if it was good, then let’s not risk shifting it.”

Erick agreed.

- - - -

