Once again back on the front lawn outside of his yurt, Erick stood with a bunch of metals and a brand new book he picked up in Songli not two minutes ago. It was a book of basic metallurgy for the prospective Smith, dealing mostly with iron and the process of making steel. Erick read it for a little while and confirmed many of his own half-remembered thoughts on the subject of smithing, but it didn’t go into depth about anything, and it used terminology for various metals that were a lot different from what Erick called them. Well what did he expect? To learn everything from a book, when Smithing was a rather secretive trade? Some parts of it were flat out wrong, though. It spoke of heating the metal and then cooling it under precise [Cooling Ward]s to ‘align the mana forces inherent in the metal’. Well, no, that’s not what careful cooling did…

Well maybe the book was right, but what the cooling and heating was for was to form grains and crystalline structures in the metal… But maybe mana played a heavy part in metal work on Veird.

It probably did.

Whatever!

Erick grabbed a hunk of iron —or perhaps steel— that had been gifted to him by the elders of Ooloraptoor, and prepared a test site to find out what it was made out of, exactly.

[Particle Vacuum] emptied the air of air and every other small particulate mass. The permeable sphere of translucent white magic settled in front of Erick; waiting. Erick had his notebook nearby so he could take down numbers while he used his sunform to hold the metals, and an Ophiel used [Incandescent Aura] to melt the metals.

He grabbed a block of iron with his light and pressed it into the vacuum. The grey metal ingot passed into the enchanted space without issue.

With a twitch of intent, Ophiel burst into flames, and then he concentrated that aura down into a small sphere, away from his body. The little guy singed himself a little and Erick apologized, but Ophiel brushed off the apology with a roll of his many eyes; there was work to be done!

Erick turned his attention back to the metal.

Heat met iron, and iron became red, then yellow, only to stabilize. Ophiel upped the heat and the iron fell apart into a liquid slurry, into Erick’s cupping light. The iron bubbled as gasses escaped from the iron, to escape the vacuum, but that was fine. Later, Erick would need to set up the separation spells beforehand, to catch whatever particulate out-gassed from the iron, but for now…

Erick cast two Condense spells into the space. First came [Condense Iron], Shaped like a curled teardrop. Then came [Condense Carbon], Shaped like an opposing teardrop. It was almost a yin-yang symbol, but it was not shaped like that for any mystical reasons, but instead so that Erick could shove the molten ingot into the Iron side of it all, and—

Yup! It worked.

Erick held the molten ingot into the [Condense Iron], and the spell grabbed the metal from his sunform grasp. He held his sunform out to try and collect any droplets, but nothing fell. Ophiel applied the heat, keeping it all molten.

It was almost like watching a lava lamp, as the molten metal hovered there in the [Condense Iron] side, around the tip of the [Condense Carbon] space. Soon enough, that inserted tip began to pull out specks of carbon from the free-floating iron, drawing that carbon to its own center. Some iron tried to follow the carbon as it floated away, but those bubbles of molten iron stopped when they hit the edge of [Condense Iron].

“Pretty,” Erick said.

He watched the dance of molten blobs float around, sorting themselves out in a lazy sort of way. Ophiel kept it all nice and molten.

… Even the carbon was molten, which was interesting to see. That took a lot of power… Or perhaps, magic that directly heated stuff by exciting its molecules lowered the melting temperature of the particles? … Probably not.

Maybe this was actually working? Maybe the Condensing spells were separating and trapping the carbon and iron properly within the vacuum? That’s what the spells should be doing, but it was hard to know, for sure, because none of the Particle spells worked directly on singular particles—

Erick’s thought train derailed.

If [Condense Carbon] didn’t work on individual carbon atoms, then wouldn’t [Condense Carbon] not work at all, in this case? There were no groups of carbon chain molecules within this steel…

All the iron counted as a molecule, though, since it was bonded to itself through valence bonds, but the carbon was scattered throughout the iron. Steel was an interstitial alloy, with none of the carbon touching other carbon atoms.

But there was clearly molten carbon collecting in the [Condense Carbon] area, and where the tail of [Condense Iron] stuck into that carbon collector, no iron was coming out. The [Condense Carbon] space was pure carbon. And none of it was in molecular form, at all… right?

Did…

Did Particle Magic itself change when Erick wasn’t looking? Was this magic able to affect individual particles now?

Or…

Was molten carbon a molecule? Is that what Erick was doing here? With the Condense line of spells, with molten elements? And that was another thing! The carbon was molten here! It took a lot of power to achieve that! Erick looked at Ophiel, and at the power of the [Incandescent Aura] he was putting out, into the vacuum. Melting iron was pretty easy, at around 1600 degrees Celsius, but melting carbon required 3600 degrees.

Erick queried Ophiel’s reserves by mana sensing the density of Ophiel’s mana-formed body. By his estimates, Ophiel had plenty of mana left. He might have spent barely two thousand mana to keep up this level of heat. Ophiel was putting out nearly quadruple power into his [Incandescent Aura] in order to make the carbon go molten, but...

But… Hmm.

No. Erick was not melting the carbon. If he were melting the carbon, he would be boiling the iron, since iron boiled at around 2900 degrees and Ophiel was applying the same level of heat to the entire spell. Boiling iron would cause all sorts of explosions and sputters, and there had been none of that so far.

Something odd was going on here, and Erick wasn’t sure what it was.

This required more testing, but at the same time, he was separating carbon from iron, exactly how he wanted. Erick could just ignore these oddities and proceed with the rest of the separations, to see what sort of other metals lurked inside the ingots from Ooloraptoor. He didn’t need to figure out what was going on with his spellwork right this second. At least not right now.

From eyeing the floating remnants of the iron bar, as compared to the bits of carbon inside the [Condense Carbon], Erick estimated that there had been about 1% carbon content in this bar, so that lined up with his estimates that this was rather high carbon steel. He would weigh it all out when the experiment was done, of course, but for now…

The spells seemed to be working well.

The spells seemed to be doing a lot more than Erick expected them to do, too.

He smiled. He decided to continue engineering, and to let the mystery of the magic go, for now. He’d figure out what was going on with all that, later, because he was having too much fun to stop and poke at any gods right now.

Magic was wonderful.

The test finished seconds before Erick was ready for it to finish. The vacuum went away all at once. The resultant shockwave from the returning atmosphere blasted apart the fragments of cooled carbon far and away, while the lump of iron had no chance to cool yet, and thus scattered across the front yard.

Erick was safe behind his sunform, though; he had been quick to deploy that.

As he eyed the scattered metals all around, Erick realized that he needed some scales and some weights, so that he could take actual measurements and record actual data.

- - - -

Iron bar #1

failure

Iron bar #2

5021 g

[C Iron]

4863 g

[C Carbon]

62 g

Missing weight:

96 g

Iron bar #3, control

5063 g

Heat in vacuum

Ending weight w/[Condense Iron]:

5034 g

Missing weight:

29 g

Iron bar #3

5027 g

[C Iron]

4660 g

[C Nickel]

11 g

[C Chromium]

15 g

[C Manganese]

33 g

[C Vanadium]

0 g

[C Molybdenum]

0 g

[C Titanium]

0 g

[C Carbon]

59 g

Missing weight:

251 g

Iron bar #4

5042 g

[C Iron]

4662 g

[C Nickel]

13 g

[C Chromium]

21 g

[C Manganese]

39 g

[C Carbon]

58 g

Missing weight:

249 g

25 tests later, and eventually running through the entire periodic table of the elements, Erick saw a confirmation of what he saw in those first 3 (actually 4) tests. With every spell he tacked onto the working, no matter if it pulled anything out of the central melting pool or not, there was more and more missing weight, directly proportional to how much magic Erick performed on the molten metal.

If he only heated the metal, he’d lose half a percent of the iron.

If he targeted only the metals he knew were inside the ingot, then he’d get more of those end products.

But if he cast 40 different Condensing spells, most of which would do nothing, then every single metal that he expected to get would be lessened, which made no sense.

… Erick had a moment of inspiration, and changed his methodology to run the next tests.

After ten more tests, it turned out all of that oddity with missing metals was just a methodology error.

Abandoning his ‘yin-yang’ setup, Erick had moved to a ‘venn diagram’ setup, where the heated target was in the conjoining all of the various Condensing spells. Iron flowed to the iron side, but in that movement, it hit the barriers of all the other Condensing spells, and if the iron contained something besides iron, those bits of molten metal bounced back; back into the splitting area. Inside of this splitting area, all of the various particles did a lot of bouncing from side to side, breaking apart into molten dust, which eventually passed through the barriers of all the other Condensing spells once the iron and other metals and particles were stripped away by the bouncing. These separated particles then settled into the larger, specific Condensing spell to which those particles were attuned. But in order to actually get those particles to better flow to the center of the designated space, in order to fully collect them, Erick cast more and more Condensing spells of the targeted type, in those smaller areas, like Russian nesting dolls. This design helped to cement all the stray dusted particles into the center of the Condensing spaces.

Using this new methodology, Erick had all but eliminated the problem of the missing metals.

Also! Whoever made these metals put some weird shit in them. Arsenic was present; a few grams per ingot. Silicon, too. Probably from sand getting into the mix? Sulfur and copper and tin were often present, but not always. Oxygen got into the mix, for sure, along with a bunch of other elements that always boiled away under as much heat as Erick was applying, so it was hard to tell how much of that was going on. Also: these metal ingots looked the same, with each of them being grey, 5 kilogram bars, but they all came from multiple different foundries, or at least from multiple different Smiths, for sure. Sometimes the carbon was at .5%, sometimes it was at 3%. Most of the time it was around 1-1.5%. The exact mix of metallic content varied, too, likely due to whatever metallic traditions that particular smelter followed.

And that was enough experimenting for now.

Erick stopped working, for the morning was gone, and it was almost time for the debates. Also, he realized he was unable to do anything with all of this information he had gathered. He knew the particles. He knew how to draw them out of the iron. He knew what interstitial and substitutional alloys were, and how all of that related to carbon and iron and many of the other elements…

But he didn’t know much about metals beyond all that. He had no actual history with metalwork.

This particular project needed to be shelved, for now. Perhaps the Smiths up north could give him some good lessons on this stuff, for there was not much more book learning Erick could do on the subject.

Getting prototype-level gears and axles and such out of this metal won’t be too difficult, for Erick could over-engineer all of that, but making professional gears and frames and axles? Not happening. Erick would need some fantastic sources of molybdenum, first, and he didn’t find any of that in any of his extractions. He’d need good sources of chromium and manganese, too. Sulfur and phosphorus and silicon wouldn’t be too hard to get, for Erick was just now remembering that all of that stuff was important to have in chrome-moly steel…

He wasn’t sure of the quantities of specific metals, though… Or of anything, really. How much chromium? How much molybdenum? How much of all the other tiny inclusions? All he really knew was the name ‘chrome-moly’ to go on. How high of heat? How should it be cooled? How to make ‘martensite’ crystal structures in metal? He barely even remembered that name; ‘martensite’.

Today’s metallurgy had technically been a flop. Erick had not learned what his spells were doing, and he did not know how to make ‘the best steel for gears and such’, which was the nebulous goal at the moment.

But in other ways, the day’s efforts had paid off well. Erick had learned a lot, and now he had a lot of nice metals to play around with, too. He didn’t have all the metals he wanted to play around with, but he had enough to make some of his own steel. It might not turn out as well as the steel that these professionals had made, but it would be fun to try.

Another bit of learning came by varying Ophiel’s Heat Aura. In this way, Erick was able to confirm the melting points of various metals he already knew, and to learn a few of the physical properties of other metals that he did not know before today.

But he had gained one serious question: Had Particle Magic suddenly gained the ability to target individual atoms when Erick wasn’t looking? Or had he always just assumed that it couldn’t target single atoms, because that’s what everyone said? That’s what the gods said, too…

Yeah...

Erick was pretty sure that Particle Magic changed when he wasn’t looking.

… Or maybe, when things were molten, and under high vacuum, and there was little in the way of interference from non-selected particles, and everything was a soup of various melted stuff, then he could target individual atoms? Maybe there was a multiplicative effect gained through all the spells he nested inside one another, too. In some of these extractions there were over 250 spells going all at once.

Huh.

Okay… Maybe Erick was onto something there, with those last thoughts. But like any good scientist, just having a hypothesis that seemed right wasn’t good enough. It was time to test that hypothesis!

