“Have lots and lots of leftovers.” Denise said and chuckled. “It should be ready by the time we all get rinsed off and changed.”

“Tell me you're making gravy, too!” Ren said, and Denise nodded. “Sweet!”

“It's mashed potatoes and not french fries, though.”

“It doesn't matter.” Ren said. “Your gravy always makes everything taste better.”

“Thank you.” Denise said and held a hand out. “Let's get you washed up and changed.”

Ren took her hand and she helped him out of the hot tub.

“Let me do that and you can check on the food.” Stella said as she walked over.

“All right.” Denise said and handed Ren's hand to her. “Thanks.”

Stella brought Ren over to the outside shower and gave him a quick rinse, then took him inside the first change room to get changed. Since he was only wearing a pair of shorts, he changed quickly into the red pyjama set and Stella had him sit in the wheelchair. Ren glanced around at the people waiting to get changed, and he smiled because he had so many people in his life now.

If you had asked him a year ago what his life would have been like a year from then, he never would have guessed it would be like this. He never even imagined it could be like this, and he beamed a smile at everyone.

“I don't think I have to ask why you're so happy.” Stella said as she handed him Gloria's gift and then pushed him towards the patio doors.

“It's my life.” Ren said and looked up at her. “I have so many wonderful people in it.”

Stella opened the patio door and pushed him inside, shut it behind them, then pushed him over to the kitchen table. “In the words of Barbi, that's so sweet.”

Ren chuckled. “She's said that a few times so far.”

“Well, she hasn't been exposed to you enough to know that you're almost always sweet.”

“Almost always?” Ren asked, and Stella chuckled. She was still behind the wheelchair and leaned over as she put her hands on the sides of his head and tilted it back.

“You have your off days just like the rest of us.” Stella said and gave him an upside down kiss. “But, we love you anyway.”

Ren reached up and touched her cheek. “Thank you.”

Stella chuckled again. “It was just a kiss.”

“Was it?” Ren asked as he stroked her cheek. “I know what a play kiss and a platonic kiss feels like.” He said. “That wasn't it.”

Stella smiled. “Do I need to add the 'between people who care about each other' qualifier?”

“You're saying it was just a kiss, but at another level?” Ren asked, and she nodded. “May I have another to make sure I know what this new level is?”

Stella laughed and leaned back down and gave him another kiss, this one a little longer and a bit messy.

“Hey, I'm cooking here.” Denise said and chuckled, and that made both Stella and Ren break the kiss and laugh, too.

“Sorry.” Ren said.

“See? He's a terrible liar.” Denise said, and the three of them laughed again. Lisa came into the kitchen and walked over to the table.

“Are we eating here?” Lisa asked.

“No, there's too many of us.” Stella said. “Ren, sit here and don't bug Denise while Lisa and I clean off the table in the big dining room.”

Ren nodded and Stella and Lisa went to the big dining room. Barbara and Donald came in, and Ren told them what Stella and Lisa were doing. Barbara went to help and Donald sat down across from Ren to wait.

“Good job.” Donald said a few minutes later. Ren looked at him, and knew what he was referring to.

“It was good advice.” Ren said. “It made me think about how I acted, and about how I should act.”

Donald nodded. “That was the point I was trying to make.” He said. “I knew you were smart enough to understand what I meant.”

Ren smiled, because he knew that was a huge compliment coming from the retired marine, and they sat in companionable silence and waited for supper to be ready.
