Hectval’s riders ran straight into the Gnolls on the ground. The Gnoll Doomslayers were outnumbered, but they had levels. Arrows slashed through the riders’ ranks; one of the Gnolls grew, and began tearing Drakes from saddles. The [Shamanic Warriors] weren’t invincible, though, and the Drakes on horseback cut down two in the first minute of fighting.
That was when the Witch ran straight into them. She was striding along, clutching at her eye, stumbling. A Drake on horseback turned to her.
“You damned Humans!”
He slashed down. Belavierr saw the blow coming from the sabre. She had no magic spells, no Skills.
She drew, of all things, a pair of huge scissors, like you might use to cut cloth. They gleamed with a foreign metal. She parried the sword-stroke, and snipped once across the Drake’s throat.
It gleamed faintly with a weak magic. Barely able to function with Niers’ Skill on it. It still worked. The Drake jerked, fell off the horse, as some of the fighters noticed her. Belavierr saw one of the Plain’s Eye Gnolls whirl about, axe raised to throw. She drove the scissors down and left them buried in his brain.
The fallen Gnoll and Drake began to jerk. They rose from the ground, and shambled upright. The two weak zombies lurched forwards to protect Belavierr as she backed away from the fighting.
“I ran into the thread. Both of them. They’re tangled. Inconvenient. My eye. He took my eye. No one has ever taken my eye.”
She was muttering. The two zombies blocked the Drakes and Gnolls, who attacked her back, appalled. The [Hunt Leader] shouted.
“Kill that Human! [Necromancer]!”
One of his Gnolls aimed an arrow at Belavierr’s back. The Witch tried to block the arrow—it curved slightly as she twisted her fingers, but her Skill was gone. And when the second hit her in the breast…she stared down at the blood.
“It hurts.”
Thunk. Thunk. Two more arrows hit her and she staggered. Blood ran down her dress. Belavierr saw a Drake riding down at her and tossed something in her face.
A black vial. The Drake [Soldier] screamed and crashed from the saddle, clawing at—and then going still as a dark substance ate it away, consuming her. Belavierr moved back; the others hesitated to get close. But the arrows pelted her.
—six, nine—
The [Hunt Leader] saw more standing out in her chest. Belavierr was staggering, now. She tried to speak, coughed up blood.
“My eye. He took my eye.”
She murmured. The [Hunt Leader] charged with a howl, spear raised. He saw a Goblin, a Minotaur, and three men in hats pour out of the inn, looking towards Belavierr, shouting.
Too late.
The spear ran through Belavierr’s heart. The Gnoll drew it out to stab again and hesitated.
There was no blood this time. He looked up.
Belavierr’s good eye shone. The ringed gaze…something was appearing in the bloody socket of the other.
A ball of string. It stitched itself into a copy of her eye in seconds. Yet it did not please her. The [Stitch Witch] bent down.
“He stole my eye.”
The Gnoll [Hunt Leader] dropped his spear. He backed up—and saw his fallen comrade and the Drake Belavierr had killed whirl.
Sinew like string connected the severed body parts. They moved with insane strength and speed. One leapt on him and ripped—
Belavierr turned away as her two new minions regained their full power. She looked around. If that warlord had possessed an army…? Her eyes focused on the inn.
Numbtongue, Bezale, and the Brothers looked at the [Witch], standing there, arrows snapping and blood ceasing to flow. Her wounds closed. Her eye was back.
They hurried back inside the inn and closed the door. Inside, Niers Astoragon saw the eye still embedded on his sword swivel around to face him.
“Ah. Damn.”
Outside, the witch began to chant.
“Buried deep. Left apart. Come together. Vengeance be your heart. Rise from the dark and slaughter until you have had your fill. Vile behemoth, I name you: Rogghiedroth, come. Share my will…”
Lines of force moved around, tracing a vast circle in the ground. Kevin peeked out the window, took one look at the hundred-foot-wide summoning circle, and turned.
“Uh, guys? If the inn disappears…what happens to the garden?”
 
—-
 
No one could believe the mana signature appearing outside the inn. The [Mage] on Liscor’s walls just started throwing up; that told Jeiss everything he needed to know.
“Focus the wall spells on whatever’s coming up from there!”
“But Senior Guardsman—Hectval’s nearly about to unleash their catapults!”
Jeiss knew that. The army was intending to bombard his city. But whatever was coming out of that hole? He had a feeling no one could stop that.
“You heard me! Fire! Fire!”
A bolt of lightning shot down, a Tier 5 spell at least in force. It might as well have been another bit of string. The [Witch] didn’t even blink as it touched the tip of her hat—and turned into a thousand little bits of disconnected lines of electricity that earthed themselves around her.
“That’s…not right.”
Jeiss was used to inn-level threats and disasters. But he was also used to Tier 5 spells doing something to them. He swallowed hard.
 
—-
 
“Siegemaster! That’s a summoning spell! I have no idea what it is!”
“Then bombard the caster!”
The [Siegemaster] was sweating. His [Dangersense] was going off the charts and the Drake cavalry division he’d sent out had been slaughtered. He saw one of the catapults turn and loose. An enchanted boulder shot forwards, not as powerful as the trebuchets those Humans had stolen from somewhere, but enchanted to shatter into a hundred burning fragments. It went for the [Witch]—and bounced off her. It landed on the ground, detonated.
The shards fell from her dress. The [Siegemaster] lowered his spyglass.
“What?”
 
—-
 
Belavierr ignored the attacks from both sides like she had in the inn. She was nearly finished chanting, summoning…something. It came up from the ground, an actual being. With a name. It had heard her call and awoken from wherever it was buried. It was clawing upwards, larger than the inn.
It was nearly out of the gateway. It was a spell beyond any reasonable cost. Belavierr no longer cared. Two, now. She had two grudges. One had offended her beyond belief. The other? The other had taken her eye.
She had lived for all this time without ever losing her eyes. And one was gone now, after the [Knight] had burned away so many protections, in an unguarded moment, victim to a Skill with nearly as much power behind it as hers.
So…she was going to kill everything. Belavierr beckoned to the figure crawling out from below.
“Slaughter the child and the Fraerling. Destroy them. Come. The warlord lacks an army. You have nothing to fear. Nothing I have seen can threaten you nor I.”
The eye didn’t count. Belavierr ignored every petty mortal around her as she spread her arms wide, calling the beast upwards. Until…someone interrupted her.
“I was already in an appalling mood. Excellent.”
The [Witch] glanced dismissively to one side. Then she did a minor double-take. She looked back into Grimalkin’s fist.
“[Earthquake].”
For the first time, the [Witch] moved. The bound spell unleashed itself, a contained earthquake in his fist. She stumbled back, and the summoning circle flickered. She felt at her jaw. Then looked at the huge, muscle-bound Drake.
Grimalkin of Pallass. Both looked as disappointed as the other. Grimalkin grunted.
“Superlative physical resistance. That’s…disappointing. A Greater Frost Wyvern felt that. I’ll add it to my notes. Now—[Greater Dispel].”
He bent down and focused the second spell down. At one of the points in the hole opened below. Belavierr hissed. But a point of light broke away.
Below, something howled. Grimalkin glanced down in satisfaction as he saw the projected opening waver. Belavierr lifted her hands to stabilize the spell.
[Haste]. [Flash Step]. [Body of Flames]. [Bound Spell: Fireball].
Grimalkin struck her again. A mage-killing blow that should have incinerated her broken body. Instead, he saw Belavierr stumble again.
“Stop that.”
The Sinew Magus saw her glance at him, irritated. She went back to focusing on the spell. But a hail of needles flickered out of her robes and pelted him.
The Sinew Magus shielded his face, feeling the enchanted needles scoring his scales and failing to break in. He stepped back.
“[Stone Spire]. Fracture spell—[Accelerated Movement]. [Lion’s Strength]—”
His second trick manifested itself in a shard of stone half the size of his torso. He drew a quick rune of acceleration on it, and heaved it at her. Another trick to kill Wistram’s [Mages] if he faced them in combat.
The impromptu spell hit Belavierr with all the force of a ballista bolt. The stone powdered on impact. And she was still standing there.
The Sinew Magus grunted. His day was going from bad to worse. Lasica and Rufelt had raised the alarm and he’d already been responding to the claims the checkpoint had been attacked.
Belavierr did feel both blows, because one eye swiveled at him.
“I have no time to deal with you, [Mage]. Begone.”
For answer, Grimalkin just began layering spells into his fist for a second blow. She had some kind of magical barrier he wasn’t seeing. He did not like whatever was about to come out of the ground and only his magic had even slowed it. He charged Belavierr, dodging with [Flash Step] to avoid counter-spells…
Belavierr looked up. She pointed, and Grimalkin’s fist stopped a moment before it hit her. Black threads had shot out of the ground, wrapping themselves around his arm with amazing speed. He struggled, began to tear free.
“I said. Begone.”
The threads twisted. Grimalkin tried to cut fr—
He felt the snap, the impact that hurled his entire body through the air like a ragdoll. A normal Drake might have broken bones and muscle from the impact alone; Grimalkin only felt a few sinews tear. He was disoriented, but the [Haste] spell let him understand.
She’d thrown him like a child snapped a stone with a bit of cloth! He was falling—
 
—-
 
Jeiss looked up. He didn’t want to believe it. But—had he just seen Grimalkin flying over the walls? The Drake hit the street like one of the catapult projectiles.
Could nothing stop Belavierr? Or—Hectval? Now, the wall spells were engaging the one target they could hit. Hectval’s army was returning fire, but it had split up. Two third of its force were guarding the catapults. They just wanted to shell Liscor and retreat. The other third? Heading for Belavierr and the inn.
“Prepare for combat! We need those catapults down!”
Jeiss was bellowing, but his stomach was in a knot. The army wasn’t ready! Hectval wanted to defend themselves; they were digging in. And that thing coming up…
Nightmarish, nightmarish. Watch Captain Zevara was mustering all the [Guards] she could, but it would be Watch versus whatever that [Witch] called out and Hectval’s soldiers. He got a missive from her. A panting Street Runner shouted up at Jeiss.
“Watch Captain reports—she is going to counterattack Hectval with Embria’s 4th Company and Liscor’s army! Strategist Olesm will coordinate the attack! Hold the walls!”
“That’s suicide! I’ll join—”
Jeiss whirled, about to argue. Then he looked back.
“Oh, Ancestors. Tell the Watch Captain—we might not have time for either.”
The first claw reached out of the hole in the ground. Every [Dangersense] in the city, already ringing, screamed three times as loud. Then Jeiss’s gaze swept up.
“Wait.”
 
—-
 
Belavierr was laughing. Evil, gloating laughter didn’t really become her. She was out of practice. She had not fought directly like this for a long time.
However, she could still appreciate it. The first claw broke into the air, heralding damnation. Slaughter. 
Belavierr ignored Grimalkin, charging back towards her, Niers Astoragon, swearing and shouting, trying to figure out how to leverage his useless Skills. She paid no attention to the spells and munitions from Liscor and Hectval.
Of all the things in the battlefield across the Floodplains. It was a little ‘pop’ of displaced air that made Belavierr turn around. She lowered her arms. The portal wavered and something bellowed its annoyance below. The [Witch] couldn’t help it.
She turned all the way around and looked up at something which had appeared in the air behind her. Bird, who had been energetically tossing rocks at the thing coming out of the hole, looked up.
“Ah, at last. Reinforcements. Let us run away.”
He turned to Bezale. She looked up and froze.
Belavierr peered up at the figure hovering in the air slightly above her. It was a blue…Antinium. She had only two arms, and she did not look like the other one. Her eyes shone with myriad colors, flashing between them. And she…radiated power. Enough so that the [Stitch Witch] turned around. Belavierr tilted her head left slowly.
“What…are you?”
The Small Queen of the Antinium, Xrn, aimed her staff down. Her mandibles opened.
“[Lava Wave].”
Molten rock, so hot it burned the soil and grass itself, cascaded from a small opening in the air. It covered Belavierr and the thing below.
The [Witch] raised a hand and the lava split around her. She looked behind—something was doused by the magma, but it kept climbing. Belavierr looked up at Xrn.
“I do not wish to quarrel with you, stranger—”
She looked around. Xrn had teleported behind her. The Small Queen touched Belavierr’s arm.
“[Alter Velocity].”
An unseen force flung Belavierr upwards, as if a catapult had hurled her up. Grimalkin, charging forwards, slowed as he saw the Stitch Witch go flying up, tossed like he had been.
Xrn leapt up and regarded what was coming out of the pit.
“We cannot have you. One army and that creature is enough. Begone, thing. [Bolt of the Lightning Giant].”
The largest flash of electricity so far struck downwards. Montressa’s [Chain Lightning], the other bolts of magic—looked like static electricity to the discharge that thundered downwards.
The impact made Xrn float a bit higher. She peered downwards. Something was still climbing up. She clicked her mandibles in annoyance.
“[A Thousand Shooting Stars].”
Miniature comets formed around her and began shooting downwards. Not as large as [Valmira’s Comet] but—Palt’s cigar dropped out of his mouth. It was like his [Light Arrow] spell, only on Xrn’s level! He felt a hand drag him back.
“Stop staring! There’s a damned army coming at us! Help fortify the inn!”
Bezale roared at him. Hectval’s army was streaming past the blaze of magic, wisely staying clear of the Small Queen.
 
—-
 
The bombardment was enough. Whatever climbed up from dark depths had had enough already, Belavierr’s urgings or not. It let go and fell. Xrn watched the portal close with satisfaction.
