She saw part of what Belavierr was and would have screamed. For what she saw was in that distant giant, a hundred million twisting threads. They made her up, each one thinner than the hairs of Mrsha’s fur. Somehow, Mrsha saw it all in terrible detail and realized that ‘Belavierr’ was part that.
But part of her lay still deeper, behind that layer. Mrsha saw the eyes blink—
—And fell deeper. The orange light carried her down another level of infinity. She floated in a sea without luminescence save for the beam of fulvous mixed with amber. Gold blended with rust mixed with dying embers.
Something was in this sea. Something swam or floated without water. Mrsha looked down and Belavierr looked up. Only—it wasn’t the [Witch]. It had her shape. But she was made up of something.
Little hearts. Each one pierced with a needle, joined together by a single thread. The [Witch] floated there and looked up at Mrsha. There were gaps where she should have been. Some hearts were burned, black, barely beating.
Someone had hurt her. Yet still, Belavierr looked up. Her eyes met Mrsha’s and Mrsha felt herself fall through another ring in the eyes. Deeper—
 
—-
 
“Curious.”
Belavierr blinked. Mrsha stopped falling. She lay on the ground, panting, flailing wildly, before she recovered. What—what was—
That was why Rufelt and Lasica were frozen in horror. That was what Ryoka had once seen. When Belavierr looked at you, you looked back and wished you had not.
“A white Gnoll child? Curious. Your name is Mrsha. You wear a little charm, girl. Not enough.”
Mrsha stared down at the pendant supposed to keep [Appraisal] and [Scrying] spells off her. She looked up. Belavierr glanced at her.
“And you do not speak. I see. But will you not take my hand? See? I will give you all the presents I showed you. Let me in.”
She knelt once more, offering a hand. Mrsha looked at Belavierr. At last, after seeing Belavierr and being seen, Mrsha was moved to speak.
“Heck no! You scary thing! Go away!”
Well, she didn’t say that. She signed it with her paws, having left all the writing materials outside. It was only for Mrsha, not Belavierr’s benefit, but she felt better.
And then the [Witch] got scarier, if that were possible. Belavierr tilted her head sideways at Mrsha’s flashing paws. Her head twisted right, twisted left, and then it went nearly 90°sideways.
Mrsha heard the click-click-click of the [Witch]’s neck, but Belavierr didn’t bat an eyelid.
That was horrifying. But the [Witch] whispered.
“[True Translation]. Me? Scary, little one? How rude.”
Mrsha froze, paws raised. She stared at Belavierr. The [Witch] regarded her, frowning. Then looked up.
Lasica and Rufelt had been paralyzed this entire time, unable to break into the negotiations. It seemed though, that Mrsha’s final, and only comment had meant it failed.
“Mrsha, back away from the door. Belavierr, you are not allowed in here! We know your Skill! You—you can’t harm us! That would violate your craft; you said it yourself! You aren’t allowed in here, either! So, begone!”
Lasica gathered Mrsha into her arms as the three moved back from the door. Belavierr frowned.
“This is displeasing. I only wish to negotiate on equal terms, Lasica. Mrsha, let me in. The [Garden of Sanctuary] allows no harm. What could I…do? Let me in. I am beginning to become displeased by this waste of time and effort. You would not like to see that.”
Mrsha traded glances with Rufelt. He whispered to Lasica, drawing back another step.
“She isn’t leaving! Lasica, I told you she wasn’t into fair bargains!”
“Do you have to rub it in now? I don’t know what else we can say!”
They were squabbling, but to Mrsha, it was a reassuring sound, because they were talking. Arguing like, well, a married couple, not sad Rufelt alone or the two shouting, biting at each other with words.
Belavierr saw it too, and it did not please her. She frowned deeper.
“I do not bow to this old Skill. I will not be refused. Let me in. I will not ask again so politely. You, child.”
She pointed at Mrsha. Lasica whirled, Mrsha in her arms, and Rufelt put himself between them and Belavierr, protectively, arms outstretched.
Even so, Mrsha felt the finger point at her.
“You will let me in or suffer my ire.”
This time it was not a suggestion or request. It was a threat. Lasica looked down at Mrsha, unsure of what to do. Afraid. Mrsha looked up at her, Rufelt—and slowly pushed Lasica’s arms away.
“Mrsha, no, don’t—!”
Lasica froze again, as whatever Skill that Belavierr was using to enact her deals came into play. She smiled, straightening, as Mrsha padded slowly towards her. The Gnoll looked up as Belavierr bent.
“Yes. I shall give you all the gifts I promised. Wise little girl. Take my hand if you cannot invite me in with words. Just so.”
Mrsha slowed. She tentatively stood on two legs, and toddled forwards. She reached out with her right hand and Rufelt groaned through his teeth; the only sound he could make. Belavierr smiled. She reached for Mrsha’s paw as the Gnoll hesitated, knowing the weight of Belavierr’s threats.
Then Mrsha proved she had learned too much from her guardians of Erin, Lyonette, Ryoka, and more. She held out her paw as Belavierr bent, stuck it through the doorway—and jerked it back at the last second.
Sike.
Belavierr’s face went slack as her fingers missed Mrsha’s paw. Mrsha held it out—the [Stitch Witch] reached for it. Mrsha jerked it away.
The Stitch Witch stared at Mrsha. Mrsha stared back, eyes wide. But the tiniest, gleeful smile trembling to get out. She held out the paw a third time. Belavierr stared at it. She stared at Mrsha.
Mrsha poked it through the [Garden of Sanctuary]’s barrier. The air felt no colder, nor did the ‘void’ around Belavierr seem painful. She was glad. It was just the Skill. Belavierr saw Mrsha jiggle the paw.
This time I’m serious, okay?
The [Witch] knew. She had to know, but she reached down anyways, quicker this time—but still like a mountain moving, ponderous with eternity. She reached down—and Mrsha jerked the paw back.
Got you again, stupid. 
It may be that Belavierr even heard Mrsha’s inner thoughts, because she looked at Mrsha. And her eyes narrowed. Mrsha felt the full force of her gaze, and something else.
Ire. Belavierr’s voice was low.
“Little girl. You have made a mist—”
Mrsha slammed the door in her face. Rufelt and Lasica jumped. They stared at the wall—then the blank wall as the door vanished. Mrsha waited, a juddering heartbeat, then two, and turned. She wiped sweat from her fur, and grinned.
“Hah, I won!”
She signed triumphantly. Rufelt and Lasica didn’t know what Mrsha meant, but the meaning was obvious. They rushed forwards.
“You brave little—I thought you were going to let her in!”
“That was amazing! Stupid, but amazing!”
Rufelt agreed. The two hugged Mrsha, and she hugged back with pure relief. She beamed, still shaky. Take that! Belavierr couldn’t get in!
“Do you think she’ll leave? That was Erin’s Skill, wasn’t it? [Immortal Moment]? How does she have that?”
“Skills are Skills. We have to tell Chaldion. The Watch! Um—someone! Is there anyone who could chase her off?”
As they finished celebrating, the two adults turned back to worry; Belavierr was gone, but the Skill might still be working, and if she was in the inn?
Mrsha led them away from the mushroom and dirt biome, towards the center of the garden. She stared at the grass, the Sage’s Grass growing on top of the hill, the dead faerie flowers save for the little patch Ulvama had revived…and then up towards the hole in the overgrown, wooden dome covered in ivy.
The sky was visible through the hole there; even part of Bird’s tower, but never Bird himself, or anyone on the inn. There were clouds, the sun…it was reassuringly normal.
Only, the clouds didn’t move in the sky. Mrsha pointed up. The [Immortal Moment] was in effect; ergo, Belavierr was still outside.
Rufelt and Lasica…didn’t notice. They were conversing, anxiously.
“She can’t take all of Pallass on. We just have to send word. If she’s out there, she’ll get bored.”
“Maybe we run for it? Go for Pallass if she’s waiting in the common room?”
“Rufelt, I love you, but you can be an idiot. Unless—we can open the door right to the portal room? If we were just a foot away and she had no clue.”
“Aha! Who’s stupid now? Er, I love you. It’s good to argue again!”
The Gnoll was beaming. Mrsha kicked him in the shins, or tried to. She couldn’t harm him, so she just sort of nudged him with a foot. She pointed up as he looked down. Rufelt followed her finger.
“Oh! We can climb out of the hole in the roof! Is that right, Mrsha?”
The Gnoll girl looked up at Rufelt. The clouds, you idiot! Ipso facto! 
Lasica caught on.
“She’s still out there, Rufelt.”
“Well, let’s try the portal room idea. Mrsha, you know the [Garden of Sanctuary]. There aren’t any secrets we don’t know about, is there? You can help us, right?”
Mrsha nodded as the adults turned to the real leader in this situation. Who had shut the door on Belavierr’s stupid, stinky face? Who had placed the garden’s door behind them so they walked in and saved them? That’s right.
She looked around the [Garden of Sanctuary]. It was, as always, a central hill surrounded by multiple ‘biomes’ of different climates. The arid area with the sand and a few annoying cacti-things. The jungle that had provided the invaluable cacao tree and Niers’ hiding spot—no Niers, unfortunately.
The pond area, next to the mushroom and rock-garden area, the grassy grassland that was lovely to run about in, and finally, a frozen, cold, snowy place in the far side, against the hill.
The hill, where the only other person was. Mrsha stared up at it gravely. The misty hill above the normal one, which you had to climb to, which had the statues and was beautiful and terrible.
That was the garden. Big enough to have lots of people in, a sanctuary where no violence was allowed. Unfortunately—uninhabited. No Niers; the beavers had fled their usual dam in the pond, and Apista was out.
The beavers had fled the pond? Mrsha’s head turned back slowly. That was…strange. The adult Fortress Beavers, the Defenders of the Cave, and their little kits almost never left the garden. They knew how safe it was. If they had left, did that mean they thought something was wrong? Had they known, once Rufelt and Lasica were in that…?
She felt a sense of unease creep over her, but reassured herself that Belavierr couldn’t get in. Mrsha had tricked her, and a [Witch] who had been tricked lost all her power! Or did you have to steal her hat? Throw water on her?
“No secret entrances, huh?”
Lasica sighed as Mrsha gestured around the garden. Rufelt sat down on the hilltop.
“Almost all the Faerie Flowers are dead. That’s a shame. I liked them. Sage’s Grass…are those the beginnings of a garden over there?”
Mrsha nodded importantly at some of the vegetables and growing Blue Fruit trees and such that Lyonette and Erin had added.
“Not very useful unless you want me to make a salad.”
Lasica sighed. Rufelt nodded.
“I could make a magical drink with some Sage’s Grass and…alcohol…but that’s about it. I think we have to leave, dear.”
Mrsha sighed. She was a low-level [Druid] and [Survivor] and somehow she felt like she had the most applicable Skills to this situation. She pointed across the dome.
“The door? Can you make it appear there?”
The two adults hurried after her. Mrsha nodded importantly. She didn’t have to actually walk over to that side; she could make the door appear right where it had been, only with a different exit point—but all of them instinctively wanted to get as far away from Belavierr as possible. She led them to a bare patch of wall.
“Just open it right in front of the portal door, Mrsha. Belavierr’s in the common room and I bet she’s standing where she is or trying to get in. Even if she senses us—we can lure her away, and jump through to Pallass. Even she would have trouble if all the Watch arrived. I think. I’ll go; Lasica, you’ll stay with Mrsha.”
“Don’t be stupid, Rufelt! What if she catches you?”
The Gnoll hunched his shoulders.
“She said she can’t harm us. I just have to run through and call the alarm.”
“What if we’re caught in her [Immortal Moment] Skill even there?”
Rufelt shook his head.
“Pallass is 400 miles south of here. There’s no way her Skill reaches that far, through the door, surely. It’s not that powerful. She’s not that powerful. Right?”
Mrsha and Lasica hesitated. In theory, Mrsha thought that was right. You could probably escape an [Immortal Moment] if you weren’t a willing participant by getting out of its ‘range’. On the other paw…
“We can only try. Open the door, Mrsha. No one make a sound. If it looks safe, we’ll maybe try opening really fast.”
The little Gnoll nodded. She turned to the ivy-covered wall, took a deep breath, and motioned for silence. Rufelt and Lasica nodded, and the door opened.
It revealed the portal room, now set up to take in visitors who might be hostile via the truth-archways and semi-fortified. Mrsha leapt back—and nearly ran into Rufelt.
“Ow! What’s wrong?”
He whispered. Mrsha glanced at him, and the empty room.
She’d just thought Belavierr would be standing there or something. It seemed like a classic ‘evil [Witch]’ move. She shook her head.
“I thought she’d be there. The door’s close! Damn—I’d have to go through the archway to get to it.”
Lasica eyed the door. Unfortunately, in its new setting, it was actually harder to reach than it had ever been; Hexel had set it into the wall, and there was no easy ‘access point’ to it. She turned to Mrsha. The Gnoll nodded, closed the door softly, and adjusted its position so it wasn’t facing the door, but directly adjacent to it. That way, when she opened it, they could just reach out and adjust the dial.
“Perfect.”
The three saw the door right next to them. And no Belavierr down the entire portal room hallway! Rufelt gave Mrsha a thumbs-up and she nodded.
“We’ll look for her. Just adjust the dial.”
Rufelt whispered. Lasica nodded. She reached out to change the dial. It was on the unused red stone that Ulvama had come through. Mrsha tilted her head.
Strange. She’d thought Belavierr came through the Pallass door from what Rufelt and Lasica had said. Had she teleported here instead? Or had someone changed it? Why—
Lasica’s claw closed on the dial as she put her arm through the door.
Belavierr grabbed it. The Stitch Witch appeared, shedding her invisibility spell. She had been standing right there.
“Hello, Lasica. Come with me.”
“Lasica!”
