“Far too costly. Mana is nearly free. I dislike doing battle with those who can threaten me. Please stop.”
She aimed a flurry of free spells at Xrn, but the Antinium was superior in pure spellcraft. Belavierr was forced to throw up walls of a strange, transparent silk that absorbed spell after spell, but eventually broke. She stared at them, distressed, and then reached for a mana potion crafted by a [Sage]. She drank it, sourly.
“I would rather bleed.”
The [Witch] hissed, dropping the empty vial. Grimalkin charged in, landing a punch that sent her staggering as Xrn burned the last of the silk-barriers again.
“Collectors.”
He grunted. Belavierr whirled. Grimalkin dodged a wand which discharged a spray of brown pestilence that might have killed him; of course, it was in the air. He froze the air around him, praying it had been enough.
No good. He felt sick as he stumbled back. Belavierr looked at the wand, snapped it in irritation.
“So say those who have nothing of value.”
Of all the things to retort to—Grimalkin desperately crunched counteragents against his scales, trying to neutralize the plague. But it was already—
“[Greater Dispel]. [Bubble of Purity]. [Aegis of Saimune]!”
Xrn pointed down. Grimalkin, choking as his throat closed up, felt the three spells fighting the plague. The spell was cut short—then the physical manifestations vanished in the soothing grey glow. The last spell made him feel alive. He felt his throat open and gasped.
“Stay clear of her artifacts.”
Xrn warned him. Grimalkin nodded, shakily. He looked up at her. The words of thanks strangled in his throat to the small Queen. But he murmured, looking at Belavierr.
“Inferiority. What a farce. The Strongest Mage in Pallass?”
He shook his head, looking at the other two [Mages]. Xrn and Belavierr. For some reason, that alone produced a cessation in the battle. Xrn’s mandibles raised and Belavierr raised one eyebrow. Both were…amused?
“So says the infant. I can walk, but not fly already.”
Belavierr whispered. She was flickering her fingers. Xrn pointed, and the [Witch] blocked a beam that tried to eat her as it clawed at her shields. The Small Queen looked at Grimalkin and one eye turned yellow with humor.
“You are so young.”
The Sinew Magus absorbed this, and looked at the two ancients of days. He nodded, and redoubled his attack, to give Xrn the opening to deal the critical blow. But by then—Belavierr was smiling.
The Stitch Witch held something up. She licked at it. Frowned. She shrugged, sighing.
“Strange. New species. Yet you are too close. And you do not know my craft, girl.”
Xrn looked down. Grimalkin uttered a curse and Xrn didn’t see why. All Belavierr had was a bit of green on her fingers. Her blood. So what?
The Small Queen had never faced a [Witch]. Let alone a hex and curse expert. Belavierr smiled wickedly. She looked at Grimalkin as he shouted up at Xrn.
“Now. [Blood of Enemies, Boil].”
Xrn raised her staff. She called a searing prism of magic to life and shot a ray of burning red towards—Grimalkin. The [Sinew Magus] dodged. He roared—and pointed up.
“[Siege Fireball]!”
Xrn blocked the spell. Why had Grimalkin attacked her? Why had—
Drake! My foe! Slayer of my kin! Die—we were always going to slay each other!
A wave of lava poured forth at Grimalkin. He was running, aiming more spells at her. Everything he had prepared to fight her. Kill the Antinium. Kill the—
Belavierr watched, smiling. The strange [Thaumaturge] was strong. But she had no protections against Belavierr.
Still—the two weren’t idiots. They exchanged another withering blast of fire, and then Grimalkin growled.
“I can’t—”
“I am under some sort of magical attack, Magus Grimalkin. We are wasting energy. She is…doing something with my blood.”
“Stop her.”
Grimalkin spread his arms. Xrn didn’t hesitate. But she pulled the blow. Instead of annihilation, she flicked her finger.
A gigantic copy appeared and did the same to the Sinew Magus. He tasted blood as he flew for the second time that day. However—that left Xrn free.
“Enough. Perish, Human.”
She conjured her incomplete spell from the Manaforge and hurled it down. Belavierr shrieked as something cut into her. Xrn saw something snap. For a second she saw the same thing Mrsha had—and saw her burn away Belavierr’s protections.
Not enough. Yet she saw a weakness and poured more mana into research, adjusting the spell.
Belavierr finished her spell first. The last drop of Xrn’s blood she was whispering to, completely at odds with Xrn’s creation in the Manaforge. She was just…
Negotiating.
“We shall strike a pact, you and I. Power for power’s get. Your enemy mine, so I shall grant you my strength this time. Come and twist, destiny’s thread. Come—take her head.”
Xrn felt the air twist. She whirled, wondering wh—
Facestealer tore her left arm off. It crawled out of the portal. Her—
It grabbed her head and yanked. Xrn flailed. A claw tore half her head off. Xrn’s eyes went…blank.
Oh. Klbkch, Wrymvr. I may be dying. 
I’m sorry.
 
—-
 
Across Izril, in the Hivelands, Wrymvr froze. He heard it.
Klbkch, flexing an arm, froze. The Queens stopped. Incredulously.
“Xrniavxxel?”
The Grand Queen’s mandibles opened in horror. Klbkch’s head rose. It could not be. It could not—
 
—-
 
Xrn’s head began to tear. The claw sliced—and magic poured forth.
Raw magic. Her very being exploded outwards. It lashed Facestealer, tearing all the hide off its body and revealing the bone shell. It began to dig deeper, pure mana unleashed.
It let go, fleeing, retreating back through the portal. Belavierr hissed, but she watched, smiling, as Xrn flew back. The Small Queen put her good hand to the gap in her neck. Her eyes were flickering. She stared down at her missing arm and shoulder, at Belavierr.
“yOu. i wILl RemEMbeR tHIS.”
She flew back, trailing her life essence. Fleeing. The Stitch Witch watched her go. Then her head turned.
“Now, the inn. Come, fate’s soldiers. Come…let us end this.”
Monsters poured forth from the gaps she had torn open. Threads of fate. Mrsha’s, Xrn’s…
Monsters of the dungeon. An accord had been reached. Grimalkin saw the suits of enchanted armor, Crypt Worms, Liscor’s dungeon disgorge a horde. They all converged on the inn, already fighting Hectval’s army.
And there came Belavierr. Striding for the inn. She looked back as Grimalkin bellowed.
“Belavierr!”
He had seen Xrn flee. He had to know the difference between them. Even so—
The Sinew Magus charged.
 
—-
 
The Wandering Inn was under siege. The first battle to ever take place in the new inn’s walls.
That was to say…the first attack to ever truly come as the defenders had imagined. Against the hallway of traps, the reinforced walls and checkpoints.
Erin Solstice had been slain outside the inn. Belavierr had not been stopped by mere bulwarks of stone and wood.
It was almost refreshing to get a foe that had to obey the rules. Almost. But at least…here was someone they could fight. They had failed time and again.
At last, the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings discharged their debt.
First came the Doomslayers, in a desperate push, fleeing the [Witch]. On their heels came Hectval’s army.
Hundreds of [Soldiers] had been sent to destroy the inn. They tried to set fire to it, smash through the windows. But the inn had withstood Creler attacks, an army of the undead, Face-Eater Moths and that was before it had been rebuilt.
[Soldiers] who managed to break the windows of reinforced glass found walls of magic blocking them. A Centaur blew out a cloud of noxious smoke that drove the [Soldiers] into a confusion, hitting each other. A Minotauress held one window, smashing helmets in until it was closed off.
An Antinium loosed arrows from the rooftop as Rags grimly aimed spells out the windows in the common room. Calescent and Ulvama were on the upper floors, keeping the enemies trying to climb up off.
Everywhere a bee buzzed, the attacks grew slack. [Soldiers] ran into each other, or heard the wrong orders. Kevin, Joseph, and Imani, were nearly about to be killed by a Drake who’d climbed through the window they were trying to keep clear until Ishkr could reach them with a board and nails. They suddenly found themselves fighting with more skill than the confused Drake [Veteran] and drove him back out.
Fortress Beavers overwhelmed a Drake, bearing the confused [Soldier] down.
First [Soldiers] came, then monsters. They flooded around the inn, but the common room and even roof were easier to hold. Mrsha heard the shouting from inside the garden. She wanted to help, but all she was allowed to do was run from door opening to door opening, bringing potions and supplies to the others. It was more than enough; her healing potions passed through the door saved them more than once.
Antinium came to fight. They climbed out of the basement, rushing to where Rags and the unseen Niers directed them. Just in time; Mrsha saw a suit of armor grappling with Purple Smiles. Then a Flesh Worm trying to break through the outside.
Belavierr had called forth the enemies of the inn. That they failed to take the common room, and merely struggled at the windows, was because the vast majority of them broke in one place.
The hallway. That was where they came first. Hectval’s [Soldiers], the Doomslayers. Then monsters. All three were there at one point, fighting each other, confused, unsure of who their enemies were, just knowing they wanted to kill everything in this inn.
They never made it into the common room. There they died. They tried.
Oh, the Plain’s Eye veterans, as skilled as Hectval’s finest—more so. Drake [Soldiers], an army of them, far more than the treacherous fools who had killed the [Innkeeper]. Monsters, howling from the dungeon’s depths.
They were cut down by crossbows in the corridor, until their bodies blocked the arrow slits. Acid coated them, and they hammered on the reinforced walls, unable to break through. There was one entrance alone.
A [Bard] with a sword held that gap. A Hobgoblin who carried the dead with him. Who had waited for this day. To die here.
The men with hats fought by his side. Falling, despite Mrsha trying to save them. Some crawled away. Others lay still, never to pick their hats off the ground.
Numbtongue fought on. He slashed arrows in half, carved shell and bone and armor apart with the deadly sword that Pelt had made for him. No one had a blade to match his. Yet his body was…weak.
They wounded him with arrows and Skills and fangs. Spells burned him. His wounds healed and opened and…he stumbled. He was about to fall, and there was no man with a hat to block the blow. They lay where they had died. Numbtongue saw a snarling Drake charge at him.
A pair of curved blades swept the head from the shoulders. Numbtongue saw the [Soldier] fall, and stabbed the last Gnoll sent to kill Mrsha through the chest. He fought on, and saw a pocket open in the hallway.
Someone else was slashing about her. Clearing the bodies. Laughing. As if this was what she had waited for too. But she lived for this.
The onyx-scaled Drake caught his eyes as they slowed a second. The [Bard] hesitated, his sword raised—and the two held their ground, cutting down the monsters trying to get through.
Until the [Witch] arrived.
 
—-
 
She stepped through the hallway filled with bodies, leaving the Drake [Mage] where he had been. He had slowed her for a little while.
A desperate Goblin blocked her way, covered in wounds. She looked at his sword.
“Enough.”
His clothing picked him up and tossed him aside. Someone kissed Belavierr’s lungs with daggers enchanted to kill. Belavierr looked at the little Drake and threw her aside as well.
Inside the inn were Antinium and the annoying [Mages]. They turned on Belavierr, and she saw the little warlord raise his finger.
“No more.”
Belavierr clapped her hands together and the shockwave blew out the last windows. Mrsha was spared the fury of the spell; she stared in horror at the prone bodies.
The Stitch Witch stopped in front of the [Garden of Sanctuary]. She was…breathing hard. Her dress was damaged, and she looked wounded. Xrn had hurt her. Yet Belavierr was still here.
“We will end this now, Mrsha. Come out. Or…”
She lifted a foot and pressed it against a little bee and man. Mrsha heard a little crunching sound. She came out of the door. Belavierr pointed at her.
“Stop!”
Ulvama rose to her feet. She cast fire at Belavierr. The [Witch] turned, scowling.
“Little [Shaman], get out of my way.”
Half of Ulvama’s magical paints burned off her body as a black bolt went through her chest. Niers sat up and roared.
“Mrsha, run!”
She ran. Away from Belavierr. Not to the [Garden]—the brave, idiotic child ran out of the hallway, trying to draw the [Witch] away from her friends! Belavierr followed after.
Mrsha emerged into the area outside the inn. Where Erin had died. Monsters from the dungeon were everywhere. They turned on her, prey. Belavierr’s quarry. Mrsha saw a Flesh Worm rear up, palps raised to drag at her, and Liscor’s army was so far away, routing Hectval’s…
Belavierr watched, smiling, in the doorway to the inn. At last. At last…
She saw another of the girl’s threads appear. Wanderer, appearing out of nowhere again, striking with his quarterstaff. Annoying. But he was one Gnoll, and the monsters attacked him. Belavierr waited. Then she heard a familiar cry. A familiar…unexpected…irritating cry.
“The Eternal Throne of Calanfer! To glory! Protect the child!”
The Stitch Witch’s head turned incredulously. What? Here? But like the pests they were, the four golden [Knights] thundered up the hill, waving their swords.
Thronebearers.
Ser Lormel was first, hacking at a caterpillar-thing. Ser Sest, Dame Ushar, behind, riding around Mrsha, trying to drag her up, ride to safety.
The last of them rode at Belavierr. She looked up as Ser Dalimont called a challenge.
“Stitch Witch! We meet again!”
Ser Dalimont had known it was her the instant he heard about a [Witch] causing havoc outside. It had barely been thirty minutes and it was a sea of carnage! Only she could have done this. He rode at her, lance aimed at her chest.
“I have seen you beaten and fleeing before! The Singer of Terandria laid you low; you will not triumph here! Begone!”
Belavierr’s eyes widened as he spoke. She looked up, saw Dalimont coming. She whirled, and he missed. Cursing, Ser Dalimont turned, bringing his lance down for a second charge. The Stitch Witch stared at the Thronebearer. He had been there. Princess Seraphel, Cara—
“Who are you?”
Ser Dalimont struck home. Belavierr stared down at the lance in her chest. She reached out—snapped it. The Thronebearer swore.
“Eternal Throne—”
