They couldn’t hurt her. Niers grunted.
“Level difference.”
Like damned cats—evil as they could be, but still cats—trying to eat a Fraerling in enchanted plate. Belavierr was taking her time, expending little energy and magic. In fact, she actually grabbed Shorthilt and tossed him a third time, with tremendous, if poorly-directed strength.
Rags didn’t run in with her shortsword. She had a claw to her temples. This wasn’t going to be solved with her blades. Bird charged past her.
“I am a distraction! Oh—”
He dove behind Montressa’s barrier as a needle twice as long as his arm nearly went through his head. Rags swore and went for cover too; half-hearted or not, she could kill them easily. She looked around. Where were the hat-men?
The answer was that they were fighting too.
 
—-
 
The Plain’s Eye Doomhunters had seen Okrha enter the inn and then heard nothing from her. They did not think she was alive.
“The Antinium’s gone. Do we go in? She could be alive—”
They were arguing. Their [Hunt Leader] snarled.
“They know we’re here. Seceik, Nisha, Redl, inside! Cover Redl—in and out.”
The three Gnolls rose from the grass. Two covered the inn as the rest advanced, wary of a trap. Redl rose and activated his shaman-markings; his fur was like the Steelfur Tribe’s for a moment. He burst through the doorway. There was a shout.
“Okhra’s dead. Someone’s slain her! I hear—fighting? There’s—”
A snarl. He threw himself back out of the inn, a crossbow bolt buried in one shoulder.
“Ambush! Someone shot me from the walls!”
He howled in pain as the other two Gnolls took aim at the attackers and—hesitated.
“I didn’t see where the arrow came from!”
“It’s poisoned. No—no, it burns.”
“Fall back.”
The three ran back. Redl realized what it was as his fur smoked and burned. He poured a potion on it desperately.
“Acid! They dipped the bolt in acid—”
“They are waiting for us. How did they know we would arrive? Are there more?”
The Gnolls of the Plain’s Eye tribe growled at each other. The [Hunt Leader] looked at the inn. He wanted to howl his hatred. Doom lay within. It had claimed one of theirs already because they were careless. He looked at Liscor, made up his mind.
“No tricks. No trying that ambush again. We destroy the inn. Nisha. Blow it apart.”
The Gnoll [Ranger] looked at their leader uncertainly, then nodded. She pulled out objects from her bag of holding, one after another, in rapid succession.
They were bundles of arrows, each one in groups of twenty; a single glowing arrowhead in the center of each. Standard for Plain’s Eye warriors of their rank. She placed four on the ground and then raised her enchanted bow. She growled.
“[Piercing Shots]. [Rain of Arrows]!”
Her bow began to sing. All eighty arrows began to loose into the air with the ones she manually fired. A rain flying up and arching down—
 
—-
 
“Ancestors!”
One of the [Guards] on the wall saw the first arrows land. The enchanted arrows blew apart in grey blasts of light; the rest shredded wood, mundane or not. The [Guard] sprinted down the wall to the Senior Guard on duty.
“The inn! It’s under attack again!”
“Sound the alarm!”
The Watch on the eastern and southern walls came alive, trying to pinpoint the sudden attack. They watched as the Level 30 Skill shredded the inn! The…
 
—-
 
They took out the tower and part of the roof. The Gnolls stared incredulously at the inn. If it rained, there would be flooding on the third floor. That was it.
“Reinforced walls. What level is that Skill?”
“[Hunt Leader], we’ve been spotted.”
Horns were blaring from Liscor’s walls. The [Hunt Leader] cursed.
“Then we go in. Eight.”
He called for a full third of their group. The Gnolls grimly armored up; they had the magic of their tribe and they were all high-level. The rest moved closer. The [Hunt Leader] watched as the first eight Gnolls went into the inn. Fighting began in seconds.
“Ambush! They’re in the walls!”
“There’s no cover! [Wall of Earth]!”
“We can’t break the walls—argh!”
A scream. A [Rogue] had come out of one of the hidden passageways. The Gnolls whirled, but before they could turn on him, another shrieked. Acid was pouring from the ceiling! And they were in the center of a cross-fire from the walls.
Eight went in. Five came out, one with the fur on her arms burning from the acid. The Gnolls stared. They had seen Drake forts with less heavy resistance! That was an inn?
“What do we do? That’s a kill zone. We’re running out of time. The city is going to send soldiers. We can hold them for a few minutes. From the top? Try again later? They knew we were coming.”
The [Hunt Leader] was growling, thinking. He narrowed his eyes.
“Fall back. We’ll wait for another chance. Tell the [Shaman]—”
The Gnolls were racing back to the grass where they could vanish. Then they heard a sound from within the inn, along with the muffled sounds of an altercation within. They heard a whining sound, high-pitched. One of the Doomslayers looked up.
“What is that s—”
A bright, orange-red light flashed from the side of the inn. Just a finger’s width in diameter. It went through the walls, missing its intended target, straight through Montressa’s barrier.
It went straight through one of the Gnolls. She fell without a word. The Doomslayers dove for cover. The [Hunt Leader] stared at the hole in his comrade’s chest.
“Nisha?”
They stared at the inn. Then they heard the drums and turned their heads.
 
—-
 
“[Ray of Disintegration].”
Belavierr missed. Wanderer whirled Mrsha out of the way again. [Perfect Dodge]! She looked around, raised one hand.
“[Chain Light—]”
The electricity unfolded and spooled into her hand. Belavierr stared at it, and tossed it straight back. The Shock Orb exploded and Montressa screamed.
“No!”
“A single type of spell is worthless.”
All the lightning bolts had been about as effective as spitting on Belavierr. She frowned at Mrsha.
“[Wall of Blood Thorns].”
Two walls appeared, boxing in Wanderer who had Mrsha under one arm. He growled. Belavierr smiled—
He jumped through the door to the garden, landed in it, and whirled around. Belavierr instantly shifted aim towards Apista. Wanderer leapt back through after Mrsha as she leapt for her friend. Belavierr turned to track Mrsha—and stopped.
She would have missed anyways. Numbtongue tackled her from behind and went for a leg-sweep. He failed the leg-sweep; Belavierr’s legs didn’t budge, but she glanced at him in annoyance.
“This is not working.”
Numbtongue eyed her.
“Yeah.”
She flicked a finger. He hit something and fell; the shockwave of air left his ears ringing. Belavierr stepped back. She ignored the spells pelting her from the left side; Bezale howled at Palt.
“Stop casting spells! Nothing below Tier 4 even touches her!”
“Maybe it’s annoying her!”
Belavierr grasped at Mrsha. She was muttering.
“I am not direct. This is not my craft. Interference. The little warlord…”
She glanced around, but she’d lost him. Strange. He should be wearing thread and she sensed the other threads, even magical ones. She’d felt his Skills throwing her off, empowering the others this entire time. Fraerlings on Izril? Curious. She’d thought they had all fled.
So Belavierr plucked at something in the air no one could see but her. Montressa narrowed her eyes. She thought she saw something. Some kind of intense current of mana…?
“She’s doing something to Mrsha! Stop her!”
Palt blew a cloud of smoke around Belavierr. It didn’t do a thing; the hallucinogen was as effective as Calescent’s spice. The Hob had given up on that; he’d realized nothing made of string could hurt Belavierr. So he was lighting the most flammable alcohols on fire and chucking them at her. Rufelt was helping.
“That one! Throw that one! That one won’t light! Not that one! It’s expensive!”
Belavierr was looking at Mrsha. The Gnoll felt the [Witch] pulling at her. She cried out soundlessly, and felt Belavierr twist—the [Witch] grinned.
“Ah, yes. White fur. Let me show you the doom following you, Mrsha.”
She drew a glittering needle in one hand, and pierced the air. She ignored all else and whispered. Mrsha felt her hair standing up. She felt a tug, and then the [Witch] whispered.
“[Thread of Fate].”
Her craft exceeded the petty little spells by far. Mrsha felt the [Witch] pull something, threading something coming out of her with the needle. It tugged tight. And then—
Drums. Mrsha’s head turned, and she heard a distant chorus of angry trumpets. Bezale, next to a window, pouring a potion on a cracked rib, chanced a glance outside. Her eyes widened.
“House of Minos. No way—”
 
—-
 
The Watch was already on full alert. The inn-response team was halfway out the gates when they heard the drums and trumpets.
They came out of nowhere. Jeiss was already on the battlements. He turned and swore.
“How did they get there? We have sentries—”
An army was coming up the road. An army with banners he recognized. Hectval.
They seemed as confused as Liscor. The sentry alarms began coming in.
“—Just appeared out of nowhere! Like a blur!”
“Hectval! They have catapults—”
 
—-
 
“How…how did we get here?”
The [Siegemaster] of Hectval raised a claw to his head. He looked around, confused. They should have been two days away! But they’d been marching and…no, they’d come here as planned.
Two days early? He looked up.
“We’re nearly in range of the city! Siegemaster, orders?”
“Be—begin the assault!”
Confusion was replaced by certainty. They had always meant to come here. The [Siegemaster] shook his head.
“Target the new portion of the city! Catapults to fire as soon as they are within range. And take that inn! Flashfire Riders, go!”
A stream of Drakes on horseback detached outwards. They knew their targets. The new, weak part of the city not protected by walls. And the inn, where the damned perpetrator of the attack on Hectval was. They’d torch both and pull back.
Surprise attack! To…everybody.
 
—-
 
Belavierr had just pulled an army out of thin air. Rags turned her head back to the [Witch], eyes wide.
“My craft is far stronger than little spells. See, child? Now, what other threads have you to pull and tear?”
The [Witch] reached for Mrsha. Wanderer blocked her way again, but this time she had his measure. She flicked a finger.
“The hangman’s noose calls you, guardian.”
He froze, and grabbed at his cloak. Too late—it twined around his neck, twisting up—trying to hang him! And again, she ignored the blows raining on her back, spells and arrows both. Bird’s bowstring snapped again and he tossed it down.
“This is cheating!”
Cheating? This was a Level…Rags didn’t know, but it was far beyond her. This was Greydath levels. Beyond Greydath levels?
More articles of clothing tried to strangle their owners. Belavierr seemed amused that such a trick was working on all those present. Nothing made of string could stand against her. Nor…could any of those in the inn hurt her.
“Show me your tricks, child. Your little stories. Show me how they can hurt me.”
She called to Mrsha, advancing at a slow walk. Mrsha backed up. The door opened behind her, but a wall of red thorns grew, blocking off the walls. Belavierr smiled and reached down, hand like a claw.
No one to stop her. Except her peers. She pointed and whispered a spell.
“[Swarm of Pestilence].”
Numbtongue howled. He struggled against his armor, pinning him against the ground. He saw Mrsha cover her face. And the spell…
Didn’t appear. Belavierr blinked at her finger. Then her orange, ringed eyes flicked up. She heard a buzzing sound.
“You—”
“Niers Astoragon.”
The Titan soared up. On Apista’s back. He was sitting there…buck naked. All he held was his sword. Apista did an aileron roll, as Belavierr jerked back. Too slowly. As if she didn’t understand the danger.
[Battlefield: Even Ground – No Magic, No Luck, No Skills, Only Strategy]. She tried to cast a spell.
Niers stabbed her in the eye as he flew past. He twisted the sword, yanked—
And tore out her right eye.
Mrsha covered her own face in horror, and then saw Belavierr reel back. She cried out. And then felt at the bloody hole in her eye. She whirled—
Calescent slammed into her. He stabbed her twice with a dagger; she hurled him aside. He went flying like before, but now? There was blood on her dress. She gazed at the wounds on her chest.
“My—eye?”
The Titan and Apista were fleeing across the inn as fast as possible. Niers felt the Skill fighting against Belavierr; it wasn’t going to last five minutes! Yet they’d wounded her! Belavierr turned, as Numbtongue roared and charged with his sword. She looked at him—and screamed.
“MY EYE.”
Her body unfolded as he tried to plant it in her chest. Niers saw her come apart. A million strings, unraveling—and in the center, someone was shrieking at him.
A younger woman, clutching at her eye, standing amid an ancient circle frozen beyond time. She was screaming at him—
And then the threads folded and the image vanished. Belavierr was gone. Numbtongue whirled, slashing.
“How—?”
“She’s all magic.”
Niers was shaken. He’d seen his Skill fail once before when he tried it on a being of pure magic. You couldn’t ‘take’ a Dragon’s magic away, only make it vulnerable. Same with Djinni. He looked around.
“She can’t have gone far. She’s—”
His head turned. He saw Belavierr, felt her reform and reappear.
Outside the inn. She was striding away, quickly, even stumbling, without her Seven League Boots. Niers roared.
“After her! Before my Skill ends!”
She was running away! But she’d be back as soon as the Skill ran out. And she was looking back at Niers, clutching at the hole in her head. Belavierr strode forwards—
Right into the fight between the Doomslayers and Hectval’s cavalry.
 
—-
 
The Plain’s Eye Hunters had no idea how the Drakes appeared. Hectval’s army had no idea who they were until they nearly ran over the Gnolls.
The first indication they got was an arrow punching the leading [Lieutenant] out of the saddle. They looked down.
“Gnolls!”
Hectval had some Gnolls in their front ranks, but these were clearly Liscor’s elites! They broke off, shouting.
“There’s an ambush team lying in wait! Gnolls with bows!”
“Who are these Drakes?”
The [Hunt Leader] roared. He drew an object from his pack, tossed it down. The customized bear trap took down a horse and rider and he speared the Drake. This was an army!
“They trapped us! Fight!”
