There was no Cara here. He saw Belavierr glance at him. Then focus on Mrsha again.
“Where are all these threads coming from? So many would die for one girl?”
“Yes.”
Dalimont rode down on her, sword drawn. Belavierr pointed.
A needle went straight through his side and out the other end, tearing through armor and flesh. Dalimont wavered. He tried to hack at her as he passed. She didn’t even stagger from the blow. He fell out of his saddle and Mrsha cried out.
“Dalimont!”
Sest saw the man fall. The Thronebearers and Wanderer were trying to get Mrsha out of the press of monsters. More kept coming. They were pouring out of the hole in the air. They hadn’t overcome the adventurer’s defenses; Belavierr was summoning them directly.
“We’ll never make the city! The inn—is it overrun?”
Ushar turned to the others. Wanderer didn’t reply; was there anywhere safe from Belavierr? The monsters were…more direct than she was, though. They were closer to killing everyone.
Rags stumbled to the entrance of the inn. Her ears were bleeding and she could barely see, let alone fight. She shouted.
“Run! Keep running, idiots!”
The [Knights] didn’t see her, only heard the shout. They turned, trying to do just that.
Flesh Worms crawled at them. Dozens. Mini-Skinners. Each one more than a match for one Thronebearer. Rags stared at them, and the [Witch].
Some things never changed. Only got worse. She bared her teeth. That was fine. They changed. She changed.
 
—-
 
A naked, gigantic worm reared up, herald of the dungeon’s evil. It reached down for Mrsha as Ser Lormel’s horse went down, screaming. He was pinned under it. Mrsha aimed her wand up at it.
[Arrow of Light]!
She spat a single arrow from her wand into one tiny little eye. The beast roared—then its head exploded.
Mrsha stared at her wand. So did Wanderer, Ushar, and Sest. Belavierr’s head slowly swung around.
“…What?”
A second Flesh Worm went down. This time—pinned. Like a worm with a needle run through it, appropriately. Mrsha saw the oversized bolt dig into the ground. Then another tapped a suit of armor and sent it sprawling, armor bowed in. She followed Belavierr’s gaze and saw a shape flash overhead.
The Frost Wyvern spat ice over the monsters as Snapjaw dropped a jar of alchemist’s fire over another monster’s face. The Wyvern flew on another strafing run, but another had dropped its cargo.
A small group of Carn Wolves led by Redscar and Thunderfur charged down the slope. The Goblin was swearing.
“Chieftain! Find the Chieftain!”
The others broke off as he charged into the fighting. Behind him, the Thunderbows fired again. The Hobs had set up on a hill and were firing the oversized bolts at range at the monsters.
Not at Belavierr; they had no idea what was happening; they’d only received her order to arrive now. Badarrow looked for Numbtongue; he was loosing arrows as fast as he could.
The monsters broke as the Flooded Waters tribe and 4th Company of Liscor’s army hit them from two sides. Zevara and Olesm had seen the fighting and turned back to help.
Countless armies, fighting, friends of the inn. It was like the movie Mrsha had used to chase away the darkness. A glorious, sad, brave story, even without the [Innkeeper].
The [Witch] lost her temper once more. She snatched a passing Drake from the saddle, one of Embria’s 4th Company, and shattered every bone in the [Soldier]’s body. She was growing. Her body grew, like the giant Mrsha had seen in her eyes.
“Enough! Little threads of coincidence and chance cannot save you. You are dead, Mrsha! Dead!”
She roared. Embria looked up at the [Witch].
“What is that?”
She had no idea, but she knew an enemy when she saw one. The Thunderbows changed their targets on Rags’ order. They fired—
The bolts snapped in midair. Eighteen good [Soldiers] ran into a wall of shadows and never came out. Belavierr pointed and Dame Ushar shouted as her armor—the threads underneath picked her up and slammed her so hard into the ground she broke half her ribs.
Niers Astoragon shouted, saving Embria from the same fate with a Skill. Yet none of his worked on one target. And Belavierr fought all of them at once.
Grimalkin slammed into her, cradling his broken arm. She raised one hand and hit him so hard he collapsed. She strode towards Mrsha, ignoring everything and everyone.
“I will take your skin and fur. I will destroy this inn, and the body of your beloved [Innkeeper] so she will never return. You shall not die, for I name you my enemy. I killed the [Lady] of fire who walked here. So perish all those who offend me.”
Mrsha didn’t run. Wanderer looked at her, pinned by his enchanted clothing and cloak. Mrsha couldn’t run. How many more would get hurt because of this…this evil, unstoppable, petty [Witch]?
Someone had to stand up to her. Mrsha raised her wand, glimmering with her little spells. The [Witch] bent down towards her.
Someone stepped forwards. He raised the smoking censer, and brandished the shield and club. He barred Belavierr’s path.
Pawn.
The [Priest] had been with Yellow Splatters, leading the charge against Hectval. Xrn had promised him she would take care of the inn. Now? Pawn blocked this strange Human’s way.
“No one will hurt Mrsha. Which kind of strange enemy are you?”
He was weary, and the simple shield and club had traces of blood on them. Pawn stood there, as Belavierr stopped. Mrsha looked up at him. Pawn, no! Don’t do it! She went to tug at him and realized—
He was standing in front of Belavierr. Everyone else had fallen down. Their clothing choking them, the very threads and dark bindings dragging them down.
The [Witch] stared at Pawn’s armor and clothing. She gestured; Pawn’s armored hood, customized for Antinium, moved slightly. He stopped it with his fourth arm.
“Strange. Is she some kind of clothing-mage?”
“Strange. You…have I ever met a thing like you?”
The two regarded each other, equally puzzled. No—Belavierr more so. Pawn just saw a giant Human with a hat, threatening to kill Mrsha.
“Begone, whoever you are. I will hurt you if you try to hurt Mrsha.”
He brandished the shield and club. They weren’t magical. He held the censer in his other two hands, and it smelled of cinnamon.
Belavierr made an incredulous sound.
“Begone, little ant. I have bested your great [Mage]. You cannot harm me.”
Pawn glanced towards where Xrn had done battle. He nodded, slowly, not ignoring the truth of that. His head rose and his mandibles clicked softly as he looked up at Belavierr.
“That may be true. But you will not harm Mrsha. I have promised.”
So saying, he advanced. Belavierr was a giant now, forty feet tall. She could have attacked Liscor’s walls themselves. Pawn seemed comically small as he strode at her leg, covered by her dress. He charged and swung his club.
“For Erin and the inn!”
He did not expect to hurt her, just slow her, to save Mrsha. Belavierr expected nothing either. Mrsha saw her reach over Pawn, ignoring him. Pawn swung his club and smacked her shin.
And Belavierr winced. Mrsha saw the involuntary reaction run across her face, then a look of astonishment. Mrsha gaped too.
That was not Belavierr acknowledging pain, or stumbling. It was not her saying ‘ow’ when her skin was on fire. It was actually…pain. She recoiled. Pawn swung his club again. Belavierr’s face twisted into one of confusion.
“Why…?”
She was normal-sized in a moment. She stared at Pawn, backing away. Then she bent and…rubbed at her shin. Pawn hesitated.
“I thought I was dead. What is this person? Some [Mage]?”
He looked at Mrsha. She just gaped at him. Belavierr frowned.
“…I cannot see your class. What—what are you?”
She eyed Pawn, disturbed. He looked at her. Then he charged.
“For the inn! Defend it once more!”
Belavierr produced a staff of dark metal and blocked Pawn’s club. Light flashed and she stumbled. She stared at the artifact she held, and then Pawn’s club. It should have exploded, and taken the Antinium with it! Yet he had matched the Stave of Nerrhavia, given to the Stitch Witch long ago, like it was a relic of the same class! She tested it on a Flesh Worm crawling away nearby and it exploded.
Pawn flinched at the rain of flesh. He eyed the staff and backed up a step. Belavierr eyed his club and pointed at it.
“How did you come by that relic?”
The Worker eyed his club.
“…I bought it for three coppers on discount from a [Blacksmith].”
The two looked at each other. Then Belavierr spun. Her eyes went wide, the replacement and immortal one.
“What is…that?”
Mrsha saw two figures advancing on her from the side. Niers, Rags—everyone lying on the ground looked up. Mrsha had seen, heard about the things Pawn could summon; he had told Lyonette about them.
But those were not Aberrations. Two glowing Workers stepped forwards, armed with simple weapons. They looked…like Pawn. Yellow Splatters, lying prone, held down by the armor suddenly twice as heavy as lead, looked up and whispered.
“Knight. Bishop?”
“Erin would make a pun. I cannot.”
Pawn looked at the two Workers. They flanked Belavierr. She spun around, lashed out with her staff.
One of the glowing Workers vanished, mid-detonation as the staff struck his chest. The other lunged. He stabbed and she cried out.
“How do these things exist? They should not be here!”
She tore it apart with a hail of needles. It worked on the Worker, but she seemed unnerved. She whirled to Pawn.
“You—stay back. [Deathlance]!”
Mrsha saw the spell shoot at Pawn and screamed. The [Priest]’s mandibles opened. The deathly spell struck the air around him and—vanished.
A wall of light blocked Belavierr’s magic. She tried again, this time with tendrils that melted as they tried to get close to him.
[Holy Barrier]. It protected Pawn. It was not invincible; it flickered as Belavierr struck it with her staff. It even went out from the third spell, overloaded.
Yet it unnerved her. The [Stitch Witch] looked at Pawn.
“What are you? What is your class? How can you—”
He struck at her and there was another flash as she parried his club. She struck—and her staff hit his shield, and was knocked aside. If she had touched him, he would surely have died. But the [Priest] fought on. He swung the censer like a makeshift flail and she recoiled from it.
Niers Astoragon saw Pawn slow, panting. The [Priest] gasped. An answer at last, as Belavierr backed up, wary of him. Yet she held the deadly staff. Pawn lifted the club, touched it.
“[Weapon of Faith].”
He looked up at Belavierr. The [Stitch Witch] stared at Pawn. Her eyes focused on him. She looked at him, the simple club, and where the two Workers had stood. The barrier of light.
Belavierr had challenged the [Garden of Sanctuary]. She had laughed at Erin. She had not acknowledged Grimalkin of Pallass.
She had only stopped when Xrn appeared, and she had bested her foe, outraged by Xrn underestimating her.
An army stood before her—multiple armies, and she had walked through them. Only Niers Astoragon had wounded her in a significant way—and only once.
Belavierr, that old legend, faced down all of Liscor and had not even contempt for them. Now? She looked at the slightly clumsy Worker, waving a club at her.
The Witch backed away. Pawn stared at her, confused. Then he saw Belavierr raise her staff. She struck the ground with it, and a wall appeared.
An old, gigantic wall. A fortress so old it seemed to bear every century on it. Yet the wall still stood. 
For a second, Pawn stared at the wall, and fortress beyond. Called forth by the staff. Then—he saw Belavierr walk through the walls. The Staff of Nerrhavia swung at his face.
“Begone, mysterious thing.”
She struck with all her might. Pawn blocked the staff and his knees buckled, chitin cracking with the impact. Belavierr whirled the bottom of the staff up, to strike his chest.
Bird shot her in the back of the head. She didn’t blink. Bird stared at his bow, tossed it aside, and drew four kitchen knives.
“Bird! Be careful!”
Pawn saw Bird harrying Belavierr’s back as he retreated, shield barely turning aside the deadly blows. Belavierr was strong and the staff had reach and could kill him in a stroke—but she was more scared of his club than he was of her. She kept her distance, trying to touch him from afar.
Bird? She glanced over her shoulder and saw the Antinium. She flicked a finger—then frowned. The Antinium spread all four hands. He had knives, and he had abandoned his bow, but he was missing his normal ‘clothing’, which was just his loincloth.
“I am naked. You have no power over me. Take this! Stab, stab—is this working?”
She spun her staff horizontally. Bird ducked, slashed at her legs. He backed up slowly.
“You are not a bird. Why can I not kill you? I have never met anything I cannot kill. Hm. Hiyah.”
To Pawn and Mrsha’s horror, they saw Bird drop his knives. He jumped at Belavierr and kicked her in the shin. He punched her in the stomach, tried to go for an uppercut to her jaw, but he was too short. He stamped on her foot.
Belavierr tried to strike at him, but Bird whirled sideways. He gave her a jump-kick to her chest and Belavierr didn’t move. Bird fell onto his back and waved his arms and legs as he tried to rock back upright.
“This one does not hurt me. Why that?”
Belavierr whispered. She just thrust the staff forwards and Bird flinched.
“Uh o—”
A second time, the holy barrier blocked the staff. Belavierr recoiled. She whirled around.
“How?”
Faith didn’t have a cool down. Pawn advanced from one side, giving Bird time to roll away and get up.
“Bird, don’t let her touch you. Pick up your knives.”
“They are Erin’s knives. Give me your power, Pawn.”
“I will.”
The two Workers advanced, one from each side. And now—Belavierr saw Pawn look at Bird’s knives.
They did not glow. They did not shine. But she backed away from both, and saw more Antinium coming up the slope. They had also divested themselves of clothing; unlike the others, they cared nothing for nudity. Her eyes flickered to Pawn, to Bird, crabbing left to stab her in the ankles…and she threw her head back.
“Wretches! Do you think you can hurt me?”
Suddenly, Belavierr boomed, and grew. Pawn recoiled and Bird hopped back. Belavierr was growing again! She pointed down, a giant with eyes flashing orange and evil.
“I am the [Witch] who comes for the end of all stories! I am the last offer of age, the oldest of stories! I have toyed with you all—you now feel my wrath.”
She pointed down at Pawn as the sky turned midnight behind her, like before. Dark threads spun through the sky as everyone looked up. Mrsha stared at Belavierr. Afraid, but—was she—monologuing?
Pawn also seemed confused. He advanced, but Belavierr swung a finger down.
