The sky was gone. The clouds, the frozen blue sky and sun—had all gone dark. There were no stars. It had been eaten, like the rest of the inn.
Belavierr had turned off the light! Mrsha backed up—then nearly tumbled down the hill as she lost her footing. It was so dark!
The only light left in the whole garden came from the Sage’s Grass below. Maybe a glimmer from above, on the hilltop, but…Mrsha stumbled down towards the Sage’s Grass.
“Mrsha! Dead gods, Mrsha! Where are you? Lasica!”
“I’m here! Ow! Ancestors, what was—”
Lasica kicked something hard. Mrsha heard a crash; it was the laptop, abandoned. She found herself running into an empty picnic basket, a soccer ball…
The grass here was wet underfoot from a shower not quite dried away, or the roving watering cloud of mists. The three stood amid the glowing Sage’s Grass. Mrsha looked around.
“It’s so damned dark. How did she do that?”
“The same way she did everything! We need light! Hold on. Let me just…[Light]! Aha!”
Lasica pulled, of all things, a little wand out of her bag of holding. She used the emergency wand to shine the light around. Mrsha and Rufelt were very close. It was…
Scary in the [Garden of Sanctuary] without any lights.
“Dead gods. Let’s—she’s angry at you, Mrsha. Lasica, we have to do something.”
“What? Run for it? I think that’s the stupidest thing we can do, Rufelt. Not that there’s anything smart. Let’s—let’s get up to the hill with the mists. We’ll be safest there, if anywhere. At least if we go up there, she can’t use the door to find us around the edges of the garden.”
All that made sense. The other two nodded. Mrsha felt every hair pricking up. This was—wrong. No light? Even at night, the stars were so beautiful—this seemed wrong. Like the [Garden of Sanctuary] was losing against Belavierr. It couldn’t. She couldn’t get in.
The three advanced up the slope. Mrsha was looking around for the glowing eyes against a far wall. She was looking so hard, she nearly missed the first whisper.
“Let me in.”
It came from an unfamiliar angle. Mrsha heard the whisper, louder.
“Let me in. Let me in, Mrsha. Let me in.”
She stopped dead in her tracks. Lasica had heard it too. She shined the wand around.
“There’s no way…where is she?”
Rufelt whirled, paws raised as if he wanted to fist-fight Belavierr. He looked right, left. The whispers seemed to come from everywhere.
“She’s not in here! It’s a trick! But where…?”
All three began to look around. They had to know where Belavierr was; not knowing was terrifying. The whispers grew louder.
“Let me in, Mrsha. Let me in. Letmein. lEt mE IN. LeT Me In. Let me IN—letmeinletmeinletmeinletmeinletmein—”
Where was she? Mrsha looked right, left, down…and then, because she had exhausted all other options, she looked up at last. And saw her.
Belavierr was craning through the opening in the dome above the garden. Her orange eyes shone down as she leaned down, whispering. Mrsha pointed up and Lasica screamed as she saw Belavierr there.
How was she there? There was no way! Mrsha ran up the hill, screaming now, making the only sound she could in her throat. This had gone from scary to true horror. She ran up the hill. Erin! Save me! Save—
“There you are. I knew I would find my way in.”
Belavierr turned. Her orange eyes glowed as she stared down at Mrsha. The Gnoll girl froze.
Belavierr was standing at the top of the hill. She stood there, as if she had always been there. Rufelt, Lasica, and Mrsha froze.
“She—she got in.”
Rufelt stared up at the hole in the roof where Belavierr no longer was. She’d gotten in. Mrsha’s eyes were wide.
“I take back my deal, Mrsha. Now? I will be angry. Come here.”
Belavierr began walking down the hill. Mrsha backed up.
“Mrsha, run! Run for the portal door!”
Lasica ran at Belavierr, swinging her wand. Rufelt charged after her. Belavierr saw both adults coming and pivoted. She moved unnaturally fast and Rufelt missed, tripping into the darkness. Lasica slashed, but Belavierr whirled past her. Then walked towards Mrsha.
The little Gnoll ran down the hill, screaming, for the door.
“Come here.”
Belavierr dodged with unnatural speed again, as Rufelt and Lasica charged her. She moved slow—then with blinding speed. She was following Mrsha, with an inexorable pace that somehow seemed like it was catching up. But Mrsha was running for the wall. Pallass! Celum? Invrisil? Liscor? She was sobbing as she ran past the lake.
“Mrsha, get out of here!’
Again, Lasica missed as Belavierr casually dodged her. For all she seemed so static, she was moving too fast now! She saw Mrsha run to the wall and the door appeared. Then—Mrsha froze.
“Mrsha!”
Rufelt roared. He was hitting only air. He saw Belavierr’s pace quicken. She came at Mrsha as husband and wife turned. They saw the child slowly rotate, eyes wide. Belavierr reached down with clawing hand—
And her arm passed through Mrsha. The two adults stopped. Mrsha flinched. Yet Belavierr’s gaze was only…disappointed. She glanced past Mrsha at the open doorway, which led into the inviting portal room again.
Another trap. How had Mrsha known, though? She looked down. At the pond where the Fortress Beavers’ dam was.
There, reflected in the still water, was the dome overhead. And in it—
Belavierr stared down at Mrsha. She reappeared as the shadow image of her vanished. She stopped moving her hands, stopped playing with the light.
Shadow puppets. Only, as she could make them. She stared down at Mrsha. The little Gnoll looked up at her. A third time she had bested Belavierr, by luck as much as anything. But she didn’t gloat anymore.
For Belavierr scared her more than almost anything Mrsha had known. Almost as much as Facestealer and Nokha. She ran back up the hill and sheltered among the statues, next to Erin’s frozen bier.
Lasica and Rufelt joined her. All three drew back as the shadow of Belavierr walked up the hill. She stopped before the statues and mist, as if she could go no further. She looked…perplexed.
“Three times. Four, to count how Rufelt and Lasica denied me. Four times I was defeated. So strange. Yet you are still overconfident, girl.”
Mrsha bared her teeth in a shaky snarl. She looked at Erin, to give her some kind of hope and guidance. Belavierr just shook her head. She gestured around the [Garden of Sanctuary]. At the flames of life still clinging to Mrsha’s fur, giving her some small strength and support.
“You trust to fire, girl. But fire is a kind of magic, and memory fades. You are in my domain, here. My time. You trust to this garden to hold me back. Yet it is not your Skill. The owner lies dead, and the true owner died long ago. You don’t have the full power of this place.”
She gestured around the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Then Belavierr smiled cruelly.
“You don’t even have the right door.”
Mrsha looked at her. The Stitch Witch met her gaze. Older, more terrible, and still so petty. What would she do next? What could she do? She had tricked and offered. What now?
For answer, Belavierr just stood there. She stood there, and looked down at Mrsha. Almost contemptuously. As if to say, ‘see? All your victories ring hollow in time.’
See? And Mrsha did see. She looked around the garden, in darkness, and despair. At Belavierr. A look of horror stole across Rufelt’s face. Lasica realized it last.
“No.”
She looked down as the magic of her nearly-depleted wand of [Light] ran out. After all—it was magic. Light, air, all mundane things froze here. But the [Immortal Moment] didn’t allow for forever magic. That would be cheating.
It was dark. Mrsha was panting. She looked at the fire dimly burning on her fur. At Belavierr. And she knew.
“It shall last until we make a pact, you and I. How long can you wait? How long can your soul survive eternity? Longer than mine? As we wait, let me tell you how you will let your loved ones die. Let me recite your pain, girl. We will wait together.”
Belavierr stood in the darkness. She began to whisper. Mrsha put her paws over her ears. Belavierr kept whispering, uncaring. After all—she had an immortal moment.
Forever. And they were trapped with her.
Mrsha finally began to cry. In despair, in fear.
Erin’s fire was beginning to go out.
 
—-
 
And then it was over.
Mrsha had met the [Witch]. She had been scared by the witch, but the witch was old. She had made mistakes, even as ancient as she was. She fooled Mrsha by letting the little Gnoll think there was a way you could win.
It wasn’t like that. Now the Gnoll knew, as she sat in a moment of forever—it wasn’t possible. Fighting Belavierr? It wasn’t bringing down the giant. She wasn’t a fire you could put out, like Maviola, so intense until it…extinguished.
She was like the tide. Like a storm. There was no beating her, not unless you could kill the dark sea itself. All Mrsha had done was make the [Witch] angry.
Belavierr’s true wrath, though, was not in dark nightmares. Not in tricks or games. It was just this.
Time. Mrsha felt it grinding against her skull. Time.
She was trapped in this [Immortal Moment]. The moment was immortal. She was not. Things could happen in this time. You could make peace, change, find courage.
Suffer. Oh, the [Witch] was clever. She whispered dark promises to Mrsha. Let me in. But then?
Then she showed Mrsha terrible things.
“Mrsha? Where are you? Stop hiding. You will help the [Gatherers] pluck the Needleplums. Stop running away! We have gloves! Then we will eat. You want to eat, yes?”
Someone spoke to Mrsha. He wandered over the grass hill. She smelled familiar cooking scents as she crouched low in the grass, her brown fur mixing well with a patch of dry grass. She was younger, smaller, and didn’t want to work! She wanted to catch little grasshoppers; they were food. But no…
Urksh came over the hill, calling. Mrsha’s ears perked up as he made his way to her. She hid lower, giggling despite herself. And part of her wailed. Part of her didn’t want to see his exasperated, smiling face, as her guardian, the Chieftain of the Stone Spears tribe, her tribe, came scolding and teasing.
Part of Mrsha wanted to see him again, to be here. But then she saw him and her heart broke at his kind face. He bent down, scolding, and she went to run—
Then she saw him amid the dark night, fighting with his tribe. As Goblins poured down the side of the mountain. Ryoka held her, pleading with the Winter Sprites for Mrsha’s life. Mrsha howled, and howled as she saw the Stone Spears tribe fighting and dying. Sacrificing everything that a few might live.
Zel Shivertail was there, Ilvriss, the Goblin Lord. Mrsha saw the [General] as she had first seen him, leading a charge forwards to try and save the Gnolls, to no avail.
“Stop.”
If she could have said it, she would. Belavierr knew what she meant. The [Witch] just looked at her.
“Just what are you doing?”
Zel Shivertail caught Mrsha’s paw as she snatched for a little bit of his breakfast. He looked amused, but Lyonette instantly wanted to scold Mrsha.
Instead, the [General] sat Mrsha on the table. She eyed him, a bit apprehensively. The [General] indicated his plate.
“Are you that hungry? Take what you want.”
The Gnoll girl shyly looked at him, and then ducked her head. She wasn’t hungry—the Drake smiled, a scar stretching.
“That’s what I thought. If you want to play games, be my guest. I was just checking.”
He let Mrsha hop off the table. The Gnoll girl saw Lyonette hesitate, frown at her, but Zel went back to eating. She eyed him, circling around his chair. Then she slyly crept up, reached for his poached egg—
He blocked her paw with one finger. Mrsha’s eyes widened. She tried again, darting, and Zel—
Flicker. Belavierr was smiling. Mrsha tried to hide her eyes. Stop.
Was lying in the coffin. They were going to burn him. How had he died? The Goblin Lord? Mrsha was crying. Crying and crying.
It wasn’t right. He shouldn’t have died. Not him! Not the Tidebreaker.
Everyone else was weeping. Mrsha saw them light the flames and howled for them to stop. Stop! Don’t…don’t…
“Don’t do this.”
The cruelty of it was that it was the past. The past and the future. Rufelt and Lasica held each other, whispering in their own world of pain. They stared at what had been…what might be. The evil power Belavierr had was that she showed Mrsha what the Gnoll had loved and laughed at.
And then what Mrsha had lost. There could be no darkness without light. Even here…
The fire burned. Erin’s fire flickered on Mrsha’s fur. Belavierr let it burn, defiantly. Yet…Mrsha no longer wanted the fire.
It was too dark. The light just made it worse. She curled up. She didn’t know how long it had been.
“This will continue forever. Strike a deal, child. I will take your pain. Your memory. I will restore one you love to life. Give me something of yours.”
The little girl looked up, tears leaking from her eyes. Forever? The [Witch] stood there, and pitted her might against…a child. It was silly. It was petty. Yet of all Mrsha’s foes, imaginary and real, Belavierr alone tried to crush her without regard for her age or size.
“I suffer no insults. I suffer no challenges. How long will you wait? Until your soul tears itself apart?”
The Witch whispered and Mrsha knew she would keep her here until the Gnoll was older than Lyonette and Erin combined. Would she grow older, or just remain, her soul withering with pain?
“Mrsha. Mrsha…”
Rufelt was searching for her, but he was blind. He was choking, looking at something…Mrsha had so many sad memories. How many did he have, as old as he was? Lasica was holding onto him, but curled up, weeping.
Mrsha looked at something on her paws. It was the fire of life.
It was fading away. She tried to call more fury, more energy into it, to burn Belavierr—but only an illusion stood before her. And what good was fire?
The fire was only able to burn on fuel. The three mortals were nearly extinguished themselves by the moment they were trapped in.
Some nights, the abyss could scream so loudly that even the brightest flame went out. Mrsha saw the flame on her paws flicker.
Then die.
 
—-
 
Time stopped. Mrsha saw the past. She heard Belavierr’s whispers.
“I can bring her back.”
Erin had failed. No—she wasn’t here. Mrsha lay next to her frozen bed. The fire in the cup next to the frozen young woman flickered. Mrsha could have kindled it on her fur, but it would just die again. She lay there, in the only light left, aside from Belavierr’s eyes, and knew Erin had failed.
No, if the [Innkeeper] were here…she could have done something more. All Mrsha had left were sparks, and she was too small. Too sad.
“Erin. Erin, please wake up.”
