“I will have your letter drafted at once, and I will pay for this service today in the usual manner.”

Erick said, “Don’t worry about the payment this time. This is a gift. We all have to stick together in the coming war.”

“Nonsense. I will pay the same price as before; the rads within the monsters slain.”

“I will not accept your payment. This is a gift.”

The Baroness smiled gently, but her voice was solid and full of promise, as she said, “Then I accept your gift. I hope to return such an act of kindness when I am in a position to do so.”

Suddenly, Erick felt as though he had made a mistake. Had Zago talked up the Wasteland custom of giving gifts and demanding debt, in order for this meeting with the Baroness to happen exactly as it had? Did Erick play this right?

Obviously, getting into debt with someone was one way for a relationship to continue. Ostensibly, that relationship could continue in a positive manner, if all parties agreed to such an arrangement. But it was a relationship with one hand open and inviting, and the other holding a dagger.

Maybe.

Erick had to read up on Wasteland customs more. He even had a little green book back home that might have the proper answer. He had read the The Foreigner Mage before, of course, but maybe it was time to sit down and read it again, before he went to the Magisterium.

Erick nodded once, preparing to blip away, as he said, “Contact Poi when you no longer need my spellwork—”

“Before you go.” The Baroness lost some of her regalness, saying, “Understand that we, the Wasteland Kingdoms, are trying to win you over to our side with candy and kindness.” Her voice turned adamantine again, as she said, “If you would like to know what the knife looks like, it would be us leaking to the Greensoil Republic that you have already agreed to help kill the Converter Angel. In such an event, we would strive to help you kill it when it came for you first, and we would help to defend you from the Republic’s assassins, but it would be much more difficult and taxing for everyone involved.” She stressed, “Whatever decision you make, I urge you not to go to Frontier in person. It is entirely possible that this theoretical Converter Angel already knows that you have entered into an informal contract to help kill it. It might be waiting for you there.”

Erick listened. He did not respond. What could he have said to that? He blipped away.

Poi followed, on his own. Zago remained.

- - - -

Sirocco waited to give her report. She watched as Pirazel also waited.

After several moments, a woman with grey skin, wearing black and gold mage regalia, stepped out of nothing, onto the steps of the gazebo. She said, “We are alone, Baroness.”

Sirocco bowed her head to Pirazel, saying, “Baroness.”

“Pah!” Pirazel flicked a dismissive hand, saying, “Raise your head, Sirocco. You did well, given the circumstances. The Kingdoms wish you could have more time, but if a Converter Angel truly exists, then we don’t have years.”

“The Angel is troubling news indeed.” Sirocco asked, “Have there been any overt signs, yet?”

“None. The first we have heard of it was the listing in Candlepoint.” Pirazel said, “I was ready to be mad at you for stressing that Flatt could send his [Familiar] to deal with the mimics past the Wall, but this is likely the better course of action. Slower and steady is better than throwing him into those vipers at the Magisterium before he is ready.”

“I am grateful for your kind words.”

Pirazel continued, “Silverite was as cordial as ever to my questions and demands, but she is the same adventurer-turned-ruler that she has always been. Always more concerned with individual rights than what is good for the rest of us.” She asked, “Tell me, how has your experience been with your ‘Mayor’ since last we spoke?”

Sirocco, ever deferential, said, “If I push any further with Erick, it does not matter how well I run the Guild, or that there is no one to replace me. I will be exiled.” She added, “If Erick speaks unkindly, I might already be exiled.”

“She might be crude and dangerous, but she has been at this for a lot longer than any of us. I doubt she would upset her house when we are so close to one of those fabled Shade Wars you read in the history books. You have done enough pushing, for now.” She asked, “Enlighten me, is that imaging of his truly not blood magic?”

“Though it uses biological material to search, it has none of the telltale markers of blood magic. No ritual bloodletting. No sacrifice. No pain or death or coercion involved at all, and no lasting effects, either. I’m sure a specific kind of [Ward] would block it, but I am unaware what kind. [Weather Ward] does not work, and neither do any of the other usual ones. But the most telling aspect of [Cascade Imaging] as more than Blood Magic, is that he can target other active magic and display it on the map.”

“Bloody archmages. They make everything so much more complicated than it has to be.”

Sirocco nodded, and continued, “My best guess is that he is targeting lineage markers long suspected to exist, but never found. Or at least never written down for the rest of us. He must know what those markers are, at their very core.”

Pirazel turned to the black and gold mage.

The woman said, “Likely true. It did not look like blood magic to me, either.” She added, “Find a Mind Mage willing to flip and you’ll find the deeper truth. It might be worth it." She continued, "If you could find leverage enough to use on this Poi fellow, you would find more answers about the nature of Reality than you knew what to do with.”

“No. Great Aunt Herie went up against the Mind Mages and lost everything that mattered. We will not be pursuing that option.” Pirazel turned back to Sirocco. “Let me take the blame for calling his spell blood magic if it is prudent to do so, and if he even understands the depth of the insult I gave him, but don’t work him too roughly. We have put him on edge, and too much of an edge can make a knife cut strange. Whatever the case, hopefully he keeps that attitude of gift giving. That attitude will serve him well in the Magisterium.” She added, “Dismissed.”

Sirocco nodded, saying, “Baroness.”

- - - -

Erick blipped back home, next to the couch of the sunroom.

“Fucking shit god damn Quiet War bullshit—”

Poi blipped into the sunroom, on the other side.

Erick asked, “Not go to Frontier? Really?”

“It might be a good precaution.” Poi said, “You don’t have to physically deal with any of these people.”

“Is Zago a part of Spur, or an arm of Kal’Duresh?”

Poi frowned a little, and said nothing.

Erick mocked, “Fucking shit, Poi. Are you or are you not supposed to be looking out for me?”

Poi instantly answered, “I am. But it’s more complicated than—”

“Just tell me the truth!”

Poi seemed to break a little. He said, “I can’t.”

“… Fine.” Erick said, “Then tell me… Is it a breach of security to trust Zago for anything?”

After a moment, Poi said, “Your question is too broad.”

“Okay. I can work with that.” Erick asked, “Am I in danger if I go to the Magisterium?”

“… Still too broad.”

Erick tried to be understanding, but all he could remember were all the times Poi went silent, or said nothing. Poi had never endangered anyone with his silence, and he had always spoken up when security concerns were raised, but talking to the man was like pulling teeth, and Erick had had enough.

Erick asked, “Why is it like this, Poi? Are you never allowed to just give an honest opinion, based on the facts you see? Just tell me, please! Is Zago a liability?”

“The facts I see are not—” Poi stopped himself.

Erick waited. Moments passed in silence.

Footsteps echoed in the hallway outside, drawing closer. Erick turned away from Poi, to see who it was, when the footsteps stopped at the archway to the room. Kiri stood there.

“I couldn’t help but overhear.”

Erick asked, “What do you think, Kiri?”

Kiri said, “Every time a Mind Mage speaks of what they see among their allies, nothing good ever comes from that information. Some people call it the Curse of Mentality. Relationships break, and they break hard, fracturing in horrible, unforeseen directions.”

Poi was stone-silent, as he gazed off to the side, into nowhere.

“An actual curse?” Erick decided, “Then let’s break it.”

Poi looked up to Erick, hopeful and despairing at the same time.

Erick asked, “What do you need?”

Kiri continued, “It’s not… It’s not a real curse. It’s just what always happens. I just called it that because it seemed right...” She offered, “But you can talk to me, if you want?”

Erick sighed. “That’d be nice, and maybe you should come with me to the lesser threatening areas, but you can’t help with this. You weren’t there.”

“True.” Kiri said, “But you could tell me what happened.”

Erick looked to his apprentice. She seemed resolute; she wanted to help.

Erick said, “Okay.” He said to Poi, “Sorry. I didn’t know.”

Poi smiled a little, then said, “Thank you.”

Erick plopped down onto the couch, and began, “It started with Sirocco, when we went up into her office so she could tell me about the Magisterium...”

Kiri sat down on the other couch, and listened. Poi silently watched. Erick talked.

When it was over, Kiri said, “The Quiet War is shit and you need to stay away from all sides. Don’t go to Frontier. Don’t go to Kal’Duresh ever again. In fact! All politics are shit out here in the wilds! This isn’t the Republic, and it certainly isn’t the Kingdoms, and it doesn’t need to be! Don’t even talk to Guildmaster Zago if you don’t want to, since apparently she needs to be out of a job as soon as possible.”

Erick sighed, saying, “I’m not going to get her fired.”

“I doubt you even could, but that’s your choice.” Kiri said, “Whatever the case, we’re in an almost-emergency, and you’re an archmage. Just send Ophiel over there to the Kingdoms if you want and clear out as many mimics as you can. Go crazy! Prove to them that you have power, and you’re not afraid to use it.” She added, “I’d really like to know what that ‘hydrogen bomb’ spell of yours looks like when cast on twenty mimics across twenty kilometers. Probably loud enough to hear for a hundred kilometers.”

Erick chuckled. “Thank you. That helped put a lot of things into the right perspective.”

Poi spoke up, “Please don’t go over there in any way, shape, or form, without clearing your actions through the proper channels.”

Kiri demanded to know, “Why! All they’ll do is use him, Poi!” She said, “I’m still mad at Sizzi.” Kiri added, “I grilled her after you and Zago went away. Apparently that uncle she spoke of was in debt for a loan he was swindled into by some peon in their bureaucracy. Hearing what you just said about debt being a way of life over there, I simultaneously don’t understand how anyone could be stupid enough— Oh. No. That’s not what happened.” She paused in thought. She said, “I didn’t see it before, but the way Sizzi said it… Her uncle wasn’t stupid enough to get into debt that he couldn’t repay. He knew he could repay it, by getting Sizzi to spill. Maybe he tried already with Zago— No. As a guildmaster, she’s socially out of his range...” Kiri added, “Debt is much more clear cut in the Republic. If you’re stupid enough to get into debt, they take you for all you’re worth. You don’t have time to make plots to get out of it; you either go to the mines, or they put a bounty on your head.”

Poi went back to what he had said before, by repeating, “You still need to clear your actions with someone before you cast widespread magics on foreign soil.”

Erick asked, “I want to speak to Silverite. Is she able to talk?”

Poi looked to the air. After a moment, he said, “In five minutes, for ten minutes.”

- - - -

Erick blipped directly into Silverite’s office, alone. She was at her desk with five open books and an open notebook in front of her, a pen in her hand, and a good seven lines of intent flowing from her head, into the manasphere. She glanced at Erick, at his arrival, but continued to scratch at the notebook. Erick waited.

After a moment, five lines of intent flickered and snapped. Silverite turned her attention to Erick. “What is wrong?”

“I need to know if I need Zago in order to help the Kingdoms with their mimic problem.”

Silverite set her pen down. She composed herself, with a straight back and an even gaze, as she asked, “Have you caught wind of a Wasteland plot against you, or any other humans?”

“Not… as… such. No—” Erick said, “I just don’t like— Look. I’m not going to speak ill of her. I like her. I like how she is with magic, and absolutely everything else… Everything else that is not Kingdom related.”

“Good. Because I don’t have time for whatever is going on here.”

“… I would appreciate a little bit of time, seeing as how I plan to be a part of your war effort whenever the time comes.”

“Fair.” Silverite said, “Then let me explain something to you, Erick. Guildmaster Zago is a known entity, who tries to keep her people safe and strong. Most of the time, Zago’s actions are good for Spur. Some of the time, her actions are good for the Kingdoms. Most of the time, these two events are in accordance. Most of the time, she even reins in the darker tendencies of some of her people. Bulgan was a man that got away from us all, and it would behoove you to understand that if Zago would have known about any one of his later actions, she would have put a stop to him. Usually, she manages to keep the Quiet War very quiet in my city, which is about the best I can hope for.” She stared at Erick, saying, “So that little spat you pulled in the war room was very unkind.

“If you had come in here disparaging her, I would be very cross with you. But believe me when I say that she is walking many fine lines from several different sources, the Magisterium, Kal’Duresh, more than a few Kingdoms, the Wall, and let’s not forget Spur, so let’s not get too upset when she pulls for the side that has kept her safe from assassinations, and provides her with the resources necessary to keep Spur running and prosperous.”

“… Assassinations?”

