“Of course! She is an incani in a position of great influence in a neutral land ruled by physical power, more than breeding, or birthright, or even bureaucracy. Her station as guildmaster here has long been a threat to others. When Viscount Andro Helix first came to power years ago, he tried to kill her. It failed, obviously.” Silverite added, “And then, most recently in the Red Dot attack, both her and Mog were subjected to Caradogh Pogi’s strongest hunters, because the two of them are irreplaceable to Spur’s good health. They survived that, too. The point is, is that they have survived some of the worst this world can throw at them, and as such, I keep them happy, and try to overlook their eccentricities, as long as they don’t get too out of hand.”

Erick suddenly felt very foolish for thinking that he knew anything about anyone. He said, “This is why archmages hide, isn’t it.”

Silverite nodded. “Like many archmages before you, you are basically a commoner who has managed to eke out a vast amount of power for themselves. Unlike many archmages, you remain in the public eye, and you continue to accrue physical power. This has elevated you to a station far higher than most could ever hope for, where the people with political and social power play dangerous games around each other, in order to keep civilization running as well as it can.”

“… Do you have any advice to survive the politics? To survive Zago?” Erick said, “I’m not going into hiding.”

“Glad to hear that.” She said, “This is my first piece of advice: repair and work on maintaining friendly relations with Sirocco, but when it comes to the Kingdoms, treat her as a member of the Kingdoms, first, and a citizen of Spur, second. Other than that, she is a good friend to have.”

Erick packed that information away, wondering if he could actually see Zago like that.

He instantly decided that he could. He wasn’t some fresh-faced kid—

Okay. Maybe he looked like he was some fresh-faced kid, but he was not.

“As for dealing with the Kingdoms, specifically?” Silverite said, “Stay away from formal contracts of any sort, but you’ve already entered into an informal contract to kill the Converter Angel when it appears, so you’ll have to do that.”

Erick thought back to what the Baroness had told him, as he asked, “Has it really appeared?”

“I don’t know, but I do know that it’s on Candlepoint’s quest board. Baroness Pirazel Xelxex recently told me some of her own theories regarding that, and that quest board might be a true reflection of what is out there in the world… or it might not.”

Erick quickly considered how to find the Converter Angel before they could kill anyone...

A Kill and Exterminate Quest, perhaps? But a quarter of a million people had to die in Odaali before Atunir released that Quest, and Erick had to identify exactly how the Halls of the Dead had done the deed, too. His wild guess had been correct, though. The Kill and Exterminate Quest went out right after, and pinging that quest showed the direction toward the three creators of the Daydropper, and the nearest vines, too.

He almost asked Silverite why anyone had to die, at all, for Koyabez to get off his ass and do the same sort of Kill and Exterminate Quest, but he reframed his question at the last moment, asking, “Is there some way to short-cut the normal route of people having to die before one of those divine Kill Quests goes out?”

“That won’t happen, here.”

Erick blanked. Stuck between furious and disbelief, he asked, “What! Why?”

Silverite frowned, but not at Erick. She said, “Koyabez can’t give out those kinds of quests since it directly impacts the interests of the demons or the angels, and those forces have other divine allies that would block—”

“That is cowshit!”

“I know! Believe me… I know.” Silverite said, “But if the problem gets large enough, a Champion of Koyabez might appear. It has happened before. I’ve met three in my lifetime. If it does happen, they can call for a Pacification Quest, and then lead a force to return the soldiers of Celes back to their moon.”

Erick ruminated on that thought for a moment, forcing his anger to go away. He said, “Fine.”

“But your outburst there is a good segue back to the main topic. It is a much smaller concern than the Domains of the Divine and how they war and block and cooperate with each other, but much more poignant to our current circumstances. You seem to do alright with normal, small politics, but when murder is involved, when nations are involved, you fail, and you fail hard, if this is what you do when you realize that Sirocco has interests outside of Spur. Make no mistake, Erick, what is coming down the road from Ar’Kendrithyst will have us working with murderers and killers of all sorts, some of whom probably killed the parents of the others.”

“That last one seemed specific. Did that really happen?”

“Yes. It did. That was not a pleasant year.” Silverite continued, “But anyway: it takes nobles ten years of schooling and a lifetime of exposure to Polite Society to get this kind of stuff right, and some of them never do. I’ve had to learn the law of ten different lands, the bureaucracy to match, the lineages and children and offshoots of great houses, and how to make a trade deal, and how to end a war before it began, because Polite Society is the name of the game everywhere except here in the Crystal Forest.

“Even though I have been the Mayor of Spur for 550 years, I’m only halfway decent at it, because almost everyone still sees me as an uncouth upstart adventurer that only got as far as I have because I refuse to die.” She stressed, “As long as you can manage that last part, most people in charge will never see you as more than some upstart archmage from another world, no matter what you accomplish.

“So, with that in mind. I don’t think you should even try to play the political game. Not right now, anyway.

“And… I would absolutely never say this to anyone else… But don’t worry too much about Polite Society. Almost all of them aren’t worth shit compared to those who live out here, on the front lines. So have some more fun, Erick, and don’t care about politics and making everyone happy so much. Sure, some people are out to kill you, but that’s true of everyone in your position.

“If I had any real advice for you, it would be this: Go ahead and damage your relationships with people outside of Spur, if you want, but strive to keep people like Guildmaster Zago in your good graces, because she certainly will be trying to do the same with you.

“You have power. Power that you gained through your own strength of will and knowledge that no one else has ever possessed, and your benevolent attitude. You’re expected to be eccentric and kooky, and people will work with that. Work the angles presented to you, and you’ll find a lot more people are willing to give you a lot more leeway than you ever thought possible.” She asked, “I bet you never thought twice about Mog or Sirocco talking to you like an equal, have you?”

She called Mog, ‘Mog’, but Zago by her first name of ‘Sirocco’? Had he been calling Mog by her first name this whole time? Erick filed that thought away for later, as he tried to think about how he felt of his, apparently, casual disregard of… etiquette? Or something? He said, “No, I have not thought about that.”

“Exactly! In any other nation, you would be a slave to the people in charge, in all but name. You would run around, never knowing those who controlled your life from all sides. But here, anyone can talk to Sirocco or Mog whenever they have a need, and all three of us are always in the public eye, taking care of problems as fast as we can! We have some regard for bureaucracy because you can’t have a government without it, but the point still stands: we’re much more relaxed out here. So remember: You’re an adventurer, and those people in the safer parts of the world are just nobles squabbling with each other, inventing their own evils and killing each other for it, while we’re killing the real dangers before they can get too far.”

Erick didn’t really know what to say about that, but he did feel better, in some strange way. Less burdened, perhaps.

She added, “And remember this, too: Spur and I have always led the main adventuring force against everything the Shades have ever done. When the time comes, you, Obsidian, Wave, and Opal, you four will be run ragged defending where you can, and evading when you can’t.” She said, “Life is short, Erick. I never expected to be Mayor of Spur for more than 5 years, and even though I’ve survived for a lot longer than that, I still make the best of it when I get a chance.

“You’ll never know when you’ve seen your last sunrise.”

Erick smiled softly. “Thanks, Silverite.”

“Anytime.” She said, “Now if you’ll excuse me, I need to get back to work.”

“Me too.”
