Talia and Markus blinked at so many of the same season together. It was actually rare; the seasons liked to mingle. But it might have been a training exercise. They rode with the Summer’s Champion, talking to Rabbiteater, praising the battle, trying to offer sympathies.
It was hard to talk to him! However, the convivial atmosphere was good. Ser Markus realized someone had taken a bunch of hot rolls from the mess hall and was tossing them around.
“They’re made with something called ‘baking soda’! See how good they are? That’s with a baking Skill!”
“Quite good! Ser Solstice, why are you upset?”
Rabbiteater rubbed at his eyes. He tried to explain and the [Knights] listened, riding with him.
Even here, she came. In fluffy bread. He tasted it and it was good.
This was Erin. Not literally, but…he looked at the Season of Summer and thought she would fit right in. The smiling [Knights], Greysten exclaiming over the origin of baking soda…
They were heading down the lovely plateau and forest built around the ruined half-Elven kingdom that was the Order of Season’s special land on Pheislant. To the south lay the cliffs bordering the sea. Ahead?
A group of thirty or so [Knights], dressed in orange and red armor straightened. They were all bending to inspect something, baskets in hand.
“So is this an edible mushroom?”
“No, poisonous. How are you finding these? Please tell me you didn’t just nibble that.”
The Autumn Knight sighed, their more royal purple armor glinting despite the mushroom-foraging duty. All of them turned.
“Summer’s Champion, what are you doing here?”
“Riding! Are you out foraging mushrooms?”
The [Knights] nodded, indicating the few shrooms—mostly horribly poisonous—in the baskets. There were a number of Autumn Knights with them. All in armor. All with horses.
“Why not give up on that and join us for a ride? We can all pick mushrooms when we get back.”
With good humor, the [Knights] looked at each other and agreed. The first one, who had lips that were slowly turning worryingly blue, grinned at Rabbiteater.
“We’re not the right sort to forage, anyways.”
They had barely gone another ten minutes when a group of a dozen burst out of the forest.
“Hold on, that’s not a deer! Summer’s Champion! What’s with this group? Mind if we join you? We can’t find a deer, and hunting them with, er, lances, is hard work!”
The leader exclaimed. He clasped gauntlets with Rabbiteater. The Goblin nodded at him, wondering who was that stupid.
Talia’s eyes had narrowed when she saw the mushroom-gatherers. She stared at Greysten’s back, but the Summer’s Champion just laughed heartily.
“Join us!”
Ser Markus was exceptionally impressed. So many [Knights]? Hunting with lances?
“I had no idea so many of the Season of Summer were so festively-minded today!”
He confided to Dame Meisa and Ser Thaime. The two Spring Knights looked at him like he was a complete idiot.
 
—-
 
Rabbiteater had been too depressed to notice. However, after the fifth rabbit-hunting group happened to see their procession along the forest path and decided to join them spontaneously, even he caught wind of something.
He looked at Greysten. The Summer’s Champion looked innocent as the hundred and sixty plus Summer Knights rode in formation, talking, someone passing around a roasted bit of hare with edible mushrooms.
They emerged from the forest, heading out of the Order of Seasons’ lands. Faster now; they moved at a trot, but someone was using a movement Skill.
“I say, we’re going rather far, aren’t we, Summer’s Champion? Do you always ride this far?”
Ser Markus looked slightly amazed at the distance they’d come with only forty minutes of riding. Dame Meisa’s mouth worked.
“You must be pulling our legs, Ser Markus. Are you serious?”
Rabbiteater was riding at the head of the long train of [Knights]. He slowed his horse and the Summer’s Champion laughed as they began heading down towards Pheislant proper.
“Now, what have we here? Out for a stroll? Fancy that!”
He was really, really bad at lying. Mrsha-bad. The sixty [Knights] innocently put up their lances.
“Just practicing parade-riding, Summer’s Champion. Are you riding out? Why don’t we join you?”
Dame Voost winked at Rabbiteater. He frowned at the best bladeswoman in the Season of Summer. Then he turned to the Summer’s Champion.
“I’m beginning to think this isn’t about me.”
“What? No, why would you say that, Ser Solstice? I just…happened to meet all these fine [Knights] from my season. We are here for you. Incidentally, your advice from yesterday was really quite good.”
“Advice? What adv—”
The Goblin’s eyes narrowed. Then he swore and turned his head. Greysten happily offered him a roll.
“Have one of these. They have bits of meat baked into the crust. Very good. Let’s pick up the pace, shall we?”
They began to ride faster. Because they could, because it was a fine day. Also—because Knight-Commander Calirn might have noticed the practically-deserted Season of Summer, or seen the huge procession and be in the middle of losing his temper.
They headed down the narrow pass that you could hold an invading army at. The Summer’s Champion halted them for a second and looked up.
“We salute the winter! Will you join us on our ride or gainsay it? What say you, Winter’s Watcher?”
Apprehensively, the [Knights] looked up. For there, perched high overhead was the solitary figure. The head of the Season of Winter. If anyone was going to stop them—
The frost-covered figure looked down at the Summer’s Champion. Then—they raised their hand. The Summer’s Champion grinned. He saluted the distant figure.
“Onwards, friends! Winter has chosen not to slow us down! Forwards! Er—to comfort Ser Solstice, that is!”
 
—-
 
A hundred and twenty plus [Knights] were riding out of the Order of Seasons when they met a larger group. This time—it was three seasons.
Spring, Summer, and Fall, all camped outside of the Order of Season’s lands. On a training exercise, put together last night by the Summer’s Champion himself. They looked up, and mounted up, calling out to Ser Solstice.
“Wait a second. I’m beginning to think there’s something going on here.”
Ser Markus called out from just behind the head of the army of [Knights] coming down the road. The Summer’s Champion nearly fell out of his saddle laughing. So did most of the others, proving that knightly-valor didn’t mean you didn’t have to have a sense of humor.
Nor that being fast on the uptake was also a requirement. Ser Markus buried his face in his horse’s mane for nearly twenty minutes after he figured it out.
“You know, you were the excuse. I meant what I said. But it might have to wait till later. Or—if we ride together, I will not ask you to join us. This is my decision alone.”
Greysten looked at Rabbiteater. The Goblin [Knight] stared ahead. He looked down the long road and saw the shapes waiting for them ahead. Then he looked at the Summer’s Champion.
Of course he knew what they were about now. The Goblin considered this. Then—he shrugged.
“I don’t care. Sounds like a good distraction.”
The Summer’s Champion and other [Summer Knights] who heard blinked at Rabbiteater. Then they began to guffaw with laughter.
“A distraction? Well said! You’d ride to war with a smile and on a whim?”
Greysten guffawed. Rabbiteater smiled under his helmet.
“You are. The Summer’s Champion rides to war. So—I am the [Champion] of my people too. I should probably join you.”
He knew it was madness. But—it was Redfang madness. Why not? Why join a bunch of crazy [Knights] on a collision course with the greatest kingdom in this area, on a whim? Who would do that?
The same kind of idiot who’d go to battle for a [Florist]. Who’d fight for an [Innkeeper] with a white flag. For that matter—they seemed, in this moment, to be like the same crazy young woman who might defend a Goblin.
Madness. The Goblin rode in the company of his peers. It was a glorious thing. This was what it meant to be a Redfang.
This was what it was to be a [Knight].
The forces waiting on the main highway started forwards before the riding [Knights] had reached them. Hundreds of [Knights] slowed, and many raised their weapons, cheering.
The second force of the Order of Seasons, the one based in Pheislant’s capital, saluted the Summer’s Champion as he rode forwards with Rabbiteater.
“Summer’s Champion. We have mustered those willing to defy Ailendamus. With me stands [Castellan] Divorn.”
“Summer’s Champion, his Majesty does not condone war. However—I am pledged to his Highness Evein, and he commanded me to take charge of this force and support our gallant [Knights] in their action.”
The man saluted the Summer’s Champion, looking at Ser Solstice questioningly. The Summer’s Champion threw his arm around the Goblin.
“Well met, Castellan! Do I see House Kallinad’s banners? How many noble houses?”
“Sixteen!”
“Good. Then, I will introduce you to my highest-ranking [Knights] as we ride. With us from outside of our order is Ser Solstice of Izril. I trust you will treat him as a [Knight] second only to myself. Now—we ride! Before the Knight-Commander catches us!”
The army that began marching north was a strange one. A mighty one. The Ailendamus army halted when it got news that over eight hundred [Summer Knights] alone were heading towards them. And that was one season, albeit the largest one! They were joined by nearly six thousand of Pheislant’s [Soldiers].
Still, it was a nearly five-to-one difference. Ailendamus’ army began sending reports to the capital, which in turn demanded to know if Pheislant had declared war.
Their answer came from the Season of Summer’s champion. He did not speak for his Order! Though surely Ailendamus would not see it that way.
He did not ride with the [King]’s command—though his army had Pheislant’s standards! He just rode for the dignity of Terandria. The honor of [Knights]. The Summer’s Champion, Greysten, declared a crusade against the kingdom of Ailendamus for their unjust war against the Dawn Concordat.
Knight-Commander Calirn would have throttled Greysten if he could have caught him. It was too late. And in the midst of it all…
A Goblin rode to war for the hell of it.
