Ryoka could acknowledge she had gone a bit far in return, though. Showering him with a stink potion and then getting the wind to blow mud around him and onto his pristine armor and clothes? Bit much.
Tossing the Pepperspray Potion as well had probably been the step too far. She’d deserved that last hit.
“Um. I do need to uh, leave for a bit. I’ll come back to take those lessons! I just…need to visit the Mage’s Guild. So I’m going to do that. Sorry about the armor.”
The Lord of House Veltras stared at her. Ryoka began to back up. Several of House Veltras’ soldiers, who did not appreciate watching their liege-lord covered in mud—or the smell or stinging Pepperspray in the air—blocked Ryoka’s path.
However, Lord Tyrion eventually replied.
“If you need to send a [Message], Jericha is more than capable of obliging the request. A Mage’s Guild may relay your words.”
“Oh. I, uh—well, it’s private.”
Tyrion might have given her a polite response. Before the stink bomb. He just folded his arms.
“Jericha is discreet. A Mage’s Guild is more private in how it handles your [Messages]? A [Scribe] will take it down, a [Mage] may read it—copy it and sell it. Whereas Jericha can send a [Message] directly or ensure House Veltras correspondence is kept private.”
“…Okay. Good point.”
Ryoka reconsidered. Honestly, she was more impressed that Tyrion wasn’t ordering his people to kick her repeatedly before exiling her from his sight permanently.
She…had not considered the ramifications of stink-bombing one of the leaders of the Five Families. She’d been sort of angry. Sort of stressed. It had been a bad day.
Somehow, Ryoka felt a bit better. The Horns were…the raid had been…
She focused up and sobered as Jericha walked over with a bright, Ryoka-like smile that told Ryoka her sins were rapidly accumulating in Jericha’s eyes.
“I would be delighted to help you however I may, Miss Griffin. What do you need?”
Ryoka smiled uncertainly.
“Um—I was going to pay for a [Scrying] spell for the Horns—”
“Already tried. They cannot be found.”
Jericha saw the Runner hesitate. Ryoka bit her lip.
“Then—a [Message] to—”
“That was tried by their fellow adventurers repeatedly through the night. Also in failure. They may be in a place where the spell does not reach them, but it has already been thought of.”
You idiot. Jericha didn’t say that last bit, but Ryoka heard it all the same. However, the Courier surprised her with the third request.
“Okay. Fine. If they’ve tried all that for the Horns, could you send a [Message] to The Wandering Inn, in Liscor? Um—Mage Montressa du Valeross? I need to ask her something.”
 
—-
 
Tyrion was amazed at his temper. It had not been appropriate, but he’d been outraged by Ryoka’s disregard for the weapon she carried.
He felt, intrinsically, it was a fine warrior’s weapon. It had no ornamentation, it was functional; he admired that more than filigree or flashiness. To see her use it so poorly had annoyed him.
Her response had been—unique. He still smelled that foul odor, despite Jericha’s attempts to disperse it.
Tyrion did not let his servants clean his armor. He did it himself, and quickly washed his skin to remove more of that stink. When Jericha found him, he had re-donned his armor.
“Milord Veltras. I have delivered Miss Griffin’s requests, but she may need to visit a Mage’s Guild after all. I have taken the liberty of contacting the closest guild able to fulfill her requests. They will send a rider to meet her.”
Tyrion turned. That Jericha was unable to do everything surprised her.
“What did she need?”
“Among other things? She requested communication with a Mage Montressa du Valeross in The Wandering Inn in Liscor. She inquired after…statues of her friends, the Horns of Hammerad, hence a desire for more [Scrying] or specific searching spells I do not possess. It appears there may be a way to tell if they are living or dead. She said—”
“Jericha.”
The aide halted at the tone in Tyrion’s voice. He was looking at her. She hesitated, lowering her notes.
“Lord Veltras? I was only—”
“Jericha, I just informed Miss Griffin you would be more confidential and trustworthy than a Mage’s Guild. I would not gainsay that.”
The woman was crestfallen.
“Yes, Lord Veltras. But she—”
“Enough, Jericha. If it is information that may protect House Veltras or I need to know, tell me. Do not compromise the integrity of House Veltras.”
The woman stared at Tyrion’s back as he turned away. She looked over her shoulder at the opening where Ryoka was poised to fly off and grab what she needed; promising to return. The same woman who had just skunk-sprayed half the camp, gotten House Veltras to commit to a costly engagement, and…
Jericha too snapped. This was not a day of politeness and usual actions. She spoke.
“She requested Mage Montressa to check for the statues in the [Garden of Sanctuary], which exists in The Wandering Inn. There are statues on the hill which will reveal if the Horns are dead by their presence. Furthermore, she decided after that to contact other friends of an ‘Erin Solstice’, a young woman who is apparently neither living nor dead, to aid her.”
Lord Veltras turned back around, slowly. Jericha met his eyes. The Lord hesitated, then folded his arms and took a seat.
“Proceed.”
This was unlike Jericha, so Tyrion listened. Jericha went on.
“I do not know what spell tracked her during the battle, but it was almost certainly Tier 5 or higher, Lord Veltras.”
He’d almost forgotten that eye in the skies. Lord Veltras closed his eyes, frowning.
“Who is she? Does she hail from Drath?”
Jericha snapped her pocket notebook closed. She looked up at him.
“I don’t know, Lord Veltras. However, I can tell you something else interesting, if it isn’t improper?”
“…Proceed.”
Jericha’s eyes flashed.
“That Windsword she carries? It is either an artifact beyond my understanding. Or…it isn’t magic at all.”
Tyrion Veltras sat back. He looked at Jericha, and then thoughtfully turned to his own small collection of armaments he’d been polishing.
Of course, he’d realized that too. Idle curiosity sharpened in his mind. He had some questions for the savior of his children. Questions that had turned from mere gratitude to a feeling he had stumbled onto a mystery.
It was just as well that when they had dismantled the camp, for once, the Wind Runner didn’t fly off. She travelled with them.
 
—-
 
Someone had once explained that ‘drown your sorrows’ didn’t mean sticking your head underwater, but drinking.
Rabbiteater still didn’t get it. Drinking…didn’t stop you from remembering. If anything, it made it worse because now you were drunk and sad.
However, he supposed it was something to do. Maybe the goal was drinking until you passed out? But if that was the case, why not exercise until you did that? Or just hit yourself with a rock?
He might have still found it convivial and soothing—but for the company he kept.
“So, back to Ailendamus. What do you think the Order of Seasons should do?”
Greysten interrupted Rabbiteater’s train of thought. He mentioned the same nation on everyone’s lips. Irked now, Rabbiteater looked up.
Thirty minutes of listening to Greysten grouse about Calirn and the exigencies of war had soured the alcohol. Now, he was being asked for advice.
“I don’t know. Go to war?”
“But what about Calirn’s worries?”
“No clue. Are they good worries?”
The Summer’s Champion heaved a huge sigh.
“They are! But should they halt the Order of Season’s plight?”
“I don’t know. Why don’t you stop asking me. This is the twelfth time.”
The Summer’s Champion gave Rabbiteater a hurt look. The Goblin [Knight] didn’t care.
He was rarely in a bad mood. But this was not a nurturing day. Moreover, he was tired of the Summer’s Champion bothering him.
He wanted to be alone. If he couldn’t run, he was going to find a place where not even Greysten or people who wanted to talk could bother him.
The library. Books were soothing. Rabbiteater liked to sleep with them around. Moreover, the Knights of Autumn were a law unto their own. Someone as noisy as Greysten was exiled from their season’s halls.
He was trying to make his escape, but Greysten was insistent.
“I am coming to you for advice, Rab—Solstice! Surely you have some input. I could use it, if only to rebuke Calirn!”
The Goblin shook his head, exasperated.
“I am not a season-knight. Go ask one of them.”
He stood up and began to walk out of the booth. That was the trick. Just walk away from people, even bothersome ones. It was rude, but it would w—
“Oh, come now. I’m asking you for your input. Your…people’s input. Don’t go!”
Rabbiteater kept walking but he couldn’t pull out of Greysten’s friendly grip. Exasperated, Rabbiteater swung around.
“Okay. Fine. You want Goblin advice?”
The Summer’s Champion blinked up at him as Rabbiteater leaned in. The Goblin looked around, flipped up his visor, and glowered at the man.
“Stop worrying. Go do it or don’t! Goblins don’t waste time. If the enemy is over there, go over and hit them or ambush them or do something. Or run away! There! Goblin advice given. Goodbye.”
He stomped off. Everyone wanted him for ‘Goblin advice’. His people’s perspective. The Fall’s Sentinel was like that; even Ser Markus asked about Goblin techniques. Rabbiteater was starting to think they just saw him as a Goblin, not Rabbiteater. It was sort of rude. He didn’t see Greysten thoughtfully sit back in his booth. If he had seen how much the Summer’s Champion liked the advice—
Rabbiteater might have gotten a bit worried.
 
—-
 
In The Wandering Inn, friends of the Horns of Hammerad were processing their disappearance with all the mortal reactions imaginable.
Denial. Grief. Acceptance in order to function. Refusing to confront the issue fully.
They were dead? They weren’t dead?
Ryoka Griffin’s idea to check the Garden of Sanctuary led to a group of people searching the statues there, trying not to look at the frozen young woman.
Montressa saw Isceil…but no Horns. She cried anyways. From relief, this time.
Hope.
Yet they didn’t know where their friends were. Their fates might well be in jeopardy, hiding in a coffin eating zombies, like Mrsha now firmly believed and began telling everyone was the case.
That was what people did. When they were uncertain, they speculated.
So as it happened, while the people in the inn were processing the event, the Antinium of Liscor were going through a crisis of faith.
Or…the opposite of a crisis. A relaxment of faith? Pawn was uncertain. He didn’t know a lot of things.
However, he believed. His faith wavered, but from time to time he saw the living proof of his belief made manifest.
That—made it all worth it. That gave him faith in Heaven. That he was doing something right.
All the Antinium had seen it. The two holy guardians who had stepped out of the sky. Not raving Aberrations, not the nightmares of what they might sink to. Something else had come, summoned as they prayed.
Workers. Pawn thought he had known them. He thought he had called them.
“Their names were Knight and Bishop. They chose them, as I did, in moments. You have never met them, most of you. They had no markings we could paint on the walls. So: remember their names. They were the first of us. They will not be the last. Nor will they be forgotten. They are in a better place. The best place. Believe in that. What we do matters.”
He gave his sermon to the Antinium. Some knelt in armor, a warrior-caste of their own. Others were changing their beliefs from simple hope in something new, to a truer faith.
[Believer]. [Faithful]. [Faith Seeker]. [Crusader].
His two [Acolytes] roamed the aisles, passing out Garry-bread. Better than mana from the heavens because Antinium weren’t allergic to it.
Believe. Pawn clasped his hands. The Skill in him had shifted. Now he understood.
I am capable of the same wrath as before. I am also able to change.
The Pawn that had cursed Hectval and summoned Aberrations was the same Pawn who had prayed for a miracle and received one. All the Antinium had seen it, and their fear of him had turned back to hope.
He was grateful for that. He was still a [Doomspeaker Priest]—but perhaps that might change the next time his class changed. He had asked for wrath and received it.
I should pray for something to make people better, not a weapon.
Both were useful. Pawn felt the Hive changing around him. Tersk had begun attending these sermons, along with some of the other Hive’s Antinium. They had all witnessed the miracles.
Similarly—just this morning, he had received a [Message] among all the chaos and confusion and pain. Someone had wanted to reach out. To thank him. And ask…to learn of what Pawn was teaching when he returned.
Seborn.
What might that mean for the future? Pawn stood at his podium, thinking. A non-Antinium? He spoke to his congregation.
“The future is uncertain. However, I have spoken with you all. We pray for better things. We hope for it. That Erin will live again—”
Click.
The mandibles of the Antinium clicked together as one. Pawn caught himself.
“—Yes. That she lives. We must believe in that. But we must also realize not all good things come to pass. So, while we will now pray they live, that they are found, that they return to us in good health and better for it, I have accepted the requests of some of you.”
He raised one hand upwards, to the painted ceiling, painted by hundreds of Soldiers and Workers to look like the starry night sky.
“If they fall, if they die—let the Heaven of Antinium hold a place for the Horns of Hammerad. Whenever that day comes, now, or in a hundred years. For our friends, for good people. For little kittens and dogs and kind things—Heaven is not so petty they would not be with us. Let us pray.”
The Antinium bowed their heads once more. This had been the crisis among them, prompted by Erin.
Their world was changing. They slept under a dream of the skies. With the disappearance of Klbkch, who was cruel, had come better times. Pawn, Yellow Splatters. However, each Individual was now changing them.
Garry with his bread and first Antinium shop. Belgrade, who now protected them with traps, so that they did not die day by day. Bird, who was Bird—and also had a newspaper column.
Lastly? The latest Individual. The great Worker who had surpassed everyone’s expectations of him, even Pawn. He who had gone out and carved his own path forwards amidst grief, with soap, dust rags, water, and mops.
