He screamed at them. Then—he saw the tip of her sword run through the first [Guard]’s front. Ducaz backed up—then ran for the door.
The [Magistrate] fled out into the open street, out of his private manor, screaming in one of the minor cities of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Stitchfolk turned as the wailing man fled a Human woman with one arm made of silver and steel. Blood ran down her arms.
Her face was contorted in rage. A [Berserker’s Rage]. The local Watch, the militia, all came running at the [Magistrate]’s screams. They saw Yvlon emerge. She caught sight of them and never hesitated.
Yvlon came out, sword swinging.
 
—-
 
Ceria Springwalker limped towards the hill in the distance. The dogs were still following, but every now and then she would shoot flames or another spell at them, keeping them wide of her.
She was dehydrated and consuming stamina potions. She needed water. She needed…
“Hello?”
A village had been erected in the shadow of the hill. The people there were used to the crippling heat in the middle of the day.
So they were astonished to see the half-Elf in the distance. One of them pointed and they came out in a nervous cluster, expecting more of the [Bandits] that had been savaging this area. Or the talk of worse monsters.
All they found was a dizzy half-Elf who collapsed half way to them, vomiting stamina potion into the dirt. They looked at each other—then bore her towards their homes to tend to.
 
—-
 
The audience had begun to cheer. Ksmvr stood in the darkness.
Ah. He understood at last where he was. Even if he didn’t know this particular place from the babbling, terrified prisoners who were with him, he was familiar with the vague concept.
Arena. These were prisoners. Criminals. Even two rejected [Slaves] in two other pens, who’d been disobedient or killed their masters.
The audience didn’t care. They were cheering. Waiting for blood.
“We’re dead! We have to tell them—you’re valuable!”
The [Slaver] babbled. He was armed with a single crossbow from Ksmvr’s armory. The Antinium had given similar weapons to the others. Not his best gear.
He considered it necessary. Of course, that meant they were going first.
“We will see. Now—go.”
The doors swung open. The prisoners screamed. Their collars were burning with magic, forcing them out. They stumbled forwards, armed with rusted weapons—and three with Ksmvr’s weapons.
The Antinium stood there for a moment. Where was his team? He was going to find out. He waited in the darkness, looking out into the distant arena at whatever opponents had been sent to slaughter these prisoners.
“Ah. That complicates things.”
Ksmvr’s antennae twitched. He adjusted his Forceshield. Then he stepped into the light.
 
—-
 
Two of the Horns of Hammerad woke into fights for their lives. Another was lost, but found safety in the nick of time.
The last of them woke in chains. He was identified the moment he was found, within minutes of appearing. He opened his eyes to movement, an uncomfortable press of flesh and stink.
Bodies of other people. Pisces felt the metal, magical shackle on his neck and wrists. He realized where he was in the next second, carried in the wagon with the other [Slaves].
Captive, courtesy of the Slave-Merchants of Roshal.
 
—-
 
A day passed. The Horns woke, each alone. Each one separated.
But alive. Alive, whether their friends and allies knew it or not. The days continued. The raid on the Village of the Dead had moved things.
This was the era of great deeds and action. The example of one set others aflame. The King of Destruction rode forth and set another of Nerrhavia’s hordes to flight.
Lyonette du Marquin set another of Mivifa’s private wine bottles to the floor and missed.
Grief and glory each had their place. So, as the next day dawned, the Spring’s Warden strode through the Order of Seasons, angrily marching through the busy Season of Summer. All the knights were preoccupied, bustling about, but they stopped when they saw the head of the Season of Spring.
“Greysten!”
The Summer’s Champion jumped guiltily and whirled.
“Spring’s Warden?”
The woman marched up to him and glared at the younger leader of his season. Greysten was actually the youngest, despite being well into his forties.
“I heard you accosted Ser Solstice last night!”
“Rabb—yes, and?”
He looked very nervous, and the Fall Knight hurried off along with the other six [Summer Knights] to give them space. The Spring’s Warden was too angry to care.
“You dragged him out to drink and to complain about Calirn? Have you no sense of tact? He has just lost a loved one—not to mention the adventurers he was familiar with!”
A look of chagrin spread across Greysten’s face. He really hadn’t realized.
“I was only seeking his advice. And it was good—”
“Do not make excuses, Summer’s Champion! Summer is harsh, not oblivious! A fellow [Knight] suffers from loss and you bother him with our Order’s politics?”
She had come to take him to task for his poor judgment. Calirn might have, or another of his peers, but the Spring’s Warden was closest to the Summer’s Champion. He hung his head. He shuffled his feet like a guilty child. Then—as if something occurred to him, suddenly Greysten looked up and smiled.
“…You’re absolutely right, Spring’s Warden. I have been neglectful. I must make it up to R—Ser Solstice! I will make amends. Today—no—now! Give me but half an hour…”
The woman blinked, surprised but mollified by the Summer’s Champion’s rapid change of heart. Then again, he was always like that. Honest to a fault, direct…she nodded.
“Well then. See you do. Have a care with his feelings, Greysten.”
“Of course.”
He looked hurt at the suggestion he wouldn’t be. She just sighed. At least he was on Rabbiteater’s side. There were worse places to be. The Summer’s Champion tolerated no enemies within his line of sight. If he had thought Rabbiteater was a danger for being a Goblin, he might have tried to slay him then and there.
 
—-
 
The day after his forced stop by the Winter’s Watcher, Rabbiteater was still…down. Of course he was. His body still hurt from pushing it past its limits and mindful of Markus and the others’ worries, he had held off from forcing it further.
He was thinking of enjoying a hot bath in the Season of Summer, who had such things all the time. However, he groaned when he saw Greysten heading his way and turned around.
Too late.
“Ser Solstice! I have come to make amends for my poor behavior yesterday! Let’s go for a ride and we will talk.”
The Summer’s Champion called so loudly there was no chance of pretending you hadn’t heard him. Rabbiteater stopped, wincing, and looked around.
“A ride?”
“A ride. I have been remiss, my friend. Let us ride out, enjoy nature…and talk. The Spring’s Warden took me to task—and rightly so! I have not given your grief due respect, and for that I must sincerely apologize.”
The man bowed to waist-height. Rabbiteater blinked at him. It was so hard—because the Summer’s Champion was like a Redfang in many ways. Almost like Garen in some. It was hard to hate him.
“Oh—fine.”
Rabbiteater gave up on his bath. Maybe later? A ride might be fine. He failed to notice the triumphant gleam in Greysten’s eyes. Normally, he would have, but…
The two were heading to the stables; Greysten had apparently already called for their horses to be saddled, when an angry voice reached them.
“Summer’s Champion!”
Knight-Commander Calirn strode across the ground, glowering at Greysten.
“Knight-Commander. How may I help you?”
Greysten greeted the cold leader of the Order of Seasons. Rabbiteater nodded at him. Calirn nodded back, catching sight of the Goblin and his expression turning slightly sympathetic. But then he was frowning at Greysten again.
“What do you think you’re doing?”
“I have no idea what you’re talking about, Knight-Commander? Taking my friend here for a ride?”
“Do not play games, Summer’s Champion. I have given my order as the head of the Order of Seasons and you will not—”
With surprising tact, Greysten drew himself upright and interrupted Calirn.
“Knight-Commander. I am sure we can discuss my season’s actions…later? I have already been upbraided by the Spring’s Warden for troubling Ser Solstice with my political talk from yesterday. Pray, let me ride with him for an hour or two—then we can discuss the issue?”
“I—ah.”
Calirn glanced at Rabbiteater. He hesitated, visibly glared at the Summer’s Champion, and nodded with an effort. The Knight-Commander turned to Rabbiteater.
“That would be…appropriate. Ser Solstice, I hope you are feeling better? My condolences. I watched the valor of those adventurers. I cannot express my sorrow, but I hope you will visit whichever season can best aid you. We have all experience with loss.”
“Thanks.”
Rabbiteater mumbled. The Knight-Commander hesitated, but mindful of the sad Goblin-[Knight], nodded and glowered at Greysten.
“After you return, we will speak.”
His tone was warning. Greysten just purred a response.
“Of course, Knight-Commander.”
He turned to Rabbiteater as the Knight-Commander stalked off.
“Apologies, Ser Solstice. Shall we?”
 
—-
 
“I really must apologize, Rabbiteater. I too have lost a dear friend in Izril recently.”
“Really? Who?”
“Ser Raim. I believe I spoke to you? He was my friend, an older [Knight] in my season around my time…I know what it is like to lose someone precious. I know what it is like to lose family. I should not have troubled you with my petty reasons, yet here we are. I apologize for more than that.”
The two rode out of the Order of Seasons’ courtyard, through the first layer of gates, then the second. Rabbiteater turned his visor up to the sky without a word.
It was a beautiful day. Such beauty in the sky, nature…it felt at odds with Erin dying. He found it an injustice. It should have been a maelstrom like the world had never seen when she died. Every day since—and for the Horns too.
Sun did not befit death. He and the Summer’s Champion rode along, saddlebags plush with provisions. Rabbiteater didn’t mind; any Goblin who didn’t ride with snacks was a fool.
His warhorse was a gift from the Order of Seasons. Not nearly as wild as a Carn Wolf, and the motion was much smoother. However, Rabbiteater had learned to ride. From Talia.
He felt bad about that. He felt bad about a lot of things.
The ride would do him good. The Summer’s Champion spoke as they passed through the gates.
“Let us talk about those we have lost, Rabbiteater. Drink for their memories. It is all we can do. It is bitter—but we must move on. I am told your [Innkeeper] is not fully dead. Is that so?”
“Maybe. But…”
The Goblin hung his head. The hope had been revealed to him, but it seemed so far away. So nebulous. How could someone bring Erin back from being frozen?
It crushed him. The smiling young woman, who had given him everything after he had found her, lost and alone with his brothers. Who had given him the strength to beat the Bear-[General]!
“The world isn’t fair.”
He muttered. He had known that, but it bore saying again. The Summer’s Champion touched his arm.
“No. It is not, is it? Yet that is why we are here.”
They rode out of the keep. The Summer’s Champion raised his head. His orange hair seemed to burn under the sun. His voice rose, accordingly.
“The world is not fair! We [Knights] fight for ‘goodness’! We try to do what is right. And we fail.”
He clenched his hand.
“The greatest of us fall to treachery, fall before dark monsters! This is a truth of the world. The world is not fair—but—that is why we are here. Because, Rabbiteater. You are not alone.”
The Goblin’s head rose. He looked at the man. At last, Rabbiteater smiled. He moved his visor up to let Greysten see it.
“That sounds like something Erin would say.”
“Really? Then I shall say more such platitudes! The Summer’s Champion, departing!”
He raised a hand and the [Knights] on the wall saluted him. Him and the Goblin.
What a sight. Rabbiteater turned his head to memorize it. If nothing else…he had this.
More than this. As if Greysten’s words had heralded it, someone on guard-duty cried out, seeing the two riding out.
“Hoi there! Is that Ser Solstice?”
The two slowed their mounts. Ser Raist, another [Summer Knight] who’d been part of Talia’s group, leaned over the balcony.
“Ser Raist!”
The Summer’s Champion waved up at him, a smile blooming on his face. Ser Raist called down to Rabbiteater.
“I heard of your sadness, sir! Are you riding out, Summer’s Champion? I would be honored to join you.”
“If you can catch us—no, wait. Ser Solstice?”
The Summer’s Champion deferred to Rabbiteater. The Goblin looked up and shrugged.
“Why not?”
Greysten smiled, relieved. Raist smiled, and hurried for the stairs.
“Are you going riding? I shall too, if I may! The Season of Summer should not be alone. Not when one of us mourns.”
Another [Knight] called out. Dame Chise! She smiled down at Rabbiteater.
“The more the merrier. Assuming that’s alright? Come on, then!”
The Summer’s Champion shouted up at the walls. That was how Rabbiteater found the two [Summer Knights] hurrying after him. Then—he realized there were more than two.
“Ser Solstice! Could we trouble you?”
Ser Markus breathlessly rode up, with Meisa, some of the other Spring Knights, and, to Rabbiteater’s gratified surprise, Dame Talia. She nodded at him, looking uncertainly at Greysten.
The Summer’s Champion looked taken aback at Talia, but he slapped Ser Markus on the shoulder.
“Good man. You might belong to my season soon! The more the merrier! Come on now, let’s pick up the pace!”
Nearly ten [Knights] proceeded out of the Order of Seasons. Rabbiteater was talking to Ser Markus, realizing that his private talk with Greysten might be compromised.
Yet there was something good here too, in company. This—this was like riding with a band of Redfangs. He swallowed a lump in his throat. Most didn’t know who he was, but the Season of Summer considered him one of their own.
As the [Knights] came out of the Order of Seasons, they passed a group riding back towards the keep. Greysten halted the sixteen or so [Knights].
“Hey there! Out on a patrol?”
“A morning’s ride, Summer’s Champion. Is that Ser Solstice?”
One of the sixteen spotted the Goblin and nodded at him. Greysten gestured.
“We’re on a ride to cheer him up. Why don’t you join us?”
The other [Knights] called encouragement. Why not? The day was fair! And all sixteen were Summer Knights too. They fell in with the others in good cheer.
