It was better than the [Princess] who was even more hysterical than Lyonette. Which one was the one who kept getting into trouble for being found in the wrong beds? Mrsha was trying to guess which ones had sent representatives to find Lyonette and bring her home when Ser Dalimont turned.
He saw the little, white Gnoll peeking out at them from behind the barrel. His exasperated features…focused. He grabbed Lormel’s arm.
“Ser Lormel—politely shut up. Do you see that?”
Mrsha looked up. All four [Knights] stared down at her. The little white Gnoll. Whom, if you scrubbed back through the broadcasts, was often seen in the company, nay, the very arms of…
Uh oh. Wyvern poo. Mrsha backed up slowly.
“Young…lady. Excuse me a second.”
Ser Lormel stepped forwards. Mrsha waved at him. She smiled and he smiled.
“We were wond—”
Mrsha turned and bolted down the street. The [Knights] cried out.
“Wait! Stop!”
They ran after her, but Mrsha dove past a group of Drakes, leapt under a hamburger stall, and vanished into the city before they could follow her. Uh oh! Uh oh!
She was in big trouble now! Mrsha ran to tell Lyonette. As she did, she had a sinking suspicion the [Knights] had changed quarry from the carmine-haired [Princess] to a much simpler descriptor.
Where was the white Gnoll?
They were not the only ones asking. As Mrsha scampered after Selys, who’d paused to throw up again, a Gnoll dressed in travelling clothes sighed and adjusted his worn hat.
“Hm. There you are.”
 
—-
 
The day after the Horns vanished, life resumed. Informed by what had happened, but already other concerns were making themselves known, interfering with even grief. The luxury of having a day, a week, a month, or years to take events as you pleased…didn’t exist.
The Horns of Hammerad landed across Chandrar. They were found before they woke, all but one of them. Yet they did wake, within a day of their escape from the Village of the Dead at the longest.
Four adventurers appeared in blazes of light, falling, crying out before they lapsed into unconsciousness.
Three were found almost immediately upon appearing. One was not.
Two were recognized almost as quickly. Two more, not for their names and roles in the raid.
Two of the four woke in chains. One in another kind of captivity. The last—perilous freedom.
They were separated, alone, worn from battle and uncertain of the others’ fates. Tired, wounded.
 
—-
 
“—up. Wake up.”
Yvlon Byres inhaled something foul and strong and gagged. Her eyes opened wide. She jerked—and the world swam into focus.
The [Armsmistress] jerked moving forwards, and the hand retreated. The self-satisfied man looked alarmed as the woman tried to surge forwards, still thinking she was fighting, or falling.
She was arrested by the chains on her arms, legs. Purely for safety. She was nominally under arrest.
“Wh—what—where—”
Yvlon growled. Her throat was dry. She felt—she yanked at one arm and then the other. Then—looked down.
Her right arm was gone. A jagged stump of metal was all that remained. That—half-Elf monstrosity had torn it off.
The woman’s attention was on her arm for only a second. She noticed her other arm was bound in chains. Her captors had apparently had trouble with one arm since they couldn’t bind two together, but they had cobwebbed it up in links of steel. She herself was bound to a chair.
“There, you see? She wakes! Commend the [Alchemist]. You—ah, you are Yvlon Byres, yes?”
The person who’d woke her was also the leader of the room of mostly men. All but him wore armor. He looked like…Yvlon squinted at him blearily.
“Where am I? What—where’s my team?”
The Stitch-man smiled. It was not a pleasant smile. It was in fact, a rather greedy, rather presumptuous smile.
“The rest of your team? That is the question I ask you. Miss Yvlon Byres of the Horns of Hammerad. You appeared in a spell, in my city. Ah, but we forget our manners. I am Ducaz Satin, ruler of this region. You—you are a guest of the great, glorious empire of Nerrhavia’s Fallen! Fortune be to you that you came to us.”
Yvlon blinked, still unfocused, as the man’s guards all made a gesture. The self-satisfied man, this room…
“Why am I chained up? Where’s…”
Her sword was missing. And—Yvlon realized, so was her armor, and her bag of holding. It was all lying on a table in front of her, she saw. She had clothing; someone had taken off her gear.
“Ah. Yes. Regrettable, very. I am sure perhaps even the royal court of Nerrhavia’s Fallen—perhaps even her exalted majesty will want to see such a notable adventurer! Not least because you hopped across the world in a moment! Yet I would be remiss as manager of this city and region if I did not…inquire first.”
The Stitch-Man’s eyes focused on the table, the bedraggled adventurer. He studied the artifacts lying there.
“You came here with a powerful artifact. They already say the Helm of Fire has been found among the spoils of the fallen. I see…other possessions from this raid are here. No doubt your teammates have similar such items. Where are they?”
Yvlon focused on the objects on the table. Her weapons! And—she growled. She had snatched more than the one scroll from the Putrid One’s altar. Ducaz held one, a relic beyond knowing. He looked at her.
“I would be happy to locate your team, Miss Byres. But I will locate them first—then see to your comfort as guests of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Where are they?”
Yvlon Byres saw the light of avarice in his eyes. She growled.
“You imprisoned me for my artifacts?”
“You are hardly a slave, Miss Byres. Yet one does not simply toss an emerald that falls out of the sky into one’s lap to one side, do they?”
Ducaz chuckled. So did his bodyguards. Then the Stitch-Man grew serious.
“Tell me and this will be easier, Human.”
Yvlon swore, grimly. She had no idea where the Horns were. If this man hadn’t found them—where were they?
 
—-
 
The second Horn woke in darkness to voices.
“How much is it worth?”
“If it is still alive? Five thousand gold for rare species at any market. Minimum. That is for rare species. For an…Antinium? Ten times that, perhaps.”
Ksmvr heard the voices. He did not move. He woke, but kept still.
I am not bound? Or am I and not noticing? My weapons are gone.
I did not keep my promise. Where is Yvlon?
Where is Ceria? Pisces?
Where am I?
A mixture of emotions ran through him. He recalled leveling up. He heard the voices, speculating.
“Look at all the artifacts. This—”
“Don’t wave that! You’ll kill someone else! Is that bastard…?”
The smell of burnt flesh. Ksmvr put the pieces together. They were inspecting his artifacts. Someone had found the Flamecoat Dagger. Someone else had been immolated.
My gear. They were nearly right on top of him. He didn’t know how long he’d been asleep. Not long enough for them to finish their search.
“What else has it got? Is it dead?”
“Doesn’t matter. We’re all dead.”
“Not if it’s alive! It’s worth money! I told you—get the attention of those bastards. Tell them we’ve got—”
A hand was rummaging for his belt, feeling for any other object on Ksmvr’s body. The searcher was in darkness, as were the others. However, there was enough light to see by in this dark…whatever.
And they didn’t realize Ksmvr was looking at them. He had no eyelids to close or open.
The prone Antinium suddenly sat up. The figure bending over him screamed, jerking back and raising the Forceshield and shortsword he’d taken off Ksmvr’s body.
Too late. The [Skirmisher]’s mandibles closed on his face. The others froze as the jaws closed hard on the man’s head. Not hard enough to bite or crush—but the man held very still.
Ksmvr grabbed the shortsword and Forceshield. He studied the other frozen people.
“Ere am I? Ere is ith?”
He tried to speak with the man between his mandibles. The others, a motley group of ragged people, backed away in horror. Ksmvr released his mandibles—raised his weapons as the man staggered back, screaming in horror.
The glow of his artifacts lit up this place. Ksmvr looked around and realized.
He was in a cell. So were they. No…some kind of…holding area? The other prisoners saw Ksmvr aim the shortsword at the ones holding his crossbows, bow, dagger, and other weapons.
“Drop them.”
They hesitated—looked at the Antinium—and did. Ksmvr spoke.
“Push them over to me or I will kill you all horribly and eat your bowels and hang your remaining innards up for decoration.”
He was rather pleased his impromptu threat worked. The group of prisoners tossed the weapons down. Ksmvr grabbed them with his free arm, watching them. He was ready for one to attack—but they were all horrified.
“It’s alive! It’s an Antinium!”
One whispered. Ksmvr realized they knew what he was—but not who he was. Curious. He looked at the enchanted bars of the cell. There was a door—yet it was closed with no discernable unlocking mechanism.
“Where am I? What have you done with my teammates?”
The group huddled in darkness had no answer. They looked at each other. At last, one began to laugh.
“You don’t know? You—you just appeared! Here! Of all the ill-luck places! Give us the weapons, Ant-person. We’ll all need ‘em.”
“No. Answer my question. Where is my team?”
Ksmvr aimed a crossbow at him, but the ragged man—the one who’d been speculating about his market value—only grinned, a broken grin of despair.
“No clue. Maybe they’re in the other cells? We’re all dead, anyways. How’d you get here? Let us out—we tried your weapons on the doors, but they’re still too weak.”
“Where am I? Answer me.”
Ksmvr looked around. Beyond him, he saw a dusty…he strode to the bars, watching the others as they stared at him. A former [Slaver], or someone who’d worked for them. A shifty [Thief]—the one Ksmvr had bitten. What looked like a horrified former [Trader], clothes torn.
The eight people in the cell were all men. Not all Human; but they all had a connection. Ksmvr identified it.
Criminals. He was in some kind of jail. Logic dictated that, of course. He glanced out at the place beyond.
This wasn’t a formal prison, though. What was that sand on the ground? The rounded basin?
“Hey! We’ve got an Antinium-thing in here! Let us out! Do you hear? He just appeared! Don’t kill us!”
The [Slaver] began to bellow. Two more rushed to the bars, shouting to someone—Ksmvr tried to stop them, but they were desperate. Something…he looked out again. Then he realized.
He was staring out into an arena. There were people in the audience seats, high overhead. They had no idea he was here.
 
—-
 
Ceria Springwalker woke up when something bit her. She shouted, kicked—and got a leg full of needles.
The Needlehound bounded away. Ceria sat up, stared at the dozen needles in her leg, and screamed.
“Aaaaaaaaah—”
She reached for them, remembered not to yank them out, and looked around.
“Pisces! Ksmvr! Yvlon!”
No one was near her. The Needlehound barked at her; Ceria stared at the dog, then around.
Arid ground, a cluster of bushes over there—some kind of hill over there—she reached for the needles, shouted again.
“Gaah! Pisces! Where are you?”
She raised her hand, gritted her teeth—then yanked the needles free. Swearing, Ceria reached for her belt. Her healing potion splashed on the wound.
Then she heard more barking. More dogs, oddly spiked fur appeared out of the dry landscape. Ceria looked around.
Dogs. Hungry ones too. Feral and growling. Ceria had no idea where she was, but she recognized danger. She raised her hands in an instant.
“[Ice Wall]!”
Nothing happened. Ceria blinked. The dogs were circling her. They’d jumped back at her shout, but then just gotten angrier. The half-Elf tried again.
“…[Ice Wall]?”
A tiny ring of ice climbed up around her. Ceria gaped at it—then began to cough. She realized her skin was dry. She was parched.
She felt baked. Her skin was red; she must have been lying in the sun! The—Ceria looked up and saw a blue sky. She looked around again and finally realized.
This wasn’t Izril. Unless Izril was a desert. Ceria tried to get up, but she began hacking at the dust in her mouth.
The dogs drew closer, the pack growling. Ceria pointed at the biggest one. [Ice Spike]! She…failed to cast the spell.
There wasn’t any water! An [Ice Mage]’s big weakness. Ceria gulped. Oh no. The dogs were tensing. So the half-Elf coughed, took a swig from the healing potion for liquid, not healing, and used her second tactic.
The half-Elf’s instinctive, magical connection with nature. Ceria spoke to the dogs.
“Hey you little bastards! Get lost!”
She had the power to speak to beavers too. Like the Fortress Beavers, the dogs flinched. Ceria waved her hands. She danced about, shouting, making herself appear bigger.
“Grr! Bark! Bark! Get lost! I’m mad! Piss off!”
The dogs looked at each other—then backed up from the angry half-Elf. Good enough. Ceria looked around, swaying. She was nearly out of mana, exhausted, and she had no idea where her team was.
“Pisces?”
She tried to cast the private message spell between them. A glowing spark of light floated up—but nothing else happened.
He was too far away? Or…? Ceria looked around. The pack of dogs had retreated. But it was watching her. Waiting for her to die.
 
—-
 
Lost, alone, each one in peril. The Horns of Hammerad were alone. Weakened.
Yvlon Byres looked at the greedy [Magistrate]. At his guards. She didn’t know where her team was. And she was a captive in chains.
Her arm tensed against the steel holding her. The Stitchfolk laughed.
“We have held you, Miss Byres. Please don’t resist and cooperate. Or you will find the hospitality of Nerrhavia’s F—”
Crack. Ducaz’s little speech ended on a squeak. He saw the first link of enchanted steel—snap as Yvlon’s good arm strained against the chair. Then, it began to bulge.
Yvlon’s silver-steel muscles pulled at the chains. She was just a bit too weak to break them. Normally, that was. Even her enhanced arm couldn’t break the chains—someone with [Enhanced Strength] would fail!
What about Silversteel arms and a berserker’s rage? Yvlon’s face contorted. She didn’t see her arm bulge.
“Stop! Stop—my guards will be forced to injure—”
“Grah!”
The [Silversteel Armsmistress] tore her arm free of the chains. Ducaz fled backwards as the bodyguards flinched. Bits of broken metal showered across the room as Yvlon reached for her sword.
“Stop her!”
The [Magistrate] screamed. The Stitchfolk surgedd of [Golem Artificers] forwards. Too late.
“Pisces! Ceria! Ksmvr!”
The scream was laced with fury. Ducaz saw the [Guards] hesitate—then slash at her with their weapons.
“Stop, you fools! Don’t kill her!”
