The what? Ryoka blinked as Lord Marthos leaned forwards. She realized that while this gathering of the nobility was clearly informal, she had been allowed in by virtue of her rank as Courier. Also—that everyone had seen the futuristic sword. More? They’d given it a name.
“The Windsword of the Wind Runner of Reizmelt. Er…I may have had something to do with the name.”
Lord Deilan El coughed again, looking slightly embarrassed. Ryoka turned to him. He’d named the Faeblade? Why Windsword?
Well, everyone was as interested in it as her exploits from the battle. Ryoka thought Eldertuin the Fortress, who had fought non-stop, was more impressive. Then she realized; he might have been pivotal, but he’d held the lines in the Village of the Dead.
Her exploits from above had been more showy. Embarrassed, Ryoka tried to demur.
“It’s…a gift, Lord Marthos. I don’t know if I can show it around. It did all the fighting, really.”
“Is it a Kaalblade of some kind? It looked like you activated it. You know the House of El specializes in making artifacts? If we could inspect it…”
“I uh—”
“Is it that secret? Surely one look would be acceptable.”
Lady Reikset pressed. She was looking even more curious now it was plain Ryoka was reluctant to share it. Sammial, with dreadful timing, piped up.
“It’s a secret! She wouldn’t show me when I saw it! Ryoka said it’s a super-secret that she got after the party and—”
He hesitated. He recalled, too late, that Ryoka had told him never to speak of it and slowly shut his lips.
The other nobles peered at Ryoka, the light of curiosity in everyone’s eyes now. Ryoka checked to see if she could kick Sammial without anyone noticing under the table.
This is why people hated children.
 
—-
 
Ryoka got away with keeping the Faeblade secret. Or Windsword. She didn’t get away without showing the nobility, but to her relief, the alien-tech had more tricks than even she knew.
For one—it was bio-locked to her, or something. Lord Deilan, then Lord Marthos, then all the nobility tried to activate it after she showed them the glowing blade once. None of them could make it work, even doing the exact same thing she did.
Hah! Ryoka was just a bit smug about that. Crestfallen, Lord Marthos handed it back to Ryoka.
“A valuable artifact indeed, Miss Griffin. I can see its secrets are well-guarded.”
He looked so sad that Ryoka got the impression he’d been longing to chop down a few trees with it. So did Sammial.
“Make it work!”
He waved the handle at her. Ryoka shrugged, smirking slightly at Sammial.
“I’m sorry, Lord Sammial. It doesn’t work for anyone but me. Even if you command it to.”
“I hate it!”
He tossed the handle down on the ground. Instantly, Hethon punched his brother.
“Don’t do that! It’s an artifact, you idiot!”
“Don’t hit me!”
Sammy kicked Hethon in the groin. His older brother crossed his legs and toppled over in the way of young men everywhere.
“Hethon and Sammial Veltras. Behave yourselves. You are in front of guests!”
Lord Tyrion’s voice made both boys stiffen. They turned and bowed to Ryoka and the others, muttering apologies at once.
Ryoka saw Tyrion bend. He inspected the handle, noting the odd materials, then handed it to her, having removed the dirt with a handkerchief.
“My apologies, Miss Ryoka. It is a superlative blade. May I see it once more?”
“…Of course.”
At this point in time, Ryoka didn’t feel able to refuse Tyrion’s requests. Guilt or not—he had pulled an army out, and she felt she was in his debt now, past deeds or not. He inspected the blade, keeping his hands well away, as Hethon held Sammial back.
“Remarkable. It is like a Kaalblade. But the edge is so well-defined. Not like a magical charge at all.”
Lord Deilan muttered, coming to inspect it too. Lord Tyrion nodded. He glanced at Ryoka.
“Do you know what the cutting capability of the sword is, Miss Griffin? The strength of it? It appears light as a feather. A handicap, perhaps.”
“It’s sharp as can be. I uh—haven’t tested it on many hard things. I didn’t know it could cut the undead that well. The weight’s not a problem is it?”
“It could be. The handle is the only weight, and if the sword blade has no actual weight, then it becomes unbalanced when you lock blades. All the weight being in the handle means it could twist out of your grip more easily. If I had to use such a weapon, I would lock it to my gauntlets. See? The grooves, here…”
To Ryoka’s astonishment, Lord Tyrion indicated the grooves in the handle. Of course the man was a sword-loving expert. Moreover, he was right. He obviously didn’t know the Faeblade was futuristic plasma tech or hard light, but he had a point!
Come to think of it—that squad had battle armor. And none of them had bare hands. Maybe this is supposed to lock to your gauntlets!
Ryoka blinked at the handle. That would be so smart! She turned to Tyrion, deactivating the sword for safety.
“I—you could be right. I haven’t figured out all the uses myself.”
“Ah, so it is an artifact with undiscovered capabilities? And you got it from…?”
“It was a gift.”
Ryoka met Lord Deilan’s eyes, sweating slightly. Tyrion and Deilan had both been at the party. They looked at her, knowingly.
“Can the sword cut through stone as easily as flesh?”
Lord Tyrion was still on the cutting capabilities. Ryoka nodded.
“Everything—except for magic.”
“Except for magic?”
The two looked shocked! What kind of a weapon was that? Ryoka explained about Sammial’s dagger incident since that was out in the open. Nothing would do but for them to see it.
The [Lords] and [Ladies] watched as Ryoka swung the Faeblade towards the sizzling edge of a Kaalblade. She halted before she’d cut the artifact, but there was no need.
The Kaalblade sheared her Faeblade in half. The end that was cut splintered and dissipated; Lord Deilan looked at his weapon, shocked and crestfallen.
“I can’t fathom it! That magical artifact seems superior to a Kaalblade in any number of ways! Yet the enchant is as weak as…is it a flaw in the blade? Intentional?”
“Does it do that to armor?”
Tyrion looked just as startled. He offered Ryoka one of his gauntlets. She gave it a try.
One ginger blow and her blade shattered like glass. It didn’t even mark his enchanted armor. Now, all the nobility were looking at Ryoka’s sword as if it were made of crap, instead of wonders.
“I suppose it is a very…versatile weapon. For non-enchanted foes. Monsters, and the like. Very suitable for a Courier.”
Lady Reikset’s polite words made Ryoka want to tell her it was a technology sword and…she didn’t. Grateful for the dwindling attention.
Also, a bit hurt. It was a futuristic blade!
Tyrion was still interested. He watched as Ryoka cut through a rock, the ground, all without issue.
“A marvelous weapon. I am jealous. Weakness to magic or not, it is a superlative edge.”
He confided in her. Ryoka smiled.
“It is. Thank you. I’m glad it could help.”
The Lord of House Veltras nodded.
“Your intervention saved many of my soldiers’ lives. I saw you protect my sons. I am in your debt once again, Miss Ryoka.”
“No—I’m—”
Tyrion ignored her. He studied Ryoka’s face, then the deactivated handle, and seemed to speak the next words with some difficulty.
“…Perhaps as part of that debt, I could arrange for you to learn from a sword expert. I myself have some knowledge there. You—do not appear to have swung a blade before. I would not wish for you to injure yourself by mistake.”
The Courier blinked at Tyrion, then slowly turned red as she realized that was his way of saying she swung the Faeblade like a club.
“I do need practice, Tyrion. I’m sure I can pick something up, though. I don’t intend to be a [Swordswoman].”
“Nevertheless. It would be an injustice to the weapon you carry.”
He pressed. Ryoka held up her hands, a bit defensively. She didn’t have time for that! She had to find the Horns, revive Erin, kill half a dozen damn Gods…
“It does well enough, like you said. It’s an artifact that doesn’t really need practice, Lord Tyrion. I mean, I’m not going to fight all the time. I can’t even cut myself.”
He hesitated. The man chose his next words with care, rubbing at his chin.
“…That…is clearly for the best. As I believe you would have severed a limb already. Improper technique for such a beautiful weapon is an affront, Miss Ryoka. If I may be blunt—I would insist.”
It seemed one of the few things that could really annoy Lord Veltras was watching someone swing magical artifacts around ineptly. However, in this, he had miscalculated. Ryoka folded her arms. A hint of obstinacy at being told she had to learn emerging.
“Well, learning to use a sword doesn’t seem to help that much. I’m a bit busy. I don’t intend to be a [Warrior], Lord Veltras.”
“So you intend to mock the creators of the weapon every time you swing it?”
Ryoka’s mouth opened as Tyrion frowned at her.
“It’s a gift! The owners don’t care how I use it! I killed those Wyverns!”
“Yes…as you said. Luck. Miss Ryoka, watching you swing that sword hurts my eyes, if I may be blunt. I must insist. You don’t even stand correctly. If I may be further blunt—you don’t even breathe correctly while wielding it.”
“What?”
 
—-
 
Hethon Veltras was perplexed. One might even say he was perturbed, or flummoxed, or…
Amused. That was because he had never seen this.
His stern father, whom he wasn’t always sure about, who wasn’t always there, had spent a lot of time with Hethon and Sammial. Which wasn’t always fun, actually.
However, since the Wind Runner had come, he’d noticed his father acting differently. Or perhaps it was just seeing sides of him that the boy never saw from his father in their family settings.
He had seen Tyrion in battle. He had seen his stern father entertaining the funny, awkward, interesting Wind Runner.
However, this was the day when he saw his father…well, having fun. Or perhaps that was too strong a word.
He had seen Tyrion smiling when he raced after Ryoka, the first day she’d flown. That had been wondrous for Hethon too. This wasn’t as pure as that amazing sight had been.
It was funny, though.
“Hah!”
Ryoka Griffin shouted as she slashed with her sword. She was poised, trying to integrate her training from self-defense and martial arts classes into holding the sword. She moved quickly, arms and legs working in tandem as she slashed fast at Tyrion’s side, not going for a huge strike, feinting—
She was athletic, coordinated, and she had seen actual fighting and had the wind on her side. Ryoka slashed.
Tyrion brought the tip of his sword down on her head.
Thump. Hethon winced as he heard the blow. Ryoka staggered.
“Motherf—”
She clutched at her head. Tyrion calmly set himself.
“My point?”
Ryoka’s response was to point. The wind buffeted Tyrion and he nearly staggered. She charged, stabbing—
Thwak! Hethon and Sammial winced as he hit her on the exact same spot.
Lord Tyrion didn’t even try to dodge or parry Ryoka. He didn’t need to. He saw her coming at him and hit her before she could hit him. This time Ryoka dropped her sword and clutched at her forehead, cursing at him.
“You do not know how to wield a sword. I respect your weapon, but I cannot let you claim the same. There is a difference between self-taught and ignorance.”
Lord Tyrion informed Ryoka. Hethon tried to hide a grin as Ryoka picked up her blade.
He had been very polite to her, like a guest. However, it seemed the Wind Runner had finally gotten to a point where even Lord Tyrion’s famed politeness ran its course. And that was the art of blades.
“Allow me to give you a basic lesson.”
Ryoka breathed in and out. A dangerous look was in her eyes, one that Hethon and Sammial didn’t miss. They began nudging each other, grinning. Tyrion hadn’t seen it—mainly because people did not often shout at him. On the other hand, even Lord Deilan, Eldertuin, and the other watchers could see Ryoka Griffin’s off look in her happy smile.
“I would love that, Lord Veltras. Thank you for educating me. I apologize so much for being presumptuous.”
The [Lord] shrugged slightly, lowering the practice sword.
“Your apology is not nec—”
“[Flashbang]!”
Ryoka hurled the explosion in his face. Hethon cried out as he went deaf and blind. He was far enough away that the flash wasn’t as bad. He saw the dim shape of Ryoka charging in. She’d jumped into a flying kick!
Tyrion Veltras recoiled from the explosion. He lifted his sword—
And whacked Ryoka in the midsection, mid-kick. Straight into the ground. She might be fast, and use tricks. But he was one of the greatest [Lords] in the world in combat.
Ryoka Griffin rolled about, clutching at her stomach. Tyrion stood over her, frowning.
“You—”
She threw the sword at him. He dodged—too late. The sword bounced off his arm. Ryoka went for a leg-sweep, hopping mad. Tyrion brought the hilt down on her head in the same place as the last two blows.
Bonk. Hethon winced as Ryoka went cross-eyed. He knew his father. He was probably not pulling his blows. Ryoka lay back down on the ground. Tyrion opened his mouth.
A gale of wind blew him across the ground. Hethon saw Ryoka get up. His father caught himself, and his boots locked him to the ground. He strode forwards, scowling.
“Enough. This is childish—”
“Catch.”
Ryoka tossed something at him. Tyrion saw the jar flying at him, pivoted, and whirled.
He slashed the jar in half, avoiding the contents, and walked past, striding towards her. The liquid flashed into the air—
And the wind blew it across his back. It still didn’t reach him. Not quite; the liquid splashed against a barrier in the air. Proof against the kind of acid-jar attacks that could easily humble even the greatest adventurers who were careless.
However…the liquid didn’t need to touch him to work. Hethon gagged as the worst stink in the world filled his nose. It splashed around Tyrion and he recoiled, putting a hand to his nose. He looked at Ryoka. She smirked at him. Then—
He brought the sword down on her forehead.
 
—-
 
She was taking sword-lessons. The truth was she probably could use them. However, it was the delivery that had ticked her off.
Well—well—mistakes had been made. Ryoka’s head still hurt, despite the healing potion. Yet she was willing to let bygones be bygones.
She…didn’t quite look at Tyrion Veltras as he stared at her from where Jericha was trying to de-stink his armor. He could be damned stubborn and he’d hit her five times in the same spot!
