Malika just nodded, still struggling to process the torrent of feelings surging within her. One way to clean up the scene of the crime – the not-crime… Strangely, it was the sight of the bodies turning into mana and slowly dissipating into the cool night air that finally calmed her heart. She had hated these two for as long as she could remember. So many times she had wished for someone to come save her, for an unnatural disaster to befall them, or for someone to simply kill them for all the pain and destruction they had caused. But in the end, she had done it herself, with the help of a friend she never imagined she could have.

Now, watching the motes of golden mana drifting away, she finally felt free.

***

Name: MalikaRace: HumanTitles: Street RatActive Buffs: Perfect Body, Soul Armor, Enlightened EvasionClass: Soul Monk – level 16- Martial Artist – level 9- Soul Strike – level 12- Healing Mantra – level 9- Perfect Body – level 9- Soul Armor – level 10- Enlightened Evasion – level 9- Divine Step – level 6- [Locked]- [Locked]- [Locked]General Skills- Meditation – level 6- Dancing – level 4- Calligraphy – level 3- Lockpicking – level 5- Appraise – level 8Aptitudes- Languages: Common- Bloodline (Ahn Khen): Dormant- Mana (Affinity): Soul- Relentless (Class): +100% to Stamina Regeneration- Relentless (Class): You can pay for any abilities with stamina instead of manaAttributes- Vitality: 35- Strength: 10- Endurance: 73 (+25)- Dexterity: 95 (+33)- Perception: 15- Intelligence: 17- Wisdom: 65 (+22)Equipment- Ring: Bronze Guild Ring – level 10Armor: 70Physical Damage Reduction: 13.51%Evasion: 63Dodge: 12.32%Health: 350/350Stamina: 657/730 (73 Reserved)Mana: 455/650 (195 Reserved)

Ali stepped out of her tent, relishing the sight of her forest and savoring the crisp springiness of the Verdant Moss squishing down beneath her feet. The mana of her domain had a calm, gentle pulsing flow, no longer being drawn into the shrine now that it was fully recharged.

She turned to look out across the broad expanse of the trees she had planted along the southern half of the cavern and paused in surprise, wrinkling her nose at the whiff of an unpleasant odor. Before she had gone to bed, she had left her Kobolds with instructions to scour the battlefield during the night for anything useful. She stared, flabbergasted, at the gigantic pile of Goblin bodies, armor, weapons, arrows, and whatever else the Kobolds had gotten their claws on.

Perhaps I should have been more specific, she thought, wondering how the Kobolds had managed to drag something as large as a Bugbear or a Hobgoblin in full gear all the way underground to this pile. Much of the equipment looked damaged or broken – or just plain terrible – and it was clear that what she thought of as ‘useful’ did not quite match her Kobolds’ criteria.

With a simple mental command, she halted her Kobolds’ collection efforts, returning them to the shrine, while she examined the pile, racking her brain as to what to do.

Bodies first.

Ali began deconstructing the corpses. They weren’t useful for anything other than filling out the remainder of her Goblinoid imprint, and they would begin to stink if she just left them. Stink more, she thought, correcting herself and wrinkling her nose. Goblins already reeked. She couldn’t imagine the smell if she let them rot. Besides, she would need Malika’s input to sort the rest of the gear anyway.

It took ages to work her way through the pile, and every now and then, her Grimoire flipped through its own pages to insert small updates to the glowing runes adorning the conjured parchment. Before she was done, she had to enlist the aid of her Kobolds to move the loose armor and weapons so she could reach the bodies at the bottom of the pile, but eventually, she completed the chore and put her Grimoire away.

She had no idea what was valuable or worthless in the pile of items that remained, and Malika wasn’t awake yet. So, she instructed her Kobolds to sort the pile, of what was probably mostly junk, into categories, which she took care to specify properly. While they toiled over the mound of gear, she sat in front of her tent on the mossy ground to study her runes until her friend woke.

While she had not gained any formal skill or notifications for her efforts practicing meditation, she still took a couple of deep breaths, assuming the same cross-legged pose Malika favored. She calmed her mind for a moment, settling in, and followed the advice Malika had given her. She had no idea if she was doing it right, but the breathing exercises did seem to improve her focus a little. Then she opened her Grimoire and began to study its intricate inscriptions.

Sometime later, Malika stirred, emerging from her tent. “Wow, that’s a lot of stuff.”

Ali looked up from her Grimoire to find Malika standing beside her staring at the now roughly sorted piles of armor, swords, daggers, bows, and various other items.

“I thought I’d wait for you to see if there’s anything valuable in here.”

“It’ll take a while,” Malika answered, raising her eyebrow. “Why don’t we do a little, and then head up to the guild and turn in our Goblin extermination quests?”

“Oh yes, that’s a good idea.” Ali had forgotten they had taken a kill quest prior to the Goblin horde showing up, and now they would be able to turn it in for money. With a good night’s sleep between her and the battle, Ali was able to even feel excited at the prospect.

***

The guild hall had returned to a semblance of normalcy by the time they arrived, albeit somewhat quiet because it was still early. Mieriel looked up from her desk as they walked in.

“Oh, hi again Aliandra, Malika, good to see you.”

The Elven guild administrator wore a brand-new, elegant outfit this morning. Is she going to singlehandedly keep Lydia in business?

“Can we turn in the Goblin quest?” Ali asked as she stepped up on the small barriers she created to raise herself to the level of the desk.

“Of course! I can take care of that right away.”

“How does it work? I don’t think I killed all these Goblins on my own.”

Bronze Guild Ring – level 10A ring signifying bronze-level membership with the Adventurers Guild.Owner: Aliandra AmarielQuests: Eliminate hostile Kobolds in and around Myrin’s Keep – 0 Eliminate hostile Goblins in and around Myrin’s Keep – 137 Mana: Store or retrieve an item. Capacity: 7.5 / 25kgCreated by Giddy Clicksprocket.Ring

Her ring listed the crazy total of one hundred and thirty-seven Goblins killed. While the battle had spanned a large portion of the day, and she had fought without pause, she knew many of the Goblins had been killed by the group, often with supporting arrows and spells from the defenders on the battlements. Or sometimes, Serendipity’s waterspouts. The battlefield had been utter chaos.

“Congratulations!” Mieriel exclaimed. “And thank you for helping to defend the town.”

She pulled out the magical panel again.

“The ring records the type and level of the monster, and how much experience you earned for shared kills. We run it through this panel which has been enchanted with an advanced Analyze spell. It will calculate your contribution and how much to award you for your share in completing the quest,” Mieriel explained.

It all seemed pretty sophisticated, but Ali was excited to study advanced magic in action. As soon as Mieriel placed the panel in front of her, she pressed her ring to it. Her normal senses registered almost nothing, but with her mana sight, she saw a delicate and complex magical formation pop up briefly, twisting and rotating in curious and inexplicable directions before it faded. After a moment, it dinged and displayed a result.

3 gold 27 silver.

“Nice work!” Mieriel complimented her, while she deftly counted out three gold coins, one large, one medium, and two small silver pieces, and placed them in front of Ali. “The guild cut has already been processed and will go towards the price of your ring.”

“Thank you,” Ali said, collecting her coins and storing them before stepping down to let Malika have her turn. Her ring, she noticed, still recorded the quest, but the kill count had been reset back to zero.

“Is this a lot of money?” Ali whispered to Malika after they were both done.

“It’s pretty good for our level, I think. More than I ever got my hands on,” Malika answered. Then, she made a curious face and asked, “I guess you don’t know how much money is really worth?”

Ali nodded. It had been over three thousand years. While they still used gold and silver coins for currency, the coins themselves were unfamiliar and the prices of things didn’t make much sense. Initially, she had assumed there had been a simple inflation, but she had quickly been proved wrong. The cost of magical items seemed unreasonable, while the price of mundane labor was far cheaper than she recalled.

“Five coppers will get you a simple meal. One silver will buy you a room at an inn, or a set of basic clothes. Five silver bought us one of those daggers. It’s a hundred copper to one silver, and so on. Things get a lot more expensive if they’re magical or designed for wealthy people.” Malika explained. “Like our fancy clothes.”

“How much are books?”

“Books are quite expensive, the cheapest around twenty-five silver. Anything with magic is a gold or more. A lot higher for advanced stuff.”

Ali frowned. Malika had mentioned that books were expensive, but if that was true, her funds wouldn’t go very far, even if she included all the money she had earned making arrows for the garrison supply quest.

“Why so expensive?” She was sure that books in Dal’mohra hadn’t been nearly that pricy, in relative terms, but she had also not needed to buy many books with the enormous library available for free whenever she wanted to read anything. And if the Grand Library Arcana didn’t have a book for something, likely it didn’t exist.

“Books, especially magical books, are status symbols for the wealthy. Besides being rare, having access to good magical books can enhance someone’s power substantially because they help guide skill growth and unlock advancements. That’s why they’re hoarded. I didn’t mind as much when I was forced to steal books from some of the wealthy people.”

The last admission seemed to make Malika uncomfortable, and she shifted in place awkwardly, but then she brightened. “Hey, there’s a good bookstore just nearby, why don’t we go check it out together?”

“Oh! Can we?”
