Dead gods. She saw another group of Brothers throwing themselves out of an alleyway. They swung their clubs at a group of [Guards].
One, two, three, four—fast as the hammering of her heart. The [Guards] were swinging back, taking the blows on their armor, but the Brothers kept hitting, ignoring blows that cracked over their skin.
—Ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen—a man was battering down a Drake’s guard. Hitting the helmet so hard it was deforming, battering down the falling [Guard]—
Zevara swung her sword, and he blocked; the blow took a huge chunk out of his club. He replied with a [Double Tap] that missed one strike and made her helmet shake. She kneed him in the groin hard. His eyes bulged, and she went to swing at one of his buddies—
His fist caught her under the chest and lifted her off her feet. Her ribs compressed, and she stumbled backwards. He was still coming at her? She’d hit him in the balls so hard—
[Impact Blow]!
She kicked him in the chest and sent him stumbling into another patrol. Then Zevara swung her sword around and executed another [Non-Lethal Strike] to his neck.
Down he went. Zevara saw a [Guardsman] struggling with a Brother punching so hard her leather shield was denting in. Zevara grabbed the shoulder and headbutted the man. He reeled—then his head came back.
She headbutted him again, and her head rang. But she had a helmet on! She drew her head back again, and the third time they collided, his eyes went up in his head. The [Guardswoman] could hit him in the legs and bring him down. Zevara grabbed the panting [Guard]—Jerci.
“Fall back! Squads, get in formation and fall back!”
This was going straight to Rhir. When she turned her head, she didn’t see any squads—just Gnolls, Drakes, and Humans fighting in the street. Only their armor and badges separated the Watch from the Brothers—and the Brothers were winning.
Zevara didn’t realize she’d grabbed her whistle until she heard it blasting out of her mouth. She was blowing a full alarm and heard more [Guards] doing the same. She shoved Jerci.
“Go! Grab anyone who can’t move and fall back to the main street!”
“But—”
A roaring man threw a Senior Guard at them and advanced on the two—Zevara spun and exhaled flames, aiming at his legs as Jerci dragged the Senior Guard to safety. He jumped the flames; she waited for him to land and stabbed through one foot. Then the other as he swung at her.
She stumbled forwards as someone punched her in the back of the head. Lights flashed, and Zevara whirled. She cast around and didn’t see the rest of the squads.
Ancestors. All she saw were either downed bodies or—Brothers. They were chasing the retreating Watch or coming her way.
She spat the whistle from her mouth and drew a truncheon with her other hand. Zevara flipped the heavy weapon up, then tossed it into the face of the first man sneaking up behind her. She opened her mouth, and flames sprayed the rest of them.
They leapt clear of that. Hatless men with too-bright eyes staring at her, blood on their fists, clubs and knives in hand. Street gangs. Not fine, funny men with hats.
Pure street. The kind who left blood on the Steer’s floors if you crossed them—they’d taken off their hats. Damn, damn—
She spat sparks and smoke this time, feinting with her sword, then whirled and slashed across a man’s cheeks. She drew a bloody line across his nose and cheek, but he grabbed her. She was on the ground, claws digging into his arm as he hammered a fist against her head. Then he was reaching for—
His head met her knee as she got a grip on him, and then she introduced his face to the ground. She kicked away from him and got up. Sword? Zevara saw a familiar head of orange hair coming her way. The tophat man charged, head-down.
Ancestors, he was so fas—
