Part of being an Oldblood came with drawbacks if your lungs weren’t perfect. She was wheezing for air and took a Bottle of Air out at an intersection and gulped down fresh oxygen.
“Where…is…?”
The footsteps had ended in the middle of the street. She stared ahead, then at a fence.
“Ancestors damn it.”
She climbed the stone fence and raced across a well-kept mansion front. The footsteps vaulted the fence on the other side—she leapt them and saw no footprints in the street.
“Ancestors—”
It took her a second to figure it out. On top of the stone wall! The [Thief] realized she was tracking them somehow. Zevara had to balance as she walked the stone wall, then she saw more footprints. Up a roof, across two low apartments there, and—
“Oho.”
The [Thief] froze as they were lowering themselves from the edge of the roof. Zevara pointed at them. They let go, and she heard a crash as she leapt from the fence and circled.
They burst out of the alleyway, covered in muck, and she gave chase again. Down the street! She slammed into someone carrying a load of groceries. Zevara picked herself up, sprinted down the street, ducking a City Runner galloping into the city with a long, wrapped package that swung at head-height.
They were going for the gates.
“No, you—”
Forty-six minutes since her footrace had begun, Watch Captain Zevara spat a fireblast at the [Thief], who dodged sideways. The [Guards] at the gate shouted, but the flames dissipated in the air well before it could hit anyone, and Zevara used the juking of the [Thief] to close the distance.
Her tackle caught the [Thief], slammed them face-first into the wall, and Zevara hit the ground. She rolled up, ready to make it a fight, but the man just wheezed once and raised his hands.
“I surrender!”
“You…are…under arrest…in…the name…”
He began coughing as Zevara exhaled enough smoke for three fireplaces over him. She had to sit down as the world greyed out. He promptly tried to wiggle away, and she grabbed his foot.
“[Summon Manacles].”
He nearly took his own foot off as the metal cuff anchored him to the iron grille of a gate. He went down, swearing, clutching at his ankle, and Zevara grinned.
“And now…hand it over. And you’re going to tell me exactly who you are and why…you’re stealing bicycle parts!”
She snatched his bag of holding, reached inside, and yanked out the first metallic object she found. There! The gears and bicycle chain clanked as she tossed it to the ground.
“Don’t kill me!”
The man was shielding himself as she drew her sword; Zevara shook her head at him.
“Run and I’ll paralyze you—with a Skill, you idiot. Do you think we just kill people in Drake cities? You’re under arrest for theft, evading the law, and—well, that’s it.”
She realized it wasn’t going to be a long prison sentence. Just a hefty fine, probably. Regular [Thieves] spent time in prison, but not more than a week or two—Liscor would exile you before it imprisoned you for a long stint like Calruz. [Prisoners] cost money, and who had time for that?
She hobbled over, feeling blisters forming under her scales. Dead gods, she hurt all over.
“Did you have to run half of Liscor and Celum, you idiot?”
“Did you have to chase me all that way? Aren’t you the Watch Captain? You have better things to do than this sort of thing! It’s a part of a damn bike, not murder!”
To her amazement, the [Thief] was actually talking back to her. Zevara wheezed.
“An expensive bicycle.”
“It’s light espionage! Who puts a Senior Guardsman and the Watch Captain on people for that?”
She could only shake her head at the outrage from the panting man. Now she got a look at him, he was in his early thirties, blond-haired, with decently expensive clothing on.
Leather armor under his clothing. Huh. Is he more than a [Thief]? I can’t believe he outran me that long. He’s fit.
“What kind of [Thief] fears being shanked? Who’re you working for?”
“Who said I was working for anyone?”
“You did just now. Let me see…what have we here?”
She was going through his money pouch, finding more gold than she should for a random [Thief]…and a ring. Zevara frowned and peered at the obsidian signet with an odd symbol in the center.
“Hello, what’s this?”
He’d gone very still when she pulled the ring out. It had a complicated little carving in it. It seemed like a hammer and tongs crossed with a…wand?
What an odd sigil. It made her think she’d seen part of it before, but Zevara didn’t get a chance to observe more. There was a thunking, rhythmic sound, and she glanced up and readied her sword only for three giant Golems to come thundering down the street.
“Lawbreakers, you are under arrest. Do not move!”
Uh. Zevara’s mouth was open as a giant ceramic Golem in the shape of a massive Human in armor stared down at her with bright blue eyes. She lifted her sword.
“I’m Watch Captain Zevara in pursuit of—”
Oh, wait. She was in Celum. Zevara’s heart thundered as two Golems behind the first drew swords. Big swords.
“Lawbreakers, lower your weapons immediately!”
She tossed her weapon down after a moment’s hesitation. The [Thief] brightened up.
“Hah! They think you’re—”
“[Detect Lies]. Are you a lawbreaker?”
The lead Golem pointed at Zevara. She shouted back.
“No, I’m the Watch Captain of Liscor in pursuit of a criminal!”
The Golem paused, and she saw the blue light flickering. It seemed to take a second to digest her statement, then replied in that sonorous tone:
“Truth confirmed. Non-lawbreaker detected. Go about your business, citizen. You. Are you a lawbreaker?”
The [Thief] groaned.
“House Terland. Look, technically, in this city I haven’t broken any laws.”
That didn’t work on the Golem. Its eyes flickered.
“Evasion detected. Apprehending!”
A huge hand seized the man and pulled him from the ground. Zevara had to release her Skill as the Golem hoisted the [Thief] over one shoulder. If she hadn’t, his foot would have been ripped off his body. A Golem’s mistake. The [Thief] dangled there, swearing.
“Wonderful. First Drakes, now Golems!”
Why did he know Golems so well? Zevara was stunned by this alternative form of the Watch—until she heard more Golems tromping this way, and a voice she knew spoke.
“I thought I recognized a familiar face. Watch Captain Zevara, you have a splendid thousand foot dash in you. I’m quite taken.”
Lord Xitegen Terland and his bodyguard of Golems gazed down at Zevara as she straightened up. The new ruler of Celum was quite amused as he eyed Zevara up and down. She swayed on her feet, but gave him a brief salute.
“Lord Xitegen, I apologize for the inconvenience. I was pursuing—”
“Yes, yes. I have ears. This is the first time someone’s run into Celum avoiding a crime. I’d thought that Gnoll at the door would stop it. What did he steal?”
She knew Xitegen, and he was a brave man who’d gone up against the Goblin King, but he was still a foreign [Lord], so Zevara warily indicated the stolen piece of the bicycle. Xitegen raised his brows and nudged it with a foot.
“Ah, this is that machinery stuff my [Golem Artificers] like. My, my. And you would be…”
The [Thief] had frozen up at the sight of Lord Xitegen, but now, he hissed.
“Lord Terland. I’m, ah—ah—my ring. It’s on the ground.”
The [Lord] frowned at him, then inspected the ring that Zevara had dropped when the Golems arrived. He bent down, snatched up the obsidian signet, and grunted.
“Well now. Of course you are. And you troubled the Watch Captain of Liscor herself to chase you down, you idiot?”
He slapped the man’s back, and the [Thief] groaned.
“It was just chance she came by when she did! Lord Terland—”
“Lord Xitegen, that is my prisoner, and I intend to take him back to the Watch House and charge him for vandalism and theft.”
Zevara was panting as she eyed Xitegen. She didn’t like the way the [Lord] had focused when he saw the ring. Xitegen glanced at Zevara, this time sympathetically.
“Watch Captain, I admire anyone who can run down someone like that. However, you did chase this fellow all the way into Celum. My city.”
She had a bad feeling already, and it intensified when he said that.
“Yes, Lord Xitegen, but I—he stole in Liscor, and he broke the law!”
“True. Did he hurt anyone? Endanger anyone?”
The [Lord] of House Terland’s eyes went suddenly cold, and the [Thief] began to protest that he hadn’t. Xitegen glanced at Zevara, and when she grudgingly shook her head, he shrugged.
“Politics, then. My city, my rules.”
“What? But he—”
“I’m sure this man will be arrested if he returns to Liscor. But I know who he is and most of this silly story. If anything, I apologize to you for his trouble. Golem, put him down and de-list this man as a criminal.”
“Acknowledged, Lord Terland.”
The Golem put the [Thief] down, and the man straightened his clothes. He looked like he couldn’t believe his luck. He smirked at Zevara and opened his mouth to say something—Lord Xitegen grabbed one ear.
“Argh! Lord Terland—”
“Take yourself to Invrisil and out of my city. And a bit of courtesy towards the Watch Captain—in the form of silence. Someone, get this Drake a refreshing drink of water.”
She was fuming as Lord Xitegen shoved the [Thief] away. She stared daggers at him as he scrambled to get his things and hurry away. He almost reached for the bicycle part, but one look from Lord Xitegen and he scampered instead.
“This is a dereliction of the law, Lord Xitegen!”
She snapped at him, knowing she had no way to do anything to him. The [Lord] merely put his hands behind his back.
“Perhaps, Watch Captain, but I remind you that anything underhanded, unprincipled, and otherwise unscrupulous we Humans do…is just as common in your principled cities. That man had the right ring; I daresay if it wasn’t me, he would have gone with you or spent a night in our jails. I doubt he was there for any crimes beyond petty theft.”
“A crime is a crime.”
“But not weighed equally. I do apologize, for what it’s worth.”
He gave her a direct look then, and his personal Golem offered her a drink. Zevara hesitated, but then gulped the cool water down and exhaled smoke. He just eyed her mouth.
“Do you have a furnace in your lungs, Watch Captain?”
“Dragonbreath. I breathe smoke as well as fire.”
“And you still ran down a man like that? You are a tenacious one, Watch Captain. I’d ask if you wanted to work for me in my city, but I think you’re not in the mood for jokes. My, my. Liscor only gets more valuable these days.”
He sighed as he rubbed his nails on his jacket. She squinted her eyes at him. He was turning away, clearly thinking that they’d said all they needed to. She was left without her perpetrator, wheezing for air—Zevara called at his back. It was just a spur of the moment.
“You…wouldn’t happen to know a Lady Cecille Reinhart, would you, Lord Xitegen?”
He paused, and his face was more troubled when he turned back to her.
“Lady Cecille Reinhart’s in your city?”
“Yes. Is she an…upstanding woman in your opinion?”
Lord Xitegen stared up at the sky, then fixed Zevara with a direct gaze.
“Unless it’s murder or something as unpleasant, I’d leave her alone, Watch Captain. Whatever she’s done, she’s a Reinhart. They don’t listen to Watch Captains. She’d watch herself in my city, but not yours.”
He turned and strode away. What she’d done, not if she’d done something. Zevara groaned, then, footsore, she began to hobble back to Liscor. She was already in a bad mood before Liska asked her for the door fee for going both ways. Then Sergeant Relc was waiting for her with even better news:
“Venim wants to see you.”
 
——
 
Watch Commander Venim had some sympathies for Zevara and offered her a seat. He gazed at her as she winced her way into a chair.
“Forty-five minutes of running must have been, what, at least five miles of pursuit? You ran down a petty [Thief] through two cities, Watch Captain.”
“And the Lord let him get away!”
Zevara pounded the armrest of her chair, and Venim shook his head. He seemed sympathetic to her, at least.
“Humans. I’m sorry you lost him, but at least Trader Beneckham is grateful. That bicycle is expensive, or so he tells me.”
She just sagged in her chair as Venim coughed.
“Er…not quite the restful day I was hoping you’d take, Watch Captain.”
“I was investigating some thefts, Venim. And I’m no closer to the answers about them than I was before!”
Merchant Yerham was involved in something, but he’d denied the damn truth spells directly. So had Cecille Reinhart. Venim glanced at his office; there were people in the antechambers. Official-looking Drakes, probably about the Lyonette thing with the inn.
“I just wanted to know how the chase went, Watch Captain. I admire your tenacity…though a Watch Captain doesn’t need to chase every petty [Thief] down in the street.”
She nodded at the implied reprimand.
“I don’t intend to do that again if I can help it, Commander.”
“Good! We need you leading—especially since we’re looking bad with that theft. The Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings do have those gems, and Watch Captain Ronss and I agree they’re pushing their luck. Not in our city. I’m having him put together a plan of action you may wish to be in on—but the inn is taking just as much time.”
Venim’s words made Zevara perk up a bit. She appreciated not being kept out of the loop—she stood, wincing on her blisters, and nodded to him. She was hobbling towards the door when he called out.
“Agent Hissl and, uh, Moass? Apologies for the disruption.”
A nondescript pair of Drakes loitering by Venim’s [Receptionist]’s desk turned, and Zevara froze slightly. Wait.
“Excuse me. Did you just say—Commander Venim, I’d like to have a word with these two.”
The two Drakes, one stout, one thin, appeared as nondescript as Zevara could name for what she assumed were Eyes of Pallass agents. One had greenish-yellow scales, the other had faintly blue-green. They seemed competent to her; she knew they were armed, and the stouter one blinked.
“I’m Moass, and this is Hissl. Can we help you, Watch Captain?”
“I—yes. I wanted to ask about your proximity to some Antinium regarding some thefts.”
Zevara was fumbling for a truth stone as Venim got up from behind his desk. He shot her a warning glance as Moass’ brows rose.
“Thefts? We were certainly in the proximity of several Antinium over the course of our visit to Liscor, but no more than that, Watch Captain.”
The truth stone didn’t shine black or white at this. It didn’t shine at all, in fact. Zevara blinked at the two as she cupped it in one claw of her hand. Then she thought—Eyes of Pallass.
Damn.
