She was fiddling with a desk lamp, and the glow from her throat was the only light in the office except for the faint glimmer coming from the windows. Rain made the city’s lights streaks of wobbling yellow.
That was when the dame walked into Zevara’s office. Dame, as in ‘female’, not ‘Dame Knight’. To be more specific, dame referred to an elderly or at least mature woman.
At first, Zevara didn’t understand what she was seeing or why the word popped into her head. It was something…about the way the Antinium Worker leaned against the door. Leaned against it. And then how she walked into the room.
You defaulted to ‘he’ with Workers, but despite the same loincloth that most normal Antinium wore, this one gave Zevara a distinctly different energy.
“I—good evening. Can I help you—miss?”
The Antinium Worker didn’t respond for a long moment, and instead, she surveyed Zevara’s room with distinct curiosity. Two hands on her hips, another touching her brows, the last holding a small envelope. When she did speak, Zevara got another surprise. Her voice was subtly different from the generic click-tones of Antinium.
“I believe we can help each other, Watch Captain Zevara. My name is Noiraid. I was sent for after Laikos’ work group brought him into the Hive.”
Zevara actually rubbed at one earhole. She felt like she was having a fever-dream. Maybe she was overworking and Venim was right…because that was the most non-Antinium name she’d ever heard. Like Laikos, actually.
“Well, Worker Noiraid, I trust that his—condition was reported to the Free Queen? I was just filing a report on the matter, actually. And the theft.”
The Worker focused on the paper on the desk and, without asking for it, snatched it up and read.
“Hey! That’s Watch material—”
Zevara shot up, angry, broken out of her stupefaction, but Noiraid just put the sheet down.
“I see. I have never interacted with the Watch before. Forgive me, Watch Captain. I regret any ill-feeling my actions have caused. May I request an alteration to your report?”
“An alteration? Of what kind? If I’ve gotten the facts wrong, I can correct them…”
Noiraid leaned over the desk, and Zevara blinked and sat back in her chair. The Antinium had a husky voice, somehow.
“I would like you to amend the report to state that Carpenter Laikos did not become Aberration. And that you do not inform Prognugator Pawn or Yellow Splatters about the incident. Or the Free Queen.”
A drop of ink fell from the quill onto the page. Zevara blotted at it.
“—What?”
“I shall rephrase. The event did not occur. You need not file the report at all.”
“I—absolutely have to. If there’s an Aberration running around in the Hive or on Liscor’s streets—”
“There is no Aberration, and there will not be, Watch Captain. That is why I request the report altered or withdrawn.”
This time, Noiraid leaned over the desk so much she almost fell over, so she caught herself by sitting on it by accident instead. She slid off it and regarded Zevara.
The Watch Captain blew some smoke out of her mouth in pure incredulity. She’d been asked to break the law before, but never just like this.
“You must be joking. I heard him myself.”
Noiraid went to the window and stared out of it, crossing her hands to rest behind her back.
“What you heard may have sounded like an Aberration, Watch Captain, but tomorrow, Carpenter Laikos will go back to work. He will not be an Aberration. If no one informs the Free Queen, there will be no issue.”
“You’re going to cure him? Is that—is that possible? Or are you just hiding the—symptoms?”
“Is knowing mandatory, Watch Captain?”
Noiraid turned her head, and Zevara got angry. Just a bit. Mostly, she was amazed an Antinium could act like this. Even Painted Antinium weren’t like this.
Bird? But this was different from Bird.
The dame regarded Zevara with what almost seemed like amused insolence, and the Watch Captain snapped, exhaling more smoke and a few sparks. She coughed into a fist.
“This is my city, and an Aberration running around is a threat to everyone. I want to know how you’re positive Worker Laikos won’t up and kill anyone—no, I want to know who you are as well.”
Small wonder she’d been let into the office. A random civilian didn’t just get the Watch Captain, but an Antinium…yes, they’d be given access. Noiraid pulled something out of the envelope. It was a tiny piece of candy. She stuck it in her mandibles and transferred it into her mouth, where Zevara got the impression she was sucking on it.
“Aberration is a word for Antinium who disobey, Watch Captain. Who get angry. So angry they kill. Otherwise, they obey. They obey and obey until they’re so angry they would rather die and kill everything than obey. There’s only Aberration and non-Aberration. If an Aberration doesn’t hurt anyone…is it still an Aberration when it is no longer angry?”
“Wh—you mean they’re just angry? That’s insane! I’ve seen them take on entire Watch patrols!”
“Very angry, Watch Captain.”
“But if they can just cool down—why the hell did Klbkch tell me the only way to deal with them was to kill them?”
Zevara stared at Noiraid, who shrugged. Another non-Antinium gesture. She brushed at one antenna with a hand, like she might do with hair.
“An Antinium who disobeys once is already a failure. Klbkch needs no failures.”
This was already shaking Zevara, but Noiraid’s next words shook her more.
“If you report Carpenter Laikos is an Aberration, he will be killed unless Pawn can cure him. And Pawn cannot cure every ‘Aberration’. If you let him go back to work, he will not become an Aberration again.”
“How can you guarantee that?”
“I will watch him. And his fellow Workers shall observe as well.”
“And that’s enough?”
“No Antinium has become an Aberration that I observe.”
The implication being that this Antinium…had met other Aberrations and calmed them down? She made a faint krsching sound and then again, and Zevara realized she was coughing. The Watch Captain cast around, then poured some water into a cup.
“Here—”
“Thank you, Watch Captain.”
Now, Zevara was leaning over the desk as she gestured to a seat. Noiraid sat and crossed one leg. Again, Zevara thought—‘female’. She tried out her hunch, deliberately.
“So Mister Noiraid—”
The Worker shifted, and Zevara eyed her.
“You’re a she?”
“Was it not obvious? Or were you attempting to insult me?”
The Worker seemed displeased, and Zevara coughed, embarrassed.
“I’m, uh, sorry. What’s your role in all this?”
The Worker studied Zevara’s desk. She pointed at something.
“May I try that?”
Zevara had lozenges for her own throat problems. She doubted they tasted good, but she pushed them over, and Noiraid popped one into her mouth. Apparently anything tasted better than what Antinium ate, and she seemed to enjoy it. She spoke.
“You do not know me, Watch Captain. You are not supposed to. Pawn does not know me. Nor does Yellow Splatters, Belgrade, or the Free Queen. Garry might, but no one knows what Garry knows. I do not work shifts. When Workers or Soldiers have problems in the Free Hive, I am sent for.”
Zevara’s first thought was—she’s a problem-solver. A fixer. An [Enforcer]. But then she almost laughed that away. That was as if there were crime in…
She narrowed her eyes.
“You solve issues…for them? Why? Isn’t Pawn the leader of the Painted Antinium? Doesn’t he help everyone?”
She’d heard from Erin and Lyonette what good he did, but Noiraid seemed to disagree. She stared at the faint light Zevara had lit in her lamp.
“Pawn is the [Priest] of the Sky. All those he paints with his colors are blessed and special and belong in Heaven. There are not enough colors for the Hive. There never will be. If things do not go to Pawn, they go to the Free Queen. She solves things quickly. Workers and Soldiers…fear bringing problems to Pawn and the Free Queen.”
“Why? The Free Queen I get, but why—Pawn?”
She’d met him. The gentlest Antinium she’d ever known. Noiraid’s antennae crooked slightly downwards like brows.
“Because if they tell Pawn they have made a mistake, he may not choose them to become Painted Antinium. Workers and Soldiers are afraid of that. They are afraid of dying if the Free Queen decides they are flawed. They can risk telling Pawn—or tell me. And I will fix it.”
“For a favor. Or money.”
Now, Zevara was figuring out Noiraid. Well, well, well. It seemed that Pawn and the other Antinium had created something in their Hives that she hadn’t expected. Hadn’t she seen a report about Antinium slacking on the job the other day? She’d dismissed it as nonsense.
Noiraid smiled.
“Antinium are paid. Some of them. Others can take over a shift. Or acquire objects.”
“You’re telling me, a Watch Captain, that you get paid to solve small crimes in the Hive. And you think I’ll be accepting of all this?”
Zevara was actually quite amused, but she kept her face and voice serious. In response, Noiraid just made a fluttering sound with her throat.
“I am informing you because there is no other choice, Watch Captain. You may inform the Free Queen and Pawn of Carpenter Laikos and myself. In which case, we will die or be dealt with. You have left the gates closed on Goblins. I hope it haunts you, if you do.”
That shot came out of nowhere and hit Zevara so hard she leaned back in her chair.
“…You’ve been around since then? Who…are you? When did you appear?”
She had a vague thought this might be one of the mysterious Antinium that Lyonette had been asking about, but Noiraid shook her head.
“I have lived one and a quarter years. I am…what you would call one of Bird’s Antinium. The free among the Free Antinium.”
Bird’s Antinium? She had Antinium? Pieces were clicking together. Zevara frowned.
“Wouldn’t you be at the inn then?”
“Antinium have to work, Watch Captain.”
Or make a profit.
“And Bird knows about you?”
“Who knows what Bird knows?”
Fair enough. Zevara refocused on the task at hand, or rather, she suspected, offer.
“Alright, say I don’t file a report about Laikos. That’s against my code of conduct, but I have you on record as saying that ‘Aberration’ isn’t what I think it is. In which case, it is a miscarriage of justice to…do as we have done. I have questions about that, but I’m not going to just trust you on your word. How are you, Noiraid, going to fix this issue?”
“Worker Laikos will return to work tomorrow. He will perform his duties.”
“He lost his doll. The one thing in the world that matters to him.”
“Yes. Will you reclaim it, Watch Captain?”
The female Antinium’s eyes seemed locked on Zevara, despite the lack of pupils. The Watch Captain hesitated.
“I…don’t think it’s feasible.”
Noiraid nodded.
“The Watch never helps with this kind of thing. Because we are Antinium.”
That stung, again. But Zevara just waited as the dame slowly pulled something else out of the envelope, which was, Zevara was realizing, her only method of carrying anything around. She placed something on the table.
Two copper coins and a puffer stick. She removed the lantern’s glass case and held the puffer stick over the flame. Zevara glowered.
“Oh, come on.”
Noiraid smoked from the cigar, and Zevara eyed the coins.
“What’s that, a bribe?”
“No. Tomorrow, Carpenter Laikos will find a doll waiting for him. A little Human one.”
“Pretty cheap.”
“Yes. But it is all his group had after paying me. He was the only one who had anything, besides Worker Ricton, who hammered broken nails he found into a little nail-person. Now, Laikos will have his doll because he needs it, and they will have nothing at all. Not even the coins they found while working.”
Zevara shifted. Most of what Noiraid said had an—edge to it. She realized that was it. There was emotion in the Antinium’s voice where most were flat. This Antinium’s was all blade.
“Seems unfair. Also…Ricton? That’s a Liscorian-type name. Or close enough. What happened to Hammernails or traditional Antinium names?”
“Maybe Antinium do not want traditional names, Watch Captain.”
“But who gives…are you naming them?”
Zevara narrowed her eyes, and this time, Noiraid paused, as if surprised. She brushed at ash on Zevara’s desk from her puffer.
“Why would Antinium need help naming themselves?”
“They’d need it if they wanted to be…not regular Antinium. Is that another service you provide? So you’re going to buy Carpenter Laikos a doll, and that might help.”
“One doll. His group is eighteen Antinium. All of whom will have nothing.”
“…And you’re telling me why?”
Noiraid paused to pop another of Zevara’s lozenges into her mouth.
“That’s all the coin I was given. If there were more, more dolls might appear. Better ones.”
At this point, Watch Captain Zevara had to sit back.
“Are you asking me for a bribe? The Watch Captain of Liscor?”
“Donations are acceptable.”
The effrontery of some women. Zevara was digging in her money pouch for silver coins when she caught herself. Thus far, the evening was extremely entertaining and informative, but something was niggling at her brain. She put the coins down, but kept her claw over them.
“You’ve been very helpful, Noiraid. I think I can see my way clear to…not filing this report. Or rather, just the bit about the Antinium theft. Question. You wouldn’t happen to know anything about that, would you?”
Noiraid paused, and she hesitated for the second time that night.
“Nothing Carpenter Laikos didn’t tell you. Someone ran into him. He lost his doll. He reported it too late. Even if he had called for help, what of it? He’s an Antinium.”
“You implied there were other thefts that occurred. Against Antinium?”
Zevara pressed her, and Noiraid’s antennae tips lifted.
“What of it? The Watch has never cared before.”
“It’s never crossed my desk.”
“Should it have? They were Antinium possessions.”
So a doll, whatever they had on them. Nothing valuable. But Zevara crinkled up her snout. Something stank.
“How many?”
The Antinium woman was visibly reluctant to talk about it, and Zevara felt like it was genuine unwillingness.
“Is this your business, Watch Captain? You said it yourself: you cannot find the culprits.”
“Maybe not—but let’s say I’m curious.”
Zevara shoved a few silvers over and rested her claw on the table. She made a silver piece walk across her fingers. Noiraid caught it and spoke.
“Most occurred after the Winter Solstice. First, one or two. Dozens this week alone.”
“No one noticed?”
“Antinium noticed. They were mostly unreported to the Watch.”
“Why?”
