He spat to the side, and she frowned at him.
“I heard five of them took on just as many Draugr during the Winter Solstice. Tekshia Shivertail fought with them.”
Ronss sombered a moment.
“Well, that’s our Guildmistress for you. I heard she bailed them out, though.”
“She did…”
“Well, we’ll be nicer to them, but they’ve got the jewels in that bar. Brewman’s. I got a tip-off and moved when I heard it. Let me take point on this one, okay? You’re the Watch Captain everyone knows. I need this.”
He gave her a look, and she hesitated. Everything about this made sense, and yet her gut said…hold on. But she didn’t want to argue with him in front of the [Guards].
She should have. Instead, she took a step back and nodded to him, and Watch Captain Ronss gave the order. The Watch marched down the street, and the civilians who hadn’t already made themselves scarce left in a hurry—or gathered behind to watch.
They surprised the hell out of the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings. That was what shocked Zevara; she saw a few men with hats ambling down the street as they came marching in ranks. The Brothers even gave them friendly nods and asked what was going on—when they realized where the Watch were heading. She saw them freeze, then go running back the way they’d come.
“Strange. You’d think they’d be on high alert with the gems.”
She commented, and Ronss grunted, but he shifted his shoulders and fiddled with his club. He didn’t like that either.
“Stay tight. Guardswoman Jerci, smell anything?”
Zevara’s head snapped around, and to her dismay, she saw Jerci in one of the squads with regular [Guards]. Damn, she’d approved squads but forgotten who was on that list! She wasn’t ready for…no, she was a full [Guardswoman] now. At least the rookies weren’t here!
“Nothing, Watch Captain.”
Ronss cast a glance at Zevara, and she gave him a nod. Nothing wrong with how he was approaching things.
“Good. Then we’re moving forwards. There’s the bar.”
Brewman’s Bar was a small place in the northeastern district along some of the streets with huge kilns for [Potters]. Zevara recalled it being a trashy sort of place where decent booze was found despite the appearance of it—it had clearly changed since her last visit.
The Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings must have bought out the bar and parts of the street, because they’d ‘smartened up’ the area, as it were. That meant a fresh coat of paint on the doors, glass windows—this area used to have a decent amount of crime, but it seemed fresh-swept!
“Damn, but they really do like to polish up whatever they infest.”
Ronss muttered. Zevara nodded, eyes flicking to the closed doors of houses and shops. She saw people peeking out at them, clearly afraid this would interfere with their lives.
“They keep the law in their own way. I count maybe twenty in the bar. How many do you think are around?”
“I was told forty, fifty tops. And that’s if they’re not out. We outnumber them at least two to one.”
Ser Normen was a former Brother. But how good were they at fighting, really? Even if they were, when it was against the Watch, most times a gang would let their own get arrested. Killing a [Guard] was far worse than getting tossed up for a bit of a scrap.
What rattled her was the clear confusion of the Brothers. A dozen men were pointing their way, arguing, and the rest were striding around inside. They did not seem like they’d expected this.
Overconfidence? Watch Captain Ronss halted down the street as six men with hats came strolling out of their bar.
“Watch Captain. Watch Captains. How can I help you this fine morning? A bit too rainy to be going out all dressed up, but that’s just my opinion.”
A fellow with orange hair and clubbed ears nodded to them. He wore a top-hat which looked silly, but he somehow pulled it off with his thick brown woollen coat and brown tweed pants. He still appeared a bit silly, but like a working man with a passion for headwear. There was a bit of silver ribbon tied around the base of the hat; for some reason, that struck Zevara as classy.
The rain pattered off Ronss’ armor as he barked at the leader of the Brothers.
“We have a credible source that puts your gang as the group that stole from the Jeweler’s Guild two nights ago, mister. By order of the Watch Commander, I am searching your premise and putting anyone resisting or associated with the theft under arrest!”
Not how Zevara would have run it, but good enough. The Brother pursed his lips as the others behind him exchanged long looks of chagrin, alarm, and, Zevara saw, amusement.
She didn’t like that. It grew worse when the man adjusted his hat and sighed.
“Watch Captain, I’m afraid there’s been a bit of a misunderstanding, as happens now and then. That business with the Jeweler’s Guild—terrible thing. Couldn’t have happened to a greedier lot, says I, but a crime’s a crime, innit boys?”
They nodded as he hooked his thumbs in his belt. The Brother smiled at Ronss.
“Thing is—we’d be happy to let you into this bar and search. Because there’s no gems inside. If that’s the, uh, thrust of your inquiries, we’ll oblige right now, all proper-like.”
“What?”
Zevara saw several [Guards] mouth the word, and Ronss’ eyes narrowed.
“Really? We have the bar surrounded from all streets. And if you think you can disappear through the sewers—”
“Watch Captain. The gems are gone. Assuming I was admitting they were here at any time, they’re gone.”
The man with the top hat spoke over Ronss, and now Zevara realized what that bad feeling in her stomach was. She spoke up from behind her squad.
“Let’s say I believe you, sir. Just…when were these gems gone? Hypothetically speaking.”
He tipped his hat to her, eyes bright, but his voice was as serious as his eyes as they flitted to Ronss, who was beginning to purple.
“Hypothetically speaking, if I were the sort of man who were unscrupulous—and I’m not saying I am either way or not, Watch Captains—I’d be a great big fool to keep something as incriminating as gemstones in a bar, wouldn’t I? I reckon—and this is just me speaking out my hat—I reckon that the moment anyone took something so precious, it’d be sold right off. That very night.”
Ancestors. Zevara closed her eyes for a second. That was tidy work. How did they do it?
The inn. She just bet that a few men with bags of holding could slide straight through the door and into Invrisil. Liska would never check, and Erin was friendly with the Brothers.
The gemstones weren’t here. They probably had been here—for a few hours! Ronss was piecing things together as fast as Zevara, and she heard him growling curses as she edged over.
“Ronss. Ronss, who the hell gave you that tip?”
“Some contacts I know of! You know, informants.”
Zevara had a sudden thought and narrowed her eyes.
“Was it Barman Bobble or one of the old gang?”
His hesitation said all she needed to know.
“They hate the Brothers, Ronss! Whomever sold them out pointed us at them—but they don’t have any gems!”
And the gems were the bloody knife in the crime scene, the reason it would be worth tangling with this gang. The tophat man seemed to have come to the same conclusion, because he called out to Zevara.
“Seems some unscrupulous fellows—or ladies, we can’t discount them—wanted the two of us to have a little mixup, as it were, Watch Captain. Bit embarrassing for both sides, really. I’d offer the lot of you a drink, but I know you’re on duty. How about a firm handshake and we go on our ways? Be a shame to do someone else’s dirty work for them.”
“Especially on Lundas. Shame to get a busted nose on a Lundas.”
Another man with a hat said. He was barely eighteen and grinned—until the tophat man buffeted one shoulder.
“That’s no way to talk to the Watch. They have it hard enough, jobs as it is, keeping these streets safe. And fine streets they are too. Far more proper n’ most in the north.”
He was trying to be conciliatory. However, Ronss was piping mad, and he was growling under his breath.
“Those damn idiots—I’ll haul them into the Watch House for questioning! Stay where you are, you lot! You’re all going in for questioning under truth spell!”
He barked, and the tophat man froze ever-so-slightly. Zevara strode over and gripped Ronss under his forearm.
“Ronss, what the hell are you doing? You heard him—there’s no evidence!”
“We have evidence, Zevara. He just admitted what he did! We grab him under truth spell and we’ve got the gang, just not the loot!”
Ronss wasn’t thinking straight. He was mad, amped up, and he had pulled ten squads of [Guards] off patrol for this. If he had been thinking—Zevara whispered in his earhole.
“Ronss, half of them will have Skills to bypass truth spells. We won’t get all of them.”
“She’s right, you know, Watch Captain. I’m afraid I’ll walk away a clean man with all the effort said and done. I’d hate to put you to the inconvenience. Or embarrassment.”
The tophat man was listening to their whispers with a Skill of some kind. Zevara shot him an eye—his honesty wasn’t helping. Ronss was breathing hard.
“Ancestors damn it, Zevara, help me out here! They’re making fools of us! Venim entrusted me to make an impact!”
“Some days you look like a fool. Let’s go, Ronss. We can’t get them on the gem raid. Not right now.”
This was the moment she’d felt time and again—looking Mister Soot in the eyes when he swore on truth stones he didn’t know about a murder or a disappeared artifact and realizing he’d walk out a free Drake. It was frustrating, humiliating, and she’d experienced it too often to count.
Ronss hadn’t—not from the position of leadership. He glanced at the watching [Guards], and maybe it was that—or Venim talking about how Liscor would be a miniature Pallass. Or maybe it was just his temper talking because he said the wrong thing.
“Well then, we’ll pick up this entire group and shake ‘em until we get something that sticks. You’re all under arrest and investigation for multiple crimes in the city!”
Zevara felt her stomach drop when Ronss said that. The tophat man stopped smiling, and he blinked at Ronss, then her. Just blinked.
“I don’t think that’s a good idea, Watch Captain.”
He said that in a soft tone of voice. It was Ronss who snarled.
“Not enough Skills to hide that many lies, are there? Come on down to the Watch House, gentlemen. We’ll just ask you the standard battery.”
As in—all the basics. ‘Have you ever murdered someone’? ‘Have you committed a crime in the last X number of days?’ ‘Are you in possession of or aware of stolen goods?’
When you had truth stones, you could ask any question in the world, obviously, and get an answer. You just didn’t normally ask all of them because everyone had done something. Like in the Merchant’s Guild—don’t ask questions that fall outside of a specific investigation.
Asking the full range of questions meant you either had someone dead to rights or you considered them so suspect, so criminal, that you were going to dig. To be fair: sometimes you had to dig. Zevara had made Mister Soot go through that battery of questions time and again.
But it was one thing to do it to him, when he was the enemy of the Watch, and another to do it to a gang like this. The Brothers were regarding each other now, and the ones in the bar had gone still.
“Ronss, don’t do this. They’re going to fight. They have to fight.”
There was no way they’d pass enough truth stone questions, and they knew it. Ronss didn’t take his eyes off the man with the top hat.
“If they’re innocent enough, they’ll walk. What about it, sir? Not enough Skills to cover that up?”
“Not enough in the whole world.”
The man in the plain brown clothing murmured softly. He took his thumbs out of his belt-loops and exhaled.
“Watch Captain. I would listen to your friend there. Seems to me…seems to me someone wanted to make an example of things today. I don’t think you’ll get what you want if you continue things. Nor will we. Why don’t we step back and de-escalate matters?”
“You don’t give orders here. We’re the Watch, and this is our city. Drop your weapons and put your hands on your heads—hats. You’re all under arrest on suspicion of grand theft.”
Ronss shook off Zevara’s hand. He pointed a finger at the Brothers, and Zevara swore she heard a sigh run down the street. She stepped back, realizing a die had been thrown. Now it was rolling around in the gutter—
“Squads, spread out. Stay away from the doors, and don’t get separated.”
She raised her voice, and the [Guards] moved apart. The tophat leader just glanced at her, then Ronss, and then he raised his hands to his head. Gently, oh, so gently, he took the tophat from his head and inspected the silver ribbon. Then he tossed the hat to the ground.
The young man did likewise with a blue cap. Another Brother took off a bowler hat and flipped it into the air. Ronss stared, perplexed, as hats showered down to the ground.
“What the hell? I said put your weapons on the ground. Not—”
Zevara had been tensed, ready. But even she wasn’t prepared for the man who’d been wearing the tophat. He stared down at the hat lying in the rain, then his head snapped up. He didn’t draw a blade or a club—he just ran straight at Watch Captain Ronss.
“Ancestors—”
Zevara was drawing her sword when the young man who’d spoken up drew a pair of knives. He charged straight at the full squad of eight [Guards], screaming.
“[Freeze, Criminal]!”
She froze him, and he collapsed mid-leap, slapping into surprised [Guards]. They shoved him down and tried to cuff him. The paralysis Skill wore off as they were trying to wrestle his arms into cuffs. She saw him heave—and threw a Gnoll [Guard] off him. He lashed out, blades scything around.
“[Disarming Attack]—he’s got knives—”
“They’re coming out the bar! Incoming! On the left—”
Zevara was in the rear, watching the squads of [Guards] reacting as men without hats came out of the bar and side alleyways. She was holding her sword, the melee of bodies drawing closer, a familiar sight—until something hit a trio of [Guards] and tossed them like sticks through the air.
“Ancestors!”
A giant Brother, over six foot five and four hundred pounds, had just crashed through the Watch. He spun, and a haymaker knocked down Guardswoman Jerci, shield and all. He raised a foot, and Zevara shouted.
“[Non-Lethal Strike]!”
The Brother swept around so fast he was mid-charge when she exhaled flames all over him. He screamed, clawing at his clothes, and she stabbed him in the knee—
“[Sweep Leg]! Get up! Get up and reform the—”
