“Other Workers? You mean, not Crusaders? I don’t see why you’d steal from them. Most of them would probably sell anything good for a silver piece. Can I go now? My burger’s getting cold.”
Relc nodded after a glance at Zevara, and the Worker stomped back to his meal, loudly grousing about ‘annoying [Guards]’. Zevara just shook her head as she moved back with Relc to confer.
“They’re changing so fast. What do you make of the story?”
The [Watch Sergeant] leaned on his spear. He gave Lerhne a frown.
“I think he’s telling the truth. Antinium don’t lie well, even if they learn to. And that’s not changing. He’s more…copying.”
“Copying? Copying who?”
He shrugged self-consciously and rubbed at his neck-spines.
“Other Antinium. Other [Soldiers]. They pick up things, but I’ve noticed they’re not quite like Klbkch. Old Klb…he was always his own guy, you know? He just put on his professional act, but he had depths. These new Antinium sort of invent themselves, but they don’t have a history.”
That made sense. Klbkch had always had that age to him that made the other [Guards] respect him as a danger and an intelligent member of the Watch, if not a friend at first. Zevara cast a glance at Lerhne.
“Well, he’s given us a lead. A confirmed theft…again, why?”
“Desperation, maybe? Sounds like everyone wants to get their claws on those scrolls or something else. What is it, do you know?”
“Never seen one before. Lyonette was looking at some the other day—the Antinium are thinking of selling them. But it sounds like there’s a black market.”
Another odd concept with the Antinium, but Relc just grimaced.
“Makes sense. Poor bug-guys don’t know what they have. If it’s valuable, they’ll sell it too cheap. Okay, you thinking what I’m thinking?”
It had been a while since she’d done Senior Guard work like this, so Zevara hesitated, then coughed some smoke into her fist.
“Uh—I think we run Master Y’s name in the Merchant’s Guild and have each gate report new [Ladies] entering the city. They have to take records of individuals of note. We go through the logs. It’ll take a few hours to comb through the last few days, though, depending on when they entered.”
She groaned at the idea of having to do that for a single letter in the name. Relc just gave her a slow blink of his eyes.
“We could do that, Zevara. Or…we could ask an expert.”
It was her turn to blink at him.
 
——
 
Her instincts were rusty. Zevara’s suggestion felt stupid the moment she saw where Relc was taking her.
Market Street. The eastern street where people operated temporary or permanent stalls each day was always packed with customers. Gnolls and Drakes—and Humans these days, though only a few small stalls had Humans selling anything.
It was a prime place to gossip and meet familiar faces, as Erin Solstice had learned. And for a [Guard]…the best spot to get information.
It was another Silverfang at Krshia’s shop, not the Councilwoman herself. Zevara stared at a lot of posters of Krshia; across the street, Lism’s store had a huge image of him saying ‘Vote for Lism!’ on it.
“Hey, Miss Ekha, right? How’re the Silverfangs doing? Still enjoying Liscor?”
Relc knew her by name, and the Gnoll growled.
“I swear, if it rains another month…I don’t know how you cityfolk do it! I stand at a counter all day, and the city’s so small—it pays ten times what I could make in the tribe, but someone else’s Ancestors! I almost wish I’d gone northwards with the others.”
She must have been a Silverfang from the tribes, not one used to Liscor. Still, the Gnoll was fast enough to change a silver coin from Relc’s claw to coppers as he bought a nali-stick. And she had been in the city long enough—Relc leaned on the counter as the customers saw a second Gnoll ready to ring up goods and changed lanes.
“I’ve got a quick question, Ekha. You heard of any new [Merchants] coming into Liscor? Name starts with a ‘Y’. The Silverfangs probably would know him, right? You guys keep tabs on all the [Merchants] with money. And I’m looking into this [Lady] who rolled in a while back as well, with my partner. Watch business.”
He indicated Zevara, and the Gnoll sniffed.
“Watch Captain Zevara herself? You can’t fool me, Relc. Is this a murder or something?”
“Not at all, Miss Ekha. I’m just following up on lesser matters since the Watch is on top of things.”
Zevara stepped forwards, and Ekha raised her brows.
“‘On top of things?’ That’s not what I’ve heard. Half the city’s talking about the Jeweler’s Guild being robbed. Over a thousand fresh-cut gems from Salazsar, gone!”
Zevara’s jaw dropped slightly. That much? What idiot in the Jeweler’s Guild had stashed that much money in one place? It must have been when they were supplying the gems for the various stores…they’d gotten sloppy with Soot gone.
Relc whistled.
“I heard about that, but that’s Watch Captain Ronss’ district now, not Captain Z’s, Ekha. He’ll be on the job. Ronss is passionate. He spits almost as much fire as Zevara without the Dragonbreath!”
Ekha snorted.
“I’m just glad Market Street is still in Zevara’s district. Everyone’s saying it wouldn’t have happened under her watch. What was that you wanted?”
Zevara tried not to puff up at the compliment; if new Silverfangs had heard that, it meant something. Relc repeated the question, and Ekha waved a paw.
“Merchant Yerham. I know that right off. Only two people with ‘Y’ in their names who’re [Merchants] in the city. He’s an odd one.”
“Dangerous?”
“Nope, just odd. He’s half here, half in Esthelm. Buys a lot of curiosities. He was asking in the Silverfang camps about our goods before we packed up. Respectful, knows his craft, but he’s got no caravan. Gold enough, though. What he really wants is a ‘piano’, but we’re not selling one. That and Honored Deskie’s goods, but she kicked him out.”
Interesting. Zevara blinked at the name.
“Honored Deskie. That’s the Gnoll who the Council welcomed personally, right? Where is she?”
“3rd District. Big apartment connected to a mill. It’s very nice-looking. I’d have gotten a job spinning there if I had the class. Instead, Aunt Krshia got me this job. It’s okay, but I miss being mobile. I might do deliveries for a change.”
Another person to ask. Relc went back to the others.
“The [Lady]?”
“What was the emblem on her carriage?”
“Uh…snakes is what our guy said.”
“Snakes. As in…Relc, no noblewoman has snakes on her carriage. At least, no noble house I know!”
Ekha snorted, and Relc shot Zevara a frown. Either Crusader Lerhne had lied to them or…?
“Know a Hissl or Moass?”
Relc tried one last time, and Ekha started laughing.
“Moass? Seriously? Hissl? That’s the most generic Drake name I could imagine! What poor kid was named Moass? If I met him, I’d buy him a drink out of sympathy!”
Well, that tracked at least. Zevara nodded as Relc led her out of the store. Then she sighed.
“3rd District?”
“Yep.”
“Relc, my feet hurt.”
He gave her a huge grin.
“Tired of getting out of the Watch House, Zevara?”
The [Senior Guardswoman] checked her feet, then she gave him a determined look.
“Not quite. But this time, I lead.”
 
——
 
It took them thirty minutes to cross the entire city to the sprawling, walled courtyard that was indeed Honored Deskie’s mill. It was wide, open, and had plenty of space—a huge expense in a city like this, even for 3rd District. But for a Level 40+ [Magical Spinner], Liscor had pulled out all the stops.
Relc was glancing over his shoulder, blinking as they emerged from the alleyway.
“How the hell did you do that, Zevara? Klb and I don’t move that fast!”
“[Backalley Shortcut].”
She was rather pleased by his shocked expression. She knew this city like the back of her claw, and her Skill could make an alleyway develop a temporary gap you could use to bypass a normally-inaccessible street. He whistled.
“How many Skills do you have, Zevara? I always thought you were stacked with them.”
“Two classes’ worth, Relc.”
“Damn, really? I’ve gotta make Watch Captain, then. Who knew you got loaded up like that?”
He was one to talk, being a [Watch Sergeant] and a [Spearmaster]. Zevara rang a bell at the gate, and some Gnolls combing wool under awnings as the rain fell peeked up. One had to run out and splash through the rain to unlock the gate—Zevara apologized.
“We’re here to ask Honored Deskie about a Merchant Yerham? It’s Watch business.”
The wet Gnoll gave her an unhappy growl and sniff.
“I will ask. Please wait there.”
She directed the two to where the wool was being combed and carded. It was a huge process to turn raw wool or other fibers into spinning material, and Deskie seemed to have the entire process in this mill. Zevara wondered if it was bad to have wool exposed to so much moisture…until she saw the sparks coming off the wool being combed and the Gnolls who had gloves on. Their fur was standing on end, and they were grumbling.
The Shockwoolie wool was static and magical! Relc eyed the wool as they waited.
“Fun job?”
One of the Gnolls who was working snapped at him.
“If you want to comb, be my guest, no? I hate Shockwool. I thought I’d stop having to comb it when we left Longstalker’s Fang, but noooo—it’s the most desired clothing! I hope lightning strikes us.”
There was a faint boom overhead, and Zevara eyed the sparks coming off the wool with apprehension.
“Is that…likely?”
An older Gnoll growled with amusement.
“Hrr. Not likely! It’s the one benefit of herding Shockwoolies. Lightning avoids hitting herds of them. I’ve seen it come down and bounce off of them when they’re gathered together. Something about repulsion. It feels like it should want to follow all this electricity, but it doesn’t. If you buy some of our clothing, you won’t be hit by lightning either! At least, not directly. We used to advertise it meant you’d be safe in a storm until an idiot went walking around and a lightning bolt took down a tree that fell on his head.”
Interesting. Zevara was peering at other magical threads being worked on looms when the Gnoll came back to say Deskie was ready for them.
 
——
 
They found Honored Deskie picking at a tangle of threads in her workshop, which doubled as a living room. It was already crowded with carpets, a huge sitting chair where she could work, and a table where you could sit and warm yourself around an indoor firepit—there was a chimney cut into the roof that prevented rain from coming in, but let the smoke out.
It was a Gnoll’s tribal camp in a city! The Gnoll was peering at threads in some kind of weird device that seemed to be made to pick apart cloth—she was muttering to herself.
“Stupid threads. No matter how much I unravel them, they’re just…what’s this one?”
She had unravelled a very ugly shirt and was inspecting a band of yellow that seemed to grow more luminescent the more it was separated from the other material. Deskie had uncoiled it until individual fibers showed Zevara it was some kind of composite spun from multiple spots.
Deskie had glasses on her nose, and she was peering hard at one glowing strand. She didn’t even look up as Relc introduced them.
“Watch Captain, hrr. You wanted to ask about that Merchant Yerham? I have many people who want my time now that I can be found in the city, yes? It is flattering—and more annoying than flattering, I think.”
Zevara nodded at her.
“We don’t want to take up your time, Honored Deskie. May I ask what you’re doing, though?”
The Gnoll woman glanced up and took some tea given to her by an apprentice; a bowl of silkap, flatbread, and tea appeared for the two hungry [Guards] who accepted the hospitality with gratitude. Gnolls didn’t let you enter and go hungry.
“Merely unravelling the secrets to magical threads lost to modern ages.”
“Oh, that’s all?”
Relc joked, and Deskie snorted.
“That’s all. It seems so silly to me as well; once I was put upon the scent, I keep finding it hidden in clothing. First that dress, now this—”
She gestured at the shirt.
“Always a band of cloth. Always…and a treatment to the cloth so you would never see the true luster of it. You see?”
She showed them how the ‘dull’ fabric was an illusion. Some kind of powder or film was hiding the true, magical luster of the threads.
“Almost like someone was trying to hide…not almost, I think. Maybe it is to [Weavers] what Adamantium and the like is to [Smiths]. A challenge sent across the ages. But learning how to make more…”
She stroked at her chin fur, then turned to them.
“This is old knowledge, the kind a Gnoll such as myself knows. Everyone is all too newfangled with their devices, yes? Like my Spinning Deskie.”
She pointed at a spinning wheel that seemed different from the ones Zevara had seen as a child. Deskie murmured.
“Little pieces of metal and wood replace the need for magic or Skills. Such an upset they caused in my tribe. I embrace it, and so do others. Like Merchant Yerham. Has he caused trouble? He was merely insistent with me.”
Deskie knew why they’d come, and Zevara leaned forwards.
“So he was after your Spinning Deskie?”
“That and he thought I could get him the offerings of the Meeting of Tribes directly. He offered a lot of gold for this, and knowledge, but he was polite enough. Has he committed a crime I should know?”
“None we have proof of at this time, Honored Deskie.”
The [Magical Spinner] snorted.
“Then I will keep an eye on him given that ‘this time’ changes very quickly, Watch Captain. What else can I help you with?”
It seemed that was the end of Deskie’s details, which meant they should have just spared themselves the effort and gone to the Merchant’s Guild to interview Yerham directly. However, the free silkap and tea left the two [Guards] in a better mood as they thanked Deskie, and she waved them away. They were headed out into the sopping-wet courtyard and splashing towards the gates when they heard an altercation.
“You may not enter Honored Deskie’s mill! Begone, no!”
The same Gnoll who’d let them in was trying to block some people forcing their way through. Zevara touched Relc’s shoulder, and they strode forwards.
“Hey, what’s the matter?”
Relc shouted, and Zevara saw a carriage had pulled up, and some men were trying to unlatch the gates. A rather obnoxious man was cracking the whip from the driver’s seat where a cloth awning shielded him from the rain.
“Out of the way, Gnoll! Lady Cecille wishes to commission a dress from this place posthaste! Move aside, I say!”
