She was trying to read Relc’s face, but he was hard in this moment. The Drake hooked two thumb-claws in his belt.
“Yeah…he’d be doing that. He just told Valley that the city would have enough to sell. Put her onto a few items she’d want to buy herself. I was asking if things—aligned—with his vision of the future, but he says he found some of the stuff he knows will be big on the streets. Not sure what those are, though. You know [Mages] love their secrets. Weirdly, he was asking about you, Captain Z, and whether or not I wanted to stay as a [Guard].”
Oh, she didn’t like that. However, Zevara couldn’t ask about the mysterious half-Giant and whether he was really Moore’s uncle. The quartet of Drakes and one Gnoll had found a mark.
“Damn, [Trader].”
Some idiot had coin. A [Merchant], even? He had three bodyguards, but he was strolling down the street, glancing at Antinium. Zevara didn’t see more; she was focused on the quartet.
They saw money, and they could do math. It was four-on-four, but that was including the [Merchant].
I’d try to take out the three [Bodyguards] if I could swing first. She strode forward with Relc, ready to shout a warning. They had to wait for the four to attack first, then move fast…
But the moment to intervene never occurred. Just as one of the [Bodyguards] noticed the dangerous saunter of the four [Toughs], someone detached themselves from an alleyway and moved into the path of the four men.
Another fellow. With a hat. Instantly, Zevara and Relc recognized a Brother of Serendipitous Meetings. So did the [Toughs]. The man had a big bowler hat on, and he tipped it to the three Drakes and one Gnoll and made a light comment.
In the rain, he stood, and they—hesitated. They were glancing at the [Merchant], who strode on, cursing about the rain, and the [Bodyguards] eyed the man with the hat, but neither side engaged. The [Toughs] wanted to, but they looked at the Brother, at his hat—and then one cursed and stomped past him.
Away. The Brother ambled after them, but paused to tip his hat at the two Drakes.
“Evening, sir and miss! Hope you enjoy your walk, wet as it is. Don’t fret nor worry! This is a good, clean street!”
Then he was gone, whistling a tune that Zevara found slightly haunting. She hesitated and then realized she had a cobblestone in one hand. She tossed it down and let the rain clean her hands.
“Wow. I’ve never seen someone stop a fight without us like that. Did you see how he backed them off, Captain? Even we couldn’t do it that smooth.”
Relc frowned at the Brother’s back, and Zevara murmured.
“The Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings. They’re here in the city in force. Looks like the patrols’ reports are accurate. The local gangs don’t even mess with them.”
“That wasn’t even a gang, just four guys searching for a mark. Has word spread that fast?”
Relc didn’t have his ear to the ground. He probably had it on Valeterisa’s stomach. Zevara grimaced at him.
“Bobble was upset. I heard of a few fights when they came into the city. Quick and to the point. The Brothers already had a reputation for throwing down. The ones who went toe-to-toe with the Draugr didn’t hurt, and I think that reputation gets tested often.”
Relc whistled.
“That guy looked good enough to take those four out. I’ll give them that. So…when are we gonna smack this group?”
He punched a fist into his hand, grinning, and Zevara blew smoke out of her mouth as they turned and kept ambling the way they’d been going.
“It’s not high on my list, Relc.”
“Whaaa? Captain Zevara Sunderscale, backing out of taking on a gang?”
Relc’s jaw opened, and he gave her an incredulous expression, but he was mostly joking. He twitched his tail as another Brother strode on by—with some boards of wood of all things. He paused to hammer on a door.
“I’ve got a quick fix for that leak, Miss!”
They watched as the door opened and a flustered housewife let him in—he even had a hammer and nails. Zevara eyed Relc.
“Not high on the list. You ever see a gang who repairs leaks in roofs?”
“Could be an act.”
She nodded, allowing that.
“It could be, but I don’t get many complaints about them, Relc. And it’s complaints I listen to as the Watch. I’d rather take on the Switchknife Gang than the Brothers. They’re on my list, but low down, if that makes sense.”
“Hmm. I think I get it. They don’t rock things much, do they?”
That was Zevara’s internal criteria for trouble. The worst elements in a city were the ones who preyed on the innocent or those unable to defend themselves. She didn’t want any gangs in Liscor, but she knew she’d never stamp them out. Get rid of one and another came up like a mushroom. She bared her teeth.
“Switchknife robs people in alleys. The Brothers? Not nearly as bad or as fatal for civilians. Now, the moment I hear about them mugging someone, I’ll go after them. But it’s also about tactics. The Brothers are good fighters according to rumor. Have you seen them fight?”
“A few times. They are good.”
Relc’s face was shadowed a moment, and she knew it related to the inn. Zevara nodded tightly.
“I want them dead to rights, then. Solid offensive if I have to push it, that takes them out of the city or weakens them. Anything less and they send reinforcements in. That’s how big gangs work. But mostly…”
She glanced over her shoulder, and she wondered if that was a fluke or if they really did patrol their territory like the Watch. Relc murmured.
“I’ve only got so many fists to go around, and I’d rather punch someone than waste my time on those guys. That’s it, Zevara?”
The [Guardswoman] smiled at Relc.
“At least until they step out of line. Anyways, enough of that. Does Valeterisa always do that kind of magic for you? I heard she flew a lunch to you the other day.”
“Aw, Zevara. Are you gonna grill me on this too?”
“I’m the one asking questions, Relc. How serious is this?”
“You sound like her apprentice. We just—like each other, alright? She has good taste in tails. And maybe she uses magic a lot, but it’s really cool. We were going to do a bubble bath in the inn, but the last time her bubbles filled the entire room, and Lyonette got mad. But I tell you what, anti-gravity spells are super fun. Not just in general or in the bedroom—”
“Okay, you can stop talking.”
Despite that, she enjoyed her walk with Relc through the rain. He was indeed far steadier than the Senior Guardsman of a year or two ago. A [Guard] dating an Archmage. Her only point of dismay was, once, when they were eating dinner in The Wandering Inn and she saw him chatting with some of the [Necromancers] and it hit her.
He had adapted to the new Liscor.
It was she who was falling behind. On that unsettling note, Zevara finally grew tired enough to sleep. Work was far easier than all these odd thoughts.
 
——
 
Watch Captain Zevara got back to her job and was relieved for it. Even if, well, things were different.
When she got into work that morning, Relc was sitting in an office, quill in his clawed hand, writing.
She stared at him so long he looked up.
“Hey, Captain Zevara. I know, I know. This is weird for me too. But look on the bright side: Valeterisa gave me a quill that corrects my spelling. Or tries to.”
She walked over and saw his handwriting was more legible than normal—but the magical quill seemed to have been fighting a terrible battle already.
“Are you sure you can handle things?”
“Who, me? Sure. I got called into Venim’s office, and he walked me through everything yesterday. It’s just boring work, filling things out and making sure everything adds up.”
Zevara opened her mouth to tell him that he was taking the job lightly, but then she caught herself.
“It is sort of like that. It’s more about making sure there’s a record. Of everything.”
He had to double-check reports and sign off on requests for budgets. She was going to tell him to be careful, but Relc signed his name with a flourish on the sheets.
“I’ve had to do it as a desk-sergeant before, Captain. Don’t even worry, Venim’s getting his people to check this stuff over. See? I’m even checking it against our budget.”
He had a sheet and was adding up the expense requests. Like…he knew what he was doing. Zevara kept staring until she saw his tail twitching and him glancing up at her.
“Right, well, you seem to be doing a good job, Relc. Let me know if you have trouble.”
He gave her a thumbs up and a toothy grin.
“Will do, Captain! You’re supposed to not even touch the administrative paperwork—Venim says we might get you a helper anyways. What’re you going to do with all your time?”
“Take a nap for once?”
She was half-serious, but Relc and a passing [Guard] laughed like it was the most inconceivable thing in the world. Zevara went up to her office, and in defiance of Venim, she pulled out all the paperwork she could find.
“Right. Fewer responsibilities. Right.”
 
——
 
It wasn’t like there was no job to do as Watch Captain. Zevara did do some of it; she had to go downstairs when a fight started with some people being hauled in, she talked to a patrol that had messed up and arrested the wrong Gnoll, and she scrambled some [Guards] to deal with a traffic jam down one of the main streets.
It was just that she had run her Watch House well enough and she knew the job such that she could handle all of this, which gave her hours upon hours of time she had to fill where she’d usually be catching up on paperwork or dealing with three times as many problems. But since her area of operations had been cut to a literal fourth of what it had been…
Wait, did the math work like that? Zevara had been in charge of 3rd District and the old city. Her new area was one third of original Liscor, as Venim, Beilmark, and Ronss’ districts all took one section.
Was that really three times as many problems or close to four? Zevara was trying to do some math with a map and a few idle sums on a piece of paper just after 10 o’clock…which indicated how desperate she was already.
Relc poked his head out of his office as she gave up on the mathematics.
“Hey, Captain Zevara, you wanna take the day off like Venim said? Not much to do.”
“I’ve got plenty to do, Relc!”
She tried to find it, she really did. But checking the state of the [Guards]’ lockers, training recruits in the practice courts, inspecting the mess room’s cleanliness…it all gave Zevara the vibe of being a nitpicking control freak rather than actual work.
She might have to take the week off after all. But then what? Zevara was re-filing all her paperwork in a vain attempt to stay in-office a few more minutes. In truth, quitting now and going for a bike ride or finding something else to do vaguely appealed to her.
I could have another drink. Or see how Bobble’s doing. Play some dice games in the Steer for old time’s sake. Go shopping in Invrisil.
Clean my apartment.
She was so desperate not to do any of these things that Zevara almost cried when she found a piece of paper that was her salvation. She read it, then shot from her desk.
“Sergeant Relc, I’ve found it!”
She brandished the paper at him, and Relc blinked at it. He’d put two reading spectacles on the bridge of his snout.
“Oh, hey. The dead crimes list. You go, Watch Captain.”
Zevara had, in her hands, the ultimate resort of the Watch if they had nothing else to do. On this sheet, this very short sheet, was a list of all the issues that Senior Guards had found and deemed worthy of the Watch’s time…but couldn’t get to.
‘Who Killed Mr. Soot?’, for instance, or ‘Is There a Racoon on Hiscale Street?’. In truth, the dead crimes list was short and unimportant. If it mattered, it wasn’t on the list. Which would have hurt old Soot’s feelings, but the Watch hadn’t had the resources to look into his death given how mysterious it had been. Nevertheless, Zevara adjusted her armor and nodded to Relc.
“I’m going out to check the cases.”
“You want backup, Captain?”
She hesitated.
“Most of this isn’t worthy of another [Guard]’s time. Besides, I’m the Watch Captain. I don’t have a partner.”
Senior Guards always had partners. Relc frowned at her.
“If you’re doing the first one about Soot, you can’t go anywhere dangerous without a partner, Watch Captain. Those are your own rules.”
She cursed, knowing he was right.
“I’ll stick to safe streets, and I won’t interview any of the gangs. But I know just where to start…”
She rubbed her hands. It might not result in much aside from their own, personal satisfaction, but the Watch had to know how Soot had died! Conclusively! It might take months of interviews, solid work piecing together clues…she strode out the door and into the rain. A few seconds later, Relc reached for a parasol and handed it to Zevara without a word.
Only after she was gone did he start laughing and holding his aching sides. So did a bunch of [Guards] downstairs. It was really, really hard to not do that when she was around.
 
——
 
Watch Captain Zevara’s search into the death of Mister Soot led her straight to her first and only witness: Mrsha du Marquin. As the girl had been kidnapped by the Raskghar, Zevara had hopes Mrsha would shed some light onto their actions.
Mrsha was the first and only witness because she closed the entire case. She was licking her nose over breakfast, trying to get some yogurt off it.
Mister Soot? Nokha killed him. She and her Raskghar ate his bodyguards. And him. I thought you knew? Nokha’s dead now. Chieftain Torishi killed her.
“I, uh—what?”
Zevara lowered her notepad. Mrsha wiped at her nose with a napkin.
I saw it.
“You saw it? You were there, personally?”
Mrsha hesitated.
No…it’s very complex, Watch Captain, and I could explain it for like four hours with lots of tears, or you could believe me. I saw it. Nokha did it. Case closed.
The girl who had seen too much in the [Palace of Fates] was a mystery to Zevara, and while the Watch Captain didn’t know why Mrsha’s gaze was so unsettlingly vast, she did know that Mrsha’s comments were almost undeniably true. Lamely, she scribbled in her notepad.
“I, uh…well, I need proof about this.”
You could ask the Raskghar that Pallass took. Some of them probably knew Nokha did it, or even did the eating.
…Like that, the girl shot down even the hopes of Zevara stretching this one out. The Watch Captain put her head down on the table.
“I can make an inquiry into Pallass. It’ll take weeks, but they will get back to us. Thank you.”
You’re very welcome, Watch Captain. Want some yogurt? I’m banned from doing anything else cool. Mom’s outside screaming about the New Lands of Liscor.
“The what now?”
 
——
 
