Pallass furniture. Some [Engineer] had made them, and they were snazzy but too expensive for her to ever justify getting. Technically, she could have gotten one on the Watch’s budget, but for what? It was just one of the things that Venim got with his new role. He tried not to laugh again, then snrked into one claw.
“Forgive me. But it’s very funny. Half of the Watch who knows you is talking about the Watch Captain destroying some junior [Guards] for not doing their jobs right. You are a legend amongst the new recruits.”
“What’s the other half think?”
He chuckled.
“The other half are reminiscing about the ‘good old days’ when they walked dark and swapping stories about the Slayer and Sergeant Relc, among others. Tell me, did you really do that before? I’d heard of the practice in other cities, but I never dreamed of doing it myself.”
There was the difference between him and her. Zevara shifted; she was from a smaller city, and he was from Pallass. She nodded to the desk.
“Oh, yes, sir. It wasn’t a fast patrol, and we had to move slowly to avoid being ambushed, but we didn’t have more than a single lantern per patrol. It was…different times.”
“Ancestors. What a nightmare. Well, I’m sure it shook up the rookies, and your visit to the…Steer must have been interesting. A dive?”
“Hellhole bar.”
“Dead gods, and you walked in there alone? With rookies and a single regular [Guard] to watch your back?”
Venim’s brows shot up in genuine alarm. Zevara coughed.
“I knew the bartender, sir. He knows that if anything happened to us in there, Senior Guardsman—sorry, Sergeant Relc would come after him, personally. It was relatively safe.”
At this, Venim just sat back and gestured for her to sit. When she did, he leaned over the desk.
“You don’t have to call me ‘sir’, Zevara. I may be Watch Commander, but I respect your role as the prior sole Watch Captain of Liscor. You’ve had to show me around the city for months—and I’m hardly going to take you to task for doing the job, even if it led to a few rookies getting knocked around.”
He chuckled again.
“It’s good for them to realize the Watch Captains can hold their own. We go to the training courts to prove an example in Pallass, too, every other month. Rushing in like that would have gotten Junior Guardsman Jorrey hurt, so it’s just as well he ran into you instead of the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings.”
“Those were the ones who impersonated the Watch and stole the jewels? Is there a lead on them?”
Zevara straightened, but Venim waved it away.
“Only suspicions. They’re annoyingly good at covering their tracks, as a major gang of the north would be. Watch Captain Ronss’ first task is going to be investigating the incident.”
Right, so it’s out of my territory now. Zevara leaned back.
“Of course, sir. Though the Brothers probably operate in the southwestern or northeast districts, if I had to guess. Too many Gnolls in southeast—if I can coordinate with Ronss—”
“We’ll see how he operates, but it’s a good test for his leadership, Zevara. Let’s go over the incident first, if I may.”
She sat up slightly and took a breath, nodding. Venim tapped the papers and scrawled something at the bottom, then stamped it.
“I…have formally reprimanded you for the incidents I consider unbecoming to a Watch Captain, namely, placing yourself in danger and the practicing of old Liscorian Watch methods in front of junior guards without proper education. With that, I am disciplining you with another week of leave this month and calling for Sergeant Relc to take on administrative shifts in your Watch House for the foreseeable future.”
He glanced up, and Zevara blinked at him. At first, she thought this was some devilish punishment he’d given her until she saw his slight smile and realized he didn’t conflate ‘Relc’ and ‘administration’ with instant disaster.
“What? Relc? Another week off? With respect, Venim, I’ve taken too many of those as it is!”
He stared at her, then picked out a paper from a file that had her name on it.
“Watch Captain, you took off two weeks last year.”
“Exactly, sir.”
“That would make it six weeks of leave you’ve taken across ten years, including time for two broken bones.”
“—That can’t be right. I’ve taken off plenty of time.”
Venim checked the circled numbers at the bottom of his page.
“You mean, days off work? No, you’ve clocked in a third of the days you should have been resting. I had a [Scribe] tabulate it all. True, some of those days were when Liscor was in crisis or under siege, but you have a work record that would earn you a year of break in Pallass. And I know I saw you in the Watch House on at least one of your days off.”
She shifted, uncomfortable.
“I was passing by, and one of the [Guards] had an incident with some Humans who came to the city, and it needed a deft touch—”
“Quite. The Council would approve any number of days off for you if I had to ask them, which I don’t, Zevara. Do you know what I see when I read this report?”
Venim tapped the papers, and she stared at him.
“That I’ve lost touch with the patrols and I need to get back to the basics?”
“No, that you’re so overworked that you don’t know what to do with your spare time, Watch Captain! It’s fine to take a patrol out or to focus on a problematic [Guard] or area of the city—but you took an Antinium patrol out and did a full circuit of eighty-two streets? In six hours?”
“They were…eager, Commander.”
Her feet still hurt from that. Venim gave Zevara a sharp, concerned gaze.
“You’re overworked, Captain Zevara. I think you just don’t feel it yet. I expected you to sleep your entire break, but I think you’re pushing too much. Sergeant Relc will take over a lot of the paperwork for you.”
“He’ll hate that. He’s not a great desk-Drake, Commander.”
The female Drake protested mildly, but Venim just held up a claw.
“He’s nearing his forties, isn’t he? Even a high-level [Warrior] slows down, and he is a [Watch Sergeant]. Leadership’s become him of late. He’s no longer partnered with the Slayer…”
Venim said that name with the faintest of shudders, and Zevara wished he’d gotten to know the Klbkch she had, not the fell legend Drakes in other cities thought of him—
“…and he teaches junior [Guards] amazingly well. Finding out if he can handle the administrative aspect of a position is vital. If he can, there’s a clear track from Sergeant to Watch Captain, in time. Not that I think we’ll have more than three Watch Captains on active duty—but replacements so you three can rotate out would bring us up to six or seven for the city even if we don’t expand further.”
Six or seven Watch Captains for Liscor? It made her head spin. Zevara tried not to laugh, and Venim raised his brows.
“Something funny, Zevara?”
She schooled her face hurriedly.
“Sorry, Commander. It’s just that Watch Captain and Relc in the same sentence would have been a joke last year.”
Venim shook his head.
“I don’t know the Gecko of Liscor from any moments prior to becoming Watch Commander, but I’ve heard the rumors, and I can see why that would be assumed. He’s done quite well in his new class.”
“Of course, I didn’t mean to impugn him in any way.”
Now, she felt like the ass, but Venim just gave her a nod that said he got it.
“I’ll keep an eye on him, and I’m sure you will. Let him take the work on, and we’ll see. Besides…it was recommended to me that he’d be surprisingly good as a leader.”
“By who, sir?”
“Lord Raithland.”
Zevara blinked, then nearly shot out of her chair.
“You spoke to—is he still trying to get into the Council meetings?”
The half-Giant who looked like an older version of Moore had appeared just after the Goblin King did, entering Liscor like a storm. Well, he’d blocked a dozen bombardment spells that had nearly hit the city, which had already made him something of a hero, but he’d also bouldered his way into an embassy—by force. Zevara had taken his side then, but he was highly suspicious to her. He stank of The Wandering Inn, but Venim just shrugged.
“He’s quite knowledgeable, and the Council’s heard him out. He’s been talking to Guildmasters, to the election candidates—I think he’s even trying to get on the ballots last-minute.”
“He’s not even a citizen of Liscor!”
“He could be named an honorary one, and he’s bought a property in the 3rd District. Don’t worry, Watch Captain. I hardly take orders from a foreign [Lord], but he had a number of ideas of how to modernize the city. He’s been to proper cities, like Pallass.”
Proper cities. That bugged her so much she forgot to press about the half-Giant. Zevara fidgeted, folded her arms, then uncrossed them.
“So you’re taking my work away?”
Venim corrected her.
“I’m giving you time to adjust to a proper workload, Zevara. By all means, take the day off if you run out of work to do and you have Sergeant Relc or another Senior Guard you trust in office. Once you adjust, I’m sure you’ll find you’re busy with all the things you couldn’t focus on while you were managing the entire city. Maintenance of uniforms, repairs to the Watch House, problematic areas in your district—then we’ll be here, arguing over budgets and trying to get the Assembly of Crafts—I mean, the Council to give us repair budgets.”
He smiled at her, anticipating those future encounters with a slight wince. Zevara just sat there, trying to imagine herself doing that.
“What about The Wandering Inn?”
That made Venim’s smile slip slightly, which she wished didn’t give her so much pleasure. He fussed with his papers.
“It seems relatively…stable at the moment. Distance has indeed kept it from affecting Liscor—the last event excluded, but no one was hurt or killed, and I suppose that’s what we can hope for. The Council has focused on it, and I’m in contact with the Walled Cities about the matter. But we’re letting it stay as its own problem unless it affects us, Watch Captain. The most I heard we were going to do with it was tax it. Isn’t that what you recommended?”
Oh, that sounded like a fun event for whatever [Tax Collector] was on the job. Zevara hesitated. She had told Venim that the inn was hard to control and often bit you if you poked it, but…there was a difference between leaving it alone and staying in touch with it.
He was the Watch Commander, though. And she realized that was it. He was the Watch Commander. She was Watch Captain Zevara, and if she wanted to call the shots, she really should have taken his job.
“Watch Commander, you have a meeting with the Council in fifteen. Should I signal you’ll be delayed?”
The door opened, and a receptionist, a young Gnoll, asked. Venim shook his head and glanced at Zevara.
“I should be right on time unless there was anything else, Watch Captain…?”
“No, Commander. Thank you for your time. I’ll try to relax, then.”
She stood and threw a salute, which he returned. No, Zevara didn’t want to be him; she’d seen a list of his meetings for the day, and he was more meeting than desk-Drake. But he did call the shots. She didn’t want all of Liscor to be her problem, though. She wanted to be the Watch Captain doing things. But now she was one of three, possibly seven.
She…Zevara walked out of Venim’s office as he advised her to get some rest and of course contact him with any issues. He was doing a good job, she thought. Not the job she would have done, but good.
And she…
She trailed out of the new Watch Headquarters, recently built by Antinium out of stone, not old wood polished with age, fortified like a keep, filled with as many administrative people as [Guards]. She stared at the building and then around at the city which, in the faint light of the rains, still bustled with sound and opportunity.
Her city.
Not her city. She felt old in it, out of place. Had Tekshia ever felt the same? Surely. Surely…but Zevara could adjust. She was young and still hip with the things. Is that what the children said? She swore she’d heard Erin saying that once.
What worried her was that perhaps she was delusional. Because despite the cleansing rain, the magical portal station being built in the plaza, the new faces—
It still felt dirty to her, down under it all.
Dirty. She ran her claws along the wall of the Watch Headquarters. Trying to pick some up on her nails. But all she got was clean water.
 
——
 
Having a day off always felt wrong to the Watch Captain. It was, in theory, something to rejoice over, but it messed with her, that break in her routine.
For Zevara, it was waking up in bed just before dawn and realizing she didn’t have to rush out the door to get to the Watch House and greet last night’s patrol. She lay in bed and slept another hour. Then woke up hungry.
“Food. Get to it, Guardswoman.”
That was how she motivated herself, snapping at herself as if she were both Watch Captain and [Guardswoman]. Zevara popped out of bed and stumbled into her kitchen wearing only a shift. She opened her food pantry and found a pouch of grains and some milk.
The pouch was empty of all but a scoop of very old oats. Zevara stared at it and recalled that she’d been unhappy about that of late. And there were no fruits in her cupboard. Or eggs. Or butter.
The milk had chunks in it. She closed the cupboard. Normally, she had a more fulfilling breakfast in the Watch House. A [Guard] would get assigned kitchen duties to whip something up for patrols, and you always knew who was the best cook…Zevara’s specialty was frying flatbread with butcher meat and hitting the entire thing with whatever spices were cheapest on Market Street.
Nothing for it; she’d have to treat herself to breakfast on the street. She got paid enough for that. The Watch Captain went for the door.
She tripped along the way.
The crash was her going head-over-heels—the swearing was because she’d tweaked her tail. The instrument of her devastation was the machine of death.
The bike.
It sat in her apartment, sticking out from the couch covered in articles of Zevara’s gear and clothing that she’d been meaning to wash or dry. Zevara stared at it as she untangled a chair from the damn spokes.
“Right. I forgot I had this thing.”
The bike. Kevin’s bike.
Well, not his bike, but one from Solar Cycles, brand new. Not the highest-end model, but she knew this thing was probably worth a lot of gold. He’d given it to her last winter. Before he died.
She’d been fully annoyed to find it on her doorstep one day, delivered from his shop. The Watch didn’t take bribes. But before she could throw it at him and warn him to stop running over her tail, he’d died.
