There were three rather burly men shoving at the Gnoll. The other Gnolls working in the mill were approaching fast, but Relc lifted a hand.
“Lads, lads—Miss, I can handle this. We’re the Watch, and trespassing on private property is illegal in Drake cities. Which this is.”
He sauntered over, spear on his shoulders, a huge smile on his face, and this was classic Senior Guardsman Relc. The three servants hesitated as they saw him coming—Relc could project bad news in a way that even ordinary [Thugs] got.
The [Driver] just sneered down at Relc.
“Out of our way, Guardsman. This is Lady—”
He leaned back and cringed as the window behind him slammed open.
“Guards, Your Ladyship. I’m telling them—yes, Your Ladyship.”
He turned back as Zevara moved sideways, checking for more threats coming on Relc’s side. She saw a rain-spattered icon on the carriage door and blinked.
It was a bundle of roses with thorns and vines twining upwards around a familiar crest. She knew this one.
House Reinhart. It was normally only the pink carriage Zevara recalled, but this was the crest of all of House Reinhart, not just Lady Magnolia herself. But as she stared at it, she realized that in the rain, you could easily mistake the wending thorns and flowers for…
Snakes.
The [Driver] hopped down, cursing as he gestured at the carriage and strode up to Relc.
“Lady Cecille wishes to speak to Honored Deskie herself. She is a very busy woman—”
“And this is private property. You can’t muscle your way in here. The Gnolls will call the Watch, otherwise. Which is me and my partner.”
Relc jerked a thumb at Zevara, and the [Driver] forced an irritated smile.
“Guardsman, Lady Cecille is very busy. If you’d consider ignoring this triviality while I soothe these furry folk?”
He waved a dismissive hand at the ‘furry folk’, who growled because they had excellent hearing, but Zevara didn’t miss him clasping Relc’s claw. Then again, she didn’t have to, because Relc regarded the gold coin he’d been slipped and flipped it in one clawed hand.
“Nice bribe. Hey, Captain Z—what’s the penalty for bribing the Watch?”
He flicked the coin, and it pinged off the carriage window hard enough to make the glass tremble. But it stayed in one piece; it must have been enchanted. Zevara swore she saw the curtains move slightly, but she had no notion of who was inside…
“Senior Guardsman Relc, that would be imprisonment overnight in the Watch’s jail for a minor infraction, but we offer verbal warnings. Master Driver, I suggest you remove your carriage from Honored Deskie’s premises—now. And we would like a word with Lady Cecille Reinhart about a matter of Watch business.”
At the name ‘Captain Z’, the [Driver] visibly paled and began to deny he’d been bribing anyone. But then the sliding hatch opened in the carriage, and a faint voice spoke.
“Sollux, you imbecile. Step aside. And you, Watch Captain, approach.”
Zevara did not like the presumptuous tone coming from the carriage and sloshed over in the rain. She stood next to the window and rapped on the glass.
“Lady Cecille Reinhart?”
The glass window rolled down a crack, and the curtains moved ever-so-slightly. Zevara got a look at a woman sitting in the back of a carriage, wrapped up in a scarf and a huge fur coat, likely for the cold. But no more than a glimpse; the [Lady] spoke, her voice muffled from the carriage.
“I believe my man erred in attempting to smooth things over, Watch Captain. Having him arrested would be dreadfully inconvenient. I trust this matter is closed? Or did you have a reason to bother me about my business?”
Her three cronies and the [Driver] lined up next to the carriage, shivering in the rain. Zevara bet they rode while hanging onto the carriage or in the driver’s seat or rear stoop; she couldn’t imagine this woman sharing space with anyone.
“As a matter of fact, Lady Cecille, I am launching an inquiry into some thefts in Liscor. May I interview you about your activities the last few days? Please roll down your window.”
After a long, long pause, the window edged down half an inch. Lady Cecille’s voice sounded distinctly displeased.
“I do believe I would recall a theft of my property, Watch Captain. I have not launched any complaints. Sollux, did you?”
“N-no, Lady Reinhart!”
His teeth were chattering. Zevara sighed.
“I meant of other people’s property, Lady Cecille.”
“Oh, someone else has been robbed? Dreadful, dreadful.”
Zevara saw the woman was painting her nails in the carriage! The Drake tried to stare into the window as rain pelted her and got a glimpse of some red lips, green, piercing eyes, and a disinterested face.
Human nobility. She’d heard they were bad, but this—
“Yes, Lady Cecille, so I would appreciate your cooperation!”
“I see, I see. I, however, am too busy for such matters. Good day, Watch Captain. Sollux? I will visit this weaver another day.”
The man leapt in the carriage seat at once and almost started the carriage before Zevara, stunned, barked back.
“You can’t just ride away from me! This is a Watch matter!”
The carriage halted as Relc blocked the way of the horses, and Lady Cecille’s window cracked down again.
“Really, Sollux?”
“This is a Drake City, Lady Reinhart—should I—?”
From the way he glanced at the three Humans, Zevara felt an itch running down her spine, but she and Relc would have easily been able to take down three regular goons. Cecille sighed loudly.
“I didn’t order you to do anything Sollux. Very well, Watch Captain. What is your name?”
“Watch Captain Zevara, Lady Cecille. Now, I have a report of you hassling an Antinium Worker about some items he was selling?”
“An Antinium…oh, I suppose I stared at the insects, yes indeed. What of it?”
Zevara gritted her teeth.
“May I ask why you were buying goods from Antinium?”
“Watch Captain, I collect interesting items all the time. I don’t recall this incident you seem convinced I had a hand in. Perhaps I saw something I desired and wished to buy it? It certainly sounds like me, though from an insect…”
“An Antinium Worker, Lady Reinhart.”
“And did I steal something from this…Worker?”
“No, Lady Reinhart, I’m merely inquiring into your actions.”
Lady Cecille’s voice went even drier.
“Very well done, then. I can see that vaunted Drake efficiency is all over this city. Is that all? I attempted to buy some object, I can readily admit to. And my involvement in this dreadful crime is…?”
Zevara didn’t have a link, but she would have given up her sword to find one right now. She gritted her teeth.
“You didn’t steal anything and you have no involvement in any thefts or crimes in Liscor, then?”
“No, Watch Captain, I do not. You could have led with that question, incidentally.”
“Thank you for your time, then.”
The window snapped up in a second, and Watch Captain Zevara stood there. Blisteringly annoyed, she watched as the carriage sped down the street. Relc sauntered over, claws in his pockets.
“Was she as rude as I thought I heard, Watch Captain? You were breathing smoke there.”
“She was—and good thing you were there, Relc, because I think she’d have put those bullyboys on me if not for you. Then again, she didn’t sound stupid. Just arrogant. Tell me you got something.”
Zevara had little hope. If he had, he’d have stepped in. Relc sighed and showed her the truth stone he’d been hiding behind a claw.
“It wasn’t reacting to most of what she said. But that last part I got pure white on.”
“Really? Damn. I thought she was dancing around the truth very well—but she just came out with a denial.”
Truth stones were issued to all Senior Guards these days, and Zevara had been trying to get Cecille to admit to a crime so she could nab her—but then it hadn’t been her, but Merchant Yerham, hadn’t it? Even so, a woman prepared to bribe or run straight into a weavery to get her way surely did something wrong each day…but Relc just shrugged.
“Maybe she’s just some snooty idiot. Reinharts, huh? I only knew Magnolia, but I hear they suck. And there’s more of them up north. Valeterisa talks like they’re all vipers.”
“It certainly explains how Crusader Lerhne got mixed up. She’s a person of interest in this case, Relc. Let’s keep an eye out for her and ask the rest of the Watch if she’s causing mischief. Otherwise…Merchant’s Guild?”
He groaned as she pointed.
“Now my feet hurt, Zevara. I’d rather run there and back than walk in the rain another thirty minutes.”
She had an idea and offered him a crooked smile.
“Well, we could take my bicycle. Rock, sword, wand, and the loser runs?”
Relc perked up at once.
“Hey! I get to ride one of those things and make you run behind me?”
He missed her smirk as she held out a fist.
 
——
 
Watch Captain Zevara parked her bicycle by the Merchant’s Guild, trusting that the guards would keep it safe, and noticed someone else had one set up there too. Relc wasn’t panting, but he pretended to clutch at his sides as he stopped.
“Argh! I hate that thing! You cheated!”
“I did not.”
She spoke with a straight face. Relc pointed at her furiously.
“You said you were going to play ‘rock’!”
“I was just being honest.”
Those kinds of games were more about psychology than anything else, and Zevara had [Sense Intentions]. Relc was a good [Guard], but he didn’t exactly have Klbkch’s sense of subtlety.
Once they were inside, they dried off with some complimentary towels, and Zevara marched over the fancy marble floors of the expensive guild to ask about a Merchant Yerham.
To her relief, he was in the Guild, and when he came out, he seemed genuinely surprised—and a bit worried—when they asked to speak with him in an office.
The Merchant’s Guild let their richer members have places to stay when visiting other cities, and Yerham poured them some water. He was a thinner man with a vest with a bunch of pockets on it that was still very expensive—his eyes flicked to Zevara, to Relc, and he licked his lips.
“Watch Captain and Senior Guardsman Relc. To—to what do I owe this unexpected visit?”
“We’re just investigating a matter of a theft, Merchant Yerham. An attempted theft and series of thefts, to be precise.”
Lerhne had said ‘a Human man’ from Yerham’s company had stolen from him. Zevara had wondered if it could be the [Lady], but Yerham’s twitch made her glance at Relc. He was drinking water, while his other claw was balled into a fist under the table, hiding a truth stone from the man.
“Thefts, oh my. That sounds, ah, rather serious.”
Yerham took a big gulp of water, and then color returned to his cheeks.
“However, I can assure you I haven’t had any thefts to my property! This is in regards to the, uh—uh, Jeweler’s Guild thefts, yes?”
“Actually, Merchant Yerham, we were inquiring into more…localized thefts. Can you tell us if you were attempting to make purchases from any individuals in the city these last few days?”
Relc gave Zevara a casual nudge with his tail that the Human man missed—it said there hadn’t been a lie so far. Yerham murmured.
“Purchases? I’m doing a lot of business in Liscor, and I’ve been making several—purchases, Watch Captain. Attempts at them, anyways; you know how it is.”
“For your caravan? I didn’t know you had one, Merchant Yerham.”
Hesitation. He licked his lips.
“I don’t have one at this time. I took the door from Invrisil just to scope out the city ahead of a possible trading trip! I intend to finish my business in a day or two.”
Truth, lie, truth. Zevara raised her brows.
“What are you searching for, Master Yerham?”
“Why, anything of value, Watch Captain. You know us [Merchants]. I’m interested in fine materials, magical artifacts, and I do specialize in curios!”
Lie, and a half-lie. Zevara glanced at Relc, and he took over.
“Curios like Honored Deskie’s products and inventions from the Meeting of Tribes?”
Yerham paled a shade further.
“That’s, ah, very astute of you, Senior Guardsman. Has Honored Deskie been robbed? I would hate it if that were the case.”
“Not her, but we are very concerned about a series of thefts.”
Relc emphasized the word, and Yerham nodded faintly. His eyes were locked on Zevara. She felt ready to pounce, and she was checking to see he wasn’t holding a wand or something. This is where the arrest could get nasty! And this was real Watch work.
Why was this man stealing Antinium goods? They’d soon find out—sometimes in this line of business, you found the criminal before you knew what the crime was. A lot of the time, actually.
She gave him her best not-so-kind Watch Captain smile and leaned forwards.
“Master Yerham, it seems to us that you know more than you’re letting on. We know you’re lying.”
He paled and began to stutter a denial, but she cut him off.
“Just tell us the truth and we’ll let you go. Master Yerham, why would an upstanding [Merchant] with plenty of gold stoop to stealing from Antinium in the streets?”
She smiled as Relc grinned, and the [Merchant] stared at her—and the wrinkled brow covered in sweat suddenly unknotted. He sat back, took a deep breath, and smiled.
Uh oh.
“Antinium? Watch Captain, I don’t steal from—dead gods! Is this what this is all about? I swear on a truth spell that I haven’t stolen from nor do I have any knowledge of anyone stealing from Antinium! Who would do such a thing? In Liscor? With the Free Hive under our feet?”
Relc and Zevara shot each other suddenly concerned looks. He nudged her. Truth on each statement? Yerham pushed himself back from the table.
“I know—aha, I know exactly what you’re talking about! There was that Antinium who was selling a scroll, wasn’t there? I approached him and underbid it—quite embarrassing, but I didn’t steal anything! A [Guardsman] even interviewed me about the incident! Cossl, I think. Yes, Guardsman Cossl. I told him the same thing I’ll tell you: I had nothing to do with it, and none of my people did either!”
This time, Zevara actually turned to Relc, who gave up and showed her the truth stone. It was glowing white.
Could he be lying to her? Relc and Zevara both had ways of detecting guilt beyond mere truth stones, which you could talk around. Zevara’s instincts and her Skills like [Sense Intentions] told her that Merchant Yerham was guilty of something and very, very worried.
But not this. And she’d just walked them into a problem.
“Well—that’s very reassuring to know, Merchant Yerham. We’re investigating these thefts—”
“And I can attest that I stole nothing. In fact, my entire bodyguard team can swear on truth stones they had nothing to do with that theft either! I can call them over, if you’d like.”
