She hadn’t had the heart to toss or donate it. The Watch should not take gifts, but from a dead man? Zevara stared at the bicycle and thought, well, to hells with it. It was probably faster than walking, and it was her day off.
 
——
 
Six minutes later, Zevara realized that learning how to ride a bicycle in the rain was not a great idea. Getting it down from her 2nd floor apartment via the narrow staircase had been hard enough; one of her Gnollish neighbors had given her a look as he let his kids out for the morning.
Once on the street, she’d had to consult the manual that had still been attached to the bicycle. Handily, this one was simple and told her how the thing operated. Just keep pedaling…put your foot down after braking to stay upright. And there was even a ‘tail holster’ so you didn’t run it over or tangle it in the wheel.
A few attempts at cycling on the wet street wasn’t fun, though. The bicycle had all-metal wheels covered with Wyvern leather, reinforced and enchanted by Pelt and Hedault, but it wasn’t great traction. Mostly, though…it was just too efficient.
“Whoa, whoa—argh!”
A few rotations of the wheels and she shot down the street, tried to brake, and hit the front brakes way too hard. So the bicycle’s frontal wheel halted, and the momentum catapulted her forwards, off the vehicle. Zevara landed on her front in the street, lay there for a second, and of course got on the bicycle again.
Because she’d be damned if this thing beat her. Six minutes later, Zevara was gingerly pedaling down the street, avoiding the pedestrians while keeping out of the way of wagons. Most people who saw her stared at the bicycle or the rather unkempt Watch Captain. Possibly they took her as some other Drake woman; out of uniform, she wasn’t the Zevara they knew.
Twice, Zevara nearly got in trouble with the law. She kept nearly running the traffic lights; she’d forgotten how many there were! And because her bicycle was classified as a vehicle, she had to remember the rules of the road.
Both times, the [Guard] just blew a whistle at her, and she stopped, turning her head and flushing bright red under her scales. Thankfully, no one recognized her in the rain, and Zevara pedaled on.
Breakfast. Life would be better with…
“What do you mean closed?”
Hamhock Bites was a local…food place. A delicatessen would be too grand a word for it. It served ham on bread. Not sandwiches—again, that was too fancy. But for a copper coin, you could fill half your stomach with something that was probably meat and probably bread.
Zevara had gone to it since she was a girl. Today, it was closed. The usual line of working-class Drakes and Gnolls was gone, and an apologetic Drake addressed her as he took the sign down.
“Sorry, Watch Captain. We got bought out. Anyways, it’s not like Hamhocks was doing well, not lately. Everyone wants a burger or pizza or something almost as cheap.”
“But who’d want to buy your shop?”
It was in the southwest district along one of the bigger streets, true, but…the Drake just laughed.
“Now that we’re next to 3rd District, there’s good money in places here. Me, I’m taking my money and buying my family a bigger home in the new areas. My boy’s a [Butcher], and he’s selling scrap meat for all the hot dogs and whatnot. I’ll help him with the business. I’d get you one of the old Hamhock day-old specials if I could, but I reckon poisoning the Watch Captain is a bad way to go out.”
He gave her a friendly nod. Zevara was about to ask who was buying him out when the Drake stepped off the little ladder, and someone came out with a new sign and hung it up above her head.
Mottleshell’s Pet Café. The Antinium holding the sign had a cat drawn on his shell. Zevara stared at him, then another Antinium with mossy green and grey on his shell, in a rather attractive pattern, came forwards.
“Hello, Watch Captain. I am Mottleshell, the new owner of this café. I would offer you delightful petting experiences and food, but I am sad to say that this is an Antinium-specialty store.”
She stared at him. The Drake gave her a meaningful gaze as a bunch of mewing cats and dogs followed the worker into the store. She saw the small store was being converted; it had tons of mats, and it seemed like you sat while animals crawled around you.
“Uh. What? Antinium-specialty? That’s not allowed.”
Species-exclusive establishments weren’t allowed in Liscor; there had been a huge fight back with the old Council over the entire matter. Mottleshell clarified.
“We will serve you if you wish, Watch Captain Zevara, but it will not be pleasant. Would you like a sample meal? On the house?”
“I’ll pay. I don’t take free gifts.”
Zevara went into the shop and found herself seated with a cat on her lap. She stared at the cat. The cat stared back. It expected some petting, so Zevara did her best; after a few moments, the cat hopped out of her lap, a commentary on how good she was at that.
The theory of Mottleshell’s café was a good one. In practice? It was spring in Liscor. The animals…were wet. They were also still cats and dogs. A puppy ran over Zevara’s lap, and she jumped; a cat horked up a hairball that one of the Antinium Workers hurried to clean up, but it wasn’t doing anything for her stomach. And all the pets seemed to think people were excellent towels.
Despite this, there was a line of Antinium waiting to get in. They didn’t mind the smell, and Zevara quickly realized why this shop was marketing itself as Antinium-specialty.
“Here is our menu, Watch Captain. It, um. It is very edible, except for the Antinium nutritional paste. Do not order that. Or the Shield Spider legs. Everything is boiled.”
Mottleshell handed her a menu, and Zevara read from it. If she’d thought Hamhocks was cheap…
 
Acid Fly Bowl (one serving) — 2 cp.
Antinium Nutritional Paste — Free with seating.
Shield Spider parts (two servings) — 1 cp.
Rats/pests (two servings, may not always be available) — 1 cp.
Monster Parts of the Day (one serving) — 1 cp.
 
“By…rats, do you mean something special?”
“No, we mean rats caught by [Ratcatchers], Watch Captain. Those that do not use poison sell them to us in bulk. Or roaches, spiders, the small ones, or—”
Zevara put down the menu.
“I see. And the monster parts?”
“Scraps from the dungeon that have been deemed edible, Watch Captain. Like caterpillars. Some parts of them are not edible.”
“…And you have Workers who pay for this?”
Mottleshell lowered his voice.
“If it is that or the nutritional paste, they will pay for it, Watch Captain.”
“I’m almost tempted to order the paste to see what it tastes like. Klbkch told me stories.”
She joked weakly, and all the Antinium turned and regarded her. Mottleshell shook his head slowly.
“I would not, Watch Captain. May I take your order?”
“Er, no thank you. Carry on. Thank you for letting me see what it’s like in here. How much do I owe…?”
She hadn’t sat long, so Mottleshell waved off her copper, which was the price of admission. His store was apparently a copper to sit for an hour with pets, and the food was optional. She didn’t see how you could run a store on these prices until she considered that since he lived in the Antinium Hive or potentially apartments for his people, and the food was free…if he was willing to eat it…
Antinium had money these days. Some kind of allowance from the Free Queen, but it wasn’t much. This was a store catering to them. Indeed, the line outside contained only two Painted Antinium; the rest were Workers or even Soldiers between shifts at their jobs. Each one seemed to have one or two copper coins at most. Was that per day or per week…?
They were vibrating with urgency to enter the store, and one stood paralyzed in the entry-way when they finally paid their copper coin to enter this fluffy, wet-furred paradise. Zevara watched until her growling stomach reminded her that she needed food as well. So back on her bike she went.
…No, wait. Someone had stolen it. She saw that in the brief moment she’d been inattentive, a young thief had done what any Liscorian would do in the old days and hopped on and begun pedaling madly away. The Antinium pointed to her urgently, but only a few were chasing; the rest didn’t want to lose their place in line.
Time was, a single Antinium would have scared anyone spitless so even if there was a pile of gold, no one would get near. Zevara sighed nostalgically and pointed at the thief’s back.
“[Freeze, Criminal].”
She watched with some satisfaction as the bike went over and a shout of pain came from the thief who’d tangled their tail in the wheel.
 
——
 
It wasn’t worth hauling the kid to the Watch House. The Watch did let people off with warnings, and when the frightened Drake had realized it was the Watch Captain he’d tried to steal from, he’d clearly envisioned himself behind bars for a year.
“Stop stealing bicycles, kid. Only Solar Cycles sells them, and any [Fence] in the city will rip you off for the trouble of riding one. Next time I see you stealing, I won’t be this nice.”
She advised the street kid. The Drake protested.
“Nuh, Watch Captain. There’s a market for them bicycle parts! You cut it up and sell them for one of them other bikes. Solar Cycles ain’t doing them alone.”
“What? That’s impossible. I know the maker—Selys told me how damn hard they are to make.”
All the gears and whatnot…the Drake boy edged back, clearly ready to run.
“You can get one from Pallass. Some [Smiths] make ‘em, and the House of El’s done some, and there’s plenty of bad ones. Made of wood and iron. Heavy as shit. Anything from Solar Cycles is worth lots.”
“Oh, so it’s a chop-shop job. You steal this, cut it up, and sell it, and someone’s riding on these wheels later?”
He nodded, then his eyes widened as Zevara recognized the scheme. She gave him a steady gaze.
“Well, now I know you were trying to make sensible coin off my bicycle, beat it. If my guards catch you running this scheme, you’ll be seeing me again.”
He made tracks. Zevara shook her head as she pedaled off in search of food. And now she had an expensive bicycle she had to watch. Not lock up; even if she had a chain and lock, someone would just cut it off in a second. That’s what she would have done.
“Damn Kevin—my tail!”
She’d forgotten the tail holster.
 
——
 
It was true there were more bicycles on the streets than her own. Zevara saw six in the time it took her to cross back eastwards, and only one was a Solar Cycles original. All of them gave her envious glances; theirs were far heavier-seeming vehicles made of materials cheaper than steel. Thick wood wheels, grinding gears—one Human looked like he was dying for every ten feet he moved, but his rolling bicycle—more like a cart with a gear system—did move.
Zevara nearly wiped out on the slick roads, but she had to grudgingly admit that her bicycle had decent traction and was certainly fast in the rain. But by now, she was so hungry that only the bicycle was enabling her to move anywhere at speed.
The problem was…everywhere was full! She’d thought to get food from a street vendor, but the first line had been fourteen people long. The next? Thirty.
“Hot dogs! Hot dogs with cheese fillings! Special Skill here!”
“Fish dogs! Made out of fish!”
“Corusdeer Burger? Anyone want—mayonnaise and ketchup on top!”
“Yellat pie! C’mon, who wants an old-fashioned Yellat pie?”
That had the least amount of customers, and it was cheap…but even Zevara wasn’t ready to pay for something that cheap. It was all Yellat: the simple vegetable made up the pie’s filling, and the skin did for the crust and top. Two coppers and you’d probably be full for most of the day, but your taste buds would not thank you.
It was nice to have more food and more high-quality products on the streets. Just—if she could eat it!
So many Humans and other people! The restaurants were full, the cafés were busy serving tea and coffee—and when Zevara did get an opening, she didn’t have anywhere to park her bicycle!
Addled, starving, there was only one place she could think to turn in her hour of need.
The Watch House! She was halfway into the barracks when they kicked her out.
“Wh—I’m just getting some food!”
“Can’t let you in, Watch Captain. Commander Venim’s orders. It’s your day off!”
An apologetic Guardswoman Jerci blocked Zevara, who was staring at some—
“Is that a tart? Egg and bacon?”
“Yep. Made it myself, Watch Captain.”
Jerci appeared quite proud. Zevara tried to edge past her.
“I’ll just get—come on, this isn’t me working. Just one would—hey! Hey!”
Even for the Watch Captain, dozens of hungry [Guards] were only too willing to shove her aside to get at the treats. With her slow damn bicycle, Zevara saw only crumbs of the tray. After wrestling with her pride, she didn’t ask Jerci to pick at the pan.
On the way out, Zevara swore she felt a tingle on her scales. She checked her fingers, and a ring she always wore gleamed a second—she turned her head and didn’t see anyone, but she swore she heard voices.
“Damn. Anti-appraisal. Do you think she’s actually not Level 40…?”
All Watch Captains got issued rings that denied [Appraisal] spells. Zevara snorted as she walked off. Who wouldn’t have one of those on all the time? She was sensible about always wearing her magical items.
Just…not buying cooking ingredients sometimes.
 
——
 
So this was how she died. Zevara was slowly cycling through Shivertail Plaza in the center of the city, wondering if the Council were meeting. They had free food. That vendor had only eighteen people…then she heard a familiar shout.
“Liscor, departing now! Remember, all Pallass-bound citizens, have your passport ready!”
The magic door. There was a line and even awnings set up in the center of the plaza, just off from the statue of Zel Shivertail. Zevara’s eyes snapped to the people filing through, and she had a thought.
These days, you went to other cities via The Wandering Inn. You had to pay a fee to get anywhere, and you’d wait with that Gnoll, Liska, as she sent you through to your destination. But getting to The Wandering Inn cost you nothing from Liscor.
And if there was anywhere in the world that wasn’t full-to-bursting during the breakfast rush hour…Zevara joined the line like a shot. She rolled her bicycle through the door, and a familiar Gnoll sitting on a couch glanced up.
“Oh, it’s you, Watch Captain. What’ve we done this time?”
Liska picked at her teeth, glaring at Zevara, and the Watch Captain cleared her throat.
“Nothing that I know of. Should I? I’m off-duty, and I actually came for breakfast…”
