The [Barman] gave Zevara a grin, and she thought she smelled something on his breath, now. Probably Golucky or something that’d keep him from feeling his scars and in a good mood. He traded in drugs and took a cut of the gambling here—Liscor didn’t restrict gambling to designated locations, but gambling for gold was supposed to be only a single table in a tavern. She bet there were high-stakes games in some back rooms—high stakes games with high consequences for cheaters.
But Bobble was no kingpin of crime. Even the name—Drakes had stupid names, but ‘Bobble’ was a hard sell for a gang leader, even for them. She smiled at him, genuine.
“Relc’s keen to protect kids and keep the city safe from real monsters, Bobble. So long as you don’t have someone who’s dragging their tail through the sewers in your fine establishment, he’ll never come calling. You know that. What, are you that worried of Venim? Pallass has plenty of crime.”
Bobble shrugged, clearly reassured as he poured a drink for himself. All the patrons were undoubtedly listening in to their chat. He tossed his cloth sideways at a Gnoll, who jumped and probably caught a venereal disease.
“People talk. Hey, stop leaning in! Can’t I catch up with an old—friend? D’you recognize Maxius here, Zevara? Or any of the old faces?”
She waved a claw.
“Most probably changed since I was a Senior Guardswoman. Maxius…knives, right?”
The Gnoll pulled the cloth off his nose and tried not to gag.
“Bobble, that thing could kill a skunk. Knives, Watch Captain? I may have sold one or two over the years. I remember you—”
She grinned at him as he did the innocent game with a twinkle in his eyes.
“Yes, yes. You used to sell knives before a big fight in the Steer. It got so bad that every time you opened your coat, anyone with sense went for the nearest window.”
“Watch Captain, I’m entirely respectable these days. Now, I have a little storefront down Cherishing Way.”
Where you could get a few tweaks for your knife, she had no doubt, from a serrated edge to a bit of poison or file off identifying initials or tracking spells off a stolen blade. She tipped her cup to him and took another gulp.
“Life’s treated you well, then?”
“Not as well as you, Watch Captain. We were all very proud, you know, when you made Watch Captain. Bobble served out free drinks. We all said you’d be coming with the Watch any moment to bust this place down.”
Maxius grinned at her, and she rolled her eyes. Zevara sat with her back to the bar, inspecting the room.
“I’m just here to reminisce. You can stop [Pumping for Information], Maxius.”
His smile slipped.
“Just a curious Gnoll, Watch Captain. One might think you were after someone here.”
“Soot’s dead. Who else should I be going after?”
Maxius and Bobble traded gazes, and Zevara’s eyes narrowed slightly.
“—Unless there’s a bigger player back in Liscor?”
“There’s some…Brothers. Rather interesting fellows. You know about them, Watch Captain?”
She thought of Normen, blazing with fire, and raised her brows. Or Wilovan and Ratici—
“Invrisil’s gang. What about them? I know they’re in Liscor. I thought they just had a few streets.”
“More’n a few, Watch Captain. They’re getting big fast. Very strident fellows they are, too. All smiles until you do the wrong thing on their turf. Mostly, they just talk, but if you cross their lines—they’re rather direct.”
From the way Bobble licked his lips, he didn’t like what he’d seen. Few things made the Drake nervous, so Zevara blinked.
“I had no idea they scared the gangs around here so bad. What happened to the old tough attitudes? You cross me and we’ll feed you to the fishes in the spring, the Shield Spiders anytime else?”
She meant it as a light jest, but Bobble spat again.
“Easy for you to say, Guardsw—Captain. You’ve never seen them take their hellcursed hats off. Between them and the Antinium, it’s hard to make a living.”
She gave him a sardonic look.
“I sincerely doubt the Watch would make things impossible to live around here, even if we were four times larger, Bobble. Don’t cry healing potions to me.”
“I’m just saying, Watch Captain, if there were anyone you wanted to watch—things are quieter without Soot. But there’s always another Soot, if you catch my drift.”
“Not the same as him, though. Seeing you back here reminds me of the old schemer. I almost thought you were going to ask where he was and have Relc, Klbkch, Jeiss, and Beilmark kick down the doors like the old days. Five of you versus the entire pub.”
Maxius murmured, and Zevara raised her glass. They chinked them. She took down the rest of her drink.
“Those days sucked Creler eggs, Maxius. You cry about the Brothers, but they keep their noses cleaner than you two. Sadly. I’ll check on them, maybe. But I was really just visiting old haunts.”
The [Barman] chuckled.
“Most of the new blood’s scared to look you in the eye. Once word gets around you came back here, I expect all the old names will come circling if you wanted to come back.”
“And get stabbed through the earhole? No thanks, Bobble. Your drink’s just as foul as I remember. Try not to poison anyone tonight, alright?”
Zevara strode to the doors, and Bobble called after her, laughing.
“As you say, Guardswoman! And that, you young hatchlings, is the Watch Captain. The real Watch Captain, who used to be as tall as my knee. Then a Guardswoman who survived Soot and all the old bastards. Slept with one eye open—you ever think about tiptoeing up on her, or Beilmark, and you remember that. And that half the regulars’ll slit your throat for thinking it. We need someone who knows the score. Not too crooked, but not so straight she falls and cuts herself.”
Zevara rolled her eyes at that as she sauntered out of the bar, not too fast. Walking the walk—she wished it didn’t make her happy to hear Bobble’s rare compliments about her, even if it was all fake Dragonbreath.
Not too crooked, not too straight. They liked that she respected the Steer and kept her people from going into places where they’d get hurt. But perhaps…that was a sign she was still a mucky Guardswoman, and they needed Venim, who came from a Walled City where things were done right.
The Watch didn’t teach new Guards to let people off with warnings. They had strict rules about bribery, drinking on duty, and accepting gifts. All the hallmarks of the looser policing that Zevara had hated and tried to stamp out were gone in the next generation. But that meant, in time, she too became the fossil…
 
——
 
The patrol gave her wide-eyed gazes when they left The Corused Steer. Zevara didn’t say much for a block or two. Then she sighed.
“Bobble’s killed a lot of people with that cleaver in hand. Don’t mistake him or the Gnoll, Maxius—they’re old, and both are over Level 30. They can kill as easy as blinking, but I doubt you’ll ever see them except as innocent bystanders. They know better. As for the Steer, don’t go in and start trouble. If you get called for a brawl or a murder, get in, get out, and only sniff around if you have a lot of backup.”
“I smelled some illicit substances in there, Watch Captain…”
Jerci began nervously, and Zevara nodded.
“So did I. Unless we had Relc and a full squad armed up, I wouldn’t go after someone unless they were snorting Selphid’s Dust in my face. Half will be out the windows before you sneeze. They’re fast with blades and other nasty tricks in there. You need a bar like the Steer around.”
“May I ask for clarity as to why, Watch Captain? If this objectionable bar were burnt, as you previously iterated, would it not cut down on criminal acts and thus raise safety for the city?”
She grinned ruefully at the question. Then realized it was Bootstrap who’d spoken for the second time. The other [Guards], except for Trolle, nodded in agreement, and she replied.
“That’s not bad logic, Guardsman Bootstrap. But it doesn’t work that way. In practice, it would only mean all the criminals find another bar to go to. They’d spread out their mischief, not contain it in one place. The Watch can never be everywhere. Having places where the gangs can make mischief for each other and clean it up…is a necessity. Even in Pallass.”
She hoped they weren’t taking the wrong lessons from this. Zevara quickened her pace, guiding them back to the main streets, regretting her decision already. If it had gone bad, she’d have put them in a dangerous spot. But they had to know about dangerous things too. If the Watch clanked about all professional like, then they wouldn’t be sharp when they had to cross blades in a dark alley…
They were heading down the main street that ran down the entire city from north gate to south when a bunch of spotlights focused on them. Zevara shielded her eyes and thought, for a second, it was a passing wagon with too many lanterns. Then she heard a shout.
“Halt! In the name of the Watch!”
“Huh?”
Then she heard the jangle and stomp of boots in water—six [Guards] were coming at her fast. Her squad halted, and she held up a hand.
“What’re you—”
“They don’t have their lanterns! They’re fakes! Get them!”
Before she knew it, a second group of [Guards] was rushing them, batons drawn, blowing their whistle. Zevara’s mouth opened as she saw a Gnoll running at her, truncheon in hand.
“We’re on patrol—drop that!”
Whistles blew, and Jerci was shouting too, but what Zevara saw was the truncheon swinging for her head. She reacted instantly. She drew her sword and inhaled.
Her lungs, always itchy, seemed to smolder, and she concentrated, forming a murky ball of smoke and flames in her mind’s eye. Then she spat it out her lungs.
It burned as it came out, a roiling cloud of sparks and smoke. It made the Gnoll waving the truncheon yelp and stumble backwards, flailing at the air.
“Dragonbreath! Dragonbreath—”
She strode forwards, kicked the [Guard] in the knee, and hopped out of the way of a two-handed swing. Zevara clacked her teeth together, spraying sparks—a trick that made the Gnoll flinch. When he brought up his truncheon, shielding his face, she hooked a leg and knocked his weapon away. Down he went, the wooden club clattering on the ground.
“They got Jorrey! Form up! Form—”
She parried a club’s swing, fast, and threw an elbow into a helmeted face. That hurt because she caught the edge of a faceguard and cut her scales. But whomever she’d hit stumbled back. Cursing, Zevara feinted to her left, keeping two more figures away from her with jabs—the fallen Gnoll tried to grab her leg. He got a boot in the face and then a second kick to the stomach.
With her off-hand, Zevara was reaching for a baton of her own. She had just drawn it and thrown it so it spun and thwocked into the forehead of a Drake, who dropped, when Jerci finally got one of their lanterns working.
“Stop, you idiots! It’s us and the Watch Captain!”
She shone a light over Zevara, who stood above the downed Gnoll, another [Junior Guardsman] lying on the floor, clutching at his helmet, and the third who was holding their jaw. Zevara froze, no longer fighting on instinct, and she saw a second and third Watch patrol running their way, answering the alarm whistles.
In fact, even the gate-guards shone down a [Light] spell on her as she closed her eyes. The little result of her patrol was three [Guards] down for the night, one with a mild concussion, and one very embarrassed Watch Captain.
 
——
 
“Injury of fellow members of the Watch. Drinking on duty, failure to use lanterns on patrol, deviation from patrol route, failure to apprehend criminal elements on patrol—at least seventeen cases of narcotics, high-stakes gambling without regulation, and…illicit knife-selling?”
At this last line, Watch Commander Venim peered up from the report with a confused expression, and Zevara, who’d been staring at a framed Magical Picture of his daughter, drew her eyes back down and spoke.
“I think that might have been a miscommunication with my patrol, Watch Commander. It was a Gnoll I encountered at the Steer—the bar we visited. He sells knives, some of which are probably banned, but I know he performs a number of illicit services. I’m told he has a shop these days. I knew him back when I was a regular guard.”
“I see. The report states that Junior Guardsman Jorrey saw a group wearing the Watch’s insignia and took you for imposters. There was a heist of the Jeweler Guild’s storefronts where the perpetrators escaped with fake uniforms at night. He rushed you—whereupon the incident occured.”
Venim was trying not to smile. Zevara was red under her scales as she held herself at full attention. She hadn’t had to report to a superior for nearly a decade, and she didn’t really enjoy the feeling, but someone had to be held accountable for last night, and that was her.
“That’s more or less correct, Watch Captain. He rushed me too fast to hear me shouting, and I reacted on reflex.”
“I see. Tell me, Zevara…why didn’t you make the report yourself?”
Venim was in his late thirties and still fit and capable, but more of a desk-Drake than an active [Guard]. He’d been one of Pallass’ Watch Captains assigned to each floor, but the opportunity to work in Liscor as a Watch Commander had drawn him to the city. It suited him; he had a comfortability with managing huge numbers of people, and he was good with people.
For instance, he used Zevara’s name in private, which she could never do, even with Beilmark while they were at work. Beilmark, who’d known her since Zevara was a rookie—heck, Beilmark had been a regular guardswoman at the time and taught Zevara tricks. Zevara tried to relax a bit.
“I, uh, thought it best the patrols write up the events as practice, Commander Venim. Someone should be held accountable. Even the Watch Captain.”
He nodded.
“Your entire record is consistent with that, Zevara. No one’s above the law—it’s an interpretation of our class that not even Pallass’ Watch always takes.”
He grimaced at that, then looked the report over and snorted.
“—But really. Am I going to charge you to the full extent of the law, without nuance?”
Her lips quirked.
“I should hope not, sir. It’d probably end up with three years in prison if you interpreted it as strictly as could be.”
Venim shoved the reports to one side. Then he leaned back in his chair, which she envied; it had one of those fancy reclinable bases, not like the hard chairs you had to rock back on one leg to make it happen.
