The mild hilarity of hearing how the Antinium addressed Lyonette aside—Zevara felt underfoot as Lyonette shot her an apologetic glare. She sat back down at the bar and nursed her drink. The [Princess] just didn’t have time to spare with her.
And Demsleth isn’t going to be here for several more days, so I really have to find something to do. Maybe I should try dating. Then again, I never seem to have luck there.
The gloomy Watch Captain tuned out Lyonette’s flustered interactions with the Antinium. Strange as it was to imagine her and Pawn—at least she’d found some romance in her life. Zevara had been trying to date Olesm, a junior co-worker, for years, if only hesitantly, then she’d had romantic feelings about her prisoner.
Never acted on them, which was good, but dead gods. She needed a fifth drink. Instead, Zevara coughed as Lyonette came over.
“I’ll just be one second, Zevara. It’s good to see you—what are you drinking?”
“Just a bit of Dragonbreath Red. Don’t rush on my account. I might be going out anyways.”
“Are you sure, Zevara? I could catch up just after this…so, um, Holytext, is it?”
“That is my name, Miss Lyonette the Seductress.”
The other two Antinium who’d come with the [Priest] on his sales pitch were poking him constantly, but he seemed to have a grudge against Lyonette. Zevara wondered if Pawn could have sent a better candidate—or if all the Painted Antinium were like this.
For her part, Lyonette wore a patient smile, but it seemed she had made her own peace with her past.
“If Pawn ever wants to know a female touch again, I suggest he rethink how he views past lovers, Holytext. But far be it from me to lecture the faithful on politeness, especially with a prospective business partner. May I see the goods?”
“…IamverysorryMissLyonette, here are the items we wish to offer.”
The Antinium were selling a hand-bound book—clearly made without experts in bookbinding—several scrolls of parchment, what looked like a bunch of children’s drawings in paint, and a pumpkin.
Zevara had to at least stay to get an explanation on this one. Lyonette eyed the selection and murmured.
“So your art from artists in the Antinium, I presume that’s crops from the fields—I would have thought pumpkins were out of season—and the book?”
“One of our [Farmers] has [Out of Season Crops], Miss Lyonette. This is our holy text. The Book of the Sky, as written by Pawn himself.”
“Oh dear. At least it’s not about Erin…I hope.”
Holytext had apparently hand-scribed this book himself.
“It only contains her in 24.8% of all sections. Please observe the wisdom within. We also have a very salacious book—”
“The one on sex. I know. And you want to sell them? At the inn?”
The Antinium shuffled their feet.
“Not many vendors are willing to take our goods, Miss Lyonette. Even Krshia Silverfang will not. Oh, and here are some of our scrolls that—ah! Holytext, your book!”
“Damn!”
The swearing from an Antinium of the cloth was followed by him snatching the book from Lyonette’s hands. One of the pages she was flipping through had been…glowing? Or the words on it were. Holytext grabbed it, then ripped it out! Lyonette and Zevara blinked as, with a sigh, he tossed it on the pile of scrolls.
“That keeps happening. It is very inconvenient, even if Pawn believes it is of great fiscal value.”
“Um. Excuse me, I think I need an explanation of what’s going on.”
Lyonette was massaging her temples. Holytext had a patient tone.
“It is very simple. Sometimes what we write, if it is holy or meaningful, it becomes the scroll-stuff. Which is very useful, but not if we wish to have full works of our book.”
“Which is why we should hire a [Scribe] or someone not you to write it, Holytext.”
One of the [Acolytes] said loudly. Holytext gripped his defaced book proudly.
“It is my name! You make them too! No one not faithful should write the word of Pawn or the Book of Solstice—”
Lyonette’s eyes narrowed, and Zevara half-turned.
“The what?”
“Nothing! It does not exist, and we would not know it if it did!”
The Antinium avoided looking at Lyonette, who leaned forwards.
“I think you’ve been speaking to someone I’d rather like to know. Zevara, I’m sorry, but this is rather complicated. First off, tell me who told you that, Holytext. Second—the scrolls. Third, and I hate to insult your work—a proper [Bookbinder] and [Scribe] would make that book far more impressive. Your writing is a bit lopsided—”
Holytext cried out.
“Priest Pawn was right, you do break hearts! Everything you say is hurtful!”
 
——
 
Fun as it was to watch Lyonette quiz Antinium, Zevara was a bit—okay, a lot sloshed, and she stepped out to pee. She was exiting the outhouse and wondering if she should rejoin the Lyonette inquisition or go on her merry way. Whatever that was.
She was walking back into the inn when someone brushed past her and called out.
“Kevin Randy! Hey, man, how’d it go at Imani’s?”
A young man with sandy black hair waved at Joseph as the [Football Coach] jogged over. He was red-eyed and rubbed at his face.
“Dude. I want to stop crying. It was rough, man. In a good way? She totally flipped out, obviously, and Palt…I think he took it real hard. He was trying not to cry himself, and then—dude.”
Zevara stopped, leaning against one wall as the world spun slightly. She didn’t know why, but there was something familiar about the young man she’d never met before. She eyed him. One of the Earthers, Erin’s people?
Everyone knew Joseph, Imani, Rose, and that other guy were all ‘Earthers’—if not precisely what. Zevara had her own levels of knowledge, and Relc knew more, she suspected. You didn’t stay at The Wandering Inn without picking up on that. A new one? She eyed Kevin Randy as he blew his nose with a handkerchief.
“I thought he’d be cursing you out. Because of, y’know, Erin? And Imani and her eye…”
Joseph hesitated, and the other young man just shook his head.
“At first, he thought it was a trick. Like, Erin had tricked everyone? He was super mad until Imani threatened to kick him out. Then he was all questions and suspicions, which is fair. But then he believed and…dude. Dude. He just turns to me and asks if I could bring Isceil back. Dead-on, man.”
“Fuck. Fuck, dude.”
“Yeah.”
The conversation made no sense to Zevara, and it had all the rhetorical level of, well, Rhata. But it meant something. She half-turned as the two walked by, and then the young man noticed her.
Kevin Randy froze, then leaned away so Joseph was between him and…Zevara tried not to watch him openly. She pretended to be drinking some water, and she activated a Skill. The [Guardswoman]’s.
[Long Ear]. She followed them as they entered the common room and took a seat, listening to the conversation as she ordered some water.
“Fuck, Joseph! That’s Zevara!”
“Oh shit, it is. Wait, you didn’t tell her?”
“Dude, how can I? She’s the law. The man. I know she’s on our side, but I’m trying to keep this secret!”
“It’s fucked up not to tell her.”
“I know, but—can you distract her? I can’t do this right now, man. I just spent like four hours crying with Imani.”
“Okay. Fine. Hey, Captain Zevara, how’s it going?”
Even without that as preface, Joseph approaching her with a huge smile on his face was as obvious as the sun. Zevara nodded to him as she stared at Kevin Randy’s back. Why did her heart hurt so much?
“Coach Joseph. How’s our team doing?”
“Our team? Great, great. We’re going to lose the next season, I think. The Flood Crabs are good, but Pallass’ team is ready to take them out, and Invrisil’s got a new Gold-ranker on their team. So…how’s the law stuff?”
She glanced down at her table, where an empty bottle of Dragonbreath Red and several cups showed Joseph how the day was going. He eyed her.
“Are you drinking on duty?”
“I’m on vacation. Want a drink?”
Too late, she remembered he was a reformed alcoholic as well. Joseph licked his lips.
“That’s really tempting. Sadly, I’ve got to keep it straight and narrow. I didn’t realize you drank like that.”
She offered him a faint smile, surprising even herself.
“Like you said, when I’m on duty or I know I have work, I can’t partake.”
“And that’s how you beat your, uh—”
“My penchant for drinks? Yes. Is it working for you?”
Joseph sat down and grimaced, forgetting for a moment he was supposed to be distracting her.
“I sound like such an old man, but yeah. It really does. I’ve gotta coach Ekirra and the kids, you know? I feel like if I went out there wasted I’d be the first in line to kick my ass.”
“That’s good of you. You never stop wanting it, though. It just gets easier not to if you keep it up.”
Joseph reached for a pitcher of water and poured himself a drink.
“Great, well, I really wanted to hear that. So…that’s all you’re doing on your day off?”
“I’ve got nothing else. I’m heading back into work tomorrow. Relc’s doing paperwork, so at least I get to see how that’s going.”
The [Football Coach] grinned at the thought.
“I heard him complaining about that last night. Though Ad—Arrema was telling him he’d be good at that.”
“Arrema? I don’t know who that is.”
“Oh, uh, someone new. We’ve gotten new people at the inn lately. You know how it is.”
Joseph visibly panicked, and Zevara sighed. That was the problem with Watch work. The guilty always looked damn guilty. Usually, when someone stole something, you got a truth stone, asked them on the spot whether they’d stolen it, and that was that. She couldn’t do it with Joseph, but—she leaned over the table.
“New people? Like that friend of yours, what’s his name? Randy? He seems familiar. Anything I should know?”
Joseph sat back and tried to laugh.
“What? No…I mean, uh, why do you say that?”
Zevara eyed the suddenly sweaty young man.
“Curiosity. So I won’t be needing to talk to him anytime soon?”
“Whaaaat? No! Say, is that bike in the hallway yours? I thought it was familiar! Kevin—er—Kevin got it for you after he ran your tail over like three times in three different cities, right?”
Kevin. Suddenly, Zevara sobered up and stopped having fun giving Joseph the third degree. She nodded shortly.
“He did. I should donate it, but I was having fun riding it around, and he’s…dead. It might be the first gift I keep. If that’s appropriate.”
Now, Joseph looked like he wanted to sink into the ground. He cast a glance at the stairs where Randy had vanished, cursing.
“That bastard—you doing good, Watch Captain?”
“I buried Guardsman Jeiss and other good [Guards] during the Solstice, Joseph. Tekshia Shivertail—I didn’t know Kevin that well. You were friends. Don’t worry about me.”
Now why did he seem so guilty about that? Joseph ducked his head. Then he focused on Zevara and took a breath.
“I, uh—I think Randy will have a word with you soon. He’s just really stretched out. Seriously. Say, do you know how to ride that bicycle?”
She raised her brows at him, amused.
“I got around.”
“Cool, cool. Gears and everything? Kevin says—said—that none of his clients ever figured out how fast the bicycles are. Bunch of rich people who can’t make it zoom.”
Zevara hesitated and tried not to reach for the manual.
“The what now?”
 
——
 
They said the safest and nicest roads on Izril were Drake trade roads, and it was probably true. They were actually paved, regularly patrolled, and wide. Wide enough for two wagons to rumble abreast on each side of the road at all times, and there were always people on them.
Drakes and, occasionally, Gnolls or other species watched as Joseph shot down the road at a speed only a Runner or someone on horseback could match. When he braked, it was so hard he nearly went over; he shouted as he did a front wheelie, then thunked back down. He turned and waved at Zevara, who jogged over.
“It goes that fast?”
She was astounded—but the flat roads outside Pallass with the fresh, dry spring air were so different from Liscor’s cobblestone streets. Joseph grinned.
“Well, I’ve got decent legs. But I bet you could hit that—or even faster! This isn’t like a regular bicycle, Kevin says. It already has amazing efficiency on the pedals, but you can keep cranking up the speed so long as your legs have strength. See?”
Because of Hedault’s enchantments, it was possible to switch the ‘gears’ via a lever on the bicycle which made it harder to pedal, but increased how much force each rotation added. Zevara tried it out as Joseph explained.
“He just figured out how to do the gears before the Winter Solstice. Well, I say tried, but he got help. [Blueprint: Gear System] or something like that. He showed me this trick. So you want to go fast and switch the gears up every three-to-four rotations. Once you hit max, you can fly on the open road. He reckons he passed forty miles per hour without Skills!”
He didn’t seem as affected by Kevin’s death after a few months, or perhaps he simply had too much practice. Zevara nodded as she tried to do what he’d shown her. Twice, she changed gears too fast and had to fix the chain, and another time—she had to swerve and crash into the grass, but she’d been speeding up when she nearly hit some pedestrians!
“This thing…takes a lot of effort!”
Zevara was over Level 30 in two [Warrior]-type classes, but she was amazed how hard she had to pedal. Joseph nodded.
“You won’t catch me going that fast. Even with [Metabolic Boost]—my legs are shot.”
He was wearing his football coach’s uniform and grinned at her as Zevara picked up her bike, growing more impressed with it despite the grass stains on her and her tweaked tail. Someone shouted as a carriage rumbled past.
“Coach Joseph! Coach Joseph!”
“Oh shit, fans.”
Joseph spun and waved, then grinned at a group of children screaming and waving at him. And the father, too. He hesitated, then pulled something out of his bag of holding.
“Cheer on Pallass’ Engineers! Here, a souvenir! [Pinpoint Shot]!”
Then he kicked the ball straight into the carriage in a gentle arc. Zevara blinked as a huge cheer erupted from the windows.
“That’s a good shot, even with that Skill. You have to account for motion and wind current…”
He winked at her.
“Lots of practice. Most of what I do is kicking the ball for people in practice. Everyone on my team is better than I am.”
“Well, you’re the [Coach]. Isn’t that like a [Captain]? I’m not expected to be a better fighter than my [Guards], like Relc or Klbkch.”
He seemed a lot…steadier than the drunk, miserable young man she vaguely recalled when he’d first come to Erin’s inn. He was watching her as she sat herself on the bicycle.
