“Oh. Well, go on in. You can leave the bicycle in the hallway.”
“What about thieves?”
Liska gave Zevara a weird look as she closed the door with a wave of her paw and it clicked around to another dial.
“What about ‘em? They either have to pedal on the bridges or get past me.”
That wasn’t hugely reassuring given that Liska was splayed out on a worn couch with a bowl of crackers balanced on her stomach—but Zevara then recalled she’d been there when the Goblin King emerged. She had a…vibe to her that made Zevara think she was higher-level.
The Wandering Inn’s made a monster out of even Liska. Zevara supposed that it was safe enough, and she nodded to Liska. They really didn’t have a lot to say to each other, but they did know one another.
“Thank you. Er, good not to see you in my Watch House these days.”
That might have been a mistake to comment, as Liska’s brows snapped together, but then she just harrumphed.
“It’s not against the law to kiss people, is it?”
Zevara dodged the question like an [Acrobat]. Firstly, because she didn’t think Liska wanted people in line listening in, even if she was heated. Secondly, because that particular kiss was against the law…but it wasn’t one of the laws Zevara felt like prosecuting to the best of her ability. She cleared her throat.
“No, only throwing rocks, shouting curses in public, and poking a [Guardsman] excessively—I meant that as a compliment, my apologies. How’s, ah, Miss Eressi doing?”
Liska hesitated a touch too long and brushed at the crumbs on her fur.
“Good. She’s—we’re great. Look, I’m busy, are you gonna ask questions all day? You’re dripping on my floor. Someone’s gotta clean that.”
By ‘someone’ she meant an Antinium Soldier with a mop, who gave her a long stare. Liska held up a bowl.
“Goldbody, wanna snack?”
He brightened up and munched down a big handful, then mopped up the crumbs he’d scattered. Zevara backed away. If this worked, it worked. Certainly, Liska could one-woman an entire teleportation network by herself.
Though she had to have busybodies who didn’t like Antinium or whatnot. In fact, two came barrelling out of Pallass, pushing people trying to enter the City of Inventions aside.
“Hey, no cutting the line! [Get in Line]!”
Liska barked, and the duo paused. One held up a passport.
“Agents of Pallass. Priority to Liscor—”
“Priority my second tail! Eat shit and die! People exit, then you come in! And stop glaring at Goldbody or I’ll forbid entry into Liscor!”
They had given the Soldier dark looks, but Liska’s snapping made them hesitate. Zevara muttered to Liska as the Drake duo paused. Everyone else waiting in line eyed the Gnoll throwing around power.
“Can you do that?”
“Sure can. I’m the one of the only people who can use Erin’s Skill. Assign new teleportation spots and manipulate it. She put me in charge of this place, so until she comes back, even Lyonette can’t order me around!”
Liska wore a huge smile as she folded her arms, then her ears flattened.
“Don’t, uh, tell her I said that.”
The threat worked on the two huffy Drakes, who moved into line for Liscor. They did bully their way to the front, but their ‘priority’ only went that far.
Dead gods, agents of Pallass. Zevara disliked them on principle. She didn’t like officials in general. It was a bad bias, but it came from the previous Councils, who’d been largely self-serving and ineffectual. And her old Watch Captain.
It wasn’t even that she hated the agents for being agents—it was how they just used their power to cut a line and wanted special treatment. She’d waited in line! If it wasn’t an emergency, and she doubted it was, you shouldn’t be special even if you were an Eye of Pallass.
Her grumpy thoughts she kept to herself. Zevara let Liska get back to work, as the door to Pallass closed and it clicked to a new city. The Gnoll hollered at the people in line.
“Alright, everyone through to Celum! You lot wait for people to exit! Dead gods, my life is hard.”
There was a Gnoll who was committed to her job, albeit in a weird way. Zevara shook her head as she wheeled her bicycle into the hallway—or what remained of it—and stared at the blue bubble shielding the inn and common room from the rain.
“Ancestors.”
She’d seen the damage to the inn before, but this…she stepped into the inn, hesitant, and someone came up to her. A Human woman in a server’s uniform gave her a huge smile.
“Hello, Watch Captain. Are you searching for Miss Lyonette?”
“Er, no. Just for breakfast.”
“Wonderful. Please be seated here. And here is a menu.”
In short order, Zevara had a seat and took one look at the menu.
“Uh—a continental and coffee.”
She chose the first thing on the menu as her stomach screamed at her, and the server scribbled a note down on a piece of paper, strode over to the kitchen, and placed it on a board along the inside wall. Even this was different; Zevara saw the window was open to the kitchen, and someone grabbed the note, read it, and disappeared inside.
Exactly thirty-nine seconds later, a Goblin was holding a steaming platter of food and a coffee mug on a tray. Asgra put it on the table as Zevara blinked and then remembered how fast the inn could put out food thanks to Erin’s Skill.
“Thank you, er…Asgra?”
“You is welcome, Watch Captain. We not kill or blow anything up today. Yet.”
The Cave Goblin informed her, and Zevara realized most of the inn’s staff probably thought she was here because they were in trouble. She tried to explain she wasn’t here for anything but breakfast. Asgra just shrugged.
“You never here when things normal, Watch Captain. Why start today?”
On that reassuring note, she left Zevara to her food. The Watch Captain admitted she might have devoured her plate. The coffee filled her with energy, and she wondered why she didn’t eat here all the time.
The bill reminded her. Wincing, Zevara dug out several coppers—Lyonette tended to price everything at or just above market value, as opposed to Erin’s old prices, which had been good.
Temporarily food-coma-ed, Zevara realized that the inn was also getting back to work. She put her claws over her stomach and observed with that experience that came of being a Level 36 [Watch Captain of Integrity].
Yes, only Level 36. She hadn’t lied to Guardswoman Jerci. Of course, she hadn’t told the entire truth either. She was appropriately levelled for her time in Liscor in some senses.
She had two classes, not one. And both let her pick up on important bits of information, such as a weary and wet group of men and women sitting at one table.
“Turns out I hate the rain. I’ve been building up my house all spring, and every time I shift the house a bit, it’s all drenched.”
“You were warned, Shommel. You should have put up the frame first. Look at Leiithe and Dorkel’s home.”
The first speaker growled. He looked like a farmer.
“I don’t have that much free bone lying around! Nor am I that good with mass boneshaping. I’d give my best skeleton to have Elosaith’s [Adept Boneshaping] Skill.”
Zevara stared at them until it clicked—these were Rheirgest’s [Necromancers]! The one that the idiots had chased off their site near to Liscor. They were sitting over a breakfast much like hers, grousing.
“Now that we don’t have to hide things, Elosaith’s going for a mansion. Where’s he getting all the bones from?”
“[Butchers] in Liscor, he told me. The Princess is paying him—”
“I thought he was putting it all towards what we needed.”
“He’s putting a lot towards it. Good thing too, because food prices are bad even though it’s spring. I can’t buy much that’s not fish from Liscor for cheap.”
“Don’t go to Liscor. Go to Riverfarm. They’re flush with anything you can grow, though prices are up even there—makes me think we should get the undead to start farming as soon as the rains end. I’m told that once it recedes, it’s all fertile soil. Makes sense with the waters rushing in and out. Or we dredge enough land to farm even in the rains…we’d need a good barrier for the waters.”
“Do we have the mana to do that and build the new inn?”
“I do. This area’s rife with death magic. It’s keeping all the undead under control that takes the effort. And the coin to buy anything. Everything’s too damned expensive…and we can’t even get that free bread.”
They were sighing into their cups of tea, and Zevara felt like that was a refrain she’d heard from a lot of Liscorians. The price of things—no wonder Garry’s bread bakery was still much appreciated. Perhaps her experience trying to get a meal wasn’t just from rush hour.
Rheirgest, as an entire village of ostracized [Necromancers], would have a lot of trouble getting set up even without the rain. But it seemed like Zevara wasn’t the only person listening in—or feeling like changing things up today.
A Gnoll skated over, wearing a somewhat scruffy suit of all things. Ishkr approached the table with a refill of tea.
“Excuse me, deathfolk. Did I hear pricing is an issue in Liscor? We’ve been paying a bit more for ingredients, but we get ours from the source most times.”
The [Necromancers] greeted Ishkr and affirmed that yes, prices did suck.
“It’s wood as well as anything else. I’d almost think there’s a market in growing trees if you could get them to shoot up fast enough. There’s a tax on wood imported from Celum, so it’s just—more expensive than going out logging with a bunch of skeletons and coming back after a few days.”
Zevara supposed anything was more expensive than that. She sipped from her coffee as Ishkr hmmed. Then he nodded and snapped his fingers.
“I understand. I’ll confirm this with Lyonette and Elosaith, but I doubt she’ll object. What if we offered anyone from Rheirgest a 50% discount on anything bought from The Wandering Inn? You’re building the new one and are our closest and best customers outside of our regulars. Would that help?”
The group of villagers regarded each other and murmured. The first one, Shommel, asked Ishkr tentatively.
“Can the inn afford that? Between repairs, paying for the new inn—if it’s a strain, we’d rather not take the generous offer.”
Ishkr smiled ruefully.
“I think we can very much afford it, especially if it helps, Necromancer Shommel. Let me inform the staff.”
Well, that was something. Zevara eyed the menu surreptitiously and wondered if she could get in on that discount. It meant she’d suddenly be eating good, fast food every morning right here if so.
As soon as the thought crossed her head, Zevara overruled it with a mental sigh. No, you can’t do that, scales-for-brains. That would definitely compromise her relationship with the inn.
Life, for Zevara, was a battle of fighting her impulses, which were always to take shortcuts or accept compromises that would affect the integrity of what she did.
A [Watch Captain] had to be better. She had to not take bribes. She had to do things she didn’t agree with or want, even if they inconvenienced her, because the law demanded the person at the top to be beyond corruption. She’d seen how bad it got if that wasn’t so, and that was why she was so paranoid about this kind of thing.
She’d been…a worse [Guardswoman]. She still was that worse [Guardswoman]. That was why she was so vigilant, so concerned. The girl who’d stolen to survive, the Watch officer who’d known when to back off and avoid a fight, the imperfect Drake from the Watch’s older days, from Liscor’s dirtier times, was still right in her.
A Level 36 [Watch Captain of Integrity], you see. That was her. But also—
A Level 32 [Streetwise Guardswoman].
Two classes, both Level 30. Both of which seemed to level alternatively each time a disaster happened in Liscor. When she commanded the Watch, the [Watch Captain] levelled. When she was fighting Crelers and stomping them down, the [Guardswoman] gained a level.
She’d never, ever heard of someone having two classes in the same discipline like this. Not that Zevara talked about her dual-class condition, and the ring meant no one knew her class. She filed her reports with her [Watch Captain] class and level, so it was honest…to a point.
Zevara had thought about why she had two classes of the same nature, and there were reasons. Reasons, such as that the day she’d made Watch Captain, she’d gained [Rookie Watch Captain] as a class at Level 1 rather than consolidated her [Guardswoman] class as normal.
Because…she’d felt like it was her chance to be someone better than the [Guardswoman] she’d been. Something separate, something you had to live up to. The Watch Captain had to be full of integrity. The [Guardswoman] could be the one who wanted to have a drink in a hellhole pub and let young [Thieves] go. Someday, she hoped, the [Guardswoman] would vanish or become part of the [Watch Captain], and then she’d truly have earned her job. If she did better.
If she actually managed to keep her city safe. But she’d let Venim become Watch Commander, so maybe…
“Hey, can I get a Dragonbreath Red? On the rocks?”
Zevara flagged down Asgra, who gave her a weird look.
“Drake who doesn’t want Firebreath Whiskey? What this world coming to? What a Dragonbreath Red?”
“Look for the cheapest bottle you’ve got. That should be it.”
To her relief, the Cave Goblin only had skepticism about the Firebreath Whiskey thing, not the fact that the Watch Captain was drinking just after breakfast. Zevara tried not to lick her lips as she was served a generous cup of it.
Bad habits on her days off. Venim didn’t know better, but Zevara took one sip of her drink and sighed.
[Sharpwit Drinker].
Not the worst Skill you could get, but it encouraged you to have more drinks than was appropriate. It came of having a drink when you were on watch late at night and needed to steady your nerves. In her case, it just made her more receptive to little things, like someone tiptoeing up on her—she still lost her graces and higher-capacity thought. She thought like the streets.
She’d known one Senior Guardswoman who [Drank Her Breakfast] and who was deadlier in a fight the more she’d had. The Drake had still died in a full street brawl with some of Soot’s people. More drinks meant you made bad decisions.
Still. It tasted so good, even if Dragonbreath Red was more like food coloring mixed in a boot with fermented Yellats.
 
——
 
Lyonette came by soon enough; Zevara was eying another shot of Dragonbreath Red. The Watch Captain brightened when she saw her friend, but it seemed Lyonette had work. A group of Antinium wanted her—to sell something?
“Greetings, Miss Lyonette who is not a [Princess] nor a [Seductress]. We have a small sample of goods to offer you for potential sale in your inn.”
