“Who wishes to care about Antinium losing small things? The Watch told the Antinium there was nothing to be done. Antinium are afraid of being…unique. Laikos was desperate. Only a Painted Antinium or [Crusader] would be braver.”
“Did they have things stolen from them?”
“Perhaps a few. But they did not catch those who stole their possessions. Nor did the Watch find anything.”
The Watch Captain’s eyes were narrowing. Her mind lighting up.
“But these thefts are intensifying. Aren’t they? There’s a connection here. These aren’t chance thefts—there’s no value in it. At least, none I can see. If it was some kind of attack on Antinium—”
“They are not hurt, mostly. If it was an attack, Pawn would know.”
“But you don’t know who’s doing it, do you? Are you looking into it?”
Noiraid was quiet, and Zevara fished out another coin. This time, it was gold.
“I bet Antinium would pay you to find what they lost.”
She flipped the coin into the air, and the Antinium caught it. The dame placed it in her envelope.
“I have names.”
Zevara produced another gold coin. The Antinium was silent. Two more had to appear before she spoke.
“What will you do if I give you names, Watch Captain? Many Antinium are like Laikos. Some do not even have names. You will make them…upset if you ask questions.”
“Maybe I’ll ask them gently. Or with someone who knows how to ask them right. But I’m the Watch Captain of Liscor. If someone is stealing from Antinium, I want to know why. Last question—is there any reason they’d steal from the Antinium? Anything valuable your people have?”
Three gold coins vanished into the envelope, which didn’t noticeably bulge. It might have been a Skill, then.
“Oh, yes, Watch Captain. But those who steal may not understand what makes it so valuable. Laikos’ doll was not valuable except to him. However, there are things that are very valuable that Antinium carry. But only Antinium know how to tell what is valuable and what is not. That will soon change.”
“And how…did anyone come to realize they had something of value at all?”
For a reply, Noiraid put the remains of her cigar on the desk after blowing it out.
“Because Pawn is a good person who remembers his debts. And Erin Solstice’s. Ask the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings what the most valuable thing they sell is.”
“Or you could tell me yourself.”
Noiraid took a final cough drop from Zevara’s bowl and stepped back. She stood by the door.
“I am told you arrest criminals no matter what, Watch Captain. I would dislike to make you think I broke any laws.”
“Hey, wait. I’m not done—”
Zevara had to extricate herself from her desk. By the time she got to the stairs, Noiraid was out of the Watch House. And when Zevara was outside, finding an Antinium in the dark, pouring rain—she stood outside as a yawning Desk Sergeant glanced at her.
“You finding anything to do with all your free time, Watch Captain Zevara?”
The man politely inquired, and Zevara’s eyes gleamed as she turned a half-smile on the Drake, who sat up slightly in surprise.
“You could say that. Tell…Sergeant Relc that he should gear up tomorrow morning. I have more than desk work for us.”
 
——
 
The next day, Relc was waiting for Zevara outside the Watch House, excited and somewhat confused.
“It’s been a while since I partnered, Captain. I did a few walks with other Senior Guards who needed someone, but ever since Klb quit I’ve been leading patrols. Who’s my partner today?”
He seemed slightly worried, but was hiding it with cheerfulness as his tail sloshed about in the rain. Zevara got why. Relc didn’t want to say that he’d rather lead a patrol and mind all the young newbies than deal with a partner who couldn’t keep up to him, because that was insulting—but true.
Relc was way too fast and capable for most Senior Guards to partner with. In terms of pure fitness, that was. When he chased a [Thief], he’d lose anyone without a fast movement Skill—the same for how long he could march about. Or combat—if Relc jumped into a situation someone else couldn’t handle, they’d both be in danger.
With Klbkch, Zevara had been able to toss them at problems that no other pairing of [Guards] could handle without fear. She offered him a tight smile as Relc gave her a questioning look, wondering who she was putting with him.
“We’ll see if I can at least keep up with you. You remember how to speak to Antinium without riling them up, right?”
His mouth fell open.
“Wh—you?”
She shot him a glower.
“I was a Senior Guardswoman before I became Watch Captain. I may not be as fast as Klbkch, but if you have any objections—”
Relc glanced back at the Watch House, then threw a salute.
“No, Watch Captain! Er—do I call you ‘partner’?”
“Anything but Captain Z. C’mon, I’ll fill you in on the issue. We have a lot of Antinium to interview.”
Relc’s brows shot up.
“I thought it was just that one poor [Carpenter]?”
Zevara had a list in her claws, and she grimly showed him it. He whistled. There were over two dozen names and locations on the list that Noiraid had given her. Someone had been stealing from Antinium, it seemed. Preying on the people without a voice—just like always. Only, the form and nature of the crime had changed.
Her beloved city had a stain on it. That was how she knew it was still her city.
 
——
 
Being a Senior Guard was a position of trust and respect in the city. It meant you took on bigger cases than just patrolling and responding. It also meant you were on your feet a lot and spent a lot of time talking, standing around, and listening.
Zevara’s feet hurt. Three hours of interviewing skittish Antinium made her recall why the job wasn’t always appealing. Relc had mastered it; he stood easily, leaning on his spear, ready to push off and act, but conserving energy; even as big as he was, he seemed to slouch in every direction while maintaining good enough posture that she couldn’t yell at him. She was too stiff, too straight; Zevara massaged her back as he spoke.
“Alright, Antinium Worker. Just repeat what you saw. No one’s in trouble. Revalantor Klbkch isn’t here, and, uh, this is not a matter for the Free Queen. Just the Watch, okay?”
The trembling Antinium calmed slightly, and Zevara thanked her stars again she’d taken Relc with her. He was the only [Guard] with experience talking to Antinium; even other Antinium weren’t good at that.
“This Worker’s report is not accurate…”
“Not accurate’s fine with us! We’re not that strict, right, Zevara?”
He winked at her, and Zevara nodded encouragingly. The Worker hesitated again.
“This Worker informed Guardsman Cossl of incident. Has item been recovered?”
“Not yet. If you could just repeat what you saw for our files?”
Cossl again. It seemed like a certain Drake [Guard] had been in charge of watch patrols in this area around the Antinium Hive just about the time shifts changed. They didn’t call in thefts during the incident, only after they finished work, so his patrol had logged several of these incidents…but not written them up.
Zevara saw why, but she had underlined his name in her notepad. Now, she flipped to a fresh page and took down details. Relc listened, prodding the Antinium, and the notes were simple.
Antinium Worker (no name) assigned to sewer-cleaning duties. Approached and told to turn out pockets. Confused since doesn’t have pockets. Surrendered one scroll to Human man… 
“And you just turned it over? Even though it wasn’t to another Antinium?”
Zevara questioned the Worker, who froze up. Relc gently patted him on the shoulder.
“Not that you’re in trouble, right, Zevara?”
She assured the Worker this was the case, and the Worker replied timidly.
“Item was requested. Worker delivered it. But no…Captain Yellow Splatters stated item was not to be given. Miscommunication occurred.”
He trembled again, and Zevara gazed at Relc. Workers were so trusting that they would assume you had a reason to ask for something they held. The Senior Guardsman thanked the Worker for his time.
“Listen, bud, you did great. There’s no problem with your work. We’ll report anything that needs reporting, and if we find that scroll, we’ll get it back to you, alright? Why don’t you buy a snack?”
He fished out a copper coin and handed it to the Worker, who held it like a treasure. The Worker nodded several times and stepped back to the crew, who turned from peeking at the two [Guards]. Relc stepped back, and Zevara finished writing.
“I heard from Lyonette the Antinium were getting wary about their things being stolen. Now I see why. Damn.”
He was looking put upon after this many interviews. So was Zevara. She murmured to him.
“Let’s see. It’s been four scrolls, a bag of catnip, lots of toys—and we have no leads!”
It was always just ‘a Human’ it seemed, male or female, and the Workers didn’t have any other details. Only Carpenter Laikos had ever furnished Zevara with more details, and she’d thought he’d been unhelpful at the time.
“Yeah, well, that’s probably on purpose. Your regular, regular Antinium doesn’t have much personality. They don’t think like Autonomous ones, and even those are more like big kids.”
Relc sighed. What was clear was that the Antinium were victims of theft. Zevara glanced at her list.
“Okay, this Guardsman…Cossl? Do you know him?”
“Rings a bell. He’s probably in Beilmark’s district since she’s taken parts of 3rd District over. Remember we shuffled a lot of [Guards] used to the western district over? There are so many new ones I can’t keep track.”
Another hazard of the Watch’s rapid growth and restructuring. Zevara sighed; this was proving she needed to spend more time with [Guards].
“Me either. However, there’s one last Antinium we should talk to. A Crusader 344-2. According to my…source, he was one of the victims. Or attempted victims.”
“Attempted?”
Relc’s brows shot up. Zevara nodded. She hoped the [Crusader] was still in the city and not with the army. They rotated out for a month, but it would be easy to check…
 
——
 
The old army barracks that had used to let Liscor’s mercenaries rotate in and out of duty were active again. Only, it was the new army who used them like a wayhouse for their [Soldiers] getting rotated off the front.
It was pretty simple to ask one of the managers about Crusader 344-2. The Gnoll had a list, and in fact, the Crusader was having breakfast with a squad of mixed Gnolls, Drakes, and Humans. When he got up, they saw it was a Worker wearing a shirt of custom chainmail and leather armor with Liscor’s symbol on it. A classic [Crusader]’s apparel.
“Guards. Am I in trouble?”
He had far, far more personality than the other Workers, and Relc assured him this was just about an attempted theft. Crusader 344-2 clicked his mandibles.
“I told the Senior Guardsman I hurt no one.”
Zevara’s tail twitched, and she saw Relc’s eye twitch slightly her way. She kept her voice level.
“Senior Guardsman? So there was an incident?”
The Worker shrugged. He had the air of a [Soldier], too solid and used to fighting—he had been housing a cheeseburger when they’d interrupted him.
“Senior Guardsman Lens, I think. Isn’t there a report of this written down?”
If there is, I don’t have it. Relc asked the [Crusader] to repeat the story, so Crusader 344-2 did.
“I was off-duty and, uh, doing some business in the streets. Buying and selling. That’s when some idiots decided to come over and try and steal what I was selling. Well, not steal, not at first. Just rip me off. They were offering me coppers for my stuff.”
He clacked his mandibles together. Relc raised his brows.
“What stuff was that?”
The Worker shifted a bit. Like Noiraid, his voice was far different than most Antinium’s. Conversational.
“You know—supplies. Look, we don’t get paid a lot, and it’s expensive eating out. I had a spare, so…it’s not illegal to sell stuff that isn’t army property! I was given it by one of the [Priests], so I can do what I want with it!”
“What’s this item? We’re not arresting you for selling anything if it’s not contraband, Crusader 344-2, we just want to know what it is.”
“My name is Lerhne. It’s just one of these, alright? Lots of Antinium sell them.”
The [Crusader] flashed a familiar scroll at Zevara, and her eyes narrowed. She snagged it before he could place it in a belt pouch.
“Interesting. It’s not magical. What is—”
She saw glowing text before the [Crusader] snatched it from her.
“Hey! Are you trying to waste it? Look, I sold one—or tried to. But then these idiots come up one after another and try to buy it! Then grab it from me.”
Interesting. Zevara nodded to Relc, who scratched his chin.
“Got names or descriptions, Crusader Lerhne? We’ll let you eat your burger as soon as we get answers. Then you can get us out of your antennae.”
“I’d love to. Who knew getting hassled by the Watch was a perk of being a person?”
Lerhne grumbled and then snapped his fingers with a clack that made Zevara jump.
“Right. So there was this Master Y-something. A [Merchant]. I remember him because he sent two idiots over, then came himself. Then this carriage stopped, and a [Lady] spoke to me. She told me to fork it over. I gave her the Crusader 57 response, and she didn’t like that.”
“A [Lady]? Which one?”
“How should I know? She had one of those fancy black carriages with snakes on it. That’s all I remember. The last were two Drakes. I remember their names.”
Zevara was writing fast, excited now. This was very easy to search for. She paused.
“The Drakes were…?”
“Drake…Hissl…and Moass.”
“Moass?”
Relc started laughing, and Zevara tried not to snrk. There were traditional Drake names, but that one was unfortunate. Lerhne grinned with his mandibles.
“Yeah, I remembered it because it was so stupid. They got mad when I laughed at them. They wanted to buy what I had for coppers too.”
“And you turned them down?”
“Sure did. I could get gold, and they just kept haggling and asking stupid questions about the goods. Drawing attention—the Painted Antinium make a fuss if they see, uh—anyways! So I’m going on my way when I feel a tug at my belt. And I see one of Master Y’s goons trying to take it! So I draw my sword and do an [Intimidating Shout] and tell them to drop it! They go running, and the rest of my squad pulls up, so they drop the scroll and that’s that. Aside from the Watch hassling me all day.”
Fascinating. Zevara nodded as she wrote.
“This is more than enough for us, Crusader Lerhne. Do you think that these individuals might have approached other Antinium? We’re investigating a spate of thefts…”
Lerhne shrugged.
