“You good, Watch Captain?”
“Hm? Of course. I’m just bored without a job to do, that’s all. I’m told mine will get easier soon. Perhaps I’ll find more work or—something.”
She’d have to fill her time. Training the recruits, since leading patrols seemed to be disastrous. She could take up cycling on her days off. It wouldn’t be bad to just…see more of Izril. From Pallass or Celum, she could go a good ways. Zevara sighed as she coughed up some more smoke, then nodded at Joseph.
“Thanks, Coach.”
He winced.
“Please don’t call me that, Captain. I’ll call you Zevara and you can never call me ‘Coach’ again. Deal?”
She grinned at him, surprising the young man.
“Very well. Some days, I still feel like I’m not fit to be called Watch Captain. As you were, Joseph.”
“I hope not.”
He put his hands in his pockets, and for some reason, she glanced back at him as she pedaled towards Pallass. That was the first and only thing Joseph had ever said that she was in complete, utter agreement with. Zevara raised a hand, and he nodded at her.
 
——
 
…Six minutes later, Joseph jogged back towards the gates.
“Hey, guys, guys! She’s with me! Sorry, Zevara.”
The Watch Captain was getting the third degree from the gate guards, who’d only been too happy to let her and Joseph out, but had demanded to see her passport and know why she was entering the Walled City.
She supposed being a famous [Coach] had a lot of privileges. Joseph hadn’t been on Pallass’ day-entry lists either. She nodded at him, embarrassed, as the [Guards] let her through.
She caught the door to Esthelm instead of Liscor. Zevara spent the rest of her day cycling up the road, then back when she realized Celum was way too far to try on the first day. By the time she got back to The Wandering Inn, her legs were shot from using new muscles, and she was exhausted.
Perfect. She scarfed a meal, then went for a long soak in the local bathhouses. Then she’d hit the hay and sleep. A day off destroyed. Finally, back to work. Perfect.
 
——
 
Zevara’s eyes focused on the sun as she stepped out of the bathhouse, hucking a used towel into the bin. There was a dim glow behind the rainclouds, true, but still bright enough to illuminate Liscor. The sun, which could not even charitably be described as ‘setting’.
It was 3 PM. Her bike ride, her visit to the inn, even her bath house visit had only managed to kill nine hours.
“Ancestors kill me.”
She was doomed. If she napped now, she’d be up all night! Woebegone, Zevara stood in the entrance to the bath house where attendants checked people in, unwilling to step out into the rain after she’d just gotten nice and dry.
It was one thing to bathe in the hot, scented baths, another to drench yourself in the cold rain. Belatedly, Zevara realized she’d shot herself in the foot. She’d taken an hour at most in the baths and considered that to be a lot of time because, well, she was operating like she was still working.
She should have stayed there until she was four hours in and her scales were thick from taking on water! Well, actually, that was a good way to develop scale problems, but still.
What do I do? I shouldn’t have had that damn drink! That also made it hard to do some things. Sweating her tail off and then having a hot bath probably also didn’t help.
Hydration. Zevara surreptitiously found a pitcher of water and poured herself a few cups. She drank, exhaling, and then checked a timepiece in the bath house.
3:02 PM.
If she slept at 8 PM, she could get ten full hours of sleep for duty tomorrow, start fresh and early. So she just had to kill 5 more hours. Dinner…well, she wasn’t that hungry.
What did she do? Zevara didn’t want to go back to the inn—she was too restless, and didn’t fit it like the regular guests. If not the inn, then…
Maybe go visit Bobble after all? That was a bad idea, even if he knew her. A lone [Guard] walking into the Steer was the beginning of a dark joke. And yet, it called to her.
Or perhaps the southwest district did? What was it? Zevara rubbed at her chin, and she could not escape it, but there was a feeling in the back of her mind. That of…of…
Of missing something. Of grime. Filthy water flashing by her claws. But was it the [Watch Captain] who felt it or the [Guardswoman]? Both?
The Drake stood, letting dripping water run down her claw, oblivious to the odd looks the customers in the bathhouse were giving her. Her mind was a jumble with the drink she’d had, restlessness, today and otherwise.
“Kevin. Poor Kevin. Soot is dead, and with him, old Liscor. And Kevin…”
Her mind kept going back to him because of the bike. Kevin was new Liscor. Technically Esthelm, but he was a new wave of change with his bicycles, annoying as they were. More than even Erin. If Soot was the old, Erin was the change, but Kevin had been that breaking edge of the wave. He would have understood this city. Zevara was the old, the fading—but why did she think she was still needed?
She might have stood there for the next 5 hours, just thinking, but something broke her out of her reverie. The rain stopped.
A family of five Gnolls running for the bathhouse halted. They, like Zevara, stared up incredulously. It wasn’t time for the rains to end! Was it a fluke, a rare moment of reprieve?
A glowing red shield of light covered the entire street as pedestrians halted and pointed. The rain sleeted off it, and Zevara blinked—then she heard laughter.
Two people exited the private bathing rooms, one of them giggling, the other laughing in a deep, familiar voice. She knew that voice. The huge Drake was arm-in-arm with an older woman, whose robes glittered with magic.
“Relc?”
The Senior Guardsman and Archmage Valeterisa had been in the bathhouse! It was Valeterisa whose magic casually covered the street. She floated out of the door as Relc collected a bag of holding from the awed attendants. He tipped them some coins as she floated down.
“I must go to dinner with Salamani, Relc. Grimalkin should make it—he may bring Lady Pryde. Do you wish to come?”
“Nah, I’m not one for all the [Mage] talk. No offense. And isn’t it in Invrisil?”
“Mm, it’s very technical, and we’re headhunting more [Mages]. There’s some drunk High Mage north of here. Another outcast of Wistram—I will see you tonight, then.”
Valeterisa winked in what Zevara thought might have been a suggestive manner, then turned red. She flew up and waved energetically at Relc, who waved back, grinning like a damn loon.
Relc and Valeterisa. The oddest match in the world. The Watch House hadn’t believed it for over a month. Even then, you forgot…Valeterisa flew skyward, and the bubble of her magic encased her. But the shield over the street did not.
She’d left it for Relc. Talk about a show of admiration.
He stood there, grinning, then glanced around and saw Zevara and jumped.
“Captain Z! I mean, uh, Zevara—I didn’t see you there!”
“Hello, Senior Guardsman—er, Relc.”
They were so awkward off-duty; Relc grinned, and Zevara shuffled her feet. She gestured lamely at the magical barrier.
“That’s a nice gift. Here I was worried about getting wet.”
“Ah, well, she likes this kind of thing. It’s really embarrassing. And everyone stares, but…that’s Valeterisa for you. Crazy she and I are still a thing, huh? I bet I wouldn’t last the month in the pool.”
He knew about the betting pool? That made Zevara feel bad for him. She frowned, and they walked out of the bathhouse, glancing up at the magical shields.
“I didn’t put money down. I just thought it was something that happened because of the inn.”
“Oh, definitely, the inn. Gotta thank Erin for that and the beach. No chance without that.”
Relc chuckled, and Zevara floundered a moment before exhaling some smoke.
“No—I meant I could see it, Relc. Maybe it was chance, but you’re our [Spearmaster]. If an Archmage was going to be interested in anyone, it would be someone of your level.”
The compliment made Relc turn, and he finally picked up what she was saying. To her surprise, he blushed, and his tail wagged a bit in the rain.
“Aw, Zevara. C’mon, you know she can do better.”
Didn’t a bunch of people die in her mansion because she didn’t even notice they were there or something? Still, Relc clearly thought the world of her, which made Zevara gloomy.
I wish Calruz were still here. But not as a prisoner. Damn it, does he get leave from the army? What am I thinking? It could never have worked.
But she had admired his honor, wounded or not. That unbreaking sense of honor—and guilt—was something that seemed cleaner than her own heart. Despite all his sins, she could never have believed he had done those heinous things by himself.
And yet, and yet—she and he could never walk Liscor’s streets together. So it hurt and smarted—especially when they came to the end of the street, and Relc actually groaned.
“Oh no, she didn’t. Valley…”
The next street had a barrier spell over it, and the next! She’d cast a rain barrier all the way back to the door to the inn!
I hate you so much. I envy you so much. Because she could say neither without being pathetic, Zevara cleared her throat.
“I’ll walk with you back to the inn. I don’t have much to do on my day off.”
The [Spearmaster] hesitated, and she raised an eyebrow. Relc coughed.
“I’m not really in a hurry to go back there. I’m only planning on dinner, if that. It’s—well, hard after the incident. I mean, you know what happened.”
“Sort of. Goblin King, that Goblin Lord…the spells hitting the inn and Liscor. But nothing more than that.”
She waited, and Relc just exhaled.
“Yeah. That’s enough. I can’t talk about the rest. You wouldn’t believe me even if I told you.”
“I’ve seen inn-events before. Even then?”
His face was shadowed.
“Even then. You missed the biggest one yet.”
After that, what could be said? They stood in uncomfortable silence. Zevara broke it the only way she knew: she jerked her head.
“Walk with me?”
“Sure.”
They headed into the rain, pulling hoods over their heads, abandoning Valeterisa’s gift to Relc. But they were Liscorians; the rain was second-nature, and they chatted as they walked down the sidewalks.
“I swore I heard someone say ‘Soot’. Was that you, Zevara?”
“Mm. Reminiscing.”
Relc spat to the side into a gutter.
“That’s for Soot and his gang.”
Zevara copied him, smiling faintly, but then she grew serious. She brushed at her neck spines, tangling with her hood, and glanced at the busy streets that had a Human nailing up a new sign. Another new shop?
“The city’s full of movement, Relc. All this gold and business. Did you know Hamhock’s closed? An Antinium bought the place.”
“Hamhocks? No! I liked that place! Cheapest ham in Liscor!”
Relc was as stricken as she was, which made Zevara feel instantly better. She told him about the pet cafe, and he shook his head.
“Those Antinium. I’m glad for them, even if I never got to give Valley a Hamhock original.”
“Good way to lose her.”
“Point! Hah. But I hope they’re okay. They’re sort of…gullible, you know?”
Zevara’s tail swished a serpentine trail in the water as she frowned.
“No. I mean, yes, but what are you referring to exactly?”
Relc shrugged, trying to word what he meant.
“They’re just…naive. I saw it with Klbkch all the time. Someone tells them something, they do it. Remember that idiot who went around snatching Antinium’s tools and they gave it to him because they thought he needed them?”
“Right, I remember. And no one paid attention until there were complaints about Antinium standing around with empty hands.”
Something was making Zevara’s neck spines itch. Yet she just walked with Relc—until she realized she was taking them to the southwestern district again. Relc peered around.
“Dicey streets for a fun walk, Captain. I heard you went to the Steer yesterday. With rookies?”
He gave her a reproachful look, and she flushed.
“It was safe. Bobble was at the bar or I’d have taken them out. He knows the score.”
“All it takes is one idiot and the Steer goes up faster than a Corusdeer’s horns…eh, you always had a better read on stuff like that than me. Feels like the old gangs aren’t as big as they used to be. Or is that me? We’re mostly dealing with petty crime, disputes, monsters. Not the Soot gang stuff.”
She thought about that as they walked past more dilapidated buildings clearly in the midst of renewal. There were a few tougher types walking down the street. Drakes and a Gnoll on the hunt for a mark, maybe. They took one look at Zevara and Relc and avoided the two. Even if they didn’t recognize either one, Relc seemed like trouble, former [Soldier] that he was.
Off-duty or not, the two members of the Watch eyed the group of four, and Zevara would have tailed them to make sure no one ran afoul of the lot. They appeared ready for a fight. Relc glanced at them and tilted his head. Zevara shrugged, and they turned around.
Not that they were ready for a scrap, but you had to at least walk a street or two, right? She kept her voice low as they tailed the group of four.
“I think the gangs are absorbing new blood. They’ll be active again soon. Everyone’s building up.”
“Greaaat. Well, that squares with what Valley is doing.”
“Isn’t she building a magical academy or something?”
Relc smiled. The group of four kept eying people, mostly Humans, and Zevara had a feeling they were searching for signs of gold. She had her sword and Relc, but she wished she had armor on. Ah, well. She was looking around for a loose cobblestone. Always nice to throw one if you had to scrap. Relc went to pull his spear out of his bag of holding, but thought better of it and pretended to be scuffing mud from his boots.
“It’s hush-hush. But she thinks around here is the place to be. It’s gonna be real big, Zevara. It’s all too technical for me. Leylines and protective spells—even compressed dimensions so they can make it bigger. They want to bind it in the middle of a mountain! I was asking about structural support, but they plan on making a reinforced cage—and the real academy’s inside. So it’s tough as hell. Apparently, Wistram was made on the same principles.”
It sounded like he was absorbing some arcane magic. Zevara grimaced.
“I hope they’re not planning on that much gold from Liscor. We can’t buy enough magic for an Archmage or an academy, Relc. They’d need to pull from all of Izril.”
“They will. But Valley was talking with some people who have inside knowledge. M—Lord Raithland.”
Zevara’s head snapped up, and she forgot about the quartet for a second.
“What’s he doing? I heard he was talking to the Council and maybe even trying to get elected.”
