“It’s way better, Soot. Crazy Humans and all. Even wars and all, probably. Back in the day, we just wondered when the next big thing would kill half the city. These days…well, the inn events are getting bigger, but no one’s killed a third of Liscor off. Yet.”
She knocked on her desk and sighed. Zevara’s head turned to the streets, the filthy streets she swore she could see trash on, overflowing sewers, piss streaking the walls—despite the fact that the sewers ran beautifully these days and she hadn’t seen that much trash at all. She felt like it was her city.
“Or maybe it’s my turn, Soot. Maybe it’s my turn.”
The Watch Captain put her empty cup on the desk and coughed. She wiped at her mouth and stared blankly ahead as the rain kept pattering down. Because she felt rather like an old Drake in a new city again, despite her age.
Out of place. Out of touch. No one had come running up her steps with an emergency all week. She had no outstanding reports that Venim hadn’t already marked as being handled. Zevara fiddled with her desk and put something on the table. A little present; she’d bought the best sharpening stone she could from Pallass, one that left a bit of magic on the edge of your blade.
A gift…for the newest Watch Captain of Liscor. Zevara had even had Beilmark’s name stencilled onto the bag, which she felt was classy.
Not that Zevara was quitting, mind you. It was just that Liscor was getting another Watch Captain. Two, in fact, who’d be under Watch Commander Venim. Senior Guardsman Ronss was going to make Watch Captain for the north district; Beilmark would get 3rd District. Two new Watch Houses, and a headquarters in the new city center. Way more control, way more efficiency for a bigger city. Zevara imagined her job would be easier. Fewer all-nighters and sleeping at her desk.
…She had no idea what to do. Maybe she should have taken the Watch Commander job. But she would have hated meeting with the Council more, along with more paperwork. The Drake put her feet up on the desk, a luxury, and stared at the rain.
She wished she could stop thinking about Soot.
 
——
 
Maybe she hated Liscor. Elsewise, why would she keep looking for dirt? This filthy city…
It wasn’t like it had ever been filled with gutters running with poo, or the stuff you heard about in bad Drake cities—and there were a few.
Worhall; wasn’t that the name of a Drake city that had gone bad? She remembered hearing about it. Sewers backed up. Breaches in the wall. Drakes leaving and carting off everything they could carry. Normally, it was all ‘Drakes don’t run’, stubborn ‘my home is my home, I’ll die before leaving it’. But even Drakes had their breaking points, and…when had that expression started, anyways? With General Sserys. Back in the day, Drakes would pack up for better cities.
That was the dream in smaller cities: that you’d save up, get rich doing something, and move to a Walled City where you’d be safe and retire in one of the Drake heartland capitals. As a kid, Zevara had had the same dream of moving to Pallass one day. But things were changing.
Zevara didn’t know other Drake cities, she guessed. She knew Esthelm more than other Drake cities; she’d been there several times as a youth, before Erin and the magical door, again. It was the kind of city that you went to as a Drake, working up your courage to drink at a Human bar to say you could, or where you worked mining jobs if you had to be out of Liscor for a while. It wasn’t like Esthelm’s folk had gone at Liscorians the moment they saw Drakes, but you stuck with other Drakes, and sometimes there was a rumble…you avoided the other city for a while after that.
Few deaths. But Liscor hadn’t been multicultural until the Gnolls came along. Krshia Silverfang—not that anyone had known she was in charge until later—and the Gnolls. Gnolls and Antinium changing the city into one that wouldn’t chase Erin Solstice away. Lism hadn’t been pleasant, but it could have been worse. A lot worse.
Bad cities. Had Liscor been one? Close, perhaps. Worhall with the infrastructure issues. Cellidel sounded bad too. Rotten to the core. All the Watch officers mistreating Gnolls. Riots in the city. It had been a mistake to send Relc there, but they’d been so upbeat about having a Senior Guardsman—she’d thought it was respect.
Liscor? Not that bad. Surely. Surely…and then Zevara realized if it was on the cusp of being a ‘bad city’ for her; back then, she was who Liscor had been made for.
The Gnolls. The Antinium. It had definitely been a bad one to the first waves who’d come there. She felt a pang in her heart. Restlessly, the Watch Captain had to stand, unable to sit as her conscience prickled. As bad as Cellidel for Antinium.
“Damn it. I can’t stay here.”
 
——
 
Zevara took a night patrol out on the city in the same quiet mood she’d been in. Regular [Guards], a mixed patrol. Three Drakes, one Human, an Antinium, one Gnoll.
She only knew one of them well: Tkrn’s old partner, Junior Guardswoman Jerci, who’d made full Guardswoman recently. They marched along with Zevara, calling out items of interest, trying to act smart and look good. They must have thought she was testing them, like the sharp Antinium patrol from last time. Zevara patted the shoulder wet Gnoll barking orders after three blocks of marching in the rain.
It was late. Liscor’s buildings loomed like grey monoliths in the rain, stone blocks illuminated by soft light in places, but dark. Damn dark. The city had torches for night lighting, but not in the spring. She nodded to the young Gnoll woman who was trying not to shiver. Young…she was probably only eight years younger than Zevara. But she seemed to treat Zevara like the Watch Captain was Beilmark’s age.
“You can relax, Guardswoman Jerci. We’ll just wake half the block if we keep shouting. Not a lot happens on a night shift—if we’re lucky. Let’s just do the rounds.”
“Er, yes, Watch Captain. Should we be on the lookout for anything? It’s pretty dark, yes?”
They all had lanterns, and Zevara snorted as the squad shone the lights around.
“Stow everything. Let’s walk in the dark.”
“That’s not protocol, Watch Captain—”
One of the Drakes began and shut up as his compatriot elbowed him. Zevara glanced at the Antinium, but this was a Worker who hadn’t been as noisy as the all-Antinium squad.
“It used to be the Watch went around in the dark. Light ruins your nightvision, so you kept your head on a swivel and moved silent. With streets this dark, we’ll see better without lanterns.”
It was true, the patrol realized as they followed her. Without the glare of the lanterns, they could see everything equally. It was eerier, but soon they were all moving well in the dark, especially the Antinium.
“What’re your names, squad?”
“Er, Junior Guardsman Nen, Junior Guardswoman Eissa, Junior Guardsman Trolle, Junior Guardsman Bootstrap, and Junior Guardsman Thorton, Watch Captain.”
Nen introduced his compatriots, then the Antinium, ‘Bootstrap’, and Thorton. Zevara glanced down; sure enough, the Antinium had bootstraps. Which was rather funny, because most Antinium didn’t have shoes. If they were issued boots at all, they were without strings because Workers and especially Soldiers had trouble lacing them up. Klbkch had managed, but he was the exception.
She nodded at them.
“Walk slow and don’t shout. If you see something actually suspicious, nudge the [Guard] next to you and signal your leader; in this case, me or Guardswoman Jerci. Got it? Normally, you rookies wouldn’t be on patrol for a night watch. Not in the full dark.”
She kept her pace slow, strolling down the street, avoiding the streams of water rushing into the gutters. It was hard to hear anything over the roar of rain and water, but she could pick up the footsteps of her squad, and her eyes were focused on everything and nothing at once. It was sudden movement or inconsistencies in the shadows around her she was scanning for.
Perhaps it was her mood. Zevara hadn’t led a patrol out in…ages. Not like this; she only took command when there was a fight, a monster, or trouble. Then she went with hard-hitters to The Wandering Inn or to the spot and restored order. Leading a patrol?
Again, it wasn’t the same as the Antinium squad, and the rookies felt it.
“We could move faster, Watch Captain. We’re no slouches. We heard you covered half the city with the Antinium patrol yesterday.”
Jerci murmured after a moment. Zevara just ambled forwards, slower than the patrol’s normal march. The Gnoll was biting her lip, clearly worried they were being treated like slouches.
“That was me seeing how well they knew the job. And them being too enthusiastic to rein in, Guardswoman Jerci. It’s late. We have six hours on our feet. Keep it slow. Like I said, loud boots mean you’re warning everyone you’re coming. In the old days, the Watch always moved this fast.”
A long shift, even if they were allowed to break every two hours for fifteen minutes. Jerci nodded, but her eyes darted to Zevara.
“You mean…when you were a Junior Guardswoman, Watch Captain?”
“Hm? Oh, not even that. Five years ago, even, this was how we operated. No lanterns.”
The female Drake raised her hand. She had russet red scales and a stubby snout, and she held her spear like an amateur, but she seemed eager. Another oddity…no, only to the mindset Zevara was in today. She was trapped in the past. The rains brought back memories, trickling down.
“How’d you catch anyone in the dark, Watch Captain? It’s impossible to see anyone breaking into a house unless there’s a scream or breaking glass, pardon my saying so. I can’t wait for the new, magical lantern-posts that the Council’s promising to install.”
“Magical lanterns, what, on every street?”
Zevara remembered that in a report, vaguely, but since Venim had taken over, she didn’t have to report to the Council so often. The [Guards] peered at each other and nodded. She laughed.
“Back in the day, that would have been a waste of gold.”
“Why, Watch Captain?”
Nens asked blankly. The Drakes were the chatty ones. She guessed they were all native Liscorians; the Human, Thorton, was their age, but he seemed warier of speaking up around her, as for Bootstrap…the Antinium was listening, but kept his head on a swivel, antennae twitching. Only he and Thorton avoided the streams of water like she did, perhaps because he’d noticed, perhaps because he just feared it.
She spoke over the boots splashing in the gutters.
“They’d be stolen, of course. You couldn’t put a torch in a holster in some parts of the city without someone taking it.”
Nens snorted.
“A torch? That’s not even worth, what, a copper for a spent torch, Watch Captain.”
“No, but twelve might be worth a few coppers. Wood’s expensive—or was. The door makes it so much cheaper, but there was a time even a cheap wooden chair could be worth a silver piece or more even resold. So long as it wasn’t utter scrapwood.”
“Hah. What did everyone sit on then?”
She gave Nens a curious look.
“Stone. Or those old Shield Spider chairs, you know, the shiny black ones with polish, like lacquer?”
“Those ugly things? My grandma has one in her home.”
Nens laughed, but Zevara just shrugged.
“Wood was expensive. Traders used to come down the road with huge wagons and just sell entire trees off at a killing. It was a decent job; you’d just ride up north past Esthelm, find a forest, and hire a [Woodcutter] or do the job yourself. Then come back, drop the trees off, and count your gold. Humans from Celum did it; it was the only time we ever saw them. Big [Woodcutters] who’d brawl with our army’s [Soldiers] in the street. I once saw a hundred of ‘em go at it. It took half the Day Watch to break it up.”
“I remember that, Watch Captain. I was nine when it happened. The Council banned Humans from the city for a month, didn’t they?”
Trolle surprised Zevara, but then, he was probably twenty…she nodded. Did he remember the old days? No, he was shooting her an interested glance like the others. She supposed being a kid was still different to being a [Guard] back then, and eight years…he didn’t remember a time much before the 2nd Antinium War. A different Liscor back then. And a different one before the 1st Antinium War. Even after the 1st Antinium War, they’d been on the rise as ‘Sserys’ city’.
“So how’d you stop crimes in the dark, Watch Captain?”
Eissa wanted to know, and Zevara rolled her shoulders, self-conscious.
“We didn’t. Not much. You’d walk around like this, in the quiet, and if someone shouted ‘thief’, you maybe went after whomever it was. Usually, they were gone too fast on nights like these. Murder or screams for help—those you ran for. And you hoped to the Ancestors you didn’t run into a gang.”
“A gang? Doing what? Some big heist?”
“Just…out, Guardswoman Eissa. Trolle, you remember that, don’t you? Remember the Soot gang walking down some streets?”
“I, uh, I grew up in the northwest district, Watch Captain. I don’t remember many gangs.”
She twisted around to get a look at Trolle. Then he was from a richer family; north was where the biggest personal mansions and money was. Jewelers, magic-users, and the like. And he wanted to be a [Guard]?
“Well. I remember them. Jerci? Eissa? Nens?”
They all shook their heads. Jerci scratched her chin.
“I remember being a cub and there used to be some times when all the Gnolls on the block would come out because there was trouble, but no gangs.”
“You’re all too young. Trust me, there were times when an entire gang would come out and just walk a street, and the Watch cleared out. Too many, too high-level, too ready to kill. Other cities have worse problems with gangs. Invrisil, for one. That’s why you watch yourself if a group of out-of-city visitors comes in. Got it?”
They nodded. Because she had that antsy feeling from the old days, Zevara snapped.
“Don’t walk in the gutters either. Walk where I’m walking, see? You’re splashing too loud.”
They checked their feet and shuffled after her. Zevara murmured.
“No torches. Fewer guards. Fewer good guards.”
“Dead gods, Watch Captain. You make it sound like we were a Human city once, all bad Watch! There’s this Gnoll kid in the Junior Guards—one of Relc’s trainees, Vok—who talks about Cellidel, where Sergeant Relc went. They have a bad Watch. But ours?”
She smiled to herself.
“Drake Watches have more money and, generally, better training, but it’s all subjective, Guardsman Nens. There are Human cities where it’s safer at night because the right gang holds your street. Isn’t that right, Guardsman Thorton?”
