 
——
 
By the end of the day, Zevara was footsore and had either cleared all the dead crimes reports or written up a full report to be followed up on by patrols when time allowed. She was almost ready to go back to the Watch House and call it a day when she saw a final item scribbled at the bottom of the list in Relc’s hand. He must have done it yesterday during her day off.
Zevara almost ignored it, then read the location and decided she could do one more.
 
‘Colecutlet Street. [Carpenter] Laikos. No one saw the [Thief] and it’s petty theft, but maybe good to look at?’
 
Petty theft? If it was just someone stealing a purse, not even the Watch could work miracles. Zevara had done well at not yelling at Relc so far, but if he sent her all the way there for nothing…
 
——
 
When she got there, she realized why Relc had deemed it worthy of her report. And then Zevara felt it. For the first time, a hint of that old grease sliding over filth.
“Carpenter Laikos? I’m searching for a Carpenter Laikos, please.”
It was a group of Drakes doing repair-work on buildings in the rain. They were cursing, re-tiling a bad section of roof that had collapsed, fast as they could, but when she said the name, they all stopped and peered at each other.
“He’s not here.”
“Is he off-duty or—”
A burly [Carpenter] jerked a thumb to the left.
“No, he doesn’t work with us. Down the street. That building.”
She trotted down the street, then stopped. Another building was being worked on, but this one was being carefully decommissioned. More [Carpenters] were prying nails out of the building, salvaging good wood and breaking away the stuff too rotted or ancient for use. But not…Drakes.
“Laikos?”
A Worker prying nails out of the floor glanced up, and the entire group went still. Then Zevara saw the Worker come over, nervous.
“This one is known as Laikos, Watch Captain. It is an Autonomous Worker.”
“And you were stolen from?”
The Worker’s antennae twitched.
“Y-yes, Watch Captain. This one reports a theft of its personal goods. It—it—reported theft to the Watch, but it was informed the theft was reported too late. That the goods were stolen. The matter has not yet been reported to the Hive.”
It was the first time that Zevara had ever interviewed an Antinium in matters related to a crime. Any crime. The only Antinium who broke the law were Aberrations, and Klbkch had killed those.
She defaulted to her training.
“Tell me the events as they happened, Carpenter Laikos. The theft. I’ll take notes, and…we’ll see what we can do. Though if it was just a [Pickpocket] or [Thief], the odds are the goods have already been sold.”
“Sold? But they were this Worker Laikos’ possessions.”
The Worker wasn’t like the Antinium that Zevara was used to these days. This was an old Antinium—one of the ones who never used ‘I’. She saw the other Workers were milling about around it, all unpainted.
“I’m sorry. We’ll try to get it back if you can tell me what happened.”
Laikos didn’t respond at first. Then it spoke, voice still wobbly.
“This one recalls work at 3:47 PM on Lundas. It had completed 1:47 units of time before retrieving a resupply of nails from the Carpenter’s Guild. When crossing the street, Worker Laikos was knocked down. Upon reclaiming bucket of nails and calculating lost inventory, it realized it had lost personal item. It observed the personal item in the hands of another. Inquiry was launched. Inquiry ignored. Worker Laikos requested personal item again, and the other left at speed. Worker Laikos returned to work. After 4:00 units of time, it reported to the Watch Patrol of the incident and was informed that the item was stolen. Theft had occurred. Worker Laikos returned to work for 2 more rotations until approached by Watch Captain Zevara.”
It was…an extremely specific description lacking in anything she could use.
“Can you tell me which street this was?”
“Colecutlet Street.”
“I see. So right down this one? What was lost, exactly?”
“Twenty-one nails were lost in the gutter as well as a hand-hammer.”
“I meant, what was stolen?”
“…A personal object.”
Laikos’ voice went very quiet, and Zevara saw all the Antinium around him pause. She hesitated and felt like she was asking something intrusive, so she lowered her voice and motioned him away from the others.
“I need to know what this object was, Carpenter. Can you tell me?”
He stared at his feet and spoke after a long, long pause.
“It was…a personal object in the shape of a humanoid with fur on it. One black eye in a button, the other one missing. The fur is half an inch thick and covers the humanoid except on the paws, of which there are five fingers and a central pad. There are two arms and one leg—”
She was writing all this down when Zevara stopped.
“You mean a little doll? A Gnoll?”
Laikos didn’t say anything. But Zevara had seen the dolls of that kind all over. One leg and missing an eye?
“Is it yours? Did you buy it?”
Laikos replied swiftly.
“Autonomous Workers are allowed to have a personal object. Objects discarded into bins or other receptacles are worthless and marked as disposable.”
“…Trash bins. You got it out of there.”
He was shaking.
“It is not theft or slavery. No ownership was claimed over—”
She almost smiled, but then she reached out and patted his shoulder.
“I’m not accusing you of theft or—slavery, Carpenter Laikos. No. I just wanted to know what it was. Picking a doll out of the trash isn’t theft. So it was yours. Why would anyone…steal it?”
“The object is of personal value to Worker Laikos. It is the sum total of Worker Laikos’ value.”
So everything in the world to you. But it made no sense. Zevara went back to questions.
“Okay, did you get a look at who took it? Was it a child? I need descriptions, ages.”
“The individual stood at five feet nine inches tall. They weighed approximately one hundred and sixty pounds—”
“No, no. I mean…well, that’s very helpful. What species?”
“Human.”
“Gender?”
“Female.”
“What were they wearing?”
“Cloth. Cotton.”
“…The color?”
“Blue.”
“Patterns?”
Then Laikos gave Zevara such a blank gaze she had to ask more questions until the Worker responded uncertainly.
“The…pattern…may have resembled that of rosewood crossgrain on the interior of the scarf worn. The hood was blue. The cloak was brown. The clothing was blue—”
“Plain blue?”
“Yes.”
Damn. That was the most nondescript clothing ever, and Zevara noted this down, from black, nondescript boots to blue clothing—wait, why the hell was she writing this down?
A Human woman had bumped into Laikos, taken his doll, and stared at it until he’d asked for it back. Whereupon they’d run off. He hadn’t reported this to the Watch until after he’d gotten off-duty, so the case was dead.
Beyond dead. Only the fact that it was an Antinium made this interesting. Zevara closed her notebook with a sigh.
“There’s no one who has a grudge against you, is there, Carpenter Laikos?”
“A grudge? For what act?”
“Any act. You don’t have anyone you’ve offended or…know any Humans?”
“This one knows Erin Solstice, who is the sky.”
Well, that answered that. This was a Worker who was uninteresting even by Antinium standards. One who had a doll…and who was still shaking.
“Will possession be recovered, Watch Captain? Thefts must be reported to the Free Queen or Prognugator. Guardsman Rillis issued statement that Watch would generate report for Carpenter Laikos to take.”
Rillis. She wasn’t familiar with the name, but he must have wanted to get someone else to do this report. Zevara sighed.
“I can write up a report myself, Laikos, but I have to be honest with you. I don’t think that your d—your personal possession will be recovered by the Watch. We don’t have any evidence to go off of. I’ll search, but—”
But it’s just a damn doll. One of thousands in the city, frankly. She almost offered to pay for another, but at her words, Laikos had gone still.
“Personal possession will not be recovered?”
“I’m sorry. We’ll look, but in a snatch and grab—this is a city of over a hundred thousand people. And they could have sold or hidden the item the moment they ran.”
It was the same thing she told other upset people. The Watch couldn’t work miracles. But it hurt when the Worker just peered at her. His doll…then she realized his trembling had stopped. He opened his mandibles and said.
“tHaT’s NOt faIR.”
Her blood ran cold. The familiar, fluttering notes of the Antinium’s voice were something that modern-day Liscorians wouldn’t associate with trouble. But Zevara had heard that voice so many times, especially when the Antinium had come to Liscor.
Aberration.
“mY poSSESsion. MiNE.”
Laikos wasn’t shaking. That was the uncanny part. Zevara lowered her notepad.
“Carpenter, I’m going to try to get it back. But I’m telling you—”
Her hand inched closer to her sword hilt. She’d seen Antinium going Aberration when Klbkch had first come to the city. Seen what they’d done to groups of Drakes. Even Watch patrols who tried to stop a single enraged Worker. Not now.
“wHy mE?”
Laikos was staring at his four hands, opening and closing. Zevara felt cold, then hot, burning in her lungs.
“Carpenter Laikos, remain calm. Just—”
What she might have done next, she didn’t know. The Worker was twitching, and she was reaching for her whistle with her other claw. But then there was a surge of motion from the side. Someone slammed into Zevara, and she rolled over with a shout.
She was up with sword in hand, and her lungs ignited with flames. Keep it off her! He’d rip her apart if they got—
Workers. The carpentry team was covering Laikos as he flailed, eight Antinium on top of him like a gathering of beetles. Eight more were between her and Laikos, pushing.
“Watch Captain must leave.”
“Watch Captain misheard.”
“Wh—what? He’s gone Aberration. We have to call—”
Call who? Klbkch wasn’t here. But the Workers were shoving her hard. Not violently, but pressing her back.
“No Aberration. Mistake. Mistake.”
“Worker Laikos resting.”
“Misheard.”
Then she got what they were saying. They pushed Zevara onto the street, and she saw the other Workers practically carrying Laikos back, one of them with a hand over his mandibles. What the—?
“Watch Captain, everything alright?”
The Drakes had heard her shout, but when they came over, the Workers vanished into the building. The sounds of them hammering and pulling the building apart filled the air, and Zevara blinked. If she hadn’t had her own memory, she’d have never guessed Laikos had vanished or that there had been a fight.
“Everything’s fine. I just, uh, tripped on some wood. Thanks.”
She reassured the [Carpenters], who walked off after one spat in the direction of the Antinium.
“Job-stealing bastards.”
Zevara supposed that was true, but she’d heard that [Carpenters] hated deconstruction work. It paid almost nothing for a lot of effort. She stood in the street, then came to a swift decision.
The Watch Captain set off after the Antinium carrying Laikos. It wasn’t hard; fast as they moved, they were still a group of Antinium on foot. She saw them moving down the street and noticed Laikos was on the ground, now. He was being moved in a huge huddle towards the Hive.
No one noticed. People just avoided the Antinium or walked past them. They were just one more group of Antinium in a city filled with them.
She couldn’t follow them into the Hive, but she saw several glance back at her at the entrance. Then Laikos was gone, and Zevara wouldn’t have been able to pick him out from the other Workers leaving the Hive.
“What the hell is going on?”
Then she realized she was muddy from rolling in the streets. Zevara blinked and then shook herself. It was getting late; it was past clocking out time anyways. So, after a moment’s thought, she did two things.
First, she went to a bathhouse and gave herself a quick scrub down. Then she went back to the Watch House and began to file the report.
 
——
 
“Why steal from a Worker?”
Zevara spoke to her feet. She blew out some smoke from her lips and felt like she was back in the same place she’d been when she’d been reminiscing about Mister Soot.
Only this time, she was thinking about what to do. Laikos. There were two issues. The first was the theft—the second was the Aberration thing. She went over the theft briefly.
“It was probably malice. Someone saw what he held…knocked him down, realized it was a doll, and ran off. What else could it be? They used to attack lone Workers in the streets. Kill them. It could be that—but why?”
She shook her head.
“I have no motive, no identity, and certainly no hope of even finding the [Fence]. It’s a damn doll. Ragged and unsellable. So that leaves Laikos. He went Aberration.”
She was sure of it. The other Workers had covered for him. Why? No, that wasn’t the question. What should she do as Watch Captain?
“I have to call this in. But to whom? Klbkch…so that would mean…who’s the new Prognugator? Yellow Splatters is my liaison; I’ll tell him.”
There was only one way you dealt with Aberrations. That made her stomach twist. It hadn’t ever before, but that poor Antinium had been upset over his doll.
Upset over his doll? Was that what had made him go crazy? Would you kill someone for having a fit over losing the one thing you ever—
No, Aberration was different. Klbkch said so. Wasn’t it? He didn’t attack me. 
He might have, in a second.
What are the Workers going to do? Hide him? Kill him themselves? No, if they were, they’d have done it. 
I’m the Watch Captain. I have to tell the Antinium.
Zevara was writing her report slowly. It felt…wrong. Like it had when she’d known she should execute Calruz and she’d had so little proof. Her knowledge of the law told her one thing; her instincts told her another.
[Watch Captain] vs [Guardswoman]. Lawbringer vs the woman who had to enforce it on those streets.
But mostly, Zevara felt it. In her bones, that smell of muck and urine mixing with water. The rains pattering down felt filthier, stained by the city.
Something smelled rotten in her city. But she didn’t have enough clues.
There was a rap at her door. Zevara glanced up.
“Watch Captain, someone to see you. They say it’s urgent. Should I send ‘em off?”
The Desk Sergeant asked; Relc was long off-duty. Zevara almost said ‘yes’, but shoved the report back. She put her feet down.
“Go ahead and send them in.”
