He was only too happy to whistle them up, which told Zevara this was a waste of damn time. She needed to get more questions out of him, but she had narrowed her inquiry too fast.
“You wouldn’t happen to know anything about other thefts, Merchant Yerham?”
She tried the broad question, and he turned on her, waving a finger admonishingly.
“Watch Captain, well I never! Such a question! You and I both know that such broad, open-ended questions are unbecoming of the Watch! If I had a friend who committed some small indiscretion like stealing candy from his own child, you can’t just have me in chains over that! I’m happy to answer any questions regarding these terrible Antinium thefts, but I must insist you leave if that’s not your line of inquiry!”
Damn, damn, damn! The problem with truth stones was that they did have weaknesses like this. There were laws about just hauling someone in and asking vague questions like ‘are you aware of a crime’. Everyone was aware of a crime. Zevara had to admit she didn’t have a link between her case and any other crime…and Yerham practically skipped out of the room.
She and Relc traded glances as he introduced her to his bodyguards, all except two who were off-duty. All of them dutifully said they didn’t have anything to do with Antinium theft…and Relc was grinding his teeth by the time they were outside the Merchant’s Guild.
“Bastards practically shoved us out the door. I hate [Merchants]. They always cover each other. And they won’t let us ask him more questions.”
“Probably because all of them would fail a truth stone test if we asked them if they were breaking the law generally. Cheating their clients, evading taxes…the Merchant’s Guild knows how to play the game. Damn it, Relc, you saw his face!”
Relc nodded gloomily.
“If Klb were with me, he’d know what to do. He’d put his Listeners on Yerham and pretend he had ‘inside information’. Or a Worker.”
“He’s done that before?”
Relc winked at Zevara.
“Sure did. No one notices Workers. One time, a Worker shadowed some of Soot’s goons all day.”
Zevara went to thunk her head against the wall of the Merchant’s Guild.
“Right now, I feel like a rookie, and I could use him. Yerham’s done something, Relc! Let’s just get to the Watch House. I’m sick of the rain.”
“Hey, you’re pretty sharp, Captain Z. Oops, sorry, Zevara. I can see how you made Senior Guardswoman so young.”
Zevara waved this away, embarrassed.
“I was just good at surviving and scrapping, Relc. I feel like the new Watch is ten times as good as the one I was in. A hundred times. I’m falling behind the new wave, which is why having other Watch Captains is important.”
Relc just gave her a worried look as they went to where she’d tied her bicycle.
“Zevara, you’re the hardest-working Drake in the entire city. And the incorruptible one—even Klbkch used to say you were the only person more dedicated to the job than him. If that Venim guy hadn’t taken your job, I’d have voted for you for Watch Commander.”
She sighed and tried not to blush at the frank praise.
“I’m not one for all that paperwork, Relc. I just want to make a difference…here!”
She pointed to the street, frustrated. Running a good Watch was important, but she wasn’t a full commander. She was a [Guardswoman] as well as a [Watch Captain]. Relc nodded.
“Me, I have the opposite problem. I used to think I could only change things when I knocked heads together, Captain. Now I feel like all this teaching and training does more good, but I suck at it.”
He grinned at her, and she blinked at him and thought Venim had a point. Maybe he could be a Watch Captain. And she needed to either shape up and learn her new role or get back to basics…
Zevara was about to get on her bicycle when someone grabbed the handlebars.
“You [Thief]! That’s my bicycle!”
A Drake barked at her, red-faced, and she stared at a [Trader] who’d come running out the Merchant’s Guild.
“No, this is my bicycle.”
“Liar! This is a custom Solar Cycles bicycle, not some trash knockoff! Guards! Guards!”
Relc tapped the Drake on the shoulder as he began to shout.
“Hey there. That’s my Watch Captain you’re screaming at.”
The [Trader] froze—then gaped at Zevara.
“Watch Captain? I, uh—”
Zevara pointedly gestured at her bicycle. There was a metal engraving on the handlebars that said, ‘To Captain Zevara. Sorry about the tail.’
She wished he hadn’t engraved it. Kevin didn’t get that the tail was a bit of a private thing for Drakes, but it worked. The [Trader] instantly apologized. He was, in fact, Trader Beneckham, a local who had his own bicycle.
“A Solar Cycles original, just like yours. With all these knockoffs around the city, everyone wants to ‘accidentally’ swap bicycles with me, Watch Captain. I am so sorry about the mixup—yours is even better than mine!”
He gazed enviously at her wheels, and Zevara cursed.
“It is? It was a gift from the late Kevin…I thought it was standard.”
“Not a Monarch-grade bicycle, perhaps, but it’s been enchanted better than a regular one! Here, let me show you mine. I paid for that new gear-system you have. Wonderful work, you know. Even Pallassian [Engineers] don’t know how Kevin did it. Ah, that man was a genius.”
“It’s that advanced?”
The [Trader] was pulling a cover off of his own bicycle and revealed one much like Zevara’s. He smirked at her with civic pride.
“They can do the same thing, but it’s more like seeing how it was done and the techniques involved, Watch Captain. Reproducing the method—and I suppose it’s so clever that Solar Cycles stays ahead of all the other manufacturing giants. For instance, Dwarfhalls Rest is making bicycles—but they don’t know how the gears work yet!”
The old game of copyright theft was at work on a grander scale. Zevara snorted and imagined there was a lot of gold to be made in such things. Certainly, [Trader] Beneckham was advertising himself as a man of the future with his ride. He gestured down proudly at his bicycle…and then screamed.
“What the—?”
Instead of the complicated system of gears and spokes, the entire center of his bicycle frame was gone. Someone had sawed through the steel and ripped out the entire system, leaving only ends of metal!
“My bicycle! How—where are the guards?”
Beneckham howled, and Zevara and Relc felt guilty until he rounded on the Merchant’s Guild’s own enforcers. Zevara blinked down at the dismantled bicycle.
“Someone ripped the gears out of there? Just the gears?”
Relc nodded, running a finger along the metal edges.
“Must have been fast. Hacksaw. Enchanted hacksaw. This metal’s made tough; Valeterisa said Hedault enchants everything. They knew what they wanted and went for it, fast.”
“Without the Merchant’s Guild’s people noticing? They pay attention to anyone who’s not supposed to be here!”
Zevara glanced at the embarrassed [Guards], who indeed seemed shocked by the theft. Relc spat.
“Probably a distraction Skill or they just were lazy. Hmm. Someone knew this was here, Zevara.”
She concurred. This was too neat a crime to have occurred spontaneously. One did not walk around with an enchanted hacksaw in their trousers, and it was too slick. In fact…she slipped from her bicycle and knelt on the ground.
“Maybe there’s a chance…watch my back, will you?”
Her head rose and swivelled across the wet street in a moment. Relc raised his brows.
“You think whoever did it is nearby?”
Zevara said nothing as her eyes locked on anyone who had a bulky item under their rainjacket or a bag of holding she could spot. Her eyes swivelled around, and she spoke a Skill.
“[Time of the Crime]. It’s been…a minute and forty-six seconds since this bicycle was vandalized, Sergeant Relc. Someone took the bicycle’s parts right before we came outside. Lock the street down.”
Now she was a [Guardswoman] again, and Relc jerked, then inhaled.
“Theft on the street! Nobody move!”
His roar made everyone jump, but the citizens grumbled and largely held still. Zevara rose from her haunches as the [Trader] whirled.
“Wait, they’re still here?”
“Senior Guardsman Relc and Watch Captain Zevara! We’re going to inspect bags of holding! Someone’s stolen a valuable item—this won’t take long! If you’re called out, just step over and we’ll search you very quickly!”
Relc knew the job, and the citizens hollered back.
 
“Make it fast, Relc! I have a job to do!”
“Watch Captain Zevara? What about the gems theft?”
“Hah! She can let the Jeweler’s Guild rot! Now we’re stealing from the Merchant’s Guild? Make my day!”
 
They were largely good-natured as Relc and Zevara pointed out people with obvious bulges in their clothing or bags of holding. The rain made it harder to instantly spot who might be hiding something; a raincloak was big, but the item that had been stolen was bulky too. Zevara feared for a moment that this street wouldn’t contain the suspect, but her intuition was buzzing.
“You there, step forwards, please!”
She motioned aside a Gnoll woman who had been holding a baby in her arms, and a figure standing with their face turned away from her twitched in the street. They had a hood on and dark clothing…they took a few steps away from her as she stared at the bag of holding she’d glimpsed from beneath their tunic.
“You there. I said halt—”
Zevara’s feet were already digging into the ground, and Relc spun around. He shouted.
“GOTCHA.”
Sometimes, you just had to scream that and the criminals ran. The figure bolted like a shot, and Zevara almost laughed. They were trying to outrun the Gecko of Liscor? Relc could have caught them in two streets, even with the crowd, but she made it even easier.
“[Freeze, Criminal]!”
She pointed her finger, and the figure screamed and jumped sideways—a second before Relc crashed into them. Zevara saw him roll onto the ground, subduing what turned out to be a nervous young man in moments…and Zevara stared at her finger.
“Huh?”
They’d moved just now. She saw the civilians applauding or asking what had been stolen as Merchant Yerham ran over. They began moving off, and Zevara felt that prickling on the back of her neck.
Wait a moment. She spun, and this time, her eyes were wide. She paid attention to no faces, none of the people, just the most basic of things: movement.
She saw one person in the crowd moving away from them, not staring at what was going on or just going about their day. A second figure—jogging away fast.
“Relc, decoy! There!”
Relc glanced up as the real [Thief] broke into a dead run. Zevara charged, cursing. The oldest trick in the book! Someone eats the pursuit Skill and buys the real runner time—
“Halt in the name of the Watch!”
They never halted. Zevara saw the figure skid left and charged after them through the rain. She hurtled past people, blowing a whistle now to let other [Guards] know she was on the chase. She nearly slammed into a wagon as she saw her quarry sprinting down the street, and they pushed off it, cursing.
Just like the old days! 
My feet hurt so damn much—
 
——
 
Liska was bored. She was always bored. But at least she had food, good pay, and television. She barely looked up from a bowl of noodles she was blowing on as she listened to Channel 2 news.
“All aboard to wherever from wherever. Liscor to Invrisil. Go. Liscor to Pallass. Go. [Hold Door]—you idiots, wait for people to exit.”
She halted an impatient group from Pallass without even eyeing them. She could actually sense them in her head. Liska slurped at her soup noisily and sighed.
“Now go.”
Life was so hard on days like this, with the rain. She pulled her blanket up around her and decided some ice cream after the soup was what she needed. Liska changed the [Door of Portals] to another destination with her will alone.
“Everyone to Liscor—go. Everyone going somewhere else?”
A group entered the inn, wet, muttering questions—Liska slapped a paw on the sign.
“Read sign. Now—”
“Excuse me, I’m in a hurry. Invrisil.”
Someone tried to push forward, and Liska held up a paw. The man slammed into the [Forcewall].
“No. Next…Liscor to Celum.”
Only a few people, but more than you’d think. Xitegen’s city. She pointed at an annoying, panting, wet man.
“Pay up, and if you cause trouble, I’ll call security on you.”
Which was Elia or someone—she could do it too, but she was too busy. He fumbled at his pouch.
“What if I pay you to—”
“No. Last chance.”
He wavered, then tossed coins into the bowl. Liska nodded.
“And you go. Sorry for the hold up, folks, some people cause trouble. Liscor to Riverfarm, go.”
She did another cycle of the door to all locations—well, all public locations, there were a few special ones only she knew about—when she opened the door to Liscor and someone burst through.
“In the name of the Watch—”
Liska nearly dropped her soup all over herself as Zevara sprinted through the door, wheezing and coughing. She appeared like a mess. She was panting for breath, and Liska leapt up.
“I didn’t do it!”
“Where is he? Where’s—someone just came through! Human, my height! Running! Where, the inn?”
Zevara was clutching at her chest; she was exhaling smoke! Liska hesitated.
“Wh-who?”
“Where—?”
Someone in line pointed.
“The [Doorgnoll] let him into Celum, Guardswoman!”
Watch Captain Zevara whirled on Liska. The [Doorgnoll] raised her paws.
“Hey! I just do my job—”
“Celum, now!”
Zevara roared, and the door clicked around until it showed the right symbol. Liska protested.
“You have to pay—”
Too late. Zevara was charging through the door into the dry streets of Celum, shouting. Liska sat down at her desk and peered at the crowd. They stared at her. She spread her paws.
“It’s not my fault! I think.”
 
——
 
That damn Liska! Zevara lost nearly a minute in the pursuit, but her quarry wasn’t going to lose her that fast; every passing person could identify a wheezing man running for it. And so could she.
[Pursuit Steps]. It made her see footsteps where the person she was tracking was going. They faded within bare minutes, so it was no good for anything longer, but for this? It meant they couldn’t hide in an alleyway without her seeing them stop.
They’d tried twice, but she’d caught them each time. The [Thief] had evaded capture though with an incredible and powerful Skill of their own: running really fast.
Zevara was footsore from a day of work already, wearing boots, her uniform, and armor. The [Thief] was fresh, had a bag of holding with the stolen item inside, and motivated by fear.
If only she hadn’t used her [Freeze, Criminal] Skill! Zevara’s lungs were burning, and she knew she was wheezing smoke.
