When Watch Captain Zevara went outside, she got a shock. Lyonette was outside, appearing rather—impressive? She seemed to draw the eye as she strode back and forth, pointing at what was indeed new land—and a bunch of undead at war with each other.
Half of Rheirgest was present, and the brawl between undead was strange. Half of them were just hauling dirt up and piling it on a huge, sodden length of earth that had expanded around the hill The Wandering Inn stood at. An entire football field’s worth of earth had been piled up, and more undead were working—even as skeletons attacked them!
Zevara didn’t get why until she saw a zombie, visibly rotting and half-eaten by fish, hauling dirt up and dropping it on the ground. Scotty the Skeleton tackled it with a knife in hand and sawed its head off, but more were coming.
“It’s a mass-animation spell, just like Miss Arrema said, Miss Lyonette! We’re trying to suppress them, but they just keep coming!”
Elosaith was shaking his head in awe. Lyonette pointed.
“And the trees?”
“Earth magic, nothing to do with us.”
Several small saplings were growing out of the ground! Zevara’s jaw dropped as Lyonette paced back and forth.
“This is—no, it’s not Erin’s fault. This is my fault. But how? All I said was…”
The [Princess] was having a Solstice event. You could just tell; Zevara eased her sword in its sheath, but it didn’t seem to be a bad one. Several guests were sipping drinks from the cover of the magical barrier. Even so, it was distressing Lyonette. She buried her head in her hands.
“Oh no. Oh no!”
“Oh yes!”
Elosaith actually jumped in the air and punched upwards. Lyonette covered her face as Zevara closed the door. She found Mrsha chowing down on more yogurt.
“Not going out there?”
Nope. I’m being good. Are you?
“It’s out of my jurisdiction.”
For some reason, that really hurt to say. Mrsha patted Zevara on the arm.
You did good, Watch Captain Zevara. But no one oversees the inn, I guess.
“It’s still technically part of Liscor. Someone should.”
Zevara muttered at the ground. In fact, she was thinking that some kind of powerful earth-and-death-magic conduit was just the sort of thing a Watch Captain should be part of. If only to report what it meant to the Council.
She was hurrying back outside as a Gnoll with brown fur leaned on the Chemath Marble and spoke to Lyonette.
“Yep, Ma. That here’s some good death magic alright. Reckon we’re oversaturated, yup, yup. Old Chemath Marble pyramid. I heard about it in my books. Valeterisa might know more, but this here’s a problem. Ptuy.”
She was putting on a very bad country accent as she spat on the ground. Lyonette was groaning.
“Can’t you disenchant it, Arrema?”
“Who, me? Do I look like an Archmage? It’s soaked up more magic than me, Grimalkin, and Valeterisa have put together!”
Arrema looked like she was rather enjoying this problem. Lyonette cursed.
“Well then, risk assessment. What are the effects?”
“Looks like the undead do what you say. And so do the Bush Shamblers.”
“But they—already do that?”
“Right, but now they’re being empowered, and you have control over lots of undead.”
“Why me?”
Everyone just gazed at her. The [Princess] was breathing hard, and she’d put her hair back in a bun today, and she had on her working apron—but the very air just screamed royalty at Zevara. Lyonette saw several rogue undead stop before her. They put down their piles of dirt and knelt.
“All hail Her Majesty, Queen of Skeletons!”
Arrema threw up her hands. Several Antinium and Rheirgest villagers did likewise.
“Hail! Hail! H—”
They were having too much fun with this. Zevara ducked back into the inn.
“It seems safe. The—friendly undead are dealing with the rogue ones. But I’m going to have to report this to Venim.”
She told the other guests, who were also assessing risk. Mrsha just finished her yogurt and pushed her bowl back with a sigh.
Poor Watch Commander Venim.
True, it was going to be his headache, which Zevara did find nice. She smiled at Mrsha reassuringly.
“He understands the inn enough, Mrsha. Don’t worry.”
The little girl raised her eyebrows at Zevara.
Hm? No, I meant I hope his fragile spirit can take living with The Wandering Inn. He’s a weak man. Too sparing with desserts by far. Would you serve dessert before dinner, Zevara?
The Watch Captain had no idea where this was coming from. She floundered.
“Uh, no? I think it’d ruin your appetite.”
Mrsha pointed her quill at Zevara.
That’s the Watch Captain integrity I admire. Oh, there goes more trouble.
Someone brushed past Zevara, wearing the badge of Liscor. She spun. A Drake? She glanced at Mrsha, who, again, uncharacteristically didn’t rise, and then hurried out after him.
If some idiot was going to start a fuss, she, Zevara, should get involved. So the Watch Captain put on her best ‘I am important’ Watch Captain stride. Besides, she was curious what all this was about.
“Lyonette, a w—”
The other official interrupted her the moment he strode out onto the sodden grass.
“Miss Marquin! Delighted to see you this fine morning! Geillsten, we’ve met before. I’m just here for the usual business, I hope I don’t take up any time.”
A Drake with a clipboard appeared in front of Zevara, and she halted. Geillsten? Why was that name so…Lyonette turned and blinked.
“Oh, hello, Zevara, Geillsten. I can assure you two, that this isn’t an issue that will bother—”
“That’s a matter for the Watch and Council, Miss Marquin. I’m just here in my capacity, I won’t interrupt the Watch Captain, but I did want to serve you notice I’ll be doing my calculations this morning. I hope to present you with the bill by evening, but you know it sometimes takes more time in extraordinary circumstances such as these.”
The Drake was very excited. Zevara slowed and peered at him, then remembered who he was. Lyonette frowned and then developed an expression of faint alarm.
“Wait. Aren’t you—”
“The [Tax Collector], yes! Highest-levelled in the city, which, aha, isn’t much, I know. But I have the ability to calculate what any property owes, and I’m just—whoops—excuse me.”
He was very excited and almost dropped the abacus he was pulling out. He caught it with shaking claws, and Lyonette turned pale.
Zevara was well familiar with guilty expressions, and Lyonette didn’t seem to have the expression of someone who couldn’t pay her yearly fee. Rather…she seemed to be more worried about what Geillsten was calculating.
“All the fees we owe, Master Geillsten? How would you calculate that, exactly?”
“Well, my Skill is very in-depth, Miss Lyonette, but we’d be checking income taken in against expenses—don’t worry, this is what a Skill is for! No receipts needed!”
“Absolutely, Master Geillsten, but I have a suspicion—what with all those armies we were serving, and you know, is there a way we can pay a set amount of taxes? Something highly—very—generous? There’s a max cap on taxes, aren’t there?”
The Drake laughed so hard he had trouble keeping hold of all his tools.
“A max cap on taxes, my word, Miss Lyonette! Ah, well, jokes aside, we do have programs that allow for a wealthier individual to pay certain capped amounts. It’s pre-calculated based on previous years of income—the Guilds take advantage of it, you know. The Council was trying to repeal the law, but that’s one of the election issues, I think.”
I bet the Guilds do. Zevara hadn’t known that, but it left a sour taste in her mouth. Lyonette wavered.
“We have significant tax incentives—”
Geillsten was almost ready. He had his quill in one hand, umbrella in the crook of his arm, and the abacus balanced on his forearm. He answered Lyonette as he dipped the quill in ink.
“Which I am going to calculate into your bill. We just need to do the math. If you’d stop suppressing my Skill with that aura, Miss Lyonette?”
His eyes glinted, and Zevara saw Lyonette glance at Arrema, who was just laughing softly as if she’d missed this, sadly and happily, then to Ushar, who took two steps to the side, and Lyonette exhaled.
“I do apologize, Master Geillsten. How’s this?”
He brightened up.
“Perfect, Miss Lyonette! And now, [Calcul—my eyes!”
The flash of light blinded him, and he dropped all his tools. Zevara spun as a Gnoll lowered his sunglasses. Then [Mathematician] Yelroan charged into Geillsten and knocked him down the hill. He snatched up the forms as Geillsten shouted.
“Wait! You can’t—this is assault on a [Tax Collector]! Help! H—”
Zevara saw Yelroan tear up two files before both Gnoll and Drake fell in the water. By the time the two came out, Arrema was on the ground, and Lyonette was adjusting her apron. She gave the wet Drake an apologetic smile.
“Thank you, Yelroan. As I was about to say, Master Geillsten?”
“What? Why are you stopping me from doing my duty? Watch Captain! Do you see this?”
She didn’t really like the Drake, who had called her in to enforce the law on people who simply couldn’t pay taxes one too many times. Still, Zevara faced Lyonette, who shot her an apologetic look.
“I see it, Master Geillsten. Lyonette, I am on duty. As Watch Captain of Liscor, I must insist you stop laying hands on our [Tax Collector].”
Lyonette gave her a familiar, sweet smile. Her blue eyes seemed to glow, and Zevara thought her voice seemed to shine.
“Of course, Watch Captain. But as a matter of fact, I must first inform you and Master Geillsten of a new development in The Wandering Inn.”
“Which is?”
Lyonette spread her arms like Pawn giving a benediction to his congregation.
“The Wandering Inn declares independence from Liscor. This area, including Rheirgest, is not part of the city’s jurisdiction.”
Zevara’s jaw dropped. Geillsten froze, scrabbling with his things.
“[Calculate—you can’t do that.”
“I just did.”
Lyonette folded her arms, and Arrema whooped. She beamed at the [Princess], who gave Zevara another abashed look.
“But why?”
Zevara felt hurt herself, and Lyonette replied slowly.
“Well—it’s not like the inn was ever truly part of Liscor, was it? It received patrols, and back then, it made sense. But we’re out of Watch jurisdiction these days. We trade with Liscor and will do so as long as relations are well, but we don’t need Liscor. In fact—I daresay Liscor has made it clear how it feels about the inn.”
Her eyes glinted as she surveyed the inn, which had been forced to relocate here for its own safety, and she nodded at Rheirgest’s folk.
“There is no rancor in it, but we will not be taxed, which I do confess is one of the main reasons I declared the inn’s separation. Please send for a [Diplomat] or the Council, Master Geillsten. If we need to re-ratify our agreements, we shall.”
“You—you can’t do that. Watch Captain, summon the Watch! They’re hoarding more gold than you or I can dream of! I don’t know how, but—”
The Drake was striding at Lyonette, furious now, ignoring Ushar and the other people blocking his way. But it was Lyonette whose voice pinned him in place.
“This is not part of your city, Master Geillsten. Turn around and come back with an army if you want to force me to do anything in my inn. But beware. I’ve heard there are Goblin Kings about.”
Her voice. It sent the Drake stumbling back as hard as if Yelroan had tackled him. Pale-faced, unable to even make a sound, he retreated away from the inn. Lyonette’s authority barred Geillsten from going to the magic door. Zevara herself had backed up several steps.
She’s levelled up. Her class has changed or she’s hit a capstone. That was the only explanation. Lyonette glanced at her, and the pressure on Zevara faded, but the [Princess] was becoming…
Like Erin. Zevara stood there, then turned.
“I’ll, uh—I’ll make sure Geillsten gets back in one piece.”
“Zevara, I only did this because I had to. You’re welcome here any time.”
Lyonette called at the Drake as Zevara stumbled down the hill, past the kneeling undead. Zevara turned and nodded.
“Just not as Watch Captain.”
She felt like the flash of guilt on Lyonette’s face was a tiny bit deserved. At least Mrsha, watching from one of the windows, gave her a tiny thumbs up.
Then Zevara ran after Geillsten before something ate him.
 
——
 
Watch Captain Zevara had an interview with Venim in his office half an hour later. The city hall was a flurry of activity, and he was checking his uniform.
“Anything else to report, Watch Captain?”
“Only that Miss Lyonette’s got some kind of authority Skill. It’ll make arguing with her difficult, and I wouldn’t make it a show of force.”
“We’re not doing a show of force, Watch Captain. How can we with a Named-rank adventurer as one of her guards?”
He grimaced, and she felt better about that. Venim sighed.
“The Council’s up in arms about it, but if she’s serious…short of calling the army in, I don’t think there’s a way to force the inn to come to terms. They have the door, and it can’t be stolen. High Command in Pallass might say to seize a building like that—”
“Not The Wandering Inn.”
“…No.”
He agreed after a pause and sighed. Venim snatched a water-resistance ring up.
“Well, I’m headed to the meeting now, Watch Captain. I hope the rest of your day is simpler. I’ll put the request in to Pallass about the Soot case myself. Good initiative, that.”
He didn’t want her going with—? Right, she was the Watch Captain and he was the commander, now. Zevara stepped out of his office as he rushed out, and that was that.
Of course, Relc had to ask about what was going on, and she shared the gossip with the Watch House and with the people she met through the rest of the day.
Those she met while investigating the other dead crime cases, that was. Sadly, nothing was as dramatic as the Soot case, and…well, most of them were either solved or the plaintiffs didn’t care.
 
——
 
“Turns out it was a giant rat.”
“Not a racoon?”
“Nope, giant rat. We should’ve known, really. Racoons? Around Liscor? A Gnoll came through the other month, doing repairs to the plumbing, and sniffed it out. Called for an exterminator she knew herself.”
That was a rather rich district of Drakes with old money in the northwestern district. Zevara wrote this down, and then the Drake peered at her.
“What’s this about that wretched inn withdrawing from Liscor? Good riddance, I say. But, uh, what about the magic door?”
 
——
 
“Oh, the theft. Well, it’s not important. I withdraw my complaint! What’s this about the inn? Is this an election issue?”
A rather nervous Drake boy ducked out of sight as his mother waved her hand airily, and Zevara crossed off the theft of jewelry from her list. Domestic issues…
