He jumped slightly, and his voice was husky when everyone turned to him.
“Th-that’s right, Watch Captain. How’d you know…?”
“You walk like a streetkid or someone who knows how. And your head’s swivelling right. Which city?”
“Remendia, Watch Captain.”
“All the way up there? Why to Liscor?”
He shrugged, self-conscious.
“Seems like there’s more money here then old Remendia. ‘Twas a bad winter. Lots of hungry people. I heard there was food here and in the Unseen Empire, and my old man flipped a coin on which one we were bound for.”
“Oh, so your family’s here. Working in 3rd District?”
“Yes, Watch Captain. Builders, though half have signed up for work in the smithies.”
“They always need hands. Councilwoman Raekea’s been trying to get us mining the mountains more. Though Esthelm’s got Master Pelt.”
Nens broke in excitedly.
“Who d’you think is gonna win the elections, Watch Captain? All the challengers or the current Council? Everyone’s saying it might be better to replace them, but who’d want to replace Lism?”
She turned her head so he couldn’t see her expression by moonlight, then spoke neutrally.
“Not my place to interfere or comment, Guardsman Nens.”
“Oh, come on, Watch Captain! If you said something—half the city knows you’re still the Watch Captain, even with that new Watch Commander.”
She snorted softly.
“You make it sound like I’m so important.”
“You were the one who fought off Skinner and the undead—and carried us through the siege, the monster attacks, and, and—”
“I’m not even Level 40, Guardsman Nens.”
“You’re not, Watch Captain?”
They seemed astounded at this. Zevara skirted round an open sewer, peering down inside, but there were no Sewer Slimes all bunched up—back in the day, you’d pluck out their filthy mana cores, give them a rinse, and sell them to the Mage’s Guild. She poked the opening with her sheathed sword anyways.
“Do they still teach you to poke the sewer grates with a spear every time you pass?”
“No, Watch Captain. Should we…?”
“…Forget it. No, I’m not Level 40. Nor was I as instrumental as you think. Liscor survived these things, but it was adventurers, the Free Antinium—not me single-handedly slaying Face-Eater Moth Mothers. Dead gods, I’m twenty-eight.”
“You are? My Mom swore you were her age, and she’s forty-f—”
Nens shut up when the other trainees nudged him. Jerci avoided Zevara’s eyes as the Watch Captain glared back. She wondered if she appeared that old. Dead gods, maybe she did need to take care of her appearance.
“If I…seem important, it’s just because I survived, Guardsman. From the time before the inn got here. Just like Strategist—I mean, Strategos Olesm. Aside from the army, there were a lot of vacancies that needed filling. Lots of dead Drakes. Craftspeople, leaders, Guildleaders—all died during the 1st and 2nd Antinium Wars.”
They nodded at that. Zevara took them down off the main street, heading westwards. Through old stomping grounds. These days, the eastern district was getting as important as the northern district, since a lot of traffic came from the north via the roads.
The southwestern district where the Antinium had their Hive had always been poorest. Of course, even here, things were on the up, but the streets were the same. She led the patrol without needing to look up her route, and they saw people hurrying around, night crews, some adventurers heading out to the dungeon—all of them seemed surprised when the Watch patrol came upon them without lanterns.
“I feel like a criminal myself. Uh, sorry Watch Captain!”
Nens muttered, and Zevara chuckled.
“We need to take the pulse of the city, Nens. The good parts and the bad.”
“By walking around at night, Watch Captain? I get the part about not being ambushed, but…what’s going without a lantern do about the rest?”
“Ever tried to catch a rat in your apartment, Nens? Or a bug? When you raise a lantern, what does it do? The louder you clomp…well, this is the Antinium district. It’s always been both crime and safety. No one messes with the Black Tide. Though I’ve heard the Antinium now have money to spend.”
That made Zevara turn back and glance at the Antinium trudging through the rain after the group. An Antinium with a job. No kids, no vices like drinking, but he might well buy an item in the market. An Antinium like a person; so odd to have more than just Klbkch.
“Everything good in the Antinium district, Junior Guardsman Bootstrap?”
He visibly hesitated at the question and cocked his head to one side before replying.
“The district? Of course, Watch Captain. More money has come into the Hive from all the building work. Some of it is being paid to new Workers as a result. The Painted Antinium and [Crusaders] also generate—and cost—more. The Hive has never been more active.”
“Are all the Workers like you, Bootstrap?”
Trolle asked curiously, and Bootstrap instantly shook his head.
“I am an Individual Antinium. Most are not. Even Autonomous Antinium are very…simple. It is a blessing, a privilege, to be more.  But it means more problems.”
“Like what?”
Zevara’s neck spines rose slightly as she glanced back at Bootstrap, and he sighed.
“Taxes.”
“Oh, taxes.”
The entire squad grumbled about them. Zevara waited for more, but Bootstrap just saluted her with one hand.
“I am not as vigorous as Bug Squad, Captain Zevara, but I enjoy my job. All is well in the Hive areas. Our biggest job is breaking up fights over new pets. Or the dungeon. There are suits of enchanted armor that come out—but this is an Antinium issue. I can think of nothing that affects us besides that.”
“Very good, Guardsman Bootstrap. You just tell Jerci or a Senior Guard if anything does come up. C’mon, we’ll investigate the spots I know.”
And so they did. It was the back alleys, the smaller side streets that Zevara was after. There you could still find Drakes and Gnolls—and Humans too, she had no doubt—searching for an easy mark, whether it was through pickpocketing or violence. Or perhaps someone smuggling drugs in, or just someone searching for an abandoned street so they could enter a shop and grab what they could.
As they walked, Zevara thought something was wrong about how Bootstrap had said that. She believed him, of course, and she could see that he was right, but it struck her that an Antinium might not have the best read on his own Hive. Klbkch hadn’t, but…
Well, getting your own eyes on things mattered. So when they came to a particularly decrepit street, Zevara held up a claw to have them stop. This was [Guardswoman] work, not [Watch Captain] work. A distinction that might not matter to the squad, but it did to Zevara.
She spoke softly. More to herself, now.
“This probably isn’t good training. Watch Commander Venim’s put together a solid regimen for new [Guards]. I’m taking you around like we used to do. Pallass’ Watch is loud and moves fast. Liscor’s old one moved at a slouch. Right, Thorton?”
The Human man spoke up.
“Right, Watch Captain. Walk slow, don’t stir up trouble. Let the gangs work unless someone gets killed.”
“Exactly.”
“We really used to do that, Watch Captain?”
Nens was outraged. Zevara just gave him a silent gaze as smoke trickled from her mouth.
“Sometimes, you’re outnumbered, Guardsman Nens. And you don’t know, if you blow a whistle, if anyone’s going to come running or whether you can trust the squad at your back.”
She spotted a familiar bar up ahead, and it was Jerci who murmured.
“Is that why you ousted the old Watch Captain, um, Watch Captain Zevara? You were the youngest Drake to ever be named Watch Captain in Liscor’s history.”
Zevara didn’t look over her shoulder as the rest of the patrol turned to Jerci, then to her with clear astonishment.
“That’s old…that’s history, Guardswoman Jerci. The Watch needed changing. And so it has, for the better. I just feel like Watch Commander Venim’s the best leader for the times.”
And I’m tired. Complacent, maybe. With Erin gone, I just let The Wandering Inn solve its crises. There’s no Soot for me to battle. I can’t stop Goblin Kings or magical spells from the heavens. Maybe I’m the old dog unable to learn a new trick, even with a [Beast Tamer] around. Maybe I should get a dog. Take more time off.
Didn’t Elirr have this pet Frost Wyvern he was training? That would be a challenge. Zevara peered at the squad as they stopped in front of a battered tavern. Nens squinted up to stare at the name.
“The Corused Steer? Shouldn’t that be ‘The Corused Deer’?”
“Nope. Whomever came up with the name didn’t know that steer referred to cows. You ever been to a dive bar, Nens?”
“One or two, Watch Captain. And we’ve broken up bar fights before.”
That was common work for the Watch. Zevara nodded at him.
“Good. This isn’t a dive bar. It’s a hellhole bar. One, two steps nastier. Stay with the squad, don’t look anyone in the eyes too long, and don’t take too much interest in what people are doing. Stick to the door.”
They gulped. In truth, Zevara doubted it was going to be a problem. The Corused Steer had bloody fights, and she’d been in a few—but that had, again, been the old days.
Still, when she eased the door open, the buzz of voices in the decently-busy bar went low, then quiet when they saw her uniform. Someone moved out of the shadows; a big Drake missing half his neck-spines.
“No one called for the Watch, Guardswoman…”
“We’re just looking around. Is [Barman] Bobble here?”
There was a grunt from the Drake, who gave her a second eye.
“You know Bobble? Hey—”
The ‘hey’ was when the rest of the squad pushed in. At this, several patrons shifted in their seats; they were arrayed around the room at circular tables, drinks in hand. Puffer smoke ran throughout the room, laced with sharper smells—probably not Dreamleaf, since those here would want to keep sharp. It smelled like Mage’s Whiskervine; that pumped your mind up, then left you stupid once it wore off.
Zevara spotted dice on some tables, the old booths with the red curtains along one wall. A pair of scantily-clad Drakes stopped serving drinks and moved back towards the bar with instantaneous reflexes. Zevara raised a hand as the [Bouncer] clearly debated whether or not to try to get them to leave. Back in the old days, one of them would have already tossed a member of the squad out. Or be waiting for the regulars to do the job for them. The Drake spoke to the room.
“We’re just having a look ‘round. No one’s aiming to change the straw tonight. It’s wet, and I want a drink. Is Bobble there? Give me two claws of Firebreath Whiskey.”
Jerci’s mouth opened as Zevara made for the bar. The rest of the squad watched as Zevara tossed some coins onto the bar, and the patrons settled down. It was how she spoke, more casually, abandoning the crisp accent of the Watch Captain. It told them she knew the score. No one talked about straw in the Steer without knowing what that meant.
The [Bartender] who served her the cheap whiskey eyed her, not recognizing Zevara, but the moment the older [Barman], Bobble, came out, his eyes widened.
“Is that Zevara? Senior—no, Watch Captain Zevara?”
Every head snapped around again, and Zevara sighed. She saw the relaxing patrons suddenly turn to the doors and begin eyeing windows, as if ready to leap out of them. She hugged Bobble one-armed; he was a big Drake with an eyepatch and a cleaver for a left hand—he sliced up some ice and slid it into her drink as if the chipped metal cleaver were as nimble as digits. He was fast with the cleaver-hand too. Very fast. She still remembered a streak of blood on the old bar’s counter running from a Drake with a cut throat as Bobble shoved the body to the floor.
The floor…with straw on it. Straw that absorbed spills and messes. It wasn’t something most places did these days. But it soaked up a lot. Blood, among other things.
By now, Jerci had put two and two together and realized that this was one of the bars that the Watch sometimes got called to for the really nasty fights. The ones where you sent Senior Guards and told the rest of the squad to put on chainmail. Where you’d call for Relc and Klbkch. She was giving Zevara nervous stares as Zevara took the drink that Bobble served her on the flat of his cleaver.
“Bobble, you scalerat. Are you trying to get my rookies stabbed? Reassure these goodfolk that I’m not about to have the Watch bust down the doors.”
Bobble raised his voice and grinned, gaps in his teeth, around the bar.
“Don’t anyone sweat. Watch Captain Zevara’d never hug me if she was coming in for someone. She and me go way back, back to when she was a Junior Guardswoman. She knows better than to come into the Steer without four full squads of backup if there was trouble.”
Zevara snorted softly.
“If there was trouble, I’d get a Wand of Fireballs and blast this place down from the outside. I’d be reducing deaths in the city and making it cleaner.”
“Guardswoman Zevara, you wound me.”
Bobble laughed phlegmily and spat onto the ground as if to prove that the Steer had never been cleaner, which was probably true. Zevara took a gulp of the whiskey, wiped her mouth, and put the cup back.
It took a strong stomach to take down drinks here. If the rotgut liquor didn’t put you on your tail, the unhygienic glasses would—but she reckoned she’d drunk enough here to have an immunity if anyone did.
“So what brings you to the Steer, Watch Captain? Something tells me you don’t need information on what’s going on around here, not for the Watch Captain. Or is that shiny fellow from Pallass taking all the info? The Watch’s never appeared sharper, you know. Half my customers complain about it. You’ll be running me out of business next.”
Bobble eyed Zevara as he pretended to polish the bar with a rag that was probably making it dirtier. Zevara snorted.
“The Watch doesn’t come here, Bobble. Unless it’s to break up a fight. Venim’s no idiot. He’s not going to crack down on the Steer—not unless he wants more injured [Guards] and all the trouble you get in here across other bars in the city.”
“Well, just so long as you tell him that. These newcomers, they don’t know our city, Watch Captain. Even that Sergeant Relc is too keen to change things up. No respect for the old stuff.”
