A [Merchant], a [Lady], and two Agents of Pallass. All three groups could evade or deal with truth stones far better than regular civilians. Worse—Commander Venim was beckoning to her.
“If you could keep your questions short, Watch Captain? I might need one more word, gentlemen.”
They nodded at him, and Zevara knew she had only one question—she locked eyes with Hissl.
“The Antinium was stolen from shortly after your visit, and there have been a spate of other thefts in the city, agents. Is there anything you can tell me?”
“Hmm. Only that we’re happy to be questioned if a Drake was the culprit. It wouldn’t do to tarnish our city’s reputation.”
Hissl replied in a soft, direct voice. Zevara shook her head.
“It wasn’t a Drake.”
“Ah, well then, we didn’t observe anything unusual.”
“Besides the Antinium.”
“Of course, besides them. Your people have thicker scales than we do, Watch Captain. It’s…unsettling to see them walking about like it’s normal.”
Hissl grimaced, and Moass rolled his shoulder and shuddered. Zevara sighed. That was just what any Drake visitor said. She saw Venim beckoning and closed the door to his office.
“Watch Captain, are those two Drakes suspects in some crime? Because if they are, this is a matter for Pallass! They’re agents of some kind—”
He was clearly worried. She explained the Antinium theft case and saw his brow wrinkle up.
“Antinium thefts…? A Drake wasn’t seen stealing from them, were they?”
“No, just Humans. But they were right there when—”
“Ah, good, good.”
Venim relaxed and nodded to the door.
“If you have to talk to them, be my guest. But they’re here on the business of the Walled Cities. You know, they have the right clearances. They were asking about the inn—it happens. They just walk in sometimes, and you answer questions. I’m sure you know what that’s like.”
He heaved a huge sigh. Zevara frowned at him. She had indeed been given clearance codes and been told to report everything at times, but…she glanced at the door the two Drakes had closed behind them. Hissl and Moass.
“That high?”
“As I said, sometimes you run into them in the Walled Cities. I assume everyone in there is the Eyes of Pallass or working for a [General]. So…if they’re not involved with anything serious?”
Zevara only had them as witnesses and said as much, so Venim dismissed her again. But she lingered in the [Receptionist]’s area while the two marched into the door.
“Excuse me…”
“Yes, Watch Captain?”
The Drake [Receptionist] was very good at her job, and Zevara glanced at the shut door.
“I’m just curious. Can you place Hissl and Moass—”
She tried not to smirk, and the Drake covered her own mouth.
“—uh, on a sheet for me? I just need their days of entry and exit to Liscor.”
It was just a hunch, and she frankly suspected the Humans more, but the Antinium thefts this month had been in the dozens, and if she could just see if they’d come a few days ago, they’d not be involved with this. The [Receptionist] instantly pulled up a sheaf of papers, rifling through her cabinet with amazing speed.
“[Locate Entries]…here! And [Data Search: Moass]. Oh my, Watch Captain, I’m trying not to laugh. Let me just—hmm? Wait a second, they’re not on the entry list this month.”
“Huh?”
The [Receptionist] had Skills, which she had employed with practice, but now she fumbled the papers.
“They’re not here this month…let me check last month. No…no…[Data Search]…they’re not in any of Pallass’ entry/exit records. We have to keep every name on the list, Watch Captain!”
“That’s…”
Zevara froze as the door opened, and the two Drakes emerged, holding folders marked with confidential colors. She acted casual until the two marched out with nods to her, and then she turned.
“Commander Venim—”
This time, he seemed mildly put upon when she stuck her head into his office. But when she relayed the problem, he just sighed.
“Oh, that. It’s nothing insidious, Watch Captain. They’re just…not on the lists.”
“What?”
He gave her a pained look.
“I said those two had the clearance. They go everywhere. I don’t imagine that the Pallass [Guards] would have stopped them, do you?”
Not with the right papers, but they had better be damn good papers. Even Magus Grimalkin got in trouble for walking in and out of the inn without authorization! Zevara opened and closed her mouth.
“But we have to track everyone, Watch Commander! If not, then what’s the point…?”
Venim’s expression grew more aggrieved.
“It’s how it works in Pallass, Zevara.”
“This is Liscor, Venim.”
She saw him blink at her, genuinely surprised by the force of her retort. He hesitated—and it was Zevara who caved first.
“I’m sorry. I’m footsore, and…I just wanted to exclude them from needing more questions. No Drakes did any of the thefts, anyways.”
He nodded at her.
“Understandable, Watch Captain. If you need something from them, they might pop back in my office. And if they are Eyes of Pallass, well, frankly, I doubt they’d ever be caught committing a crime. They’re the kind of Drakes who do—anything. You know?”
The Drake was uncomfortable. Zevara swallowed. Black ops, sabotage, assassinations—
“I heard the Eyes of Pallass were the best in the Walled Cities.”
He smiled with faint civic pride.
“Probably. But even Manus has their own agents. Half of them have rings to make themselves invisible, to fly, change their appearances…I was on the 9th Wall and had six trying to sneak past us on some kind of training exercise. Wasn’t that a mess when I tried to sound the alarm—but I’d have been demoted otherwise, I suspect. Chaldion kept everyone on their toes.”
He sighed and shook his head. Zevara nodded and just stood there, swaying. Then she hobbled off for a bath house. Relc parted ways with her there; he was better than she since he’d lost the [Thief] and then just had to wait for her to come back.
“Hey, we got one [Thief]. Just a hundred thousand more to go, Zevara! I’m gonna take a bath with my sweet Archmage.”
He grinned at her, and she tried not to glower. At least he had love, as crazy as the woman in question was. She got a bath after paying for a private tub, then went and slept in her lonely apartment.
 
——
 
Zevara opened her eyes in the middle of the night. She couldn’t sleep. She tossed and turned and then dressed, and she stomped her way down to the Mage’s Guild which was always open.
The junior [Mage] on duty gave her an odd expression when she asked to send a [Message] to a noble house, but he had all the crests. She scanned them until her eyes fell on part of a sigil she knew she’d seen before.
There it was. Tongs, hammer, wand. Part of a larger crest of…
“The House of El.”
So that’s why Xitegen had let him go. What the hell were they doing in the city?
 
——
 
The next day, Zevara was limping so badly that when she rolled out of bed and her feet touched the ground, she almost whimpered. She would have given anything for a healing potion, but no one could afford to use them for all the aches and pains of day-to-day life.
In fact, sick days for the Watch were up like 6000% or some insane number; no longer could people heal cuts, bruises, or mend torn muscles. It used to be that only disease would put you down.
She refused to call into work today; Relc was here bright and early, and it turned out to be an important decision. For one thing, she found a nervous [Guard] waiting for her with Beilmark.
“Zevara, you haven’t lost your touch.”
Beilmark winked at her as she sipped some fresh coffee. Zevara grabbed a cup.
“You mean making an ass out of myself by chasing a [Thief] only to have Xitegen let him walk away?”
“You inspire everyone else. Seeing a Watch Captain chase down a [Thief] makes the city trust us. I heard from Relc you wanted a word with my [Guardsman]? Cossl was reassigned to my district, but he was working the Antinium streets.”
“Yes, Watch Captain! I mean, Watch Captains! Did I do something wrong?”
Cossl was very young and very nervous. One look at him and Zevara’s suspicions from yesterday faded; he didn’t seem crooked. Beilmark was acting innocent, but one side-eye said she knew this was some kind of matter; Zevara asked simple questions.
“Guardsman Cossl, why didn’t you report the Antinium thefts?”
“The what? The—oh! Well…most of them were petty crimes, Watch Captain. Objects of no real worth, and they were runoffs. How do we chase that or ‘some Human’ if I put it down in my reports?”
Cossl blinked and then instantly recalled the incident. Zevara sighed; she’d suspected as much. With any other kind of civilian, it made sense; petty thefts were inevitable, and if the Watch wasn’t right there…
“It’s because they’re Workers that it matters, Cossl. The Antinium need focus on them. I’m surprised other Antinium patrols didn’t notice the issue.”
He seemed hurt at that.
“Watch Captain! We weren’t slacking on the job! Sometimes we did find the objects that got stolen. The thieves chucked ‘em when they realized they were no good. Dolls and small things like dried flowers or books n’ stuff. We ran it all through Senior Guardsman Lens! He probably filed it all under his name.”
“You did?”
Oh. Of course some of the Antinium had gotten their stuff back. Cossl assured Zevara that Lens had overseen the matter. She dismissed him and sagged.
“Maybe this isn’t as bad a problem as I thought. Sorry, Beilmark.”
The new Watch Captain gave Zevara a sympathetic eye.
“Hrr. I think it’s fine, Zevara. I was just curious so I came along, yes? If enough Antinium were stolen from that you had dozens of those still missing their things…that’s bad, yes?”
“If it were Drakes or Gnolls, it’d be statistically insignificant. Crime’s come to the Antinium—it’s just that this group seems to be targeted by Humans.”
“Or a few specific Humans.”
Relc was busy at work with his documents, and Beilmark and Zevara were so amazed by the sight they gazed at him, hypnotized for a second. Zevara nodded.
“Or a few of them…but the witnesses we interviewed all passed truth stones. Well, except Hissl and Moass, and they weren’t suspects to begin with.”
Beilmark choked on her coffee.
“A Drake is named Moass? Seriously? I thought Noass was the only one.”
Zevara wasn’t in a ha-ha mood about it. She growled as she ran her claws down her neck spines.
“We might have to toss this one back on the dead crimes list, Relc. I just don’t…have any more leads. Or we hassle Merchant Yerham again.”
Relc seemed only too happy to bother him, but Beilmark shot Zevara a warning gaze.
“I think today you’ll be too busy for that, Zevara. Didn’t you see the report on your desk?”
She’d thought she was being made to work less. Zevara headed up to her desk and found a priority missive from Venim. When she came down, cracking it open, she blinked.
“Ancestors!”
Relc and several [Guards] glanced up, and Zevara read through the orders and then swore.
“I need four squads of [Guards] to put on heavy gear! We’re busting a den!”
There was a rumble through the Watch House, and Relc blinked. Busting a ‘den’ or rattling the coop, however you wanted to say it, was code for taking on criminals in their element. A warehouse or a gang’s headquarters—
“Which gang?”
“The Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings.”
Zevara felt a bad twinge in her stomach when she said it. She met Beilmark’s gaze, and the [Watch Captain] nodded tightly.
“Watch Captain Ronss had an informant tip him off where the gems were, I heard. Venim gave him the all-clear to lead a raid.”
“That’s fast work.”
Of course, the gems would be sold if they didn’t move fast, but Zevara hesitated. She rested her claws on the table as Relc got up, sighing.
“Oh boy, and here I thought my desk work would be boring. Where are we going, Captain? I might need some coffee after all.”
“Not you, Relc. It says to leave you in charge. I’m going—Beilmark’s staying in her district.”
Relc blinked and turned to Zevara.
“What?”
That’s what Zevara wanted to know too.
 
——
 
Why hit the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings?
No, the answer was obvious. They’d stolen a lot from the Jeweler’s Guild. Obviously, the Watch needed to recover the goods and stop the gang from running rampant.
But on the other hand—Zevara was the Watch Captain of Liscor. When she’d been in charge, she had gone head-to-head with a lot of threats. Soot, monsters like Skinner, Erin Solstice—but she also knew when not to poke the Mothbear.
She had never arrested Soot outright or gone after his gang on the streets. Because that was a war. In the same way, she’d once arrested Erin, a proud moment, but she had never taken The Wandering Inn to task as hard as some people wanted.
Because…it was the inn. It had possessed defenders ranging from adventurers to Hobgoblins, and she’d always known it was more of an asset as a dubious ally or independent party than enemy.
In the same way, Zevara knew the Brothers. Not wholly; they were a northern gang, but she knew their reputation. They were a tough, tough group. And she thought this was a bad decision and said as much when she met Ronss.
“Why no Relc, Ronss? And are you sure you want to take on the Brothers?”
Senior Guardsman Ronss—or rather, Watch Captain Ronss was a fiery Drake without the Dragonbreath. He gave her a wink as four more squads from his district mustered up. With two from Venim, that made ten—eighty [Guards] mustering down streets, ready to box in on the warehouse in the northeastern district that was the turf where the Brothers were.
“Come on, Captain Zevara. Sorry, Zevara—I’ll have to get used to that! You once took out an entire base of Soot’s goons with Relc and Klbkch back in the day.”
“That was because we had them on kidnapping, extortion, and murder and we knew Soot’s heavies were in there. And that was with our golden duo—Venim said specifically not to have Relc.”
Ronss nodded, adjusting his helmet. They had on half-plate armor, his squad, on some, chainmail on the rest. Zevara only had on her regular leather gear, but she was faster in it. In tight spaces, you might want that speed.
“I would have called up Relc, but Venim said he wanted to send a message. Relc’s our secret weapon, but [Thugs] need to fear Liscor’s Watch, not just him!”
There was a logic to that; Soot and his folk had never feared the other [Guards] half as much as Relc and Klbkch. Even so…Zevara leaned in towards him.
“Ronss…have you ever seen a Brother fight?”
“Nope. They just tip their hats and wave. Innocent as can be. Annoys the hell out of me, just as much as you, right, Zevara?”
