“Babe, if I could give you equal access to my accounts, I would. I looked into it before, but even if we were married under Remus law, there’s still no good way to do it. So yes, I’ll sign over whatever you need. And don’t worry about repaying me, honestly!” Ranthia offered as she tried and failed to control the bright smile that overwhelmed her face.

“Mm, my love, I adore the sentiment, but please do not encourage my greed. It does not need any assistance! I will take the points as a loan and repay you as profits come in. And there shall be no argument on this!” Avyna countered.

“Ugh, fine, I guess I can receive more money I don’t know what to do with.” Ranthia faux-grumbled before she grinned. “Anything else from your successful negotiations?”

“Oh, just that I will be able to use the base to exchange your currency to contribution credits and vice versa with no fees or questions asked.” Avyna lilted her response with a sweet grin. Obviously, she believed that this was a very significant achievement.

Not that Ranthia could think of any reason to explain why Avyna was so excited about the ability to accept Reman coins—she had always been openly amused at them using such a ‘worthless’ currency. …She wasn’t going to ask either, she was certain that the answer was either something trivial or something she really didn’t want to know before it became a problem.

“Well, if that’s everything… I was thinking that we could begin our own little celebration…” Ranthia dipped her voice to a husky whisper that she had previously had great luck with.

But when Ranthia relaxed her embrace to let her hands wander, Avyna seized the initiative. The elf—quite deftly—swept Ranthia up into her arms. It was a bit of a role reversal for them, but Ranthia was not complaining about being carried to bed (giggling, perhaps, but never complaining)!

Gods and goddesses, it was so, so wonderful to be with someone in her own level range.

The loan ended up consuming the majority of Ranthia’s current contribution credits, not that she minded. Even at that amount, she would have happily gifted them to the wonderful woman that she was sharing her life with. But Avyna remained insistent that it had to just be a loan—albeit an interest-free one. Honestly, Ranthia was just happy to see the elf flourish in Remera—it absolved some of her lingering guilt over dragging Avyna away from the safety and robust markets of Coalition City.

The tent that Avyna received for her shop was diagonally adjacent to their own, though it was behind their home, which meant that it required a bit of a walk since they had to circumnavigate the section to get to it. Also, it was much larger than Ranthia had expected; its footprint was considerably greater than their home’s—at least before the Spatial hijinks. Yes, it had been a storage tent, which probably suggested that it was large, but she had also listened to Sentinel Bulwark complain about how limited space was in Remera’s plans—not that the base ever really felt cramped to her. Canvas ‘buildings’ aside, Remera wasn’t entirely dissimilar from a modest city; it was a far cry from the cramped quarters and minimalism of the Unbreakable Image.

“I was right, I will have to buy an elven tent. That is just a blocky eyesore!” Avyna announced as they rounded the corner. She was already glaring at the tent.

“Let’s take a look inside anyway.” Ranthia replied.

She was wildly unsurprised that Avyna wasn’t interested in the Legion-issued utility tents after everything they went through when they chose their home. The place had been cleaned out—for the most part, at least. A few empty barrels and crates had been left behind, though Ranthia had no idea whether to attribute laziness or if it was a petty act of defiance from some minor officer that was mad about losing the storage site.

It was spacious and open though, with robust support beams that seemed to be solidly nailed together. Aside from the handful of empty containers, the place was even clean—it was relatively dust free with no spills or damage. Avyna walked through with a serious expression on her face while Ranthia paced around patiently.

It took Ranthia a bit of time to realize what was happening, but once she noticed, she had to struggle to keep her mirth silent.

Avyna at some point had started talking to herself—she was planning the shop’s layout within the current tent. She had fallen in love with the space that she had, and she quite obviously realized it mere moments after Ranthia noticed.

“…If it can take the important inscriptions that I need without the materials failing, I suppose it will suffice.” Avyna primly announced, as if that had been her plan the entire time.

Ranthia—ever so very wise—chose not to point out the adorable redness that was creeping across the tips of Avyna’s ears.

Reinforcements had arrived.

Four cohorts—a word that Ranthia absorbed through the numerous meetings involved, even if it was a needlessly fancy way of saying north of two thousand and forty-eight legionaries—were dispatched to assist Remera with the attack. Specifically, the attack that had been dealt with four days before they ever arrived.

But Legions—even half a Legion—moved slowly. Word had reached them that the danger was past and the shimagu remnants had fled, of course, but they still arrived at Remera. Personnel were shuffled around (the number of legionaries stationed at Remera was meant to be flexible and in flux to prevent the shimagu from predicting the strength of bases or something; Ranthia kind of tuned out the explanations) while their guests camped around the base.

Sentinel Mirage was with them, which meant that Ranthia ended up roped into incredibly pointless morning meetings while he was there. Seriously, of course there was nothing new to discuss, he was there too. They just awkwardly drank bland tea together while they ‘discussed’ trivial events like their own patrols or arguments they broke up. Ranthia got along fine with the man, but the Sentinels had the stupid morning meeting thing overly ingrained into their psyche.

Which really made Ranthia reassess her preference for keeping the exact same timeframe blocked for her own training.

But the reinforcements changed their label to a punitive force and left without fanfare three days later. They planned to strike the shimagu base that Remera’s scouts believed that the remnants of the hostile army had fled to. Not that they had the numbers to properly attack a base, but their officers were confident that they could make the shimagu’s hosts bleed a bit without facing undue risk.

It felt somewhat petty to Ranthia, but she supposed that was a part of warfare too.

“Oh, my love, excellent timing! You simply must try this!”

Ranthia had just returned from one of her scouting patrols when Avyna immediately sprang from her chair and thrust a cup at her. Ranthia blinked in surprised uncertainty, but she still readily accepted the cup and tried a small sip.

“Oh, by Xaoc, that is foul! What even is this?!” Ranthia hissed.

Ranthia had to force herself to swallow the searingly bitter beverage. She might have spat it out, but she didn’t want to ruin their rugs! She busied herself with scraping her tongue against her teeth to try to get the sour taste off her tongue while Avyna tried to compose herself enough to answer—the treacherous minx had started to giggle into her wrist the instant the vile liquid touched Ranthia’s tongue.

“One of those ‘under’ brewers made this. I am unable to make alcohol production legitimate, but I did invest in them. I traded them one of the harder liquors that I still had in stock, one that they could have possibly made with their equipment—if you were unaware that some of the ingredients are absent here—in exchange for half of their profits. I think I should have gone for two-thirds though; this is impressively bad.” Avyna finally explained.

Ranthia finally gave up on her tongue and shifted to a new body to free her mouth from the lingering flavor.

“My love, are you here? You will never guess what I have to tell you!”

Ranthia took her faith seriously—it was between her and Xaoc. She never prayed aloud aside from when she led others in prayer, she never shared Xaoc’s words with anyone else, and she never interrupted her prayers.

But these were extenuating circumstances and Xaoc barely got a quick ‘Sorry!’ from Ranthia before she launched herself through the curtains. She had barely gotten to spend any time whatsoever with Avyna for nearly a week at that point—and the sound of Avyna’s sweet, sorely missed voice was a siren call that managed to override Ranthia’s piety.

Especially since Avyna was home well before sundown!

Avyna let out a single, glorious note of laughter as Ranthia blurred through the curtains at speed and swept the perfect—and entirely too busy with preparing her shop—woman into a passionate embrace.

“Someone missed me, I see.” Avyna, ever mischievous, spoke a heartbeat before Ranthia’s lips could find her own.

Ranthia pouted her best pout at her lover, but the elf pretended to be immune—as if Ranthia could ever miss the playful look in the woman’s eyes—and continued to keep her lips in motion with hastily constructed words.

“You do realize that you were supposedly to guess—my invitation was quite clear!” Avyna’s Creation was especially clumsy, but she was quite determined to outpace Ranthia’s impatience for a kiss.

“You said that I would never guess, and I am not one to engage with the impossible.” Ranthia retorted with what had to be a strong contender for the most shamefully inaccurate lie she had ever uttered.

But it worked exactly as she had hoped—Avyna froze for a single, precious moment from Ranthia poleaxing her thought processes. Ranthia’s lips sealed over the elf’s implausibly soft and sweet lips while her lover was distracted by the blatant outrageousness of those words. Avyna huffed indignantly through her nostrils, but she returned the kiss with almost as much affection and yearning as Ranthia poured into it.

“I ran into Glorine and her love while I delivered more messages to the master of quarters.” Avyna suddenly spoke.

She was about two words in when Ranthia finally realized her lips were bereft of a recipient. She wasn’t even sure what Avyna had done to disengage so seamlessly—which was rather unfair, Ranthia even accelerated her perception every time they kissed to savor each wonderful moment of it!

Her frustrations failed to find purchase on Avyna’s triumphantly smug expression, so she forced herself to return to her ‘normal’ perception once she parsed meaning from the words.

“Who’s Selene?” Ranthia asked, allowing her defeated sulk to color her tone.

“Glorine, my love. But I suppose your unfamiliarity is fair in this, I only received her name when we spoke. She is your message-bearer, the cute one. They will be having dinner with us tonight, so we must prepare!” Avyna slipped out of Ranthia’s arms with graceful ease even as she explained.

“You’ve been too busy to take time off from preparing your shop for us, but you’ll do it to hang out with strangers?” Ranthia was legitimately a bit put out, but she carefully kept it out of her voice. Her words were meant to be playful.

A heartbeat later she paused in belated recognition and put together a quick prayer of apology to one of the two moon goddesses for inadvertently misappropriating her name. She was pretty sure there was no harm done, but the deity accepted some of Ranthia’s mana all the same.

“Oh, my love, I do miss spending time with you; I promise that the shop preparations will be done before either of we quite know it! But this is an opportunity and what is the point of having a home so… well, as lovely as a tent can try to be, at least. But what is important is having a place to host guests!” Avyna’s ears colored slightly as the words tangled on her tongue, but she powered through her embarrassment with a surprising amount of gumption.

Ranthia had never expected Avyna to be the sort of person that loved to host parties, but her beloved’s excitement was unmistakable. It definitely wasn’t her thing—she’d never really been enthusiastic about such parties. More honestly, she considered it to be something better suited to the idle wealthy who had nothing better to do than to try to show off to their peers.

But she loved learning new things about Avyna. Even where they were dissimilar, every new facet she discovered was wonderful. Her heart soared every time she had the realization that she had just come to know Pallos’ perfection just a little bit better.

And besides, she seriously enjoyed cooking alongside Avyna, that novelty promised to never wear off. Ranthia shifted into a clean image and rushed to join her lover in the kitchen to prepare food for four.

The cloth that covered their table was finer than Ranthia had seen some of Remus’ wealthiest wear. It had sparked an argument—both minor and brief—when Ranthia protested it (“They’re Reman, it’ll make them uncomfortable!”), but Avyna refused to remove it. Culturally, the table covering was important to Avyna, so it stayed. At least Ranthia convinced her to sync the tent’s ambient lighting to the real world, so their guests could have a better sense of the time. The ‘hourglass’ that Avyna bought was beautiful with its glittering fine gems that gradually shifted through the System’s color spectrum over time, but it wasn’t exactly obvious just how to discern the time from it—it required both an assessment of what percentage of the gems were in the bottom of the instrument and what its current color indicated.

