Erick almost flinched. He had expected the Headmaster to attempt contact through whatever Elite he sent to poke around at the soul spears, which had to be [Duplicate]d. But already? Now? Here? The Headmaster was getting right to the point, then. What did he want? For Erick to come to Oceanside right now? That seemed like a bad idea, for Erick had heard lots about dragons recently, and he did not want to be accidentally responsible for causing a dragon fight. And also…

If he saw the Headmaster right now…

If he got anywhere near the Headmaster, Erick was going to ask about Kirginatharp’s brother, Idyrvamikor, and the causes of the Dragon Curse,

As well as a ton of questions about Last Shadow’s Feast.

But the problem with asking those questions was that Erick was scared of the old dragon. Before Last Shadow’s Feast… Before Candlepoint, even, Erick hadn’t been too scared of Kirginatharp. But now, knowing how bad it could be to face someone of the Headmaster’s power in his own lair…

Erick didn’t want to put himself or his people in danger.

For Erick was a Wizard, and Wizards could break dragons from the Dragon Curse, and that put a big fucking target on his soul. Even if the Headmaster didn’t know what Rozeta, his mother, or Melemizargo, his grandfather knew, he could probably figure that Erick was a Wizard now, if he hadn’t already.

And yet...

The Headmaster was the Headmaster.

He was the greatest force of ‘good’ in the world. He routinely sent Elites out to hunt the most dangerous monsters on the planet, helping communities who couldn’t help themselves...

But he also taught everyone magic! That was another thing.

If Erick saw the man again, he would rail at him about how fucked up it was that he was teaching magic improperly.

And so, suddenly facing down this Elite sent by the Headmaster, even if she was a ‘friendly’ face, Erick had a lot of thoughts that he didn’t want to have.

So Erick did what he could, which was to nod, then say, “Please relay your message.”

If it was a public statement, then it couldn’t be that bad, right?

Tyli nodded, then said, “The Headmaster sends his eternal appreciation for the execution of Ar’Kendrithyst, and for the business with the Forest of Glaquin. He wishes to bestow upon you worldly treasures as befitting of your path of destruction against all the Evil upon Veird. But on a more pressing note: he wishes for you to come to Oceanside at your earliest convenience to solve this Converter Angel problem before it turns into a true war. He hopes to solve this Quiet War issue with words, using avenues of discourse he has open to both sides. As for right now, with the revelation that someone has been using [Duplicate] to create soul spears, it is my duty to inform you that as per previous bargains of trade we have a few dozen people that we must request for that you search for, to see that they are not doing things that they should not be doing.” She relaxed a fraction, and said, “Thus ends the entirety of the message. What say you?”

Erick felt a twinge of relief. The message hadn’t been that bad. There was definite coding that the Headmaster knew that Erick was on his Worldly Path, so it was very concerning that the Headmaster wanted Erick to come to Oceanside while he was still on the Path!

But then again, the Headmaster likely knew more about that than Erick did.

Anyway.

Erick decided a few things, then said, “Please tell him this: Regarding Ar’Kendrithyst, I merely made the best of a bad situation, but thank you for your words. I am interested in journeying to Oceanside to speak of matters great and small, but nothing that requires me to journey there right away. I am trying to be on vacation, but stuff keeps happening; that’s all. As for the angel, I heard she's on the dark side of Celes, but if this should change, please let me know. And I will work with Tyli here in order to scout out whatever samples of whatever Book Binders have gone missing in this part of the world, or whatever may have happened.”

Tyli nodded, her eyes briefly flickering from their normal red to gold—

Ah.

Erick didn’t notice the magic until the Headmaster wanted it to be noticed. The Headmaster had been here all along, in mind if not in body, and now he was coming to the forefront.

The Headmaster spoke through his Elite, as he had done many other times, in other places, “You have done much for this world, Archmage Flatt, and you deserve to be honored for it, not forced into wars; forced to defend yourself from small-minded warlords. Please come to Oceanside at your earliest convenience, but enjoy your vacation wherever it may take you. As for the Book Binders, Tyli can direct that search. I understand you are staying in Holorulo upon First Devouring Nightmare Mountain.” Tyli turned to Hangzi. “Please make arrangements for Tyli to take up residence near Archmage Flatt.”

Hangzi was already pale, but he went half a shade whiter. His voice was strong, though. “As you wish, Headmaster Kirginatharp.”

The Headmaster added, “I am sorry about your father. Patriarch Dularo was a good man. We held many bargains of trade that had yet to be fulfilled on my part. Now, these bargains are your bounty. We should speak more, soon. Perhaps whenever you are done with these final matters of state, regarding the former Scion Raidu?”

It had been asked as a question, but it was practically an order.

Hangzi seemed strengthened by the Headmaster’s words, though. He replied, “Thank you for your benevolence in bequeathing my father’s bargains of trade to myself. I will make an appointment through your people to talk more. Devouring Nightmare looks forward to continued cooperation with Oceanside.”

The Headmaster nodded, then released Tyli back to herself. The woman sagged for half a moment, then stood straight again, her eyes turning from gold back to red. She said, “Archmage,” to Erick, then, “Patriarch,’ to Hangzi. Then she stepped back to the edge of the room, to stand in line with the other guards.

Now that that unexpected ambush was over—

Erick turned his attention back to Ari, Hangzi, and the floating spirit of Raidu. He said, “I have few questions of the man, and then we can get on with the final judgment.”

Hangzi glared up at the floating spirit, his eyes turning hard. He said, “Court Necromancer Arilitilo. You may wake him.”

Ari stepped to the side of the gold-lined altar, under Raidu. With a red spell touching upon the gold lines, an invisible envelope around Raidu turned visible, briefly, then vanished into motes of light. Raidu gasped, stretching out his arms and legs as he looked around—

Raidu caught sight of Erick. And of Hangzi. And then he sighed, a bone-weary sound that echoed in the mana, rippling outward to touch upon some invisible barrier that extended upward from the altar, fully encasing Raidu, blocking the spirit from fully interacting with the world.

Erick waited for the man to speak.

Raidu did not make him wait long, saying, “I apologize for my actions, Archmage Flatt. I did not see what I was doing till after… I never should have driven Terror Peaks to war. Please forgive me.”

Erick gave no outward emotion.

He wanted to forgive the man, though. He wanted to, so badly. But he knew he couldn’t.

And yet!

He had let Omaz go; Archmage Syllea’s brother was somewhere out there, under the same Blessing that he had put Raidu under. Omaz had killed thousands, too. He had attacked Treehome with spells that spanned the sky, which would have killed hundreds of thousands. Omaz had plotted and schemed to kill and kill again. He was a cultist of Melemizargo, and he had done dark deeds in the shadows, for Shadow and for the Darkness.

But Raidu had killed millions with both his words and his actions.

So… Yes. There was a difference. A difference of scale.

But the Shades had done worse than either of them! And Erick had Blessed them and told them to make something good of themselves, didn’t he?

Ah.

His feelings were messing him up. They got in the way all too often, didn’t they?

Erick steeled himself, and asked, “What sort of afterlife are you hoping for?”

“I will struggle forever to resist the call of the End, but I know it will come for me no matter what I do.” Raidu said, “So being here isn’t too bad.” He laughed, then looked to Hangzi, and winced. “Ah. But I suspect Young Master Hangzi wants to put me in a torture doll for eternity for what I did to his family. I’m sorry about that, too.”

Hangzi remained stoic, standing there, listening while giving nothing away.

Erick asked, “What was your goal in appearing before me and getting captured like this?”

Raidu’s face scrunched as his red body misted out in tiny spots along the hem of his robes, and in his ears and fingertips. He seemed to be trying to recall something that was no longer there to recall. He said, “I don’t remember how I was captured or killed.”

“This was at least a full day before you died.” Erick frowned. “You should know the answers to this question.”

“I… I do not…” Raidu’s voice trailed off. And then he brightened. “I could guess… I guess that I had only two options.” He stared into nothing, looking beyond Erick, and then he suddenly focused on him, and said, “Ah. I remember.” He smiled. “It was either get you onto the proper side of Light, or we would all die in darkness, and so, I did as anyone of Terror Peaks would have done and took a chance with my life. I— I failed…” Erick saw a shift in Raidu, as the joy of remembering how he died became the pain of knowing how he died. And then Raidu banished that emotion, forcing himself to strength as he said, “Songli is full of Darkness, Erick. And I don’t mean the Darkness of Melemizargo. I mean the Darkness of Rozeta.”

Well that was a damning sentence.

Erick forced himself to remain impassive, but through the eyes of Ophiel on his shoulder, he saw guards turn inquisitive or incredulous before banishing those slight looks from their faces. Teressa didn’t bother to hide the wide-opened expression on her face, though; Erick could practically read her mind as she thought ‘what the fuck is this fuckers fuckup?’. Or maybe Erick was projecting his own need to spout profanity at Raidu’s stupid fucking words.

Erick saw Tyli’s eyes flicker gold.

So the Headmaster was still here? Well okay then.

Raidu continued, “My fight is over. I am dead. But Songli has always been a Dark Alliance founded by Shadow, created in order to support people like they were cattle; for there is no mana without people to constantly create it, and that is the goal of all the gods. They’re all Dark Gods, Erick. Every single one. Even Rozeta. Even Sumtir, the God of Righteous War is an Evil God. I won’t go to a single one of those charlatans and their fake afterlives, for if I could, I would do whatever it took to keep their divine fire from consuming my Self like it was kindling, all to keep their own fires burning for just that much longer. For that’s what they are, Erick; parasites.” He looked to Erick. “I know how magic is made and where it comes from and the manaminer in the souls of every person on Veird, ensuring that mana flows to Rozeta before all others. I lied before about not knowing how magic worked before, in order to suss you out. At the end of my existence, I tell you the full truth now.

“The Script is a chain, but it is the only chain we have, and it only keeps us all alive because there needs to be mana for the monsters and for the gods and for all the other unnatural life all around us. And thus, Songli was one of many such nations born from that need. Look around you! See what the gods do for us! Nothing but trinkets and charms they give us, while they hold back the movement of the world into a new Era! You know what Sininindi plans to do to you if she ever gets a chance, do you not? You do; I see it in your eyes. You brought forth a new era into this world, but you are not the first. You bring us destruction, but not how you think.

“For you would not be the first to cause the world to fall to the gods!

“There are records of mass purges all throughout Veird’s history! Go down deep enough in the underworld, and you will see what I have seen! Do you truly believe that Veird is only 1450 years old? No! Our estimates put it at 8500 years of age. For all the gods’ power, for all the power of the Script, their controls were imperfect several times before. Just look at what you did with Particle Magic! This era might be coming to an end soon because of what you did, and none of our children will ever know what has come before.

“All the gods are evil for what they and the Mind Mages and the Wrought have done to us, time and time again. All is Darkness. Even the Demons and the Angels are a part of this trap for humanity, to keep us in a cage and raise us as livestock.” He relaxed, his magnum opus given. Then he said, “Terror Peaks is the only civilization of True Light. So if there was any chance at all that you could be brought into the Light, I had to take that chance. This is why I let myself be captured by you. These are the circumstances in which we fight. Not some petty war with Songli, but with all the gods and all the powers that seek to milk us for all we are.

“This is the world that we live in.”

Silence filled the room. Raidu’s form had become even more misty at the edges. He had given up some deep part of himself in order to give that speech.

Erick said, “Maybe you’re right.”

Everyone in the room startled to a varying degree except for Tyli-as-Headmaster, and Poi.

Raidu laughed. “Maybe one can talk to Wizards, after all!”

“Maybe. But you’re dead, and I have no one else to confirm what you’ve said.” Erick said, “And besides that: I will never believe the words of a dead man, especially one who says he doesn’t want to rejoin the war he left behind, and then goes on to talk about why I need to join his war.”

“Is there a way to convince you properly?”

“Where is Patriarch Xangu?”

Raidu opened his mouth to speak, but then nothing came out, and he looked perplexed. “Er. Maybe he’s…” Raidu frowned. “I don’t know. He’s in the Underworld somewhere… Right? I think he is?”

Erick gave Raidu a moment more to collect himself, to maybe come up with a lead.

Raidu just frowned, more disappointed in himself than in Erick, and said, “I thought I knew. Apologies, Archmage Flatt. My father could tell you more, but I know not where he is.”

“Then I am sorry we couldn’t work things out, Raidu.”

Raidu sadly said, “My time is over, but you still have options, Erick.”

“It’s over. I am done.” Erick said to Hangzi, “Pass your judgment.”

