The Palace of the Eternal Court was as ostentatious on the inside as it was on the outside. Massive hallways. Vaulted ceilings. White and gold everywhere. One addition made this place different from the rest of the capital city of Holorulo; stone statues of people here and there in the hallways that were not what they appeared to be.

Erick didn’t see the statues himself, for he was in a side hallway following Ari and her guards to some location upstairs. Those ‘sculptures’ were on display for the public, over in the main hallway and in those side hallways, where people waited in line for numbers to then wait in chairs to eventually talk to people behind counters.

They were not simple stone statues, though.

The insides contained gold-gilded bones, while the outsides were white stone. Almost all of them had plaques nearby. Erick could barely read some of those plaques, for reading through mana sense was a little difficult, but he noticed High Clan names on most of them, and lists of deeds under those names. In death, each ‘grave’ held symbols of what the interred person did in life. Some had scrolls in their hands, or weapons, or flourishes of magic hinted at through wardlight sculptures.

As the public passed those dead people, some stopped to read what was written, others continued onward to do what they came here to do. Erick noticed that a great many of the visitors carried urns with them. Looking inside those urns, he saw skulls nestled into powdered bone.

Those urns were in use all around Erick, in smallish rooms located all over the Palace of the Eternal Court. Erick glanced to the nearest room, since the ceremony was starting. He also glanced to Teressa, who, wide-eyed, likely saw a lot more around her than he did.

A family of three stood to the side of the room, each person wearing their best clothing. An altar stood before them. A summoner stood behind the altar, wearing robes that draped across the ground like a dozen perfectly placed tendrils. It was ceremonial garb, for sure.

Upon the altar, was their urn.

The summoner twisted magic around the altar, pouring power into the urn as the family watched. The urn’s cap came off then gently sat to the side. A white skull floated up from within, followed by a trail of bone dust. The dust gently drifted into the air in front of the family, in the center of the room, directly above an inlaid design of gold and Ancient Script, followed by the skull which floated to head-height. Dust became a flickering green substance. The skull turned bright under the ministrations of the summoner.

In a flashing moment, a translucent green person stood where the skull and dust had floated, standing atop the Ancient Script runes. They wore a simple tunic and pants. In other rooms, other spirits wore expensive robes. Some wore armor. Some wore cheap robes.

And then, in that room, just like in all the other summoning rooms all around the Palace of the Eternal Court, the family started talking to their deceased. None of the living touched the dead. None of the dead touched the living. No one crossed the circular barrier in the floor, made of Ancient Script and gold.

But that wasn’t the only outcome of a summoning.

In some rooms, the summoning failed.

In some rooms, the summoning went wrong, and the summoner had to banish the spirit before it attacked either the summoner, or the people requesting the summon.

In some rooms, tears flowed from the living and the dead.

In some rooms, the living and the dead argued and railed against each other. Sometimes, arbiters came in to adjudicate whatever mess was happening. Sometimes, the arbiters were already there, on site, for the living knew in advance that there would be troubles.

Erick followed Ari for five minutes, watching the world around him, and also Ari, but mostly the world around him.

Ari’s voice brought Erick back to the moment, “We are here, Archmage Flatt.”

And they were.

They stood before a pair of ornate, double doors that were already under guard.

The guards opened the doors, and Erick followed Ari inside. Their people followed close behind, but every one of them stuck to the back of the room while Erick and Ari walked forward.

The room was larger than most, but contained all the trappings that existed in all the other summoning rooms, everywhere else in the Palace. The altar was bigger, though, like a full stone table, and the Ancient Script barrier to contain summoned spirits was on that table; not in the center of the room.

A spirit had already been summoned, too.

The translucent red spirit floated in a fetal position, above the ornate altar. Erick ignored the spirit for a moment.

Erick was able to tell that the formations on the altar were much different than the smaller binding zones in the other rooms. The altar was crisscrossed with gold and designs and words that Erick had never seen before. Only some of the designs were written in Ancient Script. There were the words for ‘Summon’ and ‘Recreate’ and ‘Stasis’ and ‘Clarity of Thought’ and ‘Clarity of Soul’, and a hundred or more other small instructions. There was no ‘Clarity of Body’ or ‘Clarity of Aura’, which would seem necessary for a true [Resurrection], but then again they weren’t trying for [Resurrection]. This space was merely for questioning the dead, and then letting them go.

But they wouldn’t be letting this red spirit go. Raidu was destined for other Ends.

Scion Raidu Terror Peaks wore the garb of a ruler, with a ceremonial robe giving him flared shoulders, trailing sleeves, and a long skirt that all curled up as though he was inside a gentle vortex as he floated there, ethereal and dead.

There was another person in the room, too. A few, actually.

Hangzi stood to the side, with his own pair of guards standing behind him. He looked resolute, and ready to move on. He also looked somehow stronger than the last time Erick had seen him.

Erick turned to the Patriarch of Devouring Nightmare, and said, “Greetings, Patriarch Hangzi Devouring Nightmare. I did not expect to see you here, but I can imagine that you wish to get this over with as soon as possible.” He asked, “How is Warzi doing?”

Hangzi breathed, then said, “When I was informed that you would be questioning him today, I made the time; Yes, I wish to put this dread affair into the past.” He added, “Warzi is doing better. The loss of Yorza has been difficult for him, as it has been for us all, but he is a strong boy, and he will be stronger in the future.”

“I’m glad to hear that.” Erick turned to the floating form of Raidu, saying, “Elder Arilitilo has given me a good overview of the questions and answers Raidu has already provided, but I had hoped to get the full notes before we started the actual questioning. But this room is empty.” He asked Ari and Hangzi, “Where are those notes?”

Hangzi lifted his head, then turned to one of his guards. The guard stepped away in a flash of black, as Hangzi turned back to Erick, saying, “They are not kept on site, but they will be here momentarily.”

Ari stepped to the side, toward Raidu, as she spoke to Erick, “Since you will be reading, would you like to adjourn to a side room? Tea is available.” She gestured to a side door.

Beyond was a simple room; likely a place to talk without being in the presence of the contained spirit.

“That would be acceptable,” Erick said.

Hangzi had a disagreeable look for a moment, then he banished that look, and took the lead, saying, “We have hours of discourse with the man. Allow me to answer whatever questions you have while you read, but do not overtax our time. I wish this man gone from this reality, forthwith.”

“Agreeable.” Erick said, “So you know, I am not opposed to whatever ruling you pull, here, but I have heard that soul sundering is a fate worse than death.”

The unspoken question was, did Hangzi want that on his conscience?

“It is what he deserves for sending so many of our people to their deaths.”

Ah. Okay then.

Like.

If anyone deserved a sundering, Raidu probably did.

Erick let Hangzi’s desire remain unchallenged, as Hangzi’s guard blipped back into the hallway beyond the double doors, then walked in with a folder-full of papers. Hangzi took them from his man, and handed them to Erick.

Soon, Erick was inside the side room and drinking tea as he read, alone, and Hangzi remained in the summoning room with Raidu, glaring at the sleeping spirit. It wasn’t an unproductive time for the boy-Patriarch, either; he merely spoke to others outside the space through [Telepathy].

Erick could have gotten these notes earlier, but he was always planning on getting these notes while Raidu was in the other room. He needed to get in the right headspace for talking to the spirit, and these notes were going to be how he got there. It wasn’t his fault that Hangzi chose to be here when he hadn’t been invited.

Erick had a passing thought, wondering how he would have gotten these notes if Hangzi hadn’t been here. That might have been awkward for someone, somewhere. Good thing that didn’t happen.

… Erick wouldn’t make the man wait overlong.

So Erick read about questions and answers and half answers, trying to understand, for himself, the reasons for the war with Terror Peaks, and for the shift from normal warfare, to terrorism and civilian killing.

Reading Raidu’s answers was a bit maddening, for the reasons for war was a line of simple causality.

It started with overpopulation, over twenty years in the making, and worsening.

Overpopulation was a particularly disastrous event for Patriarch Xangu, because for the last five years he had been losing absolute political power to the Pacifist Faction. That faction wanted to concentrate on war with the monsters, only, while Xangu rose to power by being ruthless with nearby warlord clans, chasing them away and securing the safety of Terror Peaks. But without the problem of those warlord clans, pacifism started to look rather nice to the population. Who wanted to fight with other people when there were monsters to kill? There was even talk of allying with Songli once again.

And so, Xangu had all of the pacifists killed in a small-scale purge he had instituted five months ago.

From there, things spiraled out of control for dozens of different reasons, not the least of which was that Xangu had been found out by many, and so, Xangu needed a scapegoat.

But then a miracle occurred.

Ar’Kendrithyst fell to Erick, in the Last Shadow’s Feast.

Xangu and Raidu and all of the Main House were poised for a massive, sweeping change to come across the world, and so they capitalized on the fervor of the people. As everyone was wondering what would happen, Xangu directed the narrative toward there being some massive Wizard/Melemizargo/Shade plot, unfolding across the world. A war would be the perfect reason to kill off all of the opposition, and make the Main House strong again, so they worked toward that goal.

With that, Raidu helped his father to talk to friendly, nearby clans, to formulate responses in case of large-scale problems.

When the Converter Angel’s taint was uncovered, much of Terror Peak’s base solidified. There would be a war now; it was only a matter of when, and against who.

When Erick purged the Forest of two ancient monsters, and looked to be able to purge the world of more, the narrative shifted hard against Xangu. Xangu was on the verge of losing his legitimacy. So Raidu had to assassinate a few opposition leaders to keep in power, which he did.

When Goldie, the Shade of Assassination, started leaving notes on people’s pillows, it was another indication that war was coming. A war that the Main House would win. A war to end all wars.

When news of Songli’s anti-antirhine treatment broke, it fit the narrative of war, and of Shade plots.

And then Erick appeared on Songli’s side.

Peace was never an option.

Those were the major points and the minor points, strung together into a whole that Erick had not seen written down until this moment, and that Ari had not told him when they spoke around this topic. Erick didn’t blame Ari for that; she likely didn’t want to be the one to tell him all of this shit.

He felt a pit in his stomach as he read, as he saw how the last year played out for Terror Peaks.

He moved on.

Erick read more on the soul spear, but Raidu hadn’t been involved in that, so there wasn’t much. All he knew was that one day, Warchanter Farloa, their Elder of Enchantments, acquired the soul spears from an unknown source. Farloa was the name of the woman who had appeared on Patriarch Xangu’s side, when he gave his declaration on those [Viewing Screen]s that appeared over the bombed temples of Koyabez. Farloa had been responsible for those destructions, as well as the [Gate] attack on the Alluvial District. She was the one who cast those [Gate]s, and who created the bombs to push through those [Gate]s.

Farloa was dead; killed in action in the breach of Terror Peaks’ enchanting houses.

Erick had killed her with a [Luminous Beam]. He remembered doing that. He remembered all the people he had erased from the wor—

Erick’s mind recoiled like he had touched a hot burner on a stove.

After a moment...

He moved on.

All of the questions about angelic interference were in the back of the reading. About twenty four pages had been filled with text about angelic and demonic presences inside Terror Peaks, spanning much of the last year, but going further than that, to twenty years ago.

And there was nothing in any of that reading aside from Raidu leading the charge against this angelic force or that demonic force, cleaving the Quiet War in twain before it had a chance to erupt in Terror Peaks’ backyard. Terror Peaks wanted a war, but they did not want to get involved in the Forever War.

Erick closed the folder. He had spent twenty minutes reading.

This had been more than enough time for another person to show for Raidu’s final questioning and execution. A red incani waited in the room beyond, wearing white robes but looking more like a mercenary than a diplomat, because that’s what she was.

Erick left the side room and stepped back into the main room, greeting the newcomer, “Hello again, Tyli.”

Tyli was an Elite who worked for the Headmaster. She had also come to Spur to help with the Messalina problem, and before that, she guarded Erick’s house when it seemed like something was going to happen to him while he was developing [Cascade Imaging]. She was exactly the same bright red incani who Erick remembered, though she looked more formal in her current outfit.

Tyli stood straight, saying, “Greetings, Archmage Flatt. If you do not mind, I have a message of congratulations from the Headmaster. It is nothing that needs be private, unless you wish it to be.”

