“Um… It’s not just Grick,” Grick said, patting Lily’s head. “Grick couldn’t kill nasty humans without Lily.” He couldn’t deny a bubble of excitement forming in his stomach at how much these humans seemed to like him. Especially when he thought about how that group of girls had looked at him. He liked that most of all.

“Indeed, a truly powerful duo the two of you are.” A larger soldier nodded.

Another one with a scar over his eye, not dressed in armor but more like Rin’s nicer-looking attire, nodded as well. “Surely, we are very lucky to have the Hero Grick fighting on our side,” the scarred man said.

Rin smiled and nodded behind them. “Come, Grick. There are several important matters on which we will soon require your input.”

Grick’s ears perked. “Grick’s input?”

"Of course,” Rin said, walking beside them as Lily trotted towards a carriage that was waiting for them. “You have such unique experiences dealing with the threats against our lands.” She turned enough to show her teeth in a smile. “And besides that, you’re a very smart goblin. Your advice will be invaluable to us.”

Grick did know some things. He was good at hunting, sneaking, fishing, and finding shinies in caves. He wasn’t good at trading shinies, but Puppy taught him to be better at it! But he wasn’t sure any of that would help Rin. What advice could he possibly give?

The finely dressed man with the scar nodded. “With Grick’s brilliant mind and unconventional approach to warfare, I suspect his counsel will offer perspectives our traditional strategists have overlooked.”

Lily looked up at Grick and asked, “What are humans saying?”

“They think Grick smart,” Grick said to Lily through pack bond.

“Oh.” Lily looked amongst the humans walking around her and asked, “Is Grick smart?”

“Yes, Grick very smart!” Grick answered without hesitation. “Humans finally notice!”

He felt a bubble of pride as the carriage was held open. He hopped off Lily’s back and let her jump in first, then he climbed in after her. Rin and the scarred man got in right behind them.

“We look forward to hearing your mission report,” Rin said, as she settled down. “But I suppose such conversations can wait just a little longer. You ought to take some time to clean up and have a proper meal worthy of a returning hero.”

Lily must have known the word meal because she told Grick, “Ask if they have Puffstork!”

“Do humans have tasty puffstork for Lily?” Grick asked.

Rin interlaced her metal fingers in her lap. “Of course. I’ve personally seen to it that our Puffstork shipments are prioritized towards Lily first, and of course, many tasty fishies for you as well, Grick.”

Lily’s tail wagged at the promise of Puffstork.

The carriage started moving, and Grick pushed himself up to look out the window. The humans lining the road were still cheering and waving. Some of them ran alongside the carriage a short distance before falling behind, while children held up drawings of Grick and Lily battling monsters.

One of the drawings showed Grick standing atop an enormous pile of dead humans, a sword in each hand, while Lily breathed fire beneath him.

Grick did not remember using two swords, or Lily breathing fire, but he thought it was a very good drawing anyway.
