Either way, the point was this: she needed a means of reinterpreting their fate. At first she had known no more than that an opportunity would arrive, for one always did. As the future approached, she saw more clearly the shape that opportunity would take.

Now, after more than a millennia of waiting, she finally got to see for herself what he was like, and she was absolutely delighted by what she saw. Honestly, she could not have hoped for a better pawn than Cale Cadwell Cobbs.

The pieces were almost set. Only a few more remained to fall into place, which was admittedly the riskiest part of her plan. After all, Cale did not yet have everything he needed. For that, he would have to return to Utelia before completing the Bitter Path and find that other human.

Hopefully he would pick up on her hints on that matter. It was all she could do to guide him. Once he had what he needed, though, it would be entirely in his hands. What he would do, when faced with humanity's extinction?

It was an exciting question, because for all of Ashvali's knowledge, she still did not entirely know what he was. He was useful, but the source of his existence and how he was able to persist between worlds was a mystery to her. Perhaps there would be an opportunity to find an answer to that soon. She could think of all sorts of uses for his reincarnation trick.

In the meantime, watching him thrash a snake was deliciously entertaining.

The vision-realm that represented the Duat was very nearly a ruin now. It held together only because of the symbolic strength of the Duat itself; without it, the whole place might well have fallen apart when Cale evolved his thirteenth-tier spell [Might of the Mountains], which had caused every mountain in the vicinity to grow animate and sentient. They matched Apophis in size and tossed the serpent around like it was nothing more than a children's toy, causing a regrettable amount of damage in the process.

Fortunately, the fight was over. Apophis no longer had the spirit to fight, and it had accepted its defeat as inevitable. As the vision-realm began to tremble and collapse with the conclusion of their battle and they approached the twelfth and final country of the Duat, it spoke.

"I do not understand how you did this," it said. Its form reverted back to that of the hydra, with the heads of four dragons emerging from its neck. Cale wondered briefly if the pain he saw in their eyes was real. If the true dragons had been watching all this as it happened, unable to stop it. "The storm should have been inevitable. The worlds were ours to retake."

It sounded as if it was pleading with him. Not for mercy, exactly, but for reassurance, or for an answer of some kind.

"We deserved better," it added, the words plaintive and confused. "Did we not deserve better?"

Cale eyed its pitiful form, then sighed. "The dragons that spawned you did," he said after a moment. "They didn't intend for any of this. They just wanted to repay a debt, and they trusted us to come up with a better solution. I admire what they did. I'm not sure I could've done the same."

"And what about us?" the hydra asked. "We exist only because of them. Because of you. We are the castoffs of your existence."

"That might be true," Cale said. "But your choices were your own. The good news is, I think you'll enter the cycle, just like everyone else the Dragonstorm created and gave enough life to speak. If you have something of a soul, you won't be gone forever."

The hydra absorbed this, then spoke again, quiet and bitter. "I can sense your anger," it said. "You are not that different from us. You carry within you the same resentment that created us. Perhaps more. I do not understand how you can ignore it."

Cale snorted. "I don't ignore it," he said, a shadow crossing briefly over his face. "But I don't let it control me, either. I've seen what happens when it does, and I love magic too much to let my hatred turn it into something ugly."

The hydra fell silent and bowed its head. It was battered and bruised—it did not have the strength left to fight even this battle of words. Besides, what was left for it to say?

"For what it's worth," Cale said. "Whatever remains of you in the next life, I hope you remember that, and make some better choices."

A blade of prismatic mana formed in his hands; he slashed, and the vision-realm fell apart around him.

A moment later, the sun began to shine through the fading storm.
