Still, he hadn’t learned nothing. The people on top of the mountain were mages, and they were incredibly powerful, but bound by a code of honor that included noninterference with mortals, or rather, non-mages. There were also martial artists and adventurers, who lived by their own rules and roamed the land freely. In other words, all his dreams of climbing to the apex could come true, but it was a long way off. And the orphanage wasn’t the place to achieve those dreams. The matrons were quite firm about that. He was meant to find a trade and live quietly as someone’s apprentice in three years, when he aged out of the orphanage.

Of course, the only part of that he heard was ‘three years of free room and board.’ He had no intention of playing by their rules, and absolutely no desire to live a quiet life this time around.

On the third day, he set out toward the trash pit only to hear footsteps behind him. He turned. Tam and Den followed him, pretending not to follow him, while Bast stared directly at him, grinning like a hyena. He turned back around and walked on, a small smile touching his lips. Good.

Rhys kept his pace all the way to the trash pit. The second he climbed in, and the wall obscured the boys’ view of him, he sprinted around a nearby nook in the wall and vanished out of their sight. The boys reached the edge of the pit and paused.

“Where’d he go?” Den asked.

“Where else? The trash. Get going,” Tam replied. There was the sound of a blow, and a quiet oof from Den.

“I don’t wanna go in the trash,” Den complained.

“Oh, come on, Den. We’ve been in the trash a billion times before. What, are you afraid? Do you think he’s actually a ghost? Gonna let him keep making fools of us? He didn’t learn his lesson. We gotta make sure he learns. We agreed on this, Den. Now get moving.”

There was a grunt. “You go first,” Den insisted.

Tam sighed loudly. “Alright, fine. Bast, you go first.”

Bast laughed aloud. “This is your fight. I’m just here cuz I’m bored. If you wanna catch Rhys, you catch Rhys. It’s none of my business.”

“Don’t you like beating people up?” Tam whined, annoyed.

“I like fighting. I don’t like beating on the weak. That’s your thing,” Bast replied flatly.

“Oh, come on.” With one last complaint, the three-legged chair creaked, and Tam climbed down. There was a short pause, and then Den scrambled down after him. Bast hopped from the ledge, forsaking the chair entirely.

“So… where’d he go?” Den asked.

Rhys grinned. Just like he’d wanted. Hidden in his nook, he pulled a thread. The cans he’d found in the trash yesterday toppled, making a loud sound.

“Ha! You thought you could hide? Filthy little rat,” Tam shouted. He ran toward the cans, with Den at his heel. Bast trailed slightly behind them, head high and hands in his pockets.

In the nook, Rhys tensed. He leaned into a sprinter’s stance and activated the mana inside him. He could handle two drops of the potion now; not a huge improvement, but better than nothing. Watching the three boys, he counted slowly in his head.

Three. Two.

Tam yelped as the ground gave out beneath him. Den jumped back, and for a split second, Rhys thought he might have to deal with him, but then Tam latched onto Den. His weight was more than Den could handle, and so he pulled Den down into the pit Rhys had dug for them, rather than saving himself. Bast jumped back, suddenly on edge.

Now. Rhys shot forth, running as fast as his tiny amount of mana would allow. Bast started to turn, but too slow. Rhys latched onto his shoulder and drew that final prize from his robes, holding it to Bast’s throat.

Three inches of blade glittered in the sun. The sword had snapped not far after the hilt, making it useless to any swordsman, but more than enough to threaten a kid like Bast. Bast struggled, and Rhys tightened his grip, pushing the cold blade into Bast’s neck—not yet hard enough to cut, but close. “Hold still, or else.”

Bast froze. He put his hands up. “Huh.”

Down in the pit, Tam and Den screeched. Small, dark forms crawled over them. Rats, mice, ants, cockroaches, spiders, and all kinds of other horrific creatures roamed in the pit. Whenever he’d encountered one, Rhys had caught it and tossed it in his pitfall trap, then seeded the trap with bits of his breakfast and dinner bread so the pests would stay. The trap wasn’t exactly crowded, but he’d at least made sure the two bullies wouldn’t have a good time.

“Wondering why you aren’t in the pit?” Rhys asked Bast.

“Little bit, yeah,” Bast said, far calmer than Rhys had expected.

“I could have pushed you in, but I didn’t, because I have a proposal for you. When Tam killed me three days ago, pushed me off that cliff and let me knock my head on the stone, you watched, is that correct?”

Bast nodded. He frowned. “What do you mean, you died?”

“So you’re only accessory to murder,” Rhys continued, ignoring Bast’s protest. “Which means I have a lighter sentence for you. What do you say you leave those idiots behind, and take my side?”

Bast considered. For a child with a knife to his throat, he was startlingly calm. It was honestly starting to worry Rhys a little bit. Did Bast have the skills to back up his calm demeanor? Or was he naturally relaxed under pressure?

His skin brushed Bast’s, and a shock of mana leaped between them, almost like a static shock. Rhys’ eyes widened as he suddenly understood. Bast, too, had some small amount of mana. Not only that, he seemed to be better at controlling it than Rhys. He might truly feel no pressure from someone like Rhys threatening him.

“I like fighting,” Bast said at last. “I don’t really care about those two. I could get into lots of fights by following them around, but I don’t enjoy bullying the weak the way Tam does. It’s just kind of boring to me. I’d rather take on a more powerful opponent and challenge myself than hammer someone I already know can’t win. If you can offer me the opportunity to fight, then sure, I’ll swap sides.”

“You’re awfully calm for someone with a knife at his throat,” Rhys commented.

“Well, it isn’t the first time. And you’re weak, and you don’t have any killing aura. If it makes you more comfortable, you can go on pretending to threaten me, but I won’t be scared,” Bast replied.

Rhys snorted. Bast had basically confirmed everything he’d wondered. He lowered the sword and stepped back, keeping it between him and Bast. Bast turned and looked at him, without a single ounce of fear in his gaze. Slowly, Rhys put the sword away.

“I can’t guarantee fights, but I can guarantee you I intend to climb to the very top of this damn world and stand at its apex.” Rhys’ eyes shone. Utter conviction sounded in his voice, and he rested his hands on his hips, gazing to the horizon.

Bast raised his brows. In Tam, he’d only seen a bully and a pig, a close-minded person grunting his way to his next meal. Rhys, though, Rhys had vision. Vision he’d never known the small boy to have before. He nodded. “That sounds more interesting than bullying kids. Take me with you.”

Rhys offered his hand. “I hope this is the start of a wonderful partnership.”

Bast took his hand, and they shook. “I hope I get to fight a lot.”

“Bast! Help!” Tam shouted.

Rhys motioned for Bast to stay back and walked up to the edge of the pit. He crouched there, looking down. “Bast is on my side. How do you feel now, murderer?”

“What? Let me out of here! You little bitch. Let me out right now, or I’ll beat you so hard you’ll feel it next week!” Tam snarled.

Den clawed at the walls, his eyes big with panic, shivering with his whole body. At the sight of Rhys, though, his eyes narrowed. “Fucking rat! Let us out, shitstain!”

“No, I don’t think so. I don’t think you’ve learned your lesson at all. You know, pushing people into pits is very bad, don’t you agree? In fact, it can even kill them. You’ve experienced the pit, but you haven’t experienced near death. So why don’t we make that second one happen? Bast, can you grab that piece of wood, there?”

Tam tensed. “What are you doing?”

“Sending you to hell,” Rhys said evenly. He took the wood from Bast and laid it over the mouth of the pit, eclipsing the sun.

“No, no, no, Bast, don’t you dare! Don’t you dare! I’ll—”

“Bye,” Rhys said, and with one final wave, he shut Tam and Den in the pit.

Bast dusted off his hands. He nodded at Rhys. “Sorry about earlier, by the way. I told Tam not to push you, but you know Tam.”

“If you really feel sorry, then follow my orders from now on,” Rhys replied.

Bast nodded. After a beat, he cleared his throat. “Are you actually possessed by a ghost?”

Rhys paused. He looked back. “Why would you say that?”

“Because you aren’t Rhys. I know Rhys. He’s a scaredy-cat that quavers and wavers over every little thing. Rhys wouldn’t have the guts to lock Tam and Den in a pit, or to threaten me with a sword. In fact, even avoiding us is more than I’d ever expect Rhys to be able to do. So who are you? And what happened to Rhys?”

Rhys stared at him. He said nothing, but internally, his mind raced. He’d been found out, this quickly? What was he supposed to do now, run? Did this world have exorcists and the like? No, for that matter, what did he even qualify as? A possession? A reincarnation? He himself didn’t know, but he didn’t want to find out. Especially not at the receiving end of someone vastly more powerful’s spells.

Bast met his gaze. For a few moments, they stared at each other in silence, both of them wearing their best poker faces. Bast broke first. He laughed and waved his hand, shaking his heat at Rhys. “Your face! Ha. No, don’t worry. I won’t report you. Whatever you are, you’re far more interesting than Rhys was. I’ll follow you to the ends of the earth.”

“I’m Rhys. I just matured a little,” Rhys defended himself, a few beats too slow.

“Sure, sure.” Bast grinned, not even a drop of belief on his face.

Rhys sighed. Ah, well. It seemed Bast didn’t want to report him. Though even if the boy did, it would be one boy’s word against another’s. And who took twelve-year-old kids seriously? No, Bast was no threat to him.

“What have you been doing in the trash, anyways?” Bast asked.

“Preparing the trap.”

“You’ve been doing more than just that,” Bast muttered.

Rhys cut him a look. Or maybe not. Bast was a little too perceptive. “None of your business.”

“Yeah, yeah.”

They reached the town again. Rhys beelined for the orphanage without a second’s hesitation. He needed an alibi, in case Tam decided to rat him out, and there was no better alibi than the matrons themselves seeing him quietly study for almost the entirety of free time. If things worked in his favor, they’d forget that he vanished at the very start of free time, or simply assume he’d been studying the whole time.

Abruptly, he paused. Bast almost bumped into him, dodging to the side at the last second. “What is it?”

Rhys pointed. A poster on the wall advertised a tournament for martial artists, adventurers, and mages of all stripes, winner-takes-all. His heart raced, and adrenaline instantly surged. The opportunity was too good to pass up!

Bast gave him a look. “I’m not that strong.”

“No, that’s not it. Listen…”
