Rhys propped the chair up on the garbage at the edge of the pit and clambered up it. It was a short walk from the pit to the town, and dark when he got there. The town had a wall, and the gates were halfway closed, but a woman was arguing with the gate guards.

She gestured at the darkness. “—still out there! He’s just a child. We can’t—”

“Ma’am, we have to close the gates. We can’t leave ‘em open because one of your orphans vanished. He probably just ran off to play camp, or something. There’s monsters out there, we can’t leave the gates open for one kid.”

“There’s monsters outside—do you hear yourself? You’re just going to lock him—”

Rhys cleared his throat.

The woman turned. She was middle-aged, with silver threading her dark brown hair, and dressed in old, modest clothes. At the sight of Rhys, her eyes lit up. “Oh, thank goodness. There you are! Rhys, come here, come on in.”

He jogged over, cancelling the mana circulating through his body as he did so. He’d left it active all the way from the trash pit, pushing his limits, but he didn’t want anyone to notice anything suspicious yet. He needed to understand more about this world before he let anyone know he’d done something like activate his system or acquire mana. It could be no big deal, or it could be the kind of world-shattering talent indication that would lead to him getting kidnapped by some mad cult of mages. He just didn’t know. He suspected it was ‘no big deal’ rather than a world-shattering talent, given how little mana potion it took to top him up, but better safe than sorry.

The second he was within grabbing range, the woman’s arm snaked out and caught his upper arm in a painful grasp. She yanked his closer and hissed in his ear, “You stay out after dark again and I’ll see to it you get a whooping like you’ve never felt before, do you hear me, child?”

Rhys raised his brows. What an about-face. So she wasn’t as kind as she looked, just a woman getting her job done, who was angry to be inconvenienced by a trouble-maker like him. He got it—he also didn’t like kids—but he wasn’t real happy about being treated like shit, either.

Seeing his unperturbed expression, the woman scowled deeper. She shook him, hard. “You hear me, boy?”

“Yes, ma’am,” Rhys said. She kept scowling at him disbelievingly. After a moment, he put in the effort to give her a terrified expression.

“Good. And wipe that stupid look off your face,” she snarled, dragging him away.

Rhys stared at her back. Did she want him to look scared, or not? He rolled his eyes at the back of her head. No wonder he’d woken up dead in the pit. With someone like this looking after him, of course the other kids had been able to bully him to death. She probably spent as little time around the children as possible.

Over her shoulder, she smiled sweetly at the guards and called, louder, “Thank you so much! I appreciate your help!”

“Yeah, whatever.” The gate rattled as it shut.

Rhys shrugged. At least he hadn’t been locked out with the monsters. And he had all his loot still, even the decoys.

As if she’d sensed his thoughts, the woman turned back. “What is in that horrid sack of yours? I don’t remember giving you that.”

“Mhm. I made it. It’s full of trash,” Rhys replied proudly.

Her nose wrinkled. “Trash? Throw it away!”

Rhys hugged the sack to his chest, as if he’d protect it to the death. In truth, the empty jars were a decoy. Compared to the value of the things hidden in his robes, they were nothing. Of course, he’d be happy to get away with all of it, but well, better to lose a little than everything. If she tried to take them, he’d kick up a fuss until she wore out, but he wouldn’t mind if he lost them. A worthy price to pay, to keep what he truly had looted.

To his surprise, she snorted and turned away.

He relaxed a hair, but internally, grew more tense. She hadn’t even tried to enforce her will. A woman like her, no way would she give up so easily… unless she knew something was for-certain going to take everything from him, without her having to make an effort. He double-checked all his valuable loot and prepared himself to run. The spark of mana in his stomach was almost gone, but he could probably get one last spurt of speed out of it if he really needed it.

For now, he still needed to go to the orphanage to rest his head and receive food. But if he was treated the way he was beginning to suspect he was treated, then he wouldn’t be there for long. His body was young, but his mind was old. He was used to ten-hour shifts and working until he passed out. He could go find a job, if he needed to. Pay his own rent.

Of course, he’d rather not. Not paying rent and taxes was the biggest advantage to being a child. But if he had no choice, he’d do it.

The matron led the way through the cobbled streets and past Victorian-like houses, overhanging their understories and crowding over the street like trees searching for the sun, all the way to the back of the village, where a boxy stone building stood. A large fenced yard encased this boxy construction. At this late hour, no one stood in the yard, but the worn turf and a toy or two hidden away in the longer grass spoke to the building being occupied by many children.

Rhys looked around, taking a moment to get the lay of the land. The fence was stone and metal rods, pointed at the tips. It would be hard to climb, but not impossible. There was enough space between the wall and the house to play tag or evade a pursuer, but not forever, and little to hide behind. He twisted his lips. It would be tough, but he could make it work.

A loud clang startled him, and he whirled, but it was only the matron shutting the gate. Chains rattled as she pulled them through the gate’s bars and locked them shut. “Hopefully no more of you brats sneak out tonight. I’ve had enough goose chases for the week.”

“I didn’t sneak out. I was almost killed by—”

“Hurry inside, or you won’t get dinner,” she interrupted him.

Rhys shut his mouth. It was worth a try, but as expected, he couldn’t get through to her. Rather than risk his loot by pushing things, he scurried into the boxy building.

Its construction was as simple within as it was without. A central hallway, with rooms to the left and right. A staircase dead ahead of the front door led to the second floor, which was laid out much the same. Candle light and conversation came from the rear of the house. Even from here, he could see a large room laid out with long tables, each one occupied by children. Rhys approached it, adjusting his grip on his empty potion vial sack. If there was a real challenge to his ownership of the satchel, it’d come when he stepped inside.

So, with a deep breath, and clutching tightly to the spark of mana in his core, he did just that.

He almost expected the room to fall silent, but naturally, nothing so dramatic came to pass. Instead, the kids went right on eating. Most of the tables were occupied, and none of the kids called out to him. For a moment, he was back in high school, terrified he might sit with the wrong clique and commit social suicide.

In the next, he scoffed. Who cared what a bunch of brats thought?

Rhys retrieved a bowl of thin soup and a piece of rough bread from the matron at the far end of the tables, then sat down at the nearest empty seat. The children near him scowled and withdrew, but he ignored them. With the practiced hand of a born loser, he gulped down soup and bread in a few short moments.

He’d barely finished when a shadow fell over him. A meaty hand landed on his shoulder. “You’re not hungry, are you, Rhys?”

Rhys turned, exposing an empty bowl. He looked up at Tam and shook his head. “Not anymore.”

Tam scowled. “You ate your bread?”

“It’s my bread,” Rhys returned.

“Didn’t we agree that you aren’t that hungry, so you should give me your bread?” Tam asked threateningly.

“Did we? I don’t recall,” Rhys said lightly. The bullying extended even to this extreme? He supposed he wasn’t surprised, but nonetheless, it was shocking just how petty children were. It reminded him why he usually avoided them like the plague.

Tam gripped his ponytail and pulled his head back. His eyes narrowed. “Did you not learn your lesson today?”

Rhys glanced at the matrons, but as expected, they pretended to see nothing. He scoffed quietly and turned his eyes back to Tam. “Oh, I learned my lesson. Did you?”

“What?” Tam asked.

Rhys tapped Tam’s hand. “That blood on your hand… did it ever occur to you that you might kill me?”

Tam recoiled, jerking his hand free. He looked at it. There was nothing smeared on his palm—Rhys’ blood had long since dried. Turning back to Rhys, he laughed. “Trying to scare me with ghost stories? Do you think I’m five?”

“But I am dead. You killed me,” Rhys said, his face dead serious. He stared Tam dead in the eye, unflinching, unmoving.

Tam backed away. He frowned. “What the heck? You just ate soup. You can’t be dead.”

“Have you never heard of hungry ghosts?” Rhys whispered, and licked his lips, still staring down Tam.

Tam backed away. He scoffed again, but he sounded less certain about it. “You’re insane.”

Rhys just smiled, slowly.

Rolling his eyes, Tam walked away, making sure to knock Rhys’ shoulder on the way past. “Better leave your bread in the morning, or else.”

Rhys watched him go and said nothing. Only when Tam had retreated back to his seat did he finally stand and walk away. He’d done what he needed to do. It was time to get the rest of the plan moving.

The trio had killed him. There was no mistaking that. Whatever retribution he visited upon them, they’d brought it upon themselves. But first, he had to familiarize himself with the building. The real Rhys would have known it like the back of his hand, but to him, it was a brand new location.

None of the other kids left the room, even if they were done eating, and the matrons shot him a nasty look on his way out, but no one stopped him. Rhys took that as permission to keep going. The rest of the building he investigated in short time, mostly because there was precious little to see. Upstairs were the dormitories, two long rooms occupying either side of the hall. One was reserved for girls, with beds decorated with flower crowns and the scent of perfume lingering on the air, while the other was reserved for boys, and stank like it, too. He went from bed to bed, trying to identify Rhys’. In the end, he’d eliminated all the beds except one, a dirty, stained mattress with a single tattered sheet. A pair of shoes, tucked underneath, contained his name in small, crammed font, which confirmed it. He snorted. That wouldn’t be his for long.

He might be a loser back in his home world, but he wasn’t so pathetic as to get bullied by a bunch of children. Nor did he intend to let their crimes go. If it was his world, they’d get sent to juvie for manslaughter. In this world, they’d probably get hung directly. He didn’t intend to kill them, but nor was he going to let them get away with it. They’d only escalate things if he turned the other cheek. Being a loser had taught him that much, and he had no intention of getting trampled in his second life, too.

There was little else in the building, save a few lesson rooms and a play room for the smallest children. He couldn’t access the kitchen with the matrons there, so he left it. He didn’t need the kitchen, anyways.

That night went quietly, and so did the next day. When he had time away from the other kids, he’d take a drop of the mana potion and circulate it until he grew feverish. Slowly, he adapted to the mana. As for the bullies, he avoided them like the plague. With the help of mana, it was laughably easy. At mealtimes, he’d eat fast and run off. During free time, he hid in the trash pit and dug for treasure. When they had lessons, he was the last to enter and the first to leave.

His precious potions stayed on him always, while the empty vials he sold to a local apothecary. The shop’s owner asked him few questions, and he provided few answers. Each empty vial was only worth a quarter-penny, but it counted up over time, and by the end of the week, he had almost twenty cents. It didn’t sound impressive to his modern ears, used to sums in the thousands of dollars, but twenty cents was a good wage for a day’s work, here, so given that he could make that from doing nothing but rifling through the trash, he was satisfied.

The potions he hadn’t asked about, but from glancing at the alchemist’s board, they wouldn’t be less than a full gold coin. For a village like this, that was incredibly rich. There wasn’t a single person here who could afford that kind of remedy, and even if they could, they wouldn’t waste their money on it unless they were backed into a corner. In other words, he had a fortune on his hands; he just didn’t have a place to sell it off.

But that was fine. It just meant he had a guaranteed survival plan, and in an unpredictable fantasy world he barely understood, that was worth more than one gold.

As for his skills, Scavenging grew to level 5, while Less is More hit 6. He hadn’t yet developed a skill for handling mana, but he felt as though he were on the verge of a breakthrough there. A few more days of sipping the mana potion, and he’d have a real chance at gaining that kind of skill.

The whole time, he kept his eyes on the bullies, biding his time. A few times, Tam tried to corner him, only to be called away by a matron—not to save Rhys, but because lessons had started or the meal had begun. The more frustrated the boy became, the happier Rhys was. All according to plan.

Unfortunately, he hadn’t learned much about the world in general. He’d tried asking the matron some simple questions, only to get knocked back with a generic “Don’t you know already?” Not wanting to give away that he knew nothing, he’d simply walked away. The textbooks in the orphanage were dry and smacked of propaganda where they spoke of the world around him at all. Mostly, they covered the basic subjects like math and literacy without branching into anything as complex as history or geography. Peasants like him weren’t meant to care about such things—or at least, that was the vibe he got.

