Keeping my doubts to myself, I grab Lin's hand and wander away, telling lighthearted stories to cheer her up. Lin has been by my side since I arrived here, and somewhere along the way, she smuggled her way into my heart, a presence I can't live without. I'm also head over heels for Mila, and it's a little conflicting. I feel a little terrible wanting to marry multiple women, but on the other hand... that's the dream. In theory, it sounds great, but in practice, I always feel guilty when I'm alone and flirting with Lin or Mila, as if I'm cheating. It's also kind of a rush, which might make me a terrible person.

Regardless, as soon as I get to the Bridge, I'll ask Baatar to approach Taduk and set up my betrothal with Lin. I've left her waiting for too long, and Baatar let slip he was upset when Akanai didn't wait to speak to him about my betrothal with Mila, so this time, it's his turn. As fearsome as he is, Baatar is a big softie when it comes to family. I'm sure being away from Sarnai for a year was difficult for him, not to mention the twins. It'll be good for people to see him with his family, humanize him in the common soldier's eyes.

Dinner time rolls around and Lin insists on eating out, a nice quiet dinner for two. Walking through the doors of the restauraunt, we're met with cheers and applause, my squad and friends lying in wait to surprise me with a party, Lin grinning mischievously. With little ceremony, Mila presents me with a piece of paper, smiling happily as I unfold it. “I don't understand... this just says 'Say yes or I'll hurt you'. Say yes to what? We're already betrothed.”

“You idiot, not that. A Warrant Officer is entitled to a retinue of 100 guards, and that is my application. All your trainees were writing them up, so I made one too. Li Song will join as well.”

As if on cue, Rustram hands me a sheaf of documents, sheepishly lowering his head. “I know we aren't the most skilled warriors, but all 67 of our squad hope to be of service.”

“... what are you, stupid? I spent the last six months training you, you think I'd leave you here with your thumbs up your asses? I refuse any and all terms, I speak, you listen, I command, you obey. Simple as that.”

“Yes Officer Rain!” Cheers fill the restaurant, their enthusiasm infectious. I'll never understand soldiers, how can they be so happy about going out to fight?

A slender pair of arms encircle my neck and Tursinai leans over my shoulder, whispering in my ear. “Big Sister here is happy to serve under you.” A coquettish wink sends my heart racing, and she cackles in delight. “Hubby will be joining as well, Chief Provost's orders. We're to guard little Mila, but don't tell her that. I'll handle finding recruits for your retinue, you just tell me how many you need. There are plenty of young warriors who want to serve the 'Handsome and Undying Falling Rain'.”

Mila and Lin each pinch me on the cheek as I watch Tursinai saunter away and Tenjin claps me heavily on the shoulder, squeezing a little harder than necessary. “You know, she'd stop teasing you if you didn't blush so much. I look forward to fighting alongside you, little Rain. My father has said many good things about you, and he is a man of few words and less praise.” As scary as he is, I feel better with him watching my back. Plus, he brings some pretty awesome firepower.

Huu approaches with a smile and a jug of wine, but I speak first. “You don't need to ask, there is a place for you in my retinue. In fact, I'd feel much safer

standing behind you while we fight.”

Grinning wolfishly, he shakes his head. “I'm honoured, but it would not be proper for one Warrant Officer to serve beneath another.” His eyes shoot down to his belt, where a token is displayed, a mirror of my own. “I was promoted last week, same as you.”

Giddy with laughter, I leap up and embrace him, thrilled at the news of a second Warrant Officer. Lifting a cup in celebration, we take turns praising one another and calling each other Officer, the jug emptied in a matter of minutes.

What can I say, misery loves company. At least this way, if I screw up, they have Huu as the backup hero to gain allies.

...

Wait...

... or am I the backup?

Ming's Death Poem.

A lonely raindrop, born of mother cloud

Falling from heavens high, to earth below

Rejected and forsaken, forging a solitary path

Until family found, lonely raindrop no more

Through time and trial, relations are lost

Returned to Mother cloud, again alone and destined

To seek a single drop, within infinite ocean

Within this endless cycle, of life and tribulation.

Chapter Meme
