Erick breathed, then looked the Wizard in the eyes. They shared the same white eyes with black pupils, though Erick only now noticed that the Wizard still looked 49, with grey in his hair and in his day-old beard. But Erick, himself, had gained a Blessing from Rozeta nearly a year ago. Erick looked something like 30. Looking in mirrors still freaked him out a bit when a stranger’s face stared back at him.

He hadn’t even noticed till now that the Wizard was truly his old self, but flipped. A true mirror version. Like how he used to be, and was no longer.

The Wizard tilted his head a bit as he stared at Erick, gaining his own sight to see the strangeness likely standing before him. He said, “At least I’ll be hot again. Say. Are—” He stopped.

Seemingly sharing the same thoughts, but in opposite directions, Erick and the Wizard both glanced down at the actual mirror in the room.

All that was down there was Darkness.

“Ah,” the Wizard said.

“Ah,” Erick said.

They looked at each other.

“What about Jane?” The Wizard asked.

Erick said, “Jane is fine as of a few days ago. She’s in Spur dealing with something, though they won’t tell me what.”

The Wizard breathed out, his mouth opening into a wide smile. “Ahhhh.” Tears flowed. “Okay. This is good. I’m happy with this. Even if I won’t be seeing her again… I will.”

Erick asked, “I’ll love her enough for the both of us.”

“I know you will, ‘cause that’s what I’d do if I were the real one.”

“Does this happen often?” Erick asked, “Meeting other selves?”

“In the shallow Paradox? No. Never.” The Wizard said, “But I’ve burned everything to make this work, to drag both of us into this meeting; we’re in the Deep Paradox, Erick. Truly deep, where you never know if you’re in control or not, and, it turns out, I lost the dice roll. You can’t tell, but my heart and my core burst when I came in here. I was real to me, but you’re the Truth in this place.”

Erick’s heart thumped in pain as cold waves of unsettling emotions spread out from his chest. He looked at the Wizard with understanding that likely fell far short of truth. Erick said, “I’m sorry this happened to you.”

The Wizard smiled. His teeth were red; a match for the blood on his hands, and on his hems. Blood dripped as his tears turned crimson. “I know you are.”

Erick stood strong. He nodded.

The Wizard responded in kind, though he was dying with every passing moment.

Resolute, the Wizard and the not-yet Wizard took a step toward the other, each holding out a bloody right hand. They met in the middle, red mixing with red as they spoke in unison,

“I’m ready.”

- - - -

Erick woke to pain, his mana sense and [Greater Lightwalk] flickering on almost instinctively.

He almost passed right back out from weakness, but he held onto consciousness like a man on the edge of a cliff.

A few things stuck out immediately. The bedroom all around him was made of white stone and the bed looked familiar, while a rainbow crystal window above the actual window told him that he was inside the king’s castle, somewhere. Outside the window, Yggdrasil stood like a green and rainbow mountain sitting on a convex ocean that curled up. Beyond Yggdrasil lay the rest of the Outer Core.

Rozeta was in the room with Erick, standing to the side of his bed like a nurse, a queen, and a goddess all rolled into one, which she was.

Ophiels chirped on various perches around the room.

But the most concerning thing was the jagged pearl of a core sitting in his chest, next to his heart, where his heart would have been if it had been mirrored onto his right side. His lungs had been altered to fit the new thing inside of him. Right now, it was the size of a thumbnail and faceted like a broken, minor rad worth only 3 gold at the Mage’s Guild, but scar tissue surrounded it, and ethereal vein-like structures led outward, mirroring Erick’s own vasculature like a shadow of the real thing. The fake veins weren’t even real, except they were, somehow.

As for his soul...

His soul was completely trapped inside of a tiny, new core. His body was soul-dead, like a shadeling’s, or a monster’s, or anything else with a rad—

Rozeta said, “Calm down, Erick. It’s a temporary thing. I wanted to speak to you before I allowed your messages to start rolling in, to let you know that many of them are automated and that you shouldn’t be too concerned. The procedure was a complete success.”

Blue boxes began to roll across his vision.

You are suffering from the beginning stages of monsterfication.

Seek help soon, or lose yourself to the mana.

You are entering the end stages of monsterfication.

You are about to lose yourself to the mana.

You have lost yourself to the mana.

Reinitializing.

Unknown Entity detected!

We see you!

Initializing mana integration…

ERROR.

Unknown species detected.

Higher priority requested.

Higher priority obtained.

Reorienting scan…

You are an unknown monster.

Beginning New Monster registration.

Designation: <Protean>

Welcome to Veird, <Protean>!

It appears you are derived from the <UNKNOWN> species.

As a monster you likely will not be able to understand this notification, but if you can, then here are some words for you.

The Open Script is closed to you. All selected options you had in your previous life are gone. Personalized magic might be available to you based on your species. Or not.

Cultivate your mana to stave off insanity. Do this by focusing your mana inward and feeding on your own mana. This should be instinctual.

There is no need to attack other people to sustain your existence.

There is still hope to rid yourself of this affliction.

You are issued a Quest.

Good luck.

Special Quest!

Return to <UNKNOWN>

Error!

Quest deleted. Insufficient authorization.

His Status appeared, dominating his view, and it looked nothing like how it should have. Erick’s stomach dropped. Jane had shown off her Familiar Form boxes often enough for him to recognize the same shape to this new blue box. It was almost like his own Light Slime box, but different.

Protean

Body:

Greater Lightwalk

Lodestar

Luminous Beam

Perfected Polymorph

Perfected Body

All:

Paradox Shift

He willed his desire to see his normal Status, and like a sluggish flow, it gradually materialized.

Ah.

So that was why he felt like shit.

Erick Flatt

Protean, age 0

Level 0, Class: Particle Mage

Exp: 0/100

Class: 10/10

Points: 0

HP

100/100

300 per day

MP

11/200

300 per day

Strength

10

+0

[10]

Vitality

10

+0

[10]

Dexterity

10

+0

[10]

Constitution

10

+0

[10]

Perception

10

+0

[10]

Willpower

20

+0

[20]

Focus

20

+0

[20]

Intelligence

10

+0

[10]

As he read his new predicament he bottomed out at 0 mana, and felt even worse.

Rozeta pulled Erick out of his thoughts. “Try [Paradox Shift].”

Her words vibrated with power, and Erick felt himself activate his ability without even trying.

The world shifted.

Things made more sense.

The rad in his chest vanished and he was himself, as he had been hours ago. He was much, much stronger, with Strength in the 80’s and the Vitality to match and full mana and—

Rozeta started, “This is perhaps the perfect outcome for starting slow. Some bonuses I managed to sneak into there that would otherwise not exist include Perfected Body, the ‘Greater’ to your [Lightwalk], [Luminous Beam], [Lodestar], as well as the previously discussed [Perfected Polymorph]. For that last one, all you need to do is think of a person you want to be, or perhaps choose someone you’re familiar with. In your case, DNA should be enough to trigger that ability, though your Perfected Body will be doing a great deal of lifting in that case and you might not get the perfect result. Experiment some, and you should be fine.

“You’re starting from scratch as a ‘monster’, or rather, in the generalized path of a shadeling, or a cannibal that comes back to themselves, though in all of those cases such a thing is a very rare occurrence.

“You’ll have noticed a fair bit of problems, though. All of the ones we previously discussed are present, including a few more. Stat Rings don’t work for monsters. You’ve lost all of the extra points you gained from all sources of extra points, from spell creation to Quest completion, but you still have all of the same spells you had before so it’s not that rough of a change. All your multiplier abilities are gone, though; you’ll have to reacquire those. Your soul is inside your core and thus most guards will be able to pick you out of a crowd which is especially true for someone like your woman, Teressa. You can’t level from the expenditure of mana; only from cycling or killing things. As with all things, figuring out how to work your magic properly will stop these problems.

“You’ll have to cycle mana and [Renew] yourself in this form every day or else you might experience problems. Don’t let that happen.

“Etcetera.

“This is all a temporary fix to acclimate you to being a Wizard. When that happens you’ll be able to be both of yourselves at the same time, choosing the best of both sides, and cutting away the rest. You’ll likely be able to manage small things before that large shift, though. Try working to make your Stat rings work in both forms, or to make yourself not require core-upkeep. Prune your problems and learn what it means to be a Paradox Wizard, first hand, before you grow too much and are permanently removed from the Script. That should be a while away, though.” Rozeta said, “I have high hopes for you, Erick.”

As Rozeta spoke, Erick shifted back to his other form briefly, felt absolutely gutted all over again, and then Shifted back. And then he Shifted again, and started noting the problems that Rozeta noted. Every boosting ability from Strong to Scion of Focus was gone, but all of his spells seemed there in both forms, though he had no resources to cast the vast majority of them as this Other Self.

Blessing of Rozeta was still present. So that was nice.

When she spoke of cycling, Erick tried that, doing exactly the same as the shadelings he spoke to had done; he took his mana, which was already somehow in his core, and he pushed it around. For such a simple act it felt wonderful. Like breaking up a clogged drain. The facets of his tiny core began to shift and expand as he cycled his pitiful 5 mana around and around. By the time Rozeta was nearly finished speaking, Erick had gained one level due to experience gained from cycling. He stopped there and Shifted back to huma—

Ah. Still ‘protean’ in his normal form. That was kinda a kick in the pants. No more ‘humanity’.

And there were other unexpected results of this change. As he looked at his hands and saw them without blemish and as perfect mirrors of each other, it was apparent that Perfected Body carried over into both forms, as well. He’d be finding side effects of this… Event, for months, perhaps. But on yet another plus side: Maybe he should look into getting that [Bloody Personal Ward] like Jane was talking, since Perfected Body made him basically immune to most of the long-term problems of Blood Magic.

Gods, he hoped Jane was okay.

And that reminded him—

“I saw someone in the vision.” Erick said, “Another me. And Melemizargo was down there, too.”

Rozeta’s smile vanished. After a moment, she said, “Don’t worry too much about that. You’re the real one.”

“… That’s what he said, too.”

“You’re going to be doing a lot of Script manipulation in the future so please try to keep it small and manageable until you grow enough to handle the deeper stuff.” Rozeta added, “You’re still at least three iterations from being able to wield your full power; going to a grand core, then fortifying yourself until you’re completely a mana crystal, and then becoming a fully fledged Wizard that—” She glanced to the side, then she turned back to Erick. “Don’t let anyone know you’re a Wizard.” She stepped away, turning into gold fire halfway through her movement, her voice becoming a whisper, “I cleaned the manasphere to remove our conversations, but they’ll find out you have [Duplicate] if they look, and they will. Good luck. Please don’t kill them. I already asked them to give you the same courtesy.”

Erick went still for a moment as he took stock of his situation.

Then he breathed, got off the bed, and blipped over to Yggdrasil’s upper branches.

- - - -

A world of rainbows, white light, and fiery green leaves greeted him.

“Welcome back, Father,” Yggdrasil said.

Erick leaned down and patted Yggdrasil's white bark, saying, “Hello again, Yggdrasil. I hope I wasn’t gone too long.”

“You look different.”

Erick looked at himself with his mana sense. He was different, of that there was no doubt. Cleaner lines, all blemishes erased. He was already pretty good-looking, especially with all the other little bonuses that physical Stats did to a body, but this latest change had thrown him into Hollywood star categories. Perfected Body was pretty great.

If it wasn’t for the attached Wizardry and the required body horror where his soul was completely trapped inside a rad in his other chest, and with the secondary circulatory system, then he’d probably be happier about this.

Erick sent, ‘I feel different, too, but I’m still myself.’

‘Yes. I have other bodies.’ Yggdrasil asked, ‘I tell no one about Wizards?’

Erick felt his heart drop and soar in equal measure, sad of the words he had to tell Yggdrasil, but also happy that Yggdrasil understood already. ‘I’m sorry to ask you to lie to people, either through direct lying or through omission. You should be allowed to enjoy your life more, and lies make it so much more difficult than it has to be.’

‘Why difficult?’

‘Because lies will always be found out, breaking trust in their passing, and once trust is broken it’s very hard to get back.’ Erick cast a [Cascade Imaging] into the air above them, searching for people as he sent, ‘Trust is what makes much of society function, Yggdrasil.’

‘Trust is important?’

‘Yes. I trust you not to hurt me, and I hope you trust me not to hurt you. In this way, we can work and live and grow together.’ Erick watched his Imaging resolve piece by piece as he sent, ‘It’s like how I trust Jane and she trusts me. I can lower my defenses around her, and she does the same. I don’t have that same level of trust with people like whoever is coming here right now, so I’m going to keep all of my defenses up, and active. But I won’t attack them until they attack me. I hope that my trust in this small way is repaid with similar trust that they won’t attack either, or at least we’ll talk before that happens.’

‘I understand.’

