The map had populated enough. Three blue dots held at a distance about four or five thousand kilometers away; well out of visual sight and into the deeper blue parts of the sky where the inner surface of the Outer Core started to vanish behind so much air and clouds. They weren’t moving.

Probably because they could see Yggdrasil from this distance. In this unmoving, unchanging world, which these people probably knew every meter of, a very large tree in the ocean next to a very large city probably stood out like a pimple on prom night.

Erick spoke, “Looks like they’re hanging back… Did they not expect you, Yggdrasil? I would have expected you if I were them. If they decide to attack I want you to defend; not attack. Understood?”

“Okay, Father.”

Ophiel hopped around in the light, mimicking Yggdrasil's response with his own chirp chirp.

“And don’t try to restrain them with your [Lodestar]. They probably have a Domain popper amongst them. They’d have to if they planned on coming through those tunnels.” Erick frowned a little as he shifted his sight between the blue dots on the map, and to an Ophiel hovering outside of Yggdrasil’s branches, with eyes on that particular curve of the Outer Core. “Hmm.”

Erick cast a [True Viewing Screen] on the location. He had targeted close enough. He saw.

The cloudgate in the center of the rocky land, looking perfectly normal. The wrought had walked through the thing with the password, after all, so this was expected.

Three wrought to the side of the cloudgate, atop rocky ground. They weren’t attacking, or gearing up to attack, because they were injured. Seriously injured.

One was a black human-shaped woman with a green sheen to her, missing an arm and a leg and bleeding drops of black metal from each severance. Erick instantly recognized her as Tasar the summoner, the archmage he had met back at Oceanside who had invented [Condense Oxygen], which was both a wrought-killing or saving spell, depending on how it was used. Probably didn’t work on any of the higher-order metals, though, like Tasar, with her adamantium, but she was mixed with something else to have that green sheen, so maybe it did? Who knew.

Tasar did not look good. She was sprawled on the ground, unconscious and slightly liquefying from any of a hundred small wounds, and all of her major ones, and yet she gripped a black staff in her remaining arm like it would somehow keep her alive.

A white-metal horned wrought stood over her, shoving desperate magics to the woman, trying to stop her degradation. Everywhere he poured white light, Tasar regained some of her solidity.

The white man was missing his left hand and one of his horns.

To the side lay the third person, who seemed like he should have been the one to receive all of the Healer’s ministrations, but that wasn’t happening. He was an orcol-shaped black adamantium man with a rent going halfway through his metal flesh, leading from his right shoulder to his left thigh. That was just one claw mark, though, likely inflicted by Melemizargo himself. But Melemizargo had multiple claws to a paw, and those other claws had sheared off the wrought’s left arm at the bicep, and half-clipped through his right thigh.

Erick took notice of their entire situation in a fraction of a second. As another second passed, he scoped out the rest of the area around them. He found no immediate threats, hidden or otherwise. With a thought, Erick sent a fully-protected Ophiel to them, lightstepping as fast as the little guy could go.

“How can I help?” Erick asked, from a few meters away from the white wrought man.

The white man glanced at Ophiel then instantly returned to his work, trying to hold Tasar together as he said, “Unless you have adamantium then you cannot help.”

“I have a few inscription knives here.” Erick asked, “Want them?”

“Yes. All of the magical ones.” The man tried not to panic as the left side of Tasar’s chest crumpled inward, turning liquid all at once, spreading black across the rocks. “Please. Hurry.”

With Ophiel’s help, Erick rapidly copied his formation knife inside a [Prismatic Ward]. In three flashing seconds, he had three hundred wrought-quality adamantium knives. In the fourth second, Ophiel lightstepped the lot of them to the three wrought, dumping them onto the ground beside Tasar.

The white wrought stared at the new pile, had a realization, and then stuffed that down as he moved to the knives, saying, “[Mending Aura] localized on Sitnakov, please. He’s the other one. I have to prep this metal for Tasar and then we all need [Mending Aura], but not before the metal is integrated into Tasar or an indistinct [Mend] will kill her.”

Erick did as asked, hovering Ophiel over to the wrought with rents through his entire body and opening up a [Mending Aura] atop the man. The man’s eyes remained closed but he winced hard, his body gradually flowing together in fits and spurts of barely-moving black metal.

While Erick did that, the white wrought cast a net of magic over the adamantium knives, shifting their harsh lines and hard edges into putty, molding the metal in a way that shouldn’t be possible with adamantium. The stump of his one forearm continued to hold the floating ball of metal in a net of magic, while dexterous fingers peeled off streamers of the stuff, guiding them into the cavity of Tasar’s chest.

“Eat, Tasar.” The white wrought said, “Eat, please. I need you to be present and—” A smile broke across his face as the streamers of metal began soaking into Tasar, forming organs, heart first. “Yes. Just like that. You’re going to be okay.”

Erick had no idea that wrought had organs. From what he was seeing inside Sitnakov’s chest, the man didn’t seem to have organs. Sitnakov was already looking better, though, but there was a long way to go, and it wasn’t long before Erick had to switch out Ophiels so that another, full Ophiel could continue with the [Mending Aura]; that spell cost 572 mana per second.

The white wrought continued to administer the ‘feeding’ of Tasar’s insides, repairing organs as he said, “I need more adamantium. Enough to heal the two of them. If you have any holyite, I’d take that, too, but this is a much lower priority.”

Erick began working on the first request while he spoke through Ophiel, “I have no holyite, but you got extra, right? I could copy some of your own white stuff?”

The man gave a small laugh. “Yes. Of course.” He tilted his head a bit, saying, “I got the horn wound. Take some blood from that.”

A separate Ophiel quickly danced in toward the man and used his sunform to scoop out a bit of the white metal from the broken horn. Erick pulled that bit of metal back toward him, back at Yggdrasil, while he dropped another load of magical daggers on the rocky land beside the healer.

“What’s your name?” Erick said, “I know Tasar from before. I don’t know Sitnakov.”

“Kromolok. High Priest of Rozeta.”

With another cast of net-like magic, Kromolok grabbed the new daggers and added them to the hovering orb of metal. His ministrations on Tasar were already paying off. The woman’s caved-in side was nearly repaired, with new adamantium becoming organs, then bone, then flesh and skin. The bleeding wounds all over her body were already ‘clotting’, or whatever it was wrought bodies did to stop the bleeding. Erick wasn’t even aware that wrought could bleed.

Lots of new information today.

Kromolok continued, “Rozeta told us that kindness would work better than anger, that you didn’t know what you were doing when you came down here. Of the danger you brought to the world when you breached the guardians.”

“I’m aware now.” Erick said, “So as soon as you’re all healed up we can leave, unless there are other problems you have with me.”

Kromolok sighed, his relief obvious, but he was not fully relieved, at all. “Will you consent to a mind wipe?”

“Absolutely not,” Erick said, in his most polite tone. “I have learned quite a few things down here, and they’re going to stay with me forever.”

Kromolok nodded, his gentle joy that no one was going to die replaced by something stronger. Something more resolute. “Sitnakov will wish to speak with you about a great many things.” Without looking at the downed man, Kromolok said, “You can stop [Mend]ing him now. The worst of the damage is repaired and any more [Mend]s will only cause more problems later.”

Erick had exhausted seven Ophiel [Mending Aura]ing Sitnakov, but he also resummoned those Ophiel and sent them back out. Not once had he let his guard down, either. Sitnakov’s chest was back to mostly-wholeness, but he was still missing an entire arm and the rest of his assorted wounds were still half there.

Erick asked, “Is Sitnakov going to wake up, soon?”

“I would prefer Tasar to be awake before him, but don’t tell anyone I said that and I won’t tell anyone you have [Duplicate].” Kromolok said, “I need four more piles of adamantium like the previous one, please.”

Erick dropped off a small pile of fully magical holyite next to Kromolok. The aluminum gleamed white in the light of the Inner Core above, but it also shifted with an essence of divine fire. Then he got to work on more knives as he said, “They’re going to understand where this metal came from, anyway, so your promise for a promise is a weak offer.”

“Ah. So you’re dropping pretenses? Then I will do the same.” Kromolok asked, “What is your goal in finding a Wizard?”

“I would prefer not to have anything to do with Wizardry but apparently the Worldly Path ends with Wizardry from Melemizargo, and I would prefer to avoid that.”

“I would like to break you off your Path.” Kromolok strung wires of adamantium into the stump of Tasar’s missing arm, rebuilding it as he said, “A [Teleport] network can do almost everything a [Gate] network can do and it doesn’t require Wizardry, or the Dark.”

“… Feel free to explain further.”

Kromolok nodded, continuing to repair Tasar as he said, “A series of Teleport Stations can replicate [Gate]’s ability to go anywhere on Veird. There are even special Darkness-repelling runeworks that allow t-stations to function in the Underworld. Every Geode has these sorts of stations. We are considering allowing this magic out into the rest of the world if you agree to step off of the Worldly Path.”

A blossom of cold anger flowed out from the center of Erick’s chest, invading the rest of him like a chilly wind. “Ah. So you have kept this from the rest of the world for some reason? You’ve denied civilization the ability to connect to each other up till now? Till someone forced this action from you?”

“Yes.” Kromolok said, “You can have the headache of keeping the Dark-touched mortals in line for we want nothing to do with them unless they start breaking things.”

Erick’s anger cooled, replaced by solidity. “Fair enough.” He dumped another load of knives two meters away from Kromolok, giving the man what appeared to be enough to heal everyone, as he said, “But I still want [Gate].”

Kromolok frowned as he finished creating the metal bones of Tasar’s arm, and started to flow more adamantium onto that skeleton, like shaping putty around sticks. Erick wasn’t even aware that wrought had skeletons. In fact, he was pretty sure healthy ones didn’t. Kromolok netted himself some more knives, turning them into more raw material as he said, “The alternative of going through the Dark to acquire [Gate] is to find another Wizard, and the Dark won’t let you. Your Path will take you down dangerous roads, killing millions of people. You need to end this whole thing, right now, and pick another way—”

Sitnakov grumbled, “Dammit, Krom. You’re not... talk... for…” His voice trailed off.

His wounds began to leak metal, with the half-healed rent across his chest turning goopy.

Kromolok frowned at the large orcol-like man. With a twist of his remaining hand he tied off his healing of Tasar, leaving her with many small wounds and an arm that was mostly skeletal. With a flick of his severed wrist, Kromolok grabbed up some more adamantium into a hovering ball of black, then he moved over toward Sitnakov and began to heal away the fresh bleed, saying, “If you would have dodged better, you could have been the one to speak first.”

Sitnakov’s eyes shot open. His chest expanded as he drew breath, but then sudden, wracking coughs stole all the words he was trying to say.

Kromolok seemed to know what the larger man was about, though, as he said, “If you would have kept it together then you could have been the one to speak, but you didn’t, so I went first. Do not complain about this.” Sitnakov relaxed, his breathing evening out as Kromolok’s healing took hold; the floating ball of metal turning into threads that became bones and muscles. The healer said, “He’s denied my path, though, so you’re up next.”

Sitnakov grumbled at that—

He jerked a tiny bit, his eyes going wide as he looked down and saw the ball of metal above Kromolok’s stump of a forearm. “Where did you…” He tilted his head and took in the sight of Tasar, who was slightly breathing, Ophiel, who hovered above, and then the piles of adamantium knives that had yet to become new flesh. “[Duplicate]. Damned priests and... secrets.”

“Actually, that’s me.” Erick said, “By the way, I didn’t think wrought had bones. Or organs or blood. Learn something new every day.”

Without looking Ophiel’s way, Kromolok said, “I would have kept this secret, Erick.”

“And I would prefer not to have secrets at all, especially once people start moving around here and seeing what I’ve been touching while I’ve been in this apparently holy land of yours.” Erick said, “I’d prefer to be upfront about everyone’s reasons for anger.”

Sitnakov laughed loudly, but that laugh quickly turned into gurgling, and coughing, but laughter kept coming.

Kromolok slapped Sitnakov on the chest with his free hand. “Stop moving. Stop it.”

Sitnakov killed his laughter, though he had to go through some small chuckles before it fully vanished. When he could, he tried to act professional, even if remained sprawled on the ground, bleeding from hundreds of wounds. He asked, “Did Kromolok introduce himself?”

“Nope. You were all bleeding out, so I worked—” Erick noticed Tasar started bleeding again, but it was internal. “Tasar is bleeding in her chest again. The organs reappeared and the bleeding started and this is all very weird.”

