Kromolok instantly said, “Do not move, Sitnakov. Stay there. I mean it.” And then he detached his repairing magics from the man and moved back to Tasar. He squinted a bit, then he said, “Ah. She’s… Hmm.” He started running adamantium into her chest, fixing internal injuries as he could.

Sitnakov glanced at the two other wrought, then he turned to face Ophiel, hovering overhead. “I’m Sitnakov Stratagold, of Heavy Adamantium. I come offering you methods toward [Gate] that you may or may not be able to grasp, along with our libraries of magical lore. In return, we ask you to step off the Worldly Path. We require no other necessities from you. We have other offers that you might like more, or less, but either one works for the needs of Stratagold. High Inquisitor Priest Kromolok, of True Holyite, wishes you off the Path and also to remove your memories of your time in this land. Such a removal would be painless, of course. Geode Guardian Archmage Tasar, of Green Adamantium, wishes—”

Tasar grumbled, her thick voice barely a whisper, but more than loud enough to be heard among the otherwise silent lands, “I can speak for myself, Sitnakov.”

“Then please do,” Sitnakov said, still laying down. “And actually speak; don’t whisper.”

“You shouldn’t speak, yet,” Kromolok said, “Let me work.”

Tasar’s remaining good hand clutched her black staff, hard. Erick only now noticed that it wasn’t a metal staff; it was black crystal. Tasar winced hard at her own movements, then she relaxed, and spoke clearly, asking, “How far are on your Path, Archmage Flatt?”

Kromolok tsk’d, but gave no other complaints as he healed Tasar.

“Two or three steps from the end, not including the end.” Erick said, “Things ramped up rather damned fast when I came here. Did a lot. Learned a lot about myself, and my goals.”

Tasar asked, “What other steps do you think you have? Before [Gate]?”

“Finally got aura control, so now I gotta learn to Remake some magic and skills, like Clarity and Meditation and Mana Altering. I want to make my own Particle Mage Class Ability, too. After that, I might need to visit some dragons in Ar’Cosmos to learn more about [Gate]. I think I’ll be done by then, but then I have to put everything together and get a Wizard to ‘anoint’ it, or whatever it is they do.” Erick said, “Still not sure what makes a Wizard a Wizard, even after plundering the Grand Wizard’s Tower for everything I could find.”

Sitnakov winced. “That close, huh.”

Tasar said, “I humbly ask you to visit Oceanside before continuing with any other steps. Kirginatharp holds in wait Angelic and Demonic forces, hoping to use your Worldly Path to force them into some sort of long-term ceasefire.” She added, “While we are there, I can teach you all about Remaking all known Basic Tier magic, every skill, how to make a Class Ability, as well as much of what the dragons in Ar’Cosmos know of [Gate].”

Kromolok frowned as he treated Tasar.

Erick felt good about that offer, actually. “What do you want in return, Tasar?”

“For you and I to pursue a Wizard that is not the Darkness in order to end your Worldly Path, and also for you to teach me how to make a [Familiar] that has their own mana.” Tasar said, “I have tried the methods you explained to your apprentice and that other girl, but the methods now held at the Magisterium of the Wasteland Kingdoms do not work for me. I want personal teaching.”

Kromolok’s frown deepened. “Greedy girl.”

The orcol wrought had a decidedly stronger reaction. He spoke with a deep heaviness to his voice, “Tasar.”

“You all aren’t offering him enough!” Tasar said, “I already explained to you—”

“Line up with me and we’ll elevate you to Heavy,” Sitnakov said.

Tasar went stock still. Slowly, she turned her head and locked eyes with Sitnakov. Kromolok stared at the orcol-shaped man, too, his healing of Tasar still happening, but slower.

Sitnakov said, “I can ensure it happens.”

Tasar weakly said, “He won’t pick your option, for he knows not what you actually offer.” She looked up to Ophiel, her voice slightly stronger, “My offer shines true, Archmage Flatt. Let us go to Oceanside together.”

Sitnakov spoke, “You're making a mistake, Tasar.”

“And I will make that mistake on my own terms, evading the weight of the Heavies as I always have.” Tasar added, softer, “At least one more time.”

Sitnakov kept his face impassive, if a bit sad.

Erick sighed, and turned Ophiel toward Sitnakov, “What is the actual offer, Sitnakov Stratagold?”

Erick did not miss that the man’s last name was in line with his city.

Now it was Tasar’s turn to deflate a bit.

Sitnakov happily said, “As the rulers of Stratagold, the largest city in the entire world, with the strongest armies and the most learned archmages, we have more to offer than you can possibly imagine. As a start: Ar’Kendrithyst’s reclamation is going well, and it might even succeed with enough time and resources dedicated to the cause, and we can make that happen. We have the resources to do that. We can help you turn the Crystal Forest back to actual forest, too.

“We can also set up Teleport Stations between a revived Kendrithyst and Stratagold, and while they are not [Gate]s, they can still enable quick and easy transportation between cities. With such a Teleport Station network, you will be able to easily reach all the way across the world. And I know what you’re thinking. Probably ‘Why not set up these systems before now’? And the answer is that the Shades were too powerful on the Surface, but now they’re gone, so we’re eager to retake what was lost to us so long ago.” He said, “And, of course, we offer to throw open our libraries to you, along with specialized teaching from other archmages like yourself, all in the hopes to enable you to make [Gate] without the Darkness. We don’t even mind helping you hunt down a stray Wizard or two, though that is not something we can guarantee, you understand.

“And one last thing: We don’t normally treat with mortals because we cannot stand to watch people we love die, so we’d also work with you to get you immortality through any number of methods which you should be able to cast, given your previous accomplishments.”

Tasar breathed out, possibly feeling that her offer was thoroughly trounced, and that she should have thrown in with Sitnakov, after all. Erick wasn’t sure he was reading that correctly, but it was close.

Kromolok’s reaction was much more controlled. He didn’t give anything away, and that right there was giving away a truth, too. Sitnakov’s offer was real.

Erick said, “Compelling.” And it was. Truly, it was. But…

Hunting down wizards, eh? Tasar’s offer wasn’t better in that respect, but Erick felt more comfortable about palling around with an obviously-outcast archmage, than with a prince of Stratagold.

And then Sitnakov went and removed all choice.

With a politician’s smile, Sitnakov added, “Or, we will lean on you with the full force of Stratagold, forcing you off the Path, and breaking your small part of the world in the process, including you and whoever else we have to kill to ensure our point has been made.”

Tasar sighed.

Kromolok sighed, too.

“Ah.” Erick’s anger spiked, but he kept it under control as he calmly asked, “And what is the point you are trying to make?”

“Infiltrating the Core is bad enough, but succeeding in the Worldly Path is something we cannot allow.” Sitnakov sat up, sky-blue power flowing across his body, grabbing the piles of adamantium that Kromolok had yet to touch and liquefying them in that same instant. Black metal flowed into his remaining wounds, and into the stump of his arm, replacing what had been lost in three short seconds. Sitnakov gave a sharp grin as he got to his feet, saying. “Almost as bad as an archmage who has [Duplicate]. Can’t let you ruin the world with that spell, either.”

Erick hummed, then said, “I see. I see. Well. I’m still going after [Gate].” He happily added, “Try and stop me.”

Sitnakov laughed loud, his dark eyes gleaming with joy as he said, “Sounds good to me!”
