Back in the little cafe under Koyabez’s name, Erick sat down across from Rozeta.

The Goddess of the Script had been waiting for him the second he crossed into line of sight, but she had not been there before that. She looked as put-together as ever, in her white-wrought human body, with her white pantsuit and hair up in a bun. She looked ready to receive known news, for she was probably looking at him the entire time that he was up there in that mausoleum to the Old Cosmology.

Erick had a few important concerns to get through before he agreed to her plan.

Sitting across from her, Erick asked, “Am I the first to make it to this point?”

“No, but also yes.” Rozeta said, “There have been two Wizards to get here before you. The first was about 50 years after the Sundering, when the first generations of new mortals were learning about the Sundering from their grandparents. We had entered a small period of calm. To make history wildly inaccurate, but also short, this Wizard was of that new generation. They were not trustworthy, but I have worked with such people before, and I will continue to do so in the future, for the stability of the Script, and for the good of us all. I gave this person assistance in becoming a Wizard, and then Phagar and I had to send paladins and Death Priests after them after they started mucking about with Time, under Melemizargo’s guidance. That person was just one of the many reasons that those early years are lost to us.

“I did not trust so easily after that.

“The second person was a human Wizard I identified when she was four years old. Everything about her told me that she would be a monumental force for good. Good family. Good upbringing. Good future prospects. As the years went on, she blossomed into a young woman of good social skills and standing, who did her best to foster good in all parts of her life. She married and had a family, and she raised good kids, all while steadily learning magic, to figure out ways to better find and eliminate mental monster threats. She was a Mind Mage.” Rozeta said, “She was supposed to be a force for true good, and she was, until her Worldly Path finally brought her down here, to me. She managed to get in with the password, given to her by priests in Stratagold for she already had good connections there through their embassy, and she was a true believer.

“And then I told her that she was a Wizard. The embodiment of the thing she hated most, for she had been raised on stories and historical accounts of the horrors of the Old Wizards. This news broke her, and so she spent a year in this land, coming to grips and reading the truth about Wizardry. This power is not just a tool to destroy, but instead, it is a tool of Pure Magic. Of Creation, just as much as any other option.

“She came around to the idea of becoming her own end to her Worldly Path. She saw the future stretch out before her, and she knew that she could continue to be a force for good. She, like you, did not want to be separate from the Script, though.

“I helped her become a Paradox Wizard.

“I sent her on her way, but it wasn’t long til the power went to her head, and it took a lot less time than it should have. But, in retrospect, the signs of her true self were always there. How she relished money over the relationships between business partners. How she was rude to people who couldn’t offer her anything. Shunning responsibility. Controlling. All very minor incidents that certainly wouldn’t mark someone as ‘evil’, even in aggregate.

“But as a Wizard, she had real power.

“The first morals to go were the morals that kept her from reaching for more power, like most Mind Mages. Her ascension to ‘archmage’ took months. From there, she began experimenting on condemned people, moving on to cultists and hunters and the exiled. Her morals further wore away, and she participated in wars based on ideology. She sought to do good, but in her zeal, she lost sight of the small things; she lost sight of limits she should not cross. In a year everything about her had changed. The final step came when Melemizargo tempted her to forgo war and to just Paradox herself into the winner’s seat of her conquest.

“All of her actions up to that point were forgivable, but when she ‘won’ her war, she did it by Paradoxing millions of lives away, and also taking for herself the mana generation of everyone she killed, making that mana generation her own. Even in the Old Cosmology this was taboo, but she did it anyway. We tried talking, but she refused to repent, to undo what she had done, and so we did the only thing we could.

“We gods fought a Wizard, and we gods won, though it eventually required a Forgotten Campaign to End her.” Rozeta paused. She said, “We don’t expect that from you for multiple reasons. So, in this way, you are not the first to get to this point, but you are the first that we expect to actually go the distance.”

Erick took it all in, and decided that, while it was a story of death and loss, it was nothing too unexpected—

Ah? Wait?

Erick connected a few dots, and asked, “Is that Fallopolis’s mother you’re talking about?”

“Yes,” Rozeta said, without reservation. “If you feel like telling that Shade what she has sought to learn all this time, go ahead. I wouldn’t trust her, though, even if you did bless both of you with a minor blessing of truth.”

Erick nodded. He moved on, “Earlier, you said that everyone shares mana under the Script. This allows normal people to have the abilities of mages, to cast thousands of spells per day, or exceedingly large magics with high mana costs.” Erick continued, “But you also said that people can’t share mana until they work to make such a thing possible.”

Rozeta smirked a little, and said, “It’s a Paradox, isn’t it.” She lost her smirk, and explained, “Manaminers were originally made by Wizards, but they’re machines of a million moving parts. What you did with [Renew] was to refine what other Wizards had made long before you came along. It’s a mirror for what my father does sometimes, like with these New Stats. I don’t like those, by the way; Makes everything a lot more complicated than it has to be— We could talk for hours about that, too, but for now:

“So you know: [Renew] looks to be unexpectedly great. I’ve already set up some experimental [Renew] protocols on an Experimental Script, which, if implemented on the wider Script, would eliminate ten-thousand spell creation errors per hour, or, introduce catastrophic vulnerabilities through bouncy-mana primary system attacks.” Rozeta didn’t seem worried about what she was saying, but Erick felt a spike of guilt and it showed. “Don’t worry about it, Erick. With [Renew], you might solve twice as many problems as you’ve created with Particle Magic. I’ll likely have to change some parts of it though, before it makes it to the Open Script.”

Erick did feel better about that. And then he focused on his questions, “So? Then… Are you a Wizard, too?”

“All dragons are minor wizards and I am no different.”

“Okay… What’s the difference, there? Just a matter of self-mana production?”

“Yes… But also no. Mostly ‘yes’. I will focus on the ‘yes’, right now.” Rozeta said, “Here are some numbers: our baseline for mana production is an average female human of no particular lineage or upbringing, age 25 level 15. Over the course of a year, on average, a person will produce 10 mana per day. This is actually ten times higher than it used to be back in the Old Cosmology, and this is entirely due to the Script encouraging people to experiment with magic and increase their familiarity with mana, to decrease their fear and also to increase their capability. Gaining levels also increases mana production, but this is a much smaller increase than actually learning how to make magic oneself.

“Wizards are outliers who produce 5000 to 10,000 mana per day. For comparison, you produce about 100,000-200,000 mana per day.

“Dragons produce 500 mana per day. Fifty times the average, but not too noticeable.

“We can also innately create cores and remain in control, unlike most monsters… Unless we go too far. But that is another discussion entirely, and is completely related to Dragon Essence, so you shouldn’t have to worry about that. I don’t have to worry about that, either, so, yes, I can do some Wizardry by using the mana I produce, but that power pales in comparison to the powers of a god.” Rozeta said, “We’ll leave that conversation there, and move on to your next question.”

Erick nodded, then he asked, “So. Here’s a complicated question about [Renew]. What happens when a person who is a monster uses it on themselves? Or on a rad? Is this a worry I should have? Once I have a core, myself, or if other monsters gain access to this spell?”

“Not a large worry; no.” Rozeta said, “To begin with: Aside from your own predicament, someone using [Renew] on a monster’s rad is much more likely to happen than a monster ever getting [Renew], for the spell will be in the Open Script, and not the Monster Script, and no one will ever be able to Remake this spellwork.

“Even if the spell doesn’t produce unknown security problems, no one is ever Remaking [Renew], just so that I never have to deal with a strangely-made [Renew] that does cause security problems.

“Anyway. Using [Renew], and with Clarity for half costs, two points of Experience are gained for every individual mana channeled, which is in line with current cycling techniques. If someone Favorites [Renew], then they gain 4 Experience per mana spent. For a person with Scion of Focus, and remaining mostly baseline, means that, with all bonuses, and running all day, their 144,000 mana becomes about 570,000 Experience.

“It would take a monstrous person a year to reach level 30, or 15,000 years to reach level 50.

“Shadelings can already reach level 50 through normal mana cycling, in which how they were made by Melemizargo allows them to cycle thousands of mana per second, all while remaining themselves… If they’re allowed to be. Not all shadelings are allowed to be themselves. The ones in Candlepoint are themselves, though my father does have a back door to turning them all back into fake people at any moment he chooses.”

Erick’s stomach dropped. “Oh holy shit.”

Rozeta waved him off. “Don’t worry too much about the smaller acts of power my father could wield, and chooses not to. He could already destroy this world several times over if he wanted.”

Erick breathed out, staring at the floor, his mind whirling.

Rozeta waited.

Eventually, Erick raised his head again. “Okay.”

“Okay.” Rozeta continued, “About [Renew]: All [Renew] will do for a monster that acquires it is allow said monster to not worry about killing other monsters to take those other rads, to restore their own rad.” Rozeta shrugged, seeming a bit happy. “Maybe I should give all the monsters [Renew], just to stop a lot of their natural reasons for aggression against each other. After all, I only have three main goals: Trying to maximize mana production, maintaining the security on the Script, and remaining neutral unless either of the first two goals are threatened.”

“Ah.” And that word meant so much. There seemed to be a lot of that happening right here. Erick moved on, asking, “What about if I use it on myself?”

Rozeta said, “You’re going to need to do this, because as soon as you gain a core of any type, you’re going to need to learn how to feed it to prevent catastrophic soul destruction. It would be best if you fed yourself, instead of eating other cores; that way could lead to insanity.”

Erick felt cold for a moment, and then he resigned himself. Resolute, he said, “This is a big change.”

“It will be; yes. So are you ready to begi—” Rozeta glanced to the right. She frowned.

Erick watched for a moment, then asked, "Another issue to take care of?”

She had gone off and come back several times already, so maybe she had to do something else?

But as one moment turned to two, this time seemed different, though. More worrying.

Rozeta’s frown deepened. She narrowed her suddenly angry eyes at an unseen, far distance, then she came back to the moment. “We should have had 4 days to get this done, but Fate does as Fate does, and my father still controls your Worldly Path. He shouldn’t know about what we’re discussing, but he probably figured out I would try to pull something like this. On the plus side, this event is good news about his sanity being real.” As Erick stared, uncomprehending, Rozeta looked him straight in the eyes, and said, “Melemizargo cleared the mana stream tunnels between the wrought from Stratagold and the guardian gate. The envoy from Stratagold will be here in hours, instead of days. I don’t have time to guide you to becoming a Wizard right now, so you have to choose: I erase these memories and none of this happens, or we change some plans.”

Dread.

First came bargaining. “You can’t delay them?”

“No. My father moved every single monster that was in front of them, to behind them.”

Erick steeled himself, asking, “What are the changes?”

“Archmages often create life. This life can slot into existing systems. All you have to do is make a people and assume its mantle as progenitor. In this way, you will become a monster, first, but with eligibility to gain personhood at my discretion. The minotaurs you rescued from Last Shadow’s Feast are already in the pipeline to become a people, though that would take several more years of good behavior.” Rozeta said, “This was to be the backup plan if you failed at proper Wizardry. It’s the slowest method, but it has very few complications.”

“… I feel like you’re skipping over about a hundred smaller steps.”

“This is correct.”

“… Please give me a few more steps, so I can at least see the staircase you want to push me down.”

Rozeta said, “Your designation as ‘Human-question-mark’ is already like a boulder at the top of a mountain; you’re going to need to pick a direction to roll, and hope you don’t go off course. I will help you fall correctly. In this way, we can lock your Wizardry to a new race that you, alone, are a part of. In this way, I will gain my ‘plug’ to pull if you look to be going evil.”

“… What sort of bad end would that be?”

“I would prefer to keep my threats unknown, Erick. I do apologize for how this looks, but my own track record should speak for me, too. I have never stopped you or anyone else from doing anything they wanted to do, as long as it didn’t endanger Veird itself.”

