“… Okay. Okay. Sure… Okay.” Erick blinked several times as his mind went nearly blank, but neurons still fired in the background and ideas still floated to the surface. “Elementassi,” he said, quick as it came to him. “Practically huma—”

“Locked, thanks to what the Old Demons did to create incani.” Rozeta offered, “Minotaur are new, so you could be one of them? Centaur? Fae? Or at least your idea of fae. Doppelganger, perhaps? With innate [Polymorph]? I could make it so you could change faces and go incognito whenever you wished, like the dragons do. Or? How about a werewolf— Ah.” She deadpanned a joke, “WereWizard?”

Erick rapidly said, “This is a bit much. Could we have one of those timeouts?”

“My father compromises those too easily, otherwise this whole conversation would have been inside one of those.” Rozeta asked, “How about vampire? Without the vulnerabilities and propagating species-by-bite, obviously.”

“I don’t want to be a vampire.”

“Dryad? With Yggdrasil as your home-tree?” Rozeta said, “Though I can obviously change that to something less restrictive.”

“… Not that one, either.”

Rozeta boiled it down for him, “Literally any idea you have a connection to, I can make happen, and we can hide your Wizardry in that race, though you will have to be the one to make that whole race not go homicidal when they monsterize, which is what will happen almost instantly, when this is done. But know that what my father did for the shadelings, I can help you do for yourself.” Rozeta looked at him, saying, “But you need to make a choice. I cannot have my father be the one to create your Gate. I will not allow him that much power over the fate of everything.”

“Right. Right. Right.” Erick said, “But as a Wizard I have to deal with all the other dragons of the world, and the people of the world hating Wizards, and my soul being locked away inside a rad while the rest of me goes crazy, and the Script fucks me over instead of helps, and—”

“And about a hundred other problems, most of which you barely understand. But you will.” Rozeta said, “Paradox Wizardry would solve all of your physical problems. I urge you not to solve other-people problems with Wizardry.”

“… You’re sure you can’t order the incoming wrought to stay away for a few months?”

“I’ve known some of these people for 1300 years, Erick. If I told them to wait they would know something is happening and they would come here even faster and investigate you even harder, because despite how much power I have, I will not physically stop anyone from making the decisions they make. I will not harm people over ideology, or anything like that, and this includes you, and them.” Rozeta said, “You have about 54 minutes before they reach the cloudgate. They’re moving faster than I expected.”

Erick mentally ran through a thousand scenarios, sussing out the repercussions of the choices made here, and now. Mostly, he ran right into the first ultimatum Rozeta had given him.

He had two options. He could forget everything he learned here, or he could take the first step forward down an inevitable path with a civic-minded goddess guiding him. He had already been prepared to accept her offer, but now…

“Lightling,” Erick blurted, hoping for success.

Rozeta said, “Already exists. Everything you can think of that is attached to Veird has been done before.”

“… Ah.” Erick verbally thought through some ideas, “Medi… Uh. Mendicant. No. Ascetic— Very no. Uh. Astral— Etheric Human?”

“Less of a chance of working properly than you might think.” Rozeta said, “Variant humans are already accounted for in the monstrous Script, since that is what usually happens when a person turns into a monster. Becoming an actual new species would be best.”

“You’re enjoying this.”

Rozeta lost all mirth. “I apologize. This is difficult for you and I see that, but...” She added, “It would be better if you enjoyed this, too, for magic always works better that way. Or. You could look at it this way: Would you rather my father have a hand in this change? It’s a miracle of Wizardry that you didn’t become a shadeling when you took on the curse inside those New Stats.” Rozeta said, “Just so you know: That was your own Wizardry, already working to keep you safe when you should have died, or had something horrible happen to you.”

“Okay. Okay. Okay— Protean.” Erick spoke the word before his brain caught up to his mouth, but he didn’t take it back. It felt right, almost. He added, “A human, but able to [Polymorph] like dragons do, or however that works.”

Rozeta gave a small, content smile. “We have the word ‘shapeshifter’ but not specifically ‘Protean’. You’re even rather Chaotic, too, so I can see where you got your inspiration. This works well.” Her eyes seemed to grow larger, without changing size at all, and Erick realized there would be no more delay. This was happening right now. Clouds drifted out from the corners of the room to suddenly flow around his feet. Rozeta spoke from on high, “You’re going to have to do the heavy lifting, but I’ll guide your change.”

The Goddess of the Script stared down at Erick, perspective shifting till he was an ant and she was a serpentine white dragon that filled a cloudy sky. In that moment, he felt their entire several hour conversation had not been nearly long enough, and yet, it could have been shortened considerably. Maybe ‘Hi. I’m a Wizard?’ And then she’d say, ‘Yes you are. Let’s make that work.’ And then this would happen.

It was rather infuriating, actually.

- - - -

Erick was mad.

Angry at circumstances and forced actions and what the world demanded of him so that he and his loved ones didn’t die to any of a thousand unknown threats, or several well-known threats. He was angry, and he always had been, though it rarely showed. He saw that part of himself in Jane, for sure; that same bone-deep frustration that forced him to do what needed to be done to ensure good outcomes. Jane was young, though, so her anger was rightfully directed into direct, physical action. Erick’s own anger had transformed long ago into helping people wherever he could, making him into the man he was before he came to Veird.

Coming to Veird had transformed him, calling that deep anger back from the depths of his soul, making him, in his darkest moments, want to eradicate all his enemies from the face of the world. To sweep them away with unbridled power, with light and lightning, with physical destruction and complete obliteration.

And yet, he still believed in the power of talk, and understanding. He had seen compassion work too many times as a social worker to discount the power of empathy. The power of helping others had helped him first, after all, when an agent of the state came to him a year after Jane fell into his lap.

With a crying baby in the crib, twelve dollars in the bank, and a gun in his right hand, Erick had considered robbing a bank, or their neighbors, or dealing drugs. The drug option was the best one, but robbing a convenience store a few states away was faster, and rent was due soon. He had a baby now, and he needed money. He had fallen in with a bad crowd in college, but after Jane he had gotten away from most of that, but now he knew where the money was, and that’s all that mattered. Giving up Jane was never an option; he was going to make this work, even if he had to kill someone to do it.

It was the darkest part of his life.

And yet, in that dark, a social worker had rescued him and Jane with job placements and daycare assistance and too many small acts of mercy to recount. He didn’t have to sell drugs. He didn’t have to rob anyone. He didn’t need to kill. All he had needed was a helping hand to cross a canyon, to get to the other side where stability awaited.

Erick had remained mad at the world, though.

At the rich and the powerful, at the toil of his own life, and at what others had to do to survive. At what he almost had to do. But once he had turned the corner, that anger had transformed into growth, and that growth made all the difference in the lives of so many people; and none more than his own. If that social worker hadn't helped him… If he had gone to the gangs… He would have been a very different man, today.

If that other man had fallen to Veird with Jane at his side those first days and everything else would have been different. That other man certainly wouldn’t have ever qualified for a Silver Star from Koyabez. Erick hadn’t killed anyone back on Earth, but he was no stranger to blood on his fists.

He probably would have accepted Phagar’s offer a lot more readily.

Kill everyone who slighted him? Murder those fucks who stuck a knife in his back in that alleyway, who then assaulted the sewerhouse trying to kill him and his daughter? Go hunting with his daughter in the Crystal Forest, looking for Levels, and power? Yeah. He would have done that. It would have seemed like the only way to ensure his and Jane’s survival.

But someone had helped him long ago, and changed everything.

Rozeta’s voice called out from the depths of the clouds, “Growth and change. Anger and empathy. Not two sides of the same coin, but instead, a river that shifts on a boulder, finding a new track through the desert. You would have been a different person except for that helping hand given in honest aid, and this different person would have come into his Wizardry on his own long before now.

“This is a new turning point. This is a new helping hand.” Rozeta reached down from the heavens, inviting him forward. “Take my hand, Erick.”

Erick and Rozeta spoke together, “Become the monster, and the man.”

Erick reached forward...

- - - -

Erick stood upon a mirror that stretched out to every horizon. Clouds held in the far distance while a nebulous light glowed all around.

He looked down.

Another Erick looked up. He was the same, and yet different. Same roughness to his face. Same white eyes. But he smirked, while Original Erick did not. He had blood on his hands, and on the hems of his pants and sleeves, while Erick was clean. Erick was just a man, but the other man was the Wizard.

The Wizard leaned down, reaching to the glass floor, toward Erick. With a gentle ripple his hand came out of the ground.

Erick grabbed the Wizard’s hand and helped him out of the ground with a yank, disturbing the mirrored land with a single ripple. Erick set the man down again, causing the Wizard to give a rather undignified yelp, grabbing and cradling his own hand, smiling all the while even though he was obviously in a bit of pain.

“Strong grip there, buddy!”

“Ach. Uh.” Erick said, “I didn’t think you’d be—”

“Nah! It’s fine.” The Wizard shook his hand out, then flexed it a few times as he said, “So you got to keep all the Stats, eh? I’ve glanced through four thousand universes and the only ones that kept their Stats were the ones brainwashed by dragons or the god-touched, and you ain’t neither of them.” With an infectious grin, the Wizard asked, “How the fuck you manage that?”

“Rozeta is helping me to link to you.” Erick said, “The cat is about to escape the bag about my Wizardry.”

The Wizard briefly looked distraught, but then he hummed, saying, “I guess you’re perfect, then.” He frowned a bit more. “But of course you’re the perfect one. That makes me the fake; the lost timeline.”

“Ah. One of those Paradox things, eh?”

The Wizard shrugged, giving a smile. “Yup! This was always the danger of attempting this sort of Wizardry, but I was out of options. They’re beating down the doors right now and I’m practically out of mana. Paladins of Rozeta, actually. Didn’t like me mucking about with bringing... Actually. I probably shouldn’t say. I can already tell how this is going to go. I’ll fail to exist if I leave this space.” The Wizard laughed. “Ah! That whore. I guess she got me in the end! Didn’t even see it coming.”

Erick felt a twist on his insides, like heartburn, but he hadn’t experienced that sensation in nearly a year, so it was obviously a lot more important than that. Mana sense failed him, though; this space was ephemeral, and probably wouldn’t last past this single conversation.

Erick asked, “How was Veird on your Path?”

“Utter shitshow!” The Wizard said, “You probably won’t get any of my memories… Or maybe you will? Rozeta’s a decent sort as long as you don’t go upsetting the applecart.” He winked. “But that’s exactly what I did. All I wanted was to—” He clutched his chest. “Ah. Shouldn’t say that either, eh?” He looked up at the clouds and shouted at the sky, “Fuck you! This is my death and I’m gonna give it some meaning.” He looked back to Erick. “You could tell me how your time went, though. Probably no restrictions there. I’d like to know what version of myself I’ve been saddled with.”

Erick said, “Invented Particle Magic—”

A nod. “Normal.”

“—Killed many Shades—”

A smirk. “Didn’t manage that.”

“—Ar’Kendrithyst is empty of Shades, actually. They’re calling it ‘Last Shadow’s Feast’—”

The Wizard frowned, saying, “Hold on.”

“—Invented a spell that [Renew]s spellwork—”

The Wizard laughed. “OH yeah. You’re a Wizard.”

“—And I’m practically at the end of the Worldly Path.”

The Wizard cackled, throwing his head back and laughing at the world. And then he looked to Erick. “I’m good with this. So? What’s the plan? Do you know how Wizardry works?” He answered his own question, “Short rundown: Wizardry is informing the universe that your dick is the biggest, therefore you make the rules.”

Erick chuckled. “Rozeta didn’t explain quite in that way.”

“Course she didn’t! Firstly: Every Wizard is different. Secondly: I don’t got time to go into all the other shit.” The Wizard said, “You’ll figure it all out.” The Wizard’s joy faded into the background. His face fell. “Say… Did Jane— Uh—” He wiped his difficult emotions away, and spoke with hope in his voice, “What’s up with Jane these days?”

Erick felt a stab in his chest. He grabbed his right side. Pain blossomed beside his heart.

At the same time the Wizard mirrored Erick’s grab, touching his own left side of his chest, grasping the space over his heart.

Wounds appeared under both of their hands, flowing red through both of their fingers as blood soaked through their tunics.

