The screen demanded.“Can’t talk Nu, gotta make a super dragon with five heads that spew liches instead of fire breath,” she said distractedly.“Error. Such creation goes against established desires. Admin-Delta is faulty. Rebooting ‘irrational fear of spiders’ subroutine,” the monotone emerged afterwards.Delta abruptly began to screech, but walked forward like she was walking in a park.Nu was... shocked... utterly baffled.Then he became angry.---Sis watched as her general control and consoles, now utterly decimated by mushrooms all began to quiver. One part of the devoured divine instruments began to glow hot and blue, the mushrooms wilting away until something else emerged.A crystal tip of some blade rose, creating more features that become inhospitable to the mushrooms. Crystal and Mushroom... what incompatible beings...What a beautiful sight. Sis watched as the crystal spread out, uprooting any Mushrooms that were in its way.“Finally... I thought you’d never come, ‘Nu’,” Sis giggled and sipped her tea.Mharia wasn’t going to drink it now... so why not?---The Orange Core flashed, the crack sealing over with an influx of Mana as Nu physically dragged Delta back by the end of her ear between his two fingers.The healed portion was a shimmering azure blue, creating a striking flawed Core.Flawed... but not corrupt.Like a beautiful eye with orange and blue lines intersecting to create green.----“Hey,” Mharia said slowly, eyeing the giant effeminate tree. Her form seemed able to freely move through the Dungeon, unbound to any Floor. Delta was a fool to grant her this much freedom, but even then... Mharia knew she was always watched.The tree with a cold expression eyed her.“If you ask to nest in my branches like a bird. I’ll rip your wings off one by one and use you as a new lipstick,” the tree said flatly.Oh, Mharia liked this one. So much... fire.“Are you the World Tree?” Mharia asked, hearing from the trolls that such a tree existed. The trolls were lovely and easy to manipulate. They’d talk about anything...The tree known as Wyin sneered at her.“Are you the great fairy that touches pubescent teens to ‘power them up’?” she asked mockingly in return. Mharia snorted.“I believe you’ll find she was hunted down and chopped up for pieces a while ago. No, I am Delta’s newest... ‘employee’,” Mharia said with such annoyance that it seemed to distract Wyin from being rude.“Ah... the darling bone princess. Yes, I heard you were spanked and sent to the naughty corner,” Wyin smirked and fanned her branches out to seem elegant.“Don’t… call me that,” Mharia said darkly and the tree drank in her anger like sunlight.“Of course. Ivory Noble? Blanc Baroness? Calcium Countess?” Wyin listed and Mharia could leave, but she decided to power on through gritted teeth.“I heard you ended up being a loser to a parasite that my dear papa summoned,” she fired back and Wyin’s entire form froze, not a single leaf twitched.Mharia moved easily to avoid the massive trunk-like fist thrown at her.She put a dainty finger on the wood as it moved past.“Well... shall I call you Homeless Hawthorn? Perhaps Pathetic Palm? I can do this ‘mean’ business too,” Mharia warned as she weaved between a few dozen vines trying to spear her through.She was only dodging because her actual offence power was…Mharia couldn’t actually harm anything, the only magic she possessed now was glow-up or slight invisibility to humans. She bent backwards with a thought.Well... she couldn’t hurt people physically... verbally was a whole other game.“We can be utter demons to each other, but I think we can also discuss how to kill that sanctimonious arrogant sack of flesh that killed my family and stole your tree,” Mharia announced and the vines stopped instantly from her face.“Give me one word... on how exactly you’re going to do that? Just one,” Wyin said, voice as thin as razor wire.Mharia smiled sweetly, her eyes dark.“Delta.”After a moment, the vines retreated.“You had my irritation, now?” Wyin’s face leaned in, sleek and flushed with sap.“You have my attention.”Mharia felt a single chill go down her spine, a slight reminder that she was still talking to a literal goddess... shattered and broken down as she was.The real danger wasn’t outlasting Wyin’s anger... no, Mharia knew that the real danger was to ensure Wyin let her go in the end if she ever rose up again as a true goddess.A life on the run from an invader god was easy. An actual in-world god?Mharia was stupid and irrational times, but even she feared what was to be the actual successor to the Brother.The Tree that would absorb the Brother and his Eye, giving them eternal rest, holding the world together.Just as the other would consume the Sister.Mharia’s confidence shook.
