“We’re doing it to help Lute and better our homeland. And nothing illegal is happening! We’ve agreed. Nothing’s going to blow up. Nobody’s getting hit with cars. This is mostly about roommate solidarity,” Haoyu insisted. “I’m inviting you again.”


“While I was gone for the weekend, you all decided to go into politics?” Lexi said. “Was it that boring around here?”


“It was actually a very exciting weekend,” said Lute.


“You guys have fun going to awful parties and listening to awful people talk about awful things. I’ll be doing homework. And training. And sleeping eight and a half hours a night.”


Haoyu sighed. “If you feel that way, I understand. I guess if we ever do need a fourth man for some reason, we could ask Konstantin to help us ou—”


[Lexi Roberts has joined A Group Chat for Insane Things Nobody Else Ever Needs to Know About.]


“Just so that I can keep an eye on all of you,” he muttered.


 


 


******


 


 


The morning passed uneventfully. Alden attended classes, then he spent his lunch break in his room, practicing his new wordchain.


The gremlin was being a helper now, unintentionally. Alden had gotten good enough at the chain to interest it, so whenever he made a significant mistake and that interest dropped suddenly, he knew he had a problem. It wasn’t as good as having Lute standing over him, identifying what the problem was and correcting it, but it was definitely something.


As usual, he skipped his three o’clock formal study hall. On his way back to the dorm, he ran into Maricel.


She was listening to music on a pair of earbuds that matched the pink streaks in her pixie cut, and she didn’t notice him until he was walking right beside her.


“Good music?” he asked, when she pulled a bud out and smiled at him.


“It’s a group Tuyet said she enjoyed, so I thought I’d try it. When I listen to the songs my friends and I used to sing along with back home…” She straightened her back. “Anyway! Yes! I do like it.”


“Are you on your way to class?”


“I’m supposed to be in study hall.”


“We must have the same one,” said Alden. “I didn’t know. I’ve never gone to it.”


“I’ve been going to all of them,” Maricel said. “Because Vandy goes. But I think I do my homework better in the room. And today I’m going to watch other Ground Shapers practice at Earthbox. Instructor Fragment recommended it.”


Alden had gotten the impression that their Rescue instructor and Maricel were getting along particularly well.


“Congrats again on being the gym MVP last week. Haoyu is excited about eating Filipino food on Friday. I think he might order the whole menu.”


“I don’t know if I deserved that,” she said. “I think Fragment might have encouraged the other teachers to pick me. Because I showed a lot of improvement. But I only did because she kept pulling me aside more than everyone else to explain specific Shaping techniques to me and talk about all the ways you can use them to help people. It was so nice of her, but maybe—”


“I don’t think there’s anything wrong with that,” Alden cut in. “The instructors are all going to have more to say about their own subclasses because they understand them best of all. Eventually, everyone will run into a faculty member who matches up with them…except for me, obviously. And you still had to do the work to take advantage of the advice. Fragment seems straightforward. She wouldn’t pick you if you hadn’t really impressed her.”


Maricel glanced away, her smile turning embarrassed. “I am glad about it. I’ve eaten at that restaurant at least twice a week since coming here. The owner’s going to be so excited to have the whole class.”


Alden wanted to ask Maricel Alcantara a lot of things. Was she still thinking about getting summoned off the island? How was she doing really? Was the “fake it ’til you make it” thing she was trying working for her? Was she liking the hero program more than she’d thought she would since she’d been excelling?


His questions would only satisfy his own curiosity, not help her in any way he could see.


“I think I should try to be a little more like I used to be while I still can," -- that was how she’d put it.


“I like the hair,” he said. “You look cool.”


She reached up to touch it. “You have to say that to me all the time, don’t you? It keeps changing.”


“It keeps changing in cool ways. Chopped off by Knife Guy was the most impressive, but—”


“I can’t remember his name either,” Maricel whispered. “I’ve been calling him <<Hair Cutting Boy>> in my head.”


“A surprisingly large number of people just call me ‘Rabbit’ to my face, so at least we’re not that bad.”


He said goodbye to her right after that since they were heading in different directions. As he watched her go, she stopped to levitate a piece of a paver that had cracked and come loose—no doubt thanks to some overpowered footfall—back into its proper position.


I think she’s doing all right, thought Alden, while she smashed the damaged block into place with her telekinesis. She did it too hard, and it sank an inch more than it should have. Looking around sheepishly, she pulled it back up until it was properly leveled.


His roommate chat window opened suddenly.


[Haoyu: Alden, will you check on the minestrone in my slow cooker? I think I left out salt.]


[Lexi: It’s fine. I told you it was fine when I stopped by the room earlier.]


[Lute: He can’t trust you. You think club soda has plenty of flavor.]


Alden went back to the apartment and checked the minestrone, which was fine. Then he grabbed the individual icepop molds he’d bought from the kitchen supply store Natalie had pulled them all into yesterday, along with a bag of jumbo marshmallows and a jug of fruit punch.


What more could a wizard need?


He locked his bedroom door, shut the blackout curtains, and went to the corner to kneel on his knockoff learning cushion.


He cast all the spells he knew one by one, starting with the promise stick lighting spell. Not being in possession of actual promise sticks, he cast it on the cedar-scented jar candle he’d bought in hopes of mimicking the smell of the burning wood. In his head, he promised Kibby he would be a good learning partner and do his sincere best.


After he’d gone through his small repertoire of hands-only spells, he took his auriad from its place around his neck. When he started to loop it around his fingers, he felt anticipation. He always did. But today it was tinged a little more than usual with an unwelcome melancholy.


Alden wasn’t sure what the cause was. When he tried to find the problem, it wasn’t like he could point at any one thing and say, “That’s bad.”


He tossed a pillow across the room with his square strike. Then he smashed a mound of marshmallows into a perfect disc with the press spell. It was satisfying. And safe. They just blobbed together, no shrapnel. If he made his pile large enough or aimed slightly differently, he could make sure some of the marshmallows got sliced in half by being left partially out of the crush zone.


He didn’t trust his own shielding abilities enough to crush anything more dangerous here in the apartment. The spell never let anything fly back at the caster as far as he could tell. It all went directly away from him every time. Still, trying something crazy like a big hunk of steel or a glass sphere didn’t seem like the neighborly thing to do.


Haoyu was making a lot of his slow cooker meals vegan; Alden couldn’t repay him by embedding metal shards in the wall between their rooms.


Next, he used his flash freezing spell to make a couple of fruit punch pops. He’d hoped to be able to do more, but on the second pop he started to feel the strain on his free authority combined with that sense of resistance from the world around him that meant he’d hit his limit. He checked the time and saw that he still had an hour until he had to be at the MPE building.


That’s long enough.


He called his book in from System storage and adjusted his knees on the cushion until he was in a comfortable position to study his next spell. It was the cutting one that sent a triangle of magic flying through the air like a dagger.


The sharper brother to the square strike.


The author recommended that the wizard practice by visiting an orchard that was ripe for harvest to help the workers trim the bounty from high branches. Not for the first time, Alden wondered just how old this book was. The Triplanets had orchards and they had to get the fruit down from the top branches somehow. But he assumed that it probably involved technology, not Artonans clambering around in the treetops. Elepta Farm’s marleck berry facility had been heavily robotized.


Hey, what do I know? Maybe there’s some kind of magic nut that tastes bad if it’s not picked by hand or by spell.


The auriad flowed between his fingers as he practiced the patterns.


Kibby would really like watching me do this. She was always so excited when I got a spell right. I hope she’s impressing the hell out of one of her tutors right now.


When he’d practiced for long enough, he blew out his candle and tidied up.


Overall, it was a successful wizarding session. All his spells were working for him. It felt good, as always, to stretch his authority out in this way. And the memorization of the new spell had felt natural. He wasn’t sure if that was some Processing clicking into place for him or if he’d just gotten very used to this kind of studying.


He decided his subdued mood was probably a mix of this weekend’s level-up reminding him that his ability to do magic freely like this was always going to be something he nurtured for a time and then lost for a time. And also a little bit of loneliness. Practicing without a partner was still fun, but there was nobody to share your extraordinary juice pop making powers with.


On his way to the gym—hauling his duffel bag full of supplies since Instructor Fragment was still open to him experimenting for the Rescue sessions—he looked up a number on the internet.


If it was right, there were around seventeen thousand Artonans on Earth at the moment. The number fluctuated a lot from day to day. Most of them were probably wizards. They were running Houses of Healing, teaching, being diplomatic, or maintaining magical equipment and facilities. Some of them were longterm residents of Earth; others were just visiting to complete some quick task.


Thousands of wizards, thought Alden. And one human who’s just getting started. 


****** 


The locker room was rowdy when he entered. “Alden!” a Scottish voice called excitedly. “You’ll sing with us, won’t you?!”


Finlay was already in his gym suit. He was waving a black tablet eagerly at Alden from across the room.


“Sing?”


“If he’s smart, he won’t,” Winston said. He was tying his shoes over by that Brute guy who was always editing his social media pictures to make himself taller than the other people in the photos. “We have to start thinking about our internet presence now. Do you want to look marketable or do you want to look like a dork?”


Finlay glared at him. “Other people have been doing it! And Jeffy and Kon are singing with me. We’re going to ask the girls, too.”


So that rivalry is only getting uglier as time passes, Alden noted.


He had no idea what Winston Heelfeather had expected from the hero program. Surely, as an A-rank, he hadn’t assumed he would be one of the brightest stars in the school? He hadn’t even gotten in on the first try.


When they’d first met on the bus, Alden had had the impression that Winston was rude, shallow, and not particularly intelligent. And then the guy had developed this weird competitive streak with Finlay at the party, before Finlay had even noticed him.


Did he think he’d be the only speedster in the class?


It would have been a ridiculous thing to assume.


And he was annoyed everyone was talking about me at the party, too, even though they weren’t exactly praising me. Just extreme limelight hunger?


Maybe Winston had been super popular back home, and he’d thought he would be here, too. It was Alden’s best guess without directly asking him what his problem was, and that sounded like a lot of trouble for little reward.


“Finlay,” Alden said, “I don’t have any idea what you’re talking about, but just so you know, I have a terrible singing voice. So the answer is probably no.”


“It’s fine if you sound bad. That’ll make it even funnier. I spent all day in class making up gokoratch songs, and we’re going to sing them in our gym suits and see if we can go viral!”


“I’m in,” said Alden before Finlay could draw another breath. “Yes. Don’t do it without me. I’ll be dressed in moments.”


Haoyu was pulling on his own suit, and at the intensity of Alden’s voice, he started laughing.


“What’s so funny?” Finlay asked.


“Nothing!” Haoyu said. “I’ll do it too. I want to.”


“The more the merrier!”


Alden was already in one of the showers, stripping at lightning speed. His desire to go viral—below zero. Definitely in the negative numbers. He’d like to be the opposite of viral forever and ever. However…sacrifices could be made in the interest of having as many humans as possible sing about gokoratch.


So that he could see the look on Stu-art’h’s face during their next phone call.


A few minutes before class started, around ten of them stood in a group in one of the halls, singing the songs Finlay had written in class that day. Alden’s personal favorite was set to the tune of “Twinkle, Twinkle Little Star:”


 


 


Stinky, stinky, Gokoratch,


Eat your nestmates as they hatch


