The day of Renewal approached. Celebrations were held, food was shared, and the town paused for a few days.

On the eve of Renewal, the Allwarden embassy was packed with friends, colleagues and acquaintances. The atmosphere was relaxed, as was the dress code; neither David nor Niala were interested one bit in pomp.

The guest of honour was the food anyway. The Embassy cook and staff had all pitched in to help Niala prepare the feast, and at the rate it was going, they weren't sure if it was going to last the evening.

It did, though it was a near thing, with maybe a single serving left if you combined all the plates.

While fun and a great time to talk with the people they supposedly worked with but didn't interact with that often, the embassy reception was a social nod. The real event was on Renewal Day proper, at their houses, and only with close friends and family invited.

Karline, Linzy, the Waymans, Angeline and Isaac, Batty, Yrlemagne, and so on were all present. The living room, once again transformed into a dining area, was packed. Drinks flowed freely, the food was abundant, and Cookie had the time of its life serving food trays alongside Jordo and Papo, and later by playing with the Wayman kids.

They exchanged stories, laughed, cried a little, and did it all over again.

Charlie gifted everyone a sleeping Rinka bottle. Rinka got a bathing Rinka bottle, which made her pass out. Hodge tried to hand out wood chips again, but Anaakendi gathered them up and flung them into the fireplace.

David handed out his various enchantment experiments. As training, he had engraved a light circuit on a variety of materials and had accumulated a box of them. He passed around lighting plates and mugs, utensils, shoes, bracelets, belt buckles, and anything else that could hold runes. The kids loved it, especially the shoes, but Martha asked for the lighted steak fork, saying it would be useful to inspect cooked meat properly.

Linzy jumped into the conversation and asked if there was anything else that could use a light. They ended up with a short list, at the top was a duster. The light would help illuminate missed spots.

The goblin woman gave David a thumbs-up. He expected this meant that she'd be in touch to work out what her commission on future sales would be.

Niala distributed concentrated healing potions, her own latest experiment realized with Lychee's help. They were tiny, 30 millilitres each, but had the full strength of a normal potion. Luke asked for a full supply contract, saying he knew plenty of people who would love having an easily carried healing potion for emergencies.

Karline, in secret, gave David a cargocloth full of Tridget elder tree lumber. He tried to refuse, but she insisted, eventually admitting that she wanted to get rid of it so she could forget how she gained possession of it in the first place.

More gifts were exchanged, then midnight rolled over, the traditional snacks and desserts were brought out, and, eventually, the festivities ended. Everyone went back to their homes or guest houses.

Standing by the front door, watching Leandro depart with a rather drunk Marshalla hanging on his arm, they closed, locked and turned around, letting the silence ring loud.

The house felt empty with just the two of them.

She turned her head and looked up at him. He returned her gaze. Their smiles met along the way. They could try to fix that issue.

Showered, changed into sleeping clothes, lying on their bed and limbs laced together, the late night's gown settling down all around them, they breathed in sync.

In quiet times like this, with their link wide open and their bodies intermingled, it was hard to define where one stopped and the other began. With thoughts melted to their raw emotions, they might as well have been a single entity.

But these moments never lasted. An idea wandered in, giving form and structure to their unravelled minds once more, and they were two snuggling lover once more.

Niala began running her hands over his body and nibbling at his neck and shoulder. He chuckled softly, but instead of responding to her advances, he stretched an arm and opened the nightstand, retrieving a small bundle.

She stopped, ears perking up, and tracked the package as he brought it up to her. With a questioning glance, she shuffled until she could use both hands and opened it.

Within was a small silvery pendant, shaped in a triangle with an amethyst inlaid in the centre. It was held by a string of woven metal wires, each one a different tint of silver. She let it hang and catch the light as it became the centre of her world for a moment.

Then she caught something, a small detail on one of the fine wires. She squinted and brought it closer. It looked like... runes?

She turned her eyes to David. “Are those...?”

He grinned and nodded. “Yep, runes. The smallest one I could make.”

“But they're so tiny! There's no way your engraver can do this!”

“I bought a box of engraving heads in the fairlands. They came out small enough to do that. I had Charlie make me a magnifying apparatus, and I trained really hard to be able to trace straight lines this small.” He explained with pride.

She turned her eyes back at the little marvel in her hands. “What does the enchanting do?”

He pointed with his chin. “Nothing that special. Go ahead and power it on.”

Niala didn't need any more encouragement. She pulsed her mana, and the amethyst lit up faintly, scintillating like a miniature field of stars. “David, it's beautiful!” She turned to look at him. “How did you do it? Did you learn new runes?! Were you able to engrave the gem somehow? Does it do anything else?”

He ruffled her hair and put a kiss on her forehead. “It's mostly still just a light rune, but I played around a bit with resistances and mana gates. There are actually a dozen different light runes underneath the gem, all firing at different intervals and intensities. Underneath, there's also a refracting lens that Charlie made, so the light diffuses and hits the faceted gem in a pattern. The end result is a shiny gem.”

He scratched the back of his head. “I, huh, took inspiration from your eyes. When you're really happy or excited, they make me think of a violet night filled with stars.”

The next thing he knew, he had a catkin straddling him with her mouth glued to his.

This time, he didn't stop her.

The following weeks went by quickly. Angeline began David's “training”, teaching him that intimidation began in your target's mind. It was a feeling based on fear, and everyone feared what they didn't know.

In a social setting, the best way to achieve that was to defy expected cues and responses. She also explained that this is where his flat-line eyebrows came in handy; people subconsciously used eyebrows as a sort of yardstick for emotions. With eyebrows that never reacted, they were left adrift, having to focus on other parts of his face to get a grip.

He just needed to learn how to control those, along with being able to recognize the same signals, to present the kind of face that would unnerve anyone.

Niala volunteered to be his test subject, but they cut that short after the first session because she kept bursting into laughter. Angeline instead called in whichever construction worker had failed his audits the hardest.

As a “community service”, of course, not as any sort of punishment.

She and Isaac also prepared for the handover of the different projects. The young lord had to be dragged away from orientation meetings several times when he began giving too many specific instructions. She knew he meant well, but the architects didn't need a detailed plan on how much material to earmark ahead of time for every phase of the project. They'd figure it out, and if not, he was already leaving behind very detailed documentation.

Besides, Tobbie would help.

Surprising everyone, Isaac had begged Hodge to tell him how he could bring the pile with him. He was rightly annoyed when the old man said it was flatly impossible without killing the pile in the first place.

It turned out that Isaac really enjoyed having Tobbie around and wanted to have him follow on his future assignments. He said it was purely a logistical consideration. Angeline told David and Niala that he was actually enamoured with the pile's work ethic and efficiency.

The brothers and sisters had also decided to leave together; they would take the airship that Angeline had chartered all the way to Majestic, where David and Niala would be dropped off to shop for an airship of their own and pick up Captain Plerigass and crew.

Majestic had, arguably, the best and biggest airship industrial base in the kingdom. They would be limited to civilian models, but that suited them; they weren't looking to build a navy. Niala just wanted an airship to carry things around and give rides to the orphans.

Because of course she did.

The day of departure turned up, and the two couples waited for their ride to arrive. When Isaac spotted it and recognized the ship, he turned his head toward his wife. “You chartered the Eternal Vigilance, our family's personal airship?!”

She shrugged. “Of course. It was available.”

“It's supposed to remain available! On stand-by for the Patriarch's use!”

She smiled and reached up to his glowering face, tracing the line of his jaw with a single finger. “And also the heir's. Which you are. So there it is.” She explained, booping his nose and swaying her way toward the autocar waiting to take them to the airport.

The trip to Majestic went without any trouble. Not that they had expected any, considering they were navigating one of the most used trade lanes in the kingdom. Even then, beyond sky pirates, there was always the risk of lawful inspections or congested airports. Having the well-known and imperious airship of the Wardenfel, its black-and-silver hull looming grand over everyone's head, ensured that nobody bothered them.

Most people would rather go fist-fight a bear than tangle with Isaac's family. And now Angeline's, which she clearly wasn't shy of using.

Jordo, Sybil and Sammie accompanied David and Niala; the first unwilling to be separated from his wards, and the other two as security escorts. Officially for both of them, but in reality, they were mainly going to stick to Niala, rationalizing that anything that could take out David would take them out as well.

A week later, they arrived at their destination. Isaac and Angeline stayed for a day, having dinner with Cornelius and catching up with him, before departing for Amberose, leaving David and Niala behind.

The two, along with Arnelle Plerigass, her temporary employ to the Allwardens previously arranged via avilem mail, set out to go shopping.

Elbert was having a great day. He had just closed a sale on a trio of new mercantile airships for a merchant house looking to expand.

They had, of course, looked for the best “deal”. As the experienced and well-informed salesman that he was, he had obviously advised his client to the best of his abilities.

Which is how he had sold them the “Deluxe Economy” model from Aero-Craftworks, which were really just the cheapest airworthy ships they made, given a solid coat of paint and just enough trims, made of recycled metals and mass-produced wood pieces, to look up-scaled.

All that with very profitable margins. He was getting a nice commission this season.

And with the group that had just stepped into the lobby, he felt that it would just keep getting better. A tall, black-haired man and a short brunette catkin, a couple from how they stood next to each other, with neither sporting the kind of clothes which announced wealth.

The entourage was the real hint, however: a relic stone golem, two guards with expensive-looking matching armour, and a tall dogkin woman that exuded military experience. In short, rich people, who didn't know how to use their money properly yet, but had no issue dishing it out.

Or, as he liked to call them, his new best friends.

He allowed them some time to look at the various paintings of airships decorating the room they were in, each one an actual model on sale from the shipyards his company represented, before stepping in.

He very slightly bowed. “Sir and Madam, welcome to Ironclad Airships. I am Elbert, and if it pleases you, I shall be your point of sale. How may I address you?”

The two glanced at each other, the man speaking first. “Sir and Madam is fine. We're looking to buy something available quickly.”

Elbert managed to keep his smile in check. People who needed something quick and who didn't know how to spend their money were his double best friends. “Of course, Sir. If Sir and Madam may follow me?”

He led them back to his wide office. Their escort took up position by the door, though the military woman sat down alongside them at his desk. An advisor, perhaps? He would have to be wary of her words.

He lowered himself into his chair after his customers, showing proper deference, and clasped his hands. “How about Sir and Madam begin by telling me what you are looking for in a ship, and I can show you some options?”

They nodded and listed a few of their requirements. A bit disappointing, as they were looking for something utilitarian and sturdy, which were the most boring of designs and thus the hardest to hype up.

Hard didn't mean impossible, however, and he was a good salesman. He let them finish up and nodded. “An interesting list, well thought-out. I can see that Sir and Madam want something versatile that will serve them for many years.”

He let his compliment settle in. “May I understand that this would be your first purchase?” They nodded, he continued. “And, if I might ask, are you seeking to prioritize value over other aspects?”

In other words, do you have limited funds? He managed not to grin when they said it wasn't their main concern. “Very well. Then, as you asked for something available rapidly, three models come to mind, all of them very popular choices that our biggest manufacturers keep a ready fleet of.”

He opened his hands. “Now, would Sir and Madam rather look at pamphlets and images, or would you prefer to go inspect the ships in person?”

From the way the catkin woman had stared at every airship picture on display with kids-in-a-candy-store eyes, he knew they were going to ask for actual visits, and they did.

That was fine. For young, impressionable people, getting to walk through your first potential purchase was enough of a shock to make the eyes gloss over the small details.

As he led his best friends to the company autocar and then drove toward the nearest airship depot, he could practically hear the princes clinking.

Arnelle had to give him his due; the sales representative was good. She guessed that if she hadn't been there, he would certainly have sold David and Niala one of those three ships.

They weren't bad ships, for certain, but they weren't good either. They were just popular because they were standardized, and the shipyards built a lot of them. Economy of scale meant they cost less to build, so they could sell them for slightly less and still make more profit.

Perfectly understandable, and it's not like the buyer wasn't getting a perfectly serviceable ship in return. They just weren't the kind of ships that she wanted to captain, even if only temporarily. A girl had to keep up her standards.

In truth, they all already knew which ship they were buying: a post-skirmish-war era design that had endured the years: the Sharkgull. A stupid name for an excellent, highly functional ship.

The design had been borne out of a need to strengthen the kingdom's navy, depleted during the skirmish war, and shored up with thrown-together, cheap-and-easy-to-build models that had shockingly short service life.

Enter the Sharkgull: With time, but limited budget, the navy designer had cut away all the frills and kept proven-and-tried methods and parts that had acceptable performances, were easy to maintain, and, most importantly, had plenty of tolerance built in.

The Navy back then wanted a singular design that would last a while and could be modified to operate for any sort of role. A jack of all trades built around a Rhinotrodon's spine.

Of course, Sharkgulls were a military design, and while there were plenty still in service, they weren't built anymore. It didn't mean the design was dead; after production stopped, the shipyard decided to reuse the blueprints to form the core of new models, civilian ones.

After all, the navy had ordered hundreds of them, and their craftsmen were used to building them. They stripped everything deemed unfit for the civilian market and kept everything else.

The different shipyards all built slight variations of the same Sharkgull lineage, and they were still built to this day, if sometimes two or three generations removed. At their core, they still carried their ancestors' guts.

And it just so happened that the Northern Sails & Sons shipyard had one of the original, first-generation models on hand. It was a refurbishment job that was in limbo due to the financier having gone bankrupt before he could take delivery.

Apparently, nobody wanted it because it was “old” and “obsolete.” Arnelle would have taught them a few things about that, but their mistake was her and her employer's gains.

The salesman was going to hate it, though. From what she had dug up, NS&S was looking to offload the ship on the cheap, just so it could clear out its berth for something more profitable.

Not her problem, and the man seemed to be going well for himself anyway. Sometimes, being on the receiving end of an imbalanced deal was good for them, just to remember how it felt.

The little extra creampuff on top was that the specific model she had found, an early-model Sun Minnow, had a secret; the first twenty-two of those ships had been built following intermediary blueprints, which were between the full military version and the stripped-down civilian one.

This specific ship was number 17 of the series, which meant it still had military-grade systems and tolerances.

She hoped David and Niala would give her a bonus for the find. Or at least let her modify it to be a right proper sky corsair. Hopefully both.

Now, she knew something that the Allwardens didn't, but since they needed a new ship now and not in a few years, it would be more than appropriate for their needs.

She just had to make sure they picked a good name for it. A lady of her lineage and age needed a proper moniker. They weren't Cornelius, though, so surely, they had a better naming sense?

Right?