—-
 
A proper Oteslian dance was one in which you seldom stopped moving. It was selfish, as Lyonette had observed. Moreover; it was a show. You moved alone and rejoined your partner, in whirling arcs of cloth calculated to take advantage of the dress’ unique qualities.
It was a purely Drakeish idea. A Dragon’s arrogance. The secret of the way the dance ran was this: if you were anything less than perfect, you looked like a stupid idiot. It was meant only for someone who could appreciate it, who trained for it.
Who could give it the respect it was due.
Step. The young woman’s hair fluttered behind her like the outer petals of her dress. Almost like red wings.
Turn. The Wall Lord was almost as graceful as her, even without the Skill. His face was a study of concentration as a dark bloom of color followed him, like ink in the water.
Everyone was watching, from Drakes to Gnolls to the only other Humans in the room. It was beautiful, and the two’s contrasting colors and species only added to the surprise. The effect.
It struck him dumb. The sight made him go silent.
Even he…even he had only seen a proper dance of Oteslia’s colors eighteen times in over a hundred years.
Cirediel Anvi’dualln Olicuemerdn, the Earth Dragon of Oteslia, never attended formal balls. He wouldn’t have thought of this one, but two things had changed his mind.
He had heard Lyonette was here. And Rafaema.
He’d dressed like Flash and like the street, neglecting a suit or formal clothing. Ready to stick it to…whomever he was going to stick it to.
Now, he saw the Wall Lord and [Princess] dancing across the ballroom. As vividly as the first time he had ever seen it, as a little baby in the First Gardener’s arms.
Cirediel saw Lyonette smiling and felt jealous. He had no idea who that purple mushroom was, but he was jealous. He wanted to be dancing with Lyon! Even if he had never mastered a tenth of the steps.
He spotted Rafaema in the crowd, watching the event with all her usual intensity. The Lightning Dragon didn’t spot Cire at first. She was locked on Lyonette.
The young man began to push his way through the crowd, intent on greeting Rafaema as if it were a race, or demanding the next dance from Lyon. Did his mother know her? Maybe that was his in!
The whirling dance continued for only three minutes. Then—unable to continue steps she didn’t know, panting, Lyonette slowed. Her dress finally touched the floor and Ilvriss turned from where they had stopped, like two figures set diagonally apart, backs turned—to look at her.
The art ended. The applause began. Lyonette smiled and swept a curtsy at the [Lady] applauding with eyebrows raised. Magnolia Reinhart laughed ruefully.
Ilvriss met his uncle and sister’s gazes and shrugged. He bowed to Lyonette.
Cire strode towards Lyon, determined now. He passed Drakes murmuring.
“Astonishing! So that’s what it looks like!”
“You’re not supposed to trip people up with it? Well, I’m never doing that. I’ll wear a suit next time.”
“Totally Archmage. I mean—amazing. Ancestors damn it—”
Cire stopped. He turned, at the familiar voice. His eyes searched the crowd. The Drake’s head was turned and she looked…far, far older. Her scales weren’t even the same pigment. She looked taller and wore ornamental armor. Nevertheless, he knew that voice. Who else would say…?
“Mivi?”
Mivifa the Oldblood of Feathers turned back as Lyonette walked back to the crowd, now a part of Oteslian society. Lost amidst them—the Earthspeaker saw Cire and blanched. The First Gardener whirled as Cire stared at the Named Adventurer.
“I—um—this—why are you here, Cire?”
He stared at her, stunned. Mivi—no, Mivifa, who had claimed there was no way she could be the same as the naked Drake, Saliss of Light had—
His eyes saw the wrinkles in her scales, the way she had grown older. Her expression, even the way she stood. The deeper tone in her voice. Dead scales, discolored patterns, every mortal sign of aging.
He stood there as Rafaema turned. The young Dragon backed away as Lyonette saw him and grimaced; Cire stood out even among the colorful Drakes. Bewildered, the [Princess] saw the stricken look on his face. Too real to be…
“Cire. I—”
Mivifa stepped forwards. Cirediel turned and ran. He shoved past Drake waiters, ran past the Gnolls. Ran like the undead of the Village of Death themselves were chasing him.
Thus, the most memorable, successful, and of course, scandalous ball in Oteslia…kept right on going.
 
—-
 
Magnolia Reinhart and the [Princess] of Calanfer stood in the center of the ballroom, speaking, drawing attention by virtue of their respective talents.
The [Princess] was better at attracting it unwillingly; she had an excellent teacher. The [Lady] of House Reinhart was better at other things.
“The Helm of Fire is a Drake treasure. I understand the shares of the adventurers’ artifacts are not sufficient for how many participated. It is likely at least one object will be auctioned; no one team can afford the price of a relic-class object. Given that, I would be delighted to make a bid for the Helm of Fire.”
Heads turned. Lyonette frowned at Magnolia, breaking her discussion off on the very same topic.
“You would purchase the Helm of Fire on behalf of the Drakes?”
The [Lady] smiled at Lyonette, and her eyes held the [Princess]’ just for a second.
“It would not be the most outlandish thing I’ve ever bid on, Miss Lion Solstice. However, I very much doubt I would be in the minority for this bid. Even my coffers are not unlimited. Perhaps I should back a more appropriate source? Drakes should reclaim Drake artifacts, even if only in bidding. Now, which Walled City should I support if that were the case? Where is the First Gardener? I have an intriguing idea to offer her.”
Some of the listeners gasped at the idea. Magnolia’s knowledge of adventurer bidding wars was esoteric. If it came to a bid, of course the Walled Cities would be among the top contenders for a relic of their species. Oteslia would never have a chance, though. Not against Salaszar, Pallass, Fissival, or Zeres.
If you could buy affection…Magnolia was doing a better job. However, the First Gardener did not immediately appear to lend credence to her offer. Which was fine; the rumor was enough.
The First Gardener had, in fact, hurried out of the ballroom on some public matter with the Earthspeaker, Mivifa, and every other high-ranking Oteslian official. It raised Ilvriss’ brows and Nerul’s, because they noticed such things.
Cire!
No one cared what was happening in the ballroom anymore. Mivifa flew out of the ballroom, shouting for him. Heads turned as the Oldblood of Feathers used her unique wings to fly.
Cirediel was gone. His protectors panicked, fearing what this truth might do to him. Mivifa was joined in seconds by the [Pegasus Riders], who spread out to search the city for the unique boy they were charged with protecting.
This was his city, though. Where might he hide? Mivifa flew to his usual hangouts, not sure what to say. What could she say? She cursed Lyonette and the party—even as she felt a horrible sense of relief.
He knew. It was time he knew. If only it could have been broken to him more easily.
Even Hunt Commander Makhir joined in on the search, his nose an invaluable asset. Manus and Oteslia were sometimes at odds, but they had not actually been to war in…well, a century. Roughly the time a certain egg had been found, while Manus was raising the young hatchling themselves.
No one noticed the truce except for the most savvy experts in Drake politics, who noticed the two cities never came to blows. Like the Cyclops of Pallass, for instance.
In this, Manus was united with Oteslia. Makhir hurried off, cursing at the tangling scent-trails—and issues of tracking a flying quarry.
Rafaema of Manus did not fly into a frenzy. She had seen Cire’s face as he looked at Mivifa. She knew…exactly what had happened to him in that moment.
“Idiot.”
The Dragon walked out of the ballroom. She spread her wings and leapt into the air. She had not worn the traditional Oteslian dress, instead taking to Manus’ customs of wearing armor even at formal events. She flew upwards, then turned.
She had not told the First Gardener. However, she thought she knew where Cire was. It was Mivifa’s instinct to look for his haunts, lock down the walls and gates, the First Gardener’s to check Cire’s rooms.
As if he were a normal boy. Rafaema shook her head. She knew where he was. They’d think of it. She got there first.
 
—-
 
The door of the protected, sealed room was ajar. Someone was crying inside. The girl found the boy inside. He was kneeling on the ground. He tried to hide his face and wipe his tears when she saw him.
“Cire.”
They were both young. A hundred years, and they were young. Young—and terribly old. If they had been allowed to live beyond their walls, they would have seemed far older.
Somehow, Oteslia had preserved the innocence of their Dragon. The girl was changing. Growing older. Manus wanted a leader, so it had never been the same.
The First Gardeners had seen the value of childhood, of happiness, however forced. Joy until he was older. They had protected it—too much.
Better than her, though. The girl heard the boy’s voice.
“Go away. Go away, Rafaema.”
“Don’t be an idiot, Cirediel. I knew you’d be here.”
She stepped into the little room, past wards of magic long since spent. It was a strange place. It had been hidden for countless ages.
Here—in the very roots of Oteslia’s great tree. Buried among the growing wood. Unearthed by chance. It had held only one thing, that the First Gardeners had found here.
An egg. The legacy of Dragons. No one remembered who could have put him here. His parents were lost to time.
He had been carried from this place before he hatched. He had grown up in different rooms, far above, changing nurseries, rooms.
He would remember this spot, even so. Just like she did.
“Cire.”
“Get lost! I—I’m not crying. Tell Mivifa I don’t want to talk to her! I don’t want to talk to anyone! They’re all liars! They lie to my face and laugh at me.”
The young woman hesitated. Then she stepped further into the room. The boy was curled up, hiding under his wings. A ball of misery.
A Dragon. He’d taken off his ring. The other protections.
Were it anyone else, Rafaema would not know what to say, other than the way a [Commander] inspired soldiers. Rough discipline. Knock some sense into him.
Cire, though…she stood there for a second. Then she plucked her ring from her finger, murmured two phrases. Her body changed.
A long neck rose. Her true scales were deep blue. Not like sapphire; not purely one color. They looked like the color of sky before dark storm clouds overtook them. Her eyes shone with two colors; topaz and amethyst. Gemstones.
His scales were brown and green. Like the very tree itself. A wondrous brown, though. Not like soil or mere wood. His eyes were a clementine orange mixed with rosewood pink.
They were the last of their kind, as far as either knew. Two children, raised by well-meaning, overprotective guardians with grand dreams for them.
The last hope of their kind. Leaders of their descendants to a glorious new age.
It was a heavy burden. They were so young. No one could tell them what they were.
The Earth Dragon snuffled as the Lightning Dragon stepped into the small place where he had been found. Abandoned? She spoke, looking down at him; she was larger than he, and both were still growing.
“You didn’t know Mivifa was a Named Adventurer?”
“I knew. I just never saw her. Not like that. She lied to me. She told me just the other day she wasn’t…I knew.”
Cire’s voice was sulky. Rafaema hesitated, and then nodded. He probably did, deep down. He hid his face in a wing.
“Leave me alone, Rafaema. This is so—not Archmage.”
She rolled her eyes at the childish expression. She huffed and inadvertently shot some sparks from her mouth in irritation.
“Grow up. I know they coddle you here—you know they’re tricking you. Tell them to stop. Or do you really think the First Gardeners all go on holiday when they get—”
“Stop!”
The younger boy shouted. His voice echoed loudly and dangerous drops of acid escaped his mouth. However, that was not what made the girl relent. It was the pain in his voice. He hid his head in his wings again.
“I know. Don’t you think I know? I just don’t—”
It was always like this. She said something and hurt his feelings, or he made her mad. They fought every time they met. For the last two of their kind, they should have been more kind. Maybe it was because seeing each other so briefly just made them more lonely.
However, there were things only they could say to each other. Only they could understand. Cire’s eyes opened wide and looked up with a mortal horror. He whispered.
“I knew. I can tell when they’re getting older. I don’t think about it. I don’t want to. Call me a child if you want, Rafaema. I don’t want to say goodbye. I looked at Mivifa—and I saw her dying. Rotting with age. I’m going…I’m going to see her die. She’s going to grow old and I’ll still be young. She’ll hate me.”
The young woman looked down at him and remembered the day she had realized her friends were different people wearing their faces, acting like them. She had tried to destroy it all, that day. For nearly a decade onwards.
“I know. They think it will make us feel better.”
She had known they aged and died from the start. Him though…he was more fragile. He cried more than she did, over dead pets. Over his beloved parents.
Manus had made her heart hard. Or maybe it was just the difference between them. She stepped forwards and awkwardly tried to place a claw on his shoulder. That was such a…Drake thing. A bipedal gesture.
She lay down next to him instead.
“That’s who we are.”
“Some of the Drakes say it’s because we’re better. I hate it. I don’t want to live this long. I want to be grown. I don’t want to do any of this.”
“I know.”
She let him snuffle and lay there. She too wished she had someone to ask all the questions in her heart. She was the older one, but in moments like this, she was helpless to tell him anything that would make him feel better.
All she knew of her kind were in the oldest of stories. Dragons were just mythical beings. Quests for [Dragonslayers] and [Knights] to challenge. Ruthless predators. Rulers…
Not people. In this moment, Rafaema realized a truth of her kind, through living with their descendants, the Drakes, for so long.
This was why Dragons didn’t mingle with other species. This was why they hid away. They stayed only for a generation, two at most. They did not remain to protect the places they formed connections to.
