She named the most formal, uptight [Lady] of the north, Zanthia, who taught countless [Ladies] manners and etiquette with an iron hand. And tongue. Magnolia rolled her eyes as she recited a lesson from rote.
“‘If a man and woman stand together for over five seconds, they have already suggested intimacy, correctly or incorrectly.’ Phaw.”
“Do you really want to gamble everything you’ve worked for on being right?”
Magnolia glowered at Ressa, but the [Maid] was right. Decades had gone into this moment and the truth was that Magnolia knew she was making a mistake by playing her cards too close to her chest. Boldness would work, but being in this precarious scenario meant that was the least likely thing you wanted to do.
How could you break through the mental barrier? Well—the answer seemed to be with lots of alcohol.
An interesting shift had moved part of the ballroom’s occupants. Like a spiral, they began to gather around something. Magnolia had seen it happen for a pair of Drakes who’d gone for daggers before being separated, a sprawling Drake who’d tripped fantastically and tossed her plate over eighteen people—
This time, the interest was more than in the accident. Magnolia stood on her tip-toes to see, cursing her lack of height. She turned to the taller Ressa.
“Ressa, what are they interested in over there? Has someone had a bad reaction to the food or something?”
The [Maid] peered over the heads. Then her eyes widened.
“Magnolia. You know the young woman you had on your list of things to do after ingratiating yourself to the Drakes here?”
“Which young w—her?”
“You may wish to move her up your list of priorities.”
Magnolia blinked. Then began to walk forwards.
 
—-
 
It was called charisma. But what that looked like took many forms. It wasn’t just being likeable; that was one obvious example. However, it was also the ability to simply draw attention. To command attention.
Erin was a natural in some ways. Hers was often gentle—until she smacked you in the face with it. It was being likeable, finding the best in people, caring for those who no one cared about.
Lyonette’s charisma was different. She could do leadership, likeability, but her charisma was best when it was her, not a copy of Erin.
That meant—well—her charisma had edges. Make a stupid comment, yank the chair out from under her, and you’d get cut. Mrsha had learned that more than once—mainly from the chair trick.
“Yes, of course he could kill the Skeleton Lords. Pisces? I would believe it. Do you have to see everything to believe it?”
“No—but you must admit, the assertion that he slew no less than six in a battle is insane! That [Marksman] barely killed one. Even if that Human is a [Necromancer]—”
The others shuddered. Lyonette turned to the Drake arguing with her.
“I will have you know that Pisces is one of the most accomplished [Duelists] you will ever meet. Do you recall the King of Duels’ battle? The brave Instructor Tomoor? Well—he does not own a golden bell, but Pisces once possessed a silver one—and that was when he was sixteen!”
“Have you seen him fence?”
A young Drake put in excitedly. Lyonette nodded, chewing furiously as Magnolia stopped, staring at her.
“More than once. It was a rather funny moment at that—I believe he bet an entire cake against Ceria and Mrsh—er, a young Gnoll that he could beat the Captain of the Watch in a duel. Liscor’s Watch Captain, that is.”
“And did he?”
Lyonette sat back, sniffing haughtily in a copy of Pisces’ manner. Then smiled, despite herself, at the memory, much funnier in hindsight than at the time.
“He never managed to do it. He attempted to provoke her. Accordingly, she ordered him arrested. However, he managed to fend off two Senior Guards and an entire squad with a mop handle for over ten minutes. Then they arrested him and put him in jail.”
“What about the cake?”
“We brought it to him in prison.”
With big frosting depicting the incident. Mrsha had drawn it and then put Pisces behind bars before giving him the biggest piece. When Lyonette related that, all the listeners laughed.
Stories. How did you connect with people? You told them stories. And what better place in the world for telling the best stories about people than…The Wandering Inn?
“Do you have one about the Flamewardens? Captain Keldrass and his team?”
“No, I d—”
Lyonette nearly snorted wine out of her nose as she remembered one. She coughed, and went on.
“Very well. I…do have one. Do you know the Strongheart farm? Well, Captain Keldrass, Bevussa—also of Pallass—once visited his farm. I forget how it came about. I think Wailant, who’s a former [Pirate] himself, had invited Seborn over, but managed to get both teams instead. He liked adventurers. But he has ah, a custom—so allegedly, after drinking copiously—both teams found their Captains and the Stronghearts stark naked, shooting wands at targets in the field.”
Scandalized, some Drakes looked appalled and whispered, while others nearly died laughing. Even the scandalized Drakes wanted Lyonette to go on, though. This was enough gossip material for a month!
“What is it with Humans and getting naked every five seconds?”
A Drake muttered, affronted. Another one looked speculative.
“…I bet it’s the lack of a tail. It’s so easy. You just pull off your pants and—done!”
Theories on Human propensity to nudity were put aside. Everyone wanted to hear more.
“So you are from Liscor? I keep hearing that city’s name on the news, and I hadn’t heard it since, well, the Second Antinium Wars! Are there really…Antinium walking the streets? Those horrible things?”
Everyone looked at Lyonette. The young woman’s brows crossed.
“There are Antinium, just like Gnolls, Humans, and Drakes, Miss! In fact, I happen to know some of the Antinium and they are good people.”
“Bah!”
Those around her shouted her down. Lyonette rose to her feet. She’d lost her audience in a moment. Her wild, drunken charisma had backfired. The [Princess] was in no mood to take back her words, though. She pointed around, eyes flashing.
“I see. Have any of you ever met an Antinium? Then you clearly know all about them, from hearsay and history! Pardon me, I mistook myself for the expert in the room! Do you know a single Antinium sir? Have you seen one in your life? No? What about you—or you, sir? Or…”
She began defending them. However, here lay Lyonette’s mistake. She swung around. A Gnoll stepped forwards, arms folded.
“I have met Antinium, Miss. In battle and up close. They have killed too many of my friends for my liking.”
Lyonette wavered. Hunt Commander Makhir of Manus looked at her. The Drakes around Lyonette murmured, recognizing his armband. Manus. The mood began to turn against Lyonette.
Magnolia pursed her lips. Now would be the time to say something, if only to save Lyonette from being pelted with dishes and food. She owed the young woman that, at least. She only wished Lyonette had chosen any other contentious topic in the world to need defending on. Still—Magnolia opened her mouth, as Lyonette searched for a reply.
“Your service to the Walled City does you credit, Hunt Commander. However, we can acknowledge war paints all enemy [Soldiers] the same way. The Antinium of Liscor are different. I can attest to that myself. The Hives are a separate matter; to my understanding, Liscor’s Antinium are even split from them ideologically. I am sure Miss Lyonette did not mean to impugn your fellow [Soldier]’s sacrifices in any way.”
A voice interrupted the argument. Not Magnolia’s. Wall Lord Ilvriss and Nerul Gemscale walked into the gathering by the food table as naturally as could be. Lyonette’s eyes widened.
“Wall Lord. That is interesting, coming from you, yes?”
The Hunt Commander swung around, seemingly as startled to see Ilvriss here as Ilvriss was to see Lyonette. The purple-scaled brows rose, but then Ilvriss looked at the Gnoll military leader from Manus.
“Hardly, Hunt-Commander. Merely pointing out a fact. More to the point—one should know one’s enemies, shouldn’t they? Especially those not fully united, rare as that might be within the Antinium. Or is divide-and-conquer not a recognized strategy in Manus?”
The Gnoll blinked. Everyone susurrated, and a young Wall Lady nodded behind Ilvriss. Rafaema locked her eyes on both Human and Drake. Finally! Someone who understood!
“I take your point, Wall Lord.”
Ilvriss dipped his head at Makhir’s growl.
“My apologies, Hunt-Commander. I stepped in more to save this young woman from being a target of ire. We happen to know each other. Miss Lyon.”
“Wall Lord Ilvriss. I didn’t expect to see you here.”
“Nor I, you.”
He gave her a long look as Lyonette rose. All those present blinked.
“You two know each other? This young woman? I am Nerul, by the way. Nerul of House Gemscale of Salazar. Delighted.”
The older, bigger Drake shook Lyonette’s hand in a firm handshake, smiling. She looked at Ilvriss’ uncle, then him.
“I am—delighted to meet you, Sir. I do know Wall Lord Ilvriss. We met. In Liscor. I…”
She trailed off, uncertain how to explain he’d often come to the very inn she worked at, the Erin-connection. Ilvriss finished the sentence for her.
“We both knew the Horns of Hammerad. And yes, the Halfseekers, the Flamewardens of Pallass, Griffon Hunt—fine adventurers all. I myself do not believe the Horns of Hammerad are dead until I see the very proof of it with my eyes. Hell’s Wardens do not die easily. Nor do [Mages] that Magus Grimalkin of Pallass himself has acknowledged!”
If only as lazy and in need of improvement. However, the little speech did wonders. Lyonette saw Ilvriss lift his cup. To the surprise of everyone, he spoke.
“Miss Marquin. Would you join me in toasting the bravery of adventurers wherever they might go? The courage to fight the undead? To the Horns of Hammerad!”
She lifted her cup at once. Everyone in earshot did the same. Lyonette clinked the rim of her cup against Ilvriss’. Then—they drank and began to talk.
Like old friends. Two people who had just seen the Horns, who had tried to help. Who knew them and had seen them vanish and worried out of more than passing concerns.
The Drake Wall Lord and the Human from Liscor. The ballroom watched, and began to turn on that moment. Rafaema, Makhir, Magnolia—all found themselves orbiting the moment, to their satisfaction, surprise, or disgruntlement.
Mivifa watched Lyonette from afar, jaw opened wide. The First Gardener, Earthspeaker, and the others were all looking at her. The Named Adventurer nearly threw up her claws, but it was the Wall Lady of Salazsar who tossed her plate up. Navine Gemscale nearly screamed.
“What is going on?”
The last piece of the puzzle no one had noticed—yet—that only the Salazsar Drakes would be able to put together made Navine nearly explode.
It was the ring on Lyonette’s finger.
 
—-
 
Rafaema of Manus was confused. No—confused was what she’d been fifteen minutes ago. Confuzzled, bamboozled, flabbergasted—those were appropriate words.
Gobsmacked. That was a good one too. The female Dragon was staring at the target of her latest obsession of the last few months.
Lyonette du Marquin. 6th [Princess] of Calanfer if Ferris was right. He probably was; he was supposed to be one of Manus’ best.
However, Ferris hadn’t told her about that damn ring. It sparkled in the Dragon’s vision every time Lyonette shifted. She was speaking eagerly to Ilvriss, like they were old friends.
“That’s a Ring of Salazsar. A Wall Lord’s ring. You don’t think…?”
She whispered to one side. An answering growl came from the other person who could hear and reply, even with his enhanced hearing.
“I have no idea, no. But it’s definitely a Ring of Salazsar. The only Wall Lord I can remember there being a stink about not having his was Wall Lord Ilvriss.”
“No way. No way in all the walls in…he’s supposed to be a loyalist!”
“Maybe they’re just…he doesn’t know? Or she charmed him? Or it’s just intimacy? There was that Wall Lord who married one of my people.”
Hunt-Commander Makhir looked interested. He was Rafaema’s bodyguard, and while she normally resented Manus’ eyes on her, she was grateful for his input now. He wasn’t one of the Drakes; the Gnolls of Manus were just as loyal, but willing to talk to her about the tribes and other issues.
“The question is: does Calanfer know? Think of it the other way, Rafaema, yes?”
“How so?”
The Dragon tried to frame it in Human politics. Makhir waited, sniffing at his cup. Rafaema made a guess, like she was at her lessons. Her eyes widened.
“Hold on. Do you think maybe he arranged for her to go missing? Or—or he met her and this is a play from Wall Lord Ilvriss on Calanfer’s throne? That would be the most insane—”
“A Terandrian interest from a Drake? That’s a move worthy of a Wall Lord of his ambitions. Who knows? I’ll ask questions. But that young woman’s got more than just the eyes of the Drakes on her. Keep your eyes open.”
Makhir’s warning was one of the reasons why Rafaema trusted him and [Spearmaster] Lulv so much. She glanced over and saw Lyonette step back and immediately turn to a Gnoll as Ilvriss was practically dragged off by his sister. She drew closer, trying to listen.
 
—-
 
“Excuse me. You are, er, Lion Solstice? I hope I am not disturbing you.”
The Gnoll gave her a dubious look, having perhaps heard Ilvriss slip up. Lyonette smiled.
“That’s right. And not at all! You are?”
“Ah. Excuse me.”
The Gnoll bowed slightly. He beckoned towards another Gnoll drifting their way.
“I am Gorauun of the Weatherfur Tribe. I was told you were the one who gave Faerie Flowers to a friend of my tribe. Also—did I hear you say that you learned to use your sword from a Gnoll…[Knight]?”
He gave Lyonette an interested look. She nodded, then spotted a familiar face coming her way.
“I also believe you know Feshi of my tribe—”
“I do! Hello again! How is um, Yerranola doing? Lord Kallinad? I didn’t see him here.”
Feshi was smiling at Lyonette, blinking with just as much surprise. She watched Ilvriss walking away. Then turned to Lyonette, who had managed to add more to her speculative value.
“They are both doing well, thank you, Lyon. They are still at the Meeting of Tribes.”
“I see. If Yerranola needs more flowers, I can arrange that.”
Gorauun coughed. He was an [Interspecies Negotiator], but was clearly out of the loop. Feshi murmured.
“Miss Lyon controls the Faerie Flower trade in the city.”
“The…entire trade? For the alchemical artifacts?”
The Gnoll looked surprised. Lyonette blushed. She was sobering, but the alcohol was still in her veins, making her a bit incautious.
