Because all their friends passed away. That was what Cire was always afraid of.
What a well-meaning accident. A disaster Oteslia had made out of good-faith attempts.
The two children said nothing more for a long time. He broke the silence by reaching for a little ring. His body blurred, shrinking, compressing into the fragile, false form he wore among them all. Still unable to hide who he really was fully.
She did likewise. Cire wiped at his eyes, then tried to smile.
“I really wish you hadn’t come. This is so—uncool. You seeing me like this.”
She let the lie pass, again. Rafaema shrugged.
“You’re not ever ‘cool’. Better this than seeing you chasing after another Drake and telling me how many people you’ve had sex with this month.”
He turned red.
“I’m more mature!”
She just looked at him, until he blushed more furiously and ran ahead. They didn’t fight as fiercely as before. This was how her visit had started. Maybe it would be better this time.
“Let’s get back to the party. I have business there. Besides—you should show yourself so they all stop worrying. The First Gardener should be present. You’re making more work for her.”
“I know that. I have business there too! Did—did you see that Human dancing? There’s something about her.”
Rafaema scratched at her neck spines. Two seconds and he was back to normal. She tried to humor him—and failed.
“You mean, the [Princess] of Calanfer?”
Cire smacked into the doorframe. He whirled, eyes wide.
“What? She’s a [Princess]? I knew there was something special about her! You felt it too, didn’t you?”
Rafaema frowned. She spread her wings as they left the secret place and leapt into the sky after him. Cire swore as she shot past him; she was the faster flier too. Faster temper, faster, stronger, older…he labored to catch up.
“How do you know?”
“Manus has intelligence. You should try getting some yourself. We have reports on everyone—she barely tries to hide it. You really didn’t know?”
“No! No one lets me see intelligence reports after I took one to show the others!”
“Gee, I wonder why.”
They flew on. Someone spotted them within a minute; Rafaema raised a claw and Cire waved guiltily. The relieved [Pegasus Rider] began calling off the alarm as they flew back.
“There was something about her. I just knew…she’s pretty hot, don’t you think?”
“…Do you think before you ask me these things?”
Rafaema glared at Cire. He shrugged impishly, flying backwards through the air and trying to lounge at the same time.
“You did feel something, didn’t you? [Princess]-senses. That’s my new power.”
The Lightning Dragon sighed.
“We don’t have [Princess]-senses. That’s just the storybooks of Dragons kidnapping royalty. Read between the lines! They were political hostages. Besides, I’ve met [Princesses] before. And [Queens]. There’s nothing special about them.”
“Oh. Well, maybe she’s special. I feel it. Come on, I’ll introduce you. You’ll see it too!”
He darted ahead. Rafaema shouted after him.
“Where do you feel it? Because if it’s where I think it is—I’ll stab you. Right where you feel it.”
 
—-
 
The return of the two wards of their Walled Cities to the ball…went about as unnoticed as their departure.
More people were concerned with Lyonette and Magnolia. The younger woman’s connection with the Gnolls, her startling familiarity with Ilvriss and all it suggested…
There were rumors about that already, from Liscor. Now she was here, right when there was a chance for peace. Her dance had impressed the Drakes. The gossip about Ilvriss was already covering miles.
Scandalous. Intriguing. Even charming.
Wrong. Horrendous. Not to be suffered. Not here. Not in a Walled City. A Human…?
No. As Rafaema and Cire walked through the crowd, Cire with the confidence of the First Gardener’s son to push through towards the [Princess], the dignitary changed directions. Instead of Magnolia, he introduced himself.
“Excuse me—you are Miss Lion Solstice, of Liscor? I have heard so much of Liscor myself, and I wondered if I might have a word?”
Lyonette turned to the smiling Drake. He, like many of the Drakes here, bore his city’s sigils proudly on his arm. The city above a wave—Zeres.
“I am.”
Some of the others harrumphed at typical Zeresian rudeness. The [Dignitary] transferred his wineglass from one claw to the other. He took Lyonette’s hand, speaking.
“Your dance—I am sure everyone has offered compliments, but it was quite exceptional. Are you with Lady Reinhart? Ah, what am I saying? Two Humans in the same city? I’m also told you control the flower-trade. Remarkable, at your age.”
“Thank you, sir. I’m not with Lady Reinhart, but we are…acquainted.”
Lyonette felt the handshake go on a bit too long. She tried to tug free. The Drake smiled.
“Humans in the south. Trying for peace in our times. Even hints of marriage between species on the highest levels.”
His eyes locked on the ring. Lyonette blushed and tried to yank her hand back.
“I don’t know what you’re insinuating…sir, but that is both personal and incorrect! None of your business, either way!”
The Drake looked down at her. Rafaema sighed as Cire waved for Lyonette’s attention, but the [Princess] was too busy to notice him. She saw the Drake finally let go.
“I rather think it is. This—is what I think of Human reconciliation, Miss.”
He reached for his side, drew the dagger, and lunged in one movement towards her chest. Rafaema’s eyes went wide. Lyonette stared, recoiling too slow. The other Drakes nearby just blinked at the smooth movement.
The Zeresian Drake missed. He twisted mid-lunge, and ducked the dagger which nearly went through his skull. It flashed through the air until it buried itself in a distant wall.
“Assassin!”
Ressa snapped. She’d thrown the dagger, spotting the move in the midst of the party. However, she was too far away, too crowded, for another shot. The Drake’s dagger stabbed—
Into Lyonette’s side, missing her heart. He snarled, drew the blade back. Lyonette was trying to hurl her drink in his face, reach for her sword. He aimed again—
Staggered. Every guest in ten feet save Lyonette and two other Drakes went flying as Magnolia slapped the air. It should have tossed the Drake with the dagger like a bug against the wall, but he had anti-aura training. He snarled, but brought up the bloody dagger. Lyonette was gasping; her face had gone white.
Poison! She saw a flash of a young woman lying on the ground. No! Not this! Not—
“Guards!”
Ilvriss was running towards her, sword raised. Magnolia was shouting as Ressa tossed another dagger, but Ressa held back from charging the killer. The [Maid] was guarding her target, looking for a second. The Drake deflected the projectile. He took careful aim at Lyonette’s throat, reaching for her hair.
It was all happening in seconds. Cire’s head rose as he picked himself up from where he’d been thrown by the Skill. He saw Lyonette crying out, the dagger swinging.
Then the second Drake brought the sword down. It was a perfectly-executed cut, just like she’d done a hundred thousand times on the training fields.
Hunt Commander Makhir, bow drawn, racing into the ballroom, saw the assailant’s arm drop, dagger still clutched in the claws.  The Drake spun, staggering—went down on his knees.
She had cut his tendons in the same stroke. The young Dragon’s sword rose. Her eyes were wide, but she finished the move by memory. Instinct.
Rafaema beheaded the Drake, finishing the sword technique. Ilvriss slowed; Ressa paused with a trio of daggers ready to throw. Magnolia Reinhart blinked as Rafaema of Manus stared down at the first person she had ever killed with a weapon.
Then Ilvriss was charging for Lyonette with a healing potion—a second before Ressa thrust him away, with a general antidote in her hands. Finally, someone inhaled to scream, the guards rushed forwards, Mivifa and a dozen [Pegasus Riders] burst into the ballroom…
Lyonette’s face regained color as the failed assassination attempt ended. Halted by a Wall Lady of Manus, made on a Human—which one didn’t matter—in Oteslia. By a Drake of Zeres, in seeming, at least.
Rafaema, kneeling, shaken, sword still bloody, looked at the Human whose life she’d saved. Makhir was looking for more targets, the First Gardener and Magnolia speaking, guards surrounding them, and someone hurling accusations at the Zeresians who were bellowing back.
Amidst it all, as Lyonette looked at her savior and their eyes met, Rafaema felt it too. For her, an electric crawl running down her body. A full-fledged reaction, like Cirediel had described. Only, not mere attraction. This was more than instinctual like or dislike, acquaintanceship, friendliness, distrust, lust—all of which Rafaema could process as they came to her, person to person.
This was different. Cirediel had thought it was liking her? Idiot. That silly little—
Rafaema sniffed, but it wasn’t smell. More like…a faint connection. Pheromones, or something only for them. It didn’t come from Lyonette, but she had been close. Her eyes went wide.
She sensed another Dragon on the [Princess].
All things considered, it was some party.
 
[Worldly Princess Level 25!]
[Skill – Greater Resistance: Poison obtained!]
 
—-
 
Ceria Springwalker woke up. Panting, head covered by a wet bit of cloth. Someone had managed to give her water, and she was not dead. She sat up in the mud-brick home, sheltered from the desert heat in the lee of wherever she was. She babbled—raised a hand to her head—head fell back.
She still managed to send it off.
 
Ceria to Montressa: Alive. Find Pisces. Ksmvr. Yvlon. Can’t tell where. Teleported. Lost. Chandrar.
 
Then she passed out again. Her friends realized as Montressa ran out of her rooms screaming—they were looking in the wrong continent. 
Too slow. Too late.
The Horns of Hammerad landed, each in a different nation.
