Incautious and unable to think ahead, or she would have seen what was coming next.
“It’s a long story—”
“Excuse me! Are you the person to speak to for these flowers? My tribe came here to gather some for our [Shamans], but all our sellers told us they were suddenly out of stock and no more could be had!”
Eight Gnolls strode over at once. Unlike the Drakes, they had no problem butting into a conversation. Now Lyonette found herself talking to Gnolls who were as interested in her for the flowers as the Drakes had been for tales of adventurers—
And the Drakes still wanted to talk to her! She gulped from her cup, but made a mistake; she still had wine in there.
“Er—that’s right!”
“What about this Gnoll? I have never heard of our people becoming [Knights] in any number. Was he born on Terandria or…?”
Gorauun still wanted to know. Lyonette’s face fell. The Gnolls, including Feshi, saw her sniff into her goblet. Suddenly misty-eyed.
“I—I don’t know if I can say. That is—if it’s appropriate to say here.”
She looked around the crowded ballroom, hardly the moment for an intimate, emotional moment. But Lyonette felt pretty darn emotional and intimate right now. The Horns—she looked at the Gnolls.
They might never know, if they parted ways.
“His name was Brunkr. He was a Gnoll [Warrior]—but he became a [Knight] right before—I’m sure he became a [Knight]. He was from the Silverfang tribe, in Liscor. Do you know them?”
Every Gnoll but one nodded, and then the last one did just out of peer pressure. Lyonette went on.
“I’m afraid…he was killed by a Named Adventurer. In disguise. Another Gnoll—Regrika Blackpaw.”
Feshi stiffened at the Named Adventurer’s name, whose title and reputation had been revoked, but she didn’t know why. The other Gnolls leaned in.
“How can this be? I heard Regrika had been stripped of her rank. She killed another Gnoll? The Blackpaw tribe denied that could have happened—”
“I saw her the day after they found him. It was her. Brunkr was—”
Lyonette spoke, misty-eyed. Ears and tails drooped as she recounted Brunkr’s meeting with her, removing the part about trying to kill Mrsha. Talking about his wound, him coming around, teaching her sword lessons.
Memory smoothed over his faults. Or the telling of it did. Lyonette finished with him getting his life’s dream, again taking out her part in giving him the class, making it seem like a random event of luck. By the time she finished the sad tale, there wasn’t a dry eye or furry nose not being blown.
“You were friends with him? A Gnoll?”
Lyon nodded at Gorauun. The Gnoll pressed a paw into her shoulder, but gently.
“Then you do him credit. It is good to meet a Human who considered a Gnoll so much a friend that she mourns him and remembers his name.”
“I wouldn’t forget.”
The [Princess] protested, as if that would be an unthinkable crime just to forget. And it would be in her world.
Not all Gnolls had learned to expect that of Drakes, though. Liscor was not all of Izril. So there she stood.
The Human who knew Drakes, Antinium, and Gnolls. Who had friends among adventurers. Who knew the very people who were on television.
“Miss Lyon is from Liscor. Didn’t I hear you say that you knew the Players of Celum?”
Feshi was saying to the others. More heads snapped around and some Drakes, unable to bear the wait, moved into the circle.
“Of course I do. Or do you mean the Players of Liscor? Um—the new Players of Pallass?”
“Really? Then do you know those plays? Do you have a copy of one? I have been advocating for a group to come to Oteslia!”
“I’m sure I could get a copy, Miss…?”
“Similaw. You could? That isn’t an idle boast, I hope?”
Lyonette scowled at the Drake.
“I do not make claims I cannot back up, Miss. I know the Players—but the plays are their property. Still, if you really wanted one, you could ask Esme or Temile…”
“I’ve tried, but they apparently get too many [Messages] to reply back to a single one! Even from a [Judge] of Oteslia!”
“Oh. Well. That’s not a problem for me. Perhaps I could ask.”
Look at her. In the center of it all, drawing in all the loose attention, with something for everyone. The Human. The bridge between worlds.
“The wrong one.”
Magnolia Reinhart murmured. She looked at Lyonette du Marquin. What a strange change had come over the arrogant brat she’d once met in Calanfer’s courts. She would have never believed it.
There she stood, far more of a woman than she had been a year ago. The same Lyonette that Magnolia had left to her own fate—no, this was the ideal outcome of letting her learn or fail on her own.
What Magnolia didn’t know was that it hadn’t been the sink-or-swim decision alone that she gave to people that had changed Lyonette. It had been the inn.
The [Lady] did know that the [Princess] was a good fit for this place. Yet there could have been someone else there.
Only one other person knew that, here. Only one other person saw the young woman laughing and making an inane comment instead of Lyonette. Less poised, more random, perhaps more offensive without meaning to be.
The [Innkeeper].
Wall Lord Ilvriss wondered why Lyonette had his ring on her finger. He glanced at Nerul and made a gesture. Navine was still haranguing him.
“If you’re here to sabotage me and mother, you can go right back to father and—”
“Excuse me, Navine. I have to talk to Lyonette. You might consider doing the same rather than ignoring Magnolia Reinhart.”
He let Nerul block Navine as she choked. The Wall Lord saw Lyonette talking to Drakes and Gnolls, all of whom wanted a piece of her. However, a Wall Lord had his tricks. He had the lay of the ball, and even if this was Oteslia, there were always moves you could do to get a private word.
“Excuse me, Miss Lyon. I see the floor is clearing. Would you care for a dance?”
Lyonette turned. A monocle popped off a Drake’s cheek, the tension holding it there lost. Gormauun checked his goblet as Feshi choked into her cup. The other Gnolls and Drakes turned to look at Ilvriss.
Lyonette just gave the Drake a look that said she knew what he was doing—and perhaps what he hadn’t thought of—and then nodded.
“Why not? Thank you, Wall Lord.”
There wasn’t actually much presence on the dance floor, but the musicians playing slow music saw the movement across the room as the Human and Wall Lord moved and half the people there followed them. They began to strike up a beat.
Ilvriss cursed as he heard the actual music to dance to. He pretended to slow, talking to Lyonette urgently.
“What are you doing here? I thought you were in Liscor with Erin—”
“I was! I’m looking for the cure, remember?”
Ah, yes. Of course. He eyed her.
“Haven’t you found it?”
“I’m getting it researched. What are you doing here?”
He sighed.
“I’m…on business. I can’t explain now.”
Could he trust her? Lyonette was giving him the same look. Ilvriss thought rapidly.
“We can discuss that later; I will extend an invitation or call on you.”
She nodded tightly, watching the pairs moving across the ballroom. Lyonette eyed the extra-long dress on her. It was thin fabric. Not sheer; modesty necessitated the opaqueness, but one gust of wind might turn half the dresses into one of Ryoka’s parachutes. Long, flowing—the worst thing for dancing. Ilvriss had a long ‘suit’, but it would be just as cumbersome to dance with.
Worse, this wasn’t a Terandrian ballroom and she had no desire to prove she knew a royal waltz to the Drakes and Gnolls. Lyonette studied the others as she spoke.
“Fine. Can we help each other or do you just want to dance?”
“Hardly that. Have you seen Oteslian dances? I will spare you that. Just one question among many—do you know if the Horns are alive?”
They tilted. Lyonette pretended to study his feet.
“No. But their statues aren’t in the garden.”
Ilvriss smiled, despite himself.
“Good. My second question is this: why do you have Erin’s ring on your finger?”
Lyonette blinked, and then noticed the piece of jewelry.
“Erin once hinted it was something useful. I…took it to not forget. Also, Mrsha would probably walk around with it on or lose it somewhere.”
“Well, that’s something. It’s significant. Especially in Drake culture. I fear my sister saw it.”
The young woman’s eyes widened in worry. Lyonette began to tug at the ring, forgetting that everyone was watching them. Ilvriss stopped her, putting his claw over her hand.
“Don’t. If you have it—perhaps it will help you more than Erin.”
“It…didn’t save her.”
Lyonette murmured, ducking her head. Ilvriss closed his eyes.
“It wouldn’t have. Not in an ambush. Just know that if you need help—it may save you. If you are ever, truly, in danger, show it to a member of Salazsar and use my name.”
The [Princess] hesitated, on the verge of taking it off anyways. Then she nodded and smiled up at him.
“Thank you.”
 
—-
 
Navine was choking on the air. Had she just seen that? The quarrel—her taking off the ring and him stopping her?
And the smile? She wanted to sit down—no, get a drink—no, do both. This had gone far, far beyond a joke. This was too real.
She had to tell her mother. Everyone had seen it too! Now the two were laughing about something.
“Can you imagine what Erin would do if she were here? She’d probably already have set loose a plague of rats in the ballroom.”
Navine didn’t have an eavesdropping Skill or a magical ring for the same effect, so she completely misinterpreted the comment that made Ilvriss throw his head back and guffaw.
However—that wasn’t even the end of it. As the music began to play, the Human and Drake glanced around.
 
—-
 
“Very well, best of luck to you. Oh—I may want to speak to Adventurers Saliss and Mivifa if I can. The business of Salazsar, though. Hopefully we can help each other.”
“Of course. Now—are we going to dance?”
Lyonette had been studying the other dancers on the ballroom. It was as dreadful as she feared. Some knew how to dance and she saw the whirling motions twirling the cloth into the air in an actually very lovely pattern—but also three couples tangle and one go down to a sprawling, cursing heap.
Ilvriss winced as he glanced sideways.
“Say rather I thought better of it. I will apologize—”
He made to bow, and Lyonette caught him.
“Are you mad? That is so—embarrassing! Is the implication that you can’t dance? That you’re that rude you’d offer to dance and refuse? That I can’t dance?”
The Wall Lord caught himself, but hissed back in irritation, his topaz eyes narrowing.
“I appreciate your attempt to save us face, Miss Marquin, but Oteslian traditional dances—not to mention their attire—is not for amateurs! I can handle myself because I took a month of lessons on top of my regular ones! You’ve never even seen them dance!”
“Then show me! I’m a [Pr—a fast learner!”
Lyonette held her arms out. Ilvriss looked around, saw Nerul waving excitedly, and made an annoyed sound. He adjusted her grip to the customary Drake positions, and spoke, rapidly.
“Step back. No—further back. We separate and meet—we can do one practice run and then stop. This is not a waltz. You see—”
Drake dances were fundamentally different. If the Terandrian style focused on the dance as a back-and-forth between both male and female, both partners intersecting as a couple—Lyonette realized the Drake viewpoint was different.
The style of dancing was as old as their Ancestors. Which meant it was copied from Dragons. And Dragons were giant creatures. Hence the cloth, modeled after their trailing wings and tails. It also meant each dancer gave the other a lot of space.
But the most characteristic difference between Human and Drake styles? Drake dances were selfish. There were entire moves in it that only cared for a single dancer, that you could perform alone. To dance, then, was to perform to your watchers.
It was beautiful. Showy. Lyonette could have studied it eagerly for days, learning all the steps! However, she only had time for one dance, and she was listening to Ilvriss as much as watching the few good examples.
“There. Now you know how complicated it is—”
The musicians were upping the tempo, and the few couples who’d dared to try their luck were evacuating the floor fast, realizing that this was not the song for bravado. Lyonette caught herself.
“I think I have it.”
“What? Are you as insane as Erin?”
The Wall Lord caught himself, nearly stumbling as he went to turn and avoided their clothing tangling at the last moment. Lyonette tossed her head back challengingly. She had not spent weeks dancing with Antinium just to pass up the one opportunity to test herself now!
Let alone on a proper dance floor, Drake or not.
“I may not be perfect—or even close to it. But I can give it a [Flawless Attempt]. I wouldn’t want to embarrass you, Wall Lord. So if you prefer not to…”
The purple-scaled Drake gave her an exasperated look. Then, despite himself, a smile appeared on his face. Challenging. Not the tired Ilvriss, or the stoic, mannered Wall Lord.
He looked at her, irritated, almost admiring of her bravado. Alive.
“If you trip and fall, I will not be able to catch you.”
“I won’t fall.”
[Balanced Posture], as if she were a [Lady] or [Dancer].
[Basic Footwork], for the [Fencer], [Warrior], or the above.
[Magnified Training] to learn as fast as she could.
Last of all, and certainly not least.
[Flawless Attempt].
The ballroom chatter went silent as the Drake and Human walked towards each other. This time, Ilvriss stopped a good six feet away. He bowed, and so did Lyonette. Then—the two turned as the music swelled, the tempo picked up.
“Ancestors. Are they going to dance? My nephew must be mad. I knew a Drake who died by strangulation during a dance gone wrong.”
Nerul whispered to the nearest person to him—Feshi. Rafaema watched nearby, confused. The young woman clearly hadn’t known the dance.
Yet there she went. Mivifa stared as Lyonette spread her arms. She had no tail, but if she had—she would have lifted it slightly, like Ilvriss, curling the tip up.
The trailing, cumbersome, tangling damned dresses, the curse of Oteslian high society did something magical then. The light, featherweight fabric, layered complementary colors—Ilvriss’ a darker variation on blues, even purple on the deepest layers like his scales, Lyonette’s a fiery red and oranges, like her hair—
They caught the air and lifted up. Loose fabric began to whirl. Like opening flowers, or wings made of cloth—
The dresses began to fly. Trailing after the dancers as they turned, moving without letting the dresses touch the ground. Mivifa stared, entranced as she saw one of the first and only proper Oteslian dances take place.
 
