...Perhaps Luo-Luo should have gone with him to the front lines. Don’t think she didn’t see those hussies and their covetous gazes earlier at the banquet, like that indecent minx A-Gui licking her rouged lips and fanning her unbuttoned collar, or Ciro’s bawdy and indecent proposal that the retinue go swimming naked in the bay. Worst of all was Chey winking at Lord Husband while wearing a too-tight tunic and eschewing a vest to flaunt her voluminous bosom, and then tying her shirt-tails to expose her taut, seductive midriff. How dare she?

Only now, seconds before sinking into exhausted slumber, did Luo-Luo understand why Lord Husband’s soldiers were ripping her uniforms apart. Not because they didn’t like her design, but because they weren’t used to the hotter temperatures of Central...

Dawn soon arrived and Luo-Luo’s fitful sleep was once again interrupted by the sounds of Lord Husband and Yan’s passionate lovemaking. After venting her pent up anger and jealousy on her defenceless pillows, Luo-Luo slipped out of bed at this unholiest of hours, put on her make-up, styled her hair into two buns, put on her bulky, unflattering Khishig leathers, and brought her sceptre out for breakfast and morning training. Amidst bites of dumplings and sordid daydreams in which Lord Husband had his way with her, Luo-Luo saw everyone in the household off as they went about their day, aside from Lin-Lin who would remain in bed for several more hours. Mila and her Divine Blacksmith Papa headed out for a day of labouring at the forges, while Ser Charok hustled to market with his adorable children in tow. Medical Saint Taduk collected the Divine Turtle, Mama Bun, and Blackjack for a boat ride around the bay, and Li-Li brought all the quins, bears, and wildcats out to do... whatever she did during her days off. Practice, most likely. Sorya and Anrhi finished cooking breakfast for their brother and brought it over to Lord Husband’s camp, and still Yan had yet to show up for their morning practice session.

Striding in almost an hour late, Lord Husband and Yan sat down across from Luo-Luo. Lord Husband at least had the decency to look sheepish, but Yan had the audacity to preen and smirk, her wet hair and glowing cheeks giving her a vibrant, alluring look. “Sorry we’re late,” she said, rolling her eyes in an exaggerated fashion. “Someone couldn’t keep his hands to himself. First it was in bed, then in the baths, then while walking over...”

“Excuse me? As I recall, I’m not the only one to blame.” Lord Husband pulled Yan close and pressed his lips against her cheek as they fell silent and shared an exchange through Sending. Not entirely silent, as there were plenty of tongue clicks, exasperated sighs, muffled giggles, and light kisses. Her sceptre resting across her knees, Luo-Luo clenched it tight and wished she were a more accomplished Martial Warrior, if only to smack this immoral couple upside the head. What hurt the most was that if not for the half-deer’s calculating machinations and a cruel twist of fate, it would be Yan stewing in her jealousy while Luo-Luo and Lord Husband giggling and laughed...

And three times before breakfast? Three!?! Did this harlot intend to drain Lord Husband dry and leave a withered corpse for the rest of them?

“So Luo-Luo,” Lord Husband said, catching her by surprise. “Yan tells me she’s been helping you with the Forms every morning.”

“Yes Lord Husband, and Luo-Luo is deeply grateful for her assistance.” A bald-faced lie if there ever were one. It took twenty-four years but Luo-Luo finally found a subject she did not excel in. According to Yan, Luo-Luo wasn’t even passable as a Martial Warrior, a complete failure from top to bottom, which was liberating, in a way.

Mortifying in so many others, but still liberating...

“I hear things... have not been going well.” Lord Husband was kind to understate it, but Luo-Luo knew she was hopeless. “You haven’t bound your Spiritual Weapon yet either, right?”

“...No, Luo-Luo has not.” It wasn’t entirely her fault. Yan was neither patient nor courteous with her instruction, nor did she put much effort into her infrequent explanations. Mostly, she stood ready with switch in hand and gave Luo-Luo a taste of pain every time she did something Yan deemed incorrect, which was often. ‘Feel the Forms’, Yan would say, ‘let them guide you through them’. ‘Become one with the weapon and make it a part of you.’ How were banal platitudes supposed to teach Luo-Luo to fight or bind her weapon? Why couldn’t Yan simply tell Luo-Luo the correct thing to do? How to stand, where to place her feet, what to move, when to move it, were simple, basic instructions too much to ask for?

“Well, why don’t we switch things up and I help out today? Maybe a fresh perspective is what you need to get started along the Martial Path.” Giving Yan’s cheek a pinch, Lord Husband chuckled and said, “Astounding. I know Yan’s sitting here beside me, but that glare is 100% Mila. Don’t be jealous. Remember, there once was a time when I too was an ‘insufferable idiot’.” Belatedly realizing he’d spoken out of place, Lord Husband gave Luo-Luo a small shrug in apology before continuing. “Besides, it’s not like I’m sending you away to have my way with the concubine.”

...Why did he have to say it like it was such an unreasonable scenario?

Realizing he’d misspoken again, Lord Husband stuffed the last dumpling into his mouth and rose from his seat. “Well, let’s go. I need to go make sure the cattle haven’t slaughtered the remnants of my retinue, and a change of scenery might do you good. Oh right, is your zither in your room?”

“Yes Lord Husband.” Luo-Luo’s heart surged with joy as she hurried to follow. Was he finally going to ask her to play for him?

“Great. Yan, could you help her grab it while I collect the rabbits?”

Thanks to Luo-Luo’s careful planning, Lord Husband’s camp wasn’t far from their manor and they arrived without delay. The cute caravan of hopping rabbits drew many an eye, but aside from a smattering of friendly cheers and greetings, most left Lord Husband to his own devices, either too busy to bother him or understanding his need to unwind after a long tour of duty. Word arrived ahead of him that both Mitsue Hideo and Quyen Dienne had also gone on leave, meaning Lord Husband’s record of sixty consecutive days served on the front lines would remain unbroken, lending further significance to his stunning accomplishment.

Granted, knowing he’d done so involuntarily made it much less impressive, but the important thing was Lord Husband had endured and returned whole.

After finding the camp still standing in the distance and receiving a warm welcome from Moomie and a half-dozen other friendly cattle, Lord Husband turned to Luo-Luo with a supportive smile. “Alright then,” he said, settling down in the grass beside Yan while the rabbits explored and cattle grazed. “Let’s see what you can do.”

For some odd reason, Luo-Luo found his expectant gaze more terrifying than his anger. She desperately wanted to impress him, but was this even possible with her mediocre skills? Closing her eyes in abject shame, Luo-Luo hugged her sceptre to her chest and reviewed the last ten, gruelling days of lessons. Then, once she was as ready as she would ever be, she performed the first movement of Tiger Form, Stalk the Dragon. The seconds passed in agonizing sluggishness as she performed the single step, yet it felt like everything she was doing was wrong and a complete affront to the Forms. What expression would she see on Lord Husband’s face if she had the courage to look? Pity? Disgust? Hatred, even? The Forms were a Holy Ceremony passed down from time immemorial, and her poor performance might be akin to blasphemy for a Martial Warrior like Falling Rain.

It felt like an eternity had passed before she finished the first movement, and she shakily proceeded to the second, then the third, before Lord Husband finally said, “Stop.” Trembling from head to toe, Luo-Luo hung her head and opened her eyes, unwilling to look up even if her life depended on it. After a long silence, Lord Husband sighed and said, “Luo-Luo, I want you to do something for me.”

Take her own life perhaps, to apologize for her heresy. “Luo-Luo awaits your command, Lord Husband.”

“Okay. I want you to forget everything you’ve learned these past ten days and Demonstrate the Forms as you were taught earlier.”

“What?” Yan and Luo-Luo spoke at the same time, one voice brimming with anger and the other tinged with confusion.

“You think I didn’t teach her properly?” Yan asked, and inwardly Luo-Luo squealed with delight.

“Calm down. What’s gotten into you? I’m not accusing you of anything.” Blissfully unaware of the tension between his betrothed and concubine, Lord Husband kissed Yan on the cheek and said, “I think you taught her the same way you were taught, which is fine for children who know nothing. They’re blank slates learning the Forms for the first time, but Luo-Luo already knows them, right?”

“Yes Lord Husband.” Worried Yan hadn’t told him, Luo-Luo said, “However, Luo-Luo learned the Forms through dance. An amended version if you will, simplified so we only need follow the defined steps in the proper order to strengthen and revitalize our bodies.”

“That’s fine.” Lost in his memories, Lord Husband explained, “The Forms can be seen as a finite set of movements which teach you how to fight, but that’s only on the surface. They’re meant to guide you along the Martial Path, for each movement holds infinite variations, and within those infinite variations lies the true secrets to Martial strength. Where one person might see Stalk the Dragon as a singular step, another might find a pattern within and use it to develop a style of footwork. A third might see the power hidden with that initial, singular step, and transform it from a means of movement into an attack. Another good example is Mantis Form – Balance on Windy Leaf. Most Warriors see it as a dodging technique, rooting your feet in place and swaying your upper body to avoid an attack while remaining in range to counter-attack, but Grand-mentor saw it as a means to explosively boost her charging speed.” Waving his hand in dismissal, Lord Husband added, “That’s all neither here nor there. The point is, the Forms are finite, but the Martial Path is infinite, so why can’t someone learn how to fight from dancing? You wouldn’t be the first and won’t be the last. There’s no right or wrong way to perform the Forms, it all comes down to what you can perceive within them.”

Repeating Lord Husband’s last sentence to herself, Luo-Luo felt the warm embers of confidence flicker to life within her. Forget what she learned from Yan and just dance. She could do that much, and if more came of it, then good. If not, then at least Lord Husband would watch her dance, and perhaps even ask her to play him a song when they were done.

The best case scenario would be if Lord Husband decided Luo-Luo was a lost cause as a Martial Warrior and took her Spiritual Weapon away, while simultaneously being charmed by her beauty, grace, and musical abilities.

Please Mother in Heaven, make it so.

Chapter Meme
