Lydia picked up the book again, for the tenth time. It was a book of trollish origin which Ali had translated for her, and it had many tips and cautions for those using a shrine to level up. But she put it down again, realizing she was just fidgeting because of her nerves. She hadn’t wanted Calen to risk himself and his friends unnecessarily, and she had no idea if their hair-brained scheme would work. Unfortunately, even though she had racked her brains, she had not come up with anything better. She had a visceral sense of Silver Cog and the opportunity they presented slipping away, leaving them marooned in the endless doldrums of an out-of-the-way town under the thumb of a monopolistic trading company that masked a crime syndicate.

She sighed and put the book down, letting her eyes roam about the grand library, taking in the neatly arranged books and the studious adventurers taking notes or reading at the various tables and couches. She even studied the intimidating figure of the dryad, Lirasia, who had brought her several refills of tea. She had kind eyes, but Lydia couldn’t identify her even now, and there was an aura of unimaginable weight and age that always seemed to follow wherever she went.

The sudden sweet ring of a chime almost made her leap out of her skin.

Stylish Tailor has reached level 100 (+2).+20 attribute points.

And then, a few seconds later, her chimes sounded again. She barely heard them through the thundering in her ears. Oh, oh Calen, you did it!

Requirements met for class evolution.Class evolution options will be automatically assigned in one week.Additional class options may be available at a shrine.Class experience is paused until your class evolution is complete.

She stared at the words in utter shock and disbelief, only returning to her surroundings as her teacup was replaced in her hand.

“Congratulations, dear,” Lirasia said with a smile. “Good news?”

Helpless to respond, Lydia burst into tears.

It was all a crazy rush, and she was ignoring her friends’ pending evolutions for the sake of the town crafters, but they had done it. Everyone was here, standing with barely suppressed energy in her grove. There was no more reason to hesitate. Ali placed her hand on her shrine while everyone looked on in eager anticipation of how Lydia’s evolution would go.

Tailor – Human – level 100

“Ok, it’s activated for you,” Ali said. “I don’t know if you want to try for an affinity, but the shrine has a few options – maybe some of them might be helpful for tailoring.” Fire would be nice if Lydia wanted to specialize in the Fire Silk, or ice if she preferred the Frostweave. Ali had very little exposure to how crafting classes worked, certainly at the evolved level, and didn’t feel comfortable making any recommendations.

“Ok,” Lydia said, collecting herself before stepping forward to touch the shrine. She had a nervous energy that expressed itself in the constant rearrangement of her dress and accessories. “I… thank you all for doing this. Really! I have no words.”

Ali smiled encouragingly at her. It was clear to her now, after helping several groups gain classes at her shrine, that for most people this was a stressful and momentous decision. Her own evolution had given her a rather more personal appreciation for the sensations Lydia must be experiencing.

“Um… affinities…” Lydia said, her eyes glazed over as she examined the shrine options.

Ali clapped her hands over her eyes as the most intense white shimmering light burst forth from the shrine, lighting up the entire forest cavern with painful brilliance.

Several yelps and gasps came from the spectators.

No, it’s coming from Lydia, Ali realized as her mana sight continued to show her the effect even through the mundane obstruction of her hands. The effect lasted for several long moments before slowly fading away, leaving the grove and the shrine in apparent darkness compared to the intensity just moments ago.

“I had a latent affinity for light mana,” Lydia said, her voice hushed as if in awe. “I never knew.” She gazed at Calen for a long moment, meeting his eyes. “I always thought his magic came from his father.”

The look on Calen’s face! Fat tears slid down his cheeks, the first time she had ever seen him cry, she realized. It was also the first time Ali had heard either of them mention his father. She had often wondered what the story was, but it seemed to be a private and not particularly happy chapter for either of them. At the very least, Lydia didn’t merely have an affinity for light magic – what she had unlocked was a powerful radiant magic that rivaled that of her son – and right then, Ali’s anxiety faded. Lydia would unlock a powerful evolution, it was obvious.

Looking in from the outside, an evolution process was quite boring and time-consuming. After the brief flare of light, Lydia fell silent, clearly working her way through a number of paths while Ali and her friends sat around, chatting about the Corrupted Fire Drake fight and their next plans to pass the time. Every now and then Lydia would ask for opinions or advice, but after about fifteen minutes, they were all interrupted by the sound of the zone-notification gong.

[Zone] Grand Tailor of Refulgent Elegance has advanced to the second tier.

A rather frazzled-looking Lydia accepted Calen’s hug and a big round of congratulations, remaining a little dazed from her experience. She nestled her head against his chest, obviously taking a moment to regather her thoughts. A short while later, Calen patted her on the shoulder and she chuckled, releasing the hug.

“Still got your ribs there, Calen?” Mato said gruffly.

He grinned hugely, “Wow, Mom!”

“It’s going to take some getting used to,” Lydia said, a huge smile wreathing her face now. “Lots of stuff changed because of the new affinity. There were paths for combat crafting, and fashion, and… I just hope I chose well.”

“I’m sure it will be perfect,” Ali said, smiling happily at her. And if it’s not, I can reset it now. That backstop is… amazing.

Lydia had been a constant help to her since the beginning and seeing her earn a powerful evolution was a unique kind of satisfaction. Obviously, Lydia had done all the hard work, but Ali felt a sense of pride at having been a part of Lydia’s journey, and now she was excited to see what she might do with her new Grand Tailor class.

[Zone] Grand Tailor of Refulgent Elegance has advanced to the second tier.

“Yes!” Weldin cheered, unable to contain his enthusiasm with proper decorum. But, rather than ease his anxiety, the sound of the notification stretched his nerves taut, causing a cascade of worries about whether they had been in time or not.

He tried to burn off his anxious energy by straightening the displays and rearranging everything to perfection. It wouldn’t do to display any nervousness if Silver Cog did show up. But a few minutes later, it was not the grand trading company that arrived, but instead two rather imposing trolls.

Witchdoctor – Troll – level ???Leatherworker – Troll – level ???

He pushed aside his worries, his instincts taking over; there were new customers in his store, and he must ensure they had the best experience possible.

“Good day, sirs, welcome to the guild store. How may I be of service?”

The two trolls glanced at each other and then the leatherworker spoke, his Common halting and heavily accented. “I am Zor’kan, and this is Val’korr. Aliandra told me that you would be able to buy some of my work? My people are struggling, and I need to make some money to help them after the destruction of Aman Rak.”

Not very good at negotiating, Weldin observed, his senses prickling at the easy opportunity – however, if they were here on Aliandra’s recommendation, they must be important, so he decided to see how he might help instead. Besides, the younger troll was a three-mark crafter. If these Trolls were to become regular customers, or better yet, suppliers, he would need to see about learning their language – customers always spent more when they could hear the deals in their native tongue.

“Sure, I buy all sorts of things from the adventurers, what did you have to sell?”

“I’m not certain what might be of use,” Zor’kan said. “Is this a piece you might sell easily? I don’t have anything higher-level because I lack higher-quality leather supplies.”

Weldin examined the offered item. It was a pair of archery bracers of exquisite craftsmanship; blue-stained and tooled leather with inlaid reinforcements of what appeared to be polished bone. Sucking in his cheeks in anticipation, he appraised it.

Vampiric Bracer of the Bat – level 64Made from the blue hide of a Spirit Nightwing bat, with geometric designs reinforcing its structure made from bone.+45 DexterityGain +3.5% of your attack damage as mana over 30 seconds.Gain +2% of your attack damage as health over 30 seconds.Requirements: Intelligence 128, Dexterity 128Quality: Uncommon.Value: 49 gold.Created by Zor’kan.Hands – Leather / Bone

“This is exceptional work,” Weldin admitted, and in truth, it was. He had never seen leatherwork of such craftsmanship. As he looked up from the piece, he spied another customer entering the store quietly, a Gnome dressed in an expensive-looking waistcoat and wearing a top hat.

Is that…? He couldn’t tell, but also, he didn’t want to be rude to the two esteemed trolls trying to sell him the finest piece of leatherwork he had ever laid eyes on.

“Calen said it was difficult to find these enchantments for archers in the human kingdoms,” Zor’kan offered in a low growl.

“Yes, that is true, this would be a highly sought-after piece,” Weldin said. “The only issue is that it is too high-level for almost all the adventurers in the guild, and there are no combat archers in the garrison who could wear this. If the silver-ranked adventurers gain another twenty levels, you will have several customers for this piece – immediately, that is.”

Zor’kan looked downcast at the news. “I can make lower-level items, then,” he said, sounding rather disappointed, reaching for the bracer.

Weldin held it out, but on an impulse added, “I would happily buy this from you just to have such an amazing piece on display. With your mana signature on it, this would be a great advertisement for your work – and it would benefit my store greatly. Something to inspire the adventurers. Would you accept forty-eight gold?” It was an expensive risk, but if that Gnome really was from out of town, placing the display where he could see it might be exactly the effect he needed.

The two Trolls conferred briefly in their language before Zor’kan turned back to him. “I will accept your offer,” he said. “This money will cover most of the housing for our people.” Then he inclined his head as Weldin counted out the coins and handed them to him. His other patron was slowly making his way through the displays of Thuli’s work, examining everything carefully but not touching anything, but he could clearly see the alert attention in his posture.

“I have some low-level hides and leather in the back room if you need supplies. I’m sorry I don’t have anything on hand that matches your capabilities, but there are some wolf pelts and boar hides in the mid-twenties if you would like to make some lower-level adventuring items.”

As he spoke, his mind raced. There had to be a better way than this. The crafters were starving for good materials and that, in turn, would hold everyone back. Later. He had to deal with what he could right now.

Zor’kan nodded curtly, so Weldin showed the towering troll to the supply room.

Worthington had not seen anything spectacular in the guild store so far, although it seemed to be doing a bustling trade with adventurers hunting for bargains or upgrades. He was suitably impressed with the work of this Thuli – probably the town’s blacksmith – every single item on display was masterwork or better and exquisitely crafted. Unfortunately, it all seemed rather low-level – the kind of items they could easily trade but would need in bulk to turn the kinds of profit Silver Cog would demand if they were to add this miserable town to their trading route on any regular basis. It all seemed rather mundane.

But the sound of the gong still echoed loudly in his mind.

That message… Zone messages were rare, and he was not aware of anything that could fake them. He had returned to his inn, settled up with the innkeeper, and he had almost teleported home when it had sounded, shattering his entire impression of this town.

Grand Tailor of Refulgent Elegance. An evolved tailor was rare enough, and one that was not affiliated with the Guild of Tailors might as well not exist. It was as likely as finding an honest deal from a Kel’darran merchant. If there was a guild tailor in this town approaching evolution, he would have been informed of them – Silver Cog tracked all prominent crafters – it was just smart business.

He stopped before a pair of fire silk slippers, identical to the ones that had been sent to Silver Cog, and with the same mana signature. Lydia Avery. Is it you? He had been so sure this town was a hoax that he had allowed himself to be hoodwinked by a slimy politician. Jax Hawkhurst had instantly become his sworn enemy the moment that zone message had sounded. Keeping secrets was one thing, but hiding something of this magnitude when it came to business – in his mind, that was a blatant declaration of war.

He scanned the busy store, surreptitiously searching for the owner, and then blinked in surprise at the sight of two tall figures discussing business with a Gnome.

Witchdoctor – Troll – level ???Leatherworker – Troll – level ???

Trolls? It was his first thought, but his eyes were instantly glued to the second troll. A leatherworker? And of such a high level that even he couldn’t identify him. Worthington had absolutely no idea where he had come from, and more importantly, what he was doing in this town in the Adventurers Guild store. Trolls do not do business with the lesser races. It was a truth Silver Cog had railed against for decades with only a few successes.

To his astonishment, the Troll took gold for what looked like a leather bracer set – and then, even more surprisingly, headed into the back room to purchase leather supplies if his highly attentive ears had heard correctly.

“Greetings, good sir. I am the store owner,” the Gnome said, finally approaching him. He had an eye patch and a walking cane and was dressed appropriately elegantly – a rather pleasant surprise in this dump of a town. “Weldin Thriftpenny. How might I be of assistance?”

