“I would like to browse your wares for a bit,” Worthington said, noting carefully where this Weldin had placed his newest purchase on a prominent display stand. Weldin Thriftpenny, yes. The name had been on the petition, so he was most certainly in the right place.

“Of course, good sir,” Weldin said, respectfully but not obsequiously. “Please don’t hesitate to ask if you have any questions.” And like any good merchant, he left him alone.

Without making it too obvious, Worthington made his way slowly toward the newly purchased bracer, now prominently on display. If the leatherworker was a regular supplier, he might be worth Silver Cog’s business, just by himself, but he had only gotten halfway across the store when a new group of customers strolled in from the hall, chatting excitedly with one another.

Mage [Ancient] – Fae – level 102Monk [Rift Warden] – Human – level 100Druid [Savior of Aman Rak] – Beastkin – level 100Archer [Tracker of the Dead] – Half-Elf – level 100Grand Tailor – Human – level 100

There she is! It could not be a coincidence. The group seemed to be in high spirits, and the zone evolution message coinciding with exactly level one hundred, meant that this must be the one!

“Hi, Weldin,” the Grand Tailor said.

“Congratulations, Lydia,” he said, smiling at her.

Aha! I was right! Worthington shuffled a little closer to hear a little better. Remarkably high levels for this little hovel. More and more intriguing.

Weldin continued, “I take it your class evolution at Aliandra’s shrine wasn’t too complicated?”

Wait, what? A shrine? Worthington was certain he couldn’t be hearing that correctly.

“No, it was very complex. I had a lot of paths to choose from, and Aliandra let me add light-affinity mana, which made it even trickier, but it’s all done. I’m a Grand Tailor now. I just hope we were in time and the Silver Cog representative heard it.”

“I’m certain he did,” Weldin said, smiling smugly.

Worthington’s mind reeled like he’d just been socked in the head by a sack of gold coins. A big sack. These people had deliberately evolved a Grand Tailor just to get his attention? Just putting aside the ridiculousness of the idea, the mere fact that they were even capable of such a feat was unbelievable. It would require having access to one of the most advanced shrines on the continent. Suddenly, his mouth was bone-dry. This wasn’t just an opportunity. It was the opportunity of a lifetime.

“The dungeon clear took less than two hours,” the human monk said. “But we cleared everything, so here you go.” Then she proceeded to dump out an unbelievable number of fire essences, which Weldin simply stored as if he were used to it.

“I have several stacks of flamecaller scales, demonic hides, and drake hides, too,” the half-elf said. “Some of the drake hides and scales are pretty high level.”

“Oh, Zor’kan is here. He’s in the back, he will probably want some of those,” Weldin noted.

“Oh, before I forget, I also have a couple of new things for you,” the Fae mage said, pulling some things from her storage. “Here’s a wand I made, not sure if you can sell this yet, but you should keep one in stock just in case.” She placed a quartz wand on the table in front of Weldin. “And I have these too, I’m sure that Donella will be interested.”

Worthington’s eyes bulged at the sight of the five assorted glowing red and blue crystals she set on the table beside the wand, radiating enough clashing cold and flame that the table immediately frosted and began smoking at the same time.

Magicite! Worthington had seen enough. He stepped up to the table, staring openly.

“Excuse me,” he said. “Where did you get magicite?”

“Down in my dungeon,” the Fae mage answered as if her nonchalant statement wasn’t completely preposterous.

“Your… dungeon?” Worthington stammered, still struggling to process the sudden appearance of magicite, let alone the comment about a dungeon.

“Yup, I’m a dungeon, and these are my friends. We just got Lydia’s evolution at my shrine a few minutes ago. I assume you’re the representative from Silver Cog?”

“You knew it was me?” he asked, seizing upon the only thing that made sense in this craziness.

“A merchant knows a merchant,” she said, gesturing to Weldin. “And Lydia can tell by your suit that you’re not from around here.”

“All this was just a show for my benefit?” he asked, suddenly realizing how he’d been played.

“Yes, of course. But there was no deception in what you heard – everything is true. I’m Aliandra Amariel, and I’m the Dungeon of Knowledge below town. We just cleared an ancient dungeon to elevate Lydia to Grand Tailor so that we could wrest your attention away from Jax Hawkhurst.”

“He’s your competition, you know?” the monk said. “Probably not a good opinion to trust.”

Worthington took a deep breath to steady himself. On second thoughts, he took another. “So, you have two evolved crafters: the troll leatherworker and now a Grand Tailor, and access to a cooperating dungeon with a shrine for evolutions?” If this was true, it was the biggest find in all of Silver Cog’s long and profitable history, and he was the one who had discovered it. He was going to be wealthy beyond even his own admittedly rather capable imagination, and all he had to do was unseat this deceptive Jax Hawkhurst for trade rights in the town.

“Not quite,” Aliandra said. “After clearing that dungeon, Thuli must be close to evolving too,” she tapped the heavy plate armor the Beastkin was wearing. “So, there would be three evolved crafters.”

“I see,” Worthington said, trying to sidle up to some semblance of control of the situation.

“Here, is this something you would be able to sell if you bought it from Weldin?” Aliandra asked, handing him the crystal wand.

Winter’s Desolate Celerity – level 85 (Ice)A delicately carved wand of quartz with a deep core of glowing blue energy.+52 Intelligence.Charge: Cast Winter’s Desolate Celerity. Your target gains +85% [skill] to spell haste. The bonus is doubled if the target is chilled or frozen. Duration: 10 seconds. Charges: 9/9.Requirements: Intelligence 596.Quality: Rare.Value: 172 gold. Created by Aliandra Amariel.Main Hand – Wand

“Holy springing sprockets!” Worthington exclaimed as he appraised the item. He knew at least twenty ice mages who would eat their livers in a heartbeat just to possess this. If he put them alone in a room with it, there would be bloodshed. He cleared his throat carefully, collecting his poise. “I think I might need to have a conversation with headquarters,” he said. “Do you mind if I leave a temporary teleportation locus here?”

“Go ahead,” Weldin said.

“Thank you,” Worthington said, retrieving the emergency paper return-teleport talisman he had never expected he would be using, and ripped it down the center, not even minding the fact that he had just destroyed fifty gold. The spell took hold, whisking him back to Silver Cog headquarters and dumping him right in Bixi’s office, with the temporary return locus left back in Weldin Thriftpenny’s store. It would last for about two days, which would likely be nearly two days too long.

“I take it that their petition had some merit?” Bixi asked, glancing up from some paperwork.

“We need an auctioneer, and a lawyer versed in New Darian royal trade law,” Worthington blurted out. Then he slowed down at the sight of her raised eyebrow.

“It is way more significant than we were led to believe,” he explained. “They have a Grand Tailor and an evolved Aman Rak leatherworker. And a cooperating evolved dungeon with shrine evolution capabilities. I talked with the dungeon – she intends to elevate the local blacksmith in the next day or two.”

“I see,” Bixi said, removing her glasses and setting them down carefully on the desk beside her paperwork.

“Bixi, the dungeon has magicite!”

“What are your recommendations for handling Myrin’s Keep, then?” Bixi asked.

His mind quickly caught up, recognizing the unspoken opportunity she was dangling in front of him like an electrum vault key. “I request to be assigned as the factor for Myrin’s Keep on Silver Cog’s behalf. There is sufficient value to establish a profitable auction house outlet there, and the main challenge will be unseating the incumbent monopoly trading company, which is why I would suggest deploying a company lawyer.”

“Very well,” Bixi said. “Your request is granted. You may speak with my assistant to finalize your budget and choose your staff. Congratulations on your promotion, Worthington Glimmerbuckle – I look forward to seeing excellent profits added to our balance sheet.”

Suddenly, his collar felt three sizes too small. Worthington swallowed awkwardly. “Uh, yes. Yes… indeed.”

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
