In the lore of the Elves, custodianship of the three Great Wells was granted to the three Elven kingdoms by divine providence: the hand of Lunaré herself. To the Night Elves, she bequeathed the Well of Eternity, representing the eternal dream and the final repose of death. To the Sun Elves, she gifted the Well of Divinity and the domains of light and holy, a bridge to the gods. She charged the Wood Elves with custodianship of the Well of Souls, representing mortality, sentience, and the passage of time.Lunaré’s gifts elevated Elven culture from barbarism, ushering in the Age of Enlightenment, and spawning the three legendary cities of Mi’ir Valdanis, the Night Elf City of Dreams; Aalion, the City of Light, and Ciradyl, which still stands today.– Excerpt from Legends of the First Age, the collected lectures of Val’korr, Trollish (translated).

Ali gazed out at the darkness and eerie silence of the suspended second level of the ruined city. Without the dungeon to respawn the monsters, not a single thing moved nor was there a single sound, and without her friends to talk to, she felt like an invader in a ghost town. The only visible light was the distant glow from the fractured mana condenser on the outer ring, still leaking liquid light-affinity mana that cascaded off the edge of the floating stone city ring in a slow-motion waterfall, and the dim glow that percolated up from the jungle far below, casting much of the ruined city into shadow.

She summoned her Grimoire, which shone brilliantly in the darkness, and took the time to summon two Forest Guardians and three Poison Wyverns. She had promised Mato she would make better protectors but, after seeing the dark and deserted ruins, she was glad of their reassuring bulk.

Alright. Those bats fly, she thought, recalling their battles through here with perfect clarity. She pursed her lips and then paged through her Grimoire, choosing to summon two Bone Mages and two Fire Mages. I can add some archers if this isn’t enough. The only issue would be carrying all her minions into what was likely to be an aerial battle.

“What is your wish, Ancient Mistress?” the first Kobold asked in a raspy voice. A thin curl of black smoke spiraled up from between his gleaming teeth.

“We’re hunting bats,” she answered. Ranged magic would be essential.

“Excellent,” the reptilian mage replied, rubbing his scaled hands together with a devious grin gracing his face.

But it was not just her minions that would be protecting her down here. She had taken a quick trip to town, and Lydia had outdone herself. While Calen’s mother had apologized for not being able to craft anything better than her self-repair enchantment, Ali was mostly in awe of the resistance the exquisitely crafted piece provided, and the talented tailor had trimmed them with green and gold embroidery to match her hair and eyes.

Tailored Cotton Clothing – level 45Resistance: 648Mana: Self-repair.Requirements: Intelligence 158Created by Lydia Avery.Body – Cloth

So much better! Any Fireballs or Ice Bolts she might tank would be reduced in damage by thirty-two percent – not that she would be trying to tank any hostile spells if she could avoid them – but it was further reassuring that she was properly prepared to face the ruins alone. She, at least, planned to stand well in the back behind her barriers, but the bats she was hunting had a dangerous sonic attack – and being prepared was rule number four.

Without Calen’s light magic, she would need to rely on the glow of her floating barrier magic, her Luminous Slime, and the exceptional Darkvision of her Kobold mages to see. On a hunch, she extended her awareness to one of her Poison Wyverns and the darkness vanished as her borrowed emerald-green draconic eyes scanned the remains of the ancient city.

Perfect. If my eyes aren’t good enough, I’ll just use theirs. It cost a tiny trickle of mana to maintain the additional points of view, but her mana pool was large enough by now to out-regenerate the cost of using the sight of a few minions.

Slowly, she picked her way across the ruined city to one of the arched stone bridges leading to the center suspended ring, not encountering a single monster, living or undead. All that broke the silence was the leathery swishing of her Wyverns’ wings and the heavy thuds of the Forest Guardians’ footfalls on the ancient stone.

Her path took her past the Armory once again. They had been unable to carry most of the weapons or armor out when they had first discovered it, so she decided to take the time for a second peek at the loot, given as she now better appreciated how it might add to and even consolidate her knowledge. Every chapter in her Grimoire was precious and needed to be well-used. Leaving the enormous Guardians outside, she entered the dark building and gazed at the walls displaying their treasure with her borrowed Darkvision.

No matter how many times she saw this, she knew she would be awed. Most of this is Eimuuran Steel. Her borrowed eyes roamed around the immensity of the armory, taking in the wealth of weapons crafted by the ancient smiths of Dal’mohra. I can probably afford to spend one more imprint, she decided. She needed to keep one for the bats.

Axes, perhaps? she thought, weighing the options. Most of her Goblins could use axes – particularly the Storm Shamans and the Bugbears, although she seldom used the hulking Goblin warriors anymore. I’m pretty sure some of my Kobolds can use axes too. The warriors certainly could, but maybe even some of her rogues might have the skill to use axes. Thuli will appreciate this, she decided and set about deconstructing every axe in the Armory.

Imprint: Axe completed.

She chose the Black Bean imprint to replace and waited for her Grimoire to rearrange its pages with the newly learned imprint. It took a little longer than she had anticipated, but the Armory contained an unbelievable variety of axes. She didn’t typically pay much attention to melee weapons and had only considered the ‘big’ two-handed axes and the ‘smaller’ one-handed varieties as the full extent of the categories. But she began to glaze over after her Grimoire acknowledged an endless list of throwing axes, greataxes, labrys, hand axes, beaked axes, tomahawks, and halberds – these being the few she could actually name.

They’re just sticks with a blade on the end, aren’t they? she thought, twisting her mouth wryly, but she studied the differences, resolving to ask Ryn for more information soon. The more she knew about these weapons, the better she would become when she deployed axe-wielding minions to battle.

Continuing her slow procession across the ruins, she made her way to the outer ring, approaching the area where they had fought the Wights. She eyed the scorch marks and skeleton bones, all that remained in the now-silent and deserted battlefield to mark the epic fight against the final boss. Her gaze flickered to the center, but nothing remained to indicate the dungeon shrine had hovered there or called attention to the terror of cowering in the presence of the Blind Lich. She shivered at that memory, nonetheless.

After studying the deserted spot for a few moments, she allowed the remembered dread and terror to subside and turned to her second task – the condenser. She stopped, a little out of range, seeing the first signs of life in this deserted ruin. The Luminous Slimes still congregated in the puddles of liquid light-affinity mana leaked by the giant fractured pyramid of stone.

Must not have been part of the dungeon, she thought. Somehow, they were attracted to the mana, or perhaps even spawned from it directly like the spawning pool below. If they had been dungeon monsters, they would have been released in a dungeon-break when the dungeon itself had been destroyed. She could find no remnants of the old domain, and yet these creatures remained.

“Go clear that condenser,” she instructed, sending her entourage of minions into battle. It was a short and messy fight, with many of the slimes blasted from the ring by the detonations of the Fireballs, Bone Spears, or otherwise stomped into splatters under the Guardians’ feet. But she didn’t care about experience or monster kills and as soon as the condenser was clear, she approached, pausing at the threshold where the density of the liquid mana began to prickle painfully across the skin of her forearms.

“Retrieve the magicite,” Ali said, waving her Luminous Slime forward. She studied it carefully as the shining blob happily squashed itself through the crevices after her treasure, but her Acolytes did not even bother healing it, confirming her guess that the slime was nigh immune to the damage from the caustic density of the light-affinity mana.

Not long after, her slime reemerged, carrying chunks of shining crystals suspended in its semitransparent body. It didn’t take too long before her Grimoire reacted to her deconstruction and she added a new resource for the crafters in Myrin’s Keep. Ali identified it quickly.

Variant: Glowstone – Magicite (Light) – added to Imprint: Stone.

“Ok, time to hunt,” she said, eliciting chirps of excitement from her Kobolds.

She summoned a disk of golden magic and collected her minions upon its smooth surface and levitated everything into the air, leaving only the immense Forest Guardians behind. They were far too heavy for her to lift at her current skill level.

Using the eyes of her Wyverns and Kobolds, she searched the darkness of the cavern for her prey with a heart that beat entirely too quickly for it to be solely caused by excitement.

For several minutes, nothing happened, but as she neared the roof of the immense cavern – the underside of the city’s residential level – she finally caught sight of a dark shape dropping away from a crevice and approaching on silent wings. Her Wyverns immediately roared, intercepting the shape with streams of deadly green spray, but the creature flittered back and forth, dodging with uncanny agility.

Giant Bat – level 24 (Sound)

It darted between the Wyverns, suddenly rushing her and unleashing a high-pitched screech. Ali yelped, tossing up a barrier, but the air shimmered and she was hit by a palpable wave of sound. She stumbled and her vision blackened.

She came to, face down on her golden barrier magic, a jangling pain slowly fading as her Kobold healer filled her with holy magic. Ali groaned and sat up, clutching her head and urgently searching for the bat. Her eyes found it about ten meters off to the left, flying circles around her three angry Wyverns.

“Where did the mages go?” she asked, noticing that two of her Kobolds were missing. But she already knew the answer before her Acolyte spoke.

“They fell, Ancient Mistress.”

Stupid. Stupid! she berated herself. She had fought these bats before, and she knew of their abilities. I need to be more careful. She hunted entirely alone, and a single mistake could spell her end – there would be nobody to come and rescue her if she passed out and got attacked or fell. Her experience with her friends, and maybe even her solo dungeon delve into Naia’s dungeon had obviously lulled her into a false sense of security.

Suddenly, the bat screeched and dropped, and her notification chime sounded.

Your minions have defeated Giant Bat – level 24 (Sound)

Fuck. She watched in chagrin as the corpse rapidly fell from sight, vanishing into the darkness below. I needed that. There was no way she was fighting her way through that jungle below by herself to recover the corpse.

When she finally found a second Giant Bat, she engaged first with her Wyverns, but this time she instructed them to lure it downward towards the ringed city ruins below. She maintained a barrier between the bat and herself as a precaution against its stun. The darting, wheeling aerial melee wove intricate patterns in the air as the Wyverns slowly descended. As soon as Ali judged them to be low enough above the ruins that she wouldn’t need to catch the corpse she reacted.

“Drop,” she said. The Poison Wyvern wheeling above the bat folded its wings and reached with its talons, falling five meters in an instant and tackling the bat in the air. Screeches of pain and roars of triumph greeted the spray of blood as the talons found their target. And as soon as the bat’s mobility was stripped away, the Wyverns doused it in green spray.

That’s much better.

“Ok, now you can shoot it too,” she told the mages beside her.

“Yes, mistress.” The air bristled with spears of bone and sizzled with bolts of fire. Ali even launched a couple of barrier shards. She missed Arcane Bolt for this kind of fight, but she had gotten quite proficient with manipulating shards of her barrier magic, so she still wielded a useful amount of personal destructive power.

The fight was short and vicious, and the outnumbered bat died in the air, dropping the short distance to land on a building below. Ali descended and deconstructed the corpse.

I did it! She hadn’t had much opportunity to hunt by herself and she reveled in the sense of achievement. Especially after her first attempt had been a clear failure.

Ok, now I need a whole lot more of them.

***

Ali viewed the summarized notifications representing a whole day of hunting giant bats in the darkness.

So disappointing.

You have defeated Giant Bat – level 20-30 (Sound) x7.Empowered Summoner has reached level 24.Barrier has reached level 36.

Only seven. She had hunted for hours, extending her quest deep into the afternoon. Her fighting had become significantly more reliable as she became more familiar with aerial combat using her Wyverns, however, for the last two hours, her search had proved fruitless. She had eventually given up when she deduced that there probably were no more bats in the cave for her to hunt and returned to the library, consoling herself with her books while she waited. Typically, she needed about twelve to fifteen monsters before she learned a new imprint, and without the dungeon to respawn them, she wasn’t at all certain she could find more to complete it.

“Hi, Ali, I’m back!” Mato shouted, his cheerful voice echoing in the library as he stepped off the landing. His eyes glanced at the two Forest Guardians on either side of her couch and flicked upward to the three Wyverns roosting in the branches of the giant tree. “You listened.”

“Of course,” Ali answered him with a smile. “I trust you, and your advice was smart.”

“Thank you, Ali.” There was an uncharacteristic seriousness in her friend’s voice as he answered.

“Are you ok, Mato?”

“I’m just worried about my friends,” he answered soberly, dropping himself heavily onto the couch.

