“I’m sure they’re both ok,” Ali said. Malika had been left recovering and in good hands. But nobody had anything from Calen, and she shared Mato’s concern.

“Anyway, I brought you a present,” he grinned, his mood flipping back to his more typical cheerful self, and he dumped a pile of dead bats on the floor, retrieved from his ring’s storage enchantment.

“You sure know how to cheer a girl up,” Ali laughed. “I was all depressed because I could only find seven of them down here.” She hadn’t expected him to be so thorough or quick with her request, but he had gone above and beyond – the pile looked to have about twenty Cave Bats with levels ranging from five to fifteen.

Hopping happily to her feet, Ali began to deconstruct the grim pile.

Imprint: Bat completed.

“Yay!” she exclaimed, “I got it!”

She selected the potato imprint chapter and replaced it with the bats.

With rising excitement, she created a level-five Cave Bat and a level-twenty-five Giant Bat. Slipping her awareness into the smaller creature’s mind, she looked around.

“It has pretty decent vision,” she said.

“That’s good,” Mato answered, leaning forward to take a look at her small monster flapping about in the air before them.

A chorus of buzzing noises filled Ali’s ears, coming from the general vicinity of the Elder Tree, and it took her a few moments to realize the bat was hearing the normally inaudible wings of the moths and other insects that had flown in from the jungle, attracted to the density of the tree’s mana before she had blocked off the doorway with her barrier. She focused her attention and found that she could even hear Mato’s heartbeat from all the way over at the railing. “Its hearing is extraordinary,” she said. It was almost as sensitive as the slime’s senses, but definitely in the more familiar mode of hearing instead of the slimes’ far more alien touch-vibration sense.

She switched to the Giant Bat, finding that its vision and hearing were quite a bit more acute, precise to a significantly larger distance. She instructed it to use its echolocation, and she heard a high-pitched series of clicks and screeches, only audible to her because she was using the bat’s ears. Instantly, everything lit up. She was hearing, but the spatial resolution of the sense was more like vision, seen as rapidly strobing snapshots timed to the clicks, but with vastly more resolution and range than her own eyes. She could literally hear shapes and textures and the accurate spatial position of everything in the room, down to the tiny buzzing moth wings and other insects flying about.

“Ok, this is amazing…”

With a little more experimentation, she learned that, in addition to the enhanced perception, the stun attack was also unique to the Giant Bat. The Cave Bats relied on biting, using sharp claws at the joints of their wings to cling and scratch.

“Mato, these bats are awesome!” she gushed at him. “I can see sounds and hear shapes with my ears. Well, I’m probably just experiencing what the bat hears interpreted by its brain, but still. Actually, I wonder how it really works? I must do some research!”

“Glad you like it,” he chuckled.

She suddenly realized she must sound like an excited child with a new toy and blushed a little in embarrassment.

Mato just smiled at her. “Here, take a break. Let’s have dinner,” he said, hopping to his feet and beginning to unload his pans from storage as the two of them began to share the details of their respective days.

Calen thanked the healer and followed Lyeneru out of the doorway and into the light of the early afternoon.

“What do you thi–” Lyeneru said, but Calen gasped and stumbled, not registering a word she said. He gawked like a country bumpkin on his first trip to the city, but he couldn’t help it. He stared in stupefaction at the incomprehensible scale of the wonderous vista that walloped his senses, the inevitable consequence of the mundane act of stepping through that wooden door.

He found himself upon a branch dizzyingly high above the ground. It was so broad that several wagons could pass by side-by-side without anyone ever worrying about falling. All about him, vast Elder Ciradyl trees towered majestically overhead, so tall they boggled the mind and defeated the senses, with branches spreading wide enough they might cradle the entirety of Myrin’s Keep within the grasp of just a single tree.

There were hundreds of them. As far as his eyes could see.

“…uuuh…” he managed, but he barely noticed Lyeneru’s chuckle.

Wood Elves dressed in every shade of the forest swarmed about with dignified but bustling energy as they went about their business upon the giant boughs, or across gently swaying rope-and-vine bridges and walkways that spanned the spaces between the trees, appearing as industrious ants in an enormous hive.

But it was a city grown, not made, with the dwellings cultivated from natural outgrowths of the tree branches, or hanging structures fashioned from vines or epiphytic plants on a scale that dwarfed any city he had ever imagined, let alone seen. Darting through the mesh of interlaced branches in the canopy, Elves with flight skills flew side by side with the endless flocks of birds that seemed to make the city their home.

“It’s something else, isn’t it?” Lyeneru said from beside him, her words finally breaking through his daze.

“Uh… yes… errr… how?” he stammered, trying to locate his voice after he’d picked his jaw up from the floor, dusted it off and rammed it firmly back into place.

“The human cities use earth mages and stone crafters to build their walls and houses, but the Wood Elves are often blessed with nature or plant magic. This,” she gestured to the vista, “is the result of that.”

Calen had known about Ciradyl, of course – the Wood Elf capital, a legendary city that dated back to the Age of Enlightenment, named for the Elder Trees upon whose branches it nestled. But nothing he had ever read or even imagined could hold a candle to this.

“Come, let’s go visit the guild and get you signed up,” Lyeneru said, tugging his arm a little to get him going. She led the way along the vast bough to a swinging walkway made from wooden slats suspended by grown vines that flowered prettily.

Calen breathed and slowly began to notice his immediate surroundings.

Most of the people of Ciradyl were the brown- or green-skinned Wood Elves, most dressed for the forest in ranger leathers or robes of shimmering green, but every now and then he noticed a fairer, silver-haired Sun Elf, or one of the dark northern Night Elves with their purple-black coloring – just like Lyeneru. But it was not her that was attracting attention.

“Am I that unusual?” he asked, after yet another Elf glanced away the moment he noticed them staring.

“Half-humans are rare here,” Lyeneru said. “The city is pretty progressive, but the other races are more common. Even humans are more common to find here. Most people will be polite, but it would be a lie to say you won’t receive some arrogance or animosity for not being a pure Elf.”

Same as in the human cities, then. Calen lowered his gaze and assumed his normal, unassuming posture, much of his excitement and joy at seeing the fabled city with its magical trees fading.

“Calen, may I offer some personal advice?” Lyeneru asked, making him almost stumble in surprise.

“Um, sure?” he said, not quite knowing what to expect.

“Wear your heritage as a badge of pride. Those who would misjudge you by your appearance will do so regardless of how you carry yourself. You have much to be proud of. Confidence in your abilities and friends will do you a lot more good in the long run.”

“Uh…” he said, shifting uncomfortably.

His disbelief must have shown on his face because she continued. “I’m serious. You took on a Death Knight almost five times your level by yourself and lasted forty-five seconds. You have every right to be proud.”

“You mean I ran away from it like a scared rabbit for forty-five seconds?” he said. He glanced down at his bare foot. He had also lost his leg to that monster’s deadly ice magic and cowered in the face of its oppressive fear. If Lyeneru hadn’t been there to save him, he would have been crushed like a bug.

“Rabbits don’t shoot back,” she calmly retorted. “Without your distraction, I wouldn’t have had the opportunity to regain stealth and the battle would have ended in a stalemate like it has every time before. You contributed to ridding the world of a terrible monster.”

That’s… true. Despite his dismissal of her compliment, Lyeneru’s praise cheered him up, and he lifted his head as he continued to follow her. One evil monster was slain today. Even if my contribution was tiny, it was important. “It’s hard to look confident with only one boot, though,” he offered, wriggling his toes.

“The guild has an equipment shop,” Lyeneru said, chuckling at his discomfort.

As he followed across a wooden walkway suspended between two of the giant trees, his eyes were suddenly drawn to a vast pillar of shifting blue light emerging between two distant trunks. Far below, nestled between the giant roots, lay a pool of crystal-clear blue water, deeper than even his eyes could perceive, ringed by rune-inscribed stone. Within the column of light, thousands of white or blue wisps flitted, soaring, dancing, swooping, and vanishing, only to reappear somewhere else within the soothing otherworldly illumination.

He was startled out of his wonder by the sound of his chime.

Explorer has reached level 26.

“The Well of Souls,” Lyeneru identified it for him. He had been entirely unaware of stopping to stare at the sight.

“It’s beautiful.” It surprised him a little that his Explorer skill had not reacted to the entirety of the vast new city of Ciradyl, but leveled just from seeing the Well of Souls.

“It’s an artifact from a previous age, cared for by the Temple of Lunaré. It was said to be one of three Great Wells for which each of the Elven kingdoms served as custodians. The Well of Eternity was said to be within the fabled Night Elf city of Mi’ir Valdanis. The Sun Elf City of Light, Aalion, was built around the Well of Divinity. But greed for its power was what spawned the Necromancer Wars and shattered the continent. Aalion is no more, and Mi’ir Valdanis was lost to the mists of time.

“How did the Wood Elves make it?”

Lyeneru chuckled, “They didn’t make it. Its origins are lost in myth and legend. Some scholars believe it dates back to the Age of Gods and Demons. Some agree with the Troll Seekers, believing that it was created by the ancient Troll Sages and that it was the magic of the wells that caused the Elves to spawn from the race of Trolls. Most Elves despise the idea that they descended from the Trolls, obviously. What we do know is that the magic of the well is the reason for these giant trees and that Ciradyl was founded here to protect the Well. And in return, the Well of Souls protects Ciradyl.”

“That’s incredible,” Calen breathed. That the well predated the oldest Elven city still in existence simply blew his mind. No wonder Explorer reacted.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
