“Almost, Your Majesty. Almost. It was a beating heart. I heard it.”
Her ear was…wet. The Dullahan came from distant Baleros, in the north where the world froze over. Fetohep turned his head. His golden gaze flashed.
“You heard it. Then the frozen soul…”
“Perished. But they did come back. At least, enough for their heart to beat.”
“Ah. Then why did it fail? And who…which of them was it?”
“One of the criminals. I can search for the name—”
Fetohep lifted a hand, and the [Cryomancer] fell silent.
“The reason alone will suffice.”
She nodded, licking her lips.
“We attempted the cure based on a number of improvised factors, Your Majesty. We prepared a slow, slow unfreezing spell given the last—failures. A Potion of Regeneration at one tenth of the entire dose we applied when [Detect Life] began to function. We believe it was working. However, two factors complicated the process: the antidote and the patient’s injuries.”
“From the damage of the crossbow bolts.”
She ducked her head.
“Yes, Your Majesty. The Potion of Regeneration should have worked. I even believe it did—but the poison…”
The woman hesitated and Fetohep sighed.
“Requires an antidote fabricated of ingredients so rare even Khelt lacks for a vast quantity.”
Another nod.
“Ethereal alchemical ingredients. If they exist, they are rare indeed. If I might ask about securing more…?”
It was a bold ask, but Fetohep had told her there was no expense to be spared. The King drummed his fingers on the balcony as he surveyed his city.
“…[Whale Hunters], [Deep-Sea Fishers], and net-ships of Drowned Folk are all searching for the fish that produces this ectoplasm. I will inform you when it is acquired.”
“Of course, Your Majesty. However, I can say that the antidote was likely working. It was only a liquid we injected into the ice, so as it melted it ran over the wounds, but we did find the poison neutralized in the blood when we took a sample and performed poison detection spells.”
That got Fetohep’s interest.
“—Then why did this person expire? Was the Potion of Regeneration not enough? I will allow a full dose if you are confident.”
Her eyes widened. The woman hesitated and then shook her head.
“No, Your Majesty. I do not believe it was the potion. As I said, Oteslia and my team are working on perfecting the defrosting process. The antidote being applied before unfreezing would also help greatly, as would more spellcasting—I am suggesting healing crystals being placed around the patient. The problem was not that. It was just…it was all working. All of it. Potions, antidote…”
“And what happened?”
She looked up.
“The patient died. We had three seconds, I think. But the damage, the arrows, the poison? They couldn’t last long enough to survive for the Potion of Regeneration to work. If we increase those chances…”
She trailed off. Fetohep nodded slowly.
“I see.”
They were so close. He turned back to watching his city, and the [Cryomancer] realized she was dismissed and bowed her way out.
Waiting. He was waiting for the ritual—the giant eyesore of magic—to be completed. It was so powerful all the [Mages] in the city wanted to know what he was doing. So costly, too, but Fetohep didn’t count the cost.
“Your Majesty, another missive from Medain.”
“Burn it.”
Fetohep didn’t turn his head as one of his servants for the day approached. The man bowed. Fetohep glared ahead.
Medain. It was a sign of changing fortunes, how High King Perric talked. He had invited Fetohep to some of his parties with exceptionally rude, condescending letters before they had come to blows.
When Fetohep had given his ultimatum, High King Perric had blustered and sent long screeds demanding a ceasefire, a peace, threatening Fetohep with a coalition of nations, and warning him of the cost of his aggression.
These days? After the deployment of the Vizir and other Revenants? His appeals were not about the possibility of surrender, but only in how it would go. But he hung onto Raelt because that was his only shield. Or so he believed. Perric didn’t quite seem to understand that Fetohep was not a liar or prevaricator like he himself was. Once Raelt of Jecrass walked free, Fetohep would go. He didn’t need to take Medain.
“Fools. Claiven Earth is little better, for all their age.”
Fetohep leaned on the balcony. In this way, he was the model of repose, the wary undead tyrant—but a loving tyrant—ruling over his paradise without equal. A scene of such grace and elegance that one of his subjects was, at this moment, painting him from far below.
Fetohep had always been popular, but after his dramatic flair in war, his subjects had taken to practicing swordplay, and his popularity had somehow gone even higher. He leaned there, a king caught in a moment of tangential melancholy, eyes burning gold as he rested in peace and tranquility.
“Yeah. Yeah. Fools. That’s right. Look at me, I’m leaning on balconies too.”
A young woman leaned on the railing next to him, putting on her best serious face. Fetohep saw her try to stroke her chin, lose focus, and pass through the railing.
“Whoa. Hi, Fetohep! Is this where you’ve been?”
She turned and grinned at him. The undead king didn’t exactly jump, and he covered it with a world-weary sigh.
She had nearly heard his discussion. He stared about and, sure enough, Erin Solstice began flapping her hands at the air and bickering.
“No—Cawe! I’m not bothering him! I just wanted to say hi! You don’t have to follow me—just because Nerrhavia and Khelta said—they’re only monarchs! See? Fetohep doesn’t mind! Am I bothering you, Fetohep?”
The king bowed towards the air Erin was staring at. The ghost of the young woman…had ghosts. Or rather, there were ghosts all about him, but he could only see the rulers of Khelt and Erin.
He suspected they had done something to allow her to become visible to him that they could not easily replicate with the other ghosts. Exactly what was a mystery, even to Fetohep, but Khelta had been a [Necromancer] without peer. Still…there were other [Necromancers] among Chandrar’s dead. The best who had ever lived. So the fact that they could not interact with the living and that that ritual was their best option meant it was tricky indeed.
So how did they let him see Erin? Fetohep wondered if it was the power of every ruler of Khelt focused on her. That was suitably…thematic. But he had a sneaking suspicion that might not work.
The…only other way he could imagine Erin Solstice being visible to him via his connection with the dead predecessors of Khelt was a technical one. He was bound to Khelt, and thus could hear and see them when he stood on Khelt’s grounds. So…if they wanted him to see Erin…they might have made her…
No, that was ludicrous. He did not mention the theory aloud, but he would if—when—she came back from the dead.
“Sorry about that. Khelta keeps saying you’re busy, but I saw you and wanted to say hello.”
The young woman rested next to him, sitting cross-legged in the air. Fetohep inclined his head.
“Indeed. May I ask if you have some great need?”
“Nope! Just wanted to say hi. You know how it is. I meet people, I take lessons—I lose track. How many days has it been?”
“Four since last we spoke in the august company of King His-Xe, I believe.”
“Wow.”
Erin began to slowly rotate upside down. Fetohep watched her. She was not entirely unpleasant to talk to. She was rather amusing—engaging—and entirely insolent. He could only hear and see the rulers of Khelt and her, of course, but Queen Xierca had related some amusing incidents.
A world of the dead. He watched her expression, because Fetohep was no fool. It was not when Erin smiled—she smiled constantly.
It was how she smiled.
“I’m…it’s been a few months, hasn’t it?”
She stopped her rotation in the air and looked at him. Fetohep nodded once more.
“It becomes fall.”
“And the Meeting of the Tribes is, um…not going well? Those Drake jerks really did take the Gnolls’ magic?”
Her face clouded. Fetohep nodded.
“So it appears. I can only speculate and observe; I have few informants, and all are for hire, not trusted envoys.”
“I see. If it’s true…the ghosts are mad about it. The Gnolls and some of the others. You would not believe how mad they are, and all the Drakes here keep saying they didn’t do it—then someone brings up the stuff they did do, and it’s all disgusting.”
Erin glowered.
“When I get un-dead—I mean, re-alive, I’m going to be saying some stuff to Chaldion. I—oh. Hey, buddy.”
She hesitated, waved, and put on a fake smile. Fetohep saw Erin turn, half-point at him.
“I was just talking with Fetohep about that. Archmage, um…Kishkeria. I was j—I asked, and he said nothing else is happening. Right, Fetohep?”
He shook his head. Erin glanced at him.
“She can’t see you. He shook his head! It’s all—right. No—yeah—absolutely. I told you about Mr—uh huh. No, but—Khelta’s the one giving orders and I—uh—uh—oh, hi, Serept! I guess I’d just better let you go. See you!”
She waved, then wiped at her brow and floated behind Fetohep as if hiding from someone’s gaze.
“I trust that was another ghost?”
“Archmage Kishkeria. She was asking about the Gnolls. Because she’s a Gnoll.”
Fetohep had no need to truly move his jaw, since his tongue was long withered away, as were his vocal chords, but his mouth opened slightly.
“…By which you mean the Archmage of Grasses, one of the most powerful Gnolls to ever walk Chandrar?”
“Yeah? She’s, uh, pushy. But the other ghosts keep them clear.”
Fetohep had just seen the giant form of King Serept floating past him, clearly escorting someone he couldn’t see away. Some of his servants worried he was going mad. Fetohep was worried too.
He saw Erin resting her arms on the balcony, staring out at the city. She could see it, and the places that had been here before, from a time before Khelt to other periods in its history.
He envied her that. It was beautiful, to hear the lands of the dead described. A place without pain, where kin and enemies gathered without strife.
Beautiful, until he heard how there was danger there. Until they told him there was something—six of them—attacking the ghosts, such that the mightiest legends were helpless against them.
Yet Fetohep still admired death. He found solace that the end would not be the end after his bones decayed and he was succeeded—provided he could fight to keep it secure. Yet, as he looked at Erin, he saw her expression.
It was only a beautiful dream for him. Because Fetohep did not eat. He did not sleep or drink, and he could not hold and feel or smell. He was already dead.
For this young ghost? It wore at her. Erin Solstice stared blankly ahead—until she noticed him watching her and smiled.
“So, uh…anything new happening? Not that I’m bored. I know, I know. I have lessons. It’s just…”
Her gaze flickered back to the horizon. Fetohep glanced around and saw a face he had only seen in death, Queen Xierca, looking at him from afar, from inside the palace. She mouthed words, and he nodded.
Fetohep of Khelt cleared his throat, or made a sound like it.
“The world is somewhat odd, Erin Solstice. I am…old, yet it changes quicker and quicker these days. I am told that Drakes are besieging the Gnolls in their Great Plains, and they are beginning to clash. I have news, some of which I cannot fathom, from Ailendamus, and Chandrar as well. The King of Destruction lies under siege. This troubles me.”
“It does? He’s a jerk too, though.”
Fetohep saw Erin frown and fold her arms. He nodded.
“…Jerk…though he may be, his death will cause great strife. I have not intervened, but perhaps you and I would speak on the world as it pertains to Khelt?”
Erin eyed Fetohep. With a slight smile, she shook her head.
“You don’t need me. I’m just an [Innkeeper].”
He hesitated.
“Ah. This is true. But I confess, Erin Solstice, it becomes…wearying. To have no one to speak to, even uncertainties, thoughts.”
“Oh. Well…I don’t mind. I mean, I know Califor wants me, but if it would help—lay it on me! You need to figure out what to do?”
“Inaction is a decision as much as action.”
Erin rubbed her hands together.
“Alright, let’s blow up Reim with a super-spell.”
Fetohep raised one brow and Erin laughed.
“Just kidding! There are people there. Let’s hex his hair green. Um…so what is happening?”
He told her, and the [Innkeeper] smiled and listened and gave her opinion, which made him smile. She seemed to brighten up for a moment, and Fetohep saw her look out across Chandrar.
“…And my friends?”
He paused.
“I do not know where Mrsha is. Yet I do now know where some of the Horns of Hammerad have landed. It has taken time, and one is as yet missing. But…”
Fetohep had hesitated to tell her, especially when he heard of Roshal—he had been distracted, and Roshal refused to have any dealings with Khelt, so he did not monitor their auctions and chatter. But Queen Xierca’s words and Erin’s mood convinced him.
Distract her. The [Innkeeper] brightened up in an instant.
“You know where they are? That’s wonderful! And—and Ryoka’s in Ailendamus for some reason? Married to Tyrion Veltras?”
“That would be the rumor. I do not think it is necessarily true.”
Erin shook her head, counting on her fingers.
“Lyonette’s in Oteslia, Halrac and the others are okay—Mrsha’s…”
“They are apparently still hunting a white Gnoll, to the best of my knowledge.”
He reassured her. She exhaled, slowly.
“Good. Good. I…I just need to…”
She looked around, distraught, then smiled at Fetohep, catching herself.
“As long as the Horns of Hammerad are okay. That’s—that’s all I can ask for. They went to the Village of the Dead and got out. They’re crazy like that. They did it for me, I’m sure. As long as they survive—where are they?”
Her expression was pleading and hurt and…Fetohep of Khelt stood there. Because what he would tell her…he hesitated. But then he saw Queen Khelta herself walk out of the void in the air and stand next to them.
“Tell her, Fetohep. She knows Cawe’s story. Tell her their trials and triumphs.”
Erin nodded, sitting eagerly. Fetohep glanced at her, and then Khelta. She looked at him, and he saw a flush in Erin’s cheeks, the way she sat up, brushed at her hair, clenched her fists, and muttered about pans for all of Roshal—and not as gifts.
Before, she had been static. She rested on the balcony, she moved—but like a ghost. Defying gravity, rotating without laws of physics. As if she was forgetting…he saw her chest rising and falling. She had begun to forget to pretend to breathe, begun to fade.
