So he nodded and told her stories of her friends. Khelta smiled, but he watched her lips move.
Tell her.
And…
Hurry.
 
——
 
Nothing lasted forever. There was some humor in it.
Consider that if you spent your entire life in the pursuit of strength, it would one day wither away. Age. They had sayings about age, and they were all true. Age laid low mountains and [Kings].
Age would take away the muscle you prized so highly. In the same way—what was muscle? Stitch-folk looked at it differently than Humans. You wanted biceps the size of your head? You could do that. Just hand me a wad of cotton.
Naturally, that was a bit of an exaggeration. Muscle cloth fibers were actually important to get right, let alone use correctly. However—it was true that pure physicality came as easily to them as getting your hair done.
That was why they valued skill, knowledge here. That was valuable. That was what they could strive for.
But the [Martial Artists] of Pomle had known, had always known, that it too was finite. Techniques would be lost when masters died. Some would come and go. Pomle was small and young, and it had been a strange confluence when it had been created. [Martial Artists] had gathered around an oasis, refused to pay taxes or disperse when someone claimed the unused watering hole was ‘theirs’. They had fought.
That was all there was to it. The fighting had been legendary, but it was so simple. Some people had expected a kingdom to arise from the bones of that place. They were fools because they didn’t understand why it had all taken place.
Simple reasons. A simple battle.
Those days had come again. Orjin, the Strongest of Pomle, stood on one of the cliffs surrounding Pomle. A powerful shield against weather.
Less against armies. Two passes allowed travellers in and out of the simple oasis and training grounds. Of course, now much of the land around this canyon was also technically Pomle’s.
If it had contained anything valuable, that might have been a problem, because Pomle was at war.
With no less than Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Orjin sighed. He shifted from one leg to another. In doing so, he side-stepped the arrow. He pivoted, caught it. The glowing tip sparked, but didn’t detonate.
Long-range archery Skill. No nuance to it. Just distance, not flicker-shot, not teleporting arrows that curved or exploded in midair or ricocheted.
You’d think they’d learn. But then—it was a fast arrow, a small thing, and if you were distracted, maybe it would touch you and turn you to ash.
Orjin wasn’t distracted. Nor were the other figures sitting or standing on the canyon’s walls.
Guards. Not in class, but it was necessary. Mostly to prevent infiltrators scaling and launching attacks.
“Strongest!”
A cry from below. Orjin shifted. He hopped off the canyon’s plateau and ran down the vertical cliff.
Ran? Hopped, from one foothold to another, but so fast it seemed like he was running vertically, then arresting his movement and transferring it smoothly into a step that carried him horizontally, as if it were as simple to go up and down in the world as it was right to left.
“Salii.”
It was always Salii. Except…when it wasn’t. Orjin blinked. He’d assumed it was, but this was another Drake. Holding a clipboard.
“It’s Henss, Strongest. Salii’s [Assistant]?”
“Ah.”
The new Drake was not used to Orjin. He hesitated, his tail shifting in the dust.
“I’m, um—one of Tiqr’s former people. A [Wildfriend]? Low-level. I came from Oteslia with the [Druids] in their last expedition.”
“I see.”
Orjin’s face never moved. They could do this all day—but then he remembered.
He had begun this, so he couldn’t waste time. He stared at the sky.
“What did Salii send you for?”
The Drake consulted his notes, speaking rapidly and clearly.
“She wants to tell you another army’s coming in. Nerrhavia’s Fallen is attacking. The eastern entrance—or at least, that’s where they’re coming from. [Mages]. Lots of [Archers]. But this time they’ve brought a proper guard. She thinks they’re [Lineholders]. Hemp-caste; armed with tower shields and spears. They might be veterans, in which case they’re [Trampleguard Lineholders] who fought Grand Elephants.”
“I understand.”
Last time, Nerrhavia’s Fallen had brought lots of [Archers] to force Pomle to attack, but not taken enough warriors to guard them. Pomle had attacked. It had been fairly one-sided.
Most of the [Martial Artists] and [Warriors] were close-combat experts. Some, like Orjin, had long-range attacks like [Aeriform Punch], but they couldn’t win a long-range battle. They were aware of this weakness, so they would charge the enemy.
It had worked so far, but Nerrhavia’s Fallen wouldn’t relent. Henss went on.
“Salii says that the new [Archers] might be ready by then, but she is requesting three experts in arrow catching or blocking techniques. She wondered who that might be.”
Orjin scratched at his head.
“Try…Yesq.”
“Yesq?”
“The Garuda with the bright red plumage. He will know other experts.”
“I will do that, thank you, Strongest! Oh—”
Orjin stopped Henss. He handed over the arrow, and the Drake took it gingerly.
“What’s…this?”
“Give it to Yesq. Ammunition.”
And, like that, another arrow was added to Pomle’s stocks. Yesq was a [Master Skyarcher], so he would know experts in arrow-catching. He would also put that arrow to good use. Frankly, a quarter of Pomle’s ammunition was reclaimed arrows from those that were shot at them—or taken from the defeated [Archers].
However, the other three-quarters? The potions? And, indeed, the [Archers] in training? Orjin saw them practicing under the eye of a [Weapon Expert]. He saw refugees from Tiqr, and even one of the freed [Slaves].
He had freed them. Started a war with Nerrhavia’s Fallen by offending a [Prince] or…someone. Orjin didn’t remember. Now, all of Pomle was under threat of attack by the greatest nation in all of Chandrar.
“Are you angry?”
A Garuda was napping by where Orjin had been talking with Henss. He opened one eye.
“Hm?”
Xil, the [Peerless Spearmaster], sat up. Orjin looked at him.
“I have begun a war. [Martial Artists] will die. Salii is buying every bit of ammunition, weapons she can. Potions too.”
There were more [Merchants] and [Traders] than ever in Pomle. Orjin had never seen so many. It seemed counterintuitive, but they came because the [Secretary] was offering fistfuls of gold for whatever they would sell.
None had [Slaves]. Word got around that taking them into Pomle was as good as freeing them. So some of the most wealthy kept away. Yet more and more came.
Why? Why was Pomle so rich? Not just the fight club—Orjin watched as a line of not-slaves were being shuffled into position. They cursed—well, the Silk ones did. The rank-and-file just seemed grateful to not be dead.
Defeated prisoners. Pomle kept taking them and ransoming them back to Nerrhavia’s Fallen via the [Traders]. Orjin wasn’t sure how Salii had managed it, but she was funding them via Pomle’s victories. All they had to do was keep winning.
But more armies would come. More and more—until you break their backs and make this war too costly, they will attack, Orjin.
[Martial Artists] were already dying. At first, they’d let anyone join the fighting. Now? They had to be of the right level, and those who were weaker fought on the sides while Xil, Orjin, and the other masters attracted the worst of it. Yet—
“Herish is dead. He didn’t survive the poison arrows.”
“I barely recall him. What was his specialty?”
“Throws.”
“Ah.”
Xil sat back. His face didn’t change. Are you angry? He had waited for a challenge, and a few had come, but not from Xil or the others. At length, the Garuda picked up something.
“Wine?”
Orjin eyed it. The Garuda drank greedily.
“Ah. Wine. I have lived here for…it must be over a decade, and wine was something I’d have once a year. Now? I can walk over, and Salii can buy me some. Wine for gold for hitting fools with a spear. Death, too. How many have died so far?”
“…Twenty-three.”
Twenty-three, in six successive clashes. An incredibly low number?
Incredibly high, considering Pomle’s population. Xil nodded.
“So more armies will come. So now they’re bringing better fighters. We might lose more. I fought as a [Mercenary] for Nerrhavia’s Fallen. They have hordes—but they will send a final army to crush Pomle the longer we resist. You know that.”
“I do.”
Orjin stared ahead, arms folded. Xil grinned.
“The odds are we’ll die. A hundred to one. Two hundred. They’ll bring magic and proper [Generals] and chariots and enchanted weapons.”
“Yes.”
Already some [Martial Artists] had left, said their farewells. They did not want to die, nor had they come here for war or true violence. Most had stayed. Xil stared ahead.
“Good.”
“Good?”
The [Spearmaster] smiled.
“We will level or die. That is also martial arts. Orjin—you may have started it over your principles, but do you think most disagreed? We have trained all our lives in the shadow of those that started Pomle. Trained because skill is not killing. But don’t you think we wonder how we would do? And Salii is making warriors of the people here. I’m not angry. I only feel…”
Slowly, he rose, an old Garuda with part of his beak broken, more scars under his feathers than he could count. He lifted something.
Not his walking stick. Not the simple wooden sticks he made his [Students] train with. An enchanted spear. His eyes gleamed.
“I feel like I might begin levelling again. I, who have defeated over a dozen [Spearmasters]. Peerless. Static. Without challenge except to kill people far lower-level than I.”
The tip of his spear began to glow. Orjin eyed it. Xil grinned at him.
“I had an enjoyable decade, training students to hold a spear properly. Now…now? Let’s live up to Pomle’s old legends, eh?”
Orjin nodded slowly. They were leveling. Faster than they had with the most intense training. Combat was giving them levels.
“Growth amidst death. That was what Salthorn said.”
“She’s wiser.”
“But do you think we can win this war?”
Xil stopped preparing his spear. The tip was so intense that Orjin felt the air moving. The Garuda eyed Orjin, then muttered.
“[Spear Art: Skyjump]. [Flash Wings]. [Cast of th—]”
Orjin didn’t hear the rest. He saw Xil plant the butt of the spear and launch himself into the air, hundreds of feet up, as his wings snapped open. Light flashed and Orjin shielded his gaze, but he sensed Xil throw the spear.
[Cast of the Fisherman]. He flew back with his spear after fifteen seconds.
“Got the [Sniper]. I’ll make someone with evasion Skills get the bow and arrows.”
“Mm.”
The Garuda went back to sitting down.
“Can we win? Can we win? It’s not about fighting all of Nerrhavia. They could drown us in bodies, but they won’t. Nations hate cost; they hate being embarrassed just as much. Once they bleed, they’ll stop. They could send this kind of harassment against us for years. But they won’t. I don’t know if we’ll survive a true clash, but I trust in your [Secretary].”
“Salii? Why?”
Xil grinned as he lifted the wine flask to his beak.
“She’s the monster-[Secretary] of Izril. If she’s still here—she thinks we can win.”
Orjin nodded. He bade Xil farewell; the Garuda was already going back to sleep.
It would come down to the actual army, whenever it came. Salii was convinced of it. But when that army came?
They’d knock down the canyon walls. Attack from all angles. [Martial Artists] would fight as arrows and magic rained down around them, surrounded by foes.
When that happened—anyone who wasn’t a master would die. How would they survive that? Orjin wasn’t sure if he should…tell them all to leave. Just leave, for the Kilalle Steppes or elsewhere. Nerrhavia’s Fallen would pursue, but not catch many.
Yet Salii was confident. She stood in the center of a furore, giving orders, administrating, sending [Messages]. She saw Orjin and strode over.
“Something wrong, Orjin? About the attack?”
“When is this grand army coming?”
Her eyes flickered.
“Not yet. The [Garrison General] posted here is sending this attack, and she’s in danger of being replaced for incompetence. Nerrhavia’s Fallen is concentrating on Reim. They might pull together another army to attack us if we smash them hard enough today.”
“How will we survive it? I have been envisioning the battle, Salii.”
It was hard. He was no [Battle Seeker] or [Visionary Martial Artist], but he could imagine eight of those [Snipers] firing into a melee. See how well some of the younger fighters did against three [Soldiers] and imagine what would happen if there were eight, in a scrum, with nowhere to maneuver.
Salii’s eyes were bright.
“Good. Then you’re not a giant fist attached to two legs. I never thought you were, but at least you know what you did. Do you regret it?”
Orjin wasn’t sure. It was so much death for a few people.
“No. Not doing it. Only what it might cost. How will we survive?”
Salii smiled slightly.
“I have ideas. Ideas from the Walled Cities and how they fight. We have gold, Orjin, and experts. More high-level fighters in one place than most nations can field in their armies. And we have one most secret weapon.”
He raised his brows. Salii waved.
“Raúl? Come over. I’ve been talking with him—I think it’s finally time for you to tell Orjin everything.”
Her eyes glinted. Orjin saw the young man with the interesting fighting tricks look up. His small group was often following Salii around. And it seemed she had found something interesting.
“You might even want to call the other masters over. Salthorn, Xil—they’ll all want to hear this. They were being coy, but once the war started I lost patience and got it out of them.”
The Drake woman said conversationally. Orjin raised his brows.
“How can they help us?”
Salii smiled tightly.
“With knowledge. Most of what they have is impossible to replicate without industry, and even then…I could rule Pallass. I could revolutionize Salazsar.”
She laughed lightly.
“—But that’s too easy. If we win this war, we’ll win every single one afterwards. Let’s talk, Orjin. They will be coming.”
She smiled, looking towards the horizon. Orjin nodded. He went, listened to Raúl, rubbed at his ears—and was still somewhat shocked when he kicked a [Mage] thirty feet and routed the [Linebreaker] army.
No less than Salthorn herself took down the head of the attack, which turned out to be the [Garrison General] herself. Salii rubbed her claws together at the ransom, and Orjin walked back over to keep asking Raúl questions. The young man stared at the angry Nerrhavia’s Fallen [General] and Orjin knew.
They were coming.
 
——
 
