Would you like to know a secret?
A big secret. A top-tier secret.
You could get someone to pay for an entire roasted goose prepared by a Level 26 [Cook] with [Enhanced Seasoning] for a secret like this. And then give you a mana potion every week for four months straight.
Ceria knew, because she’d once sold a Major Secret back at Wistram for exactly that. She had no regrets; it had been a great dinner with the others when they were all friends. It was the most succulent goose she’d ever had; the real bourgeois experience, whatever that meant. Specially fed all its life until it realized at some point that it wasn’t going to have chopped food for dinner tonight…
Well, it had been exceptionally tasty. She had once mentioned that to Erin, offhandedly, not expecting the same quality, but on the chance the [Innkeeper] would like to experiment with the dish like she did with so many others. Erin had given her a horrified look and said geese were different from chickens. You fed geese, not ate them! It would be like eating duck—wait a second—
Whereupon she’d gone through an existential crisis about poultry until she wondered aloud whether swans were food too, if everything else was. Ceria had said she’d find out the next time she saw one.
Why did it matter? Well, as Ceria walked across the docks of Runsblud in Savere, following the Alchemist Irurx, as the blood storm and [Pirates] stormed into port—she thought of that.
Not because she was particularly hungry. But because, in that moment, past Ceria had missed the point. Which was not that Erin was odd, or that geese were important, or a commentary on the practice of raising animals for slaughter.
It was that Erin came from a place that was used to treating geese like semi-tame wildlife. It was that she was so used to chicken as a mainstay of food, she didn’t even bother to look into other types of poultry.
One day at market, she’d been unable to find chicken eggs. So she’d gone home empty-handed, and Lyonette had walked into Liscor and come back with a basket of duck eggs. When Erin said ‘milk’, she meant cows.
That was sort of odd, wasn’t it? A more perceptive Ceria would have wondered about that. Of course, Ceria, both past and present, knew why that was.
Erin came from another world. Ceria had never stopped to think about it.
No, she had. But she had only thought about it in a vague sense of, ‘I cannot comprehend this, but it makes complete sense given all I know about Erin.’ She had wondered about the methods and reasons behind a spell or…Skill that let it happen.
But she hadn’t discussed it with Erin or Pisces. Ceria supposed she had simply thought of it as Erin’s secret. Everyone had one, and, in truth, she had suspected it was like that port on Izril and other places. Dimensional magic was not unknown.
Now, though…Ceria thought about it. She thought fast and hard. It was like she had lived her entire life in a cloud and only now broke through it. Or, to put it another way—her mind had never been bad. It was a bit lazy, and she had trouble with some things other people were more naturally gifted at.
However, it had been a scrappy…Gerial. Poor Gerial. Good in a fight, though. He could throw a decent hook, and he would fight dirty. But now? Well, it was more like Calruz with both arms, who’d let you punch him while he picked up a table to hit you and all your buddies.
Erin came from another world. She and Ryoka. One that didn’t have levels or Skills. And…Ceria realized—everything they brought came from there.
That was elementary. But think about it. Not about the food; although, that was interesting. Think about…how Erin did things. How Kevin did things.
They didn’t understand magic. But they did know about refrigeration, even flight. What they were at home with was Pallass. The elevators, bicycles…
The half-Elf [Cryomancer] tried to picture it. A world made of those gears and lots of Humans. She had so many questions. So many thoughts. After all, it wasn’t about the inventions. It was about the perspective.
She had once seen Ryoka cast a simple [Light] spell and produce colors that Ceria had never dreamed of. Why hadn’t she chased that down? She’d accepted Ryoka’s explanation about seeing things and thought she was from Drath.
What might I learn from them? The half-Elf wondered. But her mind was running hot—or rather, cool. Thoughts were gliding across her mind, so while she thought of Erin—she was also focusing on Irurx.
A half-Elf with a mask. Two staring, painted eyes over a strange inscription-rune on his mouth and nose.
Purity seal. Maybe for gases or poisons in the air. I might be walking into a trap.
Ceria registered it calmly. Part of her head began searching for spells she could use to remove poison or ideas—the other kept thinking. Two Cerias, then, in perfect tandem.
The circlet. It was literally making her twice as smart—or perhaps—twice as fast. There was a difference. So Ceria went on thinking about the inciting thought as the Alchemist gestured to the gangplank slowly being lowered from his dark ship.
Would you like to know a secret?
Ceria did not approve of how Wistram ran itself. Buying and trading secrets, all the games of politics. It was why she had chosen exile. Because Pisces was right. Necromancy hadn’t been outlawed because it was inherently evil. Blood magic was arguably far worse, or hexes and curses. But there had been no [Witches] among her class, and few ever came. Gnolls? None. No [Necromancers]—not because the magic was wrong.
Simply because the [Mages] disapproved. Because the Archmage whose legacy still shaped Wistram had disapproved.
Zelkyr. Or perhaps it had been a sudden change, because he had certainly been friends with a [Necromancer] until the end. One [Mage] ruined the reputation of an entire school of magic.
However, Ceria had played the game quite gamely when she was there for three years. She had hoarded secrets, and Calvaron had been a secret-broker. So…she had obtained one, once.
A Major Secret. Which ran from Major, Big, Normal, Minor…Big being an intermediate category not always recognized in the shifting fiscal economics of secret-based currencies.
What was that secret? It was something Ceria had ferreted out based on her specific knowledge, and then bluffed a fellow [Mage] into verifying it. She was fairly proud of it. Of course, she’d been heavily warned to keep it secret, but she’d traded it to Calvaron, who promised he’d hold onto it.
Here it was. A Major-class secret. Not a hidden room—that was probably above Major. Not a spell, or some political revelation like an impending war, which was hot currency that devalued fast. The most powerful secret of all: personal information. It was this. Ceria had laughed when she realized it.
Archmage Feor dyes his hair.
How long did half-Elves live, truly? It was a question of half-Elven villages. Some people knew half-Elves who were only a century or two old at the most. Others knew those who were into multiple, multiple centuries.
There were half-Elves over a thousand years old, but the upper limit, the median, the average lifespan of a half-Elf who was not killed, was truly unknown. Because…they seldom lived that long.
Even in a ‘safe’ village, what were the odds you didn’t run into a monster, a [Bandit], or have an eagle drop a rock on your head over a hundred years? Two hundred? A thousand?
Half-Elves died from unnatural causes. Like sickness. Like falling and hitting their head wrong. Honestly and truly, they expected that more than to die of sheer age itself.
Feor wasn’t even two hundred years old; he remembered Zelkyr. He had studied under Zelkyr, being a young man at the time, new to Wistram, much like Ceria. Well, perhaps he’d come at sixty like Ceria—she had reason to believe he had only been thirty, a real fresh-faced half-Elf with a talent for magic. He was only around two hundred at best, and that meant…
He dyed his hair. It was probably white-ish. But he was no silver-maned half-Elf. That Eldavin fellow…
That was interesting.
Anyways, the point was that Ceria’s knowledge of half-Elf age had once won her a goose and mana potions. Feor was still old. He was a half-Elf in the real world, and they aged like regular people, by and large.
Half-Elves in villages did not. They created paradises that they defended as well as they could. In truth, some were quite vulnerable—just secluded. They found ways to live in a kind of harmony with whoever ruled the land, and while some clashed and some nations still remembered the half-Elven empire…the villagers were not the half-Elves of cities.
A true, traditional half-Elven village was timeless. You could and did stare at grass growing. Because you fell into patterns.
Rhythms.
Ceria had grown up there. She used to think the seasons changed so fast. When she left the village—she had been so shocked at how fast people moved. In the village, you said, ‘look, there’s a nice spot of land. I’ll plant some strawberries there.’
And your best friend would smile and nod. A year later you’d remember you said that—but it was all frosted over. So you waited another year, missed the timing because you’d lost your strawberry seeds, and they were all eaten by the squirrels. Bought some more.
Eight years later, your friend would wander by and find a field of strawberry bushes and say, ‘where did that come from?’ And you would remind them and they’d laugh and say how quickly you did it.
That was what Ceria had once seen happen with her grandmother. And yes, her grandmother had been going grey, but when Ceria had asked about her age?
“Why would I bother counting?”
Half-Elves didn’t bother, so the problem of their age didn’t come up. Young Ceria had lived in that village in a time-out-of-time for a long while. She had learned expressions and actions there that even other half-Elves found odd.
For instance—her favorite catchphrase.
Tree rot. Everyone thought it was such a mild epithet, but it wasn’t. It was the kind of thing half-Elves said when they were really mad. Why?
Well, think about it. You turn your back and half the forest is covered in slime, mushrooms, and mold. For a village that could pass eternity by, it was a terrible plague, and they hated it as much as bugs that ate into their forests. Termites? Forget about it.
Half-Elves would rather fight [Bandits] than a colony of bark beetles. Why? Because you had half-Elves who practiced hunting ‘on the side’ over three centuries. Not [Hunters]; just a hobby. Who could put an arrow in your eye from a thousand paces. Bugs? Not as easy; you’d battle them for years and years and they’d ruin your perfect pattern.
They loved patterns in the traditional villages. There were legends about half-Elves who mastered crafts and art by doing them for countless decades.
Why did that matter? Well, because Ceria had known the old villages. She had been there, had left—and, frankly, the Springwalker village was unlikely to want her back. It had only been…what, twenty-plus years?
They definitely remembered. If she strolled back in they’d throw rocks at her and claim she’d just been kicked out not a week ago.
It felt so long ago to Ceria. Not at all to them. That was because she was what they called ‘time-touched’. A derogatory expression to refer to half-Elves who walked the mortal world. It was a poor thing.
Ceria stopped on the deck of the Shifthold and looked at Irurx. Another half-Elf from home.
“Sister. This way.”
He gestured towards one of his hooded crew holding the cabin door open. Ceria smiled faintly. He was staring at her circlet. Twice, now, he’d probed it with a spell.
She was wary. Even nervous. But she had weighed his ‘invitation’ and decided to join him. The half-Elf murmured as she strode across the decks.
“Entanglement.”
Another word from home. A word half-Elves who had lived long used to talk about those that would soon die.
They did not die from age. Their blood was only half-crossed with immortals, but it was enough. What half-Elves knew, what they mourned and saw, was how even the best of them ended their lives.
Entangled. They could live their lives in solitude and live almost forever. But these static villages, entire colonies, individuals—they died when they cared. When they grew entangled with the short-lived folk. Ceria looked at Irurx, and wondered which he was. He was certainly old. The [Alchemist] shifted ever-so-slightly. His hand hovered over his mask as he began to remove it.
He had heard Ceria. She smiled politely as she stepped towards the cabin door. And reminded him. Immortality was a lovely, fragile, blooming flower. It only lived alone. When it entered the weeds—when it tangled with mortal, dangerous lives, however beautiful and long-lived and perfect it was—
That was how forever died.
 
——
 
He knew the phrase ‘entanglement’ too. It was practically required reading, understanding how half-Elves saw the world. They were among the most numerous quasi-immortals.
If you were gifted the right to live beyond mortal spans, take the time to study. You have forever. Understand the choices. Understand the…consequences.
Study two species—well, study them all, but study two to know how to live forever, to guard your immortality well.
Study half-Elves and their villages.
And study the Fraer-folk.
Long-lived and short. Fraerlings could live long, but they lived alongside great danger. Study both, to see how both prolonged life.
He knew entanglement. He knew the dangers completely well; it had already begun to weave around him. He had begun vendettas and blood feuds. Made enemies. Made himself a target. He could still escape the net of his death.
But there lay the key difference between them and he, those half-Elves, content in their hedonism. A hedonism of time, an arrogant selfishness that troubled no one and helped no one.
They wanted to live forever, or as long as they could.
He did not. Half-Elves would let their hearts beat for millenia, in solace, in repose. His would be far shorter, for all he could strive for longer.
Yet the worth of every second spent would be reflected across a hundred thousand hearts, a million. A day of happiness and bliss that never ended throughout their rich lives.
Fetohep of Khelt wondered if Khelt was entangled. No—it surely was. He had begun it, with Princess Jecaina. He would have answered for those sins gladly, for all he had taken part of Jecrass to feed Khelt for future generations.
However, the call had come. Come from the very first [Queen] of Khelt and every ruler hence. Forget peace. Forget waiting. 
Now was the hour to drive Khelt so deeply into the sands that Chandrar shook. Fetohep spoke once.
“Almost.”
The mortal woman cringed, but it was not a rebuke. Fetohep lifted his hand.
