Ceria glanced up at Irurx as she snapped another leg and went for the orange sauce next. She took a bite—pushed the dish away.
“What is that?”
“Orange-flavored sauce of some kind. Sweet and spicy.”
“Not for me. Eugh.”
Irurx saw Ceria glance up. She smiled and went on.
“The reason you didn’t kill me, Alchemist Irurx, is that you want something. Everyone does. Maybe it’s the circlet. Maybe it’s to talk and then kill me. But I think…you’re curious. You want something. So I’m in danger. But I also think you’re not leaning towards killing me yet.”
He was fascinated. The half-Elf [Alchemist] sat there, eyes flickering over her face.
“Does your circlet grant you the power to read minds, or intuit such things? Or do you have a Skill, Adventurer Ceria?”
She laughed and poured herself another cup.
“No. I just know when someone’s getting ready to murder me. We’re not there yet. Is there dessert, by any chance?”
She lifted her cup in a silent toast. Irurx began chuckling. The crewmember watched them both. Yes, oh yes.
He was exceedingly curious. He leaned to the side, whispering urgently.
“Yes. Fetch me any if we looted any. Gelato…something from the hold. Sweet. Not the rations. Sweet and in a container. Understand? Show it to me, first.”
Ceria watched the odd interaction with the crewmember, who walked past her. Then, as it opened the door, the wind and rain blew inwards a bit and the remains of their crab-dinner blew slightly. Ceria heard something rattle, then a lid hit the floor.
Irurx cursed. She saw a flurry of movement—and then it happened. There was a rustle—
And fifteen large, large cockroaches swarmed onto the table and covered the crabs. Ceria saw their fat abdomens wriggling, their wings fanning—Irurx raised his hand.
“I apologize for—”
He looked up to see the half-Elf girl recoil. To see her blanch or scream, and regret the moment was over. Instead? Instead of doing what any half-Elf in the villages would have, she idly picked up a roach, which immediately panicked.
“I know I asked for dessert, but these guys don’t taste that good. Even if you dip them in honey. I’m sort of full.”
She held it to her mouth, pursed her lips, and tossed it down. It fled behind the crab and all fifteen roaches looked up.
“What?”
Irurx felt like he had stopped breathing for a moment. Ceria eyed them.
“Bugs. Taste awful. Except for honey-ants. Ever had them? They have these abdomens made of sweet stuff.”
“I know them. But you—you eat bugs?”
Ceria smiled, glancing at Irurx.
“Yep.”
The cockroaches stared up at her in horror. She does—they swarmed off the table and back towards their jar.
Ceria looked at them. Then the jar sitting in the corner of the room. Then she thought about Shifthold, about that strange scream. And about the sails that were so familiar and not. Not hide. Not skin…but glossy. Like…
Chitin. Ah. And those figures. And—
She saw Irurx turn back to her and saw him smile. Uncertainly. Like he thought he was being pranked.
“You truly don’t seem bothered. Is it your circlet, or the nature of being an adventurer?”
“No. I just eat bugs. I did all the time, growing up.”
For some reason, Irurx began to get angry.
“In a village? Don’t be…”
Ceria sighed. She didn’t talk about it to anyone. Not really. She looked at Irurx.
“No. When I left. I didn’t know how to fend for myself, not properly. I stole things. I hunted and ate raw eggs and even tree bark—and bugs. I still eat them, now and then. I feel like I have to. I nearly starved to death.”
Bugs were not tasty, but…Irurx sat back. Then he blurted out what was burning on his lips.
“You consume insects? You are the only—I dine on them as well. Crabs are the acceptable food, socially, but I—this ship—I do the exact same.”
A huge smile reappeared on his lips. Ceria rested her chin on her hands.
“Now that’s interesting.”
What an odd connection. It had nothing to do with the circlet. When the masked figure came back in, edging through the door with a bundle of what turned out to be old, molded shortcake, Irurx instantly sent him back to fetch a small tin of actual honey-ants. The crabs and shortcake went into the recycling bins…
The jars of bugs. Which sat around the room. There was no fear of Irurx knocking one over and having an infestation. They were…not pets. Not tame, not exactly. But they had an understanding.
Ceria was realizing this as she saw the odd movement of the masked crewmember. The way its body was so odd. The name of this ship.
This was Shifthold. She began to suspect what she would see next. But for now…
“Butterfly trees. You know? They hang on branches, thousands of them.”
“You ate them? Truly?”
Ceria shook her head.
“Their wings taste awful. I think they’re poisonous. And their actual bodies? It’s not really a meal, even if you grab a hundred. I threw up for two days after I tried—so I used them as bait for fishes. Worked just fine.”
Irurx was smiling with delight, eyes lighting up. He was leaning forwards now, talking animatedly. Someone understands me. Someone…
“I confess. I had—untoward plans—once I heard of your Relic, Ceria Springwalker. But I also had hope. Hope, when I heard what it might do. Now? I think it might be providence. I would like to…show you something.”
And here his face clouded, grew reserved. He wasn’t quite sure. But he wanted to be.
“I would like to show you Shifthold in its entirety. It is a privilege few earn, though many witness it. I would like to see what you make of it.”
Her reaction would decide everything. The young half-Elf woman wiped her mouth on her arm. She stood casually, and nodded.
“I thought it would come to this. Lead on.”
Slowly, Irurx opened the door, conjuring a shield to protect them from the red rain. There was fighting everywhere in Runsblud. Screaming, violence…Ceria Springwalker glanced at it, calmly as could be.
Not idly; she was watchful for danger. Yet she had looked at him and Shifthold and even the roaches with the same lack of fear or hatred or revulsion. Irurx licked his lips. Yet that was one thing.
Shifthold’s truth another. He pointed towards the dark stairwell and door that led to the deep decks below. The crew stirred. The ones keeping watch drifted after Irurx, but he motioned them back as Ceria walked ahead of him towards the stairs. He put a hand in his robes and clutched at a bottle. He did not wish to be…discourteous to a guest.
But she wore a Relic. But he wanted her to understand. Perhaps? Maybe? Someone in this wide world, who understood—let alone one of his kind? He realized he was trembling with nerves.
 
——
 
Ceria Springwalker had been on worse dates. She was surprised, really. Irurx was…
Oddly desperate. Perhaps it was because he hadn’t expected her to eat bugs. Perhaps he just didn’t get out much. Then again, if he was prepared to waste her with that bottle if he didn’t like what she did—she doubted many romantic interests got much further.
Shifthold was one of the places.
One of the places.
Like A’ctelios Salash.
Like the depths of Liscor’s dungeon.
Like the City of the Dead.
A place where normal was dead. Not just magical. Not just strange. Strange was Erin’s inn.
This was the kind of place that some people might call…wrong.
Somewhere where laws were being broken.
Where someone had done…something.
Or something had happened.
The kind of thing that led a nation to burn every [Alchemist] alive. Then—one of the survivors had gone home. Been rejected by his people. Fled every nation and law and…
Fallen deeper.
Shifthold. A ship that was tolerated in some ports because of what it sold. Potions to make you stronger. Potions to give you temporary Skills. Expertise you did not own. And, in his way, Alchemist Irurx had become an expert in other substances and creations. Thus he had named his ship, which seemed to constrict and move as Ceria walked down the stairs.
There was a second door there. Unlocked. It was the only thing truly made of metal on this ship; there were nails and bracings, but this was the only metal thing. A foreign object. The rest of Shifthold…the ship…it was in the name.
Change. But not that of A’ctelios Salash. Oh, no. That was just the foundation. Shifthold bought the meat from there. It bought [Slaves] and took prisoners. It conducted dark experiments, but it was no copycat. The foundation for Irurx’s work? He had studied the most adaptive creatures he could. Plagues that even his folk could not easily remove from their sanctuaries.
Possessing abilities beyond the normal species. The ability to…transform. Remake themselves completely. After all—had not one kind nearly overthrown the Blighted Kingdom and taken Izril?
The door opened, and the belowdecks scuttled. The crew, unmasked, ungarbed, looked up. Something clicked in the darkness.
A bulging sac twitched. They hung from hooks. They writhed in containment fields. They grew, eating A’ctelios’ flesh. They changed. Some of them had been people. Some were waiting, and flinched away from the [Alchemist]’s return.
Shifthold.
Ceria Springwalker stood in the light of the moonlit sky. Red light, seeping into the hold. There was light here, but it came from no magic. Nor flame. It made everything look worse than…no. It wasn’t really possible to make it worse, was it?
Irurx stood behind her. Alchemist Irurx. The Alchemist of Change. The monster exiled from half-Elven lands.
[Heretical Swarmlord Alchemist]. He lifted the moving, shaking bottle and watched her face. Hoping. Searching for…
Understanding? No. Acceptance? No. What he so dearly wanted, what he had idly wondered and now which had a hold over his heart was…
Appreciation. Do you see it? You are free from morality. Do you see…?
But he also wanted her to recoil. To gasp. To show him, like every single person who had stood here, her frailty in front of his creations.
No one had ever stood and beheld Shifthold without flinching. Even Irurx. Not half-Elves, not even Bloodtear’s [Pirates] or famed [Marauders] and [Murderers]. Even Roshal’s [Slavers] had cried out and fled.
He was smiling. Even now, if he sat down, in that moment, Irurx wouldn’t have been sure if he wanted her to scream and try to flee—or embrace it.
He waited a moment, watching her face. Waiting…waiting…
A second rolled by. A flash of lightning illuminated the below-decks. The things began to move. One of the cocoons twitched harder. The prisoners stared at Ceria, tubing attached to their veins. Outside, Runsblud howled with violence.
Ceria Springwalker stood there. Looking around. Irurx’s huge smile…wavered. She looked into each shadow. She stared at the things crawling across the ground. She stared into the cocoons and realized what they had been. She looked into the eyes of the prisoners, and the experiments.
She looked back at Irurx and saw what lay behind the masks of his crew…changed, bound to him in loyalty and madness.
Her face never changed. The [Alchemist] stared at her, unsettled. Ceria looked back into the depths of Shifthold.
“Huh. It’s about what I expected.”
“What?”
The [Alchemist] stumbled as if she had struck him. Ceria Springwalker looked around again.
“Yep. Ew.”
That was her reaction. No horror. No outrage. No fascination nor understanding. The half-Elf wrinkled her nose faintly.
Ew.
Irurx hesitated. The bottle was in his hands, but Ceria pivoted and he realized—she’d cast [Ice Armor]. Her lips, her real lips, moved within the faint sheen of colored ice.
“What were you expecting, Alchemist Irurx? For me to be horrified? If I didn’t have my circlet—you’d probably get your wish. Are we doing this?”
He stared at her. Then the worst exploded out of him.
“How do you not see anything? What you expected? This is my life’s work! This is such that even A’ctelios’ own creations flinched away from it! See what I make!”
She looked over her shoulder.
“I see it.”
“Can’t you see the beauty in it? You? You—doesn’t that Relic free you? Free you from misconceptions and the banality of people?”
He pointed a trembling finger at the circlet. That was why he wanted it. Or her—he wanted to see with eyes unfettered by even his own limitations or foibles! Ceria reached up and touched the circlet on her head. She looked at him and smiled, almost pityingly.
“Oh. I get it, Alchemist Irurx. You think I would have loved this. Loved…you. You, and Shifthold, because of what it does.”
Freedom from Morality. Ceria looked over her shoulder again. At the suffering and insanity. She shook her head.
“I don’t love that. I don’t like it. It is cruel. Disgusting—especially that.”
She pointed blandly at something that started at her, half-formed. Ceria wrinkled her nose.
“Yes. I can see how disturbing it is. It doesn’t bother me, though. That’s where you’re right. See the beauty? That’s where I’m afraid you’re wrong, Irurx. Even if you take this circlet from me and put it on someone else, you won’t get what you want. It’s only beautiful to you.”
She looked back at him, and the [Alchemist] recoiled as if she’d struck him. Ceria’s pale eyes were calm.
“It is the truth my people—a glorious—”
The circlet on her head gleamed as the half-Elf [Cryomancer] spoke.
“No. It is not an objective fact. I am free from morality, I suppose. It’s an odd feeling. But even so—I don’t like what you’ve done here. If I thought I could, I would stop you. Since I can’t—I’ll do nothing.”
“Stop me. You? Who’s freed from—”
“Free does not mean ignorant.”
Ceria moved. She grabbed the bottle he held, and her fingers closed over the stopper. Shifthold stirred, but now they were locked together. Ceria stared at Irurx.
“It’s still there. I can see it. I don’t like this place. Not because I care for anything in here. But because I have friends who would be horrified. Because this place would do terrible things to people I care about. I find it mildly offensive. But I’d also like to live.”
The [Alchemist] stared at her. His expression was trembling. Shifting as much as his ship.
Confusion—then to disappointment, anger—sadness—longing.
“You can see what I am doing.”
“Yes. Searching for something. But it’s not terrifying.”
“Why?”
Such a plaintive question. As if a child were asking it. Why don’t you see anything here? Ceria smiled. They were wrestling for the bottle now, and if it opened—she grabbed for it with two hands, but he was so strong. Changed by his own formulas.
“—Because—I’ve seen worse. I’ve seen things I don’t understand. This? You made this. I understand this. It’s just bullying. It’s just cruelty.”
He pulled and Ceria saw the bottle lift. The fragile glass crack in his grip. Irurx stared at Ceria, mystified.
