And the pillar punched through her body. She stood there, then threw up her hands.
“Oh no. You got me!”
The [Captain] blinked at her. Then whirled.
An [Ice Lance] hit her barrier and knocked her backwards. She caught herself—aimed around.
“She’s damned invisible, [Captain]!”
A [Pirate] called out. The Selphid snarled.
“I don’t need your help, you idiots! I—”
She hesitated, looked around, and spat.
“So that’s what that fucking thing does.”
Ceria peeked around one of her [Ice Walls]. She also poked her head over a little ridge of ice. A third Ceria stood in the open, aiming her wand at the [Captain].
Illusions. One shot an [Ice Spike] and the [Captain] dodged—and the [Ice Spike] passed straight through one of the [Pirates], who recoiled with a yell. Another [Mage] looked at the Cerias, wide-eyed.
“I can’t tell which ones are fake!”
Illusion magic. Her circlet was shining. The [Captain] whirled, blasting at the Cerias—a wall of ice rose, ten feet tall, and then tried to fall on top of her. The Selphid kicked off it with an oath—she flew through the air.
Rampaging. Strong and able to cast [Earthen Pillar] and throw it around. She turned around, laughing.
“Is this the circlet or you? Come on, Gold-rank! Show me what you have! Is that your best spell?”
She raised her own wall of stone and an [Ice Lance] shattered on it. Her magic punched through an Frost Elemental and one of Ceria’s walls.
She had the magic Ceria did not. They were both Tier 4 spells. But one of them had been at that level longer, figured out how to make it stronger.
If Pisces were here, Ceria would have been able to let him support her with [Invisibility] spells. Yvlon could have taken the [Captain] in a straight fight, and Ksmvr was fast enough to dodge those things.
“I miss my team.”
The Ceria Springwalker standing in the open sighed. The other two Cerias not dead flickered out of existence.
The [Pirate Mage-Captain] spun warily to face Ceria.
“Out of tricks already? That circlet’s not that impressive. Or is it you?”
Ceria idly tapped it. The [Captain] looked around, expecting a trick. Which she was wise to. Ceria lifted it up and admired it.
“It’s true. I can’t make full use of it. Not yet. It even had to feed me mana so I could cast all those spells. It doesn’t have infinite magic. And I don’t have any Tier 5 spells or boosters. Yet. I’ll work on it. Good lesson.”
The Bloodtear Captain eyed her.
“You think you’ll get out of here?”
Ceria Springwalker smiled. She glanced up and to the side for a second.
“I think so. Ready? Take your best shot, if you dare.”
She aimed her wand at the [Captain]. The Selphid hesitated. She linked the magic in her mind. The largest [Earth Pillar] yet appeared in the air over Ceria’s head. It hammered the ground—but she was skating away.
Straight into a wall of earth. Ceria whirled in shock—as if she was the only person who could control a battlefield. Two shackles of earth leapt from the ground and grabbed around her ankles. She lurched. And the final [Earth Pillar] shot from the wand.
 
——
 
“Ereiyne!”
Captain Aldrail roared. He charged through the watching [Pirates] with Jiupe and another [Captain]. Too late. They saw the [Earth Pillar] fire. Captain Ereiyne’s signature move, which could crack the decks of unenchanted ships.
It struck home. The thunderous roar of ice and stone and bone filled the air. Aldrail watched, throwing up his paws to block shrapnel.
Wait.
Ice and stone and—?
Captain Ereiyne slowly backed up. She stared at the thing she’d hit. Two vast, glowing, purple flames stared back at her.
Two pissed flames in empty eye sockets. She had hit a giant…
Head. Poking out of the ground. Slowly rising upwards. But not a skull. Not precisely a skull. Not of ivory. Nor of ice.
Rather, ice coating bone, like skin. A paw rose, with glittering nails of ice, and slammed into the ground. Aldrail heard Jiupe whisper.
“Krakens. I thought she wasn’t a [Necromancer]!”
Slowly, the giant bear’s head rose higher as the rest of the monstrosity pulled itself upwards.
It dwarfed everyone here, towering over the houses. A huge monster of ice and ivory.
A Frostmarrow Behemoth.
Ceria Springwalker stood on its head. Circlet shining. Her eyes were glowing.
 
——
 
Death magic linking completed. Mana reserves: 49%.
It wasn’t quite in that way, but it burned across her mind like she had always known it.
Death magic. The other half of the combined spell. But without Pisces it was—
It all made sense now. What the circlet did. Revine was right.
What was a [Mage]’s greatest weakness? That they were alone. Even the Putrid One, for all his strength, was one magic. And magic…
Linked spells. She could cast linked spells through the circlet. The Frostmarrow Behemoth roared like an avalanche falling, and Ceria looked down.
“This is my best spell. Want to try yours again?”
The Bloodtear Captain looked up. Then she stepped back. Grinning. Raising her hands.
“Now there’s a fight. What say you?”
Four Bloodtear Captains stood there. Ceria cursed as she saw Aldrail and Jiupe. She spread her hands.
“I killed four [Pirates] from Ereiyne’s ship. I’m not sure about yours, Captain Aldrail, Captain Jiupe. Can we be friends? It’s a Drowned Night. But that woman is my friend.”
“What say you leave her and we call it even? We’ll be sporting, but it’s four versus one. Even if it’s just us.”
Jiupe tilted her head. Ceria Springwalker smiled.
“I’ve still got my circlet. It could do anything. I could do anything. Try to kill her and die.”
“Well said. Well said!”
The Bloodtear Captains shouted their approval. Ceria Springwalker was sweating. Because in a game of bluffs and cards, they’d call every time. They’d raise the stakes, turn the table over, and pull out the blades.
She saw Aldrail looking at Ereiyne. At Jiupe and the last [Captain]. Taking a silent vote. Ceria Springwalker closed her eyes.
Stupid people. Them and her. People who said, ‘this is the line, cross it and die’, and meant it. Who went into a city and risked their lives for a friend.
Ridiculous. Except…if there was a point. A point to all of it. The half-Elf spoke, to the Bloodtear Captains, to the air, and they listened. After all—they loved and admired moments and people like these.
“I care only for my friends. I went into a Death-zone for a friend. My team is scattered across Chandrar. This night, I walked into Shifthold’s depths. I walked out, because I didn’t care. My team matters. To find them and save them, and to bring my friend back—I will make any pacts. I will do what it takes. Believe in that.”
She looked down. Slowly, the four [Captains] turned. They eyed the lone figure standing on the docks. Then…the figures that appeared out of his shadow.
Alchemist Irurx watched her. The Bloodtear Pirates hesitated, unsure of what he was doing. But Ceria only lingered on him for a moment. She raised her head.
“Someday, I will go back to Wistram and avenge my mentor. I will walk Wistram’s higher floors. I am Illphres’ apprentice. Believe me.”
She reached up to the blood-soaked sky. A hand reached down. Revine Zecrew clasped her hand.
“I believe you.”
The Siren of Savere floated downwards and came to rest on the Frostmarrow Behemoth’s head. Her imperious gaze swept those below, and Ceria saw the Bloodtear Captains look up in alarm. Revine turned to Ceria.
“Put your magic in mine.”
Ceria nodded. Her eyes turned upwards, and the Siren of Savere raised her hand.
“Siren!”
Ereiyne raised her wand, but hesitated. [Rogues] had taken to the rooftops and were aiming bows down at her. Revine Zecrew stared down at the [Pirates] and her lip curled.
“This is my city. This is my kingdom. I did not give your fleet permission to land. Nor do you have the right to touch my people. This Drowned Night is over.”
“You can’t cancel a Drowned Night!”
Ereiyne shouted up at her. The Siren of Savere ignored her. She lifted her hand upwards, fingers splayed wide against the backdrop of the sky. Sweat appeared on her brow.
Ceria’s circlet was shining. She was sweating too, cold drops that turned to ice on her brow. Her flesh-and-blood hand clasped the Siren’s.
Slowly, the [Mage-Captain] stared upwards. She slowly muttered as she backed away.
“Krakens fuck me. I hate [Hydromancers].”
Aldrail stared at her, and then his [Dangersense] began to prickle. He glanced over his shoulder for his ship; [Pirates] were looking at the Siren, around for danger. Then they looked at the right place.
Straight up. The blood-red skies were slowly dissipating. The crimson combined Skill of the Bloodtear Pirates faded. Turned…grey.
But not lifeless. The skies swirled darkly overhead, like a [Sailor]’s nightmare. Winter storms.
The temperature dropped. A staring Bleakbeak Raider peered up and saw something fall from the sky instead of the bloody water.
It looked like—
The first dart of sharpened water went through the Stitch-man’s eye. Then another fell.
A needle of ice. Just a sharpened tip of ice…falling as fast and as hard as rain. Hardly a deadly weapon.
But then another drop fell. And another. And—and then it was raining. Raining—but every drop was a falling shard of ice.
The skies opened up. Ceria gasped, collapsing, and the Siren swayed. But she had enough energy to raise her hand and create an umbrella of water that caught the shards.
Everyone was in disarray. [Pirates] ran towards their ships, shouting, trying to take cover. Garuda dove out of the sky. Even Savere’s few [Rogues] sheltered. The Siren pointed towards the docks and a wave rolled upwards. Six of the Bloodtear ships tore loose from their moorings and drifted towards the sea.
And the rain fell. A combined spell. A linked spell.
“We made this one a while ago. Rediscovered it. With it, we could fight an army.”
The Siren stared up at the deadly rain. Ceria frowned upwards.
“What is it called?”
Revine smiled sadly.
“[Rain of Frozen Tears].”
The Drowned Night ended. For the first time in Runsblud’s living memory, ended not because of blood and killing or the sun, but because of the rain. Revine stood with Ceria.
“I could take that circlet now.”
Ceria was panting, seeing her ice melt. Omusc sat up, yelped, and tried to go back under cover. Ceria looked at Revine.
“But you won’t.”
“Why wouldn’t I?”
Revine seemed half-insulted, half-amused. Ceria shook her head.
“Because everyone needs someone they can trust. The [Pirates] haven’t left yet. Besides—if I help you, and you help me, we both benefit. The Siren of Savere is too canny to steal my circlet.”
Revine snorted.
“You are as bold and reckless as can be. Even Illphres had more sense, and she was as mule-headed as a block of ice. You need better magic. Come on, before either one of us collapses and they realize we’re out of magic.”
She turned, realized they were standing on the Frostmarrow Behemoth’s head, and Ceria laughed. It slowly lowered, and she nodded. They walked together, as Omusc ran under their umbrella. Alchemist Irurx, the [Pirates], Savere watched.
And Ureita, awash with tears. At the Siren and Ceria Springwalker. Who they would tell stories about. The bearer of a Relic-class item.
The half-Elf who had walked into Shifthold and survived. Who had faced down four Bloodtear Captains and survived a Drowned Night. For, you see, it was about the moment, not the exact details or technicalities.
Friend of the Siren of Savere. Captain of the Gold-rank team, the Horns of Hammerad.
Ceria Springwalker, the Ice Squirrel.
 
——
 
The Siren of Savere had a new ally. Everyone was talking about it, but given how gossip networks worked, half of the people who heard about the Siren’s increased power were uncertain whether or not it was because she had allied with a powerful [Cryomancer]…or bought a new pet.
Now, though…now, they said she was moving. Preparing Savere’s lawless army to give chase to the Empress of Beasts. She had thrown the Bloodtear Pirates out of her port city and was advancing into the conflict that had engulfed this region of Chandrar.
At the same time? People in Tyrant’s Rest, the capital city of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, and abroad watched the video of Prince Zenol returning to his homeland. Nerrhavia’s Fallen had too many [Princes] to count. Far too many, some claimed quietly.
But here was an instant hero. Not least because he had traveled home to aid another adventurer. Yvlon Byres, the Silver Killer, the Human with metal arms. Queen Yisame herself was said to have heard the petition by Prince Zenol.
 
——
 
“Your Majesty, I will vouch on the name of Isphel and my own class that Yvlon Byres was wrongly accused. I ask for an immediate inquiry at the highest levels into Magistrate Ducaz’s claims!”
Prince Zenol stood in the Court of Silks as it exploded. Yvlon Byres stood next to him and saw the angry [Prince] Esceit and his people, the royal line of Quarein, staring daggers.
“You accuse a [Magistrate] of corruption before the crown?”
The [Speaker] of Queen Yisame spoke, her tone imperious, chin tilted upwards. Behind her, the [Queen] herself sat on her throne—the true throne, where other monarchs knelt to supplicate her. Prince Zenol and Yvlon—surprisingly—had been granted permission to rise.
“I do, Your Majesty. No less than I ask that the crown pardon Yvlon Byres, that she might seek her team. She is an adventurer among adventurers and has triumphed where Named-adventurers died. In the Village of the Dead! Should her reward and view of Nerrhavia’s Fallen be that of a kingdom where corrupt men pervert justice? Do we not honor courage and valor?”
Zenol met the [Speaker]’s eyes fearlessly—not Yisame herself. The [Speaker] pursed her lips.
“You are bold, to implicate our will—that of this great kingdom—in errant justice. Nor do I take it lightly. Prince Esceit Quarein has displeased us with their actions in the Coliseum of Monarchs. Yet Isphel has shed blood between families. This is displeasing. Greatly displeasing.”
Zenol ducked his head.
“Forgive me, Your Majesty.”
The [Speaker] glanced back to the throne, yet there was no twitch, no movement of fingers or nuance of the fan held before Yisame’s face. Smoothly, the [Speaker] turned back and looked down at Zenol.
“Our judgment shall not b—”
She hesitated. Fell silent. The Court of Silks, who had fallen respectfully silent for the [Speaker]—but continued to murmur behind their hands—went abruptly still.
Queen Yisame of Nerrhavia’s Fallen stood. The [Speaker]’s eyes widened—then she was walking backwards into her shadow.
Prince Zenol himself seemed dry-mouthed, and Yvlon’s blush over his effusive compliments turned into nervous heart palpitations. They both looked upwards as the [Queen] herself spoke.
