“Not even Roshal shall find you there. We serve a master beyond any other. Beyond the King of Destruction. Beyond mere [Kings] and [Queens]. Come with us, and be free. All wounds shall be healed there.”
He rested a hand on Eloque’s shoulder. She jerked away, but Izreal’s words struck their mark time and time again.
Even to Pisces. He could not fathom what he saw, not truly. His ears rang and his mind…he felt sick and dizzy.
“It will pass. You will understand the truth if you accept it, believe. There is a book. A sacred text. Soon, there will be more. This is the beginning of true glory. Will you not come with us, Pisces Jealnet?”
Marrieh looked at him. Pisces half-shook his head.
“I must find my team. My friends. I have promised to lead these people…elsewhere.”
“Is it safer than where we are going?”
“The Great Desert? No. I don’t think so.”
Pisces smiled, but he couldn’t be condescending. Bread was still falling from the skies, and water from nothing? It was real food. Not even a cornucopia artifact…Marrieh smiled at him.
“You doubt. I will pray that you reconsider. Look up—is there anything you can claim is greater than this? Any magic? Any Skill? This is the work of our Lord. This is…”
She hesitated. Frowned. Pisces had seen it too. Merr broke off her enraptured staring and snapped.
“Incoming!”
The [Slaves] ran backwards, shouting in alarm. The People of Zeikhal turned, surprised. Pisces recoiled—then stared upwards.
“What? Wh—”
He dove, leaping sideways, and the first gilded chest smacked into the ground in front of him. Another popped out of the air, and Marrieh ran as it went whumph into the sand and dirt.
Three more popped out of the air and hit the ground around Pisces. He picked himself up and stared upwards. No more attack-boxes emerged from the sky.
“That was—what was that? That was no Skill. Not even the [Prophet]…”
Marrieh was staring nervously at the chests. They were all rich, properly gilded boxes of sculpted, polished wood. Pisces stood up.
“That was no Skill. That was a teleportation spell. But what…?”
“Pisces! Get back! They could be attack Mimics! Or about to explode!”
Merr hollered at him. Pisces hesitated. He was of the same mind, but he thought he knew what they were.
But how? He had one idea. Yet this didn’t seem like Az’kerash’s style. He was about to retreat and have Ivery open a box when he saw something fluttering on top of the first one.
It had, in big, bold handwriting…his heart leapt.
 
To Pisces.
 
The young man slowly reached out, grabbed the note, and retreated. He unfolded it, ready to drop it if it contained a hostile spell. But it had no magic. Just words.
Izreal and the others had clustered around to see what was going on. Merr jogged over as Pisces read the note. Eloque, Bearig, Qshom, and Rophir came too.
They saw the young man blink—then turn dead white. He nearly dropped the note, then clutched it to his chest. Stared at the chests.
“Pisces? What is…?”
Slowly, the young man walked over to one of the chests of holding and opened it. Everyone gasped as they saw it was laden with sacks of neatly-packed, high-quality food. A second had armor, weapons. A third? Potions and scrolls.
“What? How?”
“Someone sent it to us. To me.”
That was Pisces’ only answer. Izreal’s look of simple pride and conviction faltered for a moment. He stared at Pisces.
“Is that the work of your…this other believer?”
He glanced uncertainly at Marrieh, then Pisces. The [Necromancer] turned. He blinked at Izreal, and then, to the man’s surprise, smiled. He laughed and read the note again.
“No. Not my master or lord. Someone…sillier.”
The blank look Izreal gave him, of sheer uncomprehending stupefaction, was so familiar. Pisces read the note again.
It was the wrong handwriting. Perfectly legible. But…he held it carefully. It was a short message. Rambling, slightly incoherent, and entirely confusing. It was the end he read, again and again. Something that Eloque and Merr, peeking over his shoulders, couldn’t understand. Why did he have tears in his eyes?
 
I’m not dead, only chilling. Don’t die on me, I have to serve you pasta again.
 
It was simply signed—
Erin Solstice.
Pisces Jealnet looked up at the sky.
He believed.
