“What should I do with you? I had such hopes. Now…even what you hold, I want less. But I still want it.”
The buzzing. Figures were above decks, shapes behind her. Ceria sighed. She put up her hands.
“Irurx. I came with you politely, as a guest. We enjoyed ourselves, didn’t we? I didn’t see what you wanted, but I am not here to stop or kill you or even judge you. Why don’t we speak? Or at least—go our separate ways.”
He looked at her, bottle raised. Ceria’s circlet shone without any magic he could see. She was a Gold-rank adventurer, but he had held them in Shifthold’s bowels.
“And if I don’t agree?”
Irurx whispered. Ceria’s smile never changed.
“Then, Alchemist. You will find out exactly what this circlet does.”
 
——
 
Revine Zecrew stared at Shifthold, at dock. She had her wand in one hand, and the other was clenched into a fist.
I could sink that damn ship.
Probably. She could certainly attempt to flip it; the [Alchemist] Irurx was not known to be a [Captain], and his ‘crew’ were probably lower-level, if dangerous in other ways.
Then again, she didn’t think it would kill all of them, and she didn’t want that in Runsblud’s bays.
There was blood enough already.
The Bleakbeak Raiders were getting slaughtered. It wasn’t one-sided, but it was going Bloodtear’s way. With a storm at their backs and wind and rain pelting everything, the Garuda were grounded, and the [Pirates] were fighting on their terrain, despite being on land.
Blood and death. Where was Ceria? What had possessed her to be so foolish?
Irurx got to her. If I hadn’t realized what he was planning—
He was a high-level [Alchemist]. Probably—definitely over Level 50. For all she had that circlet, Ceria was twenty levels below him, at least.
She might be dead. Or wishing she were dead. Revine was debating going down there. However—
She was afraid she couldn’t waste any magic. Not with Bloodtear moving through the port. Revine didn’t know for sure, but she had her emergency bag of holding ready, and a skiff was loaded in the secret docks. She was ready to flee Savere. She would not go down with this ship, but nor would she give it up easily.
Damn them. Damn these people getting in the way of her plans. It was Nsiia all over again. That arrogant empress, checking Savere, making costly war—but for her, the Siren would rule an area twice Savere’s current size, and then she wouldn’t need to fear strong groups forcing her hand.
If only she had…the Siren’s concentration lapsed. Then she saw a figure backing onto the decks. Revine focused downwards. Was that—
Ceria! The Alchemist, Irurx, was slowly backing away. And Ceria’s circlet was shining like…Revine’s mouth went dry.
 
——
 
There was a rule most people followed regarding artifacts. When it started shining, making sounds, or screaming at you, back away.
Alchemist Irurx had read the Adventurer’s Handbook too, clearly. His eyes were locked on the circlet, and his bottle of whatever-it-was was raised defensively now.
“I really don’t want to fight. Let’s agree to go our ways, okay?”
The half-Elf stood with Ceria amidst the rain. His crew was gathered around her, but Ceria Springwalker was cool.
“Truly. You’d just walk away?”
“Why not? You’re not my enemy. I might need to even buy potions from you—but I’ll talk and conduct business off this ship.”
The [Cryomancer] smiled. She was so casual. Irurx’s jaw was clenched in frustration. But he didn’t quite dare get closer.
Not without knowing what the circlet did.
Uncertainty. No…
“Entanglement.”
He jumped at the word. Ceria looked around.
“You don’t know what it does. No one does. Not even me. If there’s even a chance—”
You didn’t get to three hundred and twelve years old by taking those chances. Ceria Springwalker bowed, politely, to the alchemist.
“It’s been fun. Aside from the last part. Let’s agree to leave it here.”
She turned and began walking towards the docks, half-waiting. A spell burned on her lips, but none of the crew moved.
“Wait. Answer me one last thing.”
Irurx called out. He was staring at her. Mystified. Angry—but not mad with it. He pointed at Ceria as the bottle disappeared into his robes.
“Yes?”
She turned. The rain was just wet; not bloody at all. It had a faintly iron smell, but that wasn’t blood. It was still water. Irurx licked his lips.
“You…why did you leave your village?”
It was the last question half-Elves like that asked. The last…Ceria raised her brows. She looked up and sighed. Of all the things they had said and done—that one alone hurt.
“I left because my grandmother died. My grandmother, who raised me and took care of me and told me stories about the outside world. She died, and no one noticed for five months but me. So I burned down her house and left.”
She stepped back onto the gangplank. Irurx stared at her.
“Just that? Just that? I was cast out for delving into dark alchemy! Forbidden magic and experiments! They threw me out of my village the first time for creating an insect the likes of which no one had seen! It could have tended our forests. The second time they burned every [Alchemist]. I was scarred forever by that fire! My village renounced me and ended itself for shame! You—just that?”
Ceria Springwalker looked at him. Grandiosely small set against Shifthold’s unnatural crew, its reputation, and his famous name. She shook her head.
“Alchemist Irurx. Does it matter? I didn’t have a grand reason why I left. But I have seen and done things since then that…”
She trailed off. Reached up and touched the circlet. Ceria’s eyes, pale ice, shone. Once they had been a different color. The rain began to turn to sleet around her. Cold.
“I have lived through stories. Fought monsters. I walked into the heart of the Village of the Dead and saw a half-Elf there. Older than both of us combined. Perhaps older than my entire village put together, and yours. I saw him die. The greatest [Necromancer] I have ever seen.”
Irurx’s eyes were round. He mouthed the name.
“The Putrid One. You met—the—his creations! His legacy lives on—”
He stood there, poleaxed, and Ceria shrugged.
“It’s not who we were, Irurx. It’s what we do. I met the Putrid One. And I stole his circlet.”
He looked at her. One of the crew lunged suddenly, but Ceria was already moving. The crewmember slammed mask-first into a wall of ice. Ceria strode down the gangplank, waiting—but Irurx appeared alone on the railings. He and she stared at each other. At last, the [Alchemist] sighed.
“Tell me how to get to the heart. What you saw. I invite you upon my ship in truce and true hospitality. I swear it on truth spells.”
Ceria snorted.
“Come find me tomorrow and bring more wine. And I will tell you.”
He narrowed his eyes, hesitated.
“There were lots of bugs around the center.”
Ceria offered. The Alchemist licked his lips. How strange. She was just walking away—neither enemy nor friend. Just…like a practical adventurer.
He let her go. Irurx stepped back and laughed. Bitterly. He had gotten nothing of what he wanted and still—
“Clever. Too clever. You have walked into Shifthold and back out, Ceria Springwalker. They will tell stories of it, too!”
He walked back towards the belowdecks. He’d bring another bottle of wine. And potions to barter. That was all.
He wasn’t willing to find out the truth of that circlet.
 
——
 
Revine Zecrew met Ceria Springwalker as she returned to the Siren’s Lookout.
Not that Ceria took the streets. The half-Elf had left the ship, amazingly, without a fight beyond casting [Ice Wall]. Then she had headed towards the streets, taken one look at the bloodbath beyond—
And not gone that way. She had jogged back, waved at the Alchemist, and hopped into the sea. Or, rather, onto a pillar of ice, and begun casting [Ice Wall]. She navigated around the ships in their berths towards Runsblud.
Some of the [Pirates] had seen her and clearly weighed taking pot-shots, but they seemed to recognize her and let her pass. By the time Ceria got to the rocks closest to the palace, the Siren had cast a spell.
A staircase made of water led Ceria up to the balcony. She got up a third of the way, then sat down.
“What’s wrong?”
Revine shouted down at her. The storm raged around her, but neither the wind nor air bothered the [Hydromancer]. Ceria hollered back up.
“I’m—out of—breath!”
It was a lot of stairs, and a long walk from port. Even so. Revine stared at Ceria, and a ball of water rose under her and began to carry her up the stairs.
“Thank you.”
Ceria walked onto the balcony. Revine just looked at her.
“Irurx took you to Shifthold. You escaped. Did you see…what lies below?”
All she knew were stories. She had never set foot down there. Ceria grimaced.
“Yep. It’s not pretty. Lots of experiments. Bug-related. Not Antinium—just bugs, I think.”
“Ex—bugs? Was it—and he let you go?”
“Mhm. He didn’t have a choice. See?”
Ceria tapped the glowing circlet on her head. Revine eyed it apprehensively.
“What—what is it doing?”
“Glowing.”
It winked out as Ceria tapped it. She exhaled.
“Whew.”
The Siren of Savere was lost for words for a minute.
“Do you mean you just made it light up and—he let you walk off?”
Ceria smiled crookedly.
“Why not? It’s an adventurer’s oldest trick. Besides, I was pretty sure he couldn’t tell what the circlet was doing. You can’t.”
It was true. Revine couldn’t tell if that was a simple [Light] spell or illusion. Ceria exhaled again.
“I hate bluffing. But it worked so I didn’t have to do anything else. We parted on a truce. He might sell me some potions if I give him some information.”
“About…?”
“The Village of the Dead. Apparently, the [Necromancer] there was some kind of famous person to Irurx. He had undead beetles…I think they were undead. Good luck to Irurx, I say. He can shake hands with what’s inside.”
Revine just looked at Ceria. She was trying, very hard, not to be admiring. She had seen stone-cold bluffs before, but Ceria’s would be the stuff of bar stories among [Sailors], even if they never heard about her lies.
“Few can claim they’ve walked Shifthold’s lower decks and lived. I am glad you survived. It was foolish to take his offer.”
“I didn’t have much of a choice. He brought two of his crew ashore.”
“He did? That—”
“In his cloak. You might want to watch out for it; he’s got reinforcements.”
The Siren cursed. That was a high-level artifact for certain. Maybe a Relic-class object if it could store people. Or was it a Skill?
Either way—she was relieved it ended there. The Siren gestured to the wild streets below with a curled lip.
“As you can see, a Drowned Night has begun. Two more fleets of the Bloodtear Pirates have sailed in. I…believe they may be dangerous. To me.”
Ceria glanced up. The Siren was sweating in the small of her back. She didn’t know if it was wise to tell Ceria, but right now she was scrambling for any allies, and her army was days of marching away from the capital.
“Hm. Are they going to try to assassinate you?”
Revine spat over the balcony.
“They would not assassinate me. It would come in the open. Stay indoors. It will not be tonight. The Bleakbeaks are doomed. Tomorrow…it will be Savere’s own who begin to clash with them. Spill blood.”
Provocations and inciting incidents. That was how she’d do it. Revine’s stomach churned. Then she looked at Ceria and shook her head; the half-Elf was wet and she wasn’t shivering, but no one liked being soggy. Not even Revine.
“Come inside. We will discuss Irurx and the rest—he will not get away with this. I also need to tell my people to stop searching for you. Not that anyone can exactly go out into the streets with…”
Revine began to wave a hand at the chaos below and then hesitated. She cursed.
“Salt for blood! Omusc!”
Ceria turned as she began walking inside.
“Omusc?”
“I…sent her into the city to find you when I thought you’d left. With orders to return with you or not at all. She’s down there. She—might survive.”
Revine bit her lip, feeling genuine guilt. Omusc was a mollusc Drowned Woman, though. She’d survived a lot of fatal injuries thanks to her amazing regenerative abilities. Even so—that was a bloodbath, and Omusc could survive a stabbing, incredible damage—not being sliced into pieces.
Ceria looked at Revine.
“She’s down there?”
“Yes. I will contact her. Omusc is intelligent enough to find a hiding spot. I’m sure she—what are you doing?”
Ceria Springwalker stopped. She had one foot over the balcony. Revine lifted a finger and the water stairs fell into a thunderous cascade of water.
“Don’t be a fool. There are Bloodtear Pirates and raiders and, even if some consider you a friend, no one can see anyone down there.”
Ceria just looked at the Siren.
“Omusc’s a friend. Not a huge one—but I’d feel bad if she died.”
“Don’t be stupid! Circlet or not—”
The half-Elf snorted.
“The circlet has nothing to do with it, Revine. I don’t leave friends to die. Ever. I was always stupid. Not even a Relic can change that.”
She hopped up onto the balcony and windmilled her arms.
“Whoa. That’s slippery. Can you help me?”
“I will not. Come down here! Come d—”
Revine grabbed for Ceria’s legs. She missed. The [Arctic Cryomancer] did a hop. Just a little bunny hop forwards. She met Revine’s eyes and the two locked gazes.
Then Ceria’s butt hit the long slide of ice aiming towards the city’s streets and she shot down with a scream.
“Tree rooooooo—”
Revine saw her move so fast neither she nor Ceria had time to process it. Ceria flashed downwards, hit the ground, and lay there. Revine winced. Ceria levered herself up; she had a bloody nose and scrapes, and drank a healing potion. Then she ran.
I was always stupid. That was what everyone didn’t understand. Not yet. Wearing the Relic of the Putrid One didn’t change her. The circlet? It just made her more of that.
But also? The fighting people on the streets, the [Bandits] and [Raiders] and [Pillager] and [Pirates] and [Marauders] and [Killers]—they got to learn what the circlet also did. And that was let Ceria be the person she imagined. Move, cast like the [Mage] she wanted to be. Revine looked down and saw. Her lips moved and her eyes widened.
 
——
 
Omusc was bleeding. This was how she’d die. Not from her wounds; she pushed herself off the wall, and her chopping cut with her shortsword took a [Pirate] in the neck. He got her in the stomach, but she wrenched the blade free and ran.
“Kill them! Kill—”
A Garuda ran past her, mistaking her for an ally. He covered her with his death; the Bloodtear Pirates were easily distinguishable from the rest.
