Ceria Springwalker sat and listened to rain pounding the roof overhead. A blood storm was coming in. So were the Bloodtear Pirates.
“It may be the end of Savere—at least, the Siren’s long reign. I cannot imagine why now of all times, but Bloodtear may decide to take the capital.”
“Why? They don’t strike me as, uh…ruling types.”
Ceria politely eyed the platter as it was placed in front of her. She sat in the quite sumptuous cabin, and felt it was distinctly not like the rest of Shifthold.
The sides of the ship looked like half-eaten bark. As if it had grown the crusted, barnacle-ladened wood that smelled of rot and fungus—yet Ceria was sure—as tough as could be.
The decks were no better, and the sails were not cloth. Nor hide nor skin—in case that’s what you suspected.
It was something else. Some odd, shiny material, although it was furled up at the moment. A dark sheen. She was piecing together the clues, but it was all still a mystery.
The crew of Shifthold were, like their master, Alchemist Irurx, garbed in dark cloth from head-to-toe. But while his clothing was faded grandeur, expensive, enchanted robes worn dark from alchemical stains that had eaten at the magic cloth itself, their coverings were dark, stained, and only functional.
They were definitely not all humanoid, let alone Human. Some were too tall. Too oddly shaped. They had masks, like Irurx, and said nothing.
One had placed the platter in front of Ceria and served the half-Elf sitting next to her the same. He had taken off his mask. Irurx smiled politely as he replied. He had burn scars all over his face.
“Bloodtear? They are not…builders, but you may be confusing their reputation with the Bloodfeast Raiders of Izril. Imitators. Bloodtear would happily take a powerful base; they have at least one, and they do organize into fleets. Each ship has a powerful [Captain], but they will join together to raid important targets.”
“Oh, I see. I had no idea they could sustain…so many?”
Ceria smiled blandly. She looked at her food as the dish was lifted.
A giant crab. With butter, garnishings—but a huge crab, shell cracked for easy access to the meat. She glanced up. Irurx was watching her.
He was turning grey. But his hair, rather than having any original color, had dark streaks to it. Like soot. His skin was shiny across his neck and up to his cheeks. A terrible burn, never healed. His eyes were a mild reddish-green, mixed but not composite.
“I hope this is to your liking. We eat fresh catches, mostly. I was told you were not averse to meat…unlike those from home, sister. May I call you that? It has been a while since I conversed with someone who knows home.”
Home. The villages. Ceria poked her crab with a fork. It twitched. Was it alive?
No…no, it was properly cooked. But this was not a fork and knife meal. Irurx had the same food, and Ceria eyed her dish. It smelled good, even delicious. There was no poison in it…she glanced up.
“It is quite safe. I would prefer to be cordial.”
He hastened to assure her. Irurx’s eyes focused on Ceria’s face, and then flicked up. She looked at him, then shrugged.
“Fine by me. I love crab.”
She snapped off a leg and began removing the meat. She dipped it in some garlic butter, popped it into her mouth, and was chewing so fast that Irurx blinked.
“You have a commendable appetite.”
“I love seafood. We never got any in the villages.”
Irurx blinked. He looked at Ceria and relaxed slightly. His mask lay on the table next to him and the [Alchemist] raised his hands, somewhat painfully, and removed a leg himself.
He appeared quite ordinary to Ceria. A half-Elf, old, with burns, but he spoke in a fairly dignified accent. Oh—and one of his crew stood silently behind him, waiting for orders, a blank mask with two soulless sockets revealing nothing of what lay within. A grey, stained robe, draped over a body with no apparent shoulders.
Horrific. Imagine one of those standing behind you as you slept? Then you’d look up into that blank, iron mask, and the robe would come up—
Ceria was down three crab legs already. Each time she touched the crab, the pincher snapped. Some kind of automated reaction.
“The villages do not eat meat, by and large. I had almost forgotten. At least—mine did not. Did yours? How long has it been, sister? Apologies, Adventurer Springwalker? For me—it has been over eighty-one years.”
Ceria looked up.
“I think twenty-three for me.”
“So long, already? But you would be…pardon me asking…?”
The half-Elf sighed. Ceria frowned.
“I think I passed sixty-eight. I lost track at one point, but I’m nearing seventy.”
“Ah.”
“And you would be…?”
Irurx hesitated. He put down one leg, and made a gesture. The figure bent at the waist to listen.
“You have forgotten refreshments. And I believe Miss Springwalker would care for a second crab. Perhaps smaller?”
“I can do two. This is great crab.”
Again, the older half-Elf blinked, but smiled.
“Ironclaw Snappers. Fetch another.”
The masked figure moved past Ceria and she caught a whiff of something entirely…foreign? She slowed in eating.
“I apologize. I seldom have guests. Does their visage bother you? Their smell?”
Irurx watched her carefully. Ceria swallowed.
“I’ve smelled worse. They’re somewhat creepy, but I’ve seen worse.”
“Indeed. Astonishing. I can count on one hand those in this century who have had the stomach to dine in Shifthold, let alone quite so…voraciously?”
Again, his eyes travelled upwards. Ceria smiled.
“You did make me a pressing invitation.”
He chuckled.
“I am sorry. But the Siren is notoriously clever, and I knew she would not be occupied long. That was my chance, and I greatly desired speaking with you.”
He had knocked on her door with two of those crewmembers in his wake. Ceria had heard he was forbidden from taking any ashore. Well…no one had seen them after she had agreed to his dining invitation.
They had stepped into the shadow of his robe and vanished.
She assumed they might still be there. Ceria chomped down. Nothing’s wrong with me yet.
“Is that Gnoll fish paste sauce? I love that too.”
Irurx glanced up as the platter returned with a bottle of wine and two glasses. He hesitated, then spoke as it was placed next to the first.
“To answer your question. I am three hundred and twelve years old. I—”
Lightning flashed and boomed outside the cabin. If it had been just a hair earlier it would have been dramatic. As it was, it was just sort of annoying. The rain began pattering harder, and Ceria heard distant booms and a clash of metal on metal in the distance.
“The Drowned Night has begun.”
Irurx glanced towards the port window, then back at her. Ceria swallowed slowly.
“You’re three centuries old? Really?”
He smiled.
“A third of it was spent in a village. I was a century old when I left. Exactly.”
“Wow. That’s…why did you leave?”
Most half-Elves either stayed forever or left when they were younger, like Ceria. He was an odd case. Irurx drummed his fingers on the table and winced. His fingers were gloved, even to eat the crab, and he touched at one hand.
“Tonic.”
The figure who had brought the food left and came back with a bottle. Irurx spoke as he fussed with the glove, poured a tonic over his hand—under the table. It had to be burned too.
“I will tell you. But first, let us speak of home, sister.”
“Alright, brother.”
They stared at each other. Irurx hesitated.
“—Perhaps we should dispense with the familiarity. It sounds—”
“Odd?”
“Entirely uncomfortable, yes.”
Ceria rolled her eyes.
“I met a half-Elf who kept calling me ‘sister’. And she only ate vegetables and she did that thing, you know? We must guide the younger races?”
Irurx closed his eyes.
“I am all too familiar. Perhaps I’ve met her?”
“Falene Skystrall?”
“Skystrall…the village? Yes. That particular half-Elf? No. They’re all like that.”
“Dead gods. Well, I know where I’m not going.”
Irurx smiled and Ceria grinned. The conversation was shifting. Swinging, back and forth, like the gently moving boat. From casual to…
For now, it was pleasant. Ceria pointed at the crab.
“My village would never eat a crab. They’d be horrified. They hate eating things with…faces. Sometimes a [Hunter] would bring in a catch, like once every two months. Or they’d find a freshly-dead animal or whatnot. Then we’d eat it in a stew, or something. But always skinned and processed. No seafood. I thought fish were cute little friends you fed—until I ate one.”
“Ah. That is reasonably adventurous. My village was strictly vegetarian. Some refused to even eat eggs. Not that they wanted for food; they had a Yellat they’d grown for over eighty years. It was taller than my house.”
“Wow. And there weren’t birds or scavengers…?”
Irurx waved a hand.
“Spells. They warded the village outskirts from bugs, the skies…a perfect magical bubble.”
“That’s more magic than my village had, for certain.”
“Yes. They were a gifted village.”
“Which one…?”
Irurx hesitated.
“Therwardn.”
Ceria knew most of the half-Elven villages in the region of Terandria; they knew each other. She hesitated.
“I don’t know…”
“It does not exist any longer.”
“Oh.”
And there they went again. Irurx’s face darkened.
“I did not end it. So we are clear. They…chose to disperse. After they renounced me.”
“Oh. Because of what you did?”
“Yes. After the Grand Endeavor—A’ctelios Salash’s experiments. I returned there to heal and they cast me out. You…do you know much of my history?”
A hand rose to touch his burned face. Ceria slowly swallowed her bite of crab.
“Not at all.”
It seemed to surprise him. He glanced quickly up at her.
“Really. The Siren did not…mention me?”
“She’s been busy with the Bloodtear Pirates. I’ve heard Shifthold is a famous ship, one of the Vessels…but I didn’t look it up.”
“Or me.”
“Nope.”
The half-Elf man looked nonplussed. Ceria reached for the second crab, then noticed the wine bottle.
“Tree rot, is this a genuine vintage from the villages?”
He bestirred himself and smiled.
“None other. You cannot find finer.”
“No, you can’t! Can we—are we—doing this?”
Ceria hesitated, examining the corked bottle of half-Elven wine, which came from perfect vineyards. Irurx gestured.
“I would be delighted to share it with someone else who knows home. In truth—I had wondered how this conversation would go. I am delighted it is so…refreshing?”
Ceria poured herself a cup of wine, took a sip, and smiled.
“It’s nice to talk with someone who’s from home. I’ve met other half-Elves—but I can’t, um, talk with someone who left on purpose. Falene always made it sound like she left to save the world and become an adventurer. She’s a Gold-rank. I met another half-Elf who had lived for four generations in a Human village. We helped her out with a Golem problem.”
Irurx leaned forwards.
“Really. Four generations? As what? A minder?”
“Nope. [Headwoman]. She was married and kept marrying every few decades, I think. She had…children.”
That shocked Irurx as much as it did Ceria.
“I can’t imagine that. The heartbreak. The same village?”
“She gave me a scrying mirror. Here…”
She fished it out and passed the tiny mirror across the table. Irurx reached for it and stared at the inlays around the small mirror.
“This is from the villages.”
Ceria hesitated. She eyed the simple silver decoration; it was so worn she couldn’t make out any reliefs.
“Are you sure?”
He nodded.
“It is. I cannot imagine it was made anywhere else. Not because of the reliefs, you understand. I am no [Jeweler]; I cannot tell what this is supposed to be.”
He indicated the rounded bevels and faint markings that were just a rough oval around the glass. Ceria nodded. Irurx went on.
“I can tell it is pure silver, though. Most [Jewelers] don’t make items out of pure silver; they’ll add an alloy. But half-Elves don’t bother as the few who would mine it would cast out of silver alone. There was also a tradition to keep a bit of silver on oneself…”
“Really. I don’t remember that. The woman—Disabella, I think her name was?—she said that it was a gift from a suitor. I feel bad, now.”
Irurx passed the scrying mirror back.
“It’s an old tradition, and you know what that means among us. Perhaps it was a gift. From a suitor. From home. If so, perhaps you did a kindness, taking it from her. It may be a memory she no longer wished to keep.”
Thoughtfully, Ceria put the mirror away. She took another sip of wine and looked at Irurx.
“This is an enjoyable conversation.”
“Isn’t it? I am astonished. But it is everything…I hoped for.”
He looked at Ceria, hungrily, in a way that had nothing to do with food. She glanced at him, but he lifted a hand.
A ship sailed past the window, into port. Ceria heard a roar as the crew leapt from the railings and joined the fighting. Both half-Elves turned to watch it.
“Are you worried? The Drowned Night doesn’t safeguard people on ships.”
Irurx glanced at Ceria. He smiled. She heard voices pounding up the dock towards this ship. Then…an exclamation.
“Bleeding Shifthold! Back up! Back—”
Something screamed on the decks, right outside the cabin. Ceria whirled, finger raised, but whatever it was leapt off the ship and onto the docks. She knew that because there was shouting—fighting—a shriek, again, not like any animal she had ever heard—
“Keep away from that damned ship! Move into the streets! We’re not after another Vessel tonight!”
Ceria blinked. The screaming died with a wet sound. Someone—the Bloodtear’s [Captain]?—had ended it.
Irurx sighed.
“That would be one of my crew. A shame. I lost two in the storm and pursuit. [Bounty Hunters]. But as you can see, few would dare to do battle with me here. It is a costly endeavor.”
He lifted his cup and drank. Ceria nodded. Irurx lowered the glass, and his eyes sparked as he glanced up.
“Which begs the question—why did you acquiesce so easily? Adventurer or not—knowledge of me or not—I am sure the Siren warned you. Do you fear for your life?”
The ship groaned and rustled around them. Ceria glanced up and saw the masked crewmember looking at her. Irurx waited for her to shiver or for bravado or…
Ceria just took another sip of her wine and stared at the crab, as if wondering if she could fit another two legs into her stomach. The answer was always ‘yes’.
“Fear. I’m a bit nervous. But I don’t think you want to kill me. If you did—I was dead the moment I opened the door. You’d have gutted me, taken the circlet, and been sailing out of Savere before the Siren even knew. You’re cautious because you don’t know what it does.”
