“You, Prince Zenol, return to Nerrhavia’s Fallen in the company of a being that has not walked Chandrar for a hundred years. Cognita Truestone. Lesser, but known across the world—Barelle the [Bard]. You, who fought in Izrilian affairs as an adventurer, have come to the Coliseum of Monarchs and shed the blood of Quarein on its sands. For an adventurer. Yvlon Byres.”
Her gaze swept left, and her eyes, like emeralds, flickered across Yvlon’s face. Zenol’s head was bowed, and he knelt once more. Yisame continued.
“A [Prince] stands before the throne and demands justice for corruption. An adventurer seeks her lost comrades, wrongfully imprisoned by the greatest kingdom of Chandrar. These claims fall upon my ears. So. This is my will.”
She paused, and the Court of Silks rustled. Yisame’s face was impeccable; Zenol and Yvlon were sweating. The Quarein family watched, caught between a desire for vengeance and…apprehension. When Yisame spoke, her words were carried across Nerrhavia’s Fallen.
“Let it not be said that Nerrhavia’s Fallen will lag behind any nation for justice, for righteousness. [Supreme Adjudicator] Coroint will take charge of this investigation.”
Every head swung left and there were gasps. The old Stitch-Man bowed. His eyes glittered as they rested on Yvlon. But the [Armsmistress] thought it was whoever was in his hunt that would truly be having heart attacks.
Yisame went on.
“You, Prince Zenol, have slain a valuable servant of Quarein’s line. Asked for pardon. If Yvlon Byres is freed, what will you do next? Tell us, adventurer.”
She looked down, and Yvlon realized it was her turn to speak. She rose, slowly, every eye on her.
“Your Majesty. If I am freed, I would go to seek my friends. My teammates. I know where one of them is, and the location of another…I think.”
The court stirred. Yisame narrowed her eyes.
“We know of this one. Ksmvr of Chandrar, the Antinium. He rides with enemies of Nerrhavia’s Fallen.”
“With respect, Your Majesty—he is not the enemy of anyone. He is searching for me. I would go to him and find my other two teammates and trouble Nerrahvia’s Fallen no longer.”
Yvlon croaked. Those eyes seemed to be boring into hers, looking her up and down as if she were some kind of book to read. Prince Zenol broke in.
“If you will grant me the right, I will aid Yvlon Byres in her search, My Queen.”
She looked at them. Yisame Beziin held perfectly still, painted lips pursed—
Then she smiled.
She smiled, and Yvlon’s heart leapt in confusion. The [Queen] snapped her fan open.
“It is done.”
The court stirred. Quarein’s family seemed to be having conniptions. The [Queen] pointed down at the two as Zenol and Yvlon blinked. Her voice rose, and she spoke faster.
“Nerrhavia’s Fallen will take Prince Zenol Isphel’s word on the weight of his rank and status. On the weight of a Human, a team that dared to stride into a death no other has returned from. I declare Yvlon Byres a guest of the crown and free her of her imprisonment. This is the stuff of stories. Go, Prince Zenol Isphel. Quarein shall abide by the blood spilled, and I say it was done well. Go, Yvlon Byres. Stay one day in the capital. Then go—seek your team. No less than Nerrhavia’s Fallen’s armies shall reunite the Horns of Hammerad.”
Dead silence. What was that last bit? Armies? Then—uproar. Yvlon Byres, favored by the [Queen], stood, seeing Zenol’s dumbstruck expression. Quarein was protesting, but flinching away, bereft of allies. Yisame looked down at Yvlon, smiling.
One day. Yvlon gazed up at the [Queen] and slowly bowed. She didn’t know what to say.
 
——
 
Armies sworn to help Yvlon Byres by the [Queen] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen herself—to help her reunite her team. Savere’s Siren in the company of another.
The Empress of Beasts had won a great battle with Ksmvr of Chandrar over the Empire of Scaied. Even now, they marched to break the siege on the [Monks] of Sottheim, who had been held in their monastery by the very same kingdom of scorpions.
The last of them was on the run, but in the company of a [Bandit Lady]. Freeing [Slaves].
They had scattered across Chandrar. A narrow escape from death that had thrown them into peril and danger, even slavery. Yet here they were.
The Horns of Hammerad.
Fetohep of Khelt finished telling the ghost of the young woman all that he knew. He knew more than most, for ghosts spoke louder than mortals, and more truthfully. He had both to tell him the truth.
She sat there, on the balcony, dangling her legs out into the air.
“They’re alive.”
Erin Solstice smiled. She stared across Khelt and into the horizon of Chandrar.
“What a strange continent. I’ve never been here. Not in the flesh. I would like to, someday. There are awful things here. And…beautiful.”
She stared down at Khelt, that paradise on earth. Fetohep spoke slowly.
“I should enjoy that day when it comes, Erin Solstice. Your friends have faced adversity. Yet all four live. Powers stand behind them—and danger.”
“Yes. The Empress of Beasts? Ksmvr…and Pisces? Poor Pisces. If I was alive, I’d…I’d…I need more levels. I need—”
Erin Solstice clenched her fists helplessly. Greater armies than she had ever witnessed were moving. Entire nations were at war and her friends were caught among them. She had only ever seen one true army. And it had cost her…
She was breathing. Breathing without air in her lungs. Longing. Fetohep stood there, watching her living in the lands of the dead. When Erin Solstice turned to him, the ghosts of tears in her eyes, frustrated tears, she stopped.
Because the Revenant King was smiling. Erin eyed him.
“Are you laughing at me?”
“Perish the thought. If I laugh, Erin Solstice, it is because you stand here, amidst the dead. Yet to be returned to life. Yet thou art guest of Khelt. Friend of the eternal stewards of this land. You have heard your friends’ plight. Others you love lay further abroad, a difficulty, if not insurmountable.”
He waved his hand to indicate distant Izril and Terandria. Fetohep turned his head, and Serept, Khelta, and Xierca stood there. They too smiled, with flesh and blood, and nodded. His golden eye-flames winked brighter, and Fetohep looked at Erin Solstice, who watched him curiously.
“Distant lands. Even Khelt’s hand weakens across the ocean, it is true. Yet you speak as if there is nothing that can be done. As if you must wait to live. This is Chandrar. I am Khelt. Tell me honestly, Erin Solstice. Would you like to aid your friends?”
Her eyes widened. Fetohep of Khelt smiled. Rather than speak immediately, though, Erin Solstice hesitated. She hesitated, and the [Witches] breathed out, the rulers nodded at what she said next.
“There will be a cost for it. There always is.”
He inclined his head slowly. His gaze fixed on her.
“Yes. The question is only if you have the will and means to pay it. Khelt’s coffers lie nigh infinite. So tell me, Erin Solstice. What do you will?”
 
——
 
“The [Monks] of Sottheim are entrenched within their monastery. Tens of thousands, perhaps. They’ve been cut off from the outside world, however. Ever since the King of Destruction announced his return. They have gardens—food stores—no trade. None have left their monastery; the army is too great, even for them.”
Empress Nsiia of Tiqr rode with her army a day after the battle where Ksmvr had learned his new Skills. He rode with her, feeling the eyes of the army on him.
A battered army, but triumphant. Ksmvr turned his head and saw Vasraf spit.
“Cowards. They boxed Sottheim in. Part of the reason Scaied never sent armies against us is that a bulk is here. Paid to keep them in.”
“If this is such a fearsome force, why do they not break free?”
Nsiia’s lips twisted.
“It is a killing field. They would have to run across bare ground under bombardment, then fight through Oisk Stingers—they have no [Mages], and their [Archers]…Sottheim could do it. But they must believe the cost is too great. They are patient. They wait for Flos Reimarch to free them. So I shall in his place, for I need them.”
Ksmvr nodded.
“Then you can defeat Scaied’s army?”
She hesitated.
“We will divert them. They are already moving to face us. Sottheim must charge, or we will be forced back.”
She was nervous. It was a gamble that based everything on the Monks of Sottheim being willing to help.
Loquea Dree flew after Ksmvr, and Leka Thri glided next to the riders. He spoke conversationally.
“Sottheim is strong. If they attack, Scaied flees. But they will still die.”
Ksmvr remained skeptical.
“What makes these [Monks] so powerful? And are you sure they will be able to fight? If they have been besieged for months, no, nearing a year, they may all be dead of starvation.”
If even Loquea Dree thought they were impressive, it must be so. Ksmvr saw Nsiia grin.
“Sottheim will not be dead. There lies a force that can march twenty miles on a single cup of water. Each [Monk] can match a [Soldier] with their fists—though, when we arm them, they will be a force to be feared! They cannot take Scaied easily—because their armor and weapons are more rust than metal.”
“That seems like a foolish mistake. Did they not maintain their weapons and keep an enchanted armory?”
For some reason, even Leka Thri laughed with the others.
“You will see the [Monks] have a strength that comes from their lack, Ksmvr. We must defeat Scaied. The army is still healing, but—”
Nsiia clenched her jaw.
It had to be done. To take back her kingdom, to take back her home—her greatest battle yet lay ahead. Nsiia placed the faith they would win in Loquea Dree. In Ksmvr’s new Skills. In her army.
They were cresting a hill, and Vasraf raised a hand.
“We are entering the range of their artillery. Ranged magic. Not as deadly as the House of Minos, but…we must assail them in the pass. Charge forwards.”
Nsiia rode ahead impatiently. Ksmvr hastened after her as Rémi Canada captured the entire scene with the camera. The [Empress] stared ahead, frowning, riding faster.
“Each second we give them is another second of preparation, Vasraf. Illivere still lies at our backs. Forwards.”
“It will be a slaughter until we reach their lines. My Queen—you must stay behind.”
Vasraf urged her. He turned to Ksmvr, Leka Thri.
“If someone were to distract the Magic Throwers long enough—”
Ksmvr hesitated. He looked at Leka Thri, and the Garuda looked at Rémi, up towards the First of Judgement, and towards Nsiia and Vasraf. She met his gaze steadily, hands tight on her reins. Ksmvr looked at Spitty, who harrumphed and tried to twist his head around so he could nail Ksmvr in the face. The Antinium looked at Vasraf, at Nsiia, at the flying undead man…
The flying undead man stared at Ksmvr. Ksmvr stared at him, then at Nsiia. She stared at the [Vizir].
Leka Thri, Vasraf, and Rémi Canada all stared at Vizir Hecrelunn. The Revenant’s burning red eyes were locked on Ksmvr.
“Att—”
Vasraf had his bow raised. Hecrelunn muttered.
“Bug people. Hah!”
Ksmvr unsheathed his swords, but the [Vizir] shot upwards. The entire army slowed as they saw him shoot higher. Loquea Dree broke, circling around him like hunters, but the [Vizir] accelerated.
He was heading towards…Nsiia went pale.
“What was that? Some kind of Revenant?”
“Khelt’s—but how is it—he—here?”
The Vizir was flying ahead, towards the foothills around the monastery of Sottheim. And…Ksmvr stared.
Scaied’s army, entrenched in the foothills. They all gazed upwards, mouths opened as, for the second time, the [Vizir], a figure from Khelt’s ancient past, hovered in midair.
“Halt! Scaied will allow no one access to Sottheim!”
A [Mercenary General] shouted up at the [Vizir]. The Magic Throwers, strange artifacts that shot magic spells rather than objects, like a catapult, were training upwards.
Hecrelunn ignored them all. He reached for something in his bag of holding. His blood-red glare seemed to fix all those below him with a malevolence and rage that dried the tongue. Hecrelunn slowly unfolded a piece of paper.
Then he pulled out a pair of spectacles. He was missing his nose, so he held them in place. He peered down, and read.
“‘I hate scorpions.’”
Scaied’s people looked up at him, bewildered by this objectionable statement. The Vizir stared down at the next line.
“‘Therefore…I am the crazy Vizir.’ Who wrote this?”
He was so angry he was shaking. But the Revenant suddenly calmed. He crumpled up the piece of paper, then incinerated it. Then he removed the spectacles, tucked them away, and pointed.
“Enough. [Blood Lightning].”
A bolt of red lightning cracked downwards. The [General] was thrown clear off his Oisk Stinger. Scaied’s army stared in horror as the Vizir looked around.
He smiled.
“[Meteor Strike]. [Meteor Strike]—”
 
——
 
Ksmvr watched the first flaming comets hit the hills in the distance. Nsiia’s mouth was open in shock. The Revenant swept the hill as Tiqr’s army watched.
“What is he doing?”
“Why is he doing it?”
Leka Thri stood next to Ksmvr, staring at the [Vizir]. That crazy [Vizir]. You never knew what he’d do next. Ksmvr said nothing. He had the most pertinent question of all; though, he couldn’t know it.
As he laid Scaied’s army to waste, freeing the [Monks] of Sottheim…
Why did he look so annoyed?
 
——
 
The letter burned. Words lost.
But elsewhere, further north and amidst a close victory, Pisces Jealnet looked up by morning and saw…
A miracle.
It was simple. He stared up, and something smacked him in the face. Pisces recoiled—caught it, and stared at it.
“Bread.”
“Mana.”
Izreal corrected him. He reached up and caught more of the strange bread. Pisces just stared at him. The [Pilgrim of Faith] smiled.
“Look.”
Someone else was filling water from a stone. It bled water. Pisces rubbed at his eyes. The [Slaves] and [Bandits] watched.
Eloque’s eyes were wide, disbelieving. Merr was slapping her cheek—but it didn’t change what they saw.
“Behold his miracles! You may doubt. You may question. But what you see is the truth! Come with us and find salvation. You shall not thirst nor hunger, even in the Great Desert. Monsters shall not touch you, if you truly believe.”
Izreal stood and preached to them. Preached, as more miracles shone. The others, the People of Zeikhal, clasped their hands together.
He had seen it before. But not like this. This…Izreal had accepted nothing more than a bit of the gold, some artifacts—little provisions from the looted Glass Bazaar. He wanted little of it.
What he desired was something else, and he had it here. The freed [Slaves] looked at him as he walked among them.
