The next day, it wasn’t Rhys and Bast who manned the stall. Instead, the smallest, most delicate of the orphans sat behind the cloth, peddling their bags to all passerby for one silver a bag. Two of the oldest orphans stood nearby, just close enough to ward off anyone who might think about snatching a bag, or worse, the orphans’ takings. Rhys and Bast circled in the crowd, watching the orphans to make sure they didn’t undersell the wares or pocket the take, but also, to advertise their wares.

“The finest cloth bags! Perfect for you or your ladyfriend!”

“Unique to this town! Bags crafted from the finest cloth. You won’t find these anywhere else!”

The bags sold one after another. The children they’d put behind the cloth were the most effective salesmen, with sad, liquid eyes and malnourished limbs. The second they locked eyes on a weak-willed, sympathetic passerby, it was over. The sale was made, and silver exchanged hands.

As for the potions, Rhys carried them himself. The children acting as salespeople had been told to redirect people asking after potions to him, so that he could broker the best deal possible. The bags were mostly cheap, and the children were instructed to flag him over if anyone showed untoward interest in one. But the potions were worth gold whether they found the perfect buyer or not, so he handled those deals himself.

As the tournament kicked off, he swung by the kids and relieved them of their spoils. “Keep up the good work!” he cheered, subtly slipping each one a penny.

The kids’ eyes got wide, and they nodded and hid the penny quickly. He walked away, almost laughing to himself. If they’d just fought and kept that money, they would have had so much more than one penny. But then, that was how the world always worked, wasn’t it? The weak were manipulated by the strong. Corporations trampled their workers, then stole the fruit of their hard work and gave them a fraction of the money they made. All he was doing, was introducing them to the way of the world.

Bast nudged him. “How much did we make?”

“More than enough,” Rhys replied, showing him the pot. Bast’s eyes got big, and he stared. Rhys nudged him. He jerked back to reality and straightened up.

“It’s not more than yesterday,” Rhys pointed out.

Bast shook his head. “I can’t believe we made that much twice. It’s insane.”

“Pity it’s the last day of the tournament. Otherwise, we could keep this up for weeks,” Rhys muttered, half to himself. Like anything children did, it would fall apart eventually, even with Rhys in control. With the tournament ending, the out-of-towners would leave, and there was little chance the townsfolk would buy a bag. The townsfolk were too poor to afford that kind of luxury. Still, it would’ve been nice to get a couple more days of sales out of it.

“Pity,” Bast agreed. He paused. “Then… is there a point to catching potions today?”

Rhys gave him a look. “Of course it is! We can still benefit from potions, ourselves. Not to mention, we can still sell them for one gold even after the tournament. We won’t get to take advantage of tournament pricing, but we still benefit from this.”

“True,” Bast agreed.

“Hello, hello. Still at it?” Straw asked, appearing behind them with no warning as usual.

This time, Rhys didn’t even jump, too used to it to react. He glanced back. “Yeah. No reason not to.”

“That’s true, that’s true.” The grungy-looking man bobbed back and forth, an unusual energy to him. A smile spread across his cheeks.

“Something good happen?” Rhys asked.

“Maybe.” Straw tilted his head. “After the tournament, seek me out. I have an offer for you boys.”

Rhys glanced at him. The man was obviously some kind of expert. Was this the offer he hoped it might be?

Straw grinned back.

Rhys smiled. Oh, I think it is. “We’ll do that, for certain.”

They stepped out on the edge of the tournament field. Rhys dropped into the usual crouch, but Bast remained standing. Rhys glanced at him. “Come on! What are you—”

“What are you two doing?”

Rhys tensed. At last, the feared challenge had come. He turned.

One of the contestants loomed over them—Untor, the adventurer. He glowered down at the two of them. “You two. Why didn’t you pick up the bottles on my side of the field? Who paid you to sabotage me?”

“Huh?” Rhys looked around, then pointed at himself. “Me?”

“You and your friend there. Out with it. I noticed your sabotage. Who paid you?”

Rhys gave him baby eyes. “I don’t understand, sir. We’re just two orphans, helping out with the tournament. We—”

Untor swiped for his collar.

Rhys instinctively drew on his mana and jumped back, dodging Untor’s grasp. In the next instant, his stomach clenched. Shit. I shouldn’t have done that.

Untor’s eyes burned. “You know how to use mana?”

“Sir, I, I don’t know what you’re talking about. I’m just a kid, I don’t—”

Bast grabbed his shoulder and jerked him back. A wind coursed by his stomach from a blow he couldn’t even see.

Untor’s eyes burned. “I don’t care. I’ll just beat you two until your momma wouldn’t recognize you.”

Rhys didn’t hesitate. He reached into his pocket, threw a handful of bread crumbs at Untor, and ran for it. Bast followed him instantly, not needing a cue. Both of them sprinted for the arena wall.

Untor roared. He wiped the breadcrumbs out of his eyes and chased after them.

Their lead was nothing. Untor quickly gained on them. He reached for Rhys again, foot slamming down.

A second before Untor’s foot hit down, Rhys tossed a potion vial under his toe. Untor’s foot slipped, and the huge man slammed to the ground.

Bast hopped onto the wall. Rhys jumped after him, but couldn’t mount the wall so easily with his weaker mana control. At the apex of his jump, he reached for Bast.

Bast caught his hand and yanked, pulling him onto the wall. Both of them hopped down and fled, Bast leading the way into the labyrinthine streets ahead.

Untor hopped onto the wall seconds later. His knuckles bulged, white bone showing in his rage. Nothing but empty streets awaited him, no sign of the children left at all.

“I won’t forget this! I’ll find you!” Untor roared at the empty street.

A few intersections down, Bast and Rhys finally stopped running. Rhys backed up until his shoulders hit a wall, then drooped down it, panting so hard he didn’t have time to swallow his spit. Bast recovered faster, leaning around the corner to make sure Untor hadn’t followed them. He stepped away from it, nodding at Rhys. “We’re safe. He didn’t follow us.”

“Thank goodness,” Rhys muttered. He wiped his chin and swallowed, with some difficulty. “Damn. We didn’t even make him lose the match! What was he so mad about?”

“We did make him waste a potion, and take a hit,” Bast pointed out.

“Then he should blame his inability to fight around potion bottles, not us! If we hadn’t been there, none of those bottles would’ve been picked up, and then what? Honestly…”

For all that he was raging, Rhys knew he was angry without any justification. Untor did, in fact, have the right to be angry at them. Whether or not that gave him the right to beat up two unarmed kids was a different argument, though one Rhys feared he wouldn’t like the answer to in this world. He huffed, shaking his head.

“I guess that’s that, then,” Bast said.

Rhys nodded. “That’s that.” He knew when to hold ‘em and when to fold ‘em, and this? This was definitely a cut-and-run kind of situation. The other kids could keep selling bags out front. Untor truly had no justification to attack them, and if he tried, well, they were in public. No way would people just let him attack a bunch of defenseless kids over something they had no relation to. In fact, a few of the experts in the audience had sat up when he’d attacked Rhys and Bast, only hesitating because of Untor’s objections, objections they, too, must have wondered about, somewhere deep in their hearts.

He turned back, looking at the stadium. The stone seats hadn’t been empty, today. Rather, they’d been full of mages from the local school. He and Bast hadn’t made the best impression, but any impression was better than no impression. Plus, they’d both demonstrated the ability to use mana untrained. If his instincts were right, that ought to be impressive to the school.

Rhys drew out the mana potion and quickly topped up, then paused and swallowed a fifth drop. The fifth drop truly pushed him to his limits, but he managed to absorb it without breaking a fever. He sighed and fell against the wall again, taking a moment to adjust to the new quantity of mana, before he slipped the potion away and straightened.

“I can’t believe you’re still sipping on that thing,” Bast commented.

“Yeah, yeah. My mana capacity is low, I get it.”

Bast gave him a look. “It’s not that low. It’s lower than mine, but I’ve been training since I was little. For someone who started last week, it’s incredibly impressive.”

Rhys went to argue, then shook his head and waved his hand instead. If Bast thought he was doing well, who was he to say otherwise? He’d rather have Bast impressed by him than looking down on him. “For now, let’s make scarce. I don’t want Untor to come find us during break.”

Bast nodded. “To the trash pit?”

Rhys shook his head. “Better. The orphanage.”

--

The matron gave them a look as they walked in. “Well, well, well. Look who decided to show up again! I was starting to think I was rid of you troublemakers for good.”

“Not yet,” Rhys replied cheerfully.

“And what does that mean, young man?” she asked, eyes narrowing, but Rhys had already blown past her.

He headed to the back of the orphanage, into one of the unused school rooms. There, he marched up to the front of the room and faced Bast, who gazed at him from the center aisle.

“I need you to teach me something.”

“What?” Bast asked.

Rhys shook his head. “Anything. Whatever you can teach me in the hour-or-so we have until the break in the tournament.”

“You think Untor will find us?”

“I think it’s good to be prepared,” Rhys returned.

But to be honest, the answer was yes. Yes, he did expect it. They’d left too many of their prints behind. The other orphans, the bag shop. He could absolutely find them here. But that was fine. The point wasn’t to hide. An adventurer like Untor doubtlessly had tracking and searching skills that would let him seek them out, wherever they went. The point was to go somewhere public enough, innocent enough, that someone would go for help when they were attacked, and help would come. Somewhere diverged from the tournament, where the ‘heroes’ might connect him and Bast and the bottles on the field. Somewhere that when those experts heard of it, they would immediately and unquestioningly classify Untor as the villain and act in their favor, before any higher-level thinking kicked in.

In other words, the orphanage.

The only problem remaining was, how did he survive until those heroes showed up? And this was his answer… or, at least, the best thing to an answer he could come up with. He was kicking himself for not asking Bast for skills until now, but it was too late for regret. He’d foolishly though he could get by until he found a real teacher, but what foolishness that was! He professed to find value in trash, and yet, he’d overlooked a perfectly good teacher, a boy with skills unlike his who doubtlessly had plenty to teach him. All because of that wretched ego of his. He’d taken the role of boss, and as such, had instinctively looked down on Bast. He knew he shouldn’t. He knew the other boy was objectively stronger than him. But that one motion, that instinctive role-taking, and he’d completely overlooked the option. Oh, he was kicking himself now—but better late than never, he reassured himself, waiting for Bast’s answer.

Bast thought for a while. Longer than Rhys would have liked. At last, he opened his mouth. “I… think I can teach you this in time. It doesn’t use much mana, and it saved my life many times, back in the day.”

“That sounds perfect. What is it?” Rhys asked, excited.

Bast gave him a look. He curled his hands into fists and approached Rhys slowly. A menacing aura came over him. “How do you feel about taking hits?”

“Not great…” Rhys said slowly, eyeing Bast. He backed away.

“That’s the spirit.” A fist flew toward Rhys.

--

Rhys wandered out in the yard in front of the orphanage, kicking a deflated ball around the grass. He’d never been much for soccer, but in this world, with a mana-enhanced body, he was actually getting somewhere. He booted it toward the far end of the field, and it bounced off the lone tree. Rhys threw his hands up. “Score! And the crowd goes wild!”

In the distance, the audience cheered, as if on cue. Rhys looked up. The cheering continued for a while, then faded away, replaced by the low, distant roar of crowd noise. The first round of battles had ended.

A gaggle of kids wandered nearer. Rhys looked over and made eye contact with Bast, who nodded back. A mage or two followed the kids back, discussing something, while the kids kept glancing at Bast and shrugging.

Everything was set. All they needed now was the principal actor.

Thunderous stomps echoed down the street. Rhys retrieved his ball and went back to kicking it around, pretending not to notice. The metal gates flew open, and Untor marched inside. He pointed at Rhys. “You!”

“Me?” Rhys asked innocently, pointing at himself.

“Come here, you little rat.” Untor raised his arm and marched over.

Rhys backed away. He circulated his mana, preparing the technique Bast had taught him. At the same time, he shrieked at the top of his lungs. “Help! Help! There’s a madman attacking the orphanage!”

Untor’s face twisted. “I’m not—”

Across the way, the mages who’d been drawn by the children on the promise of more, different bags looked up sharply. All eyes landed on Rhys, the small, malnourished child, and the huge, muscular Untor, looming over him threateningly.

“Please! He’s going to kill me!” Rhys screamed.

Untor’s eyes darkened. He closed in, instantly reaching Rhys. He could still get one good hit in before the others intervened. There was murder in his eyes, and for a second, Rhys’ stomach went cold. He might actually kill me.

And then the fist slammed into him, and he activated the technique.

