It was simple. A self-preservation technique. He jumped away from Untor with all his strength, while blasting his mana out of his body at the exact point Untor punched. The mana resisted Untor’s punch and threw him back even faster at the same time. It mitigated the damage to the extent someone as weak as Rhys could.

He had a few bruises from Bast’s blows, but he had to admit, the boy was right. The fastest way to learn a skill was to experience it. Three punches in, he’d already had a good understanding of the principles, despite being unable to conceive of it when Bast only described it. By the fifth, he’d practiced it enough to gain a new skill entirely:

Blow Mitigation 1

Despite the skill, Rhys still went flying. Bones snapped, and he felt his organs crush. Blood seeped out of his side, instantly soaking his robes. He hit the ground and rolled, striking up against the far wall. He screamed bloody murder, as if he were actively being torn apart. At the same time, he popped open his reserve potion and sipped it. The potion swirled inside him. Less is More grasped it and amplified its power, and the small sip of potion he’d taken quickly healed most of his wounds. Rhys put the potion back away and kept screaming, clutching his side in pain.

Looking pathetic was his strength, after all.

Untor, who’d seen all of this, grimaced. He stomped over and raised his foot. “Fucking filth! You little slime. You’re better off as dirt on my shoe—”

A mage appeared behind him. She wound her arm across Untor’s chest and yanked him backwards. His foot slammed down inches from Rhys’ chest. It splashed mud on his chest, but didn’t harm him. “What are you doing? To a mortal child? Are you insane?”

“He’s no child! He’s a scam artist, a grifter! He’s an agent hired by some sect, intent on sabotaging all adventurers!” Untor raged, fighting against her grasp.

The second mage appeared, a man in white robes. “Hold him tight!”

The female mage tightened her hold, while Untor’s eyes widened. He fought even harder, but to no avail. In the next instant, the man’s fingers flashed out, poking Untor’s chest. Untor stiffened, suddenly no longer thrashing against the woman’s hold. His neck tensed, and his face turned red, but he couldn’t struggle any longer.

The white-robed looked down on Untor, disgust written on his face. “I don’t care what you adventurers do in the wilds. It’s your business whether you murder mortals out in the badlands or not. But in the territory of Snowdrop School, you absolutely will not touch our mortals. Did we not make ourselves clear?”

“He interfered! He interfered first!” Untor snarled.

The mages looked at Rhys. Rhys sobbed on the floor, rolling around in pain as pathetically as possible. A young boy, small for his age, horrifically injured. They looked back at Untor, a grown man in great health, rippling with muscle.

The male mage sighed. He shook his head. “Even if this boy played some kind of joke on you, can’t you overlook it? Or is this child so large of a threat that you felt the need to trample on my School’s laws and murder him, against all conscience and reasoning? Could it be that the great Untor the adventurer is in fact a weak-willed and petty man who can’t even overlook a child’s pranks?”

Untor’s veins bulged. His eyes turned bloodshot. He strained against whatever invisible restraint the man had put on him. Abruptly, he turned his head away. “Fine. I’ll leave this child. But he isn’t to be allowed near the tournament.”

The male mage sighed. He shook his head. “I’m sure we can all agree to that. Isn’t that right, child?”

Squinting against his supposed pain, his teeth gritted, Rhys managed a nod. In truth, he wasn’t in any pain at all. The potion had healed him enough, and what little damage remained was being healed by the residual effect of the potion. Still, it wouldn’t do for the mages to realize that he’d had this whole situation in hand and was only acting, so he kept playing along.

“There we have it. If I release your restraints, will you walk away?” the mage asked Untor.

“He had a sidekick! Another kid. He isn’t allowed near either,” Untor insisted.

Rhys coughed. With effort, he bit his cheek so he could spit some blood. “I—I’ll tell him.”

“Is there anything else you want to demand from this child, Untor?” the mage asked, with the exasperated tone of one mediating the argument of small children.

“That’s all,” Untor grunted.

The male mage stepped forward and tapped Untor’s chest in the same places as he had the first time. Untor’s body unstiffened, and he staggered back. He glared at Rhys. “If I catch you alone in the badlands…”

“If you’re done threatening children?” the male mage insisted. He stepped between Untor and Rhys and crossed his arms, giving Untor a firm look. A tiny bit of his aura brushed against Rhys, and Rhys stiffened. Between Untor and this male mage, he’d rather face a dozen Untors. This man, whoever he was, could kill Rhys in a glance. Forget Blow Mitigation. He could level that up to 100, and it wouldn’t make a difference. He’d still be dead.

Untor grunted. He turned away, marching off. The male mage turned to Rhys and gave him a look as well. “You can stop.”

Rhys laid there for another beat, but when the man’s gaze didn’t move away, he dusted himself off and stood. “He did punch me,” he offered, by way of defense.

“Hmm. And if you attempt this kind of thing again, don’t expect you can rely on me again,” the man warned him.

Rhys lowered his head, duly warned. He understood without being told. The man didn’t care about him, nor did he care about Untor. He was more than happy to let Untor kill a random mortal. He’d acted to enforce rule of law, because letting Untor run wild and ignore his laws meant the power of his school was insufficient to prevent one adventurer from doing what he liked, not because he wanted to save Rhys. With a tournament happening in his town, and all the local schools’ eyes on his school, he needed to project power. If the tournament wasn’t happening, he would have likely let it slide.

But that was fine. Rhys had already exploited the tournament as much as he wanted to. Anything today was just bonus. And he had absolutely no intention of sticking around until next year’s tournament. Time was a-wasting. Now that he’d gathered some gold, it was time to progress toward actual magehood. Go buy a spellbook or something.

The male mage looked Rhys up and down again. A wave of energy passed over Rhys, and he shivered. Something about it had felt… invasive. As if the man had somehow seen into his very soul.

The mage’s gaze lingered for a moment, but after a second, he sighed. “Taking a blow from Untor and surviving is impressive, at your age. If only your talent were better…”

Rhys laughed. The mage frowned at him, and he put his hands up. “No, no. I already know I’m weak. It’s fine if you think I’m trash. I know I’m trash, but I’m not going to let that stop me.”

The mage shook his head. A smile touched his face, and then he broke out into laughter. He patted Rhys’ head. “It’s good to have conviction! Maybe we’ll see you in the tournament one day.”

Rhys smiled, but internally, he rejected it. In this po-dunk tournament, held in a mortal town in the middle of nowhere, where the local mage school didn’t even attend it until its final day? If he ended up that weak, even he’d be disappointed in himself. His ambitions weren’t so low.

The male mage nodded at the female mage, and both of them left. Bast turned the corner, giving Rhys a look-over. His eyes widened at the blood, but Rhys silently shook his head. He was fine.

“Should we go look for Straw?” he asked quietly.

Bast frowned. “After he refused to help us with Untor?”

Rhys shook his head. “He didn’t refuse to help. I knew better than to ask.”

“Why?” Bast asked, lost. He looked at Rhys’ side. “You could have died, so why not?”

Rhys smiled slowly. “Because, if I’m right, he’s so incredibly powerful that him individually intervening might cause all-out war. And if that’s the case, would you rather waste that kind of power on protecting us from a middling-strong adventurer?”

He leaned in, looking Bast in the eye. “Or do you want to learn from that sort of power?”

Bast’s eyes glittered with comprehension. He nodded slowly, then thumped Rhys on the shoulder. “This is why you’re boss.”

“Ow,” Rhys muttered, flinching. His side was mostly healed, but not totally healed.

“Sorry,” Bast replied, flinching back.

Rhys waved it away. Who cared, when faced with the future that awaited them? “Come on. Let’s go meet our destiny.”
