Angeline listened with a polite smile as David went through the list of offers and demands they had prepared. He moved on to the “proofs” they had uncovered, revealing Rinka and Jordo's origins, bringing out some of the books retrieved from the Radiant Archive.

Angeline didn't need to step in just yet. She was here because she knew the rich and powerful, thanks to her father bringing her along to his social events after Niala had run away. At first, she resented it, feeling like she was being used to plug a hole.

Eventually, she realized that her father had always meant to bring her along, but she was just too young. The nobles and merchants had only seen a young fourteen-year-old girl and had offered her all the attention she deserved.

Which was not a lot.

Oh, she has been looked at plenty; such a fine, proper, young woman who would grow up to steal hearts! In the meantime, please go gossip with the other teenagers. A girl your age ought to be talking about their crushes and gawping in awe at the boys' latest display of prowess.

She had been bored out of her mind.

But time went on, she grew up, and things began to change. She listened to her father's lessons, experimented with the other teenagers, and slowly began to understand the social game.

She doggedly wormed her way into the grown-ups' circles and, eventually, their minds.

And then her body decided to have a growth spurt, and she went from a lovely young fifteen-year-old to the embryo of a lady at sixteen. Still young in the face, but the lines had been drawn, the curves had been announced, and her voice had honeyed.

By then, unless she told them her age, she was accepted and given a tiny parcel of floor space for her to prove herself.

And she had devoured it all. Once the pieces began to connect, and her web of contacts materialized, the game nearly became an obsession. A giant, living puzzle, intermingled connections, like a playing board for her to nudge a piece one way, pull a string the other, and see how they reacted.

It was just. So. Much. FUN!

And, barely a year later, she realized she had eclipsed her father. He was still a powerhouse of the high society, but she wasn't a player anymore. She had become one of the schemers, without anyone else seeming to have realized it, still seeing a burgeoning young lady with exceptional social grace.

She was more than happy to let him have the spotlight, while she flitted and hopped along the periphery. Her greatest joy had remained setting up the ground ahead of her father, so that when he came to announce or propose one of his new ideas, the crowd could do nothing but applaud and acclaim him.

It made him so happy.

So, no, she wasn't here with her sister and husband to rattle off a list of demands. She was here because she knew what came after they had finished laying their cards down. She was there for the real game; the one played with veiled pieces and half-truths.

And, as David finished listing the last few points of their proposal, as she noticed the minute tells on the chancellor's face, she knew that time was coming up soon.

Willard had to admit that, all things considered, it was an interesting proposal. And, just as with all interesting proposals, this one had clearly not originated with these people; it showed too deep an understanding of the power dynamics of the kingdom.

But just because these people were game pieces on the board didn't mean he couldn't appreciate the thought and effort they had put in playing their part. On the surface, it looked like one of those rare instances where everybody involved would win.

These people would get to establish a new noble house, with all the benefits attached. Of course, it also usually came with many pitfalls, mostly in the form of competition from the preexisting houses. Except, this time, by declaring themselves a foreign nation, they would exist outside of the current ecosystem, insulated from immediate reprisals.

They did need the crown's support for it to become a reality, however. Simply laying claim to a large parcel of land and justifying it with paper-thin proofs did not a nation make.

But here, too, they were offering value; the mana crystal mine, and advanced, or rather lost, knowledge.

All in all, a good trade for the crown. Had he been here as Willard, he could have agreed right away.

But he was here as Chancellor Haggleman, and he would be remiss not to pull the scale on the side of the crown as much as he could.

That was his job, after all.

And also maybe a bit of a hobby. Who had ever said you couldn't enjoy what you did for a living?

As the young man finished presenting his offer and requirements, Willard allowed himself the tiniest of an upward mouth twitch.

Just as he did, he noticed the blonde woman's eyes flicker in his direction. One of his brows tensed upward.

Her smile grew a millimetre upward.

Interesting...

“...and, as befitting of a foreign nation, our final demand is for the land currently owned by the two political figureheads of the Reign Ascendant to be recognized as foreign soil and designated as an embassy,” David said, bringing up the last of their points.

He and Niala had no intention to move out of their cozy little home, but foreign nationals owning land usually came with a lot of oversight, not something either of them wished for.

Thus, the small plaza and the surrounding plots of land, which were already being walled off, would become an embassy.

He looked to the chancellor, finding the man looking back at him in silence.

For a while, no words were exchanged. He reseated himself and glanced at the documents before him, looking back up at David. “Young man, your proposal has some merit. You offer the crown an easier way to get access to the mana crystal mine, and the additional knowledge would serve the kingdom well, even if I would consider it of minor appeal.”

The chancellor tapped a finger on the proposal's documents. “This, however, does not constitute a fair deal for the crown. We would be expending much political clout in supporting your claim on the northern land. A land, I might add, that has been eyed by many noble houses in recent years as the perfect venue for expansion. There is compensation enough to do so, but most of your demands are extraneous. We will need to determine which one can remain, or if you can offer more to the crown in exchange for them.” He declared.

David nodded. Angeline and Cornelius had warned him of this kind of response. He turned his head toward his sister-in-law and dipped his head.

Her smile grew twofold as she resettled herself in her chair, fluttered her eyelids, and addressed the older gentleman. “My dear chancellor, how blessed the crown is to have a man such as yourself to defend its interests!”

Willard quirked a brow and looked at the blonde woman. “Miss... Angeline, was it not? I thank you for your kind words, but please let me and the petitioner discuss this matter.”

David heard his cue. “Mr. Chancellor, in my capacity as petitioner, I wish to designate Angeline All Brew as spokesperson. She speaks with my voice and intent.” He said, enunciating clearly for the sake of the recording orb.

Willard looked at him for a second before dipping his head. “Very well. I recognize Miss Angeline All Brew as an official spokesperson on your behalf.” He turned his head back toward the blonde woman. “Let us go over this proposal, then.”

Angeline's lips curled upward to reveal a row of perfect white teeth. “Yes, let's.”

Willard couldn't help but feel as if he'd just given the woman exactly what she wanted.

He just wasn't certain what that was.

Angeline gracefully rose to her feet, retrieved one of the two thick dossiers that had lain on the table nearby, and brought one copy over to the Chancellor with a perfect smile.

She spoke as she returned to her chair. “Now, Mr. Chancellor, I'm afraid we will not have enough time to go over every single point of this proposal in the detail it requires, seeing as we only have half a bell left of our time together.”

She flung her hair back with a wave of her head and returned her eyes to the Chancellor. “However, I'm certain we will have all the time we need with our next meeting! After all, a proposition with this much merit, with the potential to ease the crown's access to an unprecedented resource, which some would qualify as unique and once in a lifetime, deserves this much, doesn't it?”

Willard frowned. “Unfortunately, Miss Angeline, my schedule is quite regimented. It would be greatly difficult to give you more of my time tomorrow. Perhaps we could reconvene at a later date?”

Angeline looked at the man with sadness on her face. “Oh, I am quite sorry to hear that, Mr. Chancellor. It would put us in quite the difficult position as well. You see, several noble houses are expecting to hear this proposition in turn in the coming weeks. We, as loyal citizens of this kingdom, of course wanted to give priority to the crown.”

“I, hrrm, surely those other houses can wait for your discussion with the crown to be over. As you said, priority should be given to the crown.” Willard reminded her.

Angeline shook her head. “If only, Mr. Chancellor! But alas, as you might be aware, the knowledge of the mana crystals has been making its way into many influential houses' ears. By now, many of them are already drawing up plans to come petition for access or ownership.” She sighed. “Certainly, the crown can and should stonewall them, but you know how nobles and their merchant pets can be! For such a valuable resource, a fair amount of influence and connections will be called upon.”

She made a waving motion with her hand. “Why, think of all the political clout the crown will have to expend to keep the braying requestors at bay! A veritable courtroom war, I would say!”

Willard remained stiff in his chair. “Miss Angeline, surely... those houses which you mentioned, which ones are they? If we involve them in this proposition, I'm certain they would be most amenable to calming their appetites.”

Angeline smiled, her teeth presenting themselves once more. “Why, Mr. Chancellor, the very same houses that you said had their eyes up on the northern land. I need not tell you just how convenient this proposal will be for them, need I?” The woman asked, her wide eyes entirely focused on the chancellor.

Willard discreetly swallowed as he consciously fought to keep his features neutral. She was taking his half-truths and wielding them as daggers back against him with no more effort than it took her to draw breath.

He felt something he hadn't felt in a long time, ever since his first years at the court, having to deal with men and women much more experienced than him in the game.

Cold sweat, running down his back.

Their allotted time ran out, and David's group was escorted back to their waiting autocar.

Angeline led the group, her footsteps light and joyful.

The chancellor had agreed to clear his schedule. They would meet again tomorrow.

The man had seemed... tense as he agreed to do so.

For Angeline, that meant a single thing: She was winning!

And she loved winning at the game.

She glanced back at Niala, who was walking alongside her husband, happy as a pea. She turned her head back to face forward, her smile growing a bit wider.

Oh yes, she loved winning at the game, especially when it was for her family, and doubly so for her beloved older sister.