She had a walking staff, and she’d brought a lunch. Ryoka’s smile made Durene smile in turn. Ryoka nodded.
When Durene took Ryoka’s side, the [Mayor] and [Councilwoman] and the crowd stepped back. Not just for Durene’s height, or so she hoped, but because it meant Laken was on Ryoka’s side. Laken would have believed in Ryoka’s plan.
And as it so happened—someone else did too. A pointed hat came marching through the crowd as Mayor Rodivek drew breath for a second shouting match.
“If you think we’ll risk our lives for no gain—”
“Ah, so you’re riding with Miss Griffin? Well done, man. Onto the wagons you go. We could use another hauler or driver.”
A voice spoke loudly in Rodivek’s ear, and he jumped—saw Witch Califor standing behind him, and nearly leapt into Beatica.
Witch Califor and Nanette, shyly waving at Ryoka, had appeared like a storm. And like a storm—she’d brought more than just herself with her.
Ryoka had barely a dozen helpers besieged by angry Lancrel people not quite actually blocking them. Now, she saw Califor and dozens of Riverfarm people, arms loaded with goods and boxes, heading towards the wagon.
“Witch Califor?”
“Well done.”
That was all the woman said. She strode forwards and deposited something onto the wagons. When she turned, she offered Ryoka a slight smile of approval.
“A wagon does more than a single Runner with a bag of holding. When Nanette came to tell me what you were doing, I decided I should merge my craft with yours.”
Her…craft? Wait, that was right! Califor hadn’t done any great magics. And yet…she was here right now, and Ryoka heard Rodivek shouting.
“Now you’re letting a [Witch] give away our goods? Miss Yesel! Is this cleared with His Majesty? What about—”
He kept shouting, but somehow, though his voice didn’t dim in volume, it suddenly became less important. Califor finished wiggling a finger around in one ear, then gave Durene a faint wink.
More magic? It was always subtle—but from the way Ryoka jumped and felt at her ears, she’d felt it too! Durene’s eyes were wide.
“You, uh—you had the same thought?”
Ryoka spoke somewhat oddly to Califor, as if not sure what her angle was. But the Witch was all business.
“This is my craft, Miss Griffin.”
“Aid work?”
“No. Being a busybody. A lesson for you: men and women like that are best ignored. Often, if you pay them no mind, you sway more heads by silence alone.”
It was true. Completely ignored, even the Lancrel people were staring at the wagons and the two representatives and hesitating. Were they really blocking people from getting food to starving villages?
Califor was inspecting the contents of one wagon. She nodded as she saw the nails and wood.
“I think I have most of what is needed here, too.”
What had she brought? Well—spare clothing. Blankets, all courtesy of Miss Yesel. Not just that! Soap! Califor was rattling off a list as if she’d memorized it.
“Nanette? Take note. We’re missing…lantern oil. Toilet paper. Hm. Does Riverfarm have any toys?”
“Toys?”
Califor glanced at Ryoka.
“For children. Nothing cheers one up like a single toy. Now, I see three wagons. Is that for your group?”
Ryoka hesitated. She looked around, and a man hurried over, looking gratified as he saw a lot of the work had already been done.
“Mister Prost? I think the wagons are almost set. We’re just getting lantern oil and a few things. Are we allowed to go?”
He nodded.
“We have the wagons loaded, and Beniar says we can make the trip in a day and have you all back tonight so long as you keep moving. The problem is animals. We’re two short, and I don’t know if we can spare more. Can you manage with three wagons?”
Ryoka grimaced. Prost looked apologetic.
“We have few enough draft animals as it is. The Darksky Riders have our best horses, and the rest are needed for plough work and the like. I can give you exactly four wagons, but the last one can’t be pulled. You’ll have to fit the rest into what you can carry.”
“I’ll load my [Riders] up with a bit in the saddlebags. If we had an animal or two, we could get more on the wagons…”
Beniar offered that while glancing sideways at Califor, who did have a horse along with Nanette. The Witch gave Beniar a polite smile and tipped her hat.
“Well thought out, Captain Beniar. But I fear my horses will have to carry Nanette and I.”
“Oh, will you be riding with us?”
“No. We shall ride towards another village. With that cart.”
So saying, Califor pointed, and Ryoka saw a ridiculously small cart attached to a harness and Nanette’s pony. It was about big enough to fit a single Nanette, who was striding back importantly with Miss Yesel and the lantern oil.
Everyone stared at the cart, and Beniar turned a laugh into a cough.
“Uh—are you going to a few houses, Miss Califor? That’s not a bad idea…”
“I think I shall visit as many villages as I can. Don’t fear about the cart. But do watch out for bandits on the road, Miss Griffin.”
Califor adjusted her hat, and this time, Ryoka stared at her, but didn’t instantly snigger. She peered at the cart. It was really too small to hold more than two sacks of grain. Califor looked serious. If anything, she seemed focused. Approving of Ryoka.
“These are the things [Witches] do that matter. Nanette! Don’t hurt yourself putting the oil in the wagon. Prepare for a long ride.”
“Yes, Miss Califor!”
Nanette hollered, and Ryoka saw she had a crate of cheap oil. Canola or something; it left a residue, but it burned well, and it was perfect if someone didn’t have [Light] spells. It was a fairly heavy crate, and her face turned red until Durene walked over and put it in the cart.
The wagons already had a box each, and the oil filled up a good part of the cart. Ryoka began to ask Califor how much she planned on delivering when she frowned.
No, wait. There was enough barley for a good few meals. Califor had piled up six bags until the cart was almost overflowing. Of course, that was only enough for a few households to live on. Which was why she’d put two more bags of Yellats and even dried meat next to the bags. Oh, and firewood!
Firewood mattered, so there were eighteen bundles, so high they formed a tower in the cart. Ryoka frowned, and Durene rubbed her eyes. But all the firewood wasn’t falling over because it was sandwiched by entire sacks of…flour…
At this point, even Alevica noticed the oddity and began counting how many sacks of Yellats there were.
“One, two, three, four…that cart can’t fit more than four sacks. There are twenty—”
Her head rose, and she gave Califor a narrow-eyed stare. Then, and only then, did Ryoka and Durene step back and realize…the cart was holding way too much.
Yet if they didn’t pay attention to it…it just looked like a tiny cart! Certainly, the pony seemed to think it was light as could be and was actually pulling it forwards a bit as it waited to go. Nanette herself goggled at the cart as she noticed the improbable dimensions.
A cart that acted like a bag of holding? No, it wasn’t quite the same—Califor cleared her throat meaningfully, and everyone stopped staring to look at her.
“I would appreciate it if you didn’t stare. The cart doesn’t know how much it’s carrying. I should like to keep it that way.”
Keep it that…Ryoka’s mouth fell open, and Witch Califor…winked. Alevica gasped.
“You fit all of that in there? But—you’re not—Oliyaya never talked about that! You didn’t do a ritual or—or—can you do that with sympathy magic?”
“Witch Alevica. We all have our strengths. I prefer not to show off. Nanette, stop staring!”
So saying, Califor mounted up with as many supplies as the ones Durene and Ryoka had just packed. Then, and only then, Ryoka Griffin stared at the grey-haired woman and saw Alevica gasping for words. Nanette’s smug smile—and Mister Prost took off his hat.
“Witch Califor…did you happen to be the woman who ran Yellats the length and breadth of the north after the 2nd Antinium War? She’d have had brown hair, though, like little Nanette, and they never said ‘Witch’.”
Califor paused a moment, looking amused.
“And if I was, Mister Prost? Would it change a single thing?”
She tipped her cap at him, and he bowed slightly. Califor mounted up and nodded to Ryoka, then to Durene. The half-Troll girl hesitated, but Califor met her eyes.
“Capable women must do what we can. That isn’t just the job of [Witches]. I see Riverfarm had an abundance.”
Her eyes took in Durene, Charlay, Ryoka, Wiskeria—and Durene flushed with embarrassment. And a longing for that kind of praise.
Nanette scrambled into her saddle, and Califor was about to ride forwards, and the wind itself blew behind her a second, but Ryoka—had to know. So she called out as Wiskeria’s head turned from their own wagons.
“Miss Califor. Is your cloak magical? Or your—staff?”
Witch Califor turned, almost theatrically, as Nanette’s head swivelled. Every eye fixed on the worn cloak and the riding staff Califor had stowed. It looked like plain, old wood, and the cloak was dusty and worn.
“Oh, this? I bought this cloak at a flea market. A quite good bargain. And the staff was a gift from a [Shaman] I helped once. Think nothing of them. If Nanette has been telling tales—remember, they are just stories.”
Califor lifted one fold of her cloak and touched the walking staff. Ryoka hesitated, clearly disappointed, and Califor began to ride away.
Wiskeria muttered something under her breath. It sounded like an incantation. Durene, about to walk over to the wagons, looked back.
For just one second—she thought she saw the staff grow vibrant and the plain, polished wood change to something leafy and growing, as if it refused to die even when cut from the tree. For a second, the cloak swirled like a moving shadow as Witch Califor turned her head and sighed.
Then she was gone. And Ryoka turned back to her mission of mercy and had to stop and think for a second.
“I—we—well, that’s one area taken care of, it seems. Since we can’t do a cart, I have a bag of holding, and Charlay does too. We’ll run ahead, coordinate who’s coming back if any, and the wood and food can keep going. We’ll run back to resupply.”
She was trying to fix their transportation issue. Durene objected as she considered the final wagon. Califor’s words had motivated her as well.
“Are you sure we can’t get anyone to pull the last wagon, Mister Prost? It’s not that heavily loaded.”
Prost shook his head.
“It’s too heavy, and Beniar needs all his [Riders] mounted. What with the [Bandits].”
“Yeah, but just one donkey? We could even help push it. It’s heavy, but—see?”
The half-Troll girl set herself and pushed. Ryoka, Beniar, and Prost stared as the wagon rolled a bit. They gaped at Durene. Charlay raised two thumbs. Durene smiled at her, and then her eyes widened as she had a thought.
“I have an idea for a horse!”
Ryoka blinked. Then her eyes widened too. She looked over her shoulder. Charlay’s eyes narrowed.
“Who—wait a second. It better not be me. No way. No way—”
 
—–
 
Charlay stared as the wagons rolled down the road. She looked at the giant, green, miffed bear and blinked.
“Oh. That’s much better than what I thought you were going to say.”
Ryoka stared at Bismarck. The Mossbear gaoed as it tried to reach the potato on a string in front of him. He padded forwards, growling slightly, and the wagon obligingly rolled after him. Charlay frowned at the harness.
“Can a bear pull a wagon? By himself? Really?”
Ryoka tried to calculate it. It certainly looked like it.
“Well, Bismarck weighs more than one. And he’s like a grizzly and…no, twice…? Three times the size of a black bear? He’s massive. So long as the straps don’t bother him and you can get him to move, I think it’ll work.”
“Leave it to me. If he looks tired, I’ll let you know.”
A voice called from the front of the wagon. Wiskeria tipped her pointed hat and grinned. Ryoka smiled, and Durene nodded. The [Witch] had decided to come with them on their relief-giving mission. And her presence was welcome. Beniar laughed as he rode towards them. He saluted Wiskeria on her wagon.
“General Wiskeria! Your orders, ma’am?”
“Shut up, Beniar. Just ride ahead and make sure there’s no [Bandits]. Move in groups; you don’t want to get picked off. You’ll stay around the wagons with a few [Scouts] going ahead. Ryoka and Charlay will alert the settlements and figure out if we’re delivering aid or getting them to come back with us.”
“Yes, ma’am! You heard her! Darksky Riders, move out!”
Beniar rode forwards with a whoop of excitement, and the [Riders] followed him. Durene couldn’t remember him looking this excited in a while. But maybe it was because Wiskeria was giving the orders. The [Witch] nodded at her and Ryoka. The City Runner peered up at Wiskeria.
“I thought you weren’t being a [General] for a while. What changed your mind?”
“Miss Califor’s always right.”
Ryoka laughed. The wagons set off, and Durene strode with them. On a mission of mercy.
 
—–
 
This was how it went. A young woman ran across the grass, waving her arms. In his tower, an [Archer] drew an arrow reflexively, but he untensed when he heard her voice.
“Excuse me! Hey! It’s me! Don’t shoot!”
Ryoka Griffin ran into the settlement as the people came out of their houses. The [Archer] blinked at her.
“You’re back? What is it? Another delivery?”
“No. It’s aid. From Riverfarm. And if you need it—we have an escort waiting to take you back to the village!”
“What? Aid?”
The people were confused. The [Archer] was even outraged.
“Do you think we’re in need of handouts? We can manage ourselves.”
Ryoka faced him seriously.
“It’s not just for you. I toured everywhere from Riverfarm almost up to Filk yesterday. There are burned out houses and people in trouble all the way there. If you don’t need help, we’ll move on. But if you need food, wood, nails—we can deliver it.”
“In exchange for what?”
The suspicious question came from a woman armed with another bow. Ryoka shook her head.
“Nothing. This is a crisis. Look, I’d prefer if you didn’t need anything. That way we can get it to whoever’s in trouble most. But if you need something that you’ll be in trouble without—ask. Otherwise, consider moving to Riverfarm. I came to you all first because I know you’re some of the best-off. We’ll be transporting families and as much as we can back to Riverfarm soon. They’ll be safe there.”
The people exchanged a glance. The [Archer] leaned on his bow thoughtfully.
“And the village will take them in?”
