“It took in a lot of people from Lancrel. It can take more. It’s your choice. But we’re doing this because Riverfarm’s in a position to help. And the [Emperor]—no, the people of Riverfarm believe in helping people in need. With a bit of encouragement.”
Ryoka looked around. The [Archer] hesitated. And they conferred. At last, he shook his head.
“We don’t need anything. And we’re safe enough here. Thanks for the offer, Miss Griffin. But we’re fine. With that said—we might come to Riverfarm to trade. And we appreciate the offer. Do you have room on those wagons you mentioned for some bows? We can spare a few, and arrows; we have a stock. If Riverfarm’s in need or if we have a scrape—maybe we can help out.”
He reached out, and Ryoka clasped his hand, smiling. She ran on after taking five bows and arrows.
 
——
 
“Riverfarm?”
Farmer Melon’s eyes widened. The wagon rolling towards him halted, and the people poured out to stare at the contents. Wiskeria nodded as she halted. Bismarck chewed on the potato, oblivious to the stares.
“That’s right, sir. Anyone who needs to can come back with us. You’ll be able to work in Riverfarm, and I guarantee you’ll be fed and have a good place to sleep. His Majesty Emperor Godart guarantees it. Otherwise, we’ll spare what we can. To get you as far as you need and get these families sorted. I can’t promise we’ll come by twice.”
“Move to Riverfarm? But what about the others? They’re in Filk!”
Wiskeria raised her voice.
“We’ll get them too. And we can send word. But if anyone’s worried about [Bandits]—anyone in the area—we can accommodate you at Riverfarm!”
Farmer Melon chewed on his beard as he stared at the wagon. It was loaded with enough supplies to keep his and the three other families supplied, even build more rooms. Plant a field. He looked at the others and the uncertainty on their faces. Then at the [Witch]. She was a [Witch]; you could tell by the hat. And at the Mossbear, the half-Troll girl.
“It’s a lot to consider.”
“I know, sir. And I don’t want to rush you. We can stop for half an hour or come back on a return trip. But you must decide quickly. Either way—we do want to help.”
So said the [Witch]. In the end, the families at Melon’s farm had to discuss it. The wives, one husband, two of the oldest children, and Melon and his wife talked it over in conference, arguing, debating options.
But Melon kept remembering the wagon. If Riverfarm could spare that—he looked at his farm, which he’d built himself. But you could rebuild a farm. Grow more melons. He looked towards the burned cottage and grave he’d dug and swore.
“Damn. I’m going to have to pay Helm for that pitchfork after all. Hey! Grab what you can and pack up! We’re moving!”
 
—–
 
Ryoka saw the first wagon riding back from Melon’s farm as she jogged down the road. Beniar and a group of eight [Riders] were accompanying them to the delight of the children, who stared at the [Cataphract]. Melon waved at Ryoka as she passed. And he wasn’t the only one.
More and more wagons were coming down the road. Not all the ones Riverfarm had sent either. Over half of the settlements that the relief teams visited decided to pack up and move rather than stay. There was something more to it than just a desire for safety with [Bandits] and in light of the Goblin raids.
It was Laken. His reputation. His name. People had heard there was an [Emperor]. They’d seen the totem poles, seen Beniar and the patrols and heard who’d been fighting the Goblins. And had failed. But Laken had been there when before the Goblins would have rampaged until a local city or noble or adventurers drove them off. So they came.
Ryoka ran. From house to house. Her legs tired. She drank potions. And the wagons rumbled after her. First it was three hours. Then six. Ryoka stopped for a break at the [Fisher]’s hut and found he was packed.
“What’re you doing? I thought you said you were fine here!”
She exclaimed. The old man grinned at her as he hefted his spear.
“Right. But Riverfarm has fish, don’t it? And truth be told, everyone’s leaving, and I think I’ll miss the company. You have room on those wagons for me?”
They did, but Ryoka had to flag one as it came this way. It was the one being led by Wiskeria. Bismarck growled unhappily as the [Witch] halted him. Durene jogged to keep up; she was still going. She’d helped load the wagons, reassure people—Ryoka remembered her bellowing at a frightened group that had shot arrows at Ryoka without letting her come near.
“I know it’s your farm. But it’s not safe out here! Come to Riverfarm and we can come back and gather whatever you need. Bring your valuables, but don’t stay! We can take you in! I swear we’re not [Bandits]! She’s a Runner, and I’m a [Paladin]! Honest!”
Surprisingly, that had worked. Now, Durene smiled as Wiskeria pointed.
“That way?”
“That’s right. Just down the marsh. I’ve got half the guy’s stuff in his bag of holding. We’ll meet you there.”
“Alright. Come on Bismarck. Let’s—aw, no!”
Ryoka heard a thump and a shout from the passengers. Wiskeria looked down, askance. She’d driven right into a pothole. Bismarck growled and strained, but the wagon was heavier, and he gave up, panting. Ryoka swore.
“Damn it. Okay, let’s get everyone off. Beniar’s nearby, maybe he can help—”
“Don’t worry! I’ve got it!”
Durene cheerfully waved a hand. She stepped around to the back and bent down. Ryoka saw the wagon lift, people and cargo and all. Durene growled as she heaved it out of the pothole.
“Bismarck, pull!”
The surprised Mossbear did. Ryoka saw the wagon move down the road out of the pothole. Durene, panting, massaged her back.
“Wow! That was really heavy!”
“You moved—”
“Yup.”
The half-Troll girl grinned at Ryoka. The City Runner closed her mouth. After a moment, she nodded.
“Well then! Onwards!”
That was the third trip back to Riverfarm. The sun was setting fast, and Ryoka found that even the two stamina potions she’d used weren’t helping. She had to heal her bruised feet, but even then, she was yawning as she and Wiskeria escorted the last group of people back towards Riverfarm.
Charlay was dozing as she trotted forwards, and even Bismarck looked worn down as he pulled the wagon. But still, Durene was right behind him. She was pushing the wagon, helping the weary Mossbear. Without complaint. And she’d kept up with the wagons all day. On foot. Now she was doing most of Bismarck’s work.
Just silently pushing it forwards into the night.
Ryoka turned back and smiled. Durene gave her a silent thumbs-up. She looked more relaxed than Ryoka had seen her as well. Perhaps—well, Ryoka wondered if she’d been wrong. Durene had been indecisive. But perhaps Durene really did just need to put her talents to use. To find a challenge worthy of her. Either way, Ryoka smiled as Durene yawned.
The half-Troll girl was tired, despite what Ryoka thought. She was sleepy as she leaned against the wagon, pushing it. So tired in fact that she kept drifting off, accounting for their slow progress back to Riverfarm. They were the last wagon. But they weren’t more than—
Durene yawned. She leaned against the wagon. Just for a second.
 
[Paladin Level 17!]
[Skill – Iron Skin obtained!]
 
“Huh?”
She opened her eyes. Ahead of her, Wiskeria, yawning, stood up and peered under her hat’s brim. She had a ball of [Light], and she raised it with one hand.
“Durene? You okay? We’ve stopped moving.”
The half-Troll girl yawned and stood up straighter. She smiled up at Wiskeria and saw the [Witch] smile too.
“I’m awake! Sorry, Wiskeria. I just drifted off. But guess what? I just leveled!”
“You did? That’s gr—”
“[Fast Fireball!]”
Durene heard the voice, but she didn’t understand it at first. Then there was a bright light. Wiskeria spun. She held up a hand—
And the fireball ­exploded, blowing her off the wagon. Durene threw up her hands, and her ears rang. She stumbled backwards as a blast of heat washed over her.
“Wiskeria!”
 
Night 59 – Ryoka
 
Ryoka heard the voice. She saw the [Fireball] hit the wagon and explode. The passengers in front disappeared. So did Wiskeria. Bismarck roared as his fur caught fire. He rolled, and pieces of wood rained down from the sky. The City Runner just stared.
“Wiskeria?”
“Ryoka!”
Someone grabbed her. Charlay. The Centauress was pointing. Ryoka turned. She saw another fiery ball of light. Her body moved faster than her mind. She and Charlay ran before the [Fireball] exploded five paces from where they’d been. Ryoka felt the heat.
And out of the night, they came. [Bandits]. They rode down on the City Runners and the destroyed wagons, loosing arrows, and the [Pyromancer] holding the staff shot a stream of flames that nearly cooked Ryoka. The wind saved her; it blew the flames up as Ryoka and Charlay split.
Over the ringing in her ears, Ryoka could hear the [Mage] shouting.
“Get the [Witch]! Get her hat! The hat’s worth gold! Kill the others!”
“Ryoka, run!”
Charlay shouted. There were [Riders] bearing down on her. She turned, wide-eyed, as one lifted a sword. The Centauress bolted left. The [Pyromancer] saw and raised his staff.
“Charlay! Behind you!”
“Gyaaaah! [Spray Hoof]!”
A spray of dirt hit the [Pyromancer]. He swore, and his spell missed. Fire flashed over Charlay’s head as half the [Bandits] went after her. There were—twelve? Not many. But the [Pyromancer]—
Ryoka saw Charlay racing away. She heard the Centauress’ voice.
“[Lightning Gallop]! [Duststorm Kick]!”
She took off. The [Bandits] following her ran into a dust storm. They halted, coughing. And the [Pyromancer] shook his staff.
“Ignore the horse! Get the wagon—”
Something flew at his head. He ducked, and the Tripvine Bag exploded. The vines nearly knocked him from the saddle. He turned, snarling. The caltrop hit him in one eye.
“Durene!”
Ryoka screamed the words over the [Pyromancer]’s howl. She spun. The wind was shrieking. Dust and flying caltrops blew through the air. The [Bandits] riding down on her cursed as their horses reared and screamed.
The Runner screamed back. This could not be happening. Wiskeria! The passengers! Smoke was everywhere, but the front of the wagon was gone. Someone was screaming, caught in the flames. Ryoka couldn’t save them. The [Bandits] were on her.
“Kill the Runner!”
One swung at her. Wind blew him from the saddle. Charlay and Ryoka’s dust clouds were whipping the air, throwing the [Bandits] off. But Ryoka was alone, and there were twelve, the [Pyromancer] and men and women with weapons, riding at her, fighting their horses. Twelve. And Durene was—no, wait. Eleven?
Something moved in the cloud. Ryoka saw a man jerk and fly off his horse. He hit the ground, and Ryoka saw what had knocked him from the saddle.
A quarterstaff. As the man lay winded, the hands holding the quarterstaff withdrew. He sat up, and Durene’s foot came down. The man screamed before Durene stomped. The other [Bandits] looked up.
“Dead gods, what is that?”
They hadn’t seen Durene behind the wagon. The [Pyromancer] turned in alarm and pointed his staff.
“[Fast Fireball]—”
“Durene!”
The half-Troll girl raised her arms. The second explosion engulfed her. Ryoka screamed. No! She ran forwards, saw a woman swinging on her from the right. Ryoka tried to dodge. A blade clipped her back, laying it open. The pain made Ryoka scream, but she ran. The [Bandit] followed her. She raised her sword for another strike—
And someone roared. Ryoka jerked, dodged left. A huge shape crashed into the horse. The animal and rider went down. The [Bandit] turned and saw a huge mouth snapping at her. It was her turn to scream.
It was the last sound she made. Bismarck bit, worried the corpse, tossed it, and turned. The other [Bandits] descending on Ryoka noticed the Mossbear through the dust too late. The Mossbear tore a man from his saddle and dropped on him. The paw hit the man’s chest with a dull crunch.
“It’s a damned bear! I told you!”
“Kill it! Kill it! Mafial!”
“Move clear, you idiots!”
The [Pyromancer] bellowed. He shot a thin stream, and Bismarck roared, flinching away from the fire. The [Pyromancer] lifted his burning staff as the other [Bandits] rode clear.
“[Fireb—]”
A huge hand grabbed his horse. The [Mage] jerked and looked down. Durene howled as she tossed the man from the saddle. The man flew, and Durene swung her staff. A man riding towards her caught the blow. He was wearing chainmail, but the metal did nothing as his ribs snapped. He fell screaming, choking.
Ryoka stared. Durene lifted the staff and swung it, still screaming in pain. She was half-blinded by the [Fireball], but it hadn’t brought her down. In fact—her staff caught another [Rider], and he tumbled.
“Shoot her—”
A bolt hit Durene in the chest. She staggered, and the [Bandit] holding the crossbow lowered it, dumbfounded. The bolt had stuck in Durene’s skin, barely two inches deep. She howled, and the man on the ground raised his shield. He had a shield. Armor. And all she had was a staff.
But it was thick. A walking staff. A quarterstaff. It came down with all of Durene’s strength. The thud as it struck the man’s helmet stayed with Ryoka as she stumbled forwards. She flung a caltrop, called the wind.
The [Pyromancer] was alive. He was winded, but he got up as Ryoka tried to bombard him with grit and caltrops. He snarled, pointing his staff at her as his bloody eye and good one focused on her. Ryoka leapt sideways.
The two faced each other as the [Bandits] circled, fighting Bismarck and Durene. Ryoka grabbed for another Tripvine bag, her caltrops—the [Pyromancer] raised his staff, and she knew she was too close. She tensed—and her eyes widened.
“Wiskeria?”
The [Pyromancer]’s head turned. Someone was walking out of the destroyed wagon’s front. It was…a [Witch].
Ryoka could tell by the hat. But nothing else. Oh, and the wand. Wiskeria stomped and raised it. She was completely naked except for her hat. But she was also unharmed. There wasn’t even soot on her. Ryoka stopped. The [Pyromancer] turned and stared. His eyes bulged.
“What the f—”
“[Fox Fire]. [Icy Shard].”
The first spell tossed blue fire into the [Pyromancer]’s face. He clawed at it, screaming. The shard of ice hit him in the cheek, and he screamed louder. Ryoka leapt forwards and kicked him in the back. Wiskeria drew a knife and jumped on the man as he raised his staff.
The Runner ducked as fire blasted past her. Then she looked up. Wiskeria stabbed the man twice more in the chest. But he was already dead. She stared at Wiskeria. The [Witch] slashed across his throat, stepped back, and exhaled. She was sooty, but she was alive.
“How—”
