Or had she? Ryoka looked up and met Wiskeria’s eyes. She recalled Charlay’s fear of Alevica. Ryoka glanced at the [Witch] Runner’s smirk.
“You’re taking their fear. And hatred.”
Alevica’s brows rose. She looked at the others.
“She’s good.”
She turned back to Ryoka.
“That’s right. Fear, hatred, loathing, envy, I take it all. I don’t need to pretend to like people or listen to their sad, sordid little lives. I do what I want, and that makes me powerful. What I take lasts far longer than any goodwill.”
She winked at Eloise. The older [Witch] gave her a resigned smile. Ryoka looked at Alevica.
“So does that make you a ‘bad witch’?”
Alevica sprayed tea across Nanette and Califor as she laughed. Nanette flung up her arms, and Califor scowled. Not a drop of tea landed on either.
“Alevica. Mind your manners.”
“Sorry. Sorry! ‘Bad witches’? Yeah, I’m a bad [Witch]. I guess that’s how some people look at it. I just think of it as looking after myself. Why do I owe people anything?”
“Oh, perhaps only because they deserve respect. Or that their efforts create the world which you can enjoy. A [Baker] bakes her goods and works hard.”
“And I pay her, Eloise. And if someone wrongs me, I get even. I don’t owe people for anything. Hey, Nanette, remember that. A [Witch] can do as she likes. That’s my craft.”
Alevica drained her cup and looked around arrogantly. Nanette seemed equally nervous and awestruck by Alevica. Califor frowned.
“Tell me, Alevica. Does your brand of witchcraft improve this world in any way? Or is it self-indulgent? You rely on others more than any of us, only you expect their hatred. What you have will not last. Every [Witch] falls. When you do, will it be alone?”
The Witch Runner paused. She tossed her cup down and sat up. Ryoka felt something pass by her as the two [Witches] locked gazes. Wiskeria muttered.
“Oh, not again.”
But whatever contest was in the air, Alevica clearly wasn’t in the mood for it. The air turned hot for just a second before she looked away. Annoyed, Alevica rose to her feet.
“I’m sure that’s what these wonderful covens are for, Califor. I’m being a good little [Witch] and helping [Witches] everywhere, aren’t I? Don’t lecture me about magic. Not all of us have to hold hands and sing songs. I was watching you teach Nanette the absolute basics. Where’s the Witch Califor who did real magic? I guess Mavika’s the genuine article. Later.”
She turned. Her broom shot towards her, and Alevica hopped up. Her feet landed on the broom, and she disappeared, shooting across the ground, just a few feet into the air. Ryoka watched her go enviously. Califor just shook her head.
“That would be an example of a [Witch] whose craft is both powerful and self-indulgent, Miss Griffin. Alevica is the most gifted [Witch] of her generation at her age. But her magic is self-destructive. [Witches] like that often end up in early graves.”
There was silence after that pronouncement for a bit. Ryoka sipped from her cup. Alevica had come and gone like a storm. But she had reminded Ryoka of Mavika.
“Wiskeria said Mavika was like Alevica. A bad…I mean, selfish to some degree. What craft does she use?”
She looked at Wiskeria. The [Witch] frowned.
“Crows.”
“Crows?”
“Not all [Witches] need just emotions. The strength of her flock is probably part of her power. I’m sure she uses some stuff. Fear, loathing, uh…superstition?”
She looked at Califor and Eloise for confirmation. Califor nodded.
“It’s an old way. Too cumbersome for my taste.”
“And imagine feeding all the crows. But Mavika is old. And quite powerful.”
Eloise sighed and shook her head. Ryoka nodded. She forbore asking who was most powerful; it seemed like Alevica was lower on that totem pole than Califor, at any rate. Ryoka glanced around and jumped. She’d nearly forgotten about the shadowed [Witch] under the tree. She hesitated, then plunged into it.
“Okay. Then…do you mind me asking what Belavierr uses?”
The picnic went silent. Nanette edged closer to Califor, and the older [Witch] lowered her cup. She and Eloise looked at each other. Eloise murmured.
“Loss. Among other things.”
“I see. Is she—different from the rest of you?”
“Only in the sense of age. Any [Witch] might become as powerful as her. In time.”
Califor sniffed, but it was quietly. Eloise shook her head.
“Any [Witch] might. But you could regard her as the most powerful [Witch] present by some margin, Miss Griffin. And Belavierr is extraordinary. Let us leave it at that.”
Ryoka wanted to. But she had promised Laken, damn it. Exactly what she had promised and how much she owed him was up for debate, but Belavierr spoke to Ryoka of every movie cliché and old story possible. If there ever was a big, bad [Witch] who was going to cause trouble, it was her.
“Sorry, Eloise. But I do have to know. What did she offer Rehanna? Why were you two fighting over her?”
Eloise paused. She put down the packet of herbs and looked up slowly. She didn’t scowl, not exactly, but Ryoka felt the pleasant air go still for a moment. Eloise’s voice was sharper as she glanced at Belavierr.
“Both she and I have different philosophies towards what should be done with Rehanna. We both offer resolution of a kind. In this instance, Belavierr got to Rehanna first. I wish it hadn’t been so. I don’t know what she offered.”
But she could guess. Wiskeria, Califor, Eloise—none of them wanted to say. Ryoka glanced at Nanette. The girl just looked slightly frightened as she glanced at Belavierr, and awed.
“I take it she’s a legend among [Witches]? A Weatherwax, if you will?”
“What kind of name is that?”
Califor frowned and shook her head. Ryoka recalled what Wiskeria had said. They were all legends. But then, did that make Belavierr a myth? Ryoka hesitated.
“I’d like to ask her some questions. If I could. Wiskeria?”
“What? I can help you with that. It’s fine.”
Wiskeria said that as much to Ryoka as the other [Witches]. Califor and Eloise traded a glance and nodded. Reluctantly. Ryoka saw that and grew considerably more apprehensive as Wiskeria got up. But the daughter walked over to Belavierr as casually as could be. Ryoka, following her, felt the shadows seem to grow as she approached Belavierr’s tree.
It was…dark here. Darker, despite the shining sun and clear skies not a foot away. The shadows of the tree made Ryoka’s skin break out into goosebumps as she walked under them. It was quiet. Extremely so. She saw Belavierr sitting, the hat hiding her face. And the [Witch]’s hands were moving.
A pale needle flashed between long fingers. A pale, flesh-colored thread was moving as the needle stitched. The [Witch]’s hands were so fast that Ryoka couldn’t follow them. The needle moved in, out, changing, a hypnotic dance. It made Ryoka uneasy. The rest of Belavierr was so still. Part of Ryoka told her not to approach.
But Wiskeria was there. The [Witch] looked down at her mother and frowned. She was unaffected by the nervousness that touched Ryoka. She glanced back at Ryoka. The young woman gulped. Her mouth was suddenly dry. She coughed.
“Belavierr? Um. Witch Belavierr. I’d like to speak with you. If I may?”
There was no response. That was the scariest part of all. Belavierr kept stitching, only her arms moving, without reaction. It was like she hadn’t heard a thing. Ryoka tried again.
“Witch Belavierr? I seek an audience. Witch Belavierr? I’d like to talk…”
It was very dark. And Belavierr’s hands kept moving. Ryoka took a step back uneasily. There it was again. That feeling in the air. Like she got with Fierre or the fae. Or Teriarch, come to that. A sense of timelessness. Belavierr had that quality. But also what she’d sensed from the things around the fire. Az’kerash.
Another layer of wrongness. That was it. It wasn’t as…strong as the things around the fire. Az’kerash had been terrifying in another way. But Ryoka sensed that she did not want to see what Belavierr was doing. She looked at Wiskeria. The [Witch] was staring down. She didn’t feel it?
But Belavierr was her mother. The daughter turned to Ryoka, realized Belavierr was still stitching, and bent.
“Mother. Mother.”
No response. Wiskeria grabbed Belavierr’s shoulder and, to Ryoka’s horror, shook her slightly. The [Witch] moved, but kept stitching.
“I think she’s busy—”
“She’s just not paying attention. I hate when she does—hold on.”
Wiskeria made a disgusted sound. She looked reluctantly at her mother and then glanced at Ryoka. Then she coughed.
“Um. Mother, I need your help.”
Ryoka had privately been thinking that if Belavierr suddenly looked up or started crawling towards her like some Japanese horror movie, she’d soil herself and run away. When Belavierr’s head suddenly snapped up, Ryoka got close. She stepped back as the [Witch]’s ringed eyes fixed on Wiskeria.
“Yes, Daughter?”
“Hi, Mother.”
Wiskeria looked like she was sucking on pieces of glass. She glanced at Ryoka.
“I have someone here who wants to ask you questions.”
The head slowly turned, and the eyes fixed on Ryoka. The City Runner froze. How could Belavierr be scarier than Fierre and her entire family put together just by turning her head?
“I—I—uh, greetings, Witch Belavierr. We meet again?”
“Hello.”
The [Witch] stared at Ryoka with a completely blank expression. She had no idea who Ryoka was. However, then she tilted her head, stood in one fluid motion, and did something odd.
Again, like their first encounter, Belavierr leaned forwards and sniffed Ryoka. The Wind Runner froze up, and even Wiskeria looked surprised. And scandalized.
“Mother!”
Belavierr paced around Ryoka, sniffing lightly, staring at her as Ryoka froze. It was like a tiger had suddenly begun pacing around her. She tried to move—but suddenly, the Stitch Witch’s eyes were locked on her. And it was terrifying.
“You…smell like my nemesis. Vaguely. You smell like the mice I have sworn to kill. Vaguely. Who…are you?”
Belavierr whispered in Ryoka’s ear. She stepped back, and Wiskeria was there, blocking Ryoka.
“Ryoka, Mother. Ryoka Griffin, and she is a guest of the [Emperor] here, and you are sworn by the coven’s will not to disrupt our plans. So behave and listen. I need a favor of you.”
Belavierr blinked. She stepped back and stopped peering at Ryoka so hard. She sat back down, cross-legged. After a moment, her eyes met Ryoka’s, but ‘lightly’, without the same intensity. Just…the same eerie rings pulling Ryoka in.
“My daughter asks me a favor. Something I have not heard in years. You have questions. Ask and I will answer.”
Ryoka had to stare at Belavierr’s boots to even get a reply out. She stuttered.
“W-well, I’m just curious about your, uh, craft. Your coven is, uh, surprising. Since it’s here in Riverfarm, I mean. I, uh—could I ask why you’re—I mean, I know why you’re here. So, um…”
The glowing, orange stare was going right through Ryoka. Belavierr didn’t look away, and she didn’t blink. Ryoka realized she was waiting for a question. Ryoka fumbled for the first one she could think of.
“What—what’s your craft, Witch Belavierr? What do you…do?”
At last, the [Witch] blinked. She raised one hand, and Ryoka saw her holding the needle.
“I stitch. Thread. Cloth. My craft is stitching. Sewing. Connection and binding. It is important for a [Witch] to know her craft.”
“Of course. Of course. Uh—”
Ryoka was sweating. She wiped at it. Cold as ice.
“What can you do with stitch magic? I mean, it sounds great. Amazing. But, uh, I met Eloise, and she makes tea—which is great, but I sort of thought that a [Witch] of her level would have more powerful magic. No offense to Eloise. But what’s her end result? I mean, say she’s Level 80. Does she make tea that can kill a Dragon or something?”
She was blabbering. Wiskeria shot her a glance and stared at Ryoka’s pale expression. She whispered.
“Come on, don’t be bothered. I know she’s odd, but she won’t hurt you.”
Odd? Ryoka was about to wet herself in terror, and Wiskeria thought her mother was just a bit off? This was beyond supernatural. But Wiskeria was treating her mother as if she were just a bit eccentric.
Belavierr’s eyes flicked to her daughter. Then she shook her head slowly. Her gaze went to Eloise at her tea party.
“What is simple is not weak. Tea is a part of a whole. When Eloise brews tea, her magic is one thing. It could be many things. Poison and medicine are two halves. Tea is a medicine or food or aspect of society. Her magic may destroy. In time, it may create.”
“Create? Like tea golems?”
Ryoka tried to laugh. It sounded a bit hysterical. Belavierr shook her head.
“I doubt Eloise wishes to create life. She may create happiness. Something to induce love or sadness. Fear or regret. If she wished it, she could create something like life through herbs. It would not be wise. Such was the arrogance of those that created the first true Cloth Golems with thought. String-people.”
“String-people?”
Ryoka and Wiskeria both stared at Belavierr’s face. When did they get to String-people? And had Belavierr just implied…? The [Witch] blinked. Once.
“The first Cloth Golems that became String-people were made by masters of the craft. [Golem Artificers], [Weavers], [High Mages]. And [Witches]. That is a part of my craft. But the act is creation. Connection. It is one part. They did not control what they made, for it was beyond each component part. Does that answer your question?”
The young woman gaped at Belavierr. At last, she managed a response.
“Yes?”
“Very well.”
Belavierr nodded. She looked at her daughter, then seemed to recall something. She looked at Ryoka.
“I am pleased to meet you, Ryoka Griffin. I hope you will take care of my daughter.”
It sounded like she’d memorized that line. Coming from her, it didn’t sound like a threat. But the words fit Belavierr not at all. Ryoka nodded quickly.
“Of course. Rather, it’s her taking care of me. And Riverfarm. I’m just a City Runner! Wiskeria’s the [General]—er—[Witch].”
“Yes. Both paths lead towards danger. One is not hers. It was given. The other she chose. And in both, she has not yet walked.”
Belavierr frowned. She turned away from Ryoka and looked at Wiskeria. For the first time, she really seemed to focus on Wiskeria’s face. That timeless tone seemed to vanish, and Belavierr…woke up? Ryoka stared, fascinated, as the [Witch] looked at her daughter, who was fiddling with her hat.
“Daughter. You should continue your training. Develop your craft. You are no [General], but a [Witch]. You have yet to make use of your power.”
Wiskeria shook her head, exasperated.
