“Why would a Runner’s Guild matter? We don’t have Runners in Riverfarm; we don’t really need ‘em.”
“True. But that was when Riverfarm was a small village. If Laken wants an empire, he needs a Runner’s Guild. And he needs one today, not tomorrow or in a few months. Because if you have Runners, you have communication. Not many people can afford [Message] spells, and you need a [Mage] to receive them. But Runners are cheap, and we go everywhere. As it stands, this entire region is pretty much isolated from, say, Invrisil or anywhere else. But if Runners start visiting here, even a handful, and you train your own, Riverfarm becomes a destination.”
Charlay was nodding as Ryoka laid out the plan. The Centauress took over, leaning over one of the maps the City Runners both carried in their packs.
“You know Runners won’t visit this place normally, right? Not more than once a week at least. It’s not worth the run. But if there’s a Runner’s Guild here and you have your own Runners or you steal some from another town…”
Rie sighed.
“We build a network. Of course. It’s completely logical. Where Runners go, trade and travel tend to follow. And it would certainly allow us to keep in touch with local settlements. I do think we could set up the beginnings of one, at least before Emperor Godart arrives. Yes, it’s not hard to set up a guild in theory.”
Durene looked astonished.
“Really? Doesn’t it need a building? And—and [Receptionists] and all kinds of organization? The Runner’s Guild we visited in Invrisil was huge.”
“Yes. But you can run a Guild out of a root cellar. In theory, you only need some Runner’s Seals, something to write down requests and store letters. And money to pay Runners, of course. But a Runner’s Guild takes a cut of deliveries. And most importantly—”
Ryoka was watching Rie’s face. The woman was sharp. She completed the sentence for Ryoka.
“—Miss Griffin and Miss Charlay can both advertise the fact that Riverfarm has a Runner’s Guild in the interim. Of course.”
The [Lady] nodded at Ryoka appreciatively. Ryoka smiled. It was a publicity stunt, like the one Laken had pulled at the Merchant’s Guild in Invrisil, as well as a smart investment in the future. She was proud of the idea. So was Charlay.
“Can I be listed as Riverfarm’s top Runner? It’s between me and Ryoka, and I’ll win that competition.”
Ryoka scowled at the Centauress.
“You could be Guildmistress if you wanted to retire.”
“How much does it pay?”
“Absolutely nothing. But they’ll give you all the wheat you want to munch on.”
Charlay looked like she was actually considering it for a moment.
“Hm. Pass. But it’s a good idea, right?”
Rie spoke tersely.
“I’ll make preparations at once. We can convert a new warehouse and set up a guild. Come to that, we might as well plan a commercial district. Which is what you’re suggesting next, Miss Griffin, isn’t it?”
The Asian girl nodded thoughtfully.
“Merchant’s Guild, Mage’s Guild—those are the basics. You could make an inn and a few shops too while you’re at it. I don’t imagine you get many [Traders], but if Riverfarm has any drop by, you could tempt them with some of your fresh produce. Until you get an actual product of some kind, that is.”
Rie coughed delicately.
“We do have some marketable items, in fact. Chess boards, carved items; but you are correct, Miss Griffin. Establishing shops would also give our artisans time to work. Some, like the [Potters], have been clamoring to use the clay deposits around Riverfarm. But a Runner’s Guild is a fine first step.”
She smiled, and Ryoka returned it. She saw Durene shaking her head slightly behind Rie. Ryoka understood; it wasn’t an earth-shattering idea. But it was smart, and it was based on things Riverfarm could do rather than making, say, a waterwheel.
Lady Rie went on.
“I think Emperor Godart would have implemented much the same idea as you’re proposing, Miss Griffin. Prost and I have been so busy trying to carry out his plans and dealing with the issue of sustaining the village and housing, we haven’t tried to develop Riverfarm further. However, if you’re willing to help us by doing some of the local deliveries, I will write a letter to the Runner’s Guild in Filk. Would you be able to make it there and back?”
Ryoka frowned.
“I’ll definitely do the deliveries. I might have to wait until tomorrow for the letters to be written and plan out my run. Filk. I don’t know the town. How far’s the run?”
“Thirty-two miles there and back.”
Ryoka scowled out the window.
“Oof. That’s hard. It’s already past midday. I could try it tomorrow. There’s something else I want to do there. Unless—”
She looked sideways. So did Rie and Durene. Charlay paused.
“What? Aha! So you admit I’m the better Runner?”
She looked triumphant, and then the Centauress frowned.
“But—hold on! There are [Bandits] about! Why do I have to risk my neck and run thirty-two miles?”
Ryoka sighed.
“Because you’re the gracious Centauress Dustrider Charlay? And because—”
She leaned over and whispered in Charlay’s ear as Durene and Rie frowned. The Centauress blinked.
“Hey! That’s a good idea! But what if I can’t find one? Okay. Okay, really? Huh. I don’t have a contact. But I still have to run there and back! That’s a lot of work!”
She stamped a foot, annoyed. Ryoka sighed.
“Please, Charlay?”
“Oh, okay. Just because you asked. I want to know too.”
The Centauress acquiesced at last. Ryoka sighed in relief; she didn’t want to do a thirty-mile run out of the blue either, stamina potions or not. They took a few more minutes to finalize things, and Lady Rie found some stationary and wrote a quick letter. And then Charlay was out the door, muttering about unpaid work. Ryoka saw her off with Durene. The [Farmer] girl looked mystified as Charlay galloped off.
“So we’re getting a Runner’s Guild? Is that your big idea?”
She looked at Ryoka. The young woman sighed.
“Partly. Charlay’s also going to dig up some information on the [Witches] if she can. Look, it’s a good idea. Riverfarm needs to do business if you want it to become a town or even city.”
Durene gnawed on one lip, dissatisfied.
“I guess—but it’s just not anything big. Don’t you have some other ideas?”
Ryoka did. She just refused to say. And she was getting tired of the questions.
“Not at the moment. Look, Durene. I’m just running blind here. Laken didn’t exactly give me a plan.”
“But he thought you could help.”
That apparently meant Ryoka should know exactly what she was doing. Exasperated, Ryoka looked over Durene’s shoulder at Lady Rie. The [Lady] gave her a slight nod and twitch of her lips. Ryoka shook her head.
“I’ll try, Durene. And I think I can help with the [Witches]. I want to know more about them, at least. Actually, aside from Mavika, the others seem relatively stable. Maybe they’ll just wait for Laken in peace—”
She saw Rie’s expression and stopped. Ryoka hesitated.
“Something wrong, Lady Rie?”
Durene turned and frowned. Ryoka frowned too. Lady Rie was biting one painted lip, a sure sign of stress because it was smudging her lipstick. She hesitated, then replied cautiously.
“Perhaps. While you were attending to Witch Mavika, there was an…incident. With Rehanna, one of our troublemakers. And the [Witch] known as…Belavierr?”
She relayed this morning’s incident to Ryoka. The City Runner felt a slight chill when she heard about Belavierr’s offer to Rehanna. She lost a husband and a child. What would a [Witch]…?
There were a lot of things Ryoka could think of, none of them pretty. And Belavierr might not be a [Necromancer], but Ryoka knew Alevica could summon skeletons. How strong did a [Witch] have to be to copy what, say, Pisces could do? Or more? She looked at Lady Rie.
“I think I’d better find some of the other [Witches]. Or even Belavierr. I wanted to talk to her.”
She felt a skip in her stomach just thinking about it. Durene looked uneasy.
“Are you sure, Ryoka?”
Lady Rie had a similar expression on her face.
“I don’t know if Miss—if Witch Belavierr is the most able conversationalist, Miss Ryoka. Or…stable. There might be some risk. Wiskeria seemed to imply as much. As did Miss Eloise.”
That was probably true. Even Mavika had given Ryoka strong fae vibes. As in, one misstep might have landed her with her eyes being pecked out by a murder of crows. But—damn it, she also wanted to know. Why did she like scary immortal monsters so much? Right, because they were cool.
Ryoka smiled weakly.
“Let’s just say I have some experience with people like her, Lady Rie.”
The [Lady]’s brows rose slightly.
“Really? Well, I believe Miss Eloise has relocated her tea circle. And you may find Wiskeria there as well. Belavierr might still be standing in the street. Or she may have moved.”
“I’ll—uh—I’ll—go feed Frostwing.”
Durene decided not to follow Ryoka for once, much to the City Runner’s relief. Ryoka grinned, nodded, and with some apprehension, went to find the [Witches].
It wasn’t hard. Indeed, Ryoka found Eloise sitting outside Riverfarm by the banks of the river. She was having tea again. Only this time—Ryoka paused.
The [Witches] were there. At least, five of them. Eloise was sitting on the grass, having spread a travel blanket to cushion a tea kettle and some snacks. And sitting with her was the strict [Witch], Miss Califor, and her apprentice, Nanette. Wiskeria was also sipping tea with them, and all four [Witches] looked like they were there purely by chance, because it was a lovely day and a nice place to sit. Not because they were watching the fifth [Witch] who sat under a tree. Not at all.
Belavierr was resting under a tree doing something with a thread and needle. She sat, her large, pointed hat bowed, consumed by her work. You could’ve missed her if you looked past her. Until you saw how the shadows of the tree seemed too long and how nothing, not birds nor insects, seemed to be making sound anywhere near her.
Ryoka wondered what you had to do to generate your own permanent creepy field around you. She headed towards the four picnicking [Witches] first. Wiskeria saw her coming and got up. Ryoka stopped in front of the tea circle awkwardly. Califor and Eloise regarded her, one with a piercing look, the other a kind smile. Nanette was eating a scone.
“Hi, uh, Wiskeria, right? I was hoping I could chat. Am I interrupting anything? Sorry, I’m Ryoka Griffin.”
Wiskeria nodded, adjusting her spectacles.
“Oh, yes. We met earlier. The one Laken sent. I haven’t had time to introduce myself properly. I’m pleased to meet you. And if I can help you, let me know. Emperor Laken did call for you.”
She held out a hand, and Ryoka shook it. The City Runner smiled and got a polite one of her own. Well, this was going swimmingly. Unlike other recent encounters, Ryoka hadn’t had to introduce herself by outing Wiskeria as a vampire, and she hadn’t needed to save Wiskeria from a magical monster just to say hi. If she could avoid punching her within the first ten minutes of meeting her, Ryoka was golden.
And yet—there was something about Wiskeria that made Ryoka suspect she was another Fierre. Not least Belavierr; a quality about Wiskeria made Ryoka’s shoulders itch. She couldn’t place her finger on it just yet.
“Sorry. Again. I know it’s odd that Laken sent me out of the blue. We’re, uh, acquaintances.”
Wiskeria nodded and didn’t ask any questions, which Ryoka appreciated. Her eyes flickered as she looked Ryoka up and down. She took in Ryoka’s features, missing fingers, and bare feet all at once; that was pretty good. Most people fixated on one or the other, but Wiskeria was as sharp as Durene had said. Then the [Witch] smiled and adjusted her pointed hat.
“I try not to be surprised by anything Laken does. But what brings you here? Is there anything I can help with? Is Mavika…?”
“Oh, no. She was at the fields, but we sorted it out.”
“Really? Did she make an offer? She doesn’t do modern Merchant’s Guild-type contracts. I can help her reword…”
Wiskeria looked instantly worried. Ryoka grinned.
“We sorted it. I helped Prost negotiate, and Mavika’s flock gets some of the corn in exchange for killing all the pests. They’re at work now.”
Wiskeria glanced towards the fields, and Ryoka saw a few birds in the distance. The [Witch] exhaled.
“That’s a relief. And that’s a standard contract Mavika offers, don’t worry. You helped Prost agree? Was there trouble?”
“Not really. The [Farmers] didn’t want to accept. I just talked them into it.”
Wiskeria looked surprised, and then she smiled.
“Thank you. Mavika really doesn’t have any ill will. She’s just hard to deal with. Even for other [Witches].”
“I’m familiar with the sort.”
Ryoka’s rueful look was one Wiskeria clearly understood. The [Witch] chuckled, and Ryoka laughed.
Oh, that’s what it is. Ryoka hesitated mid-laugh, glanced at Wiskeria, and saw the [Witch] break off laughing and give her another smile.
She’s faking her smile and laughter. It wasn’t like Persua, who did it blatantly and to hide how annoyed or spiteful or evil she was. Wiskeria was just…faking it. She seemed genuinely friendly, but it was strange.
Even so, Ryoka relaxed, and Wiskeria gestured at the [Witches]. Califor was speaking to Nanette, and the young [Witch] was nodding, pointing her wand at a scone. Ryoka realized she was trying to make it levitate, and both Califor and Eloise were coaching her!
“So, did you want one of us for anything?”
“Nope. I’m just here out of curiosity. It’s an interesting class. [Witch], I mean. I was hoping you could explain more of it to me. I don’t know if it’ll help, but—”
Wiskeria was nodding.
“Of course. I can answer any questions you have. Although I’m afraid you might be misunderstanding things. Being a [Witch] isn’t half as interesting as you might think. At my level, it’s closer to being a [Hedge Witch]—that’s a name for a self-taught female spellcaster. I’m afraid I’m just a glorified adventurer with a few odd tricks. Real witchcraft is hard to pull off. This coven’s probably your best example of that. I can’t do much to keep them in line. But I can put out any fires, with luck.”
She nodded to her mother for that. Interesting. Wiskeria wasn’t half as broken as Durene had made her out to be. Maybe she’d come around, but Ryoka thought the [Witch] seemed pretty put together. The Runner girl nodded and couldn’t help herself.
“Preventing them from turning people into frogs and stuff like that? Sorry, I know that’s stereotypical—”
