The words were spilling out of her. Wiskeria took a shuddering breath, her normally calm façade gone. Ryoka waited as Nanette stared wide-eyed at the older [Witch] in the forest.
“What made you into a [Witch]?”
Wiskeria looked around. She closed her eyes.
“Seeing my mother for who she truly was.”
No one spoke after that. Wiskeria looked at them, and Ryoka silently helped her and Nanette peel more bark. Ryoka felt guilty for asking. What did she expect? After another long moment, another confession burst from Wiskeria’s mouth.
“She’s not my mother either. She found me and took me in. No one could believe it, apparently. She doesn’t…show kindness to children. But she took me in, and she says I’m her true daughter. I wish I could believe that with all my heart. But I’ve known my mother, and I’ve never met anything in this world she loves.”
Except for you? Ryoka thought of Belavierr focusing on Wiskeria. But she bit her tongue. Because part of her didn’t know if she believed it either. Nanette looked between Wiskeria and Ryoka. She was so nervous she cut her arm as she harvested a bit of Sage’s Grass.
“Nanette!”
Ryoka fumbled for a healing potion at the same time as Wiskeria. Nanette looked at the deep, deep slash on her arm and fainted. When she came around, she sat up, protesting weakly.
“I’m fine! I’m fine! I just—don’t tell Miss Califor, please? A [Witch] should never faint. Other people do the fainting, but we have to be awake or who else will?”
Wiskeria and Ryoka shared a shaky laugh. Ryoka pointed down at the girl’s healed arm. Not a scar was left, but Nanette’s eyes widened as she saw the dried blood.
“I think we should tell her. You’re healed, but that was dangerous.”
“No! She won’t trust me with herb gathering again!”
Nanette looked horrified. Wiskeria hesitated.
“Nanette—”
“I don’t want to disappoint her. She let me use a sickle just last year.”
The girl was close to tears. Ryoka scrubbed a hand through her hair. Wiskeria hesitated.
“That’s unusual. Califor believes in learning by experience. I sliced my hand to the bone, and she just told me to practice a mending brew on it. I guess she’s careful because you’re young, Nanette. But really—”
“No!”
“Come on, we’ll tell her it was our fault. But she should know. She’s your teacher. What’s the worst that’ll happen? She’ll turn us into frogs while cackling? It’s fine, Nanette. But you should tell her.”
Ryoka gently teased the girl. Wiskeria caught on.
“Exactly. She’s not going to punish you, Nanette. Maybe scold a bit. But she’ll hardly get on a broom and race about with a black cat casting hexes.”
“Oh? You’re familiar with the [Witches] I know? Don’t forget enchanted scarecrows and dancing around naked by moonlight. Hey, Wiskeria, give me an evil cackle.”
The City Runner grinned at Wiskeria. The [Witch] laughed, and Nanette calmed down a bit. Chuckling, Wiskeria helped her clean off her arm.
“I don’t know any [Witch] that cackles, Ryoka. I’m sure my mother could do a splendid one, but I’ve heard her laugh exactly twice in my entire life. Hedag’s got a great laugh.”
“And a booming voice. That’s a great laugh; you’re right. But I can’t imagine her cackling. I could imagine Mavika cackling, though.”
“You think so? I haven’t heard her do it. Mind you, when she gets angry, she will screech and scream. You don’t want to see her cast a hex. And believe me, she can do a nasty one.”
“I heard Miss Califor cackle once.”
“Really?”
The two young women looked at Nanette. She nodded.
“She only did it once. She was embarrassed afterwards. She says it plays into, uh—uh—stereotypes about [Witches].”
“That it does. But I think she’ll be fine when you explain about the cut.”
Ryoka smiled, and Nanette reluctantly nodded. Ryoka straightened up. It was fun being together with Nanette and Wiskeria. Fun! They resumed gathering, and Nanette announced that she was nearly done with her collecting! As soon as she did, Ryoka realized she’d have to face Durene and her questions. And Riverfarm. Her good mood sank through her bare feet and into the ground.
“Gah.”
Wiskeria snapped her fingers.
“And you were cheering up. What’s wrong, Ryoka? Was it yesterday, meeting all those people? Or is it Durene? I know she’s insistent, but she trusts you. She thinks since Laken sent you, you can make things right. She really misses him. I’m sorry she’s so…”
She waved one hand. Ryoka nodded. Durene was persistent, stubborn, and clingy. Which made sense if you remembered that she was a half-Troll girl who’d lived her entire life as a social outcast. Laken had clearly been the first person to see her as a person, and Ryoka remembered the way he’d been protective of her as much as she was of him in Invrisil. But even so. She shook her head as she walked back with Nanette and Wiskeria through the forest.
“I just don’t know how to help her, Wiskeria. Or Riverfarm. I’d like to do something. But I don’t know what. I’m no [Emperor]. And I can’t give Riverfarm a grand idea. I just…”
She thought of the people. Damn it. Why did she have to care? Charlay cared, but in a sympathetic way. But Ryoka?
Ryoka was a girl from Earth. A girl who read stories about dying people, crises of humanity in Darfur, or monsters pretending to be men. Dying people. People in need. And greed and indifference in her home. She was angry. Had been angry. An angry girl. At herself, her father, at injustice. Part of her still was. But what could you do?
Nothing. Everything. But she was no [Emperor]. Ryoka stopped, closing her eyes. Into that silence, Nanette hesitantly spoke. The young [Witch] adjusted her hat and spoke up in a clear, carrying voice.
“It’s fine just to do what you want. So long as it’s something you won’t regret. You only live once. And I won’t die with any more regrets on my hat. Uh—that’s what Miss Califor says. Not me.”
The bright voice went right through Ryoka, like an arrow. She felt the words sink into her, but without barbs. I won’t die with any more regrets.
Mrsha and Ivolethe. The Horns and the Pithfire Hounds. You couldn’t go back. But you could go forwards. Without regrets? Ryoka had many. But she didn’t want to leave Riverfarm with another. She bent, and a smile crossed her face. It was rueful, because Ryoka knew it was a stupid idea she’d had. But it was hers. And this was something of her world. Why not? She straightened and looked at Nanette. The girl was watching her cautiously.
“Miss Califor says that? She’s a great [Witch], isn’t she?”
“The best in the world.”
Nanette shot Wiskeria a daring glance. The older [Witch] only smiled and tugged on her hat. Ryoka stared down at Nanette. She wondered if she’d ever been like this. And Wiskeria—Ryoka could have been looking into a mirror. But for the paler skin, yellow-green eyes, shorter height, and glasses. A mirror.
Ryoka shook her head. When did she start seeing so much of herself in the women and girls she met? No—in so many people? She straightened, took a breath, and smiled.
“I’ve got to go. Thanks, Nanette. Wiskeria. This really helped me.”
“Anytime. But where are you going, Ryoka?”
“Back to Durene’s cottage. And then into Riverfarm. I have to find Lady Rie and Prost. Catch up soon—you might want to be part of this! Got to run! Thank you! Again!”
The two [Witches] watched as Ryoka took off, running at full-speed through the forest. And they felt it, radiating off her. Where Ryoka had been dark, depressed, the clouds had lifted. Much like the blue skies overhead. But now something else poured from her. It was—
Wiskeria nudged Nanette, and the girl started. She looked up hesitantly.
“Can I—?”
“Go for it. She won’t feel it, and she won’t mind, I’m sure. You can tell her later.”
The young [Witch] nodded, then she turned and stared at Ryoka’s rapidly disappearing back. She hesitated, then she cupped her hands, pulled, and Wiskeria felt her tug a bit of the emotion from Ryoka.
It wasn’t something you could see. One second, Nanette pulled, and then she had it. It rested in her hands in a metaphorical sense. Wiskeria could sense it. A bit of…happiness.
Pure happiness. Wiskeria almost couldn’t look directly at it. And it was no emotion she’d ever use. What [Witch] would try to base her craft around something like that? Happiness? As fleeting and hard to grasp as a butterfly in a tornado. And surely useless! Who could make something out of that? How would it last?
Nanette held it and smiled, with ease. With grace. And in her hands, it pulsed, a burning, bright feeling from Ryoka. It didn’t flicker out. Because happiness lasted longer in her hands. Because it was her.
In that moment, Wiskeria envied Nanette more than she could say. She carefully cleared her throat.
“What will you make of it?”
“I don’t know. I have a few charms, but I think I’ll ask Miss Califor. I’ll put it here.”
So saying, Nanette reached up and lifted her hat. She tipped the little bit of happiness under her hat and smiled. Wiskeria sighed. But then she gestured, and they walked on through the forest. Two [Witches]. But of the two, one was growing, leveling. The other had stopped leveling years ago.
 
 
Day 59 – Durene
 
“You want to send food and supplies to the people in the outlying farms and villages you met. Food. Supplies. Wood.”
“That’s right. As much as Riverfarm can spare. And not just that. I want to take as many people back to Riverfarm as I can. Anyone who wants to come. Beniar and his [Riders] will need to provide us with an escort in case the [Bandits] are about.”
Lady Rie and Prost stared at Ryoka as she outlined her plan, pointing to a map of the area. So did Durene. Ryoka had raced into her cottage all excited. Durene had thought she’d come up with a good idea after yesterday. But no—Ryoka had told her to come to the village, gotten the two leaders, and now she wanted…
“And what exactly does Riverfarm get out of this? Out of giving…how much food and other materials away? I could see us taking in more people, but are we asking for coin for all this or what? Because I know these folks, and they won’t have much.”
Mister Prost was frowning at the map. Ryoka spread her hands on the table.
“No. We don’t ask for anything. This isn’t a give or take. It’s all give. If they need food, they get food. If they want to come back—and we should try persuading them—they can. But anyone who asks for help gets it.”
“Charity. You’re telling us to give away Riverfarm’s resources.”
Rie massaged her eyes with two painted fingernails. Ryoka nodded.
“Yes.”
The four listeners in the room paused. Durene looked incredulously at Ryoka. This was the big idea that she’d come up with? It was terrible! Alright, it would help people out. Durene understood they were in trouble. But…she clenched one fist and looked to one side.
Rie and Prost traded looks. Rie shook her head, and Prost sighed. Even Charlay was looking uncertainly at Ryoka. But she was standing by her friend. The [Steward] addressed Ryoka curtly.
“Miss Griffin, I feel for the folks who’re caught outside Riverfarm. I do. But it’s their choice to stay where they are. Some, now, some might want to come to Riverfarm, and I could say yes to seeing whoever wants to join the village. We could use more hands, although we’ll have to build a home for them. But see here, giving food away—it’s a noble thought—”
He looked at Lady Rie. She nodded and took over.
“Exactly. It is a noble’s thought. Something one of my peers might come up with. And few enough of them. It’s giving away gold or the equivalent needlessly. The point of charity, Miss Griffin, is laudable. But it’s a well-known fact that people level in times of adversity. And harsh as it may be, one cannot hold the hands of others. They must survive on their own. Generosity is acceptable, but this? This is madness.”
Ryoka listened to Rie calmly. But all she did after the [Lady] was done was shake her head.
“I get that. And I understand the reasoning that goes into that. Especially with levels. But Lady Rie. Do you know who you remind me of when you say that? Magnolia Reinhart.”
Lady Rie gasped. Her eyes flashed. Durene looked nervously at Ryoka. The young woman didn’t blink as she met Rie’s furious gaze.
“I know it’s not practical. I know people level under stress. And I know many would. But guess what? For every person that manages to level up, to survive this, people will die. That’s reality.”
“Yes. But we can’t save everyone, Miss Griffin. I understand your point. But I’ve been a [Farmer] for decades. And I know about lending a hand to a neighbor in need. But sometimes, in a cold winter, there’s not enough to give. Not if you want you and your own to live. Those are the hard choices we make sometimes.”
[Steward] Prost looked at Ryoka. She nodded heavily.
“That’s true too. But is this winter, Mister Prost? I’ve seen your fields. You could pay Mavika’s fee. You have [Farmers] with plenty of Skills. Is wood an issue? Will Riverfarm starve if it emptied its storehouses tomorrow?”
“Maybe not today. But what of this winter? What of the future, the guilds you suggested building? Would you destroy all of Riverfarm’s potential by giving it away?”
Rie snapped, her eyes flashing. Ryoka met Rie’s eyes and shook her head.
“No. But if you can give. Give. If you could save a life by reaching out, wouldn’t you? Prost, Rie. Durene. I know this doesn’t make sense to you. And it won’t help Riverfarm. But it’s something I have to do.”
She looked around. Ryoka’s eyes were bright. She looked more animated than Durene could remember seeing her. Not just that. She was smiling slightly. She spread her hands.
“It’s what’s right. And it’s what I know. If you have a problem with it, talk to Laken. I hope he’d agree with me. But I’ll do it myself if I must. I’ll buy your produce. But some of those people won’t survive if they don’t come here. I’m not saying to empty all the storehouses. Yet if you can do something, do it.”
“What if they come back next month, begging for more? If they rely on us? If we give and that makes them targets. Or we give and it’s not enough? If we give a third of our field’s harvests to them?”
