Day 57 – Ryoka
 
After seeing Mavika at work, Ryoka found herself coming back to Riverfarm. And she knew three things.
Firstly, [Witches] were as cool and scary as they came, especially Mavika. Also, her stomach was still hurting. In fact, it was getting worse since this morning. And finally…she didn’t like Durene.
It wasn’t that she didn’t understand the half-Troll girl walking back with her, and it wasn’t as if Ryoka didn’t feel for her. But there was something about Durene’s personality that irked Ryoka. If she had to sum it up, it was hesitancy.
Charlay had decided to go for a quick trot in case that settled her stomach. Ryoka wished she could join her, but it would have been rude to run off and leave Durene. Old Ryoka would have done it in a heartbeat, and honestly, new Ryoka was tempted too. Instead, she walked and talked with Durene.
“That was terrifying. All those crows and that huge raven—! Hiring Mavika to help with the fields is good, right? You thought so, otherwise you wouldn’t have negotiated for Prost, right?”
“I don’t know. I think it’ll be fine, but Prost will have to watch Mavika. I did what I thought was best; offending her would be a bad idea.”
That was Ryoka’s honest opinion. Durene didn’t seem reassured by it. She glanced sideways at Ryoka, bit one cracked lip, and glanced around conspiratorially.
“So have you had any more ideas?”
Ryoka sighed.
“Nope. I just got here, Durene.”
She didn’t like the expectant look in Durene’s eye or the disappointment that followed after Ryoka’s reply. The half-Troll girl scuffed at the ground.
“Well—maybe helping with stuff like Mavika was what Laken wanted. You could show Prost those ‘pestithings’ you were talking about. He was worried about the layout of Riverfarm with Laken missing. Maybe you could look it over? Because you’re both from…”
“Yeah. Maybe. Only, I’m not an [Architect]. I don’t know how Laken did it. I’ll try.”
It was the same tone Ryoka used when someone asked her to do something she really didn’t want. ‘I’ll try’ was code for ‘only if you make me, and I will give this the most minimum effort possible’. But Durene was nodding happily.
“Prost will appreciate the help. Or Lady Rie! Or me. I was thinking you could explain more about [Paladins]. Laken said he wanted me to level up in my class. I wanted to, but since he’s been gone…”
She waved an arm vaguely as if to say ‘that was that’. Ryoka frowned.
“[Paladins] are a fighting class. Not just fighting. They do good deeds. And they might be able to use…uh, magic. Faith being what it is…”
“What?”
Ryoka shook her head as she walked back towards the village.
“Hasn’t training helped you level? Or…what kind of stuff have you been doing to help people? If you’re Level 16, it’ll probably be a bit harder to level. Are you sure it’s not working?”
“I don’t know. I haven’t been training. And I help out, but doing construction work or lifting stuff doesn’t sound [Paladin]-like to me.”
“Okay. Then—what about training again? You could do that, right?”
Durene shrugged self-consciously.
“I can’t. The army’s disbanded. We used to have daily sparring and exercise, but Beniar says his [Riders] need to rest since they patrol all day. When Laken comes back—”
“He’ll see about reforming the army. Right.”
Ryoka shook her head. Durene did remind her of some people she’d met in her world. She tried again.
“What about sparring? Or practice by yourself?”
“Who would I spar with? And I can’t practice; I know how to hit things, but I’m not an expert. I don’t have a Skill, and I didn’t train that long.”
“So why not try and reform the army before Laken gets back?”
Durene exhaled exasperatedly and nodded, missing the look on Ryoka’s face.
“That’s what I keep saying. But Wiskeria won’t do it. She’s our [General], remember?”
“Right. And without a [General], reforming the army is a hopeless task. We should give up on it completely.”
Durene frowned.
“Well, I’m working on Wiskeria. She’ll come around, or Laken will persuade her.”
“Probably.”
Ryoka sighed again, louder. She stared at the village. It was bustling. She saw a team of woodcutters marching back with wagons full of lumber pulled by a pair of mules. They had to wait to get in; more work was being done at the edges of the village. The [Builders] could put up a house in hours. And the fields were vast; Ryoka had seen how much was being grown and had peeked in the store houses.
Hell, they’d need to make a grain silo soon just to store the produce! At the same time, Riverfarm lacked a lot of basic amenities. It was trying to complete itself, take in the excess population flooding it, and tend to security, social problems like Lancrel’s troublemakers, and the [Witches] all at once.
What the village needed wasn’t a bright idea, but a leader who could manage it all. It needed Laken. Since Ryoka wasn’t him, she felt like adding anything would make the precarious balance break. Still, he’d asked for her help. Grimacing, she pointed back at the field.
“Durene, do you know what a grain silo is?”
She hated the way the [Farmer]’s eyes lit up, and Durene stopped.
“No. What is it? Did you have an idea?”
“No. Well—this is what it is. It’s just an upright building, like a tower. And you pour grain inside…”
Ryoka explained, and Durene frowned.
“You mean like a warehouse.”
“Yup.”
“Why do we need one of those?”
“It’s…efficient? Good for bulk storage? Things don’t rot or decay fast in them, I think. Then again, you’d need a grain elevator—you know what? Forget it.”
“Well, if it’s as good as a [Preservation] spell, that’d be great. Why don’t you talk to Prost about it?”
“No, no—it was just a thought.”
“But it could be a good idea! Laken said you had some really great ones. What if you shared the other ones he wanted?”
Ryoka could barely remember all the things she’d suggested to him. Crop rotation? Efficient hand-plows? Had she talked about windmill-based power? She shook her head.
“My ‘ideas’. Yeah. Tell me again about the Goblins. The second group. Not the raiders. Especially the part where you attacked them first.”
“We didn’t do it first. Goblins were raiding us all over the place! This was the biggest army yet, and Laken said he sensed them attacking another city’s army. So he laid a trap!”
Durene corrected Ryoka severely. The City Runner frowned. She’d missed that part in Durene’s last catch up.
“They destroyed an army?”
“That’s what Laken said. What does it matter? They started attacking us afterwards. They destroyed Lancrel, and the raids that burned down half the area around Riverfarm were that tribe’s doing!”
The [Farmer] clenched her fists angrily. Ryoka eyed Durene’s hands and shook her head. She spoke carefully, clenching her right hand and unclenching it as she spoke.
“I know they’re dangerous. I met that Goblin Lord. He wiped out a Gnoll tribe for no reason. Or maybe it was just because I…”
She shook her head. Durene stared at her. Gnolls? She’d never met one, only heard of the furry, tribal people that lived among the Drakes. Ryoka’s expression was bleak. She looked down at her right hand and curled her three fingers.
“I know they’re dangerous. But I’ve also met ones that didn’t kill everything in sight. They’re a people. And Laken decided to attack this tribe and keep fighting when their Chieftain sued for peace.”
The criticism in her voice finally reached Durene, and she got what Ryoka was driving at. The half-Troll girl folded her arms. She was younger than Ryoka.
“Yeah. But they destroyed—”
“And Laken used poison gas. In his surprise attacks.”
“That’s what I said. It worked too! If we’d have gotten more of them, we wouldn’t have lost at Lancrel.”
Ryoka stared at Durene. There wasn’t a bit of guilt or hesitation in her tone. Ryoka shook her head. That was a conversation to be had with Laken. She sighed.
“I’m not going to comment. Hell, I’d probably try that if I had an army of Goblins coming at me. But he took those trebuchets and attacked Liscor. A Drake city.”
She walked on, stomping towards Riverfarm. The city needed walls too. No wonder the Goblins had attacked it so easily. Durene strode after Ryoka, worried.
“Rie and Prost said that Lord Tyrion Veltras was only—”
Ryoka spun around and stomped back towards her, and Durene stopped. Ryoka glared at Durene. She opened her mouth and caught herself. It was hard not to shout.
“Do you not…make opinions of your own? And do you believe everything Laken says? Just like that?”
“Yes. So what? He explained why he did what he did. I was there when he made all his plans. So was Prost and Rie. I mean, I have opinions. But I agree with Laken. What’s the problem?”
Durene looked challengingly at Ryoka. The City Runner inhaled furiously. As she did, a searing pain erupted in her abdomen. She doubled over as Durene stared in confusion at her.
“You—I think your problem is—hold on. Gah!”
“Ryoka? What’s wrong? Are you okay?”
The half-Troll girl bent anxiously. Ryoka clutched at her stomach. Uh oh. There was a familiar rumbling pain there. She gritted her teeth.
“It’s my stomach. Do you have an outhouse around here? I might need to throw up or use it. I’m not sure yet.”
“Yup. We have some there and there—”
“Where’s the closest?”
“This way.”
Ryoka turned and immediately began striding the way Durene had pointed. She was afraid to run. But she heard a bunch of hoof beats and turned to see Charlay making her way towards them. The Centauress looked just as pale as Ryoka all of a sudden as she returned from her walk.
“Ooh. Ooh. Ryoka, Durene, where’s the toilets? I’ll even take a latrine! Moving only made my stomach worse.”
“This way.”
The two hurried towards the row of outhouses in the distance. Durene followed, worried.
“Was it something you ate? Last night? I don’t feel anything, but I don’t get sick that much; I’ve never gotten food poisoning.”
Ryoka was in no mood to compliment her on her superior stomach due to her ancestry. She gritted her teeth as she tried to speed up. Charlay was holding her horse half. Was that where her stomach—? Ryoka groaned.
“I think it was the meat. Charlay and I had omelettes before you woke up. Do you know—what was it? Maybe it spoiled? It looked fresh, and I thought if I fried it, everything would be fine.”
The Centaur echoed Ryoka’s groan, loader.
“I thought it looked fresh! Did you cook it?”
“Of course I did, I’m asking Durene—”
“What meat?”
The two Runners looked back. Durene was staring at them. She shook her head.
“Ryoka, I didn’t bring any meat back with me from Riverfarm last night.”
Ryoka paused and looked suspiciously at Charlay.
“But you gave me a handful of meat to make with those omelettes. What the hell did we eat, then?”
Charlay frowned. Then Durene made a sound.
“Oh.”
“What?”
Ryoka turned around. Durene hesitated.
“Well, maybe it was Frostwing’s food? She was really angry when I woke up this morning, remember? I usually leave out some scraps in case she gets hungry at night.”
The City Runner felt a sinking in her stomach. Slowly, Ryoka looked at Charlay. The Centauress was avoiding her eye contact. Ryoka swallowed hard.
“…What kind of meat does Frostwing eat?”
“Uh—”
The pregnant pause told Ryoka all she wanted to know. Even so, the stupid part of her had to listen. Durene pointed in the direction of the fields.
“Rat meat? We feed it to the cats and Frostwing and Bismarck since they’ll eat it. It’s probably not rotten, but—”
She got no farther. Ryoka and Charlay raced towards the outhouses. There was, in fact, a small queue, despite the large number of smelling stalls. Riverfarm’s population was huge. The villagers and city folk looked up as Ryoka and Charlay raced towards them. Charlay screamed.
“Move it! I need an outhouse!”
Ryoka leapt into the first stall. She heard Charlay racing around and shouting, still in distress, as Ryoka tried to yank off her pants.
“They’re all too small! Where are the large ones?”
“That’s the largest we have.”
Someone replied outside, bemused. Charlay shrieked.
“Dead gods, don’t you have ones for Centaurs? What’s wrong with you people? Ryoka! Ryoka!”
She hammered on Ryoka’s stall. Ryoka was sitting and deciding whether or not to make herself puke as her insides started a revolution.
“I’m busy, Charlay! Go find a bush!”
“What? That’s barbaric—”
“Get lost!”
There was a moment of hesitation and then rapid hoof beats.
“This isn’t faaaaaaaair—”
Charlay’s wail fled into the distance with her galloping hooves. Ryoka stared at the wooden toilet. Then she felt her stomach. Rat meat. She swore.
“I’m going to kill that horse!”
And then, well, the next ten minutes or so saw Ryoka regretting ever existing. She was also deeply, extremely unhappy to realize that her toilet was not a contained box. In that the other people doing their business could probably hear a lot of what was going on. But the less said about it the better.
Eventually, Ryoka was relieved to know Riverfarm did have a form of toilet paper. Only, it was apparently a corn cob. She stared at it. There was some sense; after all, it was cheap. But corn cobs in a bucket? Really? She decided to use the pricey toilet paper she’d bought in Walta. That was a justifiable expense as far as she was concerned.
Ryoka left the outhouse at last. Her stomach still sort of hurt, but the worst was behind her. Hopefully. She was looking for a place to wash her hands and realizing that basic hygiene was not something Laken had fully implemented in Riverfarm yet. That was when she heard a voice.
“Bad day, Miss Griffin?”
Ryoka turned red. She saw a man coming out of an outhouse, buttoning his trousers. Mister Ram laughed as he held out a hand.
“We didn’t get to talk before. But I remembered you, and Prost and the other Riverfarm folk were telling me about how you delivered all that food to them during the winter. Wonderful thing. You’re a City Runner, right? I’m Ram Shackl, [Rancher] mostly, but a [Farmer] for now.”
“Uh—pleased!”
Ryoka hesitated, but the hand was out and both hers and Ram’s looked clean. Even if they weren’t. Gingerly, Ryoka shook hands. The foremost question in her mind was, ‘did he wipe?’ But Ryoka was also trying to hold a conversation. More people were coming in and out of the stalls. This was not the place, but Ram didn’t seem to mind.
