“It’s a delight to meet Runners who’ll make the trip this far out without giving lip or treating the letters like trash. Let alone a big City Runner. It used to be hellish getting any letters delivered to my farm—I can’t pay silver for a delivery, or gold! And there’s no Runners about Riverfarm. Some former Street Runners, like Beycalt, but that was years ago! All of Lancrel’s Runners just found work elsewhere. Lucky them; they’re in demand.”
“That’s Runners for you.”
Ryoka smiled weakly. A woman walked out of another stall, a [Hunter] by the bow she’d left propped up by the door. She grabbed the unstrung bow and walked over.
“Miss Griffin? I’m Califfy, one of Riverfarm’s [Hunters]. I’d like to say hello too and thank you! I heard you talking with Ram.”
“Um, hi—”
Ryoka realized more and more people were looking over and recognizing her. What was worse, they apparently had time to come over and shake hands, whether or not they were about to use the restroom or just had. Ryoka tried to smile, touch hands as lightly as possible, and endure the backslapping.
“It’s really great you’re here. I don’t want to trouble you—Prost said you’re about His Majesty’s business and weren’t to be bothered. But if you could make a few deliveries on the way back…? You see, I have this cousin abouts, and I haven’t heard from him in…well, not since I left Windrest. Unless you’re busy?”
Ram was talking to Ryoka. Durene was watching from a distance upwind. Ryoka frowned.
“I am a City Runner. I can totally do that. Uh—where did you say he was?”
The [Rancher] brightened.
“Oh, about thirteen miles thataway. I can find him on a map if you have one. Otherwise, I could tell you the way—er, but I’m afraid I can’t afford to pay much. I gave what I had to Prost to buy what was needed for Riverfarm. But I could find a few copper—er—silver—”
He looked embarrassed as he patted at his belt. Ryoka hesitated.
“I don’t need to be paid. Durene’s putting me up in her cottage, and your, uh, [Emperor] did give me a lot of money to come here. To help. I’ll check on your cousin, no problem. If you write a letter, I could even deliver it today. It’s only thirteen miles.”
“Really? Then—would you check on someone I know, Miss Griffin? I don’t need a letter, but there’s a family I know just a bit up that way.”
The [Hunter] named Califfy grabbed Ryoka’s shoulder urgently. Ryoka turned and nodded.
“Of course! I’d be happy to. Uh—”
She looked around and realized what she was getting into. A lot of villagers waiting to use the toilets were looking hopeful. Ryoka hesitated, then nodded, making a split-second decision.
“I can’t go too far, but if you all make letters and tell me who’s in, say, a twenty-mile radius of Riverfarm? I’ll go for a run and check in on everyone I can. Free of charge.”
The crowd let out an exclamation and then a cheer of approval. More pushed forwards, and Ryoka found herself shaking hands, being introduced—all while more people came out of the outhouses. A woman, Miss Yesel herself, Prost’s wife, was talking to Ryoka, placing one of her hands on Ryoka’s arm.
“I still remember it. We were worried about having enough before His Majesty got back—not that we didn’t trust him to come! But those snows were terrible. And then you showed up—with presents for the little ones, no less! We’re all planning on remembering that day. Christmas, you called it?”
Ryoka stared at the woman’s smiling face. She looked down at the arm on her hand. Then she snapped. She stepped back, raised her hands, and shouted at the eager crowd.
“I’m sorry, but excuse me. Do you have any soap?”
The villagers blinked, then guffawed. Come to that, the townspeople and city folk laughed too. They laughed and then laughed harder when Ryoka got out her personal travel-pack and insisted they all wash hands first.
Ryoka sighed as she emptied a pail of soapy water into one of the outhouses. Now she was committed to delivering letters. Which was fine. It was a good deed, and the people of Riverfarm were legitimately worried for their friends and relatives. But…
The Asian girl looked up as Durene finally came over, worried.
“Ryoka? Are you okay? That’s a lot of deliveries everyone was asking you about. I can tell Prost to talk to them if—”
“That’s it!”
The City Runner shot out of the outhouse. Durene blinked as Ryoka tossed the bucket and turned to her, grinning. Her eyes had lit up.
“I’m a genius. Durene, I figured out what I can do to help! Two things, actually.”
“Really? That’s wonderful, Ryoka! What can I do?”
Durene breathed a sigh of relief. She looked eagerly at Ryoka. The City Runner hesitated.
“You? Well…nothing. I need to talk to Lady Rie. It’s not that big, but it will help. Especially moving forwards. I just need to speak to her.”
“Oh. Okay. I can find her. Let’s go into the village.”
The half-Troll girl looked disappointed, but pointed immediately back towards Riverfarm proper. Ryoka nodded seriously. Then she looked around.
“Thanks, Durene. Uh—have you seen Charlay? We’ll need her too.”
“Charlay? I think she’s still out, uh, finding a bathroom. She ran out that way.”
Durene pointed down one road. Ryoka groaned. Of course, Charlay was still gone. She was the most Erin-like person Ryoka had ever met. Only, without Erin’s charm and with an extra set of hooves. It did not make her more endearing. But Ryoka had to admit, she liked the Centauress. A bit.
“Well, let me know when she comes back.”
She just wished Charlay didn’t have such a knack for causing her headaches. Shaking her head, Ryoka went into Riverfarm to find Lady Rie and talk about her ideas. And hand washing. That made three things.
 
—–
 
He found her because he had been waiting for a meeting like this. Waiting for a while, really. That was his purpose for the moment. Waiting and talking. It wasn’t glamorous work, but the wanderer had a mission. He strode towards the Centauress he’d spotted galloping into the brush and raised his voice. He didn’t want to spook her. He wasn’t here to harm at the moment, just talk.
“Hoi there, Miss! Can I have a word?”
For a second, he heard nothing from the brushes. Then Charlay shouted back.
“Go away! I’m busy!”
The traveller tugged at the large, dark hat on his head.
“I don’t want to disturb you, Miss! But I’ve been on the road, and I have to ask—is this Riverfarm?”
“Yes! That’s Riverfarm over there! Don’t come any closer!”
The female Centaur’s voice was snappy and preoccupied. The traveller shook his head.
“Then this is the domain of the [Emperor]? The one I heard about with Lord Tyrion Veltras’ army?”
“That’s right! Please shoo! I’m very busy!”
“I just want to ask a few questions if I may. Miss—”
“I ate something bad, alright? Go away while I do my business!”
The man with the hat realized there was a smell in the air coming from the bushes. He sniffed, recoiled, and backed away.
“Ah. I’ll wait until you’re done.”
That took a while. When the Centauress finally emerged from the underbrush, she looked quite unhappy. She stared at the Human wearing a pack and travel-worn clothing and glared.
“Yes, that’s Riverfarm. Good for you. You have eyes. What do you want? Do you just find people doing their business and bother them?”
The man hesitated, but then gave Charlay an apologetic smile. It was an odd one, toothy. A wide smile that Centaurs usually interpreted as being very aggressive. It was still friendly, but Charlay immediately didn’t like it. She folded her arms as the ancient animal senses in her head saw the teeth and prepared to fight or run.
“What do you want? And you have a creepy smile, Mister.”
The traveller looked abashed.
“My apologies, Miss. I get that a lot. I’m just a man on the road. I’d like to enter Riverfarm, but I’ve heard you have guests. The kind no one likes to meet. So long as they’re here, I think I’ll keep my distance. And warn anyone I can.”
“Guests? You mean the [Witches]?”
The stranger nodded cautiously. He tugged at his long hat.
“You could call me a concerned traveller. But I’d like to warn you, Miss Centaur, that staying in Riverfarm would be dangerous. Have you heard what [Witches] do? Particularly those [Witches]?”
He pointed at the village. Charlay tossed her head impatiently.
“Nope. I know one of them, and she’s a jerk. So what? You’re the suspicious one. You’re just wandering about. Warning people there are dangerous [Witches] here for no reason? That’s not suspicious at all.”
She pawed the ground as she peered at the traveller. He didn’t look particularly dangerous, and Charlay was sure one good kick would do him in. The traveller might have sensed her thoughts, because he stepped back, lifting his hands and smiling apologetically.
“I’m just doing a thankless job, Miss Centaur. I’m staying in this region for a bit. The [Witches] are a problem, and I’d like to make people aware of how dangerous they are.”
“Really? What’re they going to do, curse us all?”
The man shook his head, pursing his lips, vexed.
“Have you studied history, Miss? [Witches] used to fight in wars with the north. When the Five Families first invaded, some of them helped topple the Drake cities and drive the Gnolls south. Of course, that was many thousands of years ago. These days, they keep to their covens. But they’re still dangerous. The tall one? The one with the black horse? Have you heard the rumors from Noelictus? What she did up there?”
Charlay scratched at her head.
“Belavierr? Nope! Not at all. I don’t listen to gossip. Now, if you’re quite done saying suspicious things, I’m going. You can come to Riverfarm if you want. But if you bother me again, I’m kicking you.”
Charlay turned around and showed the man her back hooves. He stepped back with a sigh.
“Not for the moment, Miss. But you’ll see what I mean soon enough. Trouble’s coming. I’m just trying to warn you all. If you’re wise, you won’t stay around those [Witches]. They bring it.”
“I’ll bear that in mind.”
The Centauress shot over her shoulder. She trotted back to Riverfarm, glancing back at the traveller. She didn’t like him being behind her. But after a moment, he began walking back the way he’d come. She frowned and trotted faster towards Riverfarm. First [Witches], now suspicious men on the road. She shook her head.
“This place is weird.”
Then she broke into a gallop and went to find Ryoka.
 
—–
 
“This is where he was?”
Five minutes later, Ryoka was at the spot where Charlay had been. She stared at the scuffed ground and at what might have been a footprint on the packed soil. Or just random dust. Charlay nodded, glancing around.
“He was really suspicious. And he wanted to know if this was where that [Emperor] guy lived. But he was most interested in the [Witches]. He tried to warn me about them.”
“What did he say?”
“I didn’t really listen. Just suspicious stuff. Don’t trust them. They bring bad stuff. You know, suspicious stuff.”
Ryoka glanced up and sighed. Charlay had run to find her, and Ryoka had come right back to see what was up. She looked backwards and saw Durene jogging towards them. Slowly. The City Runner stood up, and Charlay began to jog with her back towards Riverfarm.
“He’s gone now anyways, and I don’t want to follow. What else did you notice, Charlay? What did he look like?”
“Um, he had…a hat? Dark clothes? Weird smile. And a backpack.”
Ryoka shot Charlay an aggrieved look. The Centaur spread her hands innocently.
“He wasn’t that noticeable. But what do you think he wanted?”
“I don’t know. But I intend to find out. Durene! Let’s find Lady Rie!”
It didn’t take long to find the [Lady]. Rie was distracted as she strode to meet Durene, Ryoka, and Charlay. But she heard them out, and instantly, her brows knitted together.
“A suspicious man on the road talking to you about [Witches]? I wish you’d been able to bring him into Riverfarm, Charlay. That man’s been spotted three times by other people, and that’s what I’ve heard today alone. Each time, he asked about Riverfarm and the presence of the [Witches].”
“Suspicious. See! I told you!”
“But what does he want?”
Ryoka frowned. She looked at Lady Rie. The woman raised two delicate eyebrows.
“It could be he was simply trying to cause trouble. Or he’s after one of the [Witches]. Maybe this Circle of Thorns? I somehow doubt they’d be that obvious.”
“Me too. But I think there’s a definite connection with the [Witches]. Damn. It sounds like he was trying to make sure they were in the village. And if that’s so—Charlay. What did this guy say exactly?”
“I can’t remember! I was sort of busy through half the conversation.”
The Centauress stamped one hoof. Ryoka sighed and massaged her forehead. She had a sudden, worrying thought.
“Okay, fine. But try to recall any specific details. Did he say anything about an inquisition?”
“Nope.”
“Then was his hair silvery and grey and did he have two swords? Did he say anything about a [Witcher]?”
“Not a thing about his class. What’s a [Witcher]?”
“Just a class. I suppose he’s not a [Judge]. If someone here was named ‘John Proctor’ I’d be really worried. Then again, this is a rural farm…”
Ryoka scrubbed at her face as Rie and Durene looked at her oddly. Great. It could just be a coincidence, but she didn’t like the timing. If you wanted to go Occam’s Razor, it was probably someone from Lancrel spreading rumors or an actual traveller who knew about one of the [Witches]. Like Belavierr or Mavika. Lady Rie pursed her lips.
“It seems trouble is brewing. I’d suggest we table this until the man can be found. I will let Beniar know to apprehend him if he’s spotted again. But for now, let’s focus on other matters. Durene said you had something to speak to me about, Miss Griffin?”
“What? That’s right. Yes! I know what I can do to help Riverfarm, at least.”
“Really?”
Lady Rie’s eyes sharpened. Durene looked hopeful as she hopped from foot to foot eagerly.
“What is it? What’s your idea, Ryoka?”
The young woman took a breath. She looked around and indicated herself and Charlay.
“We’re going to start a Runner’s Guild in Riverfarm.”
For a moment, all three women blinked at her. Then Charlay’s hand shot up.
“Dibs on Guildmistress!”
 
—–
 
The plan was simple. A bit audacious, but only a bit. Truthfully, it was simple, easy to execute, and it mattered. Lady Rie didn’t see it at first, but she got it after a little bit. Durene was the one who had no frame of reference.
