Ryoka shouted at the half-Troll girl. Bismarck, Frostwing, Wiskeria, Charlay, and Durene all stared at her. Durene looked hurt. Ryoka groaned internally.
“I’m sorry, Durene. But I don’t. I shouldn’t have shouted. It’s just that I’m having a bad day. I get them now and then. Actually, that’s an excuse. I just don’t know what to do.”
She stood up. The small cottage watched her as Ryoka turned around, frustrated.
“I don’t even think I’m needed. Okay, there’s a lot that could go wrong here, but you have Lady Rie and Prost. Hell, Miss Califor will probably kick any problems into next Sunday. And you have Beniar and his [Riders]. Even if Councilwoman Beatica riots, so what? You’ve got warriors on your side. What can I do?”
She looked around, shrugging. Durene frowned.
“But Laken sent you when I asked for help.”
Ryoka groaned. She sat back down heavily.
“I don’t think he knows what to do either.”
“Don’t be stupid. Of course he does.”
Durene looked shaken at the thought. That was the problem, wasn’t it? Ryoka didn’t, couldn’t, reply. The dinner ended like that, and they went to sleep silently. Ryoka alternated between kicking herself at lashing out at Durene—even if she felt like the half-Troll girl sort of deserved it—and thinking over her day’s run.
“The people.”
They remained in her memory long after that. Frightened faces. The desperate set of [Farmer] Melon’s jaw. [Bandits] on the road.
This was not her village. Not her place. But she was here, wasn’t she? Ryoka tossed and turned until Charlay threatened to kick her. Her conscience was pricking her. But she had established one fact long ago. She was no fighter. She was no killer. Erin was more likely to wipe out the [Bandits] than Ryoka was. And she was no Erin, no leader.
She had given Laken trebuchets. What would happen if she tried that again? Ballistae? Ryoka would rather eat more rat meat. What was the point of a water wheel? She couldn’t kill [Bandits]. What would Laken do? What was best for Riverfarm? What could she do?
She was spiraling. She wanted to help. But what Ryoka really wanted was to not be here. She was no leader. She knew she was no hero.
But she still cared for everyone she’d met. When had that happened?
 
 
Day 59 – Ryoka
 
The next day, Ryoka went for a longer walk with Nanette and Wiskeria before she embarked on more deliveries with Charlay. It was a spontaneous thing; she encountered the two younger [Witches] picking herbs outside Durene’s hut on her way to Riverfarm. Apparently, Nanette had been assigned to gather a certain amount of herbs by Miss Califor as homework, and Wiskeria was helping her out.
“Hello, Nanette. Wiskeria.”
Ryoka was still down in the dumps. Part of her just wanted to pull the plug and run off into the sunset and forget Riverfarm existed. But she knew she’d regret that too. So instead she walked with the two younger [Witches]. At least the [Witches] were fascinating.
“Um, hello, Miss Ryoka.”
Nanette greeted Ryoka quietly at first, and Ryoka bent to shake the girl’s hand. Nanette was twelve or so and clearly used to life on the road. But her hat and robes fit perfectly, and her hair was combed. Come to that, she was fresher than both Ryoka or Wiskeria, who hadn’t bathed in a day or two.
“I hope I’m not bothering you. I can take off if you want to—I’m just trying to clear my head.”
“Oh, no! I wouldn’t want to be rude. And, uhm—Miss Wiskeria was just saying how three eyes were better than one! Three pairs, I mean.”
The young girl shot a glance at Wiskeria, and the older [Witch] confirmed the lie without blinking. Both looked sideways at Ryoka, and she realized they could probably sense her funk. That only made her feel more depressed. Especially when Nanette solemnly tried to cheer her up by talking to her about all the herbs Miss Califor had ordered her to fetch.
She had the youth of a girl her age, which translated, in her case, into shyness and then a forthright earnestness that both Wiskeria and Ryoka envied. But the [Witch] aspect also showed itself to Ryoka; the girl occasionally had flashes of maturity far beyond her age. Young and old at the same time. But mostly young.
“She seems sort of imposing.”
Ryoka watched as Nanette expertly harvested with a razor-sharp sickle. Not exactly the tool Ryoka would be comfortable handing a girl her age, but Nanette looked quite competent with it. The girl looked up, smiling.
“She wants me to be a good [Witch]. And she’s very kind! I just don’t want to mess up. Because I’m her first apprentice. Her only one.”
Her cheeks turned red with pride, but also, Ryoka thought, nervousness. Ryoka shot Wiskeria a glance, and the [Witch] silently raised her brows, then nodded.
That big, huh? Ryoka turned to Wiskeria.
“What’s it like, being a [Witch]? Do you travel a lot? Or is it all variable?”
Ryoka was curious. Wiskeria shrugged.
“It depends on the [Witch]. Some of us have permanent homes like Eloise. But a lot travel. I think only Eloise has a village. Well, Mavika has her usual haunts. But I hear Miss Califor goes where she’s needed. Isn’t that right, Nanette?”
“That’s right! She used to stay in one place when I was small. But ever since I was…eight? She took me with her. All over the place! One time, she helped kill a nest of Shield Spiders. Hundreds of ‘em! And another time there was a dam that broke, and she helped the local [Witch] relocate the villagers. Miss Califor goes where she’s needed, or so she says.”
“Is that part of her craft?”
Nanette paused as she hunted around a tree and discovered a white toadstool.
“No…she says she takes whatever she wants. Goodwill, anger, all kinds. She’s so good she doesn’t need one emotion or other!”
“Really? And you like being with her?”
Ryoka’s brows shot up. Wiskeria made a face and mouthed the word ‘legend’ at her. She pointed at the white mushroom.
“Deathcap. Remember to wash your hands later. And check for spores and mold before you pick it up.”
“I know!”
Diligently, Nanette did just that and came up with the mushroom twenty seconds later. She put it into the sack and then looked at Ryoka.
“I do like it. Being a [Witch] is fun! Hard work sometimes, but it’s all I’ve ever wanted. Miss Califor raised me since I was a baby, you see—”
She broke off, looking awkward. Ryoka glanced at Nanette. Ah, so she wasn’t a student who’d come to Califor to learn. Wiskeria had said that Miss Califor had never had a student who followed her about. She looked at Wiskeria. The [Witch] tugged at her hat and cleared her throat.
“Well, you met my mother. It’s not common, but it happens. There are cases of [Witches] either adopting a child who was lost or even buying them from [Slavers]. Striking deals for a child—that’s old stuff. Sometimes a [Witch] even has a baby, but most of those cases are young. Old [Witches] rarely take in kids either way.”
Wiskeria adjusted her hat, uncomfortable, and Nanette looked down. Ryoka sensed it was a touchy subject and immediately steered to port.
“Miss Califor once took on a nest of Shield Spiders? That’s impressive. Was it by herself?”
“Almost. She had some [Hunters] and a few villagers with pitchforks, but they said she did all the work. I was too small, but they said it was all her!”
Nanette’s chest puffed out hugely in pride. It was like a girl bragging about her parents. Endearing, but it could get old. Ryoka played along as best she could.
“Then she’s got to be pretty impressive. Heck, this entire coven is. They all feel like they could take on half a dozen Gargoyles and walk out fine.”
“Maybe! Although…Miss Califor says that a good [Witch] never tries to solve things with force the first time around. We’re not as strong as regular classes, at least, not directly. But Miss Califor can do anything!”
Nanette dutifully recited the lesson she’d clearly been taught, but tacked on her own opinion at the end. Ryoka stifled a smirk. She really did like her mentor, huh? Wiskeria rolled her eyes, but gently. She pulled out a wand and tapped it.
“We rely on tools a lot. Like [Wizards]. They’re our counterparts in a sense. Take Alevica for instance. She’s good at magic, and she can summon undead, throw spells, but I think [Lightning Bolt] is her best offensive spell. In exchange for that, she can use poisons, her crossbow, a shortsword, not to mention fly—”
“She’s amazing. Isn’t she? I heard she was the kind of [Witch] you get once in a hundred years—”
The young girl breathed, then realized Wiskeria was making a face. She went on, blushing.
“Not that you’re not amazing too, Wiskeria! I didn’t mean that! And Miss Califor’s the best, obviously.”
At this, Ryoka decided she had to tease the little girl if only to stop more Miss Califor stories. As far as she’d seen, the older witch was polite, a good leader, but like Eloise, just not nearly as…imposing as Hedag, Mavika, or Belavierr.
“I’m sure Witch Califor is an amazing witch, Nanette. Buuuut…if we were comparing the best [Witches], aren’t they all impressive? It’d go…Belavierr, then Mavika, then maybe Califor or Hedag or Alevica, then Eloise, right, Wiskeria?”
Ryoka turned to Wiskeria for confirmation, and Nanette looked outraged. Her cute cheeks puffed out.
“Miss Califor is better than all of them!”
“Including Belavierr?”
Nanette hesitated. She didn’t know Belavierr like the others, so she only stuttered a bit in the face of everything she’d seen.
“Y-yes!”
“I dunno. She’s done like zero magic, hasn’t she?”
“She fought off the bandits!”
“I didn’t see it.”
Child bullying was one of Ryoka’s few talents. The Wind Runner put her hands behind her head, looking innocently helpless.
“Sorry, Nanette. Isn’t it fine if she’s like third? Fourth?”
“Fourth? She’s Witch Calfior! You’ve just never seen other [Witches] talking to her! They take off their hats to her! Don’t say bad things of Miss Califor!”
For such a sweet girl, amazingly, Nanette got incredibly mad. She balled up her fists, stamping her feet, and looked like she might try to fight Ryoka there and then. Wiskeria looked largely amused, but she was eying Ryoka, and the Wind Runner couldn’t help it.
“I just haven’t seen anything, Nanette…”
“A great witch doesn’t need to show anything!”
Here, a note of alarm entered Nanette’s tone, and Ryoka wondered how much fantastic magic Nanette had actually witnessed with her own two eyes. She hesitated.
“She’s—she’s got tons of tales! Like talking down a rampaging Cyclops! Or out-staring a Gazer! She’s made peace between Drakes and Gnolls, and—and she even has magical relics!”
Wait, what? Ryoka blinked, and Wiskeria herself looked interested.
“Really? Which ones?”
Nanette plucked at her own travelling cloak self-importantly.
“Did you see her cloak? It’s a Cloak of Balshadow, a magical artifact that can turn you as invisible as the night! And her staff comes from one of the Great Forests! The same trees that once made Dryads and Treants!”
“Really…?”
Ryoka was skeptical. She didn’t remember anything that impressive from seeing Califor. Even Wiskeria rested her chin in a hand.
“If she was wearing that, she’s either got it well hidden or I’m not good at picking that kind of thing out. Of all the things my mother taught me, I would have noticed that…”
“Still not great magic.”
“She’s amazing! You don’t even know! She’s the best [Witch] ever! None of the others are even close!”
Nanette went storming ahead, and Ryoka decided she’d pushed the girl too far. She hurried over to cajole and apologize to Nanette, and Wiskeria strode alongside the Wind Runner.
“You know, they do tell those kinds of stories about her. My mother might not have known her, but she doesn’t remember anything.”
Ryoka hesitated. Wait, really?
 
——
 
A few minutes later, Nanette had cooled down enough to apologize to Wiskeria. She looked very embarrassed, which made Ryoka look like a bully. Nanette’s apology included belittling Wiskeria’s own magic in comparison to Alevica, but Wiskeria waved this off.
“You don’t need to make me feel better, Nanette. I’m sure Miss Califor has a lesson about being realistic. I know I’m average. My mother tells me I need to improve all the time.”
So why don’t you? The question hung in the air unasked. Wiskeria tugged on her hat and answered slowly.
“It’s hard to use my craft. You see, a [Witch] does what she is compelled to do. Her craft is her purpose, in a sense. She draws strength from it. That’s also how a [Witch] is made.”
“How you’re made? And how’s that? You don’t just get the class?”
“Oh no. You have to have a moment that defines you as a [Witch]. A moment of…passion. It’s a calling. You also need a talent for magic or to want to be a [Witch], but some of us are called to it. Others just become [Mages]. But we’ve all had one. I was surprised Nanette was a [Witch] so young.”
“I got my class when I was six.”
“Six?”
Wiskeria was astonished. Nanette nodded cheerfully. Wiskeria tugged on her hat.
“I was fourteen. Of course, I wanted to be a [Witch]. But I never got the class. And when I did—well—”
She trailed off. Nanette pretended to be busy peeling bark off a tree. Ryoka hesitated. Now this was the heart of what was Wiskeria’s problem with Belavierr. She waited a beat, then asked.
“What made you become a [Witch], Wiskeria? If that’s not too personal?”
“It always is. But it’s fine. It’s no secret among [Witches]. Nanette could tell you.”
The girl squeaked and began to deny it shiftily. Wiskeria shook her head. She turned to face Ryoka.
“You know my mother’s Belavierr. And you know she’s…extraordinary. Even among other [Witches]. I always thought it was, well, not normal, but she was my mother growing up. But she’s old. The oldest, perhaps the strongest. I’m not joking, Ryoka.”
Nanette opened her mouth, perhaps to once again claim Califor-based dominion, but one look at Wiskeria’s grave expression and she fell silent.
“I know. Even I can tell that.”
“Well then. I always thought I’d be like her. I learned—you can learn magic, you know, even if you don’t have a class. Not many people know that. I was a [Mage] and a [Sewer], but I wasn’t a [Witch]. Mother always told me it would come. And I wanted it. And when it happened—well, that’s when I left. My mother taught me many secrets, but I haven’t been a [Witch] and used much of my craft yet. You could say I’m incomplete as a [Witch]. Certainly for the daughter of Belavierr, the Stitch Witch.”
