“Mister Prost. You’re speaking in hypotheticals. I’m not telling you to do this forever. If they become leeches, that’s a problem you deal with. If Riverfarm is in trouble, you should absolutely make sure the people here are safe. But this is a crisis. And you’re in a position to help. Aren’t you doing it already with Beniar and his patrols? If the Goblins were back, ravaging the landscape, wouldn’t you try to get those people to safety?”
Ryoka looked around. Charlay smiled and gave her two thumbs-up. Rie was shaking her head. Prost was troubled, silent. Durene felt she had to speak. Part of her wanted to believe in Ryoka. But it wasn’t practical.
“Ryoka. I think it makes sense to bring people back here if they want to come. But giving food away? That’s asking for trouble. What’ll happen if the [Bandits] hear we can just give out stuff? Or—if we have a disaster—”
She fumbled. Her tongue felt heavy. It was hard to argue against. And Ryoka met her eyes. Two calm, brown eyes in Durene’s face. The Runner girl shook her head.
“Durene. I know. It doesn’t make sense. And it is hard. But where I come from. In my home and Laken’s, people say the same things. Some days it feels like there’s an emergency every other moment. And how do you deal with that? Crime. People in far off-countries. People you’ll never see. But we could help.”
She gazed far away, past Durene.
“We could. And it could be glorious. It’s never easy. Sometimes, it costs you. Sometimes, you fail.”
She raised her right hand and stared at it. Durene glanced at the place where two fingers should have been. Ryoka closed her eyes and her hand.
“But. I’d rather try than regret it. It’s called giving aid. Because people need it. Because you can. I don’t have any argument stronger than that. And it reminds me of a village I heard about, once. A place that was in the middle of nowhere. It didn’t have much. And—hell—it got buried by an avalanche.”
Durene and Prost froze. Ryoka looked up.
“Then it lost all of its winter stores. There was no reason for anyone to help that village. None at all. But someone did. He found people in the snow. And he asked me to deliver them food in a blizzard. Because he cared for people when no one else would. If he were here, what do you think he’d do?”
She smiled slightly. Lady Rie bit her lip as she glanced at Prost’s face.
“I’ll—I can have Nesor send a [Message].”
“No, Rie. I think I know what His Majesty will say.”
Prost sighed. He studied the map filled with tiny dots. Durene looked down. They were so small. But they were people’s homes. People like her. She scrubbed at her eyes. Why did Ryoka have to make so much sense?
“We can spare some wagons. And Beniar. It’ll be just food and wood, mainly. But—arrows? We can send a few bows as well. I’ll see what we can spare.”
Prost strode out of the room before Rie could object. Ryoka smiled, relieved, and Charlay patted her on the shoulder. Rie sighed loudly, but she followed him without a word. Ryoka turned.
“Durene.”
“It makes sense. But it’s going to be costly. I know it’s what Laken would do. I guess—is this something a [Paladin] would do?”
Durene looked at Ryoka, hoping the answer was yes. But Ryoka just shook her head.
“I can’t answer that. And I have to tell you something, Durene.”
She took a deep breath.
“I don’t have a brilliant idea for you. I gave up on trying those after Laken used his trebuchets to attack a Drake city. But I do know what’s right and what’s wrong. And I want to do what’s right. But I have to tell you—I can’t help you, Durene.”
The words stung. But Durene had expected as much after Ryoka had shouted at her yesterday. The half-Troll girl looked down.
“That’s fine. So long as you stick around for Riverfarm…”
“No, I mean, I can’t help you, Durene. You need to do that to yourself. That’s what I’ve been meaning to tell you. I didn’t get it at first. But that’s your problem.”
Ryoka walked around the desk to look up at Durene. Her face was concerned. Durene blinked at her.
“What do you mean? Help myself? I do plenty for myself. It’s just that I don’t know what to do for everyone else.”
The shorter Human girl shook her head slowly.
“I don’t think that’s the problem. Listen to how you speak, Durene. I have. ‘Laken says this. Prost and Rie say that. Wiskeria won’t make an army, so that’s that.’ You don’t make decisions for yourself.”
“I do! All the time! It’s just that I trust Laken. And he has better ideas than I do!”
Durene recoiled, stung. Ryoka sighed.
“But he doesn’t. That’s the problem. You think he does, but Durene—he’s just a guy.”
The half-Troll girl felt a spark of fury in her breast. How dare Ryoka? She didn’t understand Laken at all.
“He’s an [Emperor].”
“And what was he when he arrived in Riverfarm?”
Durene hesitated.
“But—he just didn’t have the class. He was always—”
Ryoka put a hand on Durene’s shoulder. Or rather, tried to. She settled for Durene’s arm and squeezed gently. Durene started at the contact. People didn’t really touch her on purpose. Laken did, but—Ryoka looked up at her.
“Durene. I’m not saying Laken’s all wrong. But—the person who’ll tell you what to do? The person you’re waiting for. It’s not me. And it’s not Laken! Neither of us are perfect role models. Or even good ones!”
She spread her arms helplessly.
“You can’t rely on him to tell you what to do. I know. He helped you when no one else would, right? He gave you a class. Gave you…a purpose. Worth. But he can’t give you everything. And if he comes back, you’re the one leaning on him. If you can’t make your own decisions, your own choices, if you’re not you without Laken, you can’t give him anything.”
Durene rocked back. This hurt. More than any insult could. She clenched a hand, realized what she was doing, and unclenched it.
“But—I’m his protector. I can do that for him! What am I supposed to be if not that? I’m not good with words, Ryoka. I can’t do what you do. See? And I can’t be smart like you or Lady Rie.”
“I’m not asking you to, Durene. I’m just asking you to decide what you want by yourself. You can ask for help. Everyone needs help. But I can’t carry you. Like Prost said. What I can do is reach out if you’re drowning. But you have to learn to swim.”
The half-Troll girl bent down. She felt crushed by Ryoka’s words in a way nothing had hit her before. Not even that Hob. She had to sit on the ground. Hug her knees. Ryoka’s words made sense. But—it was so hard. She didn’t know what to say. Ryoka wasn’t leaving; Durene could still feel her arm on her shoulder, patting awkwardly.
“Durene. I know it’s hard—but you’re the toughest girl I’ve met. Literally. You can wrestle Bismarck. Not just that. You’re kind. You helped Wiskeria where no one else would. You took Laken in. You’re not a brute. And you’re not a monster. You can be a [Paladin]. You can be a [Farmer]. But you do have to choose.”
The half-Troll girl didn’t respond. Ryoka paused, then went on.
“Durene—”
“I can swim.”
“Huh?”
Durene didn’t look up. She muttered.
“I can swim. I taught myself. Riverfarm has a river. I can swim.”
Unseen by her, Ryoka smiled.
“There you go. And look—I don’t mean I’m going to just shut you out. I’ve been rude to you. But I can help. Not tell you what to do.”
“But who am I supposed to be?”
Durene didn’t like the petulant note in her voice. She looked up, ashamed by the stinging in her eyes.
“I wasn’t anyone before I met Laken, Ryoka. Just some girl no one liked. And I’m strong, but is that it?”
“No—no. You could be—”
Ryoka hesitated. Durene shouted.
“Aha! See? What am I besides the half-Troll girl?”
“I—”
“Well, you are one. Half-Troll, that is.”
The voice came from behind Ryoka. The City Runner looked around. Charlay waved a hand.
“Hi. I’m still here. You forgot about me, didn’t you?”
The two girls paused. They had. Charlay trotted forwards a few steps. She pointed at Durene.
“You’re half-Troll.”
“Charlay, this isn’t helping—”
“Shush, Ryoka. Let me finish. Durene. Listen. I know what your problem is.”
“You do?”
The Centauress nodded with complete certainty.
“Absolutely. You’re thinking like a Human. They do this all the time. Ryoka doesn’t, but no one told you because you live among Humans. Typical.”
“Charlay.”
“Shush. Durene. You’re half-Troll. I’m a Centaur! Look at me!”
Charlay spread her arms, gesturing towards her horse-half. Durene looked at her. Charlay was as unique as she was. No—more so. The Centauress was different in one respect, though: she was proud. She poked a finger into her chest and then jabbed Ryoka in the side. The Human girl yelped.
“You know what Humans do? They always say ‘you have to be like me’. All the time. And anyone who’s better than them is weird. I hear it in the Runner’s Guilds. ‘Ooh, look at Charlay! She’s a horse! That’s why she runs so fast! Well, that’s all she can do. Because she’s a stupid horse.’ Yeah! And so what?”
She stamped one hoof angrily.
“I’m a Centaur! What, do you think I’m good at scratching my butt with my hands? That’s disgusting! And that’s why I have a tail! I’m good at running, and I’m half-horse. That’s what I am. What’s the problem? Yes, I’m better at running fast! Horse! Humans have different talents. They can’t run fast as I can. I can’t do stairs well. What’s the problem?”
She pointed at Durene. The half-Troll girl gulped.
“But I’m part Troll. Isn’t that—”
“What? What? Bad because you have skin like a rock and you can punch a hole through Ryoka’s head without trying? Because you’re one in, like, a million? I’ve seen Trolls in Baleros. They don’t get sad when people insult them. They mush their brains, then go off and do Troll things, and they’re fine with that! I’m fine with being me, too, even though all these Humans keep pointing at me as if I’m the weird one. You know who’s weird in Baleros? Humans.”
Charlay tossed her head. She pointed down at Durene.
“Ryoka’s right. You need to do your own thing. And if that involves hitting things because you’re good at it, hit things! I’m good at running, so I came to Izril to be the best Runner on the continent. And that’s fine. I’ve never been sad about being me. You have problems. You should fix that.”
She jabbed a finger at Durene. Then she turned.
“Come on, Ryoka. Let’s go deliver food to some Humans. Nice speech, by the way. That was really cool. I knew I hung out with you for a reason.”
She trotted out the door. Ryoka and Durene stared after her, and then Ryoka got up. She looked at Durene and smiled ruefully.
“And just when I thought I knew her. I knew I hung out with that Centauress for a reason. Durene—I’ve got to run. But I could use some help. If you want to give it. And if not—you know who you could watch for inspiration?”
“Who?”
“The coven. They’re [Witches], yeah. And their class is different than yours or mine. But look—they know themselves. They’re women. And they’re not ashamed to be themselves. Neither am I. You shouldn’t be either.”
Ryoka patted Durene on the shoulder. Then she was gone. The half-Troll girl sat on the floor of Rie’s home for a while. She looked down at the floorboards. At the open door. She thought about what Ryoka had said. Charlay. Then, slowly, she got up.
It seemed like the thing to do.
 
—–
 
Durene was slightly late to Riverfarm. By the time she arrived, a crowd had gathered to watch a bunch of wagons being loaded. Or rather, argue about the loading.
The wagons were supposed to be filled with goods. Food, wood, nails—anything that might be urgently needed. Even seeds for planting. It was Riverfarm’s hard work being prepared to be sent away, and many people weren’t happy about it.
“Why should our hard work go to feed people who will give Riverfarm nothing?”
Councilwoman Beatica was on the attack. But Ryoka faced her down. She was trying to come up with a list for the villages.
“Councilwoman, why should Riverfarm have taken you in when it was their people who died at Lancrel and their village, homes, and food you needed? Why was it an [Emperor] who came to Riverfarm’s aid? Perhaps because it was the right thing to do.”
The [Councilwoman] bit her tongue. Some of Lancrel’s people voiced their dissent as well. But for every person scowling at the waste, more people were listening sympathetically. Especially Riverfarm’s own—but most were just standing by, watching. [Mayor] Rodivek shouted after a second.
“You don’t have the authority to do this. We should wait for Emperor Laken. If we’re short of supplies or food because of you, that’s on your head!”
“If!”
Ryoka was arguing fiercely with the two and trying to chivvy along the people loading the wagons, but she was working from both ends.
Durene stared at Ryoka as the Wind Runner strode back and forth. She was animated, moving from place to place in front of the wagons, talking with Prost, addressing the crowd, planning the route with Beniar. She was…shining. In a different way than Laken. But Durene felt like shading her eyes, as if Ryoka were giving off a light.
She wasn’t the only person to see it. The coven had gathered. Not Belavierr, but the rest. They saw the same thing more concretely than Durene. Eloise was smiling. Alevica shook her head as she eyed Ryoka.
“You know, she’s like this, apparently.”
“Who? Miss Griffin?”
Nanette was smiling as she held onto her hat. She cupped more of Ryoka’s emotions, and Califor nodded approvingly. Alevica shrugged.
“Yup. She saved a Gnoll kid from the Goblin Lord’s army, apparently. Does emergency runs for adventuring teams; that’s a suicidal decision if ever I saw one. And this? She’s an odd one.”
Hedag laughed. The huge [Witch] tipped her hat up, regarding Ryoka with a big smile.
“You’d do that if you cared about whether people live or die. There goes a girl who’d put her life on the line for copper pennies because she weighs lives like gold, Alevica.”
The Witch Runner scowled. She jerked her head at Ryoka.
“She has her up days and down days, clearly.”
Eloise nodded thoughtfully.
“Yes. I’ll sell her some teas later. But it’s a wonderful up, isn’t it?”
Durene heard no more, because she was pushing through the crowd. Ryoka spotted her; of course she did. She swung herself down from a wagon and looked expectantly at Durene. The half-Troll girl took a breath.
“I’m coming. If that’s alright. I mean, I’m going whether you like it or not.”
