Wiskeria’s genuine laughter made Nanette look up. The wobbling scone dropped out of the air. Ryoka smiled and then hesitated and gestured at Belavierr under the tree. Wiskeria’s mother hadn’t even twitched at Wiskeria’s laughter. Nor had she moved or changed positions once. Her hands and the needle and thread were the only things moving in her world.
“Um. I know it’s a hard sell for you to talk about this if it’s secret, but I’d also like to know more about some of the [Witches]. Especially your mother…? I heard she did something this morning. Can you talk about it? Or could I talk to her? Ask questions?”
Wiskeria’s smile cut off. She hesitated and tugged her hat a bit lower.
“I can try. Eloise was working on the woman—Rehanna—but my mother got to her first. She offered Rehanna…something. I don’t know what it is. I could guess, but there are a number of things my mother would offer. Few of them good. Still, if you want her aid, I can get her to give it.”
Ryoka’s eyebrows rose.
“Really?”
Wiskeria nodded casually.
“I’m her daughter. I don’t like taking her help for—anything. But that’s my choice. I could introduce you now if you want. Just remember she will give you what you want…at great cost.”
Ryoka hesitated. She did want that, but experience had taught her caution. She looked at Wiskeria.
“I’d love to ask her some questions. But, uh, is there any etiquette I should use? A way I can address her? Would she be offended if I just made conversation? What are the consequences of a mistake? That’s a better question, actually.”
The [Witch] blinked at the barrage of questions. She gave Ryoka a strange look and shook her head.
“The worst that will happen is she’ll just ignore you. Actually, that’s very likely without me around. Or she might make you a deal. But—”
She looked Ryoka up and down, and the young woman got the feeling she was being inspected in more ways than just visual.
“—I don’t think you have what she wants. There’s a bit, but not much.”
“A bit of what?”
The [Witch] winced.
“Sorry. That was rude. The answer’s pain. Or regrets. Or—well, you’re not in despair or desperate at the moment. There’s a bit of that. Sorry, it’s a [Witch] thing. I can explain. Why don’t we have a seat first? Eloise has tea out, and she can help explain.”
So saying, she led Ryoka over to the blanket. Eloise brushed a strand of white hair out of her eyes and smiled. Ryoka sat down and found herself with a cup and scone in hand in moments. Ryoka felt like she was speaking to her grandmot—wait a second, her grandmother hated her. A therapist, then.
Ryoka knew it was a Skill, and part of her mind pushed back on it. But since Eloise was all genuine, at least as far as Ryoka could tell, the hospitality still put her at ease.
“Good evening to you, young woman. Ryoka Griffin, am I right? I’m delighted to meet you. This is Califor and Nanette.”
“A pleasure.”
Witch Califor tipped her hat and regarded Ryoka with one piercing gaze before sipping from her cup. Ryoka awkwardly introduced herself. Both Eloise and Califor seemed to know who she was already. The elderly [Witch] smiled.
“Of course we do, dear. You’re the one Belavierr pointed out to us.”
Ryoka choked on a scone. Califor and Wiskeria leaned out of the way as Ryoka coughed crumbs onto the grass.
“She did? That’s what Mavika—er, what did she say?”
Califor frowned. She reached out and plucked a wobbling scone out of the air as Nanette managed to get it to eye-level. The [Witch] took a bite and nodded, chewing briskly.
“That you feel like the wind. That’s unusual enough. But I agree. There’s an odd affinity with the wind about you, but you’re no [Mage]. How did you come by that gift, young woman? It’s not an artifact either.”
“I…learned it from a friend.”
Ryoka’s evasive answer got her another piercing stare. Califor swallowed, opened her mouth, and received a gentle but firm look from Eloise.
“Witch Califor, I do believe you meant to press my guest at tea. With respect to your famous nosiness, this is my place.”
“I do believe I intended only a few questions, Eloise.”
The older witch waggled a finger, tsking.
“Gently, Califor. I insist you not rush.”
“I cannot help but stride, Witch Eloise. But if you insist—”
What an odd dynamic. Califor sat back, taking her ease, and Ryoka wondered if she’d been about to be given the third-degree. It sort of made her warier of Eloise, but the tea-serving [Witch] continued the conversation, smiling.
“Then what brings you here?”
“I—I’d like to know about [Witches].”
Nanette sat up. Wiskeria and Eloise smiled. And Califor raised her brows.
“If your goal is to fly like Witch Alevica, Miss Griffin, I would forget about it. She is a prodigy, and it took her six years to learn how to fly. Moreover, none of our coven is looking to take on apprentices. I’m afraid I only have time to teach Nanette. And Wiskeria if she wishes it.”
She nodded at Wiskeria as she pointed at something upstream. Ryoka leaned over as Wiskeria frowned and didn’t reply to Miss Califor’s comment. Was that a hat floating downriver? No. It was Alevica. She was swimming in the river! And she was stripped down to her undergarments. Except for her hat. Nanette giggled at the sight and sat up straight when Califor glanced at her.
“I…don’t want to fly, Miss Califor. I just want to know about [Witches].”
The older [Witch] stared at Ryoka, seeing right through the lie. Ryoka sighed.
“Okay, I’d like to know how to fly. But I don’t think I could be a [Witch]. And I don’t intend to be one.”
“You could be. You have a bit of what it takes. But let’s let that lie. You want to know about [Witches], Miss Griffin? What do you know about us already?”
Eloise tapped the cooling tea pot with a finger, and Ryoka saw a trail of steam rise from the tea the [Witch] poured into her cup. The City Runner thought and answered slowly.
“I think I understand a bit. Durene described Wiskeria making her brew. It sounds like [Witches] rely on rituals as opposed to [Mages] who cast direct spells they memorize. Chanting, more, uh, traditional spellcasting and the ability to tame familiars, perform alchemy—it makes [Witches] a broader class than most spellcasters. But there’s something else to it, right? Durene mentioned Wiskeria was gathering emotions.”
She looked around. Eloise smiled approvingly, and Califor’s eyebrows shot up. She nodded slowly with the hint of a smile. Ryoka felt like she’d earned a rare gold star. Eloise nodded.
“You’re quite observant, Miss Ryoka. And you’re also entirely correct. [Witches] use emotions and feelings in our spells. Well, it’s wrong to say just emotions. We use regrets, grudges, as well as places of power.”
“Places of death. Or life. The nature changes, but power is power. What matters is how a [Witch] uses it and to what end. They must take care they are not consumed by what they try to wield. Remember that, Nanette. And wipe your mouth.”
“Yes, Miss Califor.”
Califor struck Ryoka as someone with a lesson for every situation. Ryoka hesitated, trying to process what she’d just heard. So [Witches] used emotions to fuel their spells?
“Is that confidential? If it is, I can keep a secret.”
Califor snorted, and Eloise laughed so gently that Ryoka blushed. Wiskeria settled back, letting the two older women talk as she showed Nanette how to levitate a scone with her own wand. Califor continued.
“None of this is a grand secret. It’s simply that no one asks. And that [Witches] prefer to keep their methods private. We don’t gossip about our talents. But this is a time of unusual circumstance, and you are unusual yourself. So yes, [Witches] use feelings like power. We gather it. And ritual, incantation, that is all a way to harness that power. It is not as obvious or loud as a [Mage]’s spell. And it lacks the force of that magic. But it can do what regular spells cannot. It is not greater or worse. Just different.”
Eloise nodded and put down her cup.
“Like each [Witch]. You may have noticed this, Miss Griffin, but [Witch] is as wide a class as [Mage]. We all have our talents. Mine, as you may have noticed, is tea. Tea, sociability, medicines—I put my magic into that. Take this for example. This is my tea I’ve sold to some of Riverfarm’s villagers.”
She produced a packet of dried tea and offered it to Ryoka. The Runner Girl took it, opened it, and frowned. Califor nodded.
“It’s just a basic root tea. What makes it special is her magic. Try it. Here. Nanette, fill this kettle and then warm it up.”
She gestured to Nanette, and the apprentice dutifully got up, filled the pot from the stream, and put it on the ground. She looked hesitantly at Miss Califor.
“With a spell?”
“Yes. [Hot Hands]. It’s a basic Tier 0 spell. You do need regular spells as much as incantations. But use it to burn the kindling. Here.”
“Wouldn’t it be easier to heat up the water by holding it?”
Nanette looked wistfully at the pot. Califor sighed.
“It would. Igniting a stick requires focusing the heat of your spell into a hand or finger. It requires concentration, but it means your control over a basic spell will be much greater. [Hot Hands] is useless if all you can do is make a kettle steam. If you can ignite a fire, however, it means the spell has utility. And what does a [Witch] value?”
“Good boots?”
Nanette blushed as Wiskeria and Ryoka burst out into laughter. Eloise smiled, and Miss Califor’s stare sent Nanette fumbling to ignite the sticks. Only when Nanette was fussing over the sticks did Califor smile slightly.
Eloise nudged Califor, and the other [Witch] lifted her eyes skywards. Eloise rolled her eyes expressively—then they all watched Nanette trying to cast the fire spell.
It took her eight tries, in which time Eloise had prepared a second pot. All she had to do was touch it; Califor pointed that out as an exemplary use of the same spell.
“Now, these are two identical mixtures, Miss Griffin. The difference is that I’ve put my magic into one. It’s a simple process, and it’s not much magic. But it’s different from enchanting it. I put my craft into it.”
Ryoka eyed the two identical, dark teas. She looked up.
“By craft you mean…”
“She means the particular magic she desires. Each [Witch] is different, Miss Griffin. Eloise looks for different things than I do. You’ve seen her tea parties. That is not a simple charity. Nor is what Hedag does. Or Alevica. Our craft is what we seek, what defines us as [Witches]. What does Eloise do when she sits with others and offers them tea and advice? Nanette?”
The apprentice jumped and stuttered.
“S-she helps them by making them feel better? And, um, making them feel nice?”
“And what does she gain from doing that?”
“She takes…she takes…”
The apprentice panicked. Wiskeria spoke quietly as she brushed crumbs off her dress.
“She takes a bit of their happiness. Their goodwill and cheer. Not all of it; just a bit.”
Califor nodded. She didn’t seem half as strict as Nanette’s reactions indicated; it was more the girl was trying to keep up and impress Califor and fumbled around her. Which meant Califor was probably pretty important too.
“Correct.”
“Really?”
Ryoka sat up and looked at Eloise. The older [Witch] closed one eye as she poured a cup.
“As Miss Califor says. I’m sure Nanette knew that, but identifying exactly what I take is difficult. I like to think I’m quite subtle. But yes. I make people feel better, and in exchange, I take some of that good feeling. Just a bit. But—here. This is a cup of tea. What do you think?”
She offered it to Ryoka. The young woman sipped. She tried not to let her face change. Well…it was a tea. Eloise smiled knowingly.
“Well?”
“Hmm. Rooty. Tastes a bit like dirt. But yeah, it’s tea-like.”
“It’s from local roots and herbs. Very inexpensive. Free, in fact. But it does lack for taste. Now try this cup.”
The second cup made Ryoka pause and sniff it suspiciously. She’d looked at both packets, and they’d been identical. But this tea smelled completely different! And when she tasted it—
“Take my money.”
Ryoka slapped a few silver coins down on the cloth, and Nanette giggled with delight. Eloise laughed as Ryoka drank from the cup. It was amazing! The taste was there, but it was as if you’d taken it and improved it in every way possible. Instead of dirt, the taste was earthen, deep. The older [Witch] waved away Ryoka’s coins.
“I’ll sell you some of my teas. Only one or two, though. I’m afraid it won’t do you any good to keep them for more than a few days, Miss Griffin. I could sell you some longer-lasting teas, but even if you tried to use a [Preservation] spell, it wouldn’t do you any good. Bags of holding don’t work either.”
“Really? Why? Wait—is it—?”
The City Runner blinked down at her cup. Nanette sat up eagerly, but Ryoka’s mind raced towards the connection. She looked up, and her eyes shone.
“Of course. It’s goodwill. It runs out quick.”
This time, Eloise’s laughter made Alevica, floating past them, raise her hat and stare at the group. Califor chuckled; Nanette goggled at that, and Wiskeria looked impressed herself. Then Witch Califor sighed.
“You could be a good [Witch], young lady. If only you’d been called earlier. You still could be, of course, but—”
“Hey! Is that Ryoka Griffin over there?”
Alevica called out and then swam over. She walked over to them, shedding water. Ryoka saw her flick her hands, and her clothes flew from a nearby tree branch towards her. She dressed herself as the water steamed off her body. Califor rolled her eyes at the display. Ryoka was intensely jealous.
“It is you. I knew you were interesting when I met you. Eloise, pass me a cup of whatever’s in that, will you? What’re we talking about? I’m so bored here I feel like flying off and killing some of the [Bandits].”
The Witch Runner sprawled out. Eloise poured her a cup as Califor eyed Alevica severely. Ryoka looked at Alevica’s cocksure grin.
“I’m asking about [Witches].”
“Oh? Well in that case, why didn’t you ask me? You’d probably be most similar to me anyways. What, did Eloise explain her magic to you? That’s right. She uses goodwill. Now, here’s the real trick. What do I use?”
Alevica shot Ryoka a challenging grin. She reminded Ryoka…of Ryoka. Only, more confident than Ryoka could ever remember being. More dangerous too. Ryoka remembered Alevica laughing as she killed the [Bandits]. The young woman thought for a moment. Alevica. She hadn’t seen her harvesting any emotions from the brief time she’d met her.
