“I’m fine, Mother. I’m an adventurer. That’s good enough for me. And I chose to be a [General]. Laken just gave me the class.”
She looked away from Belavierr, at Ryoka. As if the mile-long stare didn’t work on her at all. Belavierr whispered.
“I could have made you a [General] of countless armies had you asked me.”
Wiskeria’s head snapped back around.
“Yes? Well, I didn’t ask you, Mother. I wanted to find my place myself! The one time I asked you for a true favor, I regretted it all my life. I still do. So forgive me for doing things my way.”
Belavierr stopped, and Ryoka’s eyes swung to Wiskeria’s taut expression. Okay, things were making sense. Ryoka understood this, at least, and despite her ancient eyes, her unsettling presence—something about Belavierr’s tone was just the tiniest bit of irked motherhood.
“You do it so inefficiently, Daughter mine. As for your regrets, I do not recall when I have ever failed you. Was it the name you mentioned? I almost recall…Ostevien.”
Wiskeria’s eyes flashed.
“Fail me? Mother—you never fail. That’s the problem. If you can’t remember, fine. I’ll do it for you.”
She turned, as Belavierr frowned hugely, and talked to Ryoka as if Belavierr had ceased to exist.
“Well, Ryoka, you got your answer. Any more questions? Actually, we can ask later. Good to see you, Mother. Is your death here yet?”
“I may not die for—”
“Good! Let me know if it changes.”
Without waiting for a response, she took a step back. And stopped. Belavierr had stepped around her, blocking her path. It was so fast Ryoka jumped. The [Witch] bent down, intent on Wiskeria.
“You will die without a craft, Daughter. You have potential. But you refuse to fully become what makes you a [Witch]. We have discussed this.”
“Mother. I’m fine.”
Wiskeria turned away. Ryoka realized she was watching a mother-daughter argument, albeit the scariest one she’d ever seen. She jumped as Wiskeria pointed at her.
“Ryoka’s not putting me in any danger. And I’m fine in Riverfarm. I’ve been fine since I left. I don’t need your help. If I get into trouble, I get into trouble.”
“A [Witch] is incomplete without her craft. I am concerned, Daughter. I would not wish your death.”
So saying, Belavierr reached out and adjusted Wiskeria’s hat with the hand that held the needle. Her daughter flinched away. She stared at her mother, vexed.
“Mother! I don’t want to learn from you.”
Belavierr replied steadily.
“I did not suggest myself. As I said. You are a poor [Witch], half-formed. If you do anything, I would have you do it well.”
“I’m fine. I’ll decide what I want to be. Not you. Mother.”
Wiskeria glared. Belavierr stared. The two only broke away when they noticed Ryoka edging back. She stopped as both looked at her.
“I’m just—uh, I’ll leave you to it.”
“No, I’m done. Mother, you can continue your work. If Ryoka has questions, she’ll come back and ask. Okay?”
Wiskeria walked away from Belavierr. The other [Witch] didn’t reach out to stop her or move. But her eyes fixed on Wiskeria as she hurried with Ryoka away from the tree. Belavierr kept staring long after Ryoka had hurried back into the warm, glorious bright day. But she was still there, standing and staring.
Eventually, she went back to sitting down. When Ryoka wasn’t watching, of course. One second she was standing and staring, the next second Ryoka looked, she was sewing again in the shadows of the tree, as if she’d never stood.
Not creepy at all. Ryoka shuddered as she sat with Wiskeria. The [Witch] looked embarrassed. She tugged her hat over her reddish cheeks as she sat back down.
“Sorry. I don’t have a good relationship with her. We’re…we have differences of opinion.”
Ryoka stared at Wiskeria. That was what she thought Ryoka was bothered by? Then again—that conversation had been pretty bad if you ignored Belavierr being Belavierr.
And here Ryoka thought her relationship with her mother was bad. From the outset, it looked almost similar. Almost. Angry daughter versus distant, if caring, mother. Okay, Ryoka’s had more been ‘angry daughter and distant mother’ without even the caring bit. In this case…Ryoka looked at Belavierr and suspected Wiskeria had a good reason for not wanting her mother’s help.
Even so, that had been one intense conversation. Ryoka was cursing herself for not thinking of something important to ask. But—her eyes widened as she looked at Wiskeria. Eloise was sipping tea, and Califor had been teaching Nanette how to perform Alevica’s trick. They looked up as Ryoka pointed back at Belavierr.
“Did your mother just say the first String-people were Cloth Golems, Wiskeria?”
Wiskeria paused.
“I…think she did.”
She stared back towards the tree. Ryoka gaped at her. Wiskeria blinked a few times, and Nanette’s jaw dropped. Ryoka looked around at the other [Witches].
“Hey. Hey, isn’t that kind of a big thing?”
Eloise’s brows rose. Califor frowned. She tossed the water cupped in her palm back into the stream.
“It is an old story. One largely ignored by Stitch-folk for the shame of it. I imagine the String-people of Chandrar know most of what Belavierr could tell. Or at least, some of them would. The full tale might be valuable indeed if she was there and saw it all.”
“That is Belavierr for you. She can be very casual with information and secrets. I’ll try to find a book. Perhaps it is a well-guarded secret. Or just secret. Or simply history everyone has forgotten.”
The [Tea Witch] nodded to Califor. Ryoka spluttered.
“But—but how does she know that?”
Califor frowned as Nanette created some steam from her palmful of water.
“From other [Witches], perhaps. Or it may simply be something she learned. She is a master of needle magic. Hmf. She might have been there herself, even.”
It sounded like a joke, so Ryoka laughed.
“She’s not that old. Right?”
Eloise and Califor paused uncertainly. After a second, Califor coughed and shook her head briskly.
“No, of course she isn’t. Did you find the answers to the questions you sought?”
“I…didn’t have a good one to ask. And I froze when I was talking to her.”
Ryoka put her head in her hands. Wiskeria shrugged, looking annoyed.
“We can go back and ask. Do you have anything you want to know?”
She made it sound so casual. Ryoka didn’t know. Put like that, she had a hundred and one questions. What could you ask an immortal [Witch] with creepy eyes who might have been around when Octavia’s entire species had been created? Ryoka’s mind obligingly coughed up a list with a few hundred entries.
What kinds of foods do Dragons like? How do you bribe them? Know of any good treasure buried nearby? Do you have a magical wand I can buy for, like, fifty gold pieces that’s worth two thousand times the price? How do you fly—
How do you bring back a dead friend from the land of the fae? Do they truly die?
Sitting on the grass, the young woman looked up. And the [Witches] sitting around her glanced up sharply. Four, young and old. Ryoka didn’t notice. She gazed up at the blue sky. And she reached into her pocket and felt something cold. Slowly, she shook her head.
“No. No. I think—it’s fine. Sorry. I’ve got to go. I, uh—have some deliveries to do. It was really nice to meet you all.”
She touched her heart and got up. Ryoka turned away and walked back towards Riverfarm. Then away from the village. Suddenly, she wanted to be alone for a bit. She walked past a tree where Alevica was stretched out, using her floating broomstick as a footrest. Away. Her heart filled with memories that snatched her away from the present.
The [Witches] saw it on her. They were sympathetic or indifferent or kind as each wished to be. But none of them stopped Ryoka, although Eloise looked wistfully at the cup she’d been about to offer Ryoka.
That was that for the day. The [Witches] began to pack up the small gathering. They had work to do in Riverfarm, or they simply didn’t need to stay here. They left soon after. But one [Witch] remained. She was stitching. Working on something with cloth and thread, the rest of her unmoving. Until she paused. Then Belavierr glanced up.
She turned her head and watched Ryoka as the Runner girl ran away. And Ryoka had a bad day. But that was nothing new.
 
—–
 
Later that evening, the small Runner’s Guild in Filk had a visitor. A Centaur trotted through the open doors, much to the amazement of the [Receptionist] on duty. He stuttered as she walked up to the desk.
“Uh—how can I help you Miss…? Are you here for a delivery?”
“Nope! Doing one! I just came here from Riverfarm. I mean, Riverfarm’s Runner’s Guild. I’m their top Runner. I’m Charlay the Dustrider, by the way. Famous City Runner. You may have heard of me?”
Charlay grinned at the expression on the young man’s face. After a few seconds of frantically whispering with the [Receptionist] next to him, he shook his head.
“Excuse me, Miss Charlay, but Riverfarm doesn’t have a Runner’s Guild. We’re one of the only ones around for miles since Lancrel fell!”
He said that with a bit of pride. Charlay just fixed him with one eye.
“Well, we’re a Runner’s Guild. They just made one. So give me some seals and stuff for the Guild! Lady Rie’ll pay for all of it.”
She slapped a letter down on the counter. The [Receptionist] spluttered, but Charlay was the best Centaur for this job. Mainly because she refused to go away until he gave her what she wanted. Then she happily trotted out of the Runner’s Guild as he spread the news. And wasn’t that big news? Someone had made a Runner’s Guild in Riverfarm? Why? Was something there? You heard about that [Emperor]. Hold on—
And news travelled. But Charlay wasn’t in a place to see the effects. In fact, her next stop in Filk came after she halted three Street Runners, the third of whom pointed her in the direction she wanted to go. As Ryoka had learned in Reizmelt, Runners needed certain services. One of those services came in a very small room with a greasy man who arrogantly put his feet up on his desk and wasn’t at all impressed by Charlay. She glared at him as she folded her arms.
“Well? Can you do it?”
The man sneered across his desk.
“Of course I can. I’m Filk’s best [Fence] and [Broker].”
“Yeah, and that means what, exactly?”
He twitched a bit at that. The man was a Runner’s Opener, and he dealt in letters, but he also had ties to what little of Filk’s criminal underworld there was, and he didn’t like Charlay’s tone. But she also looked ready to kick something in his office, so he weighed his options and replied in an annoyed tone.
“You’re asking for information, but how do I know you’re good for it? You’re not local. You could be with the Watch or trying to rat me out to the Runner’s Guild!”
He was just being annoying, and both he and Charlay knew it. If he thought she was what he’d claimed, she wouldn’t have found him. Charlay stamped one hoof on the old floorboards.
“I’m cool! And it’s not my request. Check your stupid list. This is from Ryoka Griffin, and Fierre of Reizmelt vouches for her. That good for you?”
The man sucked his teeth irritably, but nodded.
“Fierre of Reizmelt. Yeah, I know her. Let me check.”
He was actually a decent [Broker], because he had a file of Runners. Ryoka was a recent addition Charlay noted as she craned her neck to see. The man looked up, covered the sheets of paper, and glared.
“Back off!”
“Can’t. Your room’s too small.”
He looked ready to curse her out. Instead, the man decided to up his price. Gold soothed hurt pride. He nodded grudgingly.
“Ryoka Griffin? Your recommendation’s good. But I want payment in advance! No telling how many people I’ll have to ask for information on Rhir-cursed [Witches].”
“How much?”
“Five big ones.”
“Go eat your tail. One.”
“Don’t be a mule. Three.”
“Take it back!”
“Three’s my final—”
“Take it back or I kick you!”
It was not an idle threat. After a few minutes, the haggling was done. Charlay passed over three gold coins. Mainly because there was a broken floorboard that needed fixing now. The [Broker] leaned back as he accepted the coins and glared.
“Come back in four days. You or Ryoka Griffin. And bring more gold, got it?”
“This had better be good. If it’s not, Ryoka will kick your face in—”
“It’s good! And if it’s not, we’ll talk about fees. Now get out of my office before you kick down a wall!”
Charlay stuck a tongue out at the man as she left. She grumbled as she trotted down the stupid stairs and prepared for a long run back to Riverfarm. Three gold coins? Highway robbery! But it was a down payment, and Ryoka might get a lot of information on the [Witches] or none at all, depending on what the [Broker] could find. She could negotiate with him next time.
The Centauress, peeved, began her long run back to Riverfarm. All the things she put up with. And for what? She shook her head, sighing.
“Ryoka’s lucky to have a friend like me.”
 
 
Day 58 – Ryoka
 
The next day, Ryoka Griffin ran. She had avoided Durene all of yesterday except for when Charlay had come back that night. Then Ryoka had distracted the conversation from more ‘ideas’ by thanking Charlay and buttering her up. And today, she’d set out early on the deliveries Ram and the other villagers had wanted her to make.
She still felt bad after yesterday. It wasn’t right, Ryoka knew. But sometimes, thinking of Ivolethe could just send her in a spiral. She was dead. Ryoka thought she was dead. Maybe she wasn’t. That was the hope Ryoka sometimes clung to. The fae were immortals. Although even gods could die.
But either way, she was gone. When Ryoka thought of her, she thought of her mistakes. In a way, she identified with Wiskeria. How could you make up for so many?
So Ryoka ran to keep her mind off how she felt. It wasn’t a hard run; the dirt roads were deserted. Charlay ran with Ryoka, yawning and complaining, but soon split up to do some of the deliveries. Then Ryoka ran alone. She ran through empty stretches of forest, flat land, up hills, down them.
Rarely did she see settlements. Usually, they were small. Sometimes it was a single home, a cottage made by someone who wanted to live alone. Other times it was a small village. Usually, it was a few houses. A lonely farmstead.
The first home she came to was a [Fisher]’s hut. He lived on the edge of the marshlands. When he opened the door it was warily. Ryoka thought she saw the flash of a knife as he tucked it back into his belt; she’d been on edge after passing a burnt field and had put one hand on a Tripvine Bag. But the man was welcoming enough. And he was very surprised by the letter.
