A shout made Ryoka look up. The [Bandits] were fleeing. Durene was swinging her staff, and there were six bodies around her. Bismarck had killed another. Then Ryoka heard the furious voice.
“Riverfarm! Riverfarm and Laken!”
Beniar and four of his [Riders] thundered forwards. Just in time to catch the last of the fleeing [Bandits]. The [Cataphract] got one himself. He whirled, and Ryoka saw Charlay racing after the last with three [Riders]. Beniar looked around, blinded by the dust, if not the darkness.
“Dead gods! No, no—Wiskeria! Durene! Is anyone—”
He caught sight of Durene, panting and leaning on her staff. Beniar leapt to the ground. And then he saw Ryoka and Wiskeria.
“Wiskeria?”
“I’m fine. Damn it, I knew I shouldn’t have worn the spare clothing Durene gave me. Have we lost anyone?”
Wiskeria sounded exasperated, not shocked. She stood there, as if forgetting she was completely naked, head swivelling to survey the wagons. Ryoka had to give Beniar this: he only stared for a second, and then he turned his head.
“What happened? We were just a minute ahead! We thought they’d never dare attack—”
Ryoka panted.
“They were after Wiskeria. After a [Witch]. Here—anyone got a blanket?”
“The passengers—”
“I pulled one out. The rest didn’t make it.”
Wiskeria shook her head. Ryoka opened her mouth and heard a wail.
“Ryoka! Where are you? Tell me you ran away! You slowpoke! Where are you?”
“Charlay! Over here!”
The Centauress galloped towards Ryoka.
“Ryoka! Thank goodness you’re—Wiskeria? You’re alive? And naked?”
The rest of the Darksky Riders converged. There was a minute—then six—of panic, which resolved itself. The [Trapper] who’d been riding on the wagon was badly burnt, as were Durene and Bismarck.
Wiskeria took care of that. She had potions distributed, made sure the dead [Bandits] were actually dead, and did it all while naked. Only when Beniar offered her a blanket did she cut a hole for her head and wear it like a poncho. Tough as nails. She didn’t even seem to care about the blood of the dead man on her arms and cheeks.
By contrast, Charlay was babbling.
“I’ve never seen anything like it. She was dead. I saw the [Fireball] heading at her, and she couldn’t dodge. Then she takes her hat off and blocks it with her hat! With her hat—! I couldn’t pay for a charm that does that. That’s like a Gold-rank charm right there—”
“How’d you do it, Wis? A spell?”
Beniar stared at Wiskeria. She shook her head, waving said hat as everyone turned to stare at it.
“Nope. It’s my mother’s work. She made this hat; I’ve never tried to block a [Fireball] with it. It might have still cooked me, but I diverted the rest of the blast. I’m only sorry I couldn’t protect anyone else. Or my clothing.”
“Wait, wait, wait. Your mother’s hat tanked a point-blank [Fireball]?”
That wasn’t just insane; Ryoka literally didn’t believe it. However, Wiskeria just shrugged.
“If you don’t believe it, try to cut it up. Beniar, you’ve got a magic sword, right?”
Gingerly, not wanting to hurt her hat, Beniar produced his sword and sawed at the hat. But even when he began using a lot of force…the fabric would deform, then spring back into shape. Ryoka stared as Beniar, to prove his sword was sharp, lopped off a piece of burnt wagon in a single cut. The [Cataphract] handed Wiskeria’s hat back to her and she put it back on, then he burst out.
“Your mother made this? Dead gods, Wis, that’s a Gold-rank artifact, disappearing clothes or not! Do you think she’d sell it to us?”
Beniar’s eyes went round. Wiskeria shrugged, looking uncomfortable.
“I…again, I have robes. Durene got me some new ones because she thought I needed them. Clothes for you? Yes. Maybe. If I asked her to. It never crossed my mind. She doesn’t usually sell stuff like this. But yes—yes, I’ll definitely ask her to.”
“I guess that’s a caring mother to make clothing like that.”
Ryoka spoke slowly. The adrenaline rushing through her body had faded. Now she felt sick at the death. Tired. But amazed. Wiskeria paused and nodded again.
“I suppose that is a sign of caring. I just thought she made it so she didn’t have to worry about patching me up. But…yes. It is extraordinary, isn’t it?”
She seemed almost mystified as she took off her hat and stared at it.
Invincible clothing, or at least, powerful clothing. A mother’s love?Wiskeria looked at her, as if not sure that was what it was. Ryoka stared at her and nodded. She wanted to smile, but the power of that hat…and Wiskeria’s troubled expression that couldn’t even smile in gratitude? It was something. It was familiar to Ryoka.
It reminded her of her mother. Oh, not that her mother could even sew a hole in a shirt; she’d just buy Ryoka a new one. New clothes, new car…was that love? Surely not. But Wiskeria’s expression was the same for a handmade artifact as Ryoka’s for her mother’s absent, lavish affections.
The two girls broke off from their look of connection as Ryoka thought of someone who needed actual concern. The Wind Runner turned.
“Durene?”
The [Paladin] looked up. She’d survived her own [Fireball], albeit at a far greater cost than Wiskeria. If it hadn’t been for her new Skill, she probably would have died. As it was—the healing potion had only healed some of the burns. Durene’s voice was raspy.
“I’m okay, Ryoka.”
“Sure you are. We’re going to get you back to Riverfarm. You got the [Bandits], Durene.”
“Yeah. I wish I could’ve saved the others.”
Ryoka shook her head. She stared at the six [Bandits] Durene had killed. Her hands shook a bit. She’d been trying to kill the [Pyromancer]. But Durene had squashed the others like flies with her quarterstaff. It was still bloody.
“Does it—does it bother you?”
Durene looked confused. She glanced at the bodies and blinked before shaking her head.
“They’re [Bandits]. I don’t feel bad about killing them.”
That was all. Ryoka nodded. Slowly, painfully, she walked back towards Beniar. He was seeing to the wounded [Trapper].
“We’re close to Riverfarm. Damn—this guy needs a [Healer]. I don’t think the burns all healed, and I don’t want to try another. There could be an infection. I’ll ride him back, and you all wait here.”
“We can walk.”
Durene got up. Beniar opened his mouth to protest and saw Bismarck lumber forwards. The bear’s fur along his back was burnt away. And while he was healed, he was growling. His teeth were still bloody. The [Cataphract] nodded.
“I’ll ride back and send everyone in case there are more [Bandits]!”
He took off into the night. The last three [Riders] joined Ryoka and the others. The City Runner walked forwards, then turned to stare at the wagon. It was gone. Some of the goods could be salvaged, but not right now. Charlay looked at Ryoka, then Wiskeria. She sighed.
“Climb on, Wiskeria. I’ll carry you back. Come on, Ryoka. Let’s go.”
Wiskeria blinked, but didn’t object. Charlay trotted past Ryoka. Durene and Bismarck followed, and Ryoka brought up the rear. She kept looking at the place where the first [Fireball] had gone off.
That was true magic. True magic. A hat had done what magic shields might struggle to do! Ryoka began to understand what Belavierr could do. She wanted to talk to the [Witch] again. Thank her. And perhaps her daughter did too. Wiskeria kept pinching herself as Charlay bore her back.
The weary procession returned to Riverfarm quietly. Wondering, but mourning the death and low after the heady adrenaline of battle. Ryoka headed straight into Riverfarm, seeing the lights in a few windows. But the village was mostly dark without magic or electricity.
Ryoka expected a huge crowd that had heard about the battle. And there was one. But it was not for her or Durene or the riders. She stopped as she saw the turned backs. The silent, staring faces.
They were not looking at her. Nor were they making any sound. The people of Riverfarm were quiet. Deathly so. They stood together, so close as to touch. As if to remind themselves they weren’t alone.
They filled the street as the procession halted. Ryoka stepped forwards uncertainly. Wiskeria rode forwards, craning her neck. The street was motionless. The people voiceless.
But it was not quiet. There was a rhythmic sound in the air. Quiet. Then louder. Insistent.
It was a faint, plaintive cry. A wailing sound every person knew. A baby’s cry. Ryoka heard it, but it didn’t connect with the faces around her. The haunted looks.
“What’s…what’s going on?”
No one responded to Charlay’s uneasy question. Wiskeria looked up. Silently, slowly, she slipped off Charlay’s back. The villagers looked back. Saw her. They parted. Ryoka saw Wiskeria move forwards. And the young woman felt a sense of trepidation.
They stood in the center of the gathering. Four [Witches]. Hedag. Eloise. Alevica. Mavika. No Califor or Nanette. Watching silently.
Hedag’s expression was a mirthless smile, harsh and pained. Eloise had closed her eyes. Alevica was pale-faced with fear. As close to fear as Ryoka had ever seen. And Mavika? The [Witch] looked at Wiskeria and Ryoka. And she nodded.
Closer still. Ryoka pushed forwards with Wiskeria. Prost and Rie stood in the inner circle. Their faces were white. They had lost their voices too. They turned as Wiskeria moved forwards towards the center. The crying was louder, insistent. There was a voice now. Someone whispering. Cooing sweetly. Trying to soothe the baby she held—
Ryoka saw Rehanna in the center of the silent crowd, and for a moment, she felt relieved. Because there was nothing wrong. The woman was sitting on the ground, rocking an infant in her arms. It was a normal scene. Ordinary.
For a moment, Ryoka could believe it. Then she looked up at the tall figure standing like a shadow behind Rehanna. As tall as a nightmare, her hat wide, pointed. And her eyes, the rings of orange glowing in the twilight. The illusion broke as Ryoka saw what Belavierr had done.
“Hush, my child, don’t make a sound. Your mother’s here, and treats abound…”
Rehanna sang as she held the child to her breast. The infant wailed, and Ryoka saw it at last. It was right in all the right ways. It was the same size. It had the same color. And it made sound. It moved. It looked like an infant.
But it was not. It was not alive. It was no baby. The thing wriggled, writhed, opened its mouth and exposed black insides.
It opened its eyes and raised a hand. Ryoka saw stitched cloth waving. Or was it flesh? Moving fingers, wriggling.
A mockery of life. A thing. It was not alive. But Rehanna bent her head, and a tiny cloth hand clasped her finger.
“Yes, little one, go to sleep. Don’t wake or cry or you’ll make your mother weep…”
She sang to it. Ryoka couldn’t take her eyes off the thing Rehanna held. It was all wrong. It was too close to reality. The cloth had been sewn, given magic. But it was no baby. But its eyes. Ryoka saw no life there, but it was realer than any mannequin. She tasted bile. Ahead of her, Wiskeria was frozen. She stared at the woman, her face drained of color.
“Rehanna?”
“Wiskeria?”
The woman looked up. She spotted Wiskeria and stood. Her face beamed with happiness. She stumbled towards Wiskeria, holding the thing proudly. But carefully as any mother.
“Wiskeria! She did it! I didn’t believe her, but she did it! Your mother, Lady Belavierr! Look. Look! She brought him back. See?”
She held out the not-child, and Wiskeria recoiled. Rehanna stopped, hurt.
“What’s wrong? He’s as healthy as can be. Look—touch him. Don’t cry, little one—”
Another wail. Ryoka stared at Rehanna. She had seen the woman once, lying on the ground, clutching at her ruined hand. Rehanna was not the same woman as then.
Her hair was faded. Her hands pale. But she was smiling. Laughing with tears in her eyes as she turned to Wiskeria. The young [Witch] was shaking.
“She brought my baby back. He won’t ever leave. He won’t die. She brought him back.”
Wiskeria looked up slowly. Rehanna laughed and turned, gesturing to the tall figure. And the orange eyes found Wiskeria.
Belavierr walked forwards, and the world drew back. Rehanna returned to rocking her child, soothing it. And the thing’s voice faded as Belavierr stepped towards her daughter. She stopped there and stooped. Wiskeria looked up at her mother. Ryoka saw her eyes.
They were the eyes of a daughter who had seen who her mother truly was. Belavierr looked into Wiskeria’s eyes. After a moment, the Stitch Witch smiled. Awkwardly. Perhaps even tenderly. She looked Wiskeria up and down and then glanced at Ryoka. She paused, seemed to think, and then spoke.
“Daughter. Did you have a good journey? You appear to be naked.”
Wiskeria did not reply. In the silence of that dark night, as Ryoka looked upon another piece of true magic, the only sound came from a woman. A broken woman. Bereaved. Torn by grief and loss. Perhaps a cruel woman. Spiteful. But broken. And now—mended. With thread. Holding something that sounded and looked like a child.
Rehanna rocked it, standing in the street. She was overjoyed. She smiled and laughed. Oblivious to the world. Holding her baby.
Lost.
 
—–
 
A dark dream walked Riverfarm. But elsewhere, the world turned on, unaware of the ways where nightmares and waking merged. Other concerns kept people’s hearts. Even if the hearts were cold.
Fierre, the Vampire who acted as a broker to Runners in Reizmelt, was standing in a place few people knew of. It was a spot where people whose faces were wanted—or anyone who needed to send a [Message] in private—could hire a [Mage]. She spoke curtly, her sharp nails digging into her palms.
“Tell him that if he so much as breathes word she’s there, I will come down to Filk myself and rip out his throat. You hear me?”
The [Mage] shuddered. He thought he knew Fierre. But he had never seen the look in her eyes. He nodded, relaying the [Message]. Fierre stared down at the parchment she held. It held a [Message], or rather, a report she’d obtained for Ryoka. The [Broker] in Filk had one too. And he knew where the [Witches] were. But that wasn’t the problem.
“Leave a [Message] for Ryoka at Filk’s Runner’s Guild. Mark it as priority. I’ll pay you. Got it?”
She was too panicked to care. The rattled [Mage] sent the [Message], and Fierre stormed out of the room. She hesitated after she slammed the door, but there was nothing more she could do. Short of trying to run to Filk herself. And it was too late for that. All she could do was lean on the man in Filk. And pray Ryoka ran for it as soon as she got the [Message].
Fierre hurried back to The Huntress’ Haven, her home away from home. Madain looked up from his usually empty inn and grinned.
