“From Riverfarm? Ram? He can afford a City Runner to just send letters about?”
He incredulously read the letter, sounding some of the words out. It was a short message from Ram, mainly checking on how he was. Ryoka nodded.
“It’s a service for, uh, His Majesty, Emperor Laken Godart. If you want, I’ll take any letters you write on my way back. In a few hours at the latest.”
“Really? Well, I’d better write a response! That’s just grand of you, Miss Griffin. Not many Runner’d do that. And I’d like to write something. Could—could you maybe help me with some of the words?”
Ryoka did just that. The [Fisher] was only too happy to send a lengthy, rambling response. He finished with an invitation for Ram to drop by at some point.
“It’s been a while since I’ve seen anyone around here. Not that I mind, you understand? Only, well, I go into this nearby village to sell some of my fish sometimes, see. Windrest. Only now it’s…gone.”
The young woman looked up.
“Some of Windrest’s people are at Riverfarm.”
“Oh, I know that. But they’re gone and ain’t coming back. And a lot of my neighbors are gone too. This bloke eight miles thataway—I hated the bastard, but now I miss him. Funny.”
The [Fisher] squatted by his rack of dried fish as Ryoka paused, looking the way he pointed. The man spat close to one of his fish.
“Goblins. At first it was the raids from that Great Chieftain what got killed. You heard of him? Tremborag. What kinda world is this where Goblin Chieftains have names? Let alone an army that large!”
“So everyone fled them?”
“Yup. Them Goblin raiders. They burnt and pillaged the area. I stayed because I’ve got my fishing spear and I ain’t about to run, but I can’t blame the others. I saw some of them, you know. Goblins riding wolves. Hundreds of ‘em! Even with an army fighting them—two armies when Lord Veltras arrived!”
“Did they attack your home?”
The man shook his head darkly.
“Not me. It’s hard to find, see? But lots of places aren’t so lucky. And even though the Goblins are gone—there’s less folk about. That’s dangerous. For me and anyone living hereabouts. Hey, would you mind checking in on some I know?”
Ryoka reluctantly nodded.
“I could. But what’s the problem? If the Goblins didn’t get them, they can keep going on as normal, right? Unless it’s the [Bandits].”
“Not just [Bandits], Miss. There’s always some lowlifes about. But if there’s less folk, we can’t group up if there’s a need. You understand what I’m saying? In the past, we’d have run a local [Bandit] group off. But if there’s fewer of us left…”
The young woman thought about what the man meant.
“Less people for a militia, you mean.”
“Exactly. If something big arrives, we come together and fight it. Time was, there were always enough folks with a few Skills like [Long Range Shot] and a good bow, or someone who’d been a [Guard] or a [Warrior]. But less people means more danger. And what with all the places the Goblins burned, there are [Bandits] now, too. Bad times, Miss. Bad times. I worry, but I’ll stay here. I always have. Here. I can’t offer you pay, but take this for the road and share ‘em if you see anyone I know, will you?”
Discontented, the [Fisher] selected three of his fish and offered them to Ryoka. She took the fish and nodded. The [Fisher] was well enough, even if he reminded her of Lupp, intentionally isolated. But he was an outlier.
The second place Ryoka visited was in a tiny settlement, barely more than thirty people, which translated into around twelve buildings, not all of them actual homes. This time, she halted on approach; the arrow that blew by her cheek froze her in place.
“Not a step closer or I loose! Back off and turn around! There’s nothing for you here!”
An [Archer] standing on a crude watchtower shouted at Ryoka. She threw up her hands and shouted back.
“City Runner! I’m a City Runner!”
There was a pause.
“Prove it!”
Ryoka had trouble doing that because the bowman didn’t want her to throw her Runner’s Seal or come closer. Eventually she managed to persuade him by divesting herself of her bag of holding and belt items, and he confirmed her seal at a distance. Then he let her collect her things and approach.
“Sorry, Miss Runner. But none of us expect a Runner in these times. It’s dangerous, you should know. Not worth risking your life over for silver coins.”
“[Bandits]?”
The man lowered the longbow, looking embarrassed, but not ashamed. The [Archer] nodded.
“There’s a bad group led by a [Pyromancer]. Some bastard who throws [Fireballs] with a staff. If you see them, I’d surrender. We’ve been safe because we take turns watching, and half of us can hit anything in range with bows.”
He pointed around the flat land this small settlement had chosen to build in the center of. Ryoka nodded appreciatively.
“I’ve got some letters. You can send a reply if you want. Tell me, how is it around here? I met a [Fisher] who said it was getting dicey?”
“Dicey? Oh—my wife’ll want to read this. Can you take a letter back? I can pay you a bit—”
“No charge.”
“You’re too kind. But step inside and I can give you something to drink. And yes, it’s bad. But we keep on. We always have, so long as we watch out. In a bit, the [Bandits]’ll move on. There’s not much for them; I don’t know why they’re here to begin with. I was a [Watchman] in a big city before I moved here, and I know most [Bandits] like valuable targets, not what they can scavenge. And this group’s nasty. It’s absorbed all the desperate folks. That damn [Mage]—”
Ryoka wondered what the Pithfire Hound’s Captain, Levil, would have made of the rogue [Mage]. She found herself missing those adventurers. She was far from home. What was she doing here? But then, when the [Archer] led her into the small settlement and people came out to meet her, Ryoka felt ashamed.
They were welcoming, offering a drink and asking for the news as the [Archer] resumed his post. Ryoka got to ask one question as they scrambled to send replies back to people they knew in Riverfarm.
“Have you ever thought of moving? Getting away if it’s so dangerous?”
“And how would we do that with the roads occupied by [Bandits], Miss? We’d be a huge target. We’d be homeless. Besides, my great grandfather built this place. We’ll be fine. But I appreciate it. You come right back, and I’ll give you a hot lunch or dinner, you hear? Just wave or my man’ll put an arrow between your eyes. Although he might recognize you, as distinctive as you look! Such lovely hair.”
The wife of the [Archer] pinched Ryoka’s cheek as the other occupants of the houses cursed and looked for their inkpots and something to write a reply with. It was a pleasant experience, and Ryoka ran on.
The third place she visited wasn’t so uplifting. It was burnt. Ryoka slowed warily in front of the large home that could have held a family and a half. Fire had consumed it. She couldn’t tell how old it was, but she did notice a fragment of cloth when she steeled herself to walk inside and look for bodies. It was attached to a beam where someone had carved a deep message and planted it—after the fire.
Going to Melon’s. Look for us in Filk if not there.
Ryoka didn’t know who ‘Melon’ was. But the next two homes saw her to a wary [Herbalist] living by herself and an abandoned home, respectively. The third was Melon’s farm, and he greeted her with a pitchfork at the door.
Say what you wanted about [Farmers] and the dangers of monsters preying on them, but Ryoka pitied the fools who’d try their luck against Melon, the [Farmer] who grew his namesake. His Skills turned the simple pitchfork into something that could go right through a barn door. He happily showed it to Ryoka before telling her the missing family was here. Then his face crumpled up into his bushy brown beard.
“This letter’s from Helm? If it’s Helm—tell him I’ve got three families under my roof. My stores can’t handle the burden—if he can spare anything, coin, wood, food—”
He gestured back at his farm home. It was large, but filled to bursting with his family alone. Apparently three more had come seeking refuge at the doughty [Farmer]’s when trouble had started. What was worse, he couldn’t support them all; his melons were a luxury. Already, the adults had left to make ends meet.
“Half the folks are working in or around Filk, but we’re afraid to try and send the others that way. There are too many folk on the roads. They burnt down Kayla’s two weeks back. Tell Helm.”
“The [Pyromancer]?”
Ryoka frowned. Melon shrugged.
“Don’t know. They haven’t come this way, thank the stars. But I saw smoke Kayla’s way.”
He pointed. Ryoka hesitated.
“Did this Kayla make it out? Her family?”
Melon planted the pitchfork on the ground and shook his head slowly.
“It was just her. And she did not. We found a zombie wandering about and put her back to sleep, properly. Tell me—is that [Emperor] back in Riverfarm? I remember seeing a bunch of [Riders] who were hunting down the Goblins. Where’d he go?”
“He’s not back yet.”
“Damn. Well, I hope to all hells he gets here. There’ve been worse times, believe me. We once had Crelers here. An adult if you can believe it. We had to get a Named Adventurer to come this way, but he turned up fast given the emergency. But who wants to fight [Bandits]? Gah. If it goes on, we’ll have to have a whip round and see if we can muster the gold to hire a Silver-rank team to take the [Bandits] on. But I’d settle for that [Emperor].”
He shook his head. Ryoka stared at Melon. So Laken was wanted. At least by one man. The [Farmer] trooped back to the house, waving at the frightened faces peeking out at him and Ryoka.
“Now, let me write a reply. Can I offer you a melon? Helm can have one. I owe him for this pitchfork anyways. Uh…just say I forgot to give him his money when you were here. Slipped my mind.”
The man’s words stayed with Ryoka throughout the day. And his words were only reinforced by the other places she visited. There were four more wrecks. One fresh. Ryoka saw a body only once. When she did, she ran; the ash looked fresh. She marked each spot and all the people she’d met. Two hadn’t let her get close, and five more had asked for help if it could be spared. She went back, collecting letters and messages. And all the while, she thought.
“This isn’t good.”
Riverfarm was rural, one of those unsettled places on the continent. If they were further north, there might be more bigger towns or cities nearby, more populated land. But Humans had spread more slowly to the south; wars with the Drakes had erased some cities and towns over time, and frankly, there was just more space here still.
“Sort of like the wild west of the United States, I suppose. Too much land for anyone to settle. Not like home right now. But they have to worry about more than wild animals, starvation, and criminals in this world.”
And they did. Oh, they did. The spirit of the [Fisher] living alone by himself with his spear told Ryoka what those early settlers must have been like. Some people took to isolation. You could live happily here. But sometimes calamity happened. And the Goblins had been just that.
An [Emperor] was needed. Or maybe an [Emperor] was just…helpful. Like it would be if someone killed the [Bandits]. The people could live here even if no one helped. Or rather—some would live. Maybe the area would be vacated by all but the most hardy and slowly repopulate, but people would return, barring some kind of major disaster. But that said nothing of the lives Ryoka had met. She thought of Melon’s farm and the [Archer] and his family and realized they were faces she wouldn’t easily forget.
“This is really depressing. And we’re not getting paid.”
Charlay summed up the experience at the end of the day as she and Ryoka ran back. The City Runner glared at her.
“I wouldn’t put it exactly like that, Charlay.”
“Well, I would. All these people were whining to me about how dangerous it is or asking me to carry back supplies. I’m not a pack horse!”
Charlay was indignant. Ryoka sighed and nodded. It was true. There was no profit for them as City Runners to use their talents here. That was why Riverfarm needed a Runner’s Guild so badly, with local Runners who would run for cheap. Hell, it needed patrols. And a damn army, or at least, ten times as many Darksky Riders to keep the place safe. Or a Laken. She ran with Charlay, and after a few minutes, the Centauress looked over.
“Don’t get me wrong. It’s okay to help now and then. I’m fine with not earning money for now. I’ve got lots. Well, compared to these people. But we can’t do anything. We just deliver stuff.”
“Right.”
 
—–
 
The two City Runners returned to Riverfarm. Durene and Wiskeria joined them for a dinner in the cottage. Wiskeria informed them that the [Witches] hadn’t caused any trouble. Today, at least.
“It’s not really in their nature to make trouble, besides. They mainly just practiced their craft again today. Eloise, Hedag, Mavika, and my mother, that is. Califor’s teaching Nanette, Alevica’s bored. I guess that’s all we can ask for.”
“Think they’ll hold until Laken gets here?”
Ryoka looked up hopefully. Riverfarm seemed to be decent. Then again, Durene reported that Councilwoman Beatica was trying to get people upset about the [Witches]. But it felt stable. Ryoka wondered if she could just…leave. Laken was still practically two weeks away. Did she have to stay here the entire time? She didn’t want to.
What could she do? Durene kept staring at her. Ryoka thought the answer was nothing. She changed the subject to Hedag, the only [Witch] she hadn’t really met. Ryoka had heard about the infamous head-chopping, of course, but the woman herself was a mystery. Durene frowned.
“I saw Hedag performing tricks for the children. She sold a few trinkets to the women, but is that enough?”
Wiskeria shrugged.
“It’s her craft. She’s not in it to make money. All the [Witches] have other things to sell, though. They’ll do it if they feel like it.”
Ryoka looked up as she sipped from a very filling stew. Charlay was trying to keep hers away from Bismarck.
“I understand Eloise gathered goodwill, and Mavika fed her flock. Belavierr, Califor, and Nanette aren’t gathering today, right? But Hedag. What did she gather from the children?”
It seemed like a pertinent question. Wiskeria paused.
“Nothing. Not yet. But believe me, you’ll know when she does.”
That was appropriately ominous. Ryoka was about to press Wiskeria when Durene interrupted.
“So Ryoka—”
“No, I do not have a magical idea to fix Riverfarm!”
