Her tone was pointed, and so Arthur straightened up—though his arms felt as strong as noodles.

Her particular type of snaky body did not allow her to hover as Brixaby did. Yet she twisted and turned in the air so quickly that she had the same effect as she came close to Arthur.

“Take your healer back. He has assured me he has done what he could for my Elizar.”

Before Arthur could react, she opened a man-sized diamond-encrusted portal. She withdrew Marion with one claw and his hatchling dragon, Asha, with the other.

The pair didn’t have time to yell or squeak in surprise before Lung Bai placed them upon Brixaby’s back. It was a tight fit, even accounting for Brixaby’s new size.

“What in the world?” Marion looked around frantically. “Arthur? What happened to him?”

“Refresh him, Marion,” Lung Bai commanded.

Marion did a double-take at Arthur, tsked, and then slapped him roundly on the back.

Revitalizing energy immediately flowed through him. Suddenly, it was no longer a strain just to sit up.

“Excellent work, Leader Arthur,” Lung Bai said, and Arthur got the distinct impression she had just transmitted those words to everyone.

Then, lower, in almost a threat, she added, “I will call on you and your healer when my Elizar is in need again.”

With that, she flipped on her tail and dove into a new diamond portal that opened in front of her.

Then she was gone.

Arthur turned back to look at Marion, who seemed a little windblown in shock.

"Is that a new card? I don't remember you having an energy refresher card before."

His friend gave him a weak smile. "Yeah, it's an Uncommon but a useful one. The king gave me a library of cards to choose from. Arthur, what happened here?"

A lot had happened, but Arthur tried to sum it up the best he could. "Demi-scourge."

Down below, the Legendries had finally broken out of the shield. Some were flying up to meet him, some were directing the lower ranks to get home or help mop up the last of the scourglings.

They didn't have much time. "Brixaby, use your Call of the Heart. Is the demi-scourge's card still in play?"

His dragon jerked in surprise under him, and Arthur realized that he had assumed it had been obliterated. But a moment later, he answered with a satisfied, "Yes, it is. It was deeply buried—your spirals did not have time to chew through enough earth to reach it."

"Keep that quiet for now," Arthur said. "After this is done, I intend to retrieve it."
