Once more, Jake glimpsed the horizon as the golem was made his sole target. The ring of light appeared around it, but perhaps most importantly, that brief glimpse had made the boss stop moving, buying Casper even more time. Jake could see the Risen was obviously preparing something, and Jake was all-in to help him do whatever he was trying to do.

This use of Event Horizon wasn’t the most exciting, but it still made Jake’s arrows stronger for a while as he started shooting, curving his arrows around to strike the golem in the side. Before, they could barely make the golem react, but now the impacts were powerful enough to make the boss stumble with every hit, helping Casper at least a little.

Jake also tried to help further as he used Eternal Shadow, sending his cursed self sprinting forward toward the golem. His arrows slowed the boss down enough for his Eternal Shadow to reach it and strike it in the leg with a Piercing Fang, making the B-grade stumble for a moment.

More arrows kept striking the golem, disrupting it repeatedly, but the B-grade continued to close in on Casper, who had stopped moving and was down on one knee. There was a ritual circle around him that pulsed with energy that made even Jake feel eerie.

He saw that the Risen still needed a bit more time, making Jake grit his teeth as he looked directly at the golem while continuing to shoot. He activated Primal Gaze, instantly feeling that the golem’s soul was weaker than he’d expected. The boss froze for a moment right as an arrow struck it, and without the ability to stabilize itself, the B-grade was sent flying to the side for a moment.

Right as it could move again and was about to swing its sword and attack Casper from afar, it was hit with yet another Primal Gaze and arrow combo, disrupting it yet again. Jake was already feeling the strain, but he was forced to use Primal Gaze a third time, making his eyes burn as he feared using the skill a fourth time would be a terrible idea.

However... it had been enough. A black smoky aura was emitted from the ritual circle beneath Casper, and when the golem swung and released a crescent wave of rolling lightning, it simply washed over the black smoke harmlessly.

In the middle stood Casper, with no sense of joy or accomplishment on his face. Instead, black trails of tears ran down his cheeks as he looked toward the golem.

“I’m sorry, Lyra,” Casper faintly muttered, a look of regret and pain in his voice. Lyra appeared above him, with a sad yet comforting look on her face. She closed her eyes as all the black smoke funneled toward her, turning her entire body black.

Jake felt her aura fade away, and with a voice full of pain, Casper spoke in a croaky voice.

“Necropolis of Loss.”

Lyra’s body disappeared entirely, exploding in a wave of black smoke that seemed to consume all of existence as it washed over all of them in an instant, as the energy of cursed blight enveloped the world.

... and that’s when Jake learned Casper already had a complete Domain Skill.
