I spent perhaps ten minutes hiding in a ruined house, literally licking my wounds.

She had gotten me pretty good, and now that I was back in doggy form, the wounds transferred to my puppy body, where they looked a little more sensible than bleeding bones. I had a deep stab beneath my jaw, a slash across my cheek, under my ear, and another near my right shoulder.

Checking my vitals, I saw they had taken a lot out of me, but I thankfully still had a decent amount of HP left. I wasn’t necessarily in critical condition yet.

Vitals

Health: 480 / 810

Mana: 870 / 1015

Stamina: 350 / 686

If she kept at me with those daggers, however, I’d be in real trouble real quick. I couldn’t keep taking damage like that, or I’d be pretty low before I knew it, and there weren’t any reliable sources of healing around here.

So how do I deal with her?

And besides, Miss Lady Skeleton, what the hell were with those Divine Dross things anyway?

I wasn’t at the Black Pyre yet—far from it, really—but could it be related to the supposed god who tried to ascend to an even higher evolution path? That was a complete shot in the dark, but it was the only explanation I had.

Hmmm, another question. How long have those pots been there? Certainly someone had to put them there, and they seemed to be scattered all over the city. Maybe the ones in that storeroom were a little more mature, and that’s why something rose out of it once the pots were broken?

I shuddered, not wanting to think about the possibility of cracking another one open just to see what would happen. Like, if I really wanted to experiment with this, that would be the way to go, but…

I mean, they are only level 1. But Skeleton Lady seemed scared of them. So I don’t know. Yeah, I should definitely take that as a sign I’d be better to leave well alone and not mess with them.

I guess simply being level 1 didn’t mean they weren’t dangerous, right? But more importantly, what if one of those things started leveling up? And would it be considered a monster, and therefore could it evolve?

I shuddered to think of it.

In any case, I was a little hurt, but not so hurt I couldn’t still do some fighting. I’d have to avoid any special class skeletons until I knew more, and I had a sneaking suspicion Skeleton Lady wasn’t the only one around here.

I stretched as I got up, activated {Veil of Shadows}, and went prowling through the streets once again.

You know what? Skeletons are kind of like fireflies.

Want to know why I say that?

Because when it starts to get just a little dark outside, you’ll see a few fireflies here and there, and then as the sun sets but there is still light, you see a lot more, and then as it gets deep into night, you see exponentially more and more.

That’s how these skeletons seemed to be, because the streets were absolutely littered with them by now.

But that also meant free XP, so long as I’m smart about it.

So I searched around for Skeleton Lady—nowhere to be seen—and found a private corner to transform.

{Veilform}! Skeleton!

This was my first time using Veilform since leveling it up, and supposedly I could look more like whatever it was I was trying to transform into now. As the horrifying transformation process proceeded, I thought about not having my wolfy ears and tail.

My limbs snapped, crackled, and popped, and soon I was standing on two legs again. I reached up to the top of my head and felt for my ears.

Hmmm…

They were smaller, but still there. They were a bit like horns, I guess.

I then checked my tail and saw that it was also a bit shorter.

Guess I couldn’t completely make those things disappear yet, but I did have one other problem.

I was a naked skeleton again!

You know, since this world is kind of videogame-like, having some kind of inventory so I could hoard hundreds of useless broken swords and changes of clothes would have been very nice. But no, this world may have had a system and magic, but it still seemed to obey at least some laws of physics, meaning you couldn’t just hold infinite things for no reason here.

But I’d gotten pretty good at hunting these skeletons, as it didn’t take me long to pick out my next victim. He was walking along by himself, so I walked over and gave him a good hard nudge with a flat palm.

“Take that, stupid!” I said to him.

He screeched, raised his sword, and chased after me as I instantly turned and ran into an alleyway.

As soon as we got a little privacy, I got to work. I started by ducking under his sword swing, tackling him to the ground, ripping his arm off, and then stabbing him through the eye with his own sword.

Moments later, I was stepping out of the alleyway and brushing myself off, dressed up just like I had been before with the cloth around my pelvis and the shabby armor over my ribs.

I had started this night with the intention of taking advantage of some easy leveling, and I wasn’t going to let that minor hiccup earlier stop me, if I could help it.

In fact, coming across Skeleton Lady—someone that I might not be able to beat—only strengthened my resolve. I didn’t know what I could expect to find at the Black Pyre, but the journey would take me a good amount of time still, weeks, even, based on Nobaru’s estimate, though I supposed it was possible he underestimated my puppy legs.

Either way, whatever I’d find at the Black Pyre would surely be even harder to deal with  than the elite skeletons of this ruined city. If I couldn’t even deal with the things around me here, I might not be ready.

I needed to squeeze every last bit of growth I could along my travels.

But preferably without getting stabbed again!

So, I wandered back onto the street, doing my best impression of a skeleton, which mostly involved slouching, dragging one foot slightly behind the other, and occasionally moaning for no reason.

Honestly, as I worked my way into the crowd, I fit right in.

***

You have leveled up!

You are now level 20!

+7 Vigor

+8 Strength

+7 Dexterity

+10 Attunement

+9 Sense

I had killed about six more skeletons in quick succession, meaning I’d killed more than 10 since my last level up, and I was surprised to already see I’d leveled up again.

Was Wolf Among the Flock really that useful?

Speaking of which, another message popped up.

Wolf Among the Flock level up. 1 > 2

+3 Sense

+3 Dexterity

Nice.

But wait, there’s more!

Achievement! Rest in Pieces!

You’re making sure rest in peace means they actually stay down!

Moderate Bonus to All Stats!

I was quite impressed at this point by just how easy this was. I mean, if I could manage to deal with Skeleton Lady, it might even be a good idea to stay here for another day or two and continue leveling up! Well, food was another problem.

So my priorities were a bit unfocused. To be honest, I’d just really like to defeat Skeleton Lady; it’s just a kind of thirst I felt inside of me. I’m the one who was supposed to be an apex predator, and the thought that something was in my hunting ground, interrupting my hunts…

…Yeah, it just didn’t sit right with me.

Especially after she denied my gracious offer of friendship.

I wanted to beat her!

I would have to think over how to go about getting food, though. I’d be fine skipping meals for a day, but hunger would start to catch up to me in a very serious way soon after that.

I could go back to that one area where I saw the holes in the ground. If I switched back to the Whisperfang Juvenile path once it was available tomorrow afternoon, I could easily get some hunting done over there with Pulse Sense tracking my prey. I just hoped I wouldn’t be digging up zombie moles.

But… that use of my path change was actually a very big decision I’d have to think over carefully. Whether I decided to switch to Whisperfang Juvenile or Juvenile Arcane Nightstalker, I’d be stuck with that for another 48 hours.

But if I stayed as Veiledfang Stalker for a while, and managed to take out Skeleton Lady, I could potentially stick around the ruined city and continue to level up for a while. So long as I got an occasional achievement, I’d be satisfied with grinding on these bones for a while.

Grinding for XP, that is.

Don’t interpret it in unseemly ways, please.

But as far as Skeleton Lady went, if I switched to Arcane Nightstalker, I think I’d easily be able to defeat her. Hell, I could surely beat her with Whisperfang Juvenile as well, but Arcane Nightstalker would definitely be impossible for her to contend with just for its ranged combat ability. Since she didn’t seem to have any range herself, I don’t think she’d be able to do much to counter me, and I still had a full stock of elemental reserves since I topped off before leaving the palace.

Three decisions.

It sure would be nice if I could just have all my paths available at all times without having to wait two days between each path change…

…yeah, that would be really nice.

Hopefully there’s a Path one day that lets me just have all of my abilities all the time.

I’m looking at you, Aberrant Triune. I do wonder what I would need to unlock that one; it felt so far away.

Well, I’d have to make my decision on what path to choose later. I was locked into Veiledfang Stalker for at least another eight hours, and I didn’t want to waste the night and not make use of this unusual leveling-up situation.

I mean, two levels in one night already is great! I haven’t had that happen since I was a little pup! If I could push it all the way to lucky number 3, that would be amazing.

So I got to work, stalking my next victim.

I saw a couple trudging along together, but there were another three near them.

I mean, I could probably take a few of these skeletons on at a time, but that also risked aggroing even more and things could quickly get out of hand. And if Skeleton Lady decided to ambush me in the middle of a situation like that? Yeah, it would be really bad.

So I took my time, checked around for Skeleton Lady as I went about, and finally found a pair of skeletons on a lonely street together.

I walked up and jammed my sword through one of their eyes, got into a brief clash of steel with the second who screamed as it turned and started swinging its sword, but ultimately overcame him.

Undead Vanquished! Level 17 skeleton!

Experience gained!

Wolf Among the Flock: Bonus Experience gained!

Undead Vanquished! Level 17 skeleton!

Experience gained!

Wolf Among the Flock: Bonus Experience gained!

If ten or so kills got me a level last time, I didn’t imagine I’d need too many more than that to level up again.

I found another.

Undead Vanquished! Level 18 skeleton!

Experience gained!

Wolf Among the Flock: Bonus Experience gained!

And another.

Undead Vanquished! Level 17 skeleton!

Experience gained!

Wolf Among the Flock: Bonus Experience gained!

And another.

Undead Vanquished! Level 19 skeleton!

Experience gained!

Wolf Among the Flock: Bonus Experience gained!

I looked to the sky as my latest victim’s bones scattered around me in a clinking heap. It was still deep in the night and showing not the first sign of breaking into dawn yet.

My skeletal stomach gurgled—which didn’t make sense since a skeletal stomach means I didn’t have a stomach at all. But my hunger somehow still came with that familiar rumble, even though I could pass a hand through that empty space between my ribs and pelvis, verifying there really were no guts there.

Physics with the Veilform ability were a very weird thing.

In any case, all this training was surely working up an appetite, but I’d just have to make do until I found my next meal.

I searched out yet another victim and found the perfect target all on his lonesome between a few piles of rubble. He shuffled this way and got stopped by the rubble, then shuffled that way and got stopped by the rubble on the other side. He went back and forth and back and forth in a slow trudge. I wondered how long he’d been stuck doing that.

Don’t worry, I thought, tensing my skeletal fingers around the hilt of my rusty sword. I am here to put you out of your misery, oh poor lost soul.

Sorry, this was honestly getting a bit repetitive, so I started roleplaying some kind of grim reaper girl, or maybe a grim reaper’s apprentice since I wasn’t very good at it yet. Except instead of a scythe I had a sword.

Death is a Puppy Girl!

Hm… fighting with a scythe would be kind of cool but probably not very practical.

Anyway, time to do my duty and guide this wayward soul to the afterlife!

I stepped forward, hefting my sword up off of my shoulder. The skeleton reached one pile of rubble, his foot bumped it, and he turned around.

“Death is a bitch, but don’t worry, I’ll make it quick,” I assured him.

I shifted my grip as I came closer, prepared to drive the blade straight through the back of his skull.

Then, something struck the ground near me. I glanced down to see a bouncing pebble. It seemed to have dropped from above, but that didn’t really make sense because—

Then I realized something and looked up, and I instantly tried to retreat.

Skeleton Lady was back! She was hanging off a wall, just waiting for me! Why hadn’t I seen her? I should have seen her!

She was already jumping down at me, and I knew I couldn’t dodge in time. Instead, I got my sword up and tried to at least trade blows with her.

Even airborne, she had crazy reflexes. As I stabbed up, she spun sideways. If my sword got anything, it was only a piece of her cloak, and then she was on me. One dagger stabbed into my shoulder; with the other, she just grabbed me and took me to the ground.

We scrambled. My sword was useless at this kind of range, so I dropped it.

I felt a dagger stick into my side, and by the time we finished rolling, she was on top, straddling me.

Both daggers came up and slashed down at my neck.

I tucked my chin against my chest but still felt the dagger slice the side of my face and neck, but not fatally.

Still, it was a lot.

But she gave me no reprieve, preparing to stab me again, and I had little time to react.

I did all I could think to do and used {Intimidate}, roaring directly in her face.

It slowed her down. She seemed surprised, but it didn’t fully paralyze her. She was too strong for that, clearly. But it did give me an opening to bop my butt against the ground and hike her up enough for me to get a leg free. Then I push-kicked her pelvis to throw her off of me, and I turned and scrambled back to my feet.

Weapon, weapon, I need a weapon.

But as I ran and searched, considering throwing rocks at her of all things, I remembered what Fox had told me.

The reality was I couldn’t defeat this skeleton lady right now. Not in this form, not with my lack of magic to aid me or the strength of Whisperfang Juvenile, and not without a solid plan.

I began to transform once again. It was so awkward to do this while actively running, as I had to drop down to all fours again.

This time, she slid up to my side and delivered a kick to my stomach that sent me rolling as my bones began to pop and morph. But as she came down for what I think was supposed to be the final, fatal blow, my puppy paws finished forming and I got them under me as I zipped off, running away again.

After getting a little distance at the end of an alleyway, I looked back at her. She strolled casually in my direction, the crack of her skeletal jaw seeming like a smile as she calmly tossed a spinning dagger up into the air and caught it over and over again.

It seemed like she was taunting me, and that made me furious.

I’m back in my Hell Hound form. I’m only so helpless against her because I have no idea how to properly fight with weapons!

I lowered down, baring my fangs and growling, hackles raised.

That confident stride of hers as she came towards me just pissed me off! I didn’t need magic or anything else! I just needed my doggy body!

But… I was already badly wounded. I might not survive another losing exchange with her.

If I died here, everything I’d worked for would be for nothing, and again I remembered when Fox pinned me down and shocked me. If I died here, that day when I was strong enough to beat Fox would never come. I wouldn’t be able to save the rest of my family, and I’d just be another corpse in this shitty collapsed city.

But Skeleton Lady was a real problem. I couldn’t just ignore her either. What was I supposed to do? Could I even risk sleeping tonight while she was out there on the hunt? Maybe that’s why she seemed so casual about this?

Yes, as that thought struck me I realized the truth of it. From her perspective, I wasn’t a match for her, and not only that, there was truly no escape. All she had to do is bide her time, and wait for another chance to ambush me. I would keep getting weaker and weaker and more tired and hungry.

Not for the first time in my life, I felt the disquieting feeling of being prey. And I truly hated it.

But I’d be a fool to deny reality and charge towards my death. I needed a plan.

I would beat her, but for now I needed to retreat.

So I turned and ran, catching one last look at her as she caught her spinning dagger a final time, and planting her free hand on a popped hip as she stared at me and watched me go. A smug look in her hollow eyes promised that the hunt would continue.
