Contrary to his fears, the night had passed uneventfully. They’d moved their camp to the cave, hoping that Rain’s presence would coax a monster or two up from below so they could see what they’d be facing, or, better yet, get a few Arcane Crysts. Unfortunately, nothing had taken the bait, though Rain had gotten plenty of hits with Detection. They came in ones and twos, even three signals moving in unison, once. They never lingered for long. Whatever monsters lived down there, they were either shyer than he was, or unwilling to ascend for other reasons, such as the essence density.

As for the Ashen Jungle, it hadn’t been quite done with them yet. Surprisingly, the lava lake proved to be no impediment to most monster types, but the wide-open space gave Ameliah plenty of time to shoot them down from the island as they attempted the crossing. The assault ended up being slow, but steady, even when they’d tried hiding quietly in the cave. They had taken that as confirmation that Rain’s soul was still acting as some sort of lure. As expected, their assailants seemed to be fresh-spawns, proven by the relative lack of Crysts and Tel reported by Detection. There would be little point in bothering to collect what few drops there had been, not after the haul they’d gotten the day before.

Other than refilling Ameliah’s mana from time to time, Rain hadn’t had much to do with the defense. He’d mostly managed to avoid using his offensive auras, relying on Ameliah’s greater mana-efficiency to keep his own usage low. She’d insisted on that strategy, though it had been hard on her. Rain hadn’t been able to argue in light of the fact that the symptoms of his soul damage had finally made themselves apparent.

As before, he was starting to feel a bit headachey. There was no heartburn or stiffness yet, at least. He hoped that with what he’d learned, he’d be able to keep them at bay, trading them off for the new symptom that had appeared.

In yesterday’s experiments, he’d discovered that using too much mana in a short span made him tired. Very tired. Exhausted, even.

It wasn’t soulstrain, or at least, not any flavor he was familiar with. Dynamo status notwithstanding, he did remember what that felt like, and this wasn’t it at all. As near as he could determine, the problem was one of starvation. Specifically, essence starvation.

After much testing, Rain’s working theory was that vitals—health, stamina, and mana—were physical forms of essence. Basically, they were fuel for his body in the real world. They had no manifestation in his soul whatsoever. There was only essence, which included the ‘air’ he’d been taking for granted.

Mana regeneration consumed essence, and it followed that health and stamina regeneration were the same. In Rain’s tests, he’d spent mana, then entered his soul to watch the aftermath. First, the mist in his core room was devoured, then the air, and then air in the Bastion as a whole, passing through the glass, for all that he’d tried to prevent it. It turned out that the completeness of the vacuum directly correlated with the lethargy that he felt in the real world. He could power through it—his mana regeneration was unchanged, even when the Bastion was a complete void—but that was obviously unwise. As for why he could do so, he chalked it up to his core being as yet incomplete.

For good or ill, some of the connection to his body was still diffused through the bulk of his soul, rather than concentrated at its center. Before he’d formed the Bastion, he’d been fueling himself with chaotic essence without knowing it, leading to the gradual buildup of his other symptoms. That process still worked, but less efficiently day by day. As his core grew, he suspected things would soon reach a point where he’d find himself physically unable to regenerate mana while the Bastion was empty, or, failing that, pass out if he tried. Needless to say, he had some more experiments to do before he got there. The silver lining to all of this was that if he managed to keep his mana use down, he’d likely be able to avoid the other symptoms. Even his current headache might go away.

I just need to let essence build up before I use too much magic. My core generates it at a decent...

Rain tilted his head, something coming to him thanks to the clarity granted by a night’s sleep.

Hmm.

Quickly, he sat back down and opened a fresh window, not bothering with the catastrophic mess of a document he’d been working on the day before. Raising his hands, he keyed in a few quick bullet points, then kept going, adding sub-bullets and temporarily losing himself in speculation.

untitled1.odt

B

U

I

Color

*

Chaotic essence diffuses in through the paling from soulspace

The soul naturally purifies essence at a defined rate

That makes more sense than my core just being able to generate it from nothing. Can’t make something from nothing.

Essence is consumed when regenerating health/stamina/mana

Pure essence is used preferentially, but any essence will do in a pinch.

My soul is so chaotic because:

I’ve got a hole in my paling preventing me from building up pure essence that I haven’t solidified

I use so much damn mana

Since I’m picturing my core as the link to my body, my soul wants to store pure essence nearby for easy access

This manifests as the unconscious generation of air/mist to fill the Bastion

How is my core getting access to unpurified essence to convert it?

Seemed to deplete purified essence despite lack of physical connection

Wireless transfer?

This might be a limitation of my mental model

#todo Think of some experiments

Should I add plumbing?

Bring chaos to my core for purification?

Input/output channels?

The system rewards vital use because it wants people to spend pure essence.

It wants us to send it out into the physical world?

As mana, etc.?

Why?

The system does essence exchange to ensure that the soul is always somewhat chaotic

That way, it always has essence to purify

The system is using us as…air cleaners?

Rain lowered his hands, resting the back of his head against the cave wall as he considered.

Does that make any sense? Any contradictions? Hmm. No more so than any of my other batshit insane theories, I guess.

He looked over at Ameliah, who was still soundly asleep. The plan was that they’d descend around noon, once she’d had a chance to rest, having been up practically all night. He shifted his gaze to Tallheart, who was sitting at the mouth of the cave with his back to him. He was looking out into the jungle, with his elbow resting on his knee, idly opening and closing his left hand into a fist. The cervidian seemed to be especially grumpy this morning. He’d been curt in declining Rain’s offer to take over, saying that he would continue his watch until tenth bell as they’d originally agreed.

Rain sighed. He needs his space. I wish he’d just tell me what’s bothering him. He shook his head slowly. I’ll try again tonight, assuming he’s in a better mood and we don’t get ourselves killed before then. Damn, I really wish the depth gauge went higher.

He paused, scratching at his now-neatly-trimmed beard. Then again, I probably have time to make those buoys, don’t I? Hell, even if I don’t, the ambient pressure increase should mean that I won’t get as tired. That might be proof enough if I can measure it somehow. Still thinking, he furrowed his brow. If it gets above twenty-four, will I have a problem? How much of a problem?

...

Okay, I need to start writing this stuff down, or else I’ll just sit here spinning for hours. Damn Clarity.

Opening his previous document, he moved it so he could see it and the new one side by side. Then, he began to type.
