Experience can be ‘pending’

When any monster is killed, the experience total displayed by the system updates immediately, and this can trigger a level-up

When resources (health, mana, stamina) or skills are used, the system grants pending experience instead, and this can not trigger a level-up, nor does it appear on the user’s interface until after essence exchange

There are loopholes, allowing experience to be gained for “free”

Essence Well, obviously, but I’ve spotted a few other potential ones, all on skills that I’ve never seen anyone use.

#todo Can the system be patched? Perhaps the common builds have been fixed to not have these problems. Is the system in any way intelligent/self-correcting? If not…

System is abandonware?

Corollary

If the system is artificial, so is ‘experience’

Unlike essence, experience is just a metric, not anything ‘real’

Pending experience is ‘paid out’ by the system during the essence exchange and leveling processes

On the exhale, some quantity of essence is expelled

#todo how much, and why?

On the inhale, the system injects essence into the soul

Quantity determined by pending experience

#todo ratio?

Consequences

The soul can become overpressurized if there is a discrepancy between the exhale and the inhale

Essence Well can generate experience without using mana!!!

If the overpressure is too great—say, if some idiot tries to exploit the system to get free experience—the paling can rupture

Level Caps

#todo this doesn’t go here, move to Uncommon Knowledge: System

Observation: There is something special about essence monsters that makes the system incentivize killing them

Also: Lairs (accolades are a system-made reward for clearing them?)

Oddly soul-like. Core. Boundary. Essence matter.

Can trigger awakening

#todo update lair notes

Option 1

The system needs something from the blue in order to strengthen the soul of the one that defeated it

“Blue essence” for the paling?

My paling is blue in color.

COINCIDENCE?!

Option 2

Level caps are purely artificial, just like experience, and the system wants blues dead for some other reason

Option 3

Something else

Of options 1 and 2, option 1 seems more likely

If the system just wants blues dead, it wouldn’t hold people back…

Option 3 could be something like a “prove your worth” type condition, particularly if the system was made by the Majistraal as a training tool. Why specific monsters, though? What makes a blue special?

Skills, Stats, and Classes

#todo this doesn’t go here, move to...somewhere. Maybe it does go here. Regardless, clean it up and run some damn experiments already!

More forms of system currency, similar to experience?

Redeem skill points for access to system-granted abilities?

Redeem stat points for modification of your soul/body???

This modification costs the system something?

-or-

Soul/core is only capable of so much modification?

Skills, Stats, and Classes are the system’s way of representing that???

Other

#todo SERIOUSLY! Clean up! Dozer would have a fit!

Sustained, high levels of resource use likely damage the paling/soul as well.

Related to soulstrain in some way, or not?

Domain clash?

Does the paling heal over time?

Can I repair it with hardened essence?

Suture it shut?

#todo connect anchor stations?

Make a plug or patch?

Make a full artificial paling?

Does it need to flex?

Can I level outside the system by manipulating essence density?

Can I make myself into a depth gauge by sensing pressure somehow?

#todo barometer buoys

Half a day later, Rain sat wrapped up in his cloak, staring stubbornly at the window hanging in front of him. After the cleanup, he’d slept fitfully for an hour or two, but then he’d woken and found himself unable to get back to sleep. His brain was too excited. So, making the most of it, he’d turned his focus to compiling this document. It wasn’t going particularly well.

I should just scrap this whole thing and start over.

Rain sighed, glancing at Ameliah. She was bedded down beside him in a nest she’d dug in the soft dirt, safely encased in her new armor, sans helmet. Tallheart was nearby, his hammer clanging steadily as he worked to upgrade Rain’s armor to match. Unwilling as he’d been to help with the cleanup, the smith could hardly be called lazy. Rain’s two hours of sleep were two hours more than Tallheart had gotten.

As if feeling Rain’s gaze on her, Ameliah shifted in her sleep. A moment later, her eyes flickered open. She sat up, yawned enormously, then licked her lips. Her hair was matted with dirt and all snarled into a massive tangle.

Rain smiled, closing his interface with a mental flick to get a better look. He couldn’t help it. He began to laugh.

Ameliah blinked at him blearily. “What’s funny?”

“Your hair,” He fought to control his growing laughter as she raised a hand to investigate. “You look like a tumbleweed.”

“Uh-huh,” Ameliah said, yawning again. “I’m sure that’s very flattering, whatever it is. If you’re done giggling, use Purify, please.”

Rain’s laughter froze in his throat, and his eyebrows shot up. “You swapped it out?”

“Mmm,” Ameliah said, running her armored fingers through her snarled locks ineffectually. “Yesterday afternoon. I already regret it. Now, come on. Stop staring and make with the magic.”

Rain grinned, activating the requested spell and watching as the dirt evaporated from her hair and face. She’s moving on.

Freed of the contamination, the tangles mostly worked themselves out. “Thank you,” Ameliah said, running her fingers through it to get the few that remained. “I don’t think I slept very well.” She cleared her throat, then raised her voice. “SOMEONE is making a lot of NOISE.”

Rain grinned and looked over his shoulder at Tallheart, who was still hammering away.

Ameliah raised her voice further. “Stop that banging! Hey! It’s your turn to rest.”

“Come on, Tallheart,” Rain said when Tallheart didn’t reply. “You’re making me worry about you.”

Tallheart grunted, not looking up. “I am almost finished,” he said without breaking his rhythm. “I will have the final piece ready within a few minutes.”

Rain shook his head. “He’s been impossible. I’ve been up for a few hours already, and I told him I’d keep watch, but he won’t stop.”

“We do not have the luxury of time,” Tallheart said, his hammering becoming more forceful, if anything. “Not if every night is to be like the last.”

“I seriously doubt it will be that bad,” Ameliah said, yawning again. “The attacks stopped well before dawn. I think we depleted the entire jungle, and it isn’t going to recover that quickly.”

“Even so,” Tallheart said, still not breaking rhythm.

“See?” Rain said, jerking his head toward the antlered smith. “Impossible.”

“Mmm,” Ameliah agreed, getting to her feet and stretching. “Well, he does have a point, I guess. We don’t actually know how fast this place will recover.” She looked down at him, then extended a hand, beckoning for him to take it. “What’s with the cloak, anyway? You cold or something? Camping next to a lava lake isn’t hot enough for you?”

Rain ignored her hand, tightening his cloak reflexively. “My Forceweave is in a state. I’m not decent under here.”

“In a state, is it?” Ameliah said with a snort. “What a curious phrase. Now I just want to see even more.” She smiled, then made a show of biting her lip. “This might be the last chance I get to see you without your armor until we’re back on the surface.”

Rain shook his head. “If you’re trying to make me blush, it won’t work.”

Ameliah’s expression became pleading. As with the lip-biting, it was ridiculously exaggerated.

Rain sighed. “Fine.” Accepting her hand, he let her pull him to his feet, his cloak falling partly open as he did. After a moment of hesitation, he shrugged out of it completely. The protective shroud fell away, revealing his transformed body with only the tattered, skin-tight Forceweave to shield him from Ameliah’s gaze. He met her eyes, then smiled, trying to appear more confident than he felt.

While he didn’t have access to a full-length mirror, he knew that the changes were extensive. He was no Incredible Hulk, but he was firmly in Arnold Schwarzenegger territory—as Conan, not the Governator. The embiggening had stopped as of a few days ago. While he was still eating a lot, he had come to realize that was just his new normal—the maintenance cost for his expanded muscles.

And expanded, they were. The Forceweave had been pushed to its limit, then beyond. It had torn open at the shoulders, biceps, thighs, and the side of his chest where it had been slashed open before. Almost everywhere else, the fabric was either worn through, or stretched so thin as to be practically sheer. Fortunately, the padding in his most sensitive area had been sewn double-thick for extra protection, leaving him with some shred of modesty.

It still felt strange, being like this. Unearned. Not bad, though. Ameliah had been right. This body felt like it was his, much more so than any of the avatars he’d created. In fact, he was finding it hard to envision himself in better shape, which, after all the thinking he’d been doing on the nature of the soul, probably wasn’t a coincidence. It was nevertheless going to take some getting used to. Just because he thought he looked good, it didn’t mean he was comfortable standing exposed like this. That was why he was forcing himself to do it.

I need to get over this.

Ameliah was inspecting him with an appreciative expression on her face. Smiling, she looked him up and down, her eyes lingering in several places. It was all Rain could do not to hunch his shoulders and try to cover himself up. There were too many things that needed covering.

“Hmm,” she finally said. She began walking around him in a circle, and Rain had to fight to stand still as she passed behind him. She paused, and he heard her click her tongue softly. “Nice.”

Rain clenched his fists. I will not blush.

Ameliah finished her circle, coming to a stop in front of him, smiling unabashedly.

I. Will. Not. Blush.

Ameliah’s smile widened further, becoming an unmitigated smirk. “I approve. That Forceweave isn’t doing you any favors, though. You should take it off so I can get a better look.” She took a step forward, reaching for his collar. “Here, let me help.”

“Hey now,” Rain said, breaking at last and taking a hasty step back. “This is all I have. The spare clothes I brought would never fit me now.” He glanced at Tallheart, continuing in a pleading tone. “Help me out here, Tallheart.”

Tallheart snorted, finally setting down his hammer to look at them. “As amusing as his shriek would be, please refrain from tearing the Forceweave from his body. Some padding is required. I do not enjoy sewing.”

“Thank you,” Rain said gratefully, raising an open hand in Tallheart’s direction. For once, he’s got my back. Well, kinda. He looked back at Ameliah in time to see her rolling her eyes.

“I wasn’t going to do that,” she said with a huff. “I’m just teasing, not trying to traumatize him.” She pointed rudely at Rain’s face. “Look, he isn’t even blushing. Clearly, I haven’t gone far enough.”

“Hmm,” Tallheart said, walking over to join them. Rain again fought the urge to cover himself. Tallheart stopped to stand in front of him, holding the piece of armor he’d been working on at his side as he took his turn inspecting Rain. After a moment, he snorted. “I believe the tight fabric is merely preventing the blood from reaching his face.”

Ameliah laughed. “You think so?” She tapped her chin thoughtfully. “It is really tight.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled, dropping the piece of armor to the ground to land with a soft thump. He turned away. “The armor is complete. I will rest now.”

“Damn right you will,” Rain said, relieved to no longer be under scrutiny. I made it. He shook his head, then continued speaking to Tallheart’s back. “You’ve been awake for, what? A day and a half straight? You’re pushing yourself too hard.”

Tallheart stopped, then turned to look at him. He didn’t say anything. After a long moment, he slowly raised an eyebrow.

Ameliah laughed. She then surprised Rain by wrapping an arm around his waist and squeezing him close to her. “You’re cute when you’re being an enormous hypocrite.” Before he could respond to that, she stretched her neck up to kiss him on the cheek. She pulled away almost immediately, spluttering. “Ack, got a hair. Time for a trim, scruffy.”

The next morning, Rain sat uncomfortably against the wall of the cave that led to the Arcane biome, having just woken up. His armor was now jacketed with adamant, just like Ameliah’s, and he was still getting used to the added weight. At the moment, he was ignoring it, focused on the lone dialog hanging in front of him.

Progression Tracker [0.7.0]

marker_1: dusk_24 [3060 Fallow 27 15:39]

marker_2: deeper [3060 Fallow 30 08:00]

Span: 2.7 days

Character

Total Exp: 1,940,171 -> 1,961,992 (+21,821)

Skills

Radiance: 6 -> 10 (+4)

Tolerance

Recovery: 38 -> 39 (+1)

Vigor: 56 -> 57 (+1)

Focus: 193 -> 198 (+5)

Attribute Buff: 188 -> 190 (+2)

Synchronization

Vigor: 6.8 -> 6.9 (+0.1)

Focus: 23.1 -> 27.6 (+4.5)

Clarity: 250.0 -> 260.0 (+10.0)

Perception: 8.6 -> 8.7 (+0.1)

Closing the window with a sigh, Rain let his head thump back against the cave wall. He could feel Dozer industriously toiling away in his soul, working to purify the chaos with which he’d flooded the slime’s room. There’d been no panicked reaction from Dozer in response to the essence exchange, which meant that it had gone off without any trouble. This had been the sixth time he’d triggered it since the damage, operating on the theory that multiple, weaker exchanges were better than one big one. Working up the courage to trigger it the first time had been excruciating. Since then, his fears had begun to fade, but it was still nerve-racking each and every time. There was no way around it, though. The prospect of postponing the process indefinitely had occurred to him, but he’d put that firmly off the table. Firstly, he wasn’t sure if the system would even let him do it. Secondly, he was sure that it was a bad idea. Banking too much pending experience was how he’d gotten into this mess in the first place.

Rain sighed again, sagging forward to rest his helmeted head in his hands. He gave it a moment, then got to his feet, stretching. No rest for the weary.

