“This sucks,” Rain said tiredly, sweeping at the glittery dirt with his makeshift broom. Dawn had broken fifteen minutes ago. It had been a long, long night. At the moment, he was regretting his suggestion to clean up before going to bed.

“You’re the one that told me to dump Attract,” Ameliah said, standing beside him, sweeping vigorously with a broom of her own. “I could have done all this with a snap of my fingers, but no.”

“Oh, shove off,” Rain said. “It was just as much your idea as it was mine. I didn’t force you to do anything. You could always retake it if you—”

He stopped. There was a low, grating rumble that, tired as he was, it took him a moment to realize was laughter.

“Only humans could complain while sweeping wealth from the ground,” Tallheart said.

“Maybe we wouldn’t be complaining if you were helping,” Ameliah said, puffing a strand of hair out of her face, then leaning on her broom and glaring at him.

Rain nodded, still sweeping. “Yeah, come on, Tallheart. Don’t just stand there. Grab yourself a tree branch.”

“Hmph,” Tallheart said, crossing his arms. “I will make you a sieve. That will be a better use of my skills.”

“Seriously?!” Rain said, stopping. He straightened himself up and pressed a hand to his back in an attempt to relieve a growing kink, then fixed his gaze on the stone-faced smith. “I’ve seen the way you work with wire. Making a sieve will take you all of five minutes.” He grasped his broom again and gave a few demonstratives sweeps. “This is going to take hours.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said, turning toward his anvil and walking away. “Perhaps you should stop wasting time then.”

un_soul.odt

B

U

I

Color

*

Uncommon Knowledge: The Soul

Warnings

Infohazard

The powers-that-be restrict some aspects of this knowledge

Citation Needed

Contains unverified information

Marked where possible, but this should not be taken as a guarantee

Hard Hat Area

Document is a work in progress

Contains incomplete information or other errors

Capitalization, spelling, and punctuation are not guaranteed

To Do

#todo Link functionality is not implemented yet

Come back and update/fix.

#todo Prove some of this stuff and revise this entire file

See if you can suss out which aspects aren’t restricted, then make a Common Knowledge version for distribution

#todo Think about mind-reader countermeasures

If they can read this, they’ve already cracked English, which means I really don’t need to be careful about what I write in my notes. They’d already know my intent anyway if they can dig in that deeply. If not, can I create defenses of some sort? What is the relationship between the mind and the soul? Damn it, create Uncommon Knowledge: The Mind and link. Also, if you are a mind reader and are reading this right now, could you kindly not?

#todo General Cleanup

See green text in particular

Entity

According to the local definition, an entity is anything with a soul

Sapient entities, such as humans, cervidians, and other rumored/unconfirmed races (see Common Knowledge: Hogwash), have ‘full souls.’

Full souls allow awakening.

Larger, non-sapient entities (animals, animate plants, etc.) have ‘animal souls’ or ‘half souls’

They cannot be awakened

Smaller animals do not count as entities

The line seems to be around the size of a mouse, but there is some blur

See Misc Experiments

Insects and the like aren’t even considered to be ‘alive’ by most people

Monsters have ‘monstrous souls’ or ‘demonic souls’.

It is generally accepted that monsters can neither level nor reproduce

There are rumors to the contrary in both cases

See Common Knowledge: Hogwash

The level of tamed monsters can be increased

See Train Monster

Unclear if their souls are modified to allow this

For swarm monsters, one soul is shared by all physical bodies

Bodies must stay within the domain of the swarm’s soul

Bizarre thought: Humans might be swarms as well!

Symbiotic gut bacteria might count…

#todo Test this...somehow. Or don’t. Priorities.

Domain

The physical space controlled by an entity’s soul

Most noticeable with metal equipment/mana interaction

#todo Create Common Knowledge: Domain

Compile scattered notes concerning skill interactions with domains, such as Flight, Healing Word, etc.

Soulspace

Another plane of existence

Official term not known, if there is one

People that have experienced it describe it as “a void” or “a dark place” but not “THE void” or anything like that.

#todo interview more awakened on this topic.

People are brought to soulspace when receiving accolades

Other methods of visiting soulspace exist, such as the Majistraal Obelisk

System interfaces do function within soulspace, and skills may be activated

Time is accelerated

#todo copy section from Majistraal Obelisk document here, then delete

Geometrically, an MC Escher hellscape

Physical proximity in the real world does seem to correlate somewhat

I was able to see Wallace when our domains overlapped

Speculation: Magic/Skills can have soulspace components

When Wallace used a healing spell, I could see it manifest

Speculation: Watch Reading works by accessing soulspace in some way

Soulform

The form that an entity takes in soulspace

Official term not known, if there is one

Known Examples

Rain: Hologram of Rain (glitchy after soul damage)

Wallace: Red Bubble

#todo experiment idea: enter soul while in physical contact with someone, go to tear, look out into soulspace. Can I see them out there?

#todo anchor stations and tethers so I don’t fall out

#todo move all experiment ideas to Misc Experiments, then sort and prioritize

Some objects appear physically in soulspace

Known Examples

Accolades

Majistraal Obelisk

Inside the Soul

Possible official name: “The Inner Self”

Passing remark from Bartum, who is not an expert on the subject

Accessed through meditation

Various structures exist

Much of the inner reality is defined by the expectations of the entity

#todo Which aspects? What are the limits?

Soul: POV

Within the soul, senses extend from the Point of View

At low essence totals, POV is invisible

As essence is converted, the core forms, growing out of the POV

#todo Is this everyone, or just me?

Immaterial Senses

Defaults to something approximating normal vision

With focus, POV can be split from the current anchor (core/avatar) and moved/expanded/focused

Approaches omniscience within the occupied volume, though at a low resolution

POV reverts to last core/avatar if focus is lost

Disrupted by chaotic essence

Blocked by solid, non-transparent essence

Material Senses

As Immaterial Senses, but less disrupted by chaos

Sight, hearing, taste, etc. function over a greater range, even when fully immersed

Will

POV limits where Will may be applied. See Soul: Will.

Soul: Core

The linkage between the soul and the body

Acknowledged as a “thing” by the Majistraal Obelisk

More generally, the source of an entity’s power

#todo this point is highly speculative

Appears as a glowing gem

Size increases with available pure essence

#todo or with chaos-free volume?

Brightness increases with character level

The Majistraal Obelisk reported ‘core rank’ as a stat

Mine was apparently too low for it to be happy talking to me

Attributes are a property of the core

#todo This is an assumption, prove/disprove

The Majistraal Obelisk attempted to report Focus Sync and had a ‘callback’ error

Core generates (how?) essence (mist), storing in soul for use

Rate corresponding to core size/brightness

#todo Highly speculative. Test.

#todo How is essence used and for what? Is it consumed by spells? What is the relationship to mana? Experiments are already defined in Misc Experiments. Run them and then update this section.

Soul: Avatar

A constructed anchor for the POV

#todo is this just me?

Built from purified essence

Even when not in them, I have limited awareness of valid avatars

Can tell where they are and their condition, but not anything about their surroundings

#todo can I improve this?

Must be ‘lifelike’

See Misc Experiments

Soul: Essence

Essence is the underlying basis of all reality

The notes here pertain to how essence manifests within the soul only

For more, see Uncommon Knowledge: Essence

Forms the bulk substance of the soul

In unmodified form, essence is gaseous

Can be ‘pure’, appearing as white mist

Can be ‘chaotic’, appearing as orange gas

Chaotic essence carries slight elemental aspects of the local zone

Heat/Chem in the Ashen Jungle

The ratio of pure to chaotic essence is known as “fragmentation” according to the Majistraal Obelisk

#todo Verify this assumption somehow. It could have been referring to something else.

My fragmentation was reported as 99%, and this merited a warning

Chaotic essence may be condensed and purified with an effort of will

Limited to 1 unit at a time

See Misc Experiments

Dozer can do this too

#todo How? Actually, Dozer-In-Soul should get its own section, or maybe an entire document. Later.

Pure essence may be shaped into physical form

Modified essence can be hardened/softened/made transparent/liquid, etc.

#todo Just realized. There is sound in my soul, which means there is air, but I didn’t make it, at least, not deliberately. Is it possible to manipulate essence unconsciously? How can I test that? Maybe it is just pure essence, but too diffuse for me to see? Everything in the soul is essence in some form, maybe? Come up with some experiments.

Soul: Will

The force by which elements of the soul may be manipulated

Will correlates to stats in some way, notably Strength, possibly Endurance

See Misc Experiments

Will is limited by free space within the soul

Only at very low levels

Not really a factor anymore with the current size of the Bastion

Exerting Will seems to carry little to no cost

There is some mental fatigue, but more research is needed

Will also allows the physics simulation to be tweaked

Gravity, light, etc. can be modified

The Paling

A protective barrier that surrounds the soul

It is a real thing for sure, not just something specific to me

In Vejik, the term for it is Me’ke-Tar Tek, meaning ‘the barrier which divides’

Followers of Dystees call it the ‘Divine Envelope’

Acknowledged by the Watch

Acknowledged by the Majistraal Obelisk

Regulates essence pressure within the soul

‘Homeostasis’ for whatever level you are supposed to be

Diffusion rate is slow

#todo measure

See The Barnacle Incident

Can be damaged

The Majistraal Obelisk reported “paling integrity” as a stat.

Mine was at 74%

This merited a warning

I suspect it is even lower now, but how low?

#todo test

how?

At 0%...you die?

#todo don’t test

Awakened Palings

The Watch can approximate a person’s power by looking at their paling

See Watch Reading

According to Bartum

Undergoes daily (at true dawn by default) essence exchange

Unawakened Palings

According to Bartum

‘Weak’ and ‘porous’

Do not undergo essence exchange

Speculation: this is the “natural” state of palings

Speculation: the paling is modified by the awakening process

Unawakened are affected by my doom aura

Speculation: unawakened struggle in the depths, starting at high silver or low gold

Ameliah confirmed, though details are vague

See Common Knowledge: The City of Lights

#todo Ask Mahria about this effect. What is her actual cap? Did her mother bring her to the depths for her awakening? Nobles might know too. Samson’s/Lyn’s/Atyl’s families weren’t gold-rank, though. It might also be something you can adapt to. Need to interview more people about this. Vestvall nobles, maybe? Can unawakened get stronger if they live in the depths for an extended time??? Ameliah and TH both say no, but have no proof. I want to believe.

Animal Palings

Unknown appearance to Watch Reading

Unknown essence exchange

Animals don’t seem to be affected by my doom aura

Animals have been observed in the depths, doing just fine in rank-15 essence

Might also have problems deeper, just like people

More research is needed

Monster Palings

Unknown appearance to Watch Reading

#todo kick self for not asking about this when I had the chance

Unknown essence exchange

Monsters seem to be attracted by my damaged soul

Range is much greater than doom aura

#todo update after tonight’s defense; might just have been initial blowout

Monsters weaken in low-rank zones, suggesting:

Leaky palings

High essence consumption

Monsters don’t need food

“Live” off essence?

Essence Exchange

According to Bartum

First, the paling shrinks, expelling essence from the soul (into soulspace?)

Next, the paling expands, drawing in fresh essence (from soulspace?)

Happens daily

Ameliah and I shouldn’t be able to do it at will based on what Bartum knew.

This is therefore likely to be information restricted by the Watch muckety-mucks, or at least uncommon knowledge.

The Watch higher-ups know I can do this, presumably.

I haven’t been murdered/imprisoned, so it can’t be that bad. Still, maybe don’t teach the entirety of Ascension how to do it until you know for sure.

With my damaged paling, Bartum saw significantly more essence expelled when I triggered the process

Like a blowout from the site of the tear

Speculation: the system has some purpose for the exchange process

Beneficial for the soul?

Beneficial for the world?

#todo experiment?

See Uncommon Knowledge: The System

Leveling

Reverses the essence exchange process

Bartum said it looks like ‘in, then out’ instead of ‘out, then in’

Within my soul, I feel pressure build, then essence condenses and rushes into my core

#todo create a document for theories on breaking the level cap

The Damage

This entire section is highly speculative!!!

#todo implement double underline formatting so I can use fewer exclamation points

While I’m at it, strikethrough

#todo move some of this to Uncommon Knowledge: System

#todo clean up this mess after you run some damn experiments, dingus

Key Premise

The system is an artificial construct, complete with bugs!

Locals say that the system:

Was made by the gods to bring order to the primordial chaos

Was made by the Majistraal to train/guide their young

Has always been there since before the Majistraal AND the gods

Other

See Common Knowledge: Hogwash

Supporting Observations

The system provides ‘experience’ as a reward for performing certain actions

Spending mana, stamina, and health

Killing monsters

Using skills

Skill experience is related to general experience, but different in a few ways, see Uncommon Knowledge: Skills

Experience acts as a currency

Can be ‘spent’ to level

Can be ‘spent’ to unlock skill trees

System tracks current balance as well as lifetime spend

