A sharp, deadly bolt of diamond bore into the door a split second after it shut, followed shortly by decay magic sweeping across its surface. A jet of boiling water erupted from the base, aimed at where that hand had been, and then labyrinthine magic manifested, violently rearranging the space between the child and the door.

Cale reacted differently. His eyes were narrowed and his entire body thrummed with tension, but he'd had that immediate, visceral reaction and paid for it far too many times to let it control him. Instead a glimmering barrier manifested before that figure could even strike the stairs, gently sloped so as to catch him and soften his fall—

—and he wasn't the only one that thought to do this, it seemed. He realized after a moment that thin vines had emerged from the steps, poised to catch the boy if any of them allowed him to fall. They retracted the moment Thorn noticed Cale's barriers, stone and wood sealing behind them like nothing had happened.

Cale glanced up at Thorn, his expression unreadable, and the vinewalker stared right back.

Then, slowly, reluctantly, Thorn gave him a small nod.

Cale nodded back.

That was all the exchange they had. His apprentices were staring wide-eyed at the door, almost trembling with anger. Even Damien's fists were clenched, though he took a shaky breath and forced himself to approach the boy as Cale brought him steadily to the ground.

The others took longer to gather themselves. Syphus seemed mostly disgusted, and Leo and Flia were both just pissed. Professor Graystalk was the calmest of them all, though Cale could sense the storm of conflict in his eyes—he was the only one that hadn't acted, but it had taken effort.

"I guess we know why they don't let their students do this dungeon," Leo said. There was no humor in his voice. "What are we supposed to do here? Just... help the kid?"

"Probably," Cale said. "Might be a little more to it than that, but we won't know until he tells us what was going on there. That door probably won't open until we're done here."

He stepped up next to Damien, who was worriedly checking the boy's pulse, then froze.

This was just a child, but he'd known that. On top of that, he was a simulation provided by the dungeon—an impression of some great mage from somewhere in the Realms. He wasn't technically real, though Cale knew many scholars that had debated this topic of dungeon-created life.

None of that seemed to matter in the face of what was plainly obvious to Cale, from the rounded shape of this boy's ears to the mana signature that sang from his core.

This child was human.
