“Well, if they’ve got gold…why not send the Archmage and her apprentice? Not to the party, she talks too much. But between the two of them, that’s the reinforcement and higher-tier spells covered. Rinli, I need garlic butter for the crab!”
The [Gearhead Assistant] rolled her eyes as she chivvied everyone into the inn.
“I’ll catch up with you after I get this set up for Pelt. To Maughin’s house?”
“Sure, why not? It’ll be a mess, but I’ll hire a [Cleaner], and he’ll stop sulking.”
Jelaqua was so happy she volunteered her home for the party, and Pelt strode on into the inn.
“Hey, Portal Rat.”
“Who said—oh hey, Pelt. You going to Pallass?”
“Yep. Open it.”
“You got a passport and documents and stuff?”
“Nope.”
“Awesome. Here’s Pallass!”
It appeared the way to get Liska to give you favorable treatment was to be a pain to wherever she was sending you. Certainly, the guards at the checkpoint groaned the moment they saw Pelt. A Garuda hopelessly smiled at him as he stomped into one of the gateways.
“Papers, sir?”
“What do you think? Open this thing, I’m doing smith work.”
Jelaqua had her papers, and she was waiting in line when Kevin halted in his checkpoint. A [Guard] had stopped him.
“Sir, are you carrying any enchanted weapons or alchemical weapons?”
“Uh, maybe. Why?”
Kevin had papers—fake papers that Rinli had gotten him—but the young man appeared suddenly shifty as the [Guard] eyed him.
“My Skill is detecting something of concerning danger on your person. Would you please open your bag of holding? We may have to confiscate your items for the duration of your stay. You will be issued a ticket and be able to reclaim said items when you leave, of course. Assuming this isn’t something illegal?”
“Illegal? No, no…what’s illegal?”
Jelaqua eyed Kevin as he patted at his bag of holding. The Drake sighed.
“Anything made of or containing Crelers parts in any way. Area-of-effect spells above Tier 4. Alchemical items of similar hazardous nature—unless you’re an adventurer or have specific documents, anything of that nature is prohibited and subject to confiscation. You did read the rules of entry, sir?”
“Every day of my life. Uh, well, it’s none of those things, but I don’t really want to turn it over. So I may just, uh, go back. This way.”
Kevin was edging out of the checkpoint. The [Guard] gave him a sharp look, but the young man was already heading towards the door to the inn. Jelaqua wavered.
The [Guard] seemed to be on the verge of calling for Kevin to get back or sending someone after him, but his focused glare at Kevin suddenly wavered, as if he’d forgotten why it mattered. Jelaqua whistled as he called out in a bored voice.
“Next?”
She stepped out of line and called over to Emessa.
“Emessa, I’m staying with Randy. Maughin doesn’t need me if they’re talking metals.”
“Great, so I’m going to be the only woman in the room?”
The Drake groused. She cast Jelaqua a pleading expression; the Selphid gave her a thumbs up.
“No, no…I’m sure Grimalkin will bring Pryde.”
“Oh, great.”
Jelaqua turned and didn’t miss the way the Drake at the checkpoint glowered at Lady Pryde Ulta’s name. Uh oh. Well, nothing to do with her, she hoped.
 
——
 
Back at the inn, Kevin was feeling at his bag of holding.
“Damn. That was close.”
“Got something dangerous in there?”
“I didn’t think they’d detect it! Plus, they’re not load—they won’t even work! I guess ammo counts. I think I’d better stay out of Pallass for a sec, Jelaqua. My Skill works on them a bit, but they might notice me coming back.”
Jelaqua shrugged, agreeing. At that moment, Rinli hurried through the door with a City Runner no less, who strode into Pallass with all the things Pelt needed. She halted.
“Kevin? You’re not going to Pallass?”
“I, uh, had a security problem. We’re hanging here!”
He grinned sheepishly at her, and Jelaqua raised her brows. She still didn’t know what Kevin was up to, but she was determined to keep him out of trouble. Well, more than he’d been in.
He had some kind of weapon that he didn’t want Pallass to see and could let him kill a Beaker by himself. That wasn’t a small thing, and she’d glossed over that in her concern for him. 
Earth-weapons, no doubt. Jelaqua Ivirith was the first to admit she wasn’t big on the Earth-conspiracy. Everyone in the inn knew that Erin was from another world. It sort of came up the longer you stayed there.
But exactly what that meant…? Jelaqua was no Grimalkin. Erin had ice cream and weird secrets. So did most people. So she just observed Kevin as Rinli decided she was staying too.
“Oh, that’s right, Kevin. Nanette said someone you were looking for was here. Rhaldon.”
Kevin turned, and his eyes lit up with that familiar-unfamiliar glow of excitement and determination. He exhaled.
“Ah. In that case, glad I missed Pallass. Rinli, d’you know how much gold…? Actually, I can borrow whatever I need from Lyonette. I need a quick word with Rhaldon, then I’ve got work for us.”
He rubbed his hands as Jelaqua’s brows rose. She exchanged a glance with Rinli, and she felt something in the air. Like the calm before an Erin moment, but it was a Kevin moment.
A Hall moment.
No, that sounded horrible.
 
——
 
Rhaldon Flemmens didn’t speak a word for a long while as he sat in Stitchworks. He just gazed at Kevin until the other young man realized…no one had told Rhaldon he was back from the dead. He’d just popped up with a clap on the shoulder and launched into questions.
“Hey. Kevin, right? You’re looking pretty good. Did I mishear Octavia last time or…I heard you were dead. Must have been the wrong person. Sorry.”
They had never met before. Maybe the two had seen each other in passing, but Kevin Hall and Rhaldon Flemmens had never shared so many words. But they knew of each other, certainly. And Rhaldon was smiling in that embarrassed way of someone still new to the inn. He had never been there for Erin’s death or return.
There was a wobble in the [Alchemist]’s voice. Kevin’s face grew somber, and he stepped back. He smiled and brushed at his hair, but his next words didn’t reassure the [Alchemist].
“No, you heard right. I was dead.”
Rhaldon’s eyes flickered, and that moment of disbelief, panic, was eclipsed by rational thought.
“Interesting. So you faked it or were you pulled out of a coma like Erin?”
“No, dead-dead. I got shot through the chest. Died. Uh, sorry. I should have explained properly. But I don’t…we’ve never met.”
Now, Rhaldon was swinging his eyes from Rinli to Jelaqua in the way of someone who thought they were being pranked. But the two had faces so grave that it was unnerving him. He was still smiling. Kevin rubbed at his chest, just above his heart.
“Sorry, dude. It’s something that can happen in this world. But it’s never easy. And it won’t happen that way twice.”
That was it. Rhaldon grew visibly angrier, and his nostrils flared as he drew in a breath.
“Listen, if this is some prank or Solstice thing I’m not getting…”
“I died.”
Even Jelaqua started at the sudden intensity of Kevin’s tone. The [Mechanic] gazed around Octavia’s empty shop, then hissed at Rhaldon.
“It’s not a joke. Roshal’s [Assassin] shot and killed me and nearly did for Imani. I died, and I know you were warned about that. This isn’t a game, man. I don’t have a scar, but I can tell you exactly how it felt. I was dead, and I came back. Just like Erin. And I’m not the only one. I—sorry. Sorry…it’s not a joke.”
He let go of Rhaldon’s shirt, and Jelaqua released her grip on his arm. The [Alchemist] was wide-eyed, and he leaned back as far as he could in his seat. Kevin backed up a step, panting.
Rhaldon’s face was pale. He turned to Jelaqua, then Rinli, for confirmation, then he nodded tightly. He winced as he checked himself, and Jelaqua noticed Rhaldon was injured. He was pressing ice against some bandages on his chest. It must have hurt when Kevin grabbed him, and his face turned guilty.
“Dude, what happened to your ribs?”
“Horse kick. I don’t think they’re broken. Just really bruised. I’m—sorry about not getting it.”
“No, that was wrong of me. I’m sorry. It’s just—it happened.”
Rhaldon stared at Kevin. And whatever he saw in the other young man’s eyes turned his skin a shade paler. He searched for words, swallowed.
“Good to know. After Erin—well, I guess it’s easier than I thought?”
“No. No, it’s not.”
After a moment, Kevin gestured lamely at the ribs.
“So what was that? Mugging or trouble on the road?”
Rhaldon glanced down. He laughed, shakily, then winced.
“Ow, damn—no. It was when I was unloading the carriage in Invrisil. One of my stupid horses kicked me.”
“Ooh.”
That was a universal wince of pain from Jelaqua, Rinli, and Kevin. Rhaldon checked on the bandages around his chest.
“I’ve decided I hate horses. And ponies. And donkeys, mules…I don’t know how Termin ever found his two. Nor do I want to gain Skills for them. This is why I want to figure out…”
He mumbled to himself as Kevin felt at his belt. Then the [Mechanic] handed Rhaldon a familiar, glowing vial of green liquid—but the label was clear.
“Here, try this.”
The healing potion made Rinli and Jelaqua start. Rhaldon stared at it longingly, then waved it away.
“I can’t. Thank you, but it’ll heal. That has to cost more than I could deliver in a month.”
“Dude, take it. We have lots.”
Jelaqua’s head swung to Kevin as Rhaldon hesitated, then popped the potion and drank gratefully. His eyes popped, then he was gasping in relief.
“Argh, that really hurt for one second—wow, that’s better. I should see about reinventing those—not that anyone can. There’s a [Polymath] named Zeomtoril up north who’s been trying for ages, but Eir Gel is pretty unique stuff, sadly. I had to do a shipment of five healing potions; I had a guard of twenty, and it was more gold than I’ve ever carried.”
He was blabbering a bit, probably in shock from Kevin and the healing. The young man nodded as he looked around Stitchworks and lowered his voice.
“Hey, mind if we switch somewhere quieter? The potion’s secret, and so am I—the name’s Randy now. You can trust Rinli, and you’ve met Jelaqua, right?”
She waved at him, and Rhaldon hesitated.
“Selphid, right? Halfseekers?”
“Formerly.”
“Oh, right…you’re retired?”
“Close. My team died.”
A pause. Rhaldon stared at Kevin and Rinli to make sure she wasn’t joking, then bowed his head.
“I’m so sorry.”
 
——
 
It wasn’t a great day for Rhaldon Flemmens. The horse kick hurt like hell, and that had been as he was unloading Octavia’s stuff. He didn’t even feel like he deserved it.
Healing it was nice, but the double-whammy of Kevin and the state of the inn had him off-kilter. He hadn’t noticed the Winter Solstice, even. Oh, he’d felt something was off, but Erin’s [Leased Room] hadn’t even flickered or done anything.
He’d just…travelled across Izril, going from Calidus, who was still making his potions, to other [Alchemists], and coming back to swap notes with Octavia and Saliss. They were his two friends, but Saliss had left for the New Lands, and Octavia had broken up with Numbtongue, so she was highly depressed.
Rhaldon just wanted to work on his chemistry projects between building gold up. It wasn’t like he was avoiding the inn…he was just avoiding it because he feared it, for all Erin had done for him. Seeing her stabbing a man to death—that was hard.
Kevin? You could tell he’d come back from the dead. Rhaldon hadn’t believed it until he’d looked into Kevin’s eyes and seen something actually apocryphal there. The [Alchemist] wasn’t a big fan of fantasy or books on magic; he had once heard of someone’s eyes described like ‘voids into the abyss’ and closed the book and rolled his eyes.
Kevin had eyes like that. Like someone who’d seen something so vivid, so horrific—or maybe terribly sad—that a piece of it remained. It only came out when he got angry.
Saliss had eyes like that sometimes. That convinced Rhaldon. Erin had the same expression. Of course, he wondered if it was the commonality of people who’d had near-death experiences. But regardless, it was true.
He had heard Kevin was dead. Shot.
Now he was here, and Rhaldon didn’t see the happy-go-lucky jokester that Octavia had described. He was chaotic, spontaneous—and unnerving. In a different way from Erin. Rhaldon had always felt like Erin was a few steps ahead of him, predicting what he was doing.
Kevin…he genuinely believed Kevin was acting as things came to him.
For instance, when Kevin led Rhaldon into the [Garden of Sanctuary] to talk, he turned and handed Rhaldon something. As if it were something ordinary and he’d just thought to ask.
“Here. You’re a [Alchemist], right, Rhaldon? What do you make of this? Think you could make any more?”
Rhaldon gazed down blankly at the item that Kevin had handed him and dropped it as if it were electric. He stared at the object that landed in the grass as Kevin swore and scooped it up. He wanted to believe it was fake, but…there was no mistaking the look of it.
The shotgun shell from the future glinted in the light as Kevin held it up. Rinli and Jelaqua were peering at it. Rhaldon was having trouble breathing suddenly. His shoulder was burning in pain.
The shoulder where he’d been shot during a protest back on Earth.
“Where—where did you get that? Did someone bring it with them? It needs to be destroyed at once!”
Destroyed and the traces burned or vaporized. Given what Rhaldon suspected about Skills, even a trace sample would allow someone to reproduce it! Zeomtoril could. However, Kevin was inspecting the shotgun shell and glanced up.
“Not that I know of, but I’d bet someone came armed. If they don’t have it, I know other nations are working on it. Roshal has flintlocks. That’s how they shot me. This? This is a magical shotgun shell. It runs on magicore and gunpowder. I know a few parts, but I don’t know how to make actual gunpowder. Think you could make some more?”
He went to hand the shell back, and Rhaldon stepped back.
“What? No! Are you insane? That’s the last thing this world needs!”
Belatedly, it seemed to occur to Kevin that Rhaldon might not instantly want to jump on the ‘make guns’ train. He held up his hands.
“Sorry, dude. I’ve just been thinking about this all month. Hear me out—”
“No. This is beyond the pale of—if someone has a firearm, I’d try to destroy it and any ammunition. Bringing guns into this world is a terrible idea. Why would you come to me with—do you know how I came to this world?”
“No. How?”
