“Ow! Damn it! I knew this was going to happen!”
 
——
 
A young Human woman worked at Solar Cycles. Her name was Rinli, and she was a [Gearhead]. Level 27, actually.
She’d been there from the start. First as an [Assistant]—you know, an odd job for a really odd fellow, but that had been when the inn had been smaller, but sort of cool with its magic door to Esthelm and Celum. Rinli hadn’t thought much of it except that she needed the money and it was interesting.
She was from Esthelm—there were a few other members of staff.
Merckle, a Drake [Bike Mechanic] from Liscor, the best in the shop. Gergia, a former [Scribe] who was now their [Saleswoman] and answered all but the most important speaking stones; Cadem, leader of the [Tinkerer] kids who they employed and who could fix most bikes by themselves—
Solar Cycles. It didn’t start this way. It had only been Kevin, Rinli, and Merckle back in the day—and Pelt and Hedault and Selys, of course, but they hadn’t been the actual store.
The moment that first bicycle had been captured on the scrying orb, Rinli’s life had changed. She’d moved apartments three times. Bought a house, had someone try to bribe her, then threaten her—called the Watch on her uncle for breaking into her home and snooping around for keys or files—
That was the downside. The upside was being the idol of every Esthelm streetkid who’d beg to see one of the new models, of having the money to buy her own house, of levelling twenty-seven times in a year—and being important. She’d kept pace with Kevin himself, which he’d joked had meant she was actually doing more work. But if she had, working all hours, managing the aspects of the business he couldn’t, she hadn’t minded it. It was one huge adventure. It had been grand as the store grew bigger.
At the start, she’d been writing down orders for monarchs on pieces of paper and hammering them into a wall, sweating bullets as Kevin and Merckle argued about why this bike wasn’t working, or trying to get a Courier to take a delivery overseas. Waking up at odd hours to hear a City Runner say, ‘the King of Avel needs to speak to someone now’, going to the Merchant’s Guild and hearing them state how much gold had been deposited in the account—
And Fetohep.
Always Fetohep ringing up Kevin in the middle of the night. Whereupon he’d sit, trying to work on a bicycle, going, ‘oh, really, I didn’t know that’ or ‘yes, Your Majesty’ for up to six hours as she brought him a cup of tea and a snack.
Then they, well, Rinli, had hired more help! Gergia, for one, and Merckle had attracted Cadem, and Kevin had let the kid stay and work. Rinli had been worried Cadem would steal something and leave, but after a few months, she was sending him with deliveries to Hedault and coming back with a bag of holding filled with enchanted gears—until they decided he needed an escort in case of muggers.
They still had a small place. True, they’d expanded it several times so it was now a full workshop of tools, and it had a garage you could bring a bicycle into for a tune-up or repairs—even a shop front, though you had to still wait in a queue for any model.
Plenty of knockoff bike shops were all over in Invrisil to Pallass. None of them had Hedault or Pelt or the sheer knowhow of Solar Cycles. Rinli had checked; she’d even gone to steal their best [Mechanics] and bring them here.
It had been such a fun adventure with their charming, if sometimes airheaded, leader who could talk to monarchs and utterly fail to balance a budget. Who’d take every new model of bicycle out and come back later with fifteen scratches they needed to buff out—it had been so much fun.
Then the Winter Solstice had happened, and Solar Cycles had gone dark. Rinli had sat in the merry little shop as employees and kids came in, all of whom asked her if it was true. How? And why?
No one told her more than it was Roshal. She’d gone into the store that evening and found a bicycle for a Lord Pazeral and smashed it up with a hammer. That had been months ago.
Today…
 
——
 
The buzzards were still circling. They had vast wings of bright, shiny cloth. Sometimes silk, sometimes just the appearance of silk, and huge heads capped with faux-crowns of tophats and plummed finery.
They squawked, too, in loud, obnoxious voices, calling over each other. The buzzards were ugly as well. Not merely in appearance, for some were tall and slim, others portly, and yet more just ordinary save for their fine feathers. They were just ugly inside and out.
“Miss, you are in need of guidance! You need a steady hand! I am that hand!”
A female vulture was calling from her carriage where she’d sat all day. She was a [Merchant], a high-level one with enough gold to buy Solar Cycles and have Rinli retire—if only she’d do the right thing.
Her squawking made the other birds begin cawing as well, shouting as they sat and harassed Rinli, screaming entreaties.
“One of the Five Families will back and manage this shop!”
“I am the head of the Merchant’s Guild in Remendia; the entire city will—”
“You cannot run this business without proper leadership classes! Your owner is dead!”
That was a cruel call from them, but they had no pity. They devoured the corpses of failing businesses they thought had juicy bits of fat and gold leftover and happily ate dying franchises too.
It didn’t matter that Pelt, Hedault, and Selys were co-owners of Solar Cycles. Kevin had always had the controlling interest in their agreement; the others could, conceivably, put up a threat, but Hedault and Pelt had no time nor interest in managing the business. Selys Shivertail would have been a threat, but wouldn’t you know it, she’d left Liscor.
Take the shares Rinli controlled and buying out or forcing out the other competing stakes in Solar Cycles would be easy enough with the Merchant’s Guild’s help. All contracts had loopholes or could be negotiated. Rinli was the key piece. Checkmate.
And oh, they knew she was weak. Today was surely the day she’d break. Why, two weeks ago she’d fled the storefront in tears and had been having a panic attack, back pressed against the wall as one of them cornered her, until the Watch came, the damn busybodies.
Of course, they were also cowards too, so the flock of unsightly birds drew back when the doors opened—the Drake with the wrench had frightened them off more than once, like a flock of wheeling carriages and surcoats.
Technically, though, they weren’t doing anything wrong. And each one of them would have sworn on a truth stone they were, in fact, the heroes of this story. After all, they firmly believed that Solar Cycles needed a new owner: them.
The fact that the young woman had kept the business running despite having no owner for four months was inconsequential, of course. What did a lowly worker know about leadership? The hoi polloi could not lead themselves; that would be ridiculous. What would happen to them if that were the case? One had gold and therefore was knowledgeable in all things business. Something ergo sum.
Every head turned as the window they were watching, which led to the office that Rinli was using, revealed some movement. The shutters were drawn, but they knew she was in there by the movement and set up such a racket that windows slammed open and more people down the avenue called for them to shut up and leave!
Mindful of the Watch, the flock quieted down, but they waited, beaks wet with anticipation. Any moment now, she’d come out to scream at them, and then they’d have her. They pressed in with their negotiation Skills, trying to force her to sell. Any moment…
 
——
 
Inside the office, Rinli admired the new glass window that Hedault had enchanted for her. She was humming as she checked the day’s orders to send to the shop floor. She glanced out the window again and saw the faintest blur of a few of the carriages moving.
She wondered if they’d figured out she’d had the windows soundproofed yet. In hindsight, it really was one of those things that was a no-brainer, but she hadn’t wanted to spend any of the company money on it. But a few weeks ago, she’d put the order in and not thought twice about it.
The plague that had haunted her for months was now just…background noise. Solar Cycles was filled with activity, people laughing, working—and Rinli was humming. She kept glancing at the timekeeper, of course; he’d said he’d be back by late morning, and if he wasn’t, then she’d panic. But a miracle had already happened once.
Kevin was back.
He came through the back door, yelping, and an alarm went off. Instantly, Rinli reached for a wand under the desk and a speaking stone that was tuned to Esthelm’s Watch. But she hesitated as she heard him shouting.
“Wait, wait! Damn, you hit the alarms. Don’t call the Watch! It’s a friend!”
She raced out of her office and saw him in the hallways. Kevin, or ‘Randy’ as everyone had to keep remembering to call him, looked horrible. A Selphid had him by the ear, but she let go as a whooping siren began to sound off.
“What? I didn’t—”
“It’s an intruder! Get them!”
Merckle dashed out of the workshop, wrench in hand, and all the [Mechanics] poured out to fight the thief they thought had come in. When they saw Kevin, they halted, then stared at his condition.
“It’s Jelaqua! Turn the alarm off! Turn it—”
Rinli turned Hedault’s alarm spells off, and everyone could hear. Kevin lowered his hands.
“Thanks, Rinli. I need some clothes. And privacy. Sorry, everyone. This is Jelaqua, from the inn. She’s here to help out.”
Jelaqua blinked at the staff of Solar Cycles, who didn’t really know her either; not many of the Inn People actually came here. They treated her warily, edging back in case she exploded or something.
“Uh—sorry.”
“Clothes are in your office, Kevin. And the inn asked for you—I told them you were sleeping here.”
“You’re awesome, Rinli. Tell them I’m coming in like an hour or two—I need to change. Jelaqua, this way.”
He nodded at her as the young woman felt her stomach unclench. So he had been going to that Beaker cave. She hadn’t been sure…
The young woman saw him stride towards the office. Then glance back guiltily.
“Uh, anyone call that I need to help with, Rinli? Not that I can since—”
Since I’m dead. She shook her head.
“Not right now, Kevin.”
“Thanks.”
He vanished into his office. Rinli went back, picked up the speaking stone, and assured the Watch officer that it was just a kid; false alarm, no need to investigate.
“Oh, but the [Merchants] are causing a disturbance. Can you clear them out? Thank you so much.”
She stamped the form for the workshop and placed it in a tray where it would be run to the [Mechanics]. Then Rinli stowed the emergency wand under her desk and got up. She walked down the narrow hallway to the office that Kevin had claimed. It had been empty for months; now she heard voices within. After a moment, Rinli hesitated and pushed the door open.
She stepped inside the office as she saw Jelaqua confronting Kevin, who was trying to wash off the gunk from his upper body and argue at the same time.
“—ead once. I’m not trying to do it twice—oh hey, Rinli, something wrong?”
“Nope, Kevin.”
She folded her hands behind her back. Kevin hesitated. Jelaqua turned to the young woman and shot her a brief smile.
“Sorry about the alarm and strong-arming Kevin back there. I just needed to have a word about his adventuring career—”
She shot Kevin a glower, which he just sighed at. Jelaqua added.
“We’ll be out of your hair in a second. I have to get to Pelt, anyways, and I’m definitely late.”
“We could help with that, Miss Ivirith. Solar Cycles works with his smithy and Master Hedault daily.”
Rinli smiled. Both Kevin and Jelaqua stared at her.
She didn’t leave. Jelaqua gave Kevin a sideways glance and coughed. He just grinned, rueful, and it was him.
Him…and someone else. Someone who seemed pained and saddened by everything. Someone older and, yes, grimmer than the happy-go-lucky [Mechanic] who had been her boss last year.
Someone with secrets. Real ones, not just that he liked Goblins and gave them free bicycles.
“Rinli’s cool, Jelaqua. She’s not going to blab, and if they could have bought her with gold, someone would have ages ago, right, Rinli?”
“It was close until you decided to let us know you were alive. I nearly caved a few times. To the House of El, not that lot.”
Rinli nodded towards the windows, and Kevin appeared guilty again. Not his fault he got shot. But then he sat on his desk. He hated his huge pinewood desk that he said made him feel like a ‘fat cat’ for reasons that escaped his employees. Kevin was full of idioms and expressions they’d adopted.
He had made a huge impact whether his friends knew it or not, whether the inn respected it or not. But, it seemed to Rinli, he’d never taken himself that seriously for all he worked hard. Today, she saw him wincing as he put a shirt on, and a different Kevin had soot and blood on his arms. He gazed at them ruefully.
“I’m just not as cool as I want to be, Jelaqua. No one is under fire, are they?”
“Nope. And you knew that, so why’d you go and take on a Beaker without backup?”
She was angry, and Rinli mouthed ‘yeah’ behind her. Kevin picked at some dried blister skin.
“Because that’s real. It’s not like Reynold standing in front of me while I hack some poor Goblins and centipedes up with an enchanted sword. No bailouts, no help if I mess up. That’s how it works in the real world, in an adventurer’s life. The only backups you get are the ones you bring, and I brought tons.”
“You still nearly died. You’re smarter than that.”
Jelaqua pointed out, cross. Kevin just gazed at her.
“I levelled in my new class and my [Mechanic] one. I need to hit Level 40 yesterday, and I don’t just need one class, Jelaqua. I get that was stupid of me. Next time…well, I know what I need to fix.”
He brushed at his bag of holding, and Rinli stared at it for a long moment. Jelaqua didn’t know what was in there, but Rinli had seen and heard more than most.
Master Pelt and Master Hedault sitting in the office with Kevin, tears in their eyes as he told them a story meant only for their ears. Laughing, shakily, with all the guilt in the world.
Then—asking for favors from Master Pelt. Deliveries the old Dwarf obliged and sent on to Hedault. Odd…tubes that had no place in a bicycle—that Rinli was sure of. Gold taken out of Kevin’s little-used account.
Kevin Hall sat there as Jelaqua brushed at her hair, vexed.
“There’s better ways to learn to fight, Kevin.”
