“Sure, if you explain what a ‘physiology’ is.”
She teased him, and Rhaldon blushed faintly.
“I was wondering. I know Selphids have to change bodies constantly, but couldn’t you manufacture an artificial one? Replace organs rather than change bodies? Skin would be harder, but hasn’t anyone made a permanent body?”
The question caught both Rinli and Jelaqua off-guard, for different reasons. Jelaqua smiled, impressed.
“What, did you date a Selphid? Of course it’s been tried—and done! But mostly, the reason we use dead bodies is that anything else is too advanced for this continent. No one likes hacking up bodies so no one’s good at it. I knew some Selphids who’d replace as much of their bodies as they could. Magical prosthesis. One even commissioned a Golem that was practically like a body!”
Rinli’s eyes lit up like Kevin’s did.
“Oh! That sounds pretty interesting! Why don’t Selphids do that?”
Jelaqua counted on her fingers.
“Well, for one, the cost. Two, we have no biological levers to pull. We can’t use the bodily functions the same way. Three? The poor fellow nearly died of dehydration. Not a good environment; half his body got pinched when the Golem squished him. No give to wood instead of flesh.”
Rhaldon was nodding.
“Ah, right. Still, I wonder if you could pilot a mech or an artificial body like a real one? Earth has more advanced materials, and if you had like a jelly or mucous membrane inside a contained environment…”
“I like how you think, kid. You’d have done great if you’d landed in Baleros. But you’re forgetting the main thing: sex. Tons of fun. Can’t see a world without it.”
Rhaldon’s face was completely straight as he replied.
“Earth’s definitely working on sex robots too.”
Jelaqua blinked. 
Damn, Pelt was right. They really did have everything. 
 
——
 
When Kevin came back, he had a huge cube of metal that he dropped on the dining table and nearly smashed it in with. His bag of holding produced a contraption even more convoluted than Rhaldon’s object; Jelaqua just sighed as she poked it.
“What is this now? Someone help the poor, stupid Selphid?”
“This is an engine, Jelaqua! Something you use to power a car.”
“…You’re saying that like that’s not complete gibberish.”
She turned to Rinli, but the [Gearhead] was as out of her depth as Jelaqua was here. Kevin gestured at the engine.
“Okay, right. Let’s try to explain. An engine works on combustion, using a fuel that it compresses before it explodes. Like a fire eats wood, but it goes off like a Potion of Blast that Saliss makes. The force of that is enough to do almost anything—if you harness it. So the way an engine works is the pistons here made here compress the fuel, and then you transfer that energy—”
Surprisingly, it was Rhaldon who interrupted with a simpler explanation.
“Imagine something that makes a bicycle go without needing to pedal. That’s an engine. It’s like a Golem Heart.”
“Ah, got it.”
Jelaqua had actually been following Kevin’s explanation fairly well, but she appreciated the way Rhaldon boiled it down. Kevin was more upset.
“Dude, my thunder. How’d you learn to do that?”
“Termin. He doesn’t like wordy explanations. Kevin, this is fascinating. I think it’s too complex for a prototype, but—oh, you made it modular.”
The engine could come apart piece-by-piece and Kevin nodded proudly as Rhadlon disassembled key parts.
“Yep, I kept it secret, and it wasn’t a priority…until the death thing. Now it’s big, but I heard you were working on your own. I can’t get mine to actually do anything with the wheels.”
Indeed, Kevin’s engine was a complicated mess of levers and attempts to transmit the vague design of an engine he knew, with pistons and an internal engine block, into the actual wheels. The problem was that a bicycle mechanic wasn’t exactly big on cars, and Kevin hadn’t owned one in Los Angeles.
“No one can help me, Rhaldon. Erin didn’t drive, Ryoka was never here long enough, and she freaks out about this kind of stuff. And Rose doesn’t know anything about cars. Frankly, I don’t ever want to have her drive me around. Joseph, Imani, Troydel—none of ‘em drive or know how cars work. Non-Americans, the lot.”
Rhaldon smiled.
“Well, I wasn’t exactly a genius myself, but we had a car my dad made me work on. Are you mounting it in the center…?”
“Yep, just makes sense if you’re going to power all four wheels. I know there’s a reason you put it up front…but this is a prototype. I thought I’d just make it gears all the way. If the engine would run, you just move it like a bicycle, right?”
Rhaldon identified Kevin’s problem pretty quickly: the young man hadn’t actually remembered the concept of the transmission properly. Namely…a drive shaft. Without the spinning axel, he had tried to link everything up with bicycle chains, which is what he knew and had the most of.
In theory, it might have actually worked, but with a few modifications, Kevin’s design stopped looking like a crazy puzzle box of parts. Kevin slapped his forehead.
“Spinning pipe. Dude, this is why I had to have someone who knew mechanics here.”
“No one else figured that out, truly?”
“I’m telling you, none of ‘em like cars. Maybe Ryoka would. She strikes me as someone who probably would get on a motorcycle or crash her parents’ car…but not fix them. Dude, look at this.”
“Yeah, look at it. What are we looking at, Rinli?”
Jelaqua whispered to Rinli, and the [Assistant] whispered back.
“I think…something that’s meant to keep up with Wistram’s magical carriages.”
The Selphid pulled a face. But the magical carriages were already beating everything else. Who needed a non-magical thing like this? 
Someone in a…non-magic area? Her eyes narrowed as Kevin and Rhaldon discussed the matter. The [Alchemist] was highly animated.
“This is exactly what I’ve needed. If Master Pelt can create prototypes this advanced, or maybe his apprentices, and Solar Cycles can also do some machining, then I could actually try the designs. And if you could help me improve my blueprints—”
It was Kevin who held up a hand.
“Whoa, operational security, Rhaldon! We don’t trust anyone but Pelt or Emessa, his best apprentice. Second, we keep this private.”
“Even among the inn? But you said—”
Kevin rolled his shoulders.
“The walls have ears, dude. And yeah, I trust everyone, but things have a way of connecting around here. Let’s say we get Lyonette on this thing. Three weeks later we’ll have like an engine-bomb we need to huck into a Kraken’s mouth while Ishkr plays the saxophone to save Wistram. We trust everyone; we talk to only the people we need.”
Rhaldon pointed at Jelaqua. Kevin clarified.
“And Jelaqua. She’s cool, plus, she saw us, and I don’t think we can get rid of her.”
The Selphid wore a happy smile. Someone got her!
Rhaldon exhaled.
“Well, this beats my attempts to make a wooden version of the engine. I nearly sliced my fingers apart. Can we start with Pelt?”
“Absolutely. I bet Pallass has changed the security on the checkpoint so I can go on through as soon as I stow my you-know-whats. Want to check out Solar Cycles? Then we can go to Pallass. Jelaqua?”
She slapped her knees and stood.
“Alright, kids. You’ve got me until you lot start speaking complex again. What’s new in Solar Cycles, Kevin, aside from you-know-whats and engine-thingies?”
“What? Tons of stuff, Jelaqua. We made a unicycle the other day just because. And kid’s tricycles! Rhaldon, you want a bike?”
Kevin led the way as Rinli followed, making notes and, Jelaqua suspected, putting together lists of what they’d need. She might not know all of what was going on, but it was nice to see Kevin lightening up. Plus, she’d decided training him so he didn’t get hurt wasn’t a bad use of time.
Cars. It was so simple! Between Kevin’s mechanical ability and Rhaldon’s knowledge of chemistry, it would be simple. They had science, magic, alchemy, and metallurgy on their side!
 
——
 
“Nope. Not doing it.”
Pelt was watching a duel between two [Martial Artists] on the scrying orb as he ate crab dipped in garlic butter. He glanced up long enough to deliver his final word and went back to watching.
“What? Pelt! C’mon! This is huge! It’ll change everything!”
The Dwarf just eyed the engine once, then beckoned.
“Boy, come here.”
Kevin walked over, and Pelt grabbed his shirt with a buttery-hand and pulled him forwards.
“How many little metal tubes and gears is in that damn thing, Kevin?”
“Uh, a lot? But Pelt—”
The other [Smiths], Grimalkin, and Pryde all watched as Jelaqua saw Maughin poring over plans for his forge. He smiled at her as she hugged him, then listened to the Dwarf. Pelt’s voice was grinding like stones.
“How many times do I have to reforge something because the measurements are a teensy bit off? The bicycles were bad enough, and they were nothing compared to this monstrosity. And let’s assume you’re correct. This will change the world, yes?”
“Yeah, it’ll—”
“I will not spend the rest of my life forging worthless steel bits like that!”
Pelt howled. He thrust Kevin away like he was warding off curses.
“Nor will any smith in my forge! Go ask Pallassian [Smiths] or even Dwarfhome—and they’ll be welcome to it! What you’re asking for is the kind of work that drives any honest [Smith] mad! No, not for all the gold in Pallass! Besides, I’m helping Maughin with his forge. Emessa, no work from Solar Cycles except for the bicycle parts!”
“Yes, Smith Pelt!”
Crestfallen, Rhaldon and Kevin regarded each other.
“But Pelt—dude!”
The Dwarf bounced an empty crab shell off Kevin’s face. Rhaldon was whispering to Kevin.
“It’s too hard to make anyways, Kevin. Think about it, this is after the industrial revolution. We need machining and mass-production.”
Grimalkin was hunting around for a notepad, but Lady Pryde just handed him one. There was no way of seeing Pryde’s face, but the aura around her blossomed with such affection as Grimalkin smiled at her that Jelaqua mimed gagging to Felkhr. The Gnoll just stared at her as if she was one to talk.
Crestfallen, Kevin clenched a fist.
“We’ll find another way! Maughin, what about—”
“I’m busy! Jelaqua, we’re working on the forge. We just need to lobby a [Senator], and Lady Blackwing has helped us tremendously in that regard.”
Maughin was smiling as he gestured to the plans, and Jelaqua hugged him one-armed. But she was confused and said so.
“I told you I’d help! And you were too shy to ask Pelt. I told you it wasn’t your fault! One question…Lady who? I don’t know a Lady Blackwing.”
He frowned at her.
“But she was the one who sent all the details to my forge. She said you’d asked on my behalf?”
She gave him a blank stare. It was Magus Grimalkin who snapped his fingers.
“Lady…Melika Blackwing? Garuda. Very fashionable.”
“Oh, her! Duh, forgot the last name. Yeah, she was great. And she only asked for my help with some kids!”
Jelaqua laughed as she slapped her forehead. Maughin chuckled in relief.
“You’ll forget to thank her, next. Her children? Or something else?”
The Selphid waved a hand as something tickled the back of her mind.
“Nah, it’s something she organizes? She helps a bunch of kids who’re poor or…and she was asking me to go to the event tomorrow…which is today…at midday…”
She stared out the window as Pelt stopped cheering on his favorite fighter. Everyone turned and peered at the window. The sun was merrily dipping its way through the sky. Probably…two o’ clock? Three, perhaps. Two if you wanted to be charitable.
Maughin turned to Jelaqua as the Selphid stood there. Kevin and Rhaldon exchanged a glance, and Rinli was suddenly all smiles.
“Well, we’d better be going. Kevin? Let’s bring Rhaldon to Solar Cycles and not interrupt everything. Excuse us Master Pelt.”
They dashed out the door, and Jelaqua stood there. She couldn’t exactly go paler, but after a second, she did go through the front door as it tried to swing closed so fast it blew off the hinges. Then she was just running and running—
She stopped once to grab Kevin and put him in a headlock.
“You’re coming with me.”
