This was Jelaqua Ivirith’s tale, but like a candy bar, it sometimes revolved around one of its ingredients. Much like a peanut, Kevin found a way to make it about himself.
He missed candy bars.
Dead gods, he missed Snickers. You couldn’t have paid him to eat the stuff back home, and here he’d kill a small rat for it. Not Rhata or Haldagaz, but some other rat, definitely. With his bare hands, which was gross and dangerous, but—
Oh, right. Not the time for this.
Kevin Hall sat up. He heard the faintest of sounds in the distance. A ringing—and his arms and shoulders were scorched. He thought, vaguely—
I’ve dislocated my arm. Ow.
Then he felt around at his sides. There was a sensation on his skin, between the ringing and the blisters forming and his arm screaming as he tried to reset it with only a vague understanding of how that worked.
Healing potions. He had six, all from another world. But Kevin wasn’t reaching for those. He gazed up, and though he couldn’t hear it, he could vaguely see the outline coming his way in his blurry, shaking vision. The roaring howl was shivering his flesh, and he could smell the stink of blood and something animal in the air.
“Sorry. I’ll finish it. Sorry—”
He sat up, and the wounded monster screamed at him with a beak that opened wide, wider than you would think was possible. Kevin carefully lifted something in his hands, and the impact slammed him onto the ground.
He lay there—now fully deaf until he could grab a potion and drink it. Only then did the ringing recede and his pains began to ease. The young man thought and spoke the same thing.
“Fuck. I knew it; I’m not cut out for this.”
Adventuring was hard. Who knew?
 
——
 
Jelaqua Ivirith wondered if she was dreaming when she woke up the next day. She pinched Maughin, and he woke up.
“Ow. What was that for?”
“Just checking to see if I’m awake. Did…did I say anything when I came in last night?”
Maughin grunted as he rubbed at his cheek.
“Only that you’d been out with an old friend who was, in fact, a new friend, and that you were very sorry we couldn’t be, ah, intimate. It was fine. Then we slept. Oh, and that Liscor was selling new charms.”
“Right. Good. Not dreaming then.”
Moore was back. Lord Moore, that was. Lord Raithland, right…call him by his new name. Jelaqua hugged her knees to her chest, then Maughin added.
“I like the braziers. The Watch came by twice to ensure they were safe fires. I told them they were.”
“Oh. Right. Yeah…sorry, I didn’t ask—”
“I like them. Even if I cannot forge with them, they belong to you. People should know and be proud.”
He smiled at her, so solid in his support she remembered why she liked him again. She might have tackled him, but then Maughin added.
“You didn’t, ah, get to Esthelm to ask Master Pelt about the forge, did you?”
“Oh, damn! I forgot! I’ll go today! I promise!”
“It’s fine. All the [Smiths] are having a meeting about Dwarfhalls Rest. Again. They’ve begun to put Mithril on the markets, and between that and their steel…”
He looked worried. Pallass was no longer the smithing giant of its region that it used to be. Dwarfhalls Rest could ship its metals via Invrisil, which meant competition, especially because the Dwarves had knowledge Pallass’ smiths lacked.
Jelaqua scrambled out of bed to start cooking. Maughin could do it, but he was so methodical that by the time the toast was done he’d barely have finished any other part of the breakfast. She hit a heating rune and tossed together food with long practice as she called over her shoulder.
“How bad is it, Maughin? You’re still Pallass. They can’t muscle you out of the metal market, can they?”
“Of course not. In fact, the Walled Cities are going to try to ratify some treaty that means they’ll have to buy at least 50% metal from southern cities. It’s just…difficult. Mass-scale manufacturing will always be wanted. But premium, custom work?”
Ah, that was going to the Dwarves in Dwarfhalls Rest. And that was where a [Smith] like Maughin made his money. He elaborated after a moment, placing his head on the dinner table.
“Pelt can get that work, but I can’t move Mithril like he does. My forge, again…I’m not even sure where the Dwarves are getting the Mithril. They might be importing it from Terandria since there are no local veins. Between that and Demas Metal, how many people want my plain steel gear? My best work is a mithril alloy—they’re able to produce twenty times what my forge does in mithril!”
“Aw, Maughin…just see how many come by when you get a hand on that Adamantium! Or how about that magical fire stuff that Pelt was talking about?”
Glumly, the Dullahan pointed at his forge.
“I’ve been focusing on the Adamantium. I managed to make a hammer that can survive the forging process, and I’ve got some of the techniques down to make smaller bits, but the fire’s the key for working the huge block. Esthelm is where all the magical fire smithing is taking place. Pelt’s apprentice, Emessa? She made her first crystal-inlaid sword the other day. Very fine work. Not practical, perhaps, but very salable.”
He was feeling outmatched. And, like a hermit crab, was hunching in his armor like someone weathering blows. Jelaqua sighed.
“I’ll visit Pelt first thing. Promise!”
That made him brighten up. Just to prove she wasn’t staying away from the inn any longer, Jelaqua did stride out of the door, heading straight for the 8th Floor. On the way, she ran into a familiar face.
“Oh, er, Chaldion. Good morning.”
The Drake didn’t react as a few heads turned and stared at him in his chair. He peered ahead vacantly, bandages still covering parts of his body. The [Healer] assigned to him nodded.
“Miss Ivirith. Good morning from the both of us.”
“Yeah, a nice one. Hello Healer Ulla. Hey, Chaldion, hanging in there?”
The [Healer] appeared mildly scandalized, but Jelaqua just crouched down next to the wheelchair. The Drake said nothing at all. She inspected the bandages.
“Is he still healing?”
“He’s…better than last week, Miss Ivirith. His body is very old, and the healing potions didn’t work on these particular—his condition is very stable.”
That wasn’t a great endorsement, but he shouldn’t have been alive. They cut him to ribbons. Jelaqua eyed the bandages and wondered exactly how much damage was being hidden by the cloth. She stood, patting the Drake on the shoulder.
“Well, we’re both headed for the inn. He likes it there?”
“I think so. At least, I haven’t had orders not to…and they’re very polite. Even with the Goblins and Antinium. We get in most days unless there’s some emergency.”
“Oh, so you know how to get there?”
After last night, Jelaqua was surprised, but the [Healer] winked slightly at her. The Gnoll leaned over.
“Miss Liska helped us.”
“Ah. Great.”
 
——
 
There was a slightly longer wait to get into the inn today. Jelaqua wasn’t sure why, but suspected Lord Mireden had contributed to the crowds—until she heard and saw someone walking down the line and realized it was also on Pallass’ side.
“Citizens of Pallass! This is a Public Warning issued by the Assembly of Crafts across all floors!”
An official of some sort was marching down the street and shouting, and sounds reduced temporarily as everyone turned. Jelaqua pivoted, surprised.
“All floors?”
Normally, you heard this kind of thing semi-frequently advising of incidents such as crime or a burst water main or elevator being down, mostly safely. But an all-floors announcement…the Wyvern attack sprung to mind, but that had been too fast for an alert like this. Besides, if it was huge, they’d use the spells to speak across the city. Jelaqua listened as the Drake went on.
“There have been sightings of a Vorpal Rat entering and exiting the sewers! All citizens are instructed to remain calm but report any odd smells or traces of large monsters to your nearest Watch or security station at once! Thank you!”
Jelaqua smirked slightly as the official passed, though most citizens were whispering, somewhat nervous.
“Only one?”
The official had to pause as Healer Ulla waved a claw and clarified, yes, only the one. When he’d passed on, the [Healer] turned to Jelaqua.
“A monster in Pallass! Normally, it’s just Sewer Slimes—what’s so funny, Adventurer Ivirith? It might not be a threat to you or Master Maughin, but I shudder to imagine a child running into a—a Vorpal Rat!”
Jelaqua was trying not to snigger, and she explained hurriedly.
“Sorry, I’m not making light—it’s just whomever reported that thing didn’t know what they saw. Vorpal Rats don’t exist. They’re an urban legend.”
Some people in line turned to Jelaqua, and Ulla frowned.
“What? Surely they do. With how many rat breeds, there has to be one—?”
“Nope. Believe me, I’ve read bestiaries and hunted rats long enough across multiple continents. It’s one of those fake monsters that sounds real. It’s probably a placeholder or something until they figure out what it is. Sort of sloppy though, eh, Chaldion?”
She nudged the wheelchair, and the Drake—twitched slightly. His eyes flicked up and went down until he was staring at the ground. Jelaqua and Ulla waited, hopefully, but he said nothing.
“Well, whatever it is, I hope they catch it!”
“Probably just a Giant Rat. You can get ‘em eighteen feet long without the tail. Don’t worry, though, Pallass keeps their sewers cleaner’n that.”
Jelaqua began describing the multitudinous rat species she’d fought and killed, some of which could be Gold-rank threats at size or in nests large enough. Then she realized no one was interested and sighed. It was hard being an adventurer.
 
——
 
The lines moved fast enough after that, and then they were in the inn where a rather amused Liska was having fun.
“Where’s the inn? I dunno. It’s a mystery.”
“You have to know. I want to see the inside!”
A man with a round belly and [Merchant]’s attire was bothering her. Liska scratched at her stomach.
“Listen, buddy. I just get paid to operate the door. I don’t do tours of the inn, wherever it is.”
She was having way too much fun from the twinkling in her eyes. The [Healer] and Jelaqua moved towards the door as the [Merchant] peered around as if he couldn’t see it. His voice took on a hopeless tone.
“But surely they have to pay you! Or you have some inkling of where you go to get to it?”
Liska scratched at her chin.
“Well, it’s hard to say. Sometimes it feels like a huge journey to get from the inn to here. I often think, ‘can I make the trip?’ And sometimes I just give up. That’s why they gave me the couch, see?”
She pointed to it. Liska nodded to the people in line, clearly eavesdropping and aware of the new phenomenon.
“It’s a long and winding path. I can’t motivate myself, sometimes, even though I get free meals…lots of hiking.”
“Aha! So it’s in the mountains?”
“The ups, the downs, the straightaways…who can say?”
Jelaqua managed to get into the hallway before she started laughing. She passed down the trap corridor and into the dreadfully far inn where Liska sometimes felt her courage falter and the horrifically tall staircase to her room the Gnoll sometimes gave up on. Or maybe she’d been referring to the outhouses.
“Jelaqua! There’s my favorite Selphid! Are you coming regularly again?”
Nanette bounced over, and Jelaqua tousled her hair.
“The only Selphid you know! Thanks anyways, and maybe—I’m here on business actually. Here’s old Chaldion—is Pelt in? Anything interesting happen?”
She doubted it, but better to check here than look silly in Esthelm. Besides, getting the daily scoop was important.
Nanette shook her head; she’d braided pigtails today.
“So far? No Goblin Kings.”
“Ah, nice, nice. Where’s Lyonette?”
She normally was about, but Nanette sighed.
“Having morning singing practice with her friends. I don’t want to sing. Mrsha’s off at school. And I’m studying! Today, I’m taking lessons with Hethon.”
“As in Hethon Veltras? You do that every day?”
“Nope! Sometimes it’s Riverfarm and [Witches], sometimes I just do what I want.”
Not a bad life. Jelaqua nodded.
“Esthelm then. I’ve got to help Maughin with forge stuff.”
“Ooh, if you’re there, can you see if you can find Randy for us? He didn’t come in last night, and Lyonette isn’t worried so much as curious. He’s got all kinds of projects he keeps hinting he needs Rhaldon’s help for, and guess who’s coming?”
“…Rhaldon? Do I know him?”
“Black skin, drives a wagon with one of Erin’s rooms in it? Does [Alchemy]? Termin’s apprentice?”
“Uh…yeah! Sure, I’ll ask about K—Randy.”
Right, she had to remember Kevin was dead. Kevin…another person Jelaqua had to catch up on. She shook her head and did an about-face. Esthelm.
 
——
 
Esthelm was filled with people! They were all flooding towards the crafter’s district where huge signboards were advertising.
Charms of Liscor & Esthelm! Unique trinkets with powerful effects! Limited quantities!
 
“Huh. He actually did it, the tall bugger.”
Jelaqua hadn’t been there when Lord Moore had pulled his stunt, but she’d heard the buzz, and she put her hands on her hips. She bet he’d commissioned that signboard; it looked too snazzy with actual paint to be slapdash.
An organized Moore with magical acumen and who could play politics or economics. What a threat.
Her heart hurt. Jelaqua shook her head, resolving to check out said charms later. First, Pelt.
 
——
 
The problem with Master Pelt was that he was no longer a drunken wretch held hostage by his grief and guilt. It meant the Dwarf had a schedule and work. So did Emessa; she didn’t even appear at the entrance to his large forge. Another apprentice, a young Human man, turned Jelaqua away until the Selphid dropped the inn by name. Then Emessa poked her head out.
“We’re both busy forging, Jelaqua! Master Pelt will just throw his hammer at you if you interrupt—it’s magical fire! It doesn’t wait! Can you come back in forty-five minutes? Between forges is the only time to talk!”
“Sure!”
Jelaqua had to shake her head as a plume of greenish sparks engulfed the Drake, and she went back to hammering on something, swearing like a drunken [Sailor]. The Selphid backed up.
I can kill 45 minutes. Her first instinct was of course to check out the charms, but one look at the crowd of people blocking Gemcutter Avenue and Jelaqua decided she’d still be in line by the time forty five minutes had passed..
