“So teach me. I was thinking it yesterday when we met. I thought—you’d know how to fight. Relc’s too busy, and besides, he’s an upstanding guy, even if he was a [Soldier]. No one but an adventurer knows what it’s like to be ambushed or fight dirty. The only other guys I could ask is Vaulont or Elia. One’s creeped out by me as much as I am of him, and the other’s weird.”
“Teach you? I don’t have time f—why would I teach you when I don’t think you should be fighting? You have a business, Kevin! A good one! Why are you going out hunting monsters?”
For answer, the young man just sat on the desk, smiling. And his blue eyes gazed down, down at something that made Rinli shiver.
“This is going to sound super lame, but somehow, it’s true. When I was in Hell, I swore that if I came back, I’d do it differently. Try, and I did try in this. But…safely. I didn’t fight the battles that Erin did, because I was always a coward. I didn’t think I could. It took seeing a version of me with syphilis and a shotgun trying to murder the Goblin King to realize ‘oh yeah, that’s just an excuse.’ I’m all out of excuses. And shits to give. So with respect to you, Jelaqua, and Ryoka, I’m done playing nice with this world.”
It was a funny, Kevin-like way of saying things. But if you knew him, it was also faintly unnerving. Because he meant it. The same young man who’d taken a look around and decided he wanted to be the funny bike-guy had made a business selling overvalued bicycles to monarchs. Then taken the profits and decided to give technology and aid to Goblins…and no one had ever known that.
Now, he was glancing at a bookcase on the far wall that Rinli knew held a safe with diagrams in it. And one more thing. An odd tube of red with a brass cap that made her [Dangersense] go off every time she saw it.
Jelaqua Ivirith had none of this context. All she saw was a young man she had liked who had come back from the dead and spoke like this.
“Sounds like you’ve got a deathwish, Kevin. I’ve met adventurers like you, and I don’t party with them, nor do I encourage what you’re doing. I should stop you or at least tell the inn if your staff won’t stop you themselves.”
She glanced at Rinli, and the young woman hesitated, but Kevin just smiled tiredly at Jelaqua.
“I don’t feel like dying twice, Jelaqua. Roshal came for me once. They nearly got Imani. Now I get how Erin felt after coming back. Do you think she’s not thinking about dying? It’s the opposite of a deathwish. It’s a ‘fuck-you’ wish. You’ve gotta be alive to see your enemies burn, right?”
The Selphid thought this over, then sighed loudly.
“Nagas take it, and here I was complaining about not having anything to do. I’m watching you. If I think you’re going too far, I’m hitting you and calling Lyonette on you, got it? Otherwise, count me in. If you help me with Maughin’s thing, I’ll give you some combat training.”
Kevin grinned, and he hopped down from his desk.
“Deal.”
He spat into the palm of his hand and held it out. Jelaqua made a face.
“Eugh, what kind of barbaric tradition is that?”
“Aw, damn. Is that not what they do? I thought—”
She laughed, spat orange into her hand, and slapped it against his so hard he winced. Rinli got a rag so they could wipe the spit off. Then she turned to Kevin.
“Solar Cycles is with you, Kevin. Just say the word. But you have to tell us what the word is.”
She met his eyes, and his face turned rueful.
“I’m not going to involve you guys in this, Rinli. This is serious. If you want to help, then I’ve got plans. I need some engineering help, and you’re the best in Izril. Well, you and maybe Laken’s trebuchet [Engineers] or Pallass’ Guild. But it’s got to be secret, understood? More secret than…”
He trailed off. So she spat into her hand and held it out, and he blinked at her, then shook hands.
“This is really gross.”
 
——
 
Thus it was that Jelaqua had a new problem, and she already had one with Maughin! But Kevin might have been the right card to play, because when she got to Pelt’s forge, he was indeed busy and the assistant tried to turn her away.
Kevin and Rinli just marched past him. The young man shouted.
“Hey, Pelt! It’s Randy, your favorite not-Unicorn! Got a second?”
There was a pause in the rhythm of metal, then a Dwarf came stomping out of his inner sanctum. His beard was covered in shards of molten crystal, and his glare did not spare Kevin, even when Pelt grabbed him up in a bone-crushing hug.
“You brat! This had better be good or I’ll put you on the anvil! My crystal’s cooling—get in here! Oh wait, it’s the Selphid. I knew your husband would come himself or send you. Get in here.”
He rushed back to his forge where crystal was cooling on an anvil; Pelt began heating it again and hitting it with his hammer. Jelaqua leaned over to Kevin.
“I don’t think crystal should do that. It’s a rock, right?”
Kevin shrugged.
“It’s Pelt. He can hammer anything. I think Emessa uses molds.”
The swearing Dwarf finished his hammering and put his piece aside to be worked on later. Then he pushed up two goggles on his face and glared.
“Damn crystal shards. I forgot why I hated working with it! Capturing magic from flames…damn stupid idea. But catch that lot at Dwarfhalls Rest doing this?”
There were indeed magical flames shooting out from a custom-built forge that let the flames roar up around an anvil Pelt was working on. The anvil was bright and shiny. Jelaqua whistled.
“Is that…Mithril?”
Pelt gave her a slightly approving, and very smug, look.
“Has to be. The only thing that won’t impart the crystal with an element.”
“What about silver?”
Kevin was interested, and Pelt spat.
“Silver? Silver’s a bastard’s metal. Purity and paugh, no! I’d rather use damn glass if I had to do without Mithril. Which I don’t, so shut up about metals, boy. You don’t want to be a smith. Leave the metallurgy to me. Now, who’s first? Maughin’s Adamantium or whatever you need this time? You’re not dead; that’s a start.”
Kevin rubbed one shoulder.
“I need to work on designs, but I think it’s Hedault or just…padding. This is all Jelaqua. She’s got a forge problem?”
Pelt smirked, and Jelaqua raised a fist.
“Something tells me he knows what the problem is and he’s been letting Maughin stew in it for months rather than help. Now that I’m retired, I don’t get in trouble with the Guild for hitting people, you know. Just the Watch.”
The Dwarf reached for a flask of water and drank greedily.
“The day you and I brawl, Ivirith, is the day you need a new body. Maughin doesn’t get any levels nor experience for having me giftwrap solutions. He’s learned how to forge a pound of Adamantium, right?”
“And cut the damn stuff off the block. Sure. Why?”
Pelt nodded sagely.
“He could do all that with a forge as mediocre as Pallass’ ones. The fact that he’s asking for more means he’s ready.”
That made Jelaqua excited; Pelt’s taciturnly tacit endorsement meant a lot. She wished Maughin were here, but Pelt would have probably been even worse.
“Well, what’s the problem?”
“The problem—siddown, boy, before you fall flat on my anvil—is that Maughin’s realized the thing I knew the moment I walked into the City of Inventions. All their forges are too small.”
“They’ve got the biggest smelters this side of Izril!”
“Too small’s too small, Ivirith. They’re made to mass-churn steel, which they do well. It’s not the same as a forge for magical metals. I blame the leaders of the city, not the planners, myself. I know they used to have bigger forges, but they moved all the [Smiths] to the 9th Floor. ‘Too noisy and intrusive’. Hah! It was only about a hundred years back—they used to be on the 2nd Floor. When we heard that at Derithal-Vel, we knew the Assembly of Crafts were idiots and they’d lost their Master Smiths.”
Kevin snapped his fingers.
“Oh, damn. So those original forges…?”
“Probably there weren’t as many, but they definitely could have been repurposed to Adamantium again. Without it, Maughin’s stuck. What is he having problems with? The weight of the forge? The heating mechanism?”
“Uh, yep. But the real issue is paperwork. No one wants to fund it, let alone allocate space for it.”
Pelt spat his water onto the ground. He roared.
“Drake politics! This is why I left that damn city!”
“I thought you left because Miss Erin and her inn charmed you away, Master Pelt.”
That came from Rinli of all people! Jelaqua blinked as Pelt swore at her, but apparently, he tolerated her sass—he grumbled into his mug.
“I’m ignoring that. Maughin has to make his damn forge! I’ve been counting on it! How the hell am I supposed to smith Adamantium if he doesn’t make it?”
Everyone stared at him, and now Jelaqua’s eyes narrowed. She crossed her arms.
“You old snake. You want to borrow his forge?”
Pelt gave her an innocent peek over the edge of his water bottle.
“An Adamantium Forge isn’t something I could have Esthelm build. If I save up enough, it’s possible, but a waste of my time and coin. Plus, the expertise required…and before you ask, no, I’m not doing it again in the middle of a road. I’ll have a crater a thousand feet deep in no time, and besides, the ground isn’t level enough to let me do more than forge rough pieces like the ingot.”
Jelaqua turned to Kevin.
“Can I hit him?”
The [Mechanic] was grinning as he sat on a bench of tools.
“Pelt, you’ve gotta help Maughin a bit. It’s hotter than a blast forge, isn’t it? Titanium is one thing, but Adamantium? How’s Maughin supposed to figure all that out?”
“I thought every [Enchanter] in the city would be all over him. Why’s Pallass ignoring its best smith? Magus Grimalkin being besotted over that bag-wearing snob is one thing…”
Jelaqua had to explain the political problems with Wistram to the Dwarf. At this point, Emessa had come out of her own smithy, and they were eating brunch—the Dwarf was scarfing mostly meat down from a charcuterie platter it turned out he really liked; Rinli had brought one for him, and he kept toasting some of the meat on a tray he passed through the forge fire.
“Wistram! Just as well that Archmage doesn’t claim to be forging metal. I should have known idiots would be all over his magical crap. It was like this with Zelkyr, you know. I was just a brat when he was around, but it was Golems this, Golems that! You couldn’t walk a step in a Walled City without seeing a Golem. They were replacing the Watch, the army…I wonder what happened to them.”
He tugged at his beard, frowning. Jelaqua tried to get them back on track.
“So, it’s not Maughin’s fault he’s not got a forge together. Can you give me a list of specifications, Master Pelt?”
He frowned and rubbed at one ear.
“Mayhap…but it’s not exactly about how it’s made. Just that it works. All kinds of forges work. Clan Tannousin used to make do in a giant bowl in the desert. There’s a forge in Samal I saw once that uses sunlight. Stupidest thing—you can only forge in the daylight and only certain spots.”
“How hot do you have to get the sunlight to melt Adamantium? And how? Mirrors?”
“Yep. Huge dome of ‘em. Some kind of magic to make the light stronger…it’s dangerous as can be. I threw a hammer through one of the beams on a dare. Vanished in a second. Maughin probably just needs a huge smelter that can contain the heat he’ll be working with. Once it’s out of the flames, a reinforced anvil will do, but he’ll need an Amulet of Flame Resistance, at the least, and Skills to endure the heat. An Amulet of Greater Flame Resistance would be better, but I don’t know if the Drakes have that lying around.”
This sounded like a huge undertaking. Jelaqua’s heart sank. Kevin was just curious.
“That’s all? Really?”
“Heat and a place to hit the metal, boy. Wait…no. He’s not me, so he might need help with that last bit.”
Pelt was counting on his finger and added a third finger. He grimaced.
“Adamantium is hard. One of the hardest damn metals known to any species. Maughin’s strong as you get, but even he’ll sweat to bend the metal enough. Ideally, he’d have what they have in Dwarfhome and Dwarfhalls Rest—a Magic Hammer.”
Kevin’s eyes lit up.
“Oh shit, you’ve got automated hammers?”
Pelt glared again.
“You Earth-Humans take all the joy out of life, do you know that?”
“We’ve got machines that do the same! They smash down metal without needing a hammer—what’re yours?”
“Big. Big enough to move massive pieces of steel. One of those is what we use for Adamantium if it’s not a Master Smith like me. Heh. Those idiots in the Assembly of Crafts think they got rid of the smithing sounds? Maughin will shake the city down to the 1st Floor regardless of how he’s working the Adamantium!”
Pelt chuckled evilly, and Jelaqua wrote down ‘noise cancellation’ and underlined it a few times on her list. She stared down glumly at the sheet.
“Well, I’ll tell Maughin, but it sounds like he’s going to have trouble, Pelt.”
“Tell him to come here himself and I’ll at least remind myself which spells were cast on the forges back home. No, wait. Tell him to bring Grimalkin and we’ll see if Pallass can equal it. Also tell him to buy all the fire magicore he can; that’s how you get a proper heat going. No, wait, also tell him he needs Mithril even if he has to buy it from Dwarfhalls Rest. I reckon that’s the best way to build the structure of the smelter. But he has to insulate it from the heat since it’ll melt in no time while the Adamantium’s cooking. Right, so tell him fire magicore and Everfrozen Ice or Grasgil—”
“Tell him yourself!”
 
——
 
Getting Pelt to take a break from his forge and visit Pallass took some doing. However, again, Jelaqua lucked out. Rinli had a way to lure Pelt from his smithy, and it wasn’t merely food or drink.
“Master Pelt, what if I were to get Felkhr the Flying Gnoll and Master Hedault to join you? With Magus Grimalkin? I’ll have a scrying mirror set up at his home, and I believe there’s an arena match in Pomle happening.”
The old Dwarf wavered, and it again transpired that sitting and watching arena bouts was a great pastime of his—especially if he had a crowd of people he tolerated.
“Hmph. I have a day of work to be done—! But if it’s for the Adamantium forge…”
“I have some of Farmer Lupp’s fresh corn from the north. I could have it grilled by Chef Lasica and sent up?”
“Fresh corn? Why didn’t you say so! And get me some of that crab stuff from Liscor. Not Rock Crabs. The good crab. You coming, Kevin?”
“Right behind you, Pelt. Think the inn can help with the forge?”
