So she went somewhere else instead. The main square where the [Florist]’s statue stood. Lord Moore had told her a bit about how the charms worked. Meaning…something The Wandering Inn was good at making. But what did it actually look like?
 
——
 
No one was touching the [Florist]’s statue. Or rather, some people were and being threatened with bodily harm if they damaged it. Much less took a piece off.
Miss Ediya, the [Runecrafter], had a metalworking hammer, and she was swinging it dangerously.
“Try to chip a piece of the statue off and we’ll put nails through your head! It doesn’t work like that, and the rest of you can clear off!”
She and a number of [Crafters] seemed to be warding off a lot of copycats trying to steal whatever this was—with no success. The artisans were, in fact, cordoning off smaller areas around the statue. They had put up what seemed like drying racks to Jelaqua—only instead of food hanging from the strings, it was little objects.
“This is all we’re doing, [Mayor]. Nothing else—it’s only busybodies and [Thieves] who’ll try to do more. No one should get in the way of the [Florist]. I swear.”
Ediya turned to the [Mayor] and a group of the Watch, and the man frowned.
“This is it?”
“Yes, just a place near the statue to, well, collect.”
Ediya glanced at the observers who were trying to figure out the method to her madness. She turned to another man hanging up a charm he’d fashioned.
“This is no good. We’ll have to hire our own guards. Especially if we have multiple sites—though I’ll bet stealing charms is as bad luck as you can get. Actual bad luck; who’s got offerings?”
“Here.”
Jelaqua watched, fascinated, as the group added something to the base of the statue. It seemed like it didn’t matter to the observers, who were trying to see the magic or other more obvious power sources at play here. But what mattered was the bundle of objects put at the statue’s feet.
Flowers for the [Florist] and little weapons for the Goblins. Arrowheads, a small sword—perhaps items you could turn into charms, but mostly, Moore had said, just—tributes.
Does it matter? Ediya arranged the offerings and spoke.
“We should have a place for all of this. And a way to keep [Thieves] at bay. The first charms I’ll make will be for that, but better to have eyes at all times. This is an important spot, [Mayor]. And if it wasn’t before, now it’s worth more than just memory.”
She pointed at the base of the statue, and Jelaqua wondered how many more places in the world could create…meaning.
“A changing world. If I were a Bronze-rank rookie, I’d be putting my gold towards my first charm here as well as my first bit of magic. Here first, probably. Prices are way better than getting something enchanted.”
Then again, if Wistram really did create a magical revolution, maybe everyone would just walk around with [Fireball] spells at Level 10.
She’d killed some time here, but seeing the [Charmcrafters] making their trinkets and hanging them up got old after about, oh, ten minutes. So, Jelaqua walked on again, and there was one place she could kill time at forever.
The Adventurer’s Guilds in every city were always different flavors, but Jelaqua knew and loved them all. From the rough and rowdy ones filled with blood and guts to the high-class establishments where everyone was playing politics—she strode into Esthelm’s and nodded.
Silver-rankers at best. Local monster suppression and cave-contracts or guarding [Miners]. Not the place where an adventurer stayed, but a good place to get a start.
In fact, a higher number of Drakes and Gnolls told her that this was where Liscor’s Bronze-ranks were coming to get their start, especially in the rainy season. They turned to her, of course, and a [Receptionist] at the desk started.
“Are you here to register or work, Miss…?”
“Jelaqua. Gold-rank adventurer. Retired. Don’t mind if I look around, d’you?”
“Of course not! Welcome, Adventurer Jelaqua! Can I get you anything to drink?”
“Nah, nah…actually, do you have some water? Thank you so much.”
Her title instantly attracted eyes. But unlike normal, Jelaqua didn’t put some of the Silver-ranking teams in fear they’d lose jobs. Normally, Gold-rankers got treated like celebrities and villains who’d run you out of work if they felt like it.
Retired, though, meant she was suddenly Apista’s knees. Then she was the granny with tips and tricks to hand out and plenty of time to give an adventurer advice. Jelaqua swept into the room, grinning and feeling old.
They were so damn young. Some were actually older, but even a man in his forties felt young to her in experience. The first one to come up was a nervous Bronze-rank team.
“Adventurer Jelaqua? We heard about your team, and we’re huge fans. C-can I ask for an autograph and some advice?”
“Autographs? What am I, famous?”
They gave her earnest looks—they were three sixteen year olds. Two Gnolls and a Human. Oh, dead gods, it made her heart hurt.
“Bronze-ranks? How many weeks have you been adventuring?”
“This is our second one! I’m Migni, and this is Jerres and Kivry. They’re Silverfangs. I’m the [Warrior], and they’re [Hunters]. We’ve been hunting local monsters and doing gathering and small hunting quests, but we thought maybe we should take something bigger. There’s a Beaker nest about here and—”
Jelaqua swept her eyes over Migni and the two lads in a second. She had their measure. Migni was wearing cheap, cheap leather armor, and the two Gnolls had on even less; they were barechested with quivers slung over their backs and shortbows they’d use to kill game. She held up a hand.
“Hold on! If you’re coming to me for advice, you’re going to listen, right?”
The girl stopped and nodded rapidly; she was red-cheeked, and the two Gnoll lads were staring at her with slight awe. She was surprised Gnolls…no, they’d had a reputation among the tribes as well. And, Jelaqua remembered, they’d fought with Lehra and killed Wall Lord Dragial at the Meeting of Tribes.
Better times. She smiled and crooked a finger.
“Siddown, kids. First things first, who’s over Level 10?”
The two boys. Migni was not. She had a [Fighter] class at Level 6; Jelaqua shook her head.
“Beakers are big damn bastards. Not as big as a Mothbear, but they can take your head off in a single bite. Now, what does the request say?”
“Only one, so we thought—”
“One means you plan on two or more. What if it’s a nest or it has a mate? Second, none of you are high-level enough. I bet your two friends have been keeping monsters off your back while you smash a few, Migni? You need to know what happens when shit hits the teleportation spell and you’re all fighting in a mess. If it’s a Beaker, you also need armor. No bare chests unless you have a Skill or shamanic armor.”
She pointed at one of the Gnolls, and Jerres growled a protest.
“We’ve hunted Beakers before, Adventurer Ivirith!”
“With a group of how many? Eight? You’re shooting way fewer arrows if it’s the two of you, kid. And it’s going to come at you fast. How were you going to take it on? Traps?”
They had the idea to just place a simple net trap the two Gnolls reckoned they could rig up at the mouth of a cave, and Jelaqua tsked. She asked for a parchment and quill when the [Receptionist] gave her the water and drew a rough sketch.
“You come with traps prepared and be ready to be jumped when you’re placing them. No improvising on the spot unless you know you’re safe, and Beakers hunt. I’d do it like this, see? Trap here, here, and if you’re at the entrance and it’s not dying, you run. Let it bleed out and go to ground.”
Bronze-rankers were taking notes as she ran them through a trial hunt. Jelaqua almost wished she could go out with them just to show how it was done; she could beat a Beaker barehanded at her level. But they’d never level, and she didn’t have that much time to trek for an hour and then gut it and get back to Pelt.
At least this way they might have a chance. Once they passed their first fifteen levels, Bronze-rankers usually made it. And you levelled by peeing when you were that young.
Ah, she envied them. And didn’t. Jelaqua peered as the two Gnolls conferred with the dismayed Human girl and coughed.
“Lads, one more piece of advice from a Gold-ranker veteran?”
They gazed at her, and she winked at Migni.
“Either get your confessions out now and let Miss Migni talk it out or figure out a way for the three of you to coexist. Because if you’re lucky, you’ll just disband over romance and heartbreak. If it happens during a mission, you all die. Got it?”
Both Gnolls turned bright red under their fur, which you could actually faintly see, and Migni blushed as she whirled to study them.
Two Silverfang lads joining together with a young woman for an adventuring team? Not hard to exactly figure out why, especially how they regarded each other. She was hardly oblivious, Jelaqua bet, but probably too young to confront it.
Well, the uproarious laughter and jeers from other adventurers nearly chased the poor rookie team from the Guild—until Jelaqua slapped someone on the butt.
“Oi! Don’t mock the rookies. You were young once—wait, you’re all young, damn. Anyone else want free advice? I’m just an old woman, so it’s not like you’ve gotta take it.”
A Human woman raised a hand and spoke, a touch sour.
“Any word on what’s the most value if you’re trying to earn money as a Silver-ranker? It’s slim pickings if you can’t do Liscor’s dungeon! Too many teams from other cities come by and hunt the best requests down.”
Jelaqua thought about it.
“Either repeat guard work on [Miner] teams or see about culling monster nests. One’s boring, the other’s dirty, difficult work. No one wants to do either, see? But put in a month of both and the teams you protect will know you’re not some random team and might up your fee or cut you in on what they mine. Monster nests? There’s always someone with lots of gold who wants one taken care of fast. Get a hundred monster nests done and the Guild issues you a certificate that you can use.”
“A hundred nests?”
Someone exclaimed, dismayed, and Jelaqua laughed softly as she took a drink.
“That’s nothing. You’ll hit that no matter what by the time you reach Gold-rank. You all know how, right? Dead gods.”
 
——
 
Jelaqua didn’t even feel the time fly by in the Guild. She was just thinking it was time to head back to Pelt as she stopped giving anxious rookies tips on how to heal up without potions. Jelaqua sauntered back to the desk to give the mug back and thank the [Receptionist]—and ask if it was okay if she came back now and then—when she heard an argument.
The Guildmaster himself—another retired fellow, probably a Silver-ranker—was arguing at the desk with a rather dirty and banged-up fellow. Who stank. Both of noxious alchemical powders and blood.
“So let me understand this, Mister…”
“Randy.”
“Randy. You’d like to claim the contract on the Beaker? But you’re not an adventurer, and you didn’t register the quest with anyone.”
“Yup. I killed it, it’s dead. Look, I’m not even asking for the reward, I’m just telling you so no one wastes time on it.”
Jelaqua halted and eyed the young man with sandy blonde hair and tanned skin. He looked bad. And from the way he was wincing every time he moved his arm…she came up behind him as the [Guildmaster] glowered.
“Sir, this isn’t how the Adventurer’s Guild operates at all! A civilian cannot claim a contract—open bounties are one thing, but this is a registered mission! And how do we even know you’re telling the truth?”
“Look, I’ll swear on a truth stone I did it! I’m not—people can’t just go out and kill monsters?”
“You’re depriving adventurers of work!”
“It was sitting in a cave trying to eat people! I—aaaaaagh! My arm!”
That last part was because Jelaqua had snuck up and clicked Randy, or rather, Kevin’s arm back into its joint. She had to wiggle it around a few times before she heard it pop right; you could do it wrong and set it incorrectly, as he’d clearly done. Even healing potions didn’t fix that.
“Heya, Randy! How’s it going? You look like shit.”
Scorch marks on his skin. Popped blisters…on his cheeks, and his clothing was burnt down on both shoulders. Why? No bites on him, and a Beaker would have taken a massive chunk out. He jumped and whirled.
“Jelaqua! Oh shit—”
“You know this young man, Captain Ivirith?”
The Guildmaster blinked as Jelaqua slung an arm around Kevin’s shoulders.
“I do. If he says he killed the Beaker, he killed it. Look, he’s from the inn—they’re crazy over there. The [Innkeeper] herself once killed an entire nest of Shield Spiders. Took the job right out of Gazi the Omniscient’s hands. I say just mark it as done and give some Bronze-rank team the reward money. But make ‘em go to the nest and clear it out. You didn’t clear the nest, did you, Randy?”
The [Receptionist] and everyone listening stared at this edited tale of Erin Solstice. It wasn’t true; Jelaqua had heard the tale second-hand and embellished it, but it was true enough. Kevin just wiped at his face.
“Clear the nest? How? The, uh, Beaker thing’s mostly in pieces.”
“So…you didn’t dispose of the corpse? Harvest it for parts? Get rid of its nest so another Beaker doesn’t settle in the cave because it’s already made?”
Kevin opened his mouth, then grimaced.
“Nope. Damn, sorry…I just got out of there.”
“Cleanup work, then. Why don’t you assign that trio for it?”
Jelaqua nodded at Migni’s team, and the Guildmaster nodded. He eyed Randy, then turned to Jelaqua.
“That’s acceptable. If you tell this young man about needing to either register or not try his hand at slaying monsters, I’ll sort out the paperwork.”
“By the looks of it, he figured that out the hard way. Thank you—and I’ll pop back when I’m bored, if that’s okay?”
Both [Receptionist] and Guildmaster assured her she was welcome any time, and Jelaqua grinned. She walked out, Kevin under one arm.
“Now let’s get you cleaned up and some new clothing. Before anyone at the inn sees you. They were asking me to find you.”
Kevin squinted at the sun as he glanced around.
“Sorry. I passed out and woke up two hours ago. Damn, I think I have some clothing in Solar Cycles. I can grab that and wash before I get back. Ishkr might smell it, or Liska, but they’re cool. Thanks, Jelaqua.”
He smiled at her. She smiled back gently. Then she grabbed one of his ears.
“Right, and now you tell me what the hells you were thinking trying to take a Beaker on solo! And if you lie, then this ear gets it. You can live without one.”
