Rhaldon nodded once. Then he wobbled out into the inn to go find his carriage for a second. He had to trek back to it in Invrisil. But inside, he stared at the room he’d leased from Erin and the objects strewn about it.
After staring upside-down at one particular contraption, Rhaldon muttered to himself.
“Damn guns.”
He produced the bag of holding Calidus had given him, swept a few inventions into it, and sighed.
 
——
 
Jelaqua Ivirith might not have gotten the context of Kevin and Rhaldon’s heated conversation in the [Garden of Sanctuary], but she understood enough from watching the two young men leave. When Kevin slumped back into the garden, he threw himself onto the ground.
“Shit. That was my best chance.”
He glanced up as Jelaqua leaned on the wall of the garden dome next to him.
“Planning on doing a lot of killing, Kevin?”
He stared down at his hands. He still had the shotgun shell in hand, and he studied it and the name written there.
“I dunno. Maybe? I never thought I’d say it, but Erin’s bad at killing people. Or she’s got too many enemies. Seems to me like it’d make everything so much cleaner and simpler if someone stepped up.”
“It won’t. Take it from me.”
Jelaqua’s pupils were glowing a faint orange, and Kevin glowered at her.
“I’m not going to go around just shooting everyone. You think if Roshal’s [Slave Lords] died tomorrow, the world wouldn’t get better?”
She stared at the ceiling.
“Yeah, in some ways. But they’d just make more of them; shoot the Hydra’s heads and they always grow back. Sometimes nastier than you think a replacement could be. It’s very hard to kill your way out of a problem, Kevin. Believe me. I’ve tried it.”
The young man was angry. Shaken from his near-death experience. He began to retort when his brain finally caught up with his ears. Then he peered up at her as Rinli glanced at Jelaqua.
“Tried it how? Like, you were a [Mercenary] in Baleros. That’s not what I meant. I mean—I’m not trying to fight a war. I don’t even know how to get at…what do you mean?”
The Selphid glanced at Rinli. The [Assistant] took the cue and stepped back. Then Jelaqua just stared ahead.
“The funny thing about living until you’re as old as I am is that you get tired, Kevin. Tired of one life—so you switch. I used to be a poor [Fisher]. Then a [Bounty Hunter]. I killed plenty of people just to make coins. Felt like that wasn’t getting me anywhere, switched to [Mercenary], ran a company. Got a lot of people killed…on my side and theirs. Went off. Became a Silver-rank adventurer. Realized it felt better helping people than killing them.”
He listened, toying with the shell, as she stared ahead.
“Funny thing about being a Halfseeker—it’s not easy. Your entire motto is about being someone there for those who are alone, and plenty of people decide that’s a personal attack. You stand between the little white Gnoll and their tribe and you’re the bad guy.”
“Mrsha? No…you’ve met Doombearers before?”
She didn’t answer that. Jelaqua went on steadily.
“You find them in any city you come to. There always has to be someone everyone hates. Half-Elves amongst Humans. Scorchlings amongst Drakes. Gnolls amongst Drakes. Doombearers amongst Gnolls…the species change, but you get so tired of trying to do the right thing. Moore never got tired. But even he lost his patience.”
She remembered the expression of wrath on his face, and her heart hurt. So, Jelaqua whispered.
“Sometimes…you just wonder if the big, bad [Lord] goes away then maybe that solves it. If that one bastard vanishes and it appears all innocent? Maybe they stop throwing stones. Only, then his daughter decides he was right. Or his [Chamberlain]. Or just that loudmouth who thought Lord So-And-So had a point. And then your bag of holding is getting full, and people are asking questions, and you’re sitting in a graveyard stitching a face onto a corpse at midnight and you ask yourself whether this is better.”
“Jesus. But didn’t it help? What’re you supposed to do when the bastards come calling? When they shoot you for just existing?”
Kevin was feeling at his chest. Grimacing like Rhaldon. Jelaqua Ivirith regarded him. And she saw a rookie. Not someone in the wrong field, but a rookie. Gently, she squatted down next to him and sat in the grass.
“I never said you stop fighting. Every now and then there’s a Dragial, and you charge and he dies because you don’t let him get away. I’m just saying, Kevin…if you want to halt things, you’d better either have Rhaldon make you a thousand of those things, one for every single person in the crowd, or you’d better find the magic Erin has.”
He thought about it.
“…Beating down rioters with her friends?”
She cuffed him lightly. Jelaqua pointed to the shell in his hands.
“Sure. You know what I mean. That’s not your first weapon, Kevin. That’s the one they never see coming. They never shot you because they thought you were making weapons. They shot you because of Solar Cycles. Because of her.”
She pointed at Rinli, and Kevin’s eyes rose. He glanced at his [Assistant], the young woman who could put together a bicycle blindfolded and do a three sixty also blindfolded, and she waved at him. Kevin glanced down at the red tube between his fingers and put it away.
“—Well, I feel stupid now. I guess…I guess I’ve been feeling like I have to be that warrior I saw. But he looked fucking miserable. Thanks, Jelaqua.”
She hugged him one-armed, which turned into a real hug. And she whispered as she patted him on the back.
“Once you kill one of them, you’re dead too. I’d rather have this silly guy. Maybe it’s worth it to take out one bastard even if it costs your life or you’re on the run forever—but I was always too scared.”
She gave him a shamefaced expression as he gazed at her, searching her face for the moments in her long history she meant. Jelaqua just turned her head.
“Hey, Rinli, we’re done! I think what we all need is to get poor Rhaldon some food and start over, agreed? What say you all we get a pizza?”
Kevin smiled faintly as he dug his hands to his pockets and seemed to relax for the first time since she’d seen him.
“Yeah. That sounds nice.”
 
——
 
Rhaldon reappeared sooner than anyone expected, seeming less rested, but slightly better.
“I’ve given your proposal thought, Kevin. I’ve run into setbacks by myself, and I’d love help—with my projects, if you’re willing to chat. As for yours—”
“Hey, your projects are good enough for me. C’mon in. Want pizza?”
Kevin rose and ushered him to the table with pizza. They were in a private room of the inn, and Asgra was taking orders. It seemed they’d made up, and Kevin was the first to properly apologize.
“Dude. It was my fault. I should have known how crazy I sounded. If I were in your shoes and you told me to join the military-industrial complex, I’d have told you to shove a wrench up your ass. I get it.”
“I’m not saying I don’t understand. I’m just saying that I don’t want to be part of it, nor am I necessarily that guy. But just so we’re clear, what you’re doing—you were lucky to not break your shoulders and kill yourself.”
“I know.”
Kevin heaved a huge sigh as Jelaqua eyed them both and Rinli frowned. Rhaldon waited.
“Are you going to continue?”
“Yep.”
Silence. Kevin gestured at the table.
“C’mon, we’ve got pizza. Pepperoni, some awesome vegetarian stuff—it’s honestly the best—and for some reason, pineapple.”
He glared at Asgra. The Cave Goblin smirked.
“Is on the house.”
“Take it back.”
“I can eat pineapple.”
Rhaldon muttered, feeling at his bag of holding. Kevin gave him a long look.
“Dude, I respect that you forgave me, but I’d rather be shot twice than eat pineapple pizza. That’s the one perk of dying; you can make jokes like that.”
They were tucking into their pizzas, and the pineapple was indeed underrepresented in slices eaten, and everyone was feeling better for the hot food. Jelaqua glanced at the rain coming down and grimaced.
“I can’t believe Liscor is still rainy. I know it’s an eighth of the year, but still.”
“Oh, it’ll be muddy too. Miserable to pull anything around in. You’re lucky the magic door is here, Rhaldon.”
Kevin assured them, and Rhaldon rubbed at his ribs again.
“I believe that. But I just think I’m done with horses. They were always the worst part of driving a carriage; I don’t mind the road, and people aren’t racist to me. Just speciesist. Which is great. I think I’m done with draft animals altogether if I can help it.”
“Driver Rhaldon, are you going to rent a magical Wistram Carriage? It’s not cost-effective even with their speed. I priced it out for Solar Cycles and Couriers end up being cheaper.”
Rinli was chewing on her pizza. Rhaldon shook his head slightly. He glanced around at the door and opened his mouth; Rinli kicked it shut and slapped something on it.
“Anti-eavesdropping charms. Everyone in Solar Cycles has to have them. We’re secure from everything except the Thronebearers.”
Kevin gave her a thumbs-up, and Rhaldon reached into his bag of holding. He glanced at Kevin.
“So how’d you burn yourself? I can see the burn marks on your shoulders. Was it from the opening?”
“Nope. The opening at the bottom doesn’t vent right. Instead of going back, it sort of explodes everywhere.”
“Jesus wept. And you did it twice? You made two?”
Jelaqua and Rinli eyed Kevin as he picked at his shoulders again.
“Well, yeah. Never just carry one. Got any tips?”
From the expression on Rhaldon’s face, he probably had a few that involved not getting burnt, but he just exhaled and shook his head.
“This is my project. Please don’t laugh. I’ve tried to talk to [Smiths], but they don’t get it or they’re busy and I can’t explain what I want. I thought about talking to Calidus, but…secrecy. You know?”
Kevin’s eyes sharpened.
“Definitely. Rinli, I’m working with Rhaldon here on what he’s after. Can you help?”
“Of course. Is this also secret? Hello, Driver Rhaldon, I’m Rinli, the head of Solar Cycles with Kevin being officially dead.”
Rinli smiled, and Rhaldon, flustered, shook her hand.
“I’m sorry, I never introduced myself—”
“It’s quite alright, sir. You get used to it if you interact with the inn at all. Kevin, secret?”
“The tops, Rinli. Okay, what’ve you got, Rhaldon?”
The [Alchemist] glanced at Jelaqua. She waved at him.
“Hey, I’m just here as a friend.”
An inquisitive look at Kevin and the [Mechanic] nodded.
“Jelaqua’s someone you can trust. So’s Asgra, in a way. Anyone who’s part of the inn except for the Calanferians are solid. So are Solar Cycles, at least the ones Rinli trusts. What’ve you made?”
Rhaldon grimaced at the weight, but pulled something out of his bag of holding carefully and slid it onto the table.
“Tell me, what do you think? Of the concept?”
To Jelaqua, it was an amalgamation of steel crudely fused with wood. To Rinli, it was a prototype made by someone who didn’t have the best ability to work the materials given, but knew what they wanted. To Kevin? He stared at the flat cylinder of wax with the flame burning on the top.
The Everburning Candle was heating a test tube in which water was condensing and bubbling upwards. The vapors led to a wheel that spun haltingly, and there was a bit of string tied to the wheel which, like a bicycle’s gears, were trying to move a second wheel, this one rolling around in the air.
The entire contraption barely worked because the candle was failing to heat the water enough, and the string and wheel weren’t capturing the steam and transmitting the motion to the other wheel. Lots of marks on the metal and wood showed where Rhaldon had built and rebuilt the prototype with frustration. But Kevin saw it, and his eyes lit up.
“Dude. Is that a perpetual steam engine? It is! That’s an Everburning Candle, isn’t it? I wanted to get my hands on one of those! They’re expensive and rare! How’d you get one?”
Rhaldon smiled faintly. Rinli had sat up at the name Kevin had used, which she’d read before in his blueprints…Jelaqua was just eating pizza. Listening. The [Alchemist] pointed at the water.
“It’s not perpetual. Unless I can store the vapor, that needs refilling. I thought with some Everfrozen Ice you could condense and re-use the water…? It’s too complicated, frankly. Also, steam explodes in a really violent way. I have a lot of destroyed cylinders…even with gold, I don’t have the manufacturing experience.”
“That’s us. Rinli?”
“I’ve seen your version of this, Kevin. Master Pelt nearly killed you making it; this is simpler by far.”
“Well, I was working on the entire thing. Rhaldon, what’re you thinking? Steam? For your carriage?”
It seemed Kevin and Rhaldon spoke the same language of sorts, though it was all incomprehensible to Jelaqua. Rhaldon did smile.
“I did think it’d replace horses. With magic, you can make this so much more efficient, or possibly, infinite. I’m told the Everburning Candles really burn mana, so it’s still some kind of cost, but yes, steam is where I’d start. Either that or a magicore engine, but I like the concept of steam. It’s just—volatile.”
He shuddered. Kevin was vibrating. He leapt up.
“Rinli, in my safe—”
“[Collect Document]. This one?”
She handed something to him, and he swore.
“Damn, you’ve seen it?”
“I did go through your safe when you died, Kevin.”
She gave him an apologetic look, and Kevin shook his head.
“Here, Rhaldon, look at this. Wait, I’ve got the other one upstairs! I used it to fool a bunch of [Merchants] when Zevara was investigating—I’ll grab it!”
He went clattering out of the room. Rhaldon began spreading the blueprints on the table, and Jelaqua and Rinli helped. He looked at the two, embarrassed as he remembered they existed. He turned to Jelaqua.
“So Captain Ivirith…”
“You can call me Jelaqua. Or Miss Ivirith. I’m not a Gold-ranker anymore, just a [Loving Wife].”
His brows rose.
“I didn’t know that was a class. I shouldn’t be surprised. Is Kevin always like…?”
He gestured at the stairs, and Rinli shook her head.
“He’s been more driven since he came back. Personality-wise, he’s always been chaotic.”
“It happens. Someone loses a friend or sees a real battle and it changes you.”
Jelaqua was a bit sad that Kevin had lost that innocence, but more worried what he might do with that determination. Because they saw it, even if it was catching Rhaldon off-guard.
Another bit of silence as they munched on pizza, then Rhaldon turned to Jelaqua.
“May I ask a question about Selphid physiology if it’s not too rude?”
