“I was shot! Termin saved me from bleeding out on the road! I probably still have bullet fragments in my shoulder—and you want me to reproduce that? As if it’s even easy?”
Rhaldon snapped. He wiped his hands on his coat, and Kevin winced. But that uncanny light in his eyes was still there.
“Shit. Sorry, dude.”
“Don’t ‘dude’ me. This is no laughing matter. Give that to me and I’ll destroy it. If we’re lucky, no one will make more of them.”
Rhaldon stretched out his hand, and Kevin closed his grip on the shell protectively.
“What? No. I need it. Listen, Rhaldon. Firearms are the least of our problems. People already have ‘em. Roshal shot me with some, remember?”
This was true. Rhaldon hesitated, then gestured at the shell.
“That’s modern. That’s from home—Octavia described what sounded like a blackpowder flintlock. The difference between that and a modern weapon is unimaginable.”
“I know. The stuff you can make works well enough. But I need something better.”
Kevin rubbed at his shoulder for reasons Rhaldon didn’t understand, and the [Alchemist] felt like he was inhaling something noxious, because reality wasn’t lining up with—he tried to calm himself. Steady his heartbeat.
“Kevin, I’m suggesting you get rid of that ammunition. Where did it come from?”
“The future. It’s not from Earth. It’s magical ammunition from the future, Rhaldon. Aw, shit, you don’t know about that too.”
Kevin waved the shotgun shell in front of Rhaldon with a slight smile, then slapped his forehead. Then, and only then, did Rhaldon reconsider.
Maybe that wasn’t the light of someone who had died in his eyes. Maybe he was just—crazy.
A chill ran up Rhaldon’s spine, and he was reassured by being in the [Garden of Sanctuary]. He licked his lips.
“Kevin. You’re making a lot of statements I find hard to believe. First you tell me you came back from the dead, next you’re telling me we’ve got time travel?”
In a world as nonsensical as this, it could happen. Yet Rhaldon felt like when he’d first come to this place. Too much insanity and he’d crack and think he was hallucinating. Or just not believe—Kevin shook his head and stuck his hands in his pockets.
“Nah. It all connects, Rhaldon. I’m going to make it all make sense in one—two words.”
“Go ahead?”
Rhaldon closed his eyes. There was no way—
“Parallel dimensions?”
“Holy fuck, you are smart.”
Kevin actually jumped as Rhaldon’s eyes opened. The [Alchemist]’s mouth worked, but he managed to reply.
“I enjoy science-fiction more than…you’re not serious.”
Kevin grinned, and Rhaldon felt his skin growing clammy. He was hyperventilating.
“Tell me everything. From the start, please.”
 
——
 
When Rhaldon got stressed, he took notes. Or maybe he just took notes. Kevin Hall would be the first to admit he’d bungled the entire conversation, but you had to own, there was no good way to lead with, ‘I’m back from the dead, I have ammunition from the future, and there were parallel worlds; how was your last few months?’
It looked even worse written down. Which is what Rhaldon had done, making a series of bubbles that linked from event to event.
“So you’re telling me that this all took place over about two days—”
“Longer if you count Mrsha and Rags messing around in the [Palace of Fates], but sure.”
“A week, then. Millions of parallel worlds opened and collapsed in a week, there was a war of worlds, and the entire Skill broke down as people either entered an entirely new reality—which is not the same as a different dimension—and those who remained came back to life, like you?”
Kevin thought about it and lifted a finger as Rhaldon showed him his journal filled with the flow-chart of events. He scratched at his head.
“Technically, I never died, so I didn’t lose levels. We just soul-merged.”
Rhaldon’s fingers twitched, like he wanted to rip the journal entry out of his notebook and possibly his head. He inhaled and exhaled.
“I saw the news about the Goblin King. I felt that. That’s…evidence. As well as Pallass’ 2nd Army and that Goblin Lord, Ragathsi? She was using Skills that sounded modern. But how can you prove any of this, Kevin? I have no evidence from where I’m standing that this occurred.”
Kevin pointed at his face.
“I’m back from the dead.”
Here, the [Alchemist] bit his lip.
“We hadn’t met before you died. So that…isn’t the…best proof. Sorry.”
He received the most insulted expression from Kevin the young man had ever given someone. Kevin pointed up.
“Taken a look at the moons recently?”
Rhaldon had, in fact, and wondered what could cause damage on that scope. The [Alchemist] felt that sensation of sweat beading on his spine again. He shook his head.
“That’s…okay, I see something happened. But that shotgun shell is the only thing the future gave you?”
“That, a wagonload of healing potions, a bunch of items Mrsha and Ushar took—the Goblin King—look, I can see you’re not used to The Wandering Inn.”
“I’ve seen enough.”
Erin standing on a ship in the rain, pushing a [Prince] off her knife. Reaching down and taking a Goblin Lord’s hand. A flaming Antinium blazing with glory.
Calidus asked him sometimes why Rhaldon didn’t want a sedentary life like Zeomtoril or other [Alchemists]. The answer was that the north wasn’t that appealing to Rhaldon, or Calidus himself. But here…
This is why I stay away. However, he was confronting reality and clearly missing out on the truth if everything Kevin said was to be believed. Rhaldon pressed his fingers to his temples.
“Let me ask follow-up questions later. Assuming everything you’ve said is true, and I recall Erin’s warnings about the Winter Solstice—that I can believe. I heard of other undead attacks at the time. I even saw them.”
Kevin started.
“You did? Did they come after—?”
Rhaldon waved his hand.
“I didn’t. Lord Callidus said there were two Ghoul packs his people took care of, but it might have been chance. There was a broadcast of one of the Jaws of Zeikhal that Khelt had going crazy. And other undead attacks—someone said they saw the Singer under attack, but that’s just a rumor.”
He’d put together the Ghoul packs with other events and wondered if they’d been searching for him. Compared to hundreds of thousands of Draugr, it wasn’t bad, but it still gave him nightmares to realize they were following him. Kevin’s features softened.
“I’m sorry about that. Well, that’s why I need help, Rhaldon. With this—”
He had the shotgun shell around. Rhaldon wished he’d stop waving it about so carelessly. He knew it wouldn’t combust randomly, but it was still a shell, and if Kevin was to be believed, made of magic. The right percussive force and bam.
“Stop playing with that, please. Was it machined? Hand-made?”
“Machined. Future tech. Want to see?”
Part of Rhaldon did. He inspected the shell gingerly, turning it over and seeing how yes, it did look very analogous to his world. But a few details caught his eyes; the shell didn’t seem to be made of the exact same plastic he remembered. It almost felt…harder? The red a bit too vivid, the plastic giving it a sturdier feel.
This is from another world. This is—none of this is like something you could produce from home. Even the ‘brass’ cap at the bottom was slightly off. All of it either told Rhaldon this was an amazing fake or was indeed the product of different times.
But one thing caught his eye, engraved on the plastic. Rhaldon stared at the detail on the shotgun shell, then spoke.
“I’m beginning to believe what you told me is correct, Kevin. But that doesn’t change how I feel. Making weapons to kill people isn’t something I ever wanted to do, in this or any other world. I’m glad you’re alive. I’m not making bullets for you. If that’s why you wanted to speak to me so urgently—”
Kevin was getting upset. He gestured at his right eye, glaring.
“Dude, this isn’t even about the future or other worlds. It’s about Roshal. They shot Imani’s eye out and shot me. They’ve got guns. I need help making them. You don’t have to make an entire industry, just enough for one person.”
Wow, that was a great argument. They have guns, we need guns. Rhaldon decided not to take it to politics from home. He folded his arms.
“So, what, you can go around Rambo-style and gun down all your enemies?”
“That’s the plan.”
The glib response that Rhaldon had on the tip of his tongue dried up at the way Kevin just said it like that. He gazed down at the shell and shook his head.
“Where did you get this from, in the future?”
“Twenty-two years in a future where the Goblin King appears. Would you believe a version of me with a shotgun and magical syphilis had it? And a magic tank?”
“I don’t believe I’m awake. I think I’ve hit my head after the damn horse kicked me. Okay….tell me something. I know, uh, some of the guests of the inn here and the family. Remind me, who’s Rabbiteater?”
Kevin’s eyes flickered. He glanced at the shell that Rhaldon was holding, but he couldn’t lie, so he replied haltingly.
“…One of the Hobgoblins that Erin helped. He stayed at the inn once. Later, in this future-world, he becomes…”
“The Goblin King. I see.”
There was only one reason you wrote a name on a bullet. Rhaldon peered down at the hand-engraved name on the shotgun shell.
Rabbiteater.
He handed it back to Kevin.
“That sounds like a fun future world. No thanks.”
“Listen, man—in the future he’s a bad guy, the Goblin King who you saw on television. I just need help making—”
“No.”
Rhaldon got up and brushed grass off his pants. He stared at the yellow flowers and Sage’s Grass blooming around them.
What happened to the Faerie Flowers? Then Rhaldon shook his head. This was all too much for him. He began walking towards the door back to the common room. He was feeling at his shoulder, and he had a vision of someone pointing a gun his way—Kevin chased after him.
“Listen, you’re the only person who can make this! The only person who gets the risks. Saliss is gone, and Octavia—”
Rhaldon swung around, and he was nose-to-nose with Kevin.
“I do not want to help you kill people! I’m glad you’re alive, but you’re acting kind of psychotic right now, dude. I’m a [Alchemist], not an [Arms Manufacturer]! I don’t want to make weapons of war to kill people.”
His voice cracked as he pointed at the little capsule of death that Kevin held. The [Mechanic] started, and a guilty expression crossed his face. He put the shotgun shell away at last.
“…Sorry. I’ve been obsessed about—I forgot that’s how you came to this world. Some police officer shot you? That’s a hell of a way to get teleported.”
The two calmed down slightly as Kevin stepped back. Rhaldon half-shrugged.
“Might have been the national guard. Anyways, it’s better than a truck.”
Rhaldon felt at his aching shoulder and wished he had another sip of the healing potion, though he was sure it was just phantom pain. Kevin frowned.
“A truck? Oh, right, good one. People are still into portal fiction back home?”
“It’s the most popular genre. Something about it hitting way too close to home…give me a second, would you?”
Rhaldon was rubbing at his face. He felt like he’d aged a year just seeing the weapon Kevin held. He needed a lie-down, and his wagon was in Invrisil…Kevin hesitated guiltily.
“Sure. Sorry.”
After a while, Rhaldon looked up.
“It’s not out of the question someone will bring a gun from Earth. I’m not an idiot; I just don’t want to be part of this. I have no expertise in this area, anyways. Working with gunpowder is exceptionally dangerous even by my standards.”
“I get it. It’s okay, man.”
Kevin shoved his hands in his pockets. Rhaldon gestured at the shotgun shell.
“Besides, that’s ammunition. It’s not something you’d hand-craft but mass-produce. You’re probably the better class for it. You don’t even have the firearm, and that’s the harder part.”
The [Mechanic] rubbed at his shoulders again and picked out some dead skin with a grimace.
“Yep. I’ve got a primitive bazooka, but that’s about all. Nearly dislocated both my shoulders, but it works.”
“…What?”
Kevin touched his bag of holding, and his eyes rose, and there that uncanny look was again. He glanced at the door to the inn, but Jelaqua and Rinli had given them a moment.
“It’s just a tube filled with a Potion of Blast and shrapnel. Well, I put a bit more work into it, but the kickback and loading—I mean it, man. I came back from the dead to change the world. And if you don’t want to help me build weapons, that’s fine. I hear you’re making something else I’m into. Rose says you were working on…an engine? I’ve had ideas there too. Wanna chat?”
Ah, and there it was. Rhaldon stood there and stared at Kevin’s bag of holding like it was Pandora’s Box. Then, he thought he caught the faint acrid odor of alchemical potions around Kevin, though it always hung around Rhaldon so he often just didn’t smell it.
Madness in his eyes, someone field-testing weapons with his own life on the line. Rhaldon’s first thought was to back away slowly and never engage with Kevin again. But his treacherous mind had to ask questions.
“There is no way you made a working—you’d have blown yourself to bits! How did you not rupture a steel tube?”
Making a rocket launcher was not that simple. But Kevin shrugged.
“I tested it, of course. And I had Pelt.”
“Pelt. Oh—the Master Pelt?”
Rhaldon felt a surge of excitement and envy. He hadn’t had any help except from reluctant [Smiths] who hadn’t gotten what he was trying to carefully get parts for. Kevin nodded.
“Yep. You can trust him, and he made it out of Mithril. Hedault didn’t want to be part of it, either, but Rinli has lesser enchantments she can hook me up with. Money’s not a problem, even if I needed Lyonette’s…field testing sucked, but it did work.”
So he’d made a functional—in how many days? Rhaldon had been working on his project in his spare time, but he was fighting against suppliers, his own ineptitude with machining pieces, and a lack of understanding how to fuse magic with Earth’s technology.
But Kevin—Kevin of Solar Cycles stood there, that manic glint in his eyes. He knew what Rhaldon was up to.
“Give—give me a moment to think on it? All my stuff’s in Invrisil.”
“Sure, Rhaldon. You know where to find me. Well, here or Solar Cycles. Sorry about springing all that on you, again.”
