He started reaching out towards it, when a moment later, the light was gone, and he landed on something soft. Softer than sand. Around him, everything was grey. An impenetrable mist, the smell of iron in the air. It was colder than back home but not cold enough to make him shiver. His shorts were still soaking wet.

Holy shit! It took me somewhere else.

It actually took me somewhere else. What is going on? What the hell did I stumble into?

His heart was pounding and he slowed his breathing, trying to calm himself down.

Was that magic? Some kind of teleportation?

His surroundings, he found, weren’t entirely dark, but not particularly bright either, nor could he find a source of light in all the mist. His thoughts were all over the place, so he focused on what he saw and felt instead.

Where exactly did this golden door take me?

Wherever he was, he could breathe the air at least. Looking down now, he saw grey.

Ash? Dust? Or fine sand?

He was about to reach down when a distant sound made him freeze in place. A guttural and primal sound, monstrous. Not something that a human would make. He narrowed his eyes, heart pounding faster in his chest. He was scared, but he had chosen to follow the bird, now what?

There was no way back, the gate was gone. And there was some kind of wild animal nearby. He had to get to safety, and find out where he was.

Hide, fight, or run. He saw nothing to hide behind, and he had no clue if this being, if it was a being, could locate him in any way. In no way did he assume that whatever had made that sound was amicable. It didn’t feel right. Another sound came from his right. Far closer. Not a screech but something more akin to a clicking noise. Veron made the decision to start walking slowly to his left and away from the second noise when another golden door fizzled into existence before him.

Without a moment’s hesitation, he rushed into it, his feet sliding in the sand. Right before he reached the gate, he heard a sliding noise from behind him, and a deep, rolling growl.

Golden light enveloped him.

This time, it lasted longer, felt more intense, more present. He woke, or it felt as if he woke. His eyes adjusted, the floor was cold, his back was cold. He breathed fast, checking behind him for the creatures he had heard but there was nothing here. He’d arrived in a different place again. He breathed out with some relief. It seemed at least that he was safe here for the time being.

What did I get myself into?

He was leaning against something. Metal. Gold. There was a lot of golden looking metal all around. His shorts were gone, he noticed. And he was no longer wet.

I’m definitely teleporting around somehow. That already opens up so many questions, and concerns.

He didn't let his thoughts spiral. He didn’t know anything about his situation, so he focused on what he saw instead.

He checked behind himself but found only metal. Before him, he could see murky glass. He was inside of a small, contained space. A tube of sorts. Looking closer, he saw lines and lines of strange letters etched into the metal. Letters he did not know.

What is all this?

Not now.

Let's try and get out of this place first. Pushing his arms both against the back wall of the space and against the murky glass, he pushed, and breathed out when the glass side gave way, slowly sliding up until he could crouch and get out of his newfound confinement.

He found the ground covered in the same golden metal. Around him stretched a spacious square shaped room. The walls were made of different metals, rust having taken over a large part of it all. What looked like dark blue roots were pushing in through cracks in the mostly golden ceiling. There were no windows that he could see, but warm near golden light came from lanterns affixed to the walls. The glow had the same strange quality that he couldn’t quite place.

Near the center of the room was a large wooden table. The kind you didn’t want to ever move, each leg thick and adorned with delicate carvings. The chairs were just as ornately decorated. Covering much of the metal floor was a large dark red carpet.

Fancy. And ominous.

His attention shifted when he saw movement from one of the corners of the room. He saw that a few of the lanterns were off, off or broken. From the dark corner stepped a slightly hunched humanoid figure. Its body was covered in armor, most of it a silvery hue, though rust had taken over here and there. The figure had four arms, a long cape, faded, perhaps once white, hung from its back. Its face was covered in a mask of silver, though rust and wear, it seemed, had taken parts of it, revealing not a face below but metal wiring. A triangular shape of silver extended up and away from the back side of its head, perhaps an ornament of sorts.

Its eyes were black metal except for small white lights at their center, all of it part of the mask-like face more so than covered by it. There were slight arches in the metal mask where it wasn’t damaged by rust and showing wires, perhaps once convincingly suggesting cheek bones and a nose. A tiny slit was visible where a mouth would be.

It walked with a limp, a metal cane in one of its hands as it supported itself. It glanced at Veron, walking a few more steps until it was illuminated in the warm glow of the lanterns. One of its two legs was near entirely eaten through by rust.

Not armor, Veron thought. A robot? Or a machine of sorts. What is this place?

“Welcome, Veron,” the being spoke in perfect French. “I have called you here to offer you an adventure.” The voice was deep but sounded in no way artificial to Veron. The being walked to the table and moved one of the chairs, then sat down with a careful motion, making sure not to hit its damaged leg on the table. It sat back and sighed, then gestured to the other chair.

An adventure?

That’s what this is about?

“My clothes have gone missing,” Veron deadpanned. “I don’t suppose that’s an issue?”

The being chuckled. “If you are not bothered by your own nakedness, then we shall proceed without clothing. I suppose it is only fair, seeing my own fading coverings.”

Veron couldn’t help but laugh at the strange situation, then he refocused and sat down on the other chair. He felt nervous, though surprisingly not afraid. He wanted to know what this was about. Maybe it had been the sparrow, or the demeanor of this strange being, but he didn’t feel in danger, not anymore. “So, it's you who showed me that bird and led me to the gate then.”

The being leaned back slightly, simply looking at him with its small white eyes.

“And you want me to go on an adventure?”

“Yes.”

“Can you elaborate?”

“An adventure in a world of magic and monsters, steel and fire, ruins and long forgotten fates,” the being said and leaned forward ever so slightly. “If you are willing.”

Magic and monsters, ruins and long forgotten fates.

Yeah.

He thought about it for a long moment. Was this what he’d been looking for?

Not exactly.

But he hadn’t known it was an option in the first place. And now that he was here, he couldn’t help but feel intrigued.

A magical adventure.

He looked at the strange being and nodded slowly. “Can I ask some questions?”
