om.He froze as the last words came from the stomach.“You are not to return until you have that sword,” the gaping maw commanded and Impy’s neck itched as the magical collar that shimmered out of normal vision burned with the command.Impy left through the front door and his blank expression twitched once.Then he composed himself.Impy adjusted his ruined bowtie, huffed as he yanked his sleeve back into place and scowled at the gloomy near eternal dusk that the 55th level of the Abyss had for a sky.He cursed all masters as he stalked down the broken path overgrown with deadly plants that retreated under his heated glare.The gate ahead opened at the snap of his fingers. He would have taken one of the steeds that should be at the stables but they had been a festival surprise meal. Surprise for Impy, not the Master.He stormed down the long road and watched a flock of Carrying Crows staring.“I’m not dead nor do I have packages!” he screamed. They fled, and from behind trees came a bunch of politely smiling demons holding tins for change.Impy gave them a flat look then smiled. It was a most innocent and benign look.“The master would love to hear about your tales! Please do knock…loudly on the door!” Impy beamed. The group moved past him with excitement.They talked about saving bushes from Moonlight radiation.Charity demons… truly the worst blight on the land.It did make him feel better to hear the doorbell being rung far behind him. The sound of screaming following soon after.Impy was sure that would feed the Master until he returned… after many detours and distractions. He would be back before supper and earn his Master’s mercy.Well, he would shove enough food down that fat gullet that his Master won’t notice he’s back.Impy began to walk with a slight spring in his step.He had a freedom of sorts! He had to enjoy this while he could. The Master could yank on his chain at anytime. That would be awkward if he didn’t have the sword but the Master would be stuffed from Impys… charity for a while.Impy cackled into the dark iron trees.---Impy was on the verge of crying out of anger and frustration as he looked up at the master of the Sweating Succubus. He had spent the day drinking, high off his ears, ending up in a prison cell for mistaken identity. He cried Imp Racism and the demons kicked him out for being too noisy.“WHAT DO YOU MEAN HE’S BEEN MISSING FOR 40 YEARS?!” Impy demanded. The tall red demon with enough arm hair to clothe an imp stared down with boredom.“Runilac got called for a job and never came back. He took your slob of a master’s sword to fix on the road. He’s either as dead as you think you are about to be, he found some wife to settle down with, or he got bound and stuck… sucks all the same. That demon only ever loved the forge,” the Forge Demon scratched his chin.Impy stared, tongue going dry as his collar grew tighter around his neck…“You must have some clue! You are his employer!” Impy demanded. The Forge Demon began hammering out a gun-sword.A wretched thing. Terrible!Where was the appreciation for oversized butcher swords? Impy knew the industry standards had slipped!“Well, he said he was being called to be summoned to outfit an army for all the souls. Can’t be that many armies that sold their souls. You just need to head to the Deep World to find him.” the Demon grunted.Impy felt his skin crawl.“Go… to the Deep World?!” he protested and the large creature grinned, shaking his large head with amusement.“First time? Imps don’t go often?” The Forge demon asked but he had already turned away with a wave.“Listen, if it helps… I have a nose for every weapon ever made in this forge and blades Runi made ain’t no different. I got a sniff of one of his weapons a while ago,” the Forge Master offered. Impy couldn’t follow the Demon, his forge would burn him to a crisp but he gave the demon his best urgent expression.“WHERE!?” Impy yelled as the hammering began, thunder on stone.The answer made his imp heart stop.“The King’s kid. Ruli was her name, she swung one of his weapons and beheaded one of the King’s dragons,” the demon began to laugh.Impy considered opening his Master’s maw and leaping in while holding his nose.Ruli, the unholy terror of the Abyss… in the Deep world… was his only clue.Impy went back to the bar.He drank… and drank… and cried.Then he plotted. He plotted with impish nature.---Ruli paused as she stopped giving the Mushroom Boar Guardian belly rubs.She frowned as she felt… something.She turned, fully expecting to see her Dad but nothing happened.Ah well… she grinned as she sniffed. There was booze nearby! The woman took off and she laughed as she saw the pub sign.A Dungeon with a bar!This was better than any place she had ever been.No contest.
