I don’t like to brag, but I consider myself something of a savant when it comes to pissing people off.

What can I say? It’s a gift, one I’ve honed to perfection completely by accident. I don’t actively aim to anger people all the time, it just happens naturally as a response to my actions, which usually are done without ulterior motive. Demand kowtows from a lost bet? Totally justified. Being passive aggressive about someone showing up late to the fight? Entirely understandable. Rolling my eyes because I can’t stand the sheer stupidity spewing out of someone’s mouth? Absolutely unavoidable. It’s not my fault people are so thin-skinned and lose their shit over nothing, so I’ve had to overcompensate by carefully considering my every action to ensure no offence is given. It’s not very effective because I often forget to think before I act, and other times I forget the rules are different in this shitty death world and default back to society as I know it, often to disastrous result.

In this specific scenario, my inquisitive curiosity is to blame for my inadvertent insult, as I turn away from the smug smiling, tea sipping, power-posing Zhen Shi to explore the boundaries of this seamless white room. At first glance the alabaster cosmos seems to stretch on to infinity, with no horizon or landmarks to discern direction, but I soon realize that no matter which way I turn, Zhen Shi is always sitting at the edge of my peripheral vision, just sort of looming there all threateningly. If I try to focus on something else and turn away, he disappears and reappears on the opposite side, as if we’re standing on a tiny globe and I have close to three-hundred and sixty degrees of vision that can also bend around the surface of this small planet.

Okay, the physics doesn’t really work, but this isn’t the real world and the same rules don’t apply.

Cognizant of this fact and how Zhen Shi’s masked displeasure grows with every second I ignore him, I crouch and poke the ground, but there is no resistance. My finger just plunges past my ankles as if I’m standing on solid air that only affects my bare feet. Hoping I’m not naked, I check my clothes and find myself swaddled in saggy rags, sack brown and utilitarian as can be complete with rope belt and chafing fabric, but it covers all the important bits and that’s all that matters. Closing my eyes, I set off in a random direction and count my steps to see how far I can go. A hundred steps later, I open my eyes and find Zhen Shi still hovering at the edge of my vision, his teacup in hand and perfectly poised to show how identical it is to Mom’s tea set. Struck by a stray thought, I undo my belt and hold one end while flinging the other end as far right as I can, wondering if I’ll catch a glimpse of it on the left, but alas, nothing comes of it. This means my trippy, tiny planet theory is probably wrong and Zhen Shi is just actively keeping himself in the corner of my eyes, which is actually kind of funny. As far as I can tell, everything about him is carefully engineered to put himself in a position of power, from his lofty aerial perch and regal golden robes, to the subtle threat of the tea set and ‘foreboding’ continued silence.

Honestly though? It feels like he’s just trying too hard, especially since he’s floating in mid air. A pedestal or something might’ve been better, as well as a more impressive throne, but I think he was worried I wouldn’t notice something as subtle as a single teacup and included the whole kit and kaboodle to ensure his message got across. He even got the smell right this time, which he left out in his last illusion, so he’s improving as he goes, but he’s pushing all the wrong buttons if he wants to scare me. Oh no, he knows where I am and is watching me closely, oooohhh so spooky. It’s almost been a year since I’ve known true privacy, maybe even longer, and I recently powered through not one, but two wedding nights knowing I probably had Concealed guards waiting in earshot. Watch all you want, Mister Ghost Man, because I don’t care about voyeurs anymore.

Well, that’s not true. If Zhen Shi showed up as a naked old man with wrinkly dick in hand over an image of me and my wives, I don’t think I could ever run away fast enough...

Truth be told, the biggest reason why Zhen Shi’s presence doesn’t really alarm me is because of all the problems I’m dealing with right now, this war with the Defiled actually ranks pretty low on the list. There are five Colonel Generals who are all far more qualified than I to lead the Imperial Army, and my job is mostly just to okay their plans and make sure the Marshals come up with the requisite supplies. I only vetoed Nian Zu’s idea to launch a massive counterattack because I thought the massive risks far outweighed the marginal rewards. The outer provinces are merely the appetizer to his main course, the Imperial Clan in the East, and our soldiers make for the perfect whetstone to hone his newly turned Chosen. Granted, this should motivate me to go for a decisive blow and set the Defiled back, but while the numbers are not in our favour, time is. With the Western Province as his sole foothold in the Empire, Zhen Shi’s resources are sorely limited since the west is only rich in stuff like gold, silver, copper, coal, salt, and gemstones. Valuable, yes, but only in trade, and we’ve successfully stamped out most smuggling enterprises in the last year. I have Situ Rang Min to thank for that in the North, while Marshal Quyen Huong locked things down in the South, and Central’s flat landscapes and the heavy military presence at the Western Wall makes it virtually impossible for any smugglers to make it through unseen. This means the Enemy is starved of vital resources, namely iron, stone, and timber, all of which Zhen Shi needs to craft weapons, armour, wagons, and more.

Also food, but considering the Defiled diet consists primarily of other Defiled, I doubt empty bellies are much of a concern. Regardless, Zhen Shi will eventually run out of equipment for his Chosen of Heaven, Runic or otherwise, which means the size of his army is limited. What’s more, while the Defiled have some means to craft their own version of Spiritual Weapons, I’ve noticed the Chosen don’t use Spiritual Weapons at all. I never really thought about it until a few days ago when I saw Goujian abandon his sword in the fight against Binesi and Han BoHai, but I checked and there is no report of any Chosen using a Spiritual Weapon on the battlefield. Runic armour a plenty, and a few carry Defiled armaments, but Spiritual Weapons? Zilch.

The significance of this discovery escapes me, but it’s something to keep in mind, and it all leads to the same conclusion. Time is on the Empire’s side, because while we would eventually lose a war of attrition, the odds are currently in our favour. We hold the defensive advantage and the Enemy isn’t using their advantage of numbers, so there’s no point doing anything different. If the Defiled group up and force their way through the Western Wall, then we’d be in trouble, but so long as they are content to throw themselves piecemeal on the walled forts of the second line, then it behooves us to be patient and wait. We’re bleeding soldiers, but the overall numbers are looking good, especially now that Hongji and other Central officers have embraced the power of the catapult. Being a pragmatic sort, the Northern soldiers have been using these weapons of war since the beginning, and have no qualms about picking up a crossbow to plunk away at the Defiled hordes, because the only good Defiled is a dead Defiled, and northerners are happy to kill Defiled in any way possible.

It’s still shameful to rely on a ranged weapon in battle, but we Northerners are a pragmatic bunch.

There’s simply no benefit to the Empire if we go on the offensives, and it’s clear the Enemy forces are in place to turn any counter-attack into a trap. It’s a textbook bait and switch, and even though I said as much and played out every possible action for my war council to see, they still refused to believe the Defiled would act as I expected, in a calm and intelligent fashion. They’re too used to seeing the Enemy as a canny beast, dangerous if approached unprepared, but also utterly incapable of utilizing proper tactics. Granted the Defiled haven’t really shown the ability to do so yet, aside from a few probing test battles from Chosen Generals who have only recently taken the field, but I know the true mastermind behind the Defiled is Zhen Shi, who is more capable than any of us can imagine.

Not this Zhen Shi, floating high above me and sipping his tea. No, this is most definitely the fake, inferior version, because there is no way an eight-hundred year old psychopath would ever be this transparent. The real Zhen Shi is the one who engineered the trap on the second lines, hammering the centre hard while sandbagging on both flanks to put out this tempting bait, which would lead to disastrous results if Nian Zu and Shuai Jiao had their way. While a long and drawn out war would be perfect for tempering his Chosen, he’s still losing soldiers and equipment, so it would be even better if he could score a resounding victory over the Imperial forces in the field. Not only would he strike a grievous blow against the morale of the Empire, possibly causing South, North, or even Central soldiers to desert or turncoat, he could also capture more capable Imperial soldiers to win over to his side.

I assume this is how Zhen Shi is getting most of his Chosen of Heaven, using Gen’s Oration to make them susceptible to Spectres, but I’m curious to know why Imperials don’t do the same thing in reverse. It’s been a long time since Sanshu and I’ve learned that Oration is not a Talent, but an actual Chi skill, one I inadvertently use when my emotions are high. More importantly, Shen ZhenWu used Oration in Nan Ping, and may have used it a few times more since, though I haven’t been keeping track, so why doesn’t he just... I dunno, go around city to city and boost morale with a rousing speech? Patriotism would be the perfect weapon to wield against the Spectres and their whispered lies, and if he feels the task beneath him, I’m sure there are other Imperial Scions with the ability to Orate who could fill in. Instead, we have all these festivals and celebrations to keep spirits high, which is both expensive and possibly ineffective, though I don’t have any facts to prove it either way.

I dunno, it just seems weird that no one thought of this before me. Then again, I could be missing critical information and Oration can’t be used like that for some obvious reason which makes perfect sense, but I’m too stupid to figure out. Oration is pretty much Aura except through speech, so why is regular Aura so restricted in its use, but Oration so versatile, able to share what I felt over losing Qing Qing with everyone in Sinuji? Also, what’s the deal with Luo-Luo’s music and where does it sit on the scale? I hate being the only person asking these questions, mostly because I can’t go anywhere else for answers. Shen ZhenWu and any other Imperial Scion would demand an Oath of servitude the moment I’m able to give one, and while the Brotherhood might be amenable to answering my questions, I can’t get in touch with any of its members. Wugang, a former initiate and current member of Gang Shu’s band of bandits, has no idea how to contact the Brotherhood anymore, because after Vyakhya renounced the Abbot and broke off to join Zhen Shi, every monk in the Empire either returned to the Arid Wastes or defected to the Defiled.

Well... there is one place I could go to for answers, and he’s conveniently right here...

Had I known about the Brotherhood’s internal conflict at the time, I might’ve been less confrontational with the Abbot and maybe gone to visit a monastery, but it’s too late now. I don’t even know if he’s still alive, though at least Gang Shu is recovering from his injuries, albeit slowly and still in hiding. According to Lei Gong, his boss is staying hidden because he can’t risk being seen injured and ailing by any Ancestral Beast, regardless of their allegiance, because the urge to kill a wounded rival is just too overwhelming to resist. Human Divinity’s aren’t driven by instinct, but we humans are a treacherous bunch, so I can’t blame Gang Shu for not wanting to be found.

It’s kind of sad how troubled Ancestral Beasts are, driven by instinct yet cursed with the knowledge and ability to rise above it. The struggle is there for their entire life, and like regular humans, Ancestral Beasts appear to deal with it in different ways, like poor Guan Suo who never truly came to grips with his bestial instincts and still wanted to love his children, while others like Zhu Chanzui don’t even bother trying to understand human nature, much less accept it. For the life of me, I can’t imagine how I would fare in their place, to hold a beautiful child, my child, and feel an almost irresistible urge to end their suffering with my own hands.

And as an added cruel joke, they live so long they get to forget, try again, fail, and re-experience all the pain anew. Nature is brutal, but this is almost too much...

