Only now do I realize I’ve just been standing around and pondering in silence while Zhen Shi glowers at the side, though I have no idea how long it’s been since I arrived here. Usually, I have some general gist of seconds and minutes because I’m subconsciously tracking my breaths and heartbeats, but I don’t need to breathe and don’t have a heart here in the Void. I’m a Natal Soul, or a Spiritual entity, with no need for blood or oxygen, and this awareness throws me for a loop as I struggle to remember what it feels like to be alive. What sensation does a beating heart give off? How do I draw air into my lungs and expel it out again? Have I been blinking? If there’s nothing below my feet and nothing above my head, how am I keeping track of up and down?

Stuck in a downward spiral of self realization, I struggle for calm and Balance, but all the breathing exercises in the world won’t help me if I don’t remember how to breathe. My first thought is to panic and seek help, like a man drowning in the ocean and flailing about for anything to grab onto, but I stop short as the world comes into focus and I find myself face to foot with Zhen Shi, with my outstretched hand only scant inches away from taking hold of his. This was his doing, an assault on my emotions after his initial power-posing failed to bear fruit, a means to put me at a disadvantage to do... what exactly? To take my hand? Why? No, it’s not the act of contact that matters here, or else he’d just reach out and grab me, but instead, he sits impatiently and waits for me to take his hand. Again... why? What purpose does this serve? It’s not like either of us are really here, we’re just two Spiritual entities meeting in another plane of existence.

Thinking back on all my experiences in the Void with Natal Palaces and Natal Souls, one parallel immediately springs to mind, and that is my relationship with Baledagh. I was both Warrior and Brother, and even though the Warrior was the stronger of the two, the Brother was always dominant, even when dormant. Baledagh was always the submissive personality, even when I suspected he was my body’s original soul and relied on his strength, because I always identified more with Brother. To this day, that is who I see myself as, the scared, otherworldly personality thrust into an unfamiliar situation, while Baledagh was the native warrior born to this world. Mahakala showed me I was both Brother and Baledagh, but I’m still primarily ‘Brother’ all the time, with hints of Baledagh only showing itself in times of duress, like when Big Poppa Piggy showed up in the Citadel. How is this any different from having a split personality? I don’t even talk to myself less, I just stopped crafting a dialogue between two personalities and monologue my way through all my problems.

Mahakala told me everything I needed to hear, I just wasn’t listening. There is no Brother. There is no Baledagh. There is only Falling Rain. And now, Falling Rain is in danger of becoming the submissive personality to Zhen Shi across from me, just as Baledagh submitted to Brother of my own free will.

“You are one tricky bastard.” Narrowing my eyes at my canny foe, I voice my thoughts as they come to reinforce my understanding of the situation. “Appearing in my dreams uninvited and in a position of power, and leading my thoughts to investigate the inexplicable so I would feel flustered, defenceless and confused, all so you could convince me to submit.”

“Submission would be preferable, but unnecessary for this Sovereign to emerge victorious,” Zhen Shi replies, the smug smile flitting across his face a little too slowly to keep me from seeing his burning disappointment. “Even such minor effort almost bore fruit, with little worm instinctively succumbing to this Sovereign’s superiority. Though you do not care to accept it, you know your true worth. Resistance only delays the inevitable, for when you accept the Truth, little worm will beg for this Sovereign’s aid.”

“You call yourself Sovereign and refer to me as worm, because you think it reinforces our positions as superior and inferior, but I’ve already told you how stupid it sounds when you speak in the third person.” Thinking back on our last meeting, it occurs to me that he does this a lot, which is right out of the abuser’s playbook. “You emphasize your authority and eminence while humiliating and deriding mine in hopes I will devalue myself and hold you in high regard. It works because even in trying to prove you wrong, I am subconsciously accepting your superiority, because there would be no need to disprove your words if you were not an authority figure. In this way, I come to rely on you and crave your approval, or so you hope, but jokes on you. Nothing you say can ever be worse than the things I tell myself.” The smile slips from his face for all of a micro-second as he blinks in surprise, and I can tell even he never put this much thought into his own methods. “It’s funny. A lot of what you do is tailored towards emotional abuse and fostering dependence, rather than actually strong-arming me into submission through outright strength. Last time, you created an entire scenario of death and carnage to drive me towards despair, and I thought it was so I would turn Defiled. Now I’m not so sure anymore.” Raising an eyebrow in mock question, I ask, “Is Gen giving you too much trouble, or are you tired of your meat puppet already? Looking for a new, tighter asshole to keep your hands warm? C’mon now, you should at least buy me dinner first, but I’m telling you now, I’m an old-fashioned guy and never kiss on the first date.”

The rage and impotence in his reaction is telling, and once again, I’m reminded of how our last meeting went, and the rules of this world become clear to me. This is the Void, a place of impermanence in which thoughts define perception, so get your shit together before you unmake yourself or something. Remember yourself and who you are, and the rest is unimportant. You don’t need to know how everything works, you just need to think and it shall be so.

The teacup disappears from Zhen Shi’s hand, as does the table and chair. Gravity exerts itself and he plummets to the ground, but he lands lightly on one foot and retains his seated position, one leg folded over his knee and unfazed by my display of control. Only now, he’s forced to look up to meet my eyes as I loom over his seated frame, and I can see the anger and vitriol within them. My eyes are drawn away to the shifting patterns on his robes, depicting Defiled and Demons carrying out all manner of horrific atrocities, and it occurs to me that they’re like that to distract and dishearten the same way my clothes are meant to debase and demean. In the blink of an eye, I’m dressed in full, golden armour, but unlike my armour in the real world which is merely a mundane copy of Shen ZhenWu’s Runic armour, this set is the real deal. Why wouldn’t it be? What is a Rune besides a physical Keystone, an object which executes a Chi skill when supplied with Chi? Well, I’m no Runic Craftsman, but here in the Void, creating a Keystone is a simple matter of focus and setting limits.

Deflect impacts. Counter with Reverberation. Constantly Lighten and Reinforce at all times. Out in the real world, a Runic breastplate bearing these properties would probably drain a Martial Warrior dry within minutes of combat, but here in the Void, Heavenly Energy is near limitless thanks to the beauty of recycling. Or something. I don’t really know, or at this moment even care, because I’m busy imbuing the rest of my armour with the same properties, and while I believe I could probably add more, now is not the time for experimentation. Zhen Shi clothed me in dirty rags because image is important here in the Void, where faith and conviction translates into power, so I make sure every detail is just right. My hair slicks back exactly as Luo-Luo would style it, complete with jewelled hair piece to hold it all in place, and silken robes materialize beneath the golden armour, the gentle touch of the fabric cool against my skin. The dragon shoulder pauldrons morph into bears instead, while the dragons on my chest turn into wildcats, rabbits, laughing birds, and a single hare, all sprinkled in the background and frolicking beneath the clouds which were already there. The opened-mouth dragon’s head on my belt turns into a turtle instead, one modelled after sweet Ping Ping rather than distant Pong Pong, and the token on my belt says Legate, because that’s my current title, even if I’d rather not have it.

Without even realizing it, the ‘Liang’ character on my chest has already warped into ‘Rain’ instead, done subconsciously without even needing to think about it, and that more than anything proves my hunch right. Self-identity is everything here, and until now, I’ve always set myself below Zhen Shi, because how could I not? He’s an eight-hundred year old monster and I’m just some guy in over his head, but that’s out there in the real world. Here in the Void, the rules are different, and I would do well not to forget that.

Last but not least, I materialize Peace on my hip, Tranquility on my wrist, and Unity in hand, the weapons surging with power as I stand over Zhen Shi. No, not Zhen Shi, but Gen Shi, either an amalgamation of the two minds and personalities, or quite possibly even just Gen pretending to be Zhen Shi, much like I pretended to be Baledagh and Brother. The only difference is Gen Shi actually has the real deal whispering in his ears, while I was just batshit crazy, and while I might still be crazy, I’m crazy like a fox. “I thought I made things clear the last time we met,” I begin, my confidence building now that I have my familiar weapons in hand once more and I remembered who it is I’m really facing. “But I suppose the real Zhen Shi doesn’t care if he loses a mere Natal Soul. You are no match for me, pretender, not here.” Cocking my head, I ask, “Did you remember to pass along my message, puppet? When can I expect a visit from the real Zhen Shi himself? I’m curious to know how my strength measures up.”

Terrified too, but at least in here, I have a fighting chance, and so long as I still draw breath, I will never give up. Akanai was right. Where there is life, there is hope, and I will do my best never to forget this.

There is no fear in Gen Shi’s eyes, only rage and loathing, but he recovers well enough. “Natal Soul? How... surprisingly apt. It seems the savage has stumbled upon more Truths than this Sovereign even realized.” Re-materializing a new teacup in his hand, Gen Shi flashes that same smug smile, the one Gen always wore now on an unfamiliar face, sipping his tea and quietly daring me to match wills against him once again. Suspecting it won’t be so easy to get rid of now that he’s expecting it, I instead narrow my eyes and set the liquid to boiling, which he wasn’t expecting. Sputtering as the burning hot tea scalds his lips and mouth, he shoots to his feet and grows several times larger in the blink of an eye, but anger is detrimental to control and gives me an opening to bind him in invisible chains of Chi. Check and mate, for he is now powerless as I now hold the upper hand, not just because I took control, but also because he yielded it by allowing my will to affect him.

That’s why Gen Shi plays all those power games, with the nightmares, insults, threats, and power poses. Here in the Void, it’s all about strength of conviction, or even strength of delusion, but there are few people more stubborn or deluded than I.

“You think yourself strong?” Gen Shi begins, hoping to chip away at my convictions with words and doubts. “Falling Rain, the slave turned Legate, how ‘inspiring’. A king of fools is what you are, a puppet dancing to the tune of countless masters. Which one will you serve, little worm? The Dog Emperor who promises nothing and demands everything? Or the Legate who allows you your freedom and independence while slipping the shackles of circumstance around you? Such is their way, coaxing you with noble ideals to bend you to their purpose. One way or another, you will serve, but this Sovereign offers you the freedom you seek, the freedom to rise above all struggles and remain unfettered from all conflicts.”

I assumed he already knew everything about me, but hearing my fears confirmed is still unsettling. Worse, I’m not sure if he slipped up by using the same words the Legate did, or if he picked those exact words because he knew it’d raise suspicions. No, I should disregard everything Gen Shi says, because there is no value in heeding him. “It doesn’t matter how tempting the offer you make, for you are a creature of lies and deceits whose words cannot be trusted.”

“You need not trust this Sovereign.” Smiling all too smugly, Gen Shi shrugs and says, “You only need accept the Truth, beginning with the truth of your current circumstances. Reflect on the events of five days past, little worm, and tell this Sovereign why you think Zhu Chanzui acted when he did.” Something gives my thoughts away, and Gen Shi’s smile widens. “Ah, little worm already suspects, but once again he struggles to accept that which he already knows.” Relaxing in his invisible bonds, Gen Shi says, “You, little worm, were meant to die that day, and only this Sovereign’s intervention saved you.”

“Bullshit.” Well, maybe not, but still. “I suppose all those Wraiths attacking my manor were only trying to get in and warn me?”

