Throwing his head back with a laugh, Gen Shi retorts, “Little worm was never their target, else he would have died during the attack on Shen ZhenWu. Your death serves this Sovereign no purpose, but the Divine Turtle poses a real threat.” Narrowing his eyes, he studies me closely and asks, “A curious creature, this newly ascended Divinity, one not of human form. A secret of the Saint’s Tribulations mountains? Or are the rumours true and Nan Ping’s guardian turtle is truly in possession of an Elemental Spirit?”

Luckily, his questions are way off the mark and my reaction is one of surprise and confusion, but I can’t let him keep asking questions to narrow down an answer. “If you’ve nothing else to say, then you can fuck right off like Zhu Chanzui.”

As I raise a hand to finger-flick him away into the void, Gen Shi flinches away and shouts, “Wait! Think, little worm, and know this Sovereign’s words to be true. You think the Five Supreme Families united as one Clan? Their infighting is the sole reason for the Empire’s stagnation, progress halted in the name of keeping the present state of affairs. The Emperor rules, but not without opposition, for there are five Imperial Sigils which allow others to speak with His voice, dividing His power between his most dangerous rivals. Shen ZhenWu is the most likely heir to the throne, but he is not the only claimant and his succession is far from secure. To strengthen his position, he seeks to win over the outer provinces and add their voices to his cause, and what better way than to champion one of their own?”

Though I do my best to ignore him, I’m intrigued by his claims, and I can’t help but listen intently as he reveals so much about my mysterious patron. “Shen ZhenWu meant for you to die during your ill-fated rebellion,” Gen Shi claims, though I note he offers no proof or conjecture. “My Chosen failed their mission and he seized the opportunity before him, ridding himself of his bothersome Dharma Protector, Yang Zaixing, and convincing his hallowed ancestor to encourage the foolish Yang Jixing to act. Fools one and all, you and Jixing took the bait as expected, driving the Empire towards a civil war which could only end in disaster. Were it not for Goujian’s interference and Zhu Chanzui’s timely interruption, you and several high-ranking members of the Northern Imperial Army would have fallen to Jixing’s forces that day, only for Shen ZhenWu to arrive at the last moment and snatch victory from the jaws of defeat. You and your people would have served as both martyr and warning, held up as a shining example of how the Imperial Clan mistreats its people, and with his Sealed document declaring you his successor, that would have been all he needed to rally the outer provinces behind him, the only Imperial fighting for the interests of the outer provinces.”

Compelling as his claims might be, I can’t help but once again notice the distinct lack of proof, not to mention the glaring hole in his logic. “You’re so full of shit. If not for your Wraiths, Jixing would still be alive and there would have been no justification for the Death Corps to attack. By then, it was clear the Disciplinary Corps made an unlawful arrest, and once word got out that he’d lost the confidence of the entire Northern province, Jixing would’ve been left with no choice but to release my father and relinquish his rank. If not, South and Central would’ve rallied behind me, risking civil war from all three outer provinces and secession from the Empire itself.” Curling my lip in a sneer, I loom over Gen Shi and say, “And even if it came down to rebellion, I would sooner take my chances than ally myself with you.”

“Why? Because you believe me evil?” Cackling in villainous delight, Gen Shi shakes his head and gestures at me with his chin. “Look at yourself, here and now, standing in all your power and glory. This is the True Falling Rain, the Devourer, the Predator, yet you constrain yourself with human concepts like honour, justice, mercy, and integrity. This power is yours to wield, but you refuse it because you believe it will corrupt and profane you, but nature itself is not so clean and pristine. Nature is cruel and merciless, where only the strong survive, and so long as you burden yourself with false ideals, you will never reach your true potential.”

“You’re right to say nature is cruel and merciless, but you must not have been listening when I spoke with Zhu Chanzui.” Gesturing at the animals depicted on my Runic armour, I explain, “We humans are beasts, but we have the potential to be so much more, and it is in aspiring to greatness that we elevate ourselves above the wolf and sheep. You say I am weak because I refuse to give in to temptation, but I call you weak for succumbing to it. Do you even remember why you started down this path?”

“To overthrow the Dog Emperor,” Gen Shi snarls, his expression one I can only describe as violence personified, “And cleanse away the weakness of the human race.”

“To what end?” Seeing his confusion, I clarify, “Why did you want to rid the human race of weakness? Was it not so we could defeat the Defiled?”

“Defiled, hmph.” Ignoring the question, Gen Shi snorts in derision. “Another lie perpetrated by the Empire. The so called Defiled are merely the other side of the coin, for too much is as bad as not enough. The razor’s edge, that is this Sovereign’s Path, and with it, I will raze this world clean of all...”

It’s sad how easy it is to set Gen Shi off, the cracks in his facade clearer than ever as he refuses to acknowledge the question, because he doesn’t know the answer. This isn’t really Zhen Shi, or an amalgamation of Zhen Shi and Gen, this is just Gen deluding himself into believing as much after being given just enough information to make it seem real. The real Zhen Shi is probably listening in and whispering into Gen’s ear to help him sell himself the lie, but at the end of the day, this is what happened after Gen accepted defeat. The Spectres demanded his surrender, and he did, because he couldn’t come to grips with reality. As I saw with Bei, the Spectres have no power besides that which we give them, and Gen has surrendered everything he has, including his very identity.

If this were the real Zhen Shi, I might be tempted to share my discovery with him, one made during my debate with Zhu Chanzui regarding human concepts. In the end, we Martial Warriors are too fixated on the Martial Path, when instead we should focus on the Dao itself. Dao is a tricky concept I thought I more or less understood, but understanding is not the same as comprehension. Dao can be translated as Path, but at the root of the concept, Dao refers to the underlying natural order of the universe, the rules which govern reality as we know it. The Dao is everything, and therefore is present in everything, whether it be an elite Martial Warrior Demonstrating the Forms, the flowing fingers of an accomplished musician, or even the practised movements of an experienced tailor. We focus on the Movements of the Forms to find Insight, but the same wisdom can be found in the flapping wings of a laughing bird, the ambling gait of a roosequin, the smooth sculling of a swimming turtle, or the ungainly flop of a bicorn bunny. One can even find the Dao in notes strummed along a zither or the wind moving through a bamboo grove, in the interplay of light and shadow or the rhythm of a cleansing rainfall. The Dao is everywhere and in everything, which means the Martial Path is not the only Path laid out before me.

I think, at one point, Zhen Shi might have understood this fundamental truth, but in his pursuit of strength, he lost sight of his noble goal, to raise humanity strength as a whole by studying the Defiled. Perhaps he was corrupted by the knowledge and driven mad by Spectres, or maybe he’s as clear-headed as he’s always been and was a monster in human flesh from the start. It doesn’t matter, because regardless of the circumstances, I will stand against him. Humanity should hold themselves to high ideals like honour, justice, and integrity, because even though we are flawed, we still yearn to improve, and that, more than anything, is what it means to be human.

Gen couldn’t accept his flaws, so he deluded himself into believing a pleasant lie, but I’ve learned that denial only goes so far. Better to face the harsh truth now, because it’s not going away anytime soon.

“Thank you,” I say, interrupting Gen’s long-winded rant. “I appreciate the visit, because you’ve helped answer a few questions I didn’t even know I had, and now I’ve found my Path.” Smiling as I raise a hand, I add, “I’m not sure what would happen if I killed you here and now, but somehow, I feel like that’s what Zhen Shi wants. I certainly can’t come up with another reason why he would send you here, where you are utterly helpless to defend yourself. Luckily for you Gen, I am stubborn and contrary even on my best of days, so I’ll be sending you off now, and you will never return.” Saying it out loud solidifies it in my mind, and I know my words will prove true so long as I hold to my convictions. Gen Shi can only get in because I subconsciously wanted to seek him out for advice. That’s why having his notes is frowned upon, because by learning from Zhen Shi, he becomes something of an authority figure in our minds. Here in the Azure Empire, people venerate their teachers and mentors which gives Zhen Shi, and by extension Gen Shi, the upper hand in discussions like these, but luckily for me, I’m from a different world where we treat teachers like crap.

Before he can get a word in edgewise, I flick his forehead and send him rocketing out into the Void and back from whence he came, which as Baledagh once informed me, is an ‘unsettling’ experience. Good. I spared his life this time not because I don’t want to kill him, but because Zhen Shi seems to want Gen Shi dead. Also, I would very much like to kill Gen in real life, with my own hands, if possible. I’m no saint, and have never professed to be one, so while I know revenge probably won’t make me feel any better, so long as I get to watch Gen die, then that’s good enough for me.

With Gen Shi out of the way, I force myself to take a deep breath and clear my thoughts before turning in a circle to slowly take in my surroundings. Empty, white nothingness to some, but to my eyes, all I see is a blank canvas ready to be painted, with endless potential laid out before me. Consciously choosing to do nothing right now, I will myself out of the Void and back into the waking world, where I find Ping Ping standing on my chest, squeaking mournfully in distress, then happiness while Mom, Akanai, Song, Lin-Lin, and Luo-Luo look on in concern. Smiling at my beloved family, I stroke Ping Ping’s cheeks and say, “Sorry for making you all worry. I can explain but um... is it still the same night? I haven’t been sleeping for a week or anything, have I?”

“No child,” Mom says, hugging me tight only seconds after Lin-Lin launches herself into my arms. “I bade you goodnight not two hours ago, and the Guardian Turtle raised the alarm less than a minute past.”

“Ah good, good.” Pausing to collect my thoughts, I turn to what looks like an empty corner and say, “First things first. Kuang Biao?”

“Yes, Legate?”

Appearing in that same corner, Kuang Biao looks visibly flustered by my ability to find him in Concealment, but explanations will have to wait. “You had a lion, didn’t you? When you were a Royal Guardian?”

“Yes, Legate.”

“Good. Ready the Death Corps and Royal Guardians, then go fetch your lion using my authority as Legate. I intend to take personal command of Central’s reinforcements, and they march at first light, so we don’t have much time to prepare.” I don’t give a shit if it’s against protocol, I’m the Legate and I want Kuang Biao to have his lion mount, and not just because I want to pet one. Turning to Akanai, I add, “If it’s not too much trouble, would you care to join us, Mother-in-Law? I’ve been away from the battlefield for too long, and I will feel better with the People there with me.”

Nodding without speaking, Akanai offers me the barest hint of an approving smile, which I only catch a glimpse of before Mom’s hands clamp my cheeks. “Enough,” she says, her hands trembling from concern. “What happened while you were asleep? And why return to the battlefield now?” A note of hope enters her eyes as her expectations rise. “Are you...?”

So nervous she can’t even say it, she leaves me to fill in the blanks, and I offer her my biggest smile and ask, “Healed?” Taking her hands without letting my smile falter, I look Mom square in the eyes and say, “Nope.”

Only to immediately lean back to avoid the predictable rap to the head, but alas, I am but a mere mortal and no match for my Peak Expert mom when it comes to speed and strength as her knuckles knock lightly against my skull.

Still, mortal I may be, but if my hunch is right, then we mere mortals have our own strengths, for the Dao encompasses everything...

Chapter Meme
