The reply took Wren three days to write.

Not because she was uncertain. Because the numbers required context, and the context required precision, and every time she drafted the sentence about the third interval she found herself wanting to include things that were not hers to include — the Vael's dual-signal layer, the corruption's shallowness against geological resonance, Brecca's observation about pulse timing. Those were observations made in this settlement, by this ground. She did not know how well they would translate to escarpment geology.

She wrote: *Third interval: 19 days. Drift confirmed growing, one additional day per interval. Pulse 1 = Day 18. Pulse 2 = Day 36. Pulse 3 = Day 55. If rate holds, Pulse 4 = Day 75. I cannot confirm whether this is consistent with escarpment-level observation but our ground count is clean and the precursor timeline was accurate. Please bring your interval records.*

Then: *Come whenever it is convenient. Two weeks is a reasonable estimate for what the site warrants.*

She sealed it and gave it to Hadley with the next supply cache run.

---

The days between the third pulse and Sorrel's arrival had a particular quality: not waiting, exactly, but a kind of concentrated work that she had not had before. The pulse was behind her. The pulse was also ahead of her, twenty days away now, and between those two anchors was the longest clear interval she had had since arriving at the settlement.

She surveyed the retreated strip every other morning. The gap was six degrees by Day 58. Seven by Day 63. Each degree was approximately three additional meters of limestone exposure, the corruption's boundary pulling back in the same small increment the pulse returned to it. The retreated stone was pale and clean and smelled of water and calcite — the corruption's residue rinsing out of it over days, first the chemistry, then the surface texture, finally the substrate signal. On Day 60 she recorded the first [Keen Survey] reading in the retreated strip that returned a clean architectural trace: dressed limestone at depth, consistent with the main channel's building phase, heading east-northwest.

Three channels, she thought. Or three branches of the same channel system. Not a water table phenomenon. Construction.

She mapped what the surveying gave her and left the gaps clearly marked.

---

Theron cleared the T-junction's eastern branch on Day 61.

He was two meters into it when he stopped, replaced his trowel with his hands, and began moving soil by touch instead of blade. Wren sat at the channel margin and watched him work. She had learned to read when Theron switched from tools to hands: it meant the next surface was the thing he had been looking for, and he was not going to risk scratching it.

The block emerged at the end of the morning.

The terminal structure's first stone: limestone, lighter and denser than the channel walls, set at a different angle than the branch channel's coursing. Not a continuation — a junction, a meeting point. The block's exposed face had a feature that was not weathering and was not construction: a recessed depression, circular, approximately eight centimeters across, cut with the same precision as the channel blocks' dressed joints but distinct from them. It was not drainage. It was not a fitting for a mechanical connection. It was, as far as Wren could determine from the single exposed block, a mark.

"It's the same geometry," Theron said. He was sitting at the channel edge with his hands on his knees, looking at the block. "The depression. It is the same geometry as the carved depression on the threshold stone's west face."

Wren looked from the terminal structure's block to the threshold stone. The threshold stone was twenty meters away, its west face angled toward her. The carved depression on that face was old enough that she had assumed it was weathering until Brecca told her otherwise.

"Write it down," she said, and he already had his notebook out.

---

The Eye's transmission changed on Day 64.

Not its presence — the Eye had been transmitting steadily SSE since Day 39, a continuous low pulse carrying content she could feel but not read. What changed was the resolution. She was at the retreated strip with Detail Notation engaged when the shift happened — a single moment of increased clarity in the background signal, the way a conversation in another room becomes briefly intelligible when someone pauses and the ambient noise drops.

For approximately four seconds she could feel the transmission's orientation with more specificity than she had previously. SSE was correct, but SSE was a direction, not a location. What the four-second window gave her was a sense of depth: the transmission was heading toward something at the same depth as the terminal structure blocks, or deeper. Whatever the Eye was transmitting toward was below the construction layer.

Then the Detail Notation's ambient resolution dropped back to its normal register and the clarity was gone.

She stood at the retreated strip for a while after that. The terminal structure's first block was visible from here, at the channel's open section. The Eye was behind her, to the north, transmitting south. The center of the corruption's basin was ahead of her, to the south, where the gap had not yet retreated.

She wrote: *Day 64. Eye transmission detail increased for ~4s. Orientation confirmed SSE but depth-specific — below construction layer. If relay terminus is below builder level, it predates the settlement. Possibly pre-corruption.*

---

Hadley returned from the cache run on Day 68 with three species he could not identify.

One of them Wren had seen before — the small dark thing that moved along limestone surfaces, responsive to substrate vibration. This time it was on the new retreated strip, working a section of clean dressed stone that had emerged in the past week. There were eleven of them in a space of two square meters. Their density was higher than his previous count.

"They follow the retreated boundary," he said. He had the sketch open. "I checked the Day 36 retreated strip, the Day 55 strip, and the new section. They concentrate at the active boundary — where the limestone has been recently exposed. After the boundary moves on, their density drops. They are responding to something in the newly exposed stone."

"The substrate signal clearing," Wren said.

He looked at her. "Can you test that?"

She had [Keen Survey]. She had Detail Notation. She engaged both and moved to the section where the eleven specimens were concentrated. The substrate signal here was in the mid-range of her survey scale — not the clean architectural trace she had found on Day 60, not the muted signal of the still-corrupted ground south of the gap. Something in between: limestone that had recently recovered its own frequency after months of suppression, still finding its range.

Whatever the small dark things were responding to, they were responding to limestone recovering its signal. The corruption clearing out of the substrate and the stone's own frequency returning.

"I can't tell you what they're eating," she said. "Or whether eating is what they're doing. But they're on the recovery frequency. Whatever that means to them."

He wrote it down with the precision of someone who knew the difference between observation and explanation.

---

Sorrel arrived on the morning of Day 69.

Wren had expected someone older. The name in the supply log entry, the two-page letter, the precise script — she had built an image of someone who had been in the frontier long enough to develop the compressed authority of people who had run out of space for uncertainty. The person who walked into the settlement behind Hadley was approximately her age, possibly younger, with the kind of careful stillness that came from moving through terrain that required constant attention.

They stopped at the settlement margin and looked at the threshold stone before they looked at anyone else.

That told Wren something.

"You're Wren," they said. It was not a question.

"And you're Sorrel."

They considered each other for a moment. Then Sorrel walked to the threshold stone and stood at its east face, not touching it, looking at the carved depression.

"How long has this been here?"

"Since before the settlement. I don't have a date. The builders' construction is at least forty years old based on the channel dressing style, probably more. The stone itself is older."

Sorrel looked at the stone. Then at the settlement. Then at the ground between the threshold stone and the ghost-elm perimeter. They were reading the site the way Hadley read a new stretch of retreated strip: full attention, no expression, the information going in before any response came out.

"Where is the corruption boundary?" they asked.

"South of the ghost-elms. I'll show you after breakfast."

---

Sorrel ate without sitting down.

They stood at the fire pit with their bowl and read the gap while they ate: the ghost-elms' perimeter, the retreated strip's pale limestone, the active boundary where Hadley's eleven specimens were concentrated. They asked three questions during breakfast: How far does Detail Notation reach at your current level? Does the signal quality change with distance or degrade uniformly? When you say the Vael runs in the bedrock, what depth are you estimating?

The questions were not interrogative. They were the questions of someone who was trying to triangulate data they already had from a different angle.

"From the escarpment," Wren said, "what does the pulse look like?"

Sorrel set the bowl on the pit rim and looked south. "Like a pressure change. The escarpment geology is different — more fractured, less uniform — so we feel it as a frequency shift rather than a distinct wave front. But the timing is the same. We count the interval the same way."

"Your interval records."

They had them. A small notebook, distinct from the main journal, with nothing in it but dates and interval calculations going back to the first observed pulse. The earliest entry Wren could see was Day 18. Their count was identical to hers.

"Seventeen days," Sorrel said. "The original pre-Day-Zero cycle, if the historical records are accurate. First observed interval was already 18. Whatever the deceleration mechanism is, it started before either of us arrived."

Wren looked at the 19 she had written in her own journal.

"The corruption's grief response," she said. "Your hypothesis."

Sorrel met her eyes. "My hypothesis."

"I've been watching something that makes me uncertain about it."

There was a pause. Not a defensive pause — more the pause of someone who had been working alone long enough that an actual conversation required a moment of adjustment.

"Tell me," Sorrel said.

---

She told them everything in the order it had happened, which was not the order it made sense, but Sorrel did not ask her to reorganize it. They listened to the dual-signal observation, the Vael's bedrock continuity during the precursor, the four-second Detail Notation window and the depth of the Eye's transmission. They asked one question, at the end: "The geological resonance you named — the Vael — is it prior to the corruption?"

"The bedrock formation is. The Vael specifically — I don't know. I named it on Day 39 when I first felt it clearly. Whether it's been running since before the corruption or whether it's a response to something I haven't identified — I can't distinguish those possibilities yet."

Sorrel looked at the threshold stone. "If it's prior," they said, "then the corruption's grief model has a different shape. Grief responds to loss. If the land had something to lose — something already present before the corruption — then the corruption isn't responding to absence. It's responding to presence."

Wren had not said it that way before.

She thought of the four-second window: the Eye's transmission heading toward something below the builders' work, below the corruption's compression layer, into the bedrock that the Vael ran through. The relay terminus had been there before the corruption. Before the builders. Possibly before anything that had a name.

"If the corruption is a response to presence," she said slowly, "then the pulse cycle isn't decelerating because the grief is becoming permanent. It's decelerating because something is changing about the presence it's responding to."

Sorrel was still looking at the threshold stone. "Or," they said, "the corruption has been responding to something it doesn't understand and the pulse cycle is the adjustment rate."

The fire crackled. Hadley's eleven specimens worked the retreated strip to the south, their small dark forms moving over pale limestone. The threshold stone stood in the morning light, its carved depression and its four-thousand-year silence equal and present.

Neither of them had a vocabulary for what they were approaching. But for the first time since Day 39, Wren was not approaching it alone.

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  OBSERVATION
  Sorrel -- Arrival + First Session
-------------------------------------------------------------

  New contact: Sorrel (Wayfinder, escarpment-based).
  Arrival: Day 69.

  Data cross-reference:
    Pulse 1 -- Day 18 (confirmed: both counts)
    Pulse 2 -- Day 36 (confirmed: both counts)
    Pre-Day-Zero cycle: 17 days (escarpment records)
    First observed interval: 18 (deceleration
    predates both observers' arrival)

  Observation added:
    Eye relay terminus estimated at bedrock depth --
    below construction layer, possibly pre-corruption.
    SSE orientation confirmed (4-second window,
    Day 64).

  Sorrel hypothesis updated:
    Corruption responds to PRESENCE, not absence.
    Pulse deceleration = adjustment rate to something
    that does not resolve.

  +55 XP (cross-site data validation + synthesis)

-------------------------------------------------------------
```

---

That evening, Wren sat at the threshold stone's base with her palm on the east face and felt the Vael running beneath her.

The stone held its usual quality: old and present and not diminished by anything the corruption had brought to the surface frequencies. The precursor was still active in the substrate above it, the settled compression of a corruption cycle eight days past its pulse, recalibrating for the one ahead. The Vael ran through both conditions unchanged.

Sorrel sat three meters away with their notebook open, writing in the light of the settlement's fire. They had spent the afternoon at the channel with Theron and returned with two pages of notes and a sketch of the T-junction's terminal structure block. The circular depression had interested them in a way that Wren could not yet interpret — not excited, but the quality of recognition, like seeing a data point fit a pattern that had previously had a gap in it.

She had not asked yet. There would be time.

The pulse was six days away. The Hearthstone marks would expire in six days. Wren held the Vael and the stone's silence and the precursor's compression and the number 75 and felt all of them as a single field.

*Day 69. Sorrel arrived. Third interval 19, confirmed cross-site. Original cycle pre-deceleration: 17 days. Eye terminus at bedrock depth, pre-construction. The corruption is not responding to absence.*

She closed the journal.

Above the settlement, the ghost-elms stood in the dark, their silver-grey shimmer carrying further south than it had the morning she arrived.
