More than a few elves jeered and chortled while Ranthia sputtered and generally did what she could to get irregularly shaped shards of colorful crystal out of her mouth and nose. She was aware that she could feel His amusement, but she had space for little else other than getting the finer flecks of the former plate out of her mouth. Why had she prayed out loud?!

Naturally, He had drained much of her mana. But that was fine, He could make better use of it than she could while she was idle. Besides, she had a hearty meal waiting for her…

“Gah! Clover n—” Her rebuke fell prey to a coughing fit after she inhaled plate dust in her efforts to stop her greedy bunny.

Clover continued to ignore her plight and hurriedly tore chunks off the pork chop to down them before she could be stopped.

“You’re lucky that nothing it was seasoned with was on the list of things that are deadly if they’re ingested. But rabbits aren’t meant to eat meat.” Ranthia groused as she directed her Bond through the door into their home.

Naturally, due to divine shenanigans, shifting somehow carried the colorful fragments of crystal to her new body. So, she was still leaving a discernable, sparkling trail. The city’s cleaning auras should—in theory—clean that up, but she was in dire need of a shower. And even if eating a quarter of a pork chop wasn’t on the list of emergencies, she still fully intended to mention it to the [Healer] in the morning. How much ‘not great’ did it take to constitute a major problem?

“You, my sweetling, can make life exhausting.” Ranthia complained. …Except her audience had slipped away while she was distracted!

Ranthia indulged in a silent bout of seething as she removed her belt, carefully shucked her mistweave dress, and carefully knelt down to loosen the straps on her sandals enough to slip them off. She promised herself a long, hot shower followed by immediately going to bed. Everything else could wait for another day.

The sound of something sliding and bumping against the wooden floor of their home dragged Ranthia’s psyche—metaphorically kicking and screaming—back to the moment. She turned in the direction that the sound was coming from, ready to start shouting the moment Clover had rounded the corner. She had endured enough for one day!

Her outrage died on her lips as Clover’s cute little backpack came into view. The rabbit was carefully pushing it with her nose toward Ranthia. And just in case that wasn’t already dangerously cute—Clover began to make her excited noises as she drew closer. Litil had referred to it as ‘honking’ and it was a clear indication of excitement—just the same as the long, joyous hops she sometimes made.

“Okay, okay, yes, you’re adorable.” Ranthia giggled as she knelt back down. “Am I finally going to get to admire your cute new bag?”

Clover continued her approach and nosed the bag straight into Ranthia’s hand before she stopped. Ranthia started to admire the bag—it felt new enough that it was likely made specifically for Clover and the straps could be adjusted if she kept growing—but Clover’s excitement gave way to impatience after a few moments. After a minute or two of failures to communicate, Ranthia finally set her fingers on the straps that opened the bag and—with Clover’s excited permission—undid them.

Inside the bag was a surprising volume of hay—had Clover somehow sourced a bag with a mild spatial enchantment?!—with a crystalline sculpture nestled within it. Carefully, Ranthia withdrew the figure so she could take a look at it. While her real bunny bounced excitedly in her peripheral vision, she admired the sculpture of a rabbit in mid-jump. It wasn’t based on Clover—most likely it depicted a less gargantuan specimen of rabbit—but it was finely crafted with impeccable detailing work. The crystal it was made from was the same that elves used as robust building material, so it wasn’t even fragile. If anything, the fine steel chain it hung from was probably the most vulnerable material on the sculpture.

For all that Ranthia struggled sometimes to understand her Bond, there was precious little ambiguity about what the figurine was meant for.

“A gift, for me?” Ranthia confirmed.

Only to get tackled by an enthusiastic bunny.

The celebration wasn’t done, of course. The bulk of the third day was spent with Myntheria—dressed in pants and body paint, the same as usual—with Clover abandoning them in favor of Litil partway through the morning. Thankfully, the [Healer] wasn’t too worried about the pork chop incident since the bunny had left fresh piles of poop in Ranthia’s horribly abused former backpack. Ranthia just made sure to put some gems into Clover’s backpack for her before they parted ways. For the third time, Ranthia toured the aquatic display, laying eyes on a few creatures from the oceanic depths that she hadn’t seen on her prior visits. But Myntheria was mostly interested in watching the artistic performances and competitions throughout the city.

The morning of the fourth day was spent with Sunny—without Clover, after the rabbit promptly kicked Sunny and zipped off across a crowded street to bother Litil’s eldest daughter. But they didn’t have time to get up to much before they joined the crowds that filled the streets and fields surrounding the Purple Pavillion—the largest of the Pavillions in the city. Ranthia and Sunny joined Litil’s family, with Anthelleon joining them before the crowds thickened too much for her to find a place with their group. And with Clover perched in Ranthia’s lap, they bore witness to the spectacle of music at its finest.

The scarred elven Maestro introduced herself to the crowd as the Maestro of Conducting, one of the founding members of the City of the Arts. The latter wasn’t a surprise, but it was the first time that Ranthia had heard what her art truly was—she’d always been cagey about it when they spoke. Not that the name meant anything to Ranthia. At least the mystery solved itself swiftly. Standing before the top sixty-four—selected from the best in Music and in Musical Instruments—she drew a wand of pure arcanite from some storage item or another. Balls of Lightning illuminated the Purple Pavillion as she began to move her wand—and with that movement, the music began.

Conducting had no role in creating the music. In fact, the eyes of the musicians only flicked to the wand briefly or watched it through the corner of their vision—or some dedicated Skill. Instead, much as the woman had once promised, she brought the diverse group of elves into harmony. Through her wand, the Maestro controlled the tempo of the performance and cued each and every change as individual instruments or entire categories of sounds joined or departed from the symphony.

The end result was beautiful. Ranthia had heard almost every instrument in play, of course. Some of them individually, others played through small groups. But the culmination of sixty-four individual [Artisans] was something wholly unlike the sum of its parts. Each note joined and melded into a cohesive whole. Nothing she had heard in Remus even came close to the utter perfection of the combined sound.

It was even richer than Ranthia could have imagined music to be.

It was so beautiful that even her urge to dance was subsumed by her desire to drink in the performance.

They continued to play throughout the rest of the day and well into the night, but few in the crowd dared to leave the grand performance. It was one of the highlights of the city’s anniversary celebration and by every last god and goddess, it deserved its reputation.

The fifth day, Ranthia stayed with Clover and promised her friends that she would spend more time with them another day. Together, they sampled fruits that Ranthia had never seen—with the exception of fresh Ilan fruit, not after her experience with the bread—and watched various performances, including a particularly hilarious one.

Some non-native Ooze [Mage] was running something that was halfway between a sport and a spectacle. He would encase two to eight elves in thick, bulbous layers of non-sticky Ooze and have them form teams to face off in a game where they sought to get a floaty, oversized ball into large nets on either side of the field. Except the Ooze that the elves wore wanted to bounce, so they had to limit their speed and carefully hold back on the force they used, lest they went flying. And even with elven grace, few that ended up on the ground could manage to recover their footing. Honestly, it was a delight to watch the haughty elves struggle with clumsiness. And Ranthia was far from the only person to feel that way—the crowd was filled with delightful heckling and laughter.

In a three-on-three match, three of the Hunters Ranthia didn’t get along with clashed—clumsily—with three of the city’s volunteer guards. Two guards and one of the Hunters were on their backs, cursing up a storm as they thrashed and struggled, while the remaining guard proved himself an impressive barrier to the remaining duo. The score remained at zero-zero until their time slot came to an end.

Snickering, Ranthia beckoned Clover to follow. They’d watched three matches and she was ready to move on.

“Lo there, human! Are you seriously going to leave without stepping into the field yourself?!” The man that was presumably Sunny’s father tried to waylay them, waddling as best he could in his bulbous orange costume of Ooze.

“Yup.” Ranthia confirmed.

“I challenge you, one-on-one! What are you, scared?” The man sneered at her, clearly unaware of how absurd that looked in his current attire.

“Terrified.” Ranthia confirmed, shaking her hands and knees for emphasis. “For I am not yet done with my first cycle and there is no way I can possibly compete in such a deadly bloodsport. The display of effortless grace and peerless might is far beyond my means, alas! I must away to soothe my too human heart!”

Sure, she could have tried to don one of the Ooze suits and made a fool of herself. But it was far more amusing to depart at that point, while the crowd laughed at the expense of her would-be opponent. Besides, Clover was obviously tired of watching a game she presumably couldn’t understand.

The Heart of Arts and Learning had set up a special one-day exhibit on the first floor: art created by children that had yet to unlock. And Ranthia wasn’t even slightly surprised that Clover led her directly to it. The floor had been divided into eight quadrants by age. Less than one year, one year, two years, and so on up to the seven-year-olds. Much of the art was little more than colorful, meaningless scribbles, but there were actually some legitimately impressive pieces. One of the most eye-catching displays was a full replica of the town constructed by a mere six-year-old across almost a full year of effort. Sure, there were a few missing buildings, and the scale was wildly inconsistent. But Ranthia couldn’t imagine many children that age managing so much dedication to such a prolonged project.

Then again, unlocked or not, they were still elves. They were just built different.

Just after sunset, a new form of entertainment revealed itself. And Ranthia and Clover joined the crowd rushing to the spectacle—the Rank 5 in Cooking had challenged the Rank 4!

Scaldos, the fire elemental. He was a spectacle in and of himself with his voice of crackling flame and a non-elvenoid form of flexible size. Most often he looked like nothing more than a roaring bonfire on his side of the field—a bonfire that burned nothing and even left the grass unblemished (though perhaps a bit dryer from his passing). Common logic said that only Inferno could make flame solid, but despite being an elemental of mere Fire, Scaldos was able to form limbs and manipulate ingredients and utensils. His form was constantly in flux, though he favored broad paws with six flexible digits where they were suitable.

He also knew how to work a crowd. He cracked jokes, unleashed a torrent of (oft-strained) fire puns, and involved the crowd in every step of his process as he cooked—often using his own body. His opponent on the other hand, was a taciturn woman that chose to hold her silence after she wished him luck. Her hands were a blur as she prepared her own dishes and her gaze flickered between each and every pan and pot she had going.

Surprisingly, the audience was asked to judge the results. In a usual contest, the competitors would declare the winner—with a cultural bias for the higher ranked competitor to cede the Rank if there was any doubt in their victory. Sure, the crowd’s excitement was a factor, but they were rarely asked to name a preference. But, since Scaldos couldn’t actually taste anything, instead the competitors created two hundred and fifty-six little plates and saw them passed out to the entire crowd.

Scaldos’ steak and seared vegetables were a delight, but unfortunately his competitor’s dumplings in soup were undeniably better. Even with [Expert Tongue], Ranthia was certain she couldn’t appreciate the full breadth of flavors that the taciturn elf had finessed through her cooking. Her dish looked simple, but the complexity and sheer genius of it sang across her tongue.

“Ha! Well, congratulations, my hot-blooded rival. But my own talent in your art burns brighter with every year that joins the ashes of history—I hope you don’t fireel too burned next year!” A ripple of brighter flame passed through the elemental to visualize his mirth.

