Surprisingly, the competitors resumed cooking for anyone that wanted to sample more of their food. Most of the crowd queued up for the winner’s impressive soup, but Ranthia and Clover were part of the rare few that favored the fire elemental. In large part because he was the only one that was cooking anything that Clover could have. Sure, it was better for Clover to eat raw vegetables, but cooked ones couldn’t hurt—especially when prepared by a chef Skilled enough to keep the nutrition value just as high.

“A human! Well, burn my non-existent eyes, I haven’t seen your firike since I was a wandering spark trying to survive the wind!” The flames seemed to blaze more intensely as Scaldos lifted himself up more to properly examine Ranthia—and her Bond. “And a lovely rabbit too! Well, well, this must be my pyrolucky day! Too bad I couldn’t be blazing with victory for you both!”

Clover shrunk back from the (surprisingly cool) intense flames, but she still eagerly ate every vegetable he flung her way while he cooked for those that favored him.

The rest of the celebration felt as though it passed in a blur. It sounded regrettably trite when put so simply, but the experience was unlike anything that Ranthia had properly experienced before. Eight days of merriment with friends and her Bond. Laughing, sharing food, and soaking in new sensations with every sense she possessed. Truly, it shouldn’t have felt so novel.

But in Remus, she had grown jaded to entertainment—her Skills muted the Mirages they favored, just as her honed senses revealed the flaws in their piteous works. But the immortal society had truly rekindled the wonder and splendor of the arts for her. Sure, some of the performers were likely even younger than she was, but even the youngest among their ranks had dedicated themselves to the arts with the same zeal she had dedicated herself to the necessity of survival.

During those precious days, the stresses and worries that her life had accrued felt distant and her heart felt a little lighter.

Then, with nervous anticipation, Ranthia joined the crowd in one of the parks on the final night of the celebration. She had witnessed many contests in the arts, but there was one in particular that had been planned since before the celebrations even began.

The Rank 2 in Dancing had challenged the Rank 1. Both women were dressed in fine costumes with colors and motifs meant to evoke the forest. Floating crystals struggled to provide pops of alternative color beneath the vibrant glare of the full moons. The Rank 1 in Singing himself provided the music, though the dance didn’t immediately begin. It was only once a Wind [Mage] created a brisk, cool breeze that swept petals and leaves into the sky that the dancers moved.

Ranthia could scarcely believe her eyes. The dancers weren’t competing on the grass—they danced in three dimensions, moving between leaves and petals with every step. The Skill-generated breeze should have made for a chaotic and almost unpredictable arena, but the dancers were so proficient that every move they made felt as though it had always been part of their plan. Before their sheer talent, even the whims of nature couldn’t hope to become an obstruction. It was as if every petal and leaf was exactly where they needed them to be, even when they weren’t the ones controlling the winds.

Rationally, Ranthia possessed enough gift in the art to tell that they were adapting their dance to the chaos of the winds—both natural and Skill-born—but even she couldn’t tell what was adaptation and what was just… the normal cadence of the dance. They were at a level that she couldn’t match.

Could she even dance upon flower petals on the wind? There was no Skill at play there—that was a feat of pure dexterity. She had achieved things that she would have once believed were impossible herself, but even still she struggled to imagine that she was capable of being so graceful that her weight had no bearing at all on the world.

It was something to aspire to.

No. It was something to try! She was no mere mortal, fighting for survival in the gentlest cradle Pallos had to offer. She was human, yes, but she was a dancer too. [True Grace]’s greatest value had never been in the bolstering effect it had on her Skills—its modifications to her body had honed her natural dexterity to the point that she, at the very least, narrowed the gap between her and elven perfection in that one stat.

And she was done with letting herself feel like an outsider. For the first time, Ranthia looked at the impeccable dancers without thinking of them as the height of wonder. For Xaoc’s sake, they weren’t goddesses!

And Ranthia was determined to become their equal. No, not just their equal—she wouldn’t stop until she surpassed even their lofty talent.
