[Innkeeper] Ulia bowed slightly. Cetris stared at her and then relaxed. And Erin took his second measure.
“I’ve been told that this…Goblin…has never caused an incident in Celum aside from the encounter with the [Thugs]. So, therefore, I chose to ignore it. As I did the incident with the Antinium, and all the other incidents in the city. Celum, is, after all, a place of trade. But it seems, in recent weeks, that it has become a lopsided trade, Miss Solstice. Hence the confiscation of your door.”
“Which you guys thought was the actual magic one. You tried to steal it. I wonder who got that wrong?”
Erin eyed Miss Agnes. The older [Innkeeper] glared back. What had happened with Agnes? She’d once been a friend. But Safry and Maran had been bad, and Miss Agnes—Erin had liked her. Right up until she hadn’t.
“We attempted to steal nothing. The association of [Innkeepers] in Celum is simply opposed to your tactics of coercion. And [Innkeepers] across Izril will hear of you—you—thief! You stole my best workers and then fired them within a week!”
Miss Agnes pointed at Erin. The young woman shot up.
“Because they bullied Mrsha—”
“Enough! Please! Enough!”
Cetris stood up. He glared around and put two hands on the table. Then he looked past Erin.
“Mage Montressa. May I ask why Wistram is present at these negotiations? This is not the Academy’s business.”
His tone was politest towards her. Montressa cleared her throat as she tapped her staff on the carpet.
“Indeed not, Mayor Duiland. I’m simply here to aid in the negotiations as a friend to Miss Erin Solstice. I am a private individual conducting my business, and the academy does not back my presence in this regard.”
She nodded at Erin. The young woman nodded back, warily. Montressa had offered her help, and Erin had taken it. Cetris frowned. He didn’t like Montressa being here, ‘private individual’ or not.
“Very well, very well. Let’s put aside the matter of the Hobgoblin for now. When he is found, we will address any concerns. Miss Erin Solstice, you’ve been summoned for a number of reasons. Namely, your…portal door and its usage, and your influence on the city at large.”
Erin blinked at him.
“What about my door? It’s been there for months!”
The [Mayor] held up a hand.
“It has, and I have been aware of it and considered it a boon to Celum. However, this morning, I received not one, but numerous complaints related to your presence in the city. If I may, I will list them now. Firstly—”
Erin blinked as he slowly read from his notes. The Runner’s Guild was angry that people were using her door to carry parcels and letters. The Merchant’s Guild was mad about the same thing. The Baker’s Guild hated Octavia’s baking soda and thought it was fake alchemy instead of real methods to rise bread. And the [Innkeepers]—Cetris had to pause at the lengthy list.
“Well, I have numerous complaints, regarding the treatment of staff, going against other inns in a combative spirit, taking over an inn despite the wishes of the actual [Innkeeper], poaching entertainment—”
“What? When did I do that last one?”
“The Players of Celum! They’re Celum’s people and she’s been funneling them all into her inn! Into Liscor!”
Timbor Parithad glared at Erin. She threw up her hands.
“They’re [Actors]! I taught Wesle and Jasi how to perform plays!”
“But they’re Celum’s citizens.”
“So?”
A fist crashed down on the table. Lyonette looked at the Head of the Merchant’s Guild. The man was red-faced. He barked down at Erin.
“So your inn’s taking away wages and profits that belong to Celum, young lady! This is our city, and you—”
“Guildmaster Trent!”
Cetris Duiland pushed the man back. He glanced at the three younger women—and saw all three of them watching Guildmaster Trent. They did not look unnerved by the man’s show of aggression. If anything—
Lyonette was calmly eying the room, as cool as ice. Montressa was frowning at the red-faced man. Octavia was glaring at the [Bakers]. And Erin was wiping spit off her face.
“If he spits on me again, I’m gonna smack him.”
She warned Cetris. Erin was a head shorter and a lot thinner than Guildmaster Trent, but she seemed to suggest the smack would come whether Trent wanted it or not. Cetris paused. He’d heard Erin Solstice was good at fighting.
“Outbursts like that will not happen again, Miss Solstice.”
He shot Trent a warning look. The Guildmaster subsided. Lyonette took over.
“Celum has a number of complaints about The Wandering Inn, Mayor Cetris. However, I didn’t hear the city voicing their objections until now. There was an agreement in place about the use of the door to transport letters and goods belonging to the Merchant’s Guild and the Runner’s Guild, but the inn hasn’t received any notifications of impropriety until now.”
She glanced at Erin and then looked at Cetris with a smile. The young woman was polite and well-spoken as she glanced around the room.
“It seems that Erin’s property has been forcibly confiscated, and she herself has been summoned to a room to be threatened and shouted at by some of Celum’s elite for faults the city has caused, rather than approached in any diplomatic manner. Which is surprising to me that a city, or [Mayor], would act this way, but I assume this is all in good faith?”
Her tone was polite, but the delivery made Cetris flush. The Guildmasters all fidgeted uncomfortably as well. The [Mayor] shuffled his notes quickly, wondering who she was.
“It’s a regrettable oversight, Miss…”
“Lyon.”
“Miss Lyon, yes. But the fact remains that the ah, benign neglect has added up. Let’s run through the issues one at a time, shall we? The situation with individuals bearing packages through the door—”
“Is it an issue?”
Lyonette stopped Mayor Cetris with a raised brow. She heard a splutter.
“Of course it is! That’s our money—Runners make deliveries going south! This door is undercutting their work!”
“Because it’s more convenient.”
Lyonette coolly looked at the Guildmaster of the Runner’s Guild. The man hesitated.
“It’s magic. Cheating, is what it is!”
“But people should pay for City Runners to deliver goods slower and at cost, when a magical door can do their work for them? I fail to see the logic, Guildmaster. Unless your point is simply that the Runner’s Guild deserves to keep working as it always has?”
The man hesitated.
“It will ruin the economy. The Merchant’s Guild is in agreement. Transport to Liscor—”
“Doesn’t occur. Letters always go by way of Esthelm. And trade and transport ceases in the spring. The magic door may well put City Runners out of work in regards to going towards Liscor, but doesn’t Celum’s Runner’s Guild get more deliveries going north? If anything, Liscor’s Guild is the one that should be objecting.”
Mayor Cetris turned his head, eyebrows raised.
“Is that true, Guildmaster Eirnhern?”
The Guildmaster hesitated. Lyonette folded her arms and declined to high-five Erin. Both Trent and Eirnhern looked at each other. Eirnhern raised a finger.
“The fact is that it’s still free access to Liscor and Celum. Money that doesn’t go to either city, unless Liscor’s taking a cut?”
“But no one’s charged for the door.”
“What? You mean—you don’t charge people for using it?”
Trent stared at Lyonette. She half-glared at Erin.
“No, we do not, in fact.”
“But what a waste of money!”
The [Merchant] burst out. Lyonette nodded. Erin sighed. So did Cetris.
“I see the issue. Moving ahead. We’ll return to you, Guildmasters. The Baker’s Guild is furious because of a…baking…soda? Some new alchemical concoction.”
The [Baker] sent to represent her guild nodded, looking angrily at Octavia.
“It’s going to ruin our jobs, Mayor! It’s not a real baking thing at all! Just some fake powder. You have to do something with acid. I heard that [Alchemist] telling her customers!”
“Acid?”
Alarmed, Cetris looked at Octavia. The [Alchemist] raised her hands.
“Hey! I just meant buttermilk! Acidic liquids! Not acid, acid. It’s a technical term. And it’s completely good powder! Right Erin? You can use it for baking!”
“It’s ruining jobs! You’ll get jumped-up apprentices trying to replace masters. We cultivate yeast, and gain Skills for rising bread. But this powder will undercut all our levels and hard work!”
The [Baker] made her case. Cetris nodded a few times, looking at Erin and Octavia.
“Do you two have anything to say, Miss Solstice, Miss Cotton?”
Erin raised her hand.
“Um. Yeah. Baking powder’s normal. It’s not a weird alchemical thing. Well, it’s not like flour or oil, but it’s not a trick. You can make bread with baking soda, just like with yeast. Or powder.”
“There’s a powder?”
“What’s the difference?”
The [Baker] and Octavia exclaimed. Montressa narrowed her eyes at Erin’s back. Erin shrugged.
“I have no idea. It just makes bread rise up and stuff. But look—it’s natural. That’s why I asked Octavia for help. I didn’t have a Skill, so I needed baking soda.”
“But it’ll undercut—[Mayor]!”
The [Baker] appealed to Cetris. He was nodding.
“Miss Cotton, Miss Solstice. You can see that this will damage our [Baker]’s livelihoods, can’t you? These new changes, this door—all of it is destabilizing Celum’s workers. Who have worked in their professions for generations!”
He thought it was quite well-put. But all four young women instantly opened their mouths. Montressa was first.
“Mayor Duiland, I’m sure that Celum’s workers are quite traditional. And if you so require it, I’m certain Miss Cotton will happily stop selling her soda in Celum.”
“She will?”
“I will?”
Octavia stared at Montressa’s back. The [Mage] turned her head.
“Didn’t you say you wanted to move to Liscor, Octavia? I heard Lyon discussing it with you.”
The [Princess] blinked.
“Well—we were suggesting a wing of the inn.”
“Perfect! You can do that! We don’t need that trouble, anyways!”
The [Baker] was beaming. But Cetris had caught Montressa’s implication. He rubbed his forehead.
“That would mean baking soda is then imported to Celum, wouldn’t it, Mage Montressa? Which means we would be paying for the very goods our own Miss Cotton is producing in the city?”
Montressa smiled at Cetris as Guildmaster Trent’s head snapped up.
“Precisely, Mayor Cetris. You can stop baking soda from being imported into the city, of course, but you cannot stop a new invention. I’m sure Liscor’s [Bakers] will face the very same issues as Celum’s, but baking soda exists and if it isn’t harmful—”
She looked at Erin. The [Innkeeper] shrugged.
“Just don’t swallow it alone. That’s probably bad. Probably gives you bad gas or makes you throw up if you do it wrong. But it’s not poison. I think.”
“—then I’m afraid that’s where the Baker’s Guilds will have to adapt.”
Montressa nodded at the crestfallen [Baker]. Cetris looked around.
“Surely…surely Miss Cotton would be amenable to halting her sale of baking soda.”
“I’ll move to Liscor.”
Octavia raised her hand. Cetris glared at her. But for the baking soda and her matches, he’d be glad to see the end of another of Celum’s headaches. But now—he drummed his fingers on the table.
“That would be unfortunate for Celum.”
“Hey, I like it here. Lived for years in Celum. But I’m getting a new place for free—”
“—with rent—”
Lyonette coughed into one hand. Octavia faltered.
“Well, safer than Celum. On the whole. I think. At least I won’t be extorted. It’ll be part of Erin’s inn, right?”
She got encouraging nods from Erin and Lyonette. Mayor Cetris’ face fell. He looked around.
“Mayor, we could prevent her from leaving. Just close the door! She can’t go through that way!”
One of the [Innkeepers] leaned over and whispered to Cetris. He flushed and snapped.
“Miss Agnes! We aren’t going to constrain Miss Cotton from anything!”
He glared at the [Innkeepers].
“This is a purely reasonable decision, without…punitive emotions involved! Miss Cotton will of course be allowed to move her shop if she so wishes! Quickly. Today. I imagine this—this door can do it all, can’t it? She’ll forfeit the lease on her shop, but that is a simple solution. Or she may go to Liscor properly! Without magic! Which is the normal way of things.”
Cetris turned around. He might not have been a bad man. Erin looked at him.
“But the door’s being closed to Celum? Why?”
The [Mayor] looked at her.
“Well, Miss Solstice, the complaints of the other Guilds aside, I have two good reasons. Firstly, I’m afraid the Innkeeper’s Association of Celum has the most complaints against you. You’ve been blacklisted by the local inns, and I’ve no desire to see a miniature trade war in my city. The one in the north is bad enough.”
“What, those three?”
Erin pointed at Agnes, Ulia, and Timbor. Cetris nodded.
“They have a number of complaints—”
“So what? They’re jerks.”
Erin glared at them.
“I helped you! And you betrayed me by taking my customers, my staff—”
Miss Agnes was furious. Erin pointed at her.
“Safry and Maran were an accident! They wanted to quit and they were awful! Why should I give them money for being lazy and mean—”
“[Innkeepers] cooperate. What don’t you understand, young woman? We share our profits, support each other—”
“Yeah, and lean, I bet! I don’t take orders from you—”
“Enough!”
Cetris stood up. Erin sat down. The other [Innkeepers] moved back. The [Mayor], breathing hard, shook his head.
“Miss Solstice. Aside from the fact that I’d like to discourage another conflict between professions, there’s a simple reason why your door will be banned from Celum. Firstly, because there is animosity between you and three guilds, and two of my best inns in the city.”
Miss Agnes’ smug smile slipped. Cetris shook his head.
“But mostly, Miss Solstice, I was persuaded because of your Hobgoblin. Because of the incident where an Antinium Soldier fought Celum’s citizens—even criminals! I’ve heard about Pallass, you see.”
“Oh. Ooh.”
Erin looked at Lyonette and Montressa and Octavia. Montressa winced.
“Mayor—”
“However, I’d be fine with dealing with that. Even the Antinium, yes. Gates can be built, access restricted. Inns monitored for infighting.”
Cetris glared over his shoulder. Then he sighed.
“The truth is, Miss Solstice—it’s just your inn. And you. I’m not sure you’re aware of this, but you have…a reputation for trouble. I’ve studied up on Liscor. The monster attacks, the dungeon. Crelers. You have a habit of attracting trouble. Thus far, it hasn’t been to Celum’s detriment, but—Pallass.”
