He spread his hands. Erin’s face fell.
“That wasn’t my fault. Chaldion said. He’s the Grand Strategist. You can ask him if you like.”
She pointed towards the door. Cetris paused, then he shook his head.
“Miss Solstice, I’m sure he could vouch for the Wyvern attack as coincidence. But you were in the Walled City when it was attacked, were you not?”
“…Yes.”
The [Mayor] nodded. He sighed.
“It’s not that I believe you have a…curse Skill. Or bad luck. But this morning I was informed there was a betting pool. There are individuals…even rich individuals…monarchs, among others, placing bets on whether Celum will be attacked in the next month. This year. And how many casualties will occur. I understand there’s a betting pool on Liscor as well.”
Erin’s jaw dropped. Lyonette and Montressa exclaimed.
“Bets?”
“Who?”
“How much?”
Octavia looked around. She raised her hands defensively.
“Just me? Okay. I thought everyone would like to know…”
The mayor of Celum looked at Erin. Not without sympathy. He steepled his hands.
“Miss Solstice, that was the crux of my decision. The rest of it I felt you should have the opportunity to explain. And you have. But for that aspect…can you assure me Celum would be safe with precautions?”
“I mean, if you put a gate on the door like Pallass—look, Liscor’s just next to a dungeon. It’s sort of dangerous.”
“And a gate would keep us safe?”
“Well, the door would have to be open. And there’d have to be something that could go through the gate. Which wouldn’t be—I mean, a Raskghar could probably do it. Or evil Calruz. Or Crelers. Or…”
Erin realized she was not making a case for herself. The [Mayor] stared at her, along with everyone else. Erin Solstice slowly stood up.
“So—so the door’s banned from Celum?”
“We’ll let Miss Cotton move if she can effect it within the day, of course. And we’ll consider all events dealt with, without fine or offence. I think that’s the least we can do. The Hobgoblin will be allowed to return, so long as no one is injured or killed, Five Families forbid.”
Cetris Duiland nodded, shuffling his papers. Erin stared around. Most of the people on Celum’s side looked some measure of triumphant, although Trent was looking worried as he stared at Octavia.
Lyonette seemed to accept the measure, albeit with pursed lips. Octavia was scratching her braids.
“How can I move everything…? Well, I suppose. Hey, Lyonette. Is the uh, other shop you promised actually built or…?”
Montressa was shrugging. She whispered to Erin.
“We can always do another city, Erin. Do you need Celum?”
“No. But I like it here. Even with all the jerks.”
Erin muttered back. She saw Cetris turn his head. But the [Mayor] said nothing more. Erin nodded
“Fine. We have all of today, right?”
“Let us say by midnight?”
He nodded at her. That was more time than Erin had thought. She smiled a bit.
“Thanks. I’ll want to find some of my friends. And—I need to tell the Players of Celum to come through. Some’ll have to stay, I guess, but Temile and most of the others can go with their families, probably. Selys might be able to house them in the new part of the city.”
“Huh?”
The Celumites turned as one. Ulia’s head snapped around.
“The—the Players of Celum?”
“Well, yeah. They’ll have to come since the door’ll be gone.”
Erin blinked at them. Ulia’s brows shot together.
“No. They’re staying here.”
“Why?”
Mayor Cetris looked around wildly.
“Because they’re Celum’s [Actors]. That was one of your complaints, wasn’t it? Miss Ulia?”
“Naturally! They should be performing in our inns! They won’t just leave because Miss Solstice demands it!”
“But I helped make them. Besides, I help with the plays. And I have a stage. Temile’ll come if there’s a choice. I think.”
Erin furrowed her brows. Mayor Cetris was giving the other [Innkeepers] a death-glare. Timbor raised his hands.
“But—hold on now. They’re the Players of Celum! They can’t leave the city! That’s their name.”
He laughed as if that settled that. The young [Innkeeper] shrugged. Erin thought for a second and snapped her fingers.
“They can be the Players from Celum. I don’t like it. Families will have to move, and maybe some of the [Actors] will have to stay. But that’s life, right? You chose this. Not me.”
She looked at Cetris Duiland. The [Mayor] stared at her. Guilds were one thing. Inns were one thing. Even the threat of monster attacks. But Ulia had quoted the money and attention the Players of Celum—even the group that had been left behind—would bring the city. Without Miss Solstice’s inn to take custom into Liscor. He raised his hands.
“Wait a moment. This is an unexpected—let’s talk this through. I call—[Disadvantaged Renegotiation]! Thank you!”
Erin paused. The entire room paused. Cetris wiped at his brow with one sleeve.
“You can’t do that!”
Montressa glared at Cetris. But she and Octavia were already sitting back down. The other Guildmasters and [Innkeepers] were returning to their places as well. Cetris nodded at Montressa.
“Mage Montressa, I can and I did. It’s to Miss Solstice’s favor—”
It was one of his Skills as [Mayor]. Not a perfect one, but it worked. They’d begin again, albeit with the odds against Cetris. Or…it should have.
The young woman named Miss Lyon hadn’t moved. She’d folded her arms by the door.
“I don’t believe we need to renegotiate. Erin, Montressa, Octavia, let’s go.”
Cetris’ eyes bulged as he felt something resisting his [Disadvantaged Negotiation]. Somehow, the young woman was pushing at his Skill, fighting it off! That shouldn’t be possible! At least—not unless she was a [Diplomat], or [Merchant]! How was she…?
The [Mayor] and [Princess] locked gazes as they clashed in the meeting room. Erin, who was also on her feet, saw the invisible battle of wills. She paused, then she waved a hand.
“Lyon. Let’s try again. I don’t want to leave Celum if I can help it.”
“Erin—”
Lyonette glanced at her. Then she exhaled slowly.
“Fine.”
She returned to her position. Cetris exhaled, and found his handkerchief to mop at his forehead. Before anyone could object, he sprang into action.
“Very good! I, personally, and as [Mayor], see no reason not to allow the door to stay. I can even see a special permit—so long as this Hobgoblin stays in Miss Cotton’s shop. Signed! Ratified with the Adventurer’s Guild!”
“Mayor!”
Outrage from behind him. Cetris turned his head.
“Can any of you think of a reason that outweighs the Players of Celum’s departure? No? Thank you! Be silent!”
He turned back towards Erin. She smiled at him. She almost liked him, despite the situation. He was doing his job. It depended on how you met someone. Cetris smiled back as well.
“I believe we can come to an accommodation, Miss Solstice.”
“Yeah. I’d like that. We can try regulating the door. And like Lyon said—the [Bakers] and so on in Liscor are going to be mad too. I’ll talk with Liscor’s Council, but if the door can stay open—let it, right?”
Mayor Cetris Duiland nodded and relaxed. He sat back in his chair.
“Excellent. Now, let’s just talk import and export taxes, and a small usage fee. This has been a method of somewhat illegal transport, after all. And the Runner’s Guild and Merchant’s Guild should inspect the situation in an equitable way for all…”
 
——
 
Five minutes later, Erin strode back through Octavia’s shop. A babble of voices followed, and Relc looked up from where he was inspecting potions. He guiltily hid an opened bottle behind his back.
“Hey Erin, what’s—”
“We’re out of here! No, I’m not negotiating it! I’ll find a better city! Like—like Esthelm! Octavia, pack up! And Temile, tell the Players it’s decision time!”
Erin shouted at the [Producer] as the [Mayor] and a host of angry, desperate, concerned people followed. Relc chuckled.
“Now this is what I come here for.”
He casually blocked the door to Octavia’s shop as Erin stomped through to her inn, followed by Lyonette and Montressa. The [Mayor] stared up at the huge Drake with the spear, who made one fist and cracked his knuckles as he squeezed.
“Hi. They call me Relc.”
 
——
 
Erin felt sad, and relieved, and angry at the same time. She stared back into Octavia’s shop as Relc barred the door. The [Alchemist] was running about.
“I’m going to need help bringing all my stuff through! But I’m doing it! I’ll—uh—how am I going to move…?”
“I’m sorry, Temile. But there is space in Liscor. I imagine some of the [Actors] will stay, right? There’ll be work. They can keep the plays going. What will the entire group do, though? You don’t have to come through.”
Temile was gnawing on one lip. The man looked at Erin. And then he glanced at his hand. His missing thumb. But when he put a hand on Erin’s shoulder, he squeezed tight.
“We might not be the Players of Celum, but where would we be without the one who started us down this road? I’ll talk to everyone. There are some families—but there’s work in Liscor, right?”
“Yeah! Look—I’m going to get Selys. We’ll arrange it all before midnight.”
“Got it. I will be back!”
Temile ran off. Erin looked around. Montressa raised her eyebrows.
“Does this always happen in your inn?”
“More than you think. Drassi, get Selys. Is she in the inn? Liscor?”
“The garden! I’ll get her! Selys!”
Drassi opened the door and walked through. Lyonette sighed.
“I’ll clear out one of the private rooms for Octavia. It can be storage for now. Erin, you get to tell her that her shop isn’t actually built yet.”
She hurried off, calling for Ishkr. Erin sighed—and then she paused.
“…Where’s Numbtongue?”
She’d forgotten again! Erin spun towards the door, but the Watch Captain hadn’t found him.
“I have to find him. Montressa, tell Lyonette I’m going to search!”
“I’ll go with you. Those [Innkeepers] looked like trouble. You could use a barrier or two. Or just a [Mage].”
Montressa hefted her staff. Erin nodded. They headed for the open door.
“Excuse me! Erin! Erin!”
Palt trotted in front of them. The two stopped.
“Hey Palt, I’m sorry, but Numbtongue’s—”
“Found.”
The Centaur put one arm out, looking satisfied beyond belief. Erin stopped and did a double-take. There was no Hobgoblin behind Palt.
“By who?”
“Whom.”
Erin raised a fist. Palt backed up.
“Er, sorry. But he’s found! I got a [Message]. Believe it or not, one of my…acquaintances knows him. My faction.”
He gave Montressa a triumphant look. The [Aegiscaster] just stared at Palt. Erin blinked.
“Who?”
Palt inhaled on his cigar. He puffed out.
“It’s a funny thing. But—you wouldn’t happen to know a Viceria Strongheart, would you? Apparently, her daughter’s in the city. She knows you?”
Erin Solstice blinked. She looked around. Then she raised her voice.
“Garia?”
Someone fought through the crowd Relc was blocking. He let her go through, and a slim, physically built young woman entered the room. She had the kind of body Erin expected on an athlete. Ryoka-ish, but Ryoka didn’t have those abdominals. Or the inclination to show them.
But Garia Strongheart was a changed young woman. She panted as she wiped sweat from her brow.
“Erin! Did you call my name? Is Mrsha found? I’ve been running all over Celum with Fals, but I’m almost certain she’s not here!”
Erin saw Fals waving a hand from the crowd. She sucked in her breath.
“Ooh.”
Montressa echoed her.
“Ooh.”
Erin waved guiltily at Garia.
“Come on through. You too, Fals! You need to see this. And uh, I’ll be in the kitchen after this. For a—thank-you cake. A big one. So long as Mrsha doesn’t smash it.”
Garia trotted into the inn. She exclaimed as Erin told her the news about Mrsha and the garden. And then her eyes widened.
“Mom sent that [Message]? But—how’d he get there?”
“Apparently her spouse picked him up after some sort of fight in Celum.”
“Dad? Oh no. Did he cut Numbtongue? He’s got a magic cutlass that he coats with some kind of paralysis poison! As if the wand and the enchantment isn’t bad enough!”
The City Runner groaned. Erin stared at her. She realized she’d never met Garia’s parents. Ryoka had, with Mrsha, but all she’d said about them was that they were ‘interesting’. How interesting, Erin had never known. She looked at Palt. He waggled his eyebrows.
“Ullsinoi.”
“Garia, your parents have Numbtongue at their farm. He’s not hurt, but—”
The [Martial Artist] sighed in relief.
“Oh, good. Then—I could actually run the magic door gem-thing over there! It’s not far! My parents have a farm around Celum.”
“What do they grow?”
Garia made a face.
“Produce. Dad rotates it when he gets bored, but we have a few fields of Sage’s Grass. It’s more trouble than it’s worth.”
“What?”
Montressa and Palt stared at Garia. She shook her head.
“I just hope they don’t do anything weird to Numbtongue. They drink like, well, retired [Pirates]. Which Dad is. Haven’t I ever said?”
“Wait, say that again?”
Erin tried to clear out one ear. She saw Mrsha running through the doorway. And then, of all people, Seborn appeared.
“Did someone say [Pirates]?”
He stared at Garia. And Erin had a surreal experience. Upon her inn, all things turned. It was a place of magic, mystery, and event. But for the first time…
Everything was revolving around Garia.
 
——
 
A Drake stood in a building in Liscor. Which one wasn’t important. He had a few like it. Safe places. Places where a…[Thief], or someone who knew the right people, could hide out. For a price. The Drake had ashen scales, and he was old.
He was called Mister Soot. Mister Soot. He was very particular about that. If you asked the right people, they’d tell you about Mister Soot.
He was a crime lord. Not a [Crime Lord]; that was a bit above his actual class, [Mastermind]. [Gang Mastermind], if you wanted to be specific.
It sounded better than it was. Or maybe it sounded exactly like it was. Soot was no ‘stache-twirling evil genius. But he was smart, and he operated a significant portion of Liscor’s underworld.
Because it did have one. True, the city had Drake-style law enforcement, which meant it had less casual corruption. But that just meant crime evolved to meet the challenge.
Soot ran a gang, a euphemism for any group of organized crime. His was hardly a group of [Thugs], after all. His gang had magical wands, gear, and good numbers. They weren’t shy about tangling with the Watch, although they stayed away from the dangerous fighters, like Jeiss, Relc, and Klbkch. They prioritized money over petty fights, which was why Soot was where he was.
