It hurt. More than anything. But it was also a relief. Because it was proof that she had known them. That they had mattered. Lyonette gathered up Mrsha and hugged her.
Krshia hadn’t moved. Neither had Bird. He stood, as still as the statues. When Erin came over to him, he shook his head.
“I will stay here, please. Just for a while.”
He stared at the others. Bishop, Emanuel, Milner-Barry—all the others, who had named themselves after chess players from Erin’s world, or pieces. Bird spoke slowly.
“Pawn should see this. And Anand, and Garry, and Belgrade. They must see it, I think. It will make them sad. And happy.”
Erin couldn’t bear it.
“I’m so sorry—”
She hugged him, tears running down her face. One of Bird’s arms gently touched Erin’s back.
“We will protect you until the end. Did you not hear us the first time?”
She looked up at him. Bird stood with his friends. And he seemed taller than they were. Time had stopped for them. This was but a memory. But from them he had come, and all that Bird was came from this moment. He turned his head up.
“This is a nice place for them to sleep. Better than Pawn’s heaven.”
Erin Solstice left. She walked across the hill.
A nameless Worker sat at a chess table, waiting for her to play. She sat by his table, and remembered. And when she left, in time, with all the others, he remained.
Safe. In a place without harm. A promise as strong as her Skill.
Mrsha left Brunkr behind. Krshia was just sitting there. Elirr murmured to Mrsha as Relc watched from the base of the hill.
“I’ll stay. You go.”
The little Gnoll went down the hill and lay in the meadow with flowers. In time, the others came down. Some had cried. Some, like Bird, had no tears. But they were not broken by what they had seen. If anything—Mrsha thought Erin looked stronger. As if you could throw a mountain at her and it wouldn’t crush her, because she’d lived through worse.
“Even my Skills are jerks to me.”
Erin smiled and wiped her eyes, but she was smiling.
There it was. A hilltop, waiting for anyone who wanted to rest there a while. Mrsha didn’t know if she could bear seeing Brunkr again. Perhaps, the next time she went up there, it would just be the bench. But he’d be waiting, for whenever she wanted to see him.
Mrsha had not seen the other faces precious to her. She longed for just a picture of Urksh’s face. Of the faces of all the others in the Stone Spears tribe. But this was Erin’s place. Despite her tears, Mrsha was jealous of her. Just a tiny bit.
For the proof of her feelings. That was the power of her Skill, and the kind of person Erin was.
Mrsha wanted to level up.
 
——
 
The others hadn’t noticed the interlude with Erin and the others. Perhaps they guessed, on seeing red eyes. But no one would talk about it, and the others had been busy.
“What have you done to my inn?”
Erin looked wide-eyed down at the scorched wood around the door. Montressa blushed.
“Just some unlocking spells—sorry, it’s not permanent.”
“The door vanishes if we don’t look at it. Only someone who can open the door can bring it back. And it can appear wherever there’s space.”
Olesm was making his own set of notes. Palt and Grimalkin were still trying to magically unlock the door.
“It’s not going to work. It’s a Skill. You’re using magic on something that doesn’t answer to you. You can’t force it!”
Saliss danced around the two. Grimalkin looked sourly at the shut door.
“Let’s find out if that’s true.”
He put one hand on the doorknob. Erin blinked at him. The [Sinew Magus] heaved, but the door didn’t move.
“Told you. I couldn’t get it open with Klbkch. You’re not gonna get it open, Grimalkin.”
Relc advised the Drake. Grimalkin ignored him. The [Sinew Magus] changed his leverage, put both hands on the doorknob and heaved.
Grimalkin’s muscles bulged. His eyes opened wide. Mrsha saw the magic burning bright in him. Brighter than anyone, even Pisces, or Moore.
The door refused to budge. Grimalkin growled. And then he gave up. Panting a bit, he stared at the door. After a second, Mrsha padded over. The door was actually slightly ajar. She nudged it open with her head.
No one else spoke. Laughter would have been a bit cruel. Grimalkin turned around.
“So it won’t open. How sturdy is it?”
“Let me try.”
Relc rubbed his claws. He could open the door, but as Mrsha scampered back, he took a run up and leapt.
“[Relc Kick]! Ow!”
He hit the door like an avalanche, but nothing happened. Rubbing his foot and swearing, Relc motioned.
“Anyone else want a try? Hold on—my spear! I’ll poke it!”
He raced off. Saliss brightened.
“You mean, we can take turns trying to destroy the door? Is there a prize if we succeed?”
“No need. I’m going to test the limits on this Skill.”
Grimalkin stepped up again. He looked annoyed. Relc halted as the [Sinew Magus] lowered his center of gravity and glared at the door. He made one fist at his waist.
“[Bound Spell: Siege Fireball]. [Salamander’s Skin]. [Lion’s Strength]. [Dual Binding: Valmira’s Comet]. [Haste]. [Thunder Step].”
“Whoa! Whoa, whoa whoa—”
Relc backed up fast. Everyone else did likewise. Erin shouted at Grimalkin.
“Hey! That’s my door you’re punching! What if you go through a wall?”
“We just renovated! Magus Grimalkin—the wall’s not that strong!”
Lyonette was also shouting at Grimalkin from a safe distance. The Drake spoke over his shoulder.
“I’ll compensate you for all damages. Put up a barrier, Mage Montressa.”
“But—”
Too late. Grimalkin was very angry. Mrsha hid behind Moore as the Drake took one breath. He narrowed his eyes, stepped in, and punched the center of the door.
Multiple spells activated at once. Mrsha saw Grimalkin zoom forwards, and heard an explosion as his kick-off actually cracked the floorboards. She saw a bloom of fire, blocked by one of Montressa’s shields. At the same time, the force of the fireball and the other spell created a shockwave that tore up the floorboards around the door.
And the door itself? Grimalkin hit it with a blow stronger than the one that had made the Wyvern Lord back up.
The entire inn shook. Erin staggered—everyone stumbled, but she reeled for one moment. She fell down as Klbkch and Olesm caught her.
“Ooh.”
“The floor!”
Lyonette cried out. Grimalkin appeared in a cloud of smoke. He stepped back—and his face was beyond sour.
The door had vanished sometime after the punch and the cloud of smoke. And beyond it—
The wall wasn’t even damaged. Grimalkin stared down at the knuckles of his fist. He’d split and burned his scales from the impact. He’d done more damage to the floorboards. The [Sinew Magus] stomped away from the spot he’d hit.
“Clearly the Skill is tied to the structure of the inn. In theory, I could break it. I’ll pay for the floorboards. Grand Strategist, your thoughts?”
He deferred to Chaldion. The old Drake was rubbing at his earholes.
“My eardrums hurt. Magus, a silencing spell would have not gone amiss.”
The old [Strategist] sighed. Then he looked at Erin.
“That defense is…Saliss, what level is she?”
Everyone looked at the Named Adventurer. Saliss paused innocently.
“Who, me? Why would I know something like that?”
Chaldion’s eyes narrowed. Saliss looked at Erin.
“Did you know you can use a spell called [Appraisal] and read someone’s level and Skills?”
“Huh? But wait—hey! Hold on, isn’t that private?”
Erin’s eyes went round. Beza, Grimalkin, and Palt all stared at Erin. All three [Mages] began muttering—Bezale went for a scroll. Chaldion was reaching for another eye.
Saliss was faster. He already had something in his claws. Now, he threw it at Erin.
“It’s dangerous to walk around with clothes. Take this!”
Erin caught a ring. It was the color of a ruby mixed with what looked like gold—or what people thought gold should look like. A black, faintly luminescent sigil had been traced in the center, where a gemstone might go. It looked like a crossed-out eye, stylized. Erin saw the other [Mages] casting and slipped it on her finger, next to Ilvriss’ ring.
“Ancestors damn it, Saliss!”
Grimalkin roared in outrage. Chaldion stared at Erin, his fake eye shining, and then rounded on the [Alchemist].
“Miss Solstice, if you’d take off that ring for one moment. Or tell us—”
“Hey! My Skills are mine! Don’t peek!”
Erin protectively covered her body, as if that was what Palt and the others were looking at. Chaldion had stepped over to Saliss. He poked his cane at Saliss.
“Tell us what you read. This is not a game, you insubordinate child.”
“Beat me in a dance-off and I’ll tell you. Anyways, why didn’t any of you try that earlier? Seems like you underestimated Miss Erin. What a blunder for Pallass’ Grand Strategist!”
The Drake’s face was incredibly smug. Erin was staring at her ring.
“Wait. Is this expensive?”
“Nah, nah. Wait, I mean, a bit. Truegold and ruby. Now I don’t have one!”
Chaldion immediately focused on Saliss. The Drake put on a duplicate of the ring he’d given Erin.
“Just kidding! Spares!”
The [Grand Strategist] tapped his cane twice, and then slashed at Saliss’ legs. Erin saw the glowing magical spear at the tip of the cane, but Saliss dodged it.
“Violence against a citizen of Pallass! Help! Where’s the Watch?”
He fled, laughing his tail off. Chaldion glared after him. He turned to Erin.
“You wouldn’t care to tell us what Skills you have, Miss Solstice? Or what level?”
Everyone was looking at Erin now. She blushed.
“What? Nah, it’s nothing big…”
Chaldion gestured pointedly at the wall Grimalkin had failed to damage. Erin hesitated.
“It’s my Skills. Hey, Saliss! I don’t owe you anything for the ring, do I?”
The [Alchemist] poked his head out from behind Moore. The half-Giant was gently swatting, trying to make Saliss stop circling him, but the Drake was too nimble. Saliss eyed Erin.
“…Can I have one of the flowers Xif keeps bragging about?”
Erin hesitated.
“No?”
She expected Saliss to haggle or use a Skill, but the Named Adventurer just shrugged.
“Fine. We’ll call it even for the magic fire. It’s still burning, by the way. Bit expensive to upkeep, but it’s worth it. Can I have some blue fire too?”
“Wait, you still have that?”
“Sure do. About the depressing flames? No?”
Erin looked around. Grimalkin was shaking his head.
“I heard rumors, but this is incredible. Has he always been like that?”
He looked at Chaldion. The [Grand Strategist] looked like he was going to have a heart attack.
“He revels in it. Ignore him and he’ll leave. Liscor may well have to suffer him, come to that.”
The look he gave Zevara was sympathetic. The Watch Captain paled as Saliss walked over and grinned at her.
“So, what’s the law on nudity in Liscor?”
Erin Solstice decided to ignore Saliss. She looked around—
And the door to the [Garden of Sanctuary] was there. Closer to her, next to the kitchen’s door. It could appear anywhere.
“It’s powerful, but localized to your inn. And what good is a door in a sudden attack? Against the Crelers it would have helped, but it’s situational. For the durability, I’ll give it close to a perfect grade. For your level…perhaps not. There are other Skills.”
Grimalkin folded his arms. He’d cooled down a bit. Erin blinked at him.
“There are better Skills?”
“For a capstone level? Yes. If you’d care to furnish me with a list of your Skills and your exact class and level—which is probably Level 40—I’d be able to evaluate your efficiency. You have a mixed bag of Skills, owing to your own interests and focuses. However, as an [Innkeeper] you lack a lot of more widely applicable Skills in favor of unique ones.”
The muscular Drake sighed. He looked at the magic door.
“I’ve heard of people gaining one powerful Skill at a capstone level—or as many as six more mundane ones. It does depend on chance, as much as intent. But I think there’s someone you should meet to understand what you lack in your class.”
“Who?”
“Pallass’ best [Innkeeper]. He runs The Noble’s Fancy. 2nd Floor, so you’ve likely never seen him. I’ll write you a letter of introduction. He might inform your weaknesses.”
Grimalkin nodded at the door again. Erin frowned at him.
“I think it’s a great Skill. It’s the one I wanted.”
“But can it protect anyone? If you need to open it, if you need to be conscious of the danger…”
Olesm was frowning, seeing the same problem. Erin looked at him. And then at her door. And she had a thought.
“Maybe there’s more you don’t know. More that no one knows. Maybe it’ll get stronger. I didn’t use to be able to find people with my other Skill—”
She saw Chaldion poised to take a note and sighed.
“—But I think it’s more than just a door. Look.”
She walked backwards towards a wall. The door had vanished. Erin spread her arms. And the room watched. Erin smiled. She concentrated. Took a step backwards.
And the garden was there. The door swung closed as the others stared. Erin looked around the grassy hill. She turned.
“Kitchen.”
The door swung open, and Erin Solstice walked out of her kitchen. Seborn jumped as he leaned against the doorframe. He stared at her.
“It’s based off my magical door. Maybe—if I didn’t have the magic door, I’d never have gotten this Skill.”
Erin looked back at the garden’s door as it swung closed, then faced everyone.
Grimalkin and Olesm had gone speechless for a moment. Mrsha looked delighted at the possibilities. But everyone else was stunned silent. And Erin realized she might have overplayed her hand. She’d shown them what Mrsha had seen. A glimpse of power. The [Innkeeper] hesitated. She spread her arms again.
“Do you know what this means? I can go to the bathroom without having to walk downstairs.”
She smiled. No one laughed. They looked at her, and Erin let her arms hang loose. She sighed.
“Lyonette? Mrsha? Those jerks are still boycotting us in Celum. I’m gonna go shout at them. Let’s go find Numbtongue. He’ll be safer here.”
She reached out. Mrsha ran over and grabbed Erin’s hand. The [Innkeeper] smiled as she held Mrsha’s paw and the little Gnoll knew she’d be safe here. From the Raskghar, from Facestealer. From anyone.
It was a small, but blessed thing. As the guests of Erin’s inn marveled, or wondered, a little bee flew through an open doorway upstairs. Into a garden. And she was happy.
Because there were lots of flowers.
 
——
 
This was what happened to Numbtongue. At the same time as Erin and Lyonette were searching for Mrsha, he’d gone to Octavia’s shop in Celum. His conclusion, founded off Pyrite’s intellect, had told him it was a likely place for Mrsha to be.
