“It’s awesome! I have a secret garden? How come I didn’t see it? Does it only appear when you want it? Or maybe if you’re in danger—”
“Mrsha clearly summoned it because she knew it was there. It must have appeared due to her stress. But it’s not opening. Maybe if Mrsha tries to open it again?”
Montressa’s postulation was correct. The others stood back as Mrsha walked up to the door. She stood on two legs and pulled it open. The door swung open as easily as anything.
“What? But I pulled on it!”
Relc was outraged. He ran for the door as Erin stared inside—
And the door closed. Relc slammed into the door. Mrsha, already inside, stared back in alarm. She pushed the door open and saw Relc recoiling and swearing.
“What the—”
Zevara instinctively reached for Mrsha through the open door. But as her claw tried to touch the Gnoll, the Gnoll vanished. Solid wood appeared.
“Mrsha!”
The door was still there. And as soon as Zevara snatched her claw back, the Gnoll reappeared, looking very alarmed. Lyonette rushed forwards. She had no problem opening the door and holding Mrsha.
“Aha. Definitely a trick.”
Palt nodded to himself. He stared at Erin. The [Innkeeper] looked around.
“What, me?”
“It’s your door. I think no one gets in except the ones you allow.”
“Not even me, Erin.”
Selys, put out, was trying the door, but it wouldn’t budge. She looked at Erin. No one could open the door. Not Drassi, Ishkr, Krshia—the door swung open as Lyonette stared at them.
“What’s the matter?”
“No one can use Erin’s door but you two.”
Moore gave Erin a hurt look. The [Innkeeper] turned red.
“But I didn’t know it even existed! I didn’t block anyone—”
“Then it must be set to the people you really trust.”
Montressa looked at Mrsha and Lyonette. Erin paused.
“Oh. In that case—one second, Lyonette?”
She reached for the door and closed it in Lyonette’s face. Then, Erin turned.
“Bird? Open the door.”
Everyone turned. Bird, who had been watching with interest, trotted over. He put one hand on the door and swung it open. Very pleased, the Worker waved at Lyonette and Mrsha and then turned.
“Yay. I am family.”
Klbkch’s head swiveled. Erin smiled at Bird. Then she looked around.
“I think Numbtongue could do this if he were here. Which reminds me—Celum—”
She nearly backed up, but half a dozen hands pulled her back.
“He’s fine! Probably! Can you let us in, Erin?”
“Um—”
“Just wish it. I bet you can change who’s allowed in versus who can open the door too.”
Saliss slyly gyrated over to Erin’s left. Zevara and Selys backed up fast. They were also not used to a nude Drake. Erin looked at Saliss.
“Just—”
“Don’t take too long. Let me in. You know who’s allowed in already, and who can open the door.”
“Oh.”
Erin closed her eyes. When she opened them, Saliss reached for the door. It was still ajar, but the Drake still put his hand on the doorknob. He pulled, and nothing happened. He sighed, giving Erin a betrayed look. Then he sauntered on through the doorway.
“Well, at least you trust me enough to let me in.”
“Hey!”
Lyonette backed up from Saliss, covering Mrsha’s eyes. She glared as the Drake, delighted, leapt about.
“What a wonderful place! What’s that? Mushrooms! Don’t mind if I do!”
He ran off. The others in the inn immediately tried to copy Saliss. Zevara, grunting, found she couldn’t move the door an inch. She gave Erin a cool, unsurprised look, and marched through.
It was going to be a test of friendship. Erin hadn’t concentrated on individual faces. Like Saliss had said, she knew. Palt, Montressa, and Beza all couldn’t move the door. Only Palt was disappointed, but they could all go through.
Actually—Montressa and Beza slammed into the wall, but Erin let them in after they looked truly hurt. And most of the others could enter.
Selys, Krshia, Elirr, the Halfseekers but for Ulinde—all of them could enter and use the door. The Selphid was allowed in, but not with access to the door. Neither was Grimalkin or Chaldion.
The true surprise was Klbkch, Olesm, and Relc. Olesm and Klbkch couldn’t open the door. They looked at Erin. And Klbkch’s face was blank. But Olesm’s was—Erin looked at him.
“I’m sorry.”
Was it Bird? And for Olesm, was it—Lism? His distrust of the Antinium? Erin had no answer. Silently, the Drake [Strategist] walked through the door, head bowed. Erin studied the door of the [Garden of Sanctuary]. It was telling her more about herself than even she knew.
Relc was last, of all people. He’d hung back. And now, he put one claw on the door’s edge. He hesitated. And pulled.
The door swung open easily. Relc turned to look at Erin. She blinked at him, and then smiled. The Drake’s eyes widened. He opened his mouth to crow at Klbkch and Olesm’s backs—
And then he stopped. Relc closed his mouth, and looked at Erin. He ducked his head and entered the garden silently. But he looked happier than Erin could remember seeing him in a while. Erin Solstice stared at the door to the [Garden of Sanctuary]. She heard voices from within, exclamations. But she herself hadn’t stepped into the doorway.
Mrsha had been afraid. In tears. There was something in the garden. She hadn’t been able to tell the others what. It was hers, but Erin—hesitated. Then she put her hand on the door, opened it, and walked forwards.
 
——
 
Erin’s friends and acquaintances stood in the [Garden of Sanctuary] and stared. They stared at the plants, the different sections of the garden. And at Erin.
The [Innkeeper] stared around as well. The [Garden of Sanctuary] wasn’t a massive place, but it easily held everyone who’d come through. Indeed, it was bigger than the [Grand Theatre] which a few visitors had entered, bemused by the total absence of anyone in the inn.
Sunlight shone down from above. And the meadow was large enough for Mrsha, Jelaqua, and Relc to run about in. Selys had given up and was lying in the bed of flowers, staring up at the sky.
“Incredible. Magical fog. I’ve seen similar effects. But this is a lesser [Gardener]’s Skill, right here.”
Grimalkin and the Wistram [Mages] were stalking the fog rolling across one section of the garden. Krshia and Elirr were sniffing the acacia tree.
“Chandrarian.”
Chaldion poked at the grass with his walking stick. He looked up, narrowing his eyes at the center of the dome.
“That’s Liscor’s skies. Does that mean this place is in the inn? Could that be a weak point?”
Zevara frowned up at the opening in the ceiling. Olesm shrugged.
“Maybe. It’s high up, but—hello? Can I get some help climbing up there?”
“Let me.”
Moore walked over. He and Seborn had been inspecting the pond. The [Green Mage] tapped the ground.
“[Earthen Spire].”
A spire of stone rose under Zevara and Olesm’s feet. They slowly rose upwards, towards the hole in the ceiling.
“Hey! Don’t ruin my new garden!”
Erin shouted at Moore. The half-Giant looked abashed.
“Don’t worry, Miss Solstice. I’ll return it to normal. But they wanted—”
Everyone looked up as Zevara and Olesm, perching carefully on the stone spire, reached the top of the dome. Zevara waved at Moore and bellowed.
“Keep it steady!”
She pulled herself over the edge as Olesm held her steady, reaching up to see what lay beyond the dome—
And vanished. Moore’s eyes widened with alarm. Erin shouted in panic—and then paused.
“Wait a second! They’re on—”
Zevara and Olesm blinked as they found themselves on the roof of the inn. Olesm was clutching Zevara’s legs and she blinked about. A group of Antinium Workers peered curiously at the two Drakes, who’d appeared out of nowhere.
“Well, that settles that. It’s a secret room. Lets in sunlight, probably rain—but you can’t enter it any other way. It would be silly to have a weak spot like that.”
When Zevara and Olesm returned, Palt nodded wisely. Some of the others had come back too. Lyonette had pursued Saliss about the garden and Klbkch was covered in plant matter.
“The tropical area contains a number of plants indigenous to Baleros, but nothing harmful. Some thorns in plants, but nothing magical or dangerous.”
The Antinium Revalantor sheathed his blades. Saliss had a basket.
“And I’ve found a lot of mundane plants! I suppose it was too much to ask for something crazy. But this is nearly as good as a smaller garden in Oteslia! Lots of good stuff to eat!”
He was chewing on a mushroom. Grimalkin slowly nodded.
“A useful Skill. I’ve checked the entirety of the garden. Let’s appraise how strong that door is, shall we? The garden is clearly a secondary effect to the sanctuary aspect for now. It has potential, as a sealed room—I’d have preferred a training area, but perhaps it can be converted—”
He marched out. Erin, bemused, saw the others leaving too, having had their fill for the moment. She stared at Mrsha and Lyonette, Bird, Relc, and a few others.
“Didn’t he see it?”
Erin pointed up at the hill. Grimalkin and the others had never gone up there. But Relc, Selys, Krshia—those who remained could see it. Mrsha clung to Lyonette’s legs. She pointed up at the hill, remembering. And her paw shook.
The others looked at each other. Bird, Selys, Relc, Erin, Lyonette, Mrsha, Krshia, Elirr—the Halfseekers had gone with Ulinde, keeping up the ruse. Slowly, Erin nodded.
“Show us, Mrsha.”
They walked up to the meadow, and higher. Erin saw the hill, and the tree. A lovely tree, sitting in the grass. But she didn’t see the bench, as Mrsha had at first.
There he was, just as Mrsha had seen him. A smile on his lips, unchanged from the moment the Gnoll had climbed the hill and run, in tears and recognition.
Erin froze. Lyonette inhaled and dropped Mrsha. The Gnoll slid down and covered her eyes—then looked up at that familiar visage, tears in her eyes. Elirr recoiled, struck, and Bird and Relc stopped.
Krshia had stopped completely. Even her breath had caught in a moment that did not seem to end. Slowly, Erin looked at her. And then Mrsha. And then she saw the rest. Not just him; the others appeared at a thought. Waiting.
They had all been waiting for her to arrive. To greet her. The [Garden of Sanctuary]’s true occupants. The actual purpose and reason behind this place, this Skill.
Mrsha had seen one. But now, with the presence of others, with Erin, more were there. On that hill, waiting.
Erin Solstice had been amazed at her garden. She had taken in the wonder of this separate world, been excited and awed at the possibilities. Grateful, relieved at what her Skill might mean. Impressed at the power she had been given.
Only now did the [Innkeeper] took in the true meaning of her [Garden of Sanctuary].
It was just a room. Grimalkin had been impressed, up to a point. But he had regarded the garden as no more impressive than a miniature world, like the ones he could make. The strength of it might have been beyond him, as he was finding, but he had not been impressed with the basic nature of it.
And yet—this Skill, this garden had been built of her. Erin. Shyly, Mrsha looked up at Erin. Shyly, with a bit of wonder. For the first time, she sensed something of what Erin hid. More than simple power.
Erin’s legs gave way as she sat at the table, that stone smile, the perfectly carved lips, the hint of a fanged tooth, even his fur just as she remembered. A face carved out of memories, so perfect that but for the grey stone–he could have stood up and hugged her.
This was what this place was for. What she had longed for, in her heart.
The garden’s secret. A reflection of her guilt and memory.
Proof that she had never truly forgotten.
Statues.
A wooden table and some chairs sat in the grass. It was a round table, like an exact replica of the ones that Erin’s old inn had held. But it was not unoccupied.
Someone sat at the table. A Gnoll. He was young, but strong. His fur seemed to move in the wind, but it was just a statue. Solid stone, but capturing every detail of him as he had lived. The little Gnoll approached him.
Brunkr stared down at Mrsha with a pleased smile on his face. He sat, on a seat made of wood, captured forever as he experienced his first bite of cake. Mrsha remembered that moment. She reached for him, touched his paw.
Cool stone. It was just a statue. A memory. But it existed. It was…hers. Erin cried. And Krshia looked down at her nephew.
“Brunkr.”
She slowly sat, pulling out a chair. Speechless. Looking at him. Mrsha wiped at her eyes. She was crying again. But Brunkr was smiling.
Then, Mrsha looked around and stopped. There were other things in the grass. A ring of statues. More statues, more faces of—of the dead.
They had not been there when she left. Mrsha tried to tell Erin and the others that. The Antinium statues were new. But no one was listening.
They were all lost. Lost, in a memory. Relc leaned on his spear as he watched Bird walk forwards. The Antinium beheld the statues, nearly two-dozen in total.
They stood in a circle, facing outwards. The chess club. Workers who had died against the undead, fighting Skinner. Erin sniffled.
“Knight.”
There was no difference in their figures. No difference at all, but they were different. Erin went over to one. She stared at him, at the stone which made up his body. As true to her memory as…
There were only four gaps in the circle. Bird stood in one of them. He turned his head.
“I belong here.”
That was all he said. The Worker stood still, looking left and right. The Workers stood, their backs to the empty center. Erin belonged in that center, on a night from hell.
“Oh.”
Selys was sitting in the grass. She stared at a group laughing at a different table. A large group of adventurers, laughing, sitting in a circle with two gaps among them.
Most of the Horns of Hammerad were looking at their leader. But he was gone. Gerial was busy trying to drink from a mug as he looked sideways. But Ceria Springwalker was missing. Yet, it was them.
Memory. But unlike fire, the statues were still. And Erin’s head was blank. She watched Krshia. The Gnoll was leaning against her nephew.
Relc and Elirr had left. They knew no one among the statues. Not as well as the others. Bird just stood with the other Workers, staring ahead. The hilltop was silent.
Ulrien stood alone, greatsword in hand. Mrsha looked up at him and then hid in Lyonette’s arms. The [Princess] gazed at another statue. A Drake, who stood in the silence. A [General] who had broken the tide itself.
Zel Shivertail. Lyonette wept. Selys stopped, as still as time. Erin looked at him. She turned her head.
She saw so many statues. Her friends had only a few they could name. But Erin Solstice saw them all. Goblins, Antinium. People. Each one in vivid detail.
