It was perfect. Now, twice as excited, Mrsha ran about, sniffing everything. Mushrooms for food! Maybe you could eat some of the stuff in the jungle? What—what if Erin grew Blue Fruit trees here? Or—or some of the fruit trees that Mrsha knew about? She’d help! She could grow things because she was a [Druid]!
Excitedly, Mrsha grabbed her wand and began growing magic grass. It wilted after a little bit of course, but she was overjoyed. She had to show Lyonette and Erin! They’d be so excited—
Maybe they’d forgive her for the cake?
Mrsha paused. Her face fell.
Uh oh. She’d forgotten. And—Mrsha didn’t know how long she’d been asleep after her nap, but she had a sinking feeling she was in more trouble. Wasn’t that how it worked? Somehow, if you ran away from trouble with adults, you just got into more.
The Gnoll’s ears flattened. She peered around. But the door wasn’t here. Because Mrsha really didn’t want to go back. She knew she had to, but maybe she should wait until it was dark? Pretend she couldn’t come back, that she was lost here? Maybe if Lyonette worried, she’d be nicer.
But she would worry. Mrsha knew that too. Guilt squeezed Mrsha’s heart, but it was warring with her desire not to be scolded. Mrsha looked around, unhappy. And then she turned and saw the hill.
It was a tiny hill, but it was the last spot not explored. The central meadow and the stone path sloped up towards it. The last spot Mrsha hadn’t explored. The Gnoll cub paused, but then she padded up the steps.
Just a moment longer before she went to face her punishment. Mrsha walked up the stones neatly set into the earth. And she wondered—who had made all this? Was it just the product of the Skill? Or had someone designed it?
She got her answer as she climbed the hill. It was steeper here, although Mrsha doubted you could break anything even if you leapt from this spot. It was Erin’s [Garden of Sanctuary], after all.
But there was a stillness up here. As Mrsha reached the crest of the hill, she turned her head. She could see the entire garden below her. It was a commanding view, and she would love nothing more than to roll down the hill.
Not yet, though. The air was solemn here. Too quiet. Mrsha’s fur began to stand up. She could tell that the top of the hill could get some light from the hole in the dome. And it felt like a perfect day.
A single tree bloomed in the middle of grass. Just grass. It was a surreal scene. As if someone had cultivated this space. And then Mrsha saw what lay in front of the tree. And her hair rose even more.
A bench. It was just a bench. Made of wood and smooth metal. But it was unnatural. Not a plant, not meant to be here. Because—Mrsha felt that someone had to have made it. You couldn’t just conjure a bench. Right?
To begin with, benches were foreign to Plains Gnolls. Mrsha approached it, slowly. It sat in the grass, waiting for someone to sit. It was an invention of cities. More at home to Erin’s world, the idea that you needed something to sit on rather than the ground.
And indeed, this bench might have come from Erin’s world. It looked worn, not new and shiny. It smelled like that to Mrsha. As if it had always been here. It even looked comfortable, although Mrsha could see putting a pillow there and napping.
She ran her paws over the wood. No splinters. But—what was the point of this hill? The grass? The bench? The tree? It was a serene sight, but Mrsha felt there was something here.
Waiting for her. She slowly walked left. And then—it was there. It surely hadn’t been a moment ago. Mrsha had seen the entire hill in a moment. But like the door, it was suddenly present.
A table. Like the bench, it was familiar. Wooden. Worn. But suddenly—here. Without explanation. And now the bench was gone. But that wasn’t what held Mrsha’s gaze. It wasn’t what stopped her. Stopped her cold, and made her heart freeze.
The table waited. And something…no, someone sat there. Looking at her. An unblinking face, smiling at the Gnoll, at the world, and nothing at all.
Mrsha was was transfixed by what she had found waiting here, as if it had been there forever, anticipating the moment she climbed this hill.
Then Mrsha knew the truth of what the [Garden of Sanctuary] held. She stared for a second. A minute. Longer. And then the Gnoll child fled.
She ran away, crying. Mrsha tumbled down the hill, raced through the valley of flowers. Down, the little stone walkway. The door was waiting for her. She flung it open, raced through.
“—but I don’t know how to activate the garden! I thought I needed a garden—”
Erin Solstice was arguing with Grimalkin and Chaldion in the common room of the inn. Mrsha raced through the door and nearly smacked into her legs. The Gnoll stopped herself.
For a moment no one registered Mrsha. Heads turned. Everyone froze. Then someone shouted.
“Mrsha!”
Lyonette grabbed for Mrsha. She swung the Gnoll up.
“Mrsha!”
“What the—”
Grimalkin jumped. The [Sinew Magus] looked more spooked by Mrsha’s reappearance than Erin could ever remember seeing him. Mrsha had appeared out of nowhere! But Erin was already hugging Mrsha.
“Where were you?”
The little white Gnoll had tears in her eyes. But she was more confused by the exclamations than anything else. Lyonette squeezed, looking frantic.
“Where in the world…?”
“I didn’t see her come in! How did she—”
Grimalkin spun, looking for the point where Mrsha had entered from. But there was only blank wall, next to the bar. He turned back as a crowd engulfed Mrsha.
“She’s alright!”
“Is she hurt? She’s crying—”
“She smells like—”
“Everyone back! Give her some room!”
Relc exclaimed, pulling people out of the way. Bewildered, crying for different reasons, Mrsha saw all the adults crowding around her. Lyonette was tearful—and Mrsha, seeing everyone’s worried faces, realized how long she’d been away.
“I was so—so afraid—”
Lyonette’s eyes were flowing. And Mrsha began to cry again as well, not even knowing fully why, only that Lyonette was sad. She hugged Lyonette, trying to apologize silently. Grimalkin looked about, opened his mouth as he reached for Erin’s shoulder, but Saliss nudged him.
The [Sinew Magus] blinked, and fell silent. He let the [Innkeeper] hug Mrsha without interruption. Drassi rushed out of the room to find all the other searchers, and so did Palt and a few more.
It took a long time for everything to settle back down into normalcy. Explanations had to be given. Some people had still been looking, like the Halfseekers, and they had to come back and see Mrsha was well.
The little Gnoll was much chastised. She shrank down as she saw all the worried people who had to hug her. Lyonette nearly scolded her—until she saw how guilty Mrsha was.
And then they finally had to ask where Mrsha had gone. Grimalkin was the first to point it out. He looked around the crowded room, filled with all of Erin’s friends and acquaintances who’d come for her. For Mrsha.
Selys, Krshia, Olesm, Klbkch, Relc, Zevara, Elirr, Palt, Montressa, Beza, Chaldion, Saliss, Jelaqua, Moore, Seborn, Bird—and the Antinium were missing since Klbkch had forbidden them from leaving the Hive. Octavia and Numbtongue were presumably in Celum, and people like Rufelt, Lasica, Bevussa’s team, and so on weren’t here. Or the Horns, or…
But there were so many. An [Innkeeper]’s strength was in her friends. And they’d come, at her call. Even him. Grimalkin paused. Then he interrupted Lyonette, still holding Mrsha as if to never let go.
“Where did she go? And where did she come from?”
“That’s right. Mrsha, honey, where were you? We were so worried! Didn’t you hear us? How did you get past the Workers? Did you jump out the window?”
Lyonette was caught between being angry and gentle. Mrsha shrank, flinching at all the stares. Apista flew possessively over Mrsha’s head. Erin shielded Mrsha from some of the looks.
“No one’s angry, Mrsha. We were just worried. You were gone for two hours, but we’re all happy you’re back. But we’d like to know. We’re not angry, right?”
She turned her head. Everyone nodded hurriedly. Grimalkin uncrossed his arms as Saliss nudged him again.
“You are not good with children, are you?”
“What’s that got to do with my work?”
Grimalkin glowered at the [Alchemist]. He tried to smile at Mrsha. The Gnoll hid her face in Lyonette’s chest. The [Princess] glowered at Grimalkin.
“Maybe turn around.”
The Named Adventurer suggested cheerfully. Grimalkin blew out his cheeks.
“Let me try.”
Palt clicked his fingers. Mrsha looked up to see a happy, smiling crowd around her. The [Illusionist]’s spell even turned Grimalkin happy.
Affronted, the [Sinew Magus] immediately dispelled the magic.
“May we stop with the tricks? Where did she come from? I have excellent awareness, but she snuck up on me. Even most [Rogues] can’t do that.”
He nodded at Seborn. The Drowned Man raised an eyebrow and Jelaqua patted his shoulder.
“You can try later, Seborn.”
“Mrsha? Can you tell us where you were? We’re not mad.”
Lyonette whispered to Mrsha. The Gnoll nodded, wiping her eyes on the handkerchief Apista flew towards her. She immediately began signing with her paws.
“What? What is she doing?”
Chaldion wasn’t in the know about Mrsha. He stared at the Gnoll child.
“I think she’s mute.”
“What? That cute little Gnoll? I thought she was shy!”
Palt stared, nearly dropping his cigar he’d lit up in relief. Beza slapped his side.
“Don’t be an ass—”
“I didn’t know! How’s she supposed to tell us—”
“Shut up!”
Across the room, Watch Captain Zevara was standing with Relc and Klbkch. She was a bit out of place, but she’d come when Drassi had told her. The Watch Captain wasn’t a huge friend of the inn, but every instinct told her she should know what new mischief was brewing now. Her eyes, thought, were locked on Grand Strategist Chaldion of Pallass and Saliss of Lights. Even the Halfseekers were sneaking looks at them.
“Guardsman Relc?”
“Yes, Captain Z?”
Zevara ignored that.
“Why are three of Pallass’ biggest names in this inn? Klbkch?”
The Antinium shrugged. He was eying Chaldion too. Relc scratched at his neck spines.
“Dunno, Captain. They were here when we showed up. We were pursuing the Bearclaw lead—someone’s watching her, right?”
“Another Senior Guard pairing. So are they here to pay…Erin Solstice a visit?”
“Looks like it.”
Zevara gulped. She looked at Erin and Lyonette. The young [Innkeeper] was frowning.
“Wait, you were afraid, I got that. Lyonette wasn’t really mad, Mrsha. But go back. You did what?”
The little Gnoll’s personal sign language wasn’t by any means complete yet. She mimed moving with her paws, rotating them around. Then pointed at the door.
“You moved—through a door?”
Nod, nod. Mrsha then pointed at Erin. Everyone looked at Erin. Lyonette frowned.
“Mrsha, what do you mean? Erin? Erin’s door? You moved through Erin’s door?”
Another nod. Mrsha impatiently waved her paw at Erin. The slow adults took a moment.
“Psst. The [Garden of Sanctuary]. I knew it.”
Saliss stage-whispered. Grimalkin’s head turned and Chaldion’s eyes narrowed. Erin started.
“It was that? But how?”
“Mrsha, can you show us? There was no door when I entered the room. Just the window.”
Lyonette was pointing towards the stairs. She nearly carried Mrsha up there, but the Gnoll began squirming. She fought her way out of Lyonette’s grasp and landed on the floor. Then, Mrsha looked around. She seemed to be looking for something.
“Where’s the door, Mrsha?”
“It’s probably invisible.”
Palt frowned, smoking hard as he peered around the room. Grimalkin and some of the other [Mages] were casting similar spells and looking around. Saliss rolled his eyes.
“No. It’s probably—aha!”
He pointed. Everyone turned. Zevara leapt back with an oath. A door had appeared right behind her! It was set into the wall, next to one of the unlit fireplaces. And it had not been there a moment ago.
“What in the name of scales…”
Selys’ jaw dropped. Bird peered excitedly over her shoulder.
“That is a door. It was not there before. I remember it not being.”
Everyone clustered around, exclaiming. Mrsha proudly marched up to the door and pointed. Lyonette stared at Erin. The [Innkeeper] was slack-jawed, as taken aback as anyone.
“But how—?”
“A magic door! It’s like one of those doors at Wistram. Montressa, Beza, remember?”
Palt dropped his cigar in excitement. Montressa’s eyes were bulging. Beza was aghast.
“It can’t be! You can’t just—that’s a Skill? Wistram Academy is ancient! This [Innkeeper] has two magic doors?”
“It’s not the door. It’s the room. Isn’t it, Saliss? What’s the [Innkeeper]’s Skill?”
“[Garden of Sanctuary]. And I didn’t put it together that much earlier, oh, wise and mighty Chaldion. But it was fun waiting for the reveal, wasn’t it?”
The [Alchemist] grinned at Chaldion. Erin’s head turned for a second and she looked at Saliss. He’d known—? She was going to remember that! But everyone was staring at the door.
“You just saw it, Mrsha? Why?”
Relc was pulling at the door, and swearing. It wasn’t opening for him. Mrsha was nodding, trying to explain.
“You were worried? Oh, Mrsha. I wasn’t that mad. It was only a cake! Erin can make another! You were only naughty for trying to get some frosting! That was what it was, wasn’t it? You silly little—and this appeared?”
The [Princess] hugged Mrsha again. Abashed, Mrsha nodded. Relc glared at the door.
“I can’t get it open! Klb, help me out.”
The Antinium grabbed the door handle. He and Relc both pulled, but the door refused to open. They stared at Mrsha. She stared back. That hadn’t happened with her.
“It must not open unless you’re in trouble?”
Moore delicately pulled at the door as the two Senior Guardsmen stood back. He couldn’t budge it either. Palt was nodding.
“A secret door that only appears with certain conditions. Wistram has a few. Obnoxious. There’s one that only appears when both moons are full—you can get locked inside and that is how some students die—”
“It’s a magic safe room. Handy for this inn. Let me try to get in.”
Seborn appeared by the door. He was inspecting it with some of the [Mages]. Everyone else was looking at Erin.
She’d been quiet in the face of the sudden door. But not still. Erin was…vibrating. Now, it burst out of her. She threw up her hands, startling the heck out of everyone around her.
“The Room of Requirement! I’m Hogwarts!”
“What?”
Selys stared at Erin. Chaldion made a little note—he had a quill and ink out. Erin waved her hands, trying to explain.
