In fact, Mister Soot was known by all of the Watch as one of their most wanted. He was an elusive enemy, though, and one that controlled his elements well, so that the [Guards] usually had bigger fish to fry, including actual monsters. Soot understood that well, which was why he didn’t fight the Watch most of the time, just frustrate them. He also kept his claws clean of crime himself.
Zevara had never gotten Mister Soot for his crimes. She had a lot of circumstantial evidence, even a few people willing to point at him as…‘someone’. But never anything she could concretely use to kick him out. If she could exile people just based on her feelings, Soot would have been gone long ago.
And at the moment, Mister Soot was well-placed to be even bigger than he was. Liscor was a hopping place to be right now, and Mister Soot saw his opportunity to finally make a fortune worthy of his ambitions.
A magic door, interest from abroad—not to mention the road to Pallass, which was reportedly almost halfway done already—at least, in regards to clearing the Bloodfields. Soot was no Gnoll, but he smelled the opportunity to be the liaison between a new wave of crime and opportunity.
He’d make a fortune if he played his cards right. And then he could retire and never have to work with something like Bearclaw ever again.
He stood alone in this safe room. Alone, but for Bearclaw and two figures. The huge Gnoll was bent over one of them. She stepped down, and Soot listened to a bone break. He’d heard bones break before, but this time sounded the worst. He saw the figure on the floor move. But it was bound.
[Silence] spell on the gag. Soot looked down at the Gnoll dressed in the Watch’s colors. His gang had killed [Guards] before. Sometimes it was necessary. But this—he looked at Bearclaw.
She was huge. And unlike Soot, she got her paws dirty. Bearclaw had come from the south. Not through the magic door—Pallass might have tried to arrest her, and they certainly wouldn’t condone her going to Liscor if they’d known. She’d made the journey on foot.
“You said this one’s a Senior Guard, Soot?”
Bearclaw turned her head. She had countless scars, some of which were visible since the fur had never regrown. She was known as ‘Bearclaw’ because of the metal claws she used to fight with. She hadn’t pulled them out yet, even when she’d brought both of the [Guards] tailing her.
“Yes. She’s—she’s a decent Senior Guardswoman. Just got promoted last year.”
Soot avoided the gaze of the Gnoll on the ground. She was still alive. But her limbs were—twisted. Bearclaw grinned.
“She was. So was the other one. For a small city like this. See? She’s trying to get her blood on me. Her scent.”
She nodded at the Gnoll. The [Guard] had bit her lip and was trying to spit blood. Bearclaw kicked viciously.
“Smart. But that’s why I’ll remove it with a tonic.”
“If she dies…”
The [Mastermind] hesitated. He saw Bearclaw look at him. Normally, Soot wouldn’t have been around her without his [Bodyguards]. But he was not in control. He’d lost control the moment he’d walked into his safe room and found…this.
“Don’t worry. She’s not going to die. Not even if she bites her tongue. And my person will be here. I told you—I know how it works.”
Bearclaw’s reply was followed almost instantly by a rap on the door. Both she and Soot turned. It was the right phrase, but still, Soot held the dangerous wand in one claw, ready to draw, as Bearclaw checked. She let in a hooded, totally masked figure.
Another Gnoll? Or maybe a bulky Drake. Soot avoided his gaze as the figure came for the two [Guards]. They were still alive, but Bearclaw hadn’t left them able to fight back. They were loaded into a handcart like things and vanished with the other figure.
“I’ve heard of it being done. But I don’t…need to do that myself.”
Soot kept clearing his throat. Bearclaw gave him an amused grin. She had a small bottle out and was mixing the liquid into her fur, removing scent.
“It’s simple, Soot. I don’t know where she died. I don’t know how she died, officer. I wasn’t anywhere near her when she apparently died. She didn’t die the day I saw her, neither. Might not even be someone who killed them. Might have just been monsters. Hear you have Shield Spiders and Rock Crabs. Big pity, that.”
The Gnoll looked at Soot. He paled.
“What if they ask if you had anything at all to do with her death? Or if you ran into her or encountered her in…?”
The Watch weren’t idiots. They knew to ask multiple questions. And they would. Why had she done it?
“Then I use my [Four Good Lies] for the week. But I think I’ll level up tonight. Or at the least, the Watch’ll think twice about tailing me. That Drake and Ant would’ve been different, but they’re busy. And it proves the Watch isn’t invincible. Like you kept telling me, eh?”
Bearclaw rested one paw on Soot’s shoulder. He flinched away.
“Absolutely, Bearclaw. But…what happens if I get questioned?”
She grinned at him.
“You keep your mouth shut no matter what, eh, Soot?”
She went back to cleaning herself. Mister Soot eyed Bearclaw. She’d come to him with a warning, but he’d assumed he knew crime. He’d killed people with his claws before. With knives, wands—but always with the long view in mind.
Bearclaw didn’t care about consequences. She’d killed the two Senior Guards because she could.
“So?”
“So…?”
“The inn. You had a message for me?”
The Drake started. He nodded a few times, relieved.
“There’s a claim on the inn. The Brother of Serendipitous Meetings has one. And another—from the Elusive Lot. Claws off. Paws, that is.”
“Who’re the Brothers?”
Bearclaw didn’t look up. Soot paused.
“A big name up north. Two of their agents work in the south, sometimes. The Gentlemen Callers?”
“Never heard of them. What do I care?”
Soot gulped.
“The Elusive Lot also has a clause on the inn.”
“So? My gang doesn’t answer to [Mages].”
This time the Gnoll woman stared at Soot. He nodded a few times.
“Of course. But…I’m just letting you know.”
“And I don’t care. If that’s your message, it’s wasted. I can taste the money here.”
Bearclaw grinned again, flexing her huge paws.
“Bounty on a white Gnoll, alive. Bounty on an [Innkeeper]. Bounty on the magical door. And the Heartflame Breastplate.”
“The inn’s dangerous.”
“Yeah. I saw.”
Bearclaw knew about Grimalkin, the Gold-ranks, and all the others Soot had heard of going through Erin’s inn. The Drake had even gone there himself for a ‘pizza’. Still, she was smiling. Soot eyed her.
“So—your other members. Are they coming along soon? Because our entry route is compromised and I don’t know if I can bribe anyone after today—”
The Gnoll woman shut him up with a paw. She sighed.
“Idiot. The Meeting of Tribes is coming. You don’t attack an [Innkeeper] in her inn. I have what I wanted. You just keep your eyes open. And I have the little one’s scent.”
She laughed. She meant Mrsha. Soot wished he didn’t know the Gnoll’s name. But she’d come over and sniffed him until the [Barmaid] had drawn her away. Soot…liked children. He did not think of himself as an entirely bad person. He wondered if Bearclaw had ever asked herself that.
To think of anything to say, Soot found the first thought and blurted it out.
“Who wants the white Gnoll? Aren’t they supposed to bring doom? I can’t imagine anyone wants her—but the bounty was alive, right?”
Bearclaw snorted. She looked dismissively at Soot.
“You’re too wrapped up in this tiny city, Soot. You should go to Pallass. Meet some real gangs. Who wants a white Gnoll? Her kind, obviously. The better question is—who wants the [Innkeeper]? Because half of the bounties on her are alive. Half are for dead.”
“And which one are you taking?”
The Gnoll gave Soot a wide, pleased smile.
“I’ll figure it out when I get her. Pass me the towel.”
