“It’s uncanny. She’s rather like an enigma wrapped up in a bottle inside an aggravating pot enchanted to annoy you.”
“…I understand what you’re saying, but I’d never have expected that line to come from you, Grand Strategist.”
“Magus Grimalkin. Do you disagree?”
“Not at all. I would have simply abbreviated the analogy. Erin Solstice is more like someone with layers.”
“Like an onion?”
“…No.”
“No. I was going to say a multi-level shield spell. Why an…onion?”
“Don’t you cook with onions? Either of you two?”
“I do not cook. I’ve studied nutrition, but cooking is not a practice I need to or care to study.”
“I can cook, Saliss. How is this germane to the conversation?”
“I’m just saying. Onions. Fry them up and they’re good. You can toss some oil in a pan, some onions, and maybe a bit of sauce or salt—that’s a snack.”
“Hm. Nutritional value?”
“I mean, they’re onions. I use them in one of my cloud-based recipes. So you get a killing cloud of poison that smells like onions.”
“We’re being derailed. Be silent, Saliss. My point is simply that she’s clever, intentionally or not. Grimalkin, you have experience with her. Is this…normal?”
“Hmf. I’d say it’s partly unconscious. But she obfuscates intentionally. Nevertheless, I’ve experienced this before. Not in this fashion, but a quiet, normal evening in this inn is a rare phenomenon.”
“Fascinating.”
“Yeah. Why are we whispering?”
Grimalkin and Chaldion both turned to look at Saliss. The third Drake paused.
“I mean—Chaldion’s using his ring. Why are we whispering?”
The other two Drakes stared at the [Alchemist]. ‘Annoyed’ was a mild word to describe how they felt about Saliss. Resigned, aggravated—you had to combine descriptors. But the Named Adventurer was the best [Alchemist] in all of Pallass, perhaps the world. He was more useful than he looked. And—well, he was also hard to get rid of.
Moreover, he was among equals, in a sense. Grimalkin, the [Sinew Magus], and Chaldion, [Grand Strategist] in charge of Pallass’ armies, were both famed and influential. If anything, Grimalkin was the lesser figure here, if anyone was being a stickler for the exact nuance of rank.
No one was. And the three Drakes outranked and mattered more than anyone else in the inn in which they stood. And yet—they stood in a corner, talking. They were here, having taken time out of their incredibly busy schedules—again, Saliss being a sort of exception—to come here.
Because of a Human. Erin Solstice. And at this moment, Chaldion and Saliss were experiencing a phenomenon Grimalkin, in his personal notes, was dubbing the ‘Erin-chaos effect’.
Chaldion went on, looking around. He stopped whispering as Saliss, still nude, busily mushed up something in a mortar with a pestle. It was amazing how fast you could get used to a naked Drake. No one in the inn even paused to stare at Saliss. There were more important matters to deal with.
“The Gnoll child is gone. I’ve scried this entire area. Even with her full name—she’s gone. That should not be possible.”
Grimalkin nodded. The [Magus] paused, and then extended a claw. Saliss glanced up as the burly Drake murmured.
“Mrsha Stone Spears. [Scry].”
There was a flash and his eyes glowed blue-white. Grimalkin paused.
“Nothing. It could be the scrying spell is struggling with Gnollish naming conventions. Plains Gnolls don’t have last names. [Scry] Mrsha Stonespears.”
“I’m used to [Scrying] spells, Magus. I can’t imagine we’d both fail. But yes, it is cumbersome.”
Chaldion sighed. He flipped up his eye patch and his blue pearl fake eye glowed with the same magic.
“[Scry]. Krshia Silverfang.”
This time, something clearly happened. Chaldion’s eye continued to glow. Saliss turned and waved at the ceiling, from where Chaldion’s magical gaze was coming. Grimalkin looked up too. You could actually detect a [Scrying] spell if you knew where to look. Chaldion nodded.
“Perfectly clear.”
He turned and all three Drakes stared at the tall Gnoll woman, the [Shopkeeper] who was one of many people in the inn. Krshia was conferring with Elirr and some other Gnolls, trying to pick up on Mrsha’s scent.
They’d all failed. And after two hours since Mrsha’s disappearance, the not-panic had involved more than just the inn’s guests. Relc had appeared, on-duty, as had Klbkch, two Councilmembers from Liscor—it could be said that even Zevara was taking an interest through her Senior Guardsmen.
No one had found Mrsha. Now, the not-panic was becoming something more than a concern. But Chaldion was cool-headed. He looked at Grimalkin and Saliss.
“The name is not the issue. Wherever the child is, she either possesses a Skill or artifact that can defeat a [Scrying] spell—and scent—and turn her invisible to Antinium Workers and leave no trail—”
“Or something got her.”
The others nodded. Saliss paused as there was a sound from the doors. Everyone in the inn turned. A Centaur trotted in, breathing hard. He looked around.
“No news. Sorry. I ran all the way down to the road north. No one’s seen her.”
He was looking around for Lyonette or Erin, but the two were still out looking. Relc was at the Bloodfields, scouting around with Klbkch. They’d checked Pallass already; the guards had denied seeing a white Gnoll. Esthelm was being investigated by Erin herself. Liscor was looking out for Mrsha and Elirr had checked Krshia’s apartment.
And Celum…well, that was another thing. Chaldion paused.
“Put aside the child for now. Let’s focus on what happened. Just as I was attempting to speak with that young woman, this incident happened. As well—Celum has suddenly decided to refuse entry through their magical door.”
“Good summarizing. I ate eggs today for breakfast. With toast.”
Saliss murmured. Chaldion ignored him. He looked at Grimalkin.
“You’ve said that getting information out of Miss Solstice is difficult, Magus Grimalkin. I assumed it was because you didn’t press her. Now I’m beginning to understand.”
“In fairness, the events with Celum were a long time coming. And Mrsha’s disappearance could just be chance. I doubt Erin Solstice wanted either event. However—I have witnessed her deliberately causing this kind of incident. Did you know, half of her guests assumed Pallass was attacked because she was vacationing there? The rumor is that she has a Skill which attracts trouble—or luck, as the case may be.”
“Really? I’ve met [Gamblers] who can do that. You think if I tag along with her, she can do something really entertaining? Like, say, accidentally knocking down one of Pallass’ walls?”
Saliss’ eyes gleamed. Chaldion turned his head and glared.
“Sir Saliss, if you have nothing to add, please remove yourself from my presence.”
His voice was icy. And the Grand Strategist of Pallass was normally known for being even-tempered. Cunning, deliberate, ruthless—but seldom just angry or annoyed. Then again, Saliss was Saliss and they had a long history. Grimalkin folded his arms.
“Erin Solstice’s place of origin and history are part of her mystery. I personally suspect that she’s hiding something incredibly significant, but as I’ve said, this is only a supposition based on no proof but instinct.”
“Well, that is why I am here, Grimalkin. I just can’t help but marvel at the timing of her coincidences.”
Chaldion’s eyes narrowed. He, too, sensed something, even if he couldn’t put it into words. Erin Solstice’s ability at chess, her personality, her knowledge of…lifting…all of it spoke to the [Grand Strategist]. Yet, like Grimalkin, he didn’t even have the framework to guess at the truth.
“I just came here for the food. And Xif keeps bragging so I wanted to annoy him. Plus, I wanted to see what Liscor’s prison looks like. No one’s arresting me in Pallass anymore.”
Saliss scratched at the scales on his butt. Grimalkin sighed.
“Sir Saliss.”
“Wow. You say that so unironically. I haven’t heard someone do that in years. Do it again!”
“Sir Saliss, have you tried to locate the child?”
The [Alchemist] paused. He sighed as Grimalkin gave him a look devoid of humor. The adventurer grew serious for one reluctant moment.
“No smells, no unusual sights. I used two good potions, too. It is weird. Kids don’t have Skills that good. Even if she was Level 20 or something—”
“Impossible.”
“Nah, it’s happened. I think the record is Level 21 at age seven.”
“How?”
“Child soldiers.”
“Ah.”
The three Drakes grew quiet again. They eyed the room. It was full of stillness and motion. People were reacting to the situation as befit their personalities. Some, like Drassi, were rushing about, getting water for the panting Palt, encouraging other people, working to keep themselves from worrying.
Others, like Krshia and Elirr, were still. Waiting for…something. Then they’d move like wildfire.
But what were they waiting for? The worst? A miracle? No one could say. But Grimalkin, Chaldion, and Saliss stood together, outsiders to this inn. They didn’t know Mrsha well. Even Grimalkin was a more sporadic visitor. He turned as there was a sound from the hallway.
“Erin! Where’s Erin?”
Every head turned, hopefully, expectantly. Saliss just glanced up and went back to grinding in his little pewter bowl. The door opened and a team of four rushed in.
Adventurers. The Halfseekers. Ulinde, their newest member, followed Seborn, Moore, and Jelaqua. All four were panting.
“I just heard. Has anyone found Mrsha? We’ll help look!”
Jelaqua stared about the room. Krshia hurried over to her. Moore bent over as the Halfseekers listened to the Gnoll woman; Moore’s face was one of anguish and worry.
“Lot of strange people around here.”
Saliss murmured as he poured the powdered Eir Kelp into one vial for making a healing potion with later. Chaldion glanced up sharply.
“You mean, their classes. Which ones?”
“I have no idea what you’re talking about. Isn’t that what all your investigations are supposed to turn up?”
Saliss fluttered his eyes at Chaldion. The [Grand Strategist] turned away. The [Alchemist] did not look directly at Krshia. The three Drakes fell silent as Jelaqua took her team upstairs, to look at the spot where Mrsha had been.
They were being logical, and keeping their heads in the panic. Better than Krshia or the others; their veneer of control was just that. But the three Drakes were calm, used to graver crises than this. But it had to be said that they were also…
Embarrassed. Frankly, that was the emotion that unified the three. They were all the most important people in the room. And yet—they’d been just as stumped by Mrsha’s disappearance.
It was like she’d vanished. And between the three Drakes, that was a hard thing to admit. If Mrsha had been teleported, even with [Greater Teleport], there would have been a magical residue. If she’d been attacked, carried off, Saliss would have scented it.
Chaldion had gone through the same logical exercises that Pyrite had, but every avenue revealed no white Gnoll. Not even Celum; the City Watch and Octavia both denied seeing Mrsha and the odds of her being in the city were remote.
“It has to be a Skill. But whose?”
Grimalkin growled. Chaldion folded his arms.
“Another point to investigate. My time was not wasted coming here. However—”
Every head turned as Erin Solstice appeared. She walked through the front doors leading to the trapped hallway.
“She’s not in Esthelm. I think…I think she’s here. Lyonette. I’m certain of it.”
The [Innkeeper] turned to Lyonette. The [Princess]’s hand was bleeding. The Gnolls smelled it and Saliss’ keen eyes saw the blood from where her fingernails had cut into her skin. But neither one was panicking, or wailing. What good would that do? And Erin Solstice…
“She’s here. I wasn’t sure at first, but I know it, Lyonette. That’s why I’m not panicking. Mrsha’s…here.”
Erin slowly walked into the inn. She looked around, her eyebrows furrowed. Staring around and searching for…something. Lyonette followed her, white-faced.
“But we’ve searched everywhere! She wouldn’t have hidden! Mrsha’s not like that! Once she heard us calling out—did she fall into one of Belgrade’s traps? I told him—”
“No. She’s here. But not…here.”
The young woman cut Lyonette off. She was visibly confused. Erin looked around, and then straight at Saliss.
“You’re here.”
“Hi. Yes I am.”
He waved at her. Erin ignored Saliss. Her gaze wandered the room.
“Is Palt here? Or Montressa?”
“I’m—”
“Yes, hello! How can we help?”
Montressa interrupted the exhausted Centaur. The [Aegiscaster] hurried over, staff in hand. Erin nodded to her as Beza hung back.
“Can you do something for me? Turn invisible?”
“I can do that.”
“And me.”
“What do you want to do?”
Grimalkin was curious too. Erin looked at all three [Mages].
“I’ll turn my back. Go invisible and hide.”
“Erin—”
“I’m testing something, Lyonette.”
“Give us ten seconds.”
The three [Mages] exchanged looks. Erin turned around and all three vanished. Saliss and Chaldion both didn’t blink, and their eyes followed patches of air moving across the room.
The others weren’t able to track the [Mages] so well. The Gnolls sniffed the air, getting approximate locations. Drassi noticed a chair moving as Montressa bumped it. Lyonette recoiled from a breeze. But then there was just silence.
“…nine…ten…”
Erin finished counting. She held still. Her eyes were closed and she faced a wall. She didn’t immediately turn around. Instead, her head rose. And then the [Innkeeper] thoughtfully spoke.
“Palt is upstairs. Somehow. Montressa’s in the kitchen. And Grimalkin’s…not in the inn.”
Lyonette stared at Erin’s back. There was an exclamation from the kitchen and Montressa reappeared. Someone went to get Palt.
“Where’s Grimalkin?”
“Outside.”
A number of voices chorused. Drassi went to fetch Grimalkin. He strode back in.
“I walked down the hill. Your findings?”
“Mrsha’s here.”
Erin spun around. Her eyes narrowed.
“I couldn’t do this when I was Level 20.”
Chaldion eyed Erin. Saliss just grinned. Erin Solstice looked at Lyonette. The [Princess] was piecing together what Erin had understood.
“So—so you’re sensing Mrsha? You know she’s here?”
“I am. That’s why I wasn’t that worried, Lyonette. I thought it was my imagination. But Mrsha is in my inn. Just not…here, here.”
“What does that mean?”
“I don’t know. She’s in my inn. But she’s not anywhere I know.”
