This time the [Merchant] had no subtlety. Her eight escorts stepped forwards, hands on their blades. They wouldn’t kill the [Farmer], but certainly would draw blood and drub him if he went for his own outlandish blade.
Wailant wasn’t impressed. He spat at Geala’s feet.
“Seems to me you got off lucky, rude as you were. Why don’t you turn around, Miss Merchant, and piss off? You don’t get to bully anyone you please just because you have a painted wagon and a group of idiots with swords.”
Geala went white. She looked at the [Head Caravan Guard] and he stepped forwards. He was more reluctant than his employer—if the ornery [Farmer] actually died, it would be a black mark on his name, never mind being possibly banned from Celum.
“There’s eight of us and one of you, man. Don’t be stupid.”
The [Farmer] didn’t even glance at the leader.
“One warning, Miss Merchant. Back off and let sleeping krakens lie.”
“You’ve been warned! Do it!”
Geala shouted at her guard. The other mercenaries reluctantly strode forwards.
“Don’t make this—”
Farmer Wailant Strongheart drew his cutlass.
It was not, as someone familiar with the stereotype of [Pirates] from Erin’s world might have expected, an oversized blade. Real cutlasses were short sabers, curved, yes, but not oversized. The cupped guard and hilt made the weapon a good fight for close-quarter combat. Boarding actions, for instance. On boats. You might also use another weapon in your off-hand.
Like a wand. Wailant aimed the wand at the [Head Caravan Guard]’s face. The man froze. Not just because of the wand—the cutlass shone. It was, after all, enchanted. The [Caravan Guards] backed up. Merchant Geala froze.
You got all sorts of [Farmers]. All sorts. Crazy ones, normal ones, [Farmers] who were more like [Managers] than the ones who did everything manually. But it was a rare [Farmer] indeed who owned an enchanted blade and knew how to use it, let alone fought like a [Pirate].
“See this? Magic cutlass. You got anything half as sharp, landfolk?”
The abnormal [Farmer] swung his cutlass easily through the air. The mercenaries stopped. They wore metal and leather, unenchanted. A sword like that might have a lesser enchantment. It didn’t look like that, of course. And a good one would cut right through their armor. They looked at their leader. Their leader stared at the glowing wand’s tip. It might just be a bluff.
“That’s what I thought. You piss right back into the sewer you came from. And I won’t remember your faces.”
Wailant snorted. The mercenaries had a choice. They could get into a fight with an angry [Farmer] in a foreign city—who had an enchanted sword and a wand—or they could walk off. It took them one second.
They walked off.
“Get back here!”
Mistress Geala was red with rage—then paled as she saw Wailant sheathing his sword. She backed up.
“Don’t you dare lay a hand on me! I am a [Merchant] from First Landing and I’m bound for Pallass! I—”
“Don’t worry. I don’t kill landfolk for slights. Even if it’s deserved.”
Wailant sighed. Mistress Geala backed up. The [Farmer] looked at her.
Then he slapped her. Numbtongue, who’d finally got up, clutching his groin, saw the woman twirl with the impact. The street gasped. The Hobgoblin winced.
Wailant Strongheart nodded, satisfied. He stared down as the [Merchant] fell over.
“That’s for threatening to beat me down. Miss. Do it again and I’ll cut off a finger. If you’d been able to mind your manners, or let live and sail on, none of this would have happened. Idiot.”
He walked backwards, whistling. Numbtongue stared at the woman. So did everyone else.
It was about personalities. Merchant Geala wasn’t a bad woman. Probably. In another circumstance, her brazen attitude towards business might have come off as mildly infuriating, but acceptable. And a broken wagon wheel was something to get mad about. You could take demanding an apology too far. But still.
It was all about the person. And Wailant Strongheart was…Wailant. And he was a known figure. But in this moment, as the [Farmer] dusted his hands and looked about for the Hobgoblin he’d just attacked, he was not exactly in the right.
A group of [Guardsmen] raced around the street, marching fast. They’d remembered the other door to Stitchworks. Their leader was shouting.
“Secure the door! Make sure it doesn’t use its magic! Don’t let one of the ants through! Where’s that Goblin? I saw it come through! Capture it! If it resists—”
He paused as he saw Wailant, the [Merchant] clutching her cheek. Wailant stopped and his look of satisfaction vanished.
“…Shit.”
“Strongheart! What’s this about?”
The [Lieutenant] knew Wailant. And it only took him a moment before his face turned crimson.
“You hit a [Merchant] and damaged her wagon? Are you a Troll, man? That’s a woman!”
He strode up to Wailant, with the authority and force of outrage behind him. His patrol didn’t look happy about confronting Wailant, who was a known character. They didn’t like fighting a Hobgoblin either, but it was hard to tell who they were more reluctant to battle with at this moment.
“Forgive me, sir. I didn’t know what I was doing. Defending myself from someone who hired a lot of toughs to beat me down if I didn’t grovel at her feet.”
Wailant rolled his eyes, crossing his arms. The [Lieutenant] metamorphosed into purple. He pointed a finger at Wailant’s face.
“That’s it, Strongheart! You’ve been warned! You’re banned from the city for a month!”
“What? For dealing with some stuck-up foreigner?”
The [Farmer]’s eyes narrowed dangerously. The [Lieutenant] was listing off offences.
“Damage to property! Aggravated conduct! Striking a civilian! Intimidation! Offers of violence with a magical artifact! Repeated misconduct—don’t walk away from me! You’re lucky it’s a month! I should fine you on top of the wagon’s cost—”
He grabbed Wailant’s shoulder. Another mistake. The [Farmer] spun.
“Make it six months, idiot.”
He laid the [Lieutenant] out with a single punch. The plaza stared at the unconscious man. The patrol stared at Wailant. The [Farmer] looked at his bleeding fist—he’d nicked it on the edges of the man’s helmet. He cursed.
“Damn it.”
 
——
 
In short order, Octavia’s shop was secured. Aside from the incident in the plaza, the door was secured and the Watch Captain learned, to his displeasure, that it was not the magic door, but a receptacle for the actual magic.
The [Mayor] was not going to be happy. But done was done. The Watch Captain was just a vehicle to the desires of Celum, and he was still put-out over not making the final cut with the Players of Celum. They’d given him a choice—supporting cast or keep his old job. He’d lobbied for lead actor, and he’d been turned down. Wesle had gotten that role.
He was still mad about it. And madder still to hear about Wailant. The Watch Captain saw the [Farmer] lined up to leave the city by the northern gates. He stormed over.
“You! Strongheart! Get out of here! You’re banned for a year! Got it?”
“Yeah, yeah. Once you need my produce, you’ll want me back! And your [Alchemists] too!”
“All but two of them are out of commission, you idiot!”
The Watch Captain shouted at Wailant’s back. It was sort of an odd way to be triumphant, given the troubles with the [Alchemists], but he was pleased by Wailant’s glower. The [Farmer] drove out of the city, swearing at everyone he passed.
 
——
 
“Damn, damn, damn. I didn’t even get to unload the Sage’s Grass! Viceria’s going to rip my fucking jewels off.”
When he was a few miles out from the city, Wailant stopped urging his horses at their quick pace. He couldn’t help but swear, though. Banned from Celum. It wasn’t a light thing, and he hadn’t even sold his main product, the aforementioned Sage’s Grass. Furiously, the [Farmer] took a deep swig from his flask. It had a strong odor.
“Hold up. Hold up, you dumb horses!”
The driver ordered his animals to a halt. He jumped off the driver’s seat and casually walked around to his wagon. It was empty, now, of the mundane produce he’d piled up in it. The valuable stuff was all in his bag of holding. You didn’t put gold in the wagon. That was a fool’s game.
The tarp was lying on the wagon. And the wagon should have been empty, but a [Pirate], even a former one, had sharp eyes. Wailant paused as he stared at the lump near the back.
“I’ve seen stranger things at sea. But never on land. Hey, greenskin. Want a drink?”
Numbtongue sat up fast. He had his sword drawn. Wailant held up his hands.
“Easy. I heard you’re a ‘friendly’ Goblin. If I wanted you dead, I’d just have shouted for the Watch to deal with you. Seems they don’t like Goblins, even ones that live in the city.”
The Goblin [Bard] lowered the blade a fraction. Wailant was right. The [Farmer] studied Numbtongue, perplexed. He jerked his head at Numbtongue.
“Are you a polymorphed bloke? Heard an Archmage once got offed after losing a duel like that.”
“No.”
That Numbtongue could speak didn’t seem to surprise Wailant either. He paused.
“Illusion spell?”
“No. I’m me.”
“Just a fucking Goblin?”
“Yes. Just a fucking Goblin. You have a problem?”
Numbtongue bared his teeth. He was looking around—Wailant had stopped just off the road, but there would be more travellers soon. The [Farmer] shrugged.
“Eh. And here I thought my girl was blowing wind up my sails. Since you’ll probably get killed if I let you hop out—fancy a drink?”
He offered Numbtongue the flask. The Hobgoblin blinked and Wailant tossed it. Numbtongue sniffed the drink, took a sip, and brightened up. He’d experienced the joys of unlimited alcohol in Erin’s inn. Normally, it was a rare treat for Redfangs.
“Hm. Thank you.”
Wailant did raise his eyebrows at the courtesy. Numbtongue took a swallow, threw the flask back. The [Farmer] regarded him, and then climbed around the front of the wagon.
“Alright then. It’s a ways to my farm, so keep your face hidden if anyone drives by. What’s your name, Hob?”
“Numbtongue. What’s yours?”
Numbtongue warily sat in the back of the wagon, facing Wailant. He kept an eye out for travellers, ready to hide his head. Who was this [Farmer] who fought well and had tattoos? Wailant Strongheart was drinking, and tossed the flask over his shoulder.
“Wailant. Say, do you know Garia? Runner girl? Looks as sturdy as—no. She’s thin? But got muscles, blackish hair? A bit of blue, if you look right. Skin about as tan as—”
He tapped one arm, and Numbtongue noticed Wailant was a few shades darker than most Humans he’d met.
“Yes. Garia Strongheart.”
“Ah, that’s the one. Good. I’d hate to think my daughter was meeting all kinds of weird Goblins about.”
“Daughter?”
“Yeah. Yeah…I was going to see her. Damn. She was going to show me that inn! Damned [Merchants]. You know, she cut in front of me. Think they own the roads.”
Numbtongue eyed Wailant and said nothing. After a second, the [Farmer] looked back at him. He waved one hand impatiently at Numbtongue—and also to get his flask back.
“So…why everything about you? Start with the guitar.”
 
——
 
It depended on how you looked at them. Someone willing to give a Goblin in danger a lift could be a jerk. And a good man could be a poor one, or vice versa.
The [Mayor] of Celum might have been a good man. He wasn’t a renowned figure, known the breadth of the region for his accomplishments. He wasn’t that famous, but he had won his position by vote.
He might not even have been a bad man. Erin didn’t know. But as she sat across from him in the little meeting room, arms folded, she was certain that if she had the opportunity, she was gonna punch him.
“Where’s Numbtongue?”
“That’s being investigated, Miss. Apparently, he was seen in a run-in with one of our local troublemakers. Another one, I should say. Captain, the Hobgoblin’s location?”
“Unknown, sir. But I’ve got my boys searching. It won’t hide long, and if it causes trouble—”
“He won’t cause trouble! And he’d be here if you didn’t steal my door!”
Erin slammed her hands on the table. The [Mayor] leaned back. Cetris Duiland was his name.
“Miss Solstice, as I said, that was an unfortunate accident. But please, calm down.”
“Mayor Duiland, this is exactly what we’re talking about! She’s got no respect for the city or its laws! And that Hobgoblin! How has she been allowed to act like this for so long?”
An angry voice rang out from behind the [Mayor]. Erin glared and was met by glares from a number of faces, familiar and unfamiliar. The Head of the Merchant’s Guild, the Baker’s Guild representative, the Guildmaster of the Runner’s Guild, were all present. As well, there were three familiar faces.
[Innkeepers]. Miss Agnes, Miss Ulia, and Mister Timbor, all of Celum, scowled at Erin. She looked around. She had Octavia, Lyonette, Montressa, and a really bad mood.
When Erin had finally opened the door to Celum to confront Numbtongue’s disappearance, she’d received a message that she needed to appear before the [Mayor] of Celum. She vaguely knew the man—he’d yelled at her when she brought in Grimalkin and Relc to help fight that gang terrorizing Octavia. But she didn’t know him.
Now, clearly, he was going to be trouble. Erin folded her arms. She would have felt better if she had Grimalkin in her corner, or Zevara. Or anyone from either Pallass or Liscor.
But they’d declined to come. This was Erin’s squabble with Celum, and as Krshia had pointed out, it would not do for Liscor to start a conflict with a Human city. Nor for Pallass. It was a sign that Krshia was taking her new position seriously, much to Erin’s dismay.
However, she’d left Relc at the door and he’d told the Watch Captain of Celum outright that Erin was Liscor’s. If Celum tried anything, well, they’d never be able to close the door with Relc around. And he’d come get her if Erin was gone for more than an hour.
Some comfort. Erin frowned at Mayor Duiland.
“If one of the Watch hurts Numbtongue…”
“Miss Solstice. Threats against Celum are only adding to the case against you.”
“What case? You stole my door!”
“Because you’re a menace to Celum! You steal jobs, cause havoc—we can’t trust this Hobgoblin! Mayor, consider your own children! If this Hob were to run into your daughter—”
Miss Agnes’ voice cut off as Cetris shifted in his chair. He was not a powerfully built figure like Wailant. But Erin saw him turn and she caught half of his expression.
“Was that a threat, Miss Agnes? What about my daughter?”
“Nothing! I was only concerned for—”
“A Hobgoblin is still a Goblin, Mayor Duiland. I’m sure Miss Agnes forgot herself.”
