Everyone looked as perplexed as Erin. She hadn’t figured it out yet. The Grand Strategist’s eyes narrowed though. He touched his ring and created another space to whisper to the other two Drakes in. Grimalkin walked over and nodded.
“The [Princess]?”
“No. Perhaps a new facet of her class. A new Skill. Didn’t she mention having two?”
Grimalkin and Chaldion were beginning to put it together. They exchanged significant looks. Saliss…well, he glanced at Erin as he put another bit of dried Eir Kelp in his bowl to mash up.
It was only a matter of time before she figured it out. She’d fooled even him. For a moment. Then he’d put it together.
Saliss’ eyes were reptilian, a long vertical pupil instead of rounded ones, like Gnolls and Humans had. Like a Dragon’s eyes, although Dragons would balk at being compared to their descendants. Yet, Saliss’ eyes were more like a Dragon’s than most.
They narrowed, now. Watching Erin Solstice. And Saliss saw…all there was to see.
[Eyes of Appraisal]. A Skill for an [Alchemist]. Saliss looked at Erin and he saw her level, her class. Her Skills. He nodded to himself. Unusual Skills for an [Innkeeper], some of them. She had a weird distribution.
An [Innkeeper] who had to fight monsters got Skills like these. One who valued people more than, say, the ability to conjure up free food each day, or who had the ability to boost her staff into working like fiends. But clearly, she didn’t know how at least two of her Skills worked.
Well, well. The [Alchemist] busily mashed up the second bit of kelp as Grimalkin and Chaldion walked over to Erin and her head kept turning. He was just a bystander, watching the show. If she or Lyonette had started crying, he’d probably have given her a tip.
But at the moment? Saliss looked into his bowl, with a serious, detached expression on his face. Anyone looking at him would have assumed he was just as grave and concerned as everyone else. But the truth was that Saliss was trying really hard not to laugh.
 
——
 
Mrsha stood in another place, a strange world she’d entered when she’d fled from Lyonette. It was completely foreign to her.
Soft grass covered the ground. Behind her stood a dark brown, wooden wall covered with vines. The door had allowed her in. And then vanished.
It looked like the wood of the inn. But older, weathered. Solid. It stretched up, curving. And it became the sky. Mrsha stared at it. It had taken her fifteen minutes to pry away the creeping vines to expose the sight of the wooden wall. Like ivy, it had subsumed the actual surface.
Now, Mrsha sat back. The wall rose, arching, creating the shadowed dome that she realized encircled this entire place. But it was so tall. And there were no supports. It was an unnatural structure, to Mrsha. Perhaps you could make something like this in reality, but where had this come from?
She had been in Erin’s inn. And now…Mrsha’s small head went up and up, looking around.
She was lost here. The door was gone. And the wooden wall that was so familiar and different created a domed, circular room.
All but in one place. The dome of wood and twisting vines stopped in the air. And a large, circular center let bright light shine down into this strange area. Mrsha saw the beam of light, illuminating the world ahead.
She wiggled her paws in the grass. It was so soft. Not like full-grown, whippy grass with seeds and other plants mixed in. This was pleasant. Soft. You could roll about in it forever.
Mrsha did, for a bit. She felt her anxiety disappearing. She should have been afraid, snatched away to somewhere else. But she wasn’t. Instinctively, Mrsha felt reassured and she couldn’t have said why. Her [Druid] class told her she was safe.
And so did something else. This world was familiar. If anything, Mrsha just wanted to find the door so she could show Lyonette. But—she was still angry. So Mrsha decided to explore. Maybe she’d find the door when she did.
Shade engulfed this part of the…garden. And Mrsha saw that light would seldom come here. Grass grew in places, like where she’d walked in. But soft, loamy soil was just as frequent. Mrsha stopped as she saw a large stone with huge mushrooms growing next to them. She sniffed cautiously, but she recognized some of them. All edible, according to Urksh.
Mrsha nearly nibbled a few, but she wasn’t hungry. They were big mushrooms, though. She looked around. And blinked.
This space wasn’t one flat place. It was large—large enough to hold a small hill in one section. Mrsha saw the sunlit ground sloping up. But the garden was divided into different spots.
She stood in the shade, here. And Mrsha saw something curious.
A ring of mushrooms. It was a big circle in the middle of the grass. The Gnoll trotted over, fascinated by the way the little, purple shrooms sprang up yet kept to the formation. She put one paw in the center of the circle, and then leapt in.
Mrsha’s hair stood up on her body. She inhaled, and waited. But nothing happened. The Gnoll child laughed silently. She rolled around in the grass, and then hopped up. And she knew, knew, that this place had been meant for her. So she began to run.
Soft dirt and shade. A mushroom as large as Mrsha. The soft smell of decay, and life budding again in shadows. A glowing strand of fungus. And under a rock—
Nothing. Mrsha saw no bugs. She should have. Bugs loved to live in places like this. But the only living thing besides the plants was her. Mrsha ran ahead, and found there was a little path of flat stones. Who had made it? Why?
She followed it. It ran right, sloping upwards. Mrsha raced up, laughing to run freely. She couldn’t run in the inn without hitting something! But this—
The white Gnoll crested a bit of earth and stopped. She beheld more of the garden. And she saw at the center of the area, bathed in sunlight, was a plateau.
Filled with flowers. A meadow sprang to life on the upraised dirt in the middle section. Large enough to play in. Not to play baseball, but throw a ball as far as anyone but Relc could. Mrsha saw big flowers blooming, and stalks of wheat, full-grown grass, and no stones or weeds or anything hurtful in sight.
Her eyes grew round, and then the Gnoll ran joyfully into the meadow. She leapt through the flowers, inhaling a dozen pollens and sneezing gleefully. Mrsha emerged through the other side and looked back. But no butterflies or small animals ran from her rampage.
That gave her a moment’s pause. Not seeing any other life was eerie. But she couldn’t shake the feeling that she was safe. It was a certainty. Mrsha saw how every color of flower bloomed. Well, except black. But it was uncanny to see so many different colors, as if someone had intentionally created the diversity.
Mrsha trotted over to a lovely pink flower blooming in the grass. She hesitated, then gathered it up, and a few yellow ones, a white one there—she made a little bouquet. So Lyonette would not be mad. She’d be happy to see this place.
But where was she? Again, Mrsha looked around. She raced to one edge of the meadow. There! There was the mushroom-spot. And if you circled the…dome…
Mrsha stared. Then she abandoned the flowers and raced down the hill. She tripped, tumbled, and nearly fell into the pond.
It was most definitely a pond. Mrsha caught herself and gazed into the clear waters. She sniffed, and tasted experimentally. Good water. Mrsha cupped her paws and drank some. Then she frowned.
The pond wasn’t being fed by anything. It ran up against the wall, and Mrsha, peering in, could see smooth stones making up the base. And a bit of sand. But—she was no hydrologist, but she understood water had to come from somewhere.
The white Gnoll peered at the clear pond, and then at the plants growing around here—now, more suited to a swamp or lakeside biome. She spun, and raced back up to the central meadow. Plants. Which wanted water and sunlight.
Mrsha looked up at the hole in the roof. And she saw the sky. It shone down, a bright ray of sunlight. She saw blue skies. Clouds. It…looked like the very same sky as she’d seen from Liscor. Then, Mrsha spotted something through the hole. She ran left. It vanished. No—she ran right, nearly falling down the small incline again. And then she spotted it.
Aha! The Gnoll pointed with one paw. There, peeking out if she craned back. A mountain!
The High Passes. Wherever she was, this dome reflected the sky above Liscor. Which meant…Mrsha ran back to the pond and sniffed.
Rainwater, probably. Runoff from the sky. Mrsha nodded to herself. That made sense. Contented, Mrsha ran back a few paces, and then leapt.
The white Gnoll splashed into the pond and happily swum around. With a breaststroke, rather than a doggy paddle, thank-you-very-much. Who called it that, anyways?
Erin could be so weird. Mrsha dove, touching the smooth stones at the bottom. She swam around, delighted to do it. No one had let her swim in the rain, and she’d missed swimming. Plains Gnolls swam all the time in ponds or lakes or rivers they came across. Some City Gnolls her age didn’t even know how to swim, like Ekirra.
After a minute or two, Mrsha surfaced. She clambered out of the pond and shook herself. Okay, like a dog. A bit miffed, Mrsha looked back into the pond.
No fish, either. She was beginning to sense a trend. Huffily, Mrsha ran back up the meadow and lay in the sun for a while. It was so pleasant.
Mrsha might have taken a nap. Just for a bit! Because she woke up when a cloud obstructed the sun for a moment. The white Gnoll got up. And she remembered.
Lyonette was still mad with her. And she was gone from the inn. Vaguely alarmed, Mrsha sat up. This place was doing something to her. She’d forgotten all about Lyonette!
This time Mrsha ran down the hill and back to where the door had been in the soft soil. The stone path even led right up to…nothing. Mrsha could see where she’d cleared the vines from the wooden wall. But there was no door.
Frowning, Mrsha sat there and stared at the spot. The door was still gone. But perhaps it would come if she wanted it to? Mrsha paused.
Did she want it to? She backed up from the spot a bit nervously. She was going to get scolded. Maybe—maybe she should explore a bit more. So Lyonette wouldn’t be as angry when she came back. Oh! There were still more spots to see! She should explore this entire place so Lyonette and Erin would know what was what when Mrsha got out.
Mrsha ran off, relieved at this sensible Mrsha-logic. She raced past the pond, doing a circuit rather than climbing higher. She’d spotted a path leading higher, and a large hill running up against the dome’s side, but she wanted to explore the low ground first. Mrsha ran around the wall—
And entered into a sea of fog. One second, Mrsha was leaving the pond, the next—white enshrouded her. Instantly, the Gnoll fled backwards. Wet fog clung to her fur for a second, and then she was back out.
The Gnoll stared ahead. At the base of the hill was a spot enshrouded in fog. Like—well, fog. Cloud, that rolled in when the air was thick with wet. But this was unnatural.
It was moving. Mrsha backed up as the fog slowly rolled around her. Her fur became wet with dew. Mrsha inhaled—yes, fog. It was wetting the grass and—Mrsha saw as the fog went past her that this new spot was dense. Trees sprang up in profusion. Wild sycamores, tall fronds—
A jungle! Mrsha the [Explorer] needed something to hack at the plants with. She looked around and found a stick. Mrsha fought her way into the first layer of dense vegetation—
And immediately backed out when a burr-bush got her fur. There were dangerous plants here! True, this one was just little seeds, but a put-out Mrsha had to yank the sixteen or so burrs that had got her from a swift encounter. She glared at the jungle.
No thank you! Mrsha ran the other way.
Through the fog again. It was travelling around the entire place! Mrsha raced through it—went right into the pond.
She clambered out, glowering. Well now! She supposed the fog helped keep the place nice and growing. It went uphill, rather than go near the mushrooms. Because they didn’t need as much water? Mrsha went left, declining to run through the fog and hit something.
The other side of the hill had…dryness. Arid land. Mrsha sensed it was drier here almost immediately; the fog had definitely not done good work. And she stared at a tree blooming in the yellow grass.
Mrsha had never seen an acacia tree before. The tall, broad canopy was foreign to her. A tree, but different in ways of nuance. If a sycamore was one big base with branches all full of leaves, creating a…a…bushy effect, an acacia was more like a mushroom.
It let all its green near the top, creating a hat, an umbrella to create shade, to allow dew to gather in the mornings. Mrsha stared up at it, and then at the yellow, dry grass.
What a strange place! And this tree—Mrsha spotted browning…things hanging off the branches. She peered up at them. They looked a bit like bean pods, but far larger. Seeds? She nearly climbed the tree, but forewarned with the tropical zone, Mrsha spotted the tiny thorns on the tree.
So, this place had some mean plants. Mrsha backed up from the tree. It wasn’t overtly hostile; nothing in this area screamed ‘Bloodfields’ at Mrsha. Certainly, none of the plants were alive like the biting plants with mouths. Some just had thorns, or stupid seeds.
But it made Mrsha feel like this spot had moods. Dry, shaded, jungle, wet.
Marshlands, arid, tropical, temperate—Mrsha turned around. And finally, she got it. She ran back up to the meadow and stared around. This was it.
The [Garden of Sanctuary]. It had taken Mrsha a while to figure out what it was, but there could be no doubt. Erin’s Skill had worked. It was just that Mrsha had been the first to find the door in.
Awed, Mrsha looked around. The garden bloomed about her. Wild plants, blooming in profusion. Different spots, which could host different plants. The Gnoll took all of this in. And then she laughed.
Mrsha laughed. Silently, giggling as she fell onto her back. Of course! The garden! And Erin had thought her Skill was bad. But this!
This was another world. A safe haven. Mrsha leapt around the meadow, imagining what it could become. You could grow anything here! The Faerie Flowers that Lyonette were worried might be stolen could grow here! She could put fish in the pond and Relc could teach her to fish with his spear! Apista would love it here. And maybe a few butterflies? Mrsha could see a few rabbits, birds—unless Bird killed them all.
And it was safe. The door had come when Mrsha wanted it. Surely, it would let her out again. A safe place that only Mrsha and her best friends and family could enter. She could run about here forever, with Ekirra, Visma—and no one would ever be able to hurt her.
