Junming laughed so hard he pretended to wipe a tear from his eye before turning to his followers. “The little Bumble Bee wants to try and sting Granddaddy Junming?” His mocking smile turned vicious as he said, “It's your death warrant for challenging someone a full Tier stronger than yourself, but I’ll gladly send you back to your pitiful Whispering Winds sect on a stretcher. Maybe my next challenger will be someone of note.”

He jumped through the nearest window and into the open dining hall of the restaurant, where an illusionary stage appeared over the diners heads, ready to both protect the diners and give the fighters room to battle.

Yun followed through the window just a second later, but Matt refrained from inspecting her any deeper so as to keep a modicum of suspense alive. He had a pretty good idea of what was about to happen, but he wanted to enjoy it before the inevitable victory or defeat.

Both were clearly talented, though Junming less so than Yun. But instead of doing something productive, they were throwing themselves at each other with plots and schemes, trying to one up the other. Though, Matt was sure they saw it as driving each other forward instead, and maybe there was a kernel of truth in that, but Matt wasn’t sure he’d buy it. It was all too easy to get lost in the minutiae of such grudges and not actually grow.

The fight however, started out interestingly enough. Even with a Tier disadvantage, Yun threw herself at her larger and higher Tier opponent with a pair of daggers that earned a whoop of appreciation from Allie.

Matt nodded when he saw Junming taking Yun seriously and immediately readying himself behind his shield, his mace prepared for a return blow.

Being a Tier higher, Junming was faster, and even before Yun got her blades close, he was already side stepping and his mace was descending. Yun seemed ready for the move and exploded into a gust of wind and flower petals that started to swirl.

Matt looked at the skill she was using with some curiosity. He couldn’t trivially identify it, and the girl couldn’t be older than forty, meaning she’d already done so many modifications to her skill that Matt would have called it a Legacy modded skill, if it didn’t feel half-done. As it stood, it turned her invisible and created several illusionary flower petals, then launched them in a very real gust of wind. Wherever the petals hit, so too did Yun, and her daggers flickered out, carving lines of blood into Junming’s reinforced skin.

For all that the skill was quite impressive for a Tier 7, Matt wasn’t sure whether the effect was actually worthwhile given how much work had obviously gone into modifying it. She wasn’t actually wind, and while invisibility was tricky to deal with at lower Tiers, there was still a finite amount of openings that it created for her in what was, ultimately, just a distraction.

Junming had an earth-aspected spell bolstering his physical body, and the moment the daggers landed he clenched up, trying to trap Yun in tight with him.

His shield started to glow an earthy yellow as power built, and Yun was forced to leave one of her daggers lodged in his armor, but she did manage to retreat with one of them. Cables of earth rose out of the illusionary ground and attempted to wrap around Yun, but she managed to dodge even though one of her arms was broken in the retreat.

That seemed unplanned, and for the first time Xiao Yun’s heart rate spiked. She used her skill again, blowing petals into Junming’s face while gaining some distance, then pelting him with some air-slice attacks with the aid of a newly-withdrawn dagger.

“What skill is that?” Zack asked. Matt doubted he actually expected an answer, but Sien spoke up anyway.

“I believe it is a technique based upon [The False Face Presented to Strangers]. It is a curious choice, but I imagine she may intend to eventually merge it with [An Errant Breeze Harkening the Passage of the Soul] to draw the appearance closer to the truth.”

Matt consulted his AI to find the Empire equivalent names, a bit surprised to learn Sien expected the girl to successfully merge [Disguise Self] with [Air Body]. Then he realized the actually surprising part of Sien’s statement. “Wait, that’s a purely illusion skill? How’s it generating the breeze?”

“Through superior Sect techniques,” Sien smugly replied.

“I mean, okay, sure, but how did she do it so fast? There’s no way she’s gotten a legacy that young, right?” Allie asked.

“I would presume it is granted from her Talent as an Innate blessing. It is unlikely that she would have received anything so valuable for such an arbitrary technique were it not innate to her.”

“Hang on,” Aster pitched in. “How’s she going to merge [Air Body] if that’s an innate skill? You can’t merge anything into a Talent-granted skill.”

“For barbarians, perhaps.” Sien dismissed with a wave of her hand. “Our techniques scarcely care about such trivialities.”

Aster perked up, her ears and tail standing on end. “Whoa whoa whoa. Back up. You can’t just say that and nothing else! This is the first I’m hearing that something like that might even be possible, now you’re telling me some random girl in the middle of nowhere might be modifying her innate skill with the expectation she’ll be able to merge it with a skill? Spill!”

“Well, it is but mere speculation,” Sien took a smug sip of tea. “Perhaps she simply intends to utilize the skills in unison. It is, as you pointed out, not an especially well-known ability.”

Left unsaid, but clear enough from the way she carried herself and worded her boast, she didn’t want them telling anyone else about this particular bit of trivia.

‘Ascender’s honor’ was the way Matt thought about it.

Their respective Great Powers were willing to turn enough of a blind eye towards all the Ascenders talking and being friendly, so long as they didn’t spill anything important. Some things, like skill modification tricks and passing restricted items via bets, were really pushing allowable behavior. But so long as they kept what they learned to themselves, it was within acceptable bounds.

At the end of the day and despite all the friendliness, the Ascenders were more than willing to throw down with each other, which was the most important aspect of a supreme powerhouse.

“What’s it going to take for you to spill?” Aster glared playfully at the older woman.

“Hmm, perhaps a wager at some point. It is not merely information, but it similarly requires an object of non-negligible value.”

Matt could feel the glee radiating off of Aster, and that made him start to wonder what he might be able to provide his bond to hop in on whatever bet Sien would make. Technically, it was Aster’s sole responsibility to bring her own stake, but she was his teammate and his sister, Matt wasn’t about to leave her to fend entirely to herself. Sadly, Sien probably already had anything unique she could possibly want that they could easily produce.

That left services or things they could pilfer from Manny’s vaults. And while Matt was sure they could pay for anything out of said vaults, they didn’t have any idea what was there or what Sien would want. Even if they had the key in hand.

As an Ascender, she had probably been given some of the Rank 4 dragons blood after the Sects bought it at the end of the war, so they couldn’t even trade that.

There were probably things that they had access to as Empire Ascenders that the Empire wasn’t keen to sell, similar to the technique in question, but nothing came to mind.

Maybe Sien would like some of Liz’s bloodline oranges?

That actually had a chance of working.

“What do you want in return? I have no idea what we have to offer. I can turn Matt upside down and shake him like a couch cushion, but the only thing that usually falls out is good food.”

Matt glowered at Aster, but she didn’t seem to notice.

Sien, however, just waved Aster off. “You will determine in due time what it is that you can provide, and it will often be variable. With so many Masters from the Empire, it will surely make it more challenging for you, but I am certain you will manage. If you are in a rush, simply join Lila on one of her excursions into the unknown. There exist many treasures in the great beyond which may equal that which you desire, be it for yourself or your children.”

That gave Matt an idea, and he reminded Aster of the royal jelly they had been given. That might work for a wager, or at least part of one.

Instead, Sien turned to grin at Matt still speaking to Aster. “Were it not for your bond’s adorable willingness to give forth information regarding the formation of aura rifts, I am certain that would have been a wonderful stake for such a betting pool. Equal to say, the methods to merge an innate skill.”

That piqued Matt's interest because it ran contrary to what he knew of Sect culture. “Really? I know the Sects don’t have much in the way of Bottled Concepts, so why the turn around on aura potions?”

“Aura is immeasurably useful for many things, and many techniques may benefit or even require it, even well past the phase in which one seeks to develop their First Revelation. Besides, unlike the former potions, Aura produces true Revelations, albeit oft less-impressive.”

Matt really wanted to turn Sien upside down and shake the older Ascender to see what would fall out. From her grin, she knew that, which was why she had mentioned the possibility of things his guild hadn’t gotten around to researching yet.

Zack tried to ask a question about using aura with skills, but Sien simply deflected the question, leaving both of them squirming. The idea also jumped up several ranks on Matt’s to-do list for when he got back to the Empire. Or his guild’s list. He wasn’t about to learn a whole new craft when he could just hire more experts.

That would mean he needed to Tier up again if he didn’t want to cut down on spending elsewhere, but that was what they were working on. And he was sure Zack would be willing to lead the project, which would make things far easier.

His attention was instead brought to the fight, which seemed to be nearing its climax.

Yun was being battered and slowly whittled down as Junming pressed his advantage.

Just as what seemed like the deathblow was descending, Yun once more burst into a cloud of wind and flowers. But Matt raised an eyebrow as, unlike the last few times she had used that spell, she actually fully transformed into a gust of wind.

Junming clearly thought it was just another ploy and slashed down where he thought she was dodging to, but that opened him up to her reformed blade as she appeared next to him.

Her dagger traced a neat line across the Tier 8s throat and blood welled up as his head was nearly cut off.

Sien clapped her hands together in delight. “A marvelous show. Truly, she is an exemplar of her Sect.”

Even as Zhang Junming started to bleed out on the stage, the crowd went wild at the comeback.

Xiao Yun, on the other hand, staggered her to feet from where she tumbled and watched until her opponent was declared defeated and a healer came to save his life. It didn’t look particularly altruistic, though, as the healer was very clearly angling for a favor of some form from the defeated disciple.

She moved to raise a fist, but realizing that was her broken arm, settled for a small verbal cheer.

Sien waved her hand, and their room filled with dense, dreamlike smoke until it obscured everything except for Sien herself, who was illuminated with an ominous red glow. It still left them with an excellent sight-line as Sien wrapped the retreating Xiao Yun in smoke and teleported her into the center of the dreamlike scene.

As soon as the girl was able to process what she was seeing, she threw herself on the floor. “This unworthy one pleads The Lady of Ill Dreams spare her!”

Sien’s response emanated from the coiling shadows, a chorus of whispers in a thousand voices, “You carry yourself well. Yet you are still weak. Your blood stains this realm. What do you have to say in your defense?”

“I am unworthy of your attention, oh great one! I am too weak, I have no defense, I am but a candle before your greatness!”

“Yet you challenge your betters. Why do you do this?”

“I…” Matt smirked as he watched Yun’s face as it changed. “I challenge my betters for that is what it is to be a cultivator! I challenge the heavens and dare them to strike me down. What would I be if I did not challenge an insignificant worm merely because he is superior to me?”

“You insult your foe, yet call him superior within one breath?” It was interesting, watching Sien puppet the shadows. Some of the voices sounded more like distant screams than proper whispers, and it all added up to quite the effect. It wasn’t often he saw higher Tiers work from this side of the screen, and he was very much enjoying it, though he was also worried Sien might traumatize the poor girl if she pushed too much further.

“All my foes are but worms before me!”

“Even me?” Sien spoke with her own voice this time, and a coil of darkness physically grabbed the prostrate girl and forced her gaze up at Sien’s own glowing red eyes.

“I challenge the Realm itself! You are mighty, but…. Yes! I challenge you, Lady of Ill Dreams!”

Matt saw Sien smirk at Tier 26 speeds, but she stayed domineering at the timescales Yun could perceive.

“Bold words from one so, so fragile. If you seek to challenge the heavens, you must first challenge me!”

