Baxter waved her off, but when she just looked at him, he sighed and said, "I'm not going to share my own story, so let me share my boss's. He’s an asshole, so I’ll enjoy telling you of his folly. Head healer for the Emperor himself. His moniker is Harvest Moon because he was a battlefield healer who snapped when his healing station was attacked. The idiot went on a rampage and slaughtered tens of thousands of people, simply because they were on the other side. The leaders on both sides were furious, but he had technically only responded when the rules were broken, so there was little that the other faction could demand. The only consolation they received was that the Empire banned him from the battlefield."

Her mentor looked ready to spit. If the topic wasn't so heavy, she would have laughed. He was the only person she knew who would talk bad about their boss like that, but it fit his uncaring personality.

"But he went overboard. Killing the cultivator responsible would have been one thing, but Harvest Moon had sworn to never take life, and only heal them. The fool didn’t realize that he was doomed to fail. The frustration of only cleaning up messes and not being able to help prevent them would cause anyone to snap, and when he did, he slaughtered everyone involved in a border skirmish. Now he demands everyone call him 'Harvest Moon' as a reminder of a healer who went crazy."

"Is that why you want me to use my Concept? Don't want me to snap and regret it?"

"Melinda, you are lucky. Your Talent is amazing, and I have no doubt that your Tier 25 will be just as shocking. But what will you do when someone kills your husband? Your friends? They’re like family to you. How badly will you lash out when one dies? As you experienced today, you can do everything right and still lose."

"It's horrible to watch, though." She didn't want to see her Concept in action, and she didn’t feel like Baxter understood how awful it was, since he hadn't ever seen it in person.

"Let me tell you from personal experience that all death is bad. It doesn’t matter how they die."

Melinda let her gaze be pulled along by a flying platform and asked, "If I use my Concept on monsters, it's a short step to people. I don't want to be like that."

"That's why I want you to use it on monsters, because it’s inevitable that you’ll use it on people. You need to know how it works and be ready to defend your family. Most don't understand what healers go through. Melinda, we can't save everyone. Even you. I might not be able to heal something, but while you don't have that problem, you can still run out of mana. When you can't heal your friends, you have to remove the threat. And trust me, you will be glad that you tested it out first."

Melinda weakly protested, "But I got [Bolt]." She already knew that the argument was pathetic;she didn't need Baxter to say it. Instead, she said it herself with a sigh. "But if I'm already out of mana, it's useless."

They stood next to each other for another few minutes, with only the sounds of life shuffling around them.

"Fine, let's go test it."

Melinda knew it was necessary. She didn't want to imagine what she would do if her friends died because she didn't use all of the tools that she had at her disposal. While the story of Baxter's boss, Harvest Moon, wasn't one for one, she did recognize that she could snap. If her family was lost, she didn't have any illusions about going on as if everything was fine.

In a blink, they were standing in a building with a rift. Two army soldiers stood there, but they didn't seem to notice as the pair walked into the rift. It was a Tier 5 forest rift that Melinda felt was off, until she saw the massive amounts of herbs scattered on nearly every surface.

She made a note to get Sam a few runs of this rift, when a screaming tree was suddenly lifted out of the ground and brought over to hover in front of her.

Melinda watched it struggle in Baxter's clutches. With an effort of will, she empowered the black mist that surrounded every living creature. She watched in horror as the monsters that destroyed her home coalesced into little monsters and tore apart the tree monster with their teeth and claws.

The visual from her Concept was only half of the horror. In her normal vision, she still saw the monster, but it started to melt and slump in on itself as her Concept drained her of will to eat away at the monster. She wished that she could say it quickly drained her, but it was as easy as breathing for her. No strain at all. This was what her Concept was made for, after all.

As she watched, an arm fell off and plopped to the ground with a wet sound. As it continued to melt, she turned and vomited. The sharp and acrid taste was almost a comfort, as the smell of the monster melting was like burnt rubber and overcooked meat all at once.

She looked at Baxter, who just watched on as the puddle of monster gore grew until there was nothing left.

Once the monster was well and truly dead, she asked, "What's the verdict?"

"More testing is necessary, but I can give you some good and bad news."

"Oh?" It was all she could choke out.

"The good news is that your Concept is strong as hell. The bad news is that anyone you use it on is a dead man. I don't even know if you could heal this at your Tier."

It was a confirmation of every nightmare she had ever had, and she wanted to vomit once again.

"Your Concept is literally tearing apart the spirit of the victim, which destroys the bonds of reality. It won't be easy to heal., Without the spirit, it's hard to recreate the physical structure of a being. It’s possible, but incredibly difficult. Overhealth works miracles, but it still needs the spirit to build off of for its automatic healing."

The monster vanished in a flash of pale light, and Baxter continued. "It's not unheard of for spiritual attacking Concepts, but they’re rare. They may be strong but they still have weaknesses."

That caught her attention. She didn't want to be a killing machine.

"Spiritual attacks attack the spirit, obviously, so their use is truly a battle of Concepts. You need to overpower the other person and their Concept, or else they can halt the attack. Otherwise if they remove the limb before it fully takes hold they may survive. But like I said it will be difficult to heal, if not impossible."

Melinda knew Baxter well enough to know that this wasn't the end of their testing, but she swallowed and nodded.

An hour later, they learned a few things.

She could only use her Concept on one thing at a time, and had to kill the infected individual or have her Concept broken to move onto another one.

The second was that her Talent had enough power to heal her own damage. It was just insanely expensive and slow. It was good to know that she could heal anyone hit with a spiritual attack, but her Talent wasn't healing the spirit, which Baxter said was normal.

A person, or in this case, a monster's spirit would take longer to heal, but as long as the flesh was mended, it would regrow to match their body slowly. While the flesh was functional, it felt like it didn’t belong. Immortals could speed the process up a little, but it was still incredibly slow, and could take years.

She hated the look in Baxter's eyes, but she knew that for her next Tier up, she would be aiming to get her overhealth Tier 3 Talent to affect the spirit. It would be amazing if it worked, but she knew that it would be a slow process to grow her Talent enough to make it work that way. She would need a lot of time at her Tier, and to practice with spiritually crippled monsters.

It meant she would be using her Concept often.

She hated watching the monsters from her childhood ripping even other monsters apart. Killing them was one thing, but watching their flesh slump and melt was a cruelty she didn’t wish on anyone or anything.

He deposited her later that night in front of her suite, and Mathew was waiting up for her while tapping on a pad. She brushed past him with the excuse she needed to shower again.

Her husband wasn't dumb, for all of his good-natured attention and ability to see the fun side. So he opened the shower door as she scrubbed herself with some soap and a luffa.

"Are you ok?"

She repressed a hiccup, and with more control of her voice than she expected she said, "No. Not really."

He crawled into the shower with her and held her, and she let out the pent-up tension from the afternoon.

After a good cry and talk, she actually felt quite a bit better. Not perfect, but better than she had after the experiments.

She now had a goal. Be able to heal the damage she could cause. And she now knew that she couldn't really hurt more than one person at a time. Her Concept seemed a lot less scary.

She was still going to send her therapist a long message tonight, but things were looking less dim.

***

They were called up later the next afternoon for a mission. They had been running drills while absorbing the skills Matt had given them, or looking to trade them for more useful skills. She felt bad for taking his items, and if they had been offered now, she would have refused to take them. Their team needed to work on their fundamentals before they relied on skills, but they had them now, and needed to put them to good use.

During their downtime, she had been working on her shot caller module that she had bought. She wanted to say that she was getting better through hard work, but she was more driven now, plain and simple.

It was helping. Her random teams were doing better each time she ran with them, and she hadn't had a death in three runs. Good progress only meant that she needed to turn up the difficulty, but it was something.

Their mission brief was interesting, but wasn’t anything too crazy. They were guarding a fort in the middle of a forest. They weren't the primary defenders, but backup. There had been Kingdom activity spotted in the area within the last day. Scouts were seen sniffing around the lower level forts, and the Queendom’s higher-ups thought there was going to be an attack. They wanted to have a team ready to respond to a fort being attacked, or a strike team to take out any hidden camps.

Melinda was nervous, but they stepped onto their extra-large flying sword that they recently purchased, and flew to the indicated fort. Sam flew with Tara as they made their way through the sky. Riding piggyback wasn't ideal, but the sword was just uncomfortable for all of them.

There were a few cheap Tier 6 flying devices on the war market, but they didn't have that kind of money lying around.

When they arrived, they were shown a small room full of bunk beds where they were able to set themselves up. After that, they just hung out on the walls, scanning the nearby forest.

It was slightly eerie. The thick, dense forest blocked out most of the light, and the clearing that was being cut around the fort only increased the contrast.

Vinnie was out there with them, and was using his Talent to see through the ground as a makeshift scout. His ability let him poke his head under the ground and see quite a distance. He would be a lot more dangerous if it didn't cost so much mana to move earth while traveling quickly.

In the end, it still worked out for them, but he was being careful not to be seen above all else. If there were scouts out there, he was at risk. Melinda hated it, but it was the right call. After three hours, they got their payday.

"I'm hiding in a hill right now and I found them. There’s a team of five people moving to the smaller fort to your fort's east."

Melinda checked their location in reference to Vinnie. That wasn't fair at all.

She sent a message to the fort’s leader that they were going to complete their mission and forwarded it to their headquarters.

In five minutes, they were jogging out of the camp, moving to Vinnie's location. They didn't expect to sneak up on the scouts, but they didn't want to give their location away like a bunch of brutes either. She winced every time they stomped on leaves or twigs, and just hoped the scouts were occupied with their sabotage.

When they reached Vinnie, he crawled out of the ground and joined them as they slowed down and carefully moved to a slight highrise near the smaller fort.

Vinnie laid down, and after shoving his head into the ground, said, "Found them. Or four of the five. They’re in a dry creek bed around the hill to the west of us."

The missing scout was a problem, but they could deal with that when they took out the other four. The most obvious answer was that they were hiding somewhere, not touching the ground and thus preventing Vinnie from sensing them. While his Tier 3 Talent said see-through earth, it was more like a new sense that functioned like vision for anything touching or in the ground. Someone not touching the ground negated it.

"Watch the trees, and let's push forward."

They crept along and used Vinnie to get an AI recording of where the four were hiding. At her countdown, they raced over the edge and dispatched the four prone scouts. It wasn't even a fight with Tara standing on the hill and putting arrows into the backs of three of the Kingdom scouts. Mathew raced down the hill and skewered the remaining one.

It was surprisingly easy.

At least it was, until Sam noticed the hideout camouflaged in a nearby tree. When they saw the small, suspended hut, a short, lithe figure burst out and bounded through the tree branches as if they were walking on solid ground. They quickly lost the final scout, but Melinda wasn't worried. They had done their job after all.

She was about to call the mission when Kyle asked, "Why did they run directly towards another of our forts?"

