She quickly jerked up into a standing position, with her eyes as wide as they could go. She ended up staring at Ren's face, with the feel of him fresh on her lips. His eyes were just as wide as hers, and he stared right back at her as he fought his body's reaction to so much stimulation in that area.

Teepo chittered so hard from laughter, that he fell off of Ren's shoulder, and bounced on the floor.

“I... I... I...” The healer tried to speak; but, she couldn't think of anything to say after such an encounter. Ren could, however.

“Can... can I get dressed?” He asked.

“YES!” The healer exclaimed. “Clothes! Clothes are good!”

Ren equipped his Travelling Clothes and Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak, then took several deep breaths to calm down. “Am I cleared for work?”

She nodded slightly, and Ren walked around her to open the curtain. He left the examination area and walked out of the tent, while Teepo flew crazily behind him and chittered in laughter.

*

The healer staggered over to her desk and sat down, kind of in a daze. Before she realized what she was doing, she licked her lips without thinking, then clamped a hand over her mouth.

By the gods! I just... by the gods! She thought, as she tried to get a hold of herself and calm down. I've never had anything like that happen to me before! She blinked her eyes a few times and looked at her hand. I'm so glad I'm not married. The healer thought. How in the world would I explain what happened to a husband? She shook her head. I can't even explain it to myself!

*

“Come on, Ren.” Teepo said. “You have to admit that was funny!”

No, I don't. Ren thought as he walked to the entrance of the mine. I almost... made a mess.

Teepo chittered in laughter. “Oh, that would have been something!” He said. “She was already shocked when it touched her by accident; imagine what her reaction would be if you-”

No. Ren shook his head. I'm not going to imagine it at all.

“Ren, don't worry about what happened.” Teepo said. “I was there. I saw it all. It was completely her fault. You didn't do anything wrong.”

I know. Ren sighed. It's just another incident, in a long line of incidents, that I keep getting mixed up in.

“That's right.” Teepo said. “If you'd held her face there, or moved your hips or something, then it would have been a whole different thing besides an accident.”

Ren sighed again. Yeah, that would have been bad. He shook his head. I'm just going to forget that it happened. He thought and entered the mine.
