Erin folded her arms. The game was going quickly in the opening, but they were slowing down as the complexity ramped up. She already had a feel for Chaldion. He was good. Not as good as her mystery chess opponent maybe, but second-best. Better than anyone else Erin had played.
Suddenly, Erin realized this was the fourth of the trials sent to humble her. Probably. Maybe. But in chess? She gritted her teeth. Not in chess. This was her game. She began playing her best. Chaldion frowned and drank deeper from his glass.
“You are good.”
In silence, the two traded blows, moving their pieces, aiming at each other’s weak spots. To Erin, it felt like a tipping point around twenty minutes into this game. And move twenty. Both she and Chaldion had slowed down a lot.
If Erin was a lower-level chess player, or playing another sort of game, like teaching Mrsha or against a weaker opponent, she could see a much longer game taking place. But against her mystery chess opponent—no, against anyone who knew the game—a chess game took only a certain number of moves before a winner was obvious.
You could play it out, but most games between professionals ended with an agreed draw—or one side conceding. She didn’t know if Chaldion would insist on playing to the end, but she felt the tipping point coming. And she had the upper hand.
He knew it too. The [Strategist] paused as he eyed the board and Erin’s advantage in pieces and position. Then he reached up, and one claw grasped his teal eye patch. Erin stared as Chaldion flipped it up, and she saw that there was another eye there. But it wasn’t like a regular eye. The old Drake had lost his and replaced it with a sapphire—
A bright, blue light flashed from the carved eyeball. Erin recoiled, but Chaldion flipped the eye patch down. He took a nibble from a cookie and nodded.
“[Truesight]. You’re not using a trick. This is just skill, isn’t it?”
“Wh—yeah. Hey! You thought I was cheating?”
Erin was outraged. Chaldion just smiled.
“I wanted to see if you were using magic or a Skill. Neither, it seems. Well, time to get serious. Shall we?”
Suddenly, his eyes sharpened. Erin didn’t know why, but the next move Chaldion made was quick and decisive. She saw him take a pawn, far away from his threatened bishop, and hesitated. What was…?
The next six moves were disastrous. Erin took a bishop, a pawn—and lost her queen. It was a split attack she hadn’t seen coming that opened her up. And it was so graceful that when she realized her position, it was too late. Chaldion took the queen and regarded the board.
“Mine, I believe. Unless you want to play it out?”
“No. I lost. How’d you—that was perfect.”
Erin stared at the board. It was beyond perfect. Computers could play perfect games, but Chaldion had tricked her into that loss. She looked up and saw him smiling. The Drake slowly tapped his chessboard.
“[Path to Victory]. It’s simpler with easy games. You wouldn’t happen to be able to show me this ‘Go’ game or ‘Shogi’, would you?”
Erin stared. And then shot out from her seat.
“You cheated?”
Chaldion shrugged.
“I used a Skill to win. It’s a strategic decision. What? Haven’t you had someone use a Skill on you while playing?”
He offered her a gap-toothed grin. Erin inhaled in outrage—and then she stared at the board. Ruefully, she sat back down.
“Only once.”
“Really? Maybe young Swifttail doesn’t have any to use. He does come here, doesn’t he? Well, I play games like I fight wars: everything goes. Too bad you don’t have a few Skills to use on me; that’d make for a fun match.”
Chaldion grinned. Erin sniffed.
“Yeah. All I can do is poison your cookies.”
He choked, then began to laugh. Erin pulled the chessboard out of the spray and then found herself laughing too. She looked at Chaldion and then at her board. She’d lost. And he’d done it so elegantly too, Skill or not. He’d handed her a defeat, right in her inn, face-to-face. For once, she had underestimated him and not the other way around.
No one in this world had done that. Not until this very moment. She smiled, and the genuine joy in it was reflected in the Drake’s eyes. He chortled as Erin looked around and shouted.
“Ishkr? Get me that Shogi set!”
As Ishkr came over, and Erin and Chaldion began discussing Shogi rules, Rufelt and Lasica watched from their bar. Rufelt eyed Venim and a few Drakes and a Gnoll who’d come through and were staring intently at the board.
“Chaldion himself? That’s something you don’t see every day. He doesn’t even visit Tails and Scales that often. Erin really is special, isn’t she, love?”
Lasica smiled.
“She’s not bad.”
The two of them looked over. Lyonette was sitting at the bar as Mrsha sipped from a goat’s milk drink on her lap. The [Princess] looked at them, a bit wide-eyed.
“You’re treating her like, well, another person. Erin.”
Rufelt chuckled, and Lasica rolled her eyes. She sipped from her drink and munched on a few bar nuts they’d brought from their establishment.
“Of course. We’re a Walled City. Did you think she was completely unique? She’s special, I’ll grant you, but we have at least a few dozen people as strange as her. I think it’s a good experience, to be honest. She’s a bright young girl, but she’s been ‘special’ for too long. That’s what I think. Rufelt?”
The [Barkeep] nodded. He looked at Erin and, with the expertise of someone who could tell what drink someone needed and if they needed words, silence, or to be knocked into oblivion by alcohol, nodded.
“I think she needs to be a girl without the weight of the world on her shoulders for a little bit. So let’s let Chaldion kick her around.”
“You think she can’t beat him more than he beats her? Chaldion may be ruthless and crafty, but as a fellow female, I have to say Erin will surprise him. Or don’t you agree, my dear?”
Lasica raised her brows. Rufelt grinned.
“Well, if we’re taking bets on it—”
He looked down the bar. And Relc, Maughin, Jelaqua, a disgruntled Seborn, Bevussa, Selys, and all the other friends and guests dug in their money pouches. After all, it was entertainment.
 
—–
 
That was Erin’s tale. But while she was being humbled and being normal, a second story, or rather, an anecdote, played just outside her inn. But because it was Grimalkin, it was upgraded into a full narrative of its own. The Drake stretched his arms out as the Horns of Hammerad faced him.
“You’re really going to teach us magic?”
“That’s what I said. Should I repeat myself?”
Grimalkin sighed. He looked at the Horns. Ceria and Pisces exchanged a glance.
“Why?”
“Miss Solstice offered me her assistance. So I’ll correct any bad habits Wistram’s drummed into you. If you have flaws in your combat style, I will fix them and teach you a few spells. If Miss Solstice comes through on her end. For now, I want to see what your capabilities are.”
“How generous.”
Pisces sneered back at Grimalkin. He’d gone back to contempt after their first encounter. The [Necromancer] flicked a hand, and bones began to flow out of his bag of holding, arranging themselves into a Bone Horror.
“While I appreciate your superior magical abilities for now, Magus Grimalkin, what makes you think we’re not capable of teaching ourselves? Ceria and I have both made considerable progress in our personal studies.”
“Yeah. Considerable.”
Ceria flushed. Pisces had progressed with his ever-improving Bone Golems and late nights recreating them into deadlier forms. She…usually drank and relaxed with a bit of spellbook reading after a mission from the Adventurer’s Guild. Grimalkin didn’t look impressed as he eyed the Bone Golem, however. It was turning into the classic double-headed war bear. He pointed at it and spoke.
“If that’s supposed to impress me, it’s failing. I’ve seen [Necromancers], and you’re far from Az’kerash, Pisces. That may work for Silver-rank threats, but any decent [Mage] will just say ‘[Dispel Magic]’.”
The Bone Horror, which had been building upwards, fell to pieces. Pisces and Ceria gaped at the bones lying on the ground. Yvlon and Ksmvr looked up. The [Wounded Warrior] bit her lip, trying not to laugh.
“Pisces?”
“That was—I was in the middle of animating that! You wouldn’t be able to do that if I finished the spell!”
Pisces spluttered, face red. Grimalkin raised his brows.
“Which is why I cast it before you finished. Your animation time is slow. Do you really think an opponent would give you that space in battle? Or was that meant to be intimidating? I told you two. Show me your magic.”
He gestured at Ceria and Pisces. The two looked at each other. Yvlon and Ksmvr watched as the two put their heads together. Yvlon casually unsheathed her sword.
“Are we fighting too?”
“If you like. This is just an appraisal. But I might as well study your teamwork. Use the sword, by all means.”
“It’s got a fairly powerful enchantment of [Weight] on it.”
Yvlon warned Grimalkin. Ksmvr had armed himself with his shortsword and Forceshield. Grimalkin nodded, absently watching Pisces pulling the bones back into his bag of holding. Ceria had drawn her wand and was swishing it back and forth with her skeletal hand.
“A sword’s only good if it touches me. Which it won’t.”
Yvlon sucked in her breath. Grimalkin fixed her with one eye.
“I’m no adventurer. But I am Pallass’ greatest [Mage]. I’ll defend that title to anyone who challenges me—I don’t see the rest of the [Mages] lining up to try. Miss Byres, right? Swing as hard as you want. I’ll praise your gonads at least.”
There was no response to that. Yvlon just pulled out her helmet and fastened it to her armor grimly. Pisces and Ceria were also gearing up. The [Necromancer] flexed one hand as Ceria lined up.
“Standard formation, guys. I’ll do my thing—Ksmvr, flank while Yvlon attacks. But give Pisces enough time to summon his Bone Horror, and we’ll all go in.”
The other two nodded. Grimalkin sighed. He looked at Pisces.
“You’re not summoning your undead ahead of time?”
“If this were an ambush, I would have plenty of faith in the speed of my animation.”
Pisces sniffed. Grimalkin just studied the sky. He eventually looked back down when Ceria coughed.
“What? Begin when you’re ready.”
With that, he kept looking up. Ceria glanced at Yvlon and Pisces. He glowered, and Yvlon nodded. Ceria nodded back and then raised her wand and shouted.
“[Ice Wall]!”
A thick wall of ice shot upwards, blocking him from the Horns. It was wide and tall—Ceria gritted her teeth as the wall came up, thickening, growing from one foot to two feet. Pisces instantly pointed, and bones flowed out of his bag.
“Those who have died, heed my call, rise twice to bring to my enemies—”
It was a chant, hastening the speed at which the bones assembled into the Bone Horror, three times as fast as before. Grimalkin stared as Yvlon set herself, and Ksmvr readied his shield. Ceria grinned. The wall was three feet thick now, solid ice! She’d practiced with that spell. She called out to Grimalkin.
“See? Buying time. It’s our basic strategy. Not bad, right? It can at least contain most enemies. In fact, we killed a bunch of Crelers, baby ones, using this—”
She was ready for him to try to jump over the wall or go around. If he did, Ceria would freeze him in midair or create another wall and stymie him. That was the trick Pisces had come up with. When he made the first move, the Horns would scatter, use mobility against him as Yvlon took him on. He was strong, but ice spells were perfect in group fights.
But Grimalkin didn’t dash or jump or even take a step. He just regarded Ceria’s wall as it grew thicker and thicker. Then he sighed, lifted one arm, and made a fist.
A terrible foreboding crossed Ceria’s mind. And her [Dangersense] went off. As well as a certain memory. She watched as Grimalkin took a single stride forwards and raised a fist. Time slowed, and Ceria saw the fist plunge towards her. Exactly like—she turned left and saw Pisces’ eyes go round. Grimalkin reached out—
And he punched straight through the four-foot-thick wall. The thick ice exploded outwards, and Grimalkin’s fist knocked Yvlon off her feet down the hill. With the same motion, he flicked his wrist and swatted Ceria off her feet. The explosion of ice made Ksmvr shield himself from the larger chunks with his Forceshield. He lowered it, ready to attack—and then looked around and realized he was the last person on his feet.
Ksmvr checked Pisces. The [Necromancer] was doubled over. A piece of ice half the size of his torso had hit him in the groin. Grimalkin withdrew his fist and stared down at him through the gaping hole in the ice wall.
The [Sinew Magus] walked through the hole in the wall and towards Ksmvr as Yvlon, swearing and shouting, finally crashed down at the bottom of the hill, and Ceria, unconscious, rolled on top of her. Grimalkin looked down at Ksmvr. The Antinium stared up at him and regarded his shortsword.
Ksmvr considered his options and then slowly raised his free hand.
“Um. Is this war?”
