And then there was Numbtongue. He got up late for once. Late enough that Lyonette had come back with Mrsha from her morning trip. The Hobgoblin walked downstairs, and, to his surprise, found the inn had yet to be filled with more than a smattering of guests. He found out why when he poked his head into the kitchen and found Erin hard at work.
“We’re preparing for a rush! Tons of stuff to sell! And I’m going to totally work some magic! In a metaphorical sense. Hey, are the Horns still here?”
Numbtongue checked. He saw Ceria and Pisces, both of whom looked hung over. Yvlon and Ksmvr were gone. That meant they were between jobs at Liscor’s or Celum’s guilds, and the two [Warriors] were working out while the [Mages] studied magic or, as Numbtongue saw it, lazed about. He nodded.
“Yup.”
“Great.”
Erin grinned what Numbtongue now thought of as her calculating grin. She was tossing a pizza, but she stopped long enough to pull some food out for him.
“What do you want for breakfast, Numbtongue? A steak? Uh—what’s this? Ooh! Is that pickled fish? Um, spaghetti and meatballs?”
Numbtongue’s mouth watered. Part of him wanted to say ‘everything’, but he thought about it and pointed.
“Fish.”
“You like fish, huh?”
The [Bard] nodded. He let Erin serve him some wet slices of fish into a bowl. She wrinkled her nose at the breakfast, but Numbtongue happily began eating with his fingers until Erin slapped at them.
“Get a fork! And eat at a table! Drassi can get you a drink. She’s on bar duty.”
The Hobgoblin nodded and wandered out into the common room. He got a drink himself at the bar, sat down, and began to eat. After a second, he stared at his bowl.
“Yesterday, I leveled up.”
He stared at his claws and remembered the events of last night. They hit him again. [Goblin Soulbard]. He reached for a forearm and made to pinch himself, then closed his hand. Lyonette, lugging in groceries with Mrsha, opened the door just in time to see Numbtongue make a fist and wallop himself as hard as he could in the face.
“Numbtongue! What are you doing?”
Mrsha abandoned her bag to dash over. She stared at Numbtongue as he picked himself off the floor. Numbtongue rubbed at his bruised cheek and shrugged.
“Just making sure. Hi, Lyonette. Morning, Mrsha.”
Mrsha waved at him. The Hobgoblin nodded and sat back down. Lyonette stared at him, opened her mouth, and then pointed.
“Okay, let’s bring the food to the kitchen! Come on, Mrsha!”
As they went, Numbtongue stared at his claws again. They clenched into fists as he closed his eyes.
[Soulbard]. That was a purpose in itself. But more than that. More, oh so much more. It was—it wasn’t justice. It wasn’t enough for all the dead. But for one Goblin? He thought about his new Skill.
[A Minute, Reborn]. It was a Skill with serious limitations. But the utility! The use! Numbtongue knew he should be running tests to see how many times he could use it per day. Or figure out how best to use it. In the mines, perhaps? Could Pyrite locate more gemstones with his Skills? Could he use Skills?
But in this moment, there was only one thought Numbtongue had. He stared down at the bowl of half-eaten fish as Mrsha reappeared out of the kitchen and padded over to him. It was cold fish and without any other preparation. But it was good. It was tasty. Right now, all that was in Numbtongue’s heart was this. He closed his eyes.
 
—–
 
Mrsha, who had been padding over to check on Numbtongue and maybe filch some of his breakfast, saw the Hobgoblin change. No one else noticed, but Mrsha had known Numbtongue for a while. And she had keen eyes, a sensitive nose. She saw his posture change, his head snap up and look around. From body language to the look in his eyes—even his voice was suddenly, strangely, different. The Gnoll froze in alarm as the Hobgoblin glanced up, looked at his bowl, and grunted.
“Hrm.”
Then he began to eat. With one clawed hand, he picked out a piece of fish and ate it, bones and all. Mrsha heard him casually grinding the bones down, chomping through them without any problem. He grunted in satisfaction as, with his other hand, he fished around in a pouch by his side. Curiously, not so much afraid as wary, Mrsha crept closer. She had seen Numbtongue do this yesterday. And he had explained it. Even told Erin what, who this was. He’d called the strange Goblin—
Pyrite. As Mrsha slunk up to the table, one of the Hobgoblin’s eyes swung down towards her. She froze. She’d been using her [Natural Concealment] Skill, which normally fooled even Numbtongue until she was closer! But this Hob saw her at once. He blinked at her, then smiled. With one hand, he kept eating. And with the other, he pulled something out of his pouch and placed it on the table.
“Hm. Good fish. Not enough time to go mining. Go later.”
That was all he said. Mrsha, emboldened, leapt onto a chair and stared at the Hob. He nodded at her.
“Mrsha.”
She bobbed her head cautiously and pointed at him. Pyrite smiled back amiably. As he ate another piece of fish, he gestured at something on the table. Mrsha stared at the lump he’d placed there. She stared and then recognized the slightly transparent rock.
“Quartz. Smokey.”
The Hobgoblin nodded judiciously. His nod quality seemed higher than Mrsha’s, and she tried to copy how he was doing it. It was a lump of quartz, the kind that you could find all over the Floodplains or near the High Passes. Not too valuable; Mrsha liked the look of the stone with the lattice caught in it that gave it the dark brown appearance, but she knew it wasn’t worth much. To a low-level jeweler, maybe. But not to [Mages], who valued pure quartz for its magic-holding properties as a weak enchantment material.
The Stone Spears tribe wouldn’t mine this unless they had nothing better. That was Mrsha’s expert opinion as a Gnoll of her tribe. But Pyrite, about twenty seconds into his minute, had other plans. The Hobgoblin put another piece of fish into his mouth, grunting with satisfaction. Chewing, he reached for the quartz. He didn’t use a tool or do anything special; his claws just dug into the rock and began slicing pieces off it as if it were soft butter!
Mrsha’s eyes widened in amazement. Pieces of rock flew and dust drifted down as the Hobgoblin’s claws blurred against the quartz, breaking it down, molding it, then smoothing the stone, carving it until it was one smooth sphere. In less than thirty seconds, he’d created a sphere. A perfect little marble, showcasing the quartz, transparent brown and grey, a beautiful bauble. Pyrite winked as Mrsha’s eyes went round. He swallowed his mouthful and spoke.
“Good food. Tell Numbtongue thanks. Here.”
He dipped the marble in the cup and withdrew the gleaming orb of stone. Then, casually, he rolled it towards Mrsha. The Gnoll clasped her paws around the beautiful marble and lifted it up, admiring it. She heard a sigh and looked up. When she did, Numbtongue was sitting in his chair, blinking at Mrsha, a piece of fish in his claw.
The Gnoll and Hobgoblin looked at each other in silence. Mrsha stared at Numbtongue as he blinked and then burped fishily. Hesitantly, she offered the marble to him. The Hobgoblin paused and took it. He stared at the smooth surface and at the crumbs of quartz on the table. He whistled.
“[Rock Polishing]. And [Miner’s Claws].”
He offered it back to Mrsha. The Gnoll took the bauble carefully. Numbtongue smiled, and it was bitter and sad and happy at the same time.
“He liked the fish.”
Mrsha nodded. The two sat together like that until Lyonette came out of her kitchen, dusting her hands. She eyed the rock dust on the table with a frown as she came over.
“Are you making a mess, Numbtongue? Or is it Mrsha? You know, someone has to clean—what is that?”
She blinked as Mrsha rolled the quartz marble on the floor. The [Princess] stared at the shiny little plaything, and Numbtongue and Mrsha exchanged a glance. Both turned to Lyonette and shrugged. Numbtongue pointed at the quartz dust on the table.
“Not me. Pyrite did it.”
“Who?”
The Hobgoblin’s smile was wide. Because Pyrite was dead. But at least—yes, at least, Numbtongue could still treat him to a meal. And he’d liked meeting Mrsha too.
 
—–
 
A budding relationship. A Goblin with a class. And an [Innkeeper] with a new Skill. Erin rubbed her hands together gleefully, ignorant of some of the events in her inn, but aware of more than she let on. Relc was happily chatting to her as her staff readied the inn for the influx from Pallass. It was already filling with people from Liscor. Not Krshia, Elirr, Raekea, or any of the Gnolls on the campaign trail, but Selys was here and practically aglow with triumph.
“Your inn’s really making an impact, Erin. Those Pallassian [Senators] are giving Krshia their backing—and not Lism! He still has Pallass’ support, but there are actually important Gnolls coming to talk on Krshia’s behalf, and they’re brilliant at speaking! Of course, they have the class. And Krshia can just point to you when Lism tries to rant about Humans and foreigners being bad for Liscor. You did it!”
“Hey, I just got people together. They did the rest. Thank Rufelt and Lasica—they’ll be here to lend some support tonight. And this is good for Pallass’ election too!”
Erin replied modestly, but she felt a surge of pride seeing Selys’ face. Not to mention the people of Liscor who’d come here to talk with people from Pallass or just see what her inn was doing next. She looked around for Lyonette. And today she was going to make it even better for her other friends!
“Hey, Lyonette! Let’s open the door to Pallass already!”
Lyonette looked up. She had been playing a game of rolling a little marble on the ground with Mrsha. The shiny stone caught Erin’s eye, and she frowned—where had Mrsha gotten that?—but Lyonette nodded, and Erin focused on the door. Time to go to work. She swung it open, and a roar of noise enveloped her.
“Hey! Can I get a pizza with cheese in the crusts? And extra salami on top? No one’s copied that yet!”
“Where’s the play? Stop pushing! Is there a new one on? Hey, will those [Actors] come to Pallass?”
“Make way, people! [Senator] coming through!”
“I’m on the list to go to Liscor! Hey! Let me through! I’m on today’s list! I have proof and everything!”
A chorus of voices, angry, happy, expectant, rushed over Selys and Erin. The Drake recoiled. Erin beamed. She saw [Guardsman] Kel holding a crowd back with two other members of Pallass’ Watch as those on the short list for entry trooped through the doorway.
There was even a [Mage] to recharge the door. Two, in fact. Grimalkin strode through the door, bypassing a [Senator] and Xif. Erin waved at him as he entered.
“Grimalkin! Hey! Great to see you! Good morning! Can I get you anything to eat? To drink?”
“Miss Erin.”
The [Sinew Magus] nodded formally at Erin and gazed around the inn. His eyes focused on Relc like a laser beam. The Drake [Guardsman] was already getting up.
“Yo, Grimalkin! Are the weights done?”
Grimalkin grinned with genuine pleasure as he reached out. He and Relc clasped forearms, and Selys and Erin, standing back, saw their muscles tense as they exchanged the kind of greeting only two exceptionally muscular people could. Relc laughed, and Grimalkin nodded.
“I got the last weights done yesterday. Barbells, weight bars—even the new one Miss Erin mentioned to me.”
“Ooh! The squiggle bar?”
Erin’s eyes widened. Grimalkin nodded and reached for a bag of holding. He produced a shorter bar than the customary bench press bar that Erin was familiar with. But she recognized the EZ-bar from the customary, unique bend in the frame that meant you were holding it at an angle as you lifted. Relc chortled as he examined it.
“That’s weird. I like it! Hey, how many weights do you have?”
“Plenty. Any number of pounds—and I ordered fifty-pound weights made of lead. The [Smiths] should be finishing them any time now—actually, I see them now. Apprentice Ferkr! Don’t lollygag over there!”
Grimalkin turned and roared into the doorway to Pallass. He strode back into the crowd and emerged half-carrying a smaller Gnoll. Erin blinked. It was a female Gnoll! She was a bit shorter than Grimalkin, but she seemed a lot smaller because she was nowhere near as muscly. With that said, she probably had twice as much muscle definition as Erin. It was just that even Relc looked less huge next to Grimalkin.
“Sorry about that. Ferkr, the weights?”
Grimalkin deposited the Gnoll on the ground. Ferkr jumped. Nervously, the Gnoll held up a bag of holding. Grimalkin took it, pulled out some huge rounded weights with one hand, and tossed them at Relc. The [Guardsman], not to be outdone, caught them and slotted them onto the bar until it was two hundred pounds heavier. Then he began lifting it up and down.
“Oh yeah! This feels different! Hey, Erin, these things are great! Tons of fun!”
He tried lifting the bar one-handed, but that was too much even for Relc. Swearing, Relc caught the bar, and Erin and Selys decided to step back. Ferkr just stared around at the inn, then jumped as Grimalkin addressed her.
“Ferkr, are the other apprentices training?”
“Uh, yes, Magus Grimalkin! They’re doing six laps as you ordered.”
Grimalkin grunted in disgust.
“And doing it slow, no doubt. Well, I’ll put them on the weights soon enough. Sergeant Relc! Don’t twist your arms like that! You could injure yourself. That’s two hundred and some pounds you’re swinging around; proper posture is key!”
He turned to Relc, who was trying to swing the entire weights bar like a bat. Relc paused, and Erin, eying the weights and Relc, decided to step in.
“Why don’t you two do your weights stuff over there, Grimalkin? And hey! Who’s this? One of your apprentices?”
She looked at Ferkr. The female Gnoll jumped and bowed.
“That’s right, Miss Human. I’m—uh—”
Grimalkin grabbed the EZ-bar from Relc and held it out to Ferkr.
“This is Ferkr, Miss Erin. One of my apprentices. The only Gnoll apprentice I’ve ever had, in fact. She’s attempting to become a [Mage]. Which I commend! But she’s far too nervous. Ferkr, take this. Careful—it’s two hundred pounds.”
He waited until the female Gnoll had a grip on it before letting go. Erin winced, expecting Ferkr to stumble or drop the bar under the weight, but to her amazement, the Gnoll only grunted and the bar dipped a fraction before she held it at a resting position. Grimalkin nodded, and Erin stared.
“Wait, that’s way too heavy for her!”
“A hundred pounds too heavy, perhaps. Although with magic she could manage a hundred and fifty. How does it feel, Ferkr?”
“Heavy, sir!”
