Erin blinked. He was pointing at a flower. She wasn’t going to—
“Twenty—two hundred and twenty gold pieces for a flower.”
The words popped out of her mouth before Erin realized she was speaking. Lyonette’s eyes popped. Xif just smiled.
“Done!”
He reached out and offered Erin a paw. She shook it, realized what she was doing, and pulled her hand back.
“Damn!”
“Too late!”
Xif smiled happily and ruefully at Erin. As surely as she knew her inn, Erin realized that one of the flowers in the box belonged to him. And two hundred and twenty gold pieces belonged to her. Lyonette looked like she was going to swallow her tongue as Xif pulled out his bag of holding and began setting gold coins on a table. He had them in stacks of ten. Erin just stared at Xif for a moment.
“You can’t—that wasn’t—that’s not fair!”
But it was at the same time. She had felt the deal go through as she shook his paw. Erin looked around, Xif was smiling apologetically at her. But she wanted—
“Venim!”
The Watch Captain winced as he stood on Pallass’ side of the door. Erin stomped through the door and confronted him, ignoring the upset crowd who wanted to watch the play. The Drake wearily looked at Erin.
“Yes, Miss Solstice?”
“Xif just used a Skill on me! He made me sell one of my flowers to him!”
“Really?”
The Watch Captain’s eyes sharpened as Erin relayed the transaction to him. But when she came to him using his Skill, his eyes brightened.
“He bought a flower for how much?”
A large number of heads turned, and Erin hesitated.
“Well—that’s not important! But he made me sell the flowers, and I can’t take it back! You have to force him to stop it!”
She felt embarrassed saying it, really. It was way more gold than the flowers were worth! And yet, she was outraged because she’d been forced to make the deal. But Venim only chewed his lip for one second before shaking his head.
“It’s legal. You can’t name a price you won’t sell for. He just forced a sale. Pallassian law accepts that, Miss Solstice.”
Venim looked delighted to be able to say that. Erin stared at his face. Behind her, Kel the [Guardsman] grinned triumphantly. Venim’s lips were twitching too. Erin glared around.
“How is that fair? What if he wanted me to sell a precious heirloom or something?”
Venim shrugged.
“The fact is he did not, Miss Solstice. He forced you into a deal you were willing to take. It’s not always pleasant, but Skill-based sales are acknowledged as a legal tool across the world. If it was unethical, you could appeal it—like how I hear [Slave Traders] can force someone to sell themselves into slavery. But I doubt it’ll win given your supply of plants.”
He looked pointedly back into Erin’s inn. She looked back glumly and saw Xif was going from flower to flower, followed by Lyonette, who had helpfully dug out a spoon and cup to transport the precious bloom in. The Gnoll hummed happily as he picked his small flower out of the box and carefully replanted it in a mug.
“I don’t like it.”
“You don’t have to, Miss Solstice. But I’m afraid you must abide by it. Unless you have a better Skill.”
Venim smiled politely and triumphantly at Erin. She stared at him.
“Maybe I do.”
Without another word, she hurried back into her inn and found a Drake in the crowd. Selys had heard the commotion, of course, and when Erin explained what had happened, the newly-made [Heiress] gladly accompanied her over to Xif. Erin smiled sweetly at the [Alchemist], who coughed politely.
“I’m sorry about that, Miss Solstice. But it is one flower. And I meant what I said; it could save lives. At the very least, it could make a profit. And I’m nothing if not eager for that. In either case, you stand to gain greatly.”
Erin smiled sweetly at Xif.
“I know. And I know you’re being nice, but I don’t like being made to do anything. So…hey, Xif! This is my friend Selys.”
The Drake shook Xif’s hand. She peered at Xif and the flower he had chosen that Lyonette was carefully excavating. It did have roots, small ones, but it was a plant.
“[The Avid Collector], huh? That’s a Skill that probably lets you complete your inventory as an [Alchemist]. Neat trick. I can do that too. [Everything Has A Price]. Hey, Xif, how much for Erin’s plant?”
The nearby Drakes and Gnolls oohed. They were, of course, listening in. Erin was entertainment, even if it was, in this case, unwilling. Xif blinked and raised his brows. He stared at Selys. And then smiled.
“Mm. Two thousand gold pieces, yes?”
The Drake’s jaw dropped. So did Erin’s. Xif chortled at their expressions. He patted Selys gently on the shoulder with a toothy smile.
“If I only have one chance to take a flower like this, I’m hardly likely to sell it for less than what I bought it for, yes? Nice try, Miss Selys. But I’m good at appraising goods. And I deal with rich [Merchants] on occasion. Still, you have a wonderfully useful Skill, young lady. Much better than mine.”
Selys flushed, and Erin looked at Xif and realized she’d lost. He smiled apologetically at her, and she began to get angry. Then she looked at the pile of gold coins and just felt defeated.
 
—–
 
“Lasica! Xif is bullying me!”
Erin slumped on the counter next to the [Chef]. Lasica paused in drinking from a bubbling concoction her husband had just served her from behind the bar. She eyed Xif, looked at Erin, and smiled.
“I heard. He forced you to sell those pretty flowers, didn’t he?”
“I mean…yes? And it’s a lot of gold! But he made me do it! And Grimalkin—”
Erin turned red as she remembered that exchange. Lasica raised one brow, and Erin couldn’t help it.
“He saw through my clever ploy! Grimalkin, I mean.”
“What, by figuring out you were luring him here along with everyone else? Please, Erin. Rufelt, Xif, and I—even love-struck Maughin probably figured it out. Not that anyone’s complaining.”
“Wait, you knew I set all this up?”
Lasica laughed at the look on Erin’s face. She reached over and tapped Erin on the nose.
“Not at first. But it was obvious soon enough. Like Rufelt said—you’re a special type of [Innkeeper]. But did you really think we couldn’t tell we were being led to go along with your flow? What’s the Skill you’re using? [Crowd Control]? Something on top of that? Your inn just lights up with energy when you want it to.”
Erin bit her lip and flushed a bit. Lasica and Rufelt knew too? The Drake laughed again, but gently.
“I guess I was using some Skills unconsciously. But—I wasn’t trying to trick you all. It’s just that I knew if you came here and Krshia and people from Liscor met you—it wasn’t a big plan! Sort of. I just wanted my friends to be happy.”
She mumbled into the counter. Lasica laughed and patted Erin affectionately on the head.
“I know. And I think Grimalkin knows. And he must like you—he doesn’t listen to anyone he doesn’t like. Much less teach students besides his own? Erin! That’s a huge honor! Grimalkin’s students are among the best the Walled Cities have to offer!”
“Really?”
Erin perked up a bit. Grimalkin had disappeared outside with the Horns a bit ago. Lasica nodded seriously.
“Oh yes. They might get teased because the ‘Muscle Mage’ of Pallass was their teacher, but not to their face. A graduate of Grimalkin’s is considered a rank above your average Wistram graduate. Not least because he teaches his students how to fight. They could be promoted to the equivalent of [Captain] in most Drake armies just by having his graduation certificate.”
“Wow. Well—look, I’m sorry, okay? I’m not trying to be sneaky about it. And you’re all friends to me! You and Rufelt were really nice, Lasica. Really.”
Now Erin wanted Lasica to be sure Erin wasn’t a jerk. She looked seriously at the Drake.
“You two were really nice to help me out. And after you let me come to your bar all those times! I have to repay you. Let’s go to the kitchen when you have a moment. I want to teach you all my recipes. Because we’re friends. Not just because you’re helping me, okay?”
The [Chef] waved an idle claw.
“Oh, that’s fine, Erin. Don’t worry about it. I already know all of them.”
“…Huh?”
Nonplussed, Erin stared at Lasica. The [Chef] twirled a claw in her drink and licked it.
“I saw all your food as it was coming out. It’s not very complex to create, any of it. And there are similar foods from across the world. You have some interesting ones, I’ll grant you! But it’s nothing on magical cooking or dishes made with monster parts, like Wyvern meat or slimes.”
She gestured to Ishkr passing by with ketchup and mayonnaise and a lot of fries. Erin spluttered.
“But—what—even the mayonnaise?”
Lasica gave her a reproving look.
“I am a [Chef]. Eggs, vinegar, salt, and oil processed for a long time? I’d add some lemon maybe, or even a bit of mustard. But that’s my taste.”
Erin stared at Lasica. Then she slowly covered her face with her hands.
“I give up! I’m outmatched!”
Lasica chortled again. She patted Erin on the back.
“Don’t worry about it. We came here because we liked you and want to help a young [Innkeeper] succeed. Let Rufelt make you a drink. Do you need help in the kitchen? Rufelt, come over and help poor Erin out. And maybe you can teach her some of your drinks. You really need better alcohol, Erin.”
Grinning, she waved her husband over, and he did make her a drink that took most of the embarrassment out of Erin’s chest. Most, but not all. As husband and wife surrounded Erin and Xif came over to apologize again, she felt it in the air. A small message from Pallass’ finest to her.
Gently, teasingly, and yes, kindly, they were telling her that she might have been getting arrogant. When she realized that, Erin put down her head on the bar and turned so red that Mrsha put an ice cube on her ear to watch it melt.
 
—–
 
One last encounter found Erin in her inn. She’d lost most of her motivation to rush around playing chance-encounter matchmaker. In fact, she was sitting at a table playing chess with herself—the magical chessboard was silent today; her opponent must have been too busy for their usual semi-daily games—when Watch Captain Venim found her. He was leading another, elderly Drake, and he cleared his throat meaningfully.
“Miss Solstice. May we have a word?”
“No.”
The Watch Captain frowned. Erin looked up briefly as she rearranged her pieces.
“I’m not doing whatever you want. It’s ‘take-Erin-down-a-peg day’ today. I know what’s up. I’m just gonna play chess here. Don’t bother me. I’m sulking.”
She went back to her chess game. Venim looked askance and nervously checked the old Drake at his side. The Drake had very grey scales with only a hint of yellow in them.
“Miss Solstice, my guest—”
“Shush, young Drake. If the girl wants to sulk, let her sulk. Get me a snack, would you? Some of those ‘cookies’ look good. And some rum! Rufelt knows what I like.”
The old Drake hobbled past Venim and pulled a chair out opposite Erin. He sat down without being invited. Affronted, Erin looked up. The Drake peered at the chessboard and poked a piece.
“Hm. White or black?”
“Wh—black.”
The response came out of Erin before she caught herself. She frowned as the old Drake began putting the rest of the white pieces in order.
“Hold on, I’m not in the mood to play, Mister…?”
“Chaldion.”
The old Drake inspected the pieces, then, without hesitation, moved his knight to F3. Erin glared, annoyed, but her chess instincts took over. She moved a pawn to D5 without hesitation.
“Hm. Good. Most of Pallass’ young [Strategists] ponder for minutes over their next moves. At least this time I won’t be bored.”
Chaldion smiled. He was missing some teeth, but they were very white. With one claw, he picked up a pawn and moved it to C4. Erin blinked. She stared at the board and then slowly moved her pawn to E6. The old Drake considered it, nodded, and moved his pawn to D5, taking her pawn there. Erin blinked.
Agincourt Defense. They were fancy names, but it was really just a short back and forth. But there was a confidence in the Drake’s placement that made part of her sit up.
“Sir!”
Venim was back with a handful of cookies and a large glass of rum mixed with blue fruit juice. Chaldion accepted both happily.
“What’s this, what’s this? Some new drink Rufelt’s made?”
“I told him your regular, sir. If you don’t like it—”
“That’s for me to decide! Hands off! And if Rufelt made it, I’ll like it. Don’t bother me. I’m playing. And keep those pesky [Tactician] and [Strategist] brats out of my spines for a bit!”
Chaldion grumpily shooed Venim away. Venim hesitated, then saluted and beat a hasty retreat. Then Erin looked at Chaldion. Really looked at him.
The old Drake was nearly completely grey, as old as anyone Erin had ever met in this world. As old as Tekshia, but like her, he seemed like steel, tough inside. Unlike her, he had an eye patch over his right eye and several scars on his face. He grinned at her when she met his eyes.
“Finally noticing me, young woman? Your move.”
He pointed, and Erin realized he’d moved a piece. This time, she considered it. Pawn to D5. He’d taken her pawn. She thought and moved up a pawn to threaten his. Chaldion nodded patiently and placed his pawn ahead, out of the threat.
“Who’re you? I thought Watch Captain Venim was important.”
“Watch Captains are. But age is a rank of its own. And Pallass has multiple Watch Captains. At least one per floor. Anyways, I outrank them. Wonderful like that. I’d love to meet that young [Strategist], but apparently he’s not welcome in this inn, is that it? Well, I’m just here for food and a game.”
Chaldion chuckled. Erin frowned as she took one of his pieces. He was playing…well. She narrowed her eyes.
“So who’re you? I’m Erin. An [Innkeeper]. This is my inn.”
Chaldion took a tip from his glass and brightened.
“Sweet! Just the thing for brain food. Wonderful sweets you have here. Who am I? Chaldion. A humble old Drake too stubborn to retire.”
He grinned mockingly at Erin. She just raised a brow.
“Really?”
“Ah, you’re no fun. My history’s boring. I’m just a [Veteran Strategist] from Pallass here to play a game of chess. Are you playing or not?”
He tapped the board. Nettled, Erin began to move and realized he’d set a trap four moves ahead. She moved out of the way and took another piece. He laughed.
“And one assumes you’re the person that Olesm Swifttail has been sourcing for those excellent chess games, aren’t you?”
“Maybe.”
