“Fascinating. Using elasticity as…you know, I saw String-people doing something like that when I looked into how they built themselves. Of course! And that’s far more portable than—”
He caught himself and narrowed his eyes again.
“And you just recalled that. Just now.”
Erin grinned sheepishly at Grimalkin and shrugged. He eyed her, then smiled.
“A pleasure doing business with you, Miss Solstice. A training session it is! One. For those two [Mages]? I’ll gladly teach Miss Strongheart some techniques free of charge. She cannot be allowed to go to waste.”
He gestured at the Horns and Garia with one claw. Erin spluttered.
“One? But Ceria said she’d have to learn from you for at least a week to learn a Tier 4 or Tier 5 spell—”
“Who said anything about spells? I’ll check on their fitness, their aptitude, recommend how they should progress—it’s actually quite effective. I am an expert [Mage], after all. If those two have any holes, I will fix them. [Necromancer] or [Cryomancer]. Of course, teaching them spells will require more time, and if they have any significant flaws, I’ll need to remedy them.”
“But you said one training session—”
“Well, until you come up with another splendid idea for me to work on. I’ll take them in advance. Resistance bands indeed. Any more training techniques? Other weights?”
Grimalkin peered down at Erin. She could only splutter in reply. After a second, he nodded.
“Well then, one session it is. More to come, on condition, of course. And if you have any more requests, feel free to seek me out with appropriate payment. I take ideas, artifacts, chance encounters, or whatever else you can manufacture.”
He waited. Erin stared at him and then, flustered, looked around.
“L-Lyonette? Get me the Faerie Flowers and a mug of ale!”
The [Princess] came over as Erin rushed over to the windowsill. Xif, watching the end of Pygmalion, looked up with interest as the two fussed over a mug and came back to Grimalkin. He watched, arms folded, never taking his eyes off Erin. She offered him the mug, grinning weakly.
“Uh, want a Faerie Flower drink?”
“What’s it do?”
The Drake eyed the mug. Erin bit her lip and looked at Lyonette. The [Princess] had caught wind of what had gone down and seemed amused. Erin weakly shrugged.
“If you have a horrible trauma, it might help? It’s, uh, one-of-a-kind, I think. Sorta.”
Grimalkin considered the mug.
“No thanks. My traumas aren’t that significant. Anything else?”
“Nothing I can think of.”
Erin locked gazes with Grimalkin. After a second, the Drake nodded. He smiled at her.
“Well, then, one session it is. I’ll do my best, of course. I’d love to jog your memory.”
He nodded at Lyonette and strode through the crowd, avoiding touching everyone with ease. Erin bit her lip, and Lyonette laughed.
“Someone actually figured out you were manipulating them behind the scenes, Erin?”
The [Innkeeper] shrugged ruefully. She wasn’t so much upset at being found out as embarrassed. Grimalkin had treated her like some kind of calculating manipulator! Which she wasn’t. Okay, sort of, but—
“He’s smart. Damn. And he wants me to give him more ideas and stuff—or introduce him to people, or he won’t train Ceria and Pisces! I really wasn’t going to manipulate him into helping them—”
“Sure, Erin.”
“I wasn’t! I was just, you know, going to make them all get along? He was interested in Yvlon’s arms, and I thought—gah! Never mind! Now he wants me to pay him!”
Erin waved her arms, still red in the face. Lyonette stopped smirking long enough to look interested.
“Do you have anything to bribe him with?”
Erin covered her face with one hand, thinking.
“I dunno, treadmills, I guess? Gravity weight training? I saw that in an anime. Uh…I really didn’t have much else. No, parkour-ish stuff. Yoga? Oh! Yoga! Maybe. If I remember any of my yoga class. Now I have to think! Why was he the one who saw through me?”
She stared at Grimalkin’s back, then, to her surprise, saw the Drake’s form waver and vanish. Ishkr, carrying a tray past him, nearly dropped it in alarm. A voice spoke right next to Erin and Lyonette.
“I work out my brain as well as everything else, Miss Erin. What’s this about treadmills? I’m familiar with gravity training, by the way. Parkour and yoga. Are they martial arts forms? No? Fascinating.”
The two young women spun around. Grimalkin was standing behind them, arms folded. He nodded as Erin pointed at the place where his illusion had been and at him, jaw working furiously. He raised both brows.
“Have you never met anyone properly high-level before, Miss Solstice? You shouldn’t underestimate Pallass. Or didn’t you notice that we have as many talents as you?”
He nodded past her. Erin spun again and saw Xif was peering at the bed of Faerie Flowers. He was sniffing the air and eying the small yellow blossoms in their bed. She could hear him muttering out loud in a break as the [Actors] on stage changed plays.
“Hmm, hm. Fascinating. Blue fruits? Shield Spider materials. And this flower…”
“Damnit!”
Erin cursed. Or was this an opportunity? She looked back, and Grimalkin nodded to her. His smile wasn’t smug, but it was superior.
“You’re among equals, Miss Solstice. Well, at the very least. I’ll be on with that lesson now. Please be as specific as you can when you tell me about these treadmills and so on. Tread. Mills. Huh. Actually, I think I understood that one without need for help. Well, I’ll wait for your actual explanation. As I said, I’m happy to spend time training these adventurers. A pleasure to be manipulated by you.”
He nodded at Erin and walked past her. Erin opened her mouth, then, for once, closed it. She turned bright red and said not a word for a whole minute. Lyonette stared at Grimalkin in awe. He winked at her as he strolled over to the Horns of Hammerad.
 
—–
 
Xif the [Alchemist] still smelled of nose-searingly strong chemicals and ingredients when Erin found him looking over her box of Faerie Flowers. The bright, small, yellow flowers were much like short dandelions, although the flower petals were much more exotic. And Erin had quite a number of boxes of them! With Mrsha’s help and daily watering, the few flowers she’d had now filled eight planter boxes.
Honestly, Erin hadn’t made use of them for a long time—the Faerie Flower drink was powerful, but she’d been worried after seeing its effect on Halrac and Ilvriss. And her [Wondrous Fare] Skill wasn’t something Erin had really needed or wanted to focus on. Magical dishes were cool, but with all the turns and twists in her life, they weren’t something she could devote time to.
Yet, someone was focusing very hard on her flowers, and it wasn’t Apista for once. The Ashfire Bee was lazily clinging to the ceiling, but Xif was peering very hard at each flower, sniffing heavily and even going so far as to try and taste the nectar—that was when Erin caught him.
“Xif! Hi! Don’t lick the nectar or eat the flowers. They do, uh, weird things to your head. Hey! Can I introduce you to a friend? Octavia? She’s a bit down—did you hear about the Celum stuff yesterday?”
Erin smiled desperately as the [Alchemist] paused with one paw extended towards his tongue. Xif blinked at her, and his usually befuddled look focused as he blinked two brown eyes at her.
“Octavia? Hm. Oh yes, the young [Alchemist]. I was there for that. But, ah—perhaps in a moment. I’m truly more interested in these flowers, Miss Solstice. I caught you making—was that a drink?”
“Oh, that? The Faerie Flower drink! Good for making you think about what ails you! I’m working on the tagline. Uh, yeah, I’m thinking about selling it, but it’s sort of strong! The flowers are strong too, really. Actually, they have a few uses! But I wouldn’t want you to get hurt or something.”
Erin shuddered as she recalled trying the nectar and having her Alice in Wonderland freak-out. Xif raised his brows.
“Really? Multiple uses? Well, I’d love to experience each one. Unless it makes your fur fall out? Hah! But that’d be an improvement in my case, wouldn’t it?”
He grinned, and Erin smiled despite herself. Still, she couldn’t help but feel slightly possessive over the flowers. They had been a reward, of sorts, for her Frost Faerie banquet. That had been real magic. Her magic.
Of course, Lyonette had urged Erin to sell the flowers to Xif if he wanted them. The [Princess] had gold coins for eyes these days. Erin sighed.
“They don’t make your fur fall out. They do do weird things to you, like, uh, make you see things or go to sleep—then again—the Faerie Flower drink might be my thing. I have a Skill.”
She frowned at the flowers. That was a good point. Had she ever let anyone else try making the Faerie Flower drink? Erin had [Wondrous Fare]. What would happen if Lyonette copied her? Would it be like Octavia? Now she had questions. So did Xif. His eyes lit up as Erin described the flowers.
“Really? Multiple effects without combining with a magical base or other ingredients? You just added that into the alcohol—these flowers are fairly powerfully magical then! I thought so! Amazing! What species are they? Where did you get them from? I’ve never seen the like! Has Miss Octavia tried using them?”
“No, I—they’re from far away. Gifts! They were a gift. And I haven’t let Octavia try to use them.”
Guiltily, Erin realized that was something the [Alchemist] could have used. But—these were special flowers. Not even of this world. Xif frowned.
“I see. They’re special. Hmm. But with what you’ve said—Miss Solstice, I must buy them from you. New, highly magical ingredients? I’d shave off all my fur and walk around naked like Saliss before I turned up an opportunity like this! Come to it, he’d put on clothes for a month for these! How much for one planter box?”
He eagerly pointed to one of the boxes of flowers. Erin hesitated and saw Lyonette’s head whip around. The [Princess] hurried over.
“If you want a box, we have plenty! We could sell maybe—”
“No.”
Erin brought Lyonette up short. The [Princess] opened her mouth, but Erin overrode her and Xif. She smiled at the Gnoll [Alchemist], but firmly shook her head.
“I’m sorry, Xif, but these aren’t for sale. They were a very important gift, and—well, I’m not selling them.”
Lyonette stared at Erin, horrified. Xif was appalled too.
“Miss Solstice, these could be a wonderful boon to [Alchemists] everywhere. A powerful antidote, a life-saving reagent in a potion—they could be the next Eir Gel!”
“Exactly! And we don’t use many now that the Ashfire Bees are gone. Let alone your drinks…Erin, can I speak with you for one second?”
Lyonette tugged on Erin’s arm, frowning hard. But Erin was unmoved. She thought of Grimalkin and his announcement that Pallass’ army would be using weights. That was one thing. But this? She hesitated. Life-changing medicine? But some selfish part of her, childish, made her shake her head again.
“No. I’m sorry, but no. Lyonette, that’s final.”
She put her foot down. It was hers. Her magic, however small. Xif looked crestfallen. Lyonette looked like she was going to have a heart attack. Erin relented a touch.
“What if I sold you the petals and nectar and stuff? I’d be okay with that.”
Xif frowned and scratched the hair on his chin, but the Gnoll shook his head. He bent down and eyed a flower sprouting from a bulb.
“As tempting as it would be—I think I would rather have the flower, Miss Solstice. An entire flower, rather. You see, it’s not just about the ingredients. Call it the [Alchemist] in me, but these are too…how long have you grown these flowers?”
Erin shrugged.
“A few months. Since winter.”
“I see. And these have germinated like this?”
Xif indicated the short flowers. Erin nodded proudly.
“That’s right! We replanted them as they kept growing. I only had a handful, but they multiplied, and Mrsha looked after them with Lyonette…why?”
The Gnoll mumbled to himself. He peered at each flower, then nodded slowly.
“They’re all the same.”
“Excuse me?”
“I mean, they don’t have any characteristics of full-grown plants. No reproductive elements.”
He looked up at Lyonette’s and Erin’s blank faces.
“Haven’t you seen dandelions turn into the white fuzzy seedpods? Or witnessed grass growing seeds? These are similar to grass and dandelions. Short, unmatured. That they can still reproduce is no surprise; many plants can do that. But they’re not fully developed. And if it’s been months, there may be another trigger.”
So saying, he straightened and tapped the planter box in front of him. Xif turned seriously to Erin.
“I don’t believe they’re fully grown, Miss Solstice. In fact, I’d stake my best potions on that. I’d like to ship these to a friend in Oteslia. Their [Gardeners] are the best in the world. If anyone could ascertain the exact nature of this plant, it would be them. Your price?”
Erin’s jaw dropped. Not fully grown? She looked at the flowers, but—come to think of it, Xif was right. Erin did know what he was talking about. The Faerie Flowers could just be flowers, but they were just stalks with blooms on the end. They had no root system. No ovules.
Xif was right. And yet, Erin still hesitated.
“Maybe. But I want to keep my flowers, thanks.”
She didn’t know why it mattered so much to her. In fact, she was beginning to regret her stubbornness, except for the idea in her head. She could try growing the flowers herself. And when she found out if they evolved or something, sell them to Xif. Octavia could corner the market! She’d give some to Octavia to make up for ignoring her.
Xif frowned, as if reading Erin’s thoughts. He sighed, looking at the flowers, and then looked sternly at Erin.
“I understand your desire to keep what’s yours, Miss Solstice. Drakes are very much like that. But you realize these flowers are invaluable as a new discovery to me? And if they are as valuable as I think, I’m afraid I’ll have to make you an offer you can’t refuse.”
Erin felt a chill down her spine. She took a step back from Xif as Lyonette stiffened. Erin’s hand instantly went for her belt.
“You’re threatening me?”
She couldn’t believe it! And neither could Xif! He looked horrified as she placed a hand on the kitchen knife Pelt had made.
“What? Threatening you? I’m no [Thug] of an [Alchemist]! I just said I’d use a Skill.”
“Oh, a Skill!”
Lyonette looked relieved. Erin just looked blank. Xif tutted.
“Dear me, the expressions you Humans come up with. I put my tail in my mouth all the time, though. Better just to do it now. Miss Solstice, I invoke [The Avid Collector]. Name your price for a single flower.”
