“It was quite fun to visit your inn these last few days, Miss Erin. I won’t deny that. But I have work to do. You’ve given me the chance to redefine how [Soldiers] and [Warriors] across the Walled Cities—perhaps even the world—will train. I’d prefer to get to that.”
“Argh—okay, but—stay for just half an hour! No, ten minutes! Your apprentice deserves a break, doesn’t she?”
Erin pleaded with Grimalkin. The Drake hesitated and looked at Erin, then at Ferkr, who looked pleadingly at him, and sighed.
“I suppose ten minutes wouldn’t be undue. Ferkr, by all means, enjoy yourself. And we can take one of those…pizzas back with us. A single slice wouldn’t hurt. But that grease!”
He shuddered. Erin breathed out in relief.
“Great. I’ll just—uh, I just remembered I had to do something. In the door. Don’t go anywhere!”
She rushed past Grimalkin. He frowned after her as Erin ran to the door to Pallas and, to the watching crowd’s outrage, slammed it and turned it to Celum. She opened the door and shouted.
“Lyonette! Check in ten minutes! I need to go to the Runner’s Guild! Oh, please be there, please be there—”
She rushed out, and a moment later, the door opened and a roar of fury from Pallass echoed in the inn. The [Actors] on stage dutifully recreated the scene, and all was placid. Grimalkin watched the play with Relc commentating next to him. It wasn’t that he wasn’t interested in the performance—it was just that he had better things to do. Ferkr meanwhile was grabbing and eating as much food as possible, savoring Erin’s free food.
Ten minutes later, Lyonette checked the door to Celum, prompting another brief intermission, and a panting Erin was back. Grimalkin glanced up as Erin and a second Human entered the inn. No—two additional Humans. A young man and a young woman. The young man was clearly a Runner, and the young woman…Grimalkin’s head turned back.
“Nice muscle definition. Hm. That’s…”
He was half-interested in that, half in the play, and mostly on leaving. Grimalkin was looking for his apprentice, who seemed to have wandered off in hopes of prolonging her stay, when an exclamation from the trio drew his eyes back. The young woman who’d come in with Erin had caught sight of Numbtongue, who was wandering past, eating pizza.
“Hobgoblin! [Quick Kick]!”
She reflexively recoiled and then lashed out with a kick. Grimalkin saw Numbtongue whirl, try to dodge—but the kick was too fast. It caught him on the chest and knocked him backwards. There was power in that blow! Numbtongue flew backwards, hit a table where a pair of Gnolls were sitting, rolled over it, and landed in a crouch. The inn erupted into shouts as the Goblin made two fists, but Erin, waving her hands desperately, put herself between the Human and Hobgoblin.
“No! Garia! It’s Numbtongue! Didn’t you know I had Goblins at—have you never seen—does no one read my signs?”
Chaos. But quickly dispersed. Erin, panting, quickly explained, and Grimalkin saw the young woman called Garia, blushing, introduce herself to the annoyed Hobgoblin along with the other Runner. The [Sinew Magus] watched as Erin slowly placated Numbtongue and then made a beeline over to him with the Runners.
“Hey, Grimalkin! Sorry about the fuss—”
“I wasn’t part of it. It was a splendid kick, though. Excellent form. But I really should be going, Miss Solstice.”
The Drake replied calmly. He saw the young woman behind Erin blush. Out of politeness and curiosity, Grimalkin turned to her and the Runner. He held out a claw.
“How do you do? Grimalkin, [Sinew Magus]. You have an impressive display of muscles, young lady. Compressed, though. Clearly the work of a Skill. Also the bearing of…someone who’s lost weight. Your balance is slightly off, but that’s a [Martial Artist]’s kick if ever I saw one. Nice to see some have become Runners at last. It’s a compatible profession.”
The young woman blinked at him.
“I—thank you! I’m Garia. Garia Strongheart. Are you a [Martial Artist] by any chance?”
She grasped Grimalkin’s claw and shook it. He grunted. [Enhanced Strength]? She was strong! What a treasure! At her age, she had the potential to be a real [Mage]. He was about to say so when Erin slid into the conversation.
“Grimalkin’s not a [Martial Artist], Garia. But he’s a [Sinew Magus]! He does magic—with his muscles! Or something like that. Hey! Do you know martial arts, Grimalkin? Oh—this is Fals, by the way. He’s a Runner too. They’re both from Celum.”
She indicated the young man. He grinned weakly up at Grimalkin, staring at a bicep.
“A pleasure, Mister Grimalkin? I run with Garia. You’re from Pallass? The Pallass?”
He looked dumbstruck as he stared around the inn. Grimalkin nodded.
“I’ve dabbled in martial arts. Not my forte. But I’ve travelled the world. Visited [Knights] training in Terandria, bald-headed Humans with fists like iron, Drathians, Chandrar’s population in Pomle—you should see Selphid [Martial Artists]; absolutely deadly. I didn’t know there were any in Izril.”
“I wasn’t taught by one. At least—I don’t think Ryoka was very high level. But I’m dying to learn more techniques, and Ryoka’s in the far north! I’ve been leveling up like crazy—I want to see how strong I can be!”
The young woman flexed a thin arm, and Grimalkin narrowed his eyes. She’d definitely changed her body structure recently. He could almost extrapolate how she’d looked before now. But it was Garia’s words that lit a fire in his heart. He spoke carefully, trying not to shout.
“Young woman. You would be wasting your talents if you were just a [Martial Artist]. No—I will admit, they’re a fearsome class. But I would be remiss if I didn’t tell you to become a [Mage]. Like me! You clearly have a powerful foundation. [Enhanced Strength], am I right? And I assume—[Weight Control]?”
Fals and Erin blinked, but Garia’s eyes widened. She hesitated and almost reflexively covered her stomach.
“How did you know?”
“It’s obvious to me. But please—hear me out. I’d be delighted to talk about [Martial Artist] techniques with you, but you must join one of my classes and see my curriculum. I’ve studied strength, and there’s more to a powerful swing than just the muscle in your arm. If you’ll allow me, I’d like you to listen. [Martial Artist] or [Mage], you owe it to yourself to rebuild your body.”
Grimalkin held his breath. Normally, here was where most people started edging away, but he had a good feeling about Garia. And the way the young woman’s eyes lit up was everything he wanted to see. Garia looked at Fals and Erin before nodding.
“I do. Tell me everything, please! About martial arts and…”
The [Sinew Magus] exhaled. It was moments like these he lived for. He smiled and tried to come up with the most concise summary of his life’s work possible. And Erin Solstice had given him the terminology as well.
“Ah! Well, let me tell you, it’s all about the…core. Yes, the core. And I’ve made it my life’s work to develop a regimen that creates a strong body in as short a time as possible. Now, you may stop excreting during the first few weeks of training, and I have had it compared to torture, but the results are so immediate that the elite regiments of Pallass’ soldiers come to me for a basic fitness regimen…”
 
—–
 
Grimalkin and Garia stood in a corner of Erin’s inn discussing everything muscle-related with such avidness that Erin couldn’t keep up. But that didn’t matter. Her job was done.
The two were so engrossed that they didn’t notice as Erin and Fals drew back. Erin was smiling, but Fals, for some reason, was not. He shook his head as he looked back at Grimalkin and Garia, and a worried frown creased his brow.
“She’s changed, Erin. I don’t know if I know Garia anymore. Remember the old Garia? She was timid. Very kind, but—now she’s ten times as bold. And our best Runner! Frankly, I’m worried she’ll surpass me soon, if she hasn’t already. It’s amazing how much this place has changed too.”
Fals smiled tiredly at Erin. She grinned at him.
“I know! I couldn’t believe it was Garia at first! Hey—thanks for coming to the inn. I appreciate it.”
Fals chortled. He gestured around the room, his brows raised.
“And miss all this? This is incredible! I was meaning to pay a visit, but I’ve been busy. Not that it’s exciting around here since the Goblin Lord business. Dead gods, Erin! The Players of Celum, people from Pallass? Can you tell me what’s happened?”
“Of course!”
Erin beamed and led Fals off into a wonderland of fast food, acting, and talking about all that had changed. But she kept an eye on Grimalkin and Garia. They took nearly half an hour to speak, and Garia looked like she was taking notes. Erin had Fals happily conversing with a Drake when she spotted the two breaking up. Quickly, Erin slid back towards Grimalkin.
“I’ll be waiting for your visit. Martial arts, magic—contact me!”
The Drake called out to Garia. She was nodding eagerly as she went over to Fals, clearly delighted. Erin rubbed her hands together, but stopped when Grimalkin turned to her. The Drake was shaking his head.
“Amazing. That might be one of my finest pupils yet. A [Farmer] background and a [Martial Artist] class? Although she has compunctions about gaining too much muscle—well, I suppose that’s a Runner’s concern. Ah, Miss Solstice. What a fantastic meeting!”
The [Sinew Magus] was clearly delighted. Erin beamed as well.
“Wasn’t it? Aren’t you glad you stayed? Say, while you’re here, why don’t you wait a bit longer? You could show Garia some moves, maybe! I know she’d love that. And you know, I have two friends who are [Mages]. Can you do that display of magic again, maybe? What about in Celum? Maybe you could show Pisces and Ceria a trick or two?”
For a second, she thought the Drake hadn’t heard her. Grimalkin was still staring at Garia, his brows raised. He smiled, clearly impressed—and then did a double-take and stared back at Erin. His eyes narrowed as he registered their conversation.
“Show them—wait a second.”
He looked at Garia. He stared at the door, now open to Pallass, and then at Erin. The [Innkeeper] hesitated as Grimalkin’s brows snapped together. She didn’t like the way his expression changed. Slowly, the [Sinew Magus] pointed at Garia.
“You did that on purpose. Do it again.”
“What?”
Erin grinned, and a butterfly appeared in her confident stomach. Grimalkin folded his arms.
“Not forty minutes ago, I was prepared to leave. Then you convinced me to stay and ran to get that Runner. Coincidentally, she ran into a Hobgoblin and kicked him. I suppose that was chance, but you led her straight to me. You know she wanted to learn about martial arts. Or was it magic? You set that up.”
“No…what makes you say that?”
The inn was already hot, but Erin began to sweat. Grimalkin eyed her.
“What was it you just asked? You wanted me to show magic to—ah! That adventuring team. The one that wanted me to teach them [Lion’s Strength]. And I was about to acquiesce!”
“No, hold on, that was all coincidence! I mean, it was sort of me knowing what Garia was like, but—”
Erin began to panic. She didn’t know why—it was all aboveboard! It was just people meeting people! But having the trick exposed felt risky. Grimalkin’s narrowed eyes confirmed that.
“I noticed the same thing with Maughin and my visit to Liscor. Coincidences turn into beneficial meetings for you. Pallass intercedes in Liscor’s election. I just happen to draw a crowd with a demonstration that helps your inn. This was calculated, wasn’t it?”
“No…okay, maybe. But hey! I—look, Grimalkin, I’m not saying you have to help Ceria and Pisces. But it’d be nice if you did? Maybe?”
Erin’s heart sank in her chest. Grimalkin was just staring at her. And there was a keen analysis running there that not many people gave Erin. She gave him her most wide-eyed look. It didn’t work. He shook his head slowly.
“Incredible. And I didn’t notice it—or I paid it little mind until now. That’s not a Skill…or is it? You remind me of a [Senator], only highly effective at low-level dealings. Or one of the people who like to play shadow games, only on a smaller scale. Archmage Feor. Terandrian monarchs. I haven’t met Magnolia Reinhart, but she’s an apt comparison on Izril.”
That stung. Erin sucked in her breath.
“Um, thank you?”
“It’s not a compliment. I suppose it’s obvious in hindsight. Rufelt and Lasica do the same thing. But they’re experts at making money and being liked by all. And their manipulation is up-front. Honest. I see. Well, I congratulate you on the trick. Do it again.”
Grimalkin stared at Erin. She hesitated.
“Uh—what?”
He shook his head slowly.
“Unless I’m wrong, the entire purpose of me arriving here was to teach Miss Strongheart martial arts. Or was she bait? Let’s say that she was. Were you hoping to persuade me to teach your two [Mage] friends magic?”
“M-maybe?”
Erin looked to one side, flushing a bit. Her plan had been a bit more nebulous than that. But…Grimalkin frowned, then nodded.
“Very well. I’ll do it.”
“Really?”
Relieved, smiling, Erin looked up. Only to see Grimalkin extend a claw and flex it slightly.
“So do it again. Show me something I want.”
“Wait, what?”
The young woman frowned. Grimalkin eclipsed her frown with his own.
“I’m not in the habit of lending my abilities or expertise out for free, Miss Solstice. I realize that’s what friends do, but I consider you an acquaintance. So. You showed me a potential student. And you’ve delivered me a bunch of fascinating, unique training methods. Weights. What else do you have to offer me?”
“Hey! I gave you that all out of good will! I was being helpful!”
Erin spluttered, red in the face. Grimalkin nodded.
“I’m quite aware. And it helped you a bit. I’m not accusing you of lying to me, Miss Solstice. If anything, I owe you a great deal. But let’s just say I’m open to the possibility that you’re holding something back that I might like. So. Do it again.”
He pointed at Garia. Erin wavered. She held up a finger. Opened her mouth to protest—and Grimalkin stared at her. The two locked gazes, unblinking.
Erin buckled first. She hesitated, then scuffed at the floorboards, scowling. She’d meant to use this as a prod anyways. But subtly.
“Okay. Okay, there was this one thing…I saw this guy using like this rubber—er, elastic band. Like…two cords like this, see? And he stretches it across his chest or pulls while rotating like this—”
She began describing a resistance band to Grimalkin. The [Sinew Magus]’ eyes widened.
