The sun was rising on another peaceful day in Liscor. The birds were singing, the flowers growing. Although, it had to be said, the native population of Ashfire Bees that normally pollinated the entire Floodplains area was trapped in a cavern, and thus the reproduction rate of Liscor’s ambient flora might well halve itself in the near future with the loss of a keystone species.
And the only reason the birds were alive was because a certain Antinium Worker wasn’t perched in his tower, happily sniping down anything with wings. In that sense, the peaceful day actually lacked the pleasant birdsong followed by the thwap of a bowstring and a terrible squawk for it to be completely regular.
But it was peaceful. If things were different, well, they were the same in some areas. A single Ashfire Bee greeted the day as she buzzed from flower to flower inside The Wandering Inn, pollinating and getting happily high off the nectar. And there was a Worker on the roof of the inn. He had a hammer, a tin filled with nails, and a purpose.
He was laying down a roof on the rebuilt third floor of the inn. The frame had been created, the floor laid, but the roof had yet to be finished. So this Worker had been assigned to his duties at dawn by Belgrade; he had clambered onto the roof with a large supply of roof tiles, copper nails, and begun hammering them into place.
The Worker had no safety belt or gloves. Or anyone to spot him. And he was three stories up, balancing on the thin frames while he used all four hands to laboriously bring tiles over from the roofed section of the inn, balance them on a crossbeam, hammer them into place, and not tumble to his death if he so much as took a step backwards.
All things considered, this was one of the safer jobs he could have been asked to do in service of his Hive, and the Worker was content. He was no Individual or even Autonomous, the new class below Individual. He hammered in his last roof tile, carefully overlapping it with the last one so water would flow down unimpeded when it rained with no chance to leak into the building below. He was working hard and precisely. Water could not be allowed inside the inn. That was a bad thing. That was all the Worker thought about.
Aside from the fact that he needed new tiles. The Worker looked up and saw them in a large basket balanced a dozen feet to the left. He would have to get up, transport more over, and begin hammering again. It was inconvenient and slow, but the Worker was alone, and a job was a job. So he got up, balancing carefully so as to not tip over the edge of the roof and die—
And a roof tile soared out of the basket, through the air, and landed right on top of the next spot in front of the Worker. He stared at it, then looked around. The roof tile had flown! And it was right in the next spot where he needed to put the next roof tile. Just like that. The Worker stared at the tile. He stared at the basket.
Normal [Builders], or rather, non-Antinium, would have stopped to ask questions. They would have searched for a [Mage], maybe stopped working to check if they had company. At the very least, they would have made a verbal comment. But this Worker wasn’t about to panic or ask questions. He was a [Roofer]. He saw a tile? He hammered nails into it.
The Worker positioned a nail, and another hand swung while his last two steadied himself on the roof and the tile in place. One, two, three—the nail went in. The Worker hammered four more nails in and looked up in time to see another tile flying into place right above the tile he’d just affixed to the roof. He stared at it. Then he raised his hammer.
More nails, each hammered quickly into place. This time, the Worker looked up and saw the next tile flying towards him. He edged out of the way, and it moved into place. Without missing a beat, he grabbed more nails in his lower-left hand and got to work. Now this was easy!
One tile. Two. Three…they flew into place, just waiting for the nails! The Worker had a rhythm going. Then he saw the tiles flying and the nails with it! It slapped itself into place and the nails drove themselves in. The Worker stared. The next five tiles affixed themselves to the roof as he watched. Whatever magic or…whatever was doing it was far more efficient than the Worker and as precise as he could ever be. The tiles flew, landed and then, after the tenth one—
Stopped. The Worker stared at his basket. There were still more tiles and more nails in his tin. But the tiles had stopped moving. The Worker hopefully made his way over to the basket and picked one up. He tossed it up gently into the air. It obeyed the laws of gravity, and he caught it before it landed.
The Worker stared at the tile. His antennae drooped slightly, and he slowly got back to work the slow, mundane way. Below him, Erin, Lyonette, and Mrsha stared up at the roof and looked at each other. Erin breathed out as she lowered her hand. Mrsha’s eyes were shining, and Lyonette was biting her lip. Erin grinned at her handiwork.
“That’s so cool.”
 
—–
 
“[Partial Reconstruction]!”
In the very early morning in her quiet inn, Erin shouted the word and pointed. Ceria, nursing a hangover, winced. But she watched along with the others as the broken chair, a mess of splinters and wood pieces, quickly rebuilt itself. The wood fused as the half-Elf stared, and in less than ten seconds, a completely intact chair sat across from her. The half-Elf whistled softly.
“Now that’s a powerful Skill.”
“It’s amazing! Did you see that? Seborn, hey, Seborn—did you see—”
Erin grinned and looked around. Her inn was quiet and sparsely populated, but only by comparison with the last few days. It did, in fact, have nearly thirty people in it; the Players of Celum, setting up on stage, the Horns of Hammerad—except for Pisces, who was still asleep—Lyonette, Mrsha, Drassi, Ishkr, three [Barmaids], two [Servers], Apista, Relc, and…the Halfseekers.
Two of them, at least. Seborn and Moore were sitting at a table. The Drowned Man looked up and nodded briefly. He didn’t seem happy, but then, he never did. He was largely expressionless by nature, and he regarded the chair with less amazement than the others.
“I saw. Useful Skill.”
“Aw, come on. It’s amazing! Isn’t it?”
“Amazing.”
The Drowned Man dutifully replied. He sipped from his mug of water and didn’t exactly scowl. Erin pouted, then looked around.
“What about you, Relc? It’s cool, right?”
“Cool? It’s great! Hey, can I try to break another chair?”
The [Guardsman] excitedly grabbed a chair, and Mrsha nodded vigorously. He was here early on a day off, and he’d gotten to witness Erin testing out her new Skill. Erin nodded, and he grabbed a second chair.
“Alright! Stand back, Mrsha! Fix—this!”
He smashed the chair into the floorboards, and Ceria winced. The wood splinters flew everywhere, and the half-Elf raised a hand to shield her face. Mrsha, who’d obediently scooted back behind a table, ducked. But a large arm and hand gently protected her from the flying debris. Moore gave Relc a reproachful look as he savored his porridge. The Drake was too excited to notice.
“Alright, fix that, Erin!”
“You got it!”
Erin pointed, and the broken chair and floorboards reassembled themselves in moments. Relc crowed as he raised his fists.
“That is so cool! Not even magic can do that!”
“Magic can totally do that. I mean, I could do some of that if I knew [Repair]. And there’s [Reconstruct]. I bet most veteran [Mages] from Wistram could do that.”
Ceria grumbled. Relc ignored her as he turned to Erin, eyes shining.
“What level was that Skill, Erin? Level 30? Are you Level 30 already? It’s gotta be a high-level Skill, right?”
Erin blushed and waved a hand as everyone looked at her.
“Aw, well, you know…it’s really good, isn’t it?”
“It’s fantastic. That’s a proper [Innkeeper] Skill right there. Hey, can I try something bigger? Like a table?”
The young woman nodded eagerly.
“Go ahead! I wanna see what I can do! Heck, maybe I’ll rebuild the entire roof!”
“Hold on, let’s not go overboard.”
Lyonette cautioned the two, but it was too late. Relc raced over to an unoccupied table and, with considerable experience, leapt and gave it a flying elbow. The [Princess] sighed as the table cracked, and Mrsha and Erin cheered.
“Awesome! [Partial Reconstruction]! Do another, Relc!”
“Yeah, can I?”
“Go for it!”
The background crash and reassembly got boring after the third break for everyone but Erin and Relc and Mrsha. Lyonette sighed and went to fill drinks. Ceria sipped from a glass of milk and ate a plateful of spaghetti and meatballs. Yvlon, sitting across from her, wrinkled her nose.
“Ceria, don’t you think there’s better things to eat in the morning?”
The half-Elf considered this as she chewed and swallowed.
“Nope. What’s the point of having an inn where I can have any dish I want, fresh, and not having something like this?”
Yvlon opened her mouth to reply, then turned her head and stared left at Ksmvr. He looked up from his plate. He was eating porridge with Acid Flies sprinkled into it. Yvlon stared at her teammates, sighed, and shook her head.
“Why is it that I suddenly wish Pisces were here? I must be coming down with something.”
She pushed back her empty bowl just in time for Relc to hurtle past her and body slam a chair. He looked up.
“Yeah?”
“Yeah!”
Erin pointed at the chair and mended its broken back. Relc grabbed two more chairs and jumped on a table. He smashed one on the ground.
“Yeah!?”
“Yea—oh wait, hold on. I think it’s stopped working.”
Erin said that too late. The crash this time made the Players of Celum look up from across the long room. They stared at Relc as he slowly got up from his pile of splinters where he’d done a flying body slam. Erin stared at the splinters of the table and three chairs on the floor. She pointed hopefully.
“Uh, [Partial Reconstruction]?”
Nothing happened. In truth, Erin had felt that too. She’d run out of her Skill. Relc hesitated as he got up, brushing bits of wood off his scales.
“Oops.”
Mrsha paused in trying to break a chair leg and innocently hid it behind her back. Lyonette covered her face and groaned. Moore picked a large wooden splinter out of his bowl of porridge. Seborn stared at the chairs, then went back to his drink. At his table, Ksmvr raised two hands.
“Excuse me, may I have more Acid Flies?”
It was the beginning of another day at The Wandering Inn. The fact that no one even looked surprised was a sign of how far the madness had spread.
 
—–
 
Ten minutes later, a shamefaced Erin, Mrsha, and Relc had swept the wreckage of the furniture into a corner of the inn. Lyonette propped her hands on her hips.
“What have we learned?”
Erin raised a hand.
“So I can do about three tables, uh, ten roof tiles, and five chairs in one go. After that, my Skill stops working.”
“Yup. Pretty awesome. And I can break a table with my stomach.”
Relc scratched his neck, grinning. Mrsha nodded until Lyonette stared at her. The [Princess] sighed. Erin grinned sheepishly.
“Aw, come on, Lyonette. At least we know my Skill has limits! And hey! I’ll fix the table and chairs when my Skill comes back to life!”
Lyonette gave her a reproving glance and gentle head-nod to Mrsha. Don’t encourage her! But she relented with a slight smile in the end.
“It’ll save a lot of money if we just save the broken parts and let you rebuild them later. Not to mention broken windows, mugs—can it do stains too?”
“Maybe? Let’s check after this. But I bet not. It’s reconstruction, not, uh, stain-removal.”
“Good to know we still have a job, right?”
Drassi commented as she swept by with a broom, getting the last splinters. Erin laughed. Relc nodded, satisfied. Then he glanced at Erin.
“Hey, are you going to open the door to Pallass yet? Grimalkin said he had all those weights you mentioned, and I want to try them out.”
“In a bit. I want a peaceful morning. Which is why the door stays closed! Until around late morning?”
Erin looked at Lyonette for confirmation. The [Princess] nodded.
“We need to replenish our food stocks. Which means you’re cooking, Erin. Mrsha and I will go to the park in Liscor. And the Players of Celum want practice. More importantly, we can’t handle so many people all at once. So the door to Liscor stays closed. No crowds unless they come here on foot. And they’re not allowed into Pallass either—not until the sun’s three quarters of the way up!”
She pointed at Temile on stage with his [Actors] and then at the window. Erin nodded and sighed. She wanted to open the door right now, but Lyonette had a point. Two full days of the door being open to Pallass had made a small fortune for The Wandering Inn, but also a lot of work. Relc looked disappointed, but the day-staff, including Ishkr and Drassi, looked relieved at Lyonette’s pronouncement.
“You’re the boss, Lyonette. For now.”
Erin tried to look threatening. Mrsha just raced around her. The Gnoll was excited and signaled as much with her paws.
Pat chest, smile, running motion with closed paws. Then—one arm crossed, two paws folded against head to show napping. Lyonette and Erin interpreted this.
“You like being busy, but…it’s tiring?”
Mrsha nodded happily and made a thumbs-up. Erin laughed with delight.
“I understood that too! I agree, Mrsha. It’s hectic, what with the election in Liscor and Pallass and stuff. But The Wandering Inn’s never been more crowded! Which means we’re making money, right, Lyonette?”
The [Princess] had to smile at that.
“We are. And I think we can actually afford some big changes. As well as buying Mrsha some new toys. And maybe some clothes?”
The Gnoll looked excited at the former, annoyed at the latter. Erin regarded Mrsha.
“She is naked, right?”
“Gnolls don’t really care, especially in the wild, but I think Mrsha should learn to wear something. So I’ll buy her some clothes today before we get back. If that’s okay? It shouldn’t be more than a few gold coins at most.”
Lyonette looked at Erin. The [Innkeeper] nodded. Mrsha signed from below that she wasn’t interested in clothes, but the two adults ignored her. Erin ruffled her hair.
“Come on, Mrsha. Clothes are nice! You used to steal bras, remember? And t-shirts. And shoes. Don’t worry, you can get your clothes shopping done and then help out here, okay? We’re doing really well with the inn. But you know what? It can be even better.”
Mrsha and Lyonette both looked up at that. The [Princess] raised one brow, and Erin explained with a smile.
“Opening Pallass was just the first step. Now we’re really going to improve things.”
She rubbed her hands together.
“I’ve got plans. Oh yeah. Heh. Heheheheheheh.”
