Her chuckle just made Mrsha laugh silently and point at Erin’s face. Lyonette covered a smile, and Erin stopped, affronted. Then she sighed.
“I can’t do a scary laugh. You know who’s great at scary laughing? Ryoka—oh. Sorry, Mrsha.”
The Gnoll cub’s face immediately fell. So did Erin’s. Lyonette gave her a reproachful glower, and the [Innkeeper] guiltily knelt. She hugged Mrsha and lifted her upright with a small grunt.
“You’re getting heavier. Hey, sorry, Mrsha. But I’m sure Ryoka’s fine. Wherever she is. We’ll find her. Soon, Mrsha. When the Halfseekers get to Invrisil, I’ll look into it, I promise. But for today? We’re going to help our friends here. Okay? Just watch a master.”
She smiled, and Mrsha’s head rose. Her tail began to wag, and Lyonette frowned at Erin suspiciously.
“I’d prefer to just make more money, Erin. If your next plan has anything like drama in it…”
“No, not like that! I’m just leveraging…assets! When we open the doors, let me know when Grimalkin comes in, okay? Or Xif. Or Rufelt and Lasica or—anyone important, okay?”
Erin’s eyes twinkled. Lyonette sighed, but smiled. Erin Solstice had a plan. And of such things was The Wandering Inn’s reputation built. So the three split up, preparing for another day full of Erin-related shenanigans. In the inn, sitting at his table, Seborn looked up, drained half his mug of water, and cursed.
“She’s late.”
“Come on, Seborn. Don’t be so angry.”
The half-Giant carefully smiled at his friend. Seborn just glared ahead as Drassi came by with a pitcher of water.
“She’s late. And this is the third day she’s been distracted.”
“Yes, but…”
Seborn glanced up at Moore. The half-Giant shrugged helplessly.
“It’s not like she doesn’t have a reason.”
“I know. But she said—”
“It’s love, Seborn.”
“It’s infatuation. She’s so busy getting wrapped up with that Dullahan that she’s forgotten about us—”
Moore’s brows drew together.
“Why are you mad? You should be happy for our friend. And it’s not like we’re sitting in squalor here. I like this inn. Don’t you?”
“We’ve been here for months, Moore. We need to get to work. Or what are we? We’re adventurers, and our Captain’s missing.”
“But if she likes him—”
The half-Giant’s voice was gentle, sympathetic, as was his nature. Seborn, on the other hand, was clearly impatient as he shook his head.
“You and I both know she can’t have that relationship forever. He’s a [Blacksmith] in Pallass. She’s going to be working in the north. At least until we reach Invrisil. And besides which, we’re on missions for weeks away. All she’s doing is having a fling, and if she really does like him—I told you. If you two want to have sex so badly, let’s find a port city. There are brothels that cater to any species.”
It was the most the Drowned Man had said in one go for a long time, and even then, only among his group. Moore blinked, but then looked slightly affronted.
“You know she actually likes him, Seborn. How long did she say it was since she last met anyone?”
“Six years. And that was a Selphid in a port-city bar. I know. I was there, and she wouldn’t shut up for three months. So what?”
The Drowned Man crossed his arms. Moore hesitated. Seborn had been in the Halfseekers with Jelaqua from the start. Even though the half-Giant had journeyed with them for years, he forgot how long the two had been in a team.
“Well, isn’t it good, then? We should be supporting her.”
“And let her get her heart broken?”
“Maughin won’t break her heart. He’s the most open-minded Dullahan I’ve met.”
Seborn hesitated.
“Even if he is, so what? They can’t be together.”
“Why not?”
Moore gave him a deep frown over his bowl. Seborn grumbled under his breath.
“It’s a distraction. We should be working.”
“We earned a lot of money. Doesn’t Jelaqua deserve happiness? This is the first non-Selphid who’s ever really been serious about her. You know how rare that is. Especially for someone from Baleros! He’s from her home, Seborn. This is special.”
“It’s asinine. Every time she gets back here, she talks about sex, holding hands in public, or how nice he is. They’re lovebirds. He’s forging her plate armor. It’s disgusting.”
“I think it’s beautiful. I…I wish I had that.”
Moore looked dreamy, but the longing tone in his voice rang clear to his friend. Seborn grunted. It was a mark of his friendship with Moore that he bit his tongue on the first six replies. After a moment, he just looked at Moore again.
“I keep telling you to visit a brothel. They have Selphids. Or sturdy women. Or Skills. They know what they’re about. You’re not going to hurt anyone.”
“I know. You’ve said. But I mean, how many people like me are…”
Moore’s normally open face closed up. The Drowned Man sighed.
“They’re used to all sorts of customers. Me. Jelaqua. Even half-Giants. No one’s going to make fun of you. And it’ll stop you moping. Come to think of it, it would’ve stopped Jelaqua from being obsessed with this Dullahan. Just do what you need to do and stop focusing on it.”
“It’s not like that. I want to find someone I can like. Or love. I don’t want to pay for that, Seborn.”
The half-Giant [Green Mage] looked reproachfully at his friend. Seborn rolled his eyes.
“You wouldn’t say that if you’d actually done it. This is why we need new teammates. You, Jelaqua, Halassia—you were all romantics.”
The mention of their old friend made Moore blink. But then he smiled. Sadly, yes, but without the tension there had used to be. They could talk about the past now. The half-Giant shrugged, a bit defensive.
“So what if we are? Isn’t that why the Halfseekers were founded? We’re chasing a dream, Seborn. Let Jelaqua have her time with Maughin. He’s giving her gifts. They’re walking together. Talking. Maybe they’ll have to split when we go to Invrisil. Or maybe they’ll meet each other. Erin does have her door. And—who knows?”
The half-Giant looked towards the closed door, his eyes gentle. Seborn shook his head. Moore was romantic. Seborn was not. But it seemed to him—he looked up at Moore and thought his friend was hiding his true feelings well. Underneath his support of Jelaqua, there was more than a little envy. Jealousy, even. Seborn leaned across the table and poked Moore.
“I know you don’t like the idea. But you’re, what, thirty-one? I’m not having you sulk on the road if Jelaqua comes back smiling. Why do you keep waiting for someone to fall in love with you? There was that girl in Wales. That woman in Invrisil. That [Mage] from Wistram—just end it already. What’s the matter with buying—”
He stopped, because Moore seemed truly hurt. The half-Giant shuffled and turned away from Seborn, embarrassed.
“It matters to me, Seborn.”
That was that. The Drowned Man exhaled slowly and shook his head. He thought of Jelaqua last night, clinging to Maughin like a girl with her first love—which was what this was in some ways. And Moore, too afraid to smile at the women he fell in love with, to take a plunge. The Drowned Man sighed. The Halfseekers. Gold-rank adventurers and veterans in combat and rookie [Sailors] on the seas of romance. He stood up after a second.
“Come on. Let’s walk with that damn wagon for today. The donkeys are still hitched to it, but it’s only a matter of time before a [Thief] or monster sniffs around them.”
Moore considered this, and he relaxed slightly.
“Okay. Maybe we can find a stable for them. And come back tonight? I do want to have dinner with Mrsha.”
Seborn nodded without comment. The half-Giant doted on the Gnoll child. The Drowned Man walked towards the door, looking for Erin so they could warn her they were about to drain the mana from it. He sighed.
“At least we don’t have to listen to Jelaqua or wait for her to come back. I don’t need to hear Jelaqua talking about having sex or sitting on that Dullahan’s lap if they come back.”
Moore chuckled a bit.
“I’ll admit, she is graphic. Uh—Seborn?”
“Yes?”
“Is what she does—is that entirely—normal?”
The half-Giant blushed fiercely. Seborn looked up at him and wished he were miles away. On a boat. Fighting giant squid at sea was easier than this.
“No. Don’t listen to what she talks about. And don’t try it. Ever. Jelaqua’s a Selphid. Bodies are disposable. And this is probably tame for her. You don’t want to know what two Selphids do for fun.”
Moore nodded, his face and ears bright red. He and Seborn headed for the door, and the Drowned Man sighed. It was long-suffering, and for some reason, when Yvlon, sitting at her table, heard it, she felt a strange sense of kinship. Seborn adjusted the door, put his hand on it, and then heard Moore’s voice as the half-Giant leaned down and whispered.
“…So what do they do?”
 
—–
 
Four hundred miles south of the inn, Jelaqua Ivirith was humming as she tried to make breakfast. The large room and kitchen she was working in were strangely oversized for her, and indeed, the building was one of the more expensive buildings on the ninth floor. But then, the owner needed the space, and he was the best or second-best [Blacksmith] in Pallass, so it had been customized for him.
The apartment was decorated in the Dullahan style with the typical mix of refined station, showing your rank without being ostentatious about it. And since Maughin was of very high rank in the Dullahan community and a [Blacksmith] himself—they were prized in Dullahan culture—he could flaunt like no one’s business.
He had two tapestries from Baleros on the walls, one showing the Iron Vanguard in a pitched sea battle, the other of some magnificent view from Baleros. It made Jelaqua ache for home. There was a marble plinth with a carved statuette of Xol of Ingrilt, appropriate given Maughin’s own size—far larger than the average Dullahan but shorter than a typical War Walker; a custom-forged battleaxe; a shelf full of books, made twice as large for him to read; a gloriously artistic platform showcasing the Dullahan’s pottery collection—the apartment was rich.
Jelaqua, looking into the pantries, saw that each one was enchanted with a preservation spell. She whisked together some eggs, poured them into a pan over a stove which had a magical fire spell that Erin would have loved to have, and added some bacon. Her taste buds, still fresh in this particular corpse, watered at the thought of the omelette. But that was only half of what Jelaqua was working on. She was also making a sandwich.
Just a sandwich. The Selphid was well aware of her cooking Skills, but some of the omelette was going to go between some very fine fresh bread, some cheese—uh, what else did you put into sandwiches? She panicked a bit as she tried to remember. Adventurers usually went for sustenance over taste, and Jelaqua often had a body incapable of tasting anything. For a second, she thought about going to Erin’s inn for help, but she caught herself.
“No, no. I’ve got this. You put…meat into sandwiches. Meat. Does he have bananas? Bananas are tasty. And hey—if he doesn’t like it—”
She hesitated. Jelaqua looked around Maughin’s apartment and stared at her hands. She was wearing a Drake’s body. And she was…well, she wasn’t not about to go and deliver a lunch to Maughin, who was working at the forge. And maybe stick around with him. And when he finished early, they’d, oh, go to Erin’s inn maybe. Or he’d show her more of Pallass.
“This is a thing, right? This is happening?”
Jelaqua pinched herself. She felt nothing, which meant she wasn’t dreaming. The Selphid looked around, then craned her neck to see the ruffled bed sheets. She remembered last night and blushed orange.
“This is really happening?”
The Selphid touched her warm cheeks. She was so giddy she didn’t realize the eggs were burning. Then she yelped and began scraping the pan.
A few minutes later, Jelaqua nervously ate her eggs, staring at the vases. She was muttering to herself.
“Vases. He’s got good taste in them. I like pottery. I can like pottery. And we have lots in common. Tons! He’s from Baleros, I’m from Baleros—and we’re both into weapons…he really likes my personality. Aha.”
She laughed and blushed again. Happily, her tail wagging in her Drake body, the Selphid went back to preparing a lunch for Maughin. In the distance, she could hear the distant ringing of hammers through an open window. The forges weren’t far from Maughin’s home for convenience, and as the Selphid sighed and leaned on the window, she imagined it was Maughin’s hammer she was hearing.
She was not wrong. In his forge, Maughin was bending steel with his hammer, working faster and harder than his apprentices or fellow [Smiths] had seen him work in a long time. To say he was motivated didn’t capture the smile on the Dullahan’s lips or the way his head hummed as his body worked independent of it. Two of his Dullahan apprentices traded looks as they worked under his supervision.
Of course, it was a scandal in the Dullahan community. A Selphid and a Dullahan? It was only because this was Pallass and not Baleros that this could happen. Normally, a higher-ranking Dullahan would be called in to address the situation with Maughin, and this would all be settled. Or if not, there would be trouble.
But in Pallass, who would call Maughin out? The Dullahan community was small enough as it was, and there were Dullahans who’d had relationships with Gnolls and Drakes, and that had been an issue in years past. So no one brought it up. Besides, Jelaqua was a Gold-rank adventurer. That counted for something.
It was still disgusting. Bealt, the [Farrier], two Drake [Smiths], and Pelt all glowered when Jelaqua appeared, practically skipping over to Maughin with a lunch ready and made for him. And the other smiths, glowering in their forges, watched as Maughin stopped work to flirt with the Selphid. Disgusting! Completely inappropriate for this hour.
Even married [Smiths] seldom got a fresh lunch hand-delivered. Let alone had a dreamy-eyed girl—or boy in the case of female [Smiths]—watching and keeping his head company at work.
That was only the first few hours of the day. The repulsive flirting would go on, but that wasn’t really the point of the day. It was just worth mentioning that not until nine hours later would Jelaqua even recall her teammates. And when she guiltily returned to the inn, she would thank the stars that she had decided to come to the city of Liscor and stayed at The Wandering Inn. Because it had delivered her happiness. Short-lived or long, she was holding onto it.
 
—–
 
