The Gnoll’s voice was strained, but she was keeping the bar up. Grimalkin nodded. He pulled fifty pounds off each end.
“Give it a try now. Try—three lifts.”
Slowly, exhaling hard, the younger Gnoll did just that. Erin’s and Selys’ jaws dropped as they saw her furry forearms strain and then lift. Once, twice—she was struggling on the third one. Grimalkin barked.
“Push, Ferkr! I want those arms to come up! Yes, yes—”
The third curl came with a growl from Ferkr as her arms shook. Grimalkin plucked the bar off her and slapped her on the back. She staggered and nearly fell over.
“Excellent! That’s what I want to see! And you can feel the muscles working, can’t you, Ferkr? That’s what Miss Solstice calls a maximum repetition. A few of those push your limit while working at lower weights is safer and builds the muscle you want. I imagine these bars can support enough weight to test anyone but Sergeant Relc and I.”
“Yeah. That bar’s harder than the straight one.”
Relc grinned as he pointed at the EZ-bar. Erin just gaped at Grimalkin. Then she looked at Ferkr.
“You’re strong! Wow, are all your apprentices like that? Hi, I’m Erin, by the way.”
She held out a hand, and Ferkr timidly shook it. Grimalkin just snorted.
“Gnolls are stronger than Humans. No—there’s less gender imbalance for their species when it comes to musculature. Historically, female Gnolls led hunting packs. And Ferkr is my apprentice—of course, she’s stronger than normal! As I said, my first Gnoll [Mage] apprentice. I have high expectations of her, but she has to grow some testicles! Perhaps meeting you will help in that regard, Miss Erin.”
He looked sternly at Ferkr, and the Gnoll blushed under her fur. Erin smiled sympathetically at the Gnoll girl, but Selys, who’d been listening in to the conversation while waiting for the last of the Gnolls to come in, blinked.
“Wait a second. I thought Gnolls couldn’t be [Mages]. Isn’t that what they say at Wistram?”
“Yeah. Hold on, that’s what I heard too.”
Relc eyed Ferkr, confused. Ferkr looked up, and her mouth opened, but Grimalkin spoke first.
“Hah! I don’t know how that narrative spread, but it’s completely false. Unfortunately, it’s so widespread that Gnolls don’t become [Mages]! Can you imagine? There are countless precedents in history of Gnoll [Mages]—true, their race tends towards [Shamanism], but that’s just proof they can handle magic! Somehow some idiot started the rumor at Wistram, and now Gnolls don’t believe they can become [Mages]—so many don’t! It’s one of those popular narratives that impedes an entire race’s magical potential. Disgraceful!”
He barked the word right over Ferkr’s ear, and she winced. So did Erin—Grimalkin delivered everything at a shout or roar. She looked over her shoulder at Temile on stage, and the [Stage Manager] waved his arms at her in a ‘go away, please’ kind of signal.
“Uh, yeah. About that—why don’t we take this outside? Grimalkin, I love that you’re here, and I want to talk with you. But there’s other people coming through. Ooh—Selys! Your guests are all here!”
“I see that. Talk to you later, Erin!”
Selys slipped away and trotted towards the Gnolls ready to help Krshia. Grimalkin looked around and then at Ferkr and Relc. Some of the guests at the nearby tables glared at the muscle [Mage] as they held their hands over their ears. Grimalkin returned the glares with an impervious glance, but he did nod.
“Hm. This is crowded. Let’s take this outside. Sergeant Relc, Ferkr, I want to do some tests so I can see what the right posture is for all of this. I have a bench in my bag of holding, and Miss Solstice can show us some grips.”
“Awesome. And hey—good luck, Miss Ferkr! I hope you can get that [Mage] class!”
Relc rubbed his claws together as he started for the doors. Grimalkin raised his eyebrows.
“Hope? What do you mean? She’s already a [Mage]. Level 6.”
Relc stopped in his tracks. He stared at Grimalkin, then at Ferkr. The Gnoll was smiling.
“What? No. Really?”
“That’s r—”
“That’s right. A Level 6 [Mage]. I told you it was just a myth. She’s got a long way to go to pass my classes, but she works harder than half my Drake and Dullahan slackers. I have every hope that she’ll head to this Meeting of the Tribes the Gnolls are having and put an end to this nonsense. I could use more Gnoll apprentices. They have a foundation of muscle and exercise in the plains that many Drakes lack.”
Grimalkin nodded. He strode past Relc, holding the weights bar. The [Guardsman] gaped at Ferkr. She just smiled and followed her master out the door. So went the Muscle Mage of Pallass. And Erin, waving in Xif and Rufelt and Lasica, who’d come early, narrowed her eyes and tried to chuckle evilly. She failed.
 
—–
 
The inn was crowded. People were coming in, including the best [Alchemist] in the city, Xif. Rufelt and Lasica, a power couple, even Watch Captain Venim was hanging around the door on Pallass’ side, keeping order. It was as busy as yesterday! But Erin was content to let the chaos be chaos. She had a purpose, so she headed right back to Grimalkin, who was outdoors. Only one thing stopped her.
Octavia. Erin found the [Alchemist] sitting at a table in the corner, nursing a drink and staring around at the filled inn with wide eyes. Erin stopped at her table guiltily. She’d forgotten Octavia was here. The [Alchemist] hadn’t come down for breakfast; it had only been a day since Erin had marshaled Grimalkin, Relc, and the others to help her after Numbtongue and Yellow Splatters had beaten down the [Thugs] extorting her. She’d put Octavia up in one of her rooms, but in all the fuss, she’d forgotten the Stitch-girl existed.
Until now. Erin made her way to Octavia and smiled.
“Hey, Octavia—how’s it going? Sorry I didn’t check in on you this morning. You, uh, got breakfast?”
The [Alchemist] jumped. She looked up at Erin and smiled as she pushed a dreadlock back. Her dark skin was still pale, and she was…subdued. Normal Octavia was a chatterbox and a sales magnet. This Octavia was just quiet.
“No problem, Erin. I appreciate you putting me up. Really. Your inn’s…full. It’s open to Pallass? That’s amazing!”
“Yup! We’re selling a lot! And there are tons of people! Hey! We could get some of them to check out your shop later! But don’t go around making deals right now!”
Erin laughed. Octavia didn’t. She shook her head.
“I won’t. I learned my lesson already. Don’t worry about me, Erin.”
The [Innkeeper]’s face fell. That really wasn’t normal Octavia at all. She hesitated and then scanned the room for someone. She spotted Xif watching a play. Good, he was here and interested in the [Actors]. She’d have had to get him otherwise.
“Hey, don’t worry about it. Look, I feel awful about what happened. We’ll get your shop up and running and see about guarding it or something—just give me a little bit! You sit back and have something to eat and drink! On the house! There’s a play on—I’ll be back soon, okay?”
Octavia just nodded quietly. Erin frowned, worried, and pushed Octavia up her to-help list. But right now, she had only one target in mind. And she found him outside pumping iron and steel.
“Grimalkin!”
The Drake was watching Relc lift the weights bar, having him adjust his hands and comment on how hard it was. To the side, Ferkr was doing curl-ups with the barbells Grimalkin had ordered. Erin saw Ferkr was doing it from various postures. She stopped, impressed. Grimalkin looked exactly like a gym instructor, albeit even huger than they were. And while Relc had poor posture—he just seemed to enjoy the fun of weight lifting—Grimalkin and Ferkr both had perfect form.
“Ah, Miss Solstice. You’re here. Good. Can you tell me what the proper technique is for these weights? I think we have the standard down, but any unique positions or lifts would be appreciated. I was interested to see those squats and lunges you showed me. Anything you could add would be appreciated; I’m making a routine. I want to be able to use these weights to train every muscle group possible. Arms, legs, and the core you mentioned.”
Grimalkin turned immediately to Erin, as serious as could be. Erin blinked, but she nodded.
“Sure! I don’t know everything…or much, because I didn’t really work out, but I remember some things. Uh, a lunge—can I use the bar without weights? Thanks. A lunge looks like this, I think. And I saw a dude put a weight on his chest and do sit-ups with it once—”
The muscle [Mage] snapped his claws.
“Of course! Keep going, keep going.”
He watched as Erin clumsily showed him all the lifts she knew, then took the bar, added some weights, and executed flawless versions of her clumsy demonstrations before letting Relc and Ferkr try.
The [Sinew Magus] seemed to know what muscles each workout affected almost instinctively. Erin supposed that was appropriate given his class, but she was very impressed nonetheless. After nearly half an hour of running through exercises, Erin wiped off sweat from her brow and grinned at Grimalkin.
“Hey! That was a workout! And I was just showing you how to do stuff! This’ll be great for your classes, huh?”
“My classes and Pallass’ army if I have my way.”
Grimalkin gave Erin an authoritative nod, which bothered her a tiny bit. She coughed.
“Well, yeah. But you don’t have to do that with the entire army, right? I mean, you’re just going to propose it—”
Ferkr looked up, blinking in surprise as she did a deadlift with Relc watching. Grimalkin’s brows shot up as well.
“Propose it? Miss Erin, I don’t think you understand. I just have to come up with a proper regimen and put in the proper paperwork. Then the [Soldiers] will be working out with these weights.”
Erin blinked.
“Wait—but isn’t that for, like, [Generals] to decide? Or [Strategists]?”
“Perhaps in other cities. But I’ve established myself as the expert in the field of fitness and training. If a Pallassian [General] wants to argue with me, I’ll happily slap sense into their skull. I know my business, and I do have a formal rank.”
Grimalkin folded his arms. Erin gaped at him, but Relc chortled.
“What’s the surprise, Erin? Grimalkin’s Pallass’ best [Mage]! Right? I bet he’s fought in the army—they’ve definitely tried to conscript him. If he’s not on bad terms with the army, they’ll give him a rank. Otherwise, he has to take orders from every two-copper [Lieutenant]. That’s how Drakes do these things.”
“Exactly.”
The [Sinew Magus] nodded. Erin gulped. Introducing weights to an entire Walled City’s army? Okay, that wasn’t part of the plan, but…she grinned weakly at Grimalkin.
“Well, that’s just great. I, uh, I’m glad I could help out!”
“Of course. And I’m delighted for the aid you’ve given me, Miss Erin. Truly. I’ll repay you for all this information—no, for revolutionizing fitness in Pallass!—as soon as I can ascertain how much this is all worth. I will repay my dues. But I’ve taken three days out of my schedule, and I think it’s time to get down to the business of trialing these weights on my students. Ferkr, pack up. We’re heading back to Pallass. Sergeant Relc, thank you for your help.”
“Aw, you’re packing up already? And it’s Relc, not Sergeant. I quit the army. Can I keep a barbell at least?”
Relc whined as Ferkr obediently began packing the weights into her bag of holding. Grimalkin smiled.
“I’m afraid not. But I’ll invite you to the first weights…room? Weights arena? Ah, what did you call it, Miss Erin? Gymnasium. I’ll certainly invite you over. And to give a demonstration of real strength to my apprentices!”
He shook Relc’s hand briskly and tossed one of the heavier weights into his own bag of holding. Erin stared at him in horror.
“You’re going back? Already?”
“That’s right. We’ve gotten the exercises down—unless you’ve recalled some more? I must leave a message at the [Mage]’s Guild. Miss Solstice, if you have any more details on the weights or new techniques, send me a [Message] and I will pay for sending and receiving!”
Grimalkin turned eagerly back to Erin. She hesitated.
“No…but hold on! The day’s just getting started! Why don’t you come in? Have a drink? I have fresh pizza, milkshakes—the play’s on! Your apprentice should really see it!”
Ferkr perked up her ears at all the new and exciting words, but Grimalkin just grimaced.
“I suppose I could look around. What did you say you made? A milk…?”
Erin smiled in relief and rushed back into the inn. She grabbed a milkshake that Ishkr was bringing around on trays and rushed it over to Grimalkin.
“And they’re doing Pygmalion on stage! Look! They’re singing and—”
“Shh!”
A furious crowd shushed her. Erin lowered her voice and meekly stepped to the back of the room. Grimalkin sniffed the milkshake and tasted it with a forked tongue.
“Sugar and milk. Cold. I can see this being used to build fat if I was emaciated. But otherwise? Don’t drink it, Ferkr.”
He shook his head, and Ferkr drooped as she sniffed hers. Relc looked delighted.
“Ooh, if you don’t want it, I’ll take it!”
Grimalkin silently passed his drink to Relc, and the [Sergeant] took a gulp and savored his. Erin hesitated as well. Grimalkin was staring at the play, listening to the Drake actress—being lectured by a furious Dr. Higgins played by a Gnoll—try to imitate a British accent. That alone was hilarious on a number of levels, but Grimalkin just nodded once.
“I see. I see.”
“Numbtongue’s also going to perform later. And, uh, there’s Liscor as well! The Antinium are building the inn—I can get you pizza, drinks—look, Rufelt’s helping with the bar! Come on, take a seat!”
Erin was looking at the door to Pallass. She needed to turn it to Celum for a tiny bit, and she was dreading the fight, but getting Grimalkin relaxed came first. But the [Sinew Magus] just kept looking around, and then—he shook his head.
“Mhm. Fascinating. Plays. Food. Unhealthy food. Hobgoblin. I can see dismantling organized crime in Celum. That was entertaining. As for the rest—do you have any more weights to show me?”
He turned brusquely to Erin. The [Innkeeper] wavered, caught off-guard. She looked around her inn.
“N-no?”
“Excellent. Then I’m done here. Goodbye.”
Grimalkin strode towards the door, beckoning Ferkr, who was entranced by the display. Erin ran after him, panicked. This wasn’t part of the plan!
“Wait! Wait, wait—you can’t leave! Stay and relax a bit!”
Grimalkin paused, sighed, and turned back to Erin. He wasn’t unfriendly—just as straightforward as ever. He didn’t mince words as he gestured at the door to Pallass.
