She took a sip of her drink, which was mostly water since the ice had melted, and sighed. Teresa shrugged, glowering at Colth’s name.
“Well, yeah. I think he tried to talk the Pedagogia into a one-night stand.”
Ceria sprayed the drink out into the surf and started laughing. She rolled around, spilling her drink everywhere, then got up. And when she looked at Teresa, it was respectfully.
“Okay, Colth deserves his title as Colth the Eternal Virgin. He cannot do romance. But you—there’s a world where you join the Horns of Hammerad, Teresa. Pisces or not. You’re a bit stupid and impulsive and reckless…but Yvlon’s everything you could be and so much worse. If you’re not afraid of dying or losing a limb, I’ll take you. And honestly—after that first night? You could have won Pisces over.”
For a second, the young woman hesitated, as if Ceria’s amazing sales pitch had actually swayed her. Then she turned away and shook her head. She blushed in the darkness, but sounded pleased and grateful for some reason.
“—I like Reim. I like Flos too much, even if he is a monster in the history books. I want to be part of this—just better. As for Pisces, I didn’t want to feel like I rushed him into anything. He’s hurt. I get that. Like I said to him—I want to be needed, you know? I want to make a difference.”
“The sword makes a lot of differences, forever.”
The [Cryomancer] had gone cold again, but towards everything. She pointed a finger at her face.
“So does my class. It just feels like if you wanted to make people happier—”
Teresa shook her head reflexively.
“Non-combat classes can’t stop people like Flos or the Emperor of Sands, no matter what people say about their soft power. The best of the Seven who never fought was Drevish, and they sent his head in a box. I want to protect people. And kill people who deserve it. I almost wish Reim needed me…”
She sighed wistfully, and an idea popped into Ceria’s head. The half-Elf’s eyes lit up, and she ran it over and through the circlet. This wasn’t one prompted by intelligence alone; the circlet thought it was a really stupid idea. But this was a Ceria-thought, based on her friendship with Erin and the inn. Teresa was kicking at the sand.
“Maybe the Quarass will have an idea or…”
They sat, watching people on the bay admiring the glowing fishies, and in the distance, Ceria saw a flicker of light. She raised her head, casually, and pointed.
“Oh. More ships heading to the New Lands? Is that Reim?”
Teres half nodded, distracted.
“Yeah. It took so long because Flos had to negotiate safe passage and ships for his troops. Lots of people from other nations have already landed. See how they don’t have our flag up? Flos wants them to mingle with the other colonists and, uh, just find him dungeons and explore the place. He’s mad because everyone else has the jump on us and are settling land.”
“And dying thanks to the magic-less ground thing. And the shitty growing.”
Teres’ head snapped around.
“The what?”
“Nevermind!”
The half-Elf had forgotten that other people didn’t have reliable intelligence from the New Lands. The half-Elves and Drowned Folk were keeping things close to their chests, but Mrsha had talked to Ylawes’ team. Ceria rolled into the surf to distract Teresa; when it washed her onto the beach, she coughed and saw Teresa standing there.
“Izril sounds like fun. Your team is fun. Chandrar is grand and old; I wonder what Trey and I would have been if we’d appeared on Izril or Terandria?”
“Oh, you’d have fit in with the Humans. You’d be boring. Chandrar has multiple species who intermix. Half-Elves, Dwarves, and Humans are all Terandria’s got. And we keep to ourselves, mostly.”
Teresa smiled at that.
“And Izril?”
“Mean, greedy Drakes, brave, loyal Drakes. Gnolls who can be standoffish and weird or generous, and Antinium. Scary bugs with hearts like children. New Lands filled with danger and things no one’s dreamed of. Dangerous as hell, the Crossroads especially.”
Ceria glanced up, and Teres’ eyes shone as she stared into the distance. At the ships, at something her imagination caught fire from. Ceria lay there for a moment—and then a smile crept over her face.
That bastard broke my circlet. I never figured out how to pay him back for it.
Slowly, menacingly, Ceria rose to her feet, and Teres regarded her, sensing the half-Elf’s intentions or, perhaps, just seeing her smile. Teres put a hand on her sword’s hilt, but Ceria just raised her hands.
“Hey, Teresa. You know, I’m pretty sure Gazi’s on that boat.”
She pointed to one where a terrified Nawalishifra was rocking it as Trey and Gazi and Minizi tried to keep it steady. Teres frowned.
“So?”
“She can’t swim. She’s too heavy in armor. And she’s not that fast—for the Seven. There’s no one else around except some lower-level soldiers as an escort. If you wanted to, you could run.”
“She’d catch me. You can’t outrun Gazi’s eyes.”
Teres folded her arms, but her eyes lit up slightly, and she followed Ceria’s gaze. The half-Elf smiled as she pointed at something else in the distance. A dark sail and the lights of flashing deck-lanterns communicating with Hraace’s harbor.
“I bet they’re on a one-way trip. No time to turn around, and you’re still Flos’ vassal.”
Teres went still. She glanced at Ceria, and the half-Elf thought she wouldn’t buy the plan, but instead, Teres just shook her head slightly.
“It’s got to be thousands of feet out of the bay. Even with my new ability, I can’t reach it before it pulls out of harbor.”
Ceria began giggling. When Teresa Atwood looked at her, the [Cryomancer] bent down. She threw up. Then she wiped her mouth, and her eyes glittered.
“Teresa, you’re speaking to the one [Mage] who can catch anything at sea. Tell me—do you want to go on an adventure?”
The young woman stood there, hair blowing in the wind. She watched the half-Elf, who raised a skeletal hand to hers. Then to the open sea.
“Do you have a pen and paper? I need to write a message.”
 
——
 
That night, a ship slowed as it left Hraace’s harbor, hugging the coast before entering the open sea. A commotion at the harbor interrupted the polite messages between the ship, Nelgaunt’s Folly, and the harbor.
Distant shouting, practically inaudible over the creak of the ship and the wind and surf. No one on deck paid much attention. The soldiers and colonists were trying to see the famous Lady Gazi Pathseeker before they headed out. They were mostly asleep when there was a crunching sound—the temperature dropped—and someone shouted an alarm.
“Ice? Iceberg!”
When the passengers raced onto the open deck, they saw their ship was trapped. The water around them had turned to ice. The [Captain] spun the wheel futilely, calling to the wary soldiers.
“We’re under attack! [Mages]! Unless it’s some kind of ice monster? Get the axes and free the ship!”
Before anyone could move, someone pointed.
“Look! The ice spell’s coming from the harbor!”
Indeed, a solid line of ice was stretching out from the bay. It was like a vast hand of ice had reached out across the waters and snared the ship. The surprised crew came to the sides, and one of the [Mages] lifted a finger to their head.
“Incoming message! From—Lady Pathseeker herself! She demands we free the ship and refuse to take…Lady Teresa Atwood on board? And to ‘shoot that half-Elf’?”
Everyone turned to look at him, before someone pointed. That was how they saw the final passenger heading for the New Lands.
Teresa Atwood had a pack on her back, barely more than a few possessions, and she was running over the ice, so fast that she left a spray of frost behind her. Someone was skating next to her, exchanging a volley of ice spells with a furious Gazer.
Ceria Springwalker was laughing. Bows rose on the deck, but the leader of Reim’s soldiers raised a hand.
“Hold.”
“But Lady Pathseeker’s orders are—”
The commander of Reim’s soldiers took one look at the mad Gold-ranked adventurer leaping off the frozen waves, turning the water to ice as she skated next to Teresa.
“She’ll sink our ship if we engage her. That’s a Mage of Wistram and a Gold-rank adventurer. Prepare to receive Lady Atwood.”
Someone found a ladder. Now, Teresa was almost at the ship, and at the far end of the ice bridge, a furious figure was running as fast as she could. But Gazi Pathseeker was too slow; Ceria was cutting the ice bridge’s magic, turning it back to water, and a short Golem made of sand was trying to slow Gazi by clinging to her legs.
“Trey!”
Teresa vaulted onto the decks in one movement and whirled. She shouted back the way she’d come at a figure on the beach. But the distant [Mage] just raised a staff and fired a single [Light Arrow] into the sky. Then a dozen, the arrows spiraling up. The arrows exploded, and Teres realized they weren’t [Light Arrows] after all. They were made of glass, filled with light, and they exploded in the sky, sending trails of glowing glass and magic raining down…
Like fireworks. Teresa leaned over the railing as people flocked to her, asking what was going on.
“Teresa! Want me to grab Trey if I can? My team and I can probably take Gazi out!”
Ceria skated past the soldiers, aiming bows at her as the boat began to break free of the rapidly melting ice. But Teresa just called back, a laugh in her tone.
“No, he doesn’t want to go. That stupid prat’s got a crush on Gazi!”
The [Captain] missed a step going down the deck and crashed onto the planks. Ceria’s cackle of laughter was followed by her blowing a kiss.
“Good luck! Tell Flos this is my revenge. And have fun! Level or die!”
In response, Teres drew her sword. She saluted Ceria, and the [Cryomancer] skated away. Then the ship continued, even as the [Captain] tried to argue with Teresa. But she was the King of Destruction’s foremost servant here, and they were already on their way.
That was how Teresa Atwood left Chandrar for a time. When she stood at the prow of the ship, staring ahead and glancing over her shoulder, even the enraged Gazi had to admit—
Even from far away, she looked happier. And free.
 
——
 
“Let all those who hold chains—beware! You wouldn’t stop me from freeing Teres to go on an adventure, would you, Gazi? Not you, hm? Huh?”
Ceria was getting full of herself, so none of her team stopped Gazi from kicking the half-Elf back into the water by the time she skated back. But Pisces couldn’t help but feel like he’d seen something positive, Ceria’s part in it aside.
“I hope she runs into Larracel or someone nice out there. It’ll be good for the kid.”
Colth commented as Yvlon stared at the departing ship. The [Armsmistress] sighed.
“You realize that we could be on that ship.”
“Yeah, but we have to get Pisces’ friends back. And…other things. Like the sword.”
Yvlon nodded, but the Horns followed that distant ship with their eyes for a while. Gazi resheathed her sword and finally kicked Minizi off her legs. She glowered at Trey, but with no real rancor in her expression.
He was smiling wanly as well, still waving a hand at his sister. Gazi growled at Ceria, who squeezed water out of her hair and sodden robes.
“Well, His Majesty shall know of this, Ceria Springwalker. We shall see if he prizes you as much after this or orders me to teach you a lesson. Myself, though, I shall be glad when you are gone and out of my responsibilities.”
With that somewhat ominous statement, she whirled and stalked off. The Horns exchanged a look as the ships returned to shore. The Mentorship was entertained as much as everyone else, and the Earthers were asking Ceria to do that again so they could skate.
Nawal just rolled off a boat and lay on the ground, shaking, ignoring Elena’s attempts to help her up.
“I…I would like to not do that again.”
She was more afraid of the water than anything else. The group moved past her, mostly heading to their beds, as Gazi’s eyes rolled up in her head and she grabbed Trey, dragging him away.
“You shall deliver the news, Trey. Cast [Scrying]…”
The Horns were standing around, asking Ceria what had prompted the decision aside from spite and a spur-of-the-moment thought, when Elena walked over.
“Hey, guys—Ceria, you’re a mess. You need a bath and shampoo before your hair stiffens with all that salt. Can I do anything for you all tonight?”
She kept doing the same thing as the Mentorship, and Pisces was awkward about it, but Yvlon and Colth were more used to it. Yvlon raised one arm, grimacing.
“I think I have algae growing on my arms. I can’t get it off. Can you find some kind of cleaner?”
Colth nodded.
“And we’re mostly training tomorrow, I think. Same old. See if you can book the Pedagogia; I’m hoping to ask her questions about other nations.”
Elena noted this all down as Nawal tried to get to her feet. She stumbled after them as the Horns slowed to let her catch up. They passed by a figure sitting on the ground, a young boy, who waved at them.
“Excuse me, Horns of Hammerad? This way, please!”
“No more activities tonight, thanks. Unless any of you are down?”
Colth called out with an airy wave of the hand. Pisces glanced at Ceria, who demurred.
“Hot bath and more drinks. Elena, you can do my hair, but only if we get in one of those bubbling magic hot tubs. With a drink.”
The [Beautician] chuckled.
“You can twist my arm.”
They strolled on as the boy waved at them.
“No! Horns of Hammerad? With me, please!”
They ignored him; plenty of the Hraacians were keen to get their attention because the Horns got most activities for free, but they also tipped well. Pisces was trying to explain the undead thing.
“Listen, it’s not sexual, the Erin undead. I just thought of something that could take Flos on and—well, I must have thought of her. It’s not an exact copy of her, either! That would be suboptimal.”
Everyone looked at him. Yvlon’s mouth opened and closed.
“Pisces. Why would you lead with that disclaimer?”
“I’ve had allegations made—”
Colth patted him on the shoulder.
“No one cares, Pisces. What I want to know is how does a single Erin-fetish-undead stop Doubte? Focus your energies on a better undead.”
Ceria nodded, face deadpan.
“Yeah! Like Draugr Erin or Skeleton Lord Erin.”
“I was struck by pure inspiration! Once I get enough Stellar Ivory, you can see—”
Yvlon’s grip on his shoulder intensified.
“Pisces. I don’t want to see whatever you think of her. I think the [Thought Healers] need to sit down with you tomorrow. And you definitely need to get this out of your head before we meet up with Ksmvr and Vofea. They’re too young for this.”
“It is not untoward at all!”
The Silver Killer folded her arms with a doubtful glare.
