The [Necromancer] stared up at the sky. Pieces of bone and dust followed a tiny, glowing object—the trail of debris following the weapon that had blown through the Skeleton Giant’s head.
Then the shockwave that had hit him blew the rest of the Skeleton Giant apart. Pisces’ mouth stayed open as the thrown sword halted in the air and zoomed back slower. It dropped down, and the Hero of Zethe caught it. He landed, bringing the sword down on the bone circle.
It exploded with a shower of bones and death magic. Doubte swept his sword around, destroying the circle, and then sheathed the blade. He looked at Pisces, as bones began raining down, and Pisces recognized those iconic pink eyes and remembered Doubte from the ship voyage.
A femur landed on his shoulder, and he flinched. Doubte flicked his eyes around—at the staring Teres, sword raised, Ceria, who was still gaping at the supersonic sword trail in the air, and the Heromakers of Hraace.
He turned to the people watching in the distance and grimaced. Before the cheering could start, before anyone said a word, Doubte strode over, grabbed Yvlon’s arm, and raised it into the air with his sword. By the time people had come running to cheer Yvlon and ask what the hell had happened, he was gone.
 
——
 
Pisces was nursing a lump on his head along with the bruise on his shoulder and his wounded ego. The bump came from his team hitting him.
They’d been clearing up bones and apologizing all morning, and the Hraacians were largely forgiving. It seemed like accidents in training were common, even if Pisces was on the far end of that scale.
What kept the Horns distracted, though, was Hraace’s guest. When they finally got a moment to talk, after the bone cleanup was mostly done, Colth grabbed them and hissed.
“That’s the Hero of Zethe. He’s supposed to be dead. He’s probably one of the most influential people on this continent, and his name is—”
“Doubte. We’ve met.”
Colth stopped, a look of naked surprise on his face, for once. Ceria elaborated.
“On Sand at Sea, when Fetohep took us to fight the Drakes. He was there.”
“He was? I never saw him on the scrying orb.”
“Guy’s good at hiding. He certainly made it look like Yvlon took the Bone Giant out. What the heck was that? Did he just throw his sword so fast it created a shockwave?”
Pisces nodded rapidly, still shaken.
“I—I object to that as well as spellbooks not listing the possible dangers of altering simple animation spells! Swords are not that aerodynamic!”
“You’re just not throwing them hard enough. That’s a [Hero] for you. The [Hero] of this era and the last one. The others don’t even come close, even the [Clown].”
Yvlon frowned at Colth, and he bit his lip. He was shaken, though he was trying to act cool.
“He’s a monster. Definitely over Level 50. Why’s he here?”
“He’s asking the Pedagogia about something. I walked in on him, and he was asking me not to tell anyone he was here. I think he’s trying to keep a low profile.”
“That’s low?”
Yvlon shrugged at Pisces, whose voice was higher pitched than usual.
“He must have thought it was a critical threat. We can certainly ask him what he’s about.”
“Carefully!”
Colth interjected urgently. He was both excited and worried and scratched at his back as if it were itching.
“Dead gods, between Jaganismet, the Quarass, the King of Destruction, and the Hero of Zethe, we’ve run into practically every major threat in the north! But what makes you think he’s coming back or even wants to chat with you, Yvlon? No offense, but he ranks above most Named-ranks.”
It was their captain, Ceria, who replied, steadiest of them all, with that wide grin that said she knew something crazy was about to happen. She fixed Pisces and Yvlon with a considering eye before nodding, turning to Colth.
“Because we knew each other from Sand at Sea, Colth. That’s worth something. I also bet he has opinions on a team that might have a [Hero]. From what I know of him—he’s not a big fan of more people with his class. And last of all? We’ve got his sword.”
Everyone turned to Yvlon, who did indeed have Doubte’s sword buckled at her waist. After a moment, she drew it. It was a bastard sword with a black hilt of polished stone and a long, bright blade that made Colth sigh.
“If he doesn’t come back, can I have it? That’s mithril metal and, what, Chemath Marble for the handle? It’s got to be unwieldy!”
“It’s balanced perfectly. I wonder what enchantment it has.”
Yvlon murmured, swinging the sword carefully. Pisces held his hands out.
“Let me hold it.”
“No, me! I’ve gotta chop something down with it.”
Ceria grabbed at the handle and tried swinging it; everyone ducked, and she accidentally hit the wall of the tent with the blade. Instantly, there was a tearing sound, and the Horns of Hammerad threw themselves flat as something cut around the edge of the tent, where the tip of the blade had struck.
The entire top of the tent tore upwards, and Colth picked himself up as Yvlon seized the blade.
“[Mighty Cleaving] enchantment. Dead gods, the first time I’ve seen that. Let me try to cut the surf in half with it.”
“No, my turn—”
 
——
 
Doubte of Zethe had a headache. Partly from the stress of nearly being revealed, the words the Pedagogia had had about his daughter and son—but mostly about the Horns of Hammerad.
He’d just watched them chop the waves up with his sword for the last hour and hadn’t found a moment to get his blade back. He sat, hoping no one recognized the famous blade’s enchantment, as the Pedagogia finished hearing a report from Delitandra.
“It seems even Pisces did not understand the necromancy he was working. We shall leave it at that; it is proof, if nothing else, the Horns have potential. Though to alter a basic spell so powerfully…be certain no one else ever mentored in death magic does the same.”
Chastened, Delitandra bowed, and Doubte leaned over; they were having an outdoor banquet. He had barely touched the rich food they’d put out for him, and he had his hood up and was deflecting attention from himself as hard as he could.
It was working, ironically thanks to the Horns and Earthers, who were trooping back to the tables to eat. He spoke in a low voice.
“It may be fundamental, how he changed the spell, but no ordinary [Necromancer] could simply create a natural death’s door, Pedagogia. The world resists such changes. He must have a Skill with authority over death in some way.”
“Really. That would do it?”
Even Araxia didn’t know everything, a fact Doubte well knew, and she raised her brows. He nodded tightly.
“Authority matters far more than merely controlling undead. The world acknowledges him in some way. He is dangerous. I have eradicated natural death’s doors before. Left unchecked, that could create a threat any Named-rank adventurer would struggle to halt.”
“Just as well I foretold his team would become important, then.”
The Pedagogia’s voice was smug. It struck a nerve in Doubte as he reached for a giant shrimp, and he had to hold the piece of meat gently to avoid crushing it between his fingers. She acted as he imagined her, and much like his own handlers, with that all-knowing tone of voice…
Araxia’s glance was sharper, though, than Dolaa’s or Teombirthez’s had ever been, and Doubte’s face was too slow to school to impassiveness.
“Ah, I forget myself in front of my esteemed guest. Your distrust of Hraace and our ways is in the sand of your soul itself, Doubte. What can I do to earn this trust? If not for you, then for your children you hope to place in my care?”
He tried to smile at her, naturally, and feared she was as good a dissembler as any of the old monarchs had been. He’d met many; it felt like the newer generation was blunter, quicker to act, though.
The King of Destruction had cut a bloody swathe through rulers who had gotten to where they were by cunning diplomacy and sharpened knives employed sparingly. They had all been under the mercy of Terandrian rule after the last crusades…even the Quarass, who remained sharp and insightful as she had been, had struck him as grandly complacent. He’d remembered her daughter, too, who had not been fit to be the next Quarass, full of ego and treachery.
The new Quarass was more vicious than the other two, and more active as well. As for Hraace? In his day, it had been in disgrace, even more than now; they had raised two [Heroes] to fight Terandrians, and both had died. This Pedagogia was at least more successful than her predecessors.
“If I am…wary, Pedagogia, it is only due to my desire to be anonymous. I am well aware of Hraace’s abilities. I would be content to place my son and daughter into your care, and offer you fitting remuneration for your services.”
She tapped her lips, then picked up a plantain with chopsticks she adeptly wielded and munched on it delicately.
“So you said. You would pay us. This is the first thing we must settle, Doubte, for you know we take little payment.”
“Given that I would ask so much…”
“We teach whom we please, as we see fit. If I read your words, Hero Doubte, you would envision yourself in Hraace, doubtless mentoring your son and daughter as we teach them. It is impolite for me to say this bluntly, but no; that would be a disaster. We would have no authority beyond what you allowed, and you would never let them become what we know they can be.”
“[Heroes], you mean?”
The question came out smoothly, but Doubte’s hand, buried beneath the carpet, crushed sand in his grip. The Pedagogia chewed, swallowed, and drank from a cup.
“Not necessarily. I would judge both, but the children of [Heroes] seldom rise to the same class, except to carry the mantle. We shall not hope for that with you, obviously, but my studies indicate they make for poor [Heroes] in many cases, regardless.”
“Warriors, then, or great leaders. I know what Hraace teaches. They are my children. I do not want them thrust into such roles.”
“We do not do it against their will.”
“But you train them for that role—just as I was trained to mine. I will pay your price for you to give their abilities an outlet, to let them master their strengths, and in return…”
She was shaking her head. Not without pity, but Araxia leaned over as the Horns saw whom she was talking to and halted. Ceria waved; Doubte ignored the Horns as they sat down. This conversation was warded, but he lowered his voice anyways. Araxia did not.
“No, Hero Doubte. As I said, it would be a disaster. You are overprotective of them. I see it; it is a fatherly thing to do, but I do not let [Generals] nor [Kings] interfere with my training. Indeed, if I agree to this, I will insist your offspring come to Hraace now, with no delays. It may be over late as it is.”
“My eldest daughter is sixteen. She has plenty of time—”
“It is too late, Hero Doubte, to instill humility in her, to ground her expectations in the world and herself. Too late to make her a proper, well-adjusted person instead of a contained whirlwind in a too-small bottle. Which is what I do know, from my studies and what I see. Your son you describe as even worse, but the two are clearly bursting to become adventurers, to prove they are the son and daughter of Doubte. Doubte, the Hero of Zethe! They wish for glory, and you know as well as I how it will come to them and change them before they regret it.”
The words were sharp, pointed, and struck him in the heart. He bit one lip as Araxia went on brutally.
“I know your tale, I know how poorly you were used. You do not want that for your children? Good! But you did not raise them as I would have.”
“I kept them away from anyone who knew them. I taught them in a safe, secluded place—”
“Where they never met a peer! Where they knew your story and grew up dreaming of what might be theirs! You planted ambition in them, Doubte! Almost better to let them grow in the lap of luxury and become jaded to it. It would have been best if they had peers they can respect. Tell me, in this village you refuse to name—do they have friends? Equals? Or do they look down on the children who cannot compare with them in any meaningful way?”
Silence. Araxia picked another plantain.
“I am not basing this off of first-hand experience, but literal accounts in books, Hero Doubte. I will take them and try to teach them, but it will be difficult, and I must do it alone.”
“I cannot agree to that. I do not trust you.”
He grated, and she raised her brows patiently.
“Yet you come to me. Which implies you are so desperate because you are losing control and you have nowhere else to turn. What happens when they begin to run away?”
“They cannot…I will look after them.”
“Even a [Hero] cannot be everywhere. Consider what happens if one of them were to speak your name and let your nation, or any nation, realize your daughter is roaming about with some of your talent.”
He did consider that in his darkest dreams. Doubte tried to change subjects, to buy time. Just like he had once studied strategy, then been forced to employ it with living, breathing people who died and moved like puppets under his command.
Hero of Zethe, the boy who’d first cleared the mines, then slain Zethe’s enemies, led armies against their foes…then seen foes within and led rebellion against the rulers. He had watched his nation splinter, succumb to infighting, and rescued it time and time again without ever desiring to rule. Each time he tried to step away, they needed him, and men and women died without his action and cursed his name for failing them.
Until it was too much. Until he had to break or flee and pretend he was dead.
He had bled a thousand bodies’ worth of ichor into the sand, taken more scars than he could heal, even with the greatest potions. He had been used by people he trusted, knifed in the back by almost everyone he had loved and known. He had stained his hands black with gore killing enemies, only to realize he perpetuated misery.
And they wanted to give that burden to more?
“You named a [Hero] among the Horns of Hammerad. Why?”
“I foretold one appearing. Not created.”
She held up a finger, and Doubte growled.
“It is a terrible burden.”
“I know.”
Her eyes. He avoided them, but couldn’t help it. Araxia’s voice was clear and, against his will, he thought, as honest as her thoughts.
