That had pretty much established their relationship in the first hour, and Ceria had only made it worse by antagonizing the boy’s pride at every turn.
Anyways, they were midway through the second day and passing down the coastline as Buler shouted.
“Honorable Horns of Hammerad—and Ceria—we are skirting the lands of New Khelt, for a mighty [Vizir] rules there and will stop even Reizue’s Dream in his arrogance! If you look down, you will see the Ekhot Straits, a dry land populated by few oases. It is not as hard to cross as the great desert, but caravans would beware straying from the known routes.”
He was acting as a tour guide, and Pisces glanced down and saw the ground was indeed…dry. And flat. And dusty. The oasis was a tiny thing from above, a patch of darker sand and a bit of green in a deathtrap for anyone going through it on foot.
Pisces didn’t envy that kind of travel. Reizue’s Dream really was a luxury; they might fear aerial threats, but Buler was sharp and had good reflexes, and they were fast. On the ground, you had to deal with the heat, terrain, monsters, thirst, and—
“Uh oh. Bandits.”
Colth pointed out a commotion at the oasis before anyone else. Buler changed track, avoiding it.
“Indeed! It seems another caravan falls prey to attackers. This one…may have come from Nerrhavia’s Fallen, heading north. Ambushes near watering holes are common.”
As they approached, the Horns saw a tangled trail of pack animals in a long line and the glints of swords and even a [Fireball] as people fought. They were too high up, but Buler dropped them lower to see, still well out of arrow range.
“Poor souls.”
Yvlon murmured, seemingly minded to intervene, but Colth held out a hand.
“We can’t stop for every problem, Yvlon. Besides, the caravan doesn’t look outnumbered. Battle’s equal; I think the raiders bit off more than they could chew.”
It was true; the caravan was huddling up, and Pisces saw a group of [Guards] forming a defensive line. They were protecting their cargo as riders on horseback—Stitch-folk, he assumed, or Humans—tried to get in close. The caravan was shielding its goods, though, and he saw the line of…people…huddled in a circle…
The picture below changed instantly. Pisces saw the [Slavers] of Roshal for what they were at the same time as Colth, and they froze. Buler called out happily as he took them even lower.
“Aha! I’ve seen this time and again. More attacks on Roshal! It happens all around Nerrhavia Fallen’s borders. Your people, Adventurer Pisces.”
“My what?”
The boy turned innocently and flinched at Pisces’ gaze.
“Y-your people. The freed [Slaves] and the like. The ones attacking caravans in your name…”
He looked between the Horns as they gazed at him. Then Pisces turned.
The attackers were losing. The [Slavers] were too well-armed and numerous; the surprise attack had gone for the captives, but without freeing them, the Stitch-folk were being cut down. He didn’t realize he was on the carpet’s edge until Colth spoke.
“Pisces, we have a single moment of grace. Roshal hasn’t gone after us openly—if we go after them, we ruin everything.”
The [Ultimate Supporter]’s eyes were calm, but there was a bleak, wild howling behind them only Pisces could see. The [Necromancer] stared down, and he swore one of the [Slaves] was staring up at the carpet passing high overhead. Pisces caught a flash of color: green.
A tunic? Or a Garuda’s feathers? He didn’t know, but he was staring down, head craned, wind rushing around his face as Buler screamed something at him. Pisces looked over his shoulder to tell the boy and Colth it was fine, he was fine and they were just going to fly on—
He saw a carpet high overhead, swerving downwards towards him, and the empty sky above. Pisces looked down and realized he was diving, diving headfirst straight out of the air.
“Aaah!”
He almost began to flail and panic—until someone dropped past him. Colth, as if he were dive-bombing, daggers drawn.
“Kill the [Slaver] or he’ll activate their death collars! I knew you were my team! Let all those who hold chains beware!”
Pisces was about to scream at Colth that this was a mistake, he’d not intended to do this, and this was crazy. Then he looked down. The [Slavers] hadn’t seen him, but the ones in chains had. Pisces wondered how they looked.
Not nearly as impressive as a falling rainbow, he bet. He closed his eyes as he remembered that and his promise—and then opened them.
“Skeleton Champions—arise!”
Bones flew out of his bag of holding, and Pisces cast another spell as the fighting [Slavers], nearly a hundred strong, looked up at last. Did they see two crazy adventurers coming towards them, one screaming bloody oaths, daggers in hand, the other raining down bones as he cast [Featherfall]?
No.
They saw a falling shimmer of colors, streaking down through the air, a burning promise under the bright sun.
Blades dropped from nerveless fingers. Roshal’s own looked up and shrieked in horror as they saw the symbol of fear. Then they realized it wasn’t Czautha, Death of Chains—merely two insane adventurers and an illusion spell.
Pisces hit the ground and drew his rapier. Colth landed on top of an archer atop a covered wagon and drove the blades straight through the [Archer], carved a hole in the top of the canvas, and dropped inside. The [Necromancer] aimed his sword at a pale-faced [Caravan Master], who pointed at him with shock and, he thought, recognition.
One adventurer. There were enchanted blades among the [Guards]; they had archers on the wagons, a heavy escort of armored warriors. This had been bait for a raid on them, and they were ready to kill. Multiple [Mages] locked onto Pisces—
And then the first Skeleton Champion hit the ground. He was lighter than a person, and the sturdy bones merely raised a cloud of dust before a glowing, blue-eyed warrior strode forwards in full armor, holding a greatsword in place.
Whumph. Whumph. Whumph.
Three more Skeleton Champions landed, each one armed, as the [Slavers] drew back. Someone moaned.
“The Bane of Roshal! It’s him! It’s—”
An arrow struck a helmetless [Slaver] through the head as the Skeleton Champion armed with a bow fired, twisted—and landed on its back. It lay there, stunned, and the final Skeleton Champion hit one of the wagons and exploded in a shower of bones.
Pisces winced. Then he shouted.
“Attack!”
His skeletons charged as the raiders howled and raced towards him. Pisces ducked the first arrow, and then he was locking swords with a [Slaver]. Madness. Madness—he knew he was outnumbered and surrounded.
Then he heard the screams from the right and grinned. 
The Silver Killer had hit the ground.
 
——
 
“Take me down!”
Yvlon’s order came the moment she saw her teammates drop. Buler was protesting.
“Reizue’s Dream is sworn not to enter combat! I cannot! I—”
She grabbed his arm.
“Take me down or I will cut this carpet into pieces.”
He took one look into her eyes and the carpet dropped. They were circling the battlefield now, and Yvlon whirled.
“Ceria!”
“Aw, come on. We are making our job in Chandrar so much harder. Did we have to? I guess those’re our boys.”
Ceria hadn’t moved. She was sighing as she stared over the carpet’s edge. Yvlon made a sound not of disgust, but just exasperation.
“It doesn’t matter why. They’re fighting. Kill everything that looks at them wrong.”
Elena, Nawalishifra, Buler, and the Heromakers stared at Yvlon. She strode over the carpet as it sped barely fifteen feet off the ground. Yvlon started running and leapt.
When she hit the ground, the cloud of sand made Ceria wince. The [Slavers] had only a second to see a metal-armed woman emerging from the cloud and then see her arms morph into blades—
“Ooh, nasty. Buler, you can take us up.”
Ceria watched, shading her brows, standing on the edge of the carpet as Reizue’s Dream rose in a hurry. Buler was staring down at the battle in awe, but he had enough wherewithal to watch for flying projectiles. And his audience.
The Heromakers of Hraace had produced bows and were, to Ceria’s mild surprise, firing arrows into the fray, placing their shots well. Delitandra hit an [Archer] through the shoulder, and Ceria turned to her.
“Are you allowed to do that?”
“We are the Mentorship; we fight for our chosen clients. We have broad immunity.”
Delitandra winked, and Ceria chewed on a dry snack bar she’d been eating when this all went down. Nawal and Elena were watching, unable to do much from their vantage point, but Buler was watching her.
“Not doing anything, oh, glorious Captain?”
He glared at her, as if Yvlon threatening to cut his carpet in half and making him enter the conflict was less offensive than Ceria’s current pacifism. Ceria licked her fingers.
“I thought you were supposed to be impartial, kid.”
She was adjusting the circlet she was wearing, patting down her robes, checking her belt pouches to make sure they were secure. Buler sneered at her.
“I may be, but all know that Orjin of Pomle began his war against Nerrhavia’s Fallen when he dared to free [Slaves]! He would not be idle, but you may watch from the safety of the carpet.”
The half-Elf [Cryomancer] gave Buler a big, friendly smile as their carpet passed over the battle, just low enough to let the Heromakers keep loosing arrows. She winked at him and adjusted her circlet.
“Just so you know, kid, I’m the mean, amoral one of the team. I do the things that are nasty, and I’d have let us all fly over these [Slavers] because my team matters more than this. [Freedom From Morality]. Cursed circlet. Doesn’t mean I’m free from knowing my team. Or caring about them. Also, I like height. Everyone else fights at close range. Me?”
She spread her arms.
“I’m the spellcaster. Circlet? [Battlemage’s Focus].”
Ceria jumped as her circlet flashed. Buler swung his carpet around, and they all saw a laughing, falling half-Elf drop out of the sky. A half-Elf wearing that circlet that had been damaged, which had promised to give her more power…if only she saved it.
She fell, arms spread wide, and cast her first spell.
[Palace of the Ice Queen].
Ceria was straight over the [Slavers]’ heads. A shadow appeared, blocking out the sky, as the [Slavers] looked up and saw the final adventurer dropping on them.
The Ice Squirrel.
 
——
 
Her mind sped up. The world slowed around her, and Ceria was laughing.
This was the power of the circlet. Water was rushing around her, freezing to ice as vapor burned into the blue sky like mist. She pointed and shouted.
“[Summon Tidal Wave]!”
A twisting stream of water shot down out of the air as she abandoned the palace she’d conjured and put her feet on the frozen slide she was conjuring. Arrows were already coming up at her; men and women were fleeing—
The frozen palace of ice hit a cluster of [Slavers] and crushed them flat with an impact that shook the ground. Pisces recoiled and looked up. He saw Ceria sliding down on a crazy, twisting ramp of ice, arrows and spells flashing past her.
“Ceria?”
She flashed down, past a group of warriors, and blew them a kiss. The wave of frost coated the armed [Slaves] and [Slavers] in a moment, freezing them in place.
Sorry, innocent slaves. She had to lock them down. Ceria saw a [Rider] on horseback coming her way; she ramped upwards, flipped over the flailing sword, and fired an [Ice Spike]. Ceria landed, then kept going, skating faster than she’d ever dreamed possible.
[Wings Upon Ice]. She conjured a sword of ice and slashed. A second [Warrior] blinked at the blade that had cut through a steel sword.
Whoa. [Royal Slash] was good. Ceria windmilled her arms as she curved and nearly lost her balance and then kept going. She was…laughing, and it unnerved the [Slavers] almost as much as the others.
Blood spurted from a dozen wounds as she hurled a hail of razor-sharp icicles at everything she passed, and coated her skin and robes. An arrow hit Ceria in the throat, and she recoiled—her [Ice Armor] flaked away to reveal the cold, blue ice, then reformed.
The blood froze into crimson frost as she kept skating ahead. Straight at the [Caravan Master]. Another [Mage], who raised her staff and fired a bolt of lightning straight at Ceria.
It bounced off her armor, sending her sprawling, still sliding, and the cracked ice on her front was knitting back together as the [Mage] whirled the staff. She tried to impale Ceria with an [Earthen Spire], but the ground was black and filled with death magic; Pisces lowered his hand as the [Caravan Master] stared at him.
Then their magical barrier cracked as the first [Ice Lance] hit it. The second and third shattered through the protections, and the [Caravan Master] turned to flee. They raised their staff and halted, hands outstretched, mouth open.
A statue of frozen flesh reached out helplessly, and Ceria slid past the [Caravan Master]. She pointed her wand back, and her final [Ice Spear] blew the ice into bloody, frozen chunks.
 
——
 
The Horns of Hammerad had attacked so fast Delitandra barely had time to pull out a scrying mirror as Pisces dropped. But she had the spell set up before he landed, and this time, with Pedagogia Araxia’s full blessing.
“This is Hraace, requesting pickup to any television network. Adventurers in combat. Horns of Hammerad.”
She waited five seconds until she sensed the connection stabilizing, then adjusted her hair, smiled, and began to shout.
“I am Delitandra of the Mentorship of Hraace, and we are watching the Horns of H—”
For the second time, someone interrupted her. Delitandra whirled, but too late. Elena Othonos grabbed the mirror and held it up expertly at arms-length.
Perfect selfie position, from a [Beautician]. And her hair was most excellent.
“Hey, everyone! I’m Elena with the Horns of Hammerad and they’re killing a bunch of bandits!”
She held up a peace-sign with two fingers in a ‘v’, and Delitandra almost grabbed the mirror—but the other Mentors grabbed her. Elena saw an image appearing in the mirror.
“Er, hello? This is unprecedented, but we heard ‘Horns of Hammerad’ and—wh-where is this? Ah, this is Sir Relz of Wistram News Network.”
“Hey! We’re in Chandrar.”
The Drake was trying to shuffle his papers and get a read on what was going on.
“If you’re just joining us, people, we seem to be watching a battle. I know the Horns of Hammerad, and we might see a bit of a fracas or—oh Ancestors! The blood! Someone get a censor!”
He’d just seen Yvlon hit the front ranks of the [Slavers]. But as the carpet angled, now giving the viewers an amazing angle on the battle, Relz began putting pieces together.
“Wait, is that…those symbols are…Roshal? The Horns of Hammerad appear to be attacking a sovereign nation.”
