Maximillian ran.
A sandy-haired young man.
Over the sand.
Running on sand was hard work. Running on hot sand under the bright sun sucked. Running for more than a mile sucked for a guy who didn’t run outside of the gym, and he said so.
“I…can’t…keep…”
His pace flagged. He’d been running for six miles already in simple sandals and a training uniform, which was just a toga designed not to fall off him in vigorous exercise. Idolions lazed or swam on the beach as he passed.
Maximillian began to slow and walk—and a chorus of voices made him jolt and run faster in sheer surprise. He turned his head, and twenty Mentors of Hraace were running behind him, cheering their lungs out.
“Not yet! One more mile! One more mile, Max!”
“You have it!”
“You can do it!”
“Oh, come on, guys—”
He tried to protest, but he didn’t have the breath in his lungs for that, and they were beginning to—sing.
[Inspiring Chorus]. Maximillian ran, though it might have been the sheer embarrassment on his red, freckled face from having your personal cheering team lustily singing your virtues.
And there was an audience! Tons of Hraacians were watching the training and cheering and clapping as well. Maximillian ran another thousand paces, then began to give up again. He tried to, despite all the pressure on him.
The instant they saw him flagging, a calculated strike group broke from the cheerleading squad. Four young women running to his left and right.
“Come on, Max. One more mile! Then you can rest!”
One blew a kiss—and then accelerated past Maximillian. Her running form was excellent. And it might have been rude to Max’s sensibilities to say he kept running just because a pretty girl was running faster than he was…but that was pretty much it. When even that failed to distract him from the burning in his lungs, a drum began to beat.
A jogging [Drummer] lowered the tempo, but kept Maximillian running to the beat. The [Inspiring Chorus] was replaced by an [Uplifting Cheer], and like that, they coaxed another mile out of him. And another.
Seven, eight, nine…ten miles, and they let Maximillian collapse. Which he did, practically on the spot.
Ten miles was not much for a City Runner, maybe, but it was damn impressive for someone who hadn’t gone for a run since he’d been on Earth. And he’d taken the ten miles fast.
“I’m so dead…let me die.”
Maximillian gasped, but before he was even down, he’d landed on a blanket, and one of the Mentors held a leg.
“You did great, champion! Now, catch your breath. Breathe with me. In, out, in…how are your lungs? Taste like iron?”
“Yeah. It hurts like—whoa, whoa! What’s going on?”
“Massage.”
A [Masseuse] was working the muscles in his legs as Maximillian lay down, and ameliorating the damage that would have kept the young man hobbling around like an invalid tomorrow. He squirmed, but one of the [Trainers] had a fruit beverage after a bitter draught of refreshing medicinal liquid. They were calculating how much water he needed.
“We’ll be doing arm exercises in a second. Ever lifted weights, Maximillian?”
“Yeah…but can I get a break…?”
“Absolutely! Just let us set up—our [Instructor], Jasrene, will demonstrate the form.”
Said attractive young lady was about to demonstrate the form of lifting weights, which the Hraacians had worked into their regimens, and Maximillian decided he did have time to watch a young lady pumping iron.
It was the second day of training, and this was pretty much how it had been yesterday. After a short rest, the Mentors got Max up and had him lifting weights. It wouldn’t be hellish training all day, either.
They wanted him to play discus later, which had the added benefit of training his overworked muscles and also letting him have fun. Work in huge, filling meals, massages, and alchemical treatments on his skin along with ample sunscreen, and it was the most intensive and customized workout session that any of the Earthers had seen.
—And that was Max’s training. He was going through a complementary basic fitness course that Hraace offered to people they found worthy or who paid for it in quieter times. Maximillian and the other lower-level Mentors broke off from his exercise regimen to watch Gazi’s training.
She was armorless, in the skin-tight bodysuit that she tended to wear under her armor and seemed—harassed. She was running, dodging, ducking, even using the surf to try and mitigate the storm of people trying to beat her to death.
With fists, true, and padded arrows, but they were coming at her hard. No less than sixteen [Fistfighters] were swinging in a melee she was trying to get out of, and her eyes were spinning nonstop as several [Archers] free-fired arrows into the melee. And just to spice things up, every now and then, someone lobbed in a jar filled with cloth bags that exploded in every direction.
The goal was to get Gazi ‘used to taking hits’. According to Pedagogia Araxia, Gazi had a lot of bad habits that came from wearing her nigh-indestructible armor. Her famed fighting style meant she deflected a lot of projectiles with her claymore, but she used her armor to tank the rest. If her armor broke—that style would get her wounded quickly.
What was the therapy? Eating a bunch of punches, apparently. Gazi blocked a punch to her gut, swayed out of a flurry of blows, and kept her arms moving, deflecting punches, dodging, using her opponents to block each other.
However, she wasn’t allowed to attack back, and even the famous half-Gazer couldn’t block a literal melee centered on her. She staggered as someone punched her in the shoulder, then almost turned into an elbow before dodging back as it clipped her head.
It looked like it sucked, but Gazi didn’t utter a word of complaint, just doggedly trained. By contrast, Ceria was all complaints.
“This is stupid and I hate it.”
“Come on, Ice Squirrel, right at me! Donut! Do-nut.”
Her trainers were waving a donut on a fishing hook at her, and Ceria blasted it out of the air with an [Ice Spike]. They swapped it out for a fried fish pilaf. They were waving it on the other end of a platform they’d rigged up.
It was a simple contraption. A twenty-foot stretch of space over padded cloth bags. Ceria’s job was to get to the other side. However—and this was the trick—she was supposed to skate across the balance-beam in increasingly difficult ways.
Even a straight balance beam could be tricky when Ceria had barely enough space to put her foot down. But the Hraacians had made the path wobbly, forced Ceria to maneuver at sharp angles…and they were motivating her with food.
The scowling Ice Squirrel went for the skating attempt again, tried to do a curve along a wide arc, and went flying off the balance beam to laughter and applause from the watchers. There was a reason Hraacian citizens liked watching the training. Ceria picked herself up, slapping away hands reaching for her.
“This would be easier if you didn’t kill my legs with all those stupid squats and exercises.”
She snapped, and the [Trainers] were a lot less nice with her than Maximillian. One half-Elf put his hands on his hips.
“You need to build muscle, sister. Besides, when will your balance and posture matter most? When you’re fresh or after you’re fighting for your life? Come on, show us what a Gold-rank adventurer can do.”
“You do it if you’re so fancy, brother.”
Ceria snapped at the tan half-Elf and instantly regretted it. Because he immediately strode up the platform and then, after raising his hands for cheers, skated the entire course on one foot, even doing a twirl midway.
They had to be able to at least demonstrate the things they wanted their trainees to do. And the Mentorship was clever; the food was just a ploy to get Ceria to drop her guard. Seeing a half-Elf blowing kisses from the other end of the platform and smirking at her had the annoyed [Cryomancer] climbing onto the platform in seconds.
 
——
 
Training took many different forms. What Elena was most fascinated by was the relationship between the Mentorship and Colth.
They hated each other’s guts.
No, that wasn’t right. Intense rivalry was closer. The moment Colth had revealed he knew the secret of [Heroes], and then that he was pretty much good at almost everything, the Mentorship, who were also polymaths and practiced excellence through variance, had been trying to prove they were better than the [Ultimate Supporter].
Accordingly, they didn’t train Colth so much as let him tag along and watch the way they trained everyone. The same for Elena; she was relegated to the support squad for the Horns, which was actually training enough.
Keeping on your feet and learning how to not get in the way of the Horns was a skillset. Even as she watched, a younger member of the Mentorship, a ‘Follower’, darted forwards with a cloth to dab at Pisces’ brow.
She did it so deftly that he barely noticed; the first day, he’d been uncomfortable, but right now, he was focused. He stood in a practice-court, bone rapier raised, looking left, right. Two [Duelists] were facing off against him.
Both had silver bells, and they were attacking in two different styles. Zeresian Wavefencing and Pheislant’s swordforms—they looked largely the same to Elena, impressive and fast, but Pisces was clearly learning a lot from the other styles.
Let alone the way they tried to press him from both sides and forced him on the defensive. It wasn’t just sword-training. When Pisces tried to flop down, his posture was instantly corrected. Someone even tilted his chin up so he was facing the crowd, and they were trying to get him used to makeup.
“I do not need accoutrements to my face, thank you!”
Pisces was resisting and trying to fight them off, but they were everywhere, like octopuses with a dozen arms each, and Elena called out.
“But Pisces, just a bit of eyeshadow? It really works!”
“Exactly. Stop fussing.”
Colth out-elbowed a [Makeup Artist] and grabbed Pisces’ chin, trying to apply a bit of makeup with a brush. Pisces lost it, flailing his arms and shouting until Colth backflipped away. This, too, was a kind of training, Elena suspected; they were seeing what Pisces was comfortable with. She, herself, was taking notes on how they were applying makeup and the tools the Mentorship was using. Then she went to check on how Yvlon was doing.
“One, two, three, four—that’s right, keep the punching going! No, no, don’t pull that arm back! Again! Don’t stop! Pretend this is someone you want to beat to death. Not a single break. Who was that monster again?”
“Bograms.”
“Bograms. Now—hit him!”
Yvlon began punching harder as a [Trainer] held up padded gloves, absorbing the punches in a series of blows. Every time she wasted a movement or hit weak, they’d correct her. Sweating, she watched as a [Martial Artist] showed her another way to, well…brutally hit someone in close-quarters combat.
Yvlon Byres had always been a good [Warrior], but her lessons had been in swordswomanship, not hand-to-hand combat. They were teaching her how to rush an opponent and beat them down with her knuckles in the most efficient method possible.
“Should I disable my enchantments? The ones Elena gave me?”
“Nonono. You’re training the form, not your muscle, Miss Byres. Arms are good. I want you to speed up this time. One miss and anyone above Level 40’s gotten away. Remember—you’re doing this with spikes when it’s the real thing. So I want you to twist.”
Elena winced as Yvlon nodded. But the [Armsmistress] was the most focused of the Horns, and she began another combo of punches—fast.
Her arms had always been fast, but they were still silver-steel constructions; raising one to punch took effort since they weighed probably twice as much as real arms. Right now, Yvlon was throwing punches so fast they flickered, and the [Trainer] had to swap out after one combo to let his arms rest.
Yvlon’s arms were engraved with the Ksmvr icon and the fancy floral work that Elena had helped her draw up a few days ago. Her arms were fast and more importantly—light. When Yvlon collapsed to let people dab at her face and offer her a drink with a straw, Elena lifted Yvlon’s right arm experimentally.
Light. Light as her arms. It was due to Elena’s Skill.
[Beautician]. Of course she had some. Yvlon panted.
“This…is a pretty good Skill. What was it again, Elena?”
“[Vanity]. I mean—it’s a vanity-Skill. [Vanity: Lighter Than She Looks]. Makes sense, right? I can also cover a bruise or a zit or…this is probably what you want. There’s a few other interesting ones.”
“This one will do. Okay…okay…let’s go.”
Yvlon pushed herself up, and the [Trainers] holding the practice mitts had to call for backup. They were getting worn out.
Reinforcements came in the form of Delitandra, who was among the better Mentors of Hraace. It seemed like Hraace kept the mentorship young and energetic; there were plenty of old trainers, but the Mentorship was youthful.
“The Silver Killer’s like to gain a level from her training, or a Skill. Ask the Pedagogia if we have any useful warrior Skills for her to train on; it’s a waste to just teach her hand-to-hand moves.”
Delitandra took the training mitts from the trainer and beckoned; she blocked the rhythm Yvlon was being drilled in as well as anyone else. Elena edged over to the group around Delitandra and spoke.
“You’re all amazingly fit. Does the Mentorship train you?”
One of the sweating trainers, a Garuda, clacked his beak at her with a grin.
“We vie for the role. Anyone can be a trainer or instructor, but the Mentorship’s different. You have to be able to keep up with anyone the Pedagogia deems worthy. So you might leave home for months or years, even decades, to be by their side and tutor them. You have to be good at everything.”
“Got it. And Delitandra’s one of the best?”
“Of the current Mentorship? Of course. She’s skilled at everything she does, but she hasn’t found anyone worthy of training…until now, perhaps. She’s asked the Pedagogia to be assigned to the Horns of Hammerad.”
That made Elena worried, but she filed that away to tell Colth. She smiled innocuously, but with a hint of worry.
“I’m not sure the Horns will go for that.”
The others assured her airily it wouldn’t be a problem.
“It’s a huge honor, and the Mentorship can take care of themselves, even in war. If they slowed their trainees down, they’d be worthless. Besides, Delitandra practically has to follow the Horns. She’ll beg Captain Ceria on hands and knees if she has to. Her fortunes are tied to whether they do well or fail.”
“Because of her augury?”
The Garuda [Trainer] clarified.
