“You’ll never get out of his shadow if you’re near him. All this following him around? Sort of pathetic. But mostly, he’ll keep you safe and you’ll always look up at him. Your brother left; that’s why Flos respects him, because he’s a kind of equal. I stood in the shadow of people I respected. My grandmother—great grandmother, technically—my teacher, Illphres, and so many others. Now they’re dead. I can pass them.”
Of all the people that Teresa Atwood had talked to and argued with, even among the Horns, it seemed that for a moment, Ceria’s words and the half-Elf’s smile, full of age and time, shook Teresa the hardest. She halted in her steps—and Ceria strolled on, whistling.
When Pisces began raising the undead, both of them gazed up and started running.
 
——
 
Pisces Jealnet was being offered necromantic spellbooks and was a bit…tetchy about it.
“I just feel that I have sufficient magical acumen without any established spellbooks, as a point of fact.”
He realized he was being defensive to the well-meaning instructors, partly because he had low self-confidence on the matter. Even with Az’kerash’s tutelage, Pisces was keenly aware he had gaps in his necromancy education as a result of only learning from other amateur [Necromancers].
Happily, Hraace was nothing if not good at flattering.
“No one would argue you’re anything less than a stellar [Necromancer] in this day and age, Adventurer Pisces! Most of these spells are superficial to your abilities. Why bother with [Pale Touch] when you can cast [Deathbolt]?”
“Erm, indeed, indeed. I suppose, then, I could compare and contrast any useful spells…”
“We have a small list here and plenty of death-magic! Ah, but if you could avoid raising any bones of the deceased? We have quite a lot of bones already.”
They’d procured them, mostly from butchers and whatnot, and though they were lower-grade, Pisces had restored his six Skeletal Champions to mostly full strength. Now he was mostly concerned with trying to generate more Stellar Ivory, making sense of his ability to reanimate structures as well as people, and mastering any new spells.
—Unfortunately, the spellbooks only went up to Tier 3 magic, as most did. There was one Tier 4 spell!
Animate Bone Horror. Pisces paged through book after book and came up with a short list of spells he cribbed into his own spellbook.
[Bony Protrusion]—good for making spikes.
[Spiritwrath Orb]—some kind of fast-moving orb of angry death magic, a good lower-tier version of [Deathbolt].
[Empowered Minion]—classic boosting of skeletons; Pisces would make it a priority.
And [Death’s Ground], a Tier 3 spell that seemed to be an area-of-denial technique to prevent [Earth Mages] from casting spires or destroying the area around you.
“Quite decent, I suppose. A shame you don’t have any spellbooks above Tier 4. I’d wager I could learn a Tier 5 spell with time.”
Pisces made a show of appreciating each spell, neglecting to mention that Az’kerash had left him with spellbooks and instructions, if rather specialized ones.
Delitandra was very apologetic.
“I am sorry that our collection is so limited. The Necromancer’s depravities in Terandria reduced sentiment for spellbooks, and we did lose them in wars and when we had Terandrian rulership…they purged spellbooks of necromancy, among others.”
“Or looted them.”
A dark comment from one of the Mentors, and Pisces winced inwardly because he felt slightly responsible about both issues…looting of artifacts and spellbooks was a time-honored tradition. However, he did feel slightly suboptimal merely learning, well, spells.
All his big talk with Amerys, and Pisces was just learning magic without that innovation he’d been practicing from the Djinni’s spellbook. It occurred to him…this was an ideal moment to practice.
“Well, perhaps simple magic is more adaptive, Trainer Delitandra. Can I see…the Reanimator’s Guide to Basic Summoning again?”
It was produced with some surprise, but Pisces had skipped over the first sections in embarrassment. The truth was that even writing basic summoning spells was something he was suboptimal in; Az’kerash hadn’t even bothered to teach that. But when Pisces saw the book…
“Fascinating, fascinating. There are multiple ways to animate the dead? Well, of course, I knew that…”
—His method, casting an animation spell while waving his hand and saying something flashy, was actually only one of many. You could, for instance, write a rune on a body, and it would naturally animate over time.
Or create a summoning circle, a bound ritual place to reduce mana costs. Or even draw a mass ritual circle. The book was still for beginners, but Pisces was moved to try a technique none of his friends had ever known.
Bone-circle summoning.
The process was simple, and in fact, Pisces had already done a larger-scale vision of this with his creation of Ivery, his first Skeleton Lord. He created an octagonal frame of bones, linking it all up with death-mana running through the loop, added an addition of bones to the outside rather than the inside—he hadn’t known you could do that—and then activated [Animate Dead] through the circle.
The reason you attached the magic to the outside via the bones was so that the rising undead on the inside—a skeleton with flashing red eyes—didn’t ruin your hard work as it arose. It swept upwards in a slightly showy manner, seizing a rusted iron sword and swinging it around.
The Heromakers of Hraace applauded. The skeleton sauntered forwards, a being of undeath, a soldier of dread armies! It tried to shove one of the Skeleton Champions aside and got a backhand that promptly knocked its head off its body.
Why did all his skeletons have so much personality? Pisces scratched his head and suspected it was because he liked them that way. Anyways! He judged the mana costs were almost halved for doing the animation this way after a few more summoning and dismissing attempts.
Not bad, even given the initial setup cost in magic and time. If I’d had this back in Ailendamus, we would have saved so much energy re-raising undead! Then again, if I were back there…
He’d have taught Feren, Gewilena, and the others far better necromancy than they’d practiced. Pisces sighed, then began theorizing.
“This is a perfectly acceptable way to summon undead! A useful little trick for me—”
“If you would like a refresher in necromancy basics, we can certainly find an instructor, Adventurer Pisces—”
Delitandra offered, and Pisces blushed again.
“No, no! I just meant I was going to explore the magic itself! You see, my studies with Archmage Amerys—”
He paused, but didn’t get any applause to his mild disappointment.
“—have shown that magic is infinitely mutable if you freecast, rather than use magic ‘as it is’. So, for instance…”
He was breaking down the [Bone Circle: Animate Undead] magic in his head. It was like…slowly removing layers of a simple object or opening a tin can to reveal a complex and far more intricate level of magic beneath.
This is Tier 1 magic, but in its way, it feels harder than studying [Invisibility]. It’s as if modern spellcasting is simplified so that even a Level 4 [Mage] can cast magic. If we had to learn it like the Djinni or Unicorns, it’d take a decade of practice just to cast [Light Arrow]!
And yet, their mastery of the magic would be so complete. Pisces was uncomfortable at the notion he was employing so many shortcuts. However, at the very least, he was gaining understanding, such as…
“Hm. Well, there’s not much to alter in the, ah, ah, bones themselves. Obviously, I could upgrade or make the circle a permanent fixture, and revising the spell into a higher grade version for more powerful undead is elementary.”
He was trying to show off to the Heromakers, or at least, make it feel like he wasn’t wasting their time. They were very good at seeming like whatever he was saying was important, but Pisces just bet he was letting them down. So, somewhat desperately, he picked at the spell and had an idea.
“—But there are superfluous components! I say, what if I just remove this part…here…and then…?”
He scuffed at part of the bone circle, then reconnected the spell. For the first time, Delitandra’s eyes lit up with real curiosity and interest, and Pisces gave her a smile.
“Now, we test the animation spell, shall we?”
“What did you do?”
Pisces poured mana into the bone circle, a bit more than he needed, actually, and frowned. Nothing happened. He coughed, cheeks turning red, as the magically inclined [Trainers] glanced at each other.
“I—well, I thought—maybe I erred in the alteration? I just saw this unnecessary part of the spell.”
“[Necromancers] have used all the spells in this book as a staple for thousands of years, Adventurer Pisces.”
A few bones were rising into the air from the nearby pile, and Pisces wiped his brow in relief. He gestured to the circle as the bones began to rattle, and then he frowned. It was drawing no more power from him; he’d just given it enough to animate maybe four skeletons, rather than one. But…was it pulling from the graveyard around it? Yes, it was!
Death magic was flowing into the bone circle like a vortex. Pisces’ mouth opened. Dead gods, he was a genius! It was such a powerful flow that it actually had a physical effect on the world; the air seemed to darken and grow colder, and one of the Heromakers shivered as it flowed past him.
The power kept increasing. More bones started flurrying into the circle and then around. Then Pisces saw every untethered piece of ivory floating or rolling and rattling towards the circle. He heard a clacking sound, turned, and saw a Skeleton Champion had put a hand on its greatsword.
“Pisces?”
Delitandra saw it too and turned to him. Pisces licked his lips.
“Wait, that’s not what I expected. I only disabled the control spell that binds the undead to me. To save mana costs?”
“The what?”
Every head turned towards him. Pisces took a slow step back.
“Well, it’s only supposed to summon a skelet—”
A shriek split the air, and a pale-green light burst upwards from the circle of bones—along with thousands of bones, femurs, ribcages, skulls—in such a blast of air and power that it sent Pisces sprawling.
He gazed up, open-mouthed, as the wind howled up with the death-magic. Everyone on the beach whirled and stared as the spell sent more and more ivory raising higher…higher…forming the first white mass of ivory, then a jointed limb surrounded by dark shadows. Five curling fingers of bones, lowering to claw at the ground—
The arm of a gigantic undead giant struck the graveyard, and Pisces realized this was no skeleton. This was—
“Stop the spell. Stop the spell!”
Delitandra was shouting and trying to dispel the magic; another [Trainer] hacked at the circle, and their blade bounced off, turned black where it had struck the magic, and then snapped in half. Pisces tried to dispel the magic as well, but he realized, to his horror, it wasn’t his magic any longer.
“Rogue magic.”
He’d just created a self-automating spell, the kind you heard about in legends. Not just that—he was looking at a spontaneous spell summoning what he was almost certain was…
A Bone Giant. Which was amazing. Incredible! Right until he saw the arm and head appearing, saw a giant yellow eye swinging towards him with malice, and recalled that this wasn’t under his command.
It was funny, really. Pisces hadn’t ever really been under threat from an undead; he’d even slain Skeleton Lords in battle. Tolveilouka didn’t count; regular undead didn’t scare him. He was the [Necromancer].
For the first time, he experienced the same robes-wetting fear other people did. The animation spell was getting stronger, and Pisces had a sudden thought as he drew his rapier and began hacking at it with Delitandra.
Wait. After summoning the Bone Giant, will the spell stop? Or will it keep sucking in death magic until it collapses? I just disabled the control spells. No one said this would happen!
No one teaches freeform casting to rookies for a reason.
It was beginning to suck his mana into it. Pisces backed away fast, and he heard a shout.
“Pisces! What are you doing?”
The Bone Giant swung an arm, shattering gravestones, sending the Mentorship running—but an [Ice Wall] blocked it before it could hit one of them. Ceria appeared, firing [Ice Lances] one after another into the Bone Giant’s head.
Her spells didn’t even crack the reinforced bone. She backed up.
“Circlet’s screaming you just created a ‘death spot’. Not a good thing. Break the circle!”
“I’m trying! Get Colth! Get Yvlon!”
Pisces was hacking at it again, and Ceria blasted the circle with ice magic, swore—
“We need enchanted weapons or a high-Tier magic spell! Not death magic!”
She looked at Pisces. She specialized in cold and ice projectiles. He did death magic. They turned to Delitandra.
“I can only cast [Fireball]! Watch out!”
The Bone Giant swung its arm again, and everyone scattered. Pisces saw it was half-formed now, dragging itself forwards, and he bared his teeth.
“We have to stop it. [Shatterbolt]!”
He flicked his ring, and the skull fractured around the spell, then began to repair. Ceria licked her lips.
“Okay, time to level. Delitandra, evacuate the area and get Yvlon and Colth. Ready?”
“Ready. [Drain Death Mana].”
Pisces held out a hand, and the rushing wave of death mana flowing from him and the surroundings halted. A smaller gust of it entered him, reinvigorating him, and the Bone Giant’s glowing pupil narrowed in outrage. Colth had his sword in one hand; Pisces’ Skeletal Champions formed up.
Ceria raised the Crown of Medain to her head, grinning. Teresa Atwood strode forwards, sword drawn.
“Ready!”
Pisces and Ceria turned to her. Ceria opened her mouth, then shrugged. The three warriors began advancing as the giant skeleton raised one fist overhead. It was already able to reach a hundred feet into the air; Pisces sensed its mind, its authority.
Rogue undead. It wanted them all dead, and it knew Pisces could stop it. It took aim at him. Then the two yellow eyes swung past him and narrowed to pinpoints at something else. It switched targets abruptly. Swung its arm as Pisces sensed something coming along the beach at incredible speed. He glanced sideways and saw a man running full-tilt past Colth, Yvlon, and Gazi. He drew back an arm and threw his sword.
Pisces saw Doubte, the Hero of Zethe, raise his arm and then something kicked him off his feet. He landed, wind and sand blasting him, and didn’t see what happened. He did see the Bone Giant’s head explode and the fragments of bone blow out of the back of its head.
“Whuh?”
