“Doubte. I would have retired you long before you vanished. I know the weight of a [Hero]. I do not seek to make one in the Horns. I did foretell it, and I may be wrong or somehow misguided—but I tell you this: I have seen no one in my decades as Pedagogia of Hraace, not one, I would give your weighty burden. Not one to choose to put Chandrar’s hopes and sins on. Yet they arise. If you are wroth with me—what of the Empire of Sands?”
“What of them?”
His eyes jerked up, and he saw her weary green-grey eyes sharpen.
“So you did not sense them? I thought you could. I am told the Empire of Sands has created one.”
“Fools.”
He clenched his hand again, grating. Shaken. Doubte shook his head.
“I—am distracted. There are many things that interfere with that particular sense.”
“Rhir?”
He didn’t answer, but feared his silence gave it all away. Araxia’s face was quite disturbed.
“Foolishness abounds! People think of the time of the Hundred Heroes of Terandria as if it were a great and glorious age. Not that they were so desperate that such classes were needed. Nor do they wonder how terrible those men and women were! Send your children here, Doubte. I implore you.”
“What will you do with them? Humble them first? Shock Neirute and Calithe into obedience?”
Doubte savagely drank from a cup, and now he heard how distrustful his voice was, how bitter. Araxia looked mildly shocked.
“I would do no such thing. I think placing Neirute among the best of the Mentorship and letting her be a young woman among people who are skilled and talented may serve. For Calithe? It may be indecorous, but I would prevail on the best Gold or Named-rank of sound judgment I could. He is a young boy who wishes glory.”
“You’d let him fight?”
“I would let him journey with his heroes and see the truth behind his dreams. If he longs for it, I would see if he can train and humble himself to the work. If he is still impatient, unwilling to learn, I would earnestly come to you before doing anything more drastic.”
That…actually sounded reasonable. Doubte hesitated and exhaled, swayed despite his inner turmoil. He took a gulp of wine and actually tasted it.
“I will consider this, Pedagogia. At the very least, I thank you for your time and secrecy.”
“It is owed to a [Hero], by Hraace if no one else.”
She smiled wanly at him, and he actually nodded and smiled back at her. But then Doubte’s eyes stole to his watchers. The Horns, the Earthers, and to Teresa Atwood most of all.
Yes, she reminded him of Neirute far too much. If she could benefit from Hraace’s training…well, his eyes focused on the sword that Yvlon Byres wore on her side and then them. He had one more loose end to tie up.
 
——
 
“I would prefer it if you did not mention my name, or that I am alive, to anyone you meet. I am dead to the world and prefer it that way. I rode with His Majesty of Khelt because I deemed the cause important, but on Chandrar, I would like to disappear.”
The request from Doubte was reasonable, understandable, and he himself was an unassuming man for a living legend. Unlike Flos, who radiated a certain knowledge of whom he was, Doubte seemed to be a conflict—that of a man trying to be ordinary, bland, a nobody—
And his eyes. The danger radiating off him that the Horns could feel. His deeds, swirling around him much like the wind.
Doubte of Zethe gazed from face to face as he accepted his sword, and Pisces bowed.
“I, ah, apologize for that incident with the skeleton giant, Hero Doubte, and I thank you most profusely for your help! Of course we shall keep your secret.”
“Thank you.”
The man smiled at Pisces, his eyes studying the [Necromancer]’s face. They lit on Pisces’ chest, his rapier and bell, his bag of holding, the rings on his hands—picking out each detail at once, and Doubte offered a hand.
“We did not speak long, but I was sorry to hear of your captivity. You are capable, Necromancer of Izril. Beware making more death’s doors. They are gaping vacuums if left unchecked.”
“Death’s doors? I don’t know the term.”
Doubte scrubbed at his hair, frowning as he thought.
“Most have been eradicated. I was told they were more natural in older days. Like Giants and other mythological monsters, magic wanes, so they occur far less frequently. Yours was small, but could grow. It is a mark of talent.”
“It’s…an honor to hear that.”
Pisces flushed, despite himself, and clasped Doubte’s hand belatedly. They shared a smile, and Doubte nodded.
“I am sure you could have slain the giant—I merely sped up the process. Thank you for your silence.”
He turned to the tent flaps, a brief passing shadow of a bright myth meeting a Gold-rank adventurer who had seen the truth behind the legend, a faint smile upon both’s lips. Then Doubte hesitated because Ceria was blocking the way with Yvlon and Colth.
Pisces turned, and Doubte realized, belatedly, that unlike the rest of his team—
The [Necromancer] was the reasonable one.
“Doubte! Good to see you again! You can’t go so soon! Let me buy you a drink for taking care of the Bone Giant. Our crazy Pisces gets into so much trouble…what brings you to Hraace? You’re a spellcaster swordsman, right? Got a spellbook? I’d love to swap spells. Let’s share a few stories, eh?”
Ceria nudged him, a huge, shit-eating grin on her face, and Doubte hesitated.
“I—am afraid I cannot stay. It is good to see you, Captain Ceria. But I must be riding back the way I’ve come.”
“Nonsense! Come on, one drink? Yvlon’s a huge fan of yours too, and we might never see you again!”
“Quite possibly—”
Doubte sidestepped Ceria, into Yvlon, who was giving him a real Drake smile.
“I’d love to spar, Doubte. My name is Yvlon Byres. Now, some may call me the Silver Killer of Izril, but the truth is…”
He eyed the smile. Tried to get around her, and Colth had his hand out.
“Hero Doubte! Colth the Supporter. From the Adventurer’s Haven? Named-rank. I’d love to ask a few questions to a living legend.”
“I—really have to go.”
“Yes, he really has to go, everyone. Let’s not crowd—aaaah! AAAAH. My scrying orbs!”
Pisces tried to move Ceria out of the way, then doubled over and lay on the ground, clutching at his legs. Ceria rotated her elbow.
“Sorry, Pisces. Doubte, come on, we’re all adventurers here!”
“I am a [Hero].”
“Hero, adventurer—let’s talk about the Mines of Zethe! We have a contract in there, and you know what they say, knowledge is not-dying. I’ll buy you as many drinks as you want. One night! Say, are you married?”
Doubte almost jumped over Yvlon, who was boxing him in, and edged away from Ceria. He paused as what she’d said rammed home.
“Yes. The Mines of Zethe, you said? Don’t go in there. The Chemath Marble isn’t worth dying to the beetles. They’ll kill Gold-rankers like flies.”
“Really? What’ve they got? Armor? Numbers? Abilities?”
“All of the above. I barely survived killing the Beetle Queens, and my friends and trusted companions died down there with tens of thousands of soldiers and even ancient Golems! I would rather send you against an Adult Creler than tell you to go down there! Four Adult Crelers, one for each of you! And where is Ksmvr?”
Doubte’s color was up, but Ceria just kept smiling. She rubbed her hands together.
“Well, we can take one Adult Creler no sweat, so are we one fourth of the way there? One half? It seems to me like you should really talk us out of it, Doubte, or we’ll get ourselves killed, and you can’t have that on your conscience.”
His glare was actually a physical thing; it lit up the replacement tent and pushed Ceria back an inch—right up until Yvlon took Doubte’s hand and shook it.
“A huge honor. I know it’s an imposition, but we are adventurers. One sparring match?”
He looked at her, then Ceria, and then Colth, who was right in the door flaps, clearly ready to intercept Doubte if he got past the two of them. Ceria and Colth had huge smiles on their faces. Yvlon had that tight-lipped smile and face she thought was ‘social’.
…Doubte had never felt a greater desire to hit someone in the last sixteen years.
“One sparring match, then.”
He spoke lightly, and Ceria’s eyes flashed in triumph as Colth cracked his fingers. They filed outside, and Ceria’s voice rose.
“Excellent! Do you need protection spells?”
“I don’t. I’ll keep from hurting you.”
“I like that. You hear that, Colth? We can do our best. Hey, Pisces, come on!”
“My scrying orbs.”
He lay there until Colth came back to drag him out.
 
——
 
Only when he drew his sword did Doubte seem to catch himself and wonder how the hell they’d gotten him into this sparring match.
He wavered, but Gazi, Trey, Teresa, Elena, the Earthers, and the Mentorship of Hraace had gathered on the moonlit beach to watch. Only them; they’d cast a darkness spell to enclose the area, but there were still far too many people for his liking.
“I don’t think this is appropriate, Horns of Hammerad. With respect, I have little to gain from this, and I don’t think I will be that instructive.”
Ceria gave Doubte a huge smile as she stretched; Yvlon was pointing at him as Colth drew on his hand, and Pisces was wincing and holding his groin as Skeleton Champions rose.
“If you run, Doubte, I’ll tell all of Hraace you were here.”
The half-Elf replied sweetly. He frowned. Her face froze over with her [Ice Armor] spell, and she laughed at him.
“Knock me down and I’ll shut up.”
To be fair—they really made it easy for him to want to spar. The Horns spread out as Doubte exhaled. And a bit of competitiveness entered his tired eyes. When Pisces saw that, he was reassured. Rude as Ceria was, there was a warrior here.
And no one, least of all him, could deny that they wanted to see what a [Hero] could do.
There was no gong for the fight. Delitandra had one, but she never got the chance to hit it. Yvlon Byres took a look at Doubte, set with only his sword drawn, a simple traveller’s cloak fluttering around his ordinary clothing, unarmed save for the blade, and charged.
Her fist elongated towards Doubte, then exploded in spikes all the way down her arm. For a second, the onlookers stared in horror.
“Dead gods, Yvlon! Don’t kill him!”
Elena screamed from the sidelines, cupping her hand to her mouth. She leapt to her feet as Doubte was impaled by half a dozen silver spikes—until the wind blew and revealed his cloak, pierced by the spikes, but he was unmoving; a blade of metal passed by his face, but he hadn’t even twitched.
“Okay, that’s super cool.”
Maximillian was recording the entire thing on his phone. Doubte glanced at the phone, frowned at it as Yvlon charged with a shout. She raised her other fist as the spikes of metal prepared to fire again—
Swung and missed.
Doubte was gone. Not ‘gone in the blink of an eye’, but he’d pivoted under the spikes so fast she couldn’t catch him, slid over to Maximillian, and grabbed the phone.
“What—hey!”
Two taps and the phone turned off. Doubte handed it back.
“Please don’t record me with that phone.”
Elena frowned. How the hell did he know what a phone was? Then she saw Yvlon swing. Doubte ducked the punch from behind without turning his head and threw an elbow. Yvlon doubled over with a loud oof.
His fist came up, and he pivoted to punch her—
And side-stepped the first spike of ice that flashed through the spot his head had been and between two Earthers. They leapt aside belatedly as Ceria opened fire.
“Hey, spectators, get behind a [Forcewall] or something, because we’re starting! Pisces, do something!”
The [Necromancer] fired a single [Deathbolt] as Doubte blurred away, side-stepping. Yvlon whirled, and Colth leapt at Doubte, twin shortswords slashing. A grin on his face at odds with the look of concentration on Doubte’s.
“Colth!”
“[Team Attack]!”
Yvlon leapt, both arms exploding into nets of razor-edged metal, not to hit Doubte since Colth was on him, but to block his escape. Ceria fired three [Ice Spikes] as Pisces halted, ready to lunge.
Excellent positioning. The Hero of Zethe was boxed in on two sides with any escape sealed by Ceria and Pisces. He was on the backfoot, sword moving to parry one of Colth’s blades, head turned to clearly see Yvlon in his peripherals, and the ice spikes coming at him—
All in a flash of action so fast the watchers aside from Gazi, Trey, and Teres, and the Mentors could barely follow. But Doubte had that quality of a high-level warrior.
He seemed to be moving in his own time, and even though Colth was fastest of the lot, Doubte was a stage ahead. He saw his position, exhaled—and used a Skill.
 
——
 
“[Blade of Zethe].”
Pisces was tensed, ready to move, heart hammering in his chest oddly. Because it was a duel? Because he was up against Doubte? He didn’t know what to expect, but when Doubte used his Skill, the blow came first—the words later.
It was a slash so fast and hard Pisces barely saw it. He [Flash Stepped] left, parrying the blade, and nearly lost his sword because of it; there was no way he could have stopped that blow without [Joveln’s Parry], and even with it he might have failed.
The blow bisected a Skeleton Champion with a bow in its hands, and left a cut at least half a dozen feet deep in the ground.
Dead gods! Pisces was breathing hard as he swung his rapier up, seeing a notch in the bone-altered blade he quickly repaired. The power of that Skill was like Yvlon’s [Arc of the Moon] Skill, but arguably faster!
Even so, he was fine, and he saw Doubte standing still, sword at his side, and—
Not under attack? Pisces blinked. He’d assumed Doubte had used the Skill on him, but the rest of his team was—
Colth sat up, two dozen yards away, and spat blood from his bitten lip; he leapt to his feet from the place Doubte had kicked him. Yvlon lowered her arms; a cut had nearly gone straight through her braced arms, nearly severing both before halting. Ceria peeked up from her [Ice Wall] and stared at the cracks going almost all the way through it.
“What the hell was that? He got all four of us?”
Doubte was watching Pisces, glancing at Yvlon’s repairing arms as Colth lurked into a shadow, moving to flank. Pisces sidestepped left as Ceria snapped two [Ice Spikes] at Doubte, which he slashed in half with lazy slashes of his sword.
“Not all four. He hit all nine of us, Ceria.”
“All nine? Wh—”
Ceria turned and saw all but two Skeleton Champions were down. Two were riven clean in half by a diagonal and horizontal slash; their bones were trying to reform as another staggered upright, visibly dented along the rib cage. All of them showed damage, even the ones still in one piece.
