…She didn’t dislike Teresa’s mentality. The [Blade of War] was making a whistling, panting noise.
“You don’t…have to run with me…back. This isn’t muscle training. Something else.”
She mumbled. Yvlon nodded; her legs were shaking, and her vision was getting blurry. She reached up and punched herself in the side of the jaw until she tasted blood. Her steps firmed.
“I know. I asked to do what you’re doing when I heard. So did Gazi.”
Teresa’s head rose. Neither woman said anything else; they just tried to move faster. They had no breath for the rest.
 
——
 
“Do not slow down. Thirty miles left.”
Thirty? It felt like they’d already run thirty! They hadn’t eaten lunch on the fifth day. Yvlon and Teres were running on empty, running on blood and flesh that might have once been feet, running on sand—sand, which got everywhere, which shifted underfoot, which tired you out—
There was a known phenomenon in running called the ‘Runner’s High’ where the agony of a run turned into endorphins, where you hit a zen state and ran amazingly well, deep into a marathon.
Teres and Yvlon hit the high. Their strides lengthened. The pain in their legs turned into a blaze of energy, and they felt like they could run for ages and accelerated.
They hit the brick wall at the end of the Runner’s High and crashed out. And kept running. 
Legs stumbling, barely able to move. Delitandra jogged in front of them, and she had a stamina potion she was drinking to keep going.
“Run! Run! If you don’t move, you’ll fail! I said get up and run, you pathetic warriors!”
Yvlon got up—and ran. The willpower to do it was the same she’d tapped into time and again.
 
The will to hold a door in place as armor burned through her flesh and bones.
The will to break a Creler, to see it damned and dead.
The will to face down death so her team would escape the Village of the Dead.
 
She ran and felt something snap in her leg. She ran and felt blood blisters pop, and there was no light at the end of the tunnel nor end to it. She moved her legs faster, faster—against their will. Once more uncaring if she lost her legs.
I am a woman of metal. I must run because it matters.
So she ran. The only thought Yvlon had was this. It took her will and her experiences and desire to keep her legs running.
She couldn’t fathom how Teres kept up.
 
——
 
First, it was a jog. A lumbering, stumbling gait. Then a run, crisscrossing the sand, seeing the city beyond, the waves lapping on the ground, then they were moving faster, faster.
“Delitandra—tendon.”
Someone called, and Delitandra saw it. Ruptured from stress, maybe. She saw more twisting at the limits, saw a leg stumble, one of their heads drop—
Then they started sprinting.
They should have dropped. They had no more sugar in their veins, no more energy. Their legs were incapable of pushing out more force, but both women began sprinting. One of them started, and the other followed, unwilling to be left behind. They sprinted, and the Heromakers of Hraace were the ones to fall behind.
Exhausted [Trainers], [Runners], experts in their own right fell behind, cursing, shouting, celebrating, and whooping—Delitandra ran. She ran with the same feeling they had, the gift only the best members of Hraace’s own had learned, the Pedagogia’s first lesson to the boy who became the King of Destruction.
“Yvlon! Teresa! Stop! Stop!”
It took them nearly five minutes to even hear her voice. They were tearing across the beach, so fast that a City Runner on the highway road fell behind. Delitandra shouted.
“This is it. This feeling. This certainty. You’ve broken your physical limit. [Memorize Performance]! Now stop, stop before you tear the muscles out of your legs!”
They slowed, glancing back at her, confused, and Delitandra threw something at them.
“Healing potion! Drink!”
“But our muscles will—”
“You’ve turned them to blood and damaged them! Drink!”
They drank, one after another, then almost collapsed where they stood as their muscles began healing, but they stood. Of course they did. Delitandra explained as a few more trainers caught up.
Everyone was panting; Yvlon’s mind was addled and on fire with pain, and yet she felt like she could run harder, and Delitandra’s Skill was doing something to her head. Locking this strange feeling into place with a certainty that Yvlon had that she could do it again.
I need Delitandra’s Skill for when I spar. Then she tuned into what Delitandra was saying she’d done.
“This…is not a Skill. It can be a Skill, but you don’t need it. It is the will to force your arms to limits beyond what they should pull or push or grip. It is the strength to run even when your legs have no right to, on broken, shattered bones, when you would otherwise drop. The King of Destruction learned this.”
It was how he’d first broken a Djinni’s collar, part of the secret behind his unending strength. Yvlon panted as Teresa wiped at her mouth.
“—What? What? That’s not…that’s just working hard.”
The [Trainer] sighed in exasperation at Yvlon.
“No. It is forcing yourself to a state other warriors cannot. You’ve surely reached it before. When you tore off your arm and kept fighting, for instance?”
Or when she’d been sparring Mars? It was indeed the same feeling. Yet Delitandra was explaining.
“You may reach this moment too, Teresa. Lady Gazi certainly has; most [Warriors] know this. But you cannot activate it at will, can you?”
“No…wait, hold on. I think I can now. Or do whatever I did with my arms.”
A smug smile followed a nod as Teresa felt at her legs and arms.
“You can. It is not just running; that is simply the easiest and least-damaging way to learn it. But to lock it in your head to activate at will, rather than in desperation, that is our gift. Now, where is Cassiedre? Someone call for her. Even so, Yvlon, Teresa, you did well to reach this state in training. Few can. Lady Pathseeker was able to, but I doubt your companions have the extraordinary will. And, uh, self-destructiveness. You two…here, Cassiedre! We need a demonstration.”
A young woman ran up, beaming, and Delitandra pointed to a [Tumbler], one of the Followers. Not high-level or as skilled, but she had mastered this limitless feat.
“Cassiedre, show them. Do a handspring.”
The girl of sixteen did a handspring, lithe and nimble, leaping from her legs to her hands and springing back to her feet. In a single motion. Then, with a nod from Delitandra, she took a running start and began doing handsprings across the ground.
Sixteen consecutive handsprings, and Teresa panted as someone showered water over her and handed her a flask. The Mentorship of Hraace were congratulating her, with respect, but she was still blank.
“That’s it? But…”
“You could do it too. Though you’re not flexible. But if you will it—it shall be done.”
Yvlon’s head turned at those familiar words, and Delitandra spoke.
“Watch.”
—Cassiedre wasn’t stopping. She hadn’t stopped doing handsprings down the length of the beach. She was on thirty-seven now and flipping back down, up, down, up—so fast that her world had to be a blur, but she kept moving.
At seventy-nine handsprings, they began to understand. Teres and Yvlon stared at the figure still blurring in motion, ridiculously nimble, and then at Delitandra.
“She’s got to stop sometime.”
“No. She could do handsprings forty miles in a row. Or rather—try. At some point, her arms will break or muscles tear from the strain. But her body will literally break and render itself unable to move before she stops. Someone stop her. She can die simply from how the blood rushes around her head. It is a dangerous ability, and you need practice…but you have done it.”
Few people ever mastered such abilities. Delitandra gave the two a grudgingly admiring look; it had taken her years of training to complete this hellish course, even knowing the prize. Yvlon wiggled her metal foot as Teresa wiped at her mouth.
“So we’re now able to…just do things?”
“At cost. But yes, remember that feeling. The Mentorship of Hraace has taught, or tried to teach, this very ability to all whom we decided to train. Even Torreb did not understand it.”
Or rather, he didn’t want to push to this mad point. It made no sense to him. Delitandra’s lips curled.
“We have also had those who stole the secret from us. But only we teach it well, no matter what the Titan of Baleros may attempt.”
“I feel…it. Like willing yourself to take a blow, but different. But I can’t just do whatever I want. Like—”
Teresa stood there, then flexed her legs. She frowned, crouched, then did a jump which turned into a backflip. A high jump, and she landed, arms outstretched, mouth open.
Delitandra grinned and sighed as Yvlon jerked.
“That’s what I was warning you about. You’ve likely hurt your legs. You two will need to stretch, to train your muscles to absorb such deeds, or you’ll hurt yourself badly each time. Miss Byres, you can do the same, but don’t—argh—”
 
——
 
Ceria Springwalker was archly eating some ice cream as she stood on her conquered skating course, feeling rather proud of herself. Her legs hurt like hell, but she’d done the trickiest obstacles that Hraace could throw at her, and she was smirking at the [Trainers] who couldn’t even do the final course.
She only turned when she saw Yvlon and Teresa coming back across the beach. Ceria began to wave and call out to ask if their hellish course was worth it—when she heard a shout.
The ice cream cone in Ceria’s hand stayed there and began to drip in the heat…and then fell out of the cone. Ceria paid no mind. Her mouth was open as she saw Yvlon tumble past her.
“Ceria! Look! I’ve gained a new Skill! Or something—”
Ceria loved her friend. She really did. Yvlon Silver Killer Byres, prickly, grumpy, loyal to a fault, dangerous and wonderful in her way. Metal foot, metal arms, a solid, rooted character.
Like a battering ram you hurled into enemy lines and watched explode into a ball of furious anger and metal.
Not the kind of person Ceria expected to do a triple flip through the air, double cartwheel, handstand, and then an improvised raiz—spinning flip across the hips along the horizontal axis.
Ceria glanced at Pisces, rubbed her eyes with the ice cream, then slapped herself. There was no way training could—this was like Ryoka! The laughing Yvlon was joined by Teresa, who ran so fast she hit a rounded seawall marking the end of the beach, ran up it, and did a backflip off it, rotating four times before she hit the sand.
The two women were high-fiving and cheering as Delitandra ran, screaming at them to stop. Ceria saw Yvlon do a handstand, spinning kick, land on her legs, and heard a faint crunch as Yvlon’s flesh-and-blood foot twisted.
The [Armsmistress] stopped. She stared at her foot, and Teresa stopped cheering and felt at an arm she’d been whirling around. With a pow of sound, it dislocated.
—And that was why Flos didn’t teach that skill to just anyone. Ceria heard the first shout of agony, then picked the glob of ice cream off the sand. She licked it, then spat.
“Peh. Sandy.”
 
——
 
Yvlon and Teresa were out of commission with Gazi for the next four days, which, when you considered the abuse they’d put their bodies through, was pretty short.
There was a lot of aftercare involved after learning their trick, which the Hraacians called ‘surpassing one’s limits’. Which reminded Yvlon of a Skill that Ksmvr said he’d gained…had he possessed a Skill version of this all along?
Either way, learning it as an ability meant that the Heromakers kept checking in on Teresa and Yvlon, making them repeat the ability very carefully, just so it locked into their minds.
You would assume that both women would be restless with their forced immobility, but they had things to do. Whether they enjoyed said things…
Teresa got to meditate and practice her internal something. Yvlon?
Yvlon got the hardest lessons yet, which the Heromakers of Hraace themselves were sweating over. After all, they enhanced their clients’ strengths, but also shored up weak spots. Like giving Ceria more athleticism, teaching Pisces a lot of the fencing studies he’d dropped from his years of neglect—
And there was a great attempt made to fix Yvlon’s weak spot. Which she assumed was ranged combat.
They meant diplomacy.
 
——
 
“Hello. My name is Yvlon Byres. Now, some may call me the Silver Killer of Izril, but the truth is…”
A [Bard] was tearing chunks out of his hair at the end of the third day, and Delitandra had a look of actual amazement on her face.
“Stop saying it. Why do you keep saying it?”
Yvlon was red-faced.
“It’s a habit. I can’t stop it. And it’s very convenient—”
“You. Are. A. [Lady]! How did you—where is the tact? The decorum? Let’s try again. I am an angry [Farmer]. Why did you just destroy my fields? You were killing those Crelers, but my crops—”
The [Bard] whirled into an [Instant Disguise] and began aggressively shouting, and Yvlon held up one hand.
“Move aside, sir. I need to check on my team.”
“Move aside? My livelihood is ruined!”
“I’m terribly sorry about that, sir. We’ll pay for damages. Where’s Ksmvr in this situation?”
“I demand—”
Yvlon grabbed the [Bard]’s head with one hand, and Delitandra had to break in. She exchanged a look with the other Heromakers, and they whispered amongst each other.
“Do we insist she goes to a [Thought Healer]?”
“If Berr the Berserker can’t fix this…”
“I don’t think she’s actually angry. I think she likes being this blunt.”
They all stared darkly at Yvlon, who looked innocent. Delitandra hmmed.
“You said you were a [Gladiator], and I reviewed some of your bouts. What if…we treated everything like that? Let’s see you knighting, Yvlon.”
The woman hesitated and flushed.
“I’m not very good at—”
“Gladiator Yvlon! I’m an adoring fan! Charm me?”
Delitandra jumped into Yvlon’s arms, and for once, the [Armsmistress] didn’t instantly drop her, snap, or punch her in the face. Awkwardly, Yvlon put a weak smile on her face.
“Er—I’m just the Silver Killer, miss…?”
The Heromakers of Hraace glanced at each other. Then they began revising their lesson plan. This could work! It could work!
 
——
 
Teaching, or rather, reteaching Yvlon any shred of diplomacy was so hard that half of all the Mentorship had taken a crack at her by the time she had recovered. Progress was…slow, but they had sworn to fix her attitude or die trying.
Twelve days into their training, Yvlon finally shed the crutches she’d had to wear to head to the temple.
