Delitandra reached for the mirror again, sweating, but Elena just blinked and laughed.
“What? Roshal? They illegally held Pisces captive. They’re murderers, assassins, and slavers. What are you, some kind of Roshal apologist?”
“Wh—me? I’m presenting the news, young woman. I don’t have a stated position on Roshal. They’re Chandrarian. But why are they attacking? And is…is that Ceria Springwalker skating down on a ramp of ice?”
Elena checked over her shoulder.
“Yeah. Hey, Cara! I’m doing okay!”
She waved into the camera with her biggest, most dazzling smile and then focused on Sir Relz.
“Why are they attacking Roshal, did you say? Sorry, I’m on a flying carpet.”
“Yes! What did they do?”
“It’s Lundas, Sir Relz.”
“Lundas? Yes, it is Lundas. What does that have to do with—”
“It’s always a good day to kill [Slavers].”
And what was Sir Relz supposed to say to that? The Horns of Hammerad continued fighting below as Elena took over Relz’s job of narrating. And they saw it.
 
——
 
They were Stitch-folk. At first, Pisces hadn’t been sure, but when he saw the first [Rider] recoiling from the unexpected entry of the adventurers, he caught the unmistakable sign of stitches and taut, brown skin. A figure with a veil over their face.
“Merr?”
—It was just a moment, and the figure leveled their sword at Pisces as they rode towards him, then did a double-take. It nearly got the raider killed by another [Slaver] until Pisces shot the attacker with an [Arc of Midnight] that slashed them straight through the torso. The swearing Stitch-woman tugged her veil down and waved her sword as she stared at Pisces.
“Bane of Roshal? I thought—here! To the Bane! To the Bane!”
The other raiders whirled on their mounts and raced towards Pisces as the [Slavers] tried to reform. There was shouting of dismay in the distance, and someone pelted over, throwing a javelin as he shouted.
“Xanthei! There’s another caravan coming—”
“Reform! Reform here! Free everyone you can and prepare to fall back! Grab the horses!”
The [Rider] kept shouting, swinging her sword around, and Pisces realized the riders were literally swirling around her. Some kind of command Skill? It drew in the freed [Slaves] fighting with weapons, and when she pointed, they began streaming forwards. Towards the caravan they were raiding.
They were fighting the [Slavers] with barely more Skills than [Power Strike]. Pisces ran forwards, followed by his Skeleton Champions, shouting.
“You—there! There!”
The grinning skeletons raced forwards, shoving past the mortals who backed away to let them fearlessly assail the [Slavers]. And [Slaves]. They were being forced to fight alongside their captors or die, and Pisces shouted in horror as he saw the leader riding down on a boy armed with a spear and no armor. She swung down.
“No!”
The boy fell, and Pisces saw no blood coming from the body. Only an unconscious figure slumping as the camel kept racing. When the sword swung again, there was blood.
[Rebel] Skills. They weren’t hurting the [Slaves]—just knocking them out. Pisces breathed again, then turned his head to the rising dust cloud. Pisces shouted.
“Colth! Yvlon! Ceria! There are more [Slavers]—”
He saw the column now, riding hard at them. An entire second caravan, if not as large as the first. Someone growled in his ear.
“We have them.”
The Silver Killer broke away from the caravan, running full-tilt at the [Riders]. They, correspondingly, split away from her, riding for any other fight on the field. What neither they nor Pisces expected was for Yvlon to speed up.
She started gaining on the horses. Now, they were running in full retreat until the leader of the mounted [Slavers] realized they had to fight. They moved in a tight circle, converging on Yvlon, and she tensed, bringing up her arms. Behind her, a green blur leapt into place.
“[Team Attack]! Silver catapult!”
Colth grabbed Yvlon and linked arms with her. She swung him around like they had in the Trial of Shields—then he planted his feet and threw her with a roar.
Straight at the [Slavers]. A screaming, blonde-haired woman with arms like razors coming at them too fast to dodge or swerve—
“Infantry on the way! Lots of them!”
Colth roared, and someone shouted.
“I’m on it! They’re loosing arrows! Give me a boost!”
He whirled, turned, and then grabbed Ceria as she slid past. Colth threw her as well, sending her shooting forwards at insane speed, skating on her ice, then drew his blades. He charged after Yvlon into the fighting.
 
——
 
The half-Elf didn’t know when she stopped firing [Ice Spikes]. She just realized there were too many targets. Too nonoptimal.
“None of them are high-level. But there are a lot of them. [Summon Tidal Wave]—yeah, that’ll do.”
Water was rising from the oasis, joining the magical waters rushing after her as she sped towards the line of warriors on foot. They were loosing arrows that glanced off her ice armor—she pointed, and an [Ice Lance] spell took out an officer in a shower of blood. But she only had two hands.
She had two brains, though. Ceria tapped her circlet.
“Work harder. I’ll aim. I’m better. You shoot. [Autocast: Ice Spikes].”
They began to form in the air in front of her and fire, hitting the column of warriors one after another, and they raised their shields and came to a stumbling standstill. Ceria could see the second caravan, now. She sped past the warriors and exhaled.
“Ceria! We’re coming—”
Pisces’ voice in her ear. Ceria’s voice was cold. Her body was freezing. The ice magic…she drew on it harder, freezing everything. Her armor. The ground. Her magic.
“I’ve got this.”
A rolling wall of water poured forwards, over the faltering soldiers on foot. They looked up and cried out, bowled over by the tidal wave. Drenched, disoriented by water on dry Chandrar, the [Slavers] began to rise. Then a kneeling woman with a spear cried out. Her hands were frozen to the muddy ground. Ice was creeping up their legs and armor. The half-Elf turned back to look at them.
Freezing. Dozens, then the entire column began to…stop. The luckiest of the ones who’d dodged the tidal wave and most of the water merely felt the freezing cold, numbing their hands, tried to tear metal off before it stuck to their skin. The second caravan looked up as their breaths misted in the sun. They saw the Ice Squirrel skate past them, then water following.
A field of frozen water, surrounding them. A battlefield of frozen ice. Then she turned, ensconced by a wall of ice, and began firing her ice spells. She halted in place submerged in a glacier’s ice, literally engulfing her as they shot arrows and spells at the iceberg. Spears of frozen water downing screaming figures who writhed—and froze. Bloody icicles of death.
—By the time Yvlon raced over a dune to help Ceria, half the [Slavers] were dead. The Silver Killer took one look at the frozen, grinning [Mage]. Then she bared her teeth and charged.
 
——
 
“Oh no. What are they doing now? Mrsha? Someone get Mrsha—no, wait, it’s too bloody.”
Nanette was clapping as Lyonette and the guests of the inn watched the carnage. Lyonette was trying to shield Nanette’s eyes; the young witch bit her fingers.
Captain Todi was laughing and swearing as the rest of the inn cheered the Horns on. And despite her worries about the politics—Lyonette couldn’t keep a smile off her face.
 
——
 
Cara O’Sullivan was laughing. She was seasick and worried as hell about the future, but she pointed at Elena and shouted so loudly the entire ship she was on vibrated. The [Beautician] was mugging to the camera, and Cara heard the cheers of her band.
“You beautiful bitch! What are you doing?”
The Singer of Terandria shouted. And she knew they were watching.
 
——
 
Roshal was scrambling to call into the show with Sir Relz—but Elena was being picked up by Drassi and other networks. Shaullile was telling them to cut the entire broadcast if they had to.
She saw the danger of the young woman. Far more than a pretty face. But it was too late. The broadcast was going worldwide.
From Baleros to Rhir. The Titan of Baleros was saving a copy of the recording for Ksmvr and Vofea to see and wondering where all the fun Earthers had gone while he got Geneva and Ryoka. In Rhir, the Demons were shouting for the Death of Chains to come and watch.
As always, it was the Death of Magic who flew the recording to Czautha herself, with that grin of delight that usually only appeared when someone was dead or dying.
The Death of Chains often took conclave with her people, freed Djinni, who sat on cushions or in the air and talked.
Argued, really. Incessantly. Made huge paintings or diagrams or to-scale models of buildings and concepts, proposed forms of government, among other things, and then began to argue about how they should vote or guide themselves.
It was called the Djinni’s Maze by other Demons, mostly because the ramshackle hodgepodge of ideas made by the beings of magic were buildings squished together, courtyards and interdimensional spaces that got tangled up after being damaged by the Blighted Kingdom’s bombardments or fell into disrepair after the owners lost interest—or died—and were shoved together each time the Demons relocated.
The Djinni sat in a circle, heatedly, coldly, or otherwise elementally discussing their visions for what would never be. A nation, for the days in which they would rebuild after this war was over and they had a chance to become a people again.
Many knew that that promised day would never be. The vision of a nation unto Djinni had died ages prior, and they would never occupy the same place in the world.
But some believed, and they came and spoke, even those without hope for the future. Because the dream was enough. Addictive and painful, beautiful, like the shattered pieces of glass that lined the Djinni’s Maze.
For you see, they built these images and buildings after what they knew: the same designs as the edifices they had raised for their masters. Then innovated, reaching for something unique to them…
Czautha turned from a debate over pets as Silvenia touched down. At first, she was annoyed, thinking this was a call to arms or a meeting…then she saw the television and recognized the green-haired man.
“Colthei?”
Many Djinni, including the young Azam, clustered around the scrying spell, and Silvenia held it up.
“Wait, wait. Let me rewind it to the good part…remember this child you saved, Czautha? Just wait and see what he does.”
Everyone watched, eagerly gathering around. Because there was only one thing to do besides conflict, which was to observe the outside world.
Or see the latest magical wonder Silvenia had cooked up or stolen, but anyways.
Czautha watched the moment replay. The Death of Chains was silent, and everyone waited for her response.
Her gaze focused on Pisces. It would have been a lie to say that her eyes filled with instant recognition. But she did remember him. She found not the face familiar, for Humans looked so alike, nor his white robes or even his magic. It was when the rainbow bloomed out of the sky that she made a sound.
“Oh.”
“He’s stealing your symbol! Colthei’s little friends. I met him, you know. Briefly. You may have seen him at the Gnolls’ tent? He was with the [Innkeeper] as well. Do you think I should charge him a fee via Colth? Czautha? Oh, and the half-Elf’s not a bad [Cryomancer]. Nice crowd work. And she’s got something that’s letting her cast [Autospell]. Every Archmage in Wistram will probably want to murder her for that.”
Silvenia was greatly amused and running commentary to the interested Demons. She turned her head and saw something she didn’t expect.
What might you expect of Czautha, the Death of Chains? A smile like the very clouds lighting up with magic? A laugh as deep as triumph itself, booming with delight?
Tears?
The Djinni said nothing as she stood there, her cumulous body flashing with magic. Her sword and shield hung on her back. She said nothing—but water glimmered in her eyes and ran down her cheeks.
She wiped at her eyes as she saw the rainbow, that imitation of what he thought she looked like, the [Necromancer]’s tribute to her, illuminating the sky. The symbol he’d chosen to remember.
Czautha wept, and the Djinni watched a mortal, just one more, shining the cause that so few believed in. Across the world, burning through a million scrying orbs.
Silvenia stared at the Death of Chain’s tears. Then, silently, she fixed the scrying spell in place, backed up, and then flew away as quietly and fast as she could to get Serinpotva or someone else. The Death of Chains just watched, hungry, suddenly. A starving woman drinking in that brown-haired figure.
She didn’t need the Mentorship of Hraace to tell her what she saw.
 
——
 
It was still him, in the end.
But different.
Each and every time. Pisces Jealnet still had the same body. The illusions weren’t new. But now he was falling out of the sky with a rainbow at his back.
“It’s just Skeleton Champions instead of skeletons. That’s all.”
Selys Shivertail went to turn off the image of the Horns several times. She sat in an inn in the north, a rather nice one where she was waited on hand-and-foot. At this moment, though, she wished she were in a different inn—and then wrenched her face away. But she kept watching.
Wishing she were sitting behind a counter so, after this battle, she could heckle a certain sniffy [Necromancer] and talk to him. She rubbed a claw against a smudge on the scrying orb.
 
——
 
So many of his friends. So many erstwhile enemies, or—frankly, people who had never cared too greatly about him, now saw him again and took note.
“See if they have an availability for more work when they return from Chandrar, Ressa. An entire team instead of just Colthei. Put them in my good books.”
“You only have one, Magnolia. And it’s small.”
Ressa commented, and Magnolia waved her hands at her as she watched. She wore an indulgent smile as Yvlon screamed.
“I think Shallel’s earnest little girl has finally grown up into her own woman. Is that…calm? I thought she studied under Berr?”
The [Head Maid] cast a critical eye at the scrying orb and shrugged.
“She hasn’t lost her temper yet. She’s just shouting.”
“Oh my. I shall have to invite her to tea sometime. Ressa? I think I need a snack. Gingerbread cookies? With strawberry jam.”
That was Magnolia’s only comment.
 
——
 
The Necromancer was saving a copy of the scrying spell. But since he’d left his castle, he had nowhere to store it, so his Chosen and undead watched him creating an undead receptacle for the memory spells out of one of the Skeleton Knights.
