He shouted at someone who decided that pursuing Pisces at this time was unnecessary. The [Necromancer] folded his arms and fumed for a solid minute until he realized Nawal was sitting there, staring at him. He nearly leapt into the pool.
“Oh, er, the smith! Nawalishifra, isn’t it? I, ah, didn’t see you there. Good morning. I was just—this is a quite objectionable facility, isn’t it? Too prying. And their classes! Is this some kind of charity location for [Healers] who failed to cure the body?”
He was fired up. Nawal almost said something mocking, until she remembered how she’d first interacted with this place when Trey had gotten her to come here. Instead, she nodded neutrally.
“They are…hard to talk to. I have been here for the last few days. What of you?”
“I just came here because I was forced to. Escorted practically at sword-point. All because Ceria saw—well, what are you here for, Miss Nawalishifra?”
He used her full name, which she appreciated. She answered honestly and was amazed how it felt good to say.
“I am here because my clan abandoned me, because I no longer care for my work, and because Trey is afraid I will throw myself into the sea and drown.”
Pisces hesitated. His eyes flickered, and he rubbed at his chest for some reason.
“That’s, er—a compelling reason. I have, ah, a few reasons to be here, one supposes, but—you seem to have a promising future. You’re quite high-level, or so I understand, Nawalishifra?”
She shrugged.
“I wouldn’t throw myself into the water and drown.”
“Ah, exactly!”
“It’s a waste of water. I’d walk into the desert.”
“Aha…well, it is good to talk to people about this sort of thing.”
Pisces swallowed, and Nawalishifra had the distinct impression that if she tried to get into the pool, he’d throw himself at her. She smiled at that. He was definitely Izrilian; few people asked so much about her so quickly as he and Teres and Trey.
“If it is not rude, and sands of Chandrar sweep over me if it is, why are you here, Adventurer Pisces? I would have thought the half-Elf with the broken circlet that addles her mind needs this place more than you. Or the woman with weak metal arms.”
The [Necromancer] looked gratified at this semi-compliment.
“Ceria? Yvlon? That’s what I said, but they were apparently obstreperous about the issue. As was Colth. Being the reasonable member of the team prone to civil discourse, I seem to have been made the scapegoat.”
Nawal squinted at Pisces. He spoke like a [Mage].
“I don’t know that word. Obstrep…? And what is a scapegoat? What monster?”
He blinked at her, then flushed for reasons beyond her.
“Er, I apologize. I meant they threatened to stab or punch anyone who took them here, and a scapegoat is…not a monster. It’s the person saddled with an onerous—a chore no one wants.”
“Ah. I am a scapegoat for my clan’s sins.”
“I see…er…well, if you don’t mind me asking, you are the famed [Smith] of Clan Tannousin, aren’t you? Naq-Alrama steel?”
It was funny. All her comments to Trey about the fame of her clan and his lack of knowledge had made her so mad—until he’d revealed he’d come from another world. Now someone did know her reputation, a foreigner, and she felt none of the vindication and joy and pride. She answered Pisces matter-of-factly, giving him the rundown on her clan’s famous metal.
She expected him to be bored and vanish, but to her surprise, Pisces listened with a keen ear.
“Ah, so it does degrade? I thought, when I saw the King of Destruction harm a Djinni with the metal, when he was immolated—I thought it was a symptom of its incompleteness.”
“Partially, but the metal wears down faster than Adamantium or mithril. Hence why blades do not endure over millennia. And you cannot enchant them…”
He was nodding. By now, he’d told her something of his nature, a [Necromancer], and paused as if expecting her to be horrified. They were having a conversation by the poolside, and Nawal had moved to dipping her feet in the water.
“You know, there’s a famous [Smith] in Esthelm we were acquainted with. A Dwarf.”
Nawal almost rolled her eyes. Here came the silly comments. Everyone knew a [Smith] and fancied theirs was as good as Tannousin’s clan. Then again…given how everyone had failed so royally, she supposed they were. Nawal had asked banal questions of the [Necromancer], so she nodded with a fake smile.
“Does he make great metal for you? Your rapier, which broke in half? Yvlon’s…fantastic arms? Other bits of metal for your team, who wears leather?”
Pisces sat there with a thoughtful look, scratching at his chin.
“You know, it occurs to me we never prevailed on Master Pelt for anything. I don’t believe I thought I could afford his work, and I wasn’t using my rapier as well.”
Nawal stopped sipping on her drink.
“Pelt? As in…Pelt the Hammer of Deríthal-Vel?”
“Ah, so his reputation isn’t exaggerated?”
“E-exaggerated? He’s the greatest smith living! He and Forgemaster Taxus, if he’s still alive, or Demastel—they’re the legendary team who forged the best metal for over a century! He could forge Naq-Alrama steel! He has done! You met him? I thought he was working at Pallass in disgrace! A worthless drunk!”
“Er, yes, well. He moved. I think he’s back to forging Adamantium, actually.”
“He is? I mean, I knew that, I write his apprentice. But you actually know him? Tell me everything!”
The [Thought Healers] were, of course, monitoring their two charges, waiting for Pisces to cool down, but also hoping for at least a favorable interaction between him and Nawal. If they had started fighting, the two would have been brought back to their sessions.
Nawal practically climbing onto Pisces’ chair to shake him repeatedly was…well, they continued listening mostly because Delitandra thought this was all fascinating. And if the [Smith] and Pisces entered an intimate moment, they’d also be fulfilling Adventurer Colthei’s rather difficult request…
 
——
 
There was no intimacy beyond the two finally trying the pool out as they chatted. Pisces was regaling Nawal with tales of Pelt and a strange [Innkeeper] that he had to be making up. She said as much.
“This woman you speak of, Erin Solstice, is more like a Djinni, no—a Jinn, the half-mortal beings of magic. She did not do half the things you claim.”
“Ah, but she did.”
His eyes lit up when he talked about her. And Nawal almost believed there was a silly, charming young woman in an inn who could talk to legends and pull magic out of her literal flaming hat. She kicked her legs on the edge of the pool, nervously holding to the edge, as Pisces finally came out with why he was here.
“I suppose I’m…here because I was made a [Slave] for a few weeks. A highly unpleasant experience.”
Nawal reached for a veil she didn’t have to draw over her face to hide Pisces’ embarrassment.
“That is painful, so I am told. I am…sorry to hear it.”
He nodded tightly, and she realized he hadn’t taken off his robes because there was something on his chest, visible from beneath the sodden cloth.
“I was talking with the [Thought Healer] assigned to me—and it did occur that perhaps I had an edge case scenario around my father.”
“Oh, was yours a…disappointment too?”
“He beat me when I failed to live up to his expectations.”
“Ah. Mine too.”
Pisces nodded, relieved.
“A petty man, but hardly the kind of thing I need to receive healing for. He did—his actions as well as that of others led to the death of my only friends when I was a boy.”
“Ah. Oh.”
“—And I suppose I have guilt from Wistram, when I caused a magical accident that murdered one of my friends and killed dozens of others. Or my persecution as a [Necromancer]—but this is hardly anything special, for an adventurer, you understand. The main reason I was here was because my Captain, Ceria, saw that I was animating a new undead that—uh—well—looked potentially like someone I knew.”
The [Smith] stared at him. Pisces reddened, coughed a few times, sniffed once, and spoke before lowering his face into the water and blowing bubbles out of his mouth.
“The—the [Innkeeper].”
So he had tried to make an undead in the shape of the same woman he had described who was definitely alive? Nawalishifra counted on her fingers, then twisted around.
“…Is the [Thought Healer] still around?”
“I’m perfectly fine! Yvlon, now, she could benefit from this entire moment—”
Pisces tried to stop Nawal, but the [Smith] was rising to find a [Healer], and he flailed about in the pool, shouting at her and the kindly [Healers].
“It is not a maternal complex! I do not have abandonment issues, nor is it sexual! Ignore all other [Necromancers] as examples!”
 
——
 
That evening, Pisces and Nawal returned from their time in what the Earthers called ‘therapy’, chatting rather amiably. Ceria had come back with productive news too.
“Hey, guess who’s got enchanted clothing left and right? This half-Elf. And look—”
She pulled down her robes to expose her chest, and Nawalishifra instantly recoiled along with Pisces. Ceria pointed.
“Enchanted bra.”
“…What?”
Pisces had a dubious look on his face, but Colth, Yvlon, Nawal, and Delitandra all nodded as if this was natural and, indeed, good. Ceria grinned.
“Turns out my clothing is a mix of stuff from all over. I don’t even think this is Drake—they’re not, uh, exactly as gifted as other races in that area. Want to know what the enchantment is?”
“…Go on.”
Ceria pointed at Yvlon.
“All your hard work, Yvlon, to learn your fancy ‘techniques’, and what I have here is the [Mage]’s answer to everything. Bra of Athleticism! Watch this! Backflip!”
She leapt up and did a perfect standing backflip, tucking into a ball and landing with arms spread wide. Ceria’s grin of delight lasted all of a heartbeat until she grabbed at her legs.
“Tree rot, it hurts!”
Delitandra spoke helpfully as Colth opened his mouth.
“What we were also told was, much like Adventurer Yvlon’s abilities, the enchantment allows you to do anything your mind can picture. The cost to your muscles is entirely your own.”
So in short, Ceria was capable of doing a backflip and ripping all the muscles in her legs. She pulled herself up, wincing.
“The other clothing is just…as…good.”
“Sure.”
“No, really. It is!”
Pisces patted Ceria on the shoulder with the smiling, condescending air of someone who had gone to therapy once.
“Ceria, I respect your apparel immensely and would never question the validity of your choices or your gear.”
She kicked him in the leg, and they went to have dinner with Nawal. She found she was in good company; no one minded when she got snappy or picked on Yvlon’s arms. The rest of the Horns seemed to be egging her on, actually.
Such days could not last forever, but Nawalishifra thought a few more weeks…wouldn’t be that bad. And Hraace was filled with activities, even night ones. Like going on a boat-tour to see fishes in the harbor, or a Hraacian favorite, some kind of room where you met and talked to a hundred other strangers to see whom you fit with. Then engaged in a one-night stand.
Nawal did the boat tour.
 
——
 
Ceria did not do the boat tour. She didn’t respect fish except if they were on her plate. She was drunk—an issue of some concern to the trainers assigned to her because Ceria had discovered that she could drink all she wanted and helpful people would hydrate her and give her hangover cures.
She was wandering down the beach, having lost her tired escort, when she ran into Teresa again. The [Blade of War] was skipping stones into the waves.
Okay, she was throwing the stones hard enough to blast waves apart. Which looked so fun that Ceria began doing it with ice spells.
Teres turned to Ceria with mild relief. In truth, she seemed lonely. The Earthers stuck together; no one really stood out to Ceria aside from Elena, but then again, she had been avoiding them. She didn’t need to meet another Kevin.
And Trey, the only other isolated Earther, had stuck to Gazi like a…thing that stuck to other things. Ceria didn’t know. She was drunk.
She was also wearing the bone circlet, and she had the distinct impression her inebriation was pissing it off. If it was messing with her mind or using it, being drunk was probably making it a lot harder to enact its dire plans or whatever.
“So what’s up?”
“Nothing. I was just thinking about what you said about being away from Flos.”
“Oh, awesome, are you going to run away?”
“No. But I could—join another warfront or something. He’s going to have to fight multiple fronts at some point. Or I could become an adventurer. Or just…see some of the stuff Trey keeps moaning about. A’ctelios Salash. Make sure they’re still quiet, or look at Roshal with my own two eyes. I don’t really want to.”
“Afraid of what you’ll see?”
Teres bared her teeth.
“I’m afraid I’ll think Trey’s so right we have to do something now. Flos can’t afford to piss off Roshal. If you’re going to hit them, do it when you have a continent at your back.”
“Aha, compromises to keep winning. See, that’s practical. I like you.”
Ceria was having a hard time standing up, so she leaned on Teresa. The [Blade of War] sighed, but kept Ceria up.
“Got any ideas?”
“Sure. Apply for the Horns of Hammerad. We could use a new member, and we’ve already got Elena. I figure with six, the odds of someone I like dying goes down pretty good. We’ve had a good run since Liscor’s dungeon, but you never know when you need a luck sink.”
Teresa dropped Ceria, and the Ice Squirrel lay face down in the sand.
“I meant a serious—nevermind.”
“Muy nam seriouf.”
Ceria spat out some sand and gazed up at Teresa. Her smile was cold.
“Don’t do it if you want to live. But I’d take you. Level or die.”
Teresa began to stiffen up, adopting that hardened exterior of someone who had faced down the displeasure of powerful people and survived war. But then Ceria’s cold expression broke just a tiny bit.
“…I actually sort of mean it. You’d be good for Pisces. I sort of wish I’d stopped Colth from harassing you.”
It was Teresa’s turn to turn red, and not with the drink.
“I didn’t push him or anything! I just—”
“Yeah, we were watching.”
“You were watching—”
The half-Elf sat up and brushed sand out of her hair.
“Just a bit after you two practiced. I thought it would have been fine. Colth had this stupid idea of hooking Pisces up with someone older and getting his heart broken. But Colth thinks he can manage everyone. He’s another smart idiot.”
