“Because of the Pedagogia’s augury. It practically canceled Delitandra’s. A [Hero] or someone worthy of the title from the Horns? They’ll be one of the most important people Hraace has worked with. If the Pedagogia’s right, Hraace benefits, and Delitandra will be the one guiding the Horns and will guarantee her place at the top.”
“And if she’s wrong, she gets to witness the Pedagogia missing the bet of the century.”
So that’s how the Mentorship played politics. It was surprisingly bloodless; Elena knew it would have its share of backstabbing and treachery, but she liked how it was gambling on success, not trying to murder people for sleeping with your ex. The Garuda gave Elena a knowing look.
“If you want to stay with the Horns, Delitandra would be good to know. And it’d be good to train your physical regimen…you’ll fall behind whomever’s sent without. Delitandra! Physical crash course for Miss Elena?”
The [Beautician] realized she’d fallen into a trap and raised her hands, trying to smile as Delitandra and Yvlon broke off.
“That’s fine. Miss Yvlon also could use some practice running. Put Elena into our course. Rhir’s soldier as her standard. Start with stretches.”
“No, no, I really don’t need—”
Too late. Her own cheering squad appeared, and Elena began to sweat already under the burning sun. But at least she knew she’d keep from getting a sunburn and probably…benefit from the intensity. Hraace could push you without you feeling bad in most cases. They even had Nawalishifra learning from smiths and talking metal with a hint of a smile.
Only one person seemed to be having a bad time. Not in socializing, given she now chatted with most of the Horns and even practiced her sword skills with Yvlon and Pisces and even Ceria, though the half-Elf mostly just messed about in the evenings. No, it was her training which dissatisfied…
Teresa Atwood.
 
——
 
On her third day of eating the foul-tasting pills and cultivating, then being taught to draw out her inner energy, Teresa found the Pedagogia and demanded an upgrade.
“I want better lessons. This isn’t fast enough. You’re the Mentors of Hraace—teach me something powerful.”
The Pedagogia was teaching Pisces swordplay. Actually, she’d been learning his salute copied from the Trial of Blades, but she finished pressing him with a series of needle-fast thrusts, then turned.
For such an older woman, she was way too fit, and she gave Teresa a long look.
“Orthenon himself wouldn’t mind cultivating his spirit for a few weeks, Teresa Atwood.”
“Well, I never said I wanted to be a master of his techniques. What’s the best lesson you’ve got? Teach me that. I need to improve. Please.”
Araxia rubbed at her chin as she studied Teres up and down.
“We could make it harder, but there’s no guarantee you’ll learn. Five days. It will feel terrible. And we will not be as kind.”
“Sign me up.”
Teres bared her teeth, and the Pedagogia smiled. It was not a nice smile; she could be the empathetic [Teacher] who uplifted her students like the Mentors. Or, as now, the remedial lessons teacher from hell who weeded the unworthy out of her class.
“Very well. In that case…Delitandra!”
She shouted across the beach, and someone swore; it seemed like Araxia had her designated punching bag for unpleasant work.
“Yes, Pedagogia?”
“Teresa Atwood desires a lesson. Teach her the King of Destruction’s first lesson from us. She is to follow your group around as you train Miss Byres and Lady Pathseeker. As a helper. Well, she can just keep up.”
Teres’ face fell. She had to do what? The Pedagogia waved her away, and Delitandra gave Teresa a nasty smile.
“It’s a lot of roadwork—running. They’re both Level 40 [Warriors], and your file says you’re not exactly blessed with swiftness Skills. Sure you want to learn? You can’t fall behind even if you run on bloody blisters.”
“Fine. As long as this isn’t a prank.”
“Oh, it’s not. They’re six miles that way, past Maximillian. Let’s run. Oh, but you’ll need to carry our work-pack first. It’s fifty pounds.”
They took off, and Pisces, who was drinking from a very tasty energy drink, commented to Araxia as he continued his far more pleasant training.
“It…seems you aren’t very well disposed to Teresa or Delitandra, Pedagogia.”
He commented neutrally, and Araxia snorted.
“One’s a girl who wants to be thrown into a fire. She shouldn’t blame me for treating her as she wishes. As for the other…uppity brats who think they can do your job better are a tiresome thing. Delitandra has to prove she deserves more authority, and it is no easy task. It is one thing to be skilled and capable; we are all that. She has to prove she has an eye for greatness and it chafes her because that is difficult, to see and nurture what everyone else misses. She’s my niece, you know.”
“Ah.”
Pisces lifted his rapier and then realized he’d forgotten to ask what Teresa was learning that was so valuable but difficult. Pedagogia Araxia pressed him in a duel with a smile, then turned.
“I think we should put the evenings towards statecraft. Prepare a ballroom. Pisces is quite able, but learning to interact with the nobility will be good for him. Oh, and find as many charming women as you can. I can see Colthei’s comment about learning to flirt.”
Pisces searched around wildly for Colth so he could cast [Deathbolt] on the damned [Supporter], but Colth was busy watching Nawalishifra smith. Later on, red-faced from having some very forwards women demonstrate the dangers of courtship to him, Pisces was wiping lipstick off his cheek when he saw Teresa Atwood.
He winced—watched for another ten minutes—winced again, and wondered if this was more deliberate cruelty than training. Then again, she had asked for it.
 
——
 
After five days, Trey Atwood caught up with Teresa and told her to quit.
“Come on, Teres, you’re going to die.”
His lungs were burning, and he was miserable; they were putting him through basic physical fitness, and it was killing him to run for so long. Despite their massages and treatments, his arms hurt, and he had to admit…it felt like his biceps had gotten bigger already.
But Teresa looked like she was dying. She was keeping up with the support team, namely Delitandra’s, which was assigned to Yvlon and Gazi, the two highest-level trainees. You’d think that was less intense than the training the two women were doing, right?
Wrong. Trey hadn’t realized it until Elena had pointed it out to him, but the support staff for athletes often had to work as hard as the athletes themselves.
For instance, yes, a grimly determined Yvlon would be running across the ground, arms and legs pumping, being cheered to do her best by an entire group of shouting Mentors.
…Who were running right behind her, because they had to keep up. And sing, cheer her, hold out flasks of water, and even do somersaults, flips, and tricks to distract her. And carry gear.
No wonder the Mentors of Hraace looked like athletes. They were. They kicked up a storm of dust as Yvlon ran even faster, and amidst their group, well, stumbling ahead of Trey, was Teresa.
She was fit, a [Blade of War], but fitness in battle didn’t mean the same as cardio fitness in running, and it was running they were doing. Pure, hellish roadwork on a level way beyond Trey and Maximillian’s loads.
The two young men had started with ten miles a day to get themselves up to snuff. They were now doing fifteen miles each day—a lot—adding one mile per day. Trey had heard the Mentors saying they’d pushed Yvlon to forty-eight miles.
Gazi to fifty.
This was on top of the other training and exercises they did; the evening run on the beach was hell. The morning run wasn’t bad, but the evening run was when you were running back, having only had whatever snacks the Hraacians had fed you, at the end of your cycle, ready to eat, watch whatever they had prepared for performances, and then sleep like the dead for ten or more hours.
Teresa had been keeping up for five days now—without the customized food, drink, and breaks to make sure the trainees maximized their returns and minimized self-harm. She had bleeding blisters on her feet, chapped lips, a stumbling gait that said her muscles were screaming or torn—and Trey was keeping up with her, which sort of said how bad condition she was in, given that he was a [Mage] and she was a [Warrior].
Then she threw up. Trey backed away with a shout, and the trainers following him dodged, but it hit Minizi in a long stream of puke in the wind—Teres heaved and kept running.
“Aw. Teres.”
“Go—away—Trey.”
She was still going. Trey hadn’t realized Teres was this determined. She’d always loved stuff like football and tried hard, but he’d never seen an athlete in her. Then again…she’d never had the talent for any kind of sports or athletic scholarship.
“Teres! They’re just trying to get you to quit! The Pedagogia doesn’t like you—”
Mostly because you’re being you.
“—just stop! Alright?”
Delitandra and the running, cheering trainers certainly didn’t even look back once at Teresa, who was dying as she lagged behind. Teresa swiped as Trey tried to grab her. He finally caught her shoulder and slowed her—she fell to her knees and threw up again, but only tossed out water.
“She needs a drink. Water. Delitandra’s moving away, Miss Teres.”
One of the trainers with Trey tossed a water flask down, and Teresa grabbed it, tried to drink, and it came back up instantly. She tried to force it down as Trey reasoned with her.
“Teres, there’s no point to this. Seriously. Stop, would you? Go back to cultivating or training with the sword.”
He was improving; he could tell. The Mentorship had plenty of spellbooks, and he’d been really studying Golems and trying to make Minizi stronger. Trey had been experimenting with skeletons, or rather, bones after his training with Viltach, but he hadn’t a good understanding of the skeletal structure, which was hard to replicate even if you knew what it vaguely looked like.
Pisces, though, could both show Trey how each bone linked up and provide perfect examples to crib off of. Which was a lot more fun than staring at dead bodies. With his help, Trey had replicated a quasi-skeleton, and Minizi was now five foot two and looked more nimble. He only realized Teres was glaring at him and trying to wheeze when he heard the whistling.
“…re you…zy…ly on about this?”
“Uh, what was that, Teres?”
Someone was running back along the beach as exhausted as Teresa. Yvlon Byres was wheezing through her lungs, and she was ready to drop, too. The Mentorship was tired; they’d been keeping up with Yvlon, and the Silver Killer slowed as she saw Teres swipe the flask at Trey, spattering him with water and perhaps some backwash vomit.
A [Hero] watched too, observing. Watching the King of Destruction’s chosen vassals and the team that might harbor a [Hero]. He saw a lot of his daughter in Teresa Atwood too and didn’t like how it manifested. But what she said next—surprised Doubte.
 
——
 
“Are you stupid, Trey?”
When Teresa finally managed to make words, she glared at Trey. She was trying to get to her legs, but they were wobbling so bad she couldn’t really stand.
Completely exhausted. Yvlon knew what that was like. She wasn’t that bad—yet. Her body was burning with exhaustion, but Teresa was still trying to get up.
Yvlon had honestly thought the girl would quit, but she kept forcing herself up with her hands, looking silly, but no one was laughing. Only Trey seemed to think it was ridiculous.
“Teres, come on. This is pointless. You’re hurting yourself.”
Her hair was a mess over her face, and she glared at Trey like she wanted to stab him.
“And? They’re trying to teach us something…Flos learned from them, Trey. Something real. Araxia said if I kept up…something people from Earth can’t do. So what if I bleed and pee red? So what if the skin on my feet falls off? That’s something worthy. Stop being spoiled and fuck off.”
Trey lifted his hands, backing off as Teres splashed water at him and finally got to her feet. He was exasperated.
“Fine. Be that way. But if you get hurt, don’t blame me. Oh, and if it’s worth doing, why isn’t everyone doing it?”
He stomped off back the way he’d come. Minizi followed—after running over to push Teres in the chest. Not hard—but she went over like a pile of sticks and tried to get up, cursing. She flopped around weakly, and at this point, Yvlon Byres had had enough.
She strode over and stopped besides Teres. She didn’t like Teres. But it seemed to Yvlon that she was also someone who didn’t dislike Teres, which was a rarer camp to be in. When Yvlon gazed down, she saw someone in a misery of pain, her limbs betraying her, guts still trying to heave out the water she’d drunk, in agony.
But she was still trying to stand.
“I have to do it myself.”
“I know.”
Yvlon waited. Teres rolled onto her front, opened her mouth, and retched…then pushed herself onto her knees. She struggled up onto one foot, then another.
“Thirty-six miles back. We can get you a stamina potion, Lady Killer, but if you have the will, it’d be best to keep running.”
Delitandra’s tone was neutral, but she was watching the two of them. Yvlon’s legs were wobbling. She’d tried to copy Gazi today, but the half-Gazer had run forty miles out…and forty miles back.
They were all pushing past any sane limit. Yvlon had sworn never to take Ryoka’s job lightly again. Running sucked.
Teres finally got up. She looked ready to die, and indeed, one of the [Trainers] following Yvlon produced what looked suspiciously like a healing potion. Yvlon wiped at her brow, and sweat had eluded her.
“More water. You two need to keep moving. One minute or your bodies won’t keep going and you’ll fail.”
“I hafta go. Don’t mind me.”
Teres mumbled, and Yvlon shook her head.
“I don’t. Mind you. You’re doing what you think is right. Keep trying if it matters. Even if you die.”
…The pep talk sounded better in her head, but Yvlon meant it. She strode away a second to talk with Delitandra and came back to see Teres taking a step, then another. First, it was a walk—but then she forced her legs into a jog. Then a run.
Maybe she was a silly girl from Earth who had fallen in with the King of Destruction and a love of war. Yvlon didn’t know. She was a silly adventurer who’d gotten her friends killed in a dungeon and survived by dumb luck and running faster.
In Teresa, the Gold-rank adventurer thought she saw a silly woman who’d rip her arm off fighting rather than quit, then pick it up and hit the enemy with that because it was all she had left.
