The [Blade of Zethe] Skill had hit everyone. It was like some kind of insane multi-attack against anything Doubte could reach. Pisces felt a sweat break out on his brow.
Okay, he’s definitely over Level 50. That was an insane Skill! That was—
“That’s his Level 20 Skill. Get ready. On three!”
Colth’s whisper came through a speaking stone he’d given Pisces, and the [Necromancer] stiffened. His Level 20—?
[Heroes] didn’t strike Pisces as quite fair.
 
——
 
Delitandra had a scrying mirror in her hands as she tried to connect to Wistram or any television network in the world. She’d waited until Doubte was distracted; he had eyes in the back of his head.
But the world had to see this. The Horns of Hammerad, whom she’d backed, were fighting a [Hero]. It would add to their already-famous names.
Delitandra was trying to get the moving fight in the frame of the scrying mirror, as well as herself.
“Damn—is it on yet? This is why you need that stick! Hello, world! I am Delitandra of the Mentorship of Hraace, and I am bringing to you the spar of the century! Here we have none other than the Horns of Hammerad and the Hero of Zethe himsel—”
She was just speaking into the mirror as the connection stabilized when Pedagogia Araxia did a flying jump-kick and hit Delitandra so hard her niece keeled over and lay on the ground in so much agony she was silent, mouth open, clutching at her side.
Araxia caught the mirror, cut the connection, and flicked it to a supporter.
“Keep recording. But don’t transmit anything. The Horns of Hammerad don’t need this imagery—yet.”
Her eyes remained focused on the battle, and she smiled as she put a foot on Delitandra’s back. Not yet—but dead gods. The King of Destruction would have paid good money to see this.
 
——
 
Yvlon Byres charged. It was her main attack; she had no ability to fight at long-range. She could elongate her arms, morph them, but at the end of the day, she excelled where her strength and adaptable arms could come into close-range fighting.
Unfortunately, Doubte wasn’t in the mood to prolong the fight. He was glancing around for Colth as the [Supporter] circled, invisible. When Colth leapt out of Doubte’s shadow, blades crossed to draw, Doubte whirled.
He deflected Colth’s blade, tossing him back into the onlookers with sheer strength, threw up his offhand, blasted Pisces with a mass of flames that sent the [Necromancer] yelling backwards, and cut one of Yvlon’s arms off.
It was effortless. Yvlon stared at her stump spurting blood along with Doubte, and for a nanosecond, his eyes opened in horror. He must have thought the blood meant she felt it or that her arms were still real; he deflected a trio of [Ice Spikes], turned his head, and she raised her arm and tried to spurt blood into his face to blind him.
He ducked it, spun away, but didn’t hit her; Yvlon sealed the blood running through her limb, picked up her arm, and put it back on. Then she went after him again.
“Come on, come on—he’s fast!”
Doubte was too fast for the Horns to lock onto and surround; he evaded Pisces’ Skeleton Champions as Yvlon raced after him, and he went for Ceria.
She’d given up trying to tag him with [Ice Spikes], let alone [Ice Lance]. Instead, the [Cryomancer]’s pale blue eyes were glowing. She was drawing the heat out of the air, and frost was growing on his armor when he leapt, slashing through her first [Ice Wall]. Pisces leapt on him with blade swinging.
Doubte sundered Pisces’ rapier, but the [Necromancer] had cast [Deathbolt] with his offhand. Doubte saw it coming, raised his own offhand, and swatted the [Deathbolt] straight into Yvlon. She slowed a step, and he turned on Ceria, who swore, fired an [Ice Lance] point blank, and watched him slice it in half and come up, sword hilt twisting to slam into her head.
And Colth stabbed him.
It wasn’t deep, and Doubte was whirling the moment the [Supporter] appeared, but Colth’s armor, made with Stalker’s hide, had hidden him. Unlike his stealth Skill, this was real invisibility; he slashed across Doubte’s back, opening up the plain clothing and drawing a red line.
“Got him! Don’t hurt him badly, Colth!”
Ceria leapt away, skating backwards along the freezing beach as she cast [Ice Spike]. Colth was slashing at Doubte in close-combat as Yvlon finally caught up, and the [Hero]’s blade was a whirl, parrying both blades and blade-arms, as Pisces assembled the four Skeleton Champions who’d put themselves together.
When he saw Doubte whirl and scatter Colth and Yvlon, Pisces sent the Skeleton Champions in. They charged with a clatter of bones and stopped Doubte for about two seconds. Then Pisces was [Flash Stepping] away, firing [Deathbolts] as on the other side Ceria shot as many ice spells as she could.
Neither one had a chance of hitting the [Hero]. Pisces knew Ceria was still lowering the temperature on him from the way he raced after her, which meant it was Pisces’ moment to now open up with the big spells.
…Which he had.
Definitely.
Bone Behemoth? Too slow and unwieldy, he’ll cut it or ignore it. Bone Horrors? He can cut through bones with ease. [Shatterbolt]? If I can’t hit him with [Deathbolt]…[Arc of Midnight] is slow—
It was the same problem Pisces had sensed against Bograms. Rapier was one thing, his undead another, but he lacked the pivotal punch of Yvlon, who was already rolling up. Colth as well. Even Ceria had big ice magic, but Pisces?
He could…animate a structure? He was a [Necromancer of Reclaimed Grandeur], but he didn’t know his new class. Not yet. He could use [Monumental Animation]…wait, was that why the Bone Giant had emerged? But what could he do against Doubte?
There was no Maze of Shields to animate, no Crossroads of Izril. Pisces bit his lip as Ceria leapt onto the waves and began skating out to sea, thumbing her nose at Doubte. In response, he kicked a wall of sand at her with such force Pisces heard her coughing and swearing as it hit her.
Pisces had to do something. The [Hero] was either getting bored or mad; he saw Yvlon and Colth running at him and used another Skill.
“[Sword Art: The Great Desert Howls].”
“Yvlon, Colth, look o—”
That was the last thing Pisces heard for a while. When he picked himself up—again—he saw a vortex of wind, a tornado, blasting upwards diagonally, following Doubte’s thrust. And a tiny silver figure, which was Yvlon, falling into the sea far beyond Ceria, who turned her head back to Doubte with a lot less confidence as he faced her. Colth was still flying, being tumbled helplessly through the air.
“Pisces! Good time to do something! Circlet—let’s do it!”
Ceria had switched to the Crown of Medain for the start of this fight, but she pulled her repaired bone-white circlet onto her head. Her eyes flashed as Pisces closed his eyes.
“Activate the—shit—”
The sound of ice shattering marked the moment Doubte leapt across the waters and headbutted her straight down into the surf. Which left only Pisces. His Skeletal Champions charged across the beach to buy him time as Pisces saw Doubte walking towards him.
When he’d drawn his sword against the King of Destruction, he’d been summoning…something. He hadn’t known what at the time, but the Stellar Ivory…
…Floated out of his bag of holding as Pisces recalled that desperation. That flash of need to fight. Doubte had brought it out, and now Pisces saw bones swirling again, trying to match an image in his head.
An idea. A concept. It might be wrong. It might be weak. But if he were to fight monsters—Pisces understood, now, what he had been trying to make. It was wrong and not strong enough yet. But his eyes opened as he saw the vision of a new creation.
Pisces began to summon his latest undead. Unfortunately for him—the Hero of Zethe took that moment to punch Pisces straight in the jaw. The [Necromancer]’s eyes rolled up in his head, and he collapsed, and the undead with him.
Doubte paused, breathing a bit hard, and eyed the bone creation that began to break apart.
What the hell was that?
The Horns of Hammerad were down, and Doubte rubbed wearily at his brows. Well. He turned to go, satisfied, vaguely, with that display.
…Until he saw the Ice Squirrel rising out of the water on a frozen throne of ice, the Silver Killer walking out of the surf, liquid dripping from her arms like dark blood, and Colth the Ultimate Supporter’s arrow hit the ground in front of him. Doubte turned, and Pisces—
Well, he was still unconscious. The Horns stared at their unconscious [Necromancer], and Ceria shouted.
“Time out! Round two in one second!”
 
——
 
Doubte had fought better.
He didn’t mean that the Horns of Hammerad were any ordinary warriors, of course. They deserved their ranks, but the fact that only Colth had landed a blow fit; Named-ranks were Doubte’s threats in a warzone.
But he had fought better. He was a [Hero]. There was no class who matched him at his level. Or if there was, Doubte had never run into it.
Also fair to say was that this was no battle to the death. Doubte never underestimated people when they were fighting with their lives on the line. He could still remember the days when the most unexpected of foes could best him, like the time a boy had met a Garuda drinking in the pub and nearly been gutted by Chandrar’s finest [Spearmaster].
Yet and yet. That wasn’t what set the Horns of Hammerad apart, what gave Doubte’s skin a light sheen of perspiration in the chilled night air and even provoked an odd sense of…intimidation.
It was their earnesty, the way they gathered around in a group huddle after reviving Pisces, and the clear hiss he heard from Ceria as they planned a second match. So much so that he’d forgotten he’d never agreed to it. What they said, what Doubte had never actually heard before, was—
“Guys, what in the name of Erin’s sock drawer are we doing? We’re getting flattened by one [Hero]. Come on, get it together.”
“He’s so damn fast, Ceria. And I was trying to figure out my new undead—”
Pisces muttered. Colth cut him off with a hiss that Doubte still heard.
“Stop experimenting and get your head in the fight, Pisces!”
“Right, sorry. But if we can’t surround him and he uses his Skills—”
Yvlon whispered to Ceria.
“Let me get my hands on him. I just need an opening.”
“Any of us need an opening and we’ll get him. Got it, Pisces? If you can’t figure out a spell, hit him in the brass orbs.”
The rest of the Horns nodded, and Pisces stole a glance at the Hero of Zethe. He sniffed and wiped at his nose.
“…Do you think he can hear us?”
“So? We can take him.”
They believed it. That was what left Doubte genuinely shocked. He had just conjured a tornado with a blade art. Most warriors, even Gold-rank adventurers, took one look at that and decided they were outmatched.
But Yvlon was staring him down, and Colth was grinning. There was no fear in Ceria’s eyes, only a kind of delighted menace. Even Pisces just straightened and nodded, as if he were worried this would hurt or they’d injure Doubte.
They believed it. This was no bravado; it was in their very souls. It was—
They faced Doubte, and he was the one who wavered. For he was the Hero of Zethe.
He.
Cheated.
He had been granted powers that he desired, then came to regret. The power to understand. The Skills that had ultimately broken his faith in his nation and people had kept him alive against the greatest threats. And he was using them now. He didn’t just hear the Horns’ talk and take it at face-value.
He heard their thoughts.
The [Hero] of Zethe could read minds and hearts. When he gripped his sword with two hands, he could tell that the Horns were spreading out and even got the battle-plan; they’d open up with a volley that was a feint for a four-person charge into close-range melee. Ceria would activate [Stoneskin] and Yvlon her [Aspect of Iron] Skill; they’d literally take him to the ground and ‘Bograms’ him.
Doubte had an image of an invisible monster being beaten down from all sides as proof of what that meant. But he was also listening to their individual thoughts, which only added to his sense of…odd intimidation.
Yvlon’s mind was like a piece of metal being beaten by everything. Grief, pain, uncertainty—but all it revealed was more metal. Metal all the way down, baked in the glow of rage. And her thoughts were—
“I have to beat him. He’s like Mars. Hit him. Hit him. He’s no Tolveilouka. If I can’t kill him, I can’t protect anyone else. Just grab him. Grab him, Byres. Grab him and lose your temper.”
Doubte shifted, uneasy, as waves of unstable rage bubbled up under the container of her will.
Don’t let her grab you was his analysis. The second mind was even more disconcerting.
“—can’t animate that. It’s not right. Why do I think of…? Is that even combat-viable? Hit him in the brass orbs? Where does that expression even come from? But if I can’t even best a single [Hero] with my team, the Necromancer or Yazdil will be insurmountable—”
The Necromancer? The Necromancer of Terandria? He was alive?
There was a reason Doubte stayed hidden. He learned too much. And Pisces was viewing him or the Naga as a threat? That…did put Doubte into perspective. The half-Elf, Ceria’s mind, was even odder. Her mind was running cool, and as he touched it, he sensed something strange, like a vast presence under frozen ice. A presence running through the crystal stream of her thoughts, the waters brilliant with intelligence…hiding something else.
“I should keep in touch with Doubte. He’d make good backup if we ever went up against Cognita. Real second-stringer energy. I wonder how fast she’d kill him.”
Then the second consciousness surfaced and, to Doubte’s alarm, spoke.
“He is in your mind.”
“He is? Damn, no wonder he’s got us! Quick, think of eating roaches! Eating my own shit! Think of being stabbed in the face!”
Ceria’s grin shifted as she figured out his trick. Unnerved, Doubte made a mistake and kept probing the final Horn of Hammerad. He touched Colth’s mind and heard an odd, polite voice.
“Hello, Hero Doubte, Colthei is not available at this moment to answer any questions. Please try again later. AND PREPARE TO DIE, YOU PIECE OF SHIT.”
This time, it was accompanied by a real psychic stab that made Doubte recoil and wince. Two of the Horns had psychic shielding? At least when he tried to read past their surface-layer thoughts. But each one looked at him—and straight through him.
Like he was some kind of stepping stone to their real goals. He was the Hero of Zethe! Greatest warrior of his era.
The Hero of Zethe felt—old. And for once, less than confident in his victory.
Then the Horns of Hammerad came at him with a combined shout of wild bravery and madness.
Adventurers.
 
——
 
