A rather unhappy Skeleton Knight found itself watching the recording of the Horns of Hammerad’s battle through the inside of its own crystal skull…as well as a memory crystal embedded in its sternum capable of replaying events in color as well as projecting them.
That was fine. But then Az’kerash began running his own commentary about the battle and how effective Pisces’ spellcasting was purely on practical terms—and even Devail began to get a bit…
Jealous.
 
——
 
As for Nerrhavia’s Fallen? The Court of Silks was abuzz with disapproval as Prince Zenol, weary and wounded, raised his head with a glow in his eyes. But the [Prince] was nothing compared to the Queen of Nerrhavia’s Fallen.
“They attack a caravan from our nation in the open! Izrilians or not, Your Majesty, it is disgraceful. Er. Your Majesty?”
Queen Yisame realized she was staring at the image with an expression of rapt adoration only after a moment. She unclasped her hands and spoke, rather than reply through her speaker.
“What? Be silent. Those are my guests. Prepare a welcome.”
The Court of Silks focused on her, and the minister who’d made the mistake of voicing what he’d thought was the safe opinion stuttered it would absolutely be done, excellent showing from the adventurers.
 
——
 
There were plenty of people who didn’t see the Horn’s moment, for there were so many and some people didn’t have access to scrying orbs.
Such as a miniature Erin Solstice. Or Ksmvr. However, there was one person, or group, that viewed the Horns with a bit more familiarity than most.
Even if King Nuvityn had never met them and had reservations about the allies of Erin Solstice. But his foremost [Mage], Tserre…
She and Prildor stood in front of the scrying orb, staring at the image of the ‘Ice Squirrel’ killing [Slavers] of Chandrar. Nuvityn wondered what it was like for them to see what they thought of as a little girl they’d fed sweets murdering men and women while laughing.
Then again, could you murder a [Slaver]? How would he even adjudicate the matter if someone had slain a caravan trespassing in Erribathe, taking his citizens? No, by the law, it was murder. [Slavers] were people, after all.
So you pardoned every action taken as justifiable. If he were writing laws. Nuvityn turned to his advisors.
“They seem to be fairly competent, even for Gold-rankers.”
He meant it as an aside; Prildor’s mouth was open and he hadn’t said a word or possibly breathed for the last minute.
“Is—that’s her. Isn’t it? Tserre?”
He turned his gaze to the older half-Elf, and Tserre spoke; she was sitting on the lip of her walking cottage, and her voice was almost as cold as the half-Elf’s magic on screen. Cold…save for the way she never stopped watching Ceria.
“Flashy. She’s leaving herself exposed and taking far too many hits, armor spells or not. Why ice magic? Elemental magic as a half-Elf or any species leads to irrevocable choices. I don’t like that circlet. And her spell variety seems low.”
“She seems quite capable to me. For her age…”
“Bah. Let’s keep moving. She’s a strong [Mage] for this era. I would have taught her [Autocasting] without needing a relic for it.”
Everyone turned to Tserre, and Nuvityn strongly suspected every single [Mage] had just decided that Tserre was in need of fresh tea, companionship, and gifts. He just exhaled as he watched the orb another second.
“It seems they are moving further from us with each passing moment. Let us resume our march; we have a long way to go to catch up.”
 
——
 
—And that was how the Horns of Hammerad came to Nerrhavia’s Fallen. After they had cleaned up, of course. They stood amidst the ruins of a caravan, a burning flag of Roshal behind them.
A bewildered [Necromancer] having his hair tousled by a grinning Colth with blood splattered all over his face. Yvlon Byres, striding around with gore-covered arms, smiling at flinching [Slaves] as if she couldn’t understand why they were so afraid of her. The cackling Ice Squirrel posing on top of a wagon.
Horns of Hammerad. On show for the world to see. And for a group of people, mostly Stitch-folk, who took one look at the image and shouted.
“Bearig! Bearig, Rophir, Qshom—it’s him! He’s back!”
“Who? I’m getting my face on—who is—”
A man stumbled forward, saw Pisces, and let out a huge cry. He pointed, and the camp turned on him. He whirled and hugged a little half-Elven boy and twirled him around.
“He’s back! Pisces! Find out where he is, and we have to send word—someone send a [Message] to Merr!”
He was back. Just like he’d promised. The [Rebels] began cheering, just like the ones in the scrying orb. They were surrounding Pisces, shouting his name and title.
Bane of Roshal! Bane of Roshal! The confused [Necromancer] looked at them and then exhaled. He had returned, to danger, to peril, and to the place of his trauma and loss.
But this time, he wasn’t alone.
 
 
[Arctic Cryomancer Level 40!]
[Conditions Met: Arctic Cryomancer → Relicbound Arctic Cryomancer Class!]
[Skill – Magic, Freeze obtained!]
[Skill – Metamagic: Elemental Variation (Cryomancy) obtained!]
[Spell – Summon Frost Elemental learned!]
[Spell – Conjure Whiteout Blizzard learned!]
[Spell – Snap Freeze obtained!]
 
[Conditions Met: Half-Elf → Boreal Half-Elf Species!]
[Condition: Body – Icy Flesh obtained!]
[Skill Change – Lesser Frost Resistance → Greater Frost Resistance!]
[Skill – Greater Frost Resistance obtained!]
[Condition: Feet – Nature’s Passage (Snow) obtained!]
[Bound Spell – Form Change: Snow Wraith obtained!]
[Bound Spell – Freezing Gust obtained!]
