She had a mind to ask the Pedagogia about the ‘Melded classes’ that she had apparently become part of. Yvlon was used to going where she pleased, so she just ascended the steps, trying not to force herself through the pain.
According to all the Mentors, Yvlon needed to listen to her body. She could force her body to do a backflip whenever she wanted. Whether that was a good idea…your nerves gave you pain and your muscles refused to fire not because you couldn’t do something, but because continuing was a bad idea.
“As you gain more Galas muscle, you will become even more fearsome, and when you use this ability, you’ll surprise even the most dangerous foes. Selphids know it as Rampaging; you’ll find an upper limit at which you can force your body in a fight before giving yourself permanent damage.”
Brief moments of superhuman strength Yvlon would take. She thought Hawk had a similar Skill…but she’d gained hers for free.
“Pedagogia? I was wondering if I could access the Mentorship’s library…”
Yvlon strode into the mostly abandoned temple, since everyone was busy training, and saw there was a curtain drawn over the audience chambers. She pulled the curtain aside and entered, on the basis that no one was stopping her.
A man with brown hair and faintly white roots was standing before the Pedagogia, who was pacing back and forth. When he turned his head, he had strange, pink eyes and was vaguely familiar.
He made Yvlon stop at once. He had some kind of aura or presence that was familiar, and she instinctively tensed. The Pedagogia whirled.
“Yvlon Byres! This is a private audience, please! Honored guest, forgive me.”
He turned away without a word, and Yvlon backed up.
“My apologies, Pedagogia. I’ll wait outside—”
“No, no, please. You wanted the library, no doubt? In the city. Find Delitandra.”
Both waited for Yvlon to go, and she awkwardly walked backwards, then stopped. She snapped her metal fingers with a ringing sound.
“Oh. The Hero of Zethe, isn’t it? Well met.”
Doubte’s shoulders hunched, and Araxia closed her eyes. Yvlon, a veteran of entanglements, paused.
Right, make the connection later and tell your team.
She turned to go. A hand fell on her shoulder, and she glanced back into the [Hero]’s eyes. Yvlon smiled at him. With her teeth.
 
——
 
The Heromakers of Hraace knew their business, Ceria decided. Not on the basis that she’d learned some kind of esoteric warrior-technique accessible but not readily masterable across most species.
No, Yvlon’s new abilities were sort of weird. And it said something that Pisces and Colth had both tried to gain the technique and given up—Pisces after he’d thrown up once, Colth after six times and two days of peeing blood, which he seemed to think wasn’t normal or healthy.
Ceria had run two miles and given up. But progress was relative, and actually, Ceria could argue she’d benefited more from Hraace than anyone else.
…In that she’d lost twenty-two pounds and was looking at herself in a mirror and wondering if she could buy whatever they’d used on her. She suspected Skills, but she knew they’d been feeding her some kind of pulpy juice whenever she needed a drink. And they’d cooked whatever she wanted, but kept presenting her with what she suspected were healthier, more filling versions of whatever food she wanted. Stuffed breams and sushi, tricking her stomach into thinking it was full.
Losing that much weight kept Ceria a lot lighter on her feet, and she felt like she had stronger calves and ankles. The Mentorship seemed to think they’d done a decent job on her conditioning and eased off the physical component. They were letting the [Mages] study.
In Ceria’s case, it was hard because she had Illphres’ spellbook and the circlet, which had effectively given her a cryomagic book and walking teacher on par with any you could get in this day and age. But Hraace still had their methods.
It was some kind of incense that sharpened your concentration. A useful drug combined with a room for lounging in, devoid of sounds or distractions. Colth was studying the drug; apparently, it could be used for effective studying or make you ponder seashells for an entire day.
On request, Ceria had taken this time not to study magic—she could do that anywhere—but to read historical accounts of great [Ice Mages] and other spellcasters. It was like being a kid and reading the one book of Tales of Adventure and Woe each half-Elf had in her village. She remembered it bittersweetly; her grandmother, Leila Springwalker, would take her around every twin full moons to badger one of the other half-Elves.
Because Ceria was so young, and because Leila brought a gift, the other half-Elves would tolerate this sudden and unexpected interruption to their day and fetch out a well-thumbed copy of the book. You’d get everything from Tales of Adventure and Woe, Edition #14422, to edition #8002…only later had Ceria realized how extraordinary some of the books were, given the current edition was past thirty thousand.
Someday, a brave [Historian] would have to raid the Village of the Spring and make copies of every book they had. Ceria would read the ancient books, many rewritten or rebound by their owners, in the big cottage on the hill where her occasional teacher and her grandmother’s old friend or whatever she was, Tserre, lived.
The surly half-Elf would sometimes teach a very young Ceria a spell and offer her a cookie if she had the ingredients. She’d never get up to play any games, but when Ceria was very small, she’d read the books for her. Actually…Ceria wasn’t sure if Tserre had gotten up in the last decade she’d known the old half-Elf.
Half-Elves.
—The point was that Ceria was trying to improvise from the books, but even with the incense and Hraace’s techniques, she kept going back to memory lane. With a sigh, she closed the book and decided to check on Pisces.
Along the way, she ran into Teresa, and because Yvlon seemed to have warmed to the crazy kid, Ceria gave Teresa a try.
“Hey, Teresa, how’s it going?”
Teresa had been in the middle of some kind of meditation, cross-legged, hands in her lap, forming circles with her thumbs and forefingers, breathing slowly, and, Ceria suspected, cultivating her inner power or whatever that was.
At Ceria’s over-loud voice, she jumped, twisted, and stood with a scowl.
“Not very good. I’m not the best at cultivating. I think I’ll go back to sword-training. I’m not going to improve as fast as I did with that training. Let alone level up again.”
“Oh, you levelled? Yvlon didn’t, but she’s over Level 40. What’s yours?”
“33. What’s Yvlon’s level?”
“No clue. Over Level 40.”
Teresa scowled briefly, and Ceria felt that twinge of not-quite envy at how fast Earthers levelled. Only a twinge because Teresa was no Erin, and Ceria still out-levelled her. For now.
“Walk with me? Do you know where they’ve got Pisces training?”
“Uh…outside, I think. Near a graveyard. It’s good for his mana. Plus, he kept sneezing from the incense.”
“Sounds like Pisces.”
They strolled out across the beach where the Mentorship was still training everyone. Ceria got why they’d been allocated only four weeks even for Gazi and the Horns. You could get used to this training and even Hraace’s luxurious treatments. Teresa was silent for a while as they walked; Ceria just put her hands behind her head.
“I would have thought you’d want to talk to Trey. I get that you don’t like me or Flos, and I know Gazi fought with you in the past.”
“Hm? What? No, only Colth dislikes you. I don’t really care about you or your brother. Even Gazi’s not much of a grudge, for me at least. We’re not trying to kill each other.”
Teresa opened her mouth.
“And Flos?”
“He’s a [King]. Better than some because he likes me, I guess, but I’m not part of his war. We’re sightseeing Chandrar, not getting entangled. You’re all right. I can see why Yvlon likes you. You’re almost as stupid as she is.”
“She’s—impressive.”
“And dumb.”
Teresa glanced around for Yvlon, but the warrior was also on a do-not-exercise list, and Ceria had seen her heading towards the temple.
“No, she really is amazing. I want to be like her. Or Mars or…”
Ceria eyed Teres indulgently. This wasn’t the first time she’d heard Teres’ opinions, albeit mostly in the context of her and Trey having it out, but she asked the obvious question.
“You’re all-in for the King of Destruction, huh? And you’re set on levelling. Look, I get it. I want to level too. I’m racing to keep up with my team. But Trey’s got that anti-slavery thing that he and Pisces and Colth are bonding over. Yvlon’s tougher than her metal arms and twice as stubborn. She’s also lost a lot, so she works hard because of it. What kept you running even when you were throwing up?”
Teres glanced sideways to see if Ceria was mocking her, but then ducked her head.
“I wanted to be like her. Or Orthenon. I’d try to become Amerys, but I’m not good at magic. Isn’t that enough?”
“Seems odd you’re that determined. You’re going to war and risking death to get stronger?”
She had something of an adventurer in her, in that case, but Teresa just stared at something in her mind’s eye.
“When I first met them—the King’s Seven, I mean—after he awoke, they were superhuman. The first time you see Takhatres run, he’s faster than you can believe. Flos lifted a boulder overhead and chucked it just to show off how strong he was. I walked over and had to keep pushing at it to make sure it wasn’t a trick. It took Trey a while to believe it, but the moment I saw it, I wanted that. And then when they told me I could do that? If I levelled?”
Ceria nodded as they crunched along the sand.
“My village was like that. Boring, same-old things all day. We had a guy who handled trees because they got in the way and no one could be bothered to do anything about them. Half-Elves in dingy clothing, doing the same thing, day in, day out. And every now and then, my grandmother—who was sick—would find a rabbit in our gardens or trip over a rock or something she didn’t realize had appeared. One time, she kicked a tree out of the way because it was pissing her off.”
Teres snorted, but nodded, eyes lighting up.
“I want it. I want to outrun Orthenon or beat Takhatres in an arm-wrestling competition. I want the Seven and Flos to respect me. Trey wants to change their minds, but he doesn’t matter. I said that to him…we never had a choice, he and I. We were always going to turn into this. We appeared in His Majesty’s court, you know.”
“Whoa. Talk about luck. Or not?”
The [Blade of War]’s smile was wry.
“I got a good lesson: if you’re high-level, you can do whatever you want, good or bad. When I go home, to Earth, I want to be someone who can change the world for the better.”
When I go home. Ceria fumbled in her bag for a snack. A Heromaker appeared with one of those pulpy fruit juices and a ball of something tasty and crunchy—flavored seaweed wrapped around a nougat core? Ceria snacked.
“Mm. So you think you’re going back.”
“I think I’m going back, and it’ll be a war between the worlds unless the right people are talking. And even then, there’ll be strife, and I want to make sure our dad stays safe, people I like stay safe, and—”
Ceria saw Teres touch her sword’s hilt—
“—I’ll be important. Fate of the world stuff. I know it sounds silly, but otherwise, I’ll just be a citizen of the United Kingdom; no one will ask what I want, just how I can be useful, if at all. That’s what it was like for Trey and me.”
“He seems to have taken to it as well as you.”
The [Chaos Schemer] was reserved, polite, and, Ceria felt, dangerous. Clever and good with magic. People listened to him; he had the ear of rulers. Perhaps the mark of them, too. Teres was the lesser of the twins at this moment. Teres’ lips twisted.
“You can’t help it. Neither of us have tried to run away, you know. Even at Wistram…well, Trey was worried for me. But it’s impossible. Maybe I’d make it this time, but I tried maybe forty times when I was first getting to know Reim.”
“Really?”
That was interesting. Teresa just shook her head.
“They weren’t big attempts like stealing a horse. I kept poking around the palace, seeing if there were maps or ways to ferret food away or even just get out of sight…no way. The servants, Orthenon, the soldiers, even the animals felt like they would just appear and watch me. I didn’t even bother telling Trey; I realized I’d have to outrun the entire kingdom. Then I started hanging with Flos.”
“And he swung you around with his way of thinking? Mind-tricks?”
Ceria had heard that the Blighted Kingdom had a charismatic king who could predispose you to liking him. That again came from her grandmother, who had a dim view of him and had liked their standoffish King of Myths.
To her surprise, Teres shook her head.
“What, mind-control? Flos hates that. I’m not sure if he can do it or not, but he’s just…generally likable. Like an old-style hero or general. I keep hearing Trey say he’s Alexander the Great…or Napoleon…I don’t get the Napoleon similarities. Anyways, it’s not that. He’s just—imagine being with a guy who always says what he thinks, all the time, at maximum volume. Flos thinks loud. You can either agree with him or not, but you always know how he feels.”
Like a giant boulder moving through a snowfield, shaping everything around it. Ceria nodded to herself; it checked out with what she’d seen. Teres looked wistfully at her sword, at Ceria, then the harbor they were walking past.
“I wish he respected me, though. I’m trying to impress him. I’ve volunteered to fight in the vanguard, to take risky missions, but he trusts Trey more than me.”
Ceria saw the graveyard higher up along the beach and sensed Pisces’ presence up ahead. She turned to Teres as a bunch of ships were being loaded at Hraace’s ports. More were heading out across the coast, north.
To the New Lands of Izril. Chandrarians and everyone else. She swore she could see the King of Destruction’s ships; even he was on the rush to the New Lands, though he couldn’t afford many ships given his wars.
“Eh…it’s rough. Bit of advice, though, from a Gold-rank adventurer? It’s okay if you don’t want it.”
“Sure.”
Ceria leaned over. Her smile was huge and cold, and she was earnest. Just not necessarily nice. She whispered to Teres.
