“Is it not? All your undead are naked.”
Colth and Ceria oohed as they came to this damnation of Pisces’ character, and he was so red-faced he nearly tripped over the boy sitting in front of him.
“Horns of Hammerad! Please, this way! I have been paid, so please do not waste time before Lady Pathseeker comes back!”
Ceria turned indulgently to the boy.
“Hey, little sprout. We’re sort of busy, but we appreciate people trying to give us a good time in Hraace. How about you take this and we call it even, okay?”
She handed him a gold coin. Rather to her surprise, he flicked it back with a sneer.
“I do not abandon my task for pay! And I have been paid, through the Guild, many thousands of gold coins more than that! By the Queen of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, no less!”
…Huh? The Horns of Hammerad stopped walking and turned. In the darkness, the boy was hard to make out, but he couldn’t have been more than…thirteen? He was young, bare-chested with long baggy pants on, and he had a turban wound around his head.
And he was sitting…and had gotten in front of them somehow. Pisces blinked and cast a [Light] spell, then realized the boy was sitting on something.
A carpet, to be more precise. It wasn’t on the ground, either. The carpet was…hovering.
The flying carpet edged forwards, a massive one. Yvlon recoiled, and Colth’s eyes lit up. He glanced towards the temple. Ceria raised her eyebrows.
“Oh wow, a genuine flying carpet. Hey, kid, did you just say Nerrhavia’s Fallen?”
Yvlon groaned.
“Yisame.”
“The Queen of Nerrhavia’s Fallen herself?”
The boy stood up, nodding. He gestured at his carpet, thrusting out his chest proudly.
“This is Reizue’s Dream, one of the last great flying carpets of Chandrar! I am Buler, though my name is unimportant, and I have ferried around legends of Chandrar such as Orjin, the Strongest of Pomle! It is my duty to carry you, the Horns of Hammerad, to Nerrhavia’s Fallen, and may your legend meet the honor of this passage!”
He delivered this all with the youth and confidence of a boy, but the pride and gravitas of someone far older. Elena squeaked.
“Guys, how’d he get here? Did he fly from across the continent? On that? Flying carpets are dangerous! The Quarass told me she’s died on one at least seven times!”
The boy did a double-take, studying Elena up and down, and Colth whirled.
“He must have flown in at night. There’s no way the King of Destruction wants us to just up and go—though he does want us in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. There’s no faster way to get there. I say we go!”
Pisces blinked. He remembered his carpet ride from Pomle, against his will, on smaller carpets. It felt like déjà vu, but this time…
“Now? But we’re being trained by Hraace!”
“Do you want to waste three more weeks when Ksmvr and Vofea are in Baleros and your friends and our goals are moving further away?”
Colth demanded, looking to Ceria for confirmation. She was rubbing at her chin.
“…We’ve got all our possessions on us, more or less. We got good training, but if we’re getting a free carpet ride—hey, kid, you can’t just come back in three weeks?”
“Reizue’s Dream is not a carriage service! I cannot promise where I will be or whom I pick up!”
Buler snapped back, taking umbrage to the flippant comment. Ceria regarded her team.
“Thoughts?”
Yvlon beckoned at the others from the back of the carpet.
“What are you waiting for? Let’s go! The sooner we’re in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, the sooner we can get to Ksmvr!”
That decided Pisces, and Colth was already climbing aboard. Ceria leapt up with a laugh and turned.
“Elena? Last call. We could even put you on Teres’ ship north.”
The young woman hesitated, but only for a moment. She hopped onto the carpet, stumbled as she realized it was sturdier than she’d thought, and turned to Ceria.
“I want to ride a flying carpet at least once in my life. Okay—Buler, hello! I’m Elena. Sort of part of the Horns and—”
He took them ten feet off the ground, and she squeaked. Everyone’s stomachs dropped, but Buler moved the carpet with ease, showing off as he whirled it.
“About time, too! I kept out of sight of Gazi the Omniscient, but I was afraid she’d cut my head off for daring to steal the King of Destruction’s guests! Let’s go! South to Tyrant’s Rest and ach! All the Djinni of Merreid!”
He shouted as a flaming arrow shot past them, and the carpet dove. Everyone ducked, and Pisces heard a horn blow—then a furious shout.
“They’re escaping! Lady Pathseeker! Here! Here!”
Reim’s [Soldiers], the ones who had come with the Earthers, were running down the beach at them. Someone fired another arrow, and Yvlon blocked it with her arm.
“Keep the fire away from Reizue’s Dream!”
Buler screamed in a panic, and the Horns leapt up. More people were racing onto the beach, they realized. The Mentorship of Hraace.
“Wait! Come back! We are not done with you!”
Pedagogia Araxia and her people cut right and left, trying to encircle the carpet as it rose, avoiding arrows cutting off its path overhead, but Buler just turned and streaked down the beach. He tilted the carpet, skimming the sands, clearly intending to outrace the crowd and then get into the air. Everyone tilted.
Ceria grabbed the carpet with an oath as Yvlon calmly anchored herself with a metal hand. Colth was fine, holding onto a pale-faced Elena, but someone else went rolling down the side of the carpet, and Pisces flung himself across to grab her by the leg. He pulled Nawal back up and then stared at her.
“Nawal? What are you doing here?”
“What’s going on? I thought this was another nighttime activity?”
She shouted, turning her head, then ducked as someone fired a lightning bolt. Buler shouted.
“We go! Hang on!”
A shout from below.
“Wait, wait! We have—”
The carpet took off, and a dozen figures leapt for the edge as Reizue’s Dream shot skywards. Pisces heard shouts, felt gravity pulling at him as he clung to Nawal, and then they were in the air.
Far away from the soldiers, who halted, swords drawn, and the single figure of Gazi the Omniscient, who stood, main eye glowing as she watched them leave. She lifted her claymore, and Buler sped them away from her at speed, clearly fearing her eye. Pisces felt the carpet right and then heard Nawal’s frantic voice.
“Where are we going? What’s going on?”
The Horns looked at her. Elena, meanwhile, was pointing.
“Uh, we have boarders—”
Colth’s head rose, and he groaned as he realized someone had, incredibly, leapt onto the carpet as it took off. Delitandra and five Mentors of Hraace were panting, and Buler’s head whirled in outrage.
“Stowaways! Hold on while I—”
Delitandra threw up a hand.
“Wait! We’re with the Horns of Hammerad as well. We are the Mentorship of Hraace, and by order of Pedagogia Araxia, we are to follow the Horns.”
Buler’s eyes widened, and he gawked at the Horns. He clearly knew what this meant. Colth glanced at his teammates, then whispered in Ceria’s ear.
“I can throw them off the carpet. We hit them with a [Featherfall] spell, they’ll live.”
Ceria folded her arms as everyone turned to her. Delitandra smiled and bowed.
“Captain Ceria, we are adept at many tasks, and we know Chandrar by heart. In Nerrhavia’s Fallen, we would be invaluable for navigating the Court of Silks and Steel.”
The half-Elf scratched at her chin, stared at the cloudless sky, then nodded.
“Eh, sure. Nawal and Elena need minders if we’re taking them, and we can always use spare bodies.”
She winked at Pisces, and Nawal began panicking.
“Nerrhavia’s Fallen? But I’m supposed to be with the King of Destruction! With Trey and Lady Pathseeker!”
Colth looked Nawal in the eyes, and the [Supporter] asked one question.
“Why?”
It stumped Nawal, so much so that she stood there for a good fifteen seconds, then sat down. Pisces glanced at the others, uncertain.
“We could drop her with a [Featherfall] spell…”
But they were already far, far away from the capital and moving at incredible speeds. Colth shook his head.
“I only meant doing that to people we don’t like, Pisces. A bird-monster could kill her or we’d never know where she lands. She’s with us. At worst, we hire Reizue’s Dream to take her back.”
Pisces sat down, then stared about. Everyone was windblown, breathless, and suddenly—they were out of the King of Destruction’s clutches. Heading to Nerrhavia’s Fallen, arguably as fast or faster than even the magical carriages. Indeed, that was the first thing Ceria asked Buler.
“Is this going to get us to Nerrhavia’s Fallen faster than those magical carriages?”
He spat contemptuously over the edge of the carpet, so it didn’t fly back and hit his passengers.
“Those things? Hah! We’ll be three days flying, nonstop, adventurers. Nothing and no one save teleportation is faster than Reizue’s Dream!”
“Except Mihaela Godfrey, the Courier of Izril.”
Colth sat next to Buler and got an outraged look. The boy shot back.
“Can she carry a hundred passengers, nay, two hundred, altogether?”
“No, but the Adventurer’s Haven can carry over two thousand.”
“Hah! I know you, Colth the Supporter, who is Named-rank, but not, I think, greatest of legends. That inn is a waddling one-legged camel compared to this carpet!”
“Larracel’s inn serves breakfast and free bread.”
“I have provisions in a chest of holding back there! This carpet has carried Torinba, the Scorpion of Scaied! It has fed nine Kings of Chandrar as they planned war at once, and no less than fifty-two of the Thousand Lances of Kaaz!”
“Larracel’s hosted eight Archmages in her inn…how fast does this carpet fly? She’s the biggest I’ve ever seen, and I lived on Chandrar!”
“There were only two bigger, and one crashed and burned on the Glass Straits, a thousand tears for the Procession of Monarchs, and the other retired because no one dared fly her. Reizue’s Dream can reach Merreid in a day, or, if the winds are with us…”
The two began arguing as if they were friendly rivals within moments. Pisces was trying to stand up and not quite daring—he was terrified of going to the edge of the carpet. Unlike Ceria, who was sticking her head over the side and staring down.
“Whoa, there’s the vertigo…circlet, turn off vertigo. Awesome. Hey, Pisces, come over here!”
Yvlon was sitting in the center of the carpet, pale-faced despite her determination, and Pisces looked at Elena, who had crabbed over to Nawal, who was annoyingly not airsick, only afraid of the sea. As if a bit of water was worse than falling thousands of feet to her death.
In the silence, as Pisces considered his new companions and Delitandra approached Yvlon with a mixture for airsickness, Pisces voiced what he thought was a salient comment.
“Um. Everyone, I had one question. Am I remembering wrong or didn’t we attack Nerrhavia Fallen’s armies before we escaped? I recall a lot of [Fireballs]. And I think Yvlon hit the Great General, whatshisname.”
Everyone turned to him. Colth covered his face as Buler’s eyes lit up, and Yvlon sat up slightly.
“Oh, right. We did do that.”
—They had no idea what awaited them in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, but they went. Mostly because Buler refused to turn around.
 
——
 
The King of Destruction was not a happy man.
And he was saying as much to Trey as he learned the Horns had absconded with Elena—never mind his promises—and put Teresa on a ship to the New Lands.
He seemed to mostly object that they’d skipped their stay in Hraace, that the Pedagogia had found a [Hero] candidate among them and not his people, and that he wouldn’t have a chance to make them meet with him on the campaign again.
Trey…mostly ignored Flos while he watched Gazi, who’d let all this happen. Teresa’s escape was one thing, but he saw her standing there as Reizue’s Dream took off.
A magical carpet. A gigantic magical carpet that Gazi’s eye had missed.
A gigantic magical carpet that she was not pursuing, instead holding her claymore aloft.
“No, stop. Don’t go. Alas, they’ve escaped.”
Gazi’s voice was deadpan, and she sheathed her blade after a second and turned.
“A tragedy.”
Trey raised his eyebrows at her, and Gazi winked one eye at him as she went to apologize to their king. It occurred to the [Mastermind] that Gazi was a bit of a schemer herself, and she might have every reason to help the Horns—partially because she liked them, and partially because it would mean Flos would have less reason to saddle her with shepherding them around.
He hoped they were safe wherever they were ultimately bound. Nerrhavia’s Fallen didn’t strike Trey as the best nation to be in, even without the war. He wished the same for Teres. But then Trey wondered what his future had in store.
Also…where was Nawalishifra?
 
——
 
Two days later, the Horns were bored of air-travel. Mostly because, views aside…there wasn’t much to do. You could talk, admire the view, sleep, and, uh…that was it.
The only time the carpet landed was for food or the bathroom. Buler refused to land otherwise, and he’d even tried to insist on only a few rest-stops at his timing. Ceria’s threat to poop on the carpet had changed that.
Mind you, Buler was a decent flier. He was young and full of the legend of his carpet and potentially a bit heartbreaking when you realized he was so young because his entire family had ridden this carpet to their deaths.
The Horns were nice to him, and Elena coaxed Buler into letting her cut and style his hair; they swapped stories of their adventures with the ones he’d heard from his passengers. Buler liked the Horns, especially Yvlon, whom he treated with more respect than anyone else.
It went…Yvlon, Pisces, Elena, Nawalishifra, Colth, the Heromakers of Hraace, Pisces’ shoes, Ceria.
The Heromakers were a kind of servant or follower, despite Buler’s high impression of them, and Nawalishifra was famed in her way, more than a foreign Named-rank. Elena, Buler just liked.
The Silver Killer of Izril and the Bane of Roshal, though, were real stories to Buler, who kept asking Pisces how many slavers he’d really killed. He refused to buy that Pisces had only killed one, technically seen three dead.
The reason for that was soon to be apparent, but Yvlon was even more famous to Buler, and Ceria was trash. The reason for that was because he was clearly a huge admirer of Pomle and Orjin, the Strongest thereof, and their war against Nerrhavia’s Fallen. He kept insulting the nation of Stitch-folk and mentioning Orjin’s deeds, which he claimed to have witnessed personally.
Ceria had made the mistake of asking who Orjin was, then saying, ‘oh, him? Grimalkin 0.5?’
