Doubte of Zethe left Hraace with a promise to consider their offer, a few light bruises, and a copy of the recording of his sparring match with them.
He’d extracted a promise from Araxia never to share the recording except with his permission and accepted the fight recording to show his wife. He made the mistake of stowing it with his regular possessions, where he would bear it back home…but forgot that his children might find it.
However, that was a story for another time. The story of right now was Teresa Atwood wistfully throwing stones into the sea. Doubte had practically ignored her, along with Gazi’s requests for duels after the Horns.
“Life’s not fair, Trey.”
He just eyed his sister. Minizi was swinging her sword, trying to fight an oversized crab that had crawled onto the beach; they were having a duel for the ages in the surf. She was as pumped as Teres was after the battle.
Trey just looked over his shoulder at the aftermath of the spar. He stared at a half-Elf who had been buried up to her feet in the sand by one of Doubte’s Skills; the Mentorship had finally dug Ceria out, and she emerged red-faced, gasping, and swearing.
They still hadn’t found Colth from wherever Doubte had blown him. Yvlon was being tended to as they tried to reattach both severed arms and her foot. She was mostly just glaring as she sat, denuded of all but one whole limb.
Pisces, the one in the best condition after he’d woken up because Doubte had taken it easy on him, was glumly gluing together one of his glaring Skeleton Champions’ heads.
“[Heroes].”
Trey shuddered.
 
——
 
Twelve days after their training began, Mrsha called. It was not the first time she’d appeared, and the little Gnoll girl found the Horns nursing their injuries from yesterday’s sparring with Doubte.
“She’s so cute!”
That was an exclamation from one of the Earthers, which normally would have put Mrsha’s teeth on edge, but the girl seemed busy today. She scribbled a note as Ceria twisted around, mid-munch.
“Mrsha? Hey, there you are! What happened to daily check-ins? Elena, get over here!”
Hello, Ceria, it is I, again. I have been slightly busy, for which I apologize profusely. Weekly check-ins are more practical at this stage except in special cases like Ylawes. Is everyone alive? You have a black eye.
“This? I just got punched by, uh, a training partner. We’re in Hraace.”
Mrsha noted this down. She squinted as Elena dashed over. Instantly, Elena dropped to one knee to wave a hand at the spectral Gnoll girl.
“You’re Mrsha, aren’t you? Hello! I’m Elena. I’m journeying with the Horns of Hammerad. They got me out of the King of Destruction’s care…have you talked to Cara? Can you take a message to her?”
Mrsha blinked and began taking furious notes as Ceria tried to clarify. The [Beautician] was so frantic to get the information across that Ceria grinned as Pisces was slowly dragged out of his bedroom by Yvlon and Colth, still wrapped in his sheets.
“Don’t worry, she’s not on a time limit, Elena. Mrsha can run a message to your friend, unless she’s permanently warded, right, Mrsha?”
The Gnoll girl held up a card.
As a matter of fact, good sir or madam, I am busy today for reasons I cannot disclose.
“Oh? Everything alright in the inn?”
Mrsha fumbled a few cards, and Elena read them as the girl picked them up and tried to wave at the other Horns at the same time.
 
Mother, I am going to be just outside the inn with Chieftain Rags, today. I trust that is acceptable? Can I not have Ser Dalimont or Ushar? The Goblins make fun of him, and I am uncool.
If I am not in communication for my weekly check-in, please assume Nanette will take the responsibilities over as she is able.
 
The girl hurriedly snatched the cards up and held one out to Ceria, who read it.
“Selys has left Liscor? Whoa. Inn’s okay except for weirdness with—you hired who?”
“Whom, Ceria. Mrsha, hello. Have you heard anything about Erin or seen Ama? I was—they hired Elia Arcsinger?”
Mrsha patiently placed a few cards on the ground summarizing events in the inn as the Horns exclaimed. Elena was more focused on Cara, and Mrsha scribbled on a card and held it up.
I will second your message to Cara O’Sullivan if I can, Elena. Should I have her contact you via [Message] spell or should I just reassure her you’re well?
Elena turned to Ceria.
“Wow, she’s so…erudite. That’d be great. I need to prepare the message with a few special phrases so she knows I’m okay. Can you give me five minutes?”
Mrsha nodded, shifting from foot to foot, occasionally tapping a card or writing an explanation as Pisces, Ceria, and Yvlon asked questions. After she’d caught them up and written down Elena’s message verbatim, she held up the final card.
It’s good to see you all. The inn’s like it always is—don’t worry, we’re doing everything we can in Erin’s absence. I might not check in at the usual time, but I’ll message you when I can. And contact Cara, Elena!
She smiled, and Ceria glanced at Pisces, who crouched down.
“And Lyonette and Ishkr are both well? The inn is well-defended, Captain Todi and Elia Arcsinger aside?”
So I believe. You stay safe, Pisces. I’ll tell Ksmvr you’re all okay except for the bruises.
“No, don’t tell him that. And…tell us if he’s not doing well. I know he’s hard to contact in Baleros.”
Yvlon interjected, and Mrsha nodded. She vanished without further ado, and instantly, Pisces turned to Ceria. They exchanged a wordless glance, and Colth spoke.
“She seems oddly stressed. I’ve only seen her a few times, but normally she’d be asking about Hraace and demanding to be made a [Hero]. Think it’s trouble?”
“If it is, she wasn’t warning us. It might just be drama. Like Selys leaving the inn?”
“Want to bet it’s low-level?”
Ceria muttered, and Pisces bit his lip. Yvlon was the one who squared her shoulders.
“Nothing we can do about it but trust our friends are there. And Elia. When we get back, we’ll have to find a proper guard instead of her.”
Ceria punched a hand into her fist.
“Right. Agreed. Let’s focus on getting what we can out of Hraace. Doubte kicked us around like Bronze-ranks yesterday. Everyone needs to try harder—except you, Pisces.”
She grabbed him by the collar and dragged him back. Pisces spluttered as Ceria nearly strangled him.
“What? I worked as hard as everyone else! It’s not my fault he hit you all twice as hard as me.”
She gave him a knowing look as Elena began to pursue Yvlon to do her hair. Ceria leaned over.
“I saw what you were trying to summon when Doubte was fighting us. That’s your new undead?”
Pisces blushed instantly, squirmed, and began to talk rapidly, but Ceria threw an arm around his shoulder.
“I have a special appointment for you. Hraace’s got everything. You take a visit to them; I’ve got a date with an [Enchanter] about my clothing.”
Delitandra was waiting to take Pisces to a set of buildings by a natural outdoor pool and what looked like outdoor gardens near the edge of the city. He stared at her, then at the rest of his team, before he realized where he was booked. Then he protested, mainly on the grounds that—
“I’m not saying I don’t need a session, but truly, what about Yvlon? Colth? Ceria?”
Delitandra and several muscular men and women gently herded him towards the building, smiling.
“We tried, and they all threatened to hurt us, Adventurer Pisces.”
 
——
 
Nawalishifra didn’t like lying on beds or couches or walking while talking. Instead, she suffered the conversation only while she was allowed to sieve iron ore, a process in making the pure metals she worked with. She obsessively filtered the iron again and again, even washing it with an alchemical liquid that wouldn’t corrode the metal—wasting a lot of the iron to maximize its purity.
She spoke, distracted, in a snappy, argumentative tone of voice, but the [Thought Healer] just sat there and talked, reasonable and calm. Not ‘soothing’, which Nawal would have taken to be patronizing, but at a slower tempo, like someone having a slow debate.
“I made a mistake with my vow. There, that is my great issue, and you may note it down and let me go, very well?”
Nawal confessed after the fourth day of this…whatever it was. She didn’t need it. She would have preferred to be learning more techniques in the forges or making metal, but they’d insisted, and Trey had talked her into it.
“What’s the mistake, Nawalishifra?”
“The mistake is—Zeikhal’s sands, but I was a fool with nothing between my ears but grief and the damned blade I made—the mistake was swearing not to forge a blade! A fool’s vow, but one I must keep because I have forsaken all other oaths. Do not tell me it is silly! I know it is. I hate making shields and armor and—jewelry.”
Nawal’s voice was filled with contempt. She tossed the cleaned iron ore down and picked up her hammer, tapping the container and compacting the ore. The [Thought Healer] made a neutral sound.
“Is this a lack of interest in forging those objects or forging in general?”
The former [Smith] of Clan Tannousin shrugged.
“I have not made a blade since I vowed it, so I do not know.”
“But you told me you loved the act of smithing, of making pure metals in your clan’s traditions. Can you not feel that when you make your shields?”
“No. So perhaps it is all bile on my tongue and coating my forge. Bile and imperfection and rot, like scaling, and it is being baked onto my soul. Fix that, then, with your words and Skills.”
The [Thought Healer] waited as Nawal filled a new container with more iron to process. She’d been given mithril and other rare minerals and metals from the fallen meteor. But she was working with iron.
“We all lose interest in our professions from time to time, Nawal. Passion is hard to maintain. You have suffered a great betrayal. But tell me—we’ve talked about your error at the siege of Reim, forging the cursed blade. Did you think on any other mistakes that were made?”
“What, my clan lying to the King of Destruction? I say again, we were fools and I was the [Smith]. There’s nothing else to say.”
Nawal thought she heard a man’s voice in the healer’s clinic, a familiar one. The [Necromancer]? She nearly drew her veil across her face again; her [Thought Healer] was a woman, so Nawal had left it off. But then she wondered what the point was; she was not a Tannousin.
She was just Nawal. Her movements slowed, and the [Healer] interjected, probing carefully, but like someone with a poker, trying to untangle something dangerous and sharp from a bush of pointy, yet fragile brambles.
“Your father made the Naq-Alrama ingots that were flawed, Nawal.”
“I bear Tannousin’s shame. I should have seen the flaws; I helped him prepare the materials. I covered up their worthlessness.”
Nawal responded so fast that the [Healer] said nothing and let the [Smith] listen to her own words bouncing back to her. Savagely, Nawal hammered the iron dust in the new container.
“He was dying. He was a great [Smith]. One of Tannousin’s finest in living memory!”
“I’m not trying to imply he wasn’t, Nawal. But…let me ask you another way. Did he do nothing wrong?”
The [Smith] said nothing, eyes darting to the woman, to her work, as if trying to evade a trap. The [Healer] went on.
“We are the Mentorship of Hraace, Nawal. We record history and spread stories. If you had the ability, how would you write the events that led to the disaster at Reim? Would you put any blame on your father or take it all upon yourself?”
It seemed like Nawal was trying to draw in on herself. She hunched over, trying to hide away, drawing her veil…but when she looked around and saw the closed door, the room meant to be comforting with no one else to hear her, the words spilled forth like a crack in the stone.
“It’s not fair. He was never a perfect father or he would have named me a [Smith] and let me forge the steel under his guidance. He always had hopes for my worthless brother, who tried to sell me like a [Slave]. But he taught me how to hold the hammer. He made great Naq-Alrama steel. Why can I not remember him for that? Why—did he leave me with all this to carry?”
She raised the hammer to smash the iron ore and table to bits, then lowered it, arm shaking. The [Thought Healer] sat there as Nawal wiped at her eyes.
“Which matters more to you, Nawalishifra? The metal being impure or how your father, your clan, treated you? I’m sorry. It’s a harsh question.”
Nawal choked back a wet laugh and shrugged. She tried to smile, but her face was twisted up, and she had to put down the hammer to scrub at her face.
“Metal is harsh. The forge is harsh. You know the answer. I…I care about the metal, because that was the only way I had respect from anyone else. Now I’m alone. Trey and Teresa are the only people who even care for me.”
“And Venith Crusland.”
“I am alone, with three people who would speak my name when I am dead, with a vow I don’t want to keep—what am I supposed to do?”
Tears were running down past her veil, now. Nawal stumbled back, and the [Healer] urged her into a chair. She sat there, hiccuping, trying to stem the unsightly tears, until she felt better. She would have continued, but the [Healer] declared this was more than enough today.
She took Nawal outside, where the [Smith] could sit, drink one of the fruit drinks, and even dip her toes in the swimming pool. Nawal, who had grown up in the great desert, couldn’t swim, but swimming lessons and the water were a good distraction for her.
She sat there, sniffing, wiping at her eyes, thinking of all the things that had led her here and the healer’s advice.
I can be anything I want, now. I can leave it behind. But to do what? Nawal tried to imagine making a living making armor in another city or continuing with the King of Destruction. And she was honestly only doing that for Trey and Teresa and…
Her thoughts were in such a muddle that she didn’t pay attention to her surroundings or the sweating glass of chilled Prelon juice until someone stormed out to throw himself into a chair by the pool.
“—And furthermore, I would like to point out that ‘confutation’ is a perfectly reasonable, nay, elementary word to use in regular discourse! Nor are [Necromancers] generalizable in the means you describe! We are highly idiosyncratic individuals, and we often animate undead purely based on technical achievements! There is no assumed, personal relationship between our creations and our personalities or past traumas! The Necromancer is a banal example! So is the Putrid One!”
