Erick made a decision that he didn’t have to talk to all of them individually. He flicked his aura at the guy’s door down the way, opening it up. “Would you be interested in making sure we’re doing it right?”

The priest, who was named Gorgi, did not step out of his room. He stared at the open door like it was a mouth to hell, as he shouted, “The Dark take you for what you did to us!”

Erick unlatched every single door. Some people stepped out. Some remained inside.

Erick spoke, “You’ve all been dealt an incredibly difficult fate. You were dead, and now you are not. But from your perspectives, you were alive, and we stole you from your homes. I’m sorry for that. I’m also sorry for all of your bodies, for we had to act fast in order to get them made, to prevent you from passing on into the mana. None of you would have gone to the gods you wished to go to, for many of those gods are dead. The God of Destruction simply does not exist anymore; he wasn’t allowed onto Veird during the Sundering for fear of what he might do. From my understanding with some talks with some gods in the last 12 hours, the God of Destruction was reveling in the death of all worlds anyway.

“Aloeth no longer exists,” Erick said to Shalia, and the other elf, a man by the name of Jiloatho. “Aloethag is the Goddess of Beauty and Brutality, and she is goddess to the orcols these days, and elves are murdered on sight for fear of Aloethag reverting. You two have probably been contacted by her already. But know this: you will not become elves under my hand, for I will not invite that sort of split into this world.

“All alvani do not exist anymore, and the normal Gods of the Angels are gone. About 25 years post Sundering, the Old Demons killed all the halves that managed to make it here, and changed the Script so that the children of Angels and humans no longer happen. Now, only Demons and humans produce offspring. Those would be the incani you have heard about. Those incani overthrew the Old Demons long ago. Now it’s just incani-as-Demons versus humans-as-Angels in the Forever War, which is something that still exists —much to most everyone’s chagrin— for reasons of continued atrocities on both sides.

“But that’s all history. Important history that you should know, but not too important for you right now.

“I implore you all to do some soul searching while you are here at the Wake Up House.” Erick added, “But before we get to that, I know only one of you actually filled out your [Reincarnation] paperwork, while the rest of you tore it up in anger, thinking you were defying me.

“Know now that I want to let you go and for you to do your own lives as soon as possible. If you want a new body, you can leave messages with the director, or his staff. To a certain extent, you are owed what you want, for it is not an easy thing to be transported to a new world, and to leave everything behind.

“Believe me, I know what that is like.”

A moment passed.

A woman began crying, a man held back sobs.

Erick said, “The Red Wing of the Wake Up House is open to you now. With time, and proving yourself as not a danger, you will be allowed to leave this area, and take up more normal residencies. Now. Gorolik? Would you like to have that [Reincarnation] now?”

A man standing by his door, the Gorolik in question, froze in complete fear.

Erick said, “I can hit every single one of those targets, if that is what you wish. Or, you can write out some new paperwork and we’ll do that new version later.”

“… I’ll write some other paperwork.”

Erick would have a private conversation with him about all that at a later date. There was nothing too untoward about his requests, but they were all made in clear defiance of what a normal person would want, based on normal societal conventions. But maybe he really did want to be an Old Dragonkin with wings and two sets of arms and a bunch of stuff going on down below. He had been a human, though, before he came through the gate in the dungeon. A simple human. Erick always asked people twice and sometimes three times if they desired switches far beyond their original bodies, and Erick had suspected that Gorolik had filled his paperwork with defiance.

It was good to see that Erick’s suspicions had been correct.

Most people when they got bodies like that and they actually wore them around for a little while rapidly decided that they did not like being that different from other people.

Erick said, “Then that is fine. Talk to you all later. Good day.”

Erick vanished through a [Gate], rapidly closing it behind him. The staff would watch over those 9 people now; Erick had done enough for them for today. It was time to visit other people.

- - - -

Oozy Stormcaller was the former king of Storm’s Edge before he had been transformed into an ooze by a Shade and then locked away in the castle’s dungeon for a few centuries. It wasn’t till a few decades ago that Oozy had been rescued by the people who had become his family, and taken to Seafoam Manor and raised as a person again. Sometimes blood oozes developed sentience if they lived long enough, and Oozy had regained some of his original sentience, but he was no longer the king of Storm’s Edge at all. His family was gone now, too.

He seemed to be adjusting… Somewhat well.

Oozy was painting a picture in all-red pigments under an apple tree, trying to capture the scenery of the plains and scattered forest ahead, under the bright sun above. But in all red. It was weird.

It was fine.

Erick stepped down onto the hill near him while he was cleaning his brush. “Greetings, Oozy.”

Oozy startled. Which was why Erick waited till he was cleaning his brush. And then Oozy looked upon Erick and smiled wide. He got up and stood, his eyes yellow rimmed in red, like two suns with dark spots in the center, while his hair was bright red and short. He had freckles now, and he was still rather skinny, but in a healthy sort of way. He seemed happier than the last time Erick had seen him, and in all of Goldie’s investigations of the man he had been no more or less than a normal person.

No secret trysts with evil powers. No known affiliations or outreaches to any sorts of organizations. Nothing. He mostly painted and lived a small life. There was, quite frankly, a lot of friction between him and many other people, but he had been an ooze for centuries, so of course interactions would be weird.

Oozy seemed to be okay as he called out, “Wizard Flatt! Hello again!”

Erick returned the smile, asking, “How are you, Oozy? I heard you wanted to talk to me directly? Also that you’ve been having trouble getting along with others.” A bit stronger, Erick said, “I heard you assaulted a man, and his brother.”

Oozy had been excited, and then he got less excited. “Ahh… Well. Yes. Those guys were… I’m not sure what came over me. I think they said something bad about Storm’s Edge, or the others that came through from there, and… I honestly forgot most of that night.”

“Well they’re alive, and you won’t do it again, will you?”

“I didn’t want to fight them… It… sort of happened.”

“That’s what all the others have said, too, and I believe you.”

Oozy relaxed. And then he frowned a little, “I think I do not get along with normal people. I keep… I tried to eat a slice of cake with the side of my face once weeks ago and a man at the cafeteria… It became a harsh sort of joke among them.”

“I’m sorry that happened to you, Oozy.” Erick asked, “Is that what you wanted to talk to me about? About your difficulty fitting in?”

Oozy made himself stand strong, and then he said, “I think… I can’t stay here any longer. It has been fantastic. But I want to go on a pilgrimage. Around the world, to find myself.”

Well… There was nothing wrong with that. Most people left the Wake Up House after some months of getting used to their new bodies. The staff made sure that the people were comfortable with their bodies before they left, so that they didn’t have regrets later when they were beyond Erick’s easy help. But some people left the area after only a few days, completely forgoing the standard body-adjustment period. That was their prerogative, though; Erick wouldn’t hold people against their will unless he needed to.

“That’s fine, but for you, I must give you a warning.” Erick said, “Once you leave here and get back into the world, I can’t protect you anymore. You’re on your own out there, Oozy. Sink or swim.”

Oozy seemed to beam with hope, as he said, “Thank you, Wizard Flatt.”

Erick nodded. “Where do you think you’ll go?”

“Well… I’ve been having dreams of storms. It was my namesake… Stormcaller.” Oozy held up a hand and red sparks gathered in his palm. “I want to see what that means. I want to see what connection I have to Sininindi— Or rather, what connection I used to have, and if there’s anything there anymore.” He dropped his hand. “I feel very storm-tossed, Wizard Flatt. I have lost my sea legs. I want to be better. Maybe actually gain some levels, or something. I want to find my footing.”

Red lightning in hand, eh?

Erick felt a little weird in that moment, but only because he was hyper-sensitized to Lightning Magics right now. They were searching for the Sundering, after all. But sometimes Lightning Magics were just Lightning Magics. Some other times, though, Lightning Magics had divine sources, and Sininindi was directly watching over Oozy, for he was the last of the Stormcallers.

So it didn’t surprise Erick at all to see what he saw next.

High above the land, a spark of gold lightning scattered from one lonely cloud to another, while a breeze rushed across the Crystal Forest, the sound of shaking leaves seeming almost like rain, drowning out the sound of the lightning. It hadn’t been a big bolt, nor had it been a big wind.

Erick and Ophiel were perhaps the only people who noticed the lightning and who knew what it meant, for it occurred behind Oozy, and Oozy did not have any of the sensing abilities that Erick enjoyed.

Erick made a decision. He said, “I wish you luck in finding yourself, Oozy. You’ll get the same graduating care package as anyone else, so be sure to collect that before you leave.”

Oozy smiled brightly. “I will! Thank you for everything, Wizard Flatt!”

“You’re welcome, Oozy. I’m glad I could help.”
