The Wake Up House was perhaps the largest of those settlements in this area. There was the main estate, which was like a halfway house, a college campus, and a cosmopolitan village all in one. A lot of people, after they went through here, opted to make a go of it somewhere close by. The Crystal Forest was absolutely prime real estate, and it was all free for the taking. Mostly. Erick had secured around a 500 kilometer diameter space south of the mountains for the Wake Up House.

People needed some nice, calm space in order to come to terms with their new bodies, after all.

Erick arrived through a ring of lightning directly into the receiving courtyard of the main house.

Poi was already there, waiting for him and for Debby, and for all the people flying through on Erick’s power. If Poi hadn’t been there to get things started, Erick was sure that the two doctors on call would have been reading books and waiting for something to happen. Three nurses standing to the side would have been in the same position, and probably playing cards, as they often did. They would have acted fast, though, if something came through. Which it had.

This was a style of care that Erick had stolen from Oceanside, along with some of Oceanside’s own emergency staff, because Oceanside was no longer the center for emergency care that it had once been; not with [Teleport] made impossible for the last eleven years. The emergency team here was well versed in working odd hours and with Erick’s presence, though, because Erick worked directly with a lot of them. With little direction necessary except for a basic command of ‘They’re code red, so armored rooms’, the team got to work, and soon, others came out of the house, taking in Erick’s nine new arrivals. Within minutes, the new people were set up in waking rooms.

Armored ones.

[True Resurrection] would not have rid them of soul-imbued magic, but [Reincarnation] certainly did. Even so, Erick didn’t want to take chances. That desire to not take chances was obvious to all, and soon, the director was there to greet him. But the time was somewhere around 7 pm.

“Shouldn’t you be off having dinner with your new wife, Magnin?” Erick said, smiling a little as he teased the director, as the two of them walked down the hallway, just inside the Red Wing.

Magnin was a young human demi in appearance, with very faint violet features to mark him as touched by incani blood. He looked similar to Zolan, but still different. He was actually a contemporary of Zolan’s, for he was around 135 years old. Unlike Erick’s Castellan of House Benevolence, who was an eternal bachelor it seemed, Magnin had gotten married several months ago. It had been a beautiful wedding.

Magnin smiled as he said, “Soon as Poi came around, Araleel put the roast under [Ward] and went to check the defenses around here to make sure they’re fully active.” And then he got down to business. “You haven’t called for a code red in a while.”

The Red Wing was just like all the other wings of the Wake Up House, but its [Ward]s and defenses were a lot more strict than other locations. Even if the people Erick had taken from the Dark could cast magic, most of it should be shut down… Hopefully.

Erick explained his concern, “I took these people from the Dark, like taking shadelings out of their fugue state prematurely. They were going to die otherwise. If they were who they were in their previous lives, I have no doubt that they could have stopped me. They were guarding something very, very precious…

“They’re probably good people, but they’ve been through a lot. Events like this will likely happen again, Magnin. This time was unexpected…” Erick stopped at the door to the first room. Shalia, the former smoke elf, rested on a soft bed with soft pillows, inside a rather nice room with soft chairs, and with a big window that gave a nice view of the outside world. All of it was cleverly made of rather damned strong materials, and a lot of it was secured to the floor. “But I probably should have expected this. It’ll happen again.”

“We’ll take care of them, Erick; you leave that to us.”

Erick smiled. “I know you will. I trust you.” Erick breathed in. He gestured back the way they came. “Let’s have an overview meeting, Magnin.” And then he nodded to Poi, saying, “You can start waking them up.”

Poi flicked power outward and his [Sleep] spells dissolved… Or rather, the [Sleep] spells cast by Poi’s other [Hive Mind]ed self started to dissolve. At that thought, Poi gave Erick a Look. Right, right; okay. They were the same person.

Poi nodded.

Erick said to Magnin, “They’re probably going to try and accrete right away, which might monsterize them. That’s the main reason for the code red.”

Magnin paused. “… They don’t know that that is a bad idea? Untrained accretion?”

“They’re very trained, Magnin, but trained under a very different set of rules. Anyway, let’s talk about the Wake Up House, starting with the most recent returners.” Erick asked, “How are things?”

In the hallway, guards and otherwise were on the case.

Magnin began, “Rather normal. The people from Riam are starting to get along with others, but that’s rather normal considering the directions of their [Reincarnation]s, though we are having yet another upsurge in worshiping of you, which I am having some difficulty dismantling. I might need to ask the Xoatists to step in and convince the Riamites to leave to seek their fortunes elsewhere.”

Erick didn’t cringe nearly as much as he usually did when talking of worship and Xoatism. “Approved. Whatever you need to do.”

Magnin noticed Erick’s change in demeanor, and let it pass unmentioned. “On that note, we have around 740 people asking for different [Reincarnation]s.”

“Oh. Okay. That many? Sure—” Erick had a sudden thought. “Are any of them from the recent groups? From Storm’s Edge and the Glittering Depths, I mean. Not from last week’s [Reincarnation] day.”

Magnin took a half second to gather his thoughts, then he said, “There have been a few from those groups. Which people in particular are you worried about?”

Erick was already using Ophiel to scope out the records office. A few things stood out to him, but since those records were purposefully kept vague, Magnin would be the one to ask about all that. So that’s what Erick did. “The Artillery Archmage from Riam; Terrance Nightenflit. If any of the Aroidos decided to stick around, or if they’re back. Oozy Stormcaller, also from Storm’s Edge.”

They stopped at a common room and sat down.

Magnin began, “As an overview, Terrance is doing well, but he’s having a lot of difficulty with mana in this New Cosmology. I believe he wants a stronger body than the one he requested; he’s among the ones requesting a different [Reincarnation]. There are a few Aroidos around here but none of them are on the re-[Reincarnation] list unless that changed recently.” And then Magnin paused, and tried to deliver some bad information in a calm way, “Oozy does not want a new [Reincarnation]. He is having trouble interacting with people, though.”

“Ah. Yes. I figured he would,” Erick said, feeling slightly nervous himself. “That [Reincarnation] didn’t go how I expected it to go. Has he filled out new paperwork? I don’t see it in the records office.”

“He wants to talk to you directly. I don’t believe he wants a new body.”

Erick nodded. “What else is happening?”

Magnin spoke for a while.

And Erick ironed out many small issues here and there, all across the land, as the 9 rescues from the Cathedral of Destruction woke up in the Red Wing. Some of them panicked. Some of them relaxed, and prayed to gods. Some of them stared at screens, amazed that they were in a land with a manaminer.

Two people tried to accrete.

Erick had to cut short his talks with Magnin to deal with those suddenly-monsterized people, as they took in the mana all around them. That situation got out of hand rather fast, with a whole lot of yelling up and down the Red Wing, and a bunch of nurses and doctors and guards having to go back through the whole group of new arrivals, to inform them once again that it was bad to accrete outside of proper methodology.

Erick didn’t get involved too much with all that; not yet, anyway.

Because suddenly he had appointments with various Relevant Entities about stuff they wanted rescued from the Dark. It seemed that Erick’s small foray out of the Dark, and the proof of his capability to bring out items from the past into this reality, had knocked loose about a hundred bee nests, and all of them needed attention.

He’d get to the 9 rescues from the Dark tomorrow. They could use a day or so of rest to come to grips with their new lives, and the Script.

- - - -

Erick sat in a nice sort of meeting room, but not too nice. The chairs were functional and appropriate to the people who were showing up, in order, but they were all a secure sort of functional. There was no gilding on these chairs, tables, and walls. This was by choice. The impression Erick was giving by these choices was that he was a working man, doing working man’s work. There was a time and place for ostentation, to display power and wealth, but now was not that time.

Zolan, the Castellan of House Benevolence, walked back into the room. He shut the doors behind him.

“Okay. So. That went well.”

Erick laughed. “Tiktik was on his best behavior today.”

“Hmm. Yeah.” Zolan looked the stone floor over, making a show of looking for the great divots that Tiktik had carved into the eternal stonewood. “Can’t even tell he was in here.”

Erick chuckled. “There’s not much to expect out of the God of the Wild’s avatars, except that they will be wild.”

“Sorry for abandoning you halfway through.”

“Not a problem, Zolan. It’s not your responsibility to keep me safe, but I thank you for your time spent in these conversations anyway, for your knowledge of all these people and events.”

Zolan smiled softly. “Will you actually be able to get the Life Seed for Fangorl?”

“Doubtful, but I can try.” Erick said, “There’s nothing wrong with trying for ancient artifacts. Every single one makes Veird more robust; stronger.” Erick moved on, “So next?”

“That would be Lynkari, of the demons.”

“… Ah.”

Erick had gone through 17 of these appointments so far. Most of them had been from paladins of various gods coming to Erick to deliver the words of those gods, or other Relevant Entities. Not every god was a major power like Koyabez or Rozeta, able to manifest a body on demand. The lesser gods, like Fangorl of the Wilds, or even Sumtir, the God of Righteous War, sent paladins. All of them wanted something from him, or rather, from the Old Cosmology. Some of them wanted something to make them more powerful, like in Fangorl’s case, or they wanted something that they had lost, and which Erick agreed to look for, like with Sumtir asking for the Shield of Faith, which was a defensive artifact of war.

And now, before Erick knew it, it was time for the final few meetings of the day. The more dangerous ones. Or at least Erick assumed they would be the more dangerous ones.

The Demons, of Hell.

And then the Angels, of Celes.

There had been a whole argument over who was going to be able to talk to Erick first, but then Erick suggested a coin toss and the demons won the coin toss, but not before both sides tried to interfere in the fate of that toss. Erick was rather sure that the envoy from the Angels had been trying to use actual Fate Magic to influence the toss, too, but then she bled from the nose instead, the Script shutting her down. Erick ignored that extreme breach of propriety, for the demons had tried to do something similar but with very subtle Particle Magic. Erick shut that attempt down himself.

In the end, the demons probably won the toss, and Erick left it like that.

“Is Lynkari sending an envoy again?” Erick asked, “Or do I need to actually go summon her?”

“Different envoys for both the angels and the demons; those first ones fell out of favor when their tricks were exposed.” Zolan said, “The demon envoy is at the Wall, at Centerpoint, awaiting your [Gate].” And then Zolan walked to the wall, to stand to the side for the meeting.

Erick did some searching with Ophiel upon the Wall that separated and delineated the Crystal Forest from the Wastelands. Both of those areas used to be filled with dangers and poisons of different kinds, with desert on the east and toxic marshes on the west. But now, there was farmland on the west, and the east held forests from there, all the way to Candlepoint and beyond. The Wall itself looked a lot less war-torn and spartan than it used to look, too. Now there was greenery and nicety.

Erick found the envoy standing upon the grey Wall, at Centerpoint, in the center of a presentation space that was almost a pedestal fit for a dragon. The archmage stood there, having just gotten up from her chair, her aides telling her that it was time for the meeting. Erick knew her, and he was glad to see she was doing well enough, though it was odd to see her tagged for this sort of thing.

Peatrice Shallowhammer was an incani Stone Archmage, wearing purple and gold, the colors of the Magisters of the Wasteland’s Magisterium. She spotted Ophiel, and did a bow that looked pained. She wasn’t an old woman, but she was certainly not a young woman, either. Maybe she would be asking for a [Reincarnation] today? The option was open for her; Erick had already explained long before now. She had always forgone that option.

Erick opened the [Gate] in front of her. The other end opened in the doorway to his plain office at House Benevolence.

“Hello, Peatrice,” Erick said, welcoming her into the space.

Peatrice took another slightly-strained bow, then she straightened and walked into the room. She bowed again, and then lifted, saying, “Greetings, Wizard Flatt.”

Erick closed the [Gate] and filled the room with a [Hasted Shelter]. They’d have plenty of time to talk, now. “Please have a seat, Peatrice, and tell me what ails you before we get to this artifact search.”

Peatrice tensed a fraction, but she was well-practiced in not showing her true feelings so Erick only understood 40% of what was wrong with her. She was having physical trouble. Soul trouble, too, by the look of it, though souls were, by their very nature, gaseous and 80% undefinable, so all Erick could really see were a series of old fixes constructed in order to bridge and heal old curses. They were wounds from the Converter Angel, over a decade ago. She had mostly healed herself, well before Lapis was involved in that issue. She had refused all other assistance since then…

