Before Peatrice had the chance to say that nothing was wrong, as she usually did—

Erick flatly said, “Your old wounds are acting up.”

Peatrice took a moment to sit down in her provided chair. She sighed a little, and then said, “They are acting up, and it’s nothing to be concerned about. I’m here today to discuss ancient artifacts, and I would much prefer to go over those.”

“… Fine.” Erick set aside his desire to help Peatrice individually, to focus on the greater good. “What artifacts are you interested in? Keep in mind that only the largest artifacts are possible, as in stuff that changed the course of worlds, or stuff that left such a deep mana impression that they were used for literal millennia. And, so you know, we’ll only have one chance to get one item.”

Back in the dungeon, Solomon had done a test, trying to get the gate to link with the Cathedral of Destruction again. It had failed, producing a connection to disordered dreams. Erick hadn’t tried himself, but he would when he got back.

It was better to tell people that this wasn’t a sure thing.

Peatrice sat tall, saying, “We are aware of the limitations and warnings. With that in mind, and knowing that you have rescued people from the Dark, we are less interested in artifacts, and more interested in people, since that seems more of a sure thing considering what we have heard. In particular, there is an ancient Angel who once tried to work with the Old Demons to end the Forever War in a stretch of the Old Cosmology known as the Bisection. His name is Avandrasolaro. We believe he died due to carelessness in his old age, though he lived to around 30,000 before an assassination attempt took him. The Bisection survived another 500 years past his death, but it fractured and created a whole new front to the Forever War, maybe 180,000 years ago. The numbers are not exact; they are practically apocryphal.”

Erick had been inclined to say ‘no’ and to stop Peatrice the very second she said ‘person’, but he listened instead. Something like joy flowed through his body as he heard her request. Tempering his hope, Erick said, “A request like this will require confirmation from various Relevant Entities, but you already know that if this pans out, then I’ll try to rescue Avandrasolaro. How do you see that working out for you?”

“Hopefully, he will be able to provide a bridge between the Demons and the Angels to break the Forever War. Honestly, this war already should have been broken when all the Old Demons died in the Incani Uprising against them, but that took us a hundred years, and we were forced to commit atrocities against the Angels while we were still slaves to the Old Demons. Because of that, the Angels continued their aggression against us.” Peatrice added, “The Old Demons certainly wished for that sort of hatred to continue, so they certainly didn’t help matters with how they treated us. Their death throes are still felt to this day. But maybe, with Avandrasolaro’s help, and with his well-known disposition against the Forever War… We can bridge the gap between what could be, and what is.”

“I’m surprised this is the formal request of the Demons, Peatrice. I’m very happy. But I’m also surprised.”

Peatrice nodded. “We have a few more requests that are more in line with what you might expect; poisoned chalices, and such. But I felt like presenting the best option first.”

Erick smiled a little. Now that was more like it. “Go ahead.”

“If you will pardon the formality that is required to deal properly on behalf of my ancestors, and their distaste of the Angels— Ah hem,” Peatrice cleared her throat, and took on an air of pretend imperiousness, saying, “To begin with, let me remind you, if you will allow, that you reformed the Shades through the destruction of their worst members. Nothing was achievable against them without the murder of Bulgan, and Tania Webwalker, and all the other malcontents. We ask for the same sort of power to use against the Angels, eliminate the worst of them, in the hopes that we might achieve a similar sort of peace and cooperation. The first object that might help us achieve this is the Vile Needle…”

Peatrice gave her presentation, as she was required to do in order to fulfill the parameters of her Demon Contract. When she passed, she would likely become a high-ranking demon, and Erick would be seeing a lot more of her in this specific sort of way. But for now, she was merely incani, and thus she was ‘low on the totem pole’ of demonic existence.

Which was why Erick didn’t blow up at her for her unreasonable requests; she was just a speaker right now. The Demons all knew that he would at least hear them out, too, and so they exploited that about him, forcing him to hear their propaganda.

It was whatever.

They got a chance to air their greatest grievances, and Erick got to know a little bit about the lay of the land between Angel and Demon and their Veirdly counterparts.

Eventually, Peatrice got to the end of her requests, and Erick got to the end of his denials of those requests.

Erick asked, “The request for Avandrasolaro… Was that from one of the Houses of Hell, or from you?”

Peatrice said, “From the House of Blood-on-Hell. They’re trying to woo you into a Contract, of course, as all of them are, but they’re falling on hard times right now. If you should succeed with the rescue of Avandrasolaro then Blood-on-Hell will either be devoured by its contemporaries or rise to new heights to rival Demon King Dinnamoth. Hopefully they can thread that lake of intrigue and fire, but we don’t actually know until it happens.” She added, “They expended almost all their political capital to get you that target, too, so they’re hoping this gambit elevates their House into extreme levels of power. But since I am not allied with their house, and am actually in House Dinnamoth, I feel socially compelled to tell you that Blood-on-Hell used to be a very big proponent of the Quiet War, until you took office and made their normal operations unworkable.”

“Well… Who hasn’t been a big part of the Quiet War?” Erick asked, rhetorically. “I’m all about second chances, anyway.”

Peatrice nodded. “Which is what Blood-on-Hell is counting on.”

The meeting was basically over, so Erick tried one last time, “Are you sure you don’t want to take a [Reincarnation]? I can clean up all of those soul wounds from the Converter Angel, and all of the fixes you implemented to solve those wounds.”

Peatrice stood, saying, “Thank you, but no thank you, Wizard Flatt. I plan on living forever when I die, so that I may help my descendants for generations upon generations to come, alongside my ancestors who would do the same.”

Erick did not stand. He just dismissed the bubble of Time all around the room, saying, “Zolan will assist you with final words. It was good to see you again, Peatrice.”

“And you as well, Wizard Flatt.”

Zolan led the way out of the door, saying, “This way please, Archmage Peatrice.”

After a good ten minutes of some final paperworks between Zolan and Peatrice, Erick opened another [Gate] and Peatrice went home.

Zolan came back inside, asking, “Will you actually go after that angel?”

“A very large possibility, Zolan. I’ll need to do some digging, of course, to prove that story. I’ve never heard of Avandrasolaro, and it sounds like a dragon name to me, but I’m sure Koyabez would know more.” Erick said, “But moving on.”

Zolan nodded. “The envoy of the Angels is Kalimo Brighthand. I don’t think you’ve met him.”

“I have not.”

“You won’t like him.”

“… That doesn’t bode well.”

Kalimo turned out to be a Classed Paladin of the Holy Host of Angels, who lived in Greensoil as an Inquisitor in the northern provinces. Zolan had been right. Erick did not like the man. He was self-righteous, damning all demons with every other sentence out of his mouth, and halfway toward demanding concessions out of Erick due to the actions of ‘Ashes’ a month ago, in the Glittering Depths.

“It doesn't matter if he was your dragon,” Kalimo said, “He was a demon plant, just like all the rest of them. But you didn’t know, so it was forgivable at the time. You will rectify these transgressions, though.”

Erick maintained dignity in the face of Kalimo’s unreasonable demands.

Kalimo occasionally touched upon various artifacts of power here and there, but he seemed to be ‘negging’ Erick about it every time he spoke of this or that, adding, “But you wouldn’t give that to us anyway, because you’re a spineless ruler, bowing to demons whenever they send their slaves at you.”

“Okay,” Erick said, and that was all he said.

Kalimo got red in the face, and got even more angry.

… It was kinda entertaining, actually. That was why Erick allowed it to go on for so long. The man spoke of actual injustices done by the demons, of course, like the Daydropper and the almost-Breach-Demon, and various murders here and there. The man was clearly passionate about his hatred.

When Kalimo finished, Erick almost wanted to tell him that he wasn’t getting anything at all.

But instead, Erick said, “I wish the Angels and Demons would stop feuding. Do you think that is possible in this lifetime?”

“Absolutely not! Never! Not until they all die.” Kalimo said, “They embrace Vile sources of power, and that stuff is poison to all people. That is the base problem we have with them, and they will never forgo that power, and so, like how you killed the Shades to make the world a better place, we must kill the Demons, and then all the incani, too. The Script must be remade!”

Erick sighed a little. “Elemental Vile is just another Element, like the Angel’s own Exalted.”

“They are nothing alike!”

Kalimo wasn’t going to listen to reason, because of course he wasn’t. Those types never did. So Erick played the part of a polite king who was a part of Polite Society, like all good kings, and closed out the conversation with the Paladin as early as he could. Erick eventually managed to send Kalimo on his way, back to Tower Town; back to Kiri’s home town.

And then Erick said to Zolan, “Please find out what the fuck that was all about. That man was intentionally trying to set me off the whole time he was here.”

“I have a few theories, from Greensoil trying to publicly shame you via non-cooperation to any of their requests, to the Angels deciding to pull out from this endeavor when the Demons got first Bolt at you.” Zolan said, “I’ll have better answers for you soon.”

“Thank you.”

And that was it for the day.

Erick had to go talk to Kiri though, to get her opinion on Kalimo.

“Oh my gods, Erick,” Kiri said, while her couatl [Familiar] Sunny flickered in colors upon Kiri’s neck, to mirror her mirth. “You actually managed to have a talk with one of those Inquisitors from Tower Town?” Kiri laughed. “They won’t even talk to me! Especially now.”

“I’ve never spoken with them before now.” Erick said, “It was not a very productive conversation.”

“I bet not!”

Erick smiled. “So how are things going at the House? With the Gate Network?”

“Oh… you know… Pretty good.” Kiri took a moment to decide something, and then she said, “I could use your help with this one thing…”

Erick spent three hours solving a small pile of international and Underworld-to-Surface problems.

And then he went back home, to the Cloud Castle to have dinner with the family; with Teressa, her husband, Poi, his sister Rizala, her husband, and also Debby, who he brought back from the Wake Up House to meet everyone. Kiri and Debby had some quiet conversations outside of Erick’s direct oversight, because it was rude to spy all the time. The whole evening was a little awkward with Debby, but Poi had already explained everything quite well.

Halfway through dinner, Rizala was fully on board with the copies of Jane and Erick, and asked, “Well why not invite all of them over?”

Erick smiled and did just that.

Soon, Solomon, Jane, Abigail, Beth, Candice, and Emily, were all at the House. The house was not full at all, but it was about halfway there.

And Erick loved it, a whole lot.

6 daughters!

A ‘brother’!

All of his family he managed to find on Veird.

It was wonderful.

- - - -

Erick walked down the hall of the Red Wing at the Wake Up House. The sun was halfway toward noon, light slanting down from the upper windows, casting shadows into the cool air. Everything was calm. Last night had been a hell of a time for most of these new residents of Veird, but sleep and good food had done a lot to calm the lot of them. Talking helped. Erick had temporarily installed a communications system between the rooms, inside the rooms and linked to each other and to the node network of the house. It was just some basic magic, hooked into effective-permanency effects, but knowing that their friends were alive had done a lot of good for them.

… Of course, not all of their friends had survived. In fact… Most of their worlds were gone. All that was left for these nine people were each other, and the Censer which Erick had stolen.

Magnin had explained their predicaments to them a few times already, at Erick’s behest. But now, Erick was here. He would be talking to them, in order. Starting with Shalia Moonglow, the former smoke elf. She was their commander when the actual commander wasn’t present. Erick didn’t know a whole lot more besides that, though; they could only overhear so much, because the people knew they were being spied upon.

Erick went to Shalia’s door and knocked. “Greetings, Shalia Moonglow.”

Shalia was inside whispering to the speaker spellwork, but some of her mana sense must have returned, because she saw Erick coming when he was about 10 meters away. She was on the other side of the door, three meters away watching it, by the time Erick came by. She saw him through the window of the door. She stared with dark eyes. “Hello, Wizard Flatt. Are we to be kept in detainment for much longer?”

Erick unlocked the door and opened it, saying, “I would prefer not to. We got your Censer up and running, by the way. I hear that we’ve rid Veird of a few hundred incredibly dangerous artifacts since yesterday.”

Down the hall, five people were pressed against their windows, watching, while the other three were listening to their speaker boxes, which broadcast Erick’s voice from Shalia’s room to all the others.

Shalia was unsure how to take this news.

But the priest down the way started yelling, “You idiots! You don’t even know what you’re doing! You might end up releasing something!”

