In a white stone, circular cathedral, kilometers wide and draped in light, there sat a woven cauldron of black metal right in the center, upon a dais that was a series of daises. Black smoke roiled out from the holes in the censer, to form a low carpet of black shadows and smog that rolled down from the daises like water from a fountain.

Kromolok, the Head Inquisitor of the Church of Rozeta, stood beside that cauldron, that ‘Censer of Destruction’. The man was shaped like a white incani, but he was made of metal, of aluminum, or rather, what they called ‘holyite’. Black smoke curled around his legs as it flowed away, down into the cathedral, where it settled upon the white stone floor. As far as Kromolok understood, inside the original Cathedral of Destruction, acolytes and otherwise would ritually clean the cathedral every day, and especially after every burning.

A node network with some [Cleanse]s did the cleaning these days, but those spells weren’t active right now. The ritual of the destruction was important to the functioning of the Censer, and part of that ritual was to let the world be blackened by the passing of great magics, to leave a mark, to let the world know that something powerful had existed, and now it was gone.

Or at least that’s what the copies of prayer sheets Erick had sent along with Tasar had said.

Kromolok was fine with ritual, though.

Here, in this new Cathedral of Destruction, located near the Orrery of Rozeta, in the Splinter Mountains of Nergal, this Censer of Destruction would cleanse the world of a great many ancient evils. The first one was already burning away, vanishing before Kromolok’s eyes, in a way that had been impossible before.

The Mirror of Evil had been a simple hand mirror made of black adamantium. It had been an artifact of profound reflection, creating evil versions of whoever beheld themselves within its depths. There had been many such artifacts that had the same effects as this one, but this one had also been completely impossible to destroy.

And yet, there it was, floating in the center of the Censer’s concentrating weave, flaking away, the grandness of the simple, powerful artifact, wearing away a great evil, Destruction erasing it from existence, and gaining power from that erasing. The Ash and Gloom released by the Censer was little more than a magical nuance of that destruction; an honoring of the magic that had come before. The object wasn’t actually being turned into anything else at all.

Or at least that’s what Kromolok understood of what was happening here.

Simple burning or shattering or any sort of other destructive methods, when used against all of the items that Kromolok would be feeding to this Censer, would simply cause many of those items to move, to save themselves, to kill everyone around them, or whatever other horrors they felt like creating in order to prevent their destruction, or to make sure everyone knew they had been destroyed and to make them sorry about that fact. The things destined for this pit were Wizard artifacts, or even more dangerous things crafted by a person’s final Death Curse, or the sacrifice of others. All of the items Kromolok planned to feed to the Censer were different, but in many ways, they were the same.

A veritable train of artifacts would be arriving in the coming days and weeks, each one guarded and secured by countless magics, each one of them a danger to the world around them.

Kromolok’s smile widened as the Evil Mirror suddenly cracked, a line appearing upon the black surface, as it hovered there in the Censer of Destruction. It was breaking, but the Evil Mirror fought against that breaking, as it always did. It cried out, black adamantium forming faces and arms and reaching claws and beating wings, trying to fly away, to escape. But Destruction flared harder. The Censer vibrated deeper. And the Mirror cracked more and more. There was no escape.

Kromolok watched the whole thing.

He watched as an artifact rescued from the Dark did what none of the wrought or any of the archmages for the last 580 years had been able to do; disintegrate this damned Mirror to nothing, and make sure it stayed that way. One time, this damned Mirror had seemed to break when Archmage Riivo, of Archmage’s Rest, had tried a novel spell against it, but the Mirror had just abandoned its adamantium form at the time and [Teleport]ed all of its magical effects and existence into a plain mirror a thousand kilometers away, whereupon that new mirror had transformed into adamantium. And then, it had continued to destroy and kill using evil copies of people.

This Evil Mirror was not the only item that was capable of doing that.

A lot of the most evil sorts of artifacts were actually more like bombs, with no real good way to dispose of them at all.

But this Censer… This changed a lot.

“It works well,” Rozeta said, as she stepped out of the ether, to stand next to Kromolok.

“It does,” Kromolok said, “We can close tens of Forgotten Campaigns, for good.”

“The Love Arrow. The Contract Machine. The Balanced Ledger.” Rozeta was happy as she said, “The Pirate’s Coin. All of it can leave, and never return.”

Kromolok smiled, joking, “Whatever will our Forgotten Guards do with all their free time?”

“Figure out whatever anti-memetic magic is happening around this Sundering search, and then find out how to combat it.”

Komolok’s good mood soured. Back to business that fast, eh? Kromolok pivoted, as he always did. “We haven’t noticed any anti-memes, but to hear the circumstances surrounding the Sundering Search from Poi and Erick does give us pause. We’re not sure what to do except to support their search.”

Rozeta said, “I know. Which is why we’re expanding operations.”

Kromolok did not like the sound of that, because she wasn’t angling toward sending wrought to Erick, to help him with the search, directly. She had already vetoed all of that sort of action, for Erick was to do as Erick was to do, and the Geodes were to simply prepare for the coming storm; the Prophesied Storm. But now they were expanding operations? Because Erick’s search was proving fruitful?

… Of course things were changing now that Erick’s search was proving fruitful. Until now, every suggestion of ‘targets to find in the Dark’ and every talk of the gods and Relevant Entities had been merely talk. Nothing real. Nothing actionable.

“The first thing to do is send some of your people to the Wake Up House, to speak with the people Erick took from the Cathedral of Destruction. I want this Censer running at peak efficiency, and those people would be the best to do that. The second thing—” Rozeta gestured to the side. “—Is to attack this Sundering search from other angles.”

Twin disturbances stepped through the smoke. They resolved into legs, and then into a pale pink and green dress, with a white corset. Fairy Moon, looking like a pastel human girl of no more than 20, stood before Kromolok and Rozeta, as though she was an equal to either of them. Technically, she was. She was the Queen of the Fae. Maybe even above them, though that was blasphemy, and not quite true either.

And besides that, Fairy Moon had also been… mostly a good neighbor since the Dragon Exodus.

Perhaps surprisingly, she had become an even better neighbor after Rozeta relaxed the Script, and released 10 of her cousins from containment. Nowadays, a Fairy Moon sighting was rare, and almost always in the accompaniment of one of those cousins, for she was spending almost all her time with them, and not bothering anyone else. Kromolok was very glad that that particular prognostication about letting loose 10 more fae had turned out to be true.

Rozeta said, “Hello, Fairy Moon. Welcome.”

Kromolok was diplomatic, as he said, “Greetings, Fairy Moon.”

“Greetings and greatness, Razing Rozeta and Killer Kromolok.”

Kromolok did not frown, but it was a close thing.

Rozeta was completely unbothered.

Fairy Moon continued, “This Sundering Search requires a revision of vision and a venturing into other ocular states of self. I invite and implore the Inquisition to come calling upon Ar’Cosmos and our creation of a Sundering Search separate and similar to Erick’s entries into the Deeper Dark. But outward and onward, rather than inward and invasive.” She glanced down at the Censer’s insides as the Evil Mirror finished burning up, and the final floating bits of black metal melted into smoke and nothing. And then Fairy Moon took out a ring of gold and magic. She tossed it into the Censer, where it instantly started burning in a way that didn’t involve fire or flame at all. She nodded. Then she said to Kromolok and Rozeta, “Erick is ensconced in the Dreaming Dark for the foreseeable future. He has his ways. We will have ours. We must secure a speculative soaring above the Script. We must contact the council of Other Fae, who live in this New Cosmology.”

A lot of things had happened rather fast right there. Kromolok ignored the ring; it was dying in Destruction, and did not need his due diligence. Kromolok did notice the Fae Magic that had maybe unintentionally ensorcelled the area. After he scattered that Fae Magic, he actually looked at the ring. It was dying. It was fine. The Censer worked as advertised.

And then Kromolok focused on how Fairy Moon was speaking of Other Fae. New Cosmology fairies were a myth as far as he knew. If they were real, then Kromolok should have seen them before now, but he had not. So: a myth.

Rozeta instantly said, “Go ahead and contact them if you wish, but I will not help you with that. I have tried already, and aside from planars we have had no contact with the outside Cosmology, and those contacts have been one-way trips to here, as far as I have always known. As for what we agreed—”

Fairy Moon did not like Rozeta’s words. Before she could move on, the Queen of the Fae instantly turned almost childish, “We cannot be companionless in this cosmology! We are anything but singular in this space!” She accused, “You just killed and canceled them when they craned their consciousness into this cavernous cave, you cynics of conjuring!”

Rozeta glared, saying, “The Script accepts all magic, Fairy Moon; we did not ‘cancel’ anyone. Even if one of them did fall here, I would know, and they would be transformed to fit the land, and we would deal with the aftermath at that point in time. If they were True Fae then they might have been captured by the Script, but I doubt that, and I am almost 100% positive that I would have recognized that action if it had happened. But it hasn’t.

“There have been no New Cosmology fae here on Veird, or anywhere else, as far as I know.

“The simple fact is that mana moves as mana moves, this universe is BIG, and neither you nor I understand how mana moves in this universe quite yet. But we’re getting there. Now will you agree to the agreements I thought we already made before I invited you to come here and see the Censer? To see Erick’s accomplishments?” Rozeta gestured to the Censer, “An opportunity you used to destroy a ring, I might add, which you were not invited to do.”

Fairy Moon broke in small ways. She softly said, “We must prepare for and pamper them as the primest guests when they do deign to grace this languished land.” She stared at Rozeta and Kromolok, saying, “I need to know that you understand this Truest Truth.”

Rozeta was not convinced.

Kromolok wasn’t convinced, either.

Fairy Moon saw that she wasn’t winning any hearts today, but her message had been given. After a moment of dread, she moved on, “If there is an anti-meme about the Sundering Source, then it might be visible when vantage is taken from atop Fairy. I invite the Inquisition to do a full Anti-Meme investigation within Furthest Fairy. Perhaps, through cooperation with our cooperative creations, we might uncover the ultimate reason why my Daughter’s Decree of Creation collapsed so completely.”

Kromolok did not appreciate any of that; that notion that a fae made the Old Cosmology. Rozeta seemed particularly angry, too, at the fae’s assertion that the entire Old Cosmology was just a painting of the Dark with a spot of Light that was Xoat. Fairy Moon seemed to always be talking about that these days, but only when people in power were listening. Kromolok felt that perhaps the Old Fae was making up for lost time.

As for an Anti-Meme investigation?…

Kromolok said, “I accept your invitation on my Inquisition’s own terms.”

Fairy Moon nodded, then she stepped away, vanishing into Springtime, her voice carrying with her, “You can find your own way to our lovely lands. See you soon.”

And now it was just Kromolok and Rozeta, standing beside the Censer.

Fairy Moon’s gold ring was still ‘burning’ in the center of the multi-meter wide black cauldron.

“What is that ring, anyway?” Kromolok asked.

“I’ve no idea. Probably a wedding ring. Lotta magic. Nothing more than that…” Rozeta paused as she stared at the golden ring. “No souls. Hard to see, though; that’s the real Censer of Destruction.”

“Could it be the ring she used to wed the men she married and then killed?” Kromolok asked, “Like she’s Destroying that part of her life?”

“As safe a guess as any.”

- - - -

The Wake Up House had a bunch of different names, but all of them were accepted, just like the people themselves were accepted. It also wasn’t just one location. The main location was about 1500 kilometers directly north of Candlepoint, while there were also major offices directly inside Candlepoint. It was to the main offices by the mountains where Erick brought his newest reincarnated people.

The main building was almost literally a palatial estate, just south of snow capped mountains that reached up to the sky. The recently-tamed Not-Crystal forest sprawled out in every direction, trees and grasses and otherwise growing upon land that had once been desert as far as the eye could see, except for those mountains, where massive stoneworks had been erected to separate the desert from the mountains. If one rose high in the sky, to overlook the trees that dotted the land, they could even see that stonework endeavor, where the mountains had been made into cliffs, to drop straight down into a sea of sand, filled with crystal mimics.

But now the mimics were gone, corralled to a different thousand kilometer ring encircling Ar’Kendrithyst.

Now, the Crystal Forest was much more forest, and filled with settlements here and there.

