Scallion smiled as he held up a bottle for himself, saying, “To a successful hunt!”

Bett held her own potion, saying, “To killing unicorns!”

Jane said, “To killing monsters, and a safe journey home.”

The three of them downed the bottles, while Marric went though the motions, smiling the whole time. Jane felt her mana begin to tick upward from near empty to good enough. She chuckled.

Scallion asked, “Anyone got anything inside the base? I’m taking it down.”

“Oh yeah.” Jane quickly said, “Just a few things. Almost everything of value is already somewhere else.”

Bett said, “Me too.”

“And me.” Marric said, leading the way inside.

It didn’t take too long for everyone to collect the various little things that they had accumulated over the past two weeks, that they hadn’t already stashed elsewhere. Jane just picked up her clothes and the small horn from her first unicorn kill. She tucked them all into a conjured bag. She was second to last out of the base. Marric was already on the mountainside, waiting beside Scallion. He carried an even smaller bag than Jane. Bett came out last, carrying a rather large bag.

Scallion gestured, and the mountain rumbled. The base folded into itself, turning into a natural-enough crack in the mountainside. It only took Scallion five seconds to erase everything that he had added to the place since they came to the Sovereign Cities. Jane had lived there for two weeks in a room she had felt safe in, with people she had liked, going out on adventures to kill monsters that needed killing. And now it was gone, like it never happened.

Scallion and Bett gave one more goodbye, then left together, both of them taking two three-meter long unicorn horns with them.

Marric nodded to Jane, saying, “See you later, Jane.”

Jane felt a tug as she said, “Bye, Marric.”

Marric grabbed his own horns, and blipped away.

Jane stood there for a moment. Then she took one final look down the mountain, across the land, at the dark horizon far away. She had a lot of opinions about this place.

Killtree was a shithole. The people were awful. The monsters were terrifying. But it was still a good experience. Jane had made a lot of memories here. She had uncovered something weird, too. Something that either had vast implications, or none at all. She would have to talk to people in Spur about what had happened here. Anhelia, the wrought information broker at the Mage’s Guild, she might know something.

Maybe there was a vast conspiracy here in the Sovereign Cities, and Jane had barely scratched the surface.

Whatever the case, Jane reached down and touched the nine meter unicorn horn. She blipped to a nearby destination on a different slope, taking the horn with her. After making sure the horn wouldn’t roll down the slope, she [Stoneshape]d out a hidden box, from her own hidden place in the mountains. She opened the box, revealing the rings her father had made her. She smiled at them, then took them out of the box and put them back on her fingers. She checked herself. Badge. Check. Rings. Check. Horns and clothes and other junk. Check. Her Status? Hmm.

She had gained a lot of points today so she threw a fair number of them into Focus. She had run rather low on mana in the fight with the Queen. As those points settled into place, Jane felt a calm balance take hold. She had evened out her mental stats. It was a good feeling, exactly how her father said it would be.

Jane Flatt

Human, age: 22

Level 71, Class: None

Exp: 8,413,987,598,468,659/49,845,401,187,926,400

Class: -/-

Points: 11

HP

1802/3000

3000 per day

MP

1567/4200

4200 per day

Strength

30

+20

50

Vitality

30

+20

50

Willpower

50

+20

70

Focus

50

+20

70

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

There were so many more points to get, though. She could easily do what was suggested in her father’s Oceanside Entrance packet; just make junk spells to unlock the accomplishments for higher tiers.

Whatever the case, it was time for a break! Maybe she’d even visit her father in Oceanside. That’d be fun. Maybe.

Jane could make it be fun.

Jane stood straight and sighed into the night air. She was already missing Marric, Bett, and Scallion. They hadn’t even gotten a goodbye drink. A mana potion didn’t count. Not that there was much to be had in Killtree, anyway. They still could have gone to the guildhouse for a round.

Ah. But Scallion was right. Time to move on, and quickly; before whatever nonsense happened in that fight with the Queen caught up to them.

Jane put her hand on the Queen’s horn, and blipped away.

Blip, blip, blip, all the way home, to Spur.
