“That old bastard.” The Queen said, “Whatever. I will continue to do as I wish, and whatever this is—” She turned her huge eyes and massive horn toward Jane. “I do not wish to participate in this farce for one more second.”

The Queen’s horn pointed directly at Jane as it began to fill with an inner radiance.

Jane almost panicked. She couldn’t move. She thought to blip away, but for some reason, and in a way that was both terrifying, and made perfect sense, she didn’t want to leave the Queen’s presence. As the Queen’s horn turned from radiant, to incandescent, Jane wondered if—

Light, as though from a thousand suns, unleashed.

[Pure Reflection Ward].

Incandescence turned on its owner. Power strong enough to light a world blasted away from Jane like she was a disco ball, slashing through kilometers of trees, cutting up the clouds and the sky, slicing through falling meteors, dazzling through the Queen’s skull.

The light instantly ended. The Queen rocked to the side, her fifty meter tall body swaying as rivers of glowing red blood poured across the land, extinguishing fires and blooming grasses and trees wherever it touched.

The Queen’s coat flashed from white, to black. A crown of horns appeared around her swaying head, each of the horns almost as large as her central spike. Her face drooped with tentacles. Her legs locked. She stood tall, as blood poured.

The night returned in a sudden rush. Light failed.

Jane rushed upward, riding the returning darkness, plunging deep into a hole in the Queen’s chest. Jane healed herself as she burned deep into the Crowned Queen. Finding the heart was easy enough; it vibrated the entire body with its thumping, pumping motions. Jane plunged into that organ, burrowing and burning, killing the Queen from the inside out. Blood poured in, threatening to put out Jane’s light and fire, but Jane sunk that blood into her shadows; it was pretty damn dark inside a body, after all.

Jane ate the heart out of the Queen of the Forest. It took a minute, and she burned a lot of the tough, stringy meat, but what were oozes good for but to eat everything in sight?

Somewhere in the middle of all that, there was a notification. The Queen was dead and Jane had killed her. Jane had also gained a lot of levels. She would look at all of that later in more detail, but for now, she healed herself with [Greater Treat Wounds], restoring her glow and her mass, as she extricated herself from her enemy.

Jane burst out of the side of the Queen; a glowing orange tendril of goo reaching into the night. She followed up with herself, finding herself hanging from the side of the Queen. Without the Queen’s life powering her [Aura of Freedom], Jane easily held on to the burning black fur and scorching skin all around her.

She plopped thirty meters down to the forest floor. A lot of everything was still on fire, but the meteors had stopped. Jane stood alone under the still standing corpse of the Queen. Jane flopped forward, toward the Queen’s front. Her head had dropped to the ground. Her horns, all ten of them, dug into the ground, while her tentacled face lay splayed across the Forest floor.

Her horns still glittered with an inner radiance, though Jane’s reflective attack had burned holes in several of them, and cut two in half. The main horn looked mostly intact, but it too, had been damaged. Half of it was buried in the forest floor, but a massive crack wound halfway down the center of the horn.

Jane held her fire close as she picked up a rock with a pseudopod and tapped the main horn.

A faint ring held in the air. Jane tapped the horn again. She tried to match the vibration of the ring with her own oozy vibrations. Nothing happened.

A voice called out from twenty meters away and up a burnt tree, “Yo!”

Jane had seen Redwood the second she showed up in her black leathers and her black mask. Considering everything that had just happened, Jane was on high alert for treason right now, and though she might be low on mana, she had enough to keep [Greater Shadowalk] running; this was one of the many reasons Jane had Favored that spell.

But still, it was nice that Redwood took the time and effort to appear harmless and quirky.

Jane used [Prestidigitation] to speak, “Good show with the meteors. I was expecting a bit more backup. You didn’t really stick to the plan.”

Redwood leapt down from her spot on the tree, landing gracefully on the ground. With a gentle nudge, Jane pulled down the fires around the Queen, preserving the body from further damage.

Redwood said, “Thank you kindly for taking down the fire, Jane.” She took off her mask, saying, “Now... I don’t mean ‘ta be a spoilsport, but what was all that talkin’? The Queens never talked before, and certainly never about That Guy.”

Jane said, “The Queen also didn’t have a rad in its heart, unlike all her progeny. So if they never talked before, then it was through their own volition.” She added, “If indeed, you ever truly killed one before.”

Redwood paused. She said, “We always suspected that their rads were their horns. When they get this big, that is.”

Jane said, “I don’t believe that for a second. But I noticed that you arrived without my team.”

Redwood sighed. She looked to the air.

Blips of purple and teal rippled the air a few meters from Jane. Marric, Bett, and Scallion.

Scallion said, “Holy shit you really did kill—”

“How much did you eat, Jane.” Bett stared at the corpse like it was the juiciest steak in the world. “I can feel the dragon essence in there. Like it’s calling to me.”

“Not a lot.” Jane said, “Most of it burned up. I’ll be shitting my guts out next month.”

Marric just sighed with a small smile. He was obviously, deeply relieved.

Redwood said, “This was a highly unusual kill. Aside from all the rest of what just happened, we scouted a twenty meter tall Ancient Unicorn, but that is no twenty meter Ancient Unicorn.” She added, “I would love for all of us to leave here tonight, not thinking that something evil is going on.” She turned to Marric, “You’re a Mind Mage. Tell everyone if I’m lying, please?”

Marric frowned. But he schooled his face as a gentle teal light threaded through his dark hair. He said, “Go ahead.”

Redwood spoke with authority, saying, “I have killed nine Ancient Unicorns before. One a year for the last decade.” She added, “I missed a year.” She continued, “They have never spoken before. I have no idea what the flip all that was about.”

Marric said, “All true. She’s trying to be truthful, too.”

Redwood continued, “I would dearly like for you four to continue helping us with unicorns. To come back next year, if you could. All of these horns are yours for the taking. This entire kill is yours. We’re fine taking nothing for our trouble. We only do this to help our people.” She quickly added, “We cleaned up all the straggling monsters while you were fighting her, so… You got some time here to gather what you want from the body, but not a lot of time. Dragons do live in this Forest, you know.”

Jane looked up at the dead Queen. Blood dripped out from its tentacled mouth, growing small trees and flowers up through the face of the monster. The Forest nearby was cooled and calmed at Jane’s discretion, but fire still raged in the distance, all around.

Marric said, “Let’s grab the horns and go.”

Bett said, “Holy Hell. We can’t just leave it here! Those bones. That meat. The blood.” She added, “This is a million gold, staring us in the face.”

Redwood said, “It’s only a million gold if you can sell it.” She spoke quickly to the group, and to Jane, seeming like she was trying to wrap something up quick. “You’re all nobles now. Talk to the King or his Steward. They’ll get you started. We might even see each other again around the castle. From there, you can build a stone house and dress the part and the people will treat you the way you deserve to be treated. The people will know that you killed an Ancient Unicorn, too, because we’re telling them all about it. Maybe not all of the details, but enough.” She stressed, “We’re packing up and getting the fuck out of here. My suggestion is that you do the same. Fast. Now.”

The Forest was a jumble of noises, mostly of roaring fire and cracking trees, but as Jane listened, she heard a far off roar. Something bigger was out there, and it was coming here.

Jane said, “The horns, and then we’re gone. Who can cut them?”

Redwood said, “Cut through the skull. Don’t cut the horns themselves.” She lifted her head. She said, “I gotta go.” She dropped into shadows; gone.

Bett said, “I can cut ‘em.”

Scallion said, “I can, too. You two stay on lookout.”

Bett, as a water slime and twice her normal size, cut through the skull with precision water blades. Scallion used beams of force. Soon, they had the main horn and five more cut from the skull. Jane scurried up the Queen’s body, to stand on her back, to keep an eye out for incoming threats. Marric did the same but he stayed on the ground.

Soon, the full horned crown of the Queen had been cut off. The brain laid right there.

Bett called up to Jane, “You already ate the heart. Maybe Ancient Unicorn is an actual different species?”

“It’s not.” Jane called back, “Didn’t you get Participation? I only got 69 percent.”

Bett continued to cut horns loose, saying, “Nope. I killed her parade. I couldn’t risk getting any Participation on such a high dragon essence monster. I’d gain some. Too much, I think.” She added, “You need to worry about that now, too.”

Jane said, “I guess I do.”

Monsters in the Forest roared, louder than the fires, closer than before.

From her perch atop the Queen, Jane spotted a flying, serpentine figure in the sky, kilometers away. It was not a wyrm; it wasn’t chasing anything. But it was coming this way. It had to be a dragon.

Jane dropped to the ground, transforming into a human and conjuring clothes, saying, “Time to go! Dragon spotted in the north. Big golden thing, too.”

Bett kept cutting on her current horn, muttering, “Fuck fuck fuck.”

“I’m not fighting a dragon and gaining essence.” Jane put her hand on the largest horn. “We need to GO.”

Bett dropped away from the final horn, transforming back to a person. She conjured clothes as she put her hands on her nearest horns.

Scallion touched two of the smaller horns; they were still both three meters long, and half a meter thick. He said, “See you back at base.”

Marric grabbed his own two horns, saying, “See you.” He blipped away in a teal flash.

Bett and Scallion touched their four horns, and blipped away in purple light.

Jane grabbed the nine meter long, main horn. A crack ran through it, but it was still one of the largest, prettiest things Jane had ever seen. She held it tight, and blipped away.

She blipped three times more, landing beside their mountain base, next to her teammates and their own haul of horns.

Bett and Scallion shouted gratitude to the sky as they held each other tight, jumping up and down for joy. Marric laughed loud and happy. Jane just sat down on her horn, and sighed. The moons cast a gentle light across the mountainside and the fields of flowers down below.

Jane said, “We should move base.”

Scallion smiled, joking, “I think I love you two fuckers, too, but we might never see each other again, and we’re certainly not spending the night here.”

“Yeah, sorry.” Bett said, “We are done in the Sovereign Cities. Killtree can kiss my ass.”

Scallion grabbed Bett’s butt, holding tight, saying, “It’s such a beautiful ass, too.”

Bett laughed at the sky and pulled Scallion in for a deep kiss. She broke away to say, “Oh my god.” She looked to the base, then said, “We could spend maybe five more— No. We can’t stay here.” She turned to Jane and Marric, saying, “I’m not the overly paranoid type, but that was a fucking nightmare. I don’t know what the fuck you even did out there to make that happen, Jane. But if you ever get down to the Archipelago, I want to buy you a beer. We’re going to be—” She winced. “Fuck.” She asked Scallion, “Where are we going? Did we decide, yet?”

Scallion said, “We still haven’t decided.”

Jane said, “Drop me a message. Jane Flatt, of Spur. My dad’s got a home there. You might get some trouble getting him a message, but you might be able to leave one with Liquid, the Quartermaster for Spur’s Army.”

Bett turned to Scallion. “You owe me a grand rad.”

Scallion said, “I owe you a lot more than that,” as he pulled Bett back into a steamy hug.

Jane averted her eyes, looking to Marric, who was looking at her. Jane lost her train of thought.

Marric smiled, saying, “My post is in Vindin.”

Jane found her words. She said, “Uh. My post is in Spur. Maybe we’ll see each other around?”

“I’d like that.”

Bett said into Scallion’s ear, “Let’s clear out.”

Scallion pulled away from Bett long enough to say, “I got mana potions. Who needs one? I know it seems like I’m rushing, but that’s because I am. We should leave this place and never come back.” He turned to Jane, saying, “I’ll leave a message in Spur when we figure out where we’re going.”

Jane stood up from her horn, saying, “I could use a potion.”

“Me too,” Bett said.

Scallion went to the wall next to the door to the base and [Stoneshape]d a box out from the carved wall. He opened the box, revealing blue potions. He tossed one to Jane, and one to Bett. They both easily caught the blue bottles. He offered to Marric, but the orcol shook his head.

Marric held up his hand, saying, “Let’s just pretend I’m drinking one. To glory!”

