Blackfield said, “That’s... That’s…” He calmed. He said, “Thank you for avenging her.” He turned to Guildmaster Rohn, to say, “Thank you. I recommend them for the advanced list.” He turned back to Jane, saying, “It was a hard thing you all pulled off. That unicorn must have survived a dozen years of raids on Killtree to get to that size. I don’t know how you managed to do it, but I suggest you keep your methods secret. There are those who would follow you and assault you in the middle of your attack, hoping to kill both you and the monster.”

Marric said, “Thank you for your words of warning, Baron. We will take them very seriously.”

Blackfield nodded. “Quite. And now I must be off. Thank you again for coming to this land. If you four are ever in the need for some assistance with the law or whatnot, I will owe you one.”

The baron blipped away in a shattering of yellow light.

“That was fast,” Bett said.

Guildmaster Rohn said, “The nobility are very busy.” He continued, “Since Baron Blackfield has recommended you for the advanced list, this also means that you are eligible to cast magic in the city, as long as you keep it quiet. You can [Teleport] in and out of the guild if you want, but if I see you abusing this privilege then it won’t just be your rights I take away.” He added, “And that team from the other day that killed the first unicorn of the season has already died, to the man. You get first shot at the unicorn that took them apart.” Rohn tapped a folder on his desk. “If you want it.”

Jane said, “We do.”

“I thought you would.” Rohn handed the folder over to Jane. “You might have to track it for a bit, but it’s out there. It’s smaller than the last one, but don’t let size fool you. They’re a lot faster when they’re smaller.”

Jane took the folder. She turned to her team. “Back to base?”

Bett said, “Yup.”

Scallion put his hand on Bett’s shoulder, then said, “See you there.”

Both of them vanished in a blip of purple. Marric left with a nod, and a teal blip. Jane followed.

- - - -

Bett sat on one end of a long bench in the sun on the mountain slope, leaning back, soaking up the rays. Scallion and Marric sat inside on comfortable seats as they [Scry]ed for the unicorn. They had been at it for the last two hours. It was a nice day to be outside, and since Jane was not equipped to [Scry] over time or distance like Marric or Scallion could [Scry], she went outside to join Bett.

Jane sat down beside Bett. “Did that unicorn have dragon essence?”

Bett sighed out into the sky. “Yes.” She said, “This has happened before, though. It’s not a big deal for me. I just gotta wait it out and take some appropriate precautions.”

“Wait it out?” Jane was genuinely confused. “Dragon essence goes away?”

“Yup. It’s the only one that does.” Bett looked to Jane, scrunching her face quizzically. She looked away, saying, “If you want to be a Polymage this is some important, hidden knowledge that you gotta know.” She said, “If you make yourself meek and mild or if you’re around other, stronger dragons, your dragon essence drains away. If you’re the biggest shit for a thousand kilometers or more, depending on your level of essence, then your dragon essence grows. If you have a low dragon essence, nothing happens. If you have anything except a low essence, then you’re stronger, faster, smarter, and you live longer. Dragons are only immortal because of their unique essence. This is why they’re always hunting each other. Either for territory or for essence.”

Jane listened, her eyes going a little wide. She had never heard this much about dragon essence before.

Bett continued, “If you get low dragon essence and you stay low, it will go away in about a month or two. Quicker, if you take certain steps. You can figure out whatever steps work for you on your own. That’s too personal of a conversation, for me.” She added, “Anyway. Even if you get rid of it as soon as you can, you still go through withdrawl.

“It’s horrible. Puking and shitting everything out, all the time. But it will pass. It’ll take a month, but it’ll pass.” She said, “I’ve done it before. No big deal.” She continued, “Going from the first tiers of [Dragon Body] to zero will make you feel like you want to die, and that lasts for a year. Healing doesn’t work on this sort of pain. I haven’t done that myself, but I’ve heard the horror stories.” She stressed, “But going from high dragon essence, to less, will kill you.”

A breeze blew across the mountainside, warm and comfortable.

Jane said, “Thank you for that. I didn’t know.”

“I could tell.” Bett said, “I only told you because you’re going for Polymage. Best keep that knowledge under your shirt, and to yourself. There’s a lot in there I didn’t say, and I won’t say. But you’re smart enough to figure most of it out, I think. Don’t go spreading that around, either.”

Jane said, “Good advice.”

Jane sat on one side of the stone bench. Bett sat on the other.

Jane asked, “Is your water slime bigger?”

“About double the size.” Bett said, “I want to try for ooze. Having a core is way too much of a liability. How’d you manage to do it? You didn’t actually kill an ooze and then try to eat it, did you?”

Jane said, “I gathered forty flame slimes in a depression in the ground then I ate them all as a flame slime. I retained the mass, and meditated away the pain while the transformation occurred. It was still painful as fuck, but I woke up as an ooze. My core was gone. I also got 5 points for successfully transforming a Familiar Form.”

Bett winced. “Fuck. I was afraid you were going to say that.”

“I never planned on going with a slime form so I never really researched slimes, or oozes for that matter.” Jane added, “Until I realized it was a possibility. And then it was just… It was what I needed to do.”

“I had a friend… years ago. They did what you did and it did not go well.” Bett said, “We had to put him down.”

“… Sorry for your loss.”

“Thanks.” Bett looked out across the horizon. Fields of flowers stretched out across the land below the mountain. “He failed to complete the transformation… 25 years ago, by now.”

Jane watched the flowers with Bett for a while. Eventually, they spoke of different monsters. Bett loved her slime forms. She had several, from water, to wind, to iron, to crystal. If she was going to go for an ooze form, she would have chosen a Crystal Ooze, but that would be impossible. Finding forty crystal slimes? When it took a year to find one? No thanks. Her second choice was wind, just because [Air Body] was already so useful. Jane was still partial to her own, non-slimey list, though a water slime would make getting [Water Body] a lot easier. Prismatic Octopuses, which were native to Bett’s Archipelago Nergal, were great on paper, but according to Bett they were shit in practice. All those soft, wiggly arms were easy enough to control, but controlling the skin of the Prismatic Octopus to better blend in with your surroundings? That took years of practice. To top it off, they weren’t that fast in the water. Not compared to a water slime.

Marric eventually came out of the house, saying, “Found it.”

- - - -

Killing the second unicorn went a lot faster.

Jane knew, this time, exactly what would happen when she plopped onto the scene. And this time, when the world around her turned to fake trees and false flowers, and the five meter tall unicorn tried to stomp her from out of nowhere, Jane flowed upward, blasting the unicorn with fire rivaling a furnace.

The unicorn took off running, while Marric and Scallion controlled the revealed battlefield, and water slime Bett harried everything she could reach with her precision blasts of cutting water. She tried to slice the fleeing unicorn, but her slice went wide at the last possible second. Jane slunk into shadows, popping up around the unicorn for the second time. This time Jane’s fire furnace attack was too much for the creature. The unicorn fell to the ground, screaming in pain. Jane smothered the unicorn, diving into its tentacled maw, reaching down into the creature to fry it from the inside out.

Jane had killed the unicorn within a single minute, releasing almost all of the people it had dominated. Marric, Scallion, and Bett had already killed all the monsters.

Pure confusion filled the battlefield as people turned on each other, some of them monsterized and already cannibals, the others just dominated into committing horrible acts. No one had any idea which was which, so Scallion trapped the ten survivors in individual gravitational bubbles. Some of them screamed and cried, hovering in their own private holding cells. Some of them roared and demanded blood. None of them were quiet.

Marric went around, checking the people. He executed four he identified as monsters, while the other six were let go. None of them gave any indication that they were thankful for the rescue, and since they were in the middle of nowhere right now, all six of them demanded help getting back to town.

Jane, as a human, said, “Of course we’ll help you.”

Scallion said, “We already gave them conjured clothes. The nearest town is only ten kilometers south—”

A dirty man in conjured, clean clothes, said, “You will take responsibility for us!”

A dirty woman in conjured, clean clothes, said, “That aren’t my home! My home is back that way.” She pointed north. “And it’s gone! I demand money to start a new life.”

Scallion muttered, “Oh holy shit I’m going to kill them.”

“You and what fuck’en army, bloke!” said a young man. “That one-corn couldn’t kill me! You think you gotta chance in hell! Come get it!”

Scallion splattered a [Cleanse] across them all. Jane winced, as thick air tore away dirt and dried blood. The yelling started again, louder.

“How dare you cast magic at us!”

“I aught ta kill ye!”

“Now the monsters can smell us, ya daft arsehole!”

Scallion yelled at the people, “I’m done! Fuck you!” He blipped away in a shattering of purple light.

Marric and Bett both raced to say, “Bye!” first.

Marric vanished in teal. Bett vanished in purple.

Jane blipped over to the unicorn corpse, which she still hadn’t the chance to eat, then [Stoneshape]d a deep hole, carrying the corpse with her underground. She closed off the entrance, save for a pair of holes leading to the surface. One quick transformation later and she was a shadowspider.

She spent the next half an hour eating the monster in peace, starting with the brain and the heart.

Polymorph, instant, 500 MP ~{Favored Spell}~

Change your physical body.

Familiar Forms: 4/10

~Jane Flatt

~Shadow Spider

~Flame Ooze

~Unicorn

Then, she set to eating the body, including the horns. By the time she was done with the corpse, she had gained her first light essence ability. After she crunched and ate the horns, dissolving their twisting prismatic forms with her decaying venom, she jumped ahead several steps down the path to [Lightwalk]. The horns were practically pure light essence.

Radiant Steps, instant, personal, 2 MP per second.

Race with the sun.

She left experimenting with the form for later. For now, she transformed back into a person and returned to the people they had rescued.

They were still there, standing in the field, yelling at each other. Some of them had already started looting the other bodies. At Jane’s return they all turned on her, demanding answers.

Jane pointed south, “I’ll escort you down that way, to that town. Or, I can [Teleport] you to Killtree. Take your pick, or stay here with the dead.”

Two of them instantly picked Killtree. Jane deposited them on the outskirts, then came back to the other four. She walked those four ten kilometers south, to whatever town was next on the unicorn’s path of destruction. It was not a fun walk. The four rescued people demanded Jane give them money for a new life. She remained silent, and walked.

When they got to the town, the rescued people demanded more from Jane.

She fled in a blip of dark blue light, reappearing beside the corpses from the battle. She didn’t care about ceremony this time. She just telekinetically shoved all of the bodies together and threw a [Cleansing Fire] at the stacked dead. She left before they finished burning.

She returned to base.

Scallion greeted her with, “Congrats on the unicorn!”

Jane smiled, but her heart wasn’t in it. “Thanks.”

Scallion saw. He said, “We’ll stick around for [Lightwalk], if you want.” He called over to Marric, asking, “Do you want [Lightwalk], too? I’m thinking about it for myself.”

Marric said, “Eh. Maybe I should.”

“Good!” Scallion said, “Yes. You should. We’re capable of killing these unicorns. We’ve proven the first time wasn’t a fluke. Now, if we remain calm and focused, we can get through this entire unicorn season and each of us can end up with [Lightwalk]. Maybe.”

- - - -

Jane sat across from Bett at their usual table in the guildhall, saying, “But slimes are so boring!”

“They’re not boring!” Bett laughed, saying, “They’re dependable! And aside from your flame ooze, it means you always have some of your necessary element nearby. The power is inside of you, all along.”

Jane laughed, saying, “That is just so saccharine. My teeth are practically rotting out right now.”

“You got weird sayings.” Bett said, “I don’t understand what that’s supposed to mean at all.”

Jane frowned at her, saying, “It’s—”

