The second room looked more like an [Alchemist]’s laboratory. It held neatly-tended to plants, vials of dust, potions…Yisame stopped to admire the first vial.
Selphid’s Dust. A powerful, and highly illegal narcotic. She stared at it, and then some of the other drugs she had sampled in her youth. She eyed an entire drawer of various kinds of Dreamleaf products.
She walked on, through the den, with the padded places to lounge, snacks, treats, and ran her finger down the rows of bottles. She found one, and pulled at it. Then she walked into the hallway again and took the third secret passageway, sighing mightily.
Her [Spymaster] knew that the sex dungeon wasn’t actually used. Yisame suspected he was aware of the room of drugs and other illicit pleasures. If he had ever made it to the third chamber, well…he’d left it there. After all, one look at the glittering chess board, pieces carved out of gemstones, and the magical, glowing surface, revealed Yisame’s true passion.
Chess! And if that didn’t fool her people, then the skein of magical yarn and knitting needles would. The half-completed Paterskein design spoke to something they would believe—that Yisame liked to knit! A scandalous, but completely understandable pastime for a [Queen]. Despite being above it all, she was still thread like they were.
She had a subscription to Chess Weekly that was covertly delivered to her rooms, and she sometimes dropped subtle hints about fabric. All this for secrecy. All this so they wouldn’t know her true passion. Yisame tip-toed around the gemstone chess board. She had custom-bought a nasty trap spell and set it up at the entrance; her [Spymaster] probably looked at the trap, the chessboard, assumed she was the Titan’s opponent or styled herself as such, and let her be. Same with her servants who might uncover this place, if any.
The truth was…Yisame was not good at chess. She was not about to indulge in a life of sweaty, flailing limbs. She had a drug of her own, but it wasn’t Selphid’s Dust. But it was potent.
Her hands trembled as if she was still addicted to Fabledust. Yisame glanced over her shoulder, then, at last, pushed past the simple curtain she’d hung up to hide the final, and true room she liked to visit. She spread her arms and sighed.
The room was a humble one compared to many of her residences; still larger than most middle-class families’ homes. Hollowed out of the palace, the walls were a mis-match of many different building materials. Into the room sparse furniture had been interjected; a desk and chair. And…a cushioned, stuffed orb of jaguar fur that Yisame could sink into, the better to indulge her passions. It was comfy, and sat only a few feet in front of the door.
Beyond it lay what she had come for. Her great secret. The room was filled, not with furniture, but with shelves.
Shelves and shelves of…books.
Queen Yisame, the Level 22 [Queen] and Level 27 [Avid Reader], clapped her hands together and sighed. She could feel the stress oozing out of her. She wandered her private library of books, mostly fiction, or historical adventure stories, and smiled.
 
—-
 
Books. Books, books, books. They were food for the soul. One of the few things a monarch with unlimited power might indulge in, really.
Another answer once you got over the stereotypes of sex, drugs, war, and so on, might be ‘pets’. Yisame had considered it, but they just weren’t as fascinating to her as they were to some of her peers.
And some of them, like Sariant Lambs, she just would not tolerate. She hated the manipulative little things. They were a match for her royal court.
Books? Books were something Yisame could buy, but not replicate in any way but to read them. They were stories, and such stories that she could envision herself doing.
Climbing the High Passes, waging glorious battle with boon companions, sailing through stormy seas as Krakens tried to consume ship and crew alike!
She just loved to read. And it was reading which kept her sane. For instance, as she had sat on the Seat of Words, holding court, Yisame’s smile and patient observation of her court had hidden what was really going on in her head.
 
Thivian Stormless, the Lightning Thief, dove as the rain of arrows from the Lamias’ bows struck down around him and his companions. Not one touched the Dullahan [Mercenary], He’re, much to her disbelief. She had been prepared for death, but she saw the Lightning Thief hold up an armful of arrows and dump them at their feet. Not even the enchanted arrowheads had detonated!
“Dead gods, but I hate stealing arrows. Let’s get out of here before they do it again!”
He panted, and the two raced down the battlements as the confused Lamias, shouting for him to return the Eye of Baleros, loaded a second volley onto their bows and sent them whistling through the air. Thivian outpaced He’re as he ran, dodging over the cleared ground for the forest. The Dullahan, swearing, looked back just in time to see an arrow arcing towards her back. She threw up her shield and shouted—
 
Queen Yisame was re-reading one of her favorite books. The Lightning Thief and the Eye of Baleros, a somewhat-accurate retelling of the actual [Thief], Thivian Stormless.
She had been playing the passage out in her head during the boring court. Now, Yisame ‘loaded’ enough of the story in her mind to replay later. Her eyes flickered across the page, such that she kept turning the book’s pages every second.
She was not reading the book, so much as memorizing it. Yisame was a Level 27 [Avid Reader]. A class few people even knew existed, and at her level?
[Flash Memorization: Literature]. She closed the book after five minutes, and let the four hundred page drama rest in her mind. She would actually read it later.
[Automatic Recitation: Literature]. That was how she could hear the tale in her head, blow by blow, when she was sitting on a throne and dying as someone read out a proclamation, or letting people parade her about, or travelling or…anything.
The trick was keeping her face from revealing what was happening. Yisame could do that, though. And oh, books!
Now she had her day-reading material set up, Yisame reached for the books she’d actually read in her time off. If she was lucky, no one would disturb her for a few hours. At least! She pulled out the latest book she’d had smuggled in with one of the [Prostitutes] who often just took naps in the sex dungeon. They knew the score.
“Here it is. The latest installment. Is it…? Yes!”
The Queen delightedly waved the book about. She’d heard the [Book Merchant] was in town, and this one was hot off the [Scribe]’s quills. It even had artwork! She read the back of the book eagerly.
 
Presenting sixteen tales from around the world, from the first-hand account of the Stargnoll herself, Lehra Ruinstrider, to accounts of the Dauntless Pack’s last voyage into the Depthless Dungeon by a survivor of the expedition.
This book also includes a retelling of ‘The Village of the Dead raid’, as recounted by survivors, and a summary of the last, heroic stand of the Horns of Hammerad!
 
Tales of Adventure and Woe, an ongoing book series. This was Book #31,129, proudly labelled on the spine.
Yes, there had been that many books. No, no one had a complete collection or even close! There were re-prints, unauthorized publishers, and redactions of false stories. But it was one of the few things that remained past the collapse of civilization.
Adventurer stories. Yisame debated cracking it open right away, but she had six books ongoing and she wasn’t sure she wanted to indulge herself just yet.
She could devour a book in a day, but she liked to savor books. Re-read them. Replay them in her head during dull moments. And this one? Oh, this one was topical. Yisame flitted around, collected her currently-read books and settled back in the beanbag, which was really a Sariant-Lamb-wool-bag.
The thing most people didn’t realize was that a [Reader] was above ordinary readers. Dead gods, most people didn’t even read for fun that much! If your city had a library, it was already something. A child might have a single book or two they would read, and perhaps adults read a few books, their own Tales of Adventure and Woe if they could afford to splurge now and then.
They were not [Readers]. Yisame had Skills that enhanced the act of reading. She could replay stories. And also…
 
The Thief of Clouds is a noteworthy new [Thief]; this humble [Writer] cannot yet identify more than a few salient facts.
 
Krsysl Wordsmith loved to call himself a ‘humble writer’. Yisame rolled her eyes, delicately shaded around the eyelids and corners, and adjusted her regal dress. She kicked a slipper halfway across her private library after two tries.
 
Nevertheless, we can paint a picture of this young [Thief]; he comes from the Great Plains, hence the sizable bounty already on his head from both Drake cities and the Gnolls of the wild. His first noticeable thefts were about four years ago, while the famous incident that named him ‘Thief of Clouds’ occured only a year back.
Eye-witnesses paint him as a slim Gnoll, with a greyish fur often described as mixed with a forest brown, or a russet red tinge. He has not, as of yet, lost limbs or taken noticeable scars over his fur, but what is striking, according to those who claim to have met him, is how athletic he is.
Famous [Thieves] have been notoriously less than limber, but the Thief of Clouds can run up the wall of a Drake city, leap from rooftop to rooftop while avoiding the Watch, and even clear gaps with jumping Skills.
One account I have taken down describes his antics like this:
“I thought he was flying at first, you see. He went up the side of a building so fast everyone thought he was using a Ring of Levitation or something. It turns out he was using these little handholds—barely larger than my claw! Just pulling himself up faster than the Watch could run on the ground. Then he waved at us, jumped, as bold as you like, and dashed off across the rooftops!”
From this, we can gather that the Thief of Clouds makes up for a lack of stealth or a certain acumen with the lockpicks with sheer, blinding speed and escapism. Which certainly fits his pattern of thefts…
 
Yisame was reading from People to Watch, Issue #22, by Krsysl Wordsmith. A book that listed high-level people around the world. It was going to come out faster now; apparently it would join the new phenomenon of the smaller magazines. Yisame, as a loyal customer, didn’t know if she liked that; the fat bindings were delightful, even if the Drake [Author] did go on and focused on Izril a lot.
At any rate. It was not just because Yisame loved to read about [Thieves]—and she did—that she had picked up that book before the adventure story she so dearly wanted to read.
She wanted to use one of her Skills. She sat back, thinking on her beloved Lightning Thief, and this new Thief of Clouds.
There was always the great [Thief] of any age. Like [Bandits], like anyone, really. Bloodfeast Raiders were the talk of Izril, the Thief of Clouds was the rising star to match the Lightning Thief, and Chandrar had its own set of famous criminals and rogues. However, to the reader who read the sensationalized accounts, Yisame had an obvious question.
Who was the better [Thief]? Now, obviously this ‘Thief of Clouds’ had not been seen explicitly stealing something as fast-moving and deadly as lightning. Yet Yisame wondered if, just maybe, the Thief of Clouds had ancillary Skills that would triumph over a direct-theft [Thief] like the famous Lightning Thief. What if…if say, the Thief of Clouds had been hired to steal the Eye of Baleros back from Thivian Stormless?
Yisame tried to imagine it, conjuring her own rough image of the Lightning Thief—as a Stitch-man, though she knew he was Human—and a Gnoll as athletic as the story said. And Baleros? She imagined…a jungle. A rocky fortress, angry Lamias with bows…
It wasn’t good. It wasn’t complete; she had never been to Baleros, but seen images. Lamias and Gnolls weren’t as familiar to her. If you asked Yisame what armor Thivian Stormless was wearing, if any at all, if he had shoes, and so on, she wouldn’t have been able to tell you. Her imagination focused on what mattered.
And her Skill filled in all the gaps.
“[Sublime Daydream].”
Suddenly, Yisame smelled Baleros. It was wet. Rain had just fallen and it was on the thick vegetation. She could inhale the rich plant matter, some decaying from the heavy rainfall, feel the earth under her one bare foot, missing the slipper. She felt something try to bite her, and swatted it away. Just in time to see—
“Who are you?”
Thivian Stormless leapt to one side, swearing, head turning as angry Lamias screamed, aiming bows at him. Yet the Gnoll who had blurred forwards made them hold their fire. He had a fearless grin, and was far younger than the Lightning Thief.
The Thief of Clouds. Yisame saw the Dullahan, He’re, turning, bogged down in the wet terrain.
“Who’s this, Thivian? You’re not paying me to fight another adventurer!”
“He’s not an adventurer. He’s—”
The Lightning Thief cursed, and suddenly thick fog—no, a cloud—rolled over everything. The wet haze made Yisame stumble forwards to see. She saw two shapes burst through the fog, hands blurring.
“The Thief of Clouds!”
Thivian shouted, enraged. Yisame gasped as the two emerged, hands locked around a single glowing object that shone like a lighthouse’s magical beacon.
The Eye of Baleros.
 
—-
 
Of course, it wasn’t the actual Eye of Baleros, and that had never happened. It was a daydream. Yisame made up their appearances and Skills, but even so, it was like she had been there.
For seventeen glorious minutes, Yisame watched the two [Thieves] clash, filling in the Skills they might have, what might occur, with what she’d read about them. Then it ended and she sat up.
“So…so amazing. [Cloudburst Theft]! That might be a Skill! And when he grabs the Eye of Baleros…”
She strode over to the desk in her library, sat down, and furiously began to scribble down some of the things she’d seen. Yisame was a [Queen], a [Reader], and…a [Writer].
Level 8. Nothing special. She wrote her own adventure stories. Nothing published…not even close to that. But sometimes it burst out of her and she could not help but put it down to words. She hadn’t even shown the [Reader]-[Prostitute] who smuggled her books her writings on Thivian; Yisame had written a lot on the Lightning Thief.
The point was, this was what Yisame lived for each day. Imagining great adventures, losing herself in the printed word.
She wanted to be Level 30. She wanted it so bad she could almost taste the new Skill she might get.
