“That’s your room, Silver Killer! Yvlon! This one’s mine—look at all the food!”
The [Storm Bandit] turned [Gladiator] danced about, laughing. Yvlon stared at the table full of delicacies, then at the only indication this was even a cell; the enchanted door at the far end.
“But why?”
“A patron! Someone saw the battle! We have a patron!”
Leprel explained again. The [Thief] was dripping with water; she’d bathed for the first time since being caught. With scented soaps and shampoos!
Patron. A [Gladiator]’s patron. Someone had seen Yvlon fight, reached out to the [Arena Master] and…suddenly their fortunes had changed. Yvlon stared around the comfy suite, for the highest-class [Gladiators] in the Arena of Rust.
Leprel and Rexel had been afforded the same suite, as they were on Yvlon’s ‘team’. They’d been ready to deny all connections with her, but it seemed their faith had been rewarded. The [Thief] and [Storm Bandit] were high-fiving, investigating their quarters…Rexel gasped.
“They even have spare parts! Look!”
She had found some pieces of cloth. Arms, legs—a [Gladiator]’s replacement bodyparts. Some were higher-quality than her own cloth, so she began trying to undo the strings on her arm.
“Leprel, help me put this arm on! It looks way better than mine!”
“I hope this is to your satisfaction, Miss Byres?”
A voice from the door made all three turn. Rexel and Leprel stopped and Yvlon looked at the [Arena Master]. He was still wary of her, but he smiled with all the insincerity in his body.
“Thank you for the accommodations.”
Yvlon meant not a word herself, but the Stitch-man just grinned at her.
“A [Patron] was very generous. I would advise you to rest up and take full advantage of the facilities of the Arena of Rust, Miss Byres. It will not last long.”
The [Armsmistress] felt a warning tinge in her stomach—or maybe it was just another sign she needed relief.
“Why not?”
“Because you will not be fighting in my arena. Oh, no. You have been elevated. The capital’s arena waits for you after what you did to the Champion of Rust.”
Leprel and Rexel’s faces were awestruck and terrified. Yvlon just grunted.
“Wonderful. More comfort for more danger?”
The [Arena Master] shook his head. He was an older man, in his sixties. He gave Yvlon an insulted look past faded eyes and his own scars.
“Many would die for such a chance. You are an adventurer, aren’t you, Miss Yvlon? In the capital’s arena, there is ample chance for glory and improvement. Even a Gold-rank adventurer might petition to join the ranks of the [Gladiators] there! You can win more than freedom; last three matches and you could well free yourself! For the best, glory and great treasures await. Permanent employment! Fame! Mars the Illusionist came from those very sands!”
His little speech made Yvlon blink. Only three matches? The [Arena Master] snorted at her expression.
“Do you think the [Gladiators] there are [Slaves]? You may not like my arena, Silver Arm. But you have a Patron and bested the Champion of Rust. Try to enjoy the amenities. Oh—and as proof, here. That is for you.”
He pointed around the suite the three had been given. Spare bedrooms, bathing rooms, a stocked larder, even a kitchen and quick access to anything the [Gladiators] wanted, from a massage to training and personal [Trainers] and so on. Yvlon Byres looked past the table set with treats like caviar from the sea and a fat, roasted duck, to a single stoppered bottle. As the [Arena Master] stepped out, she walked over to it and read the note left there.
Potion of Incontinence. If it does not work, a [Healer] will attend to you.
Rexel peered over her shoulder and whistled.
“Wow. [Alchemists] do make everything.”
 
—-
 
The thing was…she was in better condition than before. Yvlon stopped sweating. She found…relief.
Rexel and Leprel decided to eat with the other [Gladiators] and give Yvlon a lot of space, especially since the woman didn’t emerge from the bathroom where she had been located for over forty minutes. They decided they did not want to hear, smell, or see anything. Especially after they heard her muttering.
“Gah. This is disgusting. I’m—”
“I regret everything.”
“Dead gods. This—is not—”
Yes, it was disgusting. Yes, you could be immature about it and make jokes. It was a fact of life. The fact that Yvlon took all the soaps that had been provided, buckets of water for her bath, and spent nearly an hour and twenty minutes in the bathroom was testament to the ordeal.
Not least, of reaching into that hole and fishing around. Gagging, laboriously washing, washing, washing, and regretting every decision that had brought her that far. Yet…it had been necessary.
Magistrate Ducaz was a bastard. Poor luck had landed Yvlon in his clutches. He had wanted to steal her treasures, but of course, he had found none. Even after an invasive strip search.
He hadn’t found anything but the magical items that were her gear; paltry compared to what he wanted to have found. And the magic in Yvlon herself.
She boiled some water and rinsed everything, including herself, a sixth time. Yvlon breathed out, a shuddering breath.
“If it had been one day earlier, and I had to explain this in the mass jail…”
She had her mysterious benefactor to thank, she supposed. Yvlon felt calmer. She shook her head. Ducaz had clearly not read enough books on adventurer basics, because he’d fallen for one of the oldest tricks in their books. Not that Yvlon had ever met anyone who’d actually pulled off the routine, but…
It turned out swallowing relic-class artifacts was not a fun ordeal. Passing them? Yvlon forbore comment.
Nevertheless. She stared at the pair of magical rings and two spell scrolls that were absolutely clean, and somehow, undamaged from their long voyage. Yvlon Byres remembered where she’d seen the scrolls last.
Right on the workbench belonging to the greatest [Necromancer] of his era. The Putrid One.
The rings had come from one of the corpses lying around his body. One of the few things she had been able to grab before it all went bad.
Everyone had stolen something. Yvlon Byres’ eyes glinted. She wondered where she’d hide the two rings and scrolls next. Swallowing them…no. Not again. She wasn’t willing to try out any of the four, even if she could activate them.
Even so. She clenched one hand.
“This had better be important. Or I am going to kill…someone.”
She sat in her glorified cell, waiting for a time to get back to the people and things that mattered. Yvlon Byres had no notion that her story had already changed. Or rather, an enthusiastic [Reader] was helping her reach her full…potential.
The Silver-Killer had a fan. She also needed a better nickname.
 
—-
 
It was how they saw you that mattered. Almost as much as who you were. Which was insulting, if you thought about it. Sometimes people thought you were a hero or better than you actually were. More evil, too. They had an image in their heads and if you weren’t 100% spot on, they got mad. As if it was your fault, not theirs.
What did they see you as? What did you want to be seen as?
One of the Horns of Hammerad sometimes thought about that. She had her own fan. Someone who looked at her with wide eyes, as if they were looking at a walking legend. Which she was to this little place. But he expected her to do something…she had no idea what.
The rest of her team could have answered him better. In the time she’d spent healing, resting, rebuilding her damaged source of power, she imagined her team would have done more.
Yvlon—Yvlon would have probably been lifting entire houses with her arm, demonstrating her strength in some way. Or just have stormed off within a day of nearly dying of dehydration and heatstroke.
Pisces would probably have animated half the village of Nerhs’ graveyard, nearly gotten lynched, and then snootily pointed out that now there was free labor and security in that way that made you want to strangle him.
Ksmvr would…annex the nearest local tree for his burgeoning dukedom of trees. Which would take some doing since Ceria had only seen runty little plants, not full trees like back in Izril. Then he would do something strange, like wipe out the [Bandits] that were apparently torching villages. Or whatever was out there.
Ceria gave it a lot of thought. So, on the fourth day of her stay at Nerhs, Luaar, the son of the [Village Head], Novethur, raced over when he saw the crowd around his home.
Boys and girls, the small population of his village in the middle of nowhere, were pointing, seeing something. At last! The half-Elf [Cryomancer] was doing something! Luaar pushed forwards, needing to see. What had she done? Used her ice powers in some fantastic way? Put on the Relic-class artifact? He fought to the front and saw—
“Tada! I’m a chipfmunf! Look hfw many I cn fit in my mouf!”
Ceria Springwalker turned, cheeks bulging with Yellats. She did indeed resemble a giant half-Elf rodent, and she had fit no less than eight full Yellats in her mouth, to the delight of the children, some of whom were rolling about laughing. The adults too.
Luaar’s betrayed look nearly made a Yellat come out of Ceria’s nose. She thought it was hilarious.
 
—-
 
“Murderer!”
Again, she heard it at night and rose to pace around, restless. Nove, the [Village Head], had given his entire hut over to her, but it was still too small.
She walked out into the cold air of Chandrar at night. Hot by day, and cold by night. At least—she was told it was cold.
Ceria couldn’t tell anymore. She was an [Arctic Cryomancer], and cold swirled around her like an invisible cloak, lowering the temperature of everything in a ten foot radius.
It was ‘cool’ around her at the edge of the invisible bubble, enough so that children sometimes edged over in the baking heat of the day, or the adults working the fields or crafting something—like the wicker baskets out of the tough roots and bushes—asked Ceria to stay and chat.
Closer to her, though, the aura of cold grew unbearably chilly. To the point where it could actually snow if there was enough water. Ceria could alter her aura to shrink or grow, but that took conscious effort. As Nerhs’ people had learned, you could freeze water by placing it next to her, hence their new, ice-based economy.
All of this was fine by Ceria. Freezing people accidentally had been embarrassing, but if she really wanted elbow-room at a table, she got it. She didn’t feel cold anymore, but that was a sign her mastery of ice-magic was deepening. Not a negative like Yvlon talked about her arms.
“Yvlon.”
Ceria exhaled and saw her breath emerge as a plume of frosty mist in the air. She felt…dry. Still tired, but recovering fast from the Village of the Dead. Her body was healing. Well, the healing potion and that Dullahan-adventurer’s light had cured her of her wounds, but Ceria had been riding the back of the Frostmarrow Behemoth, taking earthshaking blows that knocked her about as she repaired it.
Then she’d been fighting the highest-level undead she’d ever seen…the half-Elf winced.
“How am I still in one piece? I should be dead. Or at least, lost another hand.”
She waved around her skeletal hand for emphasis. Ceria stared at the bones, clicking and moving together in the absence of flesh. Now there was something out of stories for Luaar to stare at. And he did.
“I couldn’t get [Iceflesh Hand] or something? Yvlon got two free arms.”
Ceria grumbled. Then she had a thought. Well, technically…
The [Cryomancer] stared at her hand. She pictured skin, a copy of her skin on her other hand, sliding over the bones, mimicking skin. It was a variation of [Frozen Armor], a spell she knew. But far more delicate; rather than a slab of ice, it would have to be ice that flowed and moved every time she wanted to flex her hand.
Exceptionally complicated. Some might call it impossible, because ice was not water, and making it behave like that was foolish.
Yet Ceria had known someone who could do that. With her face, no less. It had always been a bit stilted, but unless you knew Illphres, her old master, you would have been fooled. Colored ice.
Ceria watched as a thin layer of frost crept over her bleached bones. She frowned, bit her lip…
Novethur, watching from the side, saw Ceria shrug and lower her hand. The frost coating it dissipated. She glanced up, and the [Village Head] was too slow to duck back behind the hut.
“Adventurer Springwalker.”
“Master Novethur. Hello. Did I disturb you?”
The man shook his head as Ceria smiled and strolled over.
“Late night watch. All the adults take turns. Especially of late…”
Her eyes flickered. They had turned pale and light blue, like frost itself. Something else that didn’t bother the half-Elf. She was…well, a pleasant guest. She ate a lot of Yellats, but she had been amiable, pleasant, a gracious guest given the poor amenities, and she made everyone laugh.
That was why Novethur didn’t feel wary of asking her what she’d been doing. Ceria rubbed the back of her head, self-consciously. Her features were half-Elven; pointed ears, fine blonde hair—a sense of immortality, only partially captured. She would live far longer than the rest of the village of Humans, unless she died in battle or of sickness.
“That? Oh—something I thought of. Ice replacing skin. It didn’t work.”
“Is it…an advanced spell?”
Novethur, as a [Village Head], had access to a very weak pool of mana, but higher-level [Village Heads] were actually known to be on par with [Hedge Mages]. Ceria shrugged.
“It’s not a spell. Call it…a sign of mastery. I don’t know if there is an enchantment that could permanently replace my skin like that. I can cover myself in ice and create a mask that’s static. Living ice is harder.”
“Living…ice?”
“Frost Elementals. I can create them, and I know there are creatures that are entirely made of ice in the northern lands. Maybe Chandrar too?”
Ceria’s eyes became distant. Novethur couldn’t imagine it; ice was a luxury here, without powerful spellcasters like her. Even having free ice meant his village was now considering refrigeration and eating shaved ice—even selling it to other settlements!
“Is such magic beyond you, then?”
Ceria blinked.
“…No? I can probably do it. Or I’m close…my master could, and she was—higher level than me.”
Her face grew sad and her ears actually drooped a bit. But then Ceria smiled. Novethur recognized that. It was the kind of expression he made, when he talked about his late wife. It did not hurt less. But you had lived a while since then.
“The problem isn’t control or expertise. It’s uh…it’s dry, here.”
Ceria gestured at her hand. Novethur blinked, and got it instantly.
“Ah. It surely is.”
