The Adult Creler was stalking through a ruined wall, after the vanguard of its kin. It had offered them up to break through and now, it was scuttling forwards. It rammed into her third layer of [Ice Walls] and exploded through. Ceria threw up her arms and a thin [Ice Wall] shielded her tower from the spray of shrapnel. She aimed down.
“[Ice Lance]! Die, damn it!”
The jagged spear of ice shot downwards and…cracked on the Adult Creler’s armor. It was young. But—Ceria’s lips twisted.
“Yeah. I needed Yvlon.”
Slowly, her fingers reached down for something hanging on her belt. She aimed at the Crelers she could kill and a Juvenile Creler collapsed as the Adult clawed at a second wall. Ceria slowly grasped the circlet hanging there.
Not yet.
 
—-
 
She stood on the fortress of ice. The smallest Crelers made their way up to her, but found she had encased herself in a clear wall of ice that she could fight from. She blasted them off with spells as they gnawed on it. She tried to slow the giant Creler, as spells flashed out around her.
The ice available to her was…diminishing. The more it ran together with Creler blood, the less she had. She heard the beating voice in her head.
Murderermurderermurderermurd—
The half-Elf laughed. She had started laughing. Her robes whipped around her. Despite the midday heat, her tower was frozen solid.
Running out of ice. She said something then. A reminder. Below her, Nerhs’ people stared at the glowing bodies pressing themselves against the walls shielding them. Luaar heard something.
“Hell’s Wardens.”
The half-Elf shouted it down from her tower. She dragged a chunk of ice into the air and sent it crashing down. Something bored through the ice and leapt at her. It met frozen armor; a skeletal hand. She tossed it out of the tower and hit it mid-air with a spike of frozen water.
“Hell’s Wardens!”
They were just words. But the villagers of Nerhs looked up. The [Cryomancer] rained down ice—now lightning spells that sent limbs jerking spastically. She shouted it back at the thing that called her ‘murderer’. A title from Rhir. Luaar, Novethur, looked up.
Was she really that? The title even Gold-rank adventurers acknowledged? She shouted it down at the monsters.
“Hell’s Wardens! Hell’s Wardens! Hear that you little pieces of tree crap? Hell’s Wardens! Crelerbane! HELL’S WARDENS. HELL’S—”
She bit her tongue. Ceria spat out some blood and spittle. She conjured some ice out of the walls protecting her and hit another Creler mid-leap.
“Hell’s Warden.”
Then she ran out of water. There was ice left, but all of it was in the walls. Ceria watched as Crelers clung to the outsides, bodies glowing. Anything melted she desperately threw into regrowing her protections.
No more water. And her mana was too low to cast other spells, even if she could have used [Fireball].
The Adult Creler was just watching. She had killed the Juvenile Crelers, and it was wary. It was letting the remaining small ones eat towards her. They did have a survival instinct.
“Too bad I’m out of tricks.”
Ceria’s flash of anger had lasted all of six minutes. She pressed her hands to the ice, bare feet of protection from a scratching flurry of claws, willing it to freeze. Her breath was an icy mist.
She couldn’t rage. She wanted to. She wanted to pull from that reservoir like Yvlon had, keep fighting even if they tore off her arms. Ceria couldn’t.
“I…can’t even tell if they’re alive.”
She muttered. Death by Crelers. Here. There was something ironic about that. Maybe? Her energy was fading. She stared at a glowing abdomen. Were those eggs inside the one coming for her?
Her hand crept down to the circlet. Her [Dangersense]…grew louder. Ceria grinned.
“Nobody knows what will happen next. Do you think I’m scared?”
The Adult Creler was watching her. No, watching the circlet. She saw it draw back when she lifted it. It knew.
“I have lost my team twice. I’ll do it. I’m crazy.”
She felt her [Dangersense] telling her what would happen if she put it on. Mysterious artifacts…Ceria gritted her teeth. Something was wrong. She had to do something.
“It’s hard. Angry. Hard to…”
Water. Water, if only Nerhs had more water. If only she was a [Bloodmage]. Let’s teach yourself blood magic now. Good idea. Good…
Stupid. Someone was whispering in her ears. Ceria swayed. No, wait a second. She was having a vision. A memory? A delusion? What was supposed to happen?
Someone had a grip on her ear and was twisting it hard. Are you stupid? What kind of self-respecting [Ice Mage] learns blood magic? Go change your class if you’re going to do that.
Who would say that? Ah. Yes.
Illphres. Wouldn’t she say…Ceria felt the ice warming. Not enough material to keep between her and the Creler.
That’s the problem. You’re thinking the wrong way. Water? Are you a [Hydromancer]? Does your magic begin and end with water, you idiotic appentice?
“No, master. But give me a hint?”
The half-Elf looked around. And then it came to her. Oh. Of course. She looked down at her hands. One flesh and blood, one skeletal. When she had lost that hand, had she called only on the power of ice made manifest? What was their class? Illphres loomed in her vision.
“Cold, Master. Cold. It’s…cold.”
Ceria recalled her latest Skill. Not [Battlefield of the Frozen World]. She didn’t even have the water to conjure it. Not [Lesser Frost Elemental]. Those were spells that required something. But her nature was cold.
“[Aura of Rime]. [Aura: Distant Manipulation].”
She stood there, without the rage that her friend had. Her brave little protégé had all the courage and loyalty, more than she could have. She was not as clever as he was, or as gifted. And perhaps that was fine. None of these things lasted forever.
Speed drained away. Anger faded. Energy left you.
All things were lost in time. Cleverness failed.
The half-Elf stopped moving. Her hands were locked against the frozen ice, staring at the burrowing shape coming towards her. There was nothing left. She stopped moving. Stopped casting magic. She was just…
Just…still. A little void in her soul, which Ceria kept closed. Into it she spilled her worry, her fear, her anger. Until naught remained.
What must be done was simple. The truth was cold. It was true, she did not want to die. She was afraid. But…in time…
Even fear began to freeze.
The burrowing Creler’s movements began to slow. The glow in its body…began to dim.
The other Crelers felt it. They felt something….painful…engulf them. What? The ice? The ice was cold, but they had infested even frozen lands. What was this? It was—
Cold. So cold it leeched even their burning heat from their limbs. So cold that…the little Creler was struggling. Uncomprehending. But it dimmed. Something was…stealing the heat. That damned murderer. She was taking.
“It’s cold, isn’t it?”
In her tower of ice, a body stopped moving. Two pale eyes stared at a frozen shape. Lips moved upwards.
It was not a malicious smile. It was not triumphant. It was a frozen gesture. Like her master’s face.
A mask of ice. Slowly, two pale eyes turned left. Another body began to slow. The heat of life began to fade away.
Desperately, the others tried to burrow faster. The ice wasn’t reforming. It didn’t need to. This—this was just temperature. They froze, feet from her, then inches. Too cold. The closer they got—
The Adult Creler stared up at her. This was not magic it knew. This was not…a spell. They locked gazes, and it began to climb up the tower, biting, tearing, now feeling a cold reaching for its soul.
But it had been made to resist magic! To be supreme! The end of all things! This was not fair! This was…
Ceria Springwalker watched the last Creler advance, dreamily. She did not move. To move was to have energy. To be the opposite of what she had to become. This was the truth at the heart of it all. Her…strength.
Of the four of them. She was not the most cunning. Bravest. Most adaptable. Certainly not the strongest. Perhaps, though, it was one thing she had more than anything else.
Tenacity. She had looked death in the eyes once before. Just like this. A horde of undead. Terror. Two glowing ruby eyes. She had possessed the will to do what had to be done.
Yes, come closer. Her skeletal hand rose, slowly. A scything maw was opening and closing. A mind beat at hers, but it froze from sheer contact. Was this what her master saw? The truth, waiting for her? She wasn’t even close, but she saw it.
It was…cold. So cold she had stopped shivering. So cold it was beginning to feel warm. For her. She had thought she would never feel cold again. Now she knew.
I will lead us into the frozen land, together. What lies there?
Something was afraid. Something saw her skeletal hand. Her smile.
Look at what I gave up last time.
To kill you, I will do whatever it takes. My arrogant friend is clever enough to best you. My young protégé is brave enough to risk everything for victory for us. My brave sister will take you to the grave no matter the cost to herself.
I? I am willing to see the cost clearly and pay it, time and time again.
It was clawing closer. A few feet left. She could feel the vibrations. Hear the malicious thoughts. Alas, something thought.
Not cold enough. Not yet, to kill with temperature alone. Not without water. A bit longer. A bit colder…
Her hand slowly rose. With glacial speed. With inevitability. The circlet flashed.
“Let’s find out, together.”
The monster was coming. If it could have run, if there were any other way but her death, it would have. Because it was afraid.
 
—-
 
What did you see? How did you see them?
The boy saw the horrors of hell stop moving. He heard cheers, gasps, and saw the last great monster coming. Clawing over his head through the transparent ice soaked with gore.
He had no eyes for it. Only her. He had thought she was such a letdown at first. Even until the last hour, he had been disappointed. Now he saw Ceria Springwalker, the adventurer he had longed to see in her full might and glory, standing, facing the slowing Adult Creler, whose limbs were lined with frost, shrieking at her.
In that moment, he no longer wanted to be an adventurer. He saw Ceria smiling widely, and saw the empty oblivion in her eyes. Just how far she was willing to go to rid the world of that…that thing.
Luaar understood something then. A critical thing he hadn’t understood.
She was no hero. This was no glorious hour. It was a bitter battle to be won at any cost.
She was an adventurer.
What did you see when you saw that? A village frozen in silence. An entire nest of Crelers, frozen, pulped by walls of ice. Destroyed by a single [Mage] in a land completely against her magic. In a battle nearly an hour long, she stood in the center of a fortress that refused to break.
[Ice Mage]. [Cryomancer].
Someone slowed. A group of riders pointed, readying themselves. But the first among them, their leader, stopped. Her eyes were only on the obscured figure amid that familiar…familiar spell. Yet it was impossible. Wasn’t it?
“It can’t be. Illphres?”
 
—-
 
Nearly. She nearly won. But the first claw broke through the ice.
“Alas.”
Ceria sighed. The circlet gleamed as she lowered it onto her head. She felt it touch the very top of her hair, and then a voice whispered in her ears.
“Freeze it. Incoming.”
Her head turned, slowly, slowly. With the weight of that cold world she invoked. What? Who was speaking? What was falling in a huge orb, nigh as vast as Nerhs itself? Was that—
Water.
The bomb of water engulfed everything in a sudden, aquatic world. The explosion of the orb of water landing on the village obliterated almost everything in a titanic burst of sound.
Ceria was knocked off her perch in the impromptu fortress, flailing, disoriented, and drowning. To be fair, so was the Adult Creler. It was more confused than debilitated, however; it began to flail and twist its body through the water.
It had never swum, but it was drawing on ingrained knowledge, learning how to propel itself with deadly speed. It whirled, looking for its terrifying foe. What was this water doing here? How had—?
It spotted her too late. A half-Elf, sitting in a chunk of ice. She had frozen herself. The Adult Creler began to try to swim at her, screaming. No, no—!
The water froze. It froze around both of them, so fast it didn’t even let the water flow away. The Creler tried to escape. It tried to heat up, but now it was too slow.
Too slow to break through as the numbing cold, the hoarfrost beginning to engulf it. The movements of the monster slowed. The glowing light began to fade. It sat there, in the ice, with the half-Elf. How?
Neither of them knew how. But in time, the half-Elf looked down. The ice around her unfroze. She gasped, and dropped out of the frozen sculpture.
Onto the sand and ground. Amid the living, warm people, who reached out to hug her, touch her, and recoiled at the freezing temperature. She looked up at the people of Nerhs, those who had fled…
And the [Enforcement Raider] and a far larger band of armed, rough figures. A palanquin and a figure staring at the Adult Creler there.
All of it was meaningless to the thing encased in ice. It was dying. But not dead. The [Cryomancer] had frozen it, but so long as it was only this cold—it would eventually thaw. Fool. Fool! The gleeful little thought was so tiny that no one would have even sensed the life with a spell. But it was there.
It waited, as the half-Elf struggled to her feet, was hugged by a little boy, talked to the others, warily faced a warrior with a shield, and pointed at it. Then—as those two cold eyes looked upwards.
The murderer tilted her head back. And the Adult Creler heard something.
I know you’re still alive.
A cold little thought.
 
—-
 
The limbs jerked. The ‘dead’ Adult Creler cracked the ice and began to glow. Ceria Springwalker heard the [Bandits] and people of Nerhs shout and run backwards. But she was already aiming her wand upwards.
Die. I know you have to die. Until you’re nothing but ash, I won’t rest! Until the ice turns you to powder.
She didn’t know if she had the magic left, but it would die. She heard a frantic thought pushing at her head. The ice was thawing. She tried to keep it frozen, but was someone…taking the cold away?
Murderer—wait—
“Enough. Stop freezing it. Let me.”
A voice filled with disgust and imperious wrath stopped Ceria. A hand knocked her away. The half-Elf felt power, swirling like the tides of a vast, unseen ocean, move past her. She turned.
