When all was said and done, she was there.
When the [Wyrmpact King] excused himself from the throne room to find out what had happened, he saw her standing there, facing the Duke.
When the [Royal Bodyguards], [Generals], [Strategists], and [Knights] dared follow their [King], after the King’s brother had cracked a man’s skull in his fit of rage, they saw the consequences standing there. A Courier in chains.
When the little boy opened his eyes, he saw Ryoka Griffin standing over him, facing the Duke. A sneering man with cold eyes whose pointed finger was blocked by her outstretched arms.
“No. Harm him, and I will call the wrath of hospitality down on you. I will invoke the wrath of the fae. To kill him, you have to kill me. And you can’t.”
“How dare you assume you could threaten me.”
The glowing chains wrapped around her and one began to strangle her. The [King] and his court halted, some calling out. Nevertheless, she met his eyes. The Wind Runner grinned, and for the first time, the ruler of Ailendamus saw Rhisveri, the Wyrm, hesitate. Her voice rasped, choking, but it seemed the wind whispered with her.
“You…need to know what I know. My message. Are you going to…kill me? And steal my treasures?”
The Duke’s eyes narrowed. He raised a hand and sent her flying. But he did not kill her. He whirled away.
“Enough. Guards! Arrest this thief, who dared to try to steal from Ailendamus’ sacred treasury. No [Torturers]. Imprison that…boy…as well.”
“Uncle. Who is…?”
Itorin saw the dizzy little boy raise his head. He had not been told a child would be kidnapped. His stomach began to twist in a familiar fashion, but he pretended he knew what was happening.
Rhisveri was visibly angry, upset…and for some reason, embarrassed? His eyes flicked to Sammial without immediate comprehension.
“An unintended passenger. We have lost one of your Great Knights…your Majesty.”
“How? Dame—?”
“The Death of Magic. And the damned Death of Chains. I must look into this. We may be in danger of teleportation strikes. And the damned Order of Seasons is on the march!”
“My head hurts.”
Sammial audibly whispered. Neither man glanced at him. Sammial saw Ryoka lying there, staring up at the [Knights] who were glancing at their superiors for instructions. An apprehensive [General] had taken one look at Sammial’s face and turned pale.
That was Ailendamus’ capital. The Duke Rhisveri swept off with his brother, as arrogant as any [King]. The eccentric, difficult genius, who had added to Ailendamus’ problems.
The war was not one of those problems, incidentally. The Dawn Concordat had lost the border forts or would lose them within the day. More armies were pushing into their lands, trading at acceptable losses if they were forced back.
As for Pheislant? The Order of Seasons’ own crusade, apart from the Chandrar debacle? The Duke had given one order, quickly ratified by two [Generals] and the royal seal itself.
“Send the Order of the Hydra. Send two legions.”
 
—-
 
The Order of Seasons had triumphed in three pitched battles over the last week and a half. First at the pass where they routed the army marching to flank the Dawn Concordat—later in smaller engagements.
Rabbiteater fought in both, of course. Or rather, ‘Ser Solstice’ did. The Hobgoblin had never passed up the opportunity to fight, and in the vanguard with the Summer’s Champion, he always saw combat.
Ser Greysten was not a man who believed in leading anywhere but from the very front, with people racing to catch up and shouting that he was an idiot. He embodied a certain kind of war unknown to Earth; the commander who was superior to the troops he led. Some [Generals] made their armies stronger, but were individually weak. Greysten? The opposite.
“Summer burns hot!”
He locked blades with the leading [Knight] of Ailendamus. True to his words, his longsword was glowing with heat, and the Knight of the Thirsting Veil recoiled. Rabbiteater heard a male voice cursing as the helmeted figures rode past each other into the melee. Greysten was already reaching for the axe he carried; he was slashing about himself with the longsword. He had lost his shield; the other [Knight] had disarmed him with a Skill.
Greysten had burned the other man’s blade and the thin line of poison; a paste with small seeds now charred black along the Thirsting Veil [Knight]’s blade. Fire ran rampant as more Summer Knights wielding burning weapons slashed at Ailendamus’ wavering core of [Knights].
They were armed with poison, the Thirsting Veil’s counter to the Order of Seasons’ aura-based attacks. Unfortunately, poison burnt away, and the Order of Seasons was too well-armored for all but the best strikes to go through. And even when they did—
“Struck! Healer!”
A Summer Knight rode out of the melee, a gauntleted hand clasped to a steaming wound. He or she was actively cauterizing the place where a dagger had punched through their chestplate. A Knight of Autumn, the Season of Fall, raced forwards with a broad-spectrum antidote prepared for these clashes.
“Shield Ser Hitre! Break their lines!”
The Summer’s Champion shot past Rabbiteater as the Goblin broke off from his shoving match with a [Knight]; they had locked shields and were battering at each other without much success. Greysten brought the hilt of his longsword down and thwacked the Ailendamus [Knight] on the side of the head, so hard he dented the dark purple iron.
“—unchivalrous, Ser!”
The female [Knight] reeled, her voice coming out of her helmet. Greysten actually slowed to salute her.
“‘Tis a battle, Dame Enemy! And besides, poison is more unsporting still!”
The genteel conversation could only occur in a battle like this, where armored figures would spend minutes literally hammering each other’s armor. The Dame began to retort, shield up, when Rabbiteater reached out and slapped her horse in the face. The stallion reared, furiously, and the Dame whirled back to him. Her guard was up, and she raised her mace—
…Just in time for her saddle to slide off the horse’s back. The animal bucked off the saddle, the straps cut. Rabbiteater had taken advantage of her banter to slice them.
[Mistreach Cut]. A gift for slaying the [General]. The Dame went over with a shout.
“How—”
The ‘whuh’ of sound coming out of her visor as she landed flat on her back was followed by her trying to roll over and get to her feet. She never made it. Rabbiteater rode his horse over her.
The Summer’s Champion watched as the Goblin happily let his horse stomp the [Knight] into the muddy ground, already drying with the heat auras.
“…That was fairly unsporting, Ser Solstice.”
“Yep. Which is why I won.”
Rabbiteater’s shield was up. He rode with Greysten as the two charged back towards the enemy commander.
The battle was won with surprisingly few casualties. As in—four [Knights] had been wounded seriously. Three died, and the rest were healable with potions.
It was not like the routing of Ailendamus’ army; the [Knights] of the Order of the Thristing Veil, unable to retreat once the horn blew, put up their blades after taking a beating. They were treated, taken prisoner without even being stripped of their armor in some cases, and would be ransomed or imprisoned as Pheislant saw fit. A prisoner train would need to be established again.
“I protest, Summer’s Champion! That [Knight] does not fight with valor or honor!”
The Dame [Knight] that Rabbiteater had bested had something to say as they were being arrested. The Summer’s Champion gave her a salute, his helmet off to enjoy a drink of water.
“Apologies, Dame Enemy! I would take my own Order to task for such a blow—except perhaps Winter’s lot, but you skirmished with a [Knight] of Izril! His style is unlike our own. Or have you never heard of the Goblin Slayer? Ser Solstice!”
He slapped Rabbiteater on the back. The Goblin saw some of the Thirsting Veil glower at him. One clearly muttered.
“Izrilian [Knights]. We should expect nothing more.”
Dame Talia frowned at Rabbiteater, but Greysten was ebullient after the third victory.
“Another group smashed! We’ll be pushing towards Ailendamus’ western flank soon! How long until the border?”
“We might be over it. Not the watchtowers, but since they eclipsed Saturst…”
Pheislant’s army was celebrating. True, this was not the grand battle of the pass, but they had won three battles in grand style. The Order of Seasons was crusading against Ailendamus, and their attack had won them the popular opinion of Pheislant’s people and their more aggressive leaders and [Lords], who were already assembling armies to back up the Season of Summer’s aggressive advance.
Rabbiteater understood—because Ser Markus told him—that the issue was more politically fraught than that. He listened with interest, but the truth was he’d come for a fight, and a fight he got.
“To the north, then! No time for rest! Have someone sort out the prisoners—if we want to keep Ailendamus guessing, I demand another forty miles behind us! At least!”
Greysten roared. The [Knights] stopped celebrating, and many leapt right back into their saddles. They were moving fast; theirs was a smaller army of [Knights], and they intended to take the pressure off the Dawn Concordat by forcing Ailendamus’ armies to turn towards them, by which point reinforcements would have hopefully come from Pheislant.
That was the plan. Rabbiteater wished he could remove his visor to wipe the sweat from his face. Amulet of Greater Fire Resistance or not, fighting was hot work. He felt their good luck couldn’t last forever. They’d broken one army of Ailendamus, but the counter had to be swinging back their way if Terandria’s kingdoms were anything like the Izril that the former Redfang knew.
He was right, of course. Ailendamus was hard at work. The war machine of one of Terandria’s greatest, and certainly, newest superpowers began to move.
 
—-
 
Ailendamus’ loyal servant wondered what all the fuss was about in court today. People were abuzz about a voice shouting in the castle, the Duke stirring something up…and apparently one of the Great Knights of Ailendamus had perished.
If true and not the oft-unreliable court gossip, that would be a disaster. The Great Knights of Ailendamus were, like their Great Generals, an actual class. Not the most…mm…inspired of names, but the fact that Ailendamus could appoint anyone to a new class that was an upgrade over a regular [General] was something indeed.
He banished the thoughts from his mind. The man stopped, checking his silver-and-wheat hair in a full-body mirror. He adjusted the glowing sash of amethyst, the band across his vibrant felt coat, as red as a glossberry. He was attired with a light, heavily frilled, and ruffled shirt of pearl white, and darker pants that would be charcoal black but for the gold lining.
The effect, as the doors were opened and he strode into the huge courtroom, was calculated to blow the loose coat back and let it swirl about him as he strode into the room. Ailendamus’ great servant beheld a grand auditorium.
That was the charm of Ailendamus’ palace; the sheer display of wealth that gave rise to so many vast chambers. Why, even the hallways could accommodate armies in themselves. It was so vast even half-Giants need not stoop under the ceilings. An architectural message: we shall never be assailed in our capital. There is no need for tight corridors or hallways. Ailendamus, this vast kingdom, had no small ambitions.
And thus, even a non-critical chamber such as this was practically cavernous. The man looked up slightly, appreciating the relief drawn across the ceiling. A thousand [Artists] had renditioned a battle of King Itorin I over his enemies in a splendid drawing in the domed room.
Of course, the army overhead was matched in scope by the army which had knelt to greet his arrival. The capital’s guards, the audience in their humble clothes, and of course, the [Knights]. Or…[Squires], rather.
They were men and women. Half-Elves, Dwarves, even a Stitch-Woman. They knelt, heads uncovered, all armored in the lighter colors of their order. The man surveyed them in silence. Then he crossed to the podium and dais, his motions fluid, his head thrown back, shoulders squared to let his coat billow behind him.
One would be fair in thinking he was a [King]. Certainly, he carried himself like one. Of course, he was not. [Kings] did not care so much as to practice the stop, heel-turn, and flourish of the arm that let him step up to the podium. Nor did your average member of royalty practice throwing their voice such that it filled the air, deepened by vocal exercises, magnified to catch the ear perfectly through extensive, nay, obsessive practice.
“I am Baron Regalius du Ecte, [Regent] of the Barony Veilau in service of the glorious Kingdom of Ailendamus. By the decree of the crown as vested in me by no less than his Majesty’s proxy, Duchess Vepil herself, I have been granted the right to bestow titles with the full weight of Ailendamus. It is my honor to convene this ceremony on this day of Liriean, the 20th of Weris on the year 213 A.E. as set down by Ailendamus’ calenders.”
The oration of Baron Regalius du Ecte filled the room. By the end of the first sentence, his voice, already filled to bursting with pride, had swelled further until he was practically bellowing ‘no less than his Majesty’s proxy’, and ‘honor to convene’.
Not at his audience. But rather, to the room itself, as if he stood before a million of Ailendamus’ citizens rather than a mere thousand, and this was the highest of honors. In a sense—it was.
The Baron’s eyes roamed the [Knights] kneeling before him. For this was a ceremony to elevate the [Squires] into [Knights]. Sometimes a [King] would do this himself. Baron Regalius had the honor, nay, privilege of doing it himself rather than his Majesty. He had been personally selected…by the Duchess Vepil…to act in King Itorin II’s stead!
“Brave servants of Ailendamus, you have been found worthy of one of the highest honors of our kingdom. By wit and courage and valor, you have proven by deed and action to be beyond repute in both spirit and body. Ailendamus expects no less. In recognition of your actions, you have been chosen to embody the great spirit of our nation as [Knights]. You shall swear by crown and country to be no less than the finest to ever draw breath. You shall represent us in war and peace as the sword of His Majesty, the shield of the people, the hope of our young, and comfort of the old!”
