She waved him away. The man’s jaw opened and closed; he hadn’t expected her to actually ask for a report. He hurried away, trying to figure out what this betokened. The rest of the other factions watched, equally wary, as Yisame was presented with what the two young men had been looking at.
“A recording of the gladiatorial events, Your Majesty. The Arena of Rust, I believe. A smaller arena.”
“We do so enjoy watching such sports, my loyal [Captain]. Pray, play it before us all.”
The [Royal Captain] raised his brows; he was aware Yisame hated the gladiator matches since he never had to escort her to any. But it fit with the court’s image of her, so many people gathered to watch. Yisame stared down at a recording and then her eyes nearly popped out of their sockets. She nearly removed one to check the stitching.
The one-armed woman charged the Champion of Rust, screaming so loud it was faintly audible over the roar of the crowd. Her arms morphed into silver pincushions. Yisame saw Yvlon Byres staring at her blood-soaked hand as the stunned audience looked down at her.
Then the [Silversteel Armsmistress] turned. The recording of her first bout, freshly copied over to the palace that day, showed what happened next.
Yvlon Byres let the Champion of Rust flee back to the gates. She dragged up his axe, raised it overhead, and to the stunned [Gladiators], prisoners, and crowd, bellowed up at the sky.
“I am Yvlon Byres of the Horns of Hammerad! I have been unjustly imprisoned! Come hither and lie about my deeds, attack me, or slander me and I will rip your heads off in self-defense, you spineless cowards.”
So saying, she raised the enchanted axe overhead—and began to charge the remaining [Gladiators]. Her two companions stared after her as the [Armsmistress], who had just defeated the Champion of Rust, went after the rest.
The [Gladiators] of the Arena of Rust took one look at her and ran for it. So did the prisoners. Yisame watched for a good minute as the Human woman ran around the arena, chasing a school of frightened fish—some of whom tried to climb the walls of the arena to escape.
“Silver-Killer! Silver-Killer!”
Yvlon Byres only gave up when the crowd, cheering her name, began to applaud. She stomped towards the gates, tossing the axe down to wild cheering.
“This—this was this morning?”
The Queen’s voice trembled slightly. The rest of the court was chuckling; some looked bored, others connected the events at the Village of the Dead and were mildly interested. Yisame?
The [Queen] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen looked at the angry Human. The very angry woman whose entire reaction to surviving a raid and near-death scenario and being teleported across the world somehow was to come out swinging, spitting hellfire and vengeance and trying to push everyone’s face in within arm’s reach.
She was…everything Yisame wanted at this moment. She was an attitude in and of herself.
And another disaster waiting to happen. If one of the Horns of Hammerad—no, two—were in Chandrar and one was a [Gladiator] in an arena shouting she was falsely imprisoned? It was going to be another bad look.
Yisame thought about all this in the time it took her hand-fan to lazily waft scented air at her face two times. Then she smiled.
“How entertaining. We do so enjoy such displays. Commend the two who brought such entertainments to court. We should focus on such great martial displays. After all, did not Mars the Illusionist come from the arenas? Let us look for talent there.”
The court susurrated. People exchanged glances. Oho! So that was the [Queen]’s plan, was it? A few [Generals] murmured. Replace Named Adventurers and train up their [Gladiators] into war-leaders? Not a bad plan.
How savvy. A clear response to the Fellbow crisis. Yisame smiled knowingly as her court turned on her words. She waited an hour, replaying her favorite writings on The Knights of House Byres and the Silver Dragon in her head. Then she made her real move.
 
—-
 
The [Chancellor of Coin] was not a fool. Like everyone he employed truth spells as a matter of course. Yisame knew that. So when she lied, she did it with the truth. That was basic.
“I am having the [Spymaster] investigate the issue, Chancellor. However, I would hate for it to be another crisis in this fraught time.”
She used ‘I’ as a sign of familiarity, and because they were holding an intimate court. The [Chancellor] nodded, eyes flickering to her, to the [Royal Captain], and back to Yisame.
“Naturally, your Majesty.”
“I would like you to look into it. I am certain the [Spymaster] prefers to work alone, and he has expressed a desire to keep the affairs of state separate, but…”
The [Spymaster] and [Chancellor of Coin] were long-time rivals. They sometimes clashed, and the [Chancellor]’s twitch made Yisame smile. He thought the [Spymaster] had asked her to keep it private and the [Queen] was simply worried.
Lies in truth.
“Ah…I respect the [Spymaster]’s will, your Majesty. But if it harkens to the affairs of coin—it is only natural my people should be involved.”
“So I believe! And so I will say to him. But…”
Yisame trailed off delicately. The [Chancellor] was practically dancing to rush off.
“Which—which affair are you speaking of, your Majesty?”
He did not like to admit he didn’t know. Yisame feigned surprise.
“The…Horns of Hammerad incident? Miss Yvlon Byres? We cannot have a world-famous Gold-rank adventurer falsely imprisoned. I heard…mm…a [Magistrate] was involved?”
Her information networks were far, far weaker than either the [Chancellor]’s or her [Spymaster]’s, but Yisame could still trace the criminal links that had put Yvlon in court and assigned her to the Arena of Rust. She did not mention Magistrate Ducaz.
She did not have to. The [Chancellor]’s eyes narrowed. If a [Magistrate], technically in his domain, was to be found to be corrupt, the [Spymaster] would certainly use it against him.
“I thank you for your concern, your Majesty. Rest assured, my people will look into it. Please inform the [Spymaster] that this is an affair of the treasury and…”
Yisame tuned him out. She smiled, nodded, saw him practically sprint off to cover his back, and then summoned the [Spymaster] in her private bedchamber. The first thing she did was turn to him with a worried frown.
“Zenm, I promised the Chancellor of Coin that I would leave this matter to him, but the situation with the adventurer concerns me.”
The [Spymaster] blinked, then hurried to reassure Yisame that he would of course look into…what was the [Chancellor of Coin] claiming he was doing, again? He was gone so fast Yisame thought she saw an afterimage.
The [Queen] stretched, then rang a bell for one of her servants. Her heart was beating so fast she thought she was reading a thrilling adventure novel. Yet she was in the middle of one. She was not a helpless [Queen].
One of her [Servants] appeared, bewildered; Yisame would normally have been resting at this hour, or rather, reading a book.
“Your Majesty?”
“It is time, Esxeria.”
“T-time, your Majesty?”
The [Attendant] was confused. Yisame clapped her hands, smiling regally. The thing about lies and perception was that sometimes…you could do exactly what people expected you to.
“I have a mind to visit the arenas. In disguise. Have the [Royal Captain] prepare a suitable escort. And fetch me the [Arena Master]. I have heard of a wonderful new [Gladiator]…”
Her heart was pounding so very quickly. The [Avid Reader] rose.
Stories. A story had landed in her kingdom. All thoughts of treachery, danger, were forgotten. She was just the reader who got to meet the truth behind the legends. She had to know. Were all the Horns of Hammerad alive? What had passed, truly passed, in the Village of the Dead? Had they reclaimed any treasure? Was it just Yvlon and Ksmvr, or were there more?
What would happen next?
 
—-
 
Yvlon Byres, the Silver-Killer, Silver Arm, the Champion of Rust, and Gold-rank adventurer or something…sat in her crappy cell next to Rexel and Leprel. They were upset. Yvlon was upset, but that was because she was sick, clogged up, and feverish. She sat, grinding her teeth, until she had to say it.
“Hey. Rexel. Aren’t we supposed to be rich and famous by now?”
Yvlon’s sarcastic tone made the [Storm Bandit] jump. Rexel opened her mouth—then had to glare.
“We would be, if you didn’t try to punch the [Guards] and the [Arena Master]!”
Yvlon folded her arms—well, she folded her metal arm across the chest and made a similar pose with her jagged metal arm. It was regrowing—but very slowly. She could morph it into a weapon, but it took energy and concentration.
And she was sick. Tired. And she didn’t like this cell. Mind you—at least it was quiet.
The [Prisoners] and low-ranked [Gladiators] all stared at Yvlon in silence. The Silver-Killer had left a mark in her debut battle. It just hadn’t elevated her as Rexel and Leprel had hoped.
“You had to attack the guards! You just had to! We’re not even sponsored!”
Leprel moaned. Yvlon twitched.
“So? I beat the Champion of Rust.”
“You poked out his eye and stabbed him! That’s not the same as killing!”
The Human woman hesitated.
“…That’s not bad enough?”
“It’s just an eye. He can replace it in a minute!”
The [Armsmistress] and the [Thief] clearly had different views on serious wounds. Yvlon remembered—Stitch-Folk. She growled.
“But I did beat him.”
“He’s alive. He’ll exact vengeance. Next time he’ll have you cuffed or fight you in a flooded match. With a bow, while you have lead weights around your ankle. You should have stopped after you beat him! Now everyone’s your enemy.”
Rexel rocked back and forth. Her stomach hurt, but that was nothing compared to Yvlon. The Gold-rank adventurer knew she wasn’t well.
“…We’ll figure it out. I was…angry.”
Yvlon muttered. She stared around the cell. The [Gambler], the third prisoner whose name Yvlon kept forgetting, was squeezed into a corner as if trying to get out.
“I’m not going to hurt you. You can stop doing that.”
“I—I—I know that!”
The [Gambler] tried to smile at Yvlon. The blonde-haired woman sighed. She tried to smile, but the grimace of pain made her glare. She stood up and everyone in the cell flinched. But Yvlon just rapped on the cell’s bars.
“Hey. I need to use the restroom.”
An [Arena Guard] came by quickly. The prisoners watched in silence as Yvlon was led out in wooden handcuffs, with a nervous squad around her. Only when the Silver Menace was gone did they begin talking.
“She’s going to snap. You’re going to get us all killed, Rexel. Oh, dead gods, why did I trust you?”
Leprel moaned, banging her head on the floor. Rexel was licking her lips.
“We can still survive. She’s sick—we need a [Healer]! But we can’t get one because she messed up any chance of getting a patron!”
“Hasn’t she gone six times today?”
One of the new [Gladiators] in the cell across from theirs called out nervously. Not in actual sympathy for Yvlon; more like a fellow prisoner trapped in a room with a ticking time bomb. Rexel nodded.
“I think she’s in trouble.”
“What happens if something gives?”
“…In the toilet?”
“No. What happens if she snaps?”
The gladiators in their cells thought about that. Silently, they began looking for holes to enlarge, or escape holes for when the Silver-Killer went on her rampage.
 
—-
 
Of all the unpleasant things to happen to her, Yvlon would have said ‘getting my arm ripped off’ or ‘fighting a rot-monster undead in the Village of the Dead’ was one of the most traumatic.
Somehow, though, not being able to have a sufficient bowel movement—any bowel movement—was quickly moving up the list. It was not something you talked about in polite conversation. But the truth was…
Nothing was coming out. And it had been days. Yvlon had not participated in a match after the first debut. So…two days of training and acclimation here, plus a day and a half of transit. Plus another day and into mid-morning today…
“Damn it.”
She was sweating, clutching her stomach, and sitting in the stinking privy for the low-class [Gladiators]. Yvlon Byres hated a lot of things.
The Champion of Rust. The arena. Her imprisonment.
And her new class. [Gladiator]. Level 3! It made no sense. She was already a [Warrior]—getting a second class in that vein shouldn’t happen.
It was because she had to be one. Yvlon gritted her teeth.
“Dead gods damn it! I’m going to kill something!”
A woman sitting in the stall next to Yvlon was finding it very hard to do her own business. It was like…trying to pee next to a rabid bear with a silver arm. In theory it was easy, but not right next to one. She rapped on the stall next to hers.
“Can we trade places—?”
“No. Shut up!”
Yvlon Byres sat there for another minute. Then three. She heard a tinkling sound. She could drink and pass water, but…she thought she knew exactly what the problem was. The problem was…something had to come out or she’d die! This was not how she wanted to die, but the Champion of Rust was still alive! She was sick, missing an arm, her team was gone and she couldn’t—even—
“Graaaaaaaah!”
The wham in the bathroom made the [Guards] and [Gladiators] sharing the space all jump. The [Gladiator] in the stall next to Yvlon’s stared at the metal fist that had just punched through the wood next to her face.
She fled screaming at the top of her lungs. Yvlon Byres sat in her stall as the others were evacuated. She emerged a minute later as the very nervous guards took her back to her cell.
No joy. So it was with the worst mood possible she saw the [Arena Master], standing behind a double-rank of [Gladiators] and [Guards], trying to smile at Yvlon.
“Ah, the Silver Arm herself. Good, good. These two are part of your team, yes?”
Rexel and Leprel were standing in front of the guards; the [Gambler] was hiding in her cell. Yvlon froze. Her hand clenched and the others tensed.
“What are you doing with them?”
The [Arena Master]’s smile was sweaty. He edged behind the largest [Gladiator] and called out.
“Calm, Silver Arm! Calm. It is not time for an arena match yet. You may not even be fighting in my Arena, thank Nerrhavia’s grave. Just…come with us.”
Yvlon Byres’ eyes narrowed dangerously. She was on the edge of everything snapping. Death might come for her since the [Guards] and [Gladiators] were all armed and her entire body wasn’t made of silversteel, but…she gritted her teeth so hard they nearly cracked.
“What are you doing with us, then?”
She tensed—
 
—-
 
—And poked the duvet bedspread again. Yvlon Byres stared at the window with glass, no bars, and then at Rexel and Leprel.
“What?”
