He was used to the sensation, the lack of moisture in the air and static charge that could accumulate. Ceria was not. She kept shocking herself on pieces of metal and she hated the feeling. She licked her lips, grimaced.
“I’m out of my element. Literally. Ice-magic isn’t water-magic—someone from that school would be dying out here. But I need moisture. Most of my spells require some water, even if the ice itself is magical.”
Frustrated, she kicked at the ground. She would have practiced her new [Summon Lesser Frost Elemental] spell if she had the chance. Here?
Novethur bowed slightly, as if this entire region’s lack of water were on him.
“We do have the well, Adventurer Ceria. But…”
“I know. I can sense the water down there. I’m not about to use up your livelihood. And my hand’s fine, see? It’s actually really helpful when you cook. No burns. I can also poke anthills and they do nothing.”
The half-Elf had horrified all of Nerhs by trying their local insect varieties. Well, the children thought it was fascinating. Novethur smiled, and it was genuine.
“Will you be leaving soon, Miss Ceria?”
It was not a random question. The fact that she had the energy to stand up after a day of mild exercise told him she was mending. She had barely been able to keep her eyes open at first. Ceria nodded.
“If I can buy a horse—yes, maybe tomorrow. If not? I’d wait a day or two to get one. I know it’s the ‘adventurer crawls in wounded, rides off into the sunset’ routine, straight out of the book—”
Both of them had read the relevant handbook on adventurer-villager interactions and smiled. Ceria went on.
“—but my team’s out there and I need to find them.”
“I understand. You have been very generous.”
“And you saved my life. If you want more gold…”
Ceria saw the slight shake of the head, and took her hand away from her money pouch. They stood together, half-Elf and [Village Head]. Ceria admired the flat landscape, seemingly inhospitable, and Nerhs itself, in the lee of the hill of dirt and stone that provided enough shelter to live in.
A village with no official ruler. Forsaken. Who would live here all their lives? Was Novethur happy, being king of an anthill?
Ceria knew the answer, at least. She was 65…no, was it 66 years old? She was already forgetting to count. Yes, she had passed some of that time in a half-Elven village, but 60 years was still…sixty years. She was older than the rest of her team put together.
She did not always feel it, but when she stood with the [Village Head], she was older. When she was around Luaar or her team, she was younger. She could be both.
“It is a lovely land. Dry. But your village seems happy.”
“Some of us long for greener, richer lands. More levels. We are content here, though, Miss Ceria.”
Novethur nodded. Ceria’s vision wandered the landscape. She exhaled another cold plume of air which vanished into the violet, almost pitch-black night sky dotted with glowing stars of every color.
“That’s what Humans—not you, the ones in Terandria—never got. Half-Elven villages. People think they’re exotic, beautiful places. Some are. I heard there’s an enclave of my people in Chandrar. Clay Earth or something. Tree rot, I don’t know. I heard they were snide and arrogant. All I know is that my village wasn’t impressive. And the Humans always wondered why we didn’t ‘improve’ it or make it fantastic to live in. Mind you, I ran away, but…”
Novethur was listening, fascinated by the half-Elf from a land apart. She glanced up at him and grinned.
“…They never got that it was fine as it was. Some half-Elves lived centuries drawing water from the same well, rather than having an enchanted bucket or water-conjuring spell.”
The [Village Head] nodded. He understood.
There was more comfortable silence, then Novethur spoke.
“Luaar will be unhappy to see you go. He keeps wishing for you to cast a great magic.”
Ceria’s head turned slightly in the darkness. No torches at night; Novethur’s eyes were adjusted to the darkness, and burning wood was a waste. If they needed a [Light] spell, they would have conjured it, but it could attract unwelcome attention from afar.
“…Do you want me to? I’ve been trying not to show off big magic. Children see that and they run off to be adventurers. I’d rather be the goofy chipmunk.”
The Human man snorted.
“His disappointment will only be for a while. Thank you.”
Ceria nodded. That’s what she’d thought. She listened, with all her might, and stretched her magical senses in every direction. But she saw nothing. At last, she murmured.
“…There’s one more thing. I might stay longer. These…[Bandits]…concern me. And that village. You said no one’s appeared from it? To the northeast?”
Novethur’s stomach lurched and he nodded slowly. His head turned in that direction, but it was far out of eyesight.
“No word. Not that we have the [Mages] to communicate magically, but I have heard of [Bandits]. Perhaps worse?”
He looked at her, but the monster-slaying expert only shrugged.
“I can’t guess from just silence. Lots of monsters could do that. People too.”
“Of course.”
The [Cryomancer]’s eyes glinted. She hesitated as she met Novethur’s eyes.
“I can beat bandits. The question is…am I going to bring down more danger on you by staying? I wasn’t sure, but Novethur—I think something is after me. Either my relic or from the Village of the Dead—someone is calling me ‘murderer’. I can hear it. You know what kind of trouble an adventurer can have following them.”
His skin crawled, and not from the cold. Novethur saw Ceria glance back towards the hut where the circlet she had taken from the Putrid One lay.
“Murderer?”
“Yes. I’m not sure what’s causing it. If you want me to leave tomorrow, I will. I’m happy to fight [Bandits]. But my entire team was nearly killed by the thing in the Village of the Dead. And it’s…still alive. We teleported out using a scroll. I—bet there are more of those scrolls.”
Novethur gulped. He looked at Ceria, but she was content to let him wait, gather her thoughts. In the darkness, the man’s face wasn’t really visible to Ceria. She saw him shift, foot to foot, glance back to his small village of huts. Not a hovel; just not rich. A fine place to live if you wanted that.
At last, he bowed his head.
“Tomorrow might be for the best. My apologies, Miss Ceria.”
She nodded, smiling slightly.
“Tomorrow it is.”
She went back to rest after that, and he went back to watching for threats. On the fourth day, Ceria slept.
On the fifth, the [Bandits] came.
 
—-
 
“Festering tree slugs! Tree rot! Pisces’ sniffing nose!”
Ceria’s cursing in the quiet of Novethur’s hut made Luaar less worried, somehow. She was tense, glaring, a wand in her skeletal hand, but not afraid.
He was. The villagers were in their homes—all those who didn’t have a bow, or pitchfork or other weapon. His father had a spear and buckler, and was facing down the [Bandits] who had rode up, nearly thirty strong, and whose leader had dismounted and was a hundred paces outside the village and walking closer.
“The first bastard who fires an arrow we will kill! Don’t be stupid, you lot!”
There were only thirty, compared to the hundred people of Nerhs, but in terms of a fighting force, they outnumbered and out-levelled the adults who had actual combat classes. Their leader was a bored-looking Stitch-woman who still contrived to stride forwards warily. She had a spiked shield raised; a curious design.
Ceria was hidden with the others, watching as Luaar’s father faced the [Bandits]. She narrowed her eyes.
“That’s a razorcut design.”
“W-what’s that, Adventurer Ceria?”
Luaar had a cutting knife, and he was ready to fight. He tried to make his voice strong, but it kept shaking. The half-Elf glanced at the boy. Her eyes found the knife, his wide-eyed gaze. She nodded at the [Bandit Leader].
“Spikes around the rim. That pointy thing in the center, see?”
Luaar peeked at the rounded shield, which had jagged ‘leaves’ of metal sticking out around the rim and a central spike, just as Ceria said. The half-Elf groused.
“You run into someone with it, then slap them with your shield if you get an opening. It’s like having a shield and a blade. Nasty weapon. Not a good sign she’s got one.”
“Why?”
Ceria was a Gold-rank, wasn’t she? The half-Elf frowned as she stared at the shield.
“…Because the shield breaks constantly. It’s not enchanted. You always break an edge in combat. That shield-spike? Snaps off like you wouldn’t believe. I had a friend…Gerial…he broke it in six battles running. It cost so much to repair he switched to a regular shield.”
Luaar didn’t see why it mattered. Ceria did.
“They’ve got a [Smith] and the resources to maintain a shield like that. Or it’s new. Could be—but their horses look good. No missing saddles, no wear and tear—this is a professional group of [Bandits]. Damn.”
By all accounts, Ksmvr had taken on a decent group of [Bandits], but every seasoned adventurer knew that the quality of outlaws varied. This group? They stood, laughing, talking, but alert. They’d spread out from the village to avoid area-attack spells, and they weren’t whooping or racing about, trying to terrify the people of Nerhs.
It was a competent shakedown. The bandit’s representative stopped as Novethur moved out of the village’s gates.
“We are prepared to defend ourselves if you attack, Miss. Nerhs is a peaceful village, but we will not let you do what you please.”
The [Village Head]’s grip was firm on the spear. The [Bandit Leader] sized him up. She was chewing something, and looked bored. Nevertheless, her tone was brisk.
“[Village Head], are you? Listen up, man. We’re not going to plunder and destroy your village. There’s no point. Heard about a group hitting settlements to the south and west? That’s us. We’ve ‘raided’ nine places before yours and we have three to go to meet quota, so let’s not waste time.”
Novethur hesitated. Ceria blinked, and her eyes narrowed. The leader gestured at the village.
“We don’t want to have to kill you all, burn your bodies, salt the soil, etcetera, etcetera. It’s dangerous for us, and it completely wastes time and money. There’s nothing to squeeze from rubble and dead bodies. If you run us off, and that’s a big ‘if’, we’ll just come back with twice the numbers and burn this place down. So here’s how it’s going to be. We’ll calculate an appropriate fee, you fork it over, and you don’t see us for a few months.”
“You want us to pay you protection?”
Novethur spluttered. The [Bandit] raised her brows. She was already waving someone out of the throng.
“Protection? No, we’re robbing you. Just…what’s the word? Economically. Sustainable robbing.”
“You expect to steal our wealth and expect us to trust you?”
An angry [Villager] with a bow had a spot on them from a watchtower—the only one in Nerhs. Ceria winced; the woman had a bead on the [Bandit Leader]…and nine [Bandits] would hit her if a firefight broke out. That watchtower was a death trap.
The [Bandit] had the expression of someone who’d had to do this all week. She slapped her chest.
“Listen. Do you have a truth stone? Tell me you do. You can use it on me, or a Skill. I don’t care. I’m an [Enforcement Raider]—not a [Pillager]. Not a [Ravager] or the classes you don’t want to see. You lot have been off the list of villages we regularly visit every few months for a while. We…sort of forgot you existed but someone found a map. Now we’re collecting. You’ll see us every six months. If you see someone who tries to rob you before that, it’s not us and we’ll probably have to hunt them down and make an example.”
“So…this is protection money?”
Novethur was very confused. The [Enforcement Raider] pinched at the bridge of her nose.
“No. This is a robbery. Protection implies we have to protect you, and the boss would hate that. See—there’s a fine distinction. We run off competitors who’d shake you down because we’ll lose our money if you’re having to pay off multiple groups. But we’re not protecting you from monster attacks or anything. Robbery. If you report it to the Adventurer’s Guild, please say ‘robbery’.”
Ceria Springwalker’s jaw was hanging open. This was the strangest raid she’d ever seen. Luaar himself was peeking out at the weird [Bandits], who were in their way, as disappointing as the adventurer. The bandit’s leader was arguing with Novethur and some of the other [Villagers] who had lost some of their fear due to the strange demands.
“No, shut up. This isn’t a negotiation. We kill you if you resist, got it? It’s just that we’re not stealing everything because you’d fight to the death! Dead gods, I hate doing this with new places. Hey! Where’s the coin-counter? Tell them what they owe and it’ll be simpler!”
Someone scurried out of the ranks of [Bandits] with distinctly less of a dangerous look. A woman complained as she carried an abacus.
“I’m not part of this! They make me do this! I am so sorry—”
The [Enforcement Raider] aimed a kick at the woman.
“Shut up. See this? This is our [Corrupted Accountant]. She’ll calculate how much you can afford to give.”
“I’m not corrupt! I’m doing this under duress!”
“It’s just a word. And it is your class. Shut up. I have a headache and we have to go to two more villages after this! Twenty miles away by nightfall and then all the way back for a handful of gold…”
The woman with the abacus was using Skills and peering around the village. Novethur, who had been looking back at Ceria in hiding, and at the [Bandits], started. He stared at the [Enforcement Raider].
“You—you came from the south? Not the north?”
The leader was yawning and checking the [Accountant]’s figures and grimacing. She glanced up as she leaned on the other woman.
“No, no. I know you pulled their baseline income for this year, and that’s not worth the ride out here. I can smell they’ve got actual gold, somehow. Try their income for this month. See? Much higher. Why is that? Figure out what’s different because if we miss out on actual gold—what was that?”
She turned from the discussion of pillaging economics with her underling and frowned at Novethur. He licked his lips.
“You didn’t raid the villages to the north? Two are…the two you’re visiting. Merral-Devith and…?”
“I have no idea. Hey, what’s the name of the village we’re hitting next?”
The [Enforcement Raider] shouted back at her group and turned to face Novethur, suddenly alert.
“What’s wrong with those villages? Someone else hit them?”
