They were grand words. Perhaps…too grand for a mere [Baron], who, yes, ranked over a [Lord], but was hardly the greatest noble in Ailendamus. True, there were [Barons] who had inspired fear in their enemies—great leaders in battle who were as dangerous as the Great Generals…
Regalius was not one of them. He was a [Lord of Ceremonies], which had turned into [Baron of Ceremonies], but the officio behind the class mattered not. It was just power; the nature was ceremony. Not war. Not finance.
Ceremony. His entire life was based around this act. Not just knighting ceremonies, but all matters of state. Ailendamus was vast enough to have a man as specialized as him. And that was a good thing.
You wanted a man like Baron Regalius. Many people wouldn’t see it. Many people would see how he gave a speech at every dinner, thanking the host, how he combed his hair at least three dozen times even when he was at his busiest, with an enchanted comb and hair products from the best [Alchemists]. They would see how he refused to ever step on grass or hike through nature, and see a ponce with no real value.
They were, of course, fools of the highest order. They were wrong. Baron Regalius was not only the man for this job, he was perhaps the only man for this job, and that included Itorin II. Why? Because a [King] did not feel like convening large ceremonies like this regularly. A [King] was busy, and frankly, didn’t care.
Regalius did.
He made it special. He had ensured all the [Squires] arrived, that they had been gifted proper rooms for the ceremony, attended all the oaths and private rituals of their order.
Their families were here. That was Regalius’ doing. The low-born commoners had the wide-eyed look of people who were permitted to walk the palace of Ailendamus’ seat. This was the highest honor many would ever have in their lives and many had already been weeping before he walked in.
So the [Baron] gave them a speech worthy of the occasion. He did not stutter. He did not look or sound bored—nor was he, and that was part of why he sounded good, even though he had said this a thousand times. When he addressed the knights-to-be, they looked up with a solemnity fitting for this occasion, nevermind they were not in the presence of their [King].
Baron Regalius had memorized their deeds and names. He did not need a list or prompter. Yes, he had Skills, but the man made an effort, Skills or not.
Oh—and one more thing. There was a third reason Regalius was so vital to Ailendamus. And it was this:
As the ceremony concluded, a hundred [Knights] clasped their hands to their chests, then performed a salute of Ailendamus’; a slight touch to the bottom of their left eye, or right, depending on which was their dominant hand. Regalius named them all, individually bade them to utter their vow, struck their shoulders with the blade, and had them rise.
A hundred [Knights]. The [Baron] was tired by the end of the four hour ceremony, and only his Skills and powers of speechcraft even made the moment awe-inspiring rather than tedious. Many nations might not knight so many [Knights] in a year!
Baron Regalius? He stood before the hundred new [Knights] and saluted them, tears in his eyes.
“Go forth, Knights of Ailendamus! Go forth, brave sons and daughters! Rise now—[Knights] of the Order of the Hydra!”
This was his job, and he did it well. He did it very well. So well that Baron Regalius, who did these ceremonies most of all, and for the Order of the Hydra exclusively?
He did this every week, at least.
Sometimes every day.
 
—-
 
“Send the Order of the Hydra. Send two legions.”
So they came. The Order of the Hydra. A new [Knight]-order. A somewhat infamous one.
“The Order of the Hydra has sent their champions? Good! I was tiring of battling the Thirsting Veil!”
Greysten laughed. Rabbiteater nudged Ser Markus and Dame Meisa, who he was riding with as the [Scout] returned. The [Scout] didn’t seem to think it was so funny—she pointed down the flatlands at a distant, moving body coming their way.
“It is an entire army, Summer’s Champion! The Order of Hydra leads it! And…and…”
“What is Order of Hydra?”
Rabbiteater saw Ser Markus and Dame Meisa glance at each other. Some of the Order of Seasons were sighing, preparing for battle, but there was a truculence that Rabbiteater hadn’t noticed in the last three battles against the other forces. Not all knight-led either; in fact, the [Knights] had been the last to flee, but they were often the smallest contingent because they were…[Knights].
“I forget you don’t know the Orders of Terandria, Rab—Ser Solstice.”
Meisa murmured. Markus nodded. He tried to stand on the stirrups to see the approaching army, but gave up to talk to the two.
“The Order of the Hydra is one of three Orders that Ailendamus fields. We have seen few of them; the Thirsting Veil are the poison-users who clashed with us most strongly.”
“Ah. The sensible [Knights].”
Meisa and Markus exchanged a look. Poison was unbefitting of a [Knight]. Rabbiteater had thought it was quite smart.
“Ye-es, well, Ser Solstice, it’s a matter of perspective. The Order of the Hydra is…less…they have a reputation for being somewhat…they are a new Order, but their membership tends to be less…genteel than other Orders. Which is not frowned upon! They have [Knight] classes. Same as we. But they’re…”
“Commoners.”
Meisa explained succinctly. Markus winced and glanced around. He was from a noble house; she was not. The other [Knights] riding around them, mostly from the Spring, coughed, and Rabbiteater sensed the mood.
He happily ignored it.
“Why’s that matter? Commoners bad, eh?”
A silence befitting the Season of Winter swept over the group. Markus tried to explain.
“The Order of Seasons has many applicants regardless of noble birth. We do not discriminate! It is just that a non-noble house can rarely afford to pay for a [Knight]’s education. That the Order of Seasons can…well, some [Knight]-orders only induct the nobility. The Order of the Hydra? The exact opposite.”
“They are almost exclusively common-born.”
Dame Meisa leaned in to whisper. Rabbiteater stared at her.
“Okay.”
“They…have a reputation among some Orders. Not that we have any stated objection, but the issue is somewhat contentious, Ser Solstice.”
Markus put in. Rabbiteater nodded.
“Okay.”
“It’s why some of the other [Knights] might prefer to clash with…another Order, Rabbit.”
Meisa leaned in so close their visors nearly touched. She whispered so only he could hear, and he caught a whiff of sweat and metal. The Hobgoblin…nodded.
“Okay.”
He was getting tired of the explanations. Can we have sex now? After? He didn’t really care. Rabbiteater straightened, just in time to realize…he should care.
The Order of Seasons and Pheislant’s army had halted. Ser Greysten had stood up in his saddle. Now he was standing on top of it, heedless of the danger to himself.
“What the…”
He fell off the horse as the war stallion decided he’d had enough and kicked the Summer’s Champion off. The fiery horse didn’t hurt Greysten, but the Summer’s Champion was clearly rattled by something.
Rabbiteater began to stand on his own saddle like the other [Knights]. Then he decided that was stupid.
“Markus. Give me ride.”
“What? Wh—”
Rabbiteater stood on Ser Markus’ shoulders, which was far better than a temperamental horse. He put a hand over his visor. At the same time, Talia, who’d elected to use her stirrups, swore.
“That can’t be right.”
 
—-
 
“Send two legions of the Order of the Hydra.”
 
As defined in the Wordsmith Dictionaries, written by Krsysl Wordsmith for the modern era, a legion was a body of soldiers employed in an army under older military systems, occasionally used in the current day. Each legion was known to be comprised of between 4,000 and 6,000 soldiers unless marked as significant, such as the Necromantic Legions, which were apparently 20,000 strong, despite the numerical inaccuracies of the term.
So they came. Behind them was an army of [Archers], the Greatbow operators, a conventional force of pikes and a bare handful of riders—the main vanguard of this force drawn to defeat the Order of Seasons had been dispatched. The regular [Soldiers] were just supplementary forces, though they were still the largest body on the field.
Yet the [Knights]? To repel the thousand plus [Knights] of the Order of Seasons, Ailendamus had sent their most populous Knight-Order. The most numerous group of [Knights] in the entire world.
The Order of the Hydra.
They were running down the road like a living, laughing stream of light, mulberry-colored metal. Men and women of many species, mainly Human, but anyone who showed the valor and will of their class.
Running. On foot. They laughed and cheered, and they were on foot. Not a horse in sight.
“They can’t even afford horses.”
One of the Summer Knights scoffed. Dame Voost slapped the helmet without even looking around.
“Shut up. How many?”
“One…two…eight…thousand…”
Greysten was counting. The Summer’s Champion hadn’t lost his smile, but it had turned from a grin into bared teeth. Yep. Rabbiteater spat his water out onto Ser Markus and Meisa.
Ten thousand [Knights] were running down the road ahead of an army. And they were laughing. Slapping each other’s shoulders, cheering. Singing Ailendamus’ national anthem.
“Let the lance-arrows fall from Ailendamus’ walls and guard the Kingdom of Glass and Glory!”
Their massed voices echoed down the straight trade-road. They were headed straight at the Order of Seasons, not digging in, not taking a formation like the other forces. This group had come for a battle.
The Order of Seasons and the army of Pheislant…hesitated. For a second. Then Ser Greysten roared.
“Season of Summer! Season of Spring! Fall! To arms! Ailendamus has sent our brothers and sisters against us! It will be a fine battle.”
He began to blaze with Summer’s heat. The [Knights] checked themselves. Rabbiteater moved into formation behind Dame Voost. He heard some of them talking.
“Ten thousand? They may outnumber us ten to one!”
“So? Commoners. They take almost no members from the aristocracy. I hear they induct them by the thousands if need be. Hah.”
It was a sentiment that the Goblin heard from more than a few helmeted heads. He glanced around.
“Not the most charitable of ways to say it. However, we do out-level them. I have not heard the Order of the Hydra was known to be, ah, the most high-level. I might guess even our Spring Knights stand above them.”
Ser Markus was flexing one hand. Dame Meisa was uncharacteristically silent. Maybe because she saw it the way Rabbiteater did. Neither of them were noble.
He saw it a bit differently than the Order of Seasons. Rabbiteater looked at the all-infantry army. Lacking horses, yes, lacking specialization to their armor and weapons which were mass-produced. Commoners en-masse.
Put another way? He saw ten thousand [Knights]. Who didn’t have horses, which were a pain to feed and keep healthy, a huge saving, who could run in full plate armor and who had the morale of common-folk who knew they could fight and elevate themselves. Become more than they were simply born.
Like…Goblins. Oh, and one more thing? Their mass-produced armor and weapons were fine steel from Ailendamus’ huge, mass-producing forges, and mass-enchanted. Weakly enchanted, but mass.
Rabbiteater eyed the army. Then he spotted their champion. He inhaled suddenly, and gave voice to his feeling.
“We are in trouble now.”
The Order of the Hydra did not march just with the sound of their own voices. The loud voices, the shouts were replaced by a distant melody. A spirited one. The Order of Seasons heard it drifting towards them on the breeze, incredulously. Did the lack of decorum of this Order know no bounds?
They were playing…a song. A song—not a national anthem or glorious war-song, but a pop-y, running song. Sung by a female [Singer].
The Singer of Terandria, in fact. It came from a song-crystal, strapped to a [Trumpeter]’s horn and blasting out of the enchanted tube. Rabbiteater thought it was a great song to run to. If the Redfangs—no, if any Goblin tribe had heard it, it might have become their theme-song. He began to tap a foot against his horse’s side.
“What song is that? I want to buy a crystal.”
He nudged Meisa. Ser Markus absently pulled something out of his bag of holding.
“I believe I have a song-catalogue of the Singer’s latest songs.”
“Markus! Now?”
Meisa rolled her eyes as Rabbiteater looked over and matched the song to the name already.
Good to be Alive, as originally performed by Skillet.
“Ooh. Good song. Why do skillets sing?”
Then his head rose again. Because he heard a distant voice. The enemy commander was bellowing, so loud that even the distant Order of Seasons heard it.
“The Order of the Hydra fights on foot! We triumph with our feet on the ground! Time to bring down some [Riders]!”
Now those were fighting words. The Order of Seasons’ backs went up. Ser Greysten grinned grimly. He shaded his eyes.
“Ah. Now that could be a problem. The one good [Knight] in the entire Order of the Hydra has come against us already. Is she Ailendamus’ Great Knight?”
“None other, Summer’s Champion. Unless you think there’s two of her?”
Dame Voost remarked drily. She eyed the [Knight] who stood out from the rest with unease. The [Soldiers] of Ailendamus were cheering her, and her fellow [Knights].
Pheislant’s [Soldiers]? They gaped in much the way Rabbiteater did. Someone cried out, with a shaking voice.
“The Great Knight of Ailendamus! The Dame of the Hills! Dame Merila, the Hill-Knight!”
Rabbiteater looked at her. Merila, the Great Knight of Ailendamus. Then…his head tilted back.
Fun fact: commonfolk included half-Giants, incidentally. Not a royal bone in their body. And here came the first half-Giant [Knight] he had ever seen. Playing the very song-crystal she had once been given by Cara O’Sullivan.
Merila, the Hill-Knight. She wasn’t as tall as some of her kin. She wasn’t Zamea the [Shepherd], thirty plus feet tall. Merila was ‘only’ twenty eight feet tall.
And covered in armor. And holding a sword on her back only a nation like Ailendamus could afford to make. And laughing.
“Come on, sisters and brothers! For Ailendamus! For the glory of Terandria and the Order of the Hydra! Let’s get them.”
Her voice boomed across the ground. She pointed ahead.
“Summer’s Champion! I challenge you to single combat! Let’s fight fair, eh?”
She smiled and threw back her head to laugh, a huge, full-belly laugh that made Rabbiteater think of home.
The Knight of the Hills laughed like someone who could do anything.
