It was always full, even at night. Yisame heard a lot of innocuous talk, but as always, the best conversation, the truly juicy tidbits and plotting were absent. The problem was…she sat on the Seat of Words, which allowed her to hear anything she chose.
Everyone knew that, so they cast [Silence] or other privacy spells to keep the important conversations private. Rather, if you were smart at all, the really vital talk was never discussed in the palace’s public areas. You found a room you had already screened for spells, invisible watchers, peepholes, and then jogged into the city and had your conversation in a hole in the ground because everyone was listening.
In the same way, everyone watched Yisame. The [Queen] waited for the first of her court, her advisors, her [Strategists], top [Generals] and so on to approach her. There would be a pecking order of the day, a scheme to watch for and abet or aid. Yisame would have to keep her focus. After all…
The real power of Nerrhavia’s Fallen was the throne. Of course. But the throne was held up by powerful people. And if they rocked, Yisame might well fall from grace. It had happened before.
The [Queen] smiled as her [Spymaster], a powerful Stitch-man who had a golden hand—literally, Truegold embedded in the fingertips—greeted her and whispered in her ear. He had served as the top [Spy] in the previous [Spymaster]’s employ, and then murdered her in her sleep.
Three of her great [Generals] vied to talk to her about Khelt, each one with an army under the crown’s authority…but who were quite, quite loyal to the [Generals] above said crown. She treated with the [Chancellor of Coin], whose power over the mint and a vast amount of wealth meant that he could lean on any [Merchant] in Nerrhavia, and had an army of his own guards of the treasury. Her [Royal Magician] was a powerful woman who had survived…had it been over a hundred assassination attempts? Yes, they’d thrown her a party.
The power behind the throne. In a way, Nerrhavia’s Fallen was more typical of a monarchy than many nations popping up in the news. Of course, there were absolute tyrannies like Khelt in its way, or places where the [King] was undisputed, like Reim. However, in practice, many rulers had to treat with powerful underlings with some degree of care. Even a mighty [Queen] could suffer a rebellion of the nobility.
Nerrhavia’s Fallen? Well. Sometimes the crown was mighty, sometimes it walked with care. Yisame was on the lower end of average when it came to the crown’s power. That was to say, she was a principal player in any power move, and she was [Queen], not puppet on the throne. But she did listen when her advisors spoke.
Such as Khelt, or the war in Tiqr, or…well, every event you could name, really. Yisame had gone to the meeting at Pomle knowing her court’s stance on the war—knowing Tiqr would likely be the target everyone aimed at. She had tried to stop the idiotic Terandrians on the advice of her [Diplomats] and [Generals], both groups united in their fear of Khelt.
Her inner circle of the powerful ‘helped’ her decide what to do. Yisame threw her weight behind those she found more trustworthy, actions that might enrich her own position. And when the nation trembled, or made a mistake, when Alked Fellbow resigned or Djinni attacked a sovereign [King]?
She took that fall.
 
—-
 
The Level 22 [Queen] was in her mid-forties. Her levels in her ruling class belied her ability to navigate the day’s treachery. She felt every eye on her, and so relaxed, despite the two terrible indictments to her rule. Her dress of Shockwool made the air around her hum, a reminder to anyone who stood close.
There is still power here. Obvious as Stitch-metaphors went, but sometimes you needed to be obvious.
“…And we expect to cut off the Lord of the Skies from Reim shortly. Hellios has yet to burn with full rebellion, but many cities have taken up arms. We intend to strike at the King of Destruction as he lies wounded.”
One of her [Generals], Thelican, spoke for a smiling circle of his peers. Yisame smiled.
“This pleases us. We await the head of the King of Destruction, General Thelican. Your name shall be writ large in the history books ere he falls.”
Thelican beamed—then his eyes flickered. Yisame smiled graciously as he bowed, a touch uneasily.
A lot could go on in a few words. She did not say ‘you promised Hellios would instantly rebel’, rather than the lackluster revolts she had seen so far. Yisame let Thelican take credit for the war plan—by mentioning his name, and potential for glory, she implicated him in the fall.
Of course, if all of Nerrhavia’s Fallen’s glorious hordes failed to defeat the King of Destruction, she, Yisame, would be in greater danger still. The [Queen]’s stomach hurt.
“Your Majesty, I have uncovered three plots against your life.”
Three. Her [Spymaster] was good. Perhaps they were just symbolic plots…but everyone was whispering. Yisame could hear it, now and then.
“The Djinni…”
“…on the news…”
She flicked open a hand-fan. It was beneath a [Queen] to fan herself, of course; she had servants to do that if she wished, although the courts were cooled quite well. It was a signal.
Her [Spymaster] hurried back over, frowning in vexation. He approached the throne.
“Your Majesty?”
“We did not converse on a topic that had slipped my mind. What of the…Drake? A suitable reprimand is in order, yes?”
“It is still in progress, Great Queen. The Drake cities are not easy to infiltrate, and she lies under the aegis of the Cyclops of Pallass.”
That was not what Yisame wanted to hear, and she gave the [Spymaster] a thin glare. Just so people knew she was upset. She could not afford to truly insult or offend him, but it might set a fire under his rear.
That Drake. That…Yisame stewed as she continued her court. It had all been going so well, a week ago!
 
—-
 
A week ago, Yisame had felt like [Queen] of everything. That was before the Djinni debacle, and Alked’s departure. She had been riding high, and from what?
The Arbiter Queen’s conclave, of course. That had been Yisame’s crowning glory. Her, deliberating on the fate of that wretched fool from Belchan! Holding her own among her peers, displaying Nerrhavia’s Fallen’s wisdom!
Dead gods, but she had felt alive when she saw people replaying scenes of her, and everyone, everyone talking about her. Not just the court, not just her people, but the world’s watchers. Her gesture, the single thumb pointed down, had been made into several sculptures and paintings widely-circulated.
She had three copies in her room.
Then…that Drake and the Djinni incident. Yisame hadn’t predicted it. She’d been so happy to be interviewed on the news she had demanded to speak personally to Drassi, of whom she had been quite enamoured with.
…Right up until the [Reporter] had made her a laughingstock in a twenty-minute interview so painful that Yisame wanted to rip out the stitches along her ears and pluck out her eyes whenever someone so much as brought it up!
No one was even allowed to say Drassi’s name anymore. That Drake would suffer, naturally. Even aside from Yisame herself, she had insulted all of Nerrhavia’s Fallen by making them look foolish. But the damage was done.
“Today’s court has tired us. We shall return to our rooms and rest. Not to be disturbed.”
The servants bowed as Yisame returned to her quarters, tired after three hours of managing the day’s affairs. It was really the least she could get away with. Three hours was not long, but she had put out immediate fires, shown her face—now she could run away.
As she had feared, the vultures were out. Circling like hyena packs, trying to see if now was the time to undermine her, or simply reduce her power. Her supporters weren’t leaving her, but…oh, it was not fun.
Such was Queen Yisame’s life. One of the most powerful rulers of a superpower, constantly plagued by stomach pain and juggling factions and praying they were not steering her into a mistake.
Not atypical. Not special.
Certainly not high-level as a [Queen] went. Yisame knew her [Servants] were right in the waiting rooms, probably gossiping about her, maybe even mocking her behind her back.
If she raised her voice, they would hear her and attend her every need. Since Yisame did not want them listening in at this moment for gossip, she twisted a ring on her finger.
[Complete Silence] enveloped the rooms. Accordingly, Yisame thought she saw a slight shadow behind the doors to her rooms vanish; a [Servant] sulking off. Yisame waited a beat. She knew her rooms were warded; her people were not incompetent and protected her.
Nevertheless…there were things she wanted to keep secret. The [Queen] walked over, found a chair, and wedged it under the handle of the door. She closed the curtains herself. She sat in the cool darkness, and her pulse spiked a bit.
Queen Yisame of Nerrhavia’s Fallen…had a secret. Of course, everyone knew she had a secret. Monarchs all had their foibles. Still…still. What they ‘knew’ varied.
For instance, common-folk knew that Yisame sometimes visited the gladiator arenas and had a favorite—the current Champion of Monarchs, the title for Nerrhavia’s Fallen’s greatest gladiator in the capital. They were always favored by royalty, or how else would they be the best?
No less than Mars the Illusionist had once come from that very arena, and Yisame sometimes was seen in disguise, watching the battles.
That was, of course, made up. Propaganda spread around. Yisame didn’t really care for the current Champion of Monarchs, a quite showy Stitchman. The previous one, a Centauress, had been so much more intersting and exotic. So what people ‘knew’ was wrong.
They thought they knew her passions, her debauched pleasures and sinful little secrets. Some things her [Spymaster] made up. Some things Yisame let spread. The truth was…a lot of what people assumed a [Queen] would do were wrong.
Yes, you could hire the greatest [Courtesan] in all of Nerrhavia’s Fallen to provide you with service and unimaginable pleasure. Any species! The greatest Skills in the art of sensuality. Yisame had done that.
She had also taken other pleasures. She had done everything someone with her means would, experimented, indulged herself. The problem was…it got old. The most high-level [Courtesan] ran out of tricks the eighth time you met with them.
A Potion of Divine Sensation did its work every time you drank it, even if the Drakes refused to produce it anymore. It got old. Drugs lost their kick; they were addictive, but not unique.
Everything became…boring. Boring, because Yisame could have anything she wanted. If she were poorer, less influential…
“Ah, to be less than Silk! To have…challenges.”
The [Queen] lay on her bed, filled with enchantments and protective spells worth more than some of her lesser nobility’s entire fortunes combined, and bemoaned her fate. Then she rose, whisper-quiet despite the ring on her finger glowing with soft, dark iron light, and walked to a corner of her room.
Her private chambers were already large enough to play a soccer game in. Not at the highest tower of Nerrhavia’s palace—royalty got tired of the commute—but in the center of that grand place. Accordingly…Yisame traced a finger across a bookshelf, found a bound volume conspicuously a bit worn.
The Secrets of Monarchs. She rolled her eyes. Whoever had designed this mechanism to begin with had a sense of humor. She pulled it, and the entire bookshelf promptly…vanished.
A powerful illusion spell that revealed one of the secret passages known to litter the palace. This one was not connected to the other chambers or hidden hallways; it was for the ruler alone.
…Of course, the [Spymaster] knew it existed. The [Servants] knew Yisame tip-toed down there. They probably monitored the local teleportation spell or secret passage out of her private rooms to make sure she was safe if she went out ‘in secrecy.’
Yisame did not do any of these things. She descended the smooth walkway carved of a single tree, stepping lightly over glowing steps that revealed malign spells on her and were keyed to only let her through. She passed through trap spells rendered inactive by her royal rings. And emerged into the place her predecessors had built.
Secret indulgences. Dark secrets. Everything a monarch might…desire…and revel in, where no one was able to see them.
It was a big room. Altogether too…padded…for Yisame’s taste. But then, at least it was stain-proof. And had its own silencing spells.
Every time she came down here, she had to stare at the giant phallus in the center.
“Who used this? Did anyone use it?”
Yisame walked around it. It was bigger than she was! This…sex dungeon…could have accomodated a hundred pairs quite easily. It had. She walked past an empty pool just ready to be filled with any gel or other liquid you desired. A rather, rather large bed with completely different enchantments to her royal one above. Ones to enhance any acts committed on it.
There were things in this room that Yisame had needed to look up the usage of. Every kind of strap, piece of furniture, brush, harness, stone, cord…well. It was just as well no one came down here but her, or someone might know the Queen had dark passions.
Yisame poked a gelatinous mold of an intimate part of someone’s body. It kept wobbling for nearly three minutes afterwards.
Her [Spymaster] knew this place existed. Her servants did, too. They did not speak of it openly. Some secrets were just too important to spill, and their heads were on the line if anyone were to know of it. They abetted the [Queen]’s passions, occasionally smuggling in people for assignations. Sometimes someone had to come down here to clean everything up.
Yisame circled the room. She did not pause long on the many objects she was, by now, familiar with. When she did stop, she stopped next to one of the less striking objects present.
A…Centaur’s phallus attached to a life-sized model hanging in the corner of the room. Yisame reached out, grasped it—and yanked hard.
The fake sexual instrument of great, and perhaps fatal, pleasures clicked as it moved downwards. Yisame turned as a second wall slid open, revealing a second secret passage, this one going straight out. She walked through.
The thing about secret dens of debauchery was that everyone expected the first one. Yisame and her predecessors weren’t idiots.
The second chamber led to an inner sanctuary. A secret lair that was actually a good deal less pristine than the sex dungeon that the servants regularly cleaned. Not that it was filthy! It was just that whoever used it had to clean up after themselves and Yisame didn’t often sweep the minute dust and whatnot she tracked in.
