The dragon and Deathless stared at each other. A second passed. The latter cracked first. It was barely a laugh, closer to a snort, but Yellowbelly’s grin grew wider. Then, came an invasive feeling—an urge to befriend the dragon assailed Shiv's heart. Tendrils of manufactured affection latched onto Shiv’s emotions—and were promptly shredded by the Harbinger. Even as a fractured shadow of itself, the pre-Legendary Skill was a monstrous thing.

Yellowbelly’s laughter lost a measure of energy, and Shiv just shook his head. “You know something? You’re pretty amusing on your own, even without that Comedy-Silver Tongue Skill Fusion.”

“Just Comedy.” Yellowbelly clicked his teeth together, the sound like an army’s worth of swords clashing. “That skill of yours. I know it.”

“Harbinger.” Shiv nodded. “So. Behave, Broker. I’m not going to threaten you or have any pointless face-downs: I know what you are. You don’t fully understand what I am. But we’re letting you into this Gate. We’re giving you hospitality—even if we are suffering from abject poverty. I’m going to ask that you be a good guest so I can be a good host. I’d rather cook for you right now than do anything else.”

And though Yellowbelly presented himself as the most provocative and combat-inclined of the Dragon-Brokers, an old monster didn’t keep their seat for long by way of foolishness alone.

“He tastes a threat in us as well,” the Harbinger said, noting the Dragon-Broker’s core. “And we make him nervous.”

Good. Nervous is better than arrogant.

“Of course,” Yellowbelly declared. “But I must ask: What is on your menu? I see scarcely any facilities built beyond…” He squinted harder and noted something in the distance. “Is that a Court Leviathan? And a mess of basilisks.”

“Oh, yeah. But I want to do something for everyone. You got any recommendations? We’re going to be inviting a lot of people into the Gate, so I’ll be starting a pretty big set list.”

The Dragon-Broker tapped the underside of his jaw as he mumbled to himself in contemplation. “Potstickers.”

“Potstickers?” Shiv echoed. That threw him for a bit of a loop. It had been some time since he made anything like that; Piety was sorely lacking in dough. That didn’t mean he couldn’t go on an ingredient run, though. “Yeah, I think I can do that. But what do you want inside the potstickers?”

“Ah. Napa cabbage, fried cathead mushrooms from the fields outside High Harbor, garlic chives, and ground pork. And worry not about the ingredients. I see your intent to service us is genuine. The Dragon-Brokers and the Neath bestow our respect toward you for such willingness to host even during troubled times. We can further our end toward hospitality. How about that toward a most fruitful relationship?”

“Toward hospitality,” Shiv agreed. “Now. You wanna park your hoard near Courtney and the Sky-Swallowing Carp?”

“Courtney?”

“The Court Leviathan.”

“Ah. Quite the charming name. Yes. Yes, I will be pleased to further relations. Also, Deathless, tell me, what do you think of martial demonstrations?”

Shiv quirked an eyebrow. “Martial demonstrations?”

As if in demonstration, Yellowbelly made a fist and slammed it into an open palm, producing a gust of wind that almost knocked a few members of Shiv's entourage over. “The kind where the worthy and the capable are pitted against each other to show their skill for prizes in tournaments. There is quite a bit of unused space in this place, and I think the people here deserve some entertainment—and something to spend their hard-earned wealth on to make their lives better.”

Shiv sneered. Wasting no time on making an economic foothold, huh? But in honesty, an area for different people to have mock fights and all that tickled Shiv’s fancy too. “You know what? We can talk about this when our first council is called to order.”

“Bah. Just say yes, Deathless. I can see the gleam of strife burning in your eyes. Let yourself have some fun.”

“No can do. Not my Gate. Not my rules. I’m just the cook and one of the many big sticks around here. You wanna build something, take it up with Still Water or Roland when he gets back.”

“Lowering your own authority?” Yellowbelly pouted. “How unwise.”

“I’d argue the opposite. I think it’ll be a messy fight between us if we go head-to-head like dumb animals; I think you’ll eat me alive in terms of actual policy negotiations and all that economy stuff I have no skills in. So. I’m going to do the smarter thing and not take the chance.”

Skill Gained: Politics (Initiate) 1

Barter 10 > 12

Shiv’s words inflicted a new glow upon Yellowbelly’s empathetic core. The Dragon-Broker was surprised, and that brought a measure of budding respect. “The Harbinger is a magnificent skill indeed. It has done wonders for your temperament. I would say that the man I talked to in the Biscuit is altogether absent inside you.”

“He’s still there,” Shiv said. “He’s just died, and during one of those resurrections, I crawled back instead of him.”

“Ah. Well said. Well said. Now. I will gather the others and settle near your Leviathan as you requested. In the meantime…” The Dragon-Broker glared at Hymn again. “There are other people I wish to speak with, and potential loan options I must consider.”

“Loan options?”

“For your Gate. To resolve the poverty. I am deeply serious about the scale-condition.”

Shiv scoffed. “Right.”

***

“How?” Veronica said, pinching the bridge of her nose. The headache inside her skull was becoming unbearable—on the verge of evolving into a full-blown migraine. It had been two days, and Longinus was still shrieking. His Avatars were now all but comatose from his pain, while his true faithful—the ones that didn’t suffer a psychological collapse—were severed from his divine touch. All attempts to join the Wanderer with a new Avatar ended in tragedy, the Pathbearers becoming hopeless sacrifices, sundered in mind and soul.

Whatever affliction Longinus suffered was so bad that even her grandmother's attempts to coax him back to the waking world only ended up dealing her a painful blow in return.

“He is a void,” Kathereine whispered to Veronica. “A divine husk. Only fragments remain of his mind, and they drift ever-further apart with every moment. There is no center to his self anymore: it is as if his very ego has been slain. How did that boy do this?”

The answer and details Jessica offered granted no relief to the suffering Councilwoman.

“Okay, look, I know it sounds pretty ridiculous, but that’s what happened.” Jessica had the gall to shrug. “For almost anyone else, I’d say they’re bullshitting. Except I was there when he took the Challenger’s arm off. And he definitely has Harbinger of Tripartite Ruin. I can’t be certain about what happened in the Fairwoods, but I do know that Longinus took a walk there some time back, and that there is some kind of weird goddess there. Maybe she held Longinus in place while the kid beat him until he was brain-dead.”

The air that hissed out from Veronica’s nostrils was so heated it nearly manifested as steam. “I didn't ask you if his words were believable or if you think he did it, Legend-Inquisitor Hawgrave. I asked you how he did it. By this point, I no longer question his absurd accomplishments. But I want to know how he took the Challenger’s arm, and how he managed to cripple Longinus’ soul.”

“Well, I would’ve told you that if I knew, and he would have told me if he knew. Probably.”

Veronica glared at Jessica through the mirror. The dimensional spaces within Rusty shivered as the mana of her Nexus of All Paths reared back like a furious serpent facing a lesser brethren. “Legend Hawgrave. I did not let you stay with the boy and in that Gate for you to deliver no results. You are to keep him contained, controlled, and conditioned. You were to keep me updated. What happened is your failure more than anyone else’s.”

“You fucking serious?” Jessica cried. “You’re putting this shit on me?”

Veronica’s gaze grew ever-darker. “Yes. And you know I am right.” She channeled just a bit of her will into her words, and it struck Jessica as a light jab. The Giantsbane was a physical monster, and her armor made her a butcher of mages, but her heart was the same as it had been for all these years.

It wouldn’t take much to sever Jessica Hawgrave’s frayed will to live entirely. Just like it wouldn’t take much to continue offering her sips of fantasy that kept her from solving herself. “Remember who you are talking to, Legend Hawgrave. Remember what I offer, and what I can leave you without.”

The look on Jessica’s face was that of a starved, caged animal; she wanted to rip Veronica apart, but Veronica was also her only means of true sustenance. Vengeance was an impossibility when one’s target was also their only source of relief. Jessica swallowed hard and pressed her lips together. “I apologize, Councilwoman.”

“You can apologize by—”

“He wants you to attend,” Jessica quickly said. “The little council thing he’s trying to host down here. He wants you and the other Ascendants to be here. They’re calling it a Coalition of the End or something.”

“They’re?”

“Valor Thann’s involved.” Jessica hesitated. “So is Roland Arrow. Something… happened between him and the Starhawk. The Just fled back into his Domain after getting himself torn a new one in the battle with the Challenger, so I think it’s just Roland deciding what to do right now along with Valor, the Deathless, and a couple of others.”

“I see.” Veronica frowned. There was no way she was going to attend in person, but having Jessica move her transpondence mirror around wouldn't be too hard. She also had a set of expendable Avatars; they were meant for moments like these, and if it was a trap to strike back against the Republic, then losing them would matter little. Her mind came to a brief stop here as she considered another chilling possibility: Could the boy have made a pact with one of the Strayed Ones?

Roland had been spotted sailing over Lone Star but a few minutes ago by one of the Republic’s observers. Some over-zealous Master had tried to intercept him, and now a few hundred guard stations near Fortress-City Diego were silent.

No. The boy is vicious and spiteful enough to do many things to damage the Republic, but the Southern Gods are consummate slavers. He would come to despise them more than us. Roland would never capitulate to that plan either. Rebellion aside, he still cares far too much for the Republic and its people; too much to see us all spent as cattle and offerings to uncaring gods sent to our world to treat as a playground.

“Tell him to expect the local force to pay him a visit—and declare that there will be no attendance on the part of the Republic unless the local guards are allowed to garrison within his Gate.”

“Yeah, so, they kind of saw that coming, and they already said yes.”

Veronica leaned forward slightly. “Excuse me?”

“The Prismatic Guard can come in at any time once the gateway resets.” Jessica scratched the back of her head. “They’re currently letting some people in from High Harbor.”

“High Harb—” Veronica understood immediately. “Ah. The Brokers. Of course. Well, this was to be expected. I suspect Yellowbelly is already there, rubbing shoulders and starting brawls. You are not to address him. You are to stay away from him—and avoid him at all costs.”

“What? Why?”

“Because his fists are a facade for his Social Skills, Legend Hawgrave, and he will deliberately lose a fight to you and steal your heart in the process.” As much as Jessica’s vulnerability made her an ideal attack dog at times, the problem with dogs was that with the right training and treats, they would come to call anyone master.

And now Jessica was doing the thing where she stared too long—something she did when she was imagining your murder.

“This was not a suggestion, Legend Hawgrave,” Veronica clarified, voice low. “And your incompetence when it comes to constraining and serving as a guardrail for the Deathless has not been forgotten. I will see if I can ascertain the existence of this Usurper-Narrator, but in the meantime, you are to remain with the Deathless as much as you can, to keep him under your supervision at all times, and to inform me before he does something foolish, and not after. You are not on leave; you are here to make sure that the Republic has as many choices as possible when it comes to the problem of this living bomb.”

As much as Jessica wanted to argue, as much as she loathed Veronica in times like these, the Councilwoman had always been good at balancing carrot and stick. “Yes, Councilwoman. But what about the North and South? Have there—”

“As far as you are concerned, there is no north or south. There is no war. There will only be giants to kill when I send for you. Not before. Commit your focus to the Deathless. Make sure that he does not cause any further unnecessary chaos. I will address him personally and properly soon—and he will answer for what he has done to the Republic.” Veronica paused. “And send Roland Arrow my condolences for his son. Tell him that we are willing to offer full amnesty if he surrenders the Perch and all the stolen Phylacteries to us, and that I will do everything within my power—and the power of the Ascendants—to see his son mended.”

“I’ll tell him that, but I don’t think he’s gonna listen,” Jessica muttered. “I think his faith in the Starhawk’s taken a blow. It had to after what the Challenger did, but… that doesn’t mean he’s just going to fold the other way now.”

