“I expect as much, but the offer matters. I would prefer to have Roland Arrow with us now and always. I would prefer to keep him, instead of killing him. The same reason I prefer you remain alive and well. My displeasure aside, your lives matter. You are Legends of the Republic. By now, you, more than the Ascendants, are the reasons why Yellowstone endures.” Veronica paused. “And tell the Deathless I wish to speak to him in private before any and all proceedings. There are things I wish to ask him directly, and things I need to prepare him for.”

“Prepare him?”

“Some of the other Ascendants will demand blood,” Veronica explained. “I expect my grandmother to frame his act as one of highest heresy, willing or not. But I have stopped her from declaring anything to anyone.”

Because she’s as far gone as the rest of them, Veronica thought to herself. The revelation that a rogue Legend can somehow break a god would shatter the Republic into civil strife immediately—would cause more fissures among the Ascendants as they try to use him against each other. Yellowstone’s end would be at hand if they learn their gods are not only breakable, but undergoing a civil war.

Kathereine should have known all that. There was a time such an obvious political fact wouldn’t have slipped her. But now, she was becoming a pointless seductress and deceiver—more a shadow of her greatest self with each passing day.

Perhaps you finally know peace, now, Longinus, Veronica thought, remembering the man that was. Perhaps at his hands, however he did it, you went back to the grinning troubadour you once were instead of the depraved creature I've had to entertain.

At some point, agelessness just meant another year of burdens, another day of watching everything you once believed in decay and splinter around you.

Once upon a time, Longinus had taken a young Veronica into his arms and tossed her up and down. Once upon a time, he'd shown her places that made her jaw drop. Once, she'd called him uncle.

Now, both the girl and the man were memories.

More levels. More evolutions. But less ourselves.

“Councilwoman?” Jessica asked.

“Hm. Yes. I’m done with you now. You can go. Carry my message. And—”

Jessica scowled. “Yeah, I got the point: I’ll cling to his ass and be a good little bitch.”

“Your words,” Veronica said. “But you understand. Good. Now. Leave me. There are things I must finish.”

There are wars I have to win. Now with one god fewer than before, and a new problem growing right in front of me. What are you scheming, Deathless? What plan churns in that dense little head of yours?

As Jessica's reflection in the mirror disappeared, Veronica cast her gaze at an old notification.

Hidden World Quest: Slay Tanner “Shiv” Lowe, the Deathless, before he fully comes into his power and drives your world beyond its current mana stability threshold.

Success: Integrated Earth experiences an Ambient Mana Threshold Evolution. The Mythic Skill Tier becomes available to all Pathbearers within this Ambient Mana Zone; Evolve 10 Skills to Legendary-Tier.

Failure: A specialized Incursion is triggered to destroy Integrated Earth in 2 years, 1 month, and 3 days.

And how are you growing even faster than before?
