“We came across as a bunch of incompetent kids,” said Reinhard, drumming his fingers on the conference table.


We kind of are, thought Alden. But since almost the entire group was nodding in agreement, he didn’t voice the opinion.


“I wanted the principal to tell Instructor Klein I was cool,” Jeffy said. “I don’t think I looked cool.”


Maricel was sitting beside him and across from Alden. “Why did you want that to happen?”


“Because whenever I ask a question during Offense sessions, he says, ‘You’re asking the wrong question. That’s not something an Aqua Brute really needs to worry about.’ If the principal told him it was fine for me to fight on land instead of doing water rescues—”


Reinhard and Everly both opened their mouths; in a classroom in the Forthright building, Lexi was lifting his hand to type something that was no doubt scathing.


“This is good!” Alden interrupted quickly. “I actually wanted to discuss this with everyone. What do you all want from the runs tomorrow? Yesterday we just went at it, and I know everyone was trying really hard. None of us are slackers. But we were getting pissed at each other and misunderstanding each other.”


“We all want the same thing,” said Reinhard. “To win.”


Lots of nodding at that.


“Yeah.” Alden leaned back in his chair. “Everyone would prefer to win. But I don’t know if winning is the only thing we all want or even the most important thing. Some people were compromising personal goals a lot yesterday and others were only compromising a little. It’s not fair. And it made us all have different expectations of each other.”


Most of them didn’t look like they got what he was saying.


“Do you guys really want the team to win more than anything else?” he asked. “Or is it more important to you that you get to accomplish something just for yourself out on the course, since we’ve only got one more day to use it? We should be honest about it. For example, Maricel—”


She made a startled sound as everyone turned to her.


“She was ignoring her own practice to be a team player yesterday. Which I don’t think we all appreciated enough. She only used sandbags for lifting and shielding, and that’s not what she’s working on with her powers right now. She’s trying to learn to compress loose soil into shapes while she moves it. I’m sure she would rather have a big pile of dirt, but the sandbags are faster and easier for her to throw around. So she did that just for the rest of us. It was great of you. Thanks.”


“You mean we need to decide on that kind of thing?” Everly asked. Her silver buns were held up by a pair of pencils, and she had snowflakes painted on her fingernails.


Alden nodded. “We should know where everyone stands. I think it’s all right if we want to think of the course as a personal playground or a chance to show off individually instead of a quest for team victory. But it ought to be all of us who get to behave that way instead of some of us, and we should set some limits on it so it’s not a total fiasco again.”


[He means the archer,] Lexi typed.


“I have a name!” Reinhard said. “I told you that shooting Tuyet—”


“You just wanted to prove you could take out an S-rank,” said Njeri. “You announced that you wanted to target her before the race even started. And then you took two more shots we didn’t all agree on in the next game.”


“I’m a ranged Meister! Do you know how irritating class has been? Rescue, Defense, the maze—my bow is useless for all of it! It’s not like Lexi’s tool. He can lift and slice. I just shoot. And the only thing I’m allowed to shoot is tennis balls and Klein, who is obviously the son of an eel. Now you guys want me not to shoot people when I finally have the chance? I’m our main offense!”


“Just don’t shoot people until we tell you to shoot people,” said Njeri.


Alden examined Reinhard. He’d gotten his pale brown hair turned into a buzzcut since combat assessment day.


“So is the most important thing to you being our primary offense?” he asked.Help support creative writers by finding and reading their stories on the original site.


A couple of people might object to that.


“I just don’t want to look like I’m not doing anything,” said Reinhard. “Other students are watching us. The first years are sharing it around. My older sister’s in third year. When she sees our footage I want to look like an archer. Not like a guy carrying a bow for no reason. Do you want to look useless in front of the entire school?”


They all shifted and shot uncomfortable glances at Alden. Thanks, guys. But you’d all be useless if you were asleep, too.


“About what I want…” he said. “First, I’d like for all of you to tell me how you need me to assist you on each obstacle, or how you can assist me, if it’s just the two of us working together. Before we run again. If we can agree on it, we’ll know what to expect from each other.”


There had been a wasteful amount of back and forth yesterday.


“Second, I’m going to the big Wright shop to pick up some more temper spheres before class tomorrow. I don’t know what we could use them for, unless we give Lucille one to throw at the enemy. But if you do want my screaming invisible ball spell for anything, just say so. I’ll have plenty.


“And third, I wanted to let everyone know that I would be using a new wordchain tomorrow. It basically helps me function at my peak—better balance, more efficient movements, slightly higher spatial awareness.”


[You’ve got it down already?] Haoyu asked. He was wriggling a lot in his seat. Alden had the feeling he would much rather be here with the team than in his class right now.


“I’m really close.” Alden had nearly had it during this morning’s tutoring session. “If any of you have wordchains you think would benefit you but you need help mastering them, Lute Velra said he wouldn’t mind giving pointers. Obviously you can’t learn a new one from scratch. However, if you’ve got one that already works, but only occasionally, or you think you just need a tip or two to figure one out, he might be able to help.”


“I’ve heard about that Velra guy,” said Reinhard, his expression growing concerned. “He killed his girlfriend’s platypus?”


Further proof Lute needs reputation repair. 


“Lute definitely did not do that,” Alden answered. “It was a freak accident, possibly caused by a wordchain he had no say in the casting of. And she was not his girlfriend, and it was not a platypus. Sometimes disturbing, sad things happen that we have no control over.”


He clasped his hands together on top of the table.


“So, that’s it for me! I’m happy to go along with whatever the team wants and try to make it work. I’d rather not be the other teams’ favorite target again, but if it goes that way, I’ll deal with it. Also, I’ve been brainstorming ideas for obstacles, but I wanted to hear what you all thought.”


It turned out, they had a lot of thoughts. And not all of them were things Alden would have expected.


While he was sitting in Intro to Other Worlds a short while later, listening to their ongoing discussion more than the instructor’s lecture, they were still trying to decide if they really wanted to win no matter what or if they wanted to give everyone the chance to show off and try things. Alden wasn’t surprised to find that most of them were more concerned with their individual performances over the team’s, but he was interested in the variety of their reasoning for it.


Reinhard was worried about looking bad and making his sister look bad.


Everly’s parents often asked to watch her gym footage, and she really didn’t want them to see her failing. “They worry so much about me being in this program. It’ll scare them if I look weak. I want them to know I can keep up.”


“I don’t want to kill anyone,” a voice said so quietly that Alden almost didn’t catch it. “I was afraid you were all going to ask me to attack the other team yesterday. I don’t want to.”


Alden directed one of the video images to come back into the center of his line of sight. While he took in the library scene, his fingers hovered over the keys of his laptop, the cursor on the screen blinking halfway through a page that had started as class notes and turned into team notes. 
 
Nobody said anything for a second.


“What do you mean, Lucille?” Haoyu asked.


He and Lexi now had a free period, so they were there. Maricel was in an Algebra class. And Jeffy was in the big lecture theater on the floor below Alden. For some reason, he was writing ideas on a notebook and holding them up for everyone to read rather than texting.


“I’m sorry,” said Lucille. “I know I’m an S. Refusing to use lethal attacks means the team has less options. But I want to be a no-kill hero.”


“The gentle giant type,” Reinhard said with a nod. “It’s a classic for a Strength Brute, but it can fall apart if you get into the wrong kinds of situations.”


“I just don’t want to do it.” Lucille’s dark hair fell in her eyes as she stared down at a single pita chip on a napkin in front of her. “And I’m not a giant. I’m an average height.”


“It’s just what the type is called…”


“But this is gym,” Njeri pointed out. “The realism settings are very low. Even you said walking through the fire was like getting a sunburn, so it’s not like we’re really hurting people.”


Lucille took a deep breath. “I’ve decided if I ever kill anyone, even just in gym, I’ll give up on being a city-affiliated hero. I’ll switch to disaster rescue only. Like Fragment.”


A strangled sound escaped from Reinhard. “That’s too extreme! They’re completely different lives. Don’t give up on your dreams because of something that happens in our classes!”


“What if you do it accidentally? What if you just make a mistake?” Njeri asked.


“Then I wouldn’t trust myself not to do it again.”


“It’s fine,” said Haoyu. “There’s no reason she has to use lethal force. It’s probably better if we use less attacks like that anyway. For strategy reasons.”


[Lucille helps with a ton of other stuff on the course,] Alden added by text. [She doesn’t need to attack, too.]


“But what are you going to do in duels when we start those?” Reinhard asked the Brute.


“I don’t mind pinning people.”


“Only pinning people?!”


“Let her do it how she wants,” said Haoyu. “You want to be our main offense tomorrow anyway. Jeffy, about the water obstacle…you don’t really hate your skill, do you?”


“It’s boring,” he said aloud. Then he looked around at his neighbors in the lecture hall and grabbed his notebook again.


“It’s literally not,” Njeri said. “Sink and Surface is so useful.”


It’s just going up and down in the water, Jeffy wrote. He had surprisingly good handwriting.


“Why him?” Lexi murmured to himself. Then, louder, he said, “You know 71% of the planet is underwater, don’t you?”


More writing: All the people are above the water. Who cares about the fish?


Haoyu’s forehead wrinkled. He exhaled slowly. “Why in Apex did you take Aqua Brute if you didn’t want it? You could’ve traded it for any other Brute class. I know so many people who would love—”


Jeffy held up his notebook: The internet told me to take it. So I could get into school with you guys! And my grandpa thought it was a good idea.


Reinhard was making more distressed noises. Njeri was shaking her head.


Everly had steepled her fingers in front of her mouth. “Surely you like being able to stay underwater for a long time when other people can’t?”


Jeffy looked like he was pondering the question. He started to write in the notebook.


A notice appeared on Alden’s roommate chat.


[Lexi: One of you tell me what he says if it’s worth hearing. Otherwise leave me ignorant. I find him stressful.]


 
******


“Alden, are you all right?”


He looked up in surprise to see Vandy beside his desk.


He’d been polishing off a final note about Lucille. Njeri had suggested finding out if the Strength Brute grabbing someone on the other team and carrying them backwards along their course to place them beside an inconvenient obstacle could count as a single attack or if it wasn’t allowed.


Alden shut the laptop hastily. “Yeah! I’m fine, Vandy! Why?”


“I was watching you in class to figure out what you were preserving today—”


Of course you were.


“—and I noticed you making very pained facial expressions. You did hit a couple of hurdles yesterday.”


“I didn’t! I jumped them all!”


Blue-gray eyes blinked at him. “I mean when your teammates were carrying you while you slept.”


“Oh, that. I’m fine.”


“If you’re injured, you should go to the campus health center.”


“I’m not injured.”


She scanned him up and down.


“I’m not injured,” he repeated. “Promise. Unless Tuyet asks. Then I’m very injured, and she should feel guilty.”


“If you’re not hurt, that’s good…”


She stared at him.


“She wants you to say why you weren’t paying attention in class now,” Haoyu informed him through the still-active video call.


Alden nodded at Vandy. “I'm really not hurt. I was just thinking about our—”


“Tell her nothing,” Njeri interrupted. “This is competition. We take every advantage!”


“How is not telling her we’re having a meeting an advantage?” Maricel asked as she left her math class.


“She’ll want to have one, too,” said Everly.


“I know she wants to have one, too,” Maricel replied. “She’s been trying to organize her team all day.”


