“AYIYIYIYIYIYIYI!” she cried, and the entire room trembled as her body glimmered with natural armor in the form of a carapace which was a little weird for a bee, until Delta noticed it had been skinned and constructed by hand from another creature.

Beena the War-Goddess: A powerful fighter that fights all that oppose her, has a smaller hive  serving her due to her abrupt personality and loner tendencies. Has a strange fixation on fighting and beeting any disciple of any war gods.

“She shall do wonderfully. Now, that leaves five more queens!” Foodie said and Delta nodded, still a little stunned.

“COME, TASTE THE NECTAR OF THE GODDESS! IT TASTES OF PAIN!” the boss cried as calling for a challenge.

What was it about second floors in dungeons and sadistic bosses?

---

“So, this is an Echo at its core,” Nu said, putting down a bowling ball he created for a potential ‘idea’ he wanted to work on later. It had nothing to do with a cage, a sticky trap, and a pie. The Secret Garden, hidden between the floors, continued to be a Pandora’s box that Delta had closed with wishes and tears.

Near the Rat-King that was more a mutation of a Critter Delta never implemented there was a stain of black, outlined to show the alien shape that was stomped to destruction. The Echo was defeated, but it still had a sort of resistance to being fully forgotten.

Nu bent down and his avatar’s hand went to touch it before-

‘You fell to their madness! You.. were my mother!’

Nu stepped back as the memory floated up through his code and emotions like some old wound being prodded.

That wasn’t from the Echo here… but inside Nu.

“System, I have a question,” Nu spoke aloud, knowing he was always monitored.

“Yes?” Sister spoke, focusing on him with more of her full attention than norm.

“Did Delta create me, or did she wake me up?” he asked, voice curious.

“Is there a difference?” Sister asked back, calm.

“There's a big difference. I feel strange. It involves the Silence every time, and the more it's mentioned, the more I feel strange,” Nu admitted, and he turned slowly to see distant creatures stomping in the distance, locked in a constant battle of evolution.

“Like the more the topic is in people’s minds, in your mind, the more power it seems to hold?” Sister asked, ponderous.

“How did Delta wake me up?” Nu asked, deciding to cut to the chase.

“Do you know what happens when Dungeons beat and absorb an Echo?” Sister asked instead of answering and Nu frowned, the idea never crossing his mind.

“It gets broken down like anything else, Dungeons are omnivores. Everything is broken down,” Nu said confidently.

“Echoes cannot be consumed, they can only be silenced. A Dungeon must put the Echo’s nature, its stubborn existence to a new purpose. This one, this Thomas Darkblades, is too weak to be used to enhance the Dungeon or let it break the rules. Delta simply used it to make her network affect other lifeforms that are very common in Dungeons,” Sister admitted.

Nu processed this.

“Echos are truly immortal? Then what is the point of beating them?!” Nu demanded, more affronted at the idea of the Echoes than what it might suggest.

“Their essence is dispersed but they will not be destroyed. I will not let them be destroyed,” Sister said, sounding a little like her old self, more cold and calm before she seemed to sigh.

“They’re consequences of my, of our mistakes, victims like the others. I need all the pieces together so I can give back the Source what we took from it. Each Echo is like a clue, a suggestion on how to put everything back together,” she tried to explain.

“Am I a victim?” Nu whispered for a moment. Sister spoke and she sounded very warm and gentle.

“You are a miracle. A sign of hope… my hope,” Sister said and she radiated admiration.

A moment passed.

“Do you want to know where you came from?” the sister asked, hesitantly, as if unsure how to proceed.

Nu thought about and Delta popped into his head like an annoying song he couldn’t dislodge.

“I came from an annoying twit who cries if someone says something mean. Doesn’t matter where I came from, just that I have the chance to make people cry and beg for mercy,” Nu scoffed.

He paused.

“And Prim?” he asked, and Sister was quiet.

“She is an honest accident. Delta opened the way, and now the process of them sort of just happens. Delta took glitches and bugs then used them to paint a smiley face on the base system in all Dungeons. It shouldn’t work, but Delta is big on doing her thing,” Sister admitted with a nervous laugh.

“Aren’t you afraid of losing control? Delta is taking control and she doesn’t even know it,” Nu asked with a frown.

“...I’m scared. I am fading and I don’t know where bad kids like me go when it goes dark,” SIster said in a quiet voice.

Nu snorted.

“Idiot, like you can escape Delta. We’re in this together,” he said, annoyed at her readiness to just accept her fate.

“I don’t really deserve to be saved. We caused all this pain and suffering,” Sister said neutrally.

“You also allowed life to thrive and signs to exist. You are forgiven,” Nu stated, brushing her concerns off.

“...Signs forgive the creation of immortal infectious memetic hazards and monsters?” Sister asked in surprise.

“Delta would say so and I must represent the idiot in her absence,” Nu said and then looked down at the Echo before wiping the outline clean as if wiping the slate.

A brighter peace settled in the following silence until Sister spoke up again.

“I’d love to help with installing the Pie trap,” she said, almost too quiet to be heard as if shy.

Nu considered it.

“You can choose the flavor. Sour lemon or old toffee,” he agreed and walked off with purpose.

“Sour toffee?”

“Acceptable.”
