Ren wasn't sure what was going on with that, until he entered the cavern; then he saw what the real deal was. It was a series of 100 bridges of all different kinds, 10 to 15 feet long, that spanned wide and shallow black pits that neither he nor Teepo could see in.

“Wow.” Teepo said. “How long did this take to make?”

It doesn't matter. Ren thought and had the Phantom Steed fly up into the air.

“RAARRR!” A 12 foot tall troll yelled as it came out from under the first bridge 50 feet away. “You can't cross without paying the toll!”

“I'm not using the bridge.” Ren said.

“You're still crossing my spot!”

“What if I fly over there?” Ren asked and pointed to the side of the cavern and the edge of the black pit.

“That's still my spot!” It said. “This abyss is mine, and if you cross it, you owe me the toll!”

Ren thought that was a bit unfair; but, he couldn't argue that he wasn't crossing the black pit. “What's the toll?”

The troll smiled and revealed large crooked teeth. “Half an hour with one of those things.” It said and pointed. Ren thought it meant the succubi at first, then the two skeleton knights changed position slightly to stay on Ren's flank and the troll's eyes followed them.

“The skeletons or the horses?” Ren asked.

“The horse, of course.” The troll said. “Nothing else could take it, if you know what I mean.”

Ren thought about it. “Well... half an hour is a bit long for us to wait...”

“All right, give me one of them for... 10 minutes.”

“I see another bridge behind you, and I'm sure there's at least another troll under it.” Ren said, and knew there was actually two of them under it. “What's their toll?”

“You'll have to ask them.”

“Hey! Next in line troll!” Ren yelled. “What's the toll on your bridge?”

“It depends on if your flying horses survive.” A voice said without coming out from under the bridge.

Ren thought about that particular answer and didn't like the implications. He looked back at the first troll. Identify.

Troll (Level 116)

This fearsome green-skinned large creature will eat anything it can catch and devour. They have thick natural armor, and Regeneration so strong that they can even regrow lost limbs if the severed limb isn't reattached. Only acid and fire can stop the regenerative properties of a troll's flesh, and even then it's only for a limited time. They move twice as fast as humans, can see in pitch darkness up to 60 feet, and have enhanced perception.

Inherent Abilities: Multi-attack (bite, claw, spit), Keen Smell, Expert Trapper, Lure, Killing Blow, Ability Absorption (if enough is eaten)

Permanent Conditions: Corrupted, Stench

“I'm sorry, We need these horses to travel.” Ren said. “Is there anything else you'd like instead?”

“No. Just the horse.” The troll said, and a thin cloud formed around the troll.

“Then you leave me no choice.” Ren took out his Staff of Earth and widened the abyss pit.

“S-STOP!” The troll yelled and the thin cloud disappeared.

Ren pulled the ground apart from one end of the bridge, and it crumbled as the bridge started to drop into the abyss.

“NO!!!” The troll tried to hold his end of the bridge; but, it was to no avail as it continued to crumble and disappeared into the black pit. Ren used a Web wand to ensnare the troll, then shot it with a Fireball. It let out a muffled yell as it caught on fire, then fell into the abyss. The muffled yell cut off abruptly as the bundle of webbing with the troll inside disappeared into the blackness.

“I won't let you hurt my horses, or gain their flight ability.” Ren said and concentrated on the ground between the abyss pits. “My mount was feasted upon, and even though it was spell-created, it's still alive and felt everything.” He said and let his anger out. “I will NOT let it happen AGAIN!”

The trolls had made the mistake of putting all of their bridges in a line, a very thin neat line, that Ren could easily move the ground out of the way very, very quickly underneath the ends of the bridges. With his experience of smoothing a path for Princess to run on at nearly her full speed before her upgrade, having to move all the dirt and rocks under all of the bridges was a lot easier than it should have been.

The dirt and rocks all pushed aside almost at once, and the screams of the trolls falling into the abyss were cut off as they passed into the darkness. All that was in front of Ren was a 10 foot wide straight line of open blackness from one end of the cavern to the other. He used the staff to pull the dirt back in, then shifted the dirt and rock between all the pits towards the middle to fill in that space. It took a lot longer than moving dirt out of the way, since he was moving so much more; but, when he was done, there was a 30 foot wide natural walking path from one side of the cavern to the other, with two large abyss pits on either side.

“Ren, the hidden door.” Teepo reminded him.

Right. Ren thought and checked the All-Seeing Mirror for it. “Wait here.” He said and flew over to where the door was and used the surrounding wall to make a 10 foot ledge and a 4 foot high dirt and rock railing. Whoever uses this exit is going to be surprised. He thought in amusement, then flew back over to the others.

“Let's go.” Ren said and the entire group flew across the cavern.

“That was fun to watch.” One of the succubi said in a whisper, and Ren felt a general agreement from the others. They went through the tunnel in high spirits and couldn't wait to see what the next thing was that Ren was going to defeat.
