“You guys know the plan, right?” I whisper to master and Ronald. Leaning around the tree I’m hiding behind; I use Sense Mana to confirm the chameleon spider hasn’t moved.

"We're ready to cover you," Master says from a tree to my left. I look to my right at Ronald, and he gives me a nod of confirmation.

Here goes nothing.

I stealthily make my way closer to the hidden magic beast. This would be incredibly dangerous by myself, but with master and Ronald watching my back, I can test Sense Soul on a magical beast without worrying about being eaten.

I move just close enough to see the spider's body without entering into its striking range. Over the past 12 days, I've tested Sense Soul on master twice and secretly scanned a handful of people in the village, making sure I only look at the outer parts of their souls. I started calling the scanning of the outer part of a soul a casual scan while looking into the soul's center is regarded as a deep scan.

When this spider was spotted by the hunters yesterday, I hatched this plan with master and Ronald to see what happens when I use the skill on something other than a human.

I activate Sense Soul and focus on the central part of the spider's body. The first thing I'm going to test is how the creature reacts to a casual scan.

As the wisps surrounding the spider's soul become visible, the magic beast starts to freak out. The camouflage on the carapace fades away, and the massive spider starts shifting in place and slamming itself into the nearby trees.

I activate Flash Step and jump back next to Del and Ronald.

The spider starts to screech as I continue to look at the outer parts of its soul. Judging by the amount of experience around its soul, I can estimate its level is around 77 if monsters level the same way humans do. That’s a lower level than I initially thought it would be, is this one just weaker than the others we’ve fought so far?

The spider finally notices us and madly charges. People usually feel like they’re being watched; I guess a spider that spends most of its time invisible doesn't care for that kind of feeling.

I drop Sense Soul and draw my sword, getting ready for part two of our operation.

Ronald quickly fires three arrows at the spider’s joints while master and I rush forward towards its two front legs. I activate Weighted Strike and swing my katana with my 130 points of Strength. For the first time, my sword cleanly slices through a chameleon spider’s limb.

I dodge another leg coming from my left by using Double Step to move backwards. Master, being the powerhouse he is, severs the limb he was aiming for and steps forward, cutting off a second leg before he has to dodge the flailing spider.

The three of us move as a fine-tuned machine and dismember the spider one leg at a time. We've developed a sort of rhythm after hunting so many of these beasts. We usually focus on removing the five legs on one side of the monster before concentrating on the main body that can't move after half its limbs are removed.

This time is different. We remove the five legs as usual, but then we add insult to its injuries and remove the other five, leaving the body's central part to bleed out in the snow.

It may be cruel, but this is the safest way to deep scan the magic beast. I can't look at the center of its soul during a battle because the beast might try to flee, and the eyes might incapacitate me if the soul of the spider acts like a human’s.

I sheath my sword and sit down on the snow-covered forest floor. Ronald and Master Del stand behind me, ready to guard my body if something should go wrong.

I reactivate Sense Soul and once again look at the spider's soul. The floundering body of the spider starts twitching, and its screams become more frantic. I only hesitate for a moment before I go from a casual scan of its soul to a deep scan.

I quickly take note of its soul's size before the two eyes appear and immediately shatter my focus on the creature. I'm ready for the backlash this time.

I can fight off the searing headache enough that my Mana Skin skill doesn't collapse on me. I still have to grind my teeth together to prevent myself from screaming out in pain.

Unlike when I looked at master’s, only two eyes are guarding the spider's soul. The poor limbless creature lets out a new kind of scream we’ve never heard before. The sound isn't one of anger or pain like we've listened to in the past.

No, this is a scream of fear.

A fear that goes beyond the fear of death.

I once more try to look at the core of the chameleon spider's soul. I pushed through the pain and look at the soul guarded by the eyes. I prepare for them to reject me again, but the pain never comes.

The two eyes suddenly turn towards the center of the spider’s soul and blink.

Their blink only lasts a tenth of a second, but a deep wave of primal fear overcomes my body in that second. As soon as the eyes blinked, the soul inside the spider disappears. The body of the spider stops twitching and lays before us dead. The two eyes look back at me one last time before vanishing themselves.

Is that what happens when something dies? The eyes that guard the soul take it somewhere, or do they devour it?

Before I can start to panic, something else happens inside the body of the spider. The chameleon spider looks like it’s starting to steam.

I look at master and Ronald, hoping to ask if they also see what’s happening. Only when I look at them, I see their souls. I still have Sense Soul activated!

I quickly look away before I suffer another backlash. Looking back at the dead spider, I watch what I now realize is the wisps formerly surrounding the spider’s soul diffuse into the surroundings.

Most of the wisps of experience seem to vanish quickly, but three streams flow towards us, passing through trees into our chests.

I watch dumbfounded as a part of the experience that used to belong to the spider merges with my own soul space.

Is that how everything gains experience when they kill other creatures?

Del and my parents always told me people gain experience from battle because of the effort they put into the fight. I'm not sure how much effort plays a part in the amount of experience I get from killing something, but now I know experience comes directly from whatever you killed.

Another important fact I learned was that most of the experience from killing something is lost to the surrounding area when the soul leaves the body.

I feel like I just witnessed something important! We take in a part of the soul of whatever we kill.

“Are you ok, Aaliyah?” I quickly jerk my head towards master. He takes a half step back and looks at me concerned.

His worried look knocks some sense into me. I’m suddenly aware of the radiating pain in my head and the fact I’m covered in sweat. I blink my eyes, aware that my eyes were wide open in shock the whole time I observed the spider’s death.

"I need time," I whisper through my clenched teeth.

“Ok, rest up while Ronald and I start processing the spider.” Master and Ronald move to start dismantling the spider while I wait here and recover.

When the headache recedes enough for me to contemplate what happened, I remember only two eyes appeared. Does that mean master's soul is somehow different from mine and the spider's?

I'll need to perform another deep scan on someone else to be sure of the difference.

I cross my legs underneath me and enter a meditative state. I need to digest everything that just happened.

“I’m home!” I shout as I burst through our front door.

“Ahyt ls weem appiss!”

I activate my cleaning spell and shut off Mana Skin.

I quickly notice my mother sitting in her chair, sewing a pair of father’s pants.

She looks up at me and smiles. “You’re back, already? I thought the chameleon spider spotted was miles away from the village?”

I brush off a few of the remaining dirt flakes leftover from my spell. "We finished pretty quickly. The spiders aren't a challenge for us anymore. The only reason it took us this long to get back was that it took longer than usual to butcher the beast and haul everything back.”

"Did you let your father know you're safely back in the village?”

I kick off my boots and change into my slippers. "I stopped on the way home to see how he's doing. At the rate the deforestation crew is working, there won't be any trees left in sight of our village.” I joke to mother.

“I noticed yesterday when I went to visit Sarette, now that your father is in charge of removing the surrounding trees that might just happen. They’ve cleared nearly 100 feet around the entire village.” Mother tells me offhandedly.

"I know what you mean. I've never seen the village this active during winter before." I walk over to mother and hug her.

She’s momentarily caught off guard by the action but embraces me the same way. As we separate, she gives me a questioning look. “Did something happen on your hunt?”

“Can’t a hug just be a hug?” I try to give her an offended look.

She quirks an eyebrow at me. “Alright, fine. You don't need to give me that look." I sigh in defeat. "I tried using a different skill on the spider than I usually do," I tell her.

“Did it not work, or did something go wrong?” She asks.

“Not necessarily. The skill answered questions I never thought about before and left me with new ones I’m not sure how to solve.” I tell her my dilemma without revealing what skill I’m talking about. Master said I should avoid mentioning the particulars of Sense Soul to anyone, including my parents.

“What does the skill do?” Mother questions me.

'It's a skill that lets me judge somebody's level." I lie by telling a partial truth. "The problem is every time I use it on someone, they feel like they’re being watched, and they feel outright fear if I focus on them too deeply. If that wasn’t bad enough, for me to use the skill to its full potential, I would suffer a backlash in the form of a splitting headache." I explain our fight with the spider earlier.

“And who else have you used the skill on?” Mother sends me a reproaching look.

“Why does that matter?” I feign ignorance.

“Well, there’s been rumors around the village of people suddenly feeling like they’re being watched. Does that sound familiar to you?”

“I may have briefly practiced my skill on a few people." I try to downplay what I did.

“Over thirty people swear they were being watched this last week. Sarette told me her husband promised to look into the matter.” Mother crosses her arms.

Damn! That’s what I get for practicing my skill in a small village like ours.

Mother notices my dejected look and sighs. “I’ll let the headman know it was you testing out one of your skills when I visit Sarette tomorrow. He'll reassure people the feeling was all in their heads, but you need to stop testing your skill on our neighbors. People are still worried about the spiders, and feeling like something is watching them is not helping." Mother quickly comes up with a solution to my problems.

“Thanks for the help, mom.” I still feel down after thanking her.

"When you thank me with that look on your face, it doesn't feel sincere."

"Sorry, I'm thankful for your solution, but that still leaves me with the problem of practicing my skill."

“Have you only practiced it on the villagers and the spider this morning?” Mother asks me.

“Master Del has let me use it on him a few times, but as I said, people become paranoid and afraid when I use the skill too much. Master and I decided I would only use the skill on him once a week, and I have to wait at least five days before I use it on him again."

“And why does it only have to be Del you use your skill on?” Mother gives me a challenging look.

“It’s not like I haven’t thought about asking you and dad.” I can see where this is going.

“So why haven’t you asked us for our help?”

I turn my head to the side, refusing to look mother in the eye. "It's just that master has a really high level, and even he was disturbed by my skills effects. The first time he helped me practice, he wouldn't look at me for hours after using it on him. I don’t think I could handle seeing you or dad be that scared of me.”

Mother closes the gap between us and gives me another hug. “Silly girl, we could never be afraid of you. When your father gets home, and after we've had dinner, we can help you practice your skill."

“Ok,” I mumble in her arms.

“How long has it been since you practiced your Sewing skill?” She asks while I’m still trapped in her arms.

I choose to plead the fifth. My silence says everything she needs to know. "Come help me stitch up your father's shirts; he's so busy he's been ripping them every other day." Mother practically drags me over to her work station.

I can craft a sewing needle if I have to, but ask me to use one, and I’m all thumbs.

I helped mother stitch up father's clothes and helped her with dinner before father came home for the night.

We chatted about our day during dinner, and father agreed with mother that I should ask them for help more often. I tried to steer the question towards Kervin arriving any day now with the magic items I ordered, but neither was falling for it.

Now the three of us are sitting on our living room floor on top of an old blanket.

“Are you sure you guys want to do this?” I hesitantly ask my parents again.

“What, you think your old man can’t handle an intimidation skill?” Father boasts.

“Fine,” I give in to them. “Who wants to go first?” I look back and forth between mother and father.

Mother gives dad a look and tries to egg him on. “Go on, Darrius. Show her you can handle it.”

