Mother knows what's going to happen. I tried to warn father about what it will feel like during dinner, but he cut me off, saying he can handle anything I can throw at him.

Father straightens his back and looks me in the eyes. “I’m ready, bring it on!”

“Don’t say I didn’t warn you.” I activate Sense Soul.

As soon as I look at the outer parts of father's soul, his confident expression vanishes. A side glance at mother reveals she's surprised how quickly father looks uncomfortable.

I can see by the amount of experience around his soul he’s around level 42. I’m not surprised by his level; he’s been working incredibly hard this year and did a lot during the goblin extermination.

Usually, people look around, searching for whoever is watching them. Because father was already staring into my eyes, he knows where the feeling is coming from.

“Is this what you were worried about?" Father pretends that he isn't feeling uncomfortable. "I guess that makes me better than Del, then!" He boasts.

I hope he can say that after what happens next.

I take a second to prepare myself mentally for what's about to happen, and it's not just the eyes I'm worried about.

I look at the center of father's soul, and everything changes. His fake bravado immediately shatters as he tries to stumble to his feet to get away from me.

It only takes a few seconds for my father to make it to the other side of the room, and I'm lying on my side, trying to endure the two eyes that kicked me out of his soul.

Mother looks scared and keeps looking between me lying on the floor and father breathing heavily across the room, trying to decide who she should go to.

“I’m… ok…” I hiss through my teeth.

Once mother hears me, she moves over to comfort father who’s shivering in place.

It takes ten minutes for her to coax him back over to our blanket and for me to recover enough to sit back up.

"That's what I was worried about." I solemnly say.

Father looks at me for a moment before hanging his head in shame. “That was worse than I thought it would be. The first part was unnerving but bearable. Whatever happened at the end, there had all my instincts telling me to flee. You said it was a skill that let you estimate someone's level?” He looks directly at me without any fear in his eyes.

I’m about to cry.

Father is still shivering slightly, but he sees my teary eyes and looks concerned. "What's wrong!? Are you still hurt?"

“I’m just happy,” I mumble. “Master couldn’t look at me for hours after I first used the skill on him.”

Dad leans over and gives me a hug. “Your skill might have frightened me, but I would never be afraid of you."

"Thanks, dad." We embrace each other until my headache fades away, and father stops shaking. "I think its time for bed." I let go of my father and start to get up.

“Where do you think you’re going.” Mother’s voice stops me in my tracks.

I give her a confused look. “Don’t you think that was enough for today?”

“It’s my turn next.” The serious look on her face throws me for a loop.

“After you saw what happened to dad, you still want me to use my skill on you?”

“I told you earlier today that both of us will help you with your skill. Are you trying to make me a liar?” She narrows her eyes at me.

“Alright, if you insist.” I give in to mother’s request and sit back down.

I re-center myself; this will be the first time I've performed two deep scans back to back.

I use sense Soul on mother, and I’m surprised to see she doesn’t look that uncomfortable when I look at the outer part of her soul. If she isn't reacting as bad as father and Del, I'll move straight onto the deep scan.

As usual, I only get a second to look at my mother's soul before the two eyes appear yet again and sear my brain. I deactivate the skill and notice mother isn't running across the room to get away from me.

She’s amazingly still seated in front of me. She’s pale, but she still has her motherly smile plastered across her face. Father and I both look at her in astonishment. I must have leveled Mental Resistance because the pain is fading quicker this time.

Mother wipes at her face as a single bead of sweat drips from her forehead. "That was pretty bad," She remarks.

“How were you able to resist the urge to run away?” I hastily ask through my lessening headache.

Mother ponders my question. “Well, I expected the worst after I watched how your father reacted, so I prepared myself. It was bad, but not the worst thing I've ever felt. Giving birth to you and your brother was much more painful, and it lasted a lot longer. Also, every time I level, I put a few points into my Mind stat. I bet that helps counteract the effect your skill has on me.” Mother’s explanation gives me a lot to think about.

Mother scoots right next to me. 'So, did your skill work? Can you tell me what our levels are?"

I smile at mom. “You’re level 38, while father is level 42.” I look between them.

Mother looks astonished. "Your skill doesn't give you an estimate of our level, but the exact number! Skills like that are scarce."

“It’s hard to explain. I don’t technically see your level; I see your experience.” I tell them. “After comparing your experience with myself, master, Ronald, and the people I've secretly observed around the village, I can accurately guess your level. Most of the adults I've looked at are around level 35. Compared to the other villagers, you guys are strong.” I proudly tell them.

“Of course, we are!” Father exclaims.

"Not so loud, dear. It's late, and you and Aaliyah said you have lots of work tomorrow. Help me fold the blanket, and let's get to bed." Mother reprimands dad for his shouting.

We quickly straighten up and retire to our rooms.

In bed, I think about everything I've learned about souls these last couple of days.

First, the wisps surrounding the soul are the manifestations of experience and the place our skills are housed. Looking at that outer part of the soul doesn’t seem to anger the eyes guarding the soul. Considering how I’ve seen other people’s skills affect my soul, the outer part is very malleable and susceptible to influence.

It’s the center of people’s souls that remains a mystery. After examining myself, Del, and my parents' soul center, then comparing it to the chameleon spider, I've come to one conclusion.

My soul is abnormally large.

My soul is almost three times the sizes of master’s and his is bigger than mother's and father's by 65%. I can't say every soul is different because mother and father’s souls are very similar in size. Father's may be a tiny bit bigger, but I'm not sure if that's because he's slightly older than mother or if other factors come into play. The chameleon spider’s soul was the smallest at only half the size of father’s soul.

I'll need to look at a child's soul if I want to get another baseline to compare what I've seen, but I don’t want to scar a child with my skill.

I raise a hand to stifle a yawn. I need to check my status page before I go to sleep.

LV: 63 Experience: 188,119/ 514,704

Health: 2,090/2,090

Stamina: 1,072.33/1,403

Mana: 351.87/1,000

Vitality: 209.00

Endurance: 80.13

Strength: 132.00

Dexterity: 125.00

Senses: 60.56

Mind: 62.72

Magic: 100.89

Clarity: 75.71

Status Points: 0

Skills:

Tier 1:

Meditation (LV78), Running (LV73), Blacksmithing (LV65), Axe Skills (LV55), Hammer Skills (LV54), Cleaning (LV50), Mining (LV48), Chanting (LV47), Drawing (LV44), Cooking (LV38), Trading (LV37), Dagger Skills (LV31), Acting (LV30), Wood Carving (LV29), Sword Skills(LV25), Sewing (LV24), Pugilist Skills (LV4), Spear Skills (LV2)

Tier 2:

Sense Mana (LV78), Double Step (LV59), Charm (LV50), Measurement (LV45), Hammer Arts (LV38), Axe Arts (LV36), Writing (LV32), Intimidating Shout (LV31), Mathematics (LV30), Increase price (LV16), Lower Price (LV15), Dagger Arts (LV12), Sword Arts (LV8), Steady Hands (LV7), Marching (LV5), Gourmet (LV2), Shout of Valor (LV1),

Tier 3:

Expel Mana (LV59), Mana Manipulation (LV52), Precise Strike (LV35), Double Strike (LV34), Weighted Strike (LV24), Flash Step (LV17)

Tier 4:

Inject mana (LV48), Mana Skin (LV47), Mental Resistance (LV45), Extract Mana (LV26), Magic Blacksmithing (LV19)

Tier 5:

Sense Soul (LV32)

Increased Skill Levels

Blacksmithing (LV 62-65) 12,700exp

Hammer Skills (LV 53-54) 5,350exp

Mining (LV48) 2,400exp

Drawing (LV43-44) 4,350exp

Cooking (LV38) 1,900exp

Wood Carving (LV28-29) 2,850exp

Double Step (LV59) 5,900exp

Measurement (LV44-45) 8,900exp

Steady Hands (LV1-7) 2,800exp

Hammer Arts (LV37-38) 7,500exp

Expel Mana (LV59) 8,850exp

Double Strike (LV34) 5,100exp

Precise Strike (LV34-35) 10,350exp

Weighted Strike (LV24) 3,600exp

Flash Step (LV17) 2,550exp

Inject mana (LV47-48) 23,750exp

Mana Skin (LV47) 11,750exp

Mental Resistance (LV43-45) 33,000exp

Extract Mana (LV25-26) 12,750exp

Magic Blacksmithing (LV18-19) 9,250exp

Sense Soul (LV32) 16,000exp

Skill Experience: 191,600exp

Crafting Experience: 62,812exp

Fighting Experience: 3,719exp

Total experience Gained: 258,131exp

As soon as I saw that I leveled again, I distribute my status points. 5 points into Dexterity, 3 into Vitality, and 2 into Strength. I’ve noticed how Dexterity has become more important since I started practicing engraving and crafting the arrows Kervin ordered.

I also gained a new tier two skill, Steady Hands. It’s a passive skill, but it's helped not only with my wood carving and Drawing skills but also with my blacksmithing.

My mental fatigue is getting to me. I think tonight I won't go into my soul and instead try to get a good night's sleep for tomorrow. I only have two more days to finish everything before Kervin arrives.

I peacefully slip into unconsciousness.

I roll out of bed and shake the soreness from my limbs. Master and I have been running ourselves ragged the last two days, making sure everything is finished and packed in our cart for Kervin’s arrival today.

I throw on my clothes and put up my hair.

I make sure to kiss mom goodbye before I make my way outside.

I perform my morning stretches and watch the villagers carry crates of food over to the headman’s house. Kervin returned precisely two weeks after he sent me the letter. He’s never kept to this tight of a schedule before; I wonder if something is wrong?

I perform my usual loop around the village to make sure nothing is hiding in the trees.

I stop near our village's entrance, not to watch everyone unloading Kervin’s cart, but to stare into the trees at a spot that has suspiciously little mana. It almost looks like a small section of the forest is repelling mana away from it.

I take a mental note of the spot and run to Del’s house to get the cart we prepped yesterday.

I quickly make it to Del’s place and start pushing the cart to Kervin’s campsite. While I’m pushing the cart through the path that leads towards the village, I stop once again when I spot another area that's also repelling the mana away from it. I stare in its direction and estimate the place to be only five feet in diameter.

Whatever's in the mana-less area, hopefully, I can use it to craft something.

As I exit the pathway leading towards Del’s house, I pass by the area; I previously noted the unexplained mana phenomena. The site looks normal now, did whatever caused the phenomena move closer to Del’s house?

I debate whether I should inspect it now before it moves again, but Kervin’s cart looks almost empty, and I can't wait to see what he brought me.

I wait for the nearby villagers to leave before I pushed my cart next to Kervin’s. “Where’s the fire?” I ask him.

He looks at me, confused. "Fire, what fire?"

“I mean you came back to our village really fast this time, I assumed something must be wrong," I smirk at him.

“Funny,” he dryly states. “You have my order ready, right.” He sends me a hopeful look.

He’s just asking for it now. “What order?” I use all my acting ability to feign ignorance.

He quickly pales and starts to sweat. “Did you not get my letter?! I paid for a courier falcon to deliver it!”

Whoa, I wasn’t prepared for his panicked reaction. I quickly raise my arms and try to calm him down. “Chill, man. I was just joking with you; I got your message two weeks ago. I have the arrows you ordered in my cart.”

I expect him to be mad at my joke, but instead of anger, it's relief that washes over his face. He forces a laugh, "That's a good one. You had me going there."

Was master, right? Is he in trouble with someone? "Is everything ok, Kervin?” I ask him.

He suddenly becomes aware of himself at my question and quickly straightens himself up. "Everything's fine. It's just that I received a request from the army, and it's a big opportunity for me. Even headquarters is keeping an eye on me now. They told me to focus on getting anything the army asks for, so now I have a lot more freedom to move as I wish.” He gives me his merchant smile.

“What does that mean for me and the village?” I ask.

"Don't worry; I'm doing my best to keep your existence hidden. I commissioned arrows from multiple blacksmiths in Drey to cover up where I’m getting my supply from. I told Silver Herd about how much money I'm making delivering the food here each month, so they agreed to let me continue my route here as long as it doesn’t affect my trading with the army." I don't know what it is, but something is irking me about what he's saying.

I pretend not to be suspicious and ask him what he brought me. “You have some magical tools for me, right?” It’s not hard to fake a huge smile.

“I bought five different items with the coin you gave me.” He moves over to a crate he has sitting next to his cart with its lid leaning up against it.

