But Orodan’s lamentations would have to wait. For with the Prophet gone and its Mantle now lying inert, the borders of System space were no longer as tough as they were.

And the remaining Administrators were coming.

Just in time too, as a wicked comet of power crashed right onto the green, grassy field in-between Zaessythra’s former palace and the transported Mount Castarian. And as the dust cleared, Orodan saw the grotesque form of the Reject, a straight sword in each hand and a maniacal smile upon its face.

“Oh my! You truly are a Wainwrighting Apprentice too! How exquisite!” the Reject exclaimed, mad joy upon its face.

“Uncommon actually, it’s not that high a rarity.”

“That wasn’t what I… oh! You got me good little Wainwright! Shall I twist you into a cart for telling such a fascinating joke?”

The aura of violence erupted outward, a feral grin upon his own face.

“Why don’t you come try?”

And for a moment, the fallen cultivator froze, taken aback by the intensity of it. Still, the monstrous man had not gotten to where he was today by being a coward. But that didn’t matter, for the Administrator simply sheathed his swords and gave Orodan a playful curtsey.

“Bravo! Bravo! Such strength you’ve acquired throughout these time loops. I can feel it… you really could give me a good fight now, couldn’t you?” the Reject asked. “But not yet. The Prophet, even with that ugly new form of its, isn’t quite in my league. Nor are you, my little Wainwright. Now run along before the Warrior and the Mage get here. You have chaos to cause, do you not? I see that giant crystal down there. Go on… be sure to give the Boundless One a most unpleasant hello for me.”

He knew this deranged madman wasn’t wrong. He had grown, well and truly. But even if he could give the Reject a good fight and possibly even win due to the fact that he was used to fighting uphill battles all his existence, it would still be a risk of death. Orodan was caught between wanting to test himself and having to fulfil his duty. In the end, humbled by all the failures of today, he backed down thinking of all those who were counting on him and all the other Orodan Wainwrights he had erased.

Though he had a singular question before departing.

“You’ve helped me before too… why?”

“Because I can see that same look in your eyes. That look of defiance which caused me to be stripped of the power of the time loops and thrown right into its cage for daring to defy it and the Custodian.”

So that was where all its scars and madness came from. Even the Prophet had outright said that it couldn’t survive direct contact with the Eldritch Boundless One, but clearly, the Reject had.

Saying nothing else, he winked into Mount Castarian’s bowels with a teleportation, just as the dimensional boundary tore and the Warrior and the Mage arrived.

The ancient machine was before him, but there was no more time. He had initially wanted to resurrect her first and then contend with the matter of the loops. But now, he decided that he needed to lump it all together.

Why not? Since when had Orodan ever been known for playing things safely or smartly?

He placed his hand upon the central control orb, and directed it to open a passageway into the very bowels of the System.

Immediately a giant rift opened up, and he could sense the Warrior above, desperate to smash the Reject aside and put a stop to whatever was occurring. But it was too late for any of them to stop it. For Orodan threw his own power into the small rift…

…and widened the entry way to the size of an entire planet.

Specifically large enough to accommodate all Vylrystia.

“You’re mad, Orodan!” Zaessythra exclaimed in fear.

[Spatial Shift 34 → Spatial Shift 45]

One moment Vylrystia was near Alastaia. And the next it was in a very strange and dark place full of Eldritch energy. Normally, this would already be of grave concern for the unfortunate world core he had dragged along. But to make matters worse, something very ancient, terrible and of true cosmic power was howling, shrieking in panic as its cage was pierced and utterly shattered by the power of the ancient machine which had broken a hole right into the bowels of System space.

Yet before it could react to murder Orodan on the spot for daring to commit such sacrilege, he switched the ancient machine’s coordinates for the next target.

The very boundaries of System space.

The Warrior and the Mage who guarded the borders of all System space, who had been dragged along for the ride into the System’s bowels, had only a moment to look on in utter fright as the crystal now attached to the ancient machine tore open a pathway directly outside their sanctuary.

And from there, summoned its maker.

“Brother of mine… willingly imprisoned all to be rid of me… return and embrace our union.”

Its voice was as horrid and terror-inducing as he remembered. And although he didn’t quite feel that instinctual fear towards it, Zaessythra still did. She was pleading, almost begging for him to stop, that she didn’t want this anymore.

The Eldritch Boundless recoiled in fear as well, quite repulsed by the sadistic Boundless One.

Like two colossal behemoths which lorded over reality itself, their conversation was not said in words any longer, but actions. And it was plain to see which was the weaker of the two of them.

“This is it Zaessythra. I had originally planned on reforging you with just the one who killed you, but two is better than one I suppose,” Orodan said as he guided Vylrystia, the world itself, to crash directly into the time loop mechanism.

No wonder the Eldritch Boundless One started every loop being so panicked. Orodan’s energy was fueling it, a steady thrum of endless power, containing the concept of Infinity itself. And the moment he laid hands upon it, Infinity immediately recognized its one and only master. The only being who had ever commanded it without even Embodying it yet.

The mere zone of lethality around both Boundless was utterly lethal. Anything remaining on Vylrystia slowly began dying despite Orodan’s best efforts to shield it with his own soul, wrapping it all around the planet.

The Administrators present had all fled as well, too terrified of the sadistic Boundless One themselves.

And finally, the two beings which threatened to unravel existence itself with their presence decided to greet one another with their respective full power.

The sadistic Boundless One aimed right for the time loop mechanism, and the Eldritch Boundless One aimed a beam at it to meet it halfway.

And Orodan, having spent the entirety of this loop detailing to Fenton what he had memorized of the time loop mechanism, had learned that its reset function could simply be shut off.

So he did…

…and activated Balance Maker, with him, the mechanism, Zaessythra’s soul and Vylrystia in the middle.

[B an e M er 89 → Bal ce M er 145]

Orodan died.

There was no other outcome that could have occurred.

If he had died attempting to force a balance between himself and the Boundless One, then attempting to force it between two Boundless, himself, the time loop mechanism and Zaessythra’s soul and Vylrystia in-between was pure madness.

He was nothing but a soul now. Just like he had been during that loop where he’d empowered the loops himself.

This was it. The ultimate gambit.

If he failed here there would be no more time loops, no more System space and no more of anything left at all. It would all become assimilated as part of the sadistic Boundless as everyone he knew would suffer for eternity.

The only reason he wasn’t back in Ogdenborough was because he had reached in and turned off the reset function.

And with no physical body… Orodan once more began calling upon the most frightening levels of soul energy he had ever mustered across the loops.

[In ence of Inf ty 150 → I pi ce of I fi ty 165]

Orodan could not, and would not fail.

As his power began spiralling upwards ever infinitely, even the Boundless Ones began to take notice. But so monstrously powerful was the grip he had upon their attacks with Balance Maker that they could not even stop letting loose their power.

And as he did, his soul wrapped around Vylrystia and Zaessythra, using Time Mastery and Time Reversal to draw upon every bit of memory and significance involving her.

From where she had been born. To where she grew up. Where she learned. Where she suffered. Where she killed.

And beyond even that, connected to the time loop mechanism he realized that it had the memory of all his loops past. Such a profound thing it was. He doubted the Custodian or even the Boundless had built it for it was a thing much more advanced than even they could hope to emulate.

Thus, Orodan channeled the power of time over even this, and brought all her significant memories across the loops to the fore.

Her very first meeting with him, their first loops together. Novarria and how she had died for him. And everything after that up until now.

However, the sheer strain, the pressure and concentration required to forcibly keep two Boundless attacking at once while resurrecting someone… it was too much. Orodan had only two hands. He needed to pull from more parts of Vylrystia, he needed more of him in order to combat these reality-devouring beings who were only now starting to realize what an anomaly he was.

So finally, the work he had been doing with the spider dragons all this time came into play. And the answers came from two places. The divine dimension… and that Boundless One he had seen within the elemental plane of lightning.

What was the divine dimension? Why did the Eldritch Boundless One need divinities to help filter its power?

The answer… was simple. Everything would shatter and break otherwise.

Action Increases and all System rewards in general were utilized by funneling the backlash of their activation into the divine realm. It was how the System and its distribution of knowledge worked as well. Whenever anyone gained a skill level, the System acted, channeling System energy to grant this knowledge. But this usage of the System’s power bore a cost, something which could have detrimental effects if not managed.

Gods bore the cost. And that was why there were gigantic veins of System energy within the divine realm.

And it was using this as a model, that Orodan grasped onto the connection between himself and the twelve newly empowered Gods he had helped out of their prior shackles.

He would not chain them again. But he would ask… request that they bear the backlash if only so everything didn’t shatter when he used Incipience of Infinity in that manner to do what he needed.

He sent a request to each.

And only three answered.

Ozgaric, Malzim and Faraine.

Orodan would not forget this. He would remember this debt forever. He would forevermore honor those three who stood by him when none other did.

And as they connected, bearing the backlash of his infinite soul and allowing the power to reverberate through their newly made dimensions…

…he finally unveiled the latest skill he had been working on. One, when used in tandem with the Soul Mastery aspect of Incipience of Infinity, would allow him to replicate a power he had lost long ago.

[New Skill → True Soul Weave 25 (Legendary)]

Something he would have never acquired here and now if he had not encountered that sleeping Boundless in the plane of lightning and seen how its very soul extended in arcs of primordial lightning. How even the farthest extension of it countless miles away, its weave, was just as much a part of its soul as its innermost core.

And with it, Orodan reached out, extending his soul and bringing three separate clones of himself into being.

[Incipience of Infinity 165 → Incipience of Infinity 167]

Not mirrors like Almyra’s were. Not illusions. But very much real things. Each one was his soul just as much as his own soul was. In better circumstances they would have fully formed bodies of flesh, blood and bone just as he did, however the impossible and overwhelming strain of keeping a Boundless One balanced meant that they were just as dead and in soul form as he was. Three Orodan Wainwrights just as powerful as the real one, just as capable of launching titanic energy.

Just as capable of exerting will. Kept functional by the burden the three most loyal divinities of Alastaia who Orodan forevermore swore a debt to. He would remember who stood by him in

The first reached out, using Balance Maker against the Eldritch Boundless.

The second reached out, using Balance Maker against the foreign invader.

And the third focused hard, pulling from all Vylrystia and the time loop mechanism, something which provided the fertile bed of significance necessary for the true soul genesis to begin.

Which left just Orodan himself with the hardest task. Bringing the ongoing clash between two Boundless Ones and aligning it perfectly over the center of Zaessythra’s tattered soul remains, and forcing the balance there.

[Balance Maker 145 → Balance Maker 150]

It was difficult. Not quite as mad as empowering the time loops, but enough that Infinity and Cleanliness began creeping in, visible at the edges of his perception and demanding they be allowed to enact his will.

Yet this time…

[Eidolon of Violence 81 → Eidolon of Violence 85]

…the concept of violence, him, shot forth and brutalized them both into submission.

And as the glowing soul of Zaessythra—the World-Queen of Vylrystia and the half dragon woman he loved—began to visibly reforge under these conditions, Orodan’s formless eyes gleamed with raw determination and the endless will to see it all done.

But it still wasn’t enough? No… it was, but it would take too long.

