“Not the way they are for you. I know. War is my way, the crafts are yours. That is why I am here. I need to combine my skills into something greater, but many of the ancillary ones for that are too low… it will be enough to overcome the foe I fight perhaps… but not enough for the endeavor ahead of me.”

“And this enemy… they threaten everything you, we, hold dear?”

“Once it kills me the loop will reset. But it does intend to stop me from fixing things. And from bringing back someone I care for.”

“Care for? Your eyes do not lie, Orodan Wainwright.” his alternate self spoke. “I pity you… growing up as you have, you’ve never known it. But let me tell you… I know that look very well for it is a look I see in the mirror every day when I think of my wife. That person you care for? You love her.”

This… was not the time for such revelations. What did the label on such a thing matter? Orodan had never known such a feeling in his life, and Zaessythra certainly made him feel a very odd thing which went beyond the mere desires of the flesh.

“We are getting distracted. I thought you a huntsman but now I see you are a worker of stone. I have come to learn. Butchering, Skinning and anything else you can teach me. Please.”

“You are quite direct and straightforward, Orodan Wainwright,” his alternate self said with a smile.

“And you are quite wise and handy, Orodan Wainwright,” Orodan himself returned with a smile.

And the other Orodan said nothing else as they began working together.

Old Man Hannegan grumbled but accepted his inclusion, and the old foreman’s daughter mostly hid behind his alternate self while helping, trying to avoid Orodan.

And by the end of it all, Orodan received a plethora of messages. His alternate self knew more skills than he’d expected. And at a higher level than he would have thought.

They shaped stone, put it together, and worked at helping build this castle that would fortify Jerestir against any possible Novarrian incursions. Throughout it all, even as he wrestled the insights and rapidly gained levels due to the strange synchronicity between their souls, Orodan had a growing feeling of sorrow within his heart.

The other Orodan was even kind enough to skin, butcher and prepare an amazing feast for him. The man was the superior cook by a mile, just a step below Zukelmux.

And at the end of it all, he surveyed his level gain messages.

[Stonecutting 75 → Stonecutting 76]

[Masonry 44 → Masonry 45]

[Butchering 45 → Butchering 46]

[Skinning 53 → Skinning 55]

[Cooking 64 → Cooking 65]

[New Title → Stonecutting Elite]

[New Title → Masonry Apprentice]

And despite having everything he needed, the guilt and burden upon his heart was no less.

The real Orodan watched as the other Wainwright delicately kissed Old Man Hannegan’s daughter, embraced his father-in-law and then finally walked towards him.

“You did not tell them, did you?” Orodan asked.

“That would have been cruel,” his alternate self replied.

“Unlike you, I am unable to keep my mouth shut. You… are a better man than I,” Orodan spoke, the weight of what he was doing now settling upon his shoulders. “Listen. I am s-”

“Do not be. I have memories of this life, of my mother and father loving me, of growing up under the patronage and tutelage of House Stenguard, of falling in love and getting married a year ago to my wife. I was in fact supposed to start at Bluefire this year, a few days from now in fact,” the other Wainwright spoke. “But I suppose everything is as good as it can be right now. The fact that this has happened at all, that I loved her and experienced this life. It’s enough.”

Orodan’s fists clenched. His frustration, the guilt and sorrow within, it all came to a head. He could clench his fists hard enough to create black holes, but that would end this alternate time far too soon.

This… this was his doing.

Carelessly, he had assumed that using Reality Alteration in combination with Time Reversal and Fate Mastery would go as it normally had. He would simply see these outcomes. But the truth was that he needed to physically make real and enter them to learn. And unlike Edrosic from another time who had lost it all and whose memories could only go someplace better. Unlike the prior Orodan Wainwrights who hadn’t really evoked it in him.

This one, the Orodan Wainwright who was a husband and a son-in-law, did. This was no mere alternate self, but a living, breathing, thinking… feeling man. One who had taught the real him what that strange feeling he experienced towards Zaessythra was.

One who would face oblivion.

“I… I’ll return. I swear it!”

“Do not. I can see it in your eyes that such a thing would be next-to-impossible. I would rather not become real once more only to discover that it shall end once you depart,”the other Wainwright spoke. In the metaphysical tapestry, the Prophet’s tendrils of fate manipulation grew nearer, signaling that their time together was nearing its end. “Listen. You look as though a great burden is upon you. Just… just keep my wife and Gregory safe, won’t you?”

Orodan grimly nodded. In his heart, resolve forming as he added one more goal to his already long list of utterly impossible and mad things to achieve.

“I will. I promise. Thank you… Orodan Wainwright.”

“You are welcome, Orodan Wainwright,” his alternate self said with a kind smile. And though the man had not fought or bled the way he had, the life he had led had given him wisdom in different ways which Orodan himself could not comprehend. “And do tell that special someone you love them. Life is far too short not to.”

He did not want to leave. But necessity demanded that he do.

So when Orodan’s eyes opened and he found himself back in that dimension of oblivion, he found himself understanding the strange nothingness better. For it was what he had just consigned a man with a loving family to.

And as the added responsibility of that added onto his already loaded shoulders, he bore it gladly. The insights acquired from that delve into the river of time and the tapestry of fate finalizing.

“Wicked monster. And you would accuse me of sin when you would make and abandon entire realities to oblivion,” the Prophet spat.

“It is a weight I shall bear forever. And I fully intend to bring them back. All of them,” Orodan grimly spoke.

“A mad endeavor. This is our only reality and even in creating a new one it would collapse without an anchoring pillar.”

“Then I shall become that pillar. I need simply rid the obstacle in the way. Come, zealot. Face me now.”

“Your ability is clever but still immature, and you caught me unawares in the past. No longer. My Mantle fully draws upon the power of provenance now, and you shall find no escape,” the Prophet announced.

And right it was. The Mantle was charged with such power now that nothing in his current toolset could stop it.

But that was fine…

…for the Orodan Wainwrights of another time had given up much in order to add to his skills.

And as the Prophet’s beam of System energy bore down upon him, power enough to shatter most of a galaxy… he focused.

Valburga Wainwright’s birthing of him had been a violent affair. The grisly reality of having to push, and then pull him out while on a mercenary carriage. Right from the get-go he was born in an environment meant for violence. And then, his mother and father had been slaughtered in front of him, his infant face splattered with their blood.

And from there, he had been shipped off to Ogdenborough, raised upon its streets in a life of desperation, brutality and constant poverty where only the strong and the vicious got to eat and stay warm. Even in that life he had not just survived, but thrived. Beating all the other rats and orphans over the head and then challenging even the guards of House Argon who he stood no chance against in the pursuit of strength.

Which finally led to the time loops. A trial in which most were born anew or reforged into something else, but for Orodan… he had finally been cut loose. Allowed to be as violent and warlike as he was allowed.

Among the violent, Orodan had proved to be the most violent. At every opportunity he had had to violently struggle, to survive, to advance, to craft, to protect, to achieve any of these… involved violence. Perhaps not even of the fighting sort, but every advancement of his was a violent one all the same.

And now, bringing all the separate insights together across all his loops, he began to form something profound. A power which did not consume him like Cleanliness and Infinity did when he used it. A state of being that was simply… him.

The skills used were not too complex, but the profundity of their result was.

Warrior’s Reciprocity, that violent principle of hitting back no matter what.

His very words, roars really, brought in via Commandment of War. For all his life he had declared something many a time before doing it.

Combat Mastery, the very basis of it all and the core of the evolution about to take place. Alongside it, so many other masteries. Unarmed, Sword, Shield, Wrestling. Hells, even weapons he didn’t use as much came in, all part of that combat set. Halberds, spears, clubs.

And then came two important skills which helped finalize his insights.

Walking, for each step he took, each advancement he made, every goal achieved… was a violent struggle forward which required him to step along that path.

And Towing, for the weight of the responsibilities were ever-growing and the pressure of his enemies and external threats ever-mounting. Yet despite that, Orodan would not stop towing himself, those he cared for, and his very world along with him, with violence as the driving engine.

And in the end… certain skills which he never thought would have factored in. Yet their craft and advancement was certainly violent enough. Butchering, Skinning, Stonecutting, Mining and even Woodworking came in, for his foes were composed of more than just flesh on many an occasion.

And the impetus for that final set of skills had been the most peaceful and serene version of himself he had ever known. A man of peace. Yet Orodan had needed to meet that alternate version of himself. To see the contrast between the two.

For violence could not exist without peace. And in seeing that other side, it had finally brought it all together.

Orodan was the very personification of it. The ideal.

An…

…Eidolon of Violence.

[Skill Combination - Warrior’s Reciprocity 99 + Commandment of War 62 + Combat Mastery 149 + Unarmed Combat Mastery 114 + Sword Mastery 100 + Shield Mastery 99 + Wrestling 93 + Halberd Mastery 65 + Spear Mastery 54 + Club Mastery 53 + Walking 70 + Towing 76 + Butchering 46 + Skinning 55 + Stonecutting 76 + Mining 60 + Woodworking 84 → Eidolon of Violence 79 (Celestial)]

[New Title → Violence Elite]

[New Title → Halberd Elite]

[New Title → Mining Elite]

[New Title → Club Elite]

Orodan’s first action was a fist which destroyed the very notion that an attack was being made.

His knuckles pulped the skull of the attack, killing it on the spot. The elimination of causality in a single blow through nothing but raw and overwhelming violence.

Even with this skill combination, he felt slightly dissatisfied. He was so close… so close to pushing into that level beyond even Celestial which did not exist in all System space. But for now, this would have to do.

The Prophet could only remain utterly frozen as it looked right at him. Its already unnaturally hybridized face, even paler. Its body, imperceptibly trembling.

“A… a triple Celestial… it cannot be…”

“ I don’t know what the significance of a triple-Celestial is, but you may want to school your awe. I’m going to kill you now. And I would feel quite dishonorable if I did it when you weren’t ready.”

The Prophet steeled itself, throwing everything it could into the attack, but it mattered not.

With an Endless Blitz, Orodan directed the Eidolon of Violence to strike against the oncoming beam. But he also targeted the very notion of an attack, the very space between Orodan and his foe which caused his punch to tear space and suddenly deposit him right next to the Administrator. And a final blow which struck the Prophet’s very soul.

[Eidolon of Violence 79 → Eidolon of Violence 81]

It was a savage and rage fueled thing, a strike so strong that it caused the bounds of this otherwise unnaturally durable dimension to crack and shatter as well. And while the overwhelming majority of the force had been absorbed by the odd dimension they were in, the boundary shattering meant they now had a clear path back to the material plane.

So Orodan’s fist, buried inside his foe’s chest, caused the both of them to fly right towards Vylrystia due to the momentum.

Mid-flight, with a free hand, he brutalized the spatial vectors which would have guided him to a random part of the planet and instead cracked their bones so that they would instead lead him right before the ancient machine.

The two of them, time looper and Administrator, hit the ground with a crash.

And below him…

…the Prophet was dead.

Not just physically dead in the sense that its soul would be pulled back to the System. But dead to the point that its soul was utterly destroyed. A fate which had partially befallen Zaessythra when she’d been struck by the full power of the invading Boundless One from outside System space.

Only now, with his heart clear of anger and sorrow did he think clearly and even feel regret for how far he had gone. Today, had been a day full of him breaking things. One after another, his power had led to much suffering and death. Just as it could be used for good, so too could his strength lead to great ill.

