And Orodan wasn’t sure how long the three divinities he owed his life and eternal friendship to would be able to hold out for. Already he could sense Malzim, desperate to repay all Orodan had done for him, beginning to weaken as his dimension of death began overloading with the backlash.

Worst of all, he could not accelerate the process of her soul’s recovery with any chronomancy either. Perhaps if he had an extra clone, but not when his full attention was devoted to managing the reality-destroying forces clashing and keeping her recovering soul centered.

“Damn it… damn it all! There has to be a way!”

With everything on the line, he could only pray, plea, for someone or something to answer.

And it did.

Something small, green and rather weak floated towards him.

“It… it’s you!”

He… he recognized this! It had driven him away last time when he was meant to face the sadistic Boundless!

“You require time to forge life anew.”

“But… I do not have it. I cannot… I will not abandon her again. What can I do?” Orodan asked, desperate for an answer. For anything.

“You are strong… will you end the suffering of those within the cage of eternal torment?”

“I intend to kill that wicked beast one loop. But what will it matter here and now if I fail?”

“Then allow me to provide an alternative. You require time to forge life anew… or life itself.”

Life itself? Could he give his? But he was already dead.

“A soul… for a soul. Keep your bargain, time looper.”

And Orodan could only watch, shocked, as something he barely knew descended right into the slowly forging tattered remains of Zaessythra’s soul.

The moment it connected… genesis.

For a moment even the Boundless Ones slowed in their intensity of trying to resist him. Even they were shocked that new life could form from the collision of two of their kind fighting against one another.

But form it did.

The eyes were the first thing to return. Mismatched white and gold.

Her bones, flesh, blood and scales were next. Followed by her flowing silver hair and the horns which pointed forward.

Her wings came at the end, finishing their formation just as her first breaths came out.

And the first thing she did was wrap both arms around him and hold him oh so tenderly.

“I’ve wanted to do that for the longest time…”

Orodan was the farthest thing from sentimental, but he found himself feeling as though his heart had skipped more than a few beats and something had physically loosened in his chest.

And he didn’t even have a physical heart anymore.

“I wish I could stay like this for a while longer… but we cannot waste time,” Orodan cautioned. “Malzim is about to falter as we speak. Long has the noble God of Death held on for our sakes.”

“Then let us… Orodan?”

“I cannot move… if I do, one of those two clashing above will prevail over the other and destroy the time loop mechanism.”

“Then… although I cannot shoulder your charge, I can shoulder you.”

Which led to the sight of a ten foot tall half dragon pulling him along the ground all the way to the time loop mechanism and then, with her hands clasped around his, forcing them onto the device.

“Thank you… you should leave. This part will kill you and I’d rather not see that,” Orodan said.

“So eager to be rid of me now that we’ve finally reunited? You shall not find me so easy a shadow to shake off, Orodan Wainwright.”

This woman…

He had no more time, or even the energy for anymore thought. Malzim had perhaps a minute of endurance left in him before he faltered and three clones became two. And with that, the balance would falter and Orodan could not do what he intended to.

So as two Boundless clashed around him, as reality itself shook and fell apart. Even as he sensed more Boundless from further beyond approach, curious about the most fascinating affair…

…Orodan Wainwright used all three Celestial skills at once.

[Domain of Perfect Cleaning 182 → Domain of Perfect Cleaning 190]

[Incipience of Infinity 167 → Incipience of Infinity 175]

[Eidolon of Violence 85 → Eidolon of Violence 89]

Infinity consumed him. As did Cleanliness.

Only for Violence to erupt and fight them both.

Orodan was Violence. The Eidolon of it.

He had permanently altered the timeline before, but this time it was on a scale grander than anything he had ever done before.

So he focused, and the concepts obeyed.

He recalled everyone who had done him a good turn. Everyone in his life and throughout his loops who had suffered harm and injustice. And he worked to clean not just dirt and filth… but pain and suffering. To set things right.

Right from the beginning, Baron Viglas Argon… the crooked noble partially responsible for destroying Volarbury County. Only in later loops did Orodan learn that the man’s entire family had died and his house been forgotten by the Republic despite their sacrifices.

This, he cleaned.

His friends from Bluefire, Mahari and Altaj. Their mother had died and the transmigrated Akelrim Vedharna’s father had died in the process of trying to cure her.

This too, he cleaned.

His mentor Arvayne Firesword’s possession by Agathor, his love, Alcianne Rockwood’s possession by Halor. The imprisonment of Faraine, the death of Aliya’s brother, the death of Fenton's father, the murder of Zukelmux’s mother, the cursing of Fenton’s mother and Almyra, all of these…

…he cleaned.

And finally, Zaessythra’s death and unjust end at the hands of the Hegemony alongside the destruction of her world.

This… he cleaned.

Alastaia, Thazrivin, Vylrystia and Lonvoron.

With the purging abilities of Cleanliness, the limitless power of Infinity and the guiding hand of Violence, their lack of inclusion in the time loops…

…he cleaned.

His mind was now focused, his three Celestial skills resonating most oddly with one another. It was as though Orodan was on the very precipice of becoming something more.

Something incredibly grand.

Yet at the last moment he realized he was not enough. Not yet.

There was so much more he would like to do. So much he would like to clean and restore. But his skills were not enough, his insights lacking.

To clean Xian, X2, Narictus and the Conclave. To clean the Administrators. To clean the Eldritch Boundless One, the invading Boundless… and the System itself. And to clean that being which had sacrificed itself when he needed it the most.

Orodan Wainwright would need to continue stubbornly skill grinding in a time loop.

And having achieved the the first part of his truly mad goal, as Malzim finally failed and the invading Boundless One growled in cosmos-destroying rage…

…he simply flipped the switch on the time loop mechanism once more, turning it back on.

The darkness took him.

#

A keening wail ringing in the night sky awoke him.

Yet he wasn’t exactly on his creaky bed. Not when a pair of warm and soft arms were wrapped around him.

Not with twelve new connections leading from his soul to separate dimensions existed.

And not when Alastaia no longer had a moon, but a vibrant green sister world.

It seemed he was no longer the only skill-grinder in a time loop, though he would ever be the most stubborn one.

And the pair of arms wrapped around him had something to say about how long they had missed certain things which came with having a physical form.
