“Does your power have no limit? You and that entire world you come from are unnatural! To produce a Celestial talent, an artist who can peer right into peoples’ very beings and a time looper such as yourself,” the Prophet remarked, pausing the fight for a moment. “Once I have you under heel, I shall have to look closer at your planet. If you will not cooperate… then perhaps someone else from there can be guided into becoming the next time looper.”

The Prophet didn’t know yet that Orodan had taken over the loops and empowered them himself. But he didn’t care.

All he could think when the Administrator spoke of guiding someone from Alastaia…

For as Orodan watched, entirely too calm in the real world as his parents were slain. So too did the three-month-old Orodan in the past watch, not an emotion visible upon his face. Even as the blood of his parents spattered upon him.

…was how the Custodian had orchestrated the death of his mother and father and set Orodan upon the course he was on today.

How Fenton’s mother had been stricken with an incurable disease due to the very Prophet before him. Like how Almyra began each loop with the exact same curse due to no fault of her own.

Would Edrosic be next? Was the man’s suffering in an alternate timeline not enough? Would it be Aliya? Zukelmux? Wainroach?

No. No more.

Orodan was done with the System and the manipulative players who sought to use or counter its time loops.

“Guided into becoming the next time looper?” he asked, voice low and dangerous, something hot and ugly rearing its head within him. “Like how you ruined Fenton and Almyra’s lives?”

“I know not the names of these two who-”

“Almyra was anointed before me. And Fenton was meant to be the next,” Orodan sharply cut off, rage and a strange feeling bubbling around him. “Your fate manipulations were successful. You cursed both people related to the time loops. Is that how you intend to guide the next looper?”

“I will bear my sins while maddened for the rest of my existence. But you cannot deny that such manipulations are but a trifle when compared to the cosmic harmony at stake. After all… the Custodian’s manipulations created you.”

So it seemed that the Prophet did know more about him after all. Likely from inquiries made after their encounter at Lonvoron.

“I had thought you reformed. Redeemed. But it seems a mad zealot will always remain a mad zealot, even if the mask of it changes,” Orodan spat, raising his weapons in defiance, the aura of violence beginning to form around him. “And a violent street rat will always remain a violent street rat no matter how many time loops he goes through. Come, Prophet, let me show you the monster your ilk have successfully made.”

Orodan rushed forward, only to be sent flying right into a cage of light once more. He broke out easily enough, but the Prophet merely snorted.

“You are arrogant. Do you think me without recourse? I read the portents and your destiny with every passing instant. Do not think I am unaware of the mangled nature of your soul, and how it lacks the touch of provenance. I would have slain you on the spot for being a champion of the enemy if not for the signs of anointment upon you,” the Administrator explained all too calmly. “For long have I defended our sanctuary against the foreign invader’s champions. Do not think your trick of removing yourself from the System’s tapestry of fate will avail you against me. Even without the tapestry, many champions of the outsiders have fallen before me.”

“And now you shall learn why relying upon the tapestry against me is a bad idea.”

As Orodan said, a zealot would always be a zealot.

Similarly, he would always be a street rat.

One who was born of and defined by one thing…

…violence.

So he called upon that exceedingly odd power, although calling upon it would have been the wrong term. It was as though he was it. Something that had always been inside of him, slowly developed and honed through all the conflict he’d been in throughout his life.

And with a mad gleam in his eyes, Orodan punched outward, nowhere near the Prophet. yet still managing to strike the Administrator.

Not upon its face or body…

[Unarmed Combat Mastery 113 → Unarmed Combat Mastery 114]

[Combat Mastery 148 → Combat Mastery 149]

…but upon its very sight within the tapestry of fate itself.

A horrid wail echoed out, the first true cry of pain the Prophet had let out since the battle began.

“How?! What foul trick is this?!”

It was no trick. It was simple violence. Something he begrudgingly had to give credit to Agathor for inspiring in him. Yet he had taken it a step beyond what the Inuanan God of War could ever hope to.

He had targeted nothing physical. What he had instead done was feel and aim for the very metaphysical notion of sight that the Administrator held within the tapestry of fate, effectively giving it a black eye.

And as anyone who had been in a brawl knew, catching a stiff punch to the eye could make it swell up quite a bit.

But the Prophet was no weak-willed fool, not since Edrosic had awakened something powerful within it. The Administrator gritted its teeth and simply powered through, resuming its sight upon the tapestry of fate. It was ready now, reading not just Orodan’s direct attacks against it, but also his actions in the metaphysical domain.

It predicted it all…

…only to helplessly eat another punch right to its metaphysical vision.

It doubled over in pain but instinctually channeled its Mantle, drawing copious amounts of power through it to unleash.

Simply for Orodan tofinally close the distance successfully, holding the Mantle… and then snapping the neck of the very connection between Mantle and Eldritch Boundless One fueling it.

The power of violence… was as absurd as it was strong.

The Prophet gasped as he and Orodan tumbled through the air of this eerie dimension, locked in a grapple with one another. The Mantle it held was fine visually, but provided no power for a moment, which shocked it as Orodan pummelled the Administrator with his now superior physical strength.

However he had yet to properly consolidate all the insights he had been honing over the past many loops of grinding. This wouldn’t be enough.

Already he could see the connection between the Mantle and Boundless reforming, the result of not having properly tapped into this conceptual power of his fully. And he could see the Prophet’s vision over the tapestry returning as well.

Furthermore, it was actively summoning light beam after light beam upon him. Having felt the danger of continuing to try and capture him alive, it had decided that death was the easier option.

Multiple wormholes to outside of System space tore open, the Administrator attempting to shove Orodan into at least one of them and end his life.

Despite his strength, despite the violence… he felt that this still wouldn’t be enough. The Prophet was tough when it had access to the System and wasn’t damaged by a quantity of lethal acid which could obliterate star systems. Sooner or later, one of these wormholes would catch him, like a fish hitting a net, and then the Administrator would see fit to end him, thinking the loops no longer applying.

But even if Orodan returned to Ogdenborough, even if the Prophet failed in the end… he had come so far! He was so close!

He refused to fail here. This loop, he had to win, even if it was against a full-power Administrator who had received an upgrade strengthening it further.

The insights he had gathered and been working on would not be enough. Not against this empowered foe.

And so he, with his newly acquired Time Grandmastery aiding him, and the full power of his soul behind it…

…Orodan threw his all into exploring alternate timelines in the tapestry of fate.

Specifically, different versions of himself.

[Fate Mastery 38 → Fate Mastery 45]

[Reality Alteration 90 → Reality Alteration 91]

His consciousness entered the river of time. That grand thing which affected everyone and everything within System space. Including himself.

He had done it once before, going seventeen years back. So it wasn’t difficult when he reached the point in the timeline where the Custodian intervened and arranged for his parents to die. A day which had shaped him into the warrior he was today.

Ovuru World-Drinker had barely a moment to think before the power of violence separated his head from his shoulders, and Orodan, in tandem with Time Reversal and Fate Mastery, explored the different timelines from this point onward.

Ones where his mother and father both lived.

He had been to almost all of these before. The first was simple enough, a time where his parents both moved to Velestok, his mother Valburga joining the Simarji house guard and becoming a respected Elite-level warrior while his father Hathradan became a skilled herbalist who worked their forest preserves.

Under the familial kinship of the warm House Simarji, Orodan grew up loved, cherished and with family, home and needs met.

A martial prodigy whose talents were recognized early on, the young man was quickly groomed to be a talent from a young age. But besides that, besides beating Claridin Rockwood in the semifinals of the Inter-Academy Tournament and then losing to the divine-channeling Othorion Evertree. Besides the fact that this Orodan had failed and died in the end during his first fight against the Eldritch Avatar, becoming corrupted and stripped of the loops…

…one habit this one had, was that he enjoyed taking walks with Adeltaj Simarji every morning. Long hikes through the Aenechean Forest where disciple and master conversed at length about the meaning of life and the martial path.

It was sweet. And it was exactly where the real Orodan tore a path open into, his fist and the concept of violence intruding upon this odd hypothetical place. With Reality Alteration bringing temporary existence to this alternate time, he entered.

The alternate Adeltaj’s halberd immediately unfurled, the old Simarji taking a protective stance and ushering the other Orodan behind him. Personally, he thought it incredibly weak that this Orodan would allow another to step in front of him when battle came. Yes, he was being judgemental, but this other fool bore the name Orodan Wainwright and had their shared reputation to maintain!

“Who are you?” Adeltaj calmly asked.

“Master Adeltaj, please allow me to-”

“No! I sense it, this man is monstrous, and… by the Gods… he wears your face… such anger! A demon of rage?”

Orodan frowned at that. Just because the alternate Orodan didn’t have a perpetually angry-looking face like the real him did didn’t mean Adeltaj got to judge.

“Old man, step aside. I come for your student,” the real Orodan spoke, looking his alternate self up and down with a scrutinizing look. “Soft and coddled. But I suppose you cannot be blamed for that when you never went through the things I did… or we do, in the real world.”

“The real… world? What do you mean? Why do you wear my face?” the alternate Wainwright asked.

“I am you from the real timeline. Where both our mother and father are slain by a Guzuharan raid during their caravan journey to Velestok,” Orodan explained. “And while your… gentle upbringing has led to certain deficiencies, so too has my rough and uneducated life caused some shortcomings.”

Adeltaj kep his halberd protectively raised, but did not look as though he was about to attack now that hostility seemed less likely.

“A world without mother and father… can it be? I sense it, stranger. You are strong. Stronger than I ever thought possible…” the other Orodan said.

“Do not think too hard on it. This is after we enter the time loops.”

“T-the time loops?”

“As I said, do not think too hard on it. It is confusing and will only become more so once you die for the first time,” the real Orodan explained. “Now, although this will sound quite unlike me to recommend, I shall say it anyhow. You are not me. Once you enter the time loops, do not fight the Eldritch directly. As much as this plagues me to say… you may need to… may need to… strategize.”

The alternate Orodan had not a clue what he was saying nor the reason why he struggled so much in getting that final word out.

The joys of a regular upbringing.

“I see… but why have you come here? Is it perhaps, to train me?” the other Wainwright asked.

“No. And I doubt it would matter since this is a false reality anyhow, a mere conjuration of the power of my soul. Instead… I have come to learn from you. Will you teach me how to walk?”

“How to… walk?”

The other Wainwright must have thought it a joke. A version of himself strong enough to contend with an Administrator, and he was asking the Elite-level Orodan how to walk?

But it was no joke. For the real Orodan never had leisure in his steps or a joy for walking the way this one did. He had only picked up the skill thanks to Old Man Hannegan and being forced to engage in deeper introspection about it. Prior to that, fighting advancement and fixing the problems which came his way were too much of a priority to ever allow himself a relaxing walk to clear the mind.

So, as flummoxed as the other Wainwright seemed, the prodigy of House Simarji taught him. And they simply walked. And as they walked, Orodan felt a resonance within his soul.

Different as the other was, it was still him in a sense. Something which allowed him to pick up the levels shockingly fast. He used the burgeoning concept of violence too, literally wrangling insights and instructions delivered from the other’s mouth into his own mind. A display which horrified the alternate Orodan and Adeltaj.

But it worked.

And by the end of it, he received a final message.

