[Walking 69 → Walking 70]

With that, Orodan moved on, searching for the next alternate timeline while reading through the tapestry of fate from the moment of his parents’ survival.

[Fate Mastery 45 → Fate Mastery 47]

[Fate Reading 64 → Fate Reading 65]

He perused various other timelines. Many of them tragic, where he failed to reach his true potential, others just disappointing and embarrassing, where he became a drunk, criminal or a womanizer. Yet, much to his embarrassment and utter horror, it was the alternate Orodan in a timeline where he did naught but chase skirts who had the skill he needed.

The Orodan of this timeline had not been mentored under House Simarji, but House Firesword. Valburga had joined with them instead of the Simarjis and that had led to her son becoming a spoiled by power, privilege and luxury once his talents were noticed.

Worst of all, this Orodan would often get into trouble and be forced into punitive duties by House Firesword as a measure of keeping him reined in.

Thus, it was in Trumbetton’s fanciest tavern that the real Orodan tore his way into this false alternate reality.

The place was so packed and noisy that virtually nobody noticed, drunk or engaged in revelry as they were.

“Barkeep! Another! We can’t leave these new friends of mine without drink in their mugs!”

“Of course my lord, another round for Volarbury County’s greatest prodigy,” the barkeep said, and then muttered under his breath. “Damned blue-blood…”

He could see why too, for this Orodan had his arm around the barkeeper’s daughter, who should have been working. And the positioning was beyond inappropriate for a mere ‘friend’. That the lecher also had his other arm around a giggling half-elf didn’t help matters.

Frankly, it disgusted him more than it should have. Coming from the utter lack of anything good that the real Orodan had, the sight of a version of him being spoiled and entitled caused something bitter to brew within. Miserable as it sounded, in that moment a part of him was grateful for the poverty and struggle of being an orphaned street rat.

Better that than turn out like this waste of skin.

Even Zaessythra was more than a little repulsed at the sight of this other Wainwright sitting at a tavern’s counter, numerous empty bottles nearby while he sweet talked two women into joining him at his personal manor. He couldn’t care less about the man’s personal affairs, but the sheer arrogance and disregard for others that this version of him walked around with, that indulgent look of hedonism… it sickened him in a way even the Eldritch could not.

Then, the tavern doors swung open, and the sight of a most enraged woman almost as tall as he, caused everyone to still.

The real Orodan’s heart wrenched at the sight of his mother. Alive, healthy, and an Elite. But also exceedingly angry.

“Orodan Wainwright!” she roared, her voice then calmed to a dangerously saccharine tone. “My dear boy. Might I ask why you have missed your training with elder Arvayne?”

“Erm… that is…” the pathetic fool stuttered. “I was hoping to explore additional avenues of training?”

Valburga’s fury was a vicious thing. And he had to wonder if his natural violence in combat had its roots from there.

The woman had the lecherous imposter—for in no way could this disgusting fop be worthy of bearing the name of Orodan Wainwright—dragged out by the collar and towards a work site. The real Orodan silently followed, Valburga too angry to notice him yet. Within minutes, she practically threw the false Wainwright towards someone whose identity surprised him.

“Mister Hannegan. Put this wastrel to work immediately please,” Valburga demanded as politely as she could.

Whether mere chance or genuine fate, it seemed the old man was fated to be in Orodan’s life somehow. Perhaps those with Celestial potential gravitated towards one another?

“Right. Same duty as always boy, go tow those carts. Who else in the county can say their Towing skill is at the Elite-level?”

“Only one who’s forced into the same duty almost every day like he is,” Valburga angrily added, icily overseeing the training.

That was… until she finally noticed Orodan looming over her.

“What the- who’re you? Can’t just sneak up on me like that, might deck you… what in the hells? Orodan?”

“Y-yes mother?” the imposter called out.

“Not you! Back to work, boy!” she scolded and then turned back.

The woman had to look back and forth between the wastrel of this timeline and the real him. Her eyes narrowed and she was about to draw her sword thinking him some manner of demon when he instead interrupted all of that by pulling the woman into a hug.

“Forgive me mother,” Orodan spoke, his voice full of longing and pain. “But I cannot bring you back. Not yet. Not when I have so much to do.”

“Y-you… I should be giving you a beating here and now! But you sound so much like my son…”

“I am him. And he… unfortunate as his spoiled upbringing has made him… is me. And I have come to learn from him,” Orodan said, finally pulling away. “Wastrel. Will you teach me Towing?”

“M-me? And who do you dare to call a wastrel?! I am Volarbury County’s greatest prodigy, the cream of the crop! Burgher Ignatius and elder Arvayne themselves-”

Orodan’s fist knocked the air out of the weakling, making the man bend over and fall to his knees.

“Soft; getting forced to your knees by a mere Adept-level strike. Retaining breath despite an impact is a fundamental martial skill. You have been skipping your training. If you truly sparred regularly with Arvayne Firesword I know he would not allow you to be so deficient. I should know, he trained me after all.”

The other Orodan took great gulps of air, but was angered at his scathing truths.

“What the hells would you know? That old monster drives me into the ground!” the man barked out from below. “And why do you wear my face? Are you a demon? The Cathedral will see you exorcised for this!”

“A demon? No. I am you from a time where there is no Hathradan and Valburga and we grow up an orphaned street rat in Ogdenborough,” he calmly said, watching the man’s face go through multiple stages of processing that revelation. “And you complain about an opportunity which would help cure these shortcomings you have. Talent is no excuse to avoid hard work. You are deficient in mindset and toughness… but I am deficient in Towing.”

“You are from an alternate time then? That sounds preposterous… it cannot be real.”

“Unfortunately, it is as real as the time loops you are anointed for shall be.”

“The… what?”

“Do not worry about that. Come, let me tow these carts of stone and lumber alongside you. Perhaps I may yet learn something from a wastrel.”

“Hey!”

Thus, Orodan soundlessly joined the womanizing version of him. And it was a bit surprising to see how good the man was at pulling carts. Not just physicality, but sheer laziness ensured that the man knew the ins-and-outs of how to most effectively handle a punitive duty he was regularly assigned.

They towed carts, the real Orodan absorbed the insights with utterly shocking speed and he also pounded the insights into his own mind with the concept of violence.

[Towing 74 → Towing 76]

That timeline he moved on from eventually as well.

Now, the furious and determined tendrils of the Prophet’s own Fate Mastery were wisping through the path Orodan had created to the past. The Administrator saw what he was doing and seemed hells-bent on stopping him.

Which meant he only had enough time for one more alternate timeline.

It would have to be enough, and it needed to be a timeline where the Orodan knew more about the skills he had then the real him did.

[Fate Mastery 47 → Fate Mastery 49]

[Fate Reading 65 → Fate Reading 68]

Searching for a specific timeline where he had certain skills was difficult. Still, he was the same individual with the same propensity towards certain things. Nurture mattered, but so too did nature. So eventually, with copious amounts of searching, he managed to find a timeline where the Orodan Wainwright had the skills he was looking for.

A timeline where the young man had found not fighting or Cleaning early on…

…but the crafts.

This Orodan had picked up a hammer and chisel before ever picking up a sword. And Hathradan had of course encouraged him throughout his youth, and although Valburga thought learning some manner of fighting was important she didn’t disapprove of him going down the route of a crafter.

It was… exceedingly alien to see a timeline where he didn’t fight at all. In fact, every other timeline he’d seen, Orodan was still schooled in some manner of combat. Be it sword, spear, halberd, club or fist. Fighting was what he did.

But watching this Orodan, not schooled or ready for combat at all was a surprising feeling.

Yet not a disappointing one.

The craftsman’s hammer hit the rock over and over, his muscles aching with exertion and sweat pouring off him in droplets. Yet this crafter Orodan simply kept going. In his eyes, determination.

This Orodan, despite being a craftsman, was a hard worker.

And said hard worker was laboring under instruction from Old Man Hannegan and a young woman he’d not seen before. The lot of them were toiling to construct a grand castle. And it was the alternate Orodan’s stonework that was contributing to the majority of its quality. Quality which was honestly approaching that of Varnok Grimbreaker.

“Alright, now keep shaping that section and bring it in line with the archway! Good job Orodan!” Old Man Hannegan praised, looking satisfied.

“Thank you, father.”

Father…?! Hells, even the old foreman’s face turned red and a tear came to his eye when that word had been uttered by the other Wainwright.

“Orodan…” an exceedingly soft and gentle voice called out. It belonged to the young woman. “You cannot just openly call him father… it will cause him to go light-headed my love.”

“Of course, but I see the man as another father, what is the shame in it?”

“You… Orodan…” Old Man Hannegan stuttered. “Ugh… who would have thought marrying my daughter off to you would lead to such trouble for me? You are too sentimental and kind-hearted, lad!”

Although with the way the old man said it, he didn’t consider either of those to be bad traits.

And marrying off his daughter? So this was the old man’s child who he kept secret all this time? What an odd timeline indeed.

It was this odd time and place that Orodan tore his way into.

The other Wainwright, though not ready for a fight, stood protectively between him and Old Man Hannegan’s daughter. And the old foreman himself had a Mana Bolt in his hands, utterly basic magic, but still ready to defend his family.

“At ease. I have not come to harm anyone,” Orodan spoke, looking particularly at his alternate self.

Despite being the same person, there were differences. To start, the other Orodan was less physically imposing and even two inches shorter than he. The man’s face also had a serene and almost gentle aura to it; nowhere was the look of perpetual anger to be found. Furthermore, the thought of entering a fight looked as though it worried him. Something the real Orodan couldn’t relate to.

This craftsman’s wife however, was practically clinging onto her husband, hiding behind him. Her eyes widened innocently and fearfully at the mere sight of the sword on his hip and the shield across his back.

“H-he has a w-weapon…!” she pitifully whimpered.

Understanding dawned upon him, and Orodan put both his implements of war away and into his dimensional ring for now.

“Who the hells are you?!” the old foreman demanded. “We have a strict no-weapons policy on my site!”

The alternate Orodan however, stepped forward, protective of the old man.

“Father, please let me talk to this man. He looks… related to me? Are you some sibling of mine that I do not know of?”

The other Wainwright ushered the two of them to step off to the side so that they were not overheard. More sense than the real Orodan would display.

“No, Orodan. I am you. From a different time, a more violent time where our mother and father were slaughtered and we were raised by the streets and a failing orphanage which never quite provided enough.”

This version of him had a very gentle countenance, a kind nature which lacked that brutal edge of violence which the real Orodan had grown up with.

“You are harsh to yourself. Despite your temperament I have never known you to be cruel,” Zaessythra reminded.

Still, kind as the man was, there seemed to be a real intellect behind his eyes.

“You do not look to be the sort of man who would play a practical jest, and you somehow tore through space to appear here. And… you also share my eyes,” the other Wainwright spoke. “If you really are from another time… is any of this real?”

“It is not.”

“Then… are my wife and father-in-law safe in your time?”

“They certainly are, although I’ve never met your wife before in all my loops.”

“Loops?”

“A long story.”

“I see… I will not ask you to repeat it then,” the other Wainwright said, every bit the practical man of action that the real him was. “What have you come here for?”

“To learn.”

“Hmm… you certainly have the bearing of a warrior. Your life must have been a truly brutal one. But I can see it in your eyes, while proficient in the crafts, they are not truly you. Not…”

