My voice rasped at the end. Eonoth reached out to me, "That is a lie. There is something utterly unique about you. I await discovery."

It got closer, the formless shape threatening contact. A deep instinct was screaming in the back of my head. It told me this - do not let this thing touch you. I didn't have a choice. I listened.

I created a well behind me, pulling me away. Even as I moved, Eonoth's position didn't change. I looked around, finding nothing to hold onto. In desperation, I tore off a chunk of my gray suit. I gripped into the back of my hand, piercing the skin. My own silver blood leaked out.

I pointed at it, "Alright, you twisted my arm. See this, it's silver blood. I'm living metal. Happy?"

The Old One stopped approaching me. My mind calmed down, fear no longer infesting me like a virus. A gleeful tone infested Eonoth's voice,

"You are...remarkable. I will leave you be. Enjoy the scarcity of your time. It gives it value, something I cannot comprehend."

It faded back into the void, "I'll allow you to return to your realm. We will meet again, Harbinger."

Space shivered around me. Before I returned, the formless shape jerked out of the darkness. It appeared in front of me. With a single appendage, it pierced my helmet and touched my forehead.

"Ah, but there is knowledge here given by Etorhma. Since Yawm, he fears your kind. He is weak, weak for one of us. I share none of his fears, for I am beyond fear. I will complete this fragment of knowledge he gave you."

My eyes rolled back into my head. Mystifying thoughts beamed into my head, Eonoth's mind touching my own. The core of my personality unraveled into tiny, minute pieces. Eonoth's mind was broad, broader than comprehension.

He was an ocean, and I was a single drop. I fell into the abyss, my identity lost in the sheer size of it. Off reflex, I gritted my teeth and flexed my fists. It didn't matter. No amount of will would close this gap. It was like launching yourself into space by jumping.

In a word, futile.

I fought on, struggling to keep some sense of identity. After eon's of being in the belly of the beast, I returned. Eonoth evaporated back into the void,

"And you remain. You are worthy, Harbinger. You are worthy."

I blinked. As quickly as I entered the Eonoth's ream, I returned back into my own. I was still on the tree, and the espens piled up beside the ravine. Not a second had passed.

I leaned over, pulling off my helmet and puking. Most of what I retched was my own blood, but some of it was vomit. I wiped off my face, getting my own blood off me. It felt like I just drowned. I shivered a bit, a piercing fear crawling up my spine.

Eonoth was nothing like Etorhma. Etorhma was polite and civil. He was mostly rational, though he had a few crazy moments. Eonoth was nothing like that. He was an amalgamation of a thousand minds. It was beyond comprehension. In fact, I was glad I didn't comprehend it.

Who knows what would happen to me if I did.

I shook off the overwhelming sense of dread. If not for my enhanced willpower, I'd be nothing but jelly by now. I looked at my health. Over three quarters was missing. I slapped the sides of my face, realizing how close to death I was.

I wasn't about to die to some dragon or badass warrior. I was about to die from hearing a voice. Wow. Talk about humbling.

I stood up, my hands still shaking. I clenched my teeth. I was tired of this whole jittery episode. I reared back my fist and punched myself in the face. I held onto the tiny bit of pain, using it to clear my mind.

I wasn't in tip-top condition, but it would do. I turned towards the espens, lifting them up with magic. I walked back towards Icosah, unable to muster up the mental energy to run. Instead, I looked at the walk like it was a break.

As I walked, I looked at my status. I gained about one hundred levels from spider guy, which was nice. I checked out my skills, finding a point gained here or there. My jaw dropped when I discovered my Dimensional Cipher skill. It was in the 300's after Etorhma gave me that spike of knowledge.

It was a tiny bit higher now that Eonoth finished it.

Dimensional cipher(1,081) - You bend the laws of nature with knowledge of its inner workings. Forbidden, but powerful.

I rubbed my hands together in anticipation.  At least meeting a being beyond my comprehension wasn't all bad.

It had its perks.
