The programmer sat back and watched the server output stay at the increased capacity as he waited for the backup to become ready.

********

Ren stepped out of the new Sanctuary only a moment after he had stepped in and shut the door. “Oh, yeah.” He said and made fists with his hands. “Having full stats feels really good!”

Ren activated the steel squares he had planted all over the country and the artificial Aura popped into place and merged his own Aura with it. He opened up the popup that gave him the option to add an additional class to his character without losing his Artificer abilities, and he chose Fighter, which reset his stats to the beginning. He raised his hands into the air and cast both Charm Person and Terrify at the same time.

“I hope you're ready for this, you tech assholes!” Ren said as he activated his Emotion Siphon ability and sucked in everything almost instantly. It was only him, since his party had been disbanded, so only he gained all of the XP that his ability gave him. It only took a couple of seconds for him to max his XP and unlock everything for the Fighter class, so he turned around and stepped into the new Sanctuary to max out the stats by reading his stat books.

Ren was back out a moment later and repeated the process. He chose Ranger as his additional class this time and it reset his stats to the beginning, then he maxed the XP and unlocked all of the skills for that class and stepped back into the Sanctuary to max his stats again. He kept doing this for every class that he had access to. When he finished with all the male versions of the classes, he took a deep breath and took out the Level 1 wand that he had prepared for this occasion.

“This is going to be really weird.” Ren said and cast Gender Swap on himself. He doubled over in pain as his whole body changed, just like it felt when he used the Polymorph helm. He finished transforming after a few moments, and he didn't think he felt any different. He took out a large mirror and looked at himself, and was surprised by what he saw.

Ren had long beautiful blonde hair that went halfway down his back and his blue suit bulged out where his larger than average breasts had grown. They were quite a bit larger than they should have been on someone so short, and they kind of hurt being squished up as they were. Ren equipped his red suit and it adapted for his new form and fit him a lot better than the blue suit did.

Now that he was going to be female for the next 20 minutes, Ren opened the character popup and chose the next class on the list that was only accessible by female players, Amazon Fighter. When he activated his Emotion Siphon ability this time, he felt a tingle go down his spine and settle in his private parts. When he didn't feel an erection from getting aroused, he looked down and remembered that he didn't have a penis. He was very tempted to touch himself there, then ignored the urge because he had serious work to do.

Ren maxed his XP and unlocked everything for the first female only class, he went into the new Sanctuary and filled all of his stats again. He came back out and did the same thing for every class that was available for females, maxed their XP and their stats, then chose the Mage class and stood there while he waited for the Gender Swap spell to end. When it did, he was filled with pain again and dropped to his knees. It seemed to take longer to go back to his old self, and when he finished transforming, he stood up.

“I did it, you bastards!” Ren exclaimed. “I've mastered every class and I've taken up ALL of the goddamn XP leader board slots!” He said. “I claim this game for myself! Go ahead and mark them out with Xs all you want! No one else will ever get to see their names on it, not even if they max their character's level!”

There was no kind of response, so he nodded.

“Don't worry. If that didn't get your attention... this will.” Ren said and put his hands together in prayer. “I am one of Vasalor's Chosen!” He said loudly. “Great Vasalor! I hereby invoke one of the Chosen abilities and ask for a direct connection to you!”

System and Administration Query Response (Player Version)

Do you wish to talk or to enter my realm?

“Enter, please.” Ren said. “I need your help.”

A bright yellow portal opened up and Ren stepped through it without hesitation or a second thought.
