"What is your true ability? How could you alter the laws of this decaying system? It should have run out of sufficient reserves... This cannot be happening!"

Noctus' voice becomes scattered and far less confident.

It echoes out from every single soul tie nearby.

The traces of purple demonic gel and fractured glyphs still linger in the remnants of soul ties left behind in his emergency retreat.

Large pathways of pure empty darkness reveal themselves in the void as we fly through. Space bends around our auras, making fragments of energy float toward us like moving magnets that soak up everything they draw near.

The Demon's mental attention has become entirely focused on running away. So every time we sever a new soul tie connected to the Origin Plane, there is no longer an external reaction pulling the remaining threads tighter.

Centuries have already been pulled from the Upper and Lower Realm in less than a millionth of a second. Yet, now I feel the tension beginning to loosen, and the passage of time slowing back down more and more.

It makes the chase for this Demon even more vital. In the past, it drained the resources of the Lower Realm for billions of years, and killed off countless races that did not submit to it throughout various eras. Yet, even seeing these memories, I still felt slightly detached, as I never lived through these time periods myself.

Now, I witness Noctus resort to forcefully burning through all of these reserves siphoned from the galaxy, just to survive a little longer, and to spite us.

"There is no point explaining anything to you. You will not believe it, and your true death is near. Any more words would be a waste of time."

I reply, imbuing my voice through waves of fire that explode on impact far away.

The eruption breaks over a hundred thick soul ties in a single blow, forcing the small wisps of purple aura to scatter even further away in random directions.

Each fragment of his remaining mind and soul is no bigger than one of my closed fists.

Every single attack we land, more power is transferred away from him, and into the fiery and icy Immortal Emperors' bodies following close behind.

Thin mirrors of ice split through space, following the fleeing pulses of purple energy.

Whenever these icy waves of light soar through seemingly dead space, the darkness resonates with the rainbow glow within each one of these slashes. There is a subconscious connection that gets stronger the further we chase, allowing Maria to alter the course of her strikes by following the bends in the membrane.

This angle soaring through the void has begun affecting the shifting laws around her.

An undetectable darkness permeates throughout her entire being, extremely similar to the atmosphere we soar through. Yet, it is not that she is absorbing the membrane itself. It has a very unique aura, certainly a separate awakening with resemblance to this place.

It is a similar phenomenon to what is happening with my sword.

Ever since the last silver threads were drained from the folds in space, it has been growing heavier, and altering its aura with every soul tie that I slice through or explode.

The extremely faint flicker of golden glyphs beneath the silver sea starts to manifest in the depths of my mind every time I swing to eject another wave of fire.

There is no adverse reaction that clears my memories away from reading these glyphs. Instead, I can see them with perfect clarity every time the ripples of the membrane flow through.

It connects moments in the past to the forefront of my mind every time I swing, showing the moment we unsealed this legacy in the Purple Zone, to the acceptance of this legacy in the Ravine, then to the day I found the cube of metal that named itself Atom in an ancient tomb on the human world. I even see flickering memories of the soul bond I made with Ember the day I met him... inside the artificial prison of a Void Creeper.

This connection of thoughts sends all of the images and feelings of Void Creepers I've experienced, especially the visions granted in the Ravine with Maria, showing us a place in a dark void just like this... At the time, I had no way of perceiving its vastness, but now the connections are starting to become more clear.

Another shriek from far away behind a cluster of soul ties brings my attention away from my blade.

"Do you know what killing me really means? With your lifespans, even after your rebirths, those immortal cores will be burned out within a few thousand years. You've doomed this system. No one will ever escape!"

His tone sounds even more scared and uncertain than before.

In just a few swings, thousands of soul ties are obliterated, clearing out almost half of the membrane, returning it to untouched pure darkness.

Noctus breaks off into countless more strands, not even attempting to maintain his demonic form any longer. Each droplet of his purple mental sea, and the small pockets of glyphs, are no larger than a single one of my fingernails.

Still, his voice echoes out again, "You... must stop! Do not fall for this Dragon's lies. I- I admit my defeat. Allow me to live and we can share the system. I won't ever lay a finger on either of you again. I'll quietly remain in a small pocket of the membrane. Just- think about what you're doing!"

No reply follows. There are only demonic screams and many ripples of soul ties snapping one by one throughout the void.
