“Well done Brother Jorani,” the old Healer said, smiling like a kindly old grandfather. He didn’t pat Jorani on the cheek this time, nor had he in a long time, but his eyes were warm and doting. “Truly well done. Few ever come to see this on their own, but your Insight has led you to the crux of the issue. Human nature runs contrary to Balance, a fundamental flaw which is not so easily fixed.” Straightening up in his seat, the old Healer started to gesture around them, but stopped midway and said, “You’ve seen how the Brotherhood cultivates and I’ve told you what our end goals are, but now you’ve uncovered the reasoning behind our methods on your own. If basic human nature is at odds with Balance, then why not change human nature? Easier said than done, but now you understand. There is still so much to learn, but to come so far on your own shows you are truly suited for our ways. A shame you are unaware -”

The old Healer cut himself off short and tried to change the topic, but Jorani’s curiosity got the better of him. “Unaware? Of what?”

Hesitant to answer, the old frowned and mulled over his thoughts, so Jorani turned to Happy for help, but the rotund monk showed no reaction as he sat there with a vacant smile and stare. Bones and Eyebrows were the same, and when Jorani noticed their food and drink untouched, he looked around at the other monks and found them all lifelike, yet utterly motionless, but still the sound of chopsticks on porcelain continued to ring out around him.

This wasn’t real.

“Damn it.” The dining hall and its inhabitants all faded out of view, leaving Jorani sitting in the Void across from the old Healer, looking quite disgruntled with himself. It was strange seeing him rest his elbow on nothingness, leaning on a table and sitting on a chair which no longer existed, and the moment Jorani arrived at this realization, he fell out of his missing chair and plummeted down through the Void, the image of the sitting old Healer fast fading out of sight as the darkness engulfed him. “Calm your mind Brother Jorani,” the old Healer said, his tone soothing and supportive. “Still your thoughts. You stand in the Void. Think it, believe it, and it shall be so.”

Upon hearing this, Jorani’s descent came to a halt, but there was no sense of movement or frame of reference to anchor him, and he quickly began falling again. No, he just thought he was falling and thus, felt like he was falling. There was no air in the Void, no ground, no up or down, no left or right, only empty nothingness, so it took some time to get used to it, but he had time to spare. He wasn’t sure how long it took, but as soon as he got used to his surroundings, he raised his head and shouted, “Old Healer! Vyakhya! Show yerself ye shit-sucking traitor!”

“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.” The old Healer, no, Vyakhya’s voice sounded, but again, his presence was nowhere to be found. “Such anger, but justified, given your ignorance to the Truth. You believe I work against you, yes? In a way, I do, but only because your actions threaten to undo all the work this old monk has done, so let us discuss this like civilized Brothers, without hurtful slander, hmm?”

Even though Vyakhya was clearly at odds with Jorani, he still felt bad for hurting the old man’s feelings, so he muttered a quiet apology and said, “Fine, a discussion. Ye gonna show yer face, or ye just gonna talk at me like a ghost?”

No answer came, and after a long pause, Jorani thought Vyakhya had left. Stranded in the void, he looked around and found nothing to see or do and almost immediately fell into a panic. Well, maybe not immediately, because much like directions, it was impossible to tell time without a frame of reference. No breaths to draw, no heartbeats to measure, not even a need to blink his eyes or rest his feet, the darkness stretched out in all directions and left Jorani stranded in this senseless world without a clue on how to proceed, until he remembered the old Healer’s words. ‘Think it, believe it, and it shall be so’. Though standing on opposing sides, Vyakhya’s advice had always been sound, so Jorani pictured himself safe in his room at the monastery and after an eternity in a moment, that’s where he appeared. It was exactly as he remembered it, a grey, rectangular room with a wooden bed, nightstand, chair, desk, and wardrobe, all without ornamentation. Once that was out of the way, Jorani sat on the bed to gather his thoughts and think things through, and then he went over them again because Vyakhya still had yet to arrive.

He went over his plans thrice before the old Healer finally appeared at the open door, standing outside in the void as he peered around the room with a forlorn smile. For a moment, Jorani wished they could go back to the simple days where they were teacher and student, but things were too far gone now. Regardless of his reasons, the old Healer would have to explain his betrayal in full.

After a long silence, Vyakhya was first to speak, stepping inside and touching Jorani’s cheek in greeting. “You asked this old monk to show his face, so here I stand before you,” he said, his face less wrinkled than Jorani remembered, his back straighter and eye-brows thinner too. “But first, you learned this old monk’s Dharmic name thanks to his error, so this one hopes Brother Jorani will not share it.”

“Ye lied to me, Vyakhya.” Even saying the words hurt, but Jorani drew strength from his anger, even as he nodded in agreement to the old Healer’s request. “Ye made me think ye were on me side, but ye aren’t. Yer working against the Abbot, against the bossman. Why? Yer a monk, so aren’t ye supposed to be above worldly affairs?”

With a world weary sigh, Vyakhya nodded in confirmation. “Yes, this old monk lied and deceived you, but with good reason. A minor evil to rectify a greater one. As you said, we of the Brotherhood are pledged to abstain from worldly affairs, yet the Abbot declared Falling Rain a Brother of the inner order and raised him to the rank of first of Five Wisdoms. An untried child who had yet to even learn of the Brotherhood’s existence, elevated to a position second only to the Abbot himself and first among equals. A clear abuse of the Abbot’s authority, for he seeks to cast the Brotherhood into the muddied waters of the mundane world and make soldiers of those who came to him in search of salvation, so what else could this old monk do but oppose him?”

“Muddied waters? Yer calling war against the Defiled ‘muddied waters’?” Snorting in derision, Jorani shook his head and scoffed, though he had to admit, the Abbot’s actions were unsavoury at best. “Yer safe here in yer mountains and don’t have to fight, but the rest of the Empire ain’t so lucky. The tiger’s come down from its mountain, and there ain’t nowhere to run, so it’s kill or be killed against the Defiled.”

“That’s where you’re wrong, Brother Jorani.” Holding his hand up to forestall Jorani’s argument, Vyakhya said, “I said before, you’ve touched upon the Truth, but you’ve no recollection of the event. I left it unsaid because I feared you were not ready for it, but perhaps now you are. You said humanity is unsuitable for Balance, and I agreed, but allow me to elaborate: Balance, as the Empire perceives it, is more suitable for Humanity than true Balance, but still fundamentally flawed.”

“...Yer saying the world don’t understand Balance?”

“In a way. The publicly accepted definition of Balance is... incomplete, one which skirts around the full truth for easier understanding. Cast aside all emotion and embrace the Void to reach Balance, yes? As difficult as it is to even reach this partial Balance, it at least allows practitioners to proceed along the Martial Path without altering their fundamental nature, but it is akin to collecting water with a sieve or catching wind in a net.”

“What’s this got to do with anything?”

“Do you still not see it?” Cocking his head to one side, Vyakhya waited for Jorani to reach the answer on his own, but after a long silence, the Healer shook his head and said, “The significance is it shows that Balance, as the Empire knows it, as you know it, is flawed, yet still it continues to propagate. Why? The Brotherhood knows better, so why do we not shout the truth for all to hear? Because the Imperial Clan would not stand for it! It suits their purposes to keep their subjects weak, spreading their lies so they can remain wolves among sheep. They tell you to cast aside emotion and seek strength to fight the Defiled, and in doing so hobble humanity so they will never reach the true heights we are capable of. Put away your preconceived notions and think for yourself: which sounds closer to Balance? Casting aside all emotion, or learning how to embrace them, to take love and hate, joy and sorrow, courage and fear, and your emotions flow through you in perfect harmony?”

Unable to reply because he didn’t like where this was going, Jorani listened as Vyakhya continued. “Remember what I said about the Mother and Father? They too could have once been mortals like you and I, yet they Ascended to godhood, but how? Another thing of note is their schools of thought appear diametrically opposed, yet they are always spoken of in the same breath. Why? Think, Brother Jorani. You are a clever man, but you are blinded by half-truths and falsehoods. Study the facts, then you will see as the Brotherhood does, understand that Balance is a lie. True Balance is not emptiness or nothingness, for Balance can only be achieved when both sides stand in perfect equilibrium.”

And then the pieces fell together. “You’re talking about turning Defiled...”

“Bah. Defiled.” Vyakhya sneered, and his wrinkles and nose hairs melted away to reveal a younger man, a sturdy warrior filled with fire and vinegar. “Another lie. Yes, surrender to base emotion has dire consequences, but poison and medicine differ only in dosage. There is no denying that humans are creatures of emotion, and properly utilized, they can be used to great effect. Surely you’ve seen Imperial Warriors overcome with righteous rage upon the battlefield or fearful cowards fleeing faster than they normally could, and these are but two examples of emotions bolstering strength. To see these irregularities and still believe in Imperial falsehoods is foolish to the extreme, and you of all people should know better.”

Horror welled up from within Jorani, but even though he wanted to deny Vyakhya’s every word, it all made too much sense. “Yer saying I turned Defiled? That’s why the Brotherhood’s so interested?”

“More than just turned,” Vyakhya said, his younger eyes glowing with admiration and enthusiasm. “You stepped past the point of no return, succumbed to base emotion, and then you stepped back! Few living can say the same, and most reside here in these mountains, for if the Brotherhood’s secret was known to the world, then the Emperor would have no choice but to order our extermination.”

All the monks were once Defiled? “...Hang on. If I turned Defiled and back again, then how come I don’t remember it?”

“And therein lies the Brotherhood’s interest.” Grinning from ear to ear, the younger Vyakhya shrugged and said, “We don’t know how you accomplished such a feat or why you don’t remember it, but we would like to learn more. It is a dangerous path we tread, and even with careful guidance and preparation, mistakes are still made.” Waving a hand, he changed topics and continued, “But now you understand, yes? The Empire, the Defiled, it’s all a meaningless game of power played by the Imperial Clan, with their own members supporting both sides. These are the muddied waters I speak of, because regardless of the outcome, lives will be lost and innocents will suffer, just so mortals can play at being gods, yet still the Abbot seeks to meddle in their affairs. Do not be like him, Brother Jorani, and leave the mundane world behind, because even a thousand lifetimes would not be enough to fix it. Heaven knows, others have tried.”

It was almost too much for Jorani to take in, so he did what he always did when presented with a difficult decision: he pushed it aside to deal with later. “GangShu and the others; they dead?”

“Of course not.” As if offended Jorani would even think it, Vyakhya gestured to either side, though there was nothing outside the room but darkness. “They’re safe and sound beside you in the physical world, hidden within a cavern and trapped within their minds. A skill from... an ally, of sorts.”

His ally sure as hell wasn’t a monk, he would’ve said ‘a Brother’. Filing this tidbit of useful information, Jorani prayed his hunch was right and visualized his Spiritual Rope wrapped tightly around the younger-looking Healer. To his delight, the Spiritual Weapon appeared out of thin air and bound Vyakhya tight, but it took an effort of will to keep the rope from fading out of existence, unlike the rest of the room Jorani created. Trying to appear calm, Vyakhya looked down at the bindings and raised an eyebrow in question, but his trembling hands gave him away. “These cannot hold me you know. I could be gone with but a single thought, for we stand in the void.”

“Then do it.” Crossing his arms, Jorani sat down on his bed and waited. “I don’t think ye can though.”

“And why’s that?”

