“Well fer one, yer a terrible liar.” Blanching as if to prove the point, Vyakhya opened his mouth to deny his lie, but Jorani spoke right over him. “Second, I get the feeling I have more power here then ye let on. Before, ye weren’t real, you and all the other brothers ye conjured up, yea? I daresay it takes effort to drum up them illusions, cause I’ve seen wooden mannequins with more stage presence than yer little puppets. Ye never touched me either, which was weird since yer so fond of pattin’ me cheek, and since yer age keeps changing while we talk, I figure that means yer here in person this time, right? And here, well I’m guessin’ it’s my Natal Palace.”

Deflating with every sentence, Vyakhya aged before Jorani’s eyes until he became the old Healer once more. Though bound and helpless, his sad smile held a hint of pride as he stood in place, shaking his head in silent disbelief. “This monk always admired your keen intellect, Brother Jorani, and my respect only grew with time. It’s why I watched over you while you explored the mountains, and why I personally influenced your dreams after my slip of the tongue so we could continue your lessons even in sleep, but this proved a double-edged sword. Your companions have been imprisoned this same way for months, yet you are the first to break free from the illusion, and not only once, but thrice in a mere eight weeks.” While Jorani was still reeling over having been trapped for eight weeks, Vyakhya chuckled and said, “When you demanded I show my face, I left you stranded in the void to come here in person, yet imagine my surprise when mere minutes later, I arrived to find you’d Formed your Natal Palace. This monk almost didn’t dare come in to meet you, but felt I owed you an explanation and hoped you would not understand the power you wielded. Ai, such guilt, such hubris, but such is life. Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.”

Coming to his feet, Jorani helped the old Healer to the chair, because even though he’d made a mess of things, Jorani didn’t hate him, though he still bound Vyakhya to the chair just to be safe. “I can’t say I agree with what ye did, but I can’t say I disagree with most of what ye said either. Still, even if yer right and the Abbot means to lead the Brotherhood to war, it ain’t yer place to make decisions fer others, especially not me. Yer Brothers can pick and choose fer themselves if they wanna fight, and as fer me, much as I enjoyed me time here and am grateful fer all yer teachings, I was never gonna stay. I still owe the bossman a couple years of service, and I promised me best friend I’d raise a toast at his wedding.” Shrugging, he added, “Besides, ye got the bossman all wrong. He’s much smarter than I am, and I probably have him to thank fer not being Defiled, or whatever. Anywho, ye sit tight now while I take care of business. I’ll come back once I figure out what to do with ye.”

It took a few tries and a little advice from the old Healer, but soon Jorani opened his eyes and found himself lying on a cot in a spacious cavern, lit sparsely by rays of light streaming in from the curved entrance. Keeping the bindings in mind, he glanced over at Vyakhya’s unconscious body lying on a second cot beside him, while GangShu, Daxian, Wugang, and Yelu Shi all lay comatose on the ground. Even after all he did, the old Healer kept to his vows and couldn’t bear to kill anyone, and probably even came here every day to feed them to boot, though Jorani was feeling a mite peckish and mighty thirsty. Aside from looking a little gaunt and in desperate need of a bath, the Ascendants were otherwise unharmed, but he didn’t know how to wake them so he left them be. Seeing the slack, contented faces on his sire and half-brother, he kicked their feet out of his way and grumbled, “Shoddy bastards, gettin’ done in by a dream.”

Light-headed and mouth dry, he stumbled towards the cavern’s entrance and found a steep, overgrown path leading up. Unused, which meant the old Healer probably Cloud-Stepped his way over, and without supplies and someone watching over him in secret, Jorani didn’t feel too confident about making his way back to the monastery, but he didn’t have many other options, so he grit his teeth and powered forward.

“Bwak-Bwak Bwa-Kwak!!”

The moment Jorani set foot on the path, a raucous shriek made his heart leap out of his chest, and he fell back as the way forward was barred by feathers and fury. Wings spread and head raised, a behemoth stood before him and glared in challenge, its head bobbing and spear-like beak snapping while clucking a warning. Much like the Guardian Turtle, this silkie rooster was a peak existence amongst its kind, a shaggy, fluffy monstrosity at least ten times larger than the average chicken and almost the same height as Jorani.

Damn... if he could find a similarly sized melon, then he could make one delicious pot of soup...

After long seconds spent wavering between gluttony and terror, Jorani realized the giant rooster wasn’t going to attack, so he quashed his urge to slaughter it for a meal or twelve. “Easy there big guy,” he said, using the same voice he used whenever Ral was in a funk. “Ain’t no one gonna hurt ye here.” Cautiously pushing himself back to his feet, he kept his hands in plain sight and didn’t dare look away as the rooster warily watched his every move, all puffed up with wings out and eyes piercing. After backing away to make a little distance between them, Jorani pointed at the overgrown path. “Look, I just wanna get out, okay? So why don't we both step aside and -”

“Bwa-Kwakkkkk!”

Seated atop his jade throne, Jorani sipped his plum wine and watched his courtesans dance in their flimsy, feathered dresses. Magnificent as the sight was, he was confused about how he got here, though all the jiggling flesh and gyrating hips made it difficult to think. “Hang on a second,” he said, fending off the lovely ladies’ grasping hands while he tried to make heads or tails of the situation. So many pretty heads and alluring backsides... “Hold on, I – Woah there now! Okay, yea, there goes me pants. This is nice and all but if ye could just...” The more he protested, the more insistent his courtesans became, their eyes burning with hunger as they assailed him from all sides, pulling and pressing from all directions until he couldn’t tell up from down or left from right.

Which oddly enough, was a familiar sensation, so familiar it brought him back to his senses. With a simple thought, the scantily-clad courtesans disappeared and Jorani was back in his room at the monastery, with Vyakhya shaking his head in mild disapproval while still bound to the chair. “Indulging in pleasures of the flesh, Brother Jorani? Such desire, such sin.”

“It wasn’t me,” he grumbled, indignant at the accusation despite not being a true monk. “There was this giant rooster...”

“Yes, the ally I spoke of.” Nodding sagely, Vyakhya said, “A formidable creature, but still a beast nonetheless. Another of the Abbot’s frivolous failed projects, though it would’ve been much more difficult to quietly deal with an Ancestral Beast without his help.” Shrugging, he added, “A territorial creature, I only needed to direct your companions towards Kukku’s nest and follow behind to collect their comatose bodies. A most fascinating Chi skill, wouldn’t you say? Projecting lifelike illusions directly into another’s mind, the possible applications are near endless. With it, we could show others what a true utopia life would be like, or craft an environment tailor-made for seeking salvation with no worldly desires to distract from Cultivation, but alas, we have yet to wholly understand or even replicate the skill. The most this monk can do is influence the dreamer to recreate the illusion, and even this was not my discovery, but another’s, a kindred spirit kind enough to share his findings.”

Mildly disturbed over being thrown into an erotic fantasy by a giant rooster, Jorani interrupted Vyakhya’s explanation and asked, “How do I get past... Kukku and back to the monastery?”

The old Healer shrugged again. “You cannot. The only foot-path out of this cavern leads right past his nest. It’s why I chose it, so a wayward Brother wouldn’t accidentally stumble across you and your comrades. The only way out is to Cloud-Step away, for despite his power, Kukku is still a rooster who believes he cannot fly.”

“Damn it.” Despite breaking free from the mind-prison, Jorani was still stuck in the cavern unless he could wake one of the others. Willing himself back to reality, he found Kukku the rooster still standing guard over the path while Jorani lay comatose on the cliff-side, but aside from hopping in place and uttering a stream of angry clucks, the beast seemed content to watch him scurry back into the cave. Once there, he set to slapping the sleeping Ascendants one by one, with more delight than he would dare admit, but even after leaving hand-prints on all their faces, not a single one of them stirred. Annoyed by their lacking self-restraint, he tried a few more inventive ways of waking them up, but he stopped short of stomping on their giblets because he still enjoyed breathing. With no other choice, he returned to his Natal Palace and asked, “How do I wake the others?”

“Again, you cannot.” A third shrug, but Jorani detected a hint of satisfaction in the old Healer’s eyes, as if everything was going according to plan despite his current predicament. “You’ve made great progress in your time here, but it was all largely intellectual and theoretical progress, so you’re still a ways away from External Chi. Even then, you’d need considerable practice before you can wake someone from their illusion without harming them. The mind is a delicate thing after all, but I fear you and your companions would starve to death before you reach the required level of skill.”

Luckily, slapping didn’t wake any of them, but if Vyakhya expected Jorani to free him because he had no other choice, then he was in for a –

The Spiritual Rope fell to the floor and the old Healer disappeared from Jorani’s Natal Palace. Blinking in surprise, he willed himself out of his Natal Palace to find Vyakhya standing over him with palms pressed together in prayer while the rooster clucked and hissed at the cavern’s entrance. “Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo. A stray thought is all that’s needed to affect the world within oneself, so forgive this monk for leading you astray.” Seeing Jorani’s raise his fists, the old Healer shook his head. “There is no need to defend yourself, for this monk means you and your companions no harm.”

“True, but ye still took us prisoner and kept us here against our will. If ye still mean to do so, then yer gonna have a fight on yer hands.” A short one, which would end in Jorani’s overwhelming defeat, but he had to try.

“An argument could be made otherwise.” Though Jorani scoffed at the claim, Vyakhya didn’t bat an eye and explained, “You yourself are the best example. The illusions are not crafted by the rooster, but rather your mind is compelled to create the illusions based on your own deepest desires, which is why they are so convincing. Much like a pleasant dream, you overlook the erroneous details because you want to believe. You yourself broke free largely in part to my tampering, but the peaceful, quiet life you so enjoyed these past two months couldn’t have been possible if you didn’t truly desire it on some level. Yes, this monk overstepped in forcing your hand, but you wanted this life for yourself, else you would have broken free much earlier. You are a man of honour, but honour is merely a construct of human emotion, emotion which ties you to this transient existence. This monk will say again, cleanse yourself of the red dust of the mortal world and move beyond the insignificant and impermanent, Brother Jorani.”

“Ye tell me to leave everything behind,” Jorani said, hands still raised and ready to fight, “But I’m a soldier. How can I abandon my duty and leave innocent civilians to be slaughtered by the Defiled? Wouldn’t that be contrary to the Eight-Fold Path? The second Path tells us to live with the Right Intentions, which means to live an ascetic’s life devoid of cruelty. Even if ye don’t fight, the Brotherhood could save countless lives helping the citizens of the Empire escape the fighting, so is it not cruel to abandon the helpless to their fate when you could otherwise save them?”

“Oh but I am saving them.” Vyakhya’s wrinkled smile was as warm and friendly as ever, but his words chilled Jorani to the core. “Life itself is fleeting, but in death, the Defiled will bring peace and permanence to them all.” Chuckling, he corrected himself and said, “Better to say the one who guides them will do so. This great man has developed the answer to our prayers and will deliver what the Brotherhood has strove for since our inception. Using Anathema, Zhen Shi will break the cycle of reincarnation itself and consign all life, Defiled and Imperial alike, to nihility. In doing so, he will free their eternal souls from this state of perpetual suffering, for this death will be the last. Without rebirth, there can be no more death, no more trials and tribulations, which makes this a mercy, you see? Permanence provided for all aside from the Brotherhood, who will be left free to focus on our Path, without distractions from worldly affairs, because none will exist!”

Well...

Fuck.

“Yer insane.”

