Thunk.

Thunk.

Thunk.

The steady beating of the stone fish drums drew Jorani deeper into his meditative trance as he chanted the Sutras, a daily routine he’d grown accustomed to after joining the Brotherhood. As an initiate, he had yet to learn the meaning behind the words, but the history and significance of the Sutras fascinated him in a way he never thought an intellectual matter ever could. He spent many long afternoons questioning Vyakhya until the old Healer grew tired of answering his questions, only to pick up where they left off at the next lesson. Passed down from time immemorial and spoken in a language long dead, the Sutras were oral scriptures adopted by the Brotherhood not only for their soothing and enlightening properties, but also for the teachings laid out within. The foreign words concealed a vast array of knowledge regarding the Truth, knowledge which seeped into Jorani’s mind as he chanted even though he didn’t understand the words themselves. It was akin to finding Insight into the Forms, only this wisdom pertained to higher matters than combat and conflict.

For within the Sutras lurked the secret to Divinity itself.

At least, that’s how Jorani felt, because he never felt more at peace with the world than when chanting the Sutras. The Brotherhood’s final goal was to escape Samsara, the cycle of death and rebirth, and ascend beyond this plane of existence, to do so, one must first understand the world and all the steps leading up to the Ascent. For this, they had the Sutras to guide them, a piece of the puzzle missing from the Martial Path which placed too much focus on application and too much emphasis on benefit. To Form a Core, Jorani became One with the Void, or aware of nothing but awareness itself as Mister Rustram once put it. To bind his Spiritual Weapon, he became One with the Weapon. From his teachings with the Brotherhood, he learned the next recognized step was to become One with the World, but what most didn’t know was that before becoming One with the World, one first had to become One with the Self.

How could the World accept someone who had yet to accept themselves? Between Experts and Peak Experts lay a vast chasm which few could surmount, and it was for this very reason. One with the Self was a vital and necessary step, one the Peak Experts of the Empire inadvertently and unknowingly took yet never understood, and thus failed to maintain it consistently. Even if this knowledge was made known to the entire world, it was still not an easy step to take, for becoming One with the Self was an effort of inner peace and self-reflection, of accepting one’s nature and all which it entailed, a step made all the more difficult by the concept of Balance.

An Insight Jorani gleaned from the Sutras, a minor truth which made things so much clearer. Balance was inherently flawed, because humans were not creatures of Balance, and in striving towards it, they rejected their base nature and their true selves. In fact, only a handful of living beings could claim to be Balanced in nature, but this was as the Mother intended it. To bind Her creations to Balance would be contrary to free will, and the Mother loved Her children too much to restrict them so.

But in her love, She consigned all living things to the cycle of death and rebirth, for without Balance, how were they to survive the Father’s machinations, much less free themselves from mortal constraints? A paradox, one which puzzled the Brotherhood and their predecessors for millennia, if not longer, and it was all fascinating stuff which Jorani could spend hours mulling over, but this wasn’t the time for idle intellectual musings. Meditation was a time for reflection, not only on lessons and Insights, but also on the self and how one might improve, so he set aside his questions for a later time and focused his thoughts.

It was nice here in the monastery, peaceful and soothing, without the constant need to watch his back or worry about matters such as face or courtship. It was the right choice to stay, because not only had he gotten much stronger as a Martial Warrior, he’d also had no need for said strength. How long had it been since there was no threat to his life, no Defiled, Wraiths, thugs, or assassins to watch out for? For the first time since his childhood, he could stop looking over his shoulder and worrying about what might go wrong. This was a good life, an ideal one even, a life filled with purpose and serenity.

Still... Jorani was curious to know how he would fare against the Defiled now. While still a basic Martial Warrior without Aura or Natal Palace, he’d gotten much stronger in the past... weeks? Months? How long had he been here? It was hard to say, but he’d learned so much, it had to at least have been a year, or close to it. Did he win any of his spars yet? No...Yes, once against Sayan and he almost landed a clean hit on Anand.

Hang on... When did he learn Eyebrows and Happy’s Dharma names? Those were only for Brothers who’d joined the inner order, and Jorani still had yet to take his final vows. Putting a hand down his pants to double check, he sighed in relief when he discovered his groin smooth and without protrusion, exactly as things should be.

Wait what? No. No, no no. No no no no no no...

“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.” Though it sounded like the old Healer was nearby, there was no one around, for Jorani now sat alone in the bleak darkness of the Void. Looking this way and that, all he saw was emptiness before him and soon, the directions all blended together in his mind as if he were spinning in place, yet the Void never shifted or changed. Through the haze of dizziness and confusion, the old Healer’s soothing voice said, “Calm your mind and still your thoughts, Brother Jorani. You are safe here, away from the ugly, unpleasant dangers of the world. This is your life, the life you desire, and you are content.”

As Jorani’s mind spun about within his thoughts and he repeated the old Healer’s words, the Void gave way to light and –

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Thwap.

Thwap.

Thwap.

The sound of wood on flesh permeated the courtyard during morning penance, but Jorani was engrossed in his thoughts while beating himself over the shoulder with his flail. Though it’d long since become a part of his daily routine, he still wasn’t too comfortable taking Penance, not because of the pain or bruises, but because it made no damn sense. While not so different from the daily beatings he endured as part of the bossman’s training, at least he understood the reasoning behind it. To encourage the development of tougher muscles and stronger bones, they lightly injured themselves before meditation so the Energy of the Heavens could reinforce their bodies, and if your slap-mates went too far, then you could use it as a chance to practice Panacea. A reasonable explanation which he suppose made sense, but since he didn’t really know enough to prove or disprove it, Jorani accepted the bossman’s justification and endured the beatings with minimal complaints.

Not so with the Brotherhood. Not only did they meditate before the beatings and simply Healed their injuries afterwards, the premise of Penance was unclear to him and Vyakhya’s explanation unsatisfactory. “Ordinarily,” the old Healer said, when Jorani first asked, a memory so crisp and clear it were as if he were re-living the moment, “This monk would happily discuss the matter and respond to your doubts and apprehensions, but you are a special case and this is a delicate time in your training, so I hesitate to overburden you with the facts. If you do not wish to continue with Penance, then put it aside until such a time when you understand it better. To live is to suffer, but suffering must have meaning and serve a purpose, so better to abstain from Penance than to inflict needless suffering and hardship upon yourself.”

The memory faded and Jorani returned to beating himself with his wooden flail. If the old Healer told him to stop, then why was he still going through with this? Must be to fit in. There wasn’t much else he could do now, and the self-inflicted beatings weren’t nearly as bad as what he’d gotten in training, so he might well treat this as practice and continue with his Penance.

Wait just a damn second...

Why was he only figuring all this out now? Shouldn’t he have thought it through before taking up the flail? He wasn’t one to beat himself for no reason, especially if he’d been given a good reason not to, so why was he even here?

It all makes perfect sense. There is nothing out of place. He loves it here in the monastery. This is his home. Why look for problems when there are none?

Yea, he made his choice to stay, to live an ascetic life, and Penance was part and parcel of the whole deal, a deal which he enjoyed more than he thought he would. Life was simple here, and in simplicity, he found peace, so what did it matter if he took a few bruises for it? Sure, he had a few regrets, but at the end of the day, he had to look out for himself, because no one else would. Cept Ral, of course. The big oaf would always have Jorani’s back, for all the good it did, and was no doubt pacing a rut in his yurt wondering when his friend was coming back. Chey would be glad to see Jorani gone though, she never liked him much, but she tolerated him for the love of Ral. Sorya and Anrhi would worry too, but he could rest easy knowing they were safe in the citadel with proper honest work to do, handmaidens to a real lady with no need to worry about lusty nobles or shady guards taking advantage of them. Nah, the only thing they had to look out for was the bossman, but he was a decent enough sort who’d do right by the girls if he laid hands on them. That’s the kind of man he was, and Jorani knew they were safe at his side.

...Cept now he was crippled. Could he even protect himself, much less Jorani’s sisters? Shit... He had to do something, had to get his message to the Abbot, but... but what happened? Why wasn’t he off doing what he was supposed to do? He had to ask someone, like GangShu, Daxian, the Ascendants, the old Healer...

The old Healer. “Vyakhya!” Snarling in rage, Jorani opened his eyes and discovered he wasn’t in the courtyard beating himself with a flail, but sitting empty-handed alone in the Void once again, though he had a sneaking suspicion he’d been here all along. “You fucker!”, he howled, screaming into the emptiness. “Let me out!”

“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo,” The old Healer sighed, then muttered, “Perhaps a more active approach is necessary,” but it sounded like he was talking to himself rather than responding to Jorani. “Less time with his thoughts, and more time spent with his Brothers, so he feels like he truly belongs. Yes, this might be the answer...”

“What are you doing?” Jorani asked, unsure where to look or if anyone could even hear him. “What’s happening here?”

No answer came, and after a short, everlasting pause, the old Healer’s soothing voice sent his mind into a spiral, one far too familiar for Jorani’s liking. “Calm your mind and still your thoughts, Brother Jorani.”

As if he’d heard it thousand times before, Jorani’s lips moved of their own accord. “I am safe here,” he declared, though he felt anything but, “Away from the ugly, unpleasant dangers of the world. This is my life, the life I desire, and I am content.”

The Void gave way to light and –

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Clink.

Clink.

Clink.

Porcelain bowls clattered atop wooden trays as Jorani made his way through the crowd of Brothers to sit with the old Healer, Happy, Bones, and Eyebrows. When he first arrived, meals in the monastery were always a quiet, tranquil affair, but things changed as he grew more comfortable with his Brothers. Though no one ever spoke of their lives before joining the Brotherhood and they only rarely brought up matters regarding the outside world, there was still plenty to discuss over rice and steamed buns, and Jorani looked forward to hearing what others thought of the lessons he’d learned and the Insights he’d gleaned whilst deep in meditation.

Launching into an explanation of his recent discoveries as he sat down, he filled everyone’s teacups in order of seniority as a gesture of respect, or at least as best he could tell. The monks didn’t put much stock on seniority, or any at all, for they were all Brothers on the path to salvation, which was a fine sentiment and all, but it turned pouring tea into a guessing game. Though he almost froze with indecision, none of his Brothers laughed at Jorani’s hesitation as they listened with rapt attention, and he talked for what felt like hours, or even days, going over every detail of his Insights not just to share them, but to reaffirm them in his mind. He spoke for what felt like an eternity on Balance, how humans were ill-suited for it, and possible ways they could rectify this until he had nothing left to say, and when he finally fell silent, the old Healer smiled and nodded a half-second before the others joined in, their food and drink untouched while nodding in sync.

A bit odd, but maybe they were being polite and waited for him to finish speaking before digging in...

