“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo. Sadly, this monk must agree.” Appearing between Jorani and the old Healer was an even older monk in tattered grey robes, his head and face devoid of hair and wrinkled skin mottled with age spots. Palms pressed together, he bowed in prayer and said, “Such delusion, such sin, it pains this monk to see how far you, one of the five Wisdoms and named for Clarity of Thought, have fallen. Zhen Shi is a murderous fiend bent on destruction, so how can his word be trusted?”

“Who are you to speak of trust or murder?” Face twisted in ugly rage, Vyakhya’s spittle flew as he rebuked the stranger. “Did you truly close yourself in the wastelands to meditate in seclusion, or have you been hiding this entire time to see what I would reveal?”

“Such doubt, such suspicion. Do not gauge the heart of a gentleman by one’s own mean measure.” Shaking his head, the stranger nodded at the cavern entrance, where Jorani found the rooster glaring at him with vehemence. “This monk sensed Kukku’s apprehension and hurried over to save him. Short of Rakshasa coming out of hibernation, this monk believed nothing else could threaten him so, but thankfully this did not come to pass. However, this monk also overheard your conversation with this young man here, and it grieves me to learn of your betrayal. Turn back Brother, for there is no soul too far gone for redemption.”

“Hmph. I have no need to turn back, for my Path is True.”

“Then let us discuss.”

The stranger and Vyakhya both fell silent, but Jorani could see from the old Healer’s expression that they were debating through Sending. Back and forth the two went, arguing their respective points, and as long minutes ticked by, Jorani grew bored with the wait. Just as he considered lying down for a nap, the stranger bowed in prayer and said, “Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo. You would end all meaningless suffering, but in doing so, also deny countless souls the chance to ascend. How can you not see the cruelty of your ways?”

“A chance so infinitesimally small it might as well not exist, the carrot dangled before the mule so it continues ever forward. Definitive peace or implausible salvation, the choice is simple, but you refuse to see it. Your argument is flawed and our core values diametrically opposed, so you cannot convince me without addressing these issues.” Drawing himself up to full height, Vyakhya patted his chest and spread his arms wide, as if daring the stranger to attack. “Come then. Show your true colours and end my life. Is that not what the Abbot does to dissenters? Pei. You are a disgrace to the Brotherhood and the Precepts we uphold.”

Sighing in regret, the Abbot shook his head. “How many times must this monk tell you? None of our Brothers have died by my hands. If you seek our wayward Brothers, then you will find them at Zhen Shi’s side, provided they still live, but before you go, think on this: we walk the same Path to Divinity because we believe it worthwhile, but to claim it the only Path is both arrogant and ignorant. In a way, all Paths lead to Divinity, provided one has the courage to see theirs to conclusion.” Taken aback by the Abbot’s words, Vyakhya wavered in place but soon recovered. Shooting Jorani a look of disappointment, he disappeared from sight, probably off to find the mad scholar Zhen Shi and join the Defiled. “Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo,” the Abbot sighed, his voice filled with grief and regret. “Another sheep lost to the wolves, but such is life, trials and tribulations without end. Perhaps seeing the world will open your eyes, Brother, but I fear otherwise.” After a long pause, he turned to Jorani and said, “If Sir would be so kind as to explain, why did this monk’s Brother take you and your... companions hostage?”

With the danger passed and tension resolved, the strength flooded out from Jorani’s legs and he collapsed on the cot, trembling from head to toe as his body worked off the nervous energy. “Well,” he said, wishing he had a drink to calm his nerves, “It’s a long story, but here goes.”

When Jorani finally finished the telling, he lay back in his cot and left the Abbot to do his thing, whether it be waking the others or tossing everyone off the cliff and washing his hands of this mess. Either way, Jorani was too tired, hungry, and thirsty to care right now, so he closed his eyes and prayed his dream harem was still waiting where he left them. If Vyakhya had been telling the truth about the time frame, then there was plenty of time to make it to Ral and Chey’s wedding, which Jorani was thankful for. He still didn’t have a date to the festivities, but oddly enough, he didn’t mind it so much. All he wanted to do was see his friend exchange vows with his wife, then maybe give a toast starting with an indecent joke.

Maybe something about eunuchs and giant roosters...

Chapter Meme
