Erin! Ryoka glared at her. But the [Innkeeper] was giving her one of the blank Erin-stares that was either genuine or completely fake.
“Who’s someone? Whoa—you mean a date? Who?”
Ryoka flushed. Erin was doing it on purpose this time. Sometimes you couldn’t tell, but this time it was obvious, no matter how good the act was and it stung.
“You know who!”
The [Innkeeper] had to think. She shook her head slowly.
“I do? No. Who?”
“Relc! Stop playing dumb, Erin. I know you don’t like—what is it?”
The aggravated Runner saw Erin’s face fall. Ryoka stopped growing angry abruptly.
“What?”
Relc. The goofy [Guard] of Liscor, and also an exceptionally dangerous guy with a spear. He had doubtless been busy with the Raskghar situation, but Ryoka was…curious if he’d stayed away because he’d heard she was back or if he was just busy. She thought—but Erin’s face had suddenly fallen and Ryoka realized something had happened since she’d been gone.
“Did…something happen to Relc?”
 
—-
 
Relc was gone. Ryoka Griffin listened to the brief account of him—leaving due to the Golden Triangle situation and sagged.
“Oh.”
There was nothing more to say. If you weren’t there, you couldn’t complain about having missed it. Erin nodded glumly.
“Yeah. Another city. I forget which one. You were…gonna see if he was there?”
Ryoka nodded absently. Erin peered at her.
“You did like him?”
Dead gods, she could be sensitive or cripplingly insensitive at times. Ryoka rubbed at her face. Or was it just her being embarrassed to talk about normal things? She spoke, haltingly.
“He’s…a nice guy. Sort of an idiot, but that made two of us. I did like him.”
“Oh. Good. Sorry. I thought you knew. Well, I forgot.”
Ryoka nodded, then shook her head.
“It’s no big deal. It was just—I was just going to take a hike with him. I kind of offered to last time. See the Floodplains. It was just a thing. Sorry for snapping at you.”
Erin’s eyes flickered.
“Wow. So you liked him?”
The other young woman snapped at last.
“No, Erin. I barely know him! I just liked…him. He seemed like a nice, lonely guy to me. I was wondering how he was doing, that’s all.”
The [Innkeeper] looked guilty and backed down at once.
“Sorry. I just wanted to know.”
It wasn’t her fault. Ryoka felt bad about not knowing, so she was being snappy. She shook her head, mumbling an apology. But she did wonder about Erin.
Don’t you feel alone some days? But perhaps Mrsha, the inn, her friends and family were enough for Erin. Ryoka envied that, if it were true.
“Have you heard from Relc?”
Erin shook her head sadly.
“I sent him a [Message], but I never got an answer.”
“I see. I hope he’s okay.”
“Me too.”
That was all there was to say. Ryoka went to get a crepe.
 
—-
 
Crepes were crepes, and Erin could only hype them up so much. Honestly, Ryoka enjoyed them. Fierre enjoyed them more, having probably not had them before—and Mrsha was a kid, so she enjoyed them most. But was Ryoka supposed to do a dance every time she ate a crepe?
Well, it was entertaining to watch Mrsha do one. And this time—there were two other little dancing kids who joined her. Ryoka had to rub her eyes and wonder if Mrsha’d multiplied.
She had never met Ekirra and Visma before. And the little Gnoll and Drake had come for breakfast.
“Crepes, crepes!”
Erin joined them for a little bit. She’d invited Ekirra’s older sister and Visma’s older brother, who had to bring them, to have food. Ryoka saw Ekirra put a crepe on his head and Mrsha nearly fell over laughing.
They were such…kids. And Erin was the worst one. Ekirra and Visma stared at Ryoka as they took a seat at the table where the breakfast was happening.
“And these are your friends? Hi. I’m Ryoka.”
The two children stared as Mrsha said something complicated in sign language. She’d been teaching Ryoka, but whatever it was made them nod. Ekirra began licking at his plate until his sister made him use utensils.
“Are you Mrsha’s…mom? I thought that was Miss Lyonette.”
Visma saw Ryoka cough on a bite. Lyonette shook her head.
“Ryoka is Mrsha’s…she’s Mrsha’s…”
“Aunt.”
Erin brightly replied. Visma went ‘oh’, ignorant of the consternation she’d put among the adults. Ekirra licked syrup off his arm fur and stared at Ryoka as she ate.
“Why are you missing two fingers?”
“Ekirra!”
His sister smacked him on the head. Hard. Ekirra howled and started sniveling, which made his sister, in her very early teens, flustered and embarrassed and tried to shut him up—until Erin gave him a cup of blue fruit juice.
“Well, it’s very nice to meet you two. Er…Visma, is it? I think that’s my fork—”
“My fork.”
The Drake hissed at Ryoka. She’d purloined the fork when Ryoka wasn’t looking. Her brother growled.
“Visma!”
They began wrestling for the fork and Visma held onto it with the force of kleptomania. Ryoka ended up getting another fork from the kitchen.
Kids. She was reminded why she used to dislike them. Visma and Ekirra were more…childish than Mrsha. Although Mrsha could be just as silly.
Their presence was a good thing, though. It meant their families felt the inn was safe enough to send them. And they were clearly good for Mrsha. She hung out with them, giggling at inane things, running into the garden straight after to play with her enchanted ball…
Her enchanted ball? Ryoka stared. And she realized—she’d missed Mrsha’s birthday.
 
—-
 
Numbtongue was highly interested in the guests this time around. He knew Ryoka Griffin of course. She wasn’t his favorite Human—but she seemed decent and at least in better shape than Erin, who couldn’t run for a mile without asking to stop.
…Although she certainly seemed to always be in some kind of emotional distress. Erin was reassuring her as she clutched at her head.
“We had a great birth—we had a fun birthday! With only a few hiccups, Ryoka! Don’t worry! Mrsha got enough presents already! Like—way too many. Selys, all the adventurers…it’s sort of good you didn’t give her one. Look, we can make her something special and call it a late-birthday, howsabout that?”
“What day is it? How long did I miss it by? How old is she, Erin?”
“These are all good questions, Ryoka. With good answers. We think it’s—”
The Hobgoblin watched Ryoka idly. He wondered where the Courier had gone. Couriers—tough. Redfangs knew of them since they had clashed with Humans.
You didn’t fight Couriers. Let them run off. They were trickier than adventurers because their entire thing was to get away from monsters. Not that Numbtongue was going to ambush Salamani. It was just a thought.
No, if there was someone he was really interested in—the Hobgoblin snuck another glance at her.
Fierre was staring nervously at Mrsha and her friends, who were throwing around the silver ball Numbtongue had gifted Mrsha. He had no idea why. Nor why Fierre was so…
Appealing? Well, attractive was the right word. Not that Numbtongue was necessarily attracted to her! It was just—he’d never met anyone with such fine Goblin features.
Red eyes, pointed teeth—Numbtongue was fascinated. Had he just never met Humans who looked like that?
He was fascinated. But—the Hobgoblin was also aware he was a Goblin so he didn’t want to alarm Fierre. He watched as she ate more strawberry jam. Numbtongue…
…Was sort of bored today.
 
—-
 
Three newly-rich people had crises that day. And they were all somewhat related to each other in the grand scheme of things. For instance, Ryoka actually did return to the Earth-rooms with Erin where she’d dealt with a discipline issue with Troy and Leon—they weren’t showing their faces today.
Kevin and Joseph had also volunteered to bounce their heads all the way down Pallass’ grand staircase if they went to Grimalkin again. They were rising in Ryoka’s esteem.
This time, however, she found an unexpected guest in the room filled with Earth facts and memorabilia. Selys Shivertail was sitting in front of a laptop, watching a movie.
Ryoka threw Erin into the [Garden of Sanctuary]’s pond when the [Innkeeper] had the audacity to look at Selys and go ‘what? Oh, I forgot to tell you.’ The City Runner was all prepared to give Selys a more involved talk about the dangers of spreading information about Earth…but she relented when she saw Selys.
The Drake was a bit…drawn. She didn’t look like she’d slept, and she was mumbling to herself as she rocked back and forth in front of the laptop, wrapped up in a blanket.
“Everything is so small. We can build higher. Higher—this place is so crude. I should invest in glass. Glass is the future.”
She was staring at some of Kevin’s pictures of Earth. Ryoka and Erin checked her worriedly.
“Hey Selys…Ryoka’s here.”
The Drake jerked and looked up at Ryoka.
“Another one? Oh, right. Right…are you from one of those countries? Where?”
“Er…I’m from America, same as Erin.”
“You look different.”
“Her parents are Japanese, Selys. Are you okay?”
The Drake stood up and stared at the world map. She traced Japan to America.
“It’s so far. No, wait—it’s a round world. Round! There’s no end to the world. And—and—you can fly in giant metal Dragons all over. Right, nothing strange about that!”
She laughed hysterically. Ryoka saw Erin bite her lip. Selys Shivertail was the first person Ryoka had met who had well…an appropriate reaction for someone being told another world actually existed.
She was no Grimalkin, or Pisces, or even Krshia—who might not understand everything, come to that—or Teriarch or Ivolethe. Selys was shaking so bad Erin had to ask if she’d had breakfast. When Selys asked if it was morning, Erin went to get her some food.
“She’s been watching movies nonstop. I think she thinks they’re real. I tried to explain, but she’s uh, freaked out by everything. Maviola’s fine.”
Galina whispered to Ryoka when Erin was gone. And that brought up another person of note.
Maviola El. It was going to happen. Ryoka hadn’t been able to talk to the [Lady Firestarter] yet, but she was at the top of the list. Only—she hadn’t come into the inn. But Erin promised that it was actually Maviola El and Fierre confirmed it.
“I have some notes. I can’t believe it, but I heard about Maviola El downing a Potion of Youth and riding off, Ryoka. It was the talk of Izril a month back! I…can’t believe she’s still alive, honestly. Either she has a lot of Potions of Youth or they last longer than I thought!”
“Wait, alive?”
Ryoka hadn’t heard about Maviola’s swansong. But it immediately spoke to her. And made her worried.
“She might not even make it to the Summer Solstice, even if she decides it’s worth attending!”
“Um…she’s got a good chance of making it. And she promised to come. There’s like…a good chance of her making it, actually. With uh…stuff…happening.”
Erin coughed into a fist. Ryoka and Fierre stared at her.
“Erin. Have you managed to stop time itself?”
“Not me. It wasn’t my fault! Well, I just helped—I’ll tell you about it later, Ryoka.”
The [Innkeeper] had stopped to eye Fierre, who’d guiltily put away her notebook. But if Erin was being circumspect…
Ryoka’s mind was awhirl. It could happen! Only—Magnolia Reinhart was the second complicating factor. Still, that was possibly two! And since Ryoka was reminded of the oncoming solstice, she went to Invrisil.
 
—-
 
Magnolia Reinhart’s mansion stood deserted, the gates locked. Ryoka called out several times. She saw nothing—not even the patrolling Golems. The ominous storm cloud was still present though, and the glowing animals moving across the mansion’s walls made Ryoka sure she was not about to try climbing that gate.
She knew the storm cloud was armed and she had no desire to be fried. So she kept shouting, hoping for a response and feeling it was futile. After a while, someone did come out, though.
“Everyone’s gone. Get lost.”
An old man in some ratty, nature-covered robes stared at Ryoka. She stared back at the [Druid].
“Are you…N—Lady Magnolia’s [Gardener]? I need to speak with Lady Reinhart.”
“She’s not here.”
The [Druid] turned away. Ryoka called out desperately.
“Is there anyone I can talk to?”
“No.”
Well, he was no help. Ryoka paced back and forth for another twenty minutes—then wondered if the empty mansion might be connected to a real and pressing threat from the Circle of Thorns. After that, Ryoka felt like dozens of eyes were watching her so she made tracks fast towards Invrisil. She’d send a [Message] and hopefully Magnolia would reply. Or…would Teriarch help? Ryoka thought about visiting his cave.
After Ieka, maybe.
 
—-
 
Lady Ieka Imarris had been a flurry of motion for the last fifteen minutes. It was about presentation. Not that she wasn’t exceptionally grateful in her own right and impressed to boot! But she had ulterior motives for deciding to receive Ryoka Griffin in style.
…Something was wrong, though. The [Lady] of House Imarris frowned as she received a report from one of her—contacts.
Not her House’s personal bodyguard, but a different source. The fellow was nondescript and his tone was a bit pressing for her tastes.
But then, Ieka might be a powerful [Lady], but her ranking in the Circle of Thorns was supposed to be a completely different matter. In practice it wasn’t, of course; people were aware of who she was, and either relished their power over her, or bore it in mind.
This fellow was of the former, despite being lower-ranked. He was a bit too presumptuous. Ieka opened and closed her hand-fan as she listened.
“…asked to meet Magnolia Reinhart by name. And she has just sent a [Message] via the Mage’s Guild.”
“The contents of which are…?”
The man hesitated. He probably wasn’t even one of the [Assassins] who was watching the mansion.
“Her message referred to a ‘meeting’ and ‘promises made to old friends’, but it was clearly coded.”
“Ah. So you have no idea why Miss Griffin visited the mansion, and you just came here to complain that I had hired the same Runner without proof she was conspiring in some way against me, or had any idea of my allegiance?”
The agent flushed as Ieka laid in as much sarcasm as possible into her voice. It honestly should have been a Skill.
“She has an established connection with Lady Reinhart, who has interest in this City Runner—”
“As do we all. Any competent Runner is worth cultivating and Miss Griffin woke the Archmage of Izril. If you have anything substantial, I will of course entertain it. You may go. I have to meet with Miss Griffin now, anyways, and it would not do for you to be here, hm?”
