“Sure. Right—well, for instance, Magnolia had like—these really good plays. Someone taught her well, but she always tried to make her plan work. If it fell apart, her game fell apart. You know? Whereas if you’re really good, you just…improvise. And you have a long game of course. Eldavin was amazing, by the way.”
“Yeah. You beat him? I wish I could have seen his face.”
“He tossed the chess board! Which is so rude—anyways. Chaldion’s like that too. Good at long game and short game. He beat me all the time when we first met with his Skill.”
“[Path to Victory]?”
Fierre eagerly wrote with one hand as she reached for a chess piece. Erin grabbed it.
“You’ve got ink on your fingers. Respect the board.”
The other players were busy learning to respect Erin. She was someone else on the chess board. Bezale’s eyes were bulging as Montressa got checkmated faster than everyone else. She and Palt jostled to take Montressa’s place.
“I’d love for you to play some of Wistram’s best. You know, Archmage Feor is considered to be Wistram’s top player?”
Montressa shook her head, staring at the board. Erin perked up.
“Really? Do you think I could play…? Ratici, put the piece back.”
“How did you beat Chaldion, Erin? I’ve heard about his famous Skill. Isn’t it…unbeatable in a game like chess?”
Erin waved that away as she replied to Salamani’s move. He was actually doing the best. Mainly because Olesm and Belgrade had come over to reinforce his plays. A poor French Defense opening variant from the Courier had turned into an aggressive attack Erin was having to devote more and more time to—she’d gone easy on Salamani and Olesm and Belgrade were trying to turn that into a win.
“You can beat Chaldion even with his sneaky Skill. It’s—well, it’s not easy but it’s simple. Let’s say he just used the Skill. I’ll do it on Fierre’s board since Olesm and Belgrade are helping Salamani. Okay—do it, Ryoka!”
Erin pointed. The City Runner folded her arms as everyone stared at her. After a second, Mrsha poked her in the leg.
“Why?”
“Come on, you have to say it.”
“There’s no point—fine. [Path to Victory]. This is silly.”
Erin smiled hugely and then closed her eyes.
“Okay. The Victory-breaker gambit! Um…Belgrade!”
The Antinium dropped all of his chess notes he and Olesm were sharing.
“Yes, Miss Solstice?”
“Choose a number from one to eight! Don’t think about it! Hurry!”
“Th—six!”
Erin opened her eyes. She found the coordinates on the chess board and the one piece there was—
A rook. Which she promptly traded for a pawn. Fierre instantly ate it with a bishop. Ryoka gave Erin a long look.
“That was a bad move.”
“Mhm. But it’s not one I’d ever normally make. And like that, boom. Chaldion’s [Path to Victory] dies. Y’see, it only works since he sees a path based on the current game. If I mess it up, it’s gone.”
Everyone stared at Erin. Fierre actually stopped taking notes to look up.
“You mean—you beat the Grand Strategist’s best Skill?”
The [Innkeeper] shrugged innocently.
“Just in chess. That’s not the same as wars and stuff. Ooh. Check, Palt.”
 
—-
 
It was true that you couldn’t do the same thing as easily in war. And that her skill was the product of hard work, years of it, compared to everyone else.
But there was still something amazing about watching a true expert do something. Whether that was cooking, magic, or…chess. Erin Solstice shook Wilovan and Ratici’s hands when it was done. The Gentlemen Callers were giving her amazed looks, like all the others.
“It’s the one thing I’m actually good at.”
“Good at? You didn’t lose once!”
“Olesm and Belgrade tied me. That happens a lot in professional games.”
“And then you beat them in the next match. You’re a disgusting monster, Erin.”
The [Innkeeper] mock-punched Ryoka’s arm. But she looked happy at having played; Ryoka’s mind felt overstuffed from trying to score one win.
Erin Solstice saw the chess crowd break up, to her mild disappointment. There was a finite amount of chess most people could stand. Only a few, like her mystery opponent and Belgrade and Olesm and so on were in it for life.
And that was cool. It had been a great day. Erin wanted to make it better.
“You know, we could all pay a visit to Invrisil if we’re looking for something to do after being pushed around by Miss Solstice. The Players have that open booth…”
Montressa suggested slyly. Erin saw Salamani, Ryoka, and Fierre look up. And Wilovan and Ratici’s heads perked up. No one looked straight at Erin. But if anyone could get a ticket to the coveted plays in an hour, it was only Erin Solstice or someone who had a significant in with the Players of Celum. Even the nobility had to fight for one.
“You all want tickets, huh? Is that it? Huh, huh?”
“Yes.”
Palt didn’t even try to lie. Erin blinked at him.
“Hey Temile! Do you have tickets?”
“To the Players of Celum? What about our troupe?”
The [Actor] shouted back from the stage where his group was rehearsing. Erin instantly rounded on Palt.
“Yeah, what’s wrong with the Players of Liscor?”
“Nothing! It’s just—”
The Centaur put his hands up and backed up. Erin smiled as he tried to justify himself to the outraged [Actors].
It was tempting. And certainly—on her radar for her friends, even if Erin herself hadn’t been as interested. But Erin had a feeling about the plays and Invrisil. It would be…
Exciting. Possibly something might happen that would lead to event and perhaps a good outcome—but Erin knew Numbtongue had been sneaking into Invrisil in his disguise and she wondered what effect a Vampire, a Courier, two Gentlemen Callers, and a few Wistram [Mages] might have in the same room. Plus one Mrsha and a Ryoka?
Anyways, Erin had come up with a better idea already. The crying shame was that Pallass was off-limits for now. She could walk through the door of course, but she didn’t think the [Guards] would be predisposed to let her in.
“It’s a darn shame we can’t go to Pallass…are you staying for like, an entire week, Ryoka? Because I really want to have this thing with you and Lyonette and even Numbtongue if the helmet-trick works on Pallass. Maybe there’s something like it here?”
Erin mused out loud. Everyone looked at her with that familiar suspicion in their gazes. Ryoka raised an eyebrow.
“Erin. What’s in Pallass?”
“Nothing big.”
Menolit snorted as he sat at a table. Olesm shook his head. Maviola looked excited and Drassi leaned over the counter. And that was just a few in the crowd. Lyonette folded her arms. Erin was hurt.
“Honest! It would be a little thing! Tiny! Compared to going to a play in Invrisil? It’s just…has anyone heard of Pallass Hunting?”
The [Innkeeper] looked around. And she received a room full of the blankest looks imaginable. Even from Ferris.
“Pallass wha?”
“It’s the group I went with after the um—inn was destroyed.”
“The inn was what?”
Ratici looked around. Erin smiled a bit.
Toren.
“Yeah. I was thinking…it was nice. See, Pallass Hunting is this group of well, mostly Gnolls that lets you go right outside the city. And just…hunt and fish and stuff. In the wilderness. You camp for a week or two—as long as you pay for. But it’s not really camping because it’s safe.”
“You bet it is. Outside of a Walled City? You’d have an easier time finding monsters inside the city coming out of the sewers.”
Menolit snorted in disgust for the tame activity. So did a lot of patriotic Liscorians. In our city you’d get your face torn off in half a day! Erin raised her eyebrows.
“But it was fun, Menolit. What’s wrong with that?”
The [Veteran] hesitated and looked thoughtful. Erin looked at her audience.
“It was really nice. I didn’t have to worry about monsters, I got to be outside and catch fish—they stock the ponds and forests with game and fish—I thought we could do something like that.”
Mrsha’s ears perked up. She did like that. Erin gave the Gnoll a knowing look.
“Something like that. An outing without, like, Rock Crabs.”
That did sound nice. And it was a very Erin-thing to imagine. Camping? But then—Ryoka was reminded that Mrsha was a Plains Gnoll. Her tail was wagging at the very idea.
“Pallass is closed, though.”
“Because you closed it.”
Erin waved that point of logic away as she thought.
“You know, I hear some of those [Lords] we’re trading with are close to lakes and stuff in the north. What about…isn’t House Everight close to the ocean? We could go to the beach sometime!”
Erin saw Lyonette smile at that. So did Ryoka. The beach! It was one of those classic ideas. Relaxing, fun…were there beach monsters? Erin looked for Mrsha’s excited reaction.
The Gnoll gave her a dour look and signed back emphatically.
Sand is stupid.
Erin’s face fell. She’d even been thinking of adding a beach to the [Garden of Sanctuary] in the arid biome! It was possible, but it would have been for little Gnolls as well as Erin. And Mrsha looked about as enthused as…
…As someone with fur would be about getting sand all over you. A number of Drakes could see it from the Human perspective—although few Liscorians were familiar with beaches or the idea of surf and sea. But not the Gnolls. As it turned out, Gnolls were not naturally fond of sand.
Neither was Fierre. Erin sighed. You couldn’t please everyone. And it was a moot point, anyways. There was no Pallass Hunting to go to—and she’d have had to set up an appointment. Even if you could bully them into giving you an instant vacation, it was still days of camping to do it properly.
“Maybe we could fish in the pond and like…sit in the sun and throw sand on Mrsha.”
That was as close as it got. Erin sighed and decided perhaps it was time to use that favor Wesle had been bugging her to make good on. And then, as it often happened—something happened.
The door exploded inwards. The City Runner saw something charge at her.
“Ryoka Griffin! You didn’t say you came back!”
Garia Strongheart swept her friend into a hug. Ryoka struggled at first—and then struggled more because Garia was actually lifting her off the floor in a hug.
“Garia? Let go of me! I can’t breathe—”
The other City Runner was laughing as Erin turned and saw a second figure jog into the inn.
“Fals?”
“Aha! We caught her, Garia!”
The second City Runner ran into the inn. They had both just arrived from Celum and a long run. Fierre blinked. Ryoka’s friends?
 
—-
 
Ryoka’s friends. The young woman was ashamed to realize that she hadn’t even thought of contacting Garia what with everything else that had happened. She really had…forgotten about her old friends.
She was glad to see them now. Despite how much one of them had changed.
Fals was the same. At least—if he had changed, it wasn’t as noticeably as Garia. Ryoka had seen it before, but Garia was a completely different person. Her [Martial Artist] class had given her the ability to control her weight and so she had gone through the most dramatic change Ryoka had seen in anyone.
She had Numbtongue-abs. And she looked fit. Not that she hadn’t been already…Ryoka remembered that Garia had been hauling huge packs of weight around even before her new class. It was just how she looked.
But what a difference it made in Garia’s confidence. She laughed as she punched Ryoka’s shoulder and looked around the inn.
“I’m glad I found you! You ran off last time and we barely got to exchange two words!”
“I’m sorry, Garia—”
Ryoka saw Fals grinning and stuck out a hand.
“Fals! How are you?”
“Good well! Nothing special—not like the Wind Runner of Reizmelt! We’ve been keeping up on your exploits! Well, Garia and I are doing well. Garia better than me these days!”
He looked a bit embarrassed. Garia turned red herself as Ryoka stared at her.
“Really? Well, I can see…are you getting more jobs, Garia?”
“Not just jobs. She’s got a nickname. Celum’s [Martial Artist].”
“Only because I’m the only one. I’m not even Level 20 yet.”
“She’s passed Level 10 in less than a year. In months! She’s always practicing—and she actually trounced a [Bandit] group that came after her, hence the nickname. Dragged four of them into town knocked silly and collected the bounty and delivered the packages.”
Fals rolled his eyes. Garia’s smile widened as Ryoka turned to her friend.
“You, beating up [Bandits]? Garia?”
“I’ve been practicing your punches. You have to teach me more, Ryoka. That’s half the reason I found you—the other reason is to find my friend before she runs back north! Tell me everything! And don’t lie—what’s this about the Archmage of Izril—”
“Ryoka, would you mind introducing your friends?”
Salamani stood up, looking highly amused. Ryoka saw Fals and Garia look up, do a double-take, and then lose their minds.
“Salamani the Mage Runner?”
They were in awe. Ryoka remembered what it was like when Valceif had paid a visit. The Courier shook hands, blinking at Garia’s grip, and then gestured to Ryoka.
“I’m actually in debt to Miss Ryoka herself.”
Garia’s mouth opened wide as Fierre got up too. Ryoka pulled her over, almost in self-defense.
“This is Fierre. An Information Broker from Reizmelt.”
“And a friend of Ryoka’s. Hello.”
Fierre gingerly shook Fals’ hand and then Garia’s. Fals gave Ryoka a considering look.
“An Broker, huh?”
The [Martial Artist]’s eyes flickered as she looked at Fierre. Ryoka remembered that information brokers, which implied Fierre’s other job, Opener, weren’t as common around Celum and a lot more shady—
“It’s more political in the north. Come on, you two. Fierre’s honest—Fierre, Salamani, these are two of my fellow City Runners from when I ran around Celum.”
“Not that we ever ran together. Ryoka was always the fastest of us all.”
Fals put in. Ryoka ducked her head, embarrassed. That was Ryoka then, who had not been a good friend.
And still, they had come to see her. Garia was beaming. Erin came over—and to Ryoka’s surprise, Numbtongue.
“Hey Garia.”
“Numbtongue! There you are! Dad’s been complaining that you don’t visit the farm. He says to drag you over sometime.”
“Too many naked Humans.”
The Hobgoblin grumbled. Ryoka did a double-take; she hadn’t heard about that particular event at the Strongheart family farm. Nor had she known that Numbtongue and Garia were friends.
…Ab-friends? They were certainly of like minds when it came to working out. Not that Ryoka got to talk—Erin was the one who looked in disgust at the healthy people standing around. But she was smiling.
“The Wailant farm! Did you come from there or Celum, Garia?”
