Wailant grinned. The [Pirate]’s scarred arms raised and Ryoka instantly refused. So did Numbtongue. He nudged Ryoka.
“He fights dirty. Also, loses his temper.”
“You don’t say?”
Wailant looked hurt. He appealed to Salamani, who raised his eyebrows.
“Only if I get to cast [Haste] and other enchantments on myself.”
“You’re all cowards.”
The [Pirate] folded his arms grumpily. Someone kicked him in the leg and gave him the old one-two. Wailant looked down as Mrsha danced around, paws raised. Visma attacked Wailant’s other leg.
“Little monsters! You want to fight, eh?”
The two ran off in terror and Wailant chased after them, laughing. He was a good dad-type, despite everything. Ryoka saw that the Wistram [Mages] were all engaged in some kind of debate.
“But it’s the Libertarians who’re backing Ailendamus. I’m just saying—”
“Not this again, Palt. We know there’s more continents than Terandria.”
“I’m just saying that Ailendamus’ conduct sets a bad example for when Wistram should intervene. And that’s with Baleros—”
“Hold up. Are we talking about Ailendamus? Because I have definite opinions on that. Who’s not rooting for the Dawn Concordat?”
“To listen to Palt—”
Montressa was complaining as the Centaur tried to hand out cigars. He was actually on the same page as the others—but there were roughly four factions represented, maybe five, among Salamani, Bezale, Montressa, Viceria, and Palt, and [Mages] loved to argue politics.
“I remember why I left the academy.”
The [Green Mage] murmured and Salamani rolled his eyes. Palt, Montressa, and Bezale looked hurt. Viceria gave them all a steady look.
“Oh, fine. I’m interested in that as well. Let’s talk about the odds of Pheislant or Noelictus entering the war. They attacked Pheislant ships with [Knights] on them, did you hear? And maybe after that one of you can tell me what all this fuss is back at the academy. Something secret going on? No one will talk to me…”
At the same time, Imani was standing with Erin. Since the other Earthers had yet to come through the door, she looked a bit lost. She had been hanging around Palt, but the political talk—and the smoke—had repulsed her.
“Aw, look. Ryoka’s being nice.”
The City Runner was chasing around Mrsha and Visma as the two giggled and fled. Numbtongue—Wailant had already given up to go smoke—was also ‘playing’. But as Mrsha had observed, the Hobgoblin didn’t do anything halfway. He sprinted at Visma, who instantly shrieked and covered her eyes.
Fierre was watching Garia talk about punching [Bandits] and the two were going to persuade Ryoka to show them how to do her jump-kicks. And it seemed like that was a group. Garia, Numbtongue, Fierre, and Ryoka.
Fals wandered over to Erin and Imani, looking a bit disconsolate.
“…can always ask Palt to ward your rooms. Or keep sleeping in the [Garden of Sanctuary] if the dreams won’t stop. Would that help?”
“I—I think I have to learn to deal with them, Erin. Thanks. It’s just…I want them to stop, but not because I’m drinking a tonic or getting a spell cast on me. But because I’m better, you know?”
“I get that. I…I don’t know if they do, Imani. Sometimes it just takes time. There’s no shame in—”
The two looked up as the City Runner stopped in his tracks. He jerked a thumb at the others.
“Sorry, I’m not interrupting, am I? I’m just not as good at fighting as that lot.”
He looked embarrassed to walk in on the conversation. Erin smiled and motioned him over.
“It’s okay. Imani was just talking about…bad dreams.”
She looked at Imani to silently ask if it was okay to share. The [Cook] nodded, a bit shyly. But not as afraid as she had been.
“Nightmares? I know a good [Alchemist] for that.”
“It’s…more than that.”
“Imani, um, survived a Creler attack. Not the one at the inn. A bad one. With some friends…”
Fals inhaled.
“Oh. I’m so sorry.”
“Thank you. I’m trying to—stop dreaming about it. I take potions, but I stop dreaming altogether.”
“You know, it’s weird that something called Dreamleaf doesn’t, y’know, give you dreams.”
Erin threw up her hands. Imani smiled slightly, but…Fals looked at her.
“I know some Runners who have the same problem. There’s [Healers] for it, you know.”
“Really?”
She looked interested. Fals scrubbed a hand through his hair.
“Yeah. I don’t know as much myself…but I’ve heard there are specialists. Few and far between since it’s—healing the mind? But they exist. Magic schools, too.”
“What’s this about magic?”
Wailant had obtained a cigar but had rolled his eyes out of the conversation of international politics. He came over and that was the group. Erin explained and the [Pirate] raised his brows.
“[Thought Healers]. That’s what you’re thinking of. Not sure if that’s the exact class or the basic one. But yeah. Go to a major port and there’s probably one. The other option’s to find a good [Mage] or [Shaman]. Not yon [Illusionist] but a specialist.”
“You know about that, Wailant?”
The former [Pirate] gave Erin an embarrassed shrug.
“You sail the wrong places enough and you see things, Miss. Crelers? I met the bastards at sea—twice. I’d like to forget that myself. Trick is—you put distance between yourself and then. That’s the trick. Take as much damn dreamleaf as you want, Miss Imani. I’d grow it myself but it likes humid weather. Viceria has a stock, though. We could sell you some.”
“Thank you.”
Imani ducked her head and the [Farmer] gave her a kindly look. Which immediately turned into a boisterous laugh.
“Mind you, the trick is being strong enough that you know you can crush any bastard that comes at you! And write your victories on your arms, like so! Did you see the Hundredfriends Courier? I only wish I had magical tattoos that did stuff like that!”
The others smiled. But Erin hadn’t missed Wailant’s best side before he’d covered it up. And he had a lot of good sides. A few jerk sides.
“Thanks for letting us come to your farm, Wailant.”
“Ah, it’s fun. That’s the ticket. Fun. You can come over every week—makes a nice break from a hard day of farming. That little kid’s fun too. Reminds me of Garia, growing up. She wasn’t as fast as Mrsha, but she could run around for ages.”
Ryoka was shielding her face as Visma and Mrsha decided the only way to win was to throw clods of dirt to slow her and Numbtongue. Wailant roared.
“That’s good soil you’re tearing up! Oi! What are you doing? I didn’t say stop!”
The Hobgoblin saw a clod of dirt flying at his head. He grabbed it and used a Skill. [Redirect Missile]—it smacked Visma in the face and she began crying. Shorthilt’s minute of return turned guilty, but kids cried. Wailant didn’t so much as budge and Ryoka and Mrsha went over to comfort Visma.
“I like that Hobgoblin. Kids’ve gotta learn that if you throw shit, shit throws stuff back. He’s welcome too. And we do not get naked all the time! Slanderous.”
“What is that about?”
The [Farmer] looked embarrassed.
“It’s this—activity. Look, we have wands and targets…and sometimes it’s hot, okay? It’s a private damn farm! We have fences for a reason!”
Erin was so taken with Wailant’s description of what sounded to her like laser tag—or paintball with wands?—that she asked if they could try. Wailant was only too happy to provide the wands.
She, Fals, Imani, and Wailant walked over to one of the makeshift target ranges, laughing as they shot [Light Arrows]. Wailant was telling Erin about sea combat.
“Cutlass in one hand, wand in the other. You see, you can swim about—”
“With the cutlass in your teeth?”
The [Pirate] gave Erin a long stare.
“…With the wand in your teeth. Why a cutlass? That’s far too heavy. Anyways, that’s how [Pirates] fight. Mobile. You saw that Rasea Zecrew? She’s new-blood. One of the best damn [Pirates] of her generation.”
“Any of it make you want to go back to sea?”
The [Farmer] snorted.
“Are you kidding? She attacked a damn army by herself and her ship. You saw them showering arrows and spells on the Illuminary? They probably couldn’t even scratch her hulls with an unenchanted ballista! I’m glad I left. Undersea Crews surfacing under your ship and tearing a hole in the hull, bastards sending sea creatures to eat a hole in your keel—no thank you.”
“Huh. Hey! Is that the Sage’s Grass stuff? It’s growing nice!”
Erin saw a glowing field of widely-spaced, glowing red plants. Sage’s Grass. Wailant proudly surveyed his farm’s specialty.
“Yep. Almost ready to harvest. Eight months. Premium. I’d let it grow longer, but—bigger monsters’ll show up. We already had to kill a herd of damned Eater Goats last week.”
“Eight months? They grow for that long?”
“Yup. You can harvest in three—and it’s three, even with Skills. But Sage’s Grass grows for ages. I don’t try to do that, though. Too much chance they’ll die. They’re such fragile things. You can kill ‘em by speaking harshly, I swear. Actually—that reminds me. Come take a look at this! I got some more magical crops.”
He led Erin over to a far smaller plot with some odd…Erin stared at a huge, vertical oval. It looked like some kind of shiny melon. Or…or…no, there was no comparison in her world. Watermelons?
But watermelons were not four feet tall. This was a huge plant! And apparently—hollow?
“It’s called a Goudolep. Chandrarian. Stay there. You have to sneak up on it. See? I pruned it so you can get around on this side without triggering it.”
Wailant moved around—Erin saw he was dodging around some bright flowers on top. She frowned.
“Sneak up on it? Is it alive? I mean—”
The [Farmer] got around the plant and Erin saw he’d installed something like a tap into the side of the plant. He called for a cup and Fals tossed him his.
“They’re hollow! Mostly! Got a lot of water inside—it’s a self-defense thingy! See, if you get in range of the flowers—hold on, I’ll get the drink first.”
He snuck back around with a purple-green liquid in the cup. He offered it to Erin, Fals, and Imani.
“Go on. Have a sip.”
Imani tried first. She recoiled.
“It’s sour! It’s so—”
She laughed despite the expression her face was trying to make. She handed the cup to Fals and Erin.
“It’s so sour!”
Erin made a face, laughing. But it was refreshing and not that bad! It was like a super sour candy from her world. She liked it! Wailant grinned.
“Good, isn’t it? I put it in the rum for a change of pace. Your Hobgoblin loves it. See, the trick is this is a specialty-bred Goudolep. Wild-bred ones? It’s like being slapped by an angry lemon, it’s so bad. Not good at all. And if you get close…any volunteers?”
Erin raised a hand, and so did Fals, but Imani volunteered herself. So Erin had to let her try. Nervously, the [Cook] sidled forwards towards the flowers at the top. They quivered when she was about ten feet away—
And then a jet of the liquid splashed Imani. She screamed, gasped, and started laughing. So did Erin.
“See? See? What a beautiful bastard of a plant! I had to buy it. And some invisible pumpkins!”
Erin rolled her eyes.
“Oh, hah-hah, Wailant. I may be gullible, but I’m not that gullible.”
“I’m serious, I’ve got an entire crop over there! I heard Octavia was using some for her molds? Well, mine are just for fun.”
Erin eyed the empty field. She walked forwards, laughing.
“Invisible pumpkins? Why would you even—aaah!”
She tripped and smacked into the dirt. Wailant laughed as he clutched at his sides. Erin got up and stared at the empty patch of soil. She crawled over and felt at it. Then she looked at Wailant.
“Sell me some! I’ll make you an invisible pumpkin pie! Or Imani will!”
“Everything alright? I heard a scream. Imani?”
Palt trotted over to check on them. Erin had to show him the invisible pumpkin—or rather, not show him. Imani was smiling as Fals offered her some water—Palt cast [Cleanse]. Ryoka and Numbtongue and some of the others jogged over to see the spraying melon; Mrsha got a faceful as she rushed over.
The party reconverged around the melon for a bit. It was still far from dinner, and Mrsha had to try target-practice with her wand. Garia came over to Wailant with Fierre.
“Dad. Fierre told me there’s the softest sheep in the world which nuzzles you! It’s called the Sariant Lamb and it survives because it’s so adorable even monsters protect it! Can we get one?”
The [Farmer] took the cigar out of his mouth and gave his daughter a long look.
“Absolutely not. I’d rather buy a Seedspitting Vecker than a damn animal like that.”
“Dad!”
“Hear your daughter out, Wailant. Haven’t you wanted a dog for ages?”
“No farm of mine is going to have creatures that pathetic. It cuddles things? Absolutely not!”
“Mother says their wool is worth a lot. She never got one because, well, we have regular sheep and Sariants don’t get along. Jealousy.”
Fierre slyly remarked as wife and daughter tried to convince the [Pirate]. Wailant looked around for his writing spectacles.
“Well, hold on. That’s different. What’s the market value of a single harvest? And cost of one? There’s always shipping fees and it can double the expense, especially if you lose your shipment…”
“Let me get my notes.”
Fierre stepped back towards the inn, laughing. On the way, she saw the magic door open.
“Erin. Rose and Joseph are done. They’ve brought Ekirra. Selys and Drassi want to come through too. And…there’s something Kevin thinks you should see.”
Lyonette had stayed to manage the inn. But now she came through as Fierre stood to one side. She saw the others standing and exclaiming over something. And there was Pelt, Hedault—
Fierre stared at them. And the strange contraption being wheeled out by Kevin. Two master-artisans? She opened her mouth as she walked into the inn.
“I just need to get something from my room. Don’t do anything just yet!”
“Oh, of course, Fierre. You know how to work the door? Ishkr’s holding down the inn.”
“I do, thanks Ly—Lyonette.”
Fierre stumbled over her words. The [Princess] gave her a smile and walked through. Fierre watched her go. And suddenly—she had to run to her room.
The Vampire girl rushed up the stairs. She tore through her belongings, forgetting Wailant’s notes for a moment. She grabbed some freshly-bought blood from Liscor, hidden in pouches and canteens. The Vampire drank two entire meals in one go. But it didn’t stop the sudden, intense, craving she felt.
“What’s wrong? Stop it. Stop it.”
Fierre grabbed her arms until the shaking stopped. She was so hungry. She had fed from Ryoka and drank enough animal blood today! But—
