“It might…no, it will change running. But it won’t do away with us. You might be right, Fals. If this becomes cheap enough and widespread enough, most people might just ride bikes. But—there will always be Runners. We just might not be called that. We’ll just all have to become…Couriers.”
He started, and some of the heavy emotion swirling around him faded. He looked at Ryoka, for a second, and then laughed and nodded.
“You’re right. Dead gods, you’re right. And I want to try my turn on one.”
“That’s right. Hey Erin! Get over here! We want a turn!”
Joseph put his hands to his mouth and hollered at her. She waved, lost her balance—and down she went. Everyone winced.
The bike came back and Fals won the next turn after a short contest of rock-paper-scissors or whatever this world’s equivalent was called. Erin rubbed at her back as she hobbled over.
“Whew. Was that a protective spell?”
“Salamani got you. But that’s a clear case for wearing that ring, right, Master Hedault?”
The [Enchanter] nodded gravely. He handed Fals a ring—the one Kevin had used for the skateboard and Fals grew far less apprehensive.
The Earthers stood together as they watched Fals ride slowly forwards. Lyonette scooped Mrsha out of the way; the Gnoll had been reaching for the spokes. So had Ekirra.
“It’s a bit dangerous. That’s what you were worried about, right, Ryoka?”
Rose glanced sideways at the Runner. Ryoka knew she wasn’t talking about the bike alone. Slowly, the Wind Runner nodded. The breeze moving across the Strongheart farm was gentle, though. Calm.
“It’ll be okay, I think, Rose. I hope.”
“Are you really okay with it, Ryoka?”
The City Runner took her time in replying. And when she did, she looked at Erin and smiled faintly.
“A while ago I wouldn’t have been. I…I’m aware of what some knowledge can do, Erin. I thought I was protecting everyone by keeping it safe. But…”
“But?”
Ryoka rolled her shoulders.
“But these days, I have a different perspective. Back then, I trusted no one. Not even myself. Now? I’m neither the sole owner of dangerous knowledge—”
She nodded at Kevin, who gave her a wave and a guilty smile.
“—or an absolute authority on morality and the future. I never was. Anyways. It’s like you said.”
“Me?”
“During chess. You said people like Magnolia Reinhart have big plans that go astray. Well—I can’t see how this is going to turn out. But it’s not a bad thing, is it?”
“Mm. Maybe it’ll take Fals’ job away.”
“True. It could turn out bad. But it’s about who you trust, I guess. And you’re better than anyone else I’d trust with this.”
“Aw. Thanks.”
Erin hugged Ryoka briefly. Mrsha ran over, panting, begging to be next. Please? Ryoka laughed.
“We might have to ask Kevin to make one for you, Mrsha. I don’t think your legs will reach the pedals, even if we adjust the seat!”
Injustice! Mrsha stomped on the ground—until she caught the part about her bicycle. Selys was watching too. The future was here. And she was invested in the future.
“Does that mean…you’re okay…with…Wistram…?”
A wheezing voice interrupted the sanguine moment. Ryoka turned and saw Palt clutching at a stitch in his side. As it turned out, the reason people hadn’t ever seen Palt run before was that he was about in Erin’s level of physical shape—just for a Centaur. Erin laughed.
“As long as you’re okay with these, Palt! I don’t think there’s a Centaur-bicycle.”
“Bah. I have my hooves. Thing looks unsteady. But you non-equestrians can do it.”
The [Illusionist] caught his breath at last. He looked questioningly at Ryoka.
No longer being the gatekeeper of all Earth’s knowledge was a lovely burden to realize she’d never held. Strange how your own thoughts could weigh like that. Pretentiousness was heavy. Ryoka rubbed at her neck.
“Yeah. I think it’s okay, Palt. But…maybe it’s time to have another chat. Erin—there’s something else. And you too, Rose, Joseph, Kevin, Imani. Not Leon or Troy. Galina?”
She shrugged. The others looked at her. Palt’s eyes focused suspiciously on Ryoka. But it was the Vampire, Salamani, and a few others who watched as the group moved into the inn for a moment.
“Why does she know them so well? What is this?”
Fierre muttered to herself. She was hurt that Ryoka hadn’t included her. But then—Garia patted the Vampire on the shoulder.
“I don’t think it’s personal, Fierre. I think it’s the kind of secret…you have to wait to know.”
The [Martial Artist] looked towards the door. Fierre opened her mouth. But her job was finding things out. She closed it after a moment. That was probably the difference between being an information broker and a friend. Ryoka would tell her someday, Fierre hoped. She turned away, as Salamani tapped Hedault respectfully on the shoulder.
“Master Enchanter, I hate to bother you. But since we have you here…”
 
—-
 
Of the two, it was Taxiela, the Lizardgirl, who answered Palt’s spell. She listened for a while, then laughed in delight.
“Palt, you beautiful apprentice! A what? And it does…yes, yes…if it outran you, that tells me nothing. Don’t pout. Of course I’ll help!”
She was delighted. If it was she or…Galei and Taxiela, presumably the same being, and presumably, Palt’s master and member of the Elusive Lot, swished her tail back and forth.
“You’re in my good books, Palt. The best of books! Not only do we have…how many Earthers? You got something like that? I’ve actually heard of them, but all the other attempts have failed. So you have an expert, hmm? This calls for a reward. I’ll see about getting you a tome and forwarding your lessons!”
Ullsinoi, like every other faction, rewarded the [Mages] who contributed the most. At the root of each faction, the reason they had begun was for groups to become better [Mages]. All the rest was pageantry.
And Wistram Academy was changing greatly. Taxiela had a thought and spoke quickly over Palt.
“Wait a moment, Palt! Since you’ve been so helpful, I think Liscor—or Invrisil or Pallass or all three—deserves to be one of the first cities to experience our simulations. It’s this magic illusion-creation…think like a contained dimension, but far less expensive to create! You see, the idea is you get to fight monsters without the danger…”
She explained in brief the collaboration she was working on with Aaron. Palt was dutifully impressed and Taxiela could have left it all at that and had the best day in a long time.
But like any good [Illusionist], or trickster, or magician…Palt had saved the most impressive bit for last. Taxiela’s eyes widened as he laid out a request for her.
“I…can do that. It might take a bit of doing. Give me an hour or two…just stay ready. You’ll get a small window or a large one depending on how it goes. Okay?”
Taxiela dropped the spell and hurried off.
 
—-
 
She was walking by herself when they grabbed her. She tried to scream—but it was too late. She was whisked away and standing in a dark world with no light and nothing in it except for one person besides herself.
“What are you doing?”
Elena demanded. The figure in front of her materialized into a [Mage] she vaguely recognized.
Taxiela of the Elusive Lot. The [Mage] Aaron had gotten in contact with and…
The young woman blinked. She saw Taxiela was holding something. It couldn’t be; even the Elusive Lot didn’t have one. But it was a very good illusion.
The Lizardgirl was smiling. She winked at Elena.
“I think you’ll want to take this one.”
She held out the vibrating, glowing phone to Elena. The young woman stared at it. She hit a button.
…Nothing happened. Taxiela peered at the fake smartphone.
“Is that supposed to make the thing work? Fascinating. Okay, here we go.”
She vanished. Perhaps she was still there or not listening; Elena operated as if every [Mage] in Wistram was breathing down her neck, as Cara had warned her.
Yet perhaps there was more secrecy here. Because the voice on the other end spoke.
“Is this…Elena? I hear you’re someone who knows the Singer of Terandria. And someone trustworthy, according to the Ullsinoi faction.”
“Hello? Who is this?”
Elena stared at the glowing phone—Taxiela didn’t know enough to make the illusion perfect so there was no caller-ID or anything else. A pause from the other end. And then the female voice replied.
“This is…batman. I don’t know if you know who that is—”
“You’re batman? I mean—oh my god. They’ll know where you are! Listen—Wistram knows where every device they call is!”
Elena grabbed at the phone. She raised it to her ear, looking around. ‘batman’ replied.
“This isn’t a call. It’s a spell. In theory—only Ullsinoi knows where I am. Well, some other [Mages] might. But I think I’m safe for now. Listen—pretend they’re all listening in.”
“Of course. I—I’m Elena. I don’t know how much you know, but I’m a friend of the Singer of Terandria. The [Popstar]’s. Cara. You know her? She wanted to talk to you, but didn’t know how. And Blackmage—Aaron—says you dropped out of contact. He’s here. Lots of us are. Hello?”
The young woman pulled herself together. There was so much she had to say.
After a pause, Ryoka spoke. Everyone was listening; Erin was biting her knuckles to refrain from saying anything. And they were all doing a Mrsha and writing things down. Joseph had volunteered to be Joseph and Kevin had volunteered to be Joseph and Rose had volunteered to be Rose—but Ryoka had insisted.
“I’m here. Listen, Elena. There’s a lot we need to say. First off—do you know if someone is taking Earthers?”
“Besides Wistram? We think there is. Wistram’s hunting the world for people, but some are gone before the teams get there. Everyone else comes here.”
“And can’t leave.”
“No. But listen. Cara’s safe. They haven’t gotten her and I don’t know if they can. She’s too big. She can protect you if you need it. She’s high-level and she has friends.”
Ryoka chuckled.
“So do I.”
Elena relaxed. She was trying to get her thoughts in order. And chief among them—if this was the Elusive Lot playing a joke, she’d borrow that airsoft gun and shoot all of them.
“That’s good. Listen—we’re stuck here. But we’re not exactly being held hostage at knife-point. We can help. Aaron’s been sending help to others he knows. If you need gold, artifacts—we can try getting stuff to you. But carefully. Each faction in Wistram wants Earthers—people from Earth.”
Joseph waved his hands excitedly. Ryoka glared at him.
“I see. We can talk about that, Elena. I want to go over locations—anything Wistram knows. Information, um, anything we can share. Messages if you can get them to the Singer. But first—”
“Yes? What can we do?”
Elena leaned forwards in the dark room. Ryoka paused a moment.
“…Well, Elena. I was more wondering what we could do for you. Or did you want to stay in Wistram forever? Let’s talk about that.”
The young woman’s breath caught. And she was sure if they were listening—the [Mages] were laughing. She began smiling herself.
