Faced with that overt dismissal, there was nothing for the jumped-up toady to do but bow and leave, flashing disrespect all the while. Ieka scowled at his back. She had been tempted the entire time to blast him with [Acid Spray].
But then—one of her [Maids] announced that Ryoka Griffin was here. Lady Ieka smiled. She adjusted the bag of holding which was prepared to spill out a very handsome fee, went over a few casual phrases, adjusted her poise—and called for Ryoka to be sent in.
“Ah, Miss Griffin. I owe you a great debt. Come in and—”
Ryoka Griffin and Salamani entered Ieka’s room, both bowing. The [Lady]’s face went slack. Then she suppressed the largest scowl she’d had since finding out what the Circle was planning to do to Tyrion Veltras’ children.
“—and Courier Salamani. Welcome.”
“Lady Imarris.”
The Mage Runner gave her a polite bow and his own neutral smile. Ieka was suddenly reminded that she had sent him to wake the Archmage of Izril and that he had apparently nearly been slaughtered by the same defenses Ryoka Griffin had somehow managed to overcome.
It didn’t do to be rude to Couriers, though, so Ieka put her best face on it.
“Miss Griffin, I, no, Izril, is in your debt. I must confess—although I hired you to do just what you have done, I hoped only that you would survive or bring news that Archmage Valeterisa was alive. That you have woken her is deserving of the largest of rewards.”
She still went off her pre-written notes, though. Ryoka Griffin looked incredibly awkward as she bowed—she was barefoot! Imagine running on rocks!
“I’m exceptionally grateful for your praise, Lady Imarris. It was luck—and I didn’t do it alone.”
To be precise, you did it with some strange girl from Reizmelt, and a significant amount of wind magic despite not being a [Mage]. And my aunt mentioned that and barely even mentioned meeting Salamani.
Ieka kept that on the inside. She nodded graciously and laughed behind her fan.
“So humble! I am indebted to you—and to you, Courier Salamani, for assisting with the delivery.”
“As I said, Lady Imarris, I cede all credit to Miss Griffin.”
The Courier was being very polite. And giving Ryoka all the credit? If he weren’t in the way, Ieka would have applauded him. Since he was—she made a gesture and cast [Faraway Voice].
“Have a sum of three hundred gold coins brought out for Courier Salamani.”
It was a steep, steep thing to give him, but you had to tip a Courier especially since Ieka was certain he’d done a lot of the work. How had Ryoka Griffin got past Valeterisa’s defenses? Ieka had tried—once, right in the third year of Valeterisa’s absence.
She’d known about the fake mansion, but she’d barely gotten past the room of mirrors with her life. Ieka had promptly fled. She’d lost three people and half had been wounded and that was the first room.
Miraculous. Ieka was genuinely curious and she pressed the two, but Ryoka Griffin was surprisingly evasive.
“Magical secrets, Lady Imarris. I was able to break out of the cells in a way Archmage Valeterisa didn’t expect.”
“And you can’t tell me? Ah—Runner’s secrets, I suppose?”
“It’s…I’m very sorry, Lady Imarris. But it is one of the secrets that keeps me alive.”
A very fitting answer which Ieka could understand. But she had to wonder. How in the name of Rhir’s hells did you break out of a prison made by an Archmage? Even if Valeterisa claimed she wasn’t even a tenth of the [Archmages] of old?
She was growing more and more interested in Ryoka, and not just because of the Runner’s looks! But there was only too long she could drag out the conversation. Ryoka Griffin was clearly nervous as Ieka presented her with her reward. And as it turned out—the second newly-rich person in distress was Ryoka Griffin herself.
“This is for me? But the delivery wasn’t nearly—”
The young woman choked on her words as the pile of gold pieces threatened to cave in the ornamental table. Ieka was quite pleased by the reaction. Even Salamani looked impressed.
Ieka was hardly poor, but it was a large sum even for her. She fanned herself idly as she watched Ryoka recover.
“This is only for the look of it, you understand. I could hardly present all the coins at once—far too much for any bag of holding. The Merchant’s Guild will present you with the full sum.”
“But Lady Imarris—we didn’t agree on this amount! I had another request for waking the Archmage—”
What was with this young woman? She was astonishingly modest in the face of a personal fortune! Ieka snapped her fan closed briskly.
“And you shall have it! However, Miss Griffin, did you really think I was the only person interested in waking the Archmage of Izril? This is a collective bounty, shall we say. And I will ensure the Runner’s Guild accepts your candidacy for Courier!”
She expected Ryoka Griffin to leap for joy at that. Or at least be impressed. But—it was perhaps well that Salamani were here because Ieka’s expectations had been lowered. Ryoka bit her lip.
“I ah, believe I’ve already been tested, Lady Imarris. And failed.”
“Failed?”
The [Lady] snapped. By which idiot? Then Salamani coughed into his fist.
“Mihaela Godfrey herself met with Miss Griffin, Lady Imarris.”
The Guildmistress of First Landing? Ieka hesitated and sat back. Er—there wasn’t much even she could do about that. Damn that old monster. Obstinate as a mountain and she ran the Guild in First Landing with an iron…foot. Which Ieka approved of except when it got in her way.
“Miss Ryoka—may I call you Ryoka? It’s far easier.”
Ieka paused for Ryoka’s nod and went on.
“Ryoka, I have every intention of acceding to your other request. If you wish me to take part in a…party, I shall! At your time and place of choosing. And I shall prevail on the Five Families to join me, of course.”
She didn’t know if she could actually get the others. Ulva Terland for instance…highly doubtful. She was paranoid ever since her sister had been killed by the Goblin King, practically a recluse. The others? Tyrion Veltras wasn’t going to be sociable and Magnolia Reinhart had fled, but maybe the other two—
Ryoka Griffin bowed, looking relieved—even anxious. What was this party she was so desperate to throw? It hardly seemed like a vanity project. Some great favor? Ieka hoped it wasn’t for a lover.
“Thank you, Lady Imarris! It’s…an important event for me.”
Ieka smiled, and that was genuine.
“In that case, I shall be there and I hope we may speak more informally. On that note, I shall ask you to return again so we may coordinate this event?”
“I—I’d be exceptionally grateful if you would spare me the time, Lady Imarris.”
Salamani eyed Ieka, but she ignored him.
“Wonderful. Of course I should have the time for the Wind Runner, who woke the Archmage of Izril!”
And then you won’t have a damned Courier with you. Ieka let a [Maid] remove the gold and offer to transfer it into Ryoka’s bag of holding—or her account at the Merchant’s Guild. She was the gracious [Lady] as Ryoka bade farewell with a promise to help her with her project. Only when she was gone did Ieka toss her fan at the wall and sigh.
“Damn that Salamani.”
Ieka sighed and ran her fingers across the pendant she had put on just for the meeting. Her personal interests aside—Miss Ryoka Griffin had just become an important Runner in truth, as she’d said to the agent of the Circle of Thorns.
Her aunt was interested in Ryoka Griffin, which was enough. But had she checked…? Ieka shook her head, almost too shook for words.
“She has no levels. Either it’s a Skill or magic or—but I would notice.”
Another, less-capable person using an artifact or spell might not have gotten that nuance. But Ieka could tell when her spell was being blocked. It hadn’t been. The [Mage Lady] stared after Ryoka Griffin and felt as if she’d been speaking to a ghost.
“She had no levels.”
 
—-
 
Troubles with money? Or troubles of people with money…that the money itself couldn’t immediately solve?
The third person who had come into an amount of wealth very recently and was disturbed by it was…
Cetris Duiland. A name so unremarkable that most people, even in his city, had no idea who it was.
He was [Mayor] of Celum for his sins. And if they had been his sins, he must have done something truly terrible to have earned the Bloodfeast Raider’s attack on his city. Or nothing at all.
Cetris had seen his city through a seeming windfall in Octavia Cotton’s inventions. That horrible business with the [Alchemist] gangs—a Hobgoblin in his city, and an Antinium! A freak avalanche in the winter, and so on—
But the Raider’s attack had been beyond all of that. All the things Cetris had thought were the ‘worst thing to ever happen to Celum’ like that [Innkeeper] moving her door out of his city?
He had experienced true devastation with his city and Cetris had thought it was the end of Celum. Certainly, people had fled the city and he himself had been looking for a future in which it all seemed bleak.
Then—a miracle. It had just been an innocuous line. A throwaway moment in an event. But Jasi Redigal, a former inhabitant of Celum and another one of the people who’d gotten away to bigger and better things had mentioned Celum.
Raising funds for a city devastated by the Bloodfeast Raiders. But she’d said it on Wistram’s television network. And so something spontaneous—something people from Earth might have recognized for how naturally it came to be—a miracle occurred.
Money began pouring into Celum’s coffers. At first, Cetris hadn’t even noticed. Then—the Merchant’s Guild had asked if this was real. He’d investigated and gold had appeared like—like magic.
Not credit. Not a loan. Gold, sent by other nations. So much of it that it didn’t seem real. It was just a number on paper! That was what Cetris believed. He was having a dream and when he asked for the gold, it would vanish.
…Yet the Guildmaster of the Merchant’s Guild had told him that if he wanted a pile of gold, they could do a pile of gold but they’d have to send for other cities to even have it delivered and wasn’t that dangerous with [Thieves] and desperate folk?
It was real. Cetris’ new fear, the one on his thoughts as he paced back and forth in front of the magic door was—
Was anyone going to ask for it back? Did he owe someone something? Because Cetris intended to spend the gold.
“Is—does it usually take so long to open to, er, the inn?”
He inquired of the [Guards] standing to attention. They looked at each other.
“It’s usually checked every ten minutes, [Mayor]. It’s only been two minutes since the last opening.”
“Ah, of course, of course. Felt like an hour, there.”
“Is everything…alright, Mayor?”
The [Guardsman] eyed the [Mayor] with some concern. On the outside, it looked as if Cetris was badly ill. Sweating but pale-faced, pacing back and forth…the others were keeping their distance in case he was sick.
“Everything’s fine! Grand, really. Just grand. I ah…”
The [Guards] waited, but Cetris just trailed off. So much gold. He’d asked for a list of people who’d sent it in—sometimes you couldn’t get that information, but they’d wanted it known. Wanted other people to know, in fact.
Countless nations. Even ones he hadn’t heard of! Some he had. Ailendamus, Nerrhavia’s Fallen, the Forgotten Wing Company—
Individuals from the north too! Magnolia Reinhart had sent relief already, but other nobles had contributed to the cause. Cetris was beside himself. This—this could save Celum! He just needed [Builders], material!
And an assurance no one was going to demand the gold. Much had been said of Cetris Duiland. Lots of unkind words—some by the very [Innkeeper] he was hoping to meet, as well as the Players. But there was something to speak of Cetris’ good character too. And it was this:
When the door opened to Liscor and the [Mayor] rushed in and found Erin Solstice consulting with Imani about not adding garlic to any meals in the foreseeable future, don’t ask why, he shook her hand and thanked her profusely before she had any idea what was going on.
“Donations? What? Whaaaat? Jasi did that? I don’t r—oh, right! People were donating?”
“It’s a miracle, Miss Solstice! A miracle! Celum is saved! Only—they are donations, correct? The Players and the inn don’t want a…an amount?”
Erin shook her head, mystified. She looked around.
“Oi, Temile! Did the Players want money from Celum? No, right?”
“Money from Celum?”
Temile looked around. He was relaxing since talks with Pallass were stalled. It was a bit of a relief, really. He came over and promptly lost his jaw to the floor.
“People gave money? How much?”
Cetris was afraid to even say it. He was shaking.
“So they are—just giving money to rebuild Celum? For nothing?”
“Of course they are. I guess some good, kindhearted people heard about it and wanted to help. Good thing a lot of rich people saw it, huh?”
Erin gave Temile and Cetris one of her blank looks. The idea of charity was nothing new to this world. But charity of this sort? She took pity on both as Fierre began writing frantically behind her.
“Look, I think it is relief funding. So that means…build the city back up! Hire workers, make sure it’s secure! And—you know what you need?”
“What?”
Cetris was willing to listen to anything Erin Solstice had to say today. The [Innkeeper] thought for a moment and snapped her fingers.
“You need to—after you fix everything and stuff—you need to pay for like, a fancy sign.”
“A sign? With what, ‘No Killing Goblins’ written on it?”
The [Innkeeper] gave him a cool look.
“No…I mean, a—a statue. A memorial with all the people who donated. Thanking them. Something to make them see you care. And you could probably get Wistram to feature you. Gratitude.”
“Oh. That’s—a fantastic idea, actually.”
“Eh, it’s just common courtesy.”
Erin smiled a bit. Then her eyes narrowed. She looked Cetris Duiland up and down as she had a thought spawned from Earth’s take on this kind of thing.
“…And you had better make sure you don’t waste that money, Cetris. Don’t let it go to waste or let some person misuse it or overcharge. Got it?”
The [Mayor] looked at Erin, and then nodded slowly.
“You’re absolutely right, Miss Solstice. It’s a miracle Celum couldn’t ask for twice. Which is why—which is why one of the reasons I came here was to ask about hiring Liscor’s [Architect] and [Builders]. Even—even Antinium? I hear they work cheap?”
Erin’s jaw dropped. Temile whistled.
