If there was one good thing to be said of Cetris Duiland, it was that he hadn’t considered embezzling Celum’s funds until Erin Solstice had mentioned it. And he’d discarded the thought on the basis of it was wrong. There were worse things to be said of a [Mayor].
 
—-
 
“Hmm. Hmm. Hm.”
The [Innkeeper] walked around her inn, on the prowl like some shark in deep waters. It was not wrong to say she was being watched.
Food spies, city spies, and just regular spies and guests of the inn watched her. Drassi was snoozing at her bar; due to the embargo between cities she had a vacation.
“It’s too bad. Really too bad that I shut that door. But you’ve gotta do these things, right, Saliss?”
The [Innkeeper]-shark paused by a table. A Drake with a box over his private parts grinned.
“Absolutely. Especially if it annoys everyone.”
They shared a smile—although the intent was perhaps a bit different, Erin got along with Saliss. And that was because they were similar in some ways, but also because she’d made an effort. So had Saliss, of course. But friends…
Erin was watching some people out of the corner of her eye as she moved around the inn. Fierre, Salamani, who had come back to avail himself of all the free food, which even a Courier didn’t pass up lightly.
And a few others. A pair of hatted fellows who weren’t trying to be as inconspicuous as before. They were resigned to being known, and had debated in their unique parlance between themselves what might come of being asked for ‘favors’ as it were. You couldn’t allow that sort of thing, so they’d either have to refuse and jeopardize their relationship or cancel their contract outright—or stick it out till the end.
They didn’t know Erin that well. And more than one person was watching the Gentlemen Callers—with considerably more apprehension.
“They’re definitely Brothers. But I think—I think they’re the Callers.”
“Please tell me the way you said it doesn’t mean they’re important.”
Ryoka saw Fierre biting her lip nervously. The Vampire’s stomach was growling around lunchtime; but she’d stopped for some justified, pants-wetting fear at one of Erin’s guests.
“They’re…bad news, Ryoka. I mean, you know the Brothers. They have a good reputation as gangs go. No extortion, kidnapping, not much murder and it’s usually only in inter-gang fights…but they are a gang.”
“How do you make money if you don’t do all those things?”
Fierre gave Ryoka a grave look.
“You keep the streets clear and everyone happy and aware that it’s better to have the Brothers mug a few rich idiots than have the Sisters of Chell or another group moving in.”
“That’s extortion.”
“No, isn’t that racketeering? See—they have jobs which the city sometimes provides—it’s very official if the Brothers control a city. But the Callers are two of their best. Ryoka—the Gentlemen Callers, well, they’re gentlemen apparently—but they’ll still kill you dead if you’re an enemy of the Brothers.”
Ryoka’s stomach lurched. Wonderful. Fierre nodded. Then her stomach growled again.
“Sorry. I can’t make it stop.”
“You uh…need something to eat?”
“I was going to go into Liscor. But if you have um…”
A pint to spare? Ryoka nodded covertly. Both of them avoided each other’s eyes. Ryoka had donated blood to Fierre on the way to Invrisil because the Vampire girl had to make sure her blood wasn’t contaminated. In Liscor she could probably find animals that had never drank from Byres-tainted wells.
Fierre thought it didn’t matter as much if it was a river-fed animal anyways. Ryoka’s tasted ‘fresh’, according to her, and Ryoka knew she had to have drunk at least a tiny bit from Reizmelt and the Lischelle-Drakle wells. She was having charcoal pills made up like her family anyways…
But the point was that Ryoka gave blood and would probably give Fierre a snack. Was it supposed to feel so intimate? Maybe she could just drop blood into a bowl if you wanted it to be more impartial…blood transfusion bags, that was the ticket.
Before they headed upstairs, though, Ryoka had to tell Erin there was trouble in her inn. She hoped like hell that it wouldn’t turn into a gang war—
As it turned out, Erin Solstice already knew. She smiled brightly as Ryoka pulled her aside for a whisper with Palt’s help for [Silence] spells.
“Oh, them? That’s Wilovan and Ratici. Yeah, I know they’re criminals. Hey Wilovan, Ratici! You got enough to eat?”
The two Gentlemen Callers saw Ryoka and Palt duck to hide behind Erin. They tipped their hats as Erin waved.
“Are you mad?”
The [Innkeeper] stared at Ryoka.
“No. I know what I’m doing. Hey, Wilovan, Ratici, you’ve got a huge reputation. Come meet my friend! Ryoka! And Palt—you’ve met him. By the way, Ryoka? Don’t let Centaurs fall on you.”
“I’m sorry.”
Palt and Ryoka nervously hid behind Erin as she pulled them over. Ryoka’s skin was crawling. Oh no. The duo with their hats—Ratici and Wilovan stood to tip their hats and the instant they spoke, Ryoka’s internal warning bells all set themselves off.
They had style. You didn’t fuck with people who had style. It was like Belavierr all over again.
“Miss Ryoka Griffin, it’s a pleasure to meet you. And whatever you might have heard, let me assure you we’re the most reputable sorts. Not always pleasant, but I’d hope it’d never be anything to ruin our good name.”
“Not at all. Exceedingly hard to get to that point. If words and goodwill don’t prevail, it’s a crying shame.”
Ratici added as Wilovan shook Ryoka’s hand. If Ryoka were a Gnoll, all the hair would have been standing up on her body. Beaming, Erin watched as Palt did the same and the two gave her sidelong looks.
“Don’t be like that, guys. They even told me they’re criminals. And you can’t get more honest than that, can you?”
The Gentlemen Callers actually chuckled at that. Ryoka looked at Erin. Why were they here? The [Innkeeper] had the audacity to wink at her with everyone watching.
“Don’t they remind you of home, Ryoka? At least a little bit? It’s like—hats, being polite even if you’re a criminal—”
Wilovan winced and lowered his voice.
“Miss Solstice, you’re being a bit loud. We happen to be perfectly normal citizens.”
“Until we aren’t.”
Ryoka scratched at her head. Remind her of what? The mafia? The roaring twenties? What was Erin going to do to charm them, jump up on stage and put on a show and twirl a cane?
“That’s a great idea, Ryoka!”
The City Runner wanted to hit Erin. But the [Innkeeper]’s eyes were twinkling. She wasn’t afraid of the Callers, even though she had to know who they were.
That was the magic. Wilovan and Ratici were perfectly polite, even reassuring to Ryoka and Palt. Accustomed to people who knew them giving them a wide berth. But Erin, knowing exactly who they were and what they did, threw her arms around them and invited them to try a milkshake. It was refreshing, perhaps. Ryoka saw Ratici lift up his cap and glance at Erin with actual surprise.
“They’re fine, guys. Wilovan and Ratici are like—honorable hatmen!”
Wilovan’s ears lowered slowly. Ratici made a face.
“Er—gratifying of you to say, Miss Solstice. But as names go—you needn’t trouble yourself, really. We’ll stay out of your hair—”
“Nonsense! You guys’ve helped me out before. And I’ve got Salamani and Fierre as guests—have you tried all of the inn’s foods? Tell me about yourselves—come on, Ryoka, Palt! Pull up a chair! Do you like to play board games?”
They never had a chance with their politeness against Erin. You had to literally kick her and run if you wanted to get away. Ryoka got away on the pretext of helping Fierre—she came back ten minutes later with Fierre to find Erin winning at cards.
“See, it’s called ‘card counting’.”
“It’s cheating.”
Ratici looked offended. Erin laughed.
“No it’s not! You’re cheating whenever you steal a card! Numbtongue says you keep doing it.”
Palt, Erin, Wilovan, Ratici, and Numbtongue were all playing poker, a game from Erin’s world. Palt gave Ryoka a mute look of desperation. She was tempted to leave him to his fate since he was distracting everyone else.
“Miss Solstice, could you explain how it works?”
Wilovan leaned over as Erin tried to explain the concept. So did Ratici, despite his arguments. If it was cheating, they wanted to learn it.
“Magical cards are really fun. I wish we had magical chess pieces. But how would that even work? Aside from them, like, beating each other up. And that just slows things down.”
Erin admired some of the cards from Ratici’s personal deck. A little white paw reached up to steal one and Erin smacked it gently. Wilovan glanced up as he sampled a bit of a new snack that Ryoka didn’t recognize. Imani’s cooking? A dozen people were surreptitiously stuffing them into pockets or belt pouches.
“You play chess, Miss Solstice? This is a fine, er, biscuit, by the way.”
“I thought it was a fritter, Wilovan.”
“It is! Imani? Imani, what is this called?”
Erin shouted into the kitchen and Ryoka heard a shout back as Imani named the potato-fritter dish. It wasn’t the newest thing if you accepted that potatoes and french fries had existed—but it was the way it was made, the recipe—a few were stuffed with a bit of fish, the rest plain—
For a [Cook] or [Chef], Imani and Erin’s inn was a goldmine of new ways to make old foods fresh. And the jaws of the trap were closing. Once Erin started feeding you, it was all over…
And the second weapon was the little Gnoll who’d beg for food winsomely at your table. Not that Erin needed any help, because Wilovan had just run into the greatest Erin-trap of all time.
“I play chess. I’m—decent at it.”
The two Gentlemen Callers weren’t idiots. They heard the snorts and saw the look from everyone in the inn. Too canny to be pulled into a shell game, those two. But there was bait you turned down and the bait that was too interesting to pass up.
“I have an interest in chess myself, Miss Solstice. A fine game, a fine game. You seem to be something of an expert?”
Fierre looked at Ryoka with interest. So did Palt.
“I’ve seen you playing, Erin, but I don’t think we’ve ever played ourselves, have we? Montressa, Bezale, and I all play.”
“What? You never said!”
Erin slammed her hands on the table, outraged. She stared at Montressa and Bezale, who had wisely stayed out of the Erin-whirlwind for now. They were sucked in.
“Do you play chess? We have a bunch of boards at Wistram—right when it came out. We even got the Go boards that the Titan was playing with before…what’s so funny?”
Montressa had no idea why people were sniggering at her trying to show off. Erin Solstice smiled. She cracked her fingers and winced.
“Ouch. And I know Ryoka can play.”
“Poorly. Fierre, you know how to play, though, right? And you too, Salamani?”
“Yes…”
The Vampire girl looked suspiciously at the twinkle in Ryoka’s eyes. So did Salamani, as he broke off from staring at Apista flying upside-down around the inn. He eyed Ryoka, whose smile was as uncanny as it was unusual.
The City Runner had given up and was going along with the fun of it. Some of the people knew; Montressa, Bezale, and Palt had all seen Erin beat Eldavin at chess.
But it was one thing to know she was good and another to realize they were sitting across from the world’s best player, who had played…a Dragon and won. Wait, how did Teriarch know how to play chess? Had he just picked it up or learned it when he wasn’t snoozing the years away?
Something to wonder about. For now—Erin Solstice pulled out a chessboard. She waited for her first victim.
There were no takers. Wistram [Mages]—including Salamani—Fierre the Opener and Vampire, the Gentlemen Callers, they weren’t rubes and they were all waiting for someone else to take the bait first. So Erin began tossing more bait in.
“How about two at once?”
She pulled up another chess board. Ratici blinked.
“You want to play us two at a time?”
“How about blindfolded? I used to do that as a trick at parties. Three at once blindfolded?”
“Miss Solstice, there’s a limit to how much you can tease us. We know you’re good.”
“I’m not trying to be mean, Montressa. But it’d be a fun challenge for me.”
The [Innkeeper] was throwing insane taunts at the challengers. They looked at each other. There was a limit to how much they could take. Pride was on the line, but their metaphorical [Dangersenses] were going off. Erin’s eyes twinkled. And she threw in the last bit of audacity into the pot.
“I’ve played a lot of great players. Olesm’s pretty good, Belgrade, Maviola—oh, there was Eldavin, Magnolia, Chaldion—”
Fierre reached for her journal like it was on fire. Bezale’s head snapped up.
“You’ve played Magnolia Reinhart?”
“And Chaldion? Did you…win?”
Salamani stared. Erin smiled.
“Yes I did. Want to play?”
 
—-
 
It was four-versus-one. Ratici was sitting at one table as Wilovan advised him. Ryoka and Fierre had another. Montressa was taking table three as Palt and Beza backed her up and Salamani had Mrsha…snacking and occasionally pointing at a chess piece for encouragement.
Erin Solstice sat happily across from all the boards angled towards her, chattering away. A huge crowd had gathered—including Belgrade, who’d run into the inn with Olesm. The Drake had dragged Maviola over, but she’d left him to watch and take notes. She’d gone to socialize with Drassi.
There was a limit to how much other people were invested in chess. Some people didn’t care for it and that was fine. Ryoka could have fit into that number any other day.
But she really wanted to wipe Erin’s smug smile off her face. Unfortunately, it was Erin Solstice they were up against. Ryoka wondered if Erin would have been as good as a state champion on Earth. Hadn’t she said she competed in chess tournaments in other countries…? She had been a real prodigy as a kid, Ryoka remembered.
As it was, she was good enough to take four people on while nattering away. Fierre was trying to take notes and Ryoka kept making her focus on the game.
“You beat Magnolia Reinhart?”
“Mhm. Check, Montressa. Magnolia was fun. Although she cheated. Actually—half the people I play try to cheat. Put the pawn back, Ratici. I know you took it. It’s interesting playing non-professionals. The way they play is like…it reveals something about how they like to play. Does that make sense?”
“Can you elaborate? No, move that one, Fierre. She’s going to check you…”
Erin grinned as Ryoka avoided a fork-play.
