“Celum. Home’s nice, but I always have to stick around when I visit. It’s so nice to meet you, Fierre. And to see you, Erin! I keep meaning to visit the inn, but I’m always running.”
“Me too. We’d come more often, but Liscor doesn’t need mail as often as cities without the magic door.”
Fals mock-sighed. Erin laughed.
“We’re working on that! Everyone, take a seat! I’ll get you Imani’s weird potato-things.”
She headed into the kitchen, mulling something over. When she came back, everyone was taking a second measure of each other.
Fierre was smiling—with a tiny bit of a bite in the smile at Garia and Fals. Possessively, rather. It was more of a Ryoka-thing than Ryoka herself, who was clearly trying to be the friend she hadn’t been in the past.
Salamani looked amused, the older Courier and third wheel to the established friendships. He excused himself after less than fifteen minutes. Erin wondered how long he’d stick around. Ryoka had said he owed her a debt.
“It’s great, Ryoka. Having a second class? I keep telling Fals he should take a complimentary class like [Martial Artist]. Of course, you wouldn’t know.”
“Guilty. But how often did you say you practiced punches?”
“Every day. You told me to!”
“Yes, but….”
Ryoka ran a hand through her hair. The things that happened when she said things and people listened. She turned somewhat awkwardly to the Hobgoblin munching on a fritter.
“And you know Numbtongue?”
“Mhm. Naked [Farmers]—”
Everyone waited for Numbtongue to finish his sentence. Garia burst in.
“He’s talking about my parents. He met them in Celum—”
“Naked?”
Ryoka had met Wailant and Viceria, but she clearly had not gotten the same impression as Numbtongue. Garia tried to explain.
“…And Numbtongue’s an amazing fighter. He helped spar with me a few times and he comes over to drink sometimes.”
“Redfang training.”
The Hobgoblin [Bard] offered when Ryoka looked at him. He was studying Ryoka with interest. Especially when Garia looked between the two.
“I wonder who knows more about fist fighting? Ryoka taught me all those punches, Numbtongue. She practices…what was it called?”
“Just as a hobby.”
Ryoka instantly demurred as Fierre narrowed her eyes. So did Numbtongue.
“You know one of those fighting styles from Chandrar, Ryoka?”
The Vampire girl leaned over. Ryoka tried to lean out of the conversation.
“I used to do it back home…it’s nothing like being a [Warrior] or even as good as Garia, I’ll bet. You saw me sparring with Alber, Fierre? It’s like that. He could light me up even if I wasn’t boxing.”
The Vampire girl nodded. Garia and Numbtongue just looked more interested.
“Who’s Alber?”
“A friend from Reizmelt. He’s a [Fistfighter]. Look—I’m happy to show you more, Garia, but I’m terrible at actually fighting.”
“Come on, not even sparring? I’ve been wanting to since the last time you arrived.”
The City Runner pointed accusingly at Garia.
“Garia, before you even became a [Martial Artist], I saw you lay out a Bronze-rank adventurer with a single punch. You have [Enhanced Strength]. Even Salamani would probably stay out of a fistfight with you.”
“I heard that! And yes I would!”
The Courier looked up from chatting with Palt. The table laughed. Fierre sipped from her drink, her eyes cool.
“I’d try it. If I wasn’t worried about people getting hurt.”
Numbtongue and Garia looked at Fierre, who looked innocent as Ryoka nudged her hard. Vampires. Arrogant as…half the other species in the world. Although Ryoka was curious. Fierre had super-strength, speed, regeneration…and Garia had her Skills. Who’d win…?
It was a bad train of thought to go down. Especially because Numbtongue looked at Fierre and instantly raised one eyebrow.
“Are you good at fighting? Could spar in the Garden. Or outside.”
Redfangs. They didn’t wait around. Fierre hesitated.
“I have some levels, yeah…”
“Really? What class? Or is it secret?”
“Fierre. I don’t think that’s a good idea. We’re all just having a good time. We just met—”
“Good time to punch each other.”
The Hobgoblin opined. Ryoka was trying to get Fierre from bragging again and it was hard. Fierre wanted to prove she was stronger than a Gold-rank adventurer—or Garia and Numbtongue. Worse—Ryoka was afraid she might actually win. She’d punched Golems to pieces when Ryoka had passed out.
“Hey! No fighting in the [Garden of Sanctuary]!”
The voice of reason turned out not to be Ryoka. Erin Solstice walked over as Mrsha practiced a few punches just to show everyone she was cool too. Erin smiled, turned to Garia, and instantly invalidated her ‘voice of reason’ credentials.
“But it’d be really cool if we could visit the Strongheart farm sometime, Garia. I’d love to come! It’s really safe, right? Nice to run around—is there anywhere to fish?”
“Fish? Dad has a pond, yeah. He killed all the freshwater fish three years back by tossing a bunch of salt in and trying to import ocean fish—you can come over whenever. He likes you all. In fact, you could come over today.”
“Really? I was just thinking—have you heard of Pallass Hunting?”
Garia listened, blinking. And she laughed when Erin finished.
“That sounds sort of like the farm! Only, it’s not that safe. We have all those ward spells up because predators come for the Sage’s Grass. But if Dad and Mom are there, it’s pretty safe! Like I said, you can come over whenever. They don’t mind.”
“Really?”
“Why not? Everyone’s welcome! And I have to go anyways…”
Erin looked around.
“Well, Numbtongue likes to go.”
“So long as they keep their clothes on.”
“Is that really a big problem? It wasn’t when Mrsha and I went—”
“Yes.”
Erin looked around. The idea was taking hold of her. She really, really wanted…
“Hey, I know everyone can’t go, but Lyonette? Fals? You too, Salamani, if you want to. Palt, Montressa, Bezale?”
She wondered if it was too many people. The Gentlemen Callers demurred of course, but they seemed interested in the outing as a break for them if it was really that safe.
“If it’s too much, Garia—”
“My family doesn’t care. Come on over. Bring some snacks and Dad’ll roll out a carpet—and whatever there is to drink.”
Garia looked delighted at the idea. And the idea took root in more minds. Mrsha was excited; she liked the farm where she was allowed to run about. Ekirra and Visma instantly demanded to come. And then Erin had to ask their families if it was alright and assure them there was no nudity—
“I’d love to. I just need to make one stop in Liscor—when? In an hour? I’ll be there. My family are farmers too, actually.”
“Really?”
Garia gave Fierre a second look. The Vampire nodded.
“Lischelle-Drakle.”
“Drak—”
Ryoka slapped a hand over Erin’s mouth so fast the [Innkeeper] fell over. Fierre didn’t notice because Garia had exclaimed.
“Lischelle? I know that family! You’re one of the Lischelles? They’re famous!”
“Only a bit.”
[Farmer] fame. Ryoka blinked. She remembered that Colfa was supposed to be royalty among [Herders] and so on, but she hadn’t taken it seriously. But Garia looked extremely impressed. She grabbed Fierre’s hand.
“You have to come! Dad will be so impressed! He’s not great with barn animals, but if you took a look—”
And despite herself, Fierre grinned while covering her mouth. Numbtongue went to get some appropriate drinking snacks from the kitchen—Imani chased him out.
“I’m coming too! Don’t you dare rummage through my pantry, Numbtongue! I just got it sorted!”
“Are we allowed to come too?”
Montressa and Bezale looked at each other. So did Palt and Salamani. Garia nodded at Erin’s questioning look.
“Wistram, right? Mom’s from Wistram.”
“What faction?”
Salamani instantly asked. Garia rolled her eyes.
“You’re from Wistram alright. I forget. Does it matter?”
The outraged looks she got made Ryoka grin. It was settled! The Stronghearts wouldn’t know what hit them. Garia jogged through the door to deliver the news and Erin did a headcount.
“Anyone else coming? Rose. Joseph, Galina…?”
She ignored Troy and Leon, who were in disgrace and hiding. Joseph shook his head.
“We have football practice.”
Ekirra’s face fell. Torn between his passion and getting to run about! Rose nudged Joseph.
“I have to help—Kevin’s missing, that idiot. But we could come through after practice? Galina?”
“I’m acting!”
The [Actress] was on stage with the Players of Liscor. Erin saw Imani hurry out with a basket full of food and Palt trotted out and told her to put it in a bag of holding because why would you ever carry anything? The [Innkeeper] saw the others talking, Numbtongue insisting that Ryoka show him a single punch, Salamani talking about factions with Montressa and Beza—
“Good.”
The Gentlemen Callers gave her a tip of the hat. Erin winked and they walked through the door. A roar came from the [Pirate] who grabbed Ryoka in a hug.
“There you are! And here’s that little brat! Hide the snacks, Viceria! Mrsha, you scamp! And who’s this?”
Erin walked through the doorway, laughing, as Wailant picked up Mrsha and tossed her up. This was what she’d wanted to organize. An escape from The Wandering Inn. Not that it wasn’t a nice place. But it was also good to be…she took a breath of fresh air as she walked onto the Strongheart family farm.
Away from drama, except that which a [Pirate]-[Farmer] and a [Green Mage] could conjure. Visma followed Mrsha with the magic ball in her claws, looking around at all the vast farm, so unlike the Floodplains, surrounded by the High Passes on both sides. Ryoka tried to get out of Wailant’s headlock—until Garia hit her father in the side.
They piled through, leaving the inn’s madness behind. And sure enough—forty minutes after they’d gone, Kevin burst through the magic door, shouting.
“It’s done! It’s done! Everyone we finally—”
He stopped. Pelt and Hedault, following him, looked at the relatively empty inn. Kevin hesitated.
“…Where’d everyone go?”
 
—-
 
Ryoka Griffin faced Numbtongue in the ring. Well, in Garia’s barn with a small crowd of onlookers. Mrsha was cheering on…she couldn’t decide, so she was cheering on both silently.
“Come on, Ryoka!”
Fierre was watching as the City Runner nervously watched Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin was waiting for Ryoka to make the first move.
This was stupid. Ryoka felt way too tense. She had been served her humble pie—and then learned to bake it because it was a good recipe.
She remembered being dumb enough to challenge Calruz and Yvlon. That was old-Ryoka and new-Ryoka hated remembering that scene in particular. And yet—
She remembered boxing with Alber. That was fun. Ryoka feinted and Numbtongue didn’t even move. Great. She felt doubly-outclassed. Not only was she pretty sure he was a lot stronger than she was, he was a seasoned warrior.
On the other hand—she kicked and he stepped back. He was definitely waiting for her to try something.
“Mm?”
That was all the [Bard] said. But it was provocative, taunting—you could put a lot into a single syllable. And Ryoka smiled. She took a step, pivoted—
Erin Solstice, watching with a drink in her hand, sighed. She recognized that kick. It had been a long time since Ryoka’s roundhouse kick—and Numbtongue tried to block it and nearly got knocked off his feet. He staggered—
“Hoo boy. Hope no one gets hurt.”
Wailant Strongheart was also watching, already drinking, and happily. He’d practically begged Ryoka to spar with Numbtongue.
“That’s what healing potions are for. Hey, have you heard that they’re doing this in Pomle? I found it on my scrying orb. You can watch [Martial Artists] beat the hell out of each other, even bet. I can’t stop watching.”
“Or betting. She’s quite good. Is she a [Martial Artist]?”
Viceria looked amused as Ryoka tried to capitalize on the surprise kick. Numbtongue had surely seen a lot of kicks in his time—but one of Earth’s techniques was still surprising to a Hobgoblin who hadn’t studied from the same school that had tried to refine a move out of all the possible variations.
Ryoka tried to jab and the Hobgoblin threw a huge haymaker of a punch. She jumped back and he reset his posture.
Oh shit. He’d freaked her out and instead of coming in, Ryoka was back to square one and he’d seen her kick. The Hobgoblin shook out his arm. He grinned at Ryoka with all his teeth and that wasn’t intimidating at all.
“Nice kick.”
Then he tried it on her. Ryoka stepped back. And she found she was grinning.
Right. That was how you were supposed to do it. Numbtongue’s kick was fast, painful if it landed, but he wasn’t trying to break her bones. He was—having fun.
When she’d gone at Calruz and Yvlon, it was with the express intention of beating them. But you could be a decent Human being—or Goblin—and not do that. Ryoka relaxed. She saw Numbtongue try another kick and knew it was bait. So she stepped in and when he lashed out with a fist, she countered.
“Hah! Got him! Kick the shit out of him, Ryoka!”
That was Wailant. Erin sighed; she didn’t see the appeal of punching each other, but at least Ryoka was having fun. Numbtongue too.
He beat Ryoka, mainly by letting her punch him and charging into her. Ryoka knew how to grapple, but the Hobgoblin was faster. She also might have been outweighed by a number of weight classes. But who said Goblins fought fair?
“My turn. I want to try.”
“Don’t kill anyone.”
Ryoka rubbed at her back as Numbtongue patted dust and hay off her shoulders and demanded to know how she’d kicked like that. So did Garia, who Fierre wanted to fight. Garia called out.
“It’ll be fine, Ryoka!”
The City Runner gave the Vampire a warning look and Fierre grinned innocently. Numbtongue gave Fierre a suspicious look; Pyrite was telling him that the Vampire had the same look on her face as someone with a secret weapon. No other input—just ‘don’t trust that smile’.
It looked ridiculous to see Fierre squaring off against Garia, who, despite having lost weight, was both a [Farmer] and [Martial Artist] and outweighed Fierre. Ryoka watched nervously as Garia showed Fierre a punch.
The Vampire played along, right up until she swung into Garia’s arms. The [Martial Artist]’s eyes went wide and Ryoka heard the thump of an impact.
The Wind Runner closed her eyes. But Garia just shook out her hands and laughed. She stopped taking it easy. Fierre gave Ryoka a triumphant look. She was taking it easy, good, good.
“Little Lischelle-kid’s stronger than she looks. After them, it’s my turn. What do you say, Ryoka, Numbtongue? Let’s make it a proper brawl, with a wager!”
