The [Head Maid] shook her head silently. The one last [Assassin] in Magnolia’s direct employ was also clueless.
“We’re experts at using poison, Magnolia. It could be any number of poisons or some mixed dosage based on the symptoms. You need a master [Healer] or [Alchemist] who knows poisons.”
The [Lady] nodded gravely.
“…Then I think Tyrion Veltras will sign the contract. We’ll have to break the enchantment, Ressa. Either by Regis or Teriarch or one of our [Mage] allies. Either way—we simply can’t fight on Izril, not with every servant available preparing southern Izril.”
Not against the kind of [Assassins] who’d ambushed her. They were of a level beyond that of most of Reinhart’s servants. Ressa bowed slightly.
“Yes, milady.”
Magnolia Reinhart closed her eyes. If it were a war—she felt for Tyrion. If he had a heart, it was in his family. And this was no war, no enemy he could face with lance and shield.
“Give in, Tyrion. Don’t let pride break you.”
She murmured once. He surely would. She just hoped he could survive whatever the Circle demanded of him. How had she not noticed them growing amid the weeds?
That was Izril for you. Gnolls and Drakes and Humans, all of whom could kill each other so efficiently they barely had time enough for one another.
It made her miss the Antinium Wars, even Velan the Kind, it really did. Peace was harder than war with all the idiots clawing at each other for power. Magnolia Reinhart sipped at her tea to wash the disgust off her tongue.
 
—-
 
There was a Vampire in her inn. Erin Solstice kept peering at her from the doorway that morning. Fierre seemed normal. Sitting in a hoodie-type thing, baggy clothing, sipping at some tea.
Not biting everyone in sight. Not sparkling either or speaking with a heavy accent. Red eyes, though, pointy canines if you watched her mouth. Oh, and she’d ordered an extra-rare hamburger last night.
All of that could be a normal person. Erin narrowed her eyes. Except she knew. Not that she’d made…preparations.
Like a garlic bomb, or—or a jar of acidfly juice infused with garlic. Wait—did you even need the garlic? Really…Erin felt like Vampires in this world had it rough. All she had to do was remove the pointy steel tips of her crossbow bolts to create…a more Vampire-killy weapon?
Was her acid not good enough? Her ability to call fire? …Wands loaded with deadly spells? Now, when you got down to it, how much more dangerous was Fierre than, say, your average angry-Klbkch? You couldn’t scare Klbkch off with spare change, could you?
Erin decided to throw caution to the wind. She walked over.
“Hey Fierre—good morning! How’s it going?”
The Vampire girl looked up. She smiled without showing her teeth.
“Oh—um, hello Miss Erin.”
“It’s just Erin. How’d you sleep?”
“Good. I mean…really well. You have a Skill, right?”
“[Twofold Rest]. Yup! More sleep, less time! Although I just wake up and snuggle in my blankets for like—an hour.”
Erin hesitated and coughed. This might have been too personal. But Fierre laughed.
“I do that too! There’s nothing better, right?”
“Really? Er—well, obviously. You know, we have one of the Antinium—Bird—”
“Bird the Hunter?”
The [Innkeeper] grinned.
“Nah, just Bird. The rest’s an exaggeration. Although that is his class. Anyways, he has this ‘Fortress of Fluff’ which is like—a mountain of blankets and pillows. Since the Antinium can’t really lie on their backs with the shell.”
“Is that so? That’s—hold on. You don’t mind if I make a note of that, would you? [Twofold Rest] as well…I’ve got notes on the Skill. Is there anything special about it?”
“Um…what are you doing?”
Erin saw the Vampire produce a small journal with neatly-written pages and an enchanted quill. She began scribbling industriously.
“Just taking some notes. It could be worth something—well, the information about Bird the Hunter definitely is. Sorry—you don’t mind, do you? Tell me if it’s confidential. You’re Ryoka’s friend, but you know my job is an Opener and broker, right?”
Erin had heard that, but she’d forgotten what it meant. She began to panic.
“Whoa, hold on! You can’t write down what I say!”
“Why not? Is it dangerous?”
The Vampire paused, looking worried. Erin waved her hands.
“That’s not it! I say all kinds of stupid stuff! Don’t write down…well, okay, Bird not being super dangerous—that’s sort of fine?”
“Is that so? I saw him shooting Wyverns through the eye at range.”
Fierre raised an eyebrow. Erin brushed that away.
“He’s just super-talented at shooting birds. Which he thinks Wyverns are. He’s nice! I’ll introduce you! He’s a [Singer]—hey, are you writing that down?”
“Only in case anyone’s interested. Information is money.”
Fierre tried to look innocent. Erin wasn’t sure if she could scowl at Fierre or not. If the Vampire had been a certain [Necromancer], Erin would already be bopping Fierre on the head.
“You sound like Montressa and Bezale.”
Erin looked for them, but they weren’t up yet. They were always running about—apparently setting up deals between cities. They were sort of steamed since Pallass was blocked from entering The Wandering Inn for six more days. Mind you—the door was still active and it got checked. But Erin had deployed her aura and only Saliss, Rufelt, Lasica, and Chaldion could walk through without trouble.
“Those two?”
The pale-skinned girl grimaced. She was apparently older than both Erin and Ryoka, but she looked sixteen or something. Erin really wanted to know if Fierre could turn into a bat. Ryoka didn’t think so, but she hadn’t asked, had she? But Erin was going to keep the secret. Definitely. She just wished Ryoka would convince Fierre to tell Erin. Because Erin could keep the secret! Absolutely.
…What did blood taste like? Blood? Or something better?
“Something wrong with Montressa and Beza? Have you met them before or something?”
Erin asked cautiously. She was still sort of awkward around Fierre. And not just because of the secret. But the Vampire girl seemed friendly, if shy! Fierre hesitated. She looked around and grimaced before lowering her voice.
“It’s not that. It’s just—I know they’re in my line of work.”
“…Sending [Messages] and opening letters? Oh, you mean secrets. Ceria said that was Montressa’s job. How do you know? Is it like—a sixth sense or something?”
Erin nearly said ‘a Skill’, but Fierre didn’t get those. Wait—should she have asked? This was too hard!
“Er—no. I asked. Their names popped up—you tend to know other people in your line of work.”
“Oh. So they’re rivals? Is that it?”
Fierre seemed a bit peeved at them for some reason, despite them never having met. She sighed.
“It’s like this, Erin. They’re…Wistram. You know, the Academy? Full of secrets? And they’re both [Mages]. Du Valeross is a royal title. I imagine they have tons of secrets and levers. I’m not saying Mage Montressa didn’t work hard! But she had advantages. And I had to earn my position and respect! But she could come to Reizmelt and put me out of work.”
“Oh. I get it.”
The Vampire gave her an embarrassed grin and then covered her mouth with a hand.
“Sorry, I just feel competitive.”
“Hey, I understand! They’re like—‘these bigwig information people, coming and throwing their weight around compared to us humble people who had to start from the bottom? Huck-phuh!’”
Erin pretended to spit. But then she actually did. Fierre and Erin stared at a bit of spit on the table. The [Innkeeper] turned bright red.
“I’m so sorry. Let me just clean that up—I didn’t mean to—”
Fierre started laughing so hard she nearly fell out of her chair. Erin, flustered, started giggling too. By the time Ryoka came downstairs, they were already more at ease with each other. Erin liked Fierre. She was fun.
 
—-
 
Mrsha the Slightly Filthy had been kicked out of Ryoka’s room. The Gnoll kicked Ryoka’s door and grumped off. Straight into Lyonette’s arms. The [Princess] scooped her up, having heard Ryoka exile Mrsha, and sniffed at her head.
“That’s it. Bath, young miss! You’re filthy!”
Mrsha the Eminently Clean wiggled in outrage! Not in the morning! What was the point of bathing yourself when you had an entire day ahead of you? But it was too late. The tyrant carried Mrsha towards the newly-instated bath rooms.
1st Floor, part of the new wing along with Octavia’s shop. Not open to the public as of yet. Erin and Lyonette had decided they didn’t need to compete with Liscor’s public baths anyways, but having a private hot tub appealed to Erin. And it certainly made it a shorter trip. Lyonette was already asking Silveran to draw water for the tub.
Inside of her room, Ryoka listened to Lyonette arguing with Mrsha the Escape Artist as she did something she hadn’t done in…years?
She made her bed. Ryoka adjusted sheets, flipped the blanket off the bed to shake it off, and put it back on. You tucked in the corners…put the pillows…Mrsha had lots of white fur. Better make sure none was on the pillow…
Ryoka stepped back to check her work and adjusted one crease. There. It looked reasonably well-made. No clothing lying about, no dirt…well, she’d been in the room all of two days. But you’d be amazed how much dirt Mrsha tracked in using her garden-gateway.
But how was the room? Ryoka had borrowed a broom and you probably didn’t want to eat your food off the floor, but it was at least decent to walk on. The City Runner checked her reflection in a personal mirror.
That was definitely Ryoka Griffin. Reasonably unsmelly…not noticeably worse-for-wear today. But did Ryoka like Ryoka? That was always the pertinent question.
Self-hatred aside…was there room for improvement? Ryoka felt there might be. She could…dye her hair? Octavia had some magical dyes and Ryoka—who had gone through a phase—was almost tempted to try it. Hair dyes on Earth took a long time, had all kinds of nasty chemicals and weren’t actually that vibrant unless you really worked at it—and even then, artificially.
Magical dyes were magic, looked amazing, and if there were bad chemicals, they were magic chemicals.
But that was definitely too much. Ryoka shook her head and headed downstairs. She opened her door—and a Lamia blinked as he coiled down the hallway.
“Oh, good morning.”
“Hello. Sorry—”
Ryoka let him pass. Hexel slithered downstairs and Ryoka couldn’t help but stare after him. And that was normal these days. She saw someone else walk out of his room, scratching at his stomach.
Numbtongue and Ryoka Griffin locked eyes. They blinked at each other, knowing each other, but like Erin and Fierre—not being completely on the same page. Ryoka had been wary of the Redfang when they’d first met. Even offended him.
“Hi.”
“Good morning.”
“Right. Good morning. Sleep well?”
The [Bard] stared at Ryoka’s slightly-nervous grin and shrugged.
“I think I slept on a book.”
He grumbled as he poked at his stomach. Ryoka looked down and saw…an indentation on his front. Was…was that some kind of problem going around the inn? Erin had complained about the exact same thing! Then Ryoka noticed that Numbtongue was in shape.
Those were Hawk-level abs. She blinked as the Hobgoblin walked downstairs. Then Ryoka shook her head. What was with [Warrior]-types…who burned a lot of energy…actually, it made perfect sense. Especially when Erin had revealed that there were [Chefs] who could make weight-loss foods.
But in this world, didn’t it make more sense for people to idealize a chubbier form, or had they already gone through that period like Earth? Maybe it was because there were other species, some of whom might really object to that aesthetic…
Ryoka had time for her odd speculation on the development of bodily beauty this morning. Because, as was evident from the inn, there was at last no huge crisis. At least—not an enduring one.
It was a relief to Erin and Ryoka, especially because both kept expecting the bathtubs to explode or Skinner 2.0 to crawl out from the sewers or something like that. Yes, Ryoka had returned to the inn.
She was back, but historically that led to so much…flak. Trouble was common to Erin and Ryoka’s general experience. From Frost Faeries to the first time they had met and gone into the dungeon to find Olesm and Ceria—Ryoka and Erin had few calm days between them.
Good days? Of course. But calm? Fewer of those. So the idea of ‘calm’ was actually on both Ryoka and Erin’s minds today.
“Crepes!”
Erin announced, having bullied Imani into providing the meal today. With whipped cream, strawberries, and a host of goodies that had Mrsha racing out of the bath room, sopping wet, pursued by a furious Lyonette.
“Morning, Erin.”
Ryoka greeted Erin and the [Innkeeper] pointed to Fierre.
“Hey Ryoka, I made friends with Fierre.”
“What? Already?”
You left Erin alone for five minutes and she was making friends with your friends! Ryoka felt a bit…well, almost annoyed at how easy it was for Erin. Inconsiderate to anti-social people like Ryoka.
The City Runner saw the Vampire girl munching on a crepe with strawberry jam—probably reassuring to her—and watching Numbtongue out of the corner of her eye. He went straight to the table, loaded up his crepe with butter and whipped cream and began munching down unapologetically.
“Yeah, she’s cool. And I didn’t mention you-know-what, even though it was really hard!”
Erin gave Ryoka a wink. The City Runner gave her a long look.
“How tempted were you to say something?”
“Um…crepes?”
The Wind Runner gave up and went over to the table. Erin followed her, chattering.
“I had some ideas about today, actually. I know you have to meet with that Lady Ieka person and do all kinds of stuff with Salamani—he’s already in Invrisil, by the way. Guy wakes up early. Do you think you’ll have some free time, though?”
“Huh. Well—it shouldn’t take too long. Hedault maybe, but I doubt we can even schedule time with him today. We’ll sound it out. But on that note, Erin…I actually wanted to ask you a favor?”
Here it came. Erin visibly braced.
“Sure? For what?”
Go into the dungeon? Fight a Rock Crab barehanded? Ryoka’s favors could be anything. The City Runner took a breath.
“I…need you to take care of Mrsha instead of letting her latch onto me around dinner, okay? I mean—it might not be necessary in which case I’ll let you know. But just in case.”
Erin Solstice gave her friend a blank look.
“What, that’s all?”
“Yes. But I’m serious, Erin.”
Ryoka met her gaze, trying not to look embarrassed. Erin scratched her head.
“Sure can do. But why?”
“I…might be occupied.”
“With what?”
“Someone.”
