On the fifth day of their sickness, Tyrion Veltras snapped. He summoned Jericha, his [Majordomo], Ullim, and gave them a single order.
“Watch over Sammial and Hethon. I am going to secure an [Alchemist].”
The Circle of Thorns had left a mark on House Veltras already. Over two dozen dead [Healers] and [Alchemists] in the local region had…proven their commitment to this gambit. Each one, House Veltras had reached out to regarding the poison afflicting Lord Tyrion Veltras’ sons.
And each [Healer] and [Alchemist] had been warned. At first, the first group of them had weighed shadowy figures claiming to be the Guild of Assassins and the Circle of Thorns against the might of one of the Five Families. They had hired [Guards] or looked to existing defenses, the City Watch. Adventurers.
The Circle of Thorns had delivered their heads to House Veltras’ door thereafter. And no one in the region had been willing to even reply back to Jericha after that.
However. Tyrion Veltras was unwilling to give up. Not just yet. The contract that the [Assassin] who had come to his keep had offered him was a fully-binding magical contract. One with few avenues for escape.
So he demanded his newest warhorse saddled. Tyrion called for an escort of two hundred of the fastest [Riders]. His plan was to head straight for the highest-leveled [Alchemist] along the port-city of Keriwrel—to the west and secure a cure.
He had a vial of his son’s blood, a description of their ailments and the preliminary work other [Healers] and [Alchemists] had done. If the Guild wanted to kill the [Alchemist] in his presence, they would have to fight past House Veltras’ finest.
Tyrion Veltras made it sixteen miles before Jericha called him back. He turned in his saddle and saw House Veltras’ keep burning.
 
—-
 
“Ambush, Lord Veltras. Dozens of spells struck the keep within the first volley. Indiscriminate fire. The city—”
Tyrion saw smoke from the city as well. The keep was relatively undamaged. But the volley had been a warning. And the [Assassin] with the mask who lounged in the guest room applauded him as he stormed in.
“Lord Veltras. The Circle anticipated you might try that. This was a warning. If you leave your estates, I cannot guarantee your sons will be there when you get back.”
She saw the [Lord] tense, his hand going to his sword. But a change had come over the [Assassin]—the poison expert that had been sent here to threaten Lord Tyrion.
She had already been…brave? Mad? She was not one of the Guild’s finest; the possibility had existed that Lord Tyrion would simply have her executed despite the warning. But neither was she of the Ranks, the expendable, numerous [Assassins] that the Guild inducted and trained.
She had been wary but confident. Five days later—she didn’t even bother to rise as the [Lord]’s eyes flashed.
“You have attacked House Veltras—”
“Lord Tyrion. We’ve already poisoned your sons. Do you really think the Guild will quibble if we have to burn a city down? That was a warning. My masters have instructed me to tell you that the next time our aim won’t be off. If you try to ferry your sons elsewhere—well, you can try. House Veltras has a fine army.”
But not one specialized in warding two sick boys against [Assassins] for an entire journey to whatever safe haven you might find. Tyrion Veltras’ jaw clenched. He surely would have loved nothing more than to split the arrogant [Assassin] in twain. Yet she knew he wouldn’t.
He really did love his sons. And that made the [Toxins Expert]—confident. If he found no other routes, he would sign the contract.
But he’d try. Oh, he’d try. The [Lord] spun on his heel without so much as a second word. Ullim, Jericha—both stared at the [Assassin] without even trying to conceal their hatred.
“I’ll have a drink of wine, thank you. Have it sent to my rooms.”
She was enjoying herself, a guest treated like royalty—with perhaps something to be desired for friendly attitude. The [Assassin] saw Jericha clench her fist.
“Something you want to say?”
“Watch your behavior, poisoner. When all this is over, do you really think everything will be forgiven?”
The [Assassin] thought about this. Then she swung herself up nimbly. Jericha watched her walk over, hand hovering at her side. Jericha was probably higher-level, more experienced than even the [Assassin] in combat. Certainly, possessing more expensive artifacts. She was a nobleman’s second-in-command, elite, for whatever that word meant.
The [Toxin Expert] regarded Jericha and adjusted her mask. Then—she stabbed Jericha.
Her dagger flashed from a hand and Jericha threw herself back. She was good. And anyways, the [Assassin] hadn’t gone for a killing thrust. Jericha clenched at her stomach, and her hand lifted a wand—
The [Assassin] waited. Jericha’s hand trembled as the tip of her wand glowed.
“That’s right. I would watch your tongue as well. And heal yourself too, lest your master take offense. So long as the two young [Lords] are sick—Lord Veltras will abide. And he will obey. So will you. Stop bothering me and leave me. Send a good vintage to my rooms.”
She was enjoying herself. The [Assassin] regarded the blood on her dagger as Jericha stared at her, then backed away. The door shut and the masked assassin sat back with a chuckle. She had been worried for her life at first. Not anymore. Tyrion Veltras was looking thinner; he’d lost weight. The man had stopped eating.
He was softer than the rumors made it out to be. Or perhaps—only fierce in war. She waited. Some things were inevitable. The next thing he’d do was…
 
—-
 
House Veltras sent another request for assistance with the poisoning. Only this time—they did not reach out to local [Alchemists] and [Healers], few as there were of the right level. They called for aid from the Five Families.
It was a sign of weakness, obviously. And one Lord Veltras had to be reluctant to give his political rivals. But if push came to shove and he couldn’t leave his sons unprotected—
The news was shocking and not depending on who you were. And of course, it spread to even those without their sources of information. The two children of House Veltras were sick?
Not poisoned. Not yet. The Five Families got a more complete picture, as did the rest of House Veltras’ members. Tyrion needed a cure.
Now. Would he get it? There was a bit of debate. Perhaps an hour of reflection as the leaders of their houses got the message and were apprised if they weren’t already. Then the answer came:
Of course. They were children. Magnolia Reinhart was absent from Izril, but the other three families had [Alchemists] and [Healers] in their employ. They wouldn’t shirk for fear of violence…
Deilan El himself visited the House of El’s [Alchemist], Master Menob—one of the better ones even among the Five Families. After all, the House of El were artisans and a good [Alchemist] was a must.
The newly-instated patriarch of the El family knew his business—he had been working as Maviola’s assistant for a long time, after all. And this matter with Tyrion—he himself was a father. Politics aside, he would have agreed.
However, Master Menob’s shop was locked and the man had refused to answer [Message] spells. Deilan waited as his bodyguards investigated the shop and found it empty.
“Where is Master Menob? Time is of the essence!”
They found Menob hiding in his laboratory. Four men had to drag the old man—in his late seventies, skin purpled around his hands from some failed experiment, but a genius at creating alchemical powders—out. He was shaking.
“Lord El!”
“Master Menob, what are you doing? I sent word two hours ago to begin investigating the antidote for—”
The man was shaking his head. So violently Deilan feared he’d injure himself in his old age. Menob’s eyes were wide with a mortal fear.
“Lord El—I cannot. Please—forgive me. I cannot do this.”
Deilan stared at him. And then he felt the first pinprick on the back of his neck. It did not take long for Menob’s terror to become apparent. You see—he was a grandfather. A great grandfather, actually. And the moment Tyrion had made his appeal to the other Five Families, some strangers had paid a visit to both children and grandchildren’s homes. Handed two of the children cards to give to their parents with a familiar mark.
Menob had heard about the other [Assassins]. He might not have feared for his life—but his family’s? Deilan El tried to assure them they would be safe.
“The House of El’s personal guard will watch over them day and night, Master Menob. Until the cure is done.”
“Can they watch over them for the rest of their lives? Every second, Lord El? My relatives? My friends?”
Deilan couldn’t answer that. Not right away. He had to retire and pour himself a drink. Madness. And yet—and yet—
Lord Tyrion began to receive regrets from the other Five Families.
 
—-
 
It was madness. The Circle of Thorns could not threaten the Five Families, even their servants. They might be made up of powerful…nobles…although that was unsubstantiated, but almost certainly true. Even members of the Five Families themselves, perhaps?
But even if they were—this was like an idiot with a crossbow holding up a room full of [Knights] in armor. He might do damage, but if it came to blows, the Circle of Thorns could not stand against the wrath of Izril’s greatest houses.
Yet—Magnolia Reinhart was familiar with the tactic. She was thoroughly sick of salt and seawater, but look where she was? On the Reinhart’s flag ship, the Velistrane, surrounded by her servants rather than on land. She had been chased from her home. And, suddenly, people weren’t taking the Circle of Thorns as lightly as before.
The Courier incident had put them on the map. Made people aware that the Assassin’s Guild wasn’t Magnolia’s anymore. But it hadn’t worried them. Today?
The Circle had come within a heart’s breath of killing Magnolia Reinhart. By treachery, in a surprise attack and ultimately failing—yes. It had taken Tyrion Veltras himself interceding to stop them. And now look at Tyrion. He’d put the target on his back. The question now was: who would be next?
And if they dared to poison his sons, what would they do to someone who wasn’t so crucial? Ask yourself that.
“It’s like an idiot with a crossbow standing in a room full of…[Knights]. Or nobles, I suppose. If he makes them all his enemies, he dies. But the first person to jump up gets a crossbow bolt in the chest, Ressa. Is that a suitably…[Warrior]-like explanation?”
“It certainly seems distilled. What will you do?”
Magnolia pursed her lips.
“What can we do, Ressa? We’re under siege.”
She was evacuating her estates across Izril. Her staff—combat-trained, extremely competent, were in danger of their lives. The Circle of Thorns was sending their lower-ranked [Assassins] in and Magnolia, rather than stick and fight, was pulling out of Izril.
“We could take the battle to them. If House Reinhart goes to war—”
Magnolia tsked. She knew they could fight back. After all they’d done—Sacra, the other deaths—the Circle of Thorns deserved it. However—
“I would rather not, even now, Ressa. I realize that may sound…cowardly, Reynold?”
She looked to the side. The [Butler] stood, his face bordering on blank. Not impassive—he bowed too-precisely, even for him.
“Not at all, Lady Reinhart.”
The [Lady] regarded him and nodded. When she spoke next, it was for his benefit, not Ressa’s.
“The reason is that it’s escalation, Reynold. Escalation which is deserved and will come! But I cannot journey to the Drake’s cities and fight a war in the north. And…if House Reinhart goes to war against the Circle of Thorns, it will be war until one side or another is destroyed completely. Just like my grandmother faced, and they haunted her into her deathbed. Let them think I’ve run.”
“Retreat and ambush, Lady Reinhart? I don’t see anything wrong with that strategy. As a [Warrior], if you’ll pardon my input.”
The [Lady] nodded.
“Thank you, Reynold.”
“What about Tyrion?”
Ressa shot Magnolia a sidelong look. The [Lady] frowned.
“…They’ve calculated this with more effort than anything so far. They don’t want to fail after the Couriers incident and failing to kill me. If Tyrion tries to secure help from overseas—whatever cure he secures, or person, won’t make it out of the port-city. If you had to, Ressa, and I was perfectly safe—could you fend off the Guild’s best efforts?”
“You mean—the Faces? It could be three Level 40+ [Assassins] coming at a vulnerable target at any moment along the trip. Even a higher-level one, or more. I’m not a [Bodyguard]. I’d need help. A Named Team or a Courier—and a good one.”
“And Teriarch hasn’t answered since that last strange message.”
Magnolia sighed. Why now? And why—why were her reports indicating that the Eater Goats and Gargoyles were suddenly getting a lot more active around the High Passes?
Unintentionally or not, Teriarch’s presence had kept the High Passes calm, for a measure of calm, for decades! The monsters didn’t act up when the biggest predator around was all too willing to incinerate anyone who woke him up from his nap. But it was almost as if…
He’d probably gotten around to securing his cave and hidden his presence. Magnolia closed her eyes. The Archmage of Izril was back, that headache…
It was falling apart. Yet she thought of Oteslia. Hold to that. What Tyrion had to learn was that you had to fight these kinds of wars differently than an actual battle…or was that wrong?
Secure your back, have allies you could trust in…the dance of [Assassins] and watching for poison, traps, magical hexes and so on was just another plane of fighting. Magnolia searched for an answer.
“Nalthaliarstrelous…is not a healer. He has contacts, but if no [Druid] in Veltras’ lands has volunteered already—and they are not proof against [Assassins]. If they were in his garden and we were in the mansion, I’d try.”
“The Healer of Tenbault? We have a personal connection…”
The [Lady] sighed.
“She’ll refuse. Her security isn’t up to the task of defeating the Guild and she herself is not…mm…brave enough to even dare them to risk killing Izril’s finest healer. If it were me, I’d demand Regis open his vault. But it’s House Veltras—”
Ressa grimaced. And Regis Reinhart would rather let children die than aid his enemies for no gain. Well, that was harsh. He’d rather dance on their graves than help.
“Frankly, Ressa. It’s easier to break a magical contract then get a cure to Tyrion now. I haven’t even the faintest clue what it is. And you…? Theofore…?”
