It had begun at her farm. And it was getting worse. Fierre had never been so hungry. And Lyonette? Erin? Not Ryoka—and most in the inn didn’t make her so hungry. But Salamani. The Callers, even—
“Stop it. Not now. Don’t ruin it.”
She mumbled to herself as she sank to her knees. Not when it was going so well. 
 
—-
 
No one noticed Fierre returning late. They were all clustered around something that Kevin had brought into the farm. Asking questions. Some—the Earthers—were in consternation.
None more so than Ryoka Griffin. She stared down at the contraption made of metal and wood. Metal and wood.
Not plastic. Not titanium, or aluminum, refined and calculated such that the—vehicle—was as efficient as could be.
This was a prototype. But where industry was lacking or inefficient, magic came into being.
They were both here. Hedault and Pelt. They had taken time out of their schedules to complete this thing. Swept up by—Kevin’s—enthusiasm.
Erin had nearly forgotten about it. Kevin’s skateboard was being reverse-engineered by Pallassian [Smiths] for the hungry market of young adults who had seen it. But this was a far more complex creation. Yet Kevin had access to experts, he had time, a budget granted to him by Lyonette and Selys. And he had done it since he had repaired countless machines like this in his job.
The bicycle sat in the dirt, wooden frame polished, lightweight, metal wheels and wooden ‘tire’ with etched grooves to grip at the ground hand-forged. Everything from the spokes to the gear-system had been made to perfecting exactness out of flawless metal by Pelt.
“Damned thing. Worse than one of Pallass’ big gears. But it’s the challenge of it.”
The [Smith] was proud of himself. So was Hedault. His spectacles gleamed with the promise of speed.
“Most of the enchantments were simple, but there are many component parts. The frame’s enchanting was last as we put it together. The entire device weighs…six point eight pounds. And we can further cut down on the weight.”
“Six point eight? That’s without the wheels, right?”
Ryoka stared at Kevin. The [Mechanic] was grinning like a madman.
“No, that’s the entire thing, Ryoka. Hedault’s spell only works when it’s in one piece. But he can cut the weight down—and there are spells that are anti-gravitational. So, in theory, you could make a bike that—”
“You made a bicycle?”
Erin was staring. And she had repeated herself at least eight times. Joseph squatted down.
“You actually did it. Are there enchantments on the wheels?”
“Oh yeah. And just wait until you hop on. Lightweight isn’t the only enchantment we put on it—”
“You made a bicycle.”
Kevin glanced at Erin.
“Er…you said it was okay, Erin.”
Ryoka turned her accusing gaze to Erin. The [Innkeeper] snapped out of it.
“I—er—well, yeah! It’s…”
She fell silent. Everyone waited for Erin to speak. The young woman closed her eyes.
“It’s so cool. Can I ride it?”
Ryoka saw the others burst into huge smiles. She saw Kevin offer it to Erin.
“We wanted you to be the first person to really ride it. Don’t worry, it’s tested!”
It even had a damn kickstand. Brakes…Ryoka saw Erin taking a few deep breaths.
“So what is this thing? Some kind of two-wheeled wagon? It’ll never stay upright? Unless—is it enchanted?”
Wailant was fascinated as everyone else. But he didn’t get it. Numbtongue did. He was watching Erin with acute interest. So was Mrsha. Palt, the other [Mages], were murmuring. The Centaur’s avid eyes were on Erin.
But the Earther’s eyes were on Ryoka. She was breathing heavily.
A bike. This was beyond anything else that had ever been brought to this world. More than a trebuchet, even. More than…
Because this was both worlds. This wasn’t something from Earth, or something this world had like the trebuchets. This was a fusion of technology.
And he’d brought it. Kevin. And she’d been okay with it.
Erin.
“Ryoka, do you know what this is?”
Fierre whispered behind Ryoka. She was keeping her distance. The City Runner saw Rose watching her. Joseph—even Kevin’s smile flickered.
“Something wrong with it, Ryoka?”
Garia and Fals were watching Ryoka too. They knew her. And they were familiar with the signs of a real Ryoka-eruption.
“It—I know what it is. It shouldn’t—making it was—”
Ryoka Griffin struggled for words. Part of her was shrieking at her. Gears. The idea of bicycles! Their cover was beyond blown! What might Pallass do with this kind of technology? Even the bicycle chain—you could engineer anything off of this! And the potential of magic!
She saw Erin get into the padded seat.
“It’s so soft!”
She laughed. Then Erin caught sight of Ryoka. She put one foot on the ground, balancing on the bicycle.
“…Is it okay, Ryoka? I should have told you. I’m sorry. I just forgot.”
“You forgot?”
Ryoka’s voice cracked. She looked at Erin’s guilty face. Now everyone was watching her. Mrsha touched a paw to Ryoka’s leg, worriedly.
“Is this a problem, Miss Ryoka?”
Palt spoke up. Ryoka almost nodded. She restrained herself. Erin not seeing—you had to look ahead.
Not yet. But a bicycle would change everything. It was gears—it was what they represented. How would someone who wasn’t Pelt make this? Why, they’d have to figure out a way of making lots of gears in a row. Maybe develop a system. What else could you make with gears? Let’s think…
She was getting angrier. Angier about the carelessness. Angrier about what it revealed. About what it might do.
And still—part of Ryoka said something else:
Look at that. It’s a bike! You want to ride it! That’s so cool. I wish I had one. Aren’t you tired of being angry?
And she sort of…was. Ryoka Griffin looked at the bicycle. And some of her incandescent fury wasn’t there. It was a bicycle. Okay.
She’d seen the Singer of Terandria put on a music video. Kevin had a laptop with video games. Wistram had Earthers and apparently—they were making things.
It was a bicycle, not a gun. It was conceivable it might lead to the creation of something bad. But in this moment, right here, right now—
It was a bike. Ryoka walked over. Kevin tensed, as if he expected her to kick it over and start pulling it apart. Fat chance of that. Pelt would probably break Ryoka’s knees before he let his hard work go to waste.
“Huh.”
It was an amazingly comfy seat. Ryoka squatted to take a look at the chain and gears. Erin wiggled as she grinned at Ryoka.
“Think it’s okay if I take it for a spin, Ryoka? We can keep it secret, right?”
The City Runner looked up. She met Erin’s gaze and sighed. It was a long sigh. The kind that took an hour for Ryoka. A moment. A long moment where she and Erin’s eyes met. And they said a lot of silent things.
In that moment, Ryoka let go. When she rose, she raised her eyebrows at Erin.
“I don’t see why you want to make this a secret, Erin. I think this is going to be big. If you can patent it—I’d do it now. Or get on the ground floor of making this.”
Everyone looked at Ryoka. Erin’s jaw fell in amazement. Ryoka looked at the bike.
“Let’s talk about it later. I want to ride it too. Go for a spin—Kevin, does that have shocks? I don’t see anything, but if it’s got magic—?”
“Funny you should mention that…”
The [Innkeeper] gave Ryoka another look. But it wasn’t as long as…an [Immortal Moment]. Ryoka smiled and nodded.
“Go on. Everyone’s going to want a turn.”
Slowly, the [Innkeeper] pressed on the pedals. And she felt the entire bike begin to move. Everyone watched. Wailant’s eyes bugged out as he saw the intricate system begin to turn, each piece working upon the other.
“What’s…happening?”
Fals stared as Erin moved forwards. Perhaps he sensed it. That while there was magic here—it wasn’t the magic making the bike move. It was…different. Different from a horse, which was an animal, your feet, which were yours, or magic, which did all the work.
Machinery. It turned into motion as the bike rolled forwards. Slowly at first, just leaning on a pedal. Then Kevin coughed.
“Erin. You’re holding the brakes.”
“Whoops.”
She let go. And suddenly—she shot forwards. Erin let out a small scream.
“Aaah—”
The world’s first wipeout came bare seconds after the first official bike ride. Erin shot forwards, ran into the fence where the magical plants were kept, and went down.
Ryoka Griffin winced. Erin picked herself up as everyone rushed forwards.
“—that was fast. I’m okay! I’m okay! Thank you, Mrsha. Just scrapes.”
Mrsha ran over, anxiously holding her own healing potion. Erin took it, took a single sip, and brightened up. Spills on a bike weren’t so bad when you had potions! She got up and picked up the bike.
“You okay, Erin? That thing took off! Kevin, what kind of magic is on that?”
“Just [Weight] on the pedals. See, it amplifies each press. Sorry, Erin.”
“It’s okay! Let me try again!”
A determined look on her face, the [Innkeeper] walked over to the bike. She got on it again, took a breath, and aimed the wheel away from the fence and straight ahead.
“Here goes—”
She pressed her foot down. And this time—the acceleration was fast and smooth. Ryoka had seen the prototype-bicycle had no gear-shift. But if it had—surely that was the highest gear?
Yet Erin pressed down as lightly as anything and the bicycle took off. Her eyes went wide and it wobbled—it had been a long time since Erin had ridden a bicycle. But some things were like…
The vehicle wobbled once. But Kevin and Hedault and Pelt had worked to give the bike real balance. Erin pedaled forwards, and then turned the wheel. She did a slow u-turn, and came back around.
“Oh my god, she’s doing it.”
Rose exclaimed. Pelt twitched, but every eye was on Erin. She came back towards the group and everyone but the Earthers backed away as if she was riding a lion. Yet Erin had control now. And she was pedaling harder, moving faster.
“It’s working! It’s working! I’m riding a bike!”
She laughed. Joseph and Rose began laughing too, at the absurdity of the statement. Ryoka watched, spellbound.
There she went. Erin Solstice rode even faster. And a blur took off after her.
Mrsha! The Gnoll raced after Erin. The [Innkeeper] saw, ignoring Selys and Lyonette worriedly shouting for Mrsha to stop, as if the wheels would bite Mrsha. The Gnoll ran on all fours, abandoning the stupid kilt! And Erin leaned forwards and picked up the pace.
“Dead gods. That thing’s fast!”
Salamani jerked. He hadn’t been aware that Erin had been taking it easy. The magical bicycle accelerated even further, and Mrsha realized she was being outmatched. She howled a challenge and tried to up her own pace. But Erin kept pedaling—and Mrsha slowed.
“I’m going so fast! This is so easy! This is amazing, Kevin, Pelt, Hed—”
Erin’s voice was distant as she turned the bicycle again. Ryoka was trying to figure out how fast she was going, now. Magic wheels—on a regular bicycle, Erin would have been going fast and this had yet to hit top-speed.
A work of art. Pelt gave Kevin a slap on the lower back and something went crack. Hedault looked as pleased as Ryoka had ever seen him. As Erin came back around, they couldn’t help it.
Salamani broke into a run as Erin passed him. Ryoka heard him whisper ‘[Haste]’. And someone else galloped forwards.
“How fast does it go?”
No one had ever seen Palt run. He didn’t hang out around Couriers or Runners that much. He was always smoking or cooking or…Erin turned her head and saw Palt racing next to her. He pointed forwards, urgently.
“Don’t look at me!”
“It’s a bike, Palt! Salamani? Come on!”
Erin pressed harder on the petals. Both the Centaur and Courier looked at each other as Erin began to move even faster. They charged after her. Erin was riding for the road; she was aiming to do a circuit of the entire Strongheart farm.
“Dead gods. How much does one of them cost? It’s faster than a wagon already! And with a bag of holding…you’d smack yourself into the ground, though, right?”
“Not as often as you think.”
Ryoka remarked to Wailant. The [Pirate] eyed her. Hedault murmured.
“Cutting down on the cost of production is a challenge. But Miss Selys funded this project and it seems…worthwhile. Wouldn’t you say?”
“My apprentices could do the gear-things.”
Pelt snorted. Kevin nodded. More could be made. Each person watching was taking something different away, though.
“Good as a horse. Especially if you can put it in bags of holding. Chieftain would’ve…”
Numbtongue murmured. Imagine how far he’d come with the Redfangs and how fast they might have gone with those? Outrun Eater Goats. Garen might have hated them because Carn Wolves were better. But how convenient.
Fierre was writing furiously. Perhaps she saw it too. Ryoka looked around, heart singing a bunch of different messages. And she saw someone was not smiling.
Fals and Garia were watching Erin circle the farm. She was still laughing as the Courier kept pace; Palt was already growing tired but doggedly keeping up. But Erin could ride and talk; heck, you could ride one-handed or with no hands at all! Especially with training wheels, which…
“Something wrong, Fals?”
The City Runner saw her friend look at her. Fals’ face was—he was half-smiling. But there was something in his gaze. It reminded Ryoka of when she’d first passed him in the guild’s rankings. When he talked about Garia being better than he was—Persua getting a rare Skill out of pure luck.
“Sorry, Ryoka. It’s just—I think I see the end of Runners, there.”
He nodded at the distant bicycle. Garia nodded solemnly. Ryoka looked at Erin. Oh yes, that was what she’d seen. Many things to fear. But even so—she shook her head.
“The death of Runners, Fals? We’ve been competing with horses for ages.”
“Can we compete with that, Ryoka? If everyone had a magical carriage like Lady Reinhart…”
He trailed off. Ryoka knew what he meant. It was because magical carpets and flying spells and the carriage were so rare that…again, she demurred.
“They’re not perfect, Fals. They break—and you can’t take them uphill. Maybe Kevin can make one that flies or rides off the ground…”
Kevin started guiltily out of the corner of her eye. Ryoka went on.
“…but it won’t kill Runners.”
“You’re sure?”
Garia looked at the device, worried. Ryoka smiled.
“Even if it were the fastest thing in the world that everyone used, Garia—and it’s not—we’d just get [Bandits] on bicycles instead of horses. And it would look ridiculous.”
The other two chuckled a bit. The young woman laughed and then sobered.
