Ameliah nodded, and the three of them resumed their silent creep down the tunnel as Rain continued reporting the comings and the goings of the monsters. The tunnel they were in was small, twisty, and unpopular for that reason. That was why they’d picked it.

“I just sensed something new,” Rain gestured after raising a hand. “In the cavern, just for a moment. Out of range now.”

Ameliah glanced at Tallheart, who nodded. She nodded back, then to Rain, and they continued, moving even slower now. Soon enough, they stopped just before the final bend, not wanting their light to reveal them.

“Come,” Tallheart signaled, then retrieved his Darksight artifact and settled the lenses in front of his eyes. “I will guide us the rest of the way. Extinguish the light.”

“Good idea,” Rain signed. He extended a hand to Tallheart, palm upward.

Tallheart looked at it, then back up at Rain.

Rain gestured emphatically with his open palm.

Tallheart sighed, taking Rain’s hand in his own. Ameliah smiled, moving to take Rain’s other hand, making the three of them into a chain. Rain extinguished his light, leaving only the faint blue glow of Tallheart’s lenses. Even that vanished after a moment as Tallheart turned away from her. She strained her ears, picking out a deep, distant buzz that grew louder as they rounded the bend. Light came to Ameliah’s eyes, flickering from the cavern ahead. The light and the buzz both sharpened as a Hunter Drone drifted into view, crackling electricity trailing from its long whiskers, the sound made odd by the weight of the air.

Ameliah held her breath, feeling Rain clamp down on her hand. Either he was scared, or he was trying to stop her from shooting it and giving them away. Probably both.

After a moment, the monster drifted out of sight again, oblivious to their presence.

Tallheart looked back at them, his blue lenses striking in the darkness. Their glow vanished after a moment, the smith’s shadowy outline barely visible by the light from the cavern as he tucked the artifact away.

Ameliah nodded to him, then squeezed Rain’s hand before letting her own go slack. He released her after a moment, and there was the faintest clink of metal on metal as his fingers slipped out of hers.

All three of them froze. Moving in urgent silence, Ameliah drew an arrow, preparing herself for anything. A painful thirty seconds passed before she allowed herself to exhale.

Carefully, the three of them crept forward, right up to the tunnel’s mouth. Ameliah looked over the lip, and her eyes went wide.

Darkness yawned below her, making her head swim with vertigo as she stared at the dozens—no—hundreds of Hunter Drones swimming as points of distant light in the black. That wasn’t what had made her breath freeze in her lungs. It was the lair that had done that. It hung seemingly unsupported in the void, a glowing purple soap-bubble of Arcane energy. As she goggled, something big swam in front of it. The monster’s shadowy outline was unfamiliar. It was clearly a Sparkscale of some description, just too distant for the system to tell her its name.

Are those Workers following it? The shape is right, but they’re so small in comparison…

Ameliah shivered as the enormous Sparkscale passed back out of view. This was uncharted territory for her. The largest monster she’d ever seen was an Emerald Dread Adder, and that she’d only seen from a distance. Brightsiders knew their behavioral patterns and how to avoid them.

That Sparkscale had been like something out of the ocean. Much bigger than a Dread Adder, and doubtless several times as deadly. The gulf between rank 20 and rank 26 was enormous, which was only to be expected, given that it spanned the wall. The only other time she’d been this deep, she’d been sheltered from the reality of what lurked down here. The team she’d been with had kept a wide perimeter, killing most threats before she saw them.

Ameliah blinked, then exhaled slowly, driving the heavy air up and out of her lungs.

I might be stronger than they were. No, I AM stronger. Than all of them together.

She looked down at the weapon held in her hand. At Irony, a bow whose namesake had doubtless struck fear into the hearts of the Empire’s legions.

She looked back up at the lair, watching yet another shadow pass in front of it. This shadow wasn’t the enormous Sparkscale again, but a swarm of Scavengers. Hundreds of them, perhaps thousands, swimming so thickly that they appeared as a dark cloud.

I can do this.

Ameliah tightened her grip on her bow.

Or rather, I’ll be able to. Splinter Shot, first. Definitely. And I need to finish Equipment Mastery.

Glancing at the others, she motioned them back from the edge. She let her fingers play over the arrow grasped in her hand as they crept back down the tunnel, away from the hive and the lair at its center.

I’ll be back for you soon enough, fishes. The depths don’t scare me. Not nearly as much as I scare myself.
