“Fu -” Surprised by the polite cough, I scramble to my feet ready to scream for help, but the words die in my throat as I spot the intruder. Hands folded in her lap, Luo-Luo kneels atop my bed with her head lowered in shame and submission while naked as the day she was born. Silken black hair, pale, creamy breasts, and perky, pink nipples are all I can focus on until she does the impossible and offers a more alluring sight for me to feast upon. Slowly lowering her head to the mattress, she kowtows once and holds the position, her face pressed to the sheets and hips raised high, a tantalizing sight which fills me with desire.

If she were turned the other way, I’d probably pass out from blood loss, but as things stand, all I do is lean shakily on my walker.

“Lord Husband,” she whispers, the tremble in her voice only further stoking the flames of my desire, “Your Luo-Luo has come unbidden and beseeches Lord Husband to forgive her audacity, but she fears if she does not act tonight, then there may never be another chance.” Her face still hidden as she holds her kowtow, her body trembles with fear or anticipation, and it’s all I can do to keep from running over. “If Lord Husband dies, then Luo-Luo will forever be his widow, but she does not wish to become a virgin widow. Please grant Luo-Luo this one wish, and she will be eternally grateful.”

Blood flowing... away from brain... thoughts... slowing...will to resist... crumbling...

Burning with desire, I shuffle over to the bed with walker in hand while burning the sight of her naked, kneeling form into memory. Stopping just out of arms reach, I swallow hard and resist the urge to rip my clothes off and throw myself atop her. “Sit up.” The command comes out sharper than intended and Luo-Luo flinches at my tone as she hurries to obey, her eyes filled with a mixture of fear and desire. She wants this, is all but throwing herself at me, so why should I say no? God she’s beautiful, so perfectly proportioned it’s almost unreal, her bountiful breasts heaving as she pants ever so slightly while yearning for my touch, but it would be wrong. I like her, I respect her, and I even trust her to some extent, but the cold harsh truth is this: I don’t love her.

Not to say I’ll never love her, but if I sleep with her tonight, it’ll become a moot point. I’ll spend the rest of my life trying to love her while wondering if I’m motivated by true affection or guilt, and that’s not fair to me or her. I never asked for a consort, but if Luo-Luo is going to be my wife, then I need to treat her right, which means treating her as more than an object of desire. While I may be a horndog with multiple wives, that doesn’t mean I don’t love Lin, Mila, and Yan with all my heart, so it wouldn’t be fair for Luo-Luo to spend her life with a husband who doesn’t love her, not to mention I don’t know if she’s doing this because she likes me, or because she thinks it’s what’s expected of her.

On the other hand... boobs. Tough decision.

Still unsure what to do next, I open my mouth to speak, but someone beats me to the punch. “Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo. Such lust, such sin.”

Luo-Luo’s voice joins with my own as we both scream in alarm, and I belatedly wish we hadn’t as all hell breaks loose in my room.

Charging through our connected wall in a shower of debris and splinters, Dad arrives only a second after my Death Corps guards burst through the door and engage the stranger, while my floofs scramble around the room in panic. Hands pressed together in prayer, the old monk dances away from their combined attacks and says, “Apologies for the intrusion, Junior Brother. This humble monk is the Abbot of the Penitent Brotherhood, here to listen to my Senior Brother’s last will and testament.”

At this declaration, Dad stops short and retreats to guard Luo-Luo and myself, but my Death Corps guards don’t stop until I order them to. Awkwardly sliding off the bed while Luo-Luo frantically fights to cover her shame, I draw myself up to full height and offer a Martial salute, because I have no idea how one greets a monk. “My condolences for your loss,” I say, urging my beating heart to still. “Ma – err... your Senior Brother helped me face a difficult truth during a dark time in my life, and his passing was difficult for us all.” Noticing Luo-Luo shivering beneath the covers, Mom armed with her spear and peeking through the hole in the wall, and a crowd of concerned relatives and neighbours standing outside the door, I gesture towards the courtyard and say, “Why don’t we move this discussion outside?”

One thing’s for sure: I won’t get any reading done tonight, but I still want to look through the books. Probably for the best the Abbot arrived when he did though. Despite all the arguments I had against having sex with her, Luo-Luo’s naked breasts were convincingly winning the argument.

I mean... look at them. How can anyone say no to breasts like those?

Chapter Meme
