"Yes," he answered. "There was... a war. A long time ago. A war that most of the Great Realms no longer remember. I prefer not to think about it or talk about it, but it's hard to talk about this without getting into it at least a little." Cale let out a rueful chuckle. "Long story short, everyone took sides. The Monoliths, the Named—everyone. It was the single greatest war that ever struck the Great Realms, and far too many people died for its cause."

"And you were there," Damien said softly. His eyes widened as realization struck him. "You... you said you're just reborn in a different realm every time you die. Were you... were you trapped?"

"I would really rather not talk about it," Cale said, glancing away. "I'll tell you this much. The Monolith's name was Kismet. He was the Second Monolith, the Law of What Must Be, and it was his duty to bring all worlds together when the time came. Something went wrong. We still don't know what, but for the first time, ever, one of his prophecies failed, and the Realms began to end.

"Until that day, we didn't know what would happen if a Monolith broke their own Law. We didn't even know it was possible. Turns out it is, and when it happens, the Monolith goes berserk and does everything they can to enforce their Law. In Kismet's case, he had to bring the realms together, no matter what it took or who he sacrificed.

"We couldn't keep up with him." Cale clenched his fists. "He was the Monolith of Fate. He knew where we would be and everything we were going to try to do, so we were always one step behind. Until the realm of Telvass, where a brave little god did something that should never have worked, and lost her life in the process."

Cale fell silent, and for a moment, no one spoke.

"What was her name?" Damien asked quietly.

"Pumpernickel." Cale gave his apprentice a slight smile. "Not many remember her, but I do. It's a good name for a god of baking."

"It is," Damien agreed soflty. "I'll, um. I'll try to remember her too."

"You don't have to do that," Cale said, this time with a smile that was a little more real. He dragged Damien closer so he could ruffle his not-quite-hair, ignoring the yelp of protest and the way the cloak he wore fluttered dramatically. "But I appreciate it. I'm sure she would have, too.

"Anyway!" Cale straightened. "Does that answer your question?"

"I think it does," Damien said. "Thank you. Um... I guess I should tell you why I was asking."

He took a deep breath. "When I put my mana on that scale, the Gift gave me a new spell. [Legacy of the Verdant Flame]."

Cale's breath caught.

"It said it was a reforged aspect, so I thought maybe..." Damien trailed off as he noticed the way Cale was gripping the table. "U-um, did I do something wrong? Do you know something about this?"

"No, you didn't, and yes, I do." Cale took a deep breath, forcing himself to unclench his fingers and doing his best to give Damien an encouraging smile. "Keep going. I'll explain what I can once you're done."

Serof made it across the Endless Deep and to the shores of the Aersheld continent without incident, which was starting to worry him. One thing going his way was... well, it was one thing. But multiple things in a row, repeatedly, without any complications?

That felt like either the hand of fate or a trap.

Possibly both.

Everything around him was remarkably silent, which only served to make him more nervous. He'd been living with a buzzing in his skull for the past eight years. That the shores here didn't have the sounds of even the bugs or animals around was bizarre.

Serof frowned.

Too bizarre. He should at least have been able to hear the sound of the waves crashing against the shore, but even the sound of that had faded away. That shouldn't have been possible. He turned to glance at the waves—

—or, well, he tried. Serof found himself frozen in place, and realized almost immediately what had happened.

One of the other Observers had spotted him.

He cursed. Of course there would be an Observer surveying the site before the Red Hunter team was meant to make their way across the shore—just because the Hunters themselves weren't there yet didn't mean their Observer wasn't keeping an eye on things, and if they were keeping an eye on things, then their ichorworm could freeze him in place until the Hunters came to investigate. Whichever Observer it was had no doubt already alerted their team, which meant—

—it meant he'd failed. He'd been caught. Serof's heart hammered in his chest, and he stared at the open skies with a sort of desperate longing. How long had it been since he'd seen the sky through anything except a vision? To be caught right on the verge of freedom felt like a mockery of his efforts.

But he couldn't just do nothing. The Observer would be able to see and hear him. Maybe he could try to convince them he belonged?

"I'm supposed to be here," Serof lied. "I'm Observer #27, remember? I was given leave to investigate a disturbance with my ichorworm."

He winced almost as soon as he said it, though the spell that bound him kept the wince from being noticeable. No Observer would ever be given leave to investigate things themselves—that was the whole point of the Hunter teams they were assigned.

"Let me go," he said, feigning impatience. "There's only a six hour window until I can return. If you waste my time, I'll be stuck outside the Hive."

Serof had no way of knowing what the Observer watching him thought of all this, obviously, but he thought he could feel hesitation. That, or he was imagining things.

He was probably imagining things. He didn't have any magic that could reach through to people that were scrying on him.

Still... no, it did feel like his feet were a little looser. He wasn't being held so firmly in the ichorworm's grip. Serof pushed against it, trying to free himself, and saw himself slowly inching one step forward—

—only to suddenly freeze in place again. Serof grimaced. The Observer had changed their minds, then. Or they'd managed to contact someone that had commanded he be kept in place. Serof's mind raced, trying to think of any way out of this, but there was nothing he could do. He specialized in scrying magic, for crying out loud! It was the least defensive magic there was.

"Ah, there it is," a smooth voice spoke from behind him, and Serof suddenly found himself stumbling forward, free from the ichorworm's grasp. He turned around, his eyes widening, and then tried to process what he was looking at.

An... immaculately dressed gentleman with rings for a head? And a very pretty light glowing within those rings.

Serof immediately smacked down his moth instincts. Bad. That's not a lamp.

"Thank you," he said cautiously. He kept himself tense and ready to run, just in case this man was with the Red Hunters, though he couldn't imagine one of the Hunters would destroy an ichorworm. "Um—Who are you?"

"Ah, I am Professor Sternkessel of the Kazix Brightscale Academy of the Attuned Arts." The strange man dipped his sort-of-head toward him in a bow. Serof got the strange, impossible sense that he was being smiled at. "I was investigating the mage that was scrying on the Elemental Shrine of Fire. You wouldn't happen to know who that is, would you?"

"That—it was me," Serof blurted. "But I wasn't doing it by choice! You have to believe me. Please, we need to get out of here before—"

Sternkessel sighed. "Unfortunately, it does appear that more of these things are converging on this location," he said, flicking the dead ichorworm to Serof, who caught it with a yelp. "And it appears a secondary spatial spell has activated. How... inconvenient. You wouldn't happen to know a way out of this, would you?"

Serof stared at him, his heart hammering again, but did his best not to panic. The Brightscale professors were all monsters, weren't they? He had help now. He wasn't alone. He wracked his head, trying to figure out what that "secondary spatial spell" might be.

"One of the spellslates activates a spatial cube trap," Serof said suddenly, and now he was terrified all over again. Their surroundings were beginning to fade, replaced by what appeared to be a labyrinth made out of dark, glimmering crystal. "That might be it. But there isn't—there isn't a way out of those."

"Fascinating," Professor Sternkessel said, and now he sounded amused, for some reason. "Perhaps I can convince Cale to allow me to perform a study on that Thread of Fate of his. I would call it a convenient tool, but from what he has said... well, it appears to have a history of causing innumerable tragedy, as well."

"That's ominous," Serof said. "Is that ominous? You said that like it was supposed to be reassuring, but it was definitely ominous."

Sternkessel chuckled. "We simply have to ensure this is not one of the occasions that lead to tragedy," he said simply. He whipped out a hand, and a long cane extended out of it, tapping against the ground. "Shall we? We only have so much time before your Red Hunters arrive, and I would hate to disappoint Cale by necessitating a rescue."
