Ali performed the looting of the dungeon artifact right there on the top floor of the library in the Spirit Realm, under the protection of Cael and Gage’s monumental suppression array, while Kir’vella cackled away like a maniac. It might have been a risk, but she knew the twins’ array had fended off the Blind Lich’s attempt to retrieve the artifact at least once before. Still, it took some time to work through the entire dungeon artifact – there were far more variants encoded than what she’d found in the Lyton Ruins shrine. Most of Blooming Rot’s monsters were already inscribed in her Grimoire, but Ali took the time to update each variant to the highest level available.

“Ok, now for the interesting part,” Ali muttered, and then fed every single domain magic skill that could possibly gain a death affinity to the subordinate dungeon. Kir’vella then spawned bosses and returned the skills to her. Once she had those done, Ali took advantage of her own domain mana to summon bosses and trade the skills to Cael and Gage, and Naia, too, receiving in turn their shared water and space affinity versions.

“This is amazing!” Cael exclaimed for the umpteenth time.

“So cool,” Gage added.

Even though Cael and Gage got the least out of the deal, being restricted to elementals and space- and arcane-affinity magic, they still all profited greatly from plundering Blooming Rot. Ali taught them all the different levels of domain enhancement, giving them a powerful set of new tools for holding back the shadow realm. Even just a single Arcane Brawler as a raid boss near the rift would decimate more than eighty percent of whatever spilled out of that shifting dark realm.

Naia was crooning over a few upgraded ooze imprints and all the new affinities and domain magic spells.

Ali was most excited about Retaliation Trigger in water, space, and death-affinities – each adding a nova-like basic area damage skill to her repertoire. Blooming Rot even added a rot bolt variation, which would work with her extensive set of noxious Treants.

“Wait, what is this?” Ali’s eyes stopped on an item she hadn’t expected. “An imprint for herbs?” Blooming Rot had consumed the entirety of Myrin’s Keep. Eliyen’s garden included. It seemed that every single herb, wildflower, grass, and tree was recorded. Without hesitation, Ali summoned every single one of them, not hesitating to spend the chapter for the imprint as she transferred all the rare and valuable plants to her own Grimoire.

Imprint: Herb completed.

That was unexpected! Basil and Eliyen are going to be so happy.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg

https://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
