Despite all his barbs and derision, the boss let no one fall behind, dragging collapsed trainees until they stood back up, bloody and bruised. Almost five hours after they began, they finally reached their destination at the mountain-top training camp. Ignoring his ardent desire to collapse into the dirt and weep, Dastan cooled down with a slow walk around the camp and surveyed the area. The flat plateau boasted various half-built structures and devices, the work of the missing sub-bosses Ravil and Bulat. Far from impressive, there was a single wall in the middle of the field, a series of logs standing upright and half-buried, dirt ramps and tunnels with a scattering of rocks of various sizes, and a multitude of other odd structures he couldn’t begin to fathom. Draining his water skin, he finally felt like a person again after a hot meal and a half-hour of rest, watching as the boss supervised the unloading of the carts.

“Okay,” the boss said, clapping once for attention. “Your performance today was utter shit. A disgrace and waste of my time. Five hours is too long, the day is short. Tomorrow, anyone who takes longer than four hours will be joining the labour force. At the end of the month, three hours. In two months, the time limits drops to two hours.”

Resisting the urge to groan, Dastan asked, “We aren’t staying here for the night?” Running up and down the mountain every day was inhumane, even without further training, but the boss seemed eager to move on.

“Nope. Train high, live low, we’ll be making this journey every day.” Taking a deep breath, the boss asked, “You smell that? Fresh mountain air. Invigorating, isn’t it? It’s thinner up here, makes it better for training. Come now, time's wasting and we have lots to do.”

Desperate to buy more time to rest, Dastan asked, “How so?”

Furrowing his brow, the boss thought about it, seeming not to know the answer himself. “Er... it’s like this. When you inhale, your lungs take in what your body needs and exhales what it doesn’t. The thin mountain air means there’s less of what you need in every breath, forcing your body to work in sub-optimal conditions. If you can draw out your full potential in this poor environment, then once you return to the flat-lands, you’ll be like a tiger given wings. Got it?”

Before Dastan could ask another question, Gerel appeared from the shadows and uttered, “Enough wasting time. Move on.” The bald, amber-eyed warrior glowered without frowning, his neutral expression still somehow conveying displeasure and disapproval.

Unperturbed, the boss nodded. “Now, this training camp is for all you new recruits, but I’ll be splitting you into two groups. Ulfsaar and Dastan, you’re group one and you’ll be with Gerel today.” Dastan cursed his poor luck as the boss continued. “Jorani and Chey, you’re with me. Jorani, Tursinai tells me you’re eager to learn Healing and I’m happy to hear it. I pray you retain your enthusiasm after today.” Pulling out a small, metal tool, he spun it around his finger with a smile. After wracking his brain, Dastan recognized the item as a dentist’s tool, used to extract rotten or dead teeth. Why was the boss carrying that around?

Putting it out of mind, Dastan followed Gerel to another plateau where several Bekhai elites stood waiting. Without any preamble, the dour warrior gestured at the practice weapons. “You lot lucked out today. Arm yourselves and line up,” he said, cracking a humourless smile. “No point talking until we’ve seen what you’re made of.”

Though he’d rather train with the boss, Dastan grudgingly admitted that Gerel was a skilled warrior. Though he’d been defeated by Yo Ling in an instant, at least he survived the encounter, which was more than most could say. The bald warrior defeated his opponents with ease and his critique was on point. With a dull battle-axe in hand, Dastan acclimated to its weight with a series of drills while eagerly awaiting his turn, studying the other instructors as they picked their opponents at random. How many were on the same level as Tursinai and Tenjin? How many crouching tigers and hidden dragons were concealed among these mountains? He was eager to test his mettle against these elites, hoping to-

An inhuman shriek echoed through the mountains and Dastan turned towards the source, ready to dash out to defend the boss, but Gerel barked, “Stand your ground. It’s fine, that’s just Rain teaching his people.” Chuckling, the bald warrior shook his head while effortlessly holding off Ulfsaar’s furious attack, his utter disregard infuriating the one time bandit chieftain. “I told you all didn’t I? You’re the lucky ones, so thank Jorani for volunteering to be first. A few aches and bruises is all you’ll suffer, while the others... Well, you’ll find out soon enough.”

Swallowing his fear and trying to control his trembling body as the chorus of shrieks continued, Dastan prayed to the Mother for all the strength and courage she could spare.

It only seemed fair. He’d need all he could muster and more to survive Her Chosen Son’s training.

Chapter Meme
