I went back to the statue to recharge my mana while Fox transformed, thinking over how to beat her.

Now that she knew Pentaclysm was a thing, she probably wouldn’t let me hit her with it again. Ice missiles were an option, but she had that static ability that seemed able to repel most projectiles. Hmmm… but it wouldn’t repel rocks, would it?

It looked to me like her ability destroyed the mana itself. The ice portion of my ice missiles was actually made of mana, but most of my earth spells controlled physical earth.

Yeah. That had to be a difference I could take advantage of.

The question was, which mixture of earth spells would be best? Terra Bullets, which just used earth and wind, were nice, but could I do more than that? What about earth, wind, and fire? I had never tried that before. Would that be like exploding Terra Bullets?

I guess it was worth a shot.

I really should have played around with more mixtures first. I mean, don’t get me wrong, I had planned to do just that before leaving on my quest and while I had the statue available, but I wasn’t expecting Fox to suddenly challenge me to a duel.

She was probably just using this as a way to bully me because she was still mad about the Pentaclysm to the face the other day. She assured me she was over it, but I simply did not trust the deceitful fox!

When I made it back to the flat area of the training yard, I saw her already sitting there in her giant fox form, haunches planted, with that smug rise to her whiskers as her eyes narrowed at me.

“Okay, so I’ll try to go somewhat easy on you,” she assured me. “But I’m going to take this seriously, so come at me with everything you’ve got. I’m not giving up any freebies, though!”

Yeah, because a freebie would melt half your face.

I suspected my overdrive Pentaclysms could do quite some damage. But, I wondered how well she actually could block a base Pentaclysm if she were ready for it. Not that I’d be going for it unless I found a really tricky way to set her up for it. She was far too fast and would be ready from now on.

I gave her a stare that said, “Well, what are you waiting for?”

“Go on,” Fox said. “You can come at me first. Hit me with your best shot, kid.”

Well, no time like the present, I suppose. I’d have to be careful to keep my mana above 480 so I could get at least one level 2 Overdrive off at some point. That might be my only real shot at winning, so I decided to start small with a base Elemental Cocktail.

I charged at her and raked my claw against the earth as I got closer.

{Elemental Cocktail}! Earth, Wind, and Fire! Molten Terra Bullets!

The rocks shot up from the ground like normal, but this time they glowed red-hot as the wind hurled them right at Fox. Despite their speed, she dodged them easily. Then, just to throw it in my face—at least it sure felt that way—she brought one paw down and smacked one of the stones into the ground.

Big deal! That was just a test!

Then she charged at me.

Guess she really is only giving me that one shot.

I tried slipping around her side, but she anticipated the move, turned suddenly, and swept her claw low. I jumped over it—and successfully dodged—but before I could touch the ground again, another claw slammed down on my back.

She pinned me to the ground, standing triumphantly over me with a giant paw on my back.

I tried to jerk away, and for half a second, I thought I’d succeeded. Then I realized she had only released the pressure to let me move—just so she could swat my rear again.

This time, I was sent rolling and tumbling. I gave her an unhappy growl once I came to a stop and saw her prowling toward me, head low, eyes narrowed.

“What did you stop for?” Fox asked. “I told you I was going to be serious. Are you going to stop and complain about how unfair it is every time something bigger has the upper hand?”

“Shut up!” I barked.

She had no idea who she was talking to! She had no idea how many times I’d been up against opponents who were ridiculously stronger than me and still managed to pull through anyway.

Well, I was going to show her, then!

I charged at her, and she charged at me too. This time, she was way faster. Sparks crackled around her paws, and then she blew right past me in a blur.

Before I could even turn halfway around, I saw her coming at me from the other direction.

This time, I was knocked off my feet. Before I could get up, she came at me from another direction. Then another. Then another.

Every single time I started to recover, she knocked me right back down.

What the hell? What kind of training is this when I literally can’t do a damn thing against you? At least let me get on my fee—AAAAAAH!

She bowled me over again.

She kept doing it, shooting this way and that, knocking me down every time I barely managed to recover. I had to put a stop to this.

The next time I hit the ground, I didn’t even try to get up. I swiped my claw at the dirt instead.

{Elemental Swipe}! Terra Claw!

I had no idea which direction she would attack from next, so I fired it off randomly.

And missed.

She hit me from my blind side, sending me tumbling again, but I tried again mid-roll.

{Elemental Swipe}! Terra Claw!

This time, I succeeded. Pebbles pelted her in the face, slowing her down just enough for me to dive away from her next attack. As soon as I had my paws under me, I ran for the forest—

And my plan worked! She stopped bowling me over.

Just as I suspected, she couldn’t maneuver properly in the trees while using whatever skill that was. If she tried to keep doing it, she’d slam herself right into a trunk.

I ran deeper and deeper into the forested area until I reached one of the walls of the training grounds. I looked around briefly, wondering if Rin was nearby, but I didn’t see her. She must have chosen a different corner to meditate in.

“Smart pup,” Fox called. “But for how long do you think hiding in the trees will help you?”

I really wished I could talk back and tell her how annoying she was. Not to mention how sad and pathetic it was that she had to bully a poor, innocent child!

Instead, I kept my gaze darting through the trees, searching for her.

Luckily, she wasn’t actually hard to spot. She was huge. She prowled through the forest toward me, that irritatingly smug rise to her whiskers making me want to bite her face. The term “aura walking” entered my mind, and for some reason, in this unfair matchup, that actually pissed me off even more. She had no right to act cool here!

But the question was, what would my next move be?

What if I went one element short of a Pentaclysm? I had never tried that before.

So let’s give it a shot!

{Elemental Cocktail}! Earth, Fire, Wind, and Electricity! Terra Bombs!

It looked almost exactly like Terra Bullets and Molten Terra Bullets.

Actually, no.

It looked exactly the same!

What the heck? What a rip off!

Except it wasn’t.

This time, when the red-hot flying stones struck something, they exploded.

OH YEAH!

Even Fox looked surprised as she hop-stepped backward, the Terra Bombs setting off a series of explosions against the surrounding trees that startled her.

Oh yeah, that’s a good one! I thought proudly. I’ll definitely be adding that to my list of favorite cocktails!

Maybe I should blow my one level 2 overdrive shot on that spell?

No, no. Don’t get excited and waste it like an idiot, I told myself.

“Hey, that one had some bite to it,” Fox said. “You really do have some interesting abilities, pup. I might actually have to be worried once you get a little bigger!”

You’re damn right you will!

I started running again, baiting her into chasing me. She seemed to take the bait—or at least, she was playing along to see what I would do—as she darted through the woods behind me.

As soon as she got closer—

{Elemental Cocktail}! Earth, Fire, Wind, and Electricity! Terra Bombs!

She backed off just long enough to let them explode against the trees, then instantly dove in for me.

That’s what I was hoping for!

Time for a level 1 overdrive—

AAAAH!

She suddenly shot at me like a bullet, sparks crackling off her paws. The world flipped around me as I tumbled, but this time I was forced to a stop as she pinned me with one paw on my chest. Her lips curled up, showing her foxy fangs in a taunting smile as I tried to roll out from under her.

I managed to get onto my side and tried to swipe my paw at the ground, but then I felt myself being lifted as she snagged me by the scruff.

She yanked me up, shook me left, then right, then let go, and suddenly I was an airborne puppy! I panicked, flailing my poor doggy limbs without any control!

Wait! Uh—wind can help me!

Elemental Swi—

I hit a tree, bounced off it, and hit the ground like a sack.

But I had earth to rely on now.

Elemental Cock—

As I lifted my head to look for my target, I found Fox already right on top of me.

She swatted me again, sending me tumbling freely this time.

I growled in frustration, got back to my feet, and looked around.

She had disappeared into the trees again.

This isn’t fair! I hate her training! This isn’t teaching me anything! She’s just doing this to amuse herself! That damn fox!

I’ll make her pay for this!

But once again, I wouldn’t even get a chance to plan an attack, because a shadow leapt through the trees to my left, and it, of course, was Fox pouncing me once again. This time as I rolled and tumbled, she didn’t just let me go. I came to a stop when she put a big paw on my back, this time with far more weight.

I tried to scramble away but she held firm.

“Bark twice if you concede,” she said.

I growled and barked once. “Let me go!”

“If you don’t give up now, I’m going to force it out of you!”

I barked again, I would have said, “Screw you, you damn—” and it would have been cut off, as suddenly electricity coursed through my body.

It was just like the first time I’d ever felt one of those shock poles from the red masks. When they had found me in the tree. Every single muscle in my body tightened to the point I couldn’t even breathe—I could barely even think. My electricity resistance didn’t even matter here!

I remembered what it was like, being held by my scruff as just a tiny puppy who had no hope of saving myself. That was the same helplessness Fox was now putting me through.

When it stopped, she didn’t move her paw, keeping my pinned. “Give up?”

I growled, teeth clenched. “Screw you.”

“Fine, I won’t make you say it. But this fight is over. And listen, as an apology for putting you through this, I’ll tell you something you probably wanted to know.” She leaned down a little harder, bringing her muzzle closer to me so I could feel her breath, though I heard her words in my mind. “I’m level 55, and this is the difference in our strength. I’m not even a particularly strong level 55, if I’m being perfectly honest. That Valrok guy was level 75, and Rin is even higher than him, she says she’s around 100.”

Finally, she let go of me and sat back on her haunches. I got up and turned to glare at her. Though, whatever angry barks I might have had were lost when I saw she didn’t have that smug rise to her whiskers for once.

Her head turned slightly. “You’ve achieved a lot. From what I can tell, you succeeded at most things you’ve tried so far. Including getting the best of me the other day. But I didn’t want you going out into the world with too much confidence. I wanted to be sure you didn’t take your growth for granted, and that you understand the difference between a fight you can win and a fight you can only survive.”

My ears flattened.

Fox watched me carefully. “You’re clever. I mean that. You adapt quickly, you try strange things, and somehow you pull it off. You put your heart into everything you do. But sometimes, it doesn’t matter. Sometimes you just can’t win.”

My claws dug at the ground. I growled, but not in an aggressive way. I guess, just signaling how much I hated it. I hated that I understood what she was saying, and that I knew she was probably right about that. I wanted to ask, “Well, what am I supposed to do then?”

“But here’s the thing,” Fox continued. “If you can’t win today, maybe you will tomorrow.” Her lips curl enough to flash a fang, but not in her usual smug way. “I’m not like you. If I never have to fight and kill another thing in my life, I’m fine with that. I’d prefer that. I just want to drink, relax, and enjoy this life I have. But that means you probably will be way stronger than me one day. So the point is, don’t get overconfident and throw your life away on an unwinnable fight. Instead, run when its appropriate. That way, you can come back later—stronger—and win when the odds are on your side. You never really lose until you’re dead. Remember that.”

My ears remained flat as I thought it all over. I did understand what she was saying… And maybe she had a point. I had been feeling pretty unbeatable lately, after all.

But still…

SHE DIDN’T HAVE TO SHOCK ME LIKE THAT!

I returned my glare to her and let a growl raise into a sharp bark.

She waved a paw at me, flashing her foxy smile. “Sorry if I went a little too far! Maybe I was getting a little payback against you, too! I swear, we really are even this time!”

I growled and barked, “Oh no, we’re not! We are FAR from even! You damn shameless fox!”

“I take it you two are finished?” Rin asked, and I looked to the left to see her stand there as if she had been there this whole time, but now she held a bundle of clothes under her arm.

I thought you said you were meditating?

“Yeah, we’re done,” Fox said.

“Excellent,” Rin said, and tossed the clothes on the ground near me. “Get changed and meet me by the statue. There are a few things I must discuss with you about your quest. But also, I have an update on your brothers.”
