“Owwwww….”

The slow throbbing pain in his head told Rain that he was awake. At the moment, he felt that being unconscious would have been preferable.

“Hey,” a female voice said. “How’s your head?”

Rain groaned and opened his eyes, squinting against the bright light as he took stock of his surroundings. He was seated in Halgrave’s office, but the guild leader was nowhere to be seen. Instead, a blue-robed woman was staring at him, seated behind Halgrave’s desk. He recognized her.

“Mahria?” Rain said, raising a hand to his head. Counter to his expectations, it didn’t have a huge dent in it.

“Hi,” she said, laughing. “My mom did a number on you, didn’t she?”

Rain scrunched up his face, closing his eyes against the pain. “How long…?”

“You’ve been sleeping there for about twenty minutes. My dad forced Wallace to heal you, but it looks like he did a shitty job. Hells, you probably can’t even understand me. Are you getting any of this?”

Rain groaned and sat back in his chair. The room felt like it was spinning. Definitely a concussion.

“Like talking to a wall. Come on, cleaning boy. The least you could do is learn the language.”

Rain sighed. “I speak the language. I just don’t feel like talking right now. It’s like someone stomped on my head a few times after I passed out.”

“Wow, damn, I guess you do. Your accent’s gone too. How’d you manage that?”

Rain shook his head, immediately regretting it as his stomach lurched. He kept his eyes closed, trying to keep his lunch down.

“Wow, you don’t look good. Here.” There was a sudden flash of blueish light and a blast of cold air. Rain looked up to see that Mahria was holding out a brick of crystal-clear ice toward him. He reached out to take it, then pressed it against his forehead.

“Thanks,” he said, slumping back in his chair.

“I think I’ve got a scrap of cloth in here. Ah, there it is. Here, wrap that up before it drips everywhere.” Rain accepted the cloth and covered the brick of ice before pressing it back against his head. The cold was soothing. Belatedly, he realized that Winter wasn’t on. He activated it, making sure Mahria wasn’t going to get any more than a 100% boost. He might have been out of it, but he had enough of his wits about him to know that anything Mahria learned about his abilities could make it back to Halgrave or Lavarro.

He checked his HUD, noting that his health was at max despite the fact that he felt like he’d been hit by a truck. Wallace’s healing really did suck; he’d fixed his health, but not his physical condition. I wonder if he’s going to come around to charge me later. It would be just my luck. I just got those Tel, damn it. No way I’m paying him.

He grimaced as he held the ice to his forehead. Fuck, Lavarro is terrifying. And Halgrave is supposed to be even stronger. What happened after I blacked out?

“So, what happened?” Mahria said, echoing Rain’s thoughts. “All my dad told me was that you pissed off my mom. I felt the building shake, but that was it, apart from the yelling.”

Damn, I was hoping she knew. I need to be careful here. I’m not sure whose side she’s on. Rain cleared his throat. “Things got…a little out of hand.”

“Did she blast you through the wall? Is that how you got hurt?”

“No, that was Carten. Do you know if he’s okay?”

Mahria shrugged. “No idea. I was told to sit and wait, so I’m sitting and waiting. What did he do? I know my mom can be a little…rough, but she wouldn’t do something like that unprovoked.”

“Rough? That’s rough? Anyone but Carten would be dead twelve times over. She said he’d live, but—”

“Then he’ll live,” Mahria said with a shrug. “She knows her own strength. Now, come on, what did he do? Try to lie to her?”

“He…called her a bitch.”

“Hahaha!” Mahria cracked up, rocking back in Halgrave’s chair. She’s got a pretty laugh…No, Rain. Danger! He took the ice away from his head. The ice and Winter were helping, but there was clearly something wrong with his brain if he was thinking about Lavarro’s daughter that way. Mahria sat back up, placing her elbows on the table. “I knew he was a moron, but he really said that? I mean, seriously?”

Rain smiled. “Yes. I think the fact that he’s not the brightest star in the sky has been categorically proven.”

“Ha, not the brightest star in the sky. I like that. You’re really different, you know? Come on, tell me how you learned the language so fast.”

“Practice,” Rain said evasively. He didn’t want to go into the specifics of overmana right now. What fixes concussions? Is it overmana, or overhealth? Maybe either one will do it? I am starting to feel…well, not ‘good’, but better.

Mahria opened her mouth to say something, but the door banged open before she could, slamming against the wall. Halgrave squeezed into the office, ducking under the doorframe. “You’re in my chair,” he said to Mahria.

“Hi Dad,” she said, making no sign that she intended to move.

“Get up,” Halgrave growled.

Mahria rolled her eyes dramatically but got out of the chair. “Fine,” she said, walking around the desk to sit next to Rain in the other chair. “Did you and Mom fight?”

“Yes,” Halgrave said, collapsing into his chair.

“Anyone die?” Mahria asked. Halgrave’s face darkened.

“Don’t joke. It wasn’t that kind of fight and you know it. It was the same fight we’ve been having for the last fifteen years. Nobody is ever going to win. Though I think this time…This time, she’s gone too far. I’m going to have to report this up.”

Mahria’s smile vanished. “No, you can’t!”

Halgrave shook his head. “I have to. The Guild is only allowed to operate here because we agreed to police ourselves. I can’t let her get away with this. The Watch won’t stand for their authority being flouted so brazenly.” Halgrave nodded at Rain. “I had to explain it to that one just yesterday.” Rain tried to hide within his armor, wishing for his helmet. He figured that it must still be in the conference room. He’d go back for it later.

Halgrave sighed. “It’s one thing when a bronzeplate does something idiotic. When someone like your mother acts up…That has a chance of causing a national incident. It’s not so much what she did, it’s how she did it, and who she is. The Watch might decide to kick the Guild out of the city completely. They could send someone from Vigilance. That would lead to escalation, as the main branch won’t want to back down. It could even mark the start of a war. The rules have to apply to all of us. Even your mother. Even me. Otherwise, they’re meaningless. I wish she would understand that.”

Mahria scoffed. “Dad, you’re being dramatic. This isn’t going to cause a war. All she did was toss a turtle through a wall for calling her a bitch.”

Halgrave rubbed his eyes. “Enough. I’ve already had this argument with your mother once today. I’m not having it again with you. Besides, the turtle was right.”

“Dad—”

“I said enough, Mahria. Stop acting like a child. You’re 25. You’re old enough to know that you can’t just do whatever you want.” Halgrave sighed. He sounded exhausted. I…actually feel kinda bad for him. This is one fucked-up family. Still, a lot of this was his fault too. If he’d stayed in the room instead of leaving us alone with Lavarro…

“Fine,” Mahria said. “I’m going to get something to eat. I’ll see you later, Dad.”

“Don’t do anything stupid,” Halgrave said. Mahria rolled her eyes and left the room, shutting the door behind her. Halgrave’s eyes flicked to Rain. “Now do you see?”

Rain gulped and nodded.

“Then would you care to explain to me why Gus just handed me a report concerning a plume of toxic smoke pouring out of all the toilets in the Watch Barracks in the hill district?”

…Shit. “Uhhhhh…”

Halgrave sighed again. “Just…go. Talk to Gus. The Watch submitted a request for the ‘purification mage’ to come and clean up. Apparently, several of their barracks have been unlivable since mid-afternoon yesterday. You will take care of whatever they ask you to, and you will do it for free. Don’t you dare fuck it up. If they say jump, you ask how high.”

“Sorry, I didn’t mean to—”

“Get out.”

“You really said that?” Ameliah stared at Carten in disbelief. Carten downed yet another flagon of beer and motioned to the serving girl, belching loudly.

“Yup!” the huge man said happily.

“It’s true. He did,” said a bedraggled-looking Jamus. His orange robe was covered in dust. He rubbed at his neck. “You’re sure I’m not hurt? My throat feels a little…squished.”

“Fine, I’ll check. You asked for it.” She touched his hand, sending her mana into him with Tissue Scan. It came back clean, bringing with it a bunch of detail about the inside of Jamus’s body. More than she wanted, honestly. The things I’ve seen… She shook her head. “No, you’re fine.”

“Do me,” Carten said. “I think I’ve still got a kink in my neck.”

Ameliah sighed. “I already healed you. Whatever’s wrong with your head, it’s nothing that I can fix.”

Jamus snorted into his beer. Ameliah smiled as Carten blinked at her.

“Ameliah!”

She looked up at the sudden voice from the entrance to the tavern. Rain waved to her and hurried over to join them, weaving unsteadily. He collapsed into a chair and flipped up the faceplate of his helmet. “Hey.”

“Rain,” she said, staring at him. He was also covered in dust, and there was a line of blood running down his face. Why hasn’t he cleaned that up?

“I thought you were leaving,” Rain said.

“I was, but then I saw Carten crash face-first into the side of a building, so I—” something’s wrong with him. “Are you okay?” She peered into his eyes. It looked like he was having trouble focusing on her. She reached out and touched his gauntleted hand. She focused, forcing her mana to behave as she shoved it through the metal. It was difficult. He’s getting pretty strong. I don’t usually have this much trouble overriding someone’s domain… The response that came back from Tissue Scan was distorted by the metal despite her best efforts. What it did tell her was alarming.

“Stay still,” she said. She reached inside Rain’s helmet and grabbed his face with both of her hands. She wanted no mistakes for this, and fighting against the metal would be a recipe for disaster. She sent another pulse of mana into Rain, guiding Healing Word with her thoughts. The spell would take care of the damage to his brain on its own, but she’d found that by directing it she could reduce the toll that it took on the body.

Rain’s skin was warm against her hands, almost feverish. She sent another pulse of mana into him once Healing Word had finished, using Tissue Scan this time. Without the interference from the metal, the skill gave her a full and undistorted image of his body. The swelling in his brain was already going down. She frowned as she detected some lingering mana from what felt like a previous healing attempt.

She took her hands away and looked at Rain. He’s blushing. She smiled. If he only knew what else I just saw… I can never tell him how that skill works.

“Thanks,” Rain said, looking away shyly. Stay focused, Ameliah. She shook her head. “Someone tried to heal you before, but they messed it up. If I hadn’t come along…”

“Huh?” Rain said. “I don’t know, I was feeling better. Winter was helping.”

Ameliah sighed. Head injuries were nothing to take lightly. “Was it that idiot Wallace?”

“Yeah,” Rain said. Ameliah grunted. The Guild in Fel Sadanis is a disgrace.

“Maybe you should start at the beginning,” she said.

Despite the rather stressful encounter with Lavarro, Rain was in something approaching a good mood as he made his way toward the hill district. Ameliah had taken care of his pounding headache, and she’d even said that she was going to delay her trip out of the city until the situation with Lavarro blew over. Jamus had also told him that Staavo would be available the next morning. He’d been looking forward to that conversation for ages.

He couldn’t stop thinking about the encounter completely, though. He now had another source of stress nestled with the others in the back of his head. If Lavarro wanted to kill him, there’d be nothing he could do to stop her. Her strength had been overwhelming. The only thing that had saved him was Halgrave. For all that he sucks at his job, he did save us there. I don’t know what she would have done if he hadn’t come back. Just how fucking strong are these people? They’d destroy the city if they fought? How?

Rain walked for a few more minutes, the cobbled road sloping upward as he made his way through the hill district. He slowed as he saw an archway bearing the shield symbol of the Watch at its peak. There were a pair of Watch bronzeplates guarding it. This must be it.

The pair of guards watched him warily as he approached but didn’t move to stop him. He was wearing his bronze Adventurers’ Guild plate around his neck and had the cowl of the cloak lowered. He stopped as he drew even with the guards. “Which way to the barracks?” he asked, keeping his visor down.

“The barracks is closed to the public,” the female guard said.

“I’ve got business there. The guild sent me to deal with the…maintenance problem.”

“Really?” The male guard raised an eyebrow. Rain inspected him. Both guards were wearing leather armor and had halberds. The man looked him up and down. “You’re the purification mage I’ve been hearing about?”

“Yup, that’s me,” Rain said.

“You’ll have to go to the administration building,” the man said with a shrug. “It’s the big one on the left of the square. Don’t go past the square, mind. It’s Watch only past that point. It will go badly for you if you try it.”

Rain nodded. He thanked the guards and made his way to the administration building, stopping in front of it to inspect the massive granite steps leading to the ornate metal doors. Damn. What’s with all these impressive buildings? The Guild needs to get its shit together. He walked up the steps, looking up at the polished silver shields inlaid into the iron of the double doors. The Watch certainly isn’t strapped for cash. Is that real silver?

