“Okay, let’s get on with it,” Kellen said. He seemed to have lightened up a bit, a smile now adorning his face. He turned to Rain. “What do you need?”

Rain shrugged. “I don’t need anything. Can I go in? You can come if you want, the skill isn’t dangerous. In fact, it’s got some pretty nice effects on people.”

The woman looked up from where she was helping the fallen man to his feet. “What kind of effects?”

“Well,” Rain said. “It cleans more than just the ground and stuff. It cleans people too. Inside and out.”

“I’m not sure I like the sound of that,” said the scarred man. “What do you mean by ‘cleans’?”

Rain shrugged again. “Cures poison, removes filth, contamination, yadda yadda yadda.” He smiled to himself. “I haven’t pooped in, like, a month.”

The scarred man snorted. “That can’t be healthy. Where’s it go?”

“No idea, man,” Rain said, shaking his head. “You don’t have to come in if you don’t want to. I can specifically exclude you too if that’s what you want.”

“No, don’t exclude him,” the woman said, laughing. “Brakis here could use a good cleaning. When was the last time you took a bath, eh?” She jabbed the scarred man with her elbow.

“Yesterday, Mel,” Brakis said, giving her an unamused look.

“You’re really category three?” said the man with the wooden badge, staring at Rain. His alarm seemed to have faded slightly after the banter, but he was still watching Rain warily.

Rain shrugged. “I’m harmless. Well…mostly harmless.”

Kellen shook his head. “He’s got an AOE ability, apparently. 100 stride range or more. I’m not sure I believe it, but Sentinel Lamida seemed convinced.”

“Wow,” said the woman, Mel. “I guess appearances are deceiving. I’ve never heard of someone being able to use spells while wearing plate.”

Rain shrugged. I guess my secret is out. At least these four don’t seem that bad. The Watch as a whole might be a bit dickish, but ultimately, it’s just a bunch of people doing their jobs. There’s good ones and bad ones, just like anywhere else.

“Well, I might as well get on with it,” Rain said. “This the one? Shall I?” He indicated the door to the barracks.

“Go ahead,” Kellen said. “That one got it the worst, but four and six got a bit of it too.”

Rain nodded. He opened the door to the building, noting the number two scrawled on the door. As he did so, his nose was immediately assailed by the scent of rotting garbage. He fought not to gag as he stepped into the room. It was dark inside, all the windows shuttered tightly. The only illumination was a heater plate, the red runes carved into the metal glowing on the back wall. They should have cracked a window or something.

The others followed him in, expressions of disgust clear on their faces. “Gah, I can taste it,” said Brakis. “Hurry up. It’s the worst over by the shitter, that little alcove in the back, behind the curtains.”

Rain didn’t need to be told twice. “Okay, here goes. There’s going to be a white light. Don’t worry, it’s harmless.” He activated Purify, the magical smoke cascading out from his armor and rolling over the bunks. The smell immediately vanished as the skill went to work, penetrating the bedding and scouring away the lingering stench. He walked through the barracks, making sure that the light covered every nook and cranny. The room wasn’t that large, only housing 20 bunks, but he wanted to make sure not to miss anything.

I’m such an idiot for using Immolate on that slime. We must be directly above where I fought it. That greasy smoke would have come pouring out of the toilet like…yeah. Talk about disgusting. I’ll just not mention that this is all my fault to begin with.

“Wow!” said the wooden-badged man, watching as the light rolled off of Rain.

Rain smiled at him, then, remembering his helmet, raised the faceplate. “Pretty cool, huh? Hey, I didn’t get your name. I’m Rain.”

“Mest,” said the man, blinking at him.

“Well, I’ll be damned,” said Brakis. “I don’t even have to piss anymore.”

Rain dropped the skill, heading for the door “Time for the next one. Lead the way.”

Rain waved to Kellen as he left the Watch stronghold, then pulled his cloak tight around himself. It was getting colder rapidly as the sun started to set. He’d decided to go above and beyond his orders, cleaning all ten of the barracks, not just the three that had been affected by the putrid smoke. The pro bono quest didn’t bother him in the slightest. It was trivial for him and gave him a great opportunity to earn some goodwill with the rank and file of the Watch.

The one sentinel that he’d met had been intimidating, but the regular officers and initiates—that is what the recruits with the wooden badges were called—had been friendly enough. Once it was clear that he wasn’t as evil as he looked, he’d attracted quite a crowd as he walked through the Watch stronghold. He’d even asked for and received permission to clean the outside of the buildings, his aura stripping away the accumulated dirt and grime that had built up over years. He had to admit, watching the clean stone be revealed by his magic was extremely satisfying.

He’d walked all through the compound, at least, most of it. There were some sections that the officers hadn’t allowed him into, citing restrictions laid out by the sentinels. Rain thought it was fitting that the sentinel quarters were one of the restricted sections. There would be no cleaning for them. Other than Sentinel Lamida, they were locked up in a closed-door meeting, probably discussing the Lavarro situation.

Rain had managed to glean a few things about the Watch after talking with the officers. Most of them had warmed up to him significantly after it was clear that he wasn’t going to explode in a massive fireball of death and destruction.

The Watch had a few more strongholds like this one throughout the city. The officers were the equivalent of guild bronzeplates, the entry-level awakened of the order. They were responsible for patrolling the city and keeping the peace. The sentinels were above them, starting at level 25 and serving as squad leaders or captains or something like that. The goldplate equivalent was called a ‘guardian’, and there weren’t any in the city. Fel Sadanis, for all that it was one of the few cities fully in the control of the Watch, wasn’t important enough to merit one being stationed there.

The Watch had at least a nominal presence on all four of the main continents, though they were headquartered on an island. Vigilance was the name, which made sense given that the proper name of the Watch itself was the Vigilant Order of Watch Keepers. He hadn’t been able to get much information about the island. Non-members were forbidden from entry. Rain had more questions of course, but he had to be careful. For example, he hadn’t even known that there were four continents to begin with. He couldn’t ask for any details about them without revealing his ignorance, something he was trying to avoid. Still, he learned plenty.

In a nutshell, the Watch was a group of awakened that had taken it upon themselves to protect the unawakened from the tyranny of high-leveled individuals. They were heavy-handed and arbitrary in their methods, but Rain could see where they were coming from. After his assessment, he’d been thinking quite a bit about what it meant to be as strong as he was. For all that he felt like he was weak, compared to an unawakened individual, he was a monster. It would take an army of regular people to stop him. It was a sobering thought.

And I’m only level 18. Lavarro must be close to 50 if she can stand up to Halgrave. She wasn’t kidding. They really would destroy the city if they fought.

It was too late to go looking for building supplies, so Rain contented himself with purchasing a metal pot and a sack of potatoes. He also got a jug of oil, intending to try his hand at making fries. He knew Tallheart liked potatoes, even raw, and introducing him to the fried version seemed like a grand idea. Everything was better when it was fried. The potatoes and the pot cost him 3 Tel. He hadn’t been in the mood to haggle or to walk back to the bank to get copper. Fel Sadanis wasn’t big, but it wasn’t small either. His stamina was dropping fast, and he couldn’t count on Ameliah’s restoration for a little while, even if she was here for a few more days.

He reached the gates and paused. Ameliah had said that she’d meet him in Tallheart’s clearing once he finished with his public service, but he was a little worried about exiting the city when Lavarro might be skulking around somewhere. He sighed. I can’t live my life in fear. If she wants to kill me, there’s not a damn thing I can do to stop her, short of moving-in with Halgrave. Somehow, I don’t think he’d go for that…

He sighed, pulled up his hood, and stepped through the gates.
