He pulled the right-hand door open, noticing that it felt lighter than it should have, just like the door to the bank. The metal was thick, but it moved easily. The door opened onto a lobby with a desk at the back, past a waiting area. It reminded Rain of a police station, but that might have just been him associating the Watch with the police in his head. They seemed to fill a similar role in the city, but that was just his impression. He didn’t actually know that much about the organization. Other than the fact that everyone in the Guild seems to think that they are a bunch of assholes.

There were two Watch bronzeplates behind the desk, wearing plain clothing instead of armor. Ok, not quite like the police. They don’t seem to have a uniform, just the plates. A woman was standing in front of the desk, talking to the two. Rain moved over to the waiting area, unsure if he was supposed to stand in line or something. As he waited, a few more members of the Watch came and went, as well as some people wearing wooden tags bearing the Watch’s symbol. None of those were armed or armored, so he pegged them as some sort of aides or clerks.

Eventually, the woman left, escorted by a Watch member with a large axe strapped to his back. He wasn’t sure what that was about. Despite his enhanced hearing, they’d been speaking softly and he hadn’t been trying to listen in out of respect for their privacy.

He walked up to the desk slowly, pausing to avoid bumping into an aide that was carrying a tall stack of papers. When he reached the desk, the man on the left nodded to him. “What can I help you with?”

“Hi,” Rain said. “I’m here to deal with the problem in the Barracks. The Guild sent me. My name is Rain.”

“You’re the purification mage that caused that disturbance a little while back?” the second man said. “Why are you wearing armor?”

Rain shrugged. “Yeah, that’s me. The armor’s new. Don’t worry, it won’t stop me from using the spell.”

The first man nodded. “Okay, one minute. Take off the helmet, please. We’ll need to confirm your identity. Give me your Guild plate.”

Fuck, I don’t want to, but Halgrave said to do whatever they asked me to. Damn it. Something is going to hit me in the head again. I can tell. He reluctantly removed his helmet, taking a moment to loop a cord through the eye slit and hang it from his belt. He felt naked without it, but it couldn’t be helped. He removed his Guild plate and handed it to the man. Come on, Rain, the Watch might be a bunch of assholes, but they’re not going to try to kill you or anything. Damn, I need to increment my ‘almost died’ count after that thing with Lavarro. I’m up to five now. I’m going to pass Val soon. Wait, is it six? Does the confrontation with Velika count? I think I need to reassess my life choices.

“Hmm,” said the man. “We don’t have an official assessment for you in our records. You’ll need to have one before we let you any deeper into the stronghold.”

“Assessment? Stronghold?”

“Threat assessment,” the second man said. “We need to determine how dangerous you are before we let you in. And the stronghold isn’t actually a fortress or anything, it’s just what the Watch calls its compounds. Tradition, you know? I’m surprised, I thought everyone knew that. Where are you from?”

“Uh…” Rain said. “Far away.” I’m not sure I like where this is going.

“Right, well, we might as well get this over with,” said the first man. He pulled out a form and placed it against a slate. He took a feathered pen from his desk and dipped the tip in ink. “Official threat assessment for…Rain, bronzeplate, Adventurers’ Guild, identification number 14529.” He scribbled on the form as he spoke. “Officer Vaast presiding. Witness?”

“Officer Kellen, witnessing,” the second man said.

Officers? Shit, they are the police after all. Threat assessment? What the hell? I should have asked about the Watch a bit more before I came here…it’s too late now.

“The base threat assessment for an unknown bronzeplate adventurer is category one,” He looked up. “Confirm your name for me.”

“Rain,” Rain said, clearing his throat.

“And can you confirm that the badge number is correct?”

“Yes. That’s me.”

“Are you above level ten?” Vaast said. When Rain didn’t immediately respond, he looked up at him again.

“Uh, do I have to answer?” Rain asked.

“You do if you want to get in,” the second officer, Kellen, said.

Shit. This is like a background check or something. I don’t want them to have all this information about me, but Halgrave would be pissed if I didn’t clean up the mess I made. I don’t have a choice here. Fuck.

He cleared his throat again. “Yes, I’m above level ten.”

Vaast made a mark on the form. “Threat assessment is now two for a mid-rank bronzeplate adventurer.”

“Confirmed,” Kellen said. “Above level twenty?”

Rain shook his head. Vaast set aside the form and retrieved a different one, placing it on the slate. “Of your active skills, how many are AOE in nature?”

Rain swallowed nervously. “Uh…all of them. Wait, no, Mana Manipulation’s not. Um, let me see…” he started counting in his head, but Vaast had already moved on.

“Of those skills, are any of an offensive nature, meaning dangerous to people, property, or the environment?”

“…Yes,” Rain said.

“And of those offensive skills, are any capable of doing in excess of 1,000 points of standard damage?”

Rain paused. Well, I suppose. Immolate does 151 dmg/s max with no mods. Around 600 dmg/s if I use Amplify and Channel Mastery. 1,812 dmg/s if I do a Nova. I don’t have a death wish, though. He looked back at Vaast nervously. “Well, yes and no.”

“Which is it?” Vaast said, looking up from the form.

Rain sighed. “I can break a thousand damage if I use a bunch of modifiers and stuff, but I can’t deal with the mageburn.”

Kellen whistled. “Not bad.”

Vaast ignored him and made another mark on the form. “Radial, or directed?”

“Radial I guess. It’s a sphere around me.”

Vaast made yet another mark. “And how often can you use this skill?”

“Well, it’s channeled, so…hmm, hang on. I need to do the math.” The cost of the skill is fifty mp/s, times eighteen for the Nova without Extend. That’s nine hundred mp/s. In theory, I could keep it up for five or six seconds, if not for the fact that I’d be a turkey dinner by then.

While he’d been thinking, Vaast had motioned to an aide, waving the woman over. “Who’s the sentinel on duty today?” he asked.

“Sentinel Lamida, sir,” the woman replied.

“Go and get her, will you? Possible category three assessment.”

The aide gave Rain a concerned look and zipped away, disappearing down a hallway. “Well?” Vaast said, looking at Rain. “How long can you hold the skill for?”

“Five seconds or so,” Rain said, deciding to low-ball the number.

“Shit, Vaast, that’s over five thousand damage, AOE. That’s nasty,” Kellen said.

“Enough, Kellen. Stay professional. The line for category three is 10,000 standard damage for an AOE skill less than 20 stride in radius.”

…Shit.

“Radius of the skill? Secondary effects?” Vaast asked.

Damn it, damn it, damn it. Is it too late to run? Rain looked up as a woman followed the aide back into the lobby. She was wearing a red robe and had a silver plate hanging from her neck. “Yes, Officer Vaast?”

Vaast nodded to her. “Sentinel Lamida, ma’am. Possible category three assessment. AOE skill surpassing 5,000 damage.” He turned back to Rain. “The range? The maximum range, mind.”

“Well…” Rain said. He looked at the door and swallowed before looking back at Vaast, then at the unknown silverplate. This was someone strong, perhaps as strong as Ameliah, or heaven-forbid, Lavarro. Someone who’d murder him in an instant if she thought he was a threat. Are they going to let me leave if I tell them?

“Answer the question,” the sentinel said, her voice cool.

“It’s…complicated. I can boost the range, but it takes three times the mana, so…”

“How far?” Lamida asked in a demanding tone. They definitely aren’t going to let me leave now…

“More than a hundred stride,” Rain said reluctantly. “I’m not sure on the unit conversion.”

Kellen swore loudly and jumped up, backing away from the desk. “No fucking way you’re a bronzeplate. What are you, an Animus or something? And you can do that wearing armor? Fuck me ragged.”

“Officer Kellen, control yourself,” the sentinel said. She turned to Rain. “You are telling us the truth?”

Rain nodded.

“Category three threat confirmed. Sentinel Lamida as a witness. Subject poses a significant risk on the scale of the destruction or depopulation of an entire village.”

Rain paled. “What? I would never! Besides, I told you, I can’t even do that without burning myself to a crisp as well!”

“Irrelevant,” Lamida said, looking at him. “The Watch assesses threat on capability, not intention. As you are a registered member of the Adventurers’ Guild, the Watch will not attempt to detain you. However, I warn you that any use of such dangerous magic in an inhabited area is punishable by death should it result in the loss of life or significant property damage.”

Shit, shit, shit.

“Will that be all, officer?” Lamida asked, looking at Vaast.

Vaast turned back to Rain. Both he and Kellen looked slightly unsettled. Do I scare them that much? Actually, yeah, I think I scare myself that much. Destruction of an entire village? Fuck, Immolate could totally do that, couldn’t it? Holy shit.

Vaast cleared his throat. “Is there anything else to your knowledge that would positively impact the Watch’s assessment of your threat level?”

“No,” Rain said, looking at the sentinel nervously.

“Do you intend harm to the Watch or the people of Fel Sadanis?” Vaast said.

Rain shook his head. “No, of course not.”

Vaast looked up. “Sentinel?”

“Good enough,” she said. “Look at his face. He’s not lying.”

Vaast nodded and set down his quill. “Right, uh…Rain. You’re cleared for entry.”

“Fuck me, category three,” Kellen said. Lamida glared at him, her brow darkening. “Officer Kellen, you will escort Rain wherever he needs to go. You are responsible for any incidents that occur.”

Kellen swore again as the sentinel turned back to Rain. “If you even think of using that skill in the city, the Watch will come for you, no matter if your Guild tries to protect you or not.” She turned on her heel and walked away, leaving Rain staring after her. How do I keep getting myself into these situations?

Rain looked at the two officers. “What does it mean to be category three?”

“It means you’re a walking natural disaster,” said Kellen. “Come on, let’s go. The sooner I get you out of the stronghold, the happier I’ll be. Just…don’t do anything…”

“I told you, I won’t,” Rain said. “I’m not some maniac. I’m not a threat to you. Hang on, one sec.” He paused to put his helmet back on, sliding the faceplate down and settling his cloak to hang from his shoulders, leaving his arms free.

Kellen looked at him. “You sure look like a threat. What’s with the Dark Steel platemail and the black cloak? Are you trying to look like the lord of all darkness?”

Rain laughed nervously. “I’m not as evil as I look. Trust me, I’m not going to do anything.”

“It’s not me I’m worried about,” Kellen said as they left the administration building. “I’d survive that skill of yours. The stronghold might be okay, depending on how fast the suppression wards kick on, but…”

“Suppression wards?”

Kellen winced. “Shit. You aren’t supposed to know about those.”

Ha, oopsie. So they’ve got some way of shutting down magic, huh? Interesting. I’m not sure I like being in here. He looked at Kellen as they walked. “So, the Watch. What’s it like being a member?”

Kellen narrowed his eyes. “Why?”

“Just making conversation,” Rain said, raising his hands. “I’m not plotting the downfall of your stronghold or anything.”

“No, I think I’m done answering questions,” Kellen said. “I’m in enough trouble with Sentinel Lamida already.”

“Oh, come on,” Rain said. Kellen shook his head and sped up, forcing Rain to hurry to follow him. He led him past various other buildings in the compound until they reached a series of long and low buildings that seemed to fit the name of ‘barracks’. There was a group of three people seated outside of one of them at a table. It looked like they’d dragged it out here from inside. They were deep in the midst of an argument.

“Look, this is going to blow up, I’m telling you,” a woman said. Probably another officer, given the bronze plate.

“Oh, come on. You know the Guild is a bunch of idiots. I can’t believe the sentinels are making such a fuss,” replied a leather-clad man. He didn’t have a plate, just the wooden badge. He was tipping back in his chair, one foot on the table. An aide? Maybe a trainee?

“It’s not so much what it was, as who did it,” said the first woman. “Vigilance is going to send someone, I’m telling you.”

They must be talking about Lavarro. Word spreads fast. Halgrave’s right, this might turn into a shitstorm.

“Fuck me if they do,” said a man with a scar running across his bald head. “That’ll mean a week of nothing but inspections and—”

Kellen cleared his throat as he and Rain closed on the table. “Heads up. We’ve got a visitor. Be careful what you say.”

The scarred man looked up. He was a bronzeplate as well. “Oh, hey Kel. They finally let you off the desk? Who’s the guy who looks like he’s planning to raise an army of the dead?”

“This is the purification mage that the Guild sent over,” Kellen said. “He’s here to deal with the problem. I’ll repeat, watch what you say. If anything goes wrong, it’ll be my head.”

“Doesn’t look like a mage,” said the man with the wooden badge. He was rocking in his chair casually, dangerously close to tipping over. “Looks like a warrior to me.”

Kellen shook his head. “Nope. Mage, or so he says. Category three.”

“Shit, really?” the woman said. There was a sudden cry and a thump as the chair-tipping man overbalanced, falling to the ground sprawled at Rain’s feet.

The scarred man let out a bark of laughter. “Nice work, idiot.”

Rain reached down to offer the man a hand up, but he scuttled away like a crab, alarm on his face. Do I need to reassess my fashion choices? Maybe Jamus has the right idea after all.

