“One evening, a young boy was being tucked into bed during a violent thunderstorm.” Ren said. “In a shaky voice he asked his mother to sleep in the bed with him. 'I can't.' She said. 'I have to sleep with Daddy.' After a short silence the boy spoke. 'What a big sissy'.”

“Ahahaha!” Rainie laughed, as did a bunch of others.

“I walked into a general store one time and overheard the clerk tell the customer in front of me that they hadn't had something for a while, and doubted they would get it soon. 'Nonsense'. I said. 'Come back next week, and I'm sure whatever you want will be here.' The other customer left and I told the clerk to always say that to keep the customer happy.” Ren chuckled. “Then I asked what they wanted.”

“What did the customer want?”

“Rain.”

“BWAHAHA!” Rainie covered her mouth and kicked her feet. “They wanted me! Tee hee hee!”

Ren could feel that the pixies were all amused from even the simplest of jokes, and wondered why they had resorted to kidnapping and thievery.

“These caverns change you.” Teepo said when he stopped laughing. He'd liked the jokes, too. “Did you notice that they don't have wings?”

Ren looked at the others and saw that it was true. Even though they had travelled pretty far, they had all walked and none of them had flown. He waited until Rainie calmed down before he leaned in close to speak.

“Can I ask you what happened to your wings?” Ren whispered to her. Her emotions immediately changed from joy to sadness.

“We... after we...” Rainie shook her head. “I don't want to talk about it.”

“Rainie.” Ren said, and she looked up at him. “You can feel what I feel right now. I won't judge you.”

“They fell off, okay!” Rainie said indignantly. “After we started capturing and tricking people to live, they fell off!”

“Oh, Rainie.” Ren said and lifted her up to rest her head against his cheek and gave her a gentle hug. “I'm sorry that being here cost you so much.”

Rainie started crying because she could feel that Ren was genuinely sorry that she had lost her wings. She had never faced how much she had actually lost, since she had been without her wings for so long. She had gotten used to being without them and only walked where she needed to go. Ren felt his ability react to her plea, and she hugged his neck.

“Please, take it!” Rainie said.

Ren did for her what Elerlyth had done for all those sad people in the ghoul-plagued town. He found her deep pain over her loss and used his ability to absorb most of it from her. Rainie took several deep breaths and let his neck go, then leaned back to look him in the eyes.

“Thank you.” Rainie said and gave his top lip a kiss.

“I don't know how to give you back your wings.” Ren said. “I know who to ask, though.”

Rainie shook her head. “No one can contact anyone outside of the caverns.”

“I'll ask after I leave, then come back to tell you.” Ren said, and every pixie stopped what they were doing and looked at him.

“You... you can't!” Rainie said, a little frantically. “Don't set your spawn point for here! If you die, you'll never leave!”

Ren was surprised to hear this, and looked at the other pixies. “Other Adventurers have done this?”

Several of them nodded their heads, and he looked back at the pixie in his arms.

“I only planned on walking back in, so don't worry, okay?” Ren reassured her.

“You can't just walk back in.”

“Why not?” Ren asked, and she didn't have an answer for him.

“He's crazy.” One of the male pixies said. “He actually wants to come back here!”

“No one...” Rainie sighed. “No one willingly comes back here.”

Ren smiled and she felt his happiness that he would be the first.

“You really are crazy.” Rainie said and smiled because she could feel he thought it was a compliment and not an insult.

“Crazy is as crazy does, Miss Cloudbreak.” Ren said, and she giggled.

No one ever used my name like that before. Rainie thought.

“Want to watch me make something really crazy?” Ren asked her.

“I sure do!” Rainie said, and Ren lifted her up so she could sit on his shoulder. She dug her hand into his hair to hold on, and he walked inside the storage tower.
