Ali left an elated Weldin humming to himself as he arranged the pile of wands she had made into an aesthetically pleasing display at the front of his guild store and went in search of Mieriel.

The guild hall was crowded with a noisy press of adventurers and pathfinders as everyone gathered for Vivian Ross’s meeting, cramming the space and filling the air with the incoherent hubbub of dozens of simultaneous conversations going on all around. While Ali couldn’t make out the specifics, the mood seemed tense, uncertain, and overall worried.

She flew over the crowd, rather than trying to push her way through the throng, descending only when she reached Mieriel chipping away at an intimidatingly large stack of paperwork at her desk.

“Hi, Aliandra,” she said, glancing up and adjusting her glasses. “What can I do for you?”

“Hi, Mieriel,” Ali said. “There’s an unknown silver-ranked raid group fighting my Timber Wolves, do you know anything about them?”

“Not pathfinders?”

“No, mostly humans,” Ali answered. “They’re all wearing a guild tabard I don’t recognize – a flaming sword over a kite shield.”

“Like this?” Mieriel said, retrieving a folder from her desk and flipping through the papers till she found the image of a crest and showed it.

“That’s it,” Ali said, immediately recognizing it.

“Southport Adventurers Guild,” Mieriel said, identifying the organization.

“What are they doing here?” Ali asked. “It’s not the first time either; I found two bronze-ranked groups clearing my sewer bosses yesterday. What’s going on?” Strangers in her dungeon almost always represented a threat – someone sent to kill her for being a dungeon. Recognizing adventurers by sight, or by the guild rings and guild insignia they wore, had been the most practical way to separate friendlies from threats, but with these new incursions, she found herself unsure how to proceed. A quick visit from a Carnage Berserker would obviously eliminate the potential threat, but they hadn’t done anything to warrant an extreme eviction – Ali didn’t want to make mistakes that might get innocents killed.

“I didn’t expect them so soon,” Mieriel said, pursing her lips. “Several groups from out of town arrived shortly after the Silver Cog trading post was established. I had a conversation with Worthington Glimmerbuckle about it yesterday. He said that, while they don’t explicitly advertise, many organizations track the movement of Silver Cog and other large trading companies to find opportunities in newly established or up-and-coming markets. I’m afraid our wooing the Silver Cog has inadvertently spread the rumors of a lucrative dungeon beneath Myrin’s Keep. I even overheard some out-of-towners discussing the ‘Dungeon of Knowledge’ and how it is reputed to have magicite as loot. I’m sorry, Aliandra, but I believe your reputation is spreading, and these incursions from visitors will likely become more and more common. Vivian was planning to address this in the meeting today. It’s bound to cause competition for resources and bosses with our own groups.”

“Thanks, Mieriel,” Ali said, her mind churning with the implications. This was not a one-off occurrence. Ever since she had learned of the nature of her class, she had worked to keep the secret from getting out as much as she could; first by restricting it to herself and then her friends, and after the Town Council trial, just the locals in the town. It was a wonder her identity had remained a secret for so long, but it would seem the days of hiding in obscurity were over, and that meant she needed to be prepared for anything.

“Sorry, that must be a headache,” Mieriel said. “By the way, Donella Novaspark left something for you.” The elegantly dressed Elf produced a fancy-looking jewelry box

“What’s this?” Ali asked, getting a shrug from the Guild Administrator. She took the offered item and opened it, peering inside curiously. Instead of jewelry, she found a small leather pouch and a folded letter written in an elegant, flowing hand and signed with a familiar sparking mana.

Hi Aliandra,Please find enclosed a gift that I believe might be of mutual benefit.Sincerely, Donella Novaspark.

Similar mana spilled from the pouch, nestled in the box. With growing curiosity, Ali reached in and retrieved it. She untied the knotted drawstring and opened it, spilling several crystal chunks out onto the palm of her hand. Chunks that glowed with potent mana and sparked with electricity. Mieriel’s eyebrows shot up so fast, they nearly knocked her glasses off.

Magicite (Lightning)

“Interesting,” Ali said as Donella’s intent suddenly became clear. It made a certain practical sense to her; the gift was indeed intended for mutual benefit. While the magicite would prove valuable to her, to Donella it would be an incredible windfall for her Academy. As a lightning mage and a talented rune crafter, the things Donella could do with a steady supply of lightning-affinity magicite would be extraordinary.

Yet, while the dour Gnomish mage had been standoffish at first, Ali had never seen her be anything but fair. Nor did she think Donella was being particularly selfish with her gift – it would generate a huge flow of wealth and work for the entire academy, of course, but that would, in turn, ripple out to many of the businesses and families associated with it. The mages in the Adventurers Guild would merely be the first to benefit.

Furthermore, Donella had not requested exclusive rights. Ali nodded to herself. This seems smart.

“Aah, that explains it,” Mieriel said, nodding her head briefly as if she’d just had a realization.

“Explains what?”

“Donella also posted an extremely lucrative standing bounty for lightning-affinity magicite on the guild quest board,” the Elf said. “I told her it was an odd request at the time, but now it makes sense. I think she’s expecting you to make some of that and put it behind a boss.”

“I see,” Ali said. Her magic flickered, and the crystals vanished, along with the box, the letter, and even the pouch.

Variant: Magicite (Lightning) added to Imprint: Stone.

Before Ali could address the questioning look in Mieriel’s eyes, they were interrupted by an announcement.

“May I have everyone’s attention for a few minutes,” Vivian said, raising her voice above the din of the crowd.

Vivian waited while the guild hall quietened down amid whispers of “settle down” and sporadic shushing till the whole room prickled with a brittle undertone of anxious anticipation. “As most of you already know, Ciradyl has fallen to the Blind Lich and his undead. Perhaps a little less widely known, is that the Troll kingdoms of Aman Rak, Meere Kada, and Telim Gor have fallen too,” Vivian announced, capturing the full attention of the entire crowd. “Myrin’s Keep is hosting the remains of the Troll kingdoms, and what is left of the Elven city,” she nodded toward the small group of Trolls standing together at the back of the hall, Val’korr and Tol’zerath seeming uncomfortable at being so close to one another, but nonetheless preferring the company of their own race amid the sea of elves and humans. “At least, all the displaced trolls and elves our scouting parties under Lyeneru Silverleaf’s command have been able to recover.”

Murmurs and shuffling rippled through the listeners like waves across a pond and it was apparent that at least a handful of people had been desperately holding out hope that it was all a big misunderstanding and that the Blind Lich might go back to being the favorite bogeyman from the stories – despite the overwhelming evidence to the contrary.

“Lyeneru Silverleaf has assumed the role of acting Guildmaster for the Pathfinders Guild until more of the survivors can be found.”

The powerful Night Elf inclined her head at the acknowledgment, but her mouth was pressed into a firm line and her eyes betrayed a glimpse of haunted grief.

“The reason I called this meeting is to outline our plans and response to this threat. Make no mistake, the Blind Lich represents an immediate and dire threat to every living being on the continent – perhaps the entire realm.” Vivian collected her thoughts for a moment and then continued, “For the Adventurers Guild, we will reorganize the four silver-ranked groups into two raid teams to begin making runs against the Lyton Ruins dungeon. We will put pressure on one of Nevyn Eld’s key dungeons while honing your teamwork and skills with the goal of growing you to gold rank. We need everyone to level up as quickly as possible to face whatever Nevyn Eld throws at us. For those of bronze rank and below, you will continue training in Aliandra’s dungeon until you earn the rank of silver.”

“Lyeneru…” Vivian turned to the legendary pathfinder and nodded, handing her the floor.

“Pathfinders, we have lost our home and many of us have lost our loved ones and friends,” Lyeneru began. “Our foe is Nevyn Eld, the Blind Lich, and he is both powerful and prepared. The rumors are true, we were betrayed to the Lich by Nathaniel Sunstrider, and it was this betrayal that undid centuries of preparation and defense against the undead.” Lyeneru paused to allow the murmurs and exclamations to die down or perhaps take a moment to collect herself after voicing such a horrifying truth.

“Nevyn Eld has paused his expansion from the corrupted Well of Souls, and I intend to use this time to rescue any remaining elven survivors and the troll refugees displaced from Meere Kada and Telim Gor. If you have scouting and concealment skills, I have urgent need of your services. For the rest of us, I have secured Aliandra’s permission to use her training arenas to focus on enhancing your skills and refining your accuracy and technique, and I will devote myself to training you all. I know it is a difficult time for all of us, but if we remain steady and focused we will return and reclaim our home. You all know what to do.”

“That’s it?” Coria yelled, springing to her feet with a flush and a scowl warring on her face. “They destroy Ciradyl, and your answer is train harder? I want to fight!”

“You are not strong enough, Coria,” Lyeneru said, fixing her with a level stare. “You are only level forty. The dungeon surrounding the Well of Souls has spawned raid bosses close to level one hundred and eighty. No, we must train and grow our strength. This is the right path.”

“They are level forty, too,” Coria said, sweeping her hand to indicate the silver-ranked adventurers, unwilling to stand down. “While we waste our time shooting targets, they take the fight to the Lich.”

“You have no experience fighting dungeons,” Lyeneru said, visibly clamping down on rising emotions. “I know you’re frustrated, but this is the safest way to get stronger.”

“Calen was forty when he joined the Pathfinders, and now he is platinum and has an evolved class. While Ciradyl was being destroyed, he could fight back. I could only flee, forced to rely on others to rescue me.” She wiped her cheeks angrily and growled, “I’m tired of being held back for my safety by antiquated ideas – if even half of the Pathfinders were evolved, Ciradyl would not have fallen so easily.”

“Their way is faster,” Lyeneru admitted. “But it is far from safe. People die in dungeons all the time, and I would have you better prepared before you face it.”

“My father is dead, Lyeneru. He was your friend – do you care nothing for that? Our way is not safer. It is timid and weak!”

“Coria!” Lyeneru snapped, finally losing her cool and leaping angrily to her feet. “I would not shame Nendir’s memory by throwing his only daughter into that dungeon to be destroyed by a monster you have no hope of standing against!”

“You would condemn us to weakness, forced to stand by helplessly while our loved ones are slaughtered?”

The two of them stood glaring at each other in a room suddenly quiet enough to hear a pin drop, neither backing down in the slightest.

“Perhaps I could offer a different approach?” Vivian said, interjecting surprise into the brittle silence and gaining the attention of the entire room. “Our methods are indeed aggressive, and we have lost people to mistakes, but we haven’t lost many and these are desperate times. If we combine forces, there are more than enough silver ranks in this room to make four full raid groups. Lyeneru, if you agree, I propose we create raid groups comprised of five Pathfinders and five Adventurers each. I will assign one platinum-ranked adventurer to each group. This should give each group a good balance of raiding experience, skills, and leadership to have the highest chances of success. After the first couple of fights, everyone will be well on their way to becoming veteran raiders, and it will matter a lot less.”

“How will you manage logistics?” Lyeneru asked, her anger visibly fading as she turned to study Vivian Ross.

“Our Porter just reached forty and added a group gate skill called Town Portal,” Vivian answered, glancing at Weldin Thriftpenny who inclined his head briefly. “We can raid the Lyton Ruins in shifts.”

“You have a Porter?” Lyeneru exclaimed, a clear look of surprise flickering across her face.

“Yes. It was supposed to remain a secret, but this is more important,” Vivian answered. “Also, we have a dungeon in our guild. We have enjoyed much success training our recruits and novices in dungeon combat and teamwork right from the start. I’m certain Aliandra would allow you to do the same, and we could even mix groups to share experience for the lower-level classes, too.”

Ali nodded her assent when both Lyeneru and Vivian looked her way.

“Very well,” Lyeneru said, allowing her eyes to linger on Coria for a moment before finally relenting. “For Pathfinder initiates above level thirty, you may volunteer for one of the raid teams. For everyone else, we will train in Aliandra’s dungeon.”

“I have a suggestion, too,” Ali said, suddenly gaining the attention of the entire room. She swallowed convulsively, then raised her voice. “Many of the local silver-ranked adventurers are familiar with Naia. For those who don’t know, she is an ooze-themed dungeon in the northeastern reaches of Toria, near the city of Volle, accessible via teleportation circle from the Grand Library. She currently struggles against a much larger nature and death affinity dungeon called Blooming Rot which is filled with aberrant plant and fungus monsters. I’d ask if we could maybe send one of the raid groups to help her. It would be the perfect opportunity for leveling up silver ranks.”

“Why would we take on a second unrelated dungeon in a foreign kingdom?” Vivian asked.

