“Why would we help another dungeon?” Lyeneru asked simultaneously, her eyes flashing dangerously.

“Naia is a friend, and I’m worried for her,” Ali said. “But… she showed me the core of the Blooming Rot dungeon yesterday. It lies far below the surface in a deep cavern with a level one hundred and twenty plant for the final boss. Within that chamber, I saw one of Nevyn Eld’s artificial floating shrines. Worse, the chamber contains a rift to another realm that continuously spews plant monsters across the threshold which Nevyn Eld’s pet dungeon consumes to grow more and more powerful. It is not an unrelated dungeon – Nevyn Eld’s reach covers the continent. If we could destroy this dungeon, we would deny him all these monsters for his plans – and maybe even recover another shrine.”

Privately, she winced. It still hurt that they had lost the only shrine she and her friends had recovered – and that it was the means Nathaniel Sunstrider had used to destroy Ciradyl.

Murmurs and exclamations of shock and surprise rippled throughout the room, an effect that was only more pronounced among the higher-level leaders like Lyeneru, Rezan, and the Trolls – those who were experienced enough in war to understand the broader strategic implications.

“Very well,” Vivian said and, taking a pen from Mieriel, began writing notes on a large whiteboard. Under a heading called ‘goals,’ she wrote in Ciradyl and the Corrupted Well of Souls, Lyton Ruins, Naia and the Dungeon of Blooming Rot, and Training in the Dungeon of Knowledge.

Four dungeons… Ali shivered at the implications of being included in the same list as his three dungeons. No. I am different. I have morals. I only wish Mom and Dad were here to help guide me…

Then Vivian and Mieriel began the noisy task of going around the room and asking everyone to decide how they wished to contribute. It was time-consuming, but the mood within the room had shifted from despair, anger, grief, and frustration to something fundamentally more productive and proactive. Even Coria, who seemed to have been the focus for the grief-fueled anger, now offered to join one of the silver-ranked raid groups with an expression of focused determination creasing her brow.

Ali knew, better than most, just how powerful the Blind Lich was – even their legends were like puppies facing a Dire Wolf. Insects against a Stone Giant. Still, having a target and a plan, even rudimentary as it might be, seemed to give everyone a purpose to which they could direct their energies. We might not be able to face him directly, but we can nip at his heels.

On the board, the groups began to materialize as Vivian applied her years of experience to arranging optimal classes and group balance. She placed Ali and her friends to lead one of each of the four raid groups, but still, she was frowning.

“I don’t see how you can make four effective groups,” Calen said, finally voicing what must have been Vivian’s challenge. “That third group doesn’t have a primary tank class, and the healing seems spread too thin on every group.”

“Yes,” Vivian answered, her frown deepening. “We have enough people, just not the right class balance.”

I don’t know how to tank well, Ali thought. She had her Armored Drakes which could most certainly take a lot of damage, but they didn’t possess many of the important tanking skills like taunts.

There was a rush of whispers; a hurried conversation in the back and then Rezan spoke up. “Basir and Hala will join the raids; Basir is an earth-affinity tank, and Hala is a lightning-affinity melee fighter with high damage and haste.”

“Well, that solves the tanking problem in group three,” Vivian said, nodding gratefully toward Rezan, writing in the two new names and rebalancing a few people to other groups.

“I will assist with Lyeneru Silverleaf’s search and rescue team heading to Ciradyl,” Rezan added.

Ali glanced toward him in surprise; she hadn’t expected Rezan to involve himself personally, but it was clear that the extent of Nevyn Eld’s predations had driven him to act. However, Ali had a different problem with the way the groups were being structured.

“I can’t simultaneously lead a raid group and develop the proper training challenges in my dungeon,” she admitted. “Many of my dungeon-building skills require me to be physically present in my domain.”

“The training is more important,” Vivian said, crossing her name off from the top of the fourth raid group and instead writing in her own. “I’ll take the lead for this group. Aliandra, you head up the training efforts at home – your goal is to develop our fifth raid group. Now, if we only had a few more healers.”

“That’s a problem I can solve,” Ali said, drawing more than a few surprised looks from around the room. “I can fight remotely,” she explained. “My Kobold acolytes or Blood Shamans can heal.”

“That will help,” Vivian said, shooting her a glance of gratitude. “How about with this group?” She pointed to group one which currently only had Havok listed as the healer.

“How about I supplement all the groups?” Ali countered. “It’s no more difficult to split my attention four ways. The Acolytes are around level forty now, so they won’t even upset the experience gained for the adventurers and pathfinders. I can also add a selection of other minions for perception skills; I learned a holy ooze that can fill a supplemental healing role and use Tremor Sense. Also, don’t forget Naia – she will fight with whichever group is helping her against Blooming Rot, and she’s a level eighty-one dungeon.”

“Oh, that would do it,” Vivian said, quickly writing in a few options for each group which she indicated would shore up the most important weaknesses and did a few more rearrangements.

“Ok, groups one and two will focus on Lyton Ruins. Mato to cleanse the blight and Havok’s holy damage should be ideal against the undead. Group four has Seth and will focus primarily on the Blooming Rot dungeon with Naia because death magic won’t work too well against the undead. Group three will float as needed for now.”

Group four is going to be a giant slime and zombie army, Ali thought, but she had seen what was down there in the depths – they would need all the help they could get. Seth’s specters and Naia’s ability to make bosses would be essential to making and securing progress against the Blooming Rot.

“This plan is flawed,” Lyeneru said, frowning.

Vivian paused her writing and glanced up.

“You’re forgetting the rift,” Lyeneru said. “Wiping out the Lich’s pet dungeon is all good and well, but we will be unleashing an uncontrolled rift on Toria, which they are ill-equipped to handle. We will just be creating a bigger problem. I cannot in good conscience allow this plan to go forward.”

“Naia will claim the chamber and become a rift guardian,” Ali said.

“She is not strong enough,” Vivian said, eyes flashing. “We cannot take the risk.”

“She will be, by the time we get there,” Ali countered. “I am successfully guarding a rift to the Abyssal Realm in my domain. I will teach her the necessary domain skills to summon a capable raid boss to serve as guardian.”

“That should work,” Vivian said. “Lyeneru?”

“Never feed a dungeon,” Lyeneru snapped.

“Not even to spite the Lich?” Vivian asked.

“The rift is already feeding his dungeon,” Ali said. “Wouldn’t you rather have it feeding one who will help us?”

The Night Elf’s face twisted like she had just swallowed a whole vial of Bitter Vine poison. “Fine. Do it.”

Back-and-forth discussion continued for ages as Vivian fine-tuned the groups and then created training teams for the novices who would be challenging Ali’s dungeon to get strong enough to participate. Each person’s abilities were considered, assigning them to the challenge they were most suited for; Basil was moved to the Blooming Rot team where his herbalism might be better leveraged among the plants, and Weldin was assigned to the teams needing to travel to the blighted forest and the Lyton Ruins dungeon to best leverage his powerful Town Portal skill.

Ali paid close attention throughout, knowing she would need to memorize each of the groups and build proper challenges for them, but her focus was on the tasks she would need to complete before they all got started. Most important would be choosing her minions – neither the Lyton Ruins nor the Blooming Rot had monsters of flesh and blood, so her Abyssal Stalkers would not be effective. She could send Trolls but, if a primary purpose for the raid groups was to grow the experience of the members, too many level ninety trolls would make that impossible. They would already be slowed down significantly by taking a single evolved class as a leader – but the safety concerns made that an essential tradeoff.

Kobolds, she decided. The acolytes for certain, but she could send rogues too. She had a few decent slime monsters in the correct level range to be effective and not detract from the team’s goals – not to mention she should be able to level them all up along with the eager raiders.

I will need to teach them Common, she realized. Not being able to communicate with the group would substantially diminish her effectiveness. She would also need to talk with Lira – if Mato was going to be cleansing large areas of the blighted forest, they would need Lira’s powerful nature magic to keep it from being reclaimed. Lira had never complained about living in her dungeon, but it must feel dark and cramped compared to what she had known. Ali knew just how much she missed her home – the broad expanse of her forest, and the sunlight and outside air.

“One last thing, before we get started,” Vivian said, turning to look at Ali. “Aliandra, would you be able to make a few silver-ranked practice bosses for the raid teams? That way we can observe team coordination and gain a few levels before we confront the Lich’s dungeons.”

“I can do that,” Ali said, nodding, not missing Lyeneru’s surprise followed by the visible draining of some of the tension she carried in her eyes and shoulders.

Smart choice. It would certainly address many of Lyeneru’s concerns about the inexperience of her silver-ranked Pathfinders.

***

Ali sat back and allowed her Teaching Sage to expire, happy with the progress she had made. Both her Kobold rogue and her Acolyte of Azryet had learned the common language with sufficient proficiency that they would be effective for communicating with the raid groups. She had already verified with her berserkers that, once the language was taught, she could continue summoning new minions with the skill as the changes were committed directly into the imprint. It was a simple enough matter to use customization to select among the general skills recorded for the variant.

“Thanks, Lira,” Ali said, accepting the small, beautifully decorated cup filled with steaming aromatic tea.

“You’re welcome, dear,” Lira said with a smile. “You’ve been working so hard; I thought you might like a break.”

Ali sipped the tea, allowing the delightful aroma to fill her lungs, enjoying the slight calming magic as it permeated her body. “Lira, the guild is going to take on the Lyton Ruins dungeon over the next couple of weeks,” she said.

“I see,” Lira said, but even though she seemed calm on the surface, Ali had known her long enough to see the complex interplay of residual anger and interest that seemed knotted up inside her. Did she ever regret not taking a combat class?

“I was wondering if you wanted to help?” Ali said. “Mato is leading one of the groups and he will be using his aura to cleanse the blight. I know you don’t have combat magic, but I think your magic would be ideal for preventing the dungeon from reclaiming the cleansed areas.”

“I…” Lira said, anxiety, worry, and hope flickering rapidly across her normally placid and calm features.

“I know my dungeon is not your ideal home,” Ali continued, targeting what she knew to be the issue. “I’m sure you’ve been missing the sunshine and the outside air of your home.”

“I have missed it,” Lira said, looking away for a moment. “But I don’t want you to think I’m ungrateful for your sacrifice and help.”

“Lira, I love you,” Ali said, her heart clenching inside her chest to see her aunt so conflicted. “You will always be welcome here. But I want you to be happy and have your home back. Even after we reclaim your forest and restore it, we’re still going to be neighbors, close enough to visit often just like you used to. And, I need my cups of tea. They’re really essential.”

“Thank you, dear,” Lira said, reaching out to hug her which, from the normally reserved ancient dryad, was a profound statement – an expression that Ali took to be how she felt about her devastated home and Ali’s support.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
