Smiling at her enthusiasm, Alsantset shook her head. “The strength of the Demon has little to do with the strength of the host. Many Demon's will even take forms from animals, or even objects of power. There is truly too little that we know of the Enemy.” Pride blossomed in her chest, contrary to her words. Rain loved to complain and whine, but they were merely words, his actions defining him as a warrior. If only he would fight alongside the Sentinels so that they too could see his worth, rather than just hear his grumblings.

Still smiling, Mila bounced about in place, unable to stay still. “I know, but even then it's impressive. Some of the stories say that he fought the Demon as well, sacrificing his arm to lead it away from the soldiers, saving many of their lives. It’s laughable, since none of them would have even been able to watch, but still the stories spread.” Barely able to contain herself, she shifted about, leaning into Alsantset's arms. “I want to be like Rain, fighting among the soldiers, making a name for myself, but Mama always has me stationed in a place of safety. I spent the entire battle firing arrows into the night, not meeting a single living Defiled. She even threatened to tan my hide in front of everyone if I ran off like Rain does.” The precious girl pouted once more. “It's just so stifling, I want to prove my worth, like Rain and Huushal have, but Mama is so overprotective.”

Alsantset would have never guessed it before, but the sweet, kind, talented child, the hope of all the village, was in many ways a spoiled princess. It brought a smile to her face, made the girl seem more approachable. “She loves you, and would see you safe. If I could, I would do the same with Rain.”

As if hearing his name, Rain stirred in his bedroll and she moved to his side. His eyes half-lidded, he coughed lightly, and Mila poured a cup of water for him, helping him up and letting him drink slowly. “Hello.” Half smiling as he looked about the tent, he yawned, moving his stump as if to cover his mouth. After a moment of confusion, he chuckled. “I've lost my right arm twice now. I should take better care of it.” Kicking at the blanket covering him, he struggled feebly out of them. “Why didn't Tokta fix my left arm? It's only broken. Stingy. How am I supposed to pee? Or worse...”

“Foolish child.” A tear of joy ran down her face as she gently stroked his face. He was so tough and resilient, already laughing. “You wake from a serious injury and your first words are of base humor. What am I to do with you? Do not blame Tokta, there are plenty of soldiers and Sentinels who are close to death, and the healers have little energy to spare for minor injuries. Besides, you are likely to just break it again.” Alsantset lightly tweaked his nose as she smiled. “How are you feeling?”

“Hmm... Hungry. Tired.” He raised his stump, cut off above the elbow, looking at the bandaged area. “Dreading having to grow this back.” She helped him stand, supporting him as they walked out of the tent in search of food, Rain adamant about not staying in the healer's tent. “So... how long ….was I out for... this time?”

They had barely walked a dozen steps and he was already winded, Alsantset's hand upon his chest and the other around his waist, almost carrying him, worried that he would fall. “Not even a full day. Your injuries have mostly been healed, but there are some that you will need to fix on your own. Taduk will help you with the arm when we return to Shen Huo, or if you feel able, you can begin trying, under supervision.” She tried to make her glare menacing, but his tired grin showed that she had failed.

“Alright... enough walking... carry me please.”

She chuckled and lifted his tiny frame into her arms, holding him like a child as he nestled his head upon her shoulder. When he had first arrived, he hated being held or touched, always jolting away or freezing from any embrace, but that had long since faded and she walked towards his tent, ignoring the judgmental looks. Rain was a Warrior, but he cared little for face, and never worried about showing weakness. It was one of his troublesome yet lovable quirks.

Mila ran off with Song to fetch more food, and Alsantset soon reached Rain's tent. Yan sat meditating nearby, her progress astounding all who knew of it, another young hero of the People. Propping Rain up against a stone by the fire, Alsantset rummaged through his tent for clean clothes and a blanket. She paused, noting that there were two bedrolls, and upon further inspection realized that little Yan had moved into Rain's tent. She smiled mischievously to herself, glad that the little orphan was being so assertive. She left the tent and helped him change, wrapping him snuggly, guarding him from the night's chill as he sat looking tired and happy.

Mila and Song returned and Alsantset stepped back and watched as Mila fed Rain, smiling at his fortune. Between Lin, Mila, and Yan, it would seem that Rain would be well-loved and cared for. After a few minutes, Yan joined them, sitting quietly off to one side. Unable to help herself, Alsantset decided to speak out. Yan was her favorite, Lin too admiring and Mila too indulging of Rain, but there needed to be fair play. “Yan, I see that you've moved into Rain's tent. I'll have to trouble you to look after him.” She enjoyed the small look of jealousy that flashed across Mila's face, quickly smothered with feigned indifference.

Rain chuckled. “Oh Adujan, you're too good to me. I think I may have to take a shit later, so you're going to have to wipe for me.” The relief in Mila's eyes almost made Alsantset laugh out loud.

Without missing a beat, Yan replied, “You've got two working legs and there's plenty of grass, just scoot along the ground. You'll be fine.”

“Don’t be so shy. I like to wash it off with water after I shit, so I'll need your help with that as well.”

Their banter continued as she watched Mila pout, internally laughing at the prickly situation that Rain was in. Although the two of them would be in close quarters, Alsantset was positive that Yan would not succumb to her base desires, likely leading him about by the nose. She was a tough one, and would brook no insult from Rain. She would wait until properly married.

Deciding that the increasingly filthy discourse would have to end, she interrupted with a question. “Rain, how were you able to withstand the mental attack of the Demon? The Lieutenant General will want to know, none of the other Sentinels were able to move about unhindered besides Dagen. Tell me of your experience, starting just before the Demon turned.”

A sheepish grin on his face, with the promise of more debate aimed at Yan, Rain simply shrugged. “Hmm... I fought the Defiled guy, err, Vivek Daatei. He was wounded, I went up to end him, but before I could, he … turned inside out, or something. Not pleasant to watch, but I couldn't stop. Then it hit me, and I blacked out, and when I opened my eyes again...” Pausing his narration, Rain lay on his back, looking forlorn.

She waited for almost a minute, until she was unable to keep silent any longer and asked, “And?” She feared the worst, that it had shown him the scenes of his enslavement, broken him once again, despite how happy he had seemed.

“I was in a perfect world, where all my dreams came true. All of you were there, along with Tate, Tali, Baatar, Sarnai... My parents... my dog... my children.” He sat there, staring into the sky, a sad smile upon his face. “It showed me what it was like to be happy.”

No wonder none who were afflicted spoke of what they saw. They were all mourning their loss, a difficult thing to deal with. A lump formed in the back of her throat. “You saw your parents?”

“Ah, no, not exactly. There were two people who I knew were my parents, but I couldn't make out any physical details about them. It's one of the things that threw me off, helped me break free of the illusion.” He spoke as if it had been simple, always unwilling to brag. Coughing sheepishly, he continued. “Even after I figured it out, I kept watching, kept trying to go back into the illusion, to be happy again. I didn't want to leave, even knowing it wasn't real, that my life was at risk. It was powerful and wonderful.... but empty.”

Her fear assuaged, she moved forward and gave him a hug. “Well, you broke free and are well. Pursue your dreams here in the real world, and they will not be empty.” Her hands planted on his shoulders, she gave him a stern look. “At least now I understand why you were so angry and rash upon waking. Akanai almost died of laughter watching you assault the Demon so foolishly.”

Rolling his eyes, he settled back into his reclining posture. “Yea, well you know the rest. After getting beaten by the Demon, I went and woke up Dagen, and blah blah blah, here we are.”

Mila laughed, clapping her hands. “You woke him up? Mama will be delighted to hear that! She was being a little grouchy, thinking that you and Dagen had stronger mental defenses than her.” The others smiled as well, and the conversation turned to other questions of his ordeals, but after a few minutes, Alsantset motioned for everyone to retire, Rain already drifting back to sleep, his body still weak from his ordeal.

Moving a short distance away with Mila as Yan helped Rain into their tent, Alsantset smiled at Mila's envious look. “It seems Yan has stolen a march, aiming for Rain's body. What do you plan to do now?”

“Hmph. Nothing. Who that lech sleeps with is none of my concern.” Mila's face heated up again, too many times in one night.

Chuckling, Alsantset gave her a hug, refraining from pinching her freckled cheeks, still plump and childish despite her beauty. “Be more honest with yourself, little Mila, or Rain will be lost to you.”

Leaving with those words, Alsantset moved back towards her tent, light on her feet, delighted at how everything had turned out. He had broken free of the Demon's sway when all others had remained locked within, and had even freed Dagen to aid Akanai. The story would be told, Dagen's word giving it weight, and Rain would be praised as he so deserved. A small fright at the mention of his parents, but it seemed that nothing was amiss.

Things were finally working out for Rain, and she could not be happier.
