“Hmm… I don’t know, do you see any purple haze in the sky? Do you see any spatial rifts out there?” the man asked. “Should I do a round and ask the soldiers which project they think won the competition set up by the Crown?”

“Er… no… rather foolish of me to ask,” Clyburn admitted. “But what happened with the other submissions? Surely there might be some promising designs among them.”

“Right, there were some promising designs among them. Not much left after more than half of them were sent to the bottom of the sea,” the Admiral explained, and at Clyburn’s frown continued. “The reason our forces in the hot zone were so minimal and we were unable to reinforce you more thoroughly during the battle is because the plague broke past the perimeter.”

“How?”

“We do not know. You in fact arrived earlier, without an escort, and were able to fend off the attempt on your ship. The other projects making for the front lines weren’t so lucky,” the man explained. “When I approached you at the checkpoint speaking of concerning developments, that was what had occurred. Plague forms broke through after our spatiomancers failed to contain the perimeter, and our fleets were mainly tied up with exterminating those.”

“What a devious thing the hive minds behind the plague are…” Clyburn muttered.

“Quite. It’s why this appointment of your guild to royal status and the bestowal of crown properties within Storven isn’t as much of a reward as you would think,” the man clarified. “With what your devices are capable of… we need your help. The plague may have retreated for now… but as we’ve seen here, and with that incident at Castle Ironpeak three months ago… they are capable of infilitrating Lonvoron. Why they haven’t played their hand yet, we do not know. But we need to secure our world against clandestine infilitration. With the Inquisition in the midst of a vehement purge of their own ranks, the King feels that role should go to you and your Guild.”

“A heavy responsibility… I would expect King Alstatyn himself would be here to say it. Is he indisposed?” Clyburn asked.

“Meeting with someone in regards to these recent developments,” Admiral Goodwin said. “But fret not. In a months’ time there will be a royal ceremony in Storven where the King shall officially reward all of you. In the meantime, this is the charge you’ve been burdened with.”

Clyburn appeared to be in deep thought, reading the papers before him. Orodan too had no doubt that the Blackworth Collective’s King had gone to have a meeting with the previous looper. If the Eldritch were capable of sneakily having their agents infilitrate worlds, then just purging plague worlds with Fenton’s devices and beating the infected in conventional battle wouldn’t be enough.

Furthermore, Orodan knew exactly why the Prophet hadn’t yet played its hands and attempted a full-blown infection of Lonvoron. The Warrior. He hadn’t yet seen it in this loop, but Orodan knew that the Warrior appeared whenever the Prophet crossed some unknown threshold of meddling.

The threat of facing the mightiest Administrator of them all was likely what kept the Prophet from playing its hand just yet. Not when it had yet to find the previous looper and Reject’s Mantle.

“Very well,” Clyburn suddenly spoke up. “I accept this charge. I will have some of my engineers begin relocating to the capital while some administrative staff begin recruitment efforts to get our new branch up and running. To that end, the crown’s generous stipend listed here will prove more than adequate.”

“Always eager to accept more work…” Admiral Goodwin said with a smile. “But I suppose it’s a good thing you’re taking this on. Means I won’t have to! Hahah!”

The Transcendent gunslinger merely shook her head in disappointment.

“And who will command the void fleets? You’re not on vacation yet you fool!”

The man was brought back to reality and could only sigh in dejection. Regardless if Clyburn took over the project of securing Lonvoron against clandestine Eldritch activity, the Admiral’s work didn’t exactly stop.

“I’m surprised the Crown hasn’t reprimanded you for your antics yet, Admiral…” Clyburn muttered under his breath. “Anyhow, while I accept this charge… I cannot do it alone.”

“Eh? You’ll have all the crown’s funding, what do you mean by alone?” the Admiral asked.

In response to that, Clyburn looked to Fenton.

“Me? I’m happy to help you Mister Clyburn but me mum-”

“Will have a most lavish mansion in the capital. I could use your help Fenton,” Clyburn said.

“If she’s coming with… then alright, I agree. Can’t wait to work on more machines in your Guild! Never been part of a Guild before…”

“I wouldn’t get too excited young Fenton, while you’ll be working with me part-time, the majority of your time will be spent at a particular location,” Clyburn said. “If you’ve done all this with just a roughshod education from myself and some basic textbooks… then what more could you achieve with quality instruction? I believe it’s time for you to get a proper education my young friend.”

“Wait… you can’t mean…”

“Indeed I do. It’s time for you to attend one of the magical universities… in fact, I’d been meaning to sponsor you for a long time now.”

“But… but… I hate classrooms!” Fenton protested. “I don’t want to sit in a stuffy room and read all day while a bunch of blue-bloods surround me!”

Orodan however… could only burst out laughing.

“Oy! What’re you laughin’ for Mister Orodan!?”

Fenton truly was like him. Oh how Orodan had also hated the prospect of reading books and languishing in an Academy… but it had given him so much perspective and helped his development immensely. Fenton too, could only benefit from this arrangment.

“While I’m sure young Fenton’s suffering might be amusing, you’ll have plenty of work ahead of you too, Mister Wainwright,” Clyburn said. “After all, I’ll need an assistant Guild leader to help me manage all my work in Storven.”

“Wait… what?”

“Yes, I know I’m the head of the guild, but I’ll need an assistant. And who better than you to help with all the various problems that will crop up? My right hand.”

An assistant guild leader?

As Fenton now laughed at him, Orodan could only wonder what he’d gotten himself into.

Storven and a world of politics, subterfuge and guilds awaited. It was the center of the Blackworth Collective’s power, where Fenton would attend university and where Orodan himself would have the chance to learn new skills and hone his existing ones. And to top it off, he was certain that Lord Morvale and his jealous associates would cause further problems for Clyburn there too.

And in a months’ time, it would be where they had a reward ceremony with the King.

But that aside, he also had Luetta’s trial of ascension to think of, and the matter of getting in touch with the Conclave. Fenton’s background was also a question which warranted further investigation, and his search for the previous looper in the hopes of getting a lead on true soul genesis was the main reason he was on Lonvoron to begin with. But really, all this was but a backdrop to the looming threat of his true enemy.

Who knew how the Prophet and its Eldritch minions would respond to the setbacks they had suffered? They hadn’t entirely been defeated either, and certainly had a reserve of force yet remaining.

The upcoming days appeared peaceful on the surface, but Orodan had a feeling that things wouldn’t remain quiet for long.
