“Excellent! I do not know if anyone has told you, but the plague’s attacks upon Lonvoron have intensified. Two new plague worlds have joined the siege of our world, and now more than ever, we could use your aid,” the Admiral said. “Our main army led by the King is holding for now, but the situation is unsustainable without something to break the balance. In five days we march for these new rifts… do you think you can make another pillar by then?”

Five days was a steep ask for a device so large and complicated.

But they’d gotten some good practice in working fast and under a time crunch.

Alongside the full support of the Collective as a whole? Orodan’s ambitions extended beyond just making one pillar within that timeframe.

#

“Need a gear!”

Orodan threw one across the tent.

“Recovery potion please ser!”

A glass bottle was hurled towards Fenton who caught it nimbly.

“This plate needs to be…

[Tool Mastery 77 → Tool Mastery 78]

“…thank you.”

Orodan hammered it into place before Clyburn could even finish asking.

He was like a rabid beast of crafting. Aggression, violence and pure ferocity. For so long had Orodan employed these in combat, but to now turn them towards his crafts too? A most beneficial training regimen.

Much like his sword strikes flowed, one into the other… each strike of the hammer flowed into the next with absolutely no wasted movement or opening. Sometimes, he’d hit a hammer strike and then flow into an elbow strike and then a shoulder hit in the same motion.

It was as though he was fighting, but his opponent was the metal.

[Blacksmithing 72 → Blacksmithing 73]

If in battle Orodan was a one man army, then here, he was now a one man assembly line. His hands worked furiously, one heating the metal, the other, smashing it into place with perfect particulate arrangement. Even his legs refused to stay idle, as his feet lashed out with kicks and he then shot forth with knee strikes to brutalize the metal into the shape he desired.

Why was a blacksmith limited to just two of their limbs? If Orodan could fight with both arms and legs, then so too could he blacksmith with them.

“I need another sprocket!”

All four of Orodan’s limbs were occupied…

…so he instead hit the completed piece with a gentle headbutt which sent it flying across the room and onto Clyburn’s table.

Like this, the furious work of producing the pillar continued.

Fenton had accepted the Crown’s offer of a position as royal advisor, but he’d stipulated two conditions. First, that they would work in private within the large workshop tent they had set up. Nobody was to try and spy on their work or methods. And second…

…that they could participate in the defense of the checkpoint against any Eldritch attacks.

Needless to say, the Admiral had been quite against granting the second condition, but had eventually relented long as Fenton agreed to remain with the troops and not charge out like a reckless idiot.

“This is your doing of course. I wonder who influenced him to think active battle is a good learning environment…”

“Well it is. Even you won’t deny that Zaessythra.”

“Your words aren’t untrue…”

The checkpoint’s alarm horn went off.

“Finally, a break!” Fenton exclaimed.

After some demonstrations of what Fenton’s enhanced weaponry could achieve, the Admiral had done an initial trial run of allowing the Eldritch forces coming from the rifts to attack the checkpoint. Normally, these forces would be intercepted by the main army in the center of the hot zone, but they were under tremendous pressure already having to deal with two additional plague worlds.

As expected, Fenton had proven himself during that trial run, and the strategic decision was made for the main army to stop intercepting Eldritch assaults heading for the checkpoint. This alleviated a large burden from King Alstatyn’s force, and in turn allowed Fenton to gain valuable combat experience, ideas and innovate further devices and tricks for use against the plague.

Orodan and Clyburn followed the boy out of the tent, and the sounds of cheers and hollers resounded as the soldiers saw Fenton Penny.

“It’s the young master! The purger of the plague!”

“The young purifier! We’ll mop up the plague no problem today!”

It wasn’t too long ago that Orodan himself had been in the same position. He only hoped that Fenton didn’t do anything stupid under the weight of the expectations upon him.

Then again, who the hells was Orodan to say that? His entire life was filled with stupidity.

“Wave of infected trees on the horizon! They’re sending an advance force of fast movers in!”

Over the past five days, the Eldritch attacks upon the checkpoint had certainly increased in their intensity. The first few attacks were of a probing nature, with scant amounts of chaff sent to gauge their defenses. The Eldritch weren’t stupid either, these probing strikes were meant to scout out how much manpower the defenders had, the integrity of the barrier, their battle tactics, and so on.

The Blackworth Collective had been battling the plague in earnest for many years now. Both sides were familiar with the tactics of the other.

Of course, Fenton threw a wrench into those plans.

But… as did Orodan.

The approaching horde of infected wolves and horses stampeded towards the barrier, yet before they could make contact, a wave of steam knights sallied out in front, arms inter-locked for added mass and stability as their blades began swinging and reaping Eldritch lives like insects in a fire. The infected creatures, all of them fast at movement, didn’t have much mass or resilience compared to the steam knights.

And when they had their arms interlocked and stood in formation akin to a shieldwall… the outcome was obvious. The enemy ‘cavalry’ broke upon the steam knights. And the repurposed barrier - modified by Fenton to allow bullets through from the defending side - now rippled as volleys of withering fire erupted, scything the swift wolves down.

The Eldritch had perhaps thought to soften the barrier with fast moving chaff, and then slam into it with their slow-moving but resilient line of infected trees. Certainly, he could see those tough things surviving a forced entry through the elemental defenses, but the shieldwall tactics of Alastaia made the steam knights a potent force.

Furthermore, Fenton had enchanted the soldiers’ stores of ammunition as well. Against hordes of weaker plague forms, a new type of fragmenting bullet was used. It erupted into multiple pieces of shrapnel upon firing and a single shot could catch three or even four quick but frail plague forms at once. And if an entire volley was fired? Short of Grandmaster and Transcendents, even some of the swiftest Eldritch wouldn’t have any room to dodge due to the sheer saturation of projectiles in the air.

The wave of chaff, thousands, fell within minutes. Dead to the last creature before the slow-moving line of infected trees could even approach. The trees themselves however were continually emitting infectious Eldritch energies as they slowly marched towards the battle line of steam knights in front of the barrier.

But Fenton had a plan for even that as a device with a large spout was produced and carried outside the barrier by a reserve steam knight. Orodan, Clyburn and he had worked upon it personally.

“Engineers! Deploy the mist! Poison mages remain ready!” the checkpoint commander ordered as the heavily armored engineer directed the steam knight to activate the device. “Monitor the array closely!”

A deadly green gas began erupting from the device, billowing towards the lines of approaching Eldritch. The steam knights being inorganic were unaffected as the gas passed them, but the Eldritch…

…they began to scream in agony.

Alkahest. Modified into gaseous form after some intricate enchantments and work by Fenton, and sent towards the plague’s battle lines with deadly efficiency.

The infected trees and their Eldritch energies began disintegrating, and after four minutes the entire wave was dead.

“Damn… do we even need to fight if we have that?” a soldier incredulously asked.

“Quiet idiot, I’m sure the plague’s got some countermeasure for it.”

Wind mages, spatiomancers and dimensionalists could certainly counter a gaseous acid such as that. Or worse… turn it against the Collective. It was but one tool in the bag, best used at opportune moments and preferably not overplayed lest the enemy find ways of quickly adapting and working around it.

“Got the notes down Mister Clyburn?” Fenton asked.

“Right, the dispersion rate is still a little sub-optimal, but nothing I can’t fix after a few modifications,” Clyburn replied, jotting down notes and observations in a frenzy. “Back to work we go, we still have the fifth pillar to work on.”

And so they returned. Back to the assembly line it was for Orodan.

Over the past five days he’d mainly hammered metal, but had also put together devices alongside Clyburn and occasionally even helped Fenton with enchanting. The supply of materials was plentiful, and through the usage of potions, Orodan staved off fatigue from affecting the other two. Having to operate on such a strict deadline was of great benefit to his skills. Even with just five days of work, he felt many skills on the cusp of gaining a level.

“Could use some of that mana mist ser, big piece comin’ up!”

Orodan threw another finished piece of metal towards Clyburn before heading over to Fenton. His Mana Manipulation was high enough that he could simply expel raw mana in the form of mist into the air. Entirely pointless in most circumstances, a waste of energy even if Orodan wasn’t concerned about the notion.

But who it did help was Fenton, who used the mist of pure mana to begin seeing which possible pathways best suited the enchantment. Much like for his other allies on Lonvoron, Orodan had avoided granting the lad his Blessing lest it trigger some sort of failsafe or be detected by the Prophet or previous looper. And while the boy had been put through his paces, Fenton still had to worry about a limited mana pool and simply didn’t have enough to expel a sufficient quantity of the mist for himself. Nor did he have the manipulation skill necessary for it.

“I still don’t understand how that helps you,” Orodan remarked. “It’s just raw mana floating in the air. You aren’t absorbing it either.”

“Right you are Mister Orodan, but what you ain’t lookin’ at is how the mana’s seeping into the metal.”

“But what benefit does that provide? It’s just idly going into the plate…”

“You’re a swordsman right ser?” Fenton asked and Orodan nodded. “It’s like when you watch someone’s one move and can read the next two or three ahead of time. I can’t do none of that when it comes to fighting… but enchanting’s a different matter.”

Orodan looked closely, and then he vaguely saw what Fenton meant, especially as the lad began enchanting.

Even though each metal plate was perfectly forged, not every particle of metal had the same conductivity for mana. Very similar yes, so much that Orodan wouldn’t have noticed it without Fenton’s experiment… but not exactly the same. Some particles accepted the mana just a bit more freely, while others repelled it a slight bit more.

“Here, have a try,” Fenton said shoving a scrap piece towards him and into the mana mist covered table.

And as Orodan saw the mist seep into this piece of scrap metal… he strained his mind to conceive of an enchantment path and inscription which was optimized for each particle.

His hand swept over the metal, free form enchanting.

[Enchanting 89 → Enchanting 90]

[New Title → Enchanting Master]

It certainly wasn’t up to par with Fenton’s work, but it was excellent, far better an enchanting piece than Orodan had ever done before.

“I didn’t even know that was possible…” Orodan muttered.

“Aren’t you the one who told me not to accept impossibility? Just followin’ your lesson ser,” Fenton said with a grin.

“That I certainly did. Good work Fenton,” Orodan said.

“Mister Wainwright, your muscle here please.”

“On it.”

The next four hours passed uneventfully. No more attacks from the Eldritch came either.

Eventually, Orodan muscled the last screw of the fifth pillar on as tightly as was possible.

A grand device, and with the completion of it, came culminating gains.

[Laboring 54 → Laboring 55]

[Artificing 46 → Artificing 47]

[Engineering 49 → Engineering 50]

[New Title → Engineering Adept]

“Well I’ll be… five additional pillars completed in five days… your rate of work and inexhaustible stamina are a sight to behold Mister Wainwright. Have you considered employment after this whole thing’s done?” Clyburn asked. “My guild would love to have you on.”

“Why not? Would make for a decent cover story at least.”

“Can’t believe we’re actually done… did we really do all that? I’ve lost track of the time I have!” Fenton exclaimed. “How long’s it been since we even ate?”

“Too long, but I feel the thoughts of a celebratory meal will have to wait. The Admiral and his entourage are approaching again,” Orodan said. “Just in time too.”

A bell outside the tent rang, and two people entered. The Admiral and the gunslinger accompanying him last time.

“Young Fenton, there’s been some concerning developments and I must ask how much progress you’ve… what on Lonvoron is this?”

“Nothin’ much ser. We’ve got five pillars ready to go whenever you need,” Fenton answered with a toothy smile.

“You… how? I thought even the demand of one in just five days was too steep, but five? Five? How have you done this?”

