…only for him to spatially shift the entire battlefield so that it simply dodged into his fist anyways, killing it instantly. A colossal amount of power for anyone else. For him, nothing. He normally avoided such big displays of power, but in the midst of a battle tracking down who’d done what was incredibly difficult for even an expert. Though there would doubtlessly be some mangled terrain damage as evidence of what had occurred.

Orodan had killed the infected space Transcendents so quickly that the sound from the flashbangs had yet to clear.

Immediately, the spatial passage they tore open began to weaken, and the Collective’s spatiomancers were able to forcibly shut it down with the responsible spatial spiders slain. The group of thirty Transcendent-level plague forms on the other side,, meant to be a lethal strike force, could only watch in befuddlement as the passage to their planned ambush assault closed before they could do anything about it.

Crisis averted for now. There was simply no way their reinforcing army of twelve-thousand, meant for transporting the pillars, would be capable of facing that many Transcendents.

“That felt too easy…” one of the allied spatiomancers muttered, not even realizing that the spatial breach had closed because the enemy space mages had been slain. “Hey, what’re those corpses? Ugh… are those spiders? How’d they even…? Who did that?”

“No time for that, focus! They’re still trying to teleport plague forms into our formation!”

The chaos of battle put such otherwise reasonable questions to rest, particularly since he could feel the Eldritch’s maddened attempts at teleportations and opening spatial rifts now that their initial shock strike had failed.

Fenton was halfway through having the first pillar hoisted up, and the enemy was beginning to get desperate. It was all-or-nothing for them now.

If spatiomancy wouldn’t work… then conventional brute force would have to do.

“Multiple Transcendents coming our way! Moving fast!” a scout called out.

Crossing miles in but an instant was easy for beings at the Transcendent-level with movement skills. And a four-armed ogre hefting a giant club, leading ten other Transcendents, rushed straight for them.

Fenton was a step ahead though. An exceptionally sturdy sphere which Orodan had put great time and care into forging was thrown to the ground. It’s surface and even its interior was intricately enchanted. Upon striking the dirt, it roiled with energy, and their army was surrounded by a shimmering barrier.

The leading Transcendent plagueform charged into it…

…and vanished elsewhere. Two more rushed in, disappearing into it before the rest stopped and growled with fury at the obstruction.

It was a barrier that would simply send the attacker elsewhere in space. A temporry solution meant to purchase time, but that was what they needed most now.

The six plague worlds spewed forth more infected spatiomancers onto the battlefield, a rabid bid to unravel this barrier. And eventually, they would. But not before Fenton activated the first of the pillars. It looked as though victory was in their grasp.

Which was when Orodan saw it. A brief glimpse, and it looked as though its figure was on the verge of slipping out of reality once more.

Talricto had taught him well, the ways of Dimensionalism. His teacher was superior to whoever had decided to interlope upon this battle. Hence, Orodan saw it clearly now where he wasn’t able to on his first loop here.

It wore the guise of an old man wielding a book and sceptre. Yet, he knew this monster was anything but.

The Prophet had arrived…

…and it was eyeing Fenton Penny and the pillars with a gaze most unfriendly.

Perhaps something would come by to stop it soon, hence it looked to be in a rush. Or it simply didn’t want to reveal its presence too early. But right here, right now, in the split hundredths of a second where everyone else was far too slow to react to its presence, only Orodan could see its left hand rising, sceptre ready to launch a subtle but devastating strike towards his student.

Then and there, he made his decision. Screw his cover; he would not allow any harm to befall Fenton Penny.

Orodan knew he was no match for it, yet he launched the one desperate bid he thought had the best chance.

A mental attack.

Every flashbang he had left was thrown into the air and triggered, blinding all present. And with a roar…

[Commandment of War 47 → Commandment of War 49]

…for the briefest of instants he encouraged the Prophet to look into his eyes.

And such a small, infinitesmal moment of time was all it took. For once their eyes met…

…the Prophet gazed into the depths of Infinity.

[Incipience of Infinity 139 → Incipience of Infinity 141]

The mental confrontation lasted for a period of time less than it would take sound to cross a room. Orodan felt his own mind suffer a horrid strain.

The mind of a man directly contesting the mind of an Eldritch-infected Administrator. The outcome should have been a foregone conclusion.

Yet… Orodan Wainwright was no mere man. He had one of the mightiest minds in the entirety of System space.

It was akin to a little sparrow charging into a mountain. But there was one critical factor… the sparrow had found a weak spot capable of causing a landslide.

All of Lonvoron shook as a terrible scream rang out. It wasn’t Orodan, but the Prophet.

The Prophet’s mind was strong, beyond any other target he’d ever tried mentally jousting against. But most shockingly, it was the Administrator who utterly recoiled in terror. Orodan had struck a weak point; it was as though the Prophet had experienced such a thing before and wanted absolutely no part of it.

Who knew that a mighty Administrator could be so vulnerable to a mental attack of this sort?

Its hands immediately went to its eyes, as it hissed, stumbling three steps backwards and immediately breaking eye contact. Purple-gray veins began to show upon the human guise it wore, yet it desperately tried to maintain control.

Despite all this, the terrible, terrible rage was apparent in its every motion. When was the last time it had been hurt? A grievous insult.

Not even a second had passed, and already it looked as though it wanted nothing more than to destroy the entire planet and galaxy.

But Lonvoron wasn’t as defenseless as it seemed. Especially when a particular individual was defending it from the shadows.

Orodan didn’t notice their arrival at all, the only thing tipping him off being the slight shimmer in the air which was visible to his keen sight. This new entrant to the battle, who he only now identified as the previous looper, had entered entirely unnoticed. Just as he remembered, they were covered in a ridiculous number of illusions and disguising spells.

And the Prophet was far too preoccupied with the effects of Orodan’s mental assault to notice as they channelled a copious amount of System energy into the Administrator’s Mantle they were wearing.

The army, disoriented by the flashbangs, didn’t see the blazing power of the beam they shot out.

The beam of System energy struck the Prophet directly. Ill-prepared as it was, the attack struck squarely, and without any defenses blunting its power.

A direct trail of carnage went from the Prophet’s position on the battlefield to the spatial rifts leading to the plague worlds, and Orodan saw as the Administrator was unwillingly hurled back into the rifts, caught by surprise, on the backfoot as it was recovering from his own mental attack.

The previous looper disappeared immediately after.

And for everyone else who operated on a far slower time frame, the only thing they noticed was the sudden blinding flash and the destruction of a large portion of the Eldritch.

Just in time too, as the first pillar of purification was raised.

“For our world!”

Fenton’s battle cry came accompanied with the device being activated at full power.

Previously, Orodan had thrown the pillar right into a plague world and then the rift had closed. But now, seeing it for the first time, he had to admit it was an impressive device.

His sturdy construction and personalized forging of the metal had made it incredibly resilient as titanic amounts of mana flowed through it, powered by a reinforced core at the center. This core was enchanted and warded against almost every method of tampering Orodan could think of.

Short of raw force, nothing below the Grandmaster-level could break the pillar. And Eldritch near it would find themselves utterly drained into purification if they dared approach.

The purple haze and mist in the sky began to clear. The Eldritch energies in the air, in the ground and from the very plague forms themselves began burning from the inside out, reduced to nothingness. Furthermore, this process of steady purification didn’t harm the infected either, adding potential reinforcements against the plague.

Plague forms on the front began falling to the ground, cut off from their Eldritch masters as the sickening corruption began disappearing and they went unconscious. Infected Transcendents immediately began fleeing, ordered back. Some managed to reach the rifts in time, others weren’t quick enough and began collapsing as the corruption was purged from their bodies and their masters’ control failed.

The horde of a million was in a frenzied retreat towards the spatial rifts, desperate to avoid purification.

How could Fenton create such a device? The answer was simple, with the help of Clyburn yes, but particularly… that of Orodan.

The lad was good at Enchanting, but Orodan was the greatest talent in Cleaning the cosmos had ever seen. The original machine was supposed to merely absorb Eldritch, containing it within the device, and then gradually purifying it over time. It would have been vulnerable to sabotage, assaults from plague forms seeking to release the corruption or would have simply taken too long.

This though, Orodan had provided much fine input and guidance upon. With Fenton’s hand doing the Enchanting, Clyburn’s Engineering, Orodan’s forging and the provision of critical guidance on how cleaning should function… the pillars of purification had come to be.

Certainly, he was superior to what even thousands of these pillars could do, but for a mere enchanted device capable of roughly imitating his Celestial skill, it wasn’t bad at all.

“They’re closing the spatial rifts! We’re winning!”

“Do not let them,” Orodan said to the general. “The more plague worlds we eliminate right now, the greater the blow we’ll have struck against them.”

The general thought it a bold plan… but saw the merit in it.

“Spatiomancers! Pour everything into keeping those rifts open! We’ll be sending those plague-ridden bastards some gifts today!”

The soldiers cheered as more pillars of purification were hoisted up and activated. The purging of the Eldritch began to hasten too. The horde of millions was now gone, and the plague forms were desperately trying to close the rifts.

It got to a point where the cleansing wave began reaching past the rift too, and the hive minds directing the Eldritch then began to truly panic.

Bulky steam knights began carrying the pillars towards the rifts, and there seemed to be little the plague worlds could do about it as everything they sent was purged of corruption as it approached. They tried sending ranged attacks towards the rifts, beams of horrifying plague energy, yet Orodan had accounted for these too, recalling how the rifts had assaulted him the same way on his first loop when he was the prime threat.

Soon as the horrifying beam of power erupted… the pillars flashed, detecting the excess Eldritch. In sync with the beam, powerful waves of purification were emanated, eradicating the fell power outright.

The reinforcing army transporting the pillars was now close enough to the rifts that they could see the Collective’s main army led by the King himself.

“Keep going! Cover the pillars with everything we have!” the general shouted. “The King’s forces will cover us too!”

The main threat of course, were any projectile attacks fired by Transcendent-level Eldritch from the other side of the rifts. Even if the attacks were purified before they reached, they were still Transcendent-level and capable of quite some destruction. But that was fine, as the Collective had its own Transcendents who were furiously shooting the enemy projectiles down as they approached.

In a ranged battle without melee pressure, the Blackworth Collective’s army reigned supreme with their volume of fire. Madam Lawson, the Transcendent gunslinger, led a group of crack gunners in targetting these hostile arrows, javelins and spells which came through seeking to destroy the pillars.

However, certain attacks weren’t so easily halted, and one pillar suffered enough damage that it became rendered defunct. Two however…

…made it through.

And the rifts leading to those worlds immediately shut down as the spatiomancers of the Collective now focused on keeping the remaining rifts open.

Things looked to be going well… which was when Orodan sensed a familiar and unwelcome presence on the other side of one of the rifts.

A beam of light came through the spatial rift, targeting not the pillars, but the spatiomancer corps who were keeping the rifts open.

A singular wave of destruction, not all-powerful, but enough that the defensive barrier around the spatiomancers shattered and they were forced to teleport away lest they die. Naturally, their teleportation meant that the efforts to keep the spatial rifts open were interrupted.

Orodan felt the Prophet wink out of existence moments before all of the remaining spatial rifts closed.

