And while he no longer had a physical brain, he still knew that prolonged periods of stress or extreme activity, could fatigue it just like anything else. Stamina potions weren’t unheard of on Lonvoron, but it seemed the Collective’s military didn’t realize that keeping them on hand for such situations was necessary.

Plus…

…Orodan’s unfairly empowered potion was far better than what most alchemists on this planet could achieve.

“We have a fighting chance now, thank you, thank you! Let’s show these wretched mages of the plague what real spatiomancers can do!” Enias roared.

The space mages in the command room cheered and they began casting a battery of spells to counter the Eldritch. It wasn’t that these six mages were suddenly turning the fray themselves, but that their focus on stringent defense and the improved relay now meant that other spatiomancers from other locations on Lonvoron could dedicate more to the offense.

Outside, the advancing ranks of the Eldritch were in disarray. Not only was the refurbished steam knight ripping an absolute swath through them and enduring the punishment of even the Master-level plague forms without damage, but it was also wrestling the Grandmaster-level infected boar and holding its ground. Using the breathing room, Fenton had begun enchanting the guns of the regular line infantry to devastating effect. Volleys of withering fire reduced charging swarms into piles of corpses which hit the ground the moment they passed the barrier.

And of course, the situation became even more untenable for the attacking plague forms as groups of Blackworth Collective infantry and war machines suddenly began teleporting into the battlefield; courtesy of the spatiomancers.

Reinforcements at last.

“Now let’s attack that damned rift and narrow it down!” Enias ordered.

But Orodan had other plans.

“About that… would you mind leaving the rift be for now?” Orodan asked.

“Leave the rift be? Strange ser… every moment it remains expanded is another moment for more plague forms to flood in.”

“You see, that’s all part of the plan, let me explain what the devices we have are capable of…”

The spatiomancers found Orodan’s plan to be the utter height of madness. Needless to say they were all against it…

…until Enias Weller spoke up on his behalf and got behind it.

“All of you are right, this is utter madness and lunacy… but for how long have we been battling the plague? If this works, if these devices truly are as effective as our benefactor says they are… then do we not owe it to our people to strike the greatest possible blow we can with them?” the lead spatiomancer asked, silencing the dissenters. “I am tired of fighting and wish to return home, to be with my family! Am I alone in wanting this?”

“Lord Weller… you shame us… very well, we’re with you!”

“Follow Lord Weller’s lead!”

“Alright stranger, you have our cooperation and you’ll have your mad plan… but the timing of this must be precise, so I will come out with you,” the lead spatiomancer said.

Fine by him. Orodan and Enias Weller left the command tent and the situation was a lot better. Fenton even had a grin on his face as the lad sprung over.

“Mister Orodan! We’re winnin’ ser!”

“Good job Fenton, I knew you could do it,” Orodan replied. “The enemy doesn’t look too happy either.”

Indeed, the Eldritch-infected Grandmaster tree was not happy. Dozens of its Master-level underlings had fallen already and the unending hordes of chaff were proving to be quite ineffective at breaking through the arrayed ranks of soldiers guarding the checkpoint.

The spatial rift leading to the plague world had expanded to its full size now, and Orodan could sense hundreds of infected spatiomancers on the other side working to stabilize the rift and keep it open.

And out of the rift came a heavily armored knight, purple-gray corruption emanating off his body. This was one of the invasion’s Transcendent-level generals, one of the mightiest beings the invaders had access to, a peak-Transcendent. The Eldritch knight’s eyes were white, but it still appeared to retain some level of intelligence despite the corruption. A tranquil fury was in its eyes as it swept over the battlefield and levelled a predatory look towards Fenton Penny, who it identified as being the reason for this delay.

It drew its sword.

Not good. The barrier wasn’t meant to last for long against a Transcendent.

“Fenton, how long till you can raise the pillar?” Orodan asked.

“Thirty seconds ser! But… I might need a little more time. I’ve got a lot of ideas over the course of this scrap, and I think I can make the pillar just a bit better.”

“Had a flash of inspiration did you? Good… I’ll leave the pillar to you then. I’ll be with the barrier mages,” Orodan said and then looked to Enias. “Stay with Fenton. His readiness will be your signal.”

Enias nodded, and Orodan made towards the small group of mages and enchanters closely monitoring the barrier and continually topping off its power supply.

The barrier team were in good spirits as the military was managing to do its job and hold well against the tide. Of course, as Orodan reached, a loud crash of magical energies occurred and a deafening boom tore through the air.

The infected Transcendent knight’s blade sent out a horrible wave of fell power which smashed into the barrier and nearly bottomed out the energy battery supplying it as cracks began to form from the power of the blow.

“Barrier integrity critical! We’re down to three percent power reserves!” one barrier specialist frantically called out. “We can’t take another hit like that! Battery won’t fill quick enough either!”

“We need more mana crystals! Stat!” the senior barrier mage yelled. “You! Fetch more mana crystals! Now!”

“Aye, I can do that,” Orodan said, grabbing a nearby box. He brought it over to the energy battery and poured them down a grinder-like mechanism which crushed them to deliver the energy.

But really, all this was a guise for his hand being placed upon the battery.

In but an instant, the battery was at a hundred percent capacity.

Just in time too as another deafening boom rang out. The follow-up sword wave of Eldritch power from the enemy’s Transcendent general smashed against the barrier.

“We’re doomed! We’re… eh?”

“The barrier’s still holding?”

The senior barrier mage looked at the energy battery and did a double take.

“What the hell? Was that a crate of some special stuff? What did they send us?” a junior barrier mage questioned, bewildered.

“Don’t question it! Load more into the battery! All of you, get to hauling more crystals!” the senior mage ordered. “It’s going to hit the barrier again!”

More workers came by, also joining Orodan in throwing crates of mana crystals into the crusher which pulped them. Under the cover of these additional hands, his task of inconspicuously filling the battery was made even easier.

Two more loud booms erupted. And now the enemy’s Transcendent general frowned in confusion. It must have realized something was amiss.

A guttural call erupted from its mouth and two more peak-Transcendents emerged from the spatial rift which by now was even bigger. Together they marched right up to the barrier, weapons raised.

Hopefully Fenton could speed it up. Or else Orodan was going to have to blow his cover.

Three Transcendent-level attacks struck the barrier, and Orodan’s eyes glowed the barest hint of white as he poured in more energy than the battery could handle.

The barrier held, but the same couldn’t be said for the battery.

“Bloody hell… how did the barrier take that? I must be dreaming!”

“The battery! It’s cracked!”

“Where are the reinforcements?! They were popping in and suddenly stopped coming? What’s going on?”

The man was correct to be suspicious about that. After all, as Orodan and Enias had agreed…

…the checkpoint’s spatial relay had its teleportation function shut down, right in-sync with a powerful remote assault by the Eldritch spatiomancers on the other side of the rift. All part of the feint to make them think that they’d managed to do it, when really, it was all part of the plan.

And it was a good thing too that Fenton was now beginning to finish up and one of the pillars was beginning to rise, hoisted to an upright position by the two free steam knights whose role was being covered by the singular upgraded one.

Orodan was atop a hill, and Fenton looked to him and their eyes met.

The lad nodded.

It was time.

The checkpoint’s spatial relay suddenly failed. And at the same time, the next triple strike from the enemy’s Transcendents caused the barrier to shatter. Everything went wrong at once…

…or so it seemed.

Only now was the large metallic pad beneath one of the pillars of purification visible to the naked eye. Heavily enchanted for one purpose… kinetic force.

“For Lonvoron!” Fenton yelled, throwing his entire mana pool into the enchantment as the pillar went flying right towards the spatial rift like a bullet.

But of course, complications occurred at the last moment. A peak-Transcendent was no slow buffoon prone to surprise, even the weakest Transcendent was a legend of their world with equally impressive abilities of their own.

The Eldritch knight’s shield flared with power, causing the pillar to suddenly stop mid-air and begin falling to the ground.

“Damn! I hadn’t accounted for that!” Fenton yelled, face pale.

That was fine. His student had indeed done as asked and held out until the enemy Transcendents arrived. And not just one either, but three total.

Now, it was his turn to act.

Just as the Prophet was the shadowy figure behind the Eldritch, acting at key opportunities but remaining hidden otherwise…

…so too would Orodan now be the hidden dagger the foul servants of the plague never saw coming.

“Fenton, I need a distraction. Make sure nobody sees me,” Orodan said.

Using Incipience of Infinity upon this many people would not only cause his shield of Fate Disconnect to break and the tapestry of fate to violently rock, but it would also draw the Prophet and previous looper’s attentions.

Yet, Orodan had faith in Fenton. Trust which wasn’t unwarranted as the lad produced a large spherical device. It looked like a grenade but was the size of high-calibre cannonball.

Placed into the hands of a steam knight, it was thrown into the air, where a deafening and blinding burst of brilliant white light disoriented almost everyone on the battlefield.

Orodan though, didn’t need his eyes to see.

And as the falling pillar of purification, a device the size of a giant castle tower, was caught in his outstretched hand, he used a relevant skill to send it towards the spatial rift.

After all… was this giant pillar not just a giant halberd ready to be thrown?

[Halberd Throw 51 → Halberd Throw 53]

The Eldritch knight’s eyes widened. Its shield was desperately raised but it was utterly pointless. Not only was Orodan’s target the spatial rift, but he made certain to aim his throw so that it specifically hit the enemy knight first on its way to the rift.

Orodan’s Halberd Throw was at the Adept-level, his Physical Fitness approaching Grandmastery, and his Body Tempering Elite. He was no scholar who sequestered himself in a tower and theorized strategies for the time loops. He was a warrior whose entire life was forged with hard work, sweat and violence. Orodan wasn’t at the Embodiment-level yet, but the Warrior aside, few existences in the cosmos were his equal in raw physicality.

His raw strength synergized with martial technique was utterly overwhelming.

The Transcendent Eldritch knight’s shield was raised, but it was entirely useless. The pillar struck with force enough to utterly eradicate planets. The knight and the two peak-Transcendents beside it were vaporized, and the pillar carried on barely slowed as it entered the spatial rift leading to the core of the enemy plague world.

A second passed…

…and a shriek of terrifying proportions erupted. The very ground was blown apart and the swarms of Eldritch near the portal were partially vaporized by the volume of the roar.

Abruptly, the portal closed.

Just in time for the blinding flash of light and sound from Fenton’s excessively large flashbang to also clear.

“What the hell happened? Anyone have eyes on the situation?” the checkpoint commander ordering the formation called out. “Who the hell threw that giant flashbang?!”

“Sir… the rift…”

“What about it?” the commander asked, still rubbing his eyes to recover his sight. “Has it expanded further?!”

“N-no sir… it’s… it’s gone.”

The man stopped rubbing his eyes and walked forward, trying to get a better look despite the blurry vision. And then his eyes widened as he confirmed the sight.

Slowly, the mutters began, and everyone looked towards Fenton Penny, shock and awe evident in their eyes.

“…young master.”

“Penny? Never heard the name… a noble house from the islands?”

“So young too… is that what talent looks like?”

A horn rang out across the battlefield as the commander made a singular declaration.

“Soldiers of Lonvoron! The spatial rift has been closed!”

Cheers and cries of victory took over the air. And interestingly enough, the army began chanting Fenton’s name too, something which caused the lad to shrink in on himself out of embarrassment.

Orodan walked up and clapped the lad on the back.

“By the hells that was some excellent work!” he praised.

