“We’re alive Mister Orodan! Well… we probably would’ve died without you hurlin’ that pillar, but we did it!” Fenton exclaimed, pepping up at the sight of him. “It feels wrong for you to go unrecognized ser, but I suppose I can understand why you don’t want that.”

“I’ve gone long enough having people clamor over me. Sometimes with negative consequences too,” Orodan admitted, thinking of the long loop where the entire galaxy knew he was the time looper. “I think it’s your time to take the stage. Given the way the commander’s approaching you, you might well be made nobility on the spot.”

“I don’t want to be a noble…”

“Hah! Neither did I lad! In that regard, you and I are the same,” Orodan said with a laugh. “And I think… that pillar of yours was a bit more successful than either of us would’ve thought.”

“What do you mean ser? Wait… the plague! It’s…”

Fenton needn’t have voiced his thoughts, for it was apparent to see what was occurring. Every soldier on the battlefield saw clearly enough as the remaining Eldritch, cut off from the rift, slowly began to have the plague fade from their bodies.

They might not have known why, but Orodan did.

After all, he’d cleansed plague worlds before and knew what happened to the subservient underlings when an infected world core was purged.

#

“They’re really putting you to work aren’t they?”

“I consider this to be free training. Not often I’ll get the chance to smith for an entire army. What else is there to do when they’ve insisted we remain locked up in this tent?”

“And surrounded by three regiments of soldiers,” Fenton called out from across the tent, silently meditating. “Makes you wonder whether they’re keepin’ us safe… or keeping us in.”

“Bit jaded for a young man your age aren’t you?” Clyburn asked.

“I was the same in my youth. That he can see such things simply means he has a good head on his shoulders,” Orodan remarked, touching up the latest rifle in the stack. And then hurling a pebble at Fenton’s head which the boy dodged. “I thought you were supposed to be meditating. Shall I take your idle chatter as proof that you’ve mastered the intricacies of the soul?”

Fenton sighed but returned to his quiet meditations. Orodan could tell the lad found the deep introspections the soul arts called for to be excessively boring. Orodan too found such things dull, in fact, his ‘education’ in the ways of the soul had mostly occurred through the rigors of combat and desperation.

Once Fenton achieved basic awareness of his own soul, the real training would start.

Orodan’s hand clanged down upon hot metal, knocking it into shape.

[Gunsmithing 25 → Gunsmithing 26]

He wasn’t particularly good at Gunsmithing, but the existing understanding he had of Blacksmithing certainly helped. And while he enjoyed the trade, the real motivator was his increasing understanding of Engineering and Artificing which in turn would help with the rebuilding of the ancient machine down the line. In any case, it was a good opportunity for some training.

What had occurred after the military realized that Fenton’s pillar had entirely purged a plague world? They’d been - very politely - locked down in a tent with a strict guard surrounding it at all times. The whispers and conversations Orodan heard outside were already referring to Fenton as the young purger of the plague, and speaking of the boy as a hero.

Which he certainly was, but fame could also come with some negative consequences. Chiefly the increase in people keeping tabs on you. Orodan’s keen hearing had picked out all the conversations at the checkpoint. The military was doubtlessly pleased that they’d uncovered a talent like Fenton, and they were also happy that a war-changing device such as the pillars of purification had been invented. Chiefly though, the command staff’s greatest concern was the possibility of Eldritch retaliation via assassins or underhanded attempts at harming Fenton.

And while the Collective would have sent more forces to their location, they were tied up with other matters. An excuse which seemed nonsensical on the surface, except that these other matters involved the emergence of two new spatial rifts in the hot zone.

Yes, the purification of a plague world had sent the Eldritch into a frenzy. It seemed they were on the warpath in their attempts to snuff out the device and Fenton Penny. In fact, from what Orodan had heard, two more war hosts of Eldritch had tried marching for their checkpoint, yet in both cases the Collective’s main army near the center of the hot zone had managed to intercept them, albeit at great cost of life.

Lonvoron had already been under siege by three entire plague worlds before Orodan’s arrival. Even if the deployment of a pillar had eliminated one, the introduction of two more plague worlds to the equation doubtlessly made things dire. Or, it would have…

…if Orodan hadn’t purged the entire divine dimension of Eldritch near the start of this long loop when he was upon Alastaia.

The whispers he’d heard around the checkpoint seemed to indicate as much. A little over three months ago, before Orodan’s arrival, the forces of Lonvoron suddenly began having a far easier time in battle. Eldritch often had Blessings empowering them from their fell Gods, yet even Orodan had noticed none of those during his encounters against the enemy thus far.

It seemed that his feat at the start of the loop had some serious negative consequences for the overall battle power of the plague.

In any case, Orodan too had been noticed as the talented metallurgy specialist and assistant to Fenton. Thankfully, the ability to deflect all the credit towards his student had saved Orodan’s cover. He hadn’t drawn his sword and shield at any point, nor was he seen destroying Eldritch in combat. As a result, nobody really questioned him nor did they think him anything but an eccentric mage blacksmith from the bog islands. Essential in aiding Fenton at certain critical junctures, but nothing more.

It had been less than an hour since the battle ended. Yet even then the checkpoint was now heavily defended, with Collective troops from all across Lonvoron arriving to lend their strength. And from the looks of what Vision of Purity told him, the command staff had finished their briefing and had received new orders, approaching their tent to speak with their party.

“High-ranking military general approaching,” Orodan said, giving Fenton and Clyburn a heads-up.

The entryway to their tent parted and a grim-faced man whose uniform looked quite unkempt entered. He was flanked by two Transcendents. One, a gunslinger, a woman he’d fought before during his first loop upon Lonvoron. The other, an old woman, not triggering Orodan’s senses as being much of a combatant… in relation to him anyways.

“Clyburn Anderthorn. I recall an anxious young engineer desperately repairing steam knights in the midst of battle alongside me decades ago. A pleasant surprise to see you here,” the ragged-looking man said.

“Admiral Goodwin…? To come down personally…” Clyburn muttered.

“Nonsense. I’d heard you had become the chief engineer of the Ironhaven Engineer’s Guild eleven years ago, but to then hear you were participating in this research project ordered by the crown? I had to come see it for myself,” the man said. “More importantly… is this young lad here your protege?”

“Possibly the most talented enchanter I’ve ever seen Admiral. Might I introduce young Fenton Penny?” Clyburn said, pointing to the boy.

“Penny? I see… of humble birth then?” the Admiral asked, a smile on his face. “Ever has the Collective’s greatest strength come from those who have the lowest of upbringings, isn’t that right Lawson?”

“There’s a certain hardiness to lads who come from the islands I’ll admit,” the Transcendent gunslinger said, and then frowned as she realized the flask in her hands was empty. “Bugger… don’t suppose you have any good drinks in this dungheap?”

“We’ll have plenty of rum and drinks to go around when we return to the ship!” the man exclaimed and then turned to Fenton, mock whispering. “Don’t mind her, she has a drinking problem…”

“I’m right here. And it’s not a drinking problem when I’m your best shot and only function better with a drink in hand. Who else would guard your life otherwise?” she rebuked. The woman looked at the gun hanging off Fenton’s waist assessingly. “Decent-make, bit much kick for your hands though. Know how to use that thing boy?”

“I’ve shot a thing or two,” Fenton replied.

“Heh, we’ll have to test that sometime,” the woman said. “Now then, did we come here to have a tea party Goodwin? Tell the boy what you’re here for.”

“Right, how rude of me… I’m Admiral Quinton Goodwin. My alcoholic friend here is Madam Lawson and my other associate is Duchess Elmira Treadway,” the man introduced and then extended a hand towards Fenton. “And you, my boy, are the reason we’re here. What you’ve done, the Collective owes you a great debt for. You and Sir Clyburn both, but from what he’s told us… the pillar you made wouldn’t have come to fruition without your hand.”

“I couldn’t have done it meself ser, Misters Clyburn and Orodan helped me a lot,” Fenton said, shaking the man’s hand.

“Ah right, you must be the young lad’s assistant. Lord Weller and his space mages spoke highly of your Metallurgy skill,” the Admiral said. Metallurgy skill? Perhaps that was what the people here used instead of Blacksmithing? “You have our gratitude for aiding young Fenton here and will be more than appropriately compensated. Orodan was it? An odd name, are you an islander?”

“He’s from the bog islands,” Fenton said, covering for him. “Had to get good at workin’ metal with his hands instead of with machines.”

“Truly? I can quite respect anyone who forgoes the modern comforts and conveniences we take for granted. Why, I and a colleague were just theorizing the other day that doing things in a base manner might lead to exceptional skills,” the Admiral remarked. “Instead of a steam forge what if we used a hammer like the olden days?”

“There’s a certain tranquility and sense of… quality, that a steam forge just can’t provide,” Orodan replied. “Better to pound the metal yourself than rely on a machine for it.”

“Haha! I like it! Given the size of those arms you certainly must have-”

“Your fate is obscured. Why?”

The conversation went silent as the Transcendent Treadway’s question cut into the air. She was intently staring at Orodan.

“My business is my own,” Orodan replied.

“Admiral, having this man around poses a security risk. We know not who he is, especially with Eldritch spies running around as of late,” the fate reader warned. “He has a strange shield blocking his fate which I’ve never seen before. The aurameter can’t get a sense of his level of strength either.”

The Admiral looked back and forth between her and Orodan, finally shaking his head.

“Elmira… his fate is no business of ours,” the man said. “What matters is that an entire plague world has been cleansed. The pressure upon a number of our border worlds has dramatically lessened, with them even taking territories back as a result. In light of that, would you really want to dig into the man’s affairs when he’s aided us so greatly against our common foe?”

“Uppity Treadways I swear…” Madam Lawson muttered. “Always on a quest to see all the criminal and ‘unknown’ elements of the Collective brought to heel. Surprised you can even talk with how far down your throat you have the King’s boot.”

“You dare-”

“Shut it!” the Admiral roared, silencing them both. “Lawson, we’re all loyal servants of the crown now, no matter our past affiliations. Treadway, mind your business and leave Fenton’s assistant alone. And if I have to hear the two of you bicker about this fight one more time, I’m going to tear my non-existent hairs out! Now then, I’ll keep this short. Fenton Penny, Clyburn Anderthorn… the both of you are hereby anointed as royal advisors.”

“R-royal… advisor?” Clyburn muttered.

“I’d personally consider it a great burden, to be saddled with even more work. But in short, you have full dispensation to use the Crown’s authority to aid in your work,” Admiral Goodwin said. “Whatever resources you need, troops, materials, workers, knowledge, the entirety of the Blackworth Collective will do its best to provide. In turn, his Majesty King Alstatyn von Flemethy has ordered the creation of as many of these pillars of purification as you can provide.”

Fenton though, looked dazed.

“Me? A royal advisor?”

“A glorified position which bestows the honor of more work upon you,” Madam Lawson said. “I’m one too, it’s not worth the ball and chain they have wrapped around your ankles.”

“Don’t discourage the boy…” the weary Admiral muttered in resignation at his subordinate’s candid words. “I will not lie, yes, it will be a lot of work. But what those pillars have done does not lie. If just one is capable of purging an entire plague world… then what can be done with more? We might finally be capable of beating back the plague and ending all these years of war. I’m certain Clyburn will accept… but will you join us in protecting our world, Fenton Penny?”

They needn’t have even asked. Orodan already knew what his student’s decision was going to be.

“I do.”

