A Grandmaster-level infected tree, the apparent leader of the horde, wasn’t happy at one of its underlings being slain so instantly. It roared in rage and directed more forces towards the barrier. Two more infected trees were now menacingly striding forwards, looking to reach the battle lines and cross the barrier in the next ten minutes. Furthermore, the soldiers defending the checkpoint were still locked in a struggle, desperately unloading as much firepower as they could to prevent the foe reaching them in melee.

Still, it wasn’t an entirely lost situation. A steam mage and her two supporting pairs of water and fire mages came to the fore, and a nearby ranging patrol of three steam knights and carriers had also returned to the checkpoint to reinforce the defenders. It was just a bit more assistance, but if Fenton played his cards right, the lad could hold this spot until further reinforcements arrived.

“Bloody hell… there’s just too many Mister Orodan! They got two more of those foul trees comin’ up too! We should really focus on activatin’ the pillars ser!”

Orodan looked at the young man. In him, there was potential. It simply needed to be developed.

But for that, hardship and adversity were required. After all, the test of fire and brimstone was what forged the strongest steel.

“I think Fenton… that you’re more than capable of turning this fight around conventionally. Until a Transcendent shows up, I hereby bar you from using the pillars,” Orodan ordered.

“…what?!”

Both Clyburn and Fenton looked utterly aghast at the demand. They had mostly gotten used to Orodan’s madness, but this was a step too far for even them.

“T-that’s… insane! Treatin’ a real battle like it’s a training excercise will get us all killed ser!” Fenton protested. “We can’t face that many, that’s the forces of a whole plague world! It’s impossible!”

“Impossibility is a concept embraced by realists and those who’ve given up. Tell me, Fenton Penny… have you given up?” Orodan asked. “The plague will eventually consume all of Lonvoron. It’s defeat should by all accounts also be impossible. Do you accept this loss? Will you be a realist?”

“I… no… I won’t,” Fenton said. “But there’s just so many of them!”

“A warrior should not lose hope even at the sight of impossible odds. Tell me Fenton, how long did it take you to enchant that cannonball?”

“A few seconds… why ser?”

“If you alone will not suffice, then have you considered helping those around you?” he asked. “Perhaps your enchanting speed and innovation can reverse the situation yet.”

Fenton’s eyes narrowed, determination blazing in them as the lad took the situation in.

“Steam knights… guns… sharpshooters,” Fenton muttered. “You’re right Mister Orodan, maybe this can work after all. But I’ll need your help ser, as a craftsman I mean.”

“By all means, lead the way. This will be good training for me too.”

Orodan had to admit, he was in fact somewhat mad. But that didn’t mean there wasn’t a method to his madness. For starters, he’d been closely watching the movements of the Eldritch for a while now. They were sending out cheap, expendable fodder in the form of infected animals, hordes of chaff and a scant few Master-level trees which were more suited for infection than direct combat.

The plague worlds assailing Lonvoron had decent frontline troops, Grandmaster specialists, mages and Transcendent-level generals of the invasion. Yet neither of these had made any appearance so far.

The likely answer was that they were smart enough to fear Fenton’s device. They might not have known the full extent of what it could do, but they were wisely wary all the same. The spatial rift too, was in a state of partial opening. The swarms coming through were certainly in the thousands, but not the world-threatening hordes of tens of thousands that he knew these plague worlds could actually spew out.

The pillars of purification could stop the current assault, but not much more than that, not if the plague worlds shut the rifts down upon seeing how effective they were. The pillars were quite potent, but not anywhere near Orodan’s own Celestial skill which could purge the entirety of the Eldritch in the divine dimension instantly at full power. It would take time for them to work.

The enemy’s spatial rift needed to open a bit further. They needed to feel comfortable with the idea of committing to a greater assault.

If the enemy saw Fenton and Clyburn rushing to immediately activate the device, they would doubtlessly become wary. But what if the battle drew on for a while as they made no move to activate it?

Perhaps there was a way, and Orodan eyed the Collective’s overworked spatiomancers inquisitively as the beginnings of a plan started to brew.

Orodan followed Fenton as he rushed over to the ranks of massed line infantry who were desperately firing volley after volley into the ranks of the advancing Eldritch. Yet the lad’s target wasn’t the average soldier… but the sharpshooters in the back.

“It’s the young master! He’s come to help us!”

“Your rifle, can I see it?” Fenton asked.

The woman handed it over a bit hesitantly, and frowned as Fenton handed it to Orodan.

“Can you make it a bit tougher at these joints ser? Here, here and…”

He got to work right away.

Fenton’s demands were rather stringent, and Orodan found his Blacksmithing and Engineering pressed in a way they had never been before. Orodan had studied how the guns, vehicle and steam engineering of the Blackworth Collective worked, but performing modifications under a harsh time limit was a different matter entirely. Under the duress of battle, with time on the line, he was forced to work quickly, and this naturally led to gains.

Using Blacksmithing to strengthen an already enchanted weapon was difficult. Orodan had to be careful in order to ensure the original inscriptions were preserved. Certainly not something that could be done in seconds.

“Fenton, with enchantments on this I might need a little more time to-”

His student’s hand waved over the rifle, cancelling all the enchantments upon it.

Never mind. No need to work around enchantments if they were no longer there.

Orodan swiftly got to work heating the rifle up and arranging the particles into optimal position. His mind strained, he focused hard; it was as though he was fitting an hour of high-quality work into a meagre time frame. Even with reaction times and hand speed which were superior to just about anything else on Lonvoron, it took him almost ten seconds of real time. Still too long in his opinion, but it was as rushed of a job as he could achieve without sacrificing quality.

The forced urgency of the task came with its benefits though.

[Blacksmithing 70 → Blacksmithing 71]

As soon as the rifle was ready, with another pass-over, Fenton re-applied enchantments of his own. Orodan stared on in wonder as fine and intricate threads of mana were inscribed upon the weapon. Each thread could’ve been an excellent enchantment of its own, but Fenton then went and combined all of these into an overarching inscription which made Orodan’s head spin at its compexity.

The rifle was then practically thrown into the sharpshooter’s hands.

She gave it a test shot, half her mana pool emptying in an instant. But in turn…

…an Eldritch-infected bear, Master-level, died instantly.

“By the Gods…!”

Previously, even a full volley from the entire infatry formation couldn’t kill one instantly. And now just a single shot from a sharpshooter’s rifle could? A game changer.

“No time to talk! You! Give me yours!” Fenton shouted.

The soldier hastily complied, seeing the obvious results, and Orodan then knew what his role in this was.

His left hand began glowing with a Draconic Fireball and his cells strained to fit as much thought, skill and motion into each instant he had. The metal of the rifle was melted down and reforged anew, far stronger. And Fenton then swiftly laid enchantments upon it once again before throwing it back.

With just two newly equipped sharpshooters, the situation dramatically eased up. With these crack shots taking down Master-level plague forms, the regular line infantry volleys now solely focused on the approaching chaff. The approaching tide actually began to be pushed back, and soon enough the group of Eldritch on the defenders’ side of the barrier were almost entirely eliminated.

The checkpoint commander’s eyes widened as he took in what was occurring, and to his credit the man was adaptable and knew what to do.

“Runners! Fetch the entire store of recovery elixir! Keep our sharpshooters topped up! Barrier corps! Open the barrier and send in another wave! We’re killing them too quick and the troops are getting bored!”

The soldiers raucously laughed and cheered in response, their spirits high. The team of overworked mages maintaining the beleaguered barrier were also in high spirits. Letting the barrier up early meant that the energy reserves wouldn’t be drained as fast, and they would have a further break!

Fenton could do this, Orodan knew it.

Enchanting was good for the individual fighter, yes, but for an army? It was a force multiplier. Especially when paired with a cosmically talented enchanter like Fenton Penny. The original Fenton Penny didn’t have the physical conditioning, expanded mana pool and theoretical instruction necessary to truly tap into his talent. Most importantly, the boy must not have had the motivation.

But here and now, in this loop, Orodan was determined to ensure that the lad’s talent wasn’t wasted. Adeltaj, Arvayne, Destartes… they were Orodan’s teachers. They had drawn the potential out of him, they had believed in him and had never believed he couldn’t do something.

This was simply him paying that favor forward and doing the same for another.

“Quick Mister Orodan! Let’s fix up the guns of the other three marksmen!”

Orodan gladly followed, gaining one more level in Blacksmithing at the rapid work as they finished up working on the rifles of every sharpshooter in the company.

Next, Fenton’s eyes were drawn to the trio of steam knights which were firing upon the ranks of the approaching plague.

“Think you want them reforged too?” Orodan asked.

“Maybe after the battle ser, for now I think I can handle those meself,” Fenton replied.

“Alright, you do that. I need to have a word with the spatiomancers,” Orodan informed, and at the lad’s curious look then elaborated. “Activating the device now would stop the current assault, but look at the rift, it’s tightly controlled and can be easily closed. The enemy will simply cut the connection if we activate the two devices right this instant.”

Fenton’s eyes widened.

“If we keep holdin’ out, they might get mad enough to open it further and send someone important out… wait, is that why you’re approachin’ the spatiomancers?” Fenton asked.

“Aye, leave that part to me,” Orodan said. “Just focus on holding out and keeping the battle lines secure. You’re on the right track Fenton.”

Orodan could have easily done it himself, but overpowering an enemy plague world’s power output would blow his cover. It was necessary to coordinate with the spatiomancers so he could deflect the credit towards them.

The checkpoint’s fortification wasn’t overly large, but it certainly was busy. There were a handful of guards nervously keeping watch even as they looked upon the arrayed ranks of the Collective outside and anxiously tracked the state of the battle. Runners, young boys sprinting to ferry supplies back and forth, were madly scrambling to do their part.

And inside the fortification was a command room, inside of which were six spatiomancers. Their faces were utterly haggard, skin pale as the mental exhaustion was taking its toll upon them. Immediately, Orodan saw why.

Not only were these stalwart mages preventing the spatial rift from moving past the barrier, but they were also blocking the utter storm of Eldritch spatiomancers on the other side of the spatial rift who were attempting to teleport plague forms into or behind the Collective’s battle formation. Of course, six spatiomancers alone couldn’t do such a job, and Orodan saw a relay which connected this checkpoint to other ones on the perimeter of the hot zone and all across Lonvoron. There were even relays connecting to the capital of Storven and the main war camp of the Collective in the center of the hot zone.

The spatiomancers from these other locations were also helping remotely from a great distance. However the main problem was that these six spatiomancers, due to being right here at the site of the battle, bore the greatest share of the burden. The relays through which allied spatiomancers across Lonvoron were aiding these six were under constant assault by probing strikes of the Eldritch’s own spatiomancers.

As the main army fought the plague outside conventionally, these brave and resilient men and women fought their own shadow war here. A battle within a battle, one which Orodan wasn’t about to allow the enemy to win.

The lead spatiomancer, a man with features so delicate Orodan initially thought him a woman, glared at him.

“This area is off-limits, who are you?” the mage demanded, casting a series of spells into a device meant for long range amplification of one’s magic.

“Someone here to help. I can see you lot are rather beleaguered, let me relieve some of that burden,” Orodan said. “The main problem is the constant assault upon your relay, yes? If that’s cut off this entire checkpoint falls as the six of you are no match for an entire plague world’s worth of infected spatiomancers. I can see it’s not in good condition either…”

