“Who is this man? The Eldritch have been sneaking spies into places lately, he might be one-”

“Enough. If he was a spy or assassin we would have been attacked by now. Nothing of value is held here and we have little else to lose besides our lives and souls. I shall be glad of any help at such a grim juncture where we are on the precipice of failure already. I am Enias Weller,” the lead spatiomancer introduced. “Your words are true stranger. The plague’s commanders know that this relay is all that keeps us from falling. Before even the rift opened, we were the first ones to know, and two of my colleagues suffered grievous mental backlash in their noble effort to prevent the spatial rift opening on this side of the barrier. The plague targeted us first, and they nearly took out the relay too. Not only did they damage its teleportation function, preventing the quick arrival of reinforcements, but their spatiomancers are also waiting like lurking predators, ready to interfere with any attempts by our forces outside the battlefield to teleport in to aid us.”

“Then what if I fixed the relay?” Orodan asked, looking at the device. It was made decently enough, but Orodan could do better. “And some of the pressure was taken off your mages?”

“That… would certainly be appreciated ser, but how can you do this? We’re perhaps five minutes away from another of our number collapsing from mental strain, and then we’ll certainly lose the spatiomancy battle we’ve been engaged in,” Enias said. “Utter doom awaits us then.”

“Leave it to me. The wood and metal this relay’s made of are rather shoddy…”

Orodan got to work.

A Candleflame heated the metallic part of the device, while Wood Communion spoke to the wooden bits. The enchantments were mainly upon the metal parts, and this was where Orodan had to tread carefully. Earlier, Fenton had helped him duck the problem of working on metal which had existing enchantments upon it.

Now though, Orodan would have to confront the matter. As Candleflame heated the metal, he kept a close eye on the inscriptions upon it. Reforging an enchanted item while maintaining the inscription was difficult and sensitive work, not something he could rush like he had with the rifles of the sharpshooters.

Over the course of a minute, Orodan had to carefully melt and rearrange the metal particles, section-by-section, while ensuring the enchantments remained unaffected. Temperature hot enough to melt industrial-grade steel was also hot enough to affect the structure of an enchantment and its mana pathways. As a result, Orodan found himself frequently utilizing not just his Blacksmithing, but also his Mana Manipulation skill to keep the pathways unaffected.

And during that time, he also found that whatever the enemy spatiomancers did during their initial spatial battle had also caused some slight damage to the enchantment itself. Not a good sign, for Orodan was no Fenton Penny who could alter enchantments on the fly and determine the best way to fix them.

A minute had passed, and he was finally done the metallic part of the relay.

[Mana Manipulation 62 → Mana Manipulation 63]

[Teaching 75 → Teaching 76]

On the bright side, the skill gain in Teaching came from Fenton’s work on the steam knights. He must’ve successfully used a concept Orodan had taught him. The battle outside appeared to be going quite well as the lad had just finished enchanting the steam knights who were now acting as a door-stopping front line for the line infantry firing from behind them.

While steam knights could certainly function in that role even before Fenton’s do-over, in a desperate battle of attrition where the enemy’s forces were virtually limitless, preserving them was far more important. Now though, their armor was tough, and capable of taking more of a beating against the lesser plague forms.

His student’s success was well and good, but Orodan still had some more work before him.

Wood Communion went out and began speaking to the wood composing the relay.

The older the wood, the harder it was to mold and manipulate using Wood Communion, and the wood for this spatial relay was definitely made of aged and sturdy stuff. But, before his iron will it bent as easily as grass in a storm.

[Wood Communion 67 → Wood Communion 68]

Under his guidance and mentoring, the wood grains tightened themselves. Becoming sturdy and capable of holding parts of the enchantment better. Yet, Orodan still felt it wasn’t enough.

Yes, he’d fixed the physical make-up, but the enchantment was still damaged. At most, Orodan’s improvements guaranteed that such a surprise assault couldn’t damage the enchantments again, but it didn’t solve the currently damaged inscriptions.

Touching up the resilience of the wood had taken him another minute, and the weakest of the spatiomancers was looking exceedingly exhausted, as though she would drop at any moment. Orodan could fix the enchantment, but it would take time, longer than the gravely exhausted woman had.

Chronomancy and his Blessing were out of the picture lest he bring upon himself the previous looper or even the Prophet’s notice. The timeline was doubtlessly being monitored.

He was wracking his head, trying to find a solution when Fenton barged in.

“There you are! Mister Orodan the steam knights need-”

“I’m on it. Let’s swap places,” he replied, dragging the lad over to the relay. “Fix the enchantment on this.”

He swiftly strode out to see that the fury of the enemy’s assault had exponentially increased. The spatial rift leading to the plague world had also stabilized, expanding in size. A greater number of enemies, and more powerful plague forms were now coming through.

It seemed the Eldritch were indeed biting down on the feint. Of course, this came at the expense of drastically increased pressure on the troops.

“We can’t stop an entire plague world! Where are the reinforcements?! Where’s the King?!”

“Grandmaster hog! I repeat, Grandmaster hog! Unload everything on it before it gains speed!”

Not just Masters, but now a weak Grandmaster-level boar had made its way past the barrier. It was currently being suppressed with copious amounts of fire, but even the sharpshooters were having a hard time outright killing it for it had a regenerative skill. Grandmaster-level creatures, particularly those specializing in melee combat, were terrifying fast too. If the gunfire upon it let up for even a moment, the odds of it reaching the formation quicker than any of the soldiers could react was high.

If Fenton hadn’t given the sharpshooters an upgrade prior to its appearance, the entire battle line would be shattered by now.

Of course, the gunfire being diverted towards the pig meant that the Master-level creatures were now free to charge. The steam knights stoppering the advance were sturdy, but under the assault of not just chaff but Master-level plague forms, were beginning to take a serious pounding.

Orodan walked up to the commander of the checkpoint.

“Get me as many steel plates as you have and order the steam knight on the left to be brought back here,” Orodan said, and then looked to Clyburn. “Leave the firing of that cannon to one of the soldiers. I’ll need your expertise if we’re to get this done quick.”

Clyburn understood the urgency of the situation and dutifully rushed over, and as he did the commander barked orders.

“Runners! As many steel plates as we have! Engineers! Call Model 784 back here now!”

As the steam knight began returning, the pressure on the remaining two golems significantly increased. Time was limited and Orodan had to work fast, but that was fine since he had Clyburn next to him.

The returning steam knight had a decent amount of Eldritch matter all over its form, and Orodan hit it with an encompassing but low-power Draconic Fireball to burn it off lest any of the nearby soldiers be infected.

“Mister Wainwright, will you be reforging the knight?” Clyburn asked.

“Aye, but I’ll need your help with the Engineering. I’d normally do it myself, but when on such a strict time limit I’m not sure I’d prove equal to the task,” Orodan replied, immediately melting the steam knight’s plates down one by one, careful to leave Fenton’s expert enchanting untouched. “Hmm… smart lad, he made these enchantments with some leeway in case I reforged the knight. Good foresight. Made them heat-resistant too, so I won’t have to worry overly much about damaging the enchantment.”

“Since you’re melting the pieces down… I’ve always wanted to try a modification or two,” Clyburn said with an excited smile.

Orodan melted the plates down as per Clyburn Anderthorn’s specifications, drilling additional holes for reinforcing screws and sprockets in certain places. Yet, he didn’t follow only the engineer’s directions, instead adding some twists and flairs of his own. He was an expert at melee combat, who better to modify the armor of a golem meant for close combat than Orodan? Angles here, slopes there, deceptive structuring at certain points… all of his knowledge of what made something deadly in melee was poured into the steam knight. The steel plates the runners brought him were used to forge additional components which Clyburn began assembling into a weapon.

Orodan gained a level each in Engineering and Artificing. It was the fastest session of rushed construction and smithing that he had ever engaged in, yet even then it took a full two minutes of work. But the results were worth it as the soldiers looked upon the hulking metal golem incredulously. It certainly wasn’t the standard steam knight they were used to.

Just in time too, as Fenton came rushing out the fortification.

“Relay’s ready ser! The mages don’t look too good…” Fenton muttered, trailing off as he laid eyes upon the refurbished steam knight. “Bugger… what’s this?”

“Something which can turn the tide of this battle,” Orodan answered. “With your enchantments, Clyburn’s tinkering and my metalwork, this should be quite the sight. Order this out and send the other two knights inside the fortification. And Fenton…”

“Yes ser?”

“Be ready to activate the pillar soon.”

With those final words Orodan once more entered the command room where the spatiomancers were furiously at work. They looked exhausted to their cores, but the pressure had alleviated a bit now that the relay was fixed.

And not just fixed, but vastly improved. To the point that with Orodan’s sturdy construction and Fenton’s expert enchanting, the mages didn’t even need to defend it from the remote spatiomancy attacks of the Eldritch.

“Stranger! The young master you serve came by and fixed the relay!” Enias Weller exclaimed. “But we’re still facing a desperate battle here. At most, we’ve acquired a few minutes of time.”

“A few minutes will be enough,” Orodan said. “Let’s see what I can do…”

Vision of Purity told him that there was some alchemical equipment and materials in a nearby shelf. Orodan grabbed it off the wall alongside ingredients he felt were suitable for what he was trying to accomplish. The mages’ exhaustion was natural, but it wasn’t a problem the wizards and spellcasters of his world faced.

Mainly because Alastaia was a world where martial might and sorcery developed in tandem. On Lonvoron though, it was a surprise to learn that their understanding of the body’s physical limits was far less developed than that of his world. Understandable, given that people here used guns, machines and magic for combat… but shocking all the same that his vastly underdeveloped world knew the simple alchemical solution to the sort of mental strain these mages were undergoing.

A basic stamina potion.

He swiftly prepared the ingredients, finely chopping the herbs, perfectly crushing the mushrooms into a granular mixture, and then mixing them into a juice which was ready to be empowered.

And with a subtle gesture from his hand, Orodan’s mana shot forth and enveloped the mixture, even as he kept careful control to ensure it didn’t take on any unwanted changes.

[Alchemy 72 → Alchemy 73]

Enias Weller looked at the concoction process with surprise, and a glint of suspicion in his eyes.

Immediately, Orodan cupped some into a ladle and marched towards the lead spatiomancer.

“What’s this? Hey w-”

The ladle’s contents were forced down Enias’s throat, causing him to cough.

“Assassin! I was right!”

“No you idiot! Why would he march over just to force a ladle of potion down his throat?”

Enias though, opened his eyes. They were clear, no longer bloodshot, and a certain vigor seemed to have filled the man.

“By the crown… what is this feeling? It’s as though I could wrestle a tree! Everyone! Drink this immediately!”

One by one, the spatiomancers in the command room chugged the stamina potion and experienced an immediate improvement to their condition. Even the two who were out of commission recovered enough that they could slowly begin helping again.

“Strange ser… I know not who you are, but you have our gratitude. We are, all of us, replenished in mind and spirit thanks to you,” the lead spatiomancer said.

“Replenished in body you mean,” Orodan clarified. “Your mana pools were fine, you’ve certainly been drinking enough of that recovery elixir for it. But people forget that just as a traveller’s legs may become weary from walking all day, so too may a mage’s brain become exhausted from focusing too hard or for too long.”

