“Just a bit of elbow grease and fighting spirit Admiral, we’ll not let it be said that the men of the islands are lazy nitwits,” Clyburn added.

The Admiral however looked at both Clyburn and Fenton assessingly, and the man seemed to realize that those two weren’t where the answer lay. His eyes instead turned to Orodan, and a look of suspicion and interest was apparent in his scrutinizing gaze.

“Hmm… interesting assistants you keep, Clyburn,” the man remarked.

“He was lent to me by Lady Luetta Treadway anyhow. I can’t claim the credit for his hiring.”

“I’ll have to speak with her sometime. Truly, the strangest people come out of the bog islands it seems,” the man said. “Now then, despite the absurdity of it we have five pillars of purification in this tent alongside the one remaining in reserve. This is good news, but as of a few minutes ago, two more spatial rifts have opened in the hot zone and the King’s army risks being overwhelmed. We now have six plague worlds assailing Lonvoron. And while the rapid gains we’ve made on other fronts as a result are doubtlessly excellent, it will matter little if the prime world of the Collective falls today. We move immediately, I’ll give the soldiers orders to promptly transport the pillars.”

“Very well, our supplies are packed and ready to go,” Clyburn said.

Battle awaited.

#

The reinforcing army headed to the center of the hot zone numbered twelve-thousand. It wasn’t a lot of troops, and supposedly there had been some concerning developments regarding the Eldritch elsewhere that needed the diversion of the Collective’s forces. Still, twelve-thousand would have to do. The pillars of purification and their creators were of course the core of this formation, closely guarded, with soldiers, war machines and lookouts on close watch to prevent any sneaky attempts at assassination or sabotage by the Eldritch.

And predictably, they faced heavy assault upon their approach.

“Horde! Twenty-thousand strong!” a Transcendent-level scout called out. “Thirty miles out!”

Orodan had seen this old woman before. She was the lookout he’d managed to sneak past at Castle Ironpeak. Perhaps her job performance back then had seen her sent here? Or more realistically, the situation was dire enough for her to be recalled for frontline duty.

“Ready arms! Take positions and secure lines of fire!” the formation’s general called out.

Admiral Goodwin was of course, an admiral. And while that was a high-ranking position, the ground forces wouldn’t be under his direct command. Instead, the voidcraft battling in the skies against Eldritch aerial forces were the man’s purview.

Thankfully for Lonvoron, Orodan had heard that the Collective always had air superiority over the plague. But they were still too busy ensuring aerial plague forms weren’t slipping out the hot zone to provide any bombardments. On the ground, the battle would be fought alone.

Furthermore, this was a proper army of the Eldritch, with infected warriors, mages, war beasts and commanders in force. Relying on cheap tactics wouldn’t work. The enemy was determined to make them fight hard for every life they reaped.

The first of the plague to be seen were chaff, as expected. And they swarmed right towards the army, being scythed down by a hail of gunfire. These were mere expendable meatshields however, and their deaths not at all costly to the Eldritch. The heavier plague forms designed to take a beating though, were far tougher.

Particularly when they weren’t just animals but sapient beings under the corruption.

“Plague shieldwall approaching!”

Artillery bombardments hit them, but the skill levels of the infected warriors must have been decent, for while the shieldwall wobbled, it didn’t break. The enemy was almost conjoined, each one a Grandmaster. Eldritch energy flowed from one to the other, and each of their shields rippled with power, the combined formation granting each corruped shield-bearer more toughness than they would have had individually.

Long hours spent drilling the movements, a warrior’s shield covering the body of the one next to them. It was a formation Orodan was very familiar with.

Of course, the Collective’s forces weren’t stupid. Swift steam carriers, light vehicles with decent speed, were sent out with grenadiers and rifle-wielding troops atop them. They tried swerving about the sides to flank and deal damage, but it was to no use as the square was well-fortified on every side and the shields of the Eldritch warriors were strong.

Furthermore, deadly and fast moving plague forms forced the carrier to immediately pull back lest they be caught in their flanking efforts. And while they didn’t number many, the Eldritch still had ranged troops such as archers and javelineers who could take vehicles down.

The steady advance of the shieldwall seemed unstoppable. Ordinarily, great swathes of artillery and brute force would be required to crack it, and certain front line troops would have to be sacrificed as the horde reached them in melee and an orderly fall back while firing was performed.

Orodan didn’t think that necessary. Guns and artillery had their place, but when fighting an enemy shield wall…

…who better to counter a shield user than another shield-wielding warrior?

Orodan’s experienced eye assessed each of the warriors composing the shieldwall. The formation was good, and the ability of each corrupted warrior to maintain it was decent… but sometimes, individual skill mattered. And who else could identify the problems with their form better than he?

Immediately he identied four infected warriors with shoddy form. One in particular, who Orodan eyed predatorily, was using the shield as a wall meant to withstand punishment rather than as a flexible extension of the self. Stiff and poor at adapting to the flow of battle.

He walked up behind the Transcendent sharpshooter.

“See the one with three sickening growths on his forehead?” Orodan asked, and the woman frowned but nodded. “Aim for his shield sister’s neck, the one to his left. Then fine another shot at his knee.”

“Worth a try I suppose,” the woman replied, aiming her rifle.

Orodan then spoke to a sergeant of the Collective directing the cannons of their war machines.

“Soon as her two shots release, open fire on the enemy shield-bearer to her target’s right.”

The sergeant seemed confused, but was willing to give it a try.

A loud boom roared out as the Transcendent sharpshooter’s rifle lanced out with power. Predictably, the target’s shield stopped his shield-sister from getting killed. The follow-up shot aimed for his knee was also caught by his shield, but done in a clumsy manner.

This had left him open, an opening the Eldritch warrior to his right covered…

…leaving that one quite miserably overexposed.

“Fire!”

The high-explosive shell hit the exposed warrior square in the chest, spreading sticky flame among the shieldwall. Eldritch warriors hissed and shrieked in pain as they were burnt alive. And the shieldwall immediately had gaping holes in it as the enemy tried to desperately reform it.

“Shoot them down! Don’t let them reform!”

Under a hail of gunfire and artillery, the plagueform shieldwall was eviscerated in seconds. Each infected warrior standing little chance against the barrage by themselves as the chain of bodies along which Eldritch energy flowed was broken.

[Teaching 76 → Teaching 77]

“It worked! Who was it that- hey where’d he go?”

The Transcendent sharpshooter looked around frantically, but Orodan had already returned to Fenton’s side at the core of the formation.

Now he could perhaps feel a little less bad about her reassignment to the front lines.

“Damn… cracked that shieldwall right quick ser,” Fenton remarked.

“Being a mindless Eldritch minion doesn’t lend well to higher thought and fine skill.”

Frankly, the professional armies of the Republic and Novarria were a lot better at forming shieldwalls than the ill-refined turtle shell he’d helped crack.

With the backbone of the Eldritch frontline eliminated, the remainder of their advance wasn’t difficult to deal with. War beasts charged forth but were shot down via focus fire without the threat of the shieldwall reaching them, and the fast movers were eviscerated by a hail of Fenton’s new shrapnel shot.

And for once, Orodan saw something he didn’t see all too often.

The sight of an Eldritch retreating.

A guttural growl erupted from the lips of one of the commanders, a Transcendent-level infected tree. And the plague forms charging the army turned tail and began falling back from whence they came. The tree alone would have been a solid challenge for their force of twelve-thousand to face alongside the rest, but it began falling back before they could do so.

“Victory! We’ve sent them running!”

Orodan didn’t think so. Rather, he felt the Eldritch were playing it smart, regrouping and waiting to attack in further force with sufficient numbers.

The general of the reinforcing army also seemed to think so, and the man ordered double guard around the pillars, with the Transcendent sharpshooter being relegated to guarding them rather than scouting.

Both he and the man were soon proven right.

Fifteen minutes into their continued march, swift aerial plague forms and all manner of assassins attempted getting at Fenton and the pillars. Thankfully the soldiers of the Collective were prepared and the enemies shot down as quickly as they were detected. Roguish creatures under the effects of invisibility magic, burrowing monsters killed by the mages and even a Transcendent-level Eldritch archer attempting to snipe Fenton from a great distance. Orodan had to subtly draw the formation’s attention to it by flicking a pebble its way.

The confusion on its face as something fast and unseen smashed into its forehead was priceless. The guns had dealt with it soon after.

They faced numerous more probing attacks as their march continued, but no real organized assault.

That was, until they were thirty minutes away from linking up with the main army.

“Spatial distortions detected! The rifts are expanding in size!”

“Got a horde coming out the rifts! I see the main army’s engaged in battle already! Things don’t look too good!” a scout shouted out.

“Get me a numerical estimate on the swarm, soldier!” the general barked.

“Fifty-thousand…”

“We can take ‘em!”

“Wait… there’s more coming. H-hundred thousand…”

The soldiers now went quieter.

“We might have to link up with the main army then, move to join the King!”

“Sir… they’re still coming… two-hundred-thousand! No, wait… three-hundred-thousand!”

The counting was unnecessary after a certain point, for even as a million total plague forms poured through, the tide showed no signs of stopping.

“How is Lonvoron meant to fight this tide?” the general muttered to himself. “I never knew they had such numbers…”

If anything, this was the fault of Orodan and Fenton. The pillars had forced the Eldritch’s hand. Previously, perhaps the Prophet and the Eldritch under its command were content to play the long game, to bide their time and wait. But with such a device being deployed they had advanced things to a breackneck pace.

“Fenton… get to activating the pillars,” Orodan said. “And give me some of those flashbangs, will you?”

He would’ve loved to fight them all, but that would certainly have drawn the eye of whoever was watching. And given the multiple Transcendent-level Eldritch coming out of the rifts, there was no fighting that swarm conventionally with the forces they had arrayed here.

The best Orodan could hope to do was buy some time. And perhaps preserve his anonymity a bit longer. Though with recent events, that was looking more and more unlikely.

He really wasn’t cut out for these clandestine activities.

“Bloody hell! They’re ignoring the King’s army and coming right for us! Defensive formation! Fenton Penny, we need that device activated now!” the general of the army ordered.

Fenton and the steam knights assigned to labor immediately began hoisting the pillar up. But before they could, pandemonium began.

“Spatial br-”

The Eldritch weren’t stupid. Space ripped apart ino a passage as the spatiomancers were overwhelmed by three Transcendent-level enemy space mages. Spindly things… the infected spiders which came out the rift were the same species as Alagameth, the spatial spider he’d fought in the void.

Yet, what cut them and the Collective’s space mages off were the multiple flashbang grenades Orodan threw all around, blinding everyone nearby.

The spatial spiders weren’t inept. Transcendent-level space mages were powerhouses with deft skill, and they could function just fine while physically blinded.

Of course, the blinding wasn’t meant for them, but the other witnesses. Orodan didn’t need anyone seeing what he was about to do.

Before the light and sound from the flashbangs could even clear, Orodan slew the first two enemy space mages with a punch each. His combat speed being far higher. He had grown strong, and Transcendents were now like wheat before a scythe against him.

The third was quick, having some sort of automated and instinctual spatial evasion skill. It dodged Orodan’s fatal blow…

[Spatial Shift 25 → Spatial Shift 27]

