“There’s too many! Send out the emergency alarm right away! We need more forces deployed at sector alpha-eight! Stat!”

“By the Gods… it’s an infected tree! Fire! By the love of all you hold dear, fire!”

“We need actual bloody fire! Where are the flame cannons?! Where are the pyromancers and steam mages?!”

“We’re doomed! Barrier breach imminent!”

“Opening barrier for a quarter-second to relieve the pressure! Ready arms! Artillery on mark!”

It was chaos Orodan had returned to.

A house-sized Eldritch bear, Master-level, charged towards the ranks of the checkpoint, only to receive a high-calibre shot from the cannon of a heavy carrier, eviscerating its skull and ending its life. Two more of these bears followed; they too were peppered by the volley fire of the line infantry and their rifles, but it just wasn’t enough.

They shrugged off the low-calibre hail of bullets and were close to reaching melee distance and wreaking havoc among the Collective’s massed ranks. Even setting the risk of infection aside, ranks of bayonets wielded by soldiers who barely trained in melee were a poor matchup against creatures who honed their close-combat capabilities all their lives.

Immediately, Orodan withdrew two pebbles from his dimensional ring and sent them through the heads of the bears. They dropped dead on the spot, causing the soldiers to look around in confusion for a brief moment before the next pressing threat drew their attention.

The spatial barrier surrounding the hot zone was flickering, not all of it, but the section they were in, certainly. The reason being the hordes of thousands of Eldritch monstrosities pressing against it. The barrier had some sort of elemental deterrent; fire and lightning punished the first few hundred Eldritch lifeforms attempting to get through.

But it had its limits. The smaller lifeforms were burned and electrified to death, but larger ones kept pressing through, crushing the bodies of the front ranks into a paste against the energy barrier. Their combined weight was akin to a horrifying tidal storm of flesh, a monstrous wave of unending proportions.

Under such pressure, the energy source powering the barrier was swiftly draining and it was at risk of breaking. To prevent outright failure the enchanters and spatiomancers in charge periodically shut it down for a quarter of a second every few minutes to allow the flood through that the soldiers might deal with them. A desperate attempt at creating sustainability in an unsustainable situation.

But where did this all come from?

The gigantic spatial rift right in front of the barrier was the answer. Leading directly to the heart of one of the plague worlds coordinating the siege of Lonvoron. An entire plague world launching the bulk of its forces right here at this random checkpoint.

Orodan doubted it was as random as it seemed.

“This can’t be a random attack. They must know about the pillars,” Zaessythra suggested.

“It has to be planned… a rift here will undo their progress elsewhere. Why pay such a price unless it’s to inflict damage in turn? Someone on the Eldritch side must have seen what the devices are potentially capable of.”

The infected inquisitor at Castle Ironpeak had known about Lord Morvale’s project even before seeing it. Naturally, the hive minds commanding the plague forms had to know that the Collective was trying to make devices capable of purging or draining the Eldritch. The plague worlds themselves suspecting the devices were a threat wasn’t the issue. What really worried Orodan was the possibility of the Prophet itself descending.

From his first loop upon Lonvoron, Orodan knew that the Prophet was after the Reject’s Administrator Mantle. Its presence and command over the Eldritch invasion of the Blackworth Collective wasn’t random. Furthermore, he knew that too much interference from the Prophet would naturally cause the Warrior to descend. Thus, in a sense, his enemy’s unwillingness to tip their hand too early was what kept things steady for now.

And while Orodan couldn’t care less about his own death, he did care about Fenton’s. One of the first few people to bear that mad zealot’s wrath would be his student, especially if it came to light how talented the boy was. And he wasn’t strong enough to keep the lad safe yet, not from a foe of the Prophet’s calibre. He had grown strong, but not yet enough that he could match an Administrator.

He sensed Fenton was further in, fighting but not yet pressed into a desperate corner. Orodan thus set off to reunite with him.

Even the path to his student was fraught with peril as the checkpoint was a battlefield. For the immediate moment the soldiers were managing to fend the plague forms off and prevent them reaching melee distance, but it was a near thing and who knew how long it would last?

An Eldritch-infected snake the size of a tree shot forward, trying to chomp down on him, only for Orodan to halt its charge with a single hand. A casual hurl sent it flying into a horde of lesser Eldritch lifeforms, relieving much of the pressure on the beleaguered defenders for a moment. He had moved quickly enough that none had witnessed his feat.

Fenton was putting up a fierce fight by the time Orodan got there. All manner of enchanted items and trinkets were out in force.

Barriers prevented the Eldritch from nearing him, enchanted devices spewed ice to immobilize the foe and slow their advance, while others belched fire and lightning to reap their lives. Everything the lad had in store had been brought out. Even the soldiers surrounding his student had realized just how important Fenton was to their survival and had consequently formed a battle group around him, acting as bodyguards and preventing lesser Eldritch lifeforms from sneaking up on him. Naturally, this relieved the pressure on Fenton and let him fight more freely.

“Protect the young master! Rally! Rally and defend our world!”

“Gods save us! That tree’s approaching! We need flames! It’s weak against fire!”

The plague forms charging the defenders had sacs of weird growths protruding from their flesh. Every time they died, these sacs would explode, spreading infectious Eldritch energies into the air. The enemy had yet to reach the battle line in melee, so it wasn’t a problem just yet, but the moment they did… mass corruption would occur.

And the creator of these sacs was now marching towards them, wondering why a particular section of the battlefront was doing so poorly no doubt.

Long ago, when Orodan Wainwright had faced the Eldritch for the very first time in his life, he had lost and been under their influence for an entire year. When he’d come to, all of the northern continent, seas included, were covered in sickening Eldritch matter. And gigantic trees pierced the clouds, spewing Eldritch energies into the air.

This tree, approaching most slowly but furiously, was the same, if a smaller version of it not yet at maturity. Like some twisted mockery of bipedal creatures, it walked upon its roots, the ground shaking as its giant form lumbered forth. Its bark was disgusting, purple-gray with the same fleshy growths and sickness he associated with the Eldritch. And most disturbingly for the soldiers present, were the faces trapped upon the surface of its skin; their fallen kin, the casualties the Collective had suffered in prior battles.

Its presence and appearance were a shock to the troops’ morale.

Orodan clapped Fenton on the shoulder as he came up from behind.

“I see you’ve gotten started on having fun without me.”

“Who- M-mister Orodan! Ser things ain’t goin’ too well!”

“I beg to differ. I see a young man standing most heroically against the plague,” Orodan praised. “Think you can kill that thing?”

“If it was just me and it, maybe. But with me havin’ to help the soldiers? Not a chance. I’m stretched thin ser, only chance we have is if we get the pillar up and activate it,” Fenton said.

Clyburn, who was tinkering with the cannon of the heavy carrier they were on, spoke up.

“What he means to say is, we’re doomed without your help Mister Wainwright. Might we trouble you to save the day once more?”

“I could… but where’s the fun in that? This is a good opportunity for training,” Orodan said. “How about this Fenton. I keep the soldiers from coming to harm, and you focus on doing what you need in order to resolve this mess. I’m confident you can get rid of the infected without me.”

“What?! But that’s-”

“Unfair? Harsh? The Eldritch is all of those things. If you’re going to be accompanying Clyburn and I into the hot zone, then this is a good warm-up,” Orodan explained. “I might not be around for every battle of yours. Learning to independently solve problems can only be a good thing.”

He would ensure no harm came to anyone, but without some pressure and live battlefield exposure to the plague, how would Fenton learn? Orodan wouldn’t always be around to protect the lad.

Orodan himself withdrew pebbles from his dimensional ring and began getting to work.

The lesser plague forms at the Elite-level and below weren’t a problem, the amassed volley fire, artillery and grenades of the soldiers handled those well enough. It was the Master-level infected animals which were the true problem; capable of soaking up fire and reaching the battle lines in melee, they could cause a chain of mass infection if not dealt with.

His thrown rocks shot out, slaying priority plague forms in singular hits. The rocks were flicked so fast that they were indistinguishable from bullets anyhow. The question of who’d done the killing would remain unsolved.

“Mister Wainwright I must protest that this is a most reckless course of action you’re taking!” Clyburn complained. “While I certainly trust Fenton, putting all our lives in his hands alone makes me feel rather uncomfortable!”

“At ease. I’m not about to allow anyone here to die or face infection. Just don’t let Fenton know that,” Orodan said with a devious smile. “Now what’s this modification you’re attempting on the cannon? Trying to make it fire a stronger shot? The metal won’t hold… let me have a look.”

And as Fenton was put through his paces, so too did Orodan embrace the challenge of speed-smithing under battlefield conditions, all while having to periodically chuck pebbles at any strong Eldritch monsters which got too close to the troops.

[Teaching 74 → Teaching 75]

Given some breathing room, Fenton began showing his worth. Immediately, a third of Fenton’s mana pool drained as a powerful enchanted ring on the boy’s finger was activated. A blazing torrent of fire, in tandem with a flammable tar-like substance spewed out.

A terrible shriek went out across the battlefield, causing the soldiers to cover their ears and some to go down. The slow moving infected tree, a frontline commander of the Eldritch, was lit on fire and began madly thrashing in an attempt to get the flames off.

Of course, the attempts to shuck it off only succeeded in causing the sticky and flammable substance to spread to other parts of its corrupted form; its thrashing had the consequence of killing nearby plague forms too. The Master-level bears were greater threats in direct combat. The tree was a Master-level creature, not specialized for combat, but infection and growth which allowed it to eventually conquer the landscape.

It might not have been exceptionally fast or strong, but it was resilient. Despite the fiery assault it yet lived, though its infectious nature was now nullified since all the airborne Eldritch energies it had been spewing were burnt down.

“Good work young Fenton! Now come help us with this cannon that we might finish it off!” Clyburn called.

As Fenton rushed towards the heavy carrier, Orodan was in the final leg of swiftly flash-heating the metal and rapidly re-arranging the particulate structure of the cannon’s barrel.

His minds strained, working to bring the barrel’s integrity up to par so that it could survive a shot of dramatically increased power. Blacksmithing under time constraints was far harder than he’d thought, especially when quality also mattered and getting anything wrong meant the entire barrel blowing up.

[Blacksmithing 69 → Blacksmithing 70]

[New Title → Blacksmithing Elite]

Yet it was a trial which came with benefits. As Fenton reached them, success was achieved.

“That was mighty quick of you ser, now let’s see if we can’t enchant the shot a bit…”

Within three seconds, Fenton had the cannonball enchanted for dramatically improved power.

Three seconds… that time was ludicrous! Orodan was used to Fenton working upon the enchantments for the pillars of purification. The enchantments on those devices were intricate and some of the lad’s best work. But he couldn’t recall the last time he’d actually seen the boy do a regular enchantment. Here and now, Orodan had to admit to being impressed.

Perhaps Fenton’s enchanting speed was the key to reversing this situation?

“Cannon loaded! Fire!”

The cannon went off with a deafening roar. Previously, the cannons of the heavy carriers could only wound the Master-level tree. Now though… there was no longer a tree.

“We got it!” Fenton cheered, and the rest of the soldiers also whooped and hollered at the sight of a powerful plague form being brought down.

Of course, the celebration was far too premature.

