Two out of five… with three plague worlds purified overall. Not a bad result in the slightest, but Orodan’s mind could only fixate on how bad the Prophet’s eventual retaliation would be.

Not only was the Administrator no closer to finding the Mantle it had come here for, but it had lost three entire plague worlds in the process and failed to destroy the pillars of purification and their creators. Orodan knew it was one of the more vengeful Administrators… he had to be ready for when that time came. But how? Direct combat against a being capable of shattering galaxies just wasn’t feasible yet.

The Prophet had departed for now, but the promise of its retribution remained. The previous looper too, whose entry he hadn’t even noticed, would also be a problem. How could he find someone whose entrance he couldn’t even detect? A mad idea took hold in his mind, worth a shot, but that could come later.

For now… they had won.

The blue skies above were clear, devoid of any dirty purple haze. The ground had no foul growths upon it, there were no screeching plague forms converging anywhere, no flying monstrosities being engaged by the fleets above… no spatial rifts ripping with fell energies ready to spew forth hordes of mindless horrors.

They had won. Lonvoron had secured victory, their world was free.

And every soldier in the army, infantry, engineer, mage, artillerists all… were staring at the one boy who’d made their victory possible.

Fenton Penny, the young man who had just turned the tide of war.

#

[Vision of Purity 77 → 79]

All of Orodan’s cells begged him to allow them to die. The pain, the mental strain, it was utterly unbelievable. His eyes bled, his cells repeatedly experienced death and rebirth, and the pressure was unending as his mind struggled to account for everything.

But it was good training.

“Ser…! Mister Orodan!” Fenton hissed under his breath. “Yer’ eyes are bleedin’!”

Ah, right. The rest of him was covered by a long and large dark trenchcoat, but the bleeding of his eyes was something he’d forgotten about. A quick flash of his Celestial skill cleansed the bleeding.

“Aye, you need not worry about it. I’m fine,” Orodan replied, his casual tone belying the severe struggle and manganimous effort he was putting in. “Besides, with the young hero of Lonvoron next to me, my struggles are easier to bear.”

“Damn it ser, this ain’t the time for jokes! I don’t want to receive no recognition! I hate dealin’ with crowds of people!”

“Yet you dealt with the hordes of Eldritch just fine,” Orodan retorted. “Just go up there and accept your praise. You already did the real work during the battle, now let the troops cheer for you and get to know their young hero.”

Fenton looked as though he was being sent to his execution, but Orodan bullied him forward with a shove to go accept his lot.

“What a little monster he is…” Clyburn muttered. “I didn’t have too much time to dwell on in the midst of battle, but to see someone his age do the things he’s done with Enchanting… makes me feel as though my whole life has been wasted.”

“I wouldn’t say that. Besides his obvious proclivity for Enchanting he’s smart enough to be a fair hand at Engineering, but he’s not gifted in it like he is with his abiity to weave inscriptions,” Orodan clarified. “The pillars wouldn’t have come to fruition without your knack for Engineering.”

“Heh, I suppose I should remind myself of that more often, thank you Mister Wainwright,” Clyburn said. “Though it bears mentioning that the pillars would have fallen apart within a minute of use without your… exotic talents.”

Clyburn didn’t want to outright say it with others near, but the man meant Orodan’s Blacksmithing of course. It wasn’t that nobody had the Blacksmithing skill here, but that it’s use was seen as a waste of time when more lucrative and in-demand skills were available. With industrial metallurgy and a powerful economy, the common blacksmith faced some stiff competition and had a hard time making a living early on.

And while the early levels didn’t favor them here, these people of the Blackworth Collective hadn’t trained any good blacksmiths who could truly showcase the power of the art in the higher levels. Most people talented with metal went on to work overseeing positions at metal factories, or as gunsmiths, a field which did see high demand.

Orodan’s ability to personally forge each and every bit of metal in the pillars was what allowed them to be so deadly. Even then, he had a long ways to go.

“I still have a lot to learn,” Orodan admitted. “Not just in Blacksmithing, but in many other things.”

“My earlier offer still stands, join my guild. We could use a man such as yourself.”

And Orodan honestly was interested, making a mental note to pursue such a thing after things were wrapped up here.

They were in the Collective’s main war camp at the center of the hot zone. This was where the King’s army held the line against the plague. Though King Alstatyn was nowhere to be seen.

Orodan, Fenton and Clyburn were up on the stage alongside Admiral Quinton Goodwin and the Transcendent gunslinger, Madam Lawson.

As Fenton stepped forward, the atmosphere was drowned in the cheers and cries of support from the soldiers.

“Young purifier!”

“Plague-killer!”

The troops continued cheering until the Admiral was forced to gesture for them to shut up.

“I dare say they’re cheering louder than when the King takes to the field,” the Admiral said. “Hello young Fenton, how’ve you been? I feel like it’s been ages since I last saw you.”

“We spoke earlier today…” Fenton muttered.

The Admiral smiled.

“Indeed, we did, but that was before the battle. Given the recent events which are of significance enough to make a man age a decade, it certainly feels longer. It’s been two hours since the closing of the rifts and I’ve already had to attend over a hundred meetings via communications pendant,” the Admiral said. “How is it that one young man can create this much work for me?”

Madam Lawson’s palm struck her face as she groaned.

“The boy ends the plague’s invasion of our capital world and you’re sitting here complaining?” she asked, baffled. “Hurry up and give him his award before I throttle you.”

“Alright, alright…” the Admiral muttered, the man’s unkempt demeanor and character showing. How such an individual had become the Admiral of the Collective’s void fleets, Orodan didn’t know. But then again, talent came in odd packages. “I’ve always hated these pointless speeches… but if anyone deserves one today, it’s you, young Fenton.”

The Admiral cleared his throat before stepping up and activating a voice amplifier.

“Soldiers of the Blackworth Collective, to the brave men and women who’ve laid it all on the line for the sake of your world, I salute you!” the Admiral declared, to the raucous sound of cheers and cries of joy. “For too long have we fought against the wretched plague as it has taken from us our loved ones, our homes and our peace! But today, as the largest hordes of the plague we’ve ever seen charged towards us… Lonvoron and the Collective displayed their valor once more!”

As he said this, the Transcendent gunslinger urged Fenton forward.

“Ever has the Blackworth Collective served the King and been a staunch example for the rest of the galaxy on how to fight the Eldritch. But today our humble world has produced a genius worthy of making the rest of our galaxy quake! A humble young man integral in holding the enemy plague forms back during a most critical part of the battle. Proof that anyone may rise from quiet beginnings to better our nation,” the Admiral said. “Soldiers! I present to you, Fenton Penny!”

Fenton had a voice amplifying device shoved in front of his mouth, and the Admiral gleefully propped him up.

“Thank you… Admiral, ser… I was just enchantin’ a thing or two… wasn’t expectin’ it would wipe out the plague to be honest.”

The soldiers laughed and hollered, but none of it was mean-spirited. Instead, the socially awkward display endeared the young man to them even more. In their eyes, Orodan could see that the men and women of the military accepted Fenton in their hearts, claiming ownership of him. His humble origins only made him even more precious to the troops, most of whom were low-born themselves.

If anyone tried attacking his student, Orodan had no doubt that the soldiers would put their lives on the line to defend him.

“But… I also want to thank Misters Orodan and Clyburn! We wouldn’t have been able to make this device without the two o’ them!”

Orodan cursed his kind-hearted student. On one hand, he was quite fond of the good-natured and hard-working lad. On the other, it had now come back to bite him as the plan originally was that Fenton would simply credit Clyburn. Of course, his student had disregarded that and seemed insistent that Orodan get some recognition of his own.

Which… wasn’t ideal. But despite the slight deviation it was still something they had a cover story for.

“Indeed!” the Admiral spoke up. “The pillars of purification which helped change the tide of this war are the brainchild of Sir Clyburn Anderthorn! A man who I personally served alongside many years ago. Though we both had a little less gray upon our heads back then.”

The troops laughed at the joke and Clyburn came up to the podium.

“Soldiers of the Collective! Myself and my humble assistant Mister Wainwright have worked alongside young Fenton to create these pillars. Now, Mister Wainwright doesn’t like speaking much, rather reclusive, just the culture of the bog islands where he hails from. Let me tell you how…”

Thankfully Clyburn was more than happy to cover for him. The man spoke at length of the creation process of the pillars, crediting Orodan for the metalwork, listing Fenton’s achievements and barely mentioning his own Engineering and Artificing work that had gone into them.

The remainder of the speech went smoothly as Clyburn was savvy enough to spare both Fenton and Orodan from having to speak, with all three of them having shiny medals of valor pinned to their coats by the end of the ordeal.

Finally, the three of them were ushered into the main war tent where the Admiral and a number of Transcendent-level commanders were.

Frankly, right from the get-go, Orodan was focused on appearing as inconspicuous as possible around these Transcendents. All of them, the Admiral and his gunslinging aide included, had the familiar influence of the previous looper over their minds and souls. And once inside, his eyes began to bleed just that much more as Vision of Purity was strained further, looking at the increased number of people who had such a spell over them.

[Vision of Purity 79 → Vision of Purity 81]

What he was doing with Vision of Purity was incredibly straining, and most people would’ve considered it the height of folly to even attempt at all, let alone maintain it continuously. Yet the gains were good.

“Your eyes are bleeding Mister Wainwright… are you alright?” the Admiral asked.

“I’m fine. Just a side effect of working too hard on the pillars. It shall pass,” Orodan deflected.

“An odd side effect… first time I’ve ever heard of such a thing,” the man said.

“Mister Wainwright’s bog island upbringing has had him focus on some odd skills not conventionally taught. Needless to say, the results are undeniably effective,” Clyburn once again said, attempting to divert attention. “He has had spells of such a side effect before. It shall pass.”

“If you say so Clyburn,” Admiral Goodwin said, leading them to a separate part of the war tent where he sat down behind a table and bade them take seats. “Now then… watching the lad squirm was funny, but not why you’re actually here.”

“S-so you admit the whole speech was a bloody set up!” Fenton exclaimed, and the Admiral laughed at the boy’s outrage.

“Of course it was! Given the number of meetings your actions have brought upon me, watching you flounder was a pleasure,” the man said with an evil chuckle. “But I’ll try to limit those lest Lawson here puts a bullet in my leg for bullying you too much.”

A glare and snort from the gunslinger was all the Admiral got in turn.

“Anyhow, I can see you wish to speak with us,” Clyburn remarked. “What did you need Admiral?”

“What do I need from you personally? Not much. What does the Collective need from you? Quite a lot,” the man said, throwing a sheaf of papers to him across the table. “I apologize Clyburn… but it seems there’s more work for you yet.”

“T-this is…”

“A grant of royal authority and an ample-sized property in Storven,” the man said. “Your guild’s holdings will be expanding to the capital now. Much work I’m afraid.”

“Stop presenting it like some burden,” the gunslinger to the Admiral’s side said. “It’s supposed to be a reward.”

“Ah, right, is that what they call a reward nowadays? I’d have preferred a vacation trip to the Archipelagos and some fine tropical drinks in my hand myself…” Admiral Goodwin muttered. “Now I can understand if you want to refuse-”

“No! Not at all. I accept, we accept,” Clyburn immediately answered. “This… is a crown-ordered uplift of the Ironhaven Engineer’s Guild to royal status… does that mean we’ve won the competition?”

The shoddy dressed man looked at Clyburn incredulously before opening a flap in the tent meant to be a window.

