Looking at the numbers almost makes me want to laugh. I earned more experience trading with Grey earlier than I did killing those goblins, and we didn't even finalize the deal yet.

No, stop thinking about deals with Mr. Grey, I shake my head back and forth.

I refocus on my status page. Gourmet went up five levels after the fantastic dinner we had.

Damn it, as soon as I think about dinner; my mind goes back to what Grey said! If I keep ignoring it, I won't get any sleep,

I wonder if I'm as important as he said? I don't think of myself as someone with a big head, but I can’t ignore everything he told me. According to him, my life in the village will eventually get hectic, and even if my family moves away, the same thing will only happen again as I continue to level my skills.

Short of me turning into a hermit, I have to accept that Mr. Grey said about me was true.

I suddenly wish I was back home to ask mother and father for their advice and maybe a hug. It seems like every day now; things are moving faster and faster.

Tomorrow morning, I need to meet with Grey once more and immediately set out afterwards for home. If I make it back in time, I’ll have about a week to forge the arrow.

Winter should be ending soon, and the snow will start to melt in another two weeks. Brother and Sandra will be coming home, and who knows if the local lord will be sending troops to clear out the forest.

To think it was only about six months ago, the goblin hoard was spotted in the forest.

This pace feels normal to me now. Defending the village, improving and forging large amounts of goods, now tomorrow I’ll be running a delivery with a timer over my head.

…

And I’ve never gained as much experience as I have in the last few months.

If I’m being honest with myself, I like the way things have been going. Every day is a new challenge, and every order from the general is another mountain to climb.

In the last six months, I've fought incredible beasts and forged my best works ever, and with the materials tomorrow, I'll try to forge an arrow that someone over level 100 will use.

And if Mr. Grey is telling the truth, I'm getting the materials for a steal. I came to this city nervous about meeting the man, and my fears were well-founded. Lennard Grey is calculative, shady, and, worst of all, well informed. That said, the man answered questions that were heavily weighing on my mind. He treated our dinner like an interview, and if I weren't experienced with the process from my past life, I wouldn't have noticed it.

He asked questions to judge my character and work ethic, all while up selling his company. I'll take everything he said with a grain of salt, but I don't think he lied to me once the whole night.

Let’s see if I have the same opinion of him after we haggle prices tomorrow.

I pull the sheets up and close my eyes and enter my soul space. I need to rest, but I'm too excited about tomorrow. Thank the gods I can calm myself in my soul while my body relaxes.

Lennard Grey’s Point of View:

“Was everything Four told us about her true?” Giovanni’s voice comes through my communication device.

"Everything and then some. She puts every fifteen-year-old girl I've met in my life to shame." I laugh in my quiet office. Max stands perfectly still in his corner, listening through the wall, making sure no one is eavesdropping. Once Aaliyah starts turning out unique goods, I'll be able to afford to enchant my office like Giovanni has.

“Fifteen!” Giovanni’s surprised voice brings a bigger smile to my face.

“Hasn’t even attended her first Solstice party yet,” I tell him. I’m sure he can tell I’m smiling at the absurdity of it all.

“How did your meeting go?” He tries to steer the conversation, hoping to hide how shocked he is.

"It was challenging, to say the least," I complain. "Even with a room full of precious materials to look over, she never let her guard down around me. I had to change tactics for our dinner, which proved much more fruitful. She's driven, and most importantly, not filled with leveling bloodlust. If we send people to interact with her, I doubt she'd kill them even if they offended her."

“That’s good to hear. What about her skills, could you figure anything out?”

“She has skills that let her see the detailed intricacy of mana inside objects. I think that’s why our magic items didn’t work against her and the reason she’s able to teach herself enchanting.” I tell him my theory, making sure he knows I’m doing my job.

"That's crazy, how many mages in the kingdom do you think have that kind of skill in seeing mana!? If you're right, we severely underestimated her magic potential. Did she ask you for anything? If we can find a way to make her feel like she's in our debt, the better our position will be.”

“She did ask for one thing,” I can’t help but tease.

“Whatever it is, do it, no matter how difficult it might be!”

“She wants instructions to make engraving ink.” The line goes quiet. I wait for Giovanni to pick his jaw off the floor.

“That’s the only thing she asked for?” Giovanni hopefully asks.

“That and a mana shielding magic tool I already promised her,” I inform him. “She did say she only needed an outline of the process and not an enchanter’s private recipe. I warned her I couldn’t make any promises and told her it would take a while.”

“Tell her the information will be ready in a week. Kervin can deliver it when he goes to pick up the arrow.”

“Is that even possible?” I ask

"I'll have to call in multiple favors, and even then, I might need to use unconventional channels, but it will be worth it. Enchanters hold a monopoly on their goods. If Aaliyah can copy runes straight from the magic tools as we believe, then we can have her replicate the items at a fraction of the cost!” Giovanni exceedingly shouts through our magic tools.

“She can’t engrave yet,” I hear Marshall remind Giovanni on the other end of the line.

Giovanni coughs, collecting himself. “Did you ask her about her ties to the Panetta family?”

“I couldn’t find a good time to ask her, without risking the goodwill I was earning. I’ll make sure to ask tomorrow morning when her guard is lowered,” I inform him.

“See that you do. With all the coincidences around Spotted Creek Village, I’m starting to believe the gods are playing tricks with us.”

"You can count on me, boss. I'll get the information we need." I try to sound patriotic towards Giovanni.

"I know you will, and if something should go wrong, you can always send your lead receptionist to handle it." I grit my teeth at his suggestion.

“Do you want to hear the exact details of our dinner?” I asked, clenching my fists.

“No need! I’ll get everything I need from Four. We're done for tonight; contact me when she leaves for her village. Water raven taking off."

“Burning river stopping,” I quickly reply. The magic tool goes dark, and I hope he didn't hear the anger behind my voice.

“I get that man the best intel he has on the girl, and he threatens me! Does he think I’m afraid of that whore at the front desk!?” I slam my fists down onto my desk.

I’ll show him; I just need a little more time.

I’ll help the girl reach new heights and make sure she knows it’s me who’s really helping her. Once she grows a little more, I’ll use her as a bargaining chip to get everything I deserve and more.

I started working under his father, and my branch brings in the most income for the company, and my profits have only grown as I help manage the Teeburn deliveries.

I’ve built up everything I need in this backwater city to make my move into greener pastures, and Aaliyah is my ticket to opening the gate.
