“May I get you something to drink?” Our waiter asks everyone at the table.

“Bring us a bottle of dragon blood wine and your freshest juice for the lady.” Mr. Grey orders for the table.

“Right away, Master Grey.” Our waiter gives us a crisp bow and leaves our private room.

“Is this the first restaurant you’ve been to?” Grey asks from across the table.

"The first one ever since I was born," I make sure to phrase it like that in case he has a lie-detecting skill.

“Is there anything you’re curious about?” Grey continues to make small-talk.

"The man brings us drinks and food; then you pay him, it isn't the most complicated profession in the world." I give him a look that says, 'I'm not a child.'

Grey laughs, “That’s what would happen outside; this is a private room. Instead of picking between the daily options, we’ll be trying everything in small courses.” Dang it, I wanted to see the look on his face when I ordered everything on the menu.

A knock comes from the door, and after three seconds, our waiter comes in, expertly balancing a tray with two jugs and seven wine glasses on top of one of his hands. The man dances around our table, gracefully placing a wineglass in front of each of us before he sets the two jugs in the center of our table with lightning-fast movements, all without spilling a drop.

"The dragon blood is in the jug on the right, and we have our house juice blend next to it. Does anyone need anything else?" Our waiter scans each of our faces with a professional smile.

“Everything should be fine. I’d like some privacy until the food is ready.” Grey once again answers for the table.

“Of course, you can signal for me if anything changes.” Our server bows again and quickly retreats from the room.

This restaurant is so fancy. The walls of our room are plastered, and tasteful artwork is hung symmetrically on each wall. Our chairs have cushions that are softer than my bed at home, and the staff all look professional.

Grey reaches for the jug of wine and pours the deep red liquid into his glass before handing it to Max, who's sitting next to him.

I grab the other pitcher and fill my glass; as soon as it's full, I take a sip of the pink juice. An incredible array of blended flavors lights up my taste buds, and I can't help but smile.

"Do you like the juice?" Grey asks me while swirling his beverage in his hand. "Alizo has a room enchanted to help preserve his ingredients. You won’t find fresher juice for at least another two months.”

“I believe you,” I say before taking another drink.

“This place is known for having the best food and wine in Drey,” Grey continues to boast.

"In that case, I should ask for another glass so I can try the wine,” I remark.

“Dragon’s blood wine is meant for high-leveled people and seasoned drinkers. I don’t think you’re old enough to handle such a drink and especially not with you leaving tomorrow.” Grey acts like he’s an uncle admonishing a niece.

"I'll have you know; I'm old enough to…" I stop myself before let my age slip.

Narrowing my eyes, I wag a finger at Grey. “Nice try,” I enunciate each word. I turn my head away from him and change the subject. “How long until dinner arrives?”

Grey sighs in defeat. “You know, you’re not making this easy for me.”

I look back at him with a confused face. “I’ve tried to be nice, yet you haven’t lowered your guard since you entered my office. What am I supposed to tell headquarters after you leave? She's good at examining materials; I'll be laughed at if I can only tell them that."

I'm shocked by his sudden candid nature. Why is he telling me this? I quickly scan the room with Sense Mana to make sure there are no abnormalities, but other than noting the thick walls and magic items on his person, I can't see anything that would explain why Grey would suddenly open up.

"There isn't anything hidden in the room; you can relax. Alizio has earned his clienteles trust; no one will interrupt us until the food is ready.” Grey reassures me after noticing that I’m examining the room.

I look away from Grey and take note that I’m not the only one surprised by his candid attitude. Kervin, Lurte, and Ryiba look just as shocked as I am, and Reel is watching like this is an entertaining play.

I face Grey and try to harden my expression. "And? Do you think it's my problem? We aren't friends; you've been trying to extract information from me ever since you meet me!”

“Yeah,” Grey nods his head like he didn’t just admit to secretly watching me. “I was told you could be quite defensive, but I underestimated your paranoia.”

My jaw drops in disbelief.

"You're leaving tomorrow, and I haven't learned anything of significance. My previous tries proved useless, so I decided to try a different approach. I'm sure you have your own questions, so why don't we make it a game. We take turns asking each other questions, and if we can't answer, we merely need to say pass."

“And you’ll skip any questions that mean anything, making the whole thing pointless,” I challenge back.

"You can ask me the first few questions if you'd like? I’m sure my answers will show my sincerity.” Mr. Grey takes a swig of his wine, looking confident.

Everyone in the room is watching the two of us.

“And you’re fine with Kervin listening in?” I remind him that there are other people in the room besides us.

“That’s a weird first question, but I’ll answer it all the same. Max is my personal bodyguard; I trust him with my life. Kervin is an employee of Silver Herd and has Reel watching his every move; if he starts spilling secrets, he’ll be taken care of along with his bodyguards. That means everything we say in this room will strictly stay between my boss and us; I'd stake my life on it."

I can't believe he just said that! I look over at Kervin to see him and his two bodyguards looking at Reel like he's holding a knife to their throats. He just blatantly stated they're disposable.

"What else?" Grey pulls my attention back to him, uncaring how he just spread turmoil throughout the room.

He was able to answer that question because it didn't pertain to him. Let's see how he answers a question no one would answer. "All right then, what’s your level and stat build?” I give him a smug look.

There’s no way he would…

"I'm level 57, and most of my status points went into Vitality and Mind," He tells me without hesitation. “Something else you’re curious about?” Mr. Grey sips his wine, looking like he hasn’t a care in the world.

I underestimated this man. I was so sure that he wouldn’t give me any useful information.

I bite my lip in frustration. A part of me wants to take Mr. Grey up on his offer, but another part of me is skeptical if I can genuinely trust anything he says.

While I’m debating the merits of continuing Grey’s game, he sits comfortably in his chair, waiting for me to ask another question. I decide the payoff is worth the risk and continue asking him questions. I use my third question to ask something that’s been making me worried for a while now. “How much danger am I in for working with Silver Herd?”

Mr. Grey leans back in his chair and folds his hands in front of him. "That's an excellent question. I could lie and tell you everything will be fine, but I'd doubt you'd believe me. The truth is, right now, you're in little to any real danger. Our competitors are no doubt focusing on the war."

He looks at me with a serious expression. “Of course, that’s only right now; you haven't drawn any eyes to yourself yet. Your blacksmithing talent is incredible, but few around here could see the true value of your work. As you further improve your craft, people will start to take notice, and that’s when things will get complicated.”

“And when they do?” I ask.

“Then things will get more difficult for you," Grey honestly answers me. "It will start small, people coming to meet you, you'll definitely receive offers from influential people, and everyone will try to curry your favor. Depending on how you respond, it will take a while before people start trying to use underhanded techniques. When that happens, it will be our job to help you any way we can. If we’re lucky, it will be another year before people like will start to appear. Until then, I don’t see you suffering any danger from working with us.”

There’s a lot to unpack. He seems confident about his answer, meaning I have one more year to improve myself enough that I won’t be intimidated by whoever comes looking for me.

"I think it's my turn now," Mr. Grey smiles at me. "Unlike you, I feel like starting out simple. My first question is how old are you?"

“You’re asking how old I am?” I repeat in disbelief.

“It’s a valid question. Kervin has continued to remain tight-lipped about your personal details. After how you reacted to the wine issue, it made me curious. How young are you?”

I'm tempted to say 'pass' to see his reaction, but that would ruin the nature of what we have going. "I turned fifteen at the beginning of fall," I tell him.

Mr. Grey, Max, and even Reel look at me in wide-eyed shock. Only Kervin and his bodyguards knew how young I was.

“You just turned fifteen!” Grey shouts in disbelief.

“It’s been five months,” I playfully point out while sipping my juice.

“You haven’t even attended your first summer solstice yet; you're practically still a child."

I can’t help but scowl at Grey’s remark. “Just because I haven’t had a chance to drink with the village for the first time, doesn’t mean I’m a child.”

Only those above the age of fifteen are allowed to attend the summer solstice banquet that takes place at the beginning of the year. The village celebrates making it through winter, and the banquet also functions as a debut for all the people who reached the age of fifteen during the previous year. Even if a family has a birthday party for someone turning fifteen, they aren’t really considered an adult until the summer solstice.

“I’m sorry,” Grey holds up his hands in defense, clearly trying not to laugh at how worked up I am over my age.

“How old are you?!” I ask in my anger.

“I’m seventy-six,” Grey answers. “I believe that it’s my turn again.” He doesn’t give me time to ponder his age. “What made you want to be a blacksmith?”

I'm once again surprised by his question. I thought he would use this chance to ask for more personal information from me. "Why do you want to know that?"

“A lot can be learned from someone based on their career choice. You’re accustomed to bartering, you can hunt magic beasts, and most importantly, you taught yourself magic. It seems you excel at everything you try, so why did you choose blacksmithing?”

I know Grey just asked me a question, but he just said something important that takes precedent. "What do you mean; I taught myself magic? My master…"

“We already know your master can’t use magic,” Mr. Grey cuts me off.

"That," I can't think of anything to say! I know I need to say something to defend Master Del, but Grey's confident expression leaves me with no room for me to refute his claims. I ball my hands into fists to keep myself from shaking.

“Your master’s circumstances don’t concern me; I’d much rather we talk about why you chose to be a blacksmith.” Grey tries to steer me back to his question.

“Not until you tell me what you know about my master.” I lean forward and don’t budge on the issue.

Mr. Grey rubs one of his eyes. “Fine, you can sit back in your chair, I’ll tell you.” He waits for me to settle down before telling me how he has information on Master Del. “Your master did business with the founder of Silver Herd before his company took off. He lost a lot of money, believing a wandering Stone-Kin happened to land in his lap. Unfortunately, your master couldn’t deliver the goods that were expected of him.”

“How do you know it was my master and not another Stone-Kin?” I point out a hole in his logic.

Mr. Grey chuckles at my question. "You've spent your life in a small corner of the world, so it doesn't surprise me you don't know how rare Stone-Kin are in these parts. Sanctioned crafters from the great mountain cities sometimes travel outside their homes, but special guards always escort them. The only Stone -Kin allowed to leave their cities unescorted are those deemed useless or 'Stripped' in their own words. The chances that two such individuals happened to end up near here is close to zero."

“That doesn’t mean…”

“Records at the home office say the Stone-Kin went by the name Del-Razen, does that sound familiar?” I freeze, and my silence tells Grey everything he needs to know.

Does that mean Silver Herd has a grudge with master!? This could be bad; I nervously rub one of my arms.

Seeing my increasing distress, Mr. Grey reassures me that there is no bad blood between his company and master. "That all happened a long time ago, and Silver Herd is more than willing to let the past stay buried on account of our friendship. This was never something you needed to concern yourself with."

I watch Grey take a large swig of his wine. “Let’s get back to our questions, of which I answered quite a few for you. I hope you’ll return the favor. I’d like to hear your answer now.”

“I…” As soon as I start to answer his question, I’m interrupted by knocking coming from our door.

After a few seconds, it opens, and our waiter walks in, balancing a larger tray. “I have the first course for you tonight." Our server approaches the table and notices the strained look on Grey's face. “Is something the matter Mr. Grey?”

“Everything is fine,” Grey says through his teeth, unconvincingly.

