Realizing he came in at an awful moment, our waiter quickly places a small bowl of soup in front of each of us without breaking his courtesy smile. "What you have in front of you is…"

"Excuse me, sir," I catch his attention before he tells us what we're having.

“Yes, miss,” Our waiter asks me in a professional tone despite my interruption.

“Can you tell us what we had after you bring in the next round?”

Mr. Grey and everyone else give me a questioning look, but the server's professional smile softens and is replaced with a genuine smile. "It's been a while since I served someone so young with the Gourmet skill.”

“Do people with the Gourmet skill ask you that often?” I curiously ask.

“Indeed, Miss. It’s common for people with the skill to ask for discretion when it comes to their food. Is there anything else I can help with?” He surveys the table and moves to leave when no one answers. “I hope you enjoy it.” He bows towards my direction before leaving the room once again.

“You have the Gourmet skill; how did that happen?” Grey sends me a questioning glance.

“Which do you want me to answer, how I got my skill, or why I chose blacksmithing?” I playfully grin.

“I think you can answer both after I explained so much about your master.” Grey retorts.

"I got the Gourmet skill after trying to eat a giant spider in the woods, nothing too crazy." Kervin hesitates to lift a spoonful of soup to his mouth.

I ignore the looks directed at me and try my own soup. As the spoon nears my mouth, I notice it smells like a garden in bloom. I take a bite expecting intense flavors, but instead, the soup is an ensemble of many unique mellow flavors that build off one another. This soup is delicious!

The few holdouts at the table try their soup when they see the big grin on my face.

“To answer your other question,” I tell Grey in between bites, “I thought it would be cool to learn blacksmithing.”

“That isn’t what I meant.” Grey gives me a meaningful look. “Most people pick a profession if they have talent in it or they enjoy it over their other options. In your opinion, what put blacksmithing over being a merchant or a mage?" Grey probes for a more profound answer.

I take a few more bites of my soup while thinking about his question. What were the reasons I chose blacksmithing?

When I think I have my answer, I focus back on Mr. Grey. “Before I knew about enchanters, I was told mages usually have to join the army to further their craft. When I was little, I was in a hunting accident with my father, and we encountered a karhu. I ran away as my father instructed but ran right into a small group of goblins. I managed to kill them, of course, but it made me realize I don't want my whole life to be about killing. I have no problem defending my home and family, but I didn't want a profession where I’m forced to seek out people and creatures to kill. It’s more fun for me to create than destroy. Does that better answer your question?”

“You seemed rather eager to fight the goblins we encountered, to me,” Reel utters off to the side.

Grey quirks his eyebrow at me.

“I know Reel makes a good point. As I grew stronger, I realized I want to push myself further. I know I can be a hypocrite sometimes, who isn’t? Those goblins were no real threat to us, and I jumped at the chance to fight them just to relieve my boredom. I never said I was perfect," I explain to the table.

"None of us have the right to criticize you, especially Reel." Mr. Grey sends a knowing look across the table at Reel, who ignores him in favor of his soup. He looks back at me and says, “I believe it’s your turn again.”

I choose to try a broader question, “Can you tell me anything important that I’m missing?”

Mr. Grey chuckles, “That shouldn’t count, but I’ll give you something for trying. The first thing that comes to mind is that you need to hide your mana better. Even if a person can't sense mana, there are tricks out there that tell a person if you're a mage or not based on how much magic is leaking from your body. To the trained eye, you're an uneducated mage with a decent mana pool.”

I drop my spoon in my bowl and immediately activate Sense Mana!

He’s right!

The natural diffusion of mana from my skin is plain for me to see, and I can see the same thing happening to Lurte, Ryiba, and Kervin. I glance around the room and notice that Reel, Grey, and Max are all shielded from my casual scan thanks to their magic tools. Only Reel and Max appear to have a talent in using mana, but Grey’s magic tool obscures the mana leaking from his body. Grey might have an average-sized mana pool compared to an average person, but his magic tool hides what little he has.

“Can you help me get a magic tool like the one you guys use?” I quickly ask Mr. Grey.

Mr. Grey looks at me, surprised, and raises his hand to the top of his chest where his amulet is hidden. "I forgot; I was warned you could see through obscuring magic tools.” He looks like he is pondering my request. “I’ll have a few prepared for you to look at before you leave tomorrow. We’ll add the cost to your tab.”

An awkward silence fills the table for a moment.

“I don’t suppose you’ll tell me how you’re able to see through our magic tools?” Mr. Grey tentatively asks me.

"Will you tell me how Reel can communicate with you?" I retort.

“I guess that means we’ll each skip this round, bringing it back to me.” Grey doesn’t appear to be too affected by me not answering his question. “What are your plans for the future?”

I see he’s taking the same approach I did. “Can you clarify your question for me, please?"

“I want to know what your short- and long-term goals are. Silver Herd can better help you if we know what you’re working towards.”

I haven't really thought about my future goals before now. I've always found a new goal to work towards, but I've never really planned anything out long-term. A few knocks on our door buy me enough time to ponder the question further.

"I brought your next round; how did you enjoy the mage's garden soup?" Our waiter listens to everyone mutter pleasantries as he walks around the table, switching out our soup bowls for plates with meat that looks like ribs on it with a lightly toasted piece of bread next to the meat.

Our server makes sure that I’m the last one to receive the new course. After I have my new plate of food in front of me, he waits nearby, obviously wanting to hear my take on the soup. "The soup was amazing; I’ve never had vegetables so well prepared before.” I give him a warm smile.

“The chef will be pleased,” He gives me a short bow before addressing the table. “Is there anything else I can get for you?”

A chorus of ‘no thank you’s’ ring out across the table before Mr. Grey dismisses him again.

Once the door is shut, I answer the previous question before I try my food. “I guess my short-term goals are to learn enchanting and increase my skills and level before the army or someone else comes looking for me. Long-term is more difficult for me, but I think I want to travel after I know I'm strong enough. You showed me many amazing materials earlier, and I want to see where they came from for myself. I want to forge armor, weapons, and magic tools that are known across the continent.” I surprise not only everyone at the table with my goals but myself as well. It feels like a mental block has been removed after I clearly proclaimed what I want to do with my new life.

“Lofty goals, indeed. I’m sure you’ll be able to do it. Is there anything you wish to ask for, something you’re missing to help with your goals?" The look in Mr. Grey's eyes has slightly changed, like I'm no longer a talented blacksmith but something greater in the making.

There is one thing that would immensely help me. “Can you get me directions on how to make engraving ink?” I try asking him for the one thing that will save me weeks of trial and error.

Mr. Grey rubs his face and sighs deeply. “I thought you would ask for some ore samples or maybe a chance to examine some special magic tools. I didn't think you would ask for something impossible like that. Enchanters keep information like that hidden from their own families; you'd have more luck asking a dragon for its treasure.”

“I don’t need the whole treasure, just a single coin,” I explain to him. “I know I won’t get the private details unless I apprentice under a master enchanter. I’m asking if you can get me the general steps in making engraving ink. Like, crush eathrosse and devil's paste, then add to water. I don't need exact details or secret recipes; I need a starting point before I begin experimenting with the materials I bought.”

“I can’t guarantee anything. I’ll have to contact headquarters and see what we can do, but please don’t get your hopes up. Let’s eat while it’s still hot and continue our questions later.” Grey picks up his bread and takes a bite.

I look down at my food sitting in front of me. I quickly rip off a rib chunk and take a bite. My eyes roll up into my head when I taste the flavor. On the rare occasions mother had made ribs for us; she only used a fraction of the seasoning I taste with these ribs, and the warm pulses of mana I feel coming from my stomach tell me this is magic beast meat.

A bite of the bread, and I can tell it’s like a mix of sourdough and wheat flavors smothered in butter and something close to garlic.

As soon as my budget opens up, I’m having Kervin get his hands on as many seasonings as he can get.

When everyone is almost done with their serving, Mr. Grey continues our conversation. “Has your opinion of us changed at all? I would like to hope the food and conversation have earned me a smidgen of goodwill."

“Before I answer that, can I ask you one last question for the night?”

“Other than that one?” Grey jokes.

I ignore the horrible play at humor. "Why are you and Silver Herd trying so hard? I understand why Kervin wants to work with me, profits, and all that, but sending Reel, this dinner, wanting to know my goals, I'm only one person." I slightly frown.

The delight on Mr. Grey's face fades away, and he gives me a severe look. "You're the only person in this room that doesn't understand how special you are."

I glance around the table and notice everyone is watching me with an expression that matches Grey’s.

“Your age, your level, your amazing talent with everything you do, a person like yourself comes around once every thousand years. You're a higher level than me, and I'm over four times your age. You might be used to your master and parents telling you how talented you are, but that doesn't do you justice. A year from now, maybe two, maybe three or more, people will know your name." The hair on the back of my neck stands up.

“You are the single greatest investment Silver Herd has ever encountered, and you don't even realize it. You may be only one person, but in history, kingdoms have risen and fallen by the hands of one person. My boss sees your talent, I see your talent, and even the great General Emily Pitz is aware of your talent. You said it yourself; you want to forge goods that resonate throughout the kingdom, and Silver Herd wants to be the company that helps you do it." Mr. Grey fills up his glass and downs the entire contents in one big gulp.

“I…” I freeze in my seat, unable to fully comprehend what I was just told.

“I don’t want your answer right now,” Grey tells me from across the table. “You can answer my question tomorrow morning; for now, let’s enjoy the rest of our dinner.”

I lay in bed back at Kervin's house, staring up at the ceiling, stomach so full I don't even want to roll onto my side. The rest of the dinner was terrific despite the atmosphere. We had a pot pie dish after the ribs and cookies dipped in tarick paste for dessert.

Looking for a distraction, I pull up my full status page.

LV: 63 Experience: 430,186/ 514,704

Health: 2,090/2,090

Stamina: 1,243.71/1,403

Mana: 522.93/1,010

Vitality: 209.00

Endurance: 80.15

Strength: 132.00

Dexterity: 125.00

Senses: 60.64

Mind: 62.83

Magic: 101.07

Clarity: 75.79

Status Points: 0

Skills:

Tier 1:

Meditation (LV78), Running (LV73), Blacksmithing (LV67), Axe Skills (LV55), Hammer Skills (LV55), Cleaning (LV51), Mining (LV48), Chanting (LV47), Drawing (LV46), Trading (LV39), Cooking (LV38), Dagger Skills (LV31), Wood Carving (LV31), Acting (LV30), Sword Skills (LV26), Sewing (LV24), Pugilist Skills (LV4), Spear Skills (LV2)

Tier 2:

Sense Mana (LV78), Double Step (LV60), Charm (LV50), Measurement (LV46), Hammer Arts (LV40), Axe Arts (LV36), Writing (LV32), Intimidating Shout (LV31), Mathematics (LV30), Increase Price (LV17), Lower Price (LV17), Dagger Arts (LV12), Sword Arts (LV10), Steady Hands (LV10), Gourmet (LV7), Marching (LV5), Shout of Valor (LV1),

Tier 3:

Expel Mana (LV60), Mana Manipulation (LV54), Precise Strike (LV37), Double Strike (LV35), Weighted Strike (LV26), Flash Step (LV18), Contract (LV2)

Tier 4:

Inject Mana (LV49), Mana Skin (LV49), Mental Resistance (LV47), Extract Mana (LV28), Magic Blacksmithing (LV20), Empowered Spell (LV2)

Tier 5:

Sense Soul (LV33)

Increased Skill Levels

Cleaning (LV51) 2,550exp

Trading (LV39) 1,950

Gourmet (LV3-7) 2,500exp

Mana Manipulation (LV54) 8,100exp

Empowered Spell (LV1-2) 750exp

Skill Experience: 15,850exp

Crafting Experience: 714exp

Fighting Experience: 592exp

Total experience Gained: 17,156exp

It’s only been a few days since I last checked my status page, and I haven't done much since then, but I need something to take my mind off of what Grey said.

