Tala sighed. “The training method sounds solid enough. You have arrived at a wonderful incentive to improve magical retention, as well as provide benefit for everyone, regardless of their capacities.” She then turned to the elf. “I do not like the punishment of broken bones.”

Eskau Meallain shrugged. “They heal before completing a single lap, and I’ve never had to go beyond the breaking of an arm. It is effective, immediate, and notable.” She then locked eyes with Tala, her intensity increasing. “It is possible to achieve results with… softer methods, but they will take longer, and in the end, they will be lesser. Coddling these Talons will not help them be all that they can be.”

Tala sighed. “I see your point, Eskau Meallain.”

Ron’s eyes widened, but Tala held up her hand.

“I won’t let it continue to the point of abuse. That said, the punishment is established. If anyone is consistently having something broken, we can talk about how to provide them with remedial training to bring them up to what is expected of them, or we can discuss stripping them of power. I think most, when faced with that choice, would shape up, but I want that to be a final recourse.”

The two facing Tala nodded, speaking almost in unison. “Understood.”

Eskau Meallain seemed to consider something for a moment. “We could always have that terror bird of yours be on standby? He could chase anyone that he felt wasn’t giving their best effort. From my understanding, he’s already been doing some training with the Talons.”

Ron’s eye twitched at that, but Tala was already shaking her head. “He has, and he will again, but I don’t want your training and his to overlap at the moment. He’ll continue his training of these warriors after you’ve gotten a bit established.”

The elf grunted. “Very well.”

Tala almost left then, but instead, she grimaced. “I will join you in this training as well, at least today. Shall we get to it?”

Eskau Meallain grinned broadly, even as Captain Ron’s eyes widened.

Neither contradicted her though, and so the whole group moved to the large magic deficit room that was prepared for them.

-I will be shunting all power from your gate to other tasks.-

Tala grunted. Thank you, Alat.

As soon as they entered, everyone’s power levels began to sink, some faster than others.

Well, everyone’s began to sink save Eskau Meallain. Hers were utterly rock-stable.

Tala… was the worst by a wide margin.

It took her less than thirty-seconds to bottom out. At that point, she was sucking in gasps of air as her body struggled to operate without power, and she had trouble forcing herself up, to stagger out of the room.

The difficulty was quite odd to her. She’d just been utterly without power after the hammer stroke of Reality drove it all away in the battle which had ended with Eskau Meallain imprisoned. During that time, she hadn’t felt this utterly drained and awful, but she supposed that at the time she’d been filled with adrenaline and need. This was purely voluntary, and that was somehow much worse.

I shouldn’t have sat down… Still, she would do this. Once she was up and out the door, she tried to draw on her gate, but Alat blocked the action. Tala could have overridden the alternate interface, but she inquired instead. What are you doing?

-Forcing you to do the exercise. Draw power from the environment.- To her credit, Alat provided power that Tala could draw, rather than the true ambient power which was useless to her at the moment.

Tala groaned but did as she was told. Her scripts and natural magics soaked up most of what she was able to draw in, her reserves only refilling slowly as she moved as fast as she could in her impaired state.

Thankfully, the very magics that were eating up her attempts to refill also made the sprinting easier, so it wasn’t a total loss.

Even so, she had to do three full laps before she was topped off that first time.

She felt much better by that point, her magics having restored her after the rough start.

Tala entered the deficit room once more, and found most of the Talons still in there, all but a few below half-power, but still holding strong.

She sat down, concentrating on holding onto as much power as she could for as long as she could.

She did better this second time, but better just meant that it was about thirty-five seconds before she had to get up and stagger into a run once more.

It was going to be a long, long day.
