“Is it her?” Oleander asked.

His voice carried no emotion besides boredom and resignation.

“Yes.”

Viv had several shields up before Crest closed his mouth. Something utterly massive punched them, cracking several layers and sending her back with an ‘ouch’ of protest. She saw it as it returned to Nero’s waiting hand: it was his shield. He’d thrown his shield at her, and it had done more damage than all the attacks of the previous battle combined. Her [Always a Chance] triggered immediately, informing her Nero was stronger than her, and not by a little.

Still not enough to crush her though. As Oleander prepared for another attack, Viv realized something important.

He couldn’t fly. Oleander couldn’t reach her. If she could just —

Their attacks triggered at the same time. His shield was, once again, in her face while her nuee blanketed the hills. Oleander drew a white blade and struck. Her spell was torn apart at a conceptual level, but it was enough for her to realize he was concerned about her attacks. She renewed the nuee before adding more attacks — those mostly deflected by Crest. He grabbed the shield again. His aura expanded. It was as if he was calmly removing his cloak before starting for real. Pressure made her flinch. He was…

[Aspect of the Guardian]

The shield impacted her defenses again. Every attack seemed more powerful than the last. This one had almost breached it. Cold fear scratched at her throat. Another and… how was he doing it. Fearful, she looked down.

Nero’s face was a mask of surprise and horror. Celerin’s mouth made an ‘o’ of shock. They almost died to her nuee before some danger sense kicked in. Viv didn’t get what was happening until she spotted the debris at the other Ascender’s feet.

It was a piece of shield. There was another closer to her. Another to their side. White fragments of superheated metal rained down around them. It was, she realized, his shield. The heavily enchanted, almost an artifact shield. The thing that had stopped her spells at the pass battle. It was broken. Shattered. She had no idea what could —

Vandal! Haha. >:D

You should probably run now.

Viv didn’t have to be asked twice.
