As she flew, Viv couldn’t help but check her options for pathing up. Even if she wasn’t going to pick one yet, she could still give it some thought.

Obliteron:

Annihilation, incarnate.

Your understanding of annihilation is pushed to its limits. Your spells reach unparalleled levels of destructiveness. Your ability to cast rituals is vastly improved. Your [Aspect of the Destroyer] becomes static again. Last aspect and max social skills unlocked.

That seemed neat enough, although she wasn’t sure how much more destructive she was supposed to become. There was always a path up option that offered to funnel her into a weapon of mass destruction kind of path. There was a truth that she could solve a lot of her problems by destroying them at the atomic level, but what had stopped her the previous times still applied: she was already destructive enough. Her issue was and had always been versatility. The Obliteron class lacked defenses, something reinforced by the static nature of her offensive aspect. Nevertheless, it was an incredibly potent path and she knew she could make it work.

A whisper of memory touched her mind. The Azure Lady and others had warned her about being caught in a path, becoming a slave to one’s own nature. She wasn’t that comfortable about being focused on annihilating things.

The next path up was almost the opposite.

Heart of Harrak.

Harrak Eternal.

Your leadership skills transcend to proto-divine versions. Every time you don the [Aspect of the Paragon], your followers all gain a portion of your power. [Aspect of the Paragon] gains minor benefits from other aspects. Last aspect and max social skills unlocked.

Viv remembered Sardanal’s cradle and the time Neriad’s essence had infused hers. He had turned a bunch of exhausted templars and militiamen into the deadliest force she’d ever seen or faced… but he was a god. She was not. This was a lesser version of his blessing. She could already see two problems with this path. One, it meant she had to rely on [Aspect of the Paragon] in battle, again reducing her flexibility. It also meant that she wouldn’t get to use the mysterious last aspect she hadn’t unlocked yet. Two, her troops didn’t need to be stronger. They were already plenty strong. What she needed was to keep high elites off their backs like she’d tried to do with the Sandsong in the pass. In a way, her approach was the one Celerin had favored. It didn’t feel like a good option for her, and so she dismissed it. The next one was definitely more interesting.

Cataclyst

No one can stop change.

You claim the Spark of Luck and make it yours, gaining an instinctive ability to alter the flow of fates. [Spark of Luck] becomes [Will of the Black Witch]. You will sense the blade aimed at your heart or the offensive that will break your lines. When things flow your way, they flow quickly. If defeat is imminent, you can pull a miracle from thin air. Last aspect and max social skills unlocked.

After understanding the third of her options, Viv was getting a sense of how things worked. All these paths were unique. Unique paths were almost always above all others in their specific niches, so she must’ve been favored having all these options. Slaying dragons and resurrecting empires was paying off. All these path-ups would make her even more powerful, magic wise, but they all focused on one of her strengths. Obliteron played on her reliance on the annihilation meaning. Heart of Harrak would work on intimidation and leadership. Cataclyst would be more about soul sense, or rather, her ability to understand how fate brought interesting things to her doorstep. Cataclyst felt like a good option because fate magic was utter bullshit, and also denied to humans in general. Who needed to work hard when they could luck out instead. As she checked the next option, her suspicions were confirmed.

Celestial.

Space magic, and space in general, are open to you. You can now open massive portals with far greater ease, very quickly, and keep them open at a distance. You may fly at will. The potency of your colorless spells is vastly increased. Last aspect and max social skills unlocked.

Ok, this was… very strong. Very strong indeed. Flight was less of a boon than it might have been ten years ago because she'd practiced hard to make up for a lack of it, but that would still be strong. The possibility of long range portals was also… if the range was forty kilometers, she could just fly up and open one in the upper atmosphere. Or even higher. She could open a portal at the bottom of the abyss and create water flows so strong they could cut rock. The possibilities were endless…

Viv shook her head. Celestial and Catalyst were her favorites, with Obliteron still a consideration. She rapidly went over the other choices as she descended near the Sandsong royal guards. Some were good but none were close to the unique classes she had. She noticed ‘Empress of Harrak’ was an option. It was telling how strong she’d become that ‘sovereign of an empire’ wasn’t even up for consideration.

The interface still offered her the opportunity to become a potter.

Viv didn’t think Nous would even let her pick it.

***

Viv didn’t find the ruling couple of Sandsong at the head of the convoy with their young child and the support staff. Bes was here, Viv knew, alongside Sin and Mar. Instead, they did what leaders were supposed to do. King Jei talked to warriors to improve their spirits while Queen Naila used her considerable powers to help with healing and even warming the wounded, as the night was very cold. She was relieved to see that they had recovered from their recent despair. Or rather, they had learned to hide it, she assumed. They finished what they were doing before meeting Viv. She was sorry to inform them about the ship situation. They accepted her words with a resignation that mauled her heart. It wasn’t exactly her fault, but she had come, given them hope, and then Oleander had smashed it all to pieces.

“What will happen to the rest?” Jei asked, hand brushing his beard.

Despite the tensions, he had taken a minute to oil it so he could retain his regal appearance. Viv approved. It was important.

“The Hopecrusher claimed those who kneeled would be spared. I believe him. Oleander does not wish to rule over a graveyard. Maranor’s philosophy implies a strict hierarchy, but so long as people respect it, they are spared. The only risk is that he would press the soldiers into his army. I am assuming it wouldn’t be the first time.”

“An oath cannot be forced,” Queen Naila said, but then she shivered and wouldn’t meet Viv’s eyes.

“Ah, I am deluding myself. I felt the imminence of his coming when the Hopecrusher left. Those who behold him will think him the next step to a god.”

And they might very well be right, Viv thought.

“We will make an announcement in the capital. I suspect many nobles will want to join us. What do you know of our history?” Naila asked.

“Your uncle told me your family seized power a generation ago.”

“Then he has left out what mattered. We were ruled by a tyrant. We fought that tyrant, and won, because the people rose with us. And now after the death of my esteemed father, I am about to surrender them to another one. I… I… I have failed…”

Her voice broke down. Her husband placed a hand at her side, drawing her in. The nearest soldiers pretended not to see.

“It’s not over,” Viv said. “We lose now. We run, but it’s not over. There is Param. I suspect some of them will follow him when he arrives, but not all. Come with me and give your people a future. It might take a year, or ten, but I will defeat him, and then you will return.”

“His will is strong.”

“Yeah. I have guns.”

“What?”

“Nothing. Just remember, the victor is the one who deals the last blow. My previous country was defeated and conquered before, but we always got free in the end.”

Viv harbored no illusion that her words would soothe them. They just had their entire world taken from them. All their dreams, all their hopes, the weight of the previous generation’s sacrifice. She remembered fleeing from Kazar after Varska had unceremoniously poisoned her. All that rage. And she’d only been in town for a couple of months. She hadn’t even felt like it had been her city.

“We will make plans. Lists of people who should leave. Some will refuse. Others will fight, even if it means death. They will say we dishonor our fathers.”

“They have not met Oleander,” she told them.

“We know. They will be lost all the same,” Naila said. “Is it true that your paramour will open a path to the city?”

“Yes. It should help us escape pursuit. The Sheem may not know the desert as well as you do, but they know how to follow an army,” Viv said with confidence.

“Then we will dress that list there. We will talk to the rear guard first. They have tools to help us escape.”

“Do not fight,” Viv said. “If you see someone, come to me. I will help.”

“Of course,” Naila said.

***

Viv moved back towards her own troops. The One Hundred were on foot now, and though the knights still rode their horses, half of them walked by the side of their mounts instead. The mood was serious. They also smelled of sweat.

Order Master Rollo saluted smartly as she approached with a fist over his heart.

“Your Imperial Majesty.”

“How are things, Rollo? We might see some more action soon.”

He looked around in a way she recognized. Viv instantly cast a privacy veil.

“You can speak freely,” she told him.

“It would be good if we didn’t fight here. Four of our chargers were hurt stepping on some sharp rocks during the short engagement. We have skills to look after our mounts, of course, and we have healed them… but heavy knights do not perform well on sand and gravel. Your majesty, I can only stress the truth of your paramour’s warnings: we must leave. We cannot win here.”

“And we will. Alright, so charges should be avoided. What about the One Hundred?”

Rollow gestured. Viv approached Ban junior who saluted just as well. She walked by their side.

“How is everyone?”

“We are ready for more, Your Majesty.”

“Does the sand affect your movement?”

“It is not much different from the Deadlands. Perhaps rockier. We are still fresh thanks to the carts.”

His eyes narrowed. He gave the Sandsong walking nearby a contemptuous glare.

“We will outlast them, Your Majesty. You can count on us.”

“Hmmm.”

She left them to their glaring contest. Viv wouldn’t be able to hold anything with just a hundred and fifty men anyway. It wouldn’t matter though. Words carried across the line. The Sandsong had found an anomaly on the road.

Sidjin hurried on with the rest of the Harrakan. Viv hovered nearby.

“I’ll open and maintain the portal. Keep an eye out while I evacuate everyone.”

“Alright.”

Something exploded behind them. Panic spread across the line of wounded soldiers. Viv and Sidjin’s eyes met.

“I’ll go. Get us out of here,” Viv ordered, and Sidjin sprinted away. Viv flew back, feeling the distant mana bursts that signaled a heavy battle was being fought. She raced over the path, crossing retreating soldiers. The sounds of approaching riders made her wince but she kept going. It wasn’t enemy riders she was worried about. Sandsong singers were flying around. As she watched, a portal opened near one of them, and he died. The rear guard was a scene of carnage. Royal guards and soldiers lay dying on the ground, cut down by something extremely sharp, and in the middle of that circle of destruction were two men standing near the corpse of King Jei. He was very dead, though his face was against the ground, fist still grasping his blade. No one could survive with that little chest left. A crying Naila turned, spotting Viv as she approached. She had already given up. Her eyes were pleading.

“Save our —”

The taller man cut her in half with no effort. Only his arm moved, but the power of the blow sent the queen’s upper body tumbling at a distance. The rest fell slowly, and quietly. Viv’s and the swordsman’s eyes met.

Two meters tall, easy. The face of a Greek god at its most arrogant. A himbo gone evil. His armor was white with black boots, and gleaming with enchantments. His sword was an artefact she didn’t take the time to inspect, but whose power she could feel. The intimidation that radiated out from him was monstrous. It forced Viv to put her own out at the same moment or risk being submerged. His spoke of innumerable battles, decades upon decades of war all for the good of mankind, and now, he would rule it. He was the grim hero, the face of order, who would drag the species, screaming, into a new age. The most surprising thing was how absolutely weary his soul felt under all the trappings of power. It was a core of steel and conviction and… nothing else. No weakness, no emotions, no mercy. Viv looked there and saw… nothing. Just a fatigue beyond thought, beyond care. After so long, the only drives left were duty and ambition. She hovered at a distance as the two took each other’s measure.

[Herald of Maranor. Fifth step of a unique path dedicated to order and might. Blade master…]

Viv didn’t take the time to read the rest. It was enough to know he was an absolute beast, but more importantly, he hadn’t had the time to path up yet. Celerin stood next to him. The difference between the two was like watching a tourist posing near an ancient statue. He tried to open a portal.

“Interdict,” Viv said.

She cast the spell. Space blurred around her, dispersing the portal as it formed rather than blocking it. Celerin chuckled bitterly, like he couldn’t believe she already had a countermeasure.

Yeah, I’m not having much fun either, buddy, Viv thought.

