She had never pushed her concentration so hard, managing two barriers, her Arcane Bolt target, checking her minions, and anticipating the Bone Spears with her mana sight. Ali’s head throbbed with the intensity of her efforts. She gasped in pain as an unseen arrow impaled her through her thigh. She stumbled, dropping her Arcane Bolt target from the shock, but she still managed to intercept a Bone Spear aimed at Malika. On the far side of the battlefield, her shaman shattered the spines of its Bone Prison with her mace and charged the archer again.

Ali winced as she sat sprawled on the ground, unable to stand on her injured leg. She blocked another bone spear, unable to bring enough focus to bear to restart her Arcane Bolts. The soft chime sound told her it wasn’t necessary as the Kobold Acolyte keeled over with a glowing arrow embedded in his neck. Thanks, Calen. Quickly, she redirected her mages and rogues to the enemy bone casters. She was still bleeding, but she could cast her magic provided she didn’t move her leg. Anxiously, she checked her health but, to her relief, found she was still well above half.

Ali clenched her teeth and concentrated. It took a minute to kill both mages, but with the pain, it felt so much longer. As soon as the mages died, Ali suddenly had a lot less to focus on.

“Scorpions next,” Calen said. Ali assumed he had changed the order because Mato tanking the two of them would be much more stressful on his mana. Ali didn’t question it, if they were coordinating their efforts, they would succeed.

Ali glanced at the archer in the distance, but without the bone prison meddling, her shaman seemed to be doing fine. Very well, she thought, deciding to send her rogues to help Malika as they wouldn’t be a whole lot of use against the scorpions. For the rest, Firebolts, Lightning Bolts, and Arcane Bolts rained down upon the scorpion Calen had picked. The mana-efficient Firebolt spells supplied a steady stream of damage, sending chips and shards of bone armor flying and filling the air with smoke – maybe not the most impressive, but they did the job.

Ali kept a close eye on the plates of bone armor and, as soon as a large enough crack appeared, she switched her Fire Mages to using their Fireball spells. Landing in quick succession, the Fireballs lodged inside the armor and detonated, ripping the bone elemental to shreds. This strategy took a long time, but it sure was reliable. And, for some reason she couldn’t fathom, blowing up the highly resilient and dangerous bone creatures was immensely satisfying. She repeated the process on the second Piercer Scorpion.

Halfway through her barrage, Malika appeared beside her.

“Hold still, Ali,” Malika said, crouching beside her and gripping the arrow firmly. With a sudden wrench, she snapped off the head.

Ali hissed in pain as Malika swiftly pulled the arrow out with a sudden spurt of her amber blood, but the burning rush of her healing magic followed instantly, banishing the bleeding puncture. Feeling quite a bit better now that the pain was subsiding, Ali finally stood back up. “Thanks,” she said, as she directed her Kobolds to switch to Fireballs and deconstructed the nearby corpse of a Kobold Bone Mage to recover some mana.

“The archer is running!” Calen yelled, urgency filling his voice.

Ali snapped her head around to see the Kobold sprinting for the stairwell and her Storm Shaman stuck in some kind of trap. Clearly, the archer had a skill for movement because it was almost flying across the bone-encrusted floor. Ali unleashed her Arcane Bolts at it at the same time that Calen fired arrow after arrow at its fleeing back. Malika sprinted after it, her magic working to help her close the distance. However, it was just a little too far ahead and it reached the spiral staircase with a loud screech and fired an arrow down into the darkness.

Uhh…

“Oh, shit,” Calen said, speaking for them all.

For just a moment, palpable silence filled the atrium as if everything were holding its breath. Then a deep hiss thrummed through the air, a tangible vibration that plucked Ali’s body like a bass string, settling deep into her bones. Dark mana erupted in the depths of the atrium, swelling upward from the bottom of the well, clearly visible through the intervening stone floors. A roar surged, carried up by the swelling mana, a wall of sound and rushing air that bore the decrepit dry odor of a crypt. The library shook, dislodging skitterers and bone worms by the thousands, knocking them to the ground with the patter of wriggling rain and sending them scurrying away into dark nooks and crannies. The treacherous Kobold archer fell to his knees and pressed his face to the ground, trembling visibly.

“What is that?” Malika whispered.

Beyond the twisted and corroded railing of the spiral staircase, something vast rose, borne upon slowly undulating skeletal wings that billowed and crackled with dark mana. The massive ribcage expanded slowly and then contracted – a parody of life – as if an empty cage of age-darkened bones had any need to breathe. Two legs were held tucked under the broad skeletal body, tipped with immense claws. Along the exposed vertebrae of the spine, the monster bore heavy armored bone plates and ridges extending all the way along the tail till it vanished in the darkness.

An elongated, bony gray-white skull turned to face them, baring dozens of fangs each as long as Ali’s arms. Purple orbs of mana kindled, as if empty bone eye sockets could be opened to glare at her. As it fixed her with its unsettling gaze, the enormous jaws gaped wide, and an ear-shattering roar split the air.

Skeletal Wyvern – Undead Dragon – level ?? (Bone)

“Dungeon boss! Take cover!” Calen shouted.

Dark gray mana coalesced into a dense ball in the depths of the Skeletal Wyvern’s gaping maw. Ali’s eyes widened fractionally in recognition, and she threw up the strongest barrier she could muster. With a sudden whistle and splintering crash, a gigantic bone spear struck her barrier, exploding into a deadly shower of shards and slivers of golden magic that knocked Ali to the ground. A sharp splinter of bone impaled itself through her arm, and another ripped a gash across her ribs.

Ali winced, gasping as she scrambled to sit up. If she hadn’t recognized the spell as a vastly more powerful version of the Bone Spears the Kobold Bone Mages had been using, she would no doubt have been impaled upon the wyvern’s spear. Skewered, for sure.

“Ali, are you ok?” Malika asked, helping Ali back to her feet, and pulsing healing through her body with a burst of rushing power that closed her wounds so fast, she felt the skin pulling painfully.

Ali nodded, but her eyes were fixed on the skeletal horror hovering there, suspended above the atrium. Her mind rebelled at the sheer malevolent power she had just witnessed. How can anything like this exist?

Mato charged at the giant skeletal monster, but it remained aloft, far out of his reach. It simply launched another Bone Spear at him, forcing him to dodge back.

“Shoot,” Ali finally managed, instructing her minions to engage.

The darkness began to flicker and flash with the red of fire and the incandescent white of lightning. Sizzling and deafening thunderclaps rang out, echoing from the walls behind them. With a trembling hand, Ali launched a volley of Arcane Bolts, but as soon as they struck, the giant skeletal gaze turned her way. Mana of midnight-black surged again, and on the ground beside her, a large circle of dark runes appeared.

Is that… While the color was wrong, the circle looked exactly like the magic of her Grimoire when she summoned her minions.

The sudden chill of premonition blossomed within her mind. Ali grabbed Malika’s hand and backed away from the pulsing runic circle.

“What…” Malika began, but the circle flashed once and suddenly a Piercer Scorpion stood where it had been, gleaming white in the flickering light of the magical barrage.

It stood still for a second, far larger from up close than Ali had ever imagined, and then it twitched. Ali fled. The ground shook as the huge elemental gave chase. She summoned a barrier blindly behind her and felt the creature slam into it, striking once or twice before shattering it.

Malika stepped right into its path with a high kick to its maw and a quick dodge to avoid the shattering tail strike. In her panicked flight from the summoned Piercer Scorpion, Ali had forgotten to pay attention to the flying wyvern. She glanced up just in time to see a giant spear of bone impaling one of her shamans, pinning him to the ground. Another surge of mana preceded a second runic circle appearing in front of her. Operating on pure instinct, Ali dodged to the side and sprinted away from it as a Piercer Scorpion materialized within the ring of magic. The white glow of Calen’s arrow slammed into it drawing it away to where Mato waited. Ali breathed for the first time since the flying monster had appeared.

Think Ali! What can I even do?

Ali’s mind finally caught up to her actions. Quickly, she summoned a barrier to protect Malika from the wyvern’s bone spear. Both the spear and barrier shattered from the impact, again sending golden shards of magic and deadly slivers of bone flying in all directions.

What is that? It sounded faint over the roaring and the deafening claps of thunder, but when she focused, Ali was sure she heard the familiar chirping and yipping of Kobolds in the distance. It took a moment for her to realize it was not her Kobolds that were calling. With growing horror, she looked toward the landing and, out there in the darkness upon the spiral stairs, she saw dozens of reptilian forms sprinting upward.

“Kobolds on the stairs!” Ali yelled, not entirely sure what her friends would be able to do even if they knew. A third runic circle appeared on the ground and another Piercer Scorpion materialized.

This is crazy! Ali’s mind balked at the chaos.

Suddenly, she sensed a dramatic shift in the mana. Up in the air, the wyvern’s fanged maw was opened wide. Thick tendrils and ropy cables of mana spiraled into its maw, drawn inward as if the monster were inhaling power from the dungeon itself. For several seconds the mana gathered, swirling like a black and gray fireball, coalescing and compressing into a ball that pulsed like a malevolent thunderhead poised in that instant before a storm broke.

The Skeletal Wyvern turned its head and unleashed its magic.

Like a dam bursting, it unleashed a deluge of bone spears – a dense, unrelenting spray hammering downward in a cone. The monster slowly turned its head, sweeping death across the battlefield as the hail of bone spears pounded the foundations of the library, obliterating friend or foe with equal prejudice, shattering stone and pulverizing bone in an unbelievable roar of deafening power.

“Run!”

Somehow Ali heard the shout above the mind-shattering noise, and she felt herself suddenly scooped up. She glanced sideways to see Calen, his face set in a mask of grim determination as he sprinted away, carrying her. Beyond him, she could see the onslaught of hailing bone spears blasting her mages away, leaving little more than red stains in its wake.

Up ahead, Mato and Malika struggled with four Piercer Scorpions. Both bled profusely as they backed away from the oncoming tide of destruction spewing forth from overhead.

“Everyone, teleport out!” Calen shouted as he ducked behind a wall just as the onslaught of bone caught up to them. The noise of the bone spears shattering on the wall right beside her was deafening, driving everything from her mind.

A black puff of smoke caught her attention, and within it, Malika vanished. The scorpions attacking her sliced through the empty smoke, momentarily confused.

Ali retrieved her recall potion, and she was about to dash it upon the ground at her feet when she paused. “What about Mato?” she asked, holding her potion indecisively. “He can’t shift back to use it; he’ll die!”

“I’ve got him,” Calen answered, his lips pulled into a firm line. Putting her down behind the atrium wall, he summoned two recall potions and lobbed one with a swift underhand throw out into the battle. Ali watched it sail, flipping end over end across the open space in a high arc to shatter upon Mato’s back. The black smoke cloud erupted, and he vanished.

Immediately, all four Piercer Scorpions turned to charge toward her and Calen.

“Go!” he yelled, and she could hear the panic making his voice crack.

Quickly, she broke her potion on the ground and vanished, appearing in the familiar teleport room in the center of the rune circle once again. A half-second later, Calen appeared too.

“Holy shit, what the fuck was that?” Mato said, collapsing to the ground with a big grunt.

Calen whispered, “That was too much for us.”

Ali sagged with relief.
