"So, you're saying I'm homeless? Well, this takes me back to the time I was eight.”

“Eight? You were homeless when you were eight?”

“Yeah. Wasn’t all bad if you knew which dumpsters—forget it. I’ll figure something—”

Irons shook his head. "Check your pin. It is connected to the academy’s network for information. That’s what it is mainly for.”

“The Idiot Loci thing?”

“Only certain students and the headmaster call it that,” Irons grumbled.

Shiv regarded his pin with interest. As he focused on it, a set of notifications appeared before his vision. The same set that materialized when he first arrived on campus grounds. Instead of being an unknown guest, however, he was now a fully fledged First-Year. He had voting privileges, and they were connected to various events.

Potential speakers and friends could be scheduled via the academy's budget, and then there was a special section for on-campus options. A single bullet point remained beneath the options, and he felt a tickling sensation in the back of his mind as he kept his gaze locked to it. It expanded into a subheading titled Housing.

As he kept his gaze fixed on that as well, a descending bar filled with options plunged down to the bottom of his vision. As he looked down, he found the bar to be scrollable. There were over eight options he could select from, a lot of different dorm rooms with their amenities listed behind them. One bed, one workstation, and a shared restroom were the norm. All except for one choice. That one seemed to lack a proper workstation, but the bathroom wasn't shared.

Welcome, Marcus Unblood (First Year Adept)

Votes- Next Week’s Weather Cycle

- Potential Events

On-Campus Amenities:

- Housing (8)

Manticore (1 Bed; 1 Shared Bath; 1 Workstation)

Dragon (1 Bed; 1 Shared Bath; 1 Workstation)

Griffon (1 Bed; 1 Shared Bath; 1 Workstation)

Mermaid (1 Bed; 1 Shared Bath; 1 Workstation)

Unicorn (1 Bed; 1 Shared Bath; 1 Workstation)

Hydra (1 Bed; 1 Shared Bath; 1 Workstation)

Kraken (1 Bed; 1 Shared Bath; 1 Workstation)

Carrot (1 Bed; 1 Bath)
