It was a given, but Jake wasn’t actually going to select this profession, though that didn’t mean it wasn’t an important one to think about. It held a lot of meaning that one of Jake’s five options had more or less come from Jake’s brief interactions with the First Sage and that one skill he’d upgraded, and if nothing else, it told him that he should really find some time just to sit down and meditate.

Outside of Jake agreeing that understanding concepts and further exploring the possibilities of the Gate of Enlightenment, this profession really didn’t fit Jake at all. It looked more like something a monk from the Dao Sect would take, or perhaps a scholar who was really into meditation. Definitely not Jake, as there was no way he would ever sit down and arduously document his exploration of the many concepts of the multiverse while giving lectures in his free time about reaching enlightenment.

So, while Jake was interested in this profession from a professional point of view, he wasn’t interested in actually selecting it. Just the mere fact that it also fucked up his Malefic Viper and alchemy skills was enough for him to skip it.

As Jake moved on to the next one on offer, he saw it was yet another repeat, and he was already mentally prepared to write it off as the last time he saw it, it had seemed very ominous and also meant losing his alchemy, but upon reading it… Something was definitely different this time around.

Harbinger of Primeval Origins – All have an Origin; all have a Path to the peak. You shall be the Harbinger to awaken that Origin. Allows you to affect Origins, awakening primeval concepts within entities, resulting in the birth of things never seen before or long forgotten. You have already begun to embrace this aspect of who you are and strive to continue exploring the innate power deep within your being. It already seeps through every fiber of your being, so why hesitate? Through the heretically obtained Legacy of the Malefic Viper, you shall continue to make use of your alchemical prowess to display your abilities as the Harbinger of Primeval Origins, with or without your – perhaps soon to be former – Patron’s permission. In your eyes, not even a Primordial is fit to tell you how to use your Primeval Origin Energy, and staying a Chosen, heretic, or Heretic-Chosen is solely at your discretion. For only you wield this power, only you use it, and only you can spread its glory to the multiverse, awakening all you deem worthy of the honor. Or perhaps you could simply hoard it for yourself. Only you can decide, Harbinger of Primeval Origins. Stat bonuses per level: +210 Willpower, +120 Vitality, +120 Wisdom, +60 Toughness, +200 Free Points.

When Jake had last seen this profession, it had been entirely different from this. Back when he became a C-grade, the entire thing had been about Jake becoming some beacon of uncontrolled evolution, affecting everyone around him with or without their consent. It had all been so damn messy and, quite frankly, scary enough for Jake to avoid it like the plague.

He’d fully expected it to be the same case this time around, but it wasn’t. It had changed from Jake just being a leaking container of Primeval Origin Energy to him now being the one in charge of it. The one dictating its usage.

Another reason it had been a write-off the last time he’d seen it offered was that it, yet again, meant fucking up his Path as an alchemist. However, yet again, the profession had adapted, now actively integrating his profession, and, from the looks of it, even allowing him to continue as a Heretic-Chosen Alchemist of the Malefic Viper if he so desired.

Okay, Jake seriously doubted it could be as good as a dedicated alchemist profession, but just that it allowed him to retain everything was already massive. One of the skills Jake was sure would change entirely if he picked one of the professions with a warning was Path of the Heretic-Chosen, which felt like the cornerstone of Jake’s Path, and had been the key to meeting the First Sage. There was no world where Jake would give that up, and fortunately, it looked like he wouldn’t have to, even if he went with this one.

Thinking about it more, Jake had wanted to experiment further with his Primeval Origin Energy in B-grade, and wouldn’t this profession also result in Jake getting a lot of experience from that? While Jake did get some experience from his Primeval Origin rituals, it wasn’t even that much if one considered the Records involved in such an endeavor. This profession would definitely mean he would get more, though it would also likely mean anything not to do with Primeval Origin Energy would offer little to none.

Oh yeah, the stats from this one had to be considered as well. It was yet another step up, being an insane 710 total stats per level. That was a measly 10 stats shy of the theoretical limit – not counting stuff like Malefic Viper Legacy skills, of course. When it came to the stats themselves, they were pretty much mirrored from what he already had in C-grade, save for this one not giving any Intelligence. Not bad stats, though, and there were a lot of Free Points for Jake to distribute himself. Distribute nearly exclusively into Perception, naturally.

Jake had a lot more thoughts on this option and sat for a moment, just thinking everything through.

This profession felt stupidly good, damn near perfection, and Jake seriously considered it, even if he still had some qualms. Which begged the question: just what could the fifth and final profession offer that would rank it higher in quality? Could it truly match up against this one and convince Jake not to embrace his identity as the Harbinger of Primeval Origins? Or would it end up like when he evolved his profession in C-grade with Jake picking the second-to-last option?

Well, there was only one way to find out as Jake turned his attention toward the final profession evolution option on display.
