Face reddening as the two simple-minded brothers grinned, Master stood tall, short of breath and skin stained with blood, but unharmed and full of heroic vigour. Around them, the soldiers spread the news of Lieutenant General Akanai’s daughter standing among them, eyeing Master with approval. Strength of arms was one thing, but leadership was sorely lacking amongst these elites, something Song noted early on. Why else would they fall in line with a young half-beast girl? Then again, such was the way with the extra sons and daughters of noble families. Spoiled beyond compare, if they had the qualities and drive neccessary for leadership, they wouldn't have become career soldiers; they would have become heirs instead.

Ignoring their whispers, Master spoke with confidence. “This is only the first wave, a probing attack. The Defiled will link up and make a second, concentrated strike, seeking to sweep away whoever they find. We must collect the survivors and link up with Major Yuzhen, form a united defence.”

Glancing at the approving soldiers surrounding Master, Lady Tursinai’s lips quirked in a mischievous smile. “Ah how quickly the years pass by. Seems like yesterday when I watched this impish little child running around the village, and soon I’ll be riding on her coat tails to fame and fortune.” Spinning on her heels, she pinched Ser Tenjin on the buttocks. “With me, my heroic, handsome husband. We’ll take a look around while Mila sorts things out, then we’re off to save the Major.” Giggling with delight, Lady Tursinai skipped off into the darkness, her sickle and chain singing as it whirled to life.

Though not the only one to gape at her unseemly behaviour, Song had little time to process it. Wrapping her in a two armed hug, Master squeezed a little too tightly. “Thank you for saving me, but you need to be careful. I need you to live a long, healthy life. I’d never forgive myself if you died because of me.” Putting her down, Master barked out orders while Song followed close behind, using the time to parse through her emotions.

Though freedom was denied her yet again, there was no crushing disappointment accompanying today’s failure. In fact, she felt at peace, satisfied even, her body full of energy despite her days of hard riding. It would be wrong to rest so soon, the battle was yet to be won, with many more Defiled to kill. Perhaps she would still find freedom tonight, but for the first time, she was uncertain death was what she truly wanted. After all, Master had finally given her first order: Song was to live a long life.

Not so terrible a thing when spent at Master’s side.

Chapter Meme
