After an hour of travel, Rain ordered the party to slow to a walk and Song saw her chance to speak with him. Extending her hand, Song waited as he struggled to understand the meaning behind her gesture. Long, awkward seconds passed and she flushed with embarrassment as she remembered when not too long ago, she’d mistakenly suspected him of having immoral intentions for making this same gesture. “Sending.”

“Ah.” Reaching out to clasp her hand, Rain brought Zabu closer and Sent, “What’s up?”

To start, Song explained, “I do not trust the two bandit Experts, so it’s best we speak in private.” The half-truth came easily, as it was a reason to speak through Sending, but not the only reason.

“Sure,” he replied, once again unable to hide his amusement. “What about?”

“I wish to ask for advice.” Ignoring his surprise and delight, Song powered through and spoke of her issues through Sending, starting with her non-existent knowledge regarding Aura and her inability to form a Natal Palace. “Mama’s latest letter is no different, stating I should continue with my exercises and let nature take its course, but I thought you might have some unique insight to the Martial Path considering your swift advancement.”

“I would love to help,” he replied, giving her hand a reassuring squeeze, “But I myself just learned how detrimental a minor misconception can be. My personal insights might not even be helpful, considering I don’t really know how I condensed my Aura or formed a Natal Palace. Are you sure you want to hear this? If this ends up hindering your progress, Grand Mentor will pin my hide to the wall.”

Though Song knew he was merely joking, she still bristled at the implication that Mama would ever lay a hand on him in anger. “Yes,” she Sent, nodding once for effect. “Start with something simple. What was it like when you first used your Aura?”

Rain’s smile melted away as his eyes unfocused and shoulders slumped, a strange reaction to reminiscing about a grand success. “It’s not something I like to think about, but I’ll tell you if you want to know. Be warned, you know about my... issues with Balance and... Defilement, so I don’t recommend you follow in my footsteps. Do you still want to hear about it?”

“Yes.” Song had no fear of turning Defiled, for her Oaths expressly forbade it. Death would come the moment she realized what she’d become, and the Heavens would punish her for any rebellious thoughts against her master.

“Alright.” Pausing to consider his words, Rain Sent, “The story starts after I fell into Western Treasures Lake, and drifted onto shore almost a week later. As you know, a young woman named Ai Qing saved and nursed me back to health, but what I never told anyone was that I wasn’t myself.” Retreating into his thoughts, Rain explained how he’d adopted a different persona, a split personality he named Baledagh or Warrior to deal with his growing issues with Defilement. One mind to embrace the lies and one mind to resist them, it made for a most fascinating tale, and Song was the first to hear it. It made sense now in retrospect, how he often went back and forth between timid and harmless to dangerous and unrestrained. Brother and Warrior, a curious dichotomy, but inwardly, Song disagreed with his conclusion.

Rain believed his true self to be the Brother, a kind-hearted young man who wanted nothing more than to be happy and loved, but in Song’s eyes, Rain was the Warrior to his core. There were valid arguments to be made in either direction, but if he were truly Brother, then their paths would never have crossed, for long before his brush with Defiledment, it was the Warrior who taunted Cho Jin Kai inside that nameless restaurant, not the Brother.

When he finished telling her about Baledagh and Brother, Rain sighed with relief, and though he didn’t seem to notice it, he clenched her hand tight while averting his gaze, as if ashamed of admitting his faults. Song sensed there was more to it, but she didn’t press him for more. Oddly enough, she was pleased he’d confided in her before anyone else, for not even Mama, Sister, Lin, or Yan knew about his ‘Mental Disorder’, as he termed it. Only the Monk had known, his intervention vital in helping Rain recover and move on.

That said... “You still haven’t told me about Aura.”

Lifting his head in surprise, Rain blinked and stared before bursting into laughter, which drew the eye of everyone around them. Waving them off, he wiped the tears from his eyes and Sent, “Oh Song... Your single-minded dedication to the pursuit of strength is admirable, barely even blinking when I tell you one of my darkest secrets.”

Ignoring his inadvertent slip of the tongue, Song nodded and Sent, “You were unwell, but you are better now. I am happy for you. If you wish to speak of it more, then I am happy to listen.” Listening was easy. It would only be an issue if he wanted her to speak.

“Maybe later,” he Sent, flashing a grateful smile. “As for Aura... I was Baledagh at the time, so my memories are... spotty. I told you about the Defiled bandits who attacked Ai Qing’s village right? Well, I went in to save the villagers and came across Laughing Dragon, their Aura-capable leader. Once unleashed, his Aura paralyzed me with ice-cold terror and left me helpless as he and his bandits beat me bloody. Then... I don’t know. Something inside me snapped. The fear disappeared, but it wasn’t courage which took its place, nor was it anger. In its place was an unquenchable blood-thirst free from anger or hatred, virtue or integrity, just pure... exhilaration as I exulted in battle and conflict. I didn’t fight to save the villagers or kill Defiled in vengeance, I fought because I wanted to fight and for no other reason.” Shaking his head, Rain added, “I didn’t even know I’d condensed an Aura until Laughing Dragon mentioned it. What’s weird is, now that I think about it, even though I remember the fight, I have no idea how I pulled it off. I Healed, Deflected, Lightened, Amplified, and Reinforced, all while new Insights flooded into my mind and faded away the moment I performed them. At some points, I think I even used External Chi, though I don’t know how I managed it...”

“The Mother always leaves a path to salvation,” Song quoted. “Perhaps She took interest in your conflict and offered much-needed assistance.”

“Perhaps.” Rain’s tone was steeped in skepticism, which was strange for a man so blessed by the Mother. “Anyway, like I said, I’m not sure my experiences are of any use.”

They weren’t, but Song was grateful he’d shared something so difficult to speak of. “What about a Natal Palace?”

“Right to the point as always.” Chuckling beneath his breath, Rain puffed his cheeks and Sent, “Well... Grand Mentor has you on the right track with your poetry recitals, and I think I know what she intends to happen, but I’m not sure if I should tell you if she won’t.” Sighing, he muttered something about grabbing a tiger by the tail and Sent, “Look, you know the basic premise right? Split your focus and work on two things at once. That’s why she has you reciting poetry in battle.”

“Yes, but how do I go about forming the actual Natal Palace?”

A hint of exasperation slipped into her tone, but Rain nodded in sympathy. “Well... let’s try this. What do you see when you meditate?”

“My eyes close and conceal the light,” Song Sent, “But true darkness comes after I reach Balance. Then... nothing. My mind is quiet and senses blocked, with only the warm embrace of the Mother to accompany me, a tranquil, soothing flow of Chi sinking into my Core.”

“Okay... good. I’m the same way. Has Grand Mentor asked you to try anything while meditating?”

“No.”

“Well, try reciting poetry while you meditate. I think the Monk did something similar, but I could be wrong. Also, what I do is envision something which holds personal meaning and significance, a place of safety or comfort which is always there. My Natal Palace has all my favourite locations, like Taduk’s cottage in the village and Mila’s forge at the Northern Wall. Because they’re so near and dear to my heart, keeping the locations in mind at all times is simple, which is the basic premise behind creating a Natal Palace.”

...What significance and meaning did Sister’s forge hold?

Clarity struck and Song knew exactly what to do, so she quickly extracted her hand and passed Mama Bun and Blackjack over. Giving Erdene free rein, Song closed her eyes and reached for Balance, submersing herself in the darkness of the void. Rain said to envision something which made her feel safe, but he also said it should be something Song could always keep in mind. If she disregarded the first requirement, then she had the perfect object to envision, though it would require a little creativity to implement.

Drawing upon the Energy of the Heavens flowing towards her, Song focused her mind and brought her will to bear. Silver light burst into existence within the void, encircling her in a ring of radiant chains while a bed of shimmering green emerald emerged beneath her feet, fine metal and precious stone twin to the necklace worn around Rain’s neck, the innocuous piece of jewellery which Song was bound to. Dark and empty no longer, the void shimmered with pale green and bright silver, marking out an area of undefined size around it. It seemed to grow and shrink every time she looked away, and she knew this would not do. Here and in the physical world, the chain and emerald represented her Oaths to the Heavens, Oaths which confined and restricted her during every second of every day, but so long as she was here, she was free from their influence, free to do as she pleased. Her Oaths to the Heavens bound her, but her family and loved ones had set her heart and mind free. She was safe here, she knew this to be true. This was her refuge from the outside world, a place where she could truly be at peace, a realm crafted using the tools given by the Mother. Mama helped too, and in recognition of her efforts, Song recited poetry until it became second nature, the oration continuing even as she stepped away, as if spoken by another mind.

And another voice, for Song recognized Mama’s tender voice reciting the Classics of Poetry, delivering each stanza with enunciated passion.

As the dulcet tones of Mama’s recital rippled throughout the void, the chains of Song’s Natal Palace withdrew into the distance. Difficult to say exactly how far, but far enough so she felt unfettered and free, her little piece of paradise stable and secure. Taking one last look around, Song nodded in approval before stepping out of the void and returning to her senses. “How am I to know if I’ve succeeded?” she asked, not bothering to extend her hand to Send.

“So quickly? It’s only been a few minutes... well, if it doesn’t work, then everything will be gone the next time you go back.”

Nodding, Song closed her eyes and returned to the void, a process so effortless she surprised herself. What’s more, the emerald bed, silver chains, and Mama’s voice were all waiting for her, the recital having continued in her absence. If Song had to guess, the constant reminder of her Oaths and the poetry recital were both required to keep her Natal Palace intact, and she felt a little safer knowing a part of Mama would always be here with her. An unexpected surprise, but a welcome one, for Song loved Mama with all her heart. Lingering to listen a little while longer, she waited until the end of the poem before returning to reality. Eyes turned towards the heavens, Song cherished this moment and committed everything to memory, from her light-headed fatigue and ensuing torrent of emotions to Erdene’s swaying gait and Rain’s reassuring presence, for this was her crowning moment of success.

“I succeeded,” she said, staring at the beautiful blue sky and wondering what wonders still lay ahead. “At twenty-one years of age, I, Li Song, Daughter of Akanai and Husolt, Sister to Sumila and Baatar, have become an Expert of the Bekhai.”

Chapter Meme
