Jason’s progress with his essences was solid. His Doom essence thrived as he loomed over the world like the Sword of Damocles. His Sin essence grew as he explored his transcendent half, listening to prayers he had no power to consciously answer. There had been reports of miraculous recovery from disease and other maledictions, but even Jason doubted their veracity. Miracles weren’t what they used to be when every hospital had at least one magic healer on staff.

His dark essence thrived on his controversial image. His prominence had risen, with his influence on world leaders, the ongoing conspiracy theories and growing cult following. He moved in secret and appeared without warning. His motives and agenda were mysterious, to the world, his allies and, to some degree, even himself. He thrived on melodrama and unpredictability. One day he was slaughtering spider bats in Kuala Lumpur, the monsters less terrifying than he was. The next, his niece was posting a video of him singing ‘Yes Sir, I Can Boogie’ by Baccara while making a risotto.

Jason’s Blood essence was a little different from the others. With the prominence of vampires, Jason couldn’t help but recognise that he was the predator to them that they were to humans. This had been something he resisted accepting as part of his core identity, stalling out advancement of his Blood essence compared to the others.

During his darkest days, Jason had thought that he could be more monstrous than the monsters. He had turned away from that path, realising that it would only lead him to becoming one of them. But forcing himself to look unflinchingly within, Jason was forced to accept that a predatory, dominating drive was a part of him, whether he liked it or not.

The monster inside Jason was what allowed him to wield his terrifying powers. To undertake the grimmer tasks he faced as an adventurer. The key, he ultimately realised, was knowing when to release the monster, and making sure he could always put it back in the box. He was the man who fought the monsters, even the ones inside himself.
