“He didn’t like that last suggestion at all,” said Lind-otta, tilting her head.

“Yes, he’s panicked about it.” Esh-erdi looked curious.

[He is? About the mask store?] Alden sent.

“Is it not obvious?” Esh-erdi asked.

It was obvious the ambassador had changed his voice and suddenly interrupted, but as far as analyzing the levels of panic in different types of alien fake happy tones went, Alden must have been too much of an amateur.  Servin-ith and a couple of the other wizards were giving Bash-nor one-eyed stares, too.

[I can talk more about it,] Alden suggested.

“Don’t,” Esh-erdi said. “You’ve already won this round of the game, haven’t you?”

Bash-nor did agree to the village instead of the thing he wanted.

[That’s true.]

“No matter how clumsy you pretend to be, you can only bump into a person a few times before they suspect you’re trying to knock them over. And to answer your earlier question—no, it’s not safe for you to deliberately irritate Bash-nor.”

Alden swallowed.

“However,” said Esh-erdi, “the risk of irritating him today can be weighed against the risk of having to live on an island with him for years. He’s not an enjoyable neighbor for you, is he? And you won’t always have such powerful allies supporting you in your cause.”

I just wanted to help Zeridee since I thought she was asking. And she wasn’t asking me to go this far. But if Lind-otta’s right and she’s planning to stick her own neck out as soon as I step away…

That sounded like Zeridee-und’h. She worried about the people who lived here. She’d probably been doing damage control ever since Bash-nor arrived, just trying to stay patient and keep Avowed from getting on his bad side until he was replaced by someone better. Hearing that the replacement might be delayed must have changed her own risk assessment.

[I’d like to bump into him just one more time.]

Esh-erdi’s smile widened. “Then you must watch and wait for an opportunity. Until then, simply be there and create an environment that will make it hard for him to regain his balance. I’ll end this call because I don’t think you’re very good at listening to me and giving your attention to what you’re doing there simultaneously, but I’ll be watching. If I need to say something, I’ll contact you or do it through Drusi-otta.”

******

The next hour was such a strange one. Alden was coiled like a spring on the inside, but on the outside, he was trying to appear carefree. It eventually occurred to him that walking up to a Grand Senator and inserting himself into her entourage was an act that could be considered a display of self-confidence by some people. And deciding on the spur of the moment that he would play an active part in getting a powerful wizard kicked off Earth was so ballsy that if he’d heard someone else was going to do it, he’d have been impressed by them and scared of them.

He wondered if he should be proud of himself.

He wasn’t. It had all just worked out this way. His nerves were alive and writhing inside him, and he was becoming so self-conscious he felt like he was wearing someone else’s skin.

How was Lute handling this with such aplomb?

The longer they spent with the Grand Senator, the more comfortable Alden’s roommate seemed. Growing up in his family must have given him some kind of inoculation against being freaked out by situations like this.

Meanwhile, Alden was trying to stay in Servin-ith’s good graces—priority one. Which helped him keep the environment less than ideal for Bash-nor—priority two. While he waited for one more perfect opportunity to say something.

What that something was going to be he didn’t know. The sermuntha juice idea had popped into his head rather easily, and Bash-nor had set himself up for the drowning comment. Now that Alden was trying harder and feeling more nervous, all the ideas he came up with seemed too unsubtle.

He was beginning to think he’d done enough already, and just continuing to make Servin-ith like him was plenty. Alden and Lute had now become something in between her tour guides and children she had adopted for the afternoon so that she could treat them to a fun time. Alden pointed her toward cool sights that he couldn’t appreciate himself under these circumstances and thanked her for taking such an interest in his life here.

Along the way, he’d made another stab at convincing her that human high schoolers needed their training gymnasiums because they promoted camaraderie.

Esh-erdi had messaged him three times so far. Twice to crack jokes. Once to warn that Servin-ith’s politics didn’t align well with him and Lind-otta or the art’h family, in case Alden was thinking that namedropping any of them would weigh positively with her.

That was helpful to know, but it only made Alden feel more like he was stuck with no real options for a strong strike against the ambassador.

He and Lute let Bash-nor have his way and direct the group where he wanted a couple of times, so that they weren’t so blatantly impeding him at every turn. But they did impede him a lot. Lute had distracted Servin-ith from the last place Bash-nor had wanted to go by asking her if there was a spell to get sugar out of his hair. The pig had finally lost too much of its magic, and Alden was now holding it preserved under one arm. If left to its own devices, it still drifted a bit, so carrying it was easier than trying to keep it on the shopping sled Zeridee was managing.

While Servin-ith had helped Lute, Alden had talked up the lady who’d invited him to Christmas dinner again. Now they were on their way to see her. He was sort of glad he could take the senator to the vendors that he’d liked. The wizards doled out a lot of money and compliments, and Servin-ith was collecting input from people on what they thought Anesidora needed to recover from the disaster. So even if there was some awkwardness, everyone had seemed more happy than not to be visited.

Mrs. Nancy was an older woman selling gloves, scarves, cloaks, and other odds and ends made by the members of a craft club. Some of it was classy looking; some of it was more quirky. She was wearing fingerless gloves and a coat with daisy-shaped buttons while she sat in a folding chair and chatted with shoppers. When Alden and Lute had met her a while ago, she’d been working alone, but now there was a man with her. He wasn’t a welcoming presence. He wore a sweatshirt and shorts that both looked like they’d seen better times, and his brown hair hung lank around a grim expression that didn’t change a bit at the sight of a group of Artonans approaching.

He just stared at them, then picked up the box of leather goods he’d been unpacking and carried it toward the table on the opposite side of the tent. He kept his back to them while Mrs. Nancy stood up from her chair.

“Hello, Mrs. Nancy,” said Alden, wanting to take the lead with the introductions because he was the one who’d suggested this stop and he didn’t like how Bash-nor did it anyway. “This is Grand Senator Servin-ith, and I’m sure you recognize Ambassador Bash-nor. I really wanted them to see your club’s work.”

Servin-ith stepped forward, her pink eyes and her smile both wide. “Alden was telling me you’re an elder who takes special care to welcome people who come here from foreign lands, as he did. What a lovely path that is to walk!”

This was a good place to come, thought Alden, as Mrs. Nancy started chatting without any hint of discomfort and most of the wizards started looking at scarves. Except for that guy maybe? Sorry, guy. We’re just shopping, and we won’t be here long.

Bash-nor was single-eyeing the man hard, but Alden couldn’t even blame him for it. That turned back and refusal to look around was reading more as, “Go away. I don’t like you,” than as average busy person behavior.

[Lute: He ignoring?]

[Alden: Yeah. I think so. Maybe he’s someone who’s not comfortable around wizards.]

[Lute: Don’t lose my pig.]

Alden looked at him. Lute’s grin took a bite out of his tension.

[Alden: You know you’re great company for this kind of mission.] He briefly wrapped both arms around the pig like he was hugging it before returning it to its underarm position.

A new message came, this time from the silent and invisible Drusi-otta, before he could say anything else.

[It would be best if we moved along from this place,] she wrote. [I’m sorry for not anticipating the need. I’ve already informed the Grand Senator, and we’ll be making swift purchases and going after this question.]

Mrs. Nancy was getting along better with Servin-ith than most people they’d met. The senator had just asked how the floods had affected the woman. Was the guy here weirding Drusi-otta out, too? Or was someone troublesome walking this way? Doesn’t matter. I’m not arguing with the votary.

[All right,] he responded. [I won’t try to stall. I’ll tell Lute.]

[Something’s bothering our bodyguard,] he sent to Lute a second later. [We’re leaving quicker than usual from this one. Don’t try to keep us here or suggest another place nearby this time even if it would annoy Bash-nor.]

Lute’s head turned. [Bodyguard?]

Did I not tell him about Drusi-otta? I guess I didn’t. A lot has been going on.

[Alden: Not actually a bodyguard. She’s a silent watcher helper person. :)]

“If I can be honest…” said Mrs. Nancy.

The hesitation in her voice made Alden tune back into the conversation.

“Please,” said Servin-ith, leaning toward her. “Your honesty would be a gift to me and the rest of the Grand Senate as we make our decisions.”

“I don’t think anyone who was here on Anesidora should’ve been left out by the System that night.” Mrs. Nancy laced her hands together in front of her.“Everyone’s talking about who the System should prioritize first these days, and I just wanted to tell someone that I think whatever needs to be done to make sure everyone who’s here gets that teleport offer when they need it…that should happen. There should be enough for that even if we have to give up something else. That’s what I think. It’s not right that a few people ended up without a chance.”

“Of course,” said Servin-ith warmly, picking up a red scarf that matched her outfit. “Of course. We’ll do what we can. Now let me see this beautiful scarf. I think I’d like to take it home with me.”

It wasn’t a very thoughtful response, but Alden supposed it was the quickest one. And they were trying to be quick.

“A tender sentiment,” said Bash-nor. “Of course, except for the poor lives lost at the very beginning of the crisis, all Avowed were given a teleport or directions toward safety. Some were given both. Some did not accept the resources offered to them. Others, unfortunately, chose to <<dawdle>>. We all look forward to the day when your Contract is strong enough to offer second and third chances, so that nobody suffers from the mistakes they make in such a confusing situation.”

This bastard. Alden refused to look at the ambassador. He must have been waiting for the chance to take a little swing of his own. But right now? And in this way? Doesn’t it make him look as bad as me?

Was Bash-nor hoping Alden would react particularly badly to this?

There were bad ways to react.

The whiny, entitled way…claiming I should have gotten a second teleport offer. Blaming the Triplanets for not giving me even more. Pretending like I had no say at all in the events that led up to me and Zeridee almost dying.

Alden swore he could feel the ambassador’s eyes on him.

Whatever, jerk. I wouldn’t behave like that even if you weren’t here waiting for it. Mrs. Nancy was trying to say something about everyone; I know this isn’t all about me. And what about Lute’s parents? His dad was in trouble, and he wouldn’t have gotten—

“Some of the people on Anesidora aren’t Avowed.”

Alden’s head snapped up. The speaker, saying exactly what Alden had been on the verge of thinking, wasn’t Lute. It was the rough-looking guy, and he had such a combative note in his voice that it raised Alden’s hackles.

“Non-Avowed didn’t get any teleport offer, no matter where they were. No matter what they were doing. Just instructions to head toward the nearest safe place.” He stalked across the booth to stand beside Mrs. Nancy. “And some of them weren’t anywhere near a safe place. What if a visitor enjoyed the little water taxis that used to run between Punta de la Luna and F-city? And what if he was lucky enough to make it to shore on one, but not lucky enough to make it inland before the floods? What if his daughter, who was an Avowed, went to save him? Do you think that person ever had a real chance?”

Wait…this story…he couldn’t possibly be talking about…

“Do you think that an Avowed who went to help someone didn’t deserve a second chance?” the man demanded.

I think he might be talking about those people I found. He has to be. A father from out of town. An Avowed daughter. He must have known them.

“I see,” said Servin-ith soothingly. “I hear. You’ve endured something tragic, haven’t you? I would appreciate hearing your whole story if you would like to share it.”

“You lived in Punta. But you didn’t have to be stuck there, did you?” The man wasn’t taking his eyes away from Bash-nor. It was like he hadn’t heard Servin-ith at all.

This is a bad, thought Alden. A person fixating on someone else when a Grand Senator is speaking to them is bad. That’s not a regular amount of angry. That’s an out of control amount of angry…that thinks it’s found somewhere to vent.

[Lute: Watch him.]

[Alden: Yeah.]

