After months of caring for his wife at all hours of the day, Baatar still had yet to grow accustomed to his erratic schedule. Unable to even shift in her sleep, Sarnai needed someone to move her every few hours to keep from developing bed sores or putting too much strain on one part of her body. Though all this could easily be Healed, he wanted Sarnai to experience minimal discomfort which kept Baatar from sleeping for long stretches at a time, only taking short naps here and there to provide his wife with the standard of care she deserved.

It wasn’t a demanding or strenuous labour, but it drained him nonetheless. In his youth, he’d often stay up for days or even weeks at a time with only brief moments of meditative rest. Whether it be to fight, hunt, or train, he never blinked at the challenge, but for the first time in his life, he experienced true weariness. It wasn’t from overworking, Mother knows there was little enough to do aside from cleaning and feeding his wife. No, his fatigue and enervation stemmed from a lack of hope and optimism, utterly exhausted from battling with dejection and despair.

After six months of inactivity, his Sarnai, his beautiful rose was still unchanged and it pained him so. Every time he opened his eyes and saw her face, he experienced a brief, fleeting moment of pure joy as he forgot her plight, only to come crashing down once reality settled in. Oh how he longed to see her open her eyes and smile or to hear her voice call him a dog-brained fool, her pet name for him since the day they met. It seemed like a cruel jest of the Mother to leave Sarnai neither dead nor alive. With her here beside him alive and warm yet comatose and unresponsive, it gave him just enough hope to hang himself with.

Undeterred by his moments of weakness, he refused to give up, clinging to the slim hope she would one day awaken and all would be well. To this end, he strove to guard her dignity, caring for her personally and allowing no one but family in to visit, doing everything he could to keep up appearances. She wouldn’t like being seen like this, so weak and defenceless, no, his rose had thorns sharper than most. She was a warrior born, his comrade in arms for years before succumbing to his persistent courtship. A woman who grew more beautiful with each passing day, he prayed for the chance to tell her how much he loved her and see her blush in response, a shy, girlish reaction she kept even after decades of marriage.

A knocking at the door interrupted his sentimental reminiscing and he scowled at the distraction. Who could it be? The servants knew to leave food outside the door and the sun was only just setting, so dinner was still an hour away. Extending his Chi beyond the door to investigate, he found a familiar presence waiting with undisguised impatience. Blinking in surprise, he retracted his Watch and smoothed out Sarnai’s hair before rushing to the door, knowing he’d already kept his Mentor waiting long enough. Greeting him with a curt nod, Akanai didn’t wait for an invitation to enter, merely strolling in with an irritated snort.

It’s fine. Sarnai wouldn’t mind, Akanai is family. And terrifying.

“The boy,” she Sent, wasting no time on pleasantries. “Someone attempted to kidnap and assassinate him.”

Tried. So he was safe and sound. Unclenching his jaw, he asked, “How bad are his injuries?”

“Unharmed, for once.” Already standing with head held high and back ram-rod straight, Akanai’s shoulders shifted as if trying to stretch her spine to show pride for her grand-disciple. “Killed two men without injury after being ambushed, he’s making good progress. One had an Aura and Spiritual Weapon so Yuzhen believes she will soon know the origins of our enemy. There aren’t many elites willing to throw their pride away to kidnap a child, and even fewer willing to die killing one.”

Trying to lighten the mood before his Mentor vowed to destroy an entire faction, Baatar quipped, “You say they tried to kidnap and assassinate the boy? The two goals seem rather contradictory no? Seems our enemy is exceedingly incompetent, hardly worth the effort.”

His attempt at humour fell flat and earned him the ire of his Mentor. With a spine-chilling harrumph, Akanai treated him to the full force of her disapproving glare. “You know good and well what they intended.” Indeed he did. They meant to take Rain alive and torture him, perhaps to force him to reveal the secret to his strength, healing method, or perhaps even petty revenge. Failing to do so, they tried to put an end to the number one talent of the North, a title the boy earned through blood and suffering.

Whatever their reasons, he didn’t want his Mentor to crush them out of hand.

Rain was his Disciple, so vengeance and retribution should be his to take.

Still paying the price for his ill-timed jest, Akanai continued to lecture him like a boy in his teens. “How many times have I warned you, pup? Never underestimate your enemy and always be ready for the worst. The boy learns faster than you do, at least he had his guard up before the attempt. This was a sacrificial gambit, a probing strike to test our non-existent defences. If not for the boy’s luck, caution, and that hare-brained fool’s obsessive paranoia, Rain might have been taken away from beneath our noses.”

As she narrated the day’s events, he found her response too extreme for something so minor. The assassin couldn’t have been stronger than a Major-level talent considering the boy defeated him in a single blow without sustaining injury, which meant... “What have you not told me?”

“...Our enemy sent a peak expert to Watch over the attempt, one who escaped my notice until he took to the skies and fled. The expert was seated in the same tea house as Mei Lin and your grandchildren, so he took action and risked exposure to protect them. Instead of doing the smart thing and disposing of the expert, he invoked the treaties and let our enemy go free. Mother protect me from fools and optimists.” Deflating as she spoke, Akanai collapsed onto the sofa he slept in and visibly recoiled at the smell, but she soon decided its comfort outweighed its unpleasant odour. Afraid he might hurt Sarnai in his restless sleep, the couch was where he slept most days, not to mention eating and meditating there too. Living on the top floor was a sign of power and prestige, but it made bathing a real chore. Having a servant cook and bring him meals was one thing, but asking untrained men and women to carry a large wooden tub and enough water to fill it seemed cruel and sadistic.

Realizing he was deflecting, Baatar sighed and focused his thoughts. No point asking after their safety, his Mentor would have mentioned it if the children were placed in harm's way. He merely added it to his list of grievances and asked, “Were they exposed?”

“Difficult to say.” Sinking deep into the couch cushions, his Mentor appeared to carry the weight of the world on her shoulders. “If they were, then we are in for a difficult fight ahead. They are a prized pair and not even the treaty will protect them should others learn of their existence.” A pregnant pause weighed heavily on them as they considered the grim implications. Bringing out his only clean tea set, a blue-jade pot with matching cups carved to resemble dragons, Baatar set to work preparing the tea. A gift from his disciple, the set was far too extravagant for his personal use, but his Mentor appreciated the fine work, running her fingers over the carved jade like a child with a new toy. “Mila brought home a similar set but insists it is only for decoration and not to be used. Raising children is more difficult than expected, the foolish girl vexes me so.”

He wasn't the only one deflecting. Though he learned everything he knew regarding warfare from his Mentor, when it came to parenting, she was his junior “Yet well worth the effort. Just wait until you hold your first grandchild in your arms, marvelling at how your little girl is old enough to have a child of her own.” His only regret with parenting is not adopting a child earlier, selfishly delaying so he could continue his adventures with Sarnai at his side, ignoring her entreaties to settle down and raise a family until she gave him an ultimatum on her fiftieth birthday.

Not two hours later, he was the proud father of an adorable half-tiger girl, with two white ear-tufts sitting in stark contrast to the orange and black-furred ears, a whirlwind morning which forever changed his life for the better. Alsantset learned from his mistakes, their little mountain flower raising a family of her own instead of focusing on the Martial Path. Alsantset was a good child, filial and altruistic, sacrificing personal growth to make her mother and husband happy. If not, who knew how old Sarnai would be before becoming a grandmother? It must have been so difficult for his rose to endure, learning to parent at an age when most of her friends were showing off their first grandchildren. Though she scolded and berated him often, it was merely how she was, a foul-mouthed rascal since their earliest days, him an orphan and her a child of luxury, hunting and fighting side by side in the mountain forests. She never complained about his absences or failures, never reprimanded him for putting battle above all else, and supported him without complaint her entire life.

In comparison, he was ready to abandon all hope after a mere six months. He wasn’t worthy of her love.

A warm hand enveloped his own as his Mentor shared a rare gesture of affection. “Persevere. Your wife is strong and still has fight left in her.” Hearing her say it out loud gave him strength and courage as she guided him to sit beside her. Though they were close as Mentor and Disciple, there had always been a physical barrier between them, one she broke today as she wrapped an arm around him in an embrace. It brought to mind the embarrassing memories of his adolescent crush directed at his beautiful Mentor, another thing Sarnai never complained about, though he often voiced his intentions to marry his Mentor when he was a teen.

Now those were memories he would happily do without. By the Mother he was a foolish, idiotic child, pining after a married woman while sitting beside his future wife.

With a remorseful sigh, Akanai whispered, “Do you resent me for not formally taking you into my family?”

Laughing for the first time in what felt like weeks, he closed his eyes and shook his head, enjoying the embrace for what it was, a show of familial affection. “Never. When I was younger, I often railed at the injustice of not having a family to call my own, but after seeing what Ghurda, Elia, and Chakha suffered through with young Huushal, I understand everyone’s reluctance to accept a half-wolf into their home. By the Mother that child was a terror, but he turned out well. His parents have reason to be proud.” At first, Baatar even thought to adopt the wolf-pup as a second child, feeling some sort of kinship to this younger half-brother, but a single visit was enough to dissuade him. The orphanage caregivers were at their wit's end trying to deal with little Huushal’s boundless energy and relentless aggression. Snarling and snapping at everyone in sight, he was a feral, ferocious child hell-bent on defending his ‘territory’, a tiny little den crafted from stolen blankets. How could he leave Sarnai to deal with such troublesome child on her own?

Mercifully, Baatar couldn't remember what he'd been like at the same age and no one thought to remind him.

“Aye, little Huu’s progress is nothing short of astounding, but such is to be expected considering his circumstances.” Chuckling, Akanai pinched his cheek, a fond, motherly gesture he thoroughly enjoyed. “You also turned out well, though I had little to do with it.” Beaming at her high praise, he listened intently for more, but alas, it was already over. “All I did was give your idiotic aggression an outlet, arming you with spear and bow before setting you loose upon the forest creatures, much to their dismay. The terror bird population still has yet to recover; One even tried to take vengeance on your disciple.” Sighing once more, she tightened her embrace and whispered, “Like you, I also grew up an orphan, but I believed my struggles helped shape me into the warrior I am today. After raising Mila, I finally realized the error of my ways. I am strong not because of my lack of family, but in spite of it.” Separating from him, she forced him to match her gaze, a daunting task even after becoming a formidable warrior himself. “This is decades too late but I would like to formally adopt you as my son. Are you willing?”

“Foolish old woman,” Baatar replied, smiling the whole time. “I’ve long since considered you family. Why do you think I still suffer your presence after so many decades?”

Sinking into the couch, Akanai scoffed and crossed her arms with a pout. “Bah. My affections are wasted on a cheeky brat like yourself. An unruly and ungrateful child is what you are, ruining a serious discussion with your frivolous levity.”

Shrugging, he replied, “My apologies. Blame it on my improper upbringing.”

Sharing a smile, they sat in comfortable silence as he finished preparing the tea. Though it’d been a gift meant to mock his name and Banner, he’d grown fond of the harsh, pungent flavour of Iron Goddess Tea, though the boy ruined it by adding sugar and butter before gulping it down. He had no sense of propriety or decorum, but it too could be blamed on his improper upbringing. Ah, who would have believed the little foundling would come so far, easily defeating Major-level opponents before twenty years of age. Even Baatar himself was not so abnormal, Rain was talented beyond all measure, a reward for his struggles and perseverance.

The Mother takes with one hand and gives with the other, though oftentimes it felt like the greedy bitch took far more than she gave.

After savouring his cup of tea, he returned to the business at hand. “So Ma,” he Sent, injecting a little levity into the dire situation. “What is our plan of action?”

“Hmph. Audacious brat, just you wait till I tell your Pa about this. See if you can still smile after he tans your backside.” Her smile faded as she considered the possibilities. “For now... we prepare. If they are exposed, then we retreat to the mountains and cut off all ties. We can trust no one, not even Hai or Nian Zu, not if the truth is known. If not exposed, then there is nothing we need do except find willing, competent guardians for the boy.”

Nodding, Baatar agreed with his Mentor’s assessment. Jochi and Argat were far too irresponsible, betrayed by their playful nature. “A difficult endeavour considering his past and... current circumstances.” Foolish child, his near-brush with becoming Defiled had turned everyone against him, in a time when he should have been celebrated as a hero. Even Gerel was affected by the reveal, heartlessly abandoned by his arrogant ‘Mentor’ for fear of becoming Defiled. In Baatar’s opinion, being Tainted as the boy described it was nothing to be concerned of, especially in light of the Heavenly Water’s ability to cleanse it.

A man or woman had no control over becoming Tainted since it hinged on the attentions of unseen Spectres. So what if Rain and Gerel had almost become Defiled? What matters is they didn’t and Rain now had a weapon to use against them. Except now those arrogant bastards refused to endorse Rain as a hero of the People, instead warning everyone to distance themselves from him in case word should ever spread or he truly turned to the Father. Though he’d yet to notice, Rain deserved better treatment after bringing so much glory to the People, returning home as the youngest Second Grade Warrant Officer in history not to mention his astounding accomplishment of forming his Natal Palace at seventeen years old, though that was still a secret to the world at large.

Hmph. How quickly their minds would change if they knew Rain’s drop of Heavenly Water was converting Spectres into Heavenly Energy, but Taduk had good reason to keep Rain from revealing it to anyone, even Akanai. A shame the droplet couldn’t do the same to Defiled, else Baatar would’ve long since sent Rain after the absent cowards.

When the tea was all finished, his mentor convinced him to join her for dinner. Reluctant to leave Sarnai in the care of servants, he kissed his sleeping wife and Sent a plea urging her to return to the living, but his efforts went unrewarded. Perhaps the Mother believed he had yet to suffer enough, but so long as Sarnai lived, he’d suffer anything She had in store for him.

The ten paces down the hall felt like an eternity away from his Sarnai, but waiting inside was a pleasant surprise. The members of his family both old and new greeted him with smiling faces, welcoming him as one, giant family. Husolt sat with Li Song and Sumila by the fireplace, helping the former win against the latter in a game of chess while Alsantset and Charok watched the twins play with the affectionate bears. Raising a cup of wine in greeting, Taduk poured Baatar a cup and indicated it’d be waiting for him, while Mei Lin cuddled and chatted with Rain in the corner. Unaware of their close brush with danger, the twins abandoned their games to greet him with delighted screams of ‘granpa’, running over to leap into his arms as the wildcats sniffed this rarely seen stranger. Giving his grandchildren a big kiss each, he gestured for Rain to come join them in a group embrace. Squeezing him tight, Baatar said, “I’m proud of you, boy. Not just for your victory today, but in everything you do.”

Swallowing hard, Rain joked, “Oh? Even my ‘daft’ attempts to feed the poor?”

“Yes, even that. I never belittled your intentions, only the practicality of your endeavours.”

“Well, isn’t today wonderful.” Breaking from the embrace, Rain grinned in undisguised delight as he pulled out a purse, bulging with the unmistakable rectangular shape of golden cards worth a hundred gold coins each. “Not only is my gruff Mentor praising me, but I also get to prove him wrong. Some generous soul left this donation for the school today, once again restoring my faith in humanity.”

“Good, good. I have never been so pleased to be wrong.” Gazing fondly at his gathered family, his heart wavered between joy and misery, happy to be here with his loved ones yet bitter he couldn’t share it with his wife.

In the middle of their meal, the door burst open as a panicked servant rushed in. “Sir! Sir! The Madame has awakened!”

The next thing he knew, he was kneeling at Sarnai’s side, holding her hand and crying as she ran her fingers through his hair. “Dog-brained fool,” she whispered, scowling something fierce. “How could you let everyone see me like this?”

She was awake. His beautiful wife, his thorny rose, was awake, hale and healthy as can be.

Rain was right. What a wonderful day.

Chapter Meme
