“You depart, four-eyes,” Mortar said, licking his lips as he eyed the approaching Tarrasque-meteor. It still looked a bit like a dot, but there was a lot of fire trailing behind the monster. Shiv guessed they might have a minute or so. Likely less. “Some of us got a World Quest to complete.”

“That’s not for you to finish, you idiot,” Helix said. He sneered at Mortar’s cannon. “What do you even have that can hurt that thing?”

“Mana bombs,” Mortar said. “And who said I’d be fighting it? I’m waiting for one of the Legends to pop its body open and expose its heart. Then, I’m going to bomb its nucleus.”

“Not gonna be enough,” Shiv said. “It resurrects. A bit like me. Until we make it spend all its vitality, it’s not going down.”

“Everything’s always a bit more exciting when you’re involved, isn’t it?” Whisper commented with a chuckle.

“Yeah. I guess so.” Shiv rolled his shoulder as he regarded Marikos and Hawgrave staring each other down. They didn’t even seem aware of the Tarrrasque anymore.

“Oi! What bloody fuck is felling fucking happening out there?” Georges’s voice echoed out from Shiv’s cape. The orcs turned to regard him, and Shiv grunted in response.

“I’ll explain everything in a minute, Georges,” Shiv coughed. “If we’re still alive by then.”

A pause followed. “Shiv? Is that you, boy?”

Shiv recalled Georges walking down the avenue with blade in hand. He had no hope of stopping the Tarrasque or saving Shiv. But he came regardless. He always came through for Shiv. The Deathless swallowed. “Yeah. Yeah, it's me.”

“Broken Felling Moon. I saw—I saw you die. Again.”

“Yeah,” Shiv replied. “It’s kind of my thing now.” He looked up at the approaching Tarrasque and felt his insides tighten. Valor and Uva were with Adam, and Shiv had no idea how they were doing. But the Tarrasque knew about Shiv’s cape. If he had to guess, it would target that enchantment by some point. He couldn’t keep Georges there when he got back into the fight.

So. Time to make an ugly choice. But also, maybe a fun one too…

Shiv shifted the contents inside his cape and pulled Georges out. As the chef stumbled into the light, he blinked. Vomit stains ran down the front of his clothes, and Shiv winced. Georges shook his head—and froze as he found himself getting stared down by a pack of orcs.
