//However, skills and spells have one major difference.

“Glyphs?”

//Correct.

//Skills are closer to the way monsters and beasts use mana.

//With the exception of those capable of true casting, like dragons.

“Squee!”

//While… She-Who-Feasts-On-Squirrels-And-Gets-Much-Gold shall soon cast using the language of the world.

//Thus giving it intent.

//Other monsters take a more intuitive path to using mana.

//While faster and easier to grasp, it remains limited to clear constraints.

//My algorithms estimate that the theory of Joras the Elder, a researcher and archmage of the last dynasty, might be the most accurate.

//He surmised that intent molds magic, and that clearer intent can be achieved with clearer communication.

//Therefore, everyone who employs even the tiniest amount of mana technically casts, and those that speak the language of the world do it with the most proficiency.

“Ok fair enough. Makes sense to me. Then why do skills differ at expert level?”

//They differ before, Your Grace.

//Harrakan longsword technique can make its user fast and precise, or powerful and unrelenting.

//It varies from user to user.

//The interface simplifies a complex and ultimately variable reality to help sentients navigate this world.

//Let me give you an example.

//When you are angry, or desire annihilation with all your heart, related spells come easier and with more power.

//It happens to everyone, in a way.

//A shield protects someone who desires to be protected with more efficacy.

//The interface cannot reflect the randomized aspects of life.

//It does, however, reflect a generality.

//For example, Eteia was and is more powerful and capable than you.

“Yeah.”

//Her interface would demonstrate this fact.

//Regarding skills, two of them have reached Expert level, which is normal at your age but considerable given the circumstances.

//Those who dedicate themselves to their craft can usually personalize their first expert skill.

//It would normally be mana mastery.

//In your case, your most practiced skills are dancing and scaring people.

“Hey!”

//It only proves your pragmatism, Your Grace.

//You needed balance and social skills immediately.

//And so you practiced those.

//The journey will be a good opportunity to practice mana control.

//Especially through uncolored spells.

//It can only help you with admission.

//But first, let us focus on the present.

//Your skills.

“Right.”

General skills

Polymath

Beginner 3

Athletics

Intermediate 5

Survival

Intermediate 2

Householding

Apprentice 8

Hand to hand combat

Apprentice 6

Pain tolerance

Intermediate 9

Small blades

Beginner 7

Of those, only athletics had increased by one. If you didn’t put in the effort, you didn’t progress. Simple as that. Viv wasn’t disappointed, though she was tempted to improve polymath in Helock if time allowed.

Class skills

Meditative trance

Expert 2

Mana mastery

Beginner 8

Arcane constructs

Beginner 8

Danger sense

Intermediate 1

Leadership

Intermediate 2

Intimidation

Expert 1

Acuity reflex

Beginner 9

Those were the ones that showed some progress, although not much. The issue was that she had attempted nothing new beyond the empowering circle she had used in the last battle. In order to progress on the path of the caster, one had to get out of their comfort zone, try new things, challenge themselves. Then they had to apply their new-found techniques in real life. Viv had simply shelved experimentation and her relatively slow progress reflected that.

Now it was time to see about those improvements.

Two of your skills have reached the expert level. You may pick the way in which you wish your skill to develop. The available options reflect your abilities and the marks on your soul. Only one option can be picked. Skill options do not have drawbacks.

Viv started with meditation. It felt less problematic.

Ritualistic trance: you will find it easier to complete long spells and to work with others. The path of those who prefer working with circles.

Yeah that wasn’t really her. Perhaps a time would come when she would have to coordinate with other casters in some grand endeavors, but she didn’t see that happening in the foreseeable future. It felt like an increase that would benefit casters working on long-term constructs like walls and golems, not someone throwing fantasy artillery shells in people’s faces. Next.

Battle meditation: the tranquility you have achieved better extends to crisis situations, grounding you more in times of pressure.

That could be useful, though that felt redundant. She was already hard to faze.

Deep thought: the veil between human perception and the beyond is notoriously hard to breach. This path will help you find your way with more ease.

It was the state she had achieved when Neriad had healed her soul, and she felt that it would be important in the future. However, it was not important right now and that specific path was not necessary either. She could achieve her results without picking it, especially because she had been shown how to do it once. It was as the interface indicated. It would not close any door, just help her achieve a specific result more easily. She said as much.

//Paths with significant drawbacks tend to be rare.

//I have recorded rumors that further advances can lead to specialization.

//However, this is not common knowledge.

//I can only hypothesize.

//In the meanwhile, I suggest taking battle meditation.

“Wouldn’t Ritualistic trance help once in Helock?”

//Yes, and it would make you popular to work with.

//However, you have to reach Helock first.

//I have a question, Your Grace.

“Yes?”

//Do you sincerely expect to live a peaceful life after arriving at the academy?

The golem’s eyes were annoyingly judgemental. There was a hint of false pity as well.

“Yeah yeah. Alright.”

You have selected Battle Meditation.

Just like usual, she didn’t feel particularly different. She supposed that she would have to be in a crisis. That was bound to happen. Now, for intimidation.

Court mage intimidation: you have conducted schemes to suitable ends, achieved much and caused the death of many. Your intimidation will make your victims aware that through power or guile, you will get your ways, and that it would be wise not to be in yours.

Nice and balanced. She liked it.

Warrior queen intimidation: you have powerful magic and a (very small) nation at your back. Every threat you make bears the mark of a sovereign. Your victims will perceive that there is more than meets the eye and that offending you means offending a great many people.

That was even better, but there was an issue. Anyone she threatened would be able to guess what she was. She said as much to Solfis.

//Stop stalling, Your Grace.

“Fine! Fine…”

Draconic Intimidation: you have accomplished what only one other living person has done: thoroughly impressed a member of the most powerful race on Nyil. Victims of your intimidation will know that nothing is impossible for you. No throne, no walls will protect them if they try to stop you. It is by far the most powerful of all choices and will also work on weaker monsters.

“It does sound tempting.”

//Your Grace, we both know what you will pick.

//Stop. Stalling.

Viv chose.

“Squeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee!!!!’

She had never seen Arthur so excited.

***

“You want me to rule in your stead?” The handsome man asked, lounging in his chair.

By his side, his wife reclined with predatory grace. She glared at Viv under half-lidded eyes in a way that exuded superiority, possibly considering those who lived here as hicks. Viv wanted to shear off the arrogant twit’s fingers.

“There is little need to rule, but I need oversight. A strong presence to embody power while I am gone. This is what a viceroy would do.”

“Is that necessary?” Solar asked.

Solar looked like a dear caught in headlights. Viv sighed and sloshed the flowery infusion in her cup. It was too hot to drink.

“The institutions in place should function, in theory. I established a council with clearly defined roles and powers. Some of the positions change frequently via elections, providing enough mobility to guarantee that power struggles occur within the different factions. I believe, and Solfis agrees, that the system is healthy, but no institutions, no matter how healthy, can survive the rise of a demagogue if things go wrong.”

“Hmmm. What’s a demagogue?”

Viv sighed. Param didn’t have classes on politics as a general rule.

“It’s someone who appeals to the desires and fears of people to get power instead of reason. Those people aim to get, then stay at the top rather than ruling wisely. They are the worst threat to the current government model we’re using, which is close to a constitutional monarchy.”

“Whatever you say. You want me to keep everyone in line and look good, right?”

“Gather people around you. Be the symbol of what Harrak could be.”

“Alright. Normally I would refuse, but I owe you for my arm, so I will hold the fort while you are gone. And train your line breakers. You have my word has a warrior that I’ll do it until you return. I want to ask. Why me?”

“Several reasons,” Viv replied. She had expected the question. “You didn’t seek a higher status while you’re here and those who do not seek power tend to avoid its corruption. You are also well-known, charismatic, handsome, and really deadly. Such a combination garners respect.”

Solar shrugged. The simple gesture caught Viv’s eyes as his muscles rolled under a thin shirt. It wasn’t a bad sight.

“Maybe I am.”

“Solfis believes you are, so you are. In any case, your role is to prevent people from going too far. I’d wager that you’ll be good at that.”

Solar moved forward. He placed his hands on his knees and Viv felt pressure from becoming the point of interest of the man in front of her. Even then, she could tell that he was holding back.

“What if I replace you in the eyes of the people? What then?”

Viv swallowed with some difficulty even though she knew what to answer.

“It will happen, at least a little bit. I can’t just leave everyone and expect my status not to change at least a little. And I don’t mind. I just don’t want all we have achieved to collapse as soon as I’m away.”

“Interesting. I have served quite a few people who would see their land burn around them rather than give it up.”

“A foolish notion. If someone replaces me, I’ll just replace them when I return. Much easier than picking up the pieces.”

Solar chuckled, and so did his wife.

“Ah, you make a good argument. I am not cut out for this but for your sake and the sake of the people I protected, I will do as you ask. You can seek your cure without concern, Your Grace. I will hold the fort while you are away.”

***

Anelton had not changed much since the last time Viv had seen it, before Lancer’s attack. The sacked town still had the appearance of a corpse, only one that had gone under the hand of a mortician. The gates had been summarily repaired while chimney smoke from some of the better buildings hinted at either new colonists or desperate pillagers. In any case, Viv would avoid the place. It would be the height of retardation to show her mug at the border.

The outlander hesitated for a fraction of a second. She had never been farther east than this place. It was new land from here on, a Terra Incognita that would be hostile to her, but she would not let that deter her. She had made sure everything would survive her departure. She had said her goodbyes. A new sheet of metal showing a crown had been added to the patchwork roundshield by an emotional blacksmith during a massive farewell party. The time had come to go on.

Viv looked back. Her little expedition had four horses total, including two pack horses to help forward. They would have to buy more stuff on the road and that was fine. Probably.

“Ready everyone?”

//Always.

“I hope we meet another Kark exile…”

“Squee!”

“Then, errr, to adventure!”

Viv prayed to Maradoc, God of Travelers, for a safe journey. In the confines of his domain, the god laughed and laughed and laughed.
