Kiri sliced into her roast, saying, “I had to string a few Sunnys together in order to transmit past more than a few curves in the ground. The degradation of signal was just too much. But I managed to get a few kilometers down. Shadowolves just littered the place, you know, and Sunny looks like an absolute snack, apparently.” She exclaimed, “Practically everyone attacked me from every angle! Adventurers were no different than the wolves. You got the rookies swinging their [Force Beam]s wherever they could —which didn’t do much, of course— and then you got the veterans who were able to actually get to Sunny and slice her up, or explode her— One woman about my age was content to watch for a while, but I couldn’t evade her; she just kept appearing out of the edge of my vision. Every five minutes! I’d be killing some wolf that jumped out of nowhere, and then she’d be there, all wrapped in black cloth and brooding, with her little black horns jutting out of her headscarf.” Kiri said, “I almost attacked her twice! But she evaded, thankfully.”

Erick smiled. “But what did it all look like?”

“Oh? Uh.” Kiri thought for a moment. “It was dark, mostly. Cavernous. Kilometer-wide tunnels carved by people and monsters, full of swift moving air and side tunnels. No natural light. Dark as night. But Sunny is rather bright, so that didn’t bother me at all.” She smirked, saying, “It was great avoidance training, though.” She added, “There’s no ‘night time’ down there. You could go right now with Ophiel and try it, and probably get much of the same experience.”

Erick glanced out of the kitchen window. The sky was purple with twilight. Faint stars had already begun to appear. He said, “Maybe I will.”

A minute later, while Erick was speaking of [Lightwalk] and the intricacies of what it meant to be a projection of himself, but before Kiri had a chance to give her opinion, he heard the door to the house open. Heavy boots followed, as the door shut behind.

Erick turned to the kitchen archway, saying, “Hey, Teressa! Welcome back! Dinner is already on.”

Teressa appeared around the corner, wearing the silver armor of Spur’s Guard. She smiled, saying, “Smells delicious.”

“Grab a plate.” Erick asked, “How was guard training?”

Teressa grabbed a plate and began dishing herself out an orcol-sized portion of the meal, saying, “One more day of training and learning the ropes, then I can come back here, full time. Guardmaster Merit wants me on partial-call, because—” She smiled, adding, “You’re looking at Spur’s newest [Witness]. I got the spell today.”

Erick smiled wide, saying, “Fantastic!”

Kiri clapped, saying, “Congratulations!”

Poi smiled softly, adding, “Good job, Teressa.”

“Well we have to celebrate, now!” Erick said, “I need to buy some beer!”

Kiri said, “We have some already. Rollo dropped off three kegs while you were out.”

Erick stood from the table, saying, “Even better.”

“I’ll get it,” Poi said, standing up from the table. “You did well, Teressa.”

Erick sat back down, saying, “You did very well.”

Teressa’s green skin turned ruddy as the tips of her ears turned darker. She smiled, quietly saying, “Thank you.”

“So what’s it like?” Erick asked. “[Witness], I mean.”

Teressa finished piling her plate high and came to the table, saying, “It’s like a memory playing out before you. Or watching a play, that you can move forward or backward at will. I’m still learning how to work the spell, but that’s just a matter of experience.” She flicked her eyes up and down, and a blue box floated into Erick’s vision. “Cheap to cast, too.”

Witness X, variable cast time, variable range, 25 mana

See the past.

Erick said, “It’s one of them intricate spells, I see.”

Kiri asked, “All it says is ‘See the past’, right?”

Teressa said, “Yup. It’s only as good as its caster.” She added, “But I can’t really talk about what I see in the line of duty, anyway. Guardmaster Merit already warned me of that responsibility to privacy.”

Poi walked into the room, floating a chest-sized barrel and a stand with him, saying, “Time for a little celebration.”

Erick smiled.

There was a small party. It was good.

- - - -

Everyone was asleep except for Erick. During their little celebration for Teressa, he had gotten a chance to continue his conversation about [Lightwalk] with Kiri. She didn’t have much of an opinion or knowledge about what [Lightwalk] was capable of, but she did suggest that he try out a lightward [Personal Ward], to see if he could duplicate the ‘unimpeded movement’ that he had experienced while under the sun. [Personal Ward]s weren’t able to duplicate all of the functions of many different Elemental Body skills, not without a lot of experimentation and unique [Personal Ward]s that would kill a person to operate them without the appropriate Body skill. But the lightward functionality should be an easy scenario to test.

It was a good suggestion. Erick was currently lying in bed, but he was also two [Teleport]s away, inhabiting Ophiel, shining bright under a midnight sky. Ophiel was currently wrapped in a glowing lightward, and because of that, he flew through that sky with all the grace and ability that Erick had experienced in the daytime.

He had tried [Lightwalk] without the glowing lightward [Personal Ward]. At night, [Lightwalk] basically froze Ophiel in place. It took dozens of mana to move even one meter. But with the personal lightward on, and [Lightwalk] active? It was like Erick was anywhere he wanted to be, for the barest of costs.

… In retrospect, this functionality of [Lightwalk] was painfully obvious. It was [Light-walk], not [Walk-wherever-you-want]. But still, to be able to prop up the ability for the spell to work basically anywhere that wasn’t through a solid surface? With just a personal lightward? That just seemed…

Interesting.

And with lots of possible implications. Erick couldn’t personally use this interaction. A non-Warder mage could only use one [Personal Ward] at a time, and Erick liked his 13,000 point [Personal Absorption Ward] more than he liked the idea of easy movement. But Ophiel couldn’t realistically use a [Personal Ward], anyway.

Erick inhabited Ophiel for a while longer, experimenting. He summoned a second Ophiel and sent that one blipping to the first, so he could see what the first Ophiel looked like. (Interestingly enough, the [Personal Lightward] on the first Ophiel did not blind him, because apparently no amount of light was blinding when already using [Lightwalk].)

The first Ophiel was a star that had descended to Veird, floating around like the world’s largest, most energetic firefly. Erick imbued [Invisibility] into the first Ophiel. The [Familiar] vanished from sight, but the bright halo given off by his lightward still floated around, illuminating the sky, catching on minuscule particles of sand blowing from the north.

That was enough experimenting, for now.

The pair of Ophiel blipped to their next destination.

The Hole was a hungry maw below Ophiel that sucked in all light. Sand trickled over the northern edge, falling into the Hole like tiny streams of water that quickly vanished into darkness. Even the lights of the three moons above were like vampires; unwelcome and disallowed in the Underworld.

Invisible, [Lightwalk] Ophiel, flew down first. Visible Ophiel followed. A third blipped in behind the pair, to remain in the air above the Hole, to provide a link to the other two. They wouldn’t explore for very long, but they would explore for a bit. Kiri’s tale got its hooks into Erick. He could do with some unknown threats trying to kill Ophiel; he needed to get better at surviving that sort of thing, just in case.

Ophiel descended. The edge of the Hole passed by. Even the midnight sky was brighter than the darkness down here. He expected the walls to be stone-colored, but they were black. Even Ophiel’s brightness seemed to soak into the very air, disappearing before it reached walls that seemed so far away. The walls were only a kilometer away, but that single kilometer seemed much larger than normal.

The wind was calm. Invisible Ophiel rode the light, while visible Ophiel rode the quiet wind. Both of them were utterly silent. Erick had expected a stronger breeze than this.

Erick journeyed down, riding the eyes and senses of his [Familiar]. Eventually, when the sky was a disk of blue barely brighter than the black walls, the walls became a slanted floor that was not black, but instead just dark rock. With two hundred eyes, and burning [Hunter’s Instincts], Erick was ready for anything. Ready to dodge, ready to evade; he wouldn’t kill any of the monsters here and he certainly wouldn’t harm the people, but he was ready to survive; to see if he could.

Ophiel flew across the bottom of a wide open space and continued onward, into darkness beyond. Quite a few hands must have transformed the land of the tunnel into a workable road; the bottom was flat, except for rocks and scree and sand here and there. As Ophiel flew further, the tunnel turned horizontal, but no less massive; his lightward failed to illuminate the stone overhead. Both Visible and Invisible Ophiel traveled in a bubble of light, like his own personal oasis from the oppressive, unmoving air. Erick felt the experience would have been oppressive if he had been there in person, but even so, the darkness seemed to eat at the light around Ophiel.

It wasn’t long before Erick passed the first signs of battle. Deep rents cut into the tunnel. Road turned to rubble. Slick rocks seemed covered in blood, but it was dark blood. Sticky and pooled and half dried. But there were no monsters. No shadowolves. No bodies of any sort.

He traveled further. The tunnel branched, and branched again. He picked the ones that led down.

Still no sign of other people or any monsters. If he had been traveling with anyone else, he would have joked that this was always the worst part of the horror movie.

He briefly came back to himself, with double vision. Ophiel must have been too far down the Hole. Erick summoned another two Ophiel and sent them blipping to the Hole, to solidify his connection to the forward pair.

With his connection reestablished, Erick wandered. Eventually, he ended up in a dead end; a cavern with no obvious way forward, and no obvious signs of life. Ophiel floated forward. Beyond a natural blind in the cavern, behind a minor rock slide to the side, laid a small pile of white bones. Erick paused over the bones. They were small, and likely not humanoid; the skulls were elongated like a dog's. They were likely the bones of shadowolves. So what ate them? What lived in this hole in the ground?

Erick did not find out. The cavern was empty. He backtracked. He continued to explore the empty Underworld.

He encountered nothing and no one.

But hard edged and slit-eyed, [Hunter’s Instincts] Ophiel, was unnaturally tuned into the wind, and his surroundings.

There were lots of things out there, in the darkness. They struggled to be silent. They huddled against the walls, vibrated in their own shadows, or under the crevices of rocks, keeping themselves out of sight and hopefully out of mind, trying to appear like anything but a meal.

Because occasionally, the flap of sails in the wind carried through the tunnels, as the Darkness flitted around Ophiel, watching.

Erick did not sleep that night.
