Holding their full attention, he glaced over the soldiers, many of them turning away from his eyes. Those who held his gaze were marked by the spirits, hovering about in search of an Enlightened comrade. “Then, little more than a month ago, I stumbled across the young ‘hero’, Falling Rain of the Bekhai.” The crowd stirred at the name, hushed whispers cropping up as they hung on his every word, and Gen did not disappoint. “Succumbing to his lust, he stole away my betrothed and when I tried to protest and defend her, beat me half to death.” A few gasps arose as the soldiers glanced at one another, unsure of what to do. They would understand, he could feel it. “While I lay in bed, broken and crying, the man who raised me, my Father, sat at my side. He wept and told me I should be grateful for the great Falling Rain's act of mercy, to go bow at his feet and thank him for not ending my worthless life.”

The spirits stirred above the crowd, silently rousing their anger and emotions, aiding Gen in his story. “How many of you have suffered like I did, at the hands of those in power? How many of you have known loss like mine, or have heard tales of torture and rape carried out by those like Falling Rain? These hallowed ‘nobles’ we so revere are no better than beasts, vicious and bloodthirsty as any bandit or murderer, yet we are told they are paragons of Balance, at peace with themselves and in harmony with the world. Does this ring true to any who are listening?”

Pausing to allow his words sink in, he cocked his head at the crowd in exaggerated question, enjoying the uncomfortable shuffling and muttered dissatisfaction. “I share with you what I learned in a moment of clarity, lying beaten and bloody on my bed. Balance is a lie, spread by those in power to limit the strength of the masses. We are many and they are few, so they fear the truth coming to light and robbing them of their lofty positions. They warn you to reign in your anger and swallow your hatred, accepting things as they are because you lack talent.”

Calling on the energy of the world, he fired a gout of flame into the air. “I say again, I have felt the Energy of the Heavens before, and I still feel it now, only greater than ever! The injustice I suffered caused me to give in to my anger, and here I stand, stronger than ever. Balance is a lie spread by the Nian Zu’s and Du Min Gyu’s of the world. They would have you believe those who lack Balance are ‘Defiled’, destined to become hideous and twisted, but I tell you this, we are not Defiled. We are the Enlightened, our eyes open to the truth! We welcome you to join us, and together we will usher in a new era. A world in where all men and women stand on the merit of their own deeds, where those in power are held accountable for their actions. Cast aside your fears and embrace your anger, seize the power-”

An arrow whizzed out from among their lines and Gen slipped aside at the last second, the projectile piercing through the meat of his shoulder. Falling to one knee, the Butcher’s converged around him, dragging him away as he screeched, “You see? They wish to keep me from spreading the truth so they may continue treading over the populace! Join us in revolution and together, we will roust the Mongrel Emperor from his throne!”

Allowing the Butchers to escort him away, Gen glanced back to see the Spirits whispering in the ears of many a soldier. Satisfied with his work, he struck up a small tune, whistling as they turned the corner. After a few minutes of marching, he spotted movement from the corner of his eye. Casting aside a piece of flaming debris, he found a soldier pinned beneath, still breathing and only half burnt. Setting to with enthusiasm, Gen muffled the soldier’s screams as he sated his hunger alongside his comrades, a fitting reward for a job well done.

Truly, the heavens provided for those in need.

Chapter Meme
