I stared down at a monster, but I also stared down at a man. I gazed at a beast, yet I also gazed down at a boy. At that moment, he loomed over me, his shadow stretching into a dark room from a lit hallway. Booze lingered in his breath. At the same time, he curled into a ball, becoming nothing more than a small, whimpering child.

A child begging for forgiveness. A child begging for mercy. A child that had done nothing wrong and only asked for love, but he was given a cold, harsh world that hated him. A world so brutal that the child believed in a fantasy about his mother and pretended that he wasn't broken. I gazed down at my father, his body a mangled mess, and somehow, I gazed down at myself.

He had felt what I felt, and this was not the first time he was beaten. The way he covered his head and cried, it was nostalgic. I blinked, tears falling from my eyes. This was all so familiar yet foreign. I stood over the man who once stood over me. He had become the child, and I had become the man.

No. I had become a monster in human skin.

I took a step back and let my hand drop. Jacob cried while shivering. He covered his head, begging for forgiveness. He apologized for all he'd done to me. The words I had wanted to hear rang so hollow. Feeling numb, I peered at the cabin. In a shoddy, dirty window, two sets of eyes stared at me. A mother and a son. They were fear incarnate.

I turned my head from them. I stared down at my hands. Blood still covered them. I murmured.

"Its a cycle, isn't it?"

Jacob kept crying in a curled ball. I gazed at him before opening my dimensional storage. I pulled several health potions out from Althea. I set them beside the man. I walked over to the cabin, and I silenced my emotions. I created a monolith and covered it in runes. In minutes, an aura encompassed the cabin and gave them safety.

They would fear the wilds no longer.

I stood and walked out into the forest, and I left a piece of my past behind me. I kept walking, passing by branches. They snapped against my steel skin, and I carved a path until I found a pool of water in a dark meadow. The water was crystal clear and unmoving. It stood so still that it was like a liquid mirror on the ground.

I peered up, cool wind washing over me. Light cracked through the canopy, trees surrounding the forest opening. Clouds covered a cerulean sky, and their brightness blinded me. I turned to the puddle below. A reflection stared back at me. Blood dappled the face of a strange man with gray skin.

Armor covered him, half living and half dead. Esoteric and strange runes covered the smooth plates over his chest and arms, though they ended in threatening, glossy horns. His eyes glowed the color of his mana, from ascendance to primordial to quintessence. As he shifted the nature of his being, he too, changed.

His posture shifted. His expression altered. In many ways, this man stared at me like some alien pretending to be human. He gazed as coldly as a winter's night. Beside him, a woman faded into reality, walking from one plane to another. Beautiful and kind, she wrapped her arms around him like an angel. The man murmured.

"Did you see everything?"

She whispered back.

"I'm sorry. I did."

Tears of silver began falling from the man's eyes. They landed in the pool. His reflection blurred. As the sharp clarity of his reflection faded, he no longer looked like a man. He became a demon, but his words were fragile.

"Am I a monster?"

She blinked, tears falling from her eyes too.

"No. You're exactly who you choose to be."

She hugged the man close.

"And today, you chose."
