Maybe? I dunno, brains are weird.

Regardless, the big takeaway is that if I want to keep my Natal Palace in existence, I must never lose focus. The room remains because it’s become my new safe space, the fortress of solitude I want to hide in whenever real life gets too complicated, which is all the time. That said, experience proves I don’t need to concentrate on the entirety of my Natal Palace to keep it in existence. The larger Natal Palace remained in place because I always had a small part of my mind focused on whichever personality was in there, where it be Brother or Baledagh. This was enough to keep the rest of the Natal Palace in existence through association, so why can’t I create an object whose sole purpose is to help sustain the Natal Palace? A keystone of sorts, a piece which represents a greater whole. While I’m at it, why not make the keystone serve an actual purpose? I used to walk around as Baledagh while Brother was busy Healing, so it stands to reason I can do it again, but I need to come up with the perfect object to represent both safety and Healing.

The first thing that comes to mind is Taduk, but I’d like to avoid creating anything human or animal. What else comes to mind when I think of Healing? Eating bread, drinking vials of red liquids, and oddly enough, smashing buttons labelled one through five. No, all those things are too active for my purposes. A better question is what comes to mind when I think of Passive Regeneration?

...

Sitting in front of a giant tree? Too obscure. Trolls blood? Too nonsensical. Druids? Too human. A white box with a red cross?

...Sure, why not? Now, all I need to do is associate the first-aid kit with whatever I construct in my Natal Palace, and I have the perfect place in mind. The image comes easily, as it’s a place I’ve spent plenty of time in, a tiny dirt and stone cottage ensconced in the mountainside. A quin stable sits beside the house proper and a bamboo fence encloses a small area around both, where a blossoming herbal garden sits in neat, orderly rows, so at odds with the wild, uncultivated ambience of everything else. Inside, it’s a cluttered mess with books everywhere and pages strewn about, some written by the inhabitant and others torn out in fit of pique because the author was misinformed or flat out wrong, destined to be burnt in the nearby fireplace. The round dining table tucked in the corner has three wooden chairs arranged around it, two worn and faded while the third is newer and more lustrous.

I never noticed before now, but Taduk bought the chair just for me. There are backless stools in the closet for when guests join him for meals, but in his eyes, I was never a guest, so I needed a chair, even if I only ate lunch with him most days. A small gesture and a minor inconvenience for him and Lin, but one which tells me they’ve always thought of me as family.

Cry later. Work now. Also, hug Taduk more. He’s awesome.

The rest of Taduk’s home comes easily, since his study, his bedroom, and Lin’s room are all that’s left. A quaint and humble affair compared to his manor in Shen Huo, but he loves it here and so do I. If I don’t feel welcome in the village anymore and I can’t have Taduk in my Natal Palace, then this is the next best thing. Close to the village, but outside it. Not one of the Bekhai, but standing with them.

It’s not ideal, but it’s the best I’ve got.

Now... where to put the first-aid kit? My first thought is to hide it in a secret room behind a breakable wall, but that seems silly and counter productive. This is passive healing, which means it needs to be visible, dominant even. Going with my subconscious, I envision the white box floating in mid-air, rotating horizontally while exuding a transparent, spherical domain of increased regeneration. At least, that’s what I feel it does, which is more important than its actual purpose, I’d hope.

Remember, this is all trial and error still, so it’s no big deal if this doesn’t work. No need to feel all depressed and gloomy, we can try again, and again, and again, as many times as it’s needed to get it right. Having prepared for the worst, I take one last look around the cottage before closing my eyes, concentrating on the rotating first-aid kit and the Passive Regeneration it provides. Don’t think about Healing or creating Panacea, focus only on the first-aid kit and what it does, emanate a natural, perpetual field which Heals you automatically so long as you have Chi. It’s just like going to visit Taduk for Healing, a process which requires no effort on your part whatsoever.

Willing myself awake, I open my eyes to see Ping Ping’s beak inches from the bathtub, her mouth open as she pants in eager anticipation. Giggling at her adorable antics, I get out as quickly as I can and fill a pan for Pong Pong, hoping to see if the tiny turtle would also like some Chi-Water and perhaps validate my hypotheses. There are so many of them now, I can barely keep track, but either way, Ping Ping deserves her treat. With my permission, the big girl dips her beak into the tub and slurps it all in one gulp, her eyes closed in sheer delight as she takes in the moment.

It’s still feels weird feeding a Divine Turtle with bath water, especially since I just used it to clean turtle poop out of my hair, but whatever floats her boat.

And now, for the moment of truth... Did it work?

Wrapped only in a towel and standing on one foot, I close my eyes and return to my Natal Palace. As usual, the little room is still there, unchanged with a bed, nightstand, and goblet of Heavenly Water within. More importantly, beside it sits Taduk’s cottage, exactly as I left it, still exuding the transparent field of Healing energy. Whispering a small prayer to the Mother to cover my bases, I look inwards and squeal in delight as I see my blood carrying Panacea to my severed hand and foot without any conscious effort on my part.

It worked. I can’t believe it worked. This is huge! I once called myself a support, but no longer. This has opened up a whole new world of possibilities. Right now, it’s just passive Healing, but throw in Passive Reinforcement, Passive Lightening, Passive Honing, Passive Guiding...

Fuck the Legate and his Imperial Secrets. I don’t need him, I’ve got buff bots now. Divinity, here I come!

Chapter Meme
