“Oh, but we do.” Mother glares at me. Master looks confused between us. “You see Del, Aaliyah told us she killed the beast in a minute with her amazing magic. She seemed to have left out some ‘key’ details.”

Master finally realizes what’s going on. “Maybe this conversation should wait until after diner.”

“It’s fine… continue.” Oh gods! Her smile makes master shiver. You’ve doomed us both you fool!

“Master’s horrible at telling stories. Let me explain how it happened.” I take a step towards the table.

“You have dinner to finish first.” Mother smiles at me but I can see that her eyes are cold.

She’s going to kill me and I’m making my own last meal.

I only have one chance to save myself. This dinner has to be so good it causes her to forget about her anger. Can I cook something that good? I glance back at mother.

She’s leaning forward resting her head on her hand listening to Del stammer out his experience in the woods. Her eyes shift in my direction and I suddenly feel cold.

I have to get this dinner perfect. I turn around and focus on the task at hand. First, I’ll get the pomme going. I put a pot of water on the fire while I clean and pomme and cut them into fours. I add the pomme into the pot and move over to the blood maize. Another pot of water and I have the maize boiling. The trick is to keep the two pots at different distances from the fire so they cook at different speeds.

The spider meat will cook a lot faster so I prepare my butter seasoning first. I use a small amount of pepper like seasoning mixed with a few herbs from the forest. I’ll mix some of the herbs with the butter to use on the spider meat and blood maize. The rest of the seasonings will be mixed with the pomme when I’m ready to mash them up.

I move over to the spider legs I brought home with me. Using Sense Mana, I can see the mana contained in the meat is only 30% what it was originally. The meat would probably last another day but I plan on cooking the last of it tonight.

Time to use my new pan! I grab the pan and walk over to the fireplace. I stick the whole base inside the flames and watch it quickly glow hot in the fire.

I move back over to the counter and place the hot pan on a flat stone we use for the pot of stew every night. I put half the butter in the pan and swish it around until it coats the bottom. Adding in some spices I can finally put the meat in.

The sizzling sound briefly stops the conversation back at the table. I juggle watching everything until my skills help me determine the best time to remove everything. I mash the pomme and add the seasonings to everything before I grab some bronze plates, I made for our family a few years ago.

Everyone gets a large helping of mashed potatoes, I mean mashed pomme. A full cob of blood maize and a larger chunk of spider meat.

Using my high dexterity, I carry all four plates to the table. Master and my parents look surprised with the meal I place in front of them. Master may be used to the spider meat but I’m sure the seasonings I used this time will make it multiple times better.

I make sure everyone has utensils and a drink before I have the honor of reciting the prayer.

“We give our thanks to the gods and spirits of the forest. We thank you for the food we received and the continued health of our family, may your blessings hold true.”

I watch everyone take their first bite of blood maize and mashed pomme. Mom and dad look reluctant to try the spider meat. They both notice me staring and hesitantly rip a piece of meat off with their forks.

Master follows their example and all three of the take a bite at the same time. Watching their eyes open together brings me a huge sense of accomplishment.

“You’ve gotten better at preparing it.” Master mumbles between his bites.

“This is amazing.” Dad examines his second bite before shoving it in his mouth.

“You did an excellent job, sweety.” Despite all the spine tingling looks she’s sent me tonight; mother gives me a heartfelt smile after tasting the meat.

The rest of dinner was nothing but smiles as we gorged ourselves on the magic beast meat.

I made sure to collect everyone’s dishes as we finished and cleaned everything myself. With the new pan cleaned, I move over to mom to show her my gift.

“What is this?” She examines the pan.

“It’s a special metal that master and I made. It absorbs and retains heat. You can stick the pan in the fire then pull it out and cook directly on the counter top. If it cools too much you just need to wave it in the fireplace for a little bit to heat it back up.” This might just work!

“So, it’s a semi-magical item without any runes. It’s beautiful, sweety.” She caresses the sides of the pan with a smile on her face. “I just have one question.”

“What about mom?” I lean in to give her a hug.

As my arms wrap around her, she turns and shows me her bright smile. “Is this supposed to be a bribe?” My grin vanishes.

“Well I’m turning in for the night. Thanks for the food.” Master bolts out the door before anyone can object.

I feel mom’s arms interlock around me. I can’t escape!

“My family always taught me whenever you’re bribing someone the gift needs to match the occasion. Did you think dinner and a pan was enough to cover lying about your fight with the magic beast and not following your promise to me?”

Mom’s eyes flash for a second and a, “Yes” slips through my teeth. Why did I say that! Was that a skill!

“A new skill I picked up while you were gone. Eyes of Truth, a good skill, don’t you agree?” Thank the gods I don’t feel compelled to answer that question truthfully.

“Congratulations.” I can only force a half-smile.

“You left me there alone, you coward!” I yell down at Master Del.

“I saw where the conversation was going. I saw a chance and took it. You can’t blame me for that. Besides, it must not have been that bad if you’re here today.”

I sneer down at master. “I had to beg mother to hold off on my punishment. I get to make my sword today and then the next five days I owe to my parents.”

“That’s good, I’ll finally get a day to rest properly.” I lift my arm ready to punch the lazy dwarf but hesitate at the last moment. I don’t have time for this.

I lower my arm and turn around towards the crucible we left yesterday. Using Sense Mana, I can see the puck of ore inside the crucible. The mana is no longer escaping the metal but I can still see the heat ready to explode from inside the puck.

Plucking a small stick from the ground I place the tip up against the crucible. The twig doesn’t smolder letting me know I can touch the crucible without burning myself. A steady heat is still radiating off of the jar as I move to open it.

Master leans over and hands me some tongs. I didn’t hear him approach, I suppose he’s just as curious as me if the alloy we made will work.

Once the lid is removed, I’m happy to see the layer of glass isn’t in a liquid state. I pick up a small hammer and break the glass seal. I remove the chunks and try to grab the ‘Fire Steel’ with the tongs.

The puck shines brightly in the sunlight and sports a faded orange color. I almost want to cry when I don’t see any lines running through the metal. A quick scan with my mana sense reveals an even structure inside the puck. The ‘Fire Iron’ and chameleon spider carapace fused perfectly.

“Guess we’ll need to use the gem snail powder after all.” Del exclaims. That reminds me I still have a lot of work to do!

I take off to grab the supplies I need. Gem snail steel is a slightly softer steel that’s capable of withstanding both high and low temperatures and is known to take a beating before it breaks. The only down side is the mixture for the steel is 80% iron ore and 20% gem snail powder. A decent size ingot uses a ridiculous amount of crushed shells. The only time I’ve worked with the metal is when we forged father a new axe last year and even then, it was layered with regular steel.

I let master prepare the crucible this time while I get the forge going. I have to use ‘Blacksmith’s’ logs again to get the fire hot enough. I’ll have to help dad harvest some more wood when I go out with him again.

Once the flames are strong enough, we place the crucible inside.

“Can you watch the forge for me master?”

“You sure?” He knows how much I like to do everything by myself as much as I can.

“I need to get all the supplies ready for what’s next.”

“Alright. I’ll call you over when it’s ready.”

“Thank you.” I run off to prepare everything I need.

I spend the next hour prepping everything I need so I can finish my weapon in one day.

I have neither the skill or knowledge to make a true katana. I know they were over hyped back on earth but I’ve always wanted one. A magic katana will have to be a substitute for an authentic one I could never afford in my previous life.

“It’s ready.” Master shouts out.

Let’s do this.

I move next to master and activate my Mana Skin skill. “From here on out I want to do everything myself.”

Master nods to me. “I’ll leave it to you but if I see you about to waste the metal, I’ll step in.”

“That’s fair.” I mana quench the crucible. After I remove the lid and glass, I can see the dark grey metal that will be the spine of my sword.

Using some tongs, I place the puck back in the forge. It takes more than a minute to get the new steel hot enough to move.

I wait for the metal to turn the right shade of red before I move it to the anvil. I’m not stingy with my skills this time and alternate between Double Strike and Weighted strike. The metal slowly takes on a brick shape before I start drawing it out. The steel is top notch so I’ll only fold it four times to make sure everything is perfectly even inside the metal.

Master stands off to my side looking like a statue. His eyes are trained solely on the steel. If I mess up, he won’t hesitate to stop me.

With each fold I pump a little bit of mana into the metal. The surge of mana helps to dislodge the scale that forms from the oxidation on the outside of metal.

I make sure to check the structure of the metal with Sense Mana after every fold. I only take the time to wipe the perspiration on my face after the steel is shaped in a cylinder and I can’t spot any flaws within the metal.

I set the steel aside and move back to the forge. I place more logs in the forge and move my ‘Fire Steel’ in the hottest part of the flames. This magic alloy was already quite pure but I need to fold it six times to account for the carapace fused with the steel.

The ‘Fire Steel’ absorbs the heat of the forge but takes just as long as the gem snail steel to reach a temperature that I can shape it. Even as I remove the steel from the forge red flames dance across its surface. I feed the steel some of my mana to keep it hot as I can while I work it the same way I did the other part of my sword.

After the sixth fold I work the steel into a rectangle and start to curve the metal. I leave the flaming steel on the anvil and move the gem snail steel back into the forge. Soon the ‘Fire Steel joins it.

Now comes the hard part.

The ‘Fire Steel will be a jacket that wraps halfway around the gem snail steel. It isn’t hard to fuse the metals together but for this to be a proper magic sword I need the grains of the steel to match perfectly alongside the mana flow between the two of them. When I inject my mana into the sword it needs to flow evenly throughout the whole thing.

Here goes nothing.

I pull the ‘Fire Steel’ out of the forge and place it on the anvil. Next, I remove the gem snail steel and examine every side of the cylinder. I find the side that best matches the pattern in the ‘Fire Steel’.

I carefully place the cylinder in its jacket. I can’t mess this up now.

I use Double Strike, Precise Strike, and Weighted Strike all at the same time, delivering incredible hammer blows at the cost of a significant chunk of my Stamina.

I carefully pound the different steels into a single ingot. I use Inject Mana, sending a pulse of my mana through the steel. The grain of the steel matches perfectly but my heart drops when the mana inside the metal isn’t connected in the same way.

The sword would still work even with this flaw but it would cost a lot more mana to produce the flames on the blade.

I need to try and fuse the two different mana flows with Mana Manipulation. I send more pulses of my mana into the steel and try to carve new pathways for the different mana flows to connect. It’s like connecting two freeways together with an off ramp. As long as you can get from one to the other in a fluid motion everything moves smoother.

I start sweating as I use more and more of my mana.

Almost!

Got it!

One more pulse of mana lets me spread my mana throughout the whole ingot evenly. I move the bar of steel back into the forge and move to wipe my eyes. The sweat almost blinded me there for a second.

Now I can draw the bar of steel out and form the bare bones of a katana.

I work the steel out to be 34’’ long. The blade will be 25’’ long while the handle will be 9’’ long.

I spend the next four hours alternating my skills until a sword lays in front of me. I look at the flames dancing along the edge of the blade. I need the blade cooler for the next part so I’ll have to remove most of the heat from the sword.

It takes ten minutes and 184 points of mana to reduce the blade to an inert form. I take the sword over to two jars of clay I prepared earlier. I sit down and cover the blade in the two types of clay. A thicker clay for the spine of the sword and a lighter clay for the blade edge.

