Side by side, Master Del and I make our way towards the village headman’s house. I have a sense of déjà vu while we make our way over to the village meeting.

If anything, this walk is even more nerve-wracking a second time. We weren’t aware of the dangers we would be facing back then. Now the whole village needs to be warned about the dangers we encountered.

I wish we could skip through time, so we could move directly into our forging tomorrow but I doubt even magic could accomplish such a feat.

The walk is just as quiet as last time. As we approach the crowd outside Camden’s house, I swear it looks the same. Maybe not.

Last time no one knew why we were summoned. The hushed whispers amongst the crowed paint a more ominous picture this time. A few families holding clay jars are being surrounded by groups of people offering their condolences.

I notice Ronald positioned by the headman’s front door. More than one set of eyes are staring deeply at him. I’m glad I’m not up there.

Ronald’s gaze is steady, giving no indication to the outcome of our search.

“Mister Del-Razen and Miss Aaliyah, I’m happy you could join us.” The both of us turn to our left taking notice of Nicolas steadily approaching us. We were staying out of the way near the back of the crowd, how did he find us so quickly?

I take a look around us and realize I was placing all my attention on Ronald. While most people are keeping an eye on Ronald but the villagers closest to us are sending questioning glares our way as well.

“My father is still preparing inside our home but he should be finished soon. If you’ll follow me please.” Nicolas gestures with his hand towards Ronald’s position.

Crap, he wants us up front for this. “Are you sure that’s necessary? We’re comfy here.” I try to express my discomfort at the idea of being displayed in front of the whole village.

Nicolas looks troubled by my suggestion. “I don’t think that would be a good idea.”

“Why do we need to be…?” Master cuts me off with a gentle elbow to my side.

Using the moment to his advantage, Nicolas takes a small step forward. “I’m sorry for the inconvenience but I have to insist. The village needs to see the three of you together.” His caring but firm tone doesn’t leave me any room to negotiate.

I turn my head away from him, only to see a number of villagers moving to get a better look of Master Del and me. No one is shoving or arguing but everyone close to us is trying to get a good view of us.

I feel master’s hand on my shoulder. I look back to see master nodding his head to Nicolas. Silently, we follow him as the crowd parts for our passing.

I think I might be sick.

The emotions plastered across the crowd’s faces are hard to look at. I try to focus on my feet but something inside me is telling me it’s wrong to look down right now. I take a deep breath before I raise my head and focus on the back of Nicolas’s head. I’m still assaulted by the faces in my peripheral vision.

The closer we get to the front of the headman’s house the more my shoes feel like they’re made of lead.

I might as well be scaling a mountain as we ascend the steps in front of us.

We reach the top and now comes the hard part. I see master turning around after he takes his place next to Ronald. Everything moves in slow motion as I turn to face the crowd. The steps in front of the headman’s house are only three feet at their highest point but I feel like I’m up on a pedestal for all to see.

Looking down at the crowd I feel naked in their gazes. Everyone has looks like they have a question their dying to scream out. I barely notice Nicolas slip open his front door and disappear inside. Surely, they don’t want us to address the crowd, right? Ronald and Del would never talk to this many people so does that mean I have to explain everything!?

As my legs start to shake at the horrifying idea, Nicolas exits his house followed by his father.

I’m able to stop my panic attack before Nicolas takes his place next to me. Camden stays in front of their door, taking center stage. As he looks over the crowd the whispers vanish.

“I’m sorry.” Camden’s words paralyze everyone.

“I’m sorry for the loss of our neighbors, our friends, and our family.” Many hang their heads hearing Camden’s words.

“We… I underestimated the goblins. This horde was unlike anything I could have prepared for. If it wasn’t for the brave sacrifices from the fallen, none of us would have returned from the expedition. They died protecting our homes and our very lives. We shall have a moment of silence to honor their sacrifices.” Camden bows his head and everyone follows his example.

In the silence the cries of those who’ve lost people are heard by all. It’s hard not to tear up.

The silence stretches for five minutes before Camden raises his head again. “I wish I could tell you the danger has passed.” Many people jump at the headman’s reveal.

“I’m sure you’ve all heard about the three who volunteered to stay behind and search the forest for anymore dangers.” Camden looks at the three of us and the whole village follows his example. My body erupts in goosebumps.

“Ronald and Del-Razen who faced a goblin believed to be stronger than level 60. And the young heroine Aaliyah, who faced a newly formed horned hob single handily. Each volunteered to stay behind after their exhausting battle.” I blush at the praise. I know I never wanted to stand out but I knew when I volunteered for the expedition that there was a good chance people would recognize my strength.

“I wish I can tell you they cleared up some stray goblins they found and returned victorious. Sadly, they found the beasts that were hunting the goblins, the reason they left the deeper parts of the forest. Giant magic beasts were found hidden amongst the trees.” The headman is trying to look strong in front of everyone but it’s not working.

The silence breaks as people start discussing the horrible truth to each other. I’m happy that everyone isn’t staring up at us anymore but watching everyone panic isn’t how in wanted it to happen.

“How strong are the magic beasts!?”

“Are they going to attack the village!?”

“Did we even have to attack the goblins!?”

People quickly turn their questions and rage back to Camden.

I expected him to activate his skill he used last time to silence everyone but instead he stands there waiting. People continue to scream at him and he just stands there taking it.

Ever so slowly the voices quiet on their own as people realize he’s waiting for silence.

“I know you all have questions and I know you’re all scared, so am I. I was briefed on the peculiarities of the beasts by our three heroes.” I flinch again at being called a hero.

“The magic beasts are huge spiders that use their magic to blend into the trees. They appear to be staying closer to magic dense parts of the forest but we’re not sure if they’ll branch out and look for food now that the goblins are gone.”

“How do we spot them!?” One of the hunters shouts out.

“I was told that Ronald could barely spot the difference in the trees. They were lucky to find the first one, all the others they found were extremely difficult to see. The only sign you could look for is a tree that doesn’t have any branches.” He changed the story to hide my magic abilities.

“How strong are they!?” Another hunter questions Camden.

“Master Del-Razen was only barely able to wound the beats with a magic pickaxe. The magic beasts are believed to be around level 80, maybe higher.” Everyone pales at the revelation.

“Before everyone panics, I want to remind you they’re staying deep in the forest for now. Ronald, Aaliyah, and Del-Razen have volunteered again to check the forest each month. That said, everyone who enters the forest must have a partner accompany them. We need to stay safe until the lords promised troops arrive in spring. We need to remain vigilant and pray the beasts move back into the deeper parts of the forest.” Most of the villagers nod their heads in agreement but the hunters look unconvinced of the danger. Hopefully they never run into a chameleon spider while hunting.

“Lastly, for those of you who’ve lost somebody, I’ve already commissioned a group memory stone from Salus in memory of everyone we lost. If you want a personal one made, I’ve already told Salus that I’ll be covering the cost of them all.” Burial customs in this world are pretty simple. Usually the body of a loved one is cremated after they pass on and their ashes are either kept by the family or spread somewhere significant to the departed. A memory stone is like a smaller type of tombstone that a family places around their home in honor of their fallen loved ones.

“I’ll be visiting each of the families who’ve lost someone over the next few days. If anyone needs clarification on something or has another question you can stay and see me.” I was waiting for him to say dismissed or something but only an awkward silence blows through the crowd. A few groups along the edges of the crowd silently break away first.

Of course, standing up front I can’t just run off. I’m essentially stuck up here with the others until the crowd thins out. A few people walk up to us and start asking Camden their questions.

I ignore the conversations and try to pick out mom or dad in the crowd. There they are, standing off to the side waiting for the crowd to disperse.

It takes twenty minutes for most of the villagers to leave but a small group of people are still boxing us in. People are still trying to get Camden to answer their questions.

Father must have run out of patience because his large figure starts steadily making its way through the remaining people towards our position. People quickly notice him moving through the crowd and he easily makes his way in front of me. Mother appears by his side looking a little peeved.

“Are you almost ready to go home? You promised you were going to make us dinner tonight.” Her statement draws a few heads including Camden’s. Camden and mother lock eyes for a moment and Camden quickly shifts his head to the side and starts answering the question of the villager farthest away from mother.

“I’m sorry mom. I wasn’t expecting that we would’ve had to stand up front this whole time. I have to grab something at Del’s place really quick but I can meet you back home in a few minutes.” I apologize to a cross mother.

“That’s fine as long as you hurry.” She looks between master and me a few times before she turns her body to face master directly. “Del-Razen, won’t you join us for dinner?” Mother blindsides master with the dinner offer.

“Aaaaa.” Master’s speechless.

“I won’t take no for an answer.” Mother ushers master on his way and the three of them start making their way back through the crowd. Mother shouts over her shoulder, “Hurry along sweety, and remember you promised us the best dinner ever.”

She still must be peeved at me. I need to hurry.

Double Step helps me make it through the crowd before it closes in on me again. I rush back to master’s clearing. I wish I could’ve brought my pan with me to the meeting but it would’ve been in bad taste if I was forced to stand up front of everyone holding a pan in one hand, while listening to the problems of the village.

Adding master to my dinner plans shouldn’t be that hard. I was planning a feast and adding one more mouth to feed won’t be a problem.

I wonder how master is going to handle mother’s questioning?

The hairs stand up on my neck. I can’t leave him alone with my family! Flash Step! I launch myself towards Del’s house. I need to move faster!

With my new pan in hand, I arrive back home.

I’m a little sweaty from my run back here but it was a good idea to clean myself with magic after I reached Del’s hut.

Opening the door, I see my parents and Master Del sitting at our table.

“Oh, back already. I didn’t mean you had to run the whole way, sweety.” I wipe the sweat from my face and change my shoes.

“I didn’t want to keep you all waiting.” I try to deliver my best smile I can to mother while scanning Del in the side of my vision. Did he say anything?!

I make my way past the table and steal a quick look at master. He doesn’t look troubled, that’s a good sign.

I quickly move towards the fireplace and fill it with kindling then cast my fire spell.

“Llaif gamfr ol e nnamse!”

The kindling catches and I add a log for good measure. I move over to the counter and check my supplies I gathered this morning. I woke up earlier than usual to find some herbs in the forest alongside bartering for some butter from Granny Gellar. I was surprised she wouldn’t accept my payment, saying I deserved it for all my hard work. It wasn’t until the meeting I realized the attention everyone was giving me.

I double-check our pomme reserves and make sure we have enough blood maize to accommodate everyone. We have six ears of maize which should be more than enough.

A quick tug and I peel the cobs of maize. I lay the pomme on a cutting board and ready my knife.

“So Del, you were telling us about your troubles facing the ‘humongous’ spider.” I almost cut my finger when I overhear mother talking to master.

“Sadly, my strength wasn’t enough. If it wasn’t for Aaliyah’s last-ditch attempt to stop the beast we would have had to run.”

I turn around and force a smile at master. “I don’t think they want to hear a story like that so close to dinner!” I might have said that a little too quickly.

