This is the only weakness in this place where I can find any sense of direction, time, or possible fluctuation in the laws. The emotions of the membrane all push me toward this point, yet I can feel that in my current state, it will be impossible to pierce through.

I feel the newest perk of my soul sword activate, and the long-dormant golden runes at its core finally spin and glow to life.

My entire golden immortal body vibrates, and I sense these golden runes as though they're an extension of myself.

The instant this thought triggers in my mind, my entire physical form disappears, merging with the golden glyphs at the center of this sword.

Its momentum forward doesn't slow, following the same path I swung it as though I'm still holding the blade. The membrane holds the handles, as though Maria and I are still grasping this artifact together.

The closer it gets to the epicenter of the membrane, the harder it is for me to perceive it moving forward. The space and laws around me begin to bend in strange directions, and even the shape of my soul sword starts to compress.

Its handles mold inward, and the blade itself starts to stretch.

The golden glyphs at its center, holding my consciousness, glow brighter and brighter gold while the river of silver threads is compressed in on me from all sides.

There is a very clear separation between the golden and silver light. The closer we get to the center of this membrane, the more these lines are blurred, and the laws within these silver threads are squeezed out.

I can see every single action that happened in the universe I lived in play before my eyes once again. Yet, this time I see it from the perspective of a being that has already absorbed the laws and memories of every single universe before.

It is the true inheritance of this universe's natural laws, imprinting onto the one true golden immortal.

I feel every single bit of mass and left-behind treasures laying dormant in my storage space being compressed and destroyed.

Even the small gold coin with a dragon on one side and a flame on the other, a token from the human world I attempted to keep with me, disintegrates under the pressure of laws pressing down around me.

The only artifacts that survive are those that have been through this cycle before. The many black stones tempered by the laws of other past universes. The enormous sentinel tree is compressed and morphed until all of its legacies are stripped away. It is compacted from the size of a galaxy down to the height of an average human.

There is no longer any energy that can perceive its presence or affect its state or size.

All of the similar artifacts seep out from my consciousness and float within my sword as we're stretched and guided through a single point in space so infinitely small it cannot physically exist within this universe's known laws.

The instant I make it through to the other side, a suction force pulls me through with an unfathomable amount of power.

The membrane around me feels like it is made of the same substance and infused soul, yet it is far more distant. It is the other side of the membrane, an entire universe created behind the infinitely small flaw.

The suction does not get any slower. In fact, it gets even more intense.

I feel myself being torn apart. The golden threads that make up my Immortal Form are being ripped out of my Soul Vessel, and the mass of this Soul Vessel is being degraded with every passing moment.

The activation of this final perk uses up all of its gained experience. I feel its level fall from 10, to 5, to 1, to revert to level 0 as an unbound artifact.

It cannot maintain its current form in the powerless state it's been brought to.

A fractured wisp of flawless-grade ether is left, the weight of a single soul's death brought along dissipates with it.

This wisp contains the laws that every wielder of this soul weapon has. It is the remnant of my own soul, without the memories or energy control left behind within it. It is the echo that I must search for once again, to bond with once it finds the perfect mortal that can conquer this universe in their own unique way. This faint white light is dragged away in the chaos beyond my grasp just like everything else.

There is no fear in my mind left behind in these golden threads, as I've seen this happen countless times before. The oscillating black gel flies away from me faster than I can watch it leave. All of the other artifacts that were kept safe inside it burst outward in seemingly random directions beyond my reach.

The silver sea of divine threads that have been squeezed dry of their past universal laws into me now burst outward to fill the growing space.

The packets of information containing every spark of demonic energy and mana that were attempting to merge and destroy each other to return to nothingness are now torn apart once again by a far more powerful force.

Raw mana particles and pure demonic energy are thrust outward in every known direction as reality creates itself anew before me.

All that is left of me are the memories given to me by Ember, the laws of reality he has kept tied up within him disguised as golden threads, and now a new layer of memories and laws from my universe added to the growing complexity.

I have become what he was: The Supreme.

Flashing energy waves and nascent laws of the universe bend and collide all around me.

Yet, I cannot intervene. I quite literally cannot use my golden threads with too much force; the membrane that holds me would break, and it would expose me to a universe where I am already dead.

This is the natural cycle. The Great Cycle that must continue.

Without it, new life could never be born again, and I could not exist to make sure that life continues on.

A reflex compounded over infinite lifetimes creeps onto my face into the curved-up lips and toothy grin of a dragon. It is the form I know best.

I compress all of these threads carrying the information of every past universe within me into a tiny golden orb, and allow the chaos of a newly birthed universe to wash me away into the new natural current of time.

Another layer to the Supreme Legacy has been added, yet I'm still not strong enough to break free and gain full control. The Great Cycle must repeat again.
