A meeting has been called. I’ve guessed for a while, but the priests are finally admitting it. An incursion. The likes of which hasn’t occurred since the Oathsworn walked the land. Every prominent mage from across the continent is being called to the Holy City of Maradara. Even living legends like Dragonrider Isha, Archmage Levitus, and High Priestess Raya will be there. Our Archmage hasn’t answered my missives on whether he’ll be in attendance, but I suspect he will, if out of curiosity more than anything else. I should get this book to you sooner rather than later, but I have so much I need to share, and so little time. You’re just starting your journey, and it’s going to be a long one, I want to give you advice for every step of the way.

For now, stay safe, little flower.

Eridor’s Journal to his sister

Traveling back up through the depths, I make certain to close every door behind us that I can. I don’t want anything getting in or out while we’re gone, and the doors are designed to prevent exactly that. We make our way up through the medical room and into the corridor where Masia had found her freedom.

I glance into the room as we pass it, studying the broken circle and the spot where her chains used to be anchored. I tear my gaze away to meet Eyla’s eyes.

She gives me a curious look, and I shake my head. It’s a conversation for later if she wants to ask.

Past that hallway is the room where we grabbed the training golem, still tied to Grildor’s back, then we’re back into the Reaver’s nest. It hasn’t been too long since we cleared the way, but we’re still cautious as we make our way through, Shar scouting the path ahead as our two other scouts keep careful eyes on the darkness.

A hand on my elbow makes me turn to Tanya.

I lower my voice, knowing that sound travels well in the tunnels, “What is it?”

“You want to go towards the animals, right?”

I nod, then look up as Shar gives the all clear to move forward.

The Lin girl walks beside me, her low voice bringing my attention back to her. “There was one watching us, in the hallway, pretending to be a rock.”

I frown, running through the various kinds of creatures that could be. There’s all too many ways something can look like a rock, so I pose the question to her, “Do you think it was a shapeshifter? Using Magic? Or camouflage?”

“Shapeshifter, or camouflage, I think. I only noticed it because it was watching me.” She rubs the back of her neck, gently touching one of her vines, “And I saw eyes. Magic doesn’t have eyes, right?”

My hand moves to the sword at my waist, but I’m forced to look away to guide us left down another tunnel. I look back at the teenage Lin, “It was watching you?”

She nods, “I have a skill that makes animals not want to hurt me, so it wasn’t that. It was curiosity, I think.”

I mull over that for a moment. “Point it out to us when we get there. You sure it didn’t want to hurt you?”

She nods vigorously.

“Reaver!” Daron calls, and the group pauses to look down a tunnel we’re passing. A reaver sits in its web, watching us, but doesn’t move.

Libby and Commander Vakar look back at me, but the Reaver stays where it is, unmoving.

“It’s full.” Tanya says quietly. “And we’re not in its web.”

I look down at her, then back down the tunnel. What is it eating? I shake my head, a question for another time. If it’s not going to attack us, then I see no reason to fight it. “Keep moving. Vakar watch our back, Grildor keep forward.”

They follow the orders without question.

We keep moving, and Shar returns a second later. She flies over to me, landing on my outstretched arm. “We’re almost out. There’s a Reaver to the right, but no webs block the way.”

I nod, then motion everyone forward. True to her words, there’s another reaver on the pathway right, but it doesn’t bother us either. We leave their territory moments later, and start down the path to what I suspect are the Kennels.

Tanya’s eyes study the ceiling ahead of us, then looks at the floor with a frown. Finally, she stops, her gaze settling on a stalagmite. I hold my hand up, and the group stops, looking at me.

I look at Tanya, and the group follows my look. Tanya freezes for a brief moment under the many gazes, then looks up to meet my eyes, “Can I say hi?”

I hesitate, then nod. “Keve, stay a step behind her.”

The Vishten warrior nods, then follows her as she makes her way out of the group and up to the perfectly normal rock to my eyes.

Shar lands on my pack, watching the two of them curiously.

Tanya stops a few feet from the creature, and holds her hand out. A vine moves forward slowly. The rock shifts, taking the form of a small tree as Tanya’s vine connects to it. Keve’s hands tighten around his swords, but he doesn’t move from behind Tanya.

As usual, her communication takes a while, and our large group loses our tenseness as she stands completely still for several minutes.

“How long do ya think it’ll take this time?” Grildor mutters to Daron.

“It’s a tree. I’ll bet a half-copper on another half an hour.” The scout whispers back.

I walk up beside them, “A half-copper on ten minutes. It’s not a real tree.”

Grildor shoots me a grin, “Full copper on two more minutes, for both of ya”

Daron and I share a look, before turning back to the large warrior ““You’re on.”” We say at the same time.

All three of us turn to the girl, watching her with careful eyes. Makes me wish we had a clock to keep perfect track with.

A minute later, Tanya’s vine returns to her.

Grildor holds his hand out, and we both put a copper in it as he grins smugly.

Tanya walks back to us, her gaze settling on me. “He said he’ll guide us to the others so I can speak with them.”

“The others?” I ask.

She looks back at the tree, which hasn’t moved from its spot. “There’s more creatures down there. The horses you mentioned, and then a few tunnelers and birds.”

I follow her gaze to the strange shapeshifter, then nod my head. “Let’s go then.”

She smiles wide, then walks over to the tree. It shifts into a purple vine and wraps around her arm. One end of it lifts up, pointing with a strange sharp leaf.

Our group moves behind her as we walk down the path. An open door at the end of the hallway opens into a cavernous room. Large trees cover the space, their leaves producing a gentle yellow-orange light that illuminates the room.

Tanya stares around the cavern, her eyes glistening with excitement. I watch as she runs from plant to plant, muttering to herself as she takes samples and slips them into her pack. The rest of our group enters the room slowly.

“There’s multiple creatures in the trees, watching us.” Daron says, his eyes on the foliage above.

Shar taps my shoulder, then points with her beak into the distance. A horse stands on a hill, shadows flowing away from its hooves and eyes. It looks directly at us.

Movement in the foliage above us grabs my attention as owls silently gather to the branches, staring down at us.

“Tanya.” I call, my voice grabbing the attention of the young girl. “I think we’re going to need you.”

She looks up from the flower she’d been studying, then looks around the cavern at the animals watching us. “Oh! Oh, right.” She clears her throat, then slips closer to the group.

No one has drawn a weapon, but I can see people tensing as they study the animals watching us.

Tanya steps next to me, her lips moving into a thinking pout as she looks over the many animals watching us. Finally she smiles, a giggle escaping her. “They’re so cool!” she says to me. “Don’t worry, only the owls are predators, but they don’t want to hurt you.”

I nod, a brief smile matching hers before returning to the judging animals. “You heard her, everyone. Don’t look for a fight.”

The mercenaries listen, lowering their guard. The Dralk however, keep their tight grip on their weapons.

“Commander Vakar.” My voice is hard as I look at their leader.

He meets my gaze, then nods his head. “Lower yourselves.” The Dralk words broker no argument, and his people listen to him.

The movement of the aligned horse draws our gaze. It walks towards us, its footfalls silent.

Tanya glances at me for permission.

I hesitate, then nod to her. She steps towards the horse, the shapeshifter leaving her arm to transform into a stone beside her. Once she’s beside the horse, a vine extends from her hand slowly, meeting the horse’s nose. Then they both go still.

Eyla steps up beside me as Tanya communicates to the horse.

“Owls for the Owls.” She gives me a small smile before her gaze moves to the birds watching us from above.

“It makes sense.” I say quietly as I follow her gaze, some of the owls catch my gaze with the way they look different. I suspect they’re mana-aligned. “I’m pretty sure this was once a kennel of some kind. They probably trained the silent flyers as companions or messengers.”

“What’s the goal, coming here?” She asks. “We already have most of the items.”

I look at Tanya, her face twisting as she communicates with the horse, “The reavers haven’t moved here for one reason or another. If the creatures here used to be friends to humans, then they might be willing to ally themselves again. I think helping our young Lin friend find powerful allies is a good idea. Plus I don’t like leaving rooms unexplored.” My gaze turns to the strange plants glowing through the room. “Treasures come in all different shapes.”

“Will you try to explore the reaver nest then?”

“No. Not now at least. I’ve never seen that many reavers in one place, and I thought they were solitary hunters.” I run my hand through my hair, “I’m not happy to discover I was wrong. I definitely don’t want to find out how strong the ones deeper in are. Already, we’ve seen too many aligned creatures here.”

“So we’re heading back after this?”

I look at the ice mage.

She has a strange expression on her face.

“Are you disappointed?” I ask.

“Why have they been trying to kill me for this?”

I look away from her, “There are treasures in that room that evil forces would easily kill to get their hands on. It’s why I want to bring a follower of Levis here.”

“I want more answers, Leo.”

I glance at the Dralk.

She follows my gaze, then lets out a sigh, “I suppose I can wait. But please be honest with me.”

“I will be.” I play with one of the beads on my bracelet. “You have a right to know.”

“And we haven’t discussed my percentage.”

I look at her in surprise.

She puts her hands on her hips, “I gave you the map to this place. I’m owed a percentage of whatever you make off the items.”

I clear my throat, “Some of the items are being gifted to the Dralk, but twenty five percent is standard.”

“Fifty.”

The corner of my mouth moves up as I try to suppress a smile. Then it falls, “I’m thinking about not selling the items. They seem like they should find their way to the right hands.”

She hums, then nods, “Then bring me into whatever it is you’re trying to build here.”

“What do you mean?”

“I want to help you. The Vishten thing,” She glances over to the Dralk, “The notebook you gave me, the saving of these Dralk, this ancient order of Owls. You’re up to something, whether it’s divinely inspired or not. I want to be a part of it.”

I bite my lip, then meet her eyes.

She stares up at me, holding my gaze almost like a challenge.

“We’ll talk about it at camp.” I let out a small laugh, “Even I haven’t fully decided what I’m doing here.”

She gives me a proud smile, “Good. I’ll hold you to that.”

Movement from the Lin girl draws our attention, stopping further conversation.

Tanya pulls her vine back to her, then lets out a breath. The horse huffs, then stomps the ground. More of its kind come from the trees, smoke trailing off of most of them, their black fur standing out in the yellow-orange light.