His fancy tricks won’t matter if you beat him down fast. Counter charge and trade blows. If he hesitates, he’s done for. If he stays the course, stab beats swing any day of the week. Easy Victory.

Next up is Wu Gam, Disciple to the Eccentric also known as Gam. The fifth to bear the name, Wu Gam literally means Gam Five, a name bestowed upon him by the Eccentric, a strange and peculiar demi-human obsessed with raising a flawless Disciple to carry on his legacy. A self-proclaimed perfectionist, the Eccentric is rumoured to have personally killed Gams two through four for failing to live up to expectations, with Wu Gam being his latest, and possibly last chance to raise a successor. Luckily for him, the Eccentric learned from his mistakes and Wu Gam is his strongest disciple yet, a twenty-three year old Awakened Expert of the Empire whose slender build belies his prodigious strength. Wielding a stone staff and dressed in plain, brown robes, his two furry silver-fox ears poke out of his close cropped hair, a demi-human lineage shared by all five Gams. His yellow-gold eyes hold a muted, deadened look, not something you usually see on the face of accomplished Expert Blessed by Earth, especially one supposedly highly proficient in its usage.

His Blessing of Earth makes him both strong and sturdy. You can’t match him in raw power, so don’t. Stay light on your feet, make him come to you, and when he slips up, strike a decisive blow. All the power in the world doesn’t matter if he can’t connect, so move like a butterfly and sting like a rampaging Ping Ping.

Third up is the lovely Ryo Seoyoon, who succeeded her brother Geom-Chi’s spot in the Hwarang. Bereft of rank and looking out of place among so many gruff warriors, the enchanting young woman is accompanied by a pair of handmaidens in flowing white robes, each one cradling a sword in their arms. Wearing a traditional silken dress in red and white and more accessories than I previously believed possible, the slender yet buxom Seoyoon is the youngest warrior present at eighteen years old. No damsel in distress, there’s something about the look in her eyes which warns me to be careful, a cold, calculating glare which sees only an obstacle in her path instead of a flesh and blood person. Following in the footsteps of her gifted older brother, accomplished eldest sister, and provincially-revered father, she has big shoes to fill and will go to great lengths to succeed.

You should warn Fung to stay away from her, but that’d only encourage him. May the Mother have mercy on his soul if he earns her affection. Either way, treat her like Zian and you should have no problems winning. She’s young and has something to prove, so maybe rile her up beforehand, but try not to damage your reputation.

Fourth on the list is Yong-Jin, Disciple of Grasping Vine Shuai Jiao, a man I would describe as Central’s Nian Zu. Though Awakened to the Blessing of Wood like his Mentor, Yong-Jin’s accomplishments are solely based on his Martial prowess alone, having never publicly shown any sign of mastery over his element. Adept at close-quarters grappling, the nondescript and plainly dressed twenty-four year old man only recently acquired his status in the Hwarang, as he was previously too busy serving as a Captain in the Imperial Army for games of fame and fortune. Hailing from humble origins, Yong-Jin enlisted at age fifteen and took part in suppressing three rebellions and rose to the rank of Captain by his own merits. Only then did Shuai Jiao take notice and accept Yong-Jin as his first and only Disciple.

He’s not a bad dude and really knows how to rock a man-bun. If you have to fight him, try not to humiliate him too much. Then again, it might go the other way. His weapons of choice are a reverse-grip short sword and battle gauntlet, which means his range is even shorter than yours, not something you’re great at dealing with. A tricky opponent, so play it by ear and don’t let him grab you.

...Why are you giving yourself advice in the second person? C’mon man, get your shit together. This multiple personality shtick is so last week.

The last member of the Hwarang holds no rank and bears a familiar face, shooting me a captivating wink which steals my breath away as she prepares to meet the Legate. Adujan, or Du Min Yan now, looks stunning in her tight silk pants and form-fitting tunic, mouthing something to me as she passes by. ‘Still no smile?’. What does that mean? Oh right... Last time we ‘reunited’, she got jealous because I was too busy ogling Yuzhen to say hi. Told me it wouldn’t kill me to give her a smile instead of staring at a pretty stranger, and I promised I’d keep that in mind for our next reunion. Feeling guilty about forgetting, I put on a smile and watch Yan strut across stage, her long, slender legs making her hips roll in a seductive and hypnotic manner. Striking a courtly bow, her plump, peach-shaped posterior is on full display right before my eyes and it takes every scrap of self-control to keep myself from drooling. All I can think about is how close we used to be, spending our days training and rolling in the dirt and our nights laying side by side in our tiny, cramped tent...

If I have to fight Yan, I’d rather not do it on stage in front of everyone. It’d be much better to have a match in my large, spacious yurt where my nice, comfy bed is... Is it hot out here? It feels hot. Damn, I could use a drink. And a couple minutes of privacy. With all the craziness going on in my head and so many stealthy protectors slinking around, I haven’t been able to... relieve myself all week...

Finished with her meeting, Yan strides back to her place in line with a radiant smile, paying me no mind as the smile slips from my face. Well... it’s probably better this way. We’ve been separated for over a year now, and I have Lin and Mila to think about. I can’t be collecting wives like bottle-caps or shiny stones, they’re flesh and blood people, not pretty dolls for me to sate my needs. I’m sure Yan has plenty of gentlemanly suitors and she always talked about having a harem of her own, so I shouldn’t be surprised when she -

“Boss. It’s our turn.”

Dastan’s reminder puts an end to my musings and I realize I’ve been called to approach. Taking a deep breath to calm my nerves, I approach the dais with Dastan and Sahb to greet the Legate with a bow. “Imperial Servant Falling Rain greets Imperial Legate.”

Alrighty then. You can do this buddy. You prepared in advance, asked for advice, and have a backup plan in case things go bad. Don’t sweat it. Just... roll the dice.

“Rise.” Gesturing for the Crier to remain silent, the Legate addresses me in a conversational tone. “Dispense with formalities a moment, though I fear I can’t offer you a seat this time.” Flashing a grin, his smile grows as he inspects Dastan and Sahb, though it falters once it returns to me, his eyebrow quirking in question. “You’ve... diminished since we last met. Troubles?” Switching to Sending, he adds, “Were you attacked and injured? Your Natal Palace has notably regressed.”

What? He can see that? Playing it cool, I shrug and answer, “Oh. Nothing to worry about, I grew tired of the mountain view. Felt like I needed a change, but haven’t decided what yet.” It’s too depressing to think about...

“A costly sacrifice for a change of scenery.” His tone remains unconvinced, but he doesn’t press for more.

Costly? Not really, maybe a couple days work. Okay, a week or two, tops. I’d also have to make another me to sit inside the Natal Palace if I want to make it huge, but that’s no big deal. Those mental constructs are like blanks, with nothing going on upstairs, only doing what I tell them to do. It doesn’t even have to look like me if I don’t want it to, I could leave the original Fluffy Bunnykins in there if I felt like it. Answer the Legate, say something vague. “Sometimes, taking a step back lets you see the whole picture.” Oh shit. Can he see everything? Did he see me talking to myself? Or worse, did he see Blobby? Probably not, since I’m still breathing, but who knows. “Do you see everything in there?”

Smirking, the Legate answers my question with two questions of his own. “Why do you ask? Have you something to hide?”

Smarmy jerk. “See, sometimes I like to conjure up a few women and -”

“Stop.” Still smiling, the Legate shakes his head with a rueful chuckle. “Oh you are a refreshing breath of fresh air.” Our private conversation comes to an end as he infuses his voice with Chi and Speaks for all to hear. “Warrant Officer Falling Rain and Attendant to the Divine Turtle, show us what gift you have prepared.”

The Legate’s words elicit an audible gasp from everyone watching, and after a moment of silence, the city erupts into applause. This was the first time the Legate addressed anyone by name or rank. Hell, even the Marshals were referred to as ‘Imperial Servant’. Guess he wants everyone to know how much he values me, which is a nice gesture, but it doesn’t really cost him anything. Playing my part, I bow and wait for silence before I reply. “This humble servant has prepared several gifts for the occasion, most of which are geared towards the future of the Empire.” The Crier repeats my words for everyone to hear, including myself. It’s a little disorienting, like hearing a reverse echo, with the Crier’s voice sounding louder and clearer than even my own, but I push on. Gesturing to Dastan and Sahb, they hand over a chest to the Legate’s guards, who inspect its contents before bring it up for him to peruse.

The Legate’s confusion is plain to see, but I hold my tongue and let him make the first move. Taking the thick, leather-bound book sitting on top, he flips it open and runs his fingers over the pages with an intrigued look. “This paper... it’s marvellously light and thin, more-so than any I’ve ever come across.”

“A new process discovered by a group of brilliant minds in the North, working together towards the betterment of all.” I’m laying it on a little thick, but this is exciting. “Presently, paper is made from dried and pressed reeds in a lengthy and costly process. The book’s paper is made from tree bark, old linen rags, and hemp waste. Using a single water powered mill, my people can make hundreds of sheets in a single day at minimal cost, current estimates sitting at one copper per square meter with plenty of room to improve.” As if it’s an afterthought, I add, “The details of the paper-making process are all laid out on the first few pages, and this one hopes to share it with the Emperor and anyone else who so desires it.”

Socialism, Ho!

“Giving away ideas are we? And here I thought you were handing over a lucrative business industry.”

The Legate’s good natured jest has an edge to it and I bow to hide my satisfaction. “If that is the Legate’s desire, then this one will comply.”

Playing along, the Legate asks the question on everyone's mind. “Why then, do you intend to give away such a valuable discovery?”

“For the betterment of the Empire.” Straightening up, I keep my shoulders slouched and head drooped, showing no pride in my accomplishments and that I care nothing for wealth. Truth be told, I’m not all that into money. It’s nice to have, spend and look at, but that’s about it. I suppose I’d feel differently if I were poor, but that’s how it usually goes. “While I could make a fortune by keeping the manufacturing process a secret and selling paper at an outrageous markup, any such profits are negligible compared to the benefits gained from the widespread distribution of cheap, affordable paper.”

“How so?”

This is going much better than expected. At least he seems interested and is taking part in the conversation. “Literacy is the foundation upon which all learning is built, and education intrinsically tied to economy. With cheap and affordable paper, the cost to learn reading, writing, and basic arithmetic drops to almost negligible levels, which will have far reaching effects throughout the Empire. Well-educated workers can perform tasks more efficiently, find new ways to improve profits, and become a new market for literary pursuits such as poetry or pleasure reading.” Unable to hide my excitement, I continue speaking, my voice faster and louder than before. “A higher literacy rate also lets us tap into a vast, untouched resource, the collective knowledge of the Empire’s working class. Generation after generation, knowledge is passed down from father to son, mother to daughter, but that’s where it ends. Who knows how much knowledge we've lost to time and tragedy? With improved literacy, it opens up the possibility for an exchange of ideas and theories, discourses on techniques and stratagem. While it might not seem like much to you or I, a farmer learning how to improve his yield of crops or a fisherman how to predict the weather could massively change their lives for the better. Losing tens of thousands of gold in profit to improve the lives of commoners across the Empire for generations to come, this one sees it as a small price to pay.”

There’s so much more too, but sadly, my enthusiasm doesn’t seem to be catching on. The crowd sits silently while the Legate flips through my book. “What of the rest of it? There are several other items inside the chest and much more detailed in the book.”

