“Paper is but one part of the gift.” Gesturing for Sahb to step forward, I point at the buckle on his backpack. “This is a strap buckle which can be tightened and loosened with one hand.” Sahb helpfully demonstrates a few times while I scrounge through the bag and pull out a few miscellaneous items. “This is a caliper, you use it to quickly measure the distance between two points on a flat surface, which among other things allows for fast and accurate map making. This is scented soap made primarily from vegetable oil, not as harsh on the skin and leaves laundry smelling fresh. This is an ingot of cast iron, which is cheaper to produce than traditionally smelted iron, needing no refining or hammering, but at the cost of being more brittle and inflexible. I also have a crossbow on the wagon which is easy to build and can fire ten bolts per minute with minimal practice, perfect for hunting wild game or weak Defiled. The book contains step by step instructions to create all of these items and more, while the wagons hold examples of our work for the Legate to inspect. This one hopes the Empire can make use of them, improve on them, create new inventions and usher in a new age of prosperity for all.”

Leaving the items in Sahb’s hands, I eyeball the Crier until the Legate waves him to silence. Leaning forward, I keep my voice low and whisper, “As for personal profits, there’s extra pages at the back of Imperial Legate’s copy which will not be shared with anyone else. Look them over and I’m sure you’ll find it of interest, especially the sections detailing paper money and money lending, both extremely lucrative concepts.”

Boom. That got his attention. He doesn’t care about cradle-scythes that let you reap and lay out the grains for easy collection, a water-powered clock so villagers can tell time, or even a counter-weight catapult to launch death from afar. All he’s interested in is how these inventions will benefit the Imperial Clan, not the Empire as a whole. To that end, paper currency reads like a hegemony’s wet dream, allowing the Emperor to collect gold and silver in exchange for pieces of paper, with the eventual goal of switching over to paper currency with no inherent value besides that which the Emperor gives it.

While paper currency will put more power into the hands of the Imperial Clan, I’m hoping it’ll blind them to the possibilities of everything else in my book. Maybe it’s arrogance speaking, but I want to believe there’s a reason I’m here in this world with my scattered memories. My first guess was so I could draw a bunch of silly captioned pictures for shits and giggles, but then I actually put some thought into it and decided to try and leave the world a little better than I found it. Alone, I can’t do much, but I can get the ball rolling in the right direction. Education is a powerful weapon, one which can change the world for the better. It’s not just about learning characters and numbers, but about laying the groundwork for each successive generation to discover and create new and wondrous things. Reducing poverty, improving the standard of living, passing on values, and preventing needless deaths from treatable illnesses, they’re all worthy causes, but basic human rights can’t exist while there is such a gross imbalance of power.

My end game is this: once most people are no longer barely scraping by, they’ll be free to explore other options, like trying their hand at the Martial Path.

Take the Behkai and other people of the Saint’s Tribulation Mountains for example. They don’t have a higher incidence of Martial Warriors because they’re naturally talented or harder working, but because every child is given a chance to learn and those who show promise are nurtured. If more peasants around the Empire grow to become Martial Warriors and take power, eventually there will be more soldiers from humble backgrounds than noble ones. Bloodless revolution is a child’s dream, because without a credible threat from their own people, the Imperial Clan will never consider any matters aside from their own self-interest. Add in a sprinkling of crossbows, catapults, Spiritual Guns, and other new, deadly weapons into the mix, and bloody conflict to right the balance of power is all but inevitable.

Sometimes, things have to get a little worse before they can get a lot better, but thankfully, I’ll be dead and gone by the time any of this takes place. Maybe I’m wrong and things work out for the better, or you know, the Defiled kill everyone and nothing I do matters. Whatever happens, happens. In the meantime, I’ll do what I think is right.

Feigning indifference, the Legate hands the book to his seneschal and gestures for his guards to take everything away. “Is that all?” he asks, sounding ever so slightly disappointed. He’s putting on a show, trying to make it look like he’s upset because I’ve presented him nothing which will benefit him.

The Imperial Clan must have its tribute, after all.

Shrinking back in mock fear, I shake my head and frantically gesture for Dastan and Sahb, who both run back to the retinue and collect four leather-wrapped items carried by four separate guards. Yuzhen’s suggestion to better sell the lie and make it look like a last minute gift and make my book seem less... threatening. “Certainly not,” I say, hiding my grimace as the Crier echoes my words. “This one would never dream of presenting Imperial Legate with so poor a gift.” On cue, Dastan and Sahb reveal the ‘last second gift’, once again causing Nan Ping’s inhabitants to audibly gasp as one. Four round, metal shields shimmer in the morning light, their surfaces engraved in flowing, disorderly inscriptions, both disorienting and pleasing to the eye. “This one presents Imperial Legate with these four Runic shields, crafted by one who would prefer to remain anonymous.”

My Teacher Taduk, Medical Saint, Loving Daddy, all around great guy, and now, Runic Craftsman.

He makes everything look so easy, crafting twelve Runic shields before running out of inscription materials. Resupply is kind of an issue, and even Yuzhen’s new friends from Central are having trouble procuring what we need. Now that the Empire knows we have a Runic Craftsman, there should be plenty of powerful factions willing to supply the needed materials in exchange for shields of their own, but I’d much rather keep those in house. It hurts enough giving away four shields to the Legate, but Yuzhen said a princely ransom would buy me plenty of goodwill from the Legate. More importantly, such a large gift (presumably) obligates the Legate to protect me and mine, lest he lose face and earn a reputation as an ingrate. Make no mistake, I will need his protection. Many will wonder what goodies I’ve kept for myself and the Bekhai, but with the Legate’s (publicly obligated) support, most will think twice before acting against us in the open. Even if the Legate doesn’t want to help us, he’ll have to at least pretend to be on our side, which should be enough to dissuade all but the greediest and well-connected of factions. This is exactly why Akanai forbade me from sharing knowledge of Panacea, because it is far too tempting a prize, even for the Imperial Clan.

Heh. I’m starting to get the hang of this politics thing. Yuzhen only had to explain it three times before I got it.

In the end, even though Taduk said all twelve shields were mine to do with as I pleased, I set four aside for this gift, gave six to Akanai and Baatar to hand out, and only kept two for myself. After much deliberation, I gave them to Dastan and Sahb because not only are they strong and important enough to warrant them, their fighting styles already incorporates a shield.

Plus... they’re kinda Oath-sworn to defend me with their lives and with Runic shields, they’re much better equipped to do so. I may be new and improved, but I still have a healthy respect for danger.

My lavish and practical gift is a stunning success and the Legate takes a minute to extol my virtues and thank the Bekhai and their mysterious Runic Craftsmen, words met with hearty cheers and thunderous applause. Flooded with relief at a job well done, I fall in line with my retinue and smirk at the other young talents, basking in the satisfaction of beating my rivals with my wallet and ingenuity. Everyone thinks the Runic shields are my most valuable gifts, but little do they know the knowledge bomb I’ve dropped in their midst. The people of this world aren’t stupid, they just lack proper motivation. Once companies see the value in research and development, they’ll begin investing in education and the rest will fall into place.

Everything went perfectly as planned and now all I have to do is sit back and wait for someone to figure out indoor plumbing. No more pooping in pots and ditches, that’s the world I want to live in.

With this, the North has ‘won’ twice in a row now and my fellow northerners are in high spirits, clapping their hands, stomping their feet, and chanting my name on the shores of Nan Ping Bay. After long minutes, the Legate stands up and holds his hands up for silence. Addressing the now silent crowd, he Speaks. “These nine exceptional young warriors are the future of the Empire. Standing at the forefront of their peers, they have each risen to prominence in their respective provinces.” Grinning as he makes eye contact with us one at at time, he adds, “However, I, and many others, have but one question on our minds: which of you is strong enough to claim the title of undisputed number one talent in the Empire?”

Nan Ping erupts into ground-shaking applause once more, startling Blackjack into seeking shelter in Ping Ping’s shell. Already I can see the other eight young talents eyeing me with predatory gazes, hungry for the reputation which would come from defeating Falling Rain. Even Yan has the same idea, biting her cherry-pink lips as she wonders just how much stronger I’ve become. Chuckling beneath my breath, I study my would-be challengers one by one, strapping on Tranquility while the Crier lays out the ground rules. Too bad Mila isn’t here, I was hoping to see her beat everyone to a pulp and claim her rightful place as number one talent in the Empire.

No big deal. I’ll just have to take the title and hold it until she’s ready.

Now... who’s first?

Chapter Meme
