Four guards reached the emplaced weapons and frantically pulled triggers. Nothing happened; the powerful enchantments had already degraded past the point of usability in Nathan’s aura. A centrally mounted cannon exploded in its user’s face as the containment chamber broke down, consuming two soldiers in a blast of brilliant energy and throwing the rest to the floor. The blast didn't reach the Heirs, eaten by Nathan's antimagic. One of the last guards tried to fire something that looked quite a bit like a machine gun, but the magical device was inert in her hands. She smacked the device in breathless frustration, then looked up to see Khachi’s hammer, limned in golden light, descending.

“Oh - Skills prot…” Her words were cut off with a sickening crunch, and Aarl bounded into the security room, blades slicing out to finish off the downed guards before they could rise to their feet.

Stella simply walked forward, holding a dozen unneeded shield spells at the ready. She looked around at the chaos with disdain. “Too easy. A dozen elite soldiers, and they can only die.” She looked back at Nathan, a complicated emotion somewhere between awe and disgust on her face. “Dragon’s breath, this isn't a true contest.”

Nathan shrugged, but stepped into the room to study the far wall. There was another enchanted security door before the orb that was blocking his magical perception. This barrier was different from everything they’d passed by so far, reeking of wizardry that rivalled anything he’d seen in the Ascendant Academy.

He squared his shoulders and concentrated on the door, mapping out the patterns of aetheric energy emblazoned onto the alloy. He found what he was looking for, then smiled grimly. “This is where it gets interesting.”

Permanent Talent 1: Arcane Nullfield 8

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 6

Permanent Talent 3: Airwalking 8

Class: End of Magic level 839

Bottomless Stamina : 84900/84900

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Spellslayer level 619Regenerative Focus: 5782/6290

Catastrophic Blows

Battle Stealth

Mage Infiltration

Forgettable

Sneaky Blow

Antimagic Stealth

Magical Manipulation

Lethal Index

Wizard Resistance

Magic Jammer

Controlled Failure

Utility skills:

Tranquility 3

Inspiration 8

Impulse 4

Mystical Discernment 5

Forewarning 4

Arcane Insight 7

Evasion 2

Mental Vault 6

Veracity 3

Parkour 10

Visibility Control 7

High-tier Disguise 9

High-tier Battle Cry 3

Aura Control 5
