With another instant activation of silver threads, I tether the four of us together and void step downward into the green zone.

Unlike the last two meetings that ended up in confined cultivation chambers, this time we find ourselves out in the open, with green clouds floating by left and right.

On an expansive platform atop the Grand Citadel of the Green Zone, there is only one figure present, looking out over the edge into the vast green zone.

There are many towers built on the base of this zone, rising high above the thicker cloud layer below most citadels. They all look very similar to the towers in the zone we just left; however, many of these buildings are not sealed off from the outside zone.

There are many open windows, doors, and public markets with the same green divine thread gravity count as the rest of the zone.

Of course, a few buildings are specially crafted, but in the main hubs near the citadels, that is not the case. As I peer all the way across the zone, many smaller private chambers are built with these specifications.

The fast travel orbs in this zone are far slower than in the zones above, as the average level of system users here ranges from 500 to 10,000 on average. There are rare exceptions of singular six-figure level holders at the top of most towers, working as business owners or private guards.

Yet, the normal citizens I watch roam about are mostly newly ascended system users, or weaker beings that are far more interested in business and managing worlds, item sales, and dungeon rentals rather than becoming stronger themselves.

I quickly begin to map out the wealth districts in the general vicinity. The Grand Citadel's bottom floor, which is the largest, holds the majority of high-end shops and commerce centers. It works like the heartbeat of the cities that surround it.

Many of the fast travel lanes connecting the buildings that are not on the citadel still connect at the same altitude, millions of kilometers above the zone floor, perfectly in line with the lower layer of the Citadel.

The further away from the epicenter, the less prosperous the markets become.

There is no definitive separation, but over the centuries of alliances and natural growth, new districts and community habits have been born.

Though, unlike my first time entering a major city in the green zone, fear and oppression do not fill the air. I see over a million guards within the Grand Citadel alone. The majority are at the peak of the green true core, while littered among the captains there are some Cyan and Blue cored Lords in charge.

I recognize many of these higher-tiered guards as system users I saved from Ellipsia centuries ago. They were souls trapped within Demonic Servant Avatars, yet after conquering the zone, the Warlords crafted new Avatars for all of them.

When I spot other citadels floating far off in the distance, it appears they too have adopted similar models, having their floating islands as the city epicenters, and for millions of kilometers surrounding them, larger cities are built.

A smile slowly forms on my face as I retract my senses back to the platform we stand on.

The presence of a deep purple-cored Goblin Queen turns around as she senses movement behind her.

Ava's eyes open wide as our gazes meet, and the subtle fluctuations of long-range telepathy messages burst off of her. It would be easy to intercept and even read the contents of her messages, but I sense who they're headed to and decide not to intervene.

A thud echoes through this entire floor of the citadel.

It is the third time I'm witnessing such a sight, but watching old battle partners that I thought of as near equals all kneel at the very sight of me has still not become normal.

"The Emperor has returned. I humbly welcome you back to the Green Zone."

Just as wisps of silver threads start to form on my fingers, a red and white burst of light from afar approaches at a rapid rate, so I wait until they arrive.

The enormous battle forms of a Purple Cored Scarlet Berserker and a Pristine White Griffin both touch down behind her.

Upon impact, they revert to their smallest suppressed forms and bow their heads while falling to a knee, not saying a word.

Maria sends out threads of mirrors intertwined with my simple silver threads, and the three of them are lifted to their feet again.
