“Of course, My Lord.” The female dwarf said, and touched a small piece of steel on the desk. “Ma'am?”

“Send him in.” Ereka said.

“Go right in, My Lord.”

“Thank you.” Ren said and walked by her to the back of the building and knocked on Ereka's office door once, then opened it. He saw Ereka smile at him for knocking, and he went into the office and shut the door.

“Hi, Ereka.” Ren said.

“Hello, My Lord.”

Ren shook his head. “I thought we agreed when we weren't in public, we could use our names without any implications.”

“We did, but...” She grinned. “It's hard to ignore your standing now.”

Ren smiled and sat down in the chair.

“What can I do for you?” Ereka asked.

“I need a dozen rolls of see-through fabric, half a dozen of lace, and one of frills.”

She blinked at him a few times, then thought about what the fabric could be used for, and her face flushed a little red.

“That's... a lot of... ah... fabric.”

Ren grinned. “It's not for me to wear, if that's what you're thinking.”

Her eyes widened, then she blushed completely as she laughed. “You're horrible.”

“I think I like 'crazy' better.” Ren said and laughed. “How's the money situation coming along?”

“We've got a steady income coming from the Hole, and from Barnar's Stoneworks.” Ereka said. “Boy, the Houses just love all those ideas you came up with.”

“I'm glad.” Ren said. “When orders for ore start coming in, this place will really start picking up.”

“Are we taking orders for that?” Ereka asked.

“Once we have production up to a good level.” Ren took out a pair of steel squares, enchanted them with Sending Glyphs, and handed one to Ereka after slipping the other into a pocket.

“What's this for?” She asked.

“I'm going to be working at the mines for the next 3 months, and I don't know if I'll be able to get back here to help take care of things.” Ren said. “If you need me for anything, just let me know.”

“Are you sure?” Ereka asked. “I... I don't know if... I mean, how many other people have these?” She sighed. “I have no right to ask that.”

Ren smiled. “To be honest, only you.”

Ereka's eyes widened at his admission.

“I've got a link to Nathalia.” Ren said, and held up the hand with the Sending Ring on it. “But she's going to be busy taking care of Narhilda, now that they're back at the castle and trying to run the Kingdom.”

Ereka nodded slightly. “If I need anything, I'll be sure to contact you right away.”

“Great.” Ren said. “Is there any chance you can hire some general laborers to set paving stones? They don't have to move here; but, I've got two housing sub-divisions with only dirt roads, and thousands of paving stones beside the Keep just sitting there.”

“Sure.” Ereka said. “I'll put the word out.”

“I'd normally say no women because it's heavy and grueling work; but, as long as they take their time and are careful...”

Ereka smiled. “I know a few women who would be insulted at your insinuation.”

“So do I.” Ren said and grinned. “Why else do you think I added the qualifier?”

“We've got a couple of good healers now, too.” Ereka said.

“I just came from there.” Ren said. “They're really happy that you've given them everything they needed so quickly.”

“Actual money still talks in this city.” She said and laughed. “The messenger said the Woodworkers Guild nearly jumped for joy when I placed the order for all of the furniture for the houses, and the beds for the medical building.”

Ren laughed. “I'm glad.” He said, then took out several hundred platinum. “That reminds me, you better take this.”

“Ren!” Ereka exclaimed. “What am I going to do with all of this?”

“Pay everyone. Hire more people to help. Have fun.” Ren said. “In fact, now that Narhilda and Nathalia aren't in residence anymore, you're actually running everything all by yourself.”

Ereka froze still and stared at Ren.

“You didn't realize that, did you?” Ren asked, and smiled. “You pay wages, order everything, assign housing.” He looked at her. “You're even accepting oaths in Lady Neram's stead, aren't you?”

Ereka nodded, and Ren smiled.

“I'm sorry I had to point it out to you; but, you need to know how important you are to this House.” He held up his Sending Ring. “Nathalia?” He whispered.

“Hi, Ren.” Nathalia said. “You don't have to whisper. We're back in the royal apartments waiting for lunch. Are you at the mines yet?”

“No. I'm at the Main House making a few orders, and straightening out the situation Ereka is in.”

“Oh?” Nathalia asked. “What situation is that?”

“I told her that with you and Narhilda out of the house and at the castle, she is running things by herself right now.”

“Tell her we're sorry for leaving it all to her, and that we know the House is in good hands.”

“She heard you.” Ren said. “The reason I called is that the house on top of House Neram Keep is empty right now. I was wondering if letting Ereka stay there might be a good idea.”

“That's a great idea!” Nathalia said. “I was getting worried about leaving it empty.”

“Me, too.” Ren said. “The only thing the guards are guarding is the stable.”

Nathalia laughed. “It's fine with me if she stays there. Hold on, I'll ask Narhilda.”

Ren waited patiently, and Nathalia spoke again.

“She likes the idea, too.”

“Great.” Ren said. “Thanks, Nathalia. I love you.”

“I love you, too.” Nathalia said. “See you tonight.”

The ring stopped glowing and Ren looked at Ereka. She had a shocked look on her face, and Ren smiled.

“Now do you realize how important you are?” Ren said, as a key materialized around Ereka's neck. She grasped it and took several deep breaths.

“Ren.. you...” Ereka shook her head. “You're amazing.”

Ren chuckled. “I can only hope that I can keep that image up.”

“You don't have to hope too much.” Ereka said and she smiled as she let the key go. “Just keep being yourself. The amazing just happens.”

Ren smiled. “I better go.” He said and stood up. “My first 'day' at the mines is nearly half over, and I haven't even signed the indentured servant contract with myself yet.”

Ereka stood up and came around the desk. “That was a stroke of genius, what you did.”

Ren nodded. “You've got to love wiping the smugness off of people's faces, especially when they think they have you by the ba... ah... dangling man parts.”

Ereka snorted a laugh. “I believe the word you are looking for is 'balls'.”

Ren laughed. “I didn't want to use such language in front of a woman, in case you took it the wrong way.”

“Thanks for that. I grew up with Croggart and Groggot, though.” Ereka said. “I've heard that word a lot.” She chuckled. “Among other words that can't be used in polite conversation.”

“I can imagine.” Ren chuckled himself. “I've used a few words like those myself.”

Ereka smiled. “So have I.”

“I really do need to go.” Ren said. “If I think of anything else that I need ordered, I'll let you know.”

“I'll wait for your call.” She said, and took in a deep breath. “Good luck in the mines.”

“Don't worry.” Ren said and took her hand. “Like I've told a couple of people. Hard labor is just labor for me.”

Ereka sighed and smiled. “I'm glad.”

“Me, too.” Ren said, and bent over her hand. “Bye, Ereka.”

“Bye, Ren.”

Ren left her office and nodded slightly at the receptionist as he passed, and once outside, ran for all he was worth. He made it back to the city a couple of minutes later, then the new mines a couple of minutes after that. He saw the shack he'd made had a large gate added, and a guard stood outside.

“Hello, My Lord.” The guard said and opened the gate without asking Ren what he wanted.

Ren wasn't sure he liked that. “Do you let any Lord in like this, or is it just me?”

“Just you, My Lord.” The guard said. “The mine foreman has been expecting you all morning.”

Ren nodded slightly. “I was held up taking care of a few things.” He said. “Is he in his office?”

The guard nodded slightly. “It's up the road a little, across from the cafeteria.”

“Thanks.” Ren said, and ran up the road to the small building the mine foreman used as an office. He knocked on the door, and went in when the mine foreman told him to enter.

“There you are.” The mine foreman said. “I thought you were going to bail on your sentence.”

Ren snorted a laugh. “I assumed it didn't start until I signed the indentured servant contract with myself.”

“It doesn't, but most people don't realize that.” He said and grinned.

Ren sat down across from him. “How's the mine coming along?”

“We've nearly got the main tunnel finished.” He said. “The blacksmith shop is up and running, and the cafeteria staff are nearly overwhelmed with the amount of money they're making.”

Ren grinned. “You went with my idea after all.”

“Of course I did.” The mine foreman said. “This is your mine.”

“How's it working out for you?”

“You were flipping right, is how it's working out for me.” He said and laughed. “They're handling the buying of food, setting meals, prices, shift rotations, everything.” He shook his head. “I barely had the words out of my mouth, that they were running it themselves, when they kicked me out so they could get to work.”

Ren laughed. “I told you.”

The mine foreman grinned. “Well, this is your show. What are you going to do first?”

“I'll set up a small space for myself in the blacksmith's shop, then I'll head into the mine under the direction of the crew doing the digging of the main tunnel.”

The mine foreman's eyes widened. “Really?” He asked. “You're not just going to go in there and dig wherever you want?”

Ren shook his head. “I'm not that stupid.” He said. “I'll listen to the crew with experience to get the place up and running first, then I'll head off on my own to start digging up ore.”The mine foreman nodded slightly. “I'm glad.” He said. “You've got a good head on your shoulders. Going into a mine without the proper knowledge can get you, or others, killed.”

Ren nodded slightly himself. “Did you get a healer out here, yet?”

The mine foreman nodded slightly again. “She's in the area right beside the mine entrance.”

“I'll stop in to meet her before going into the mine.” Ren said.

“She'll want to examine you first, that's for sure.”

Ren took out the indentured servant form and placed it on the foreman's desk. He filled out the information, with the time of the sentence, and he filled in the details of the time he was required to work (8 hours), where he would sleep (anywhere he wanted), a day off a week, and the pay earned would fold back into the mine. He signed it as the owner, took a deep breath, then signed it as the indentured servant. Ren was covered in a slightly blue glow for a moment, and an iron band formed around his wrist. He examined it, and was surprised at the information.

Bracelet of Enforcement

This bracelet ensures you fulfill your indentured servitude contract. You will be compelled to work to complete the tasks set before you, by the holder of your contract.

“Whoa.” Ren said, and stored the contract. “I better get to work, then.”

He was immediately filled with the urgency to get to the blacksmith shop, turned around automatically and opened the door to the office.

“This is really weird!” Ren said as his legs moved almost without his will, to carry him down the road to the blacksmith shop.
