Isaac looked back at the temple from within the treeline. Behind him, the guards were checking the workers over, checking to see if anyone was wounded beyond mana exhaustion.

Sergeant Merton walked up to him. “Sir, all workers seem healthy beyond minor scrapes. All guards report ready for combat.”

Isaac hummed. “Assemble the troops. I need to speak to them.” He said without looking back.

As the wolfkin organized the guards into a double line, he kept staring at the temple, wishing he could see through the walls. He didn't know if David was in there. He highly suspected it- he was usually in the middle of trouble.

But suspicion was a poor excuse to put the men and women under his care in danger.

He turned and headed to the guards, now in rank and file, with the Sergeant at attention nearby. He let his eyes meet each soldier's gaze before speaking. “Azure Guards. I believe my brother and his wife are still inside. I am asking you to jump back into the maws of an enemy which has proven far superior to us. As such, I will not order you. If you wish to remain here and protect the civilians, then I will consider your duty fulfilled. For the rest, please step for-”

The double line stepped forward as one. Except for one man in the back, who blinked, looked around, and hurriedly stepped up as well.

Merton grinned. “The Azure Guard does not abandon its own, my Lord. We are ready to go.”

Isaac remained silent for a moment. He exhaled from the nose and turned to the sergeant. “Designate six to remain with the workers. Make sure they have some healing and energy potions. The rest will form up on me. You have thirty seconds.”

The wolfkin saluted and began barking names and orders.

Isaac turned back toward the treeline and waited as footsteps gathered behind him.

I'm coming, brother.

David's arms were blurs as he kept up his Quick Step, turning Heartsong into a blending storm, while he pumped Energy Burst to replenish his ailing muscles. He was assisted by Jordo, who had dug itself out of the hole in the wall that he had been blasted into, and who was shooting red beams of energy with his eye that made the offending blubber boil and pop.

The mass of white flesh didn't care. As much as it got sliced and diced and burned, it kept slowly growing.

David glanced back at the door leading out of this hall, and to the eight “threes” on the other side. “Niala? Think you got phials to handle the white baldies outside?”

She was kneeling and rummaging through her stock of potions left in her cargo cloth, refilling her potion belt with whatever she thought might be useful. She shook her head. “I'm not sure. Only the really good ones seemed to have an effect when we fought, and I don't have enough of those.”

She turned her head toward him. “But I can try something, if you trust me.”

He smiled. “Always.”

The corners of her mouth tugged upward, and her ears wiggled. She turned back to her stock of potions, retrieved one of the beakers from the cargo cloth's stock, and began opening phials and mixing them.

Leviathan lowered his head. “My Lord, if there are hostiles on the other side of this door, allow me to crush them under me. Please use my body, my Lord.”

David threw a sideways glance at his aspect. “Buddy, we've got to work on your thought process... but fine, you'll be the first wave. Niala can use her surprise party shake while they're distracted. Niala? Let us know when you're ready.”

He glanced back at her and had to do a double-take when he saw the smoke coiling out of the beaker. It had looked like the faces of the damned at first, but no, it was just a very thick, swirly smoke... in which tortured faces seemed to draw and disappear.

“Kitten? What's that thing going to do?”

She kept pouring potions into the mix. “... I'm not sure. I think it's going to be a super-sleeping agent. Probably. Maybe.” She stopped and looked back. “Tiny chance it might explode violently.”

“How violently are we talking?”

She turned her head back at the sinister-looking substance, doing some quick mental calculations. “If it explodes... I guess it'll be too quick to feel pain.” She looked back at him and smiled. “But it probably won't explode.”

He slowly nodded and refocused on chopping up the infinite blubber.

Niala hoped her calculations were right. It really might explode, and it would make the hole David did in the front door look like pop powder by comparison.

But! She wasn't going to let it! She was going to weave a tale into the concoction, make sure it behaved. She poured in the last phial and immediately closed her eyes, sending mana out to her hand and beginning to weave it.

But her mana rejected her story.

She blinked in surprise. She lifted her hand, turning it around, trying to feel the mana at her fingertip. It was there, she was certain of it. It was just... refusing to listen to her.

Her heart sank at what this could mean. She glanced back at the mass of flesh, and thought back on what she'd told David, about how the cancer mana had its own will.

Her pulse quickened, her breathing followed suit. Had she infected herself when she'd... she didn't even want to think about it. When she'd eaten the fel's mana?

She narrowed her eyes. Or maybe she hadn't eaten it enough. Maybe it was just unprocessed fel mana floating around in her mana pathways.

Forcibly calming herself, she closed her eyes and felt around her pathways. She could only get a blurry sense of it, unlike when she linked with David, but he was busy right now, so she'd have to manage.

Her senses folded inward as she focused on her inner self, even as she could find nothing wrong.

Until she did.

It was very subtle. Like if you were swimming in water and there suddenly was a mass of ooze. She let herself float until she encountered the tiniest bit of resistance and pounced, grappling it like a feline jumping on its prey.

And then, she sank her fangs into it.

It tasted like rot and spite, and the envelope popped, releasing a sludge of wrongness into her pathways. She feared she'd made a terrible mistake until she felt the waters of her river attack the sludge, as if it were suddenly acid.

The offending substance fizzled and ceased to be.

Relief washed over her, soon replaced with determination. She didn't have the time to clean her entire pathways, but she should be able to purify the mana in her hand...

Focusing on that area, she went on a bubble-popping rampage. Partway through the cleansing, she felt some of them disappear on their own.

So, her body would naturally cleanse itself? Or maybe, only if the concentration of the corrupting substance was low enough...

She shook the thought away and finished her task. She came back to her outer self and tried weaving again.

Her mana listened with rapt attention, drinking her words.

Drinking them too readily.

She had gone from complete resistance to overwhelming eagerness.

Too many mysteries. Finish her potion, get out of here, and then figure out what in the pits “drinking” the fel's mana had done to her.

She completed her tale: a story of a stable alchemical reaction, a controlled release of energy, and strong bonds between the compounds.

The weave left her hand and flowed into the potion as she grasped the beaker. It bubbled, roiled, and settled.

She nodded and turned her head to look at David. “It's done.”

David dipped his head and looked at Leviathan. “Your turn, buddy.”

The sea serpent smiled.

It was not a pretty smile.

Kassimir Three-One and his octuple stood outside the door to the sanctified hall, silent and immobile, as guards should.

As they had been commanded. The last one they had received from the Sanctified, half an hour ago.

The threes would keep to their duties, even if they had felt the tendrils of the overpowering mind retreat from their minds some time ago. The anomalous vessel must have been quite interesting to monopolize the Sanctified's attention like this.

He idly wondered where his octuple would be sent next. The labourers they had captured had seemed to be building a road. Perhaps a new source of vessels to the south had risen? The civilians seemed lacking in mana, but the soldiers had been adequate.

Perhaps a dioctuple could be roused, their carnagh collected in a harvesting fleet, and set south. It would only accelerate the Sanctified's ascension by a decade or so, a drop in a sea, but every step led closer to His rebirth, and was thus worthy of taking.

It was on this thought that an explosion behind him made him swivel his head, only to face a slab of flying stone, picking him and two of his octuple like a stony broom sweeping dust.

The threes' bodies were crushed between the door and the opposite wall, even as a giant blue-scaled serpent erupted from the hall, bodying the rest of the octuple, sending them sprawling, grinding them into the floor as it snaked its way out.

The monster headed toward the slab of stone, just now falling away from the wall, revealing the broken bodies behind. It headbutted them back into the stone, radial cracks blooming around the point of impact.

It coiled, and its body seemed to enter an infinite loop as it used its thick, coarse scales like grinding stones.

By the time it was done rampaging and retreated further into the corridor, none of the threes did anything except twitch and whine.

Mere physical crushing wouldn't kill them, not right away, not unless their bodies were ripped apart.

But having your organs reduced to minced meat by your shattered bones did leave one with an immediate concern. Namely, pain.

Niala leaned out from the destroyed doorway. Already, one of the bald foes was dragging an arm toward himself, probably to try and heal.

She wouldn't give them the chance. With care, she had the wind pick up the beaker and float it over to the broken bodies that Leviathan had left behind.

There, she had the winds shatter the glass and spread its contents over the area.

The deep purple liquid rained down upon the hummers.

And each drop exploded like a stick of dynamite.

Niala yelped in surprise and hid back behind the stone as a firework of explosions drowned out all other sounds for the next 30 seconds.

She waited a few seconds after the last conflagration before risking another peek, and froze.

There was... a mess.

That's all her brain could come up with. It didn't want to consider the mixed rubble and white flesh as anything but a mess.

Jordo walked up beside her and observed the carnage. His head turned toward her. “Nicely done, Madam. These individuals will not bother us again. Might I add, your concoction appears to have been more destructive than the best hand grenades from the Reign's era.” He commented joyfully.

She looked at the golem with her ears folded down. “Jordooooo... that's not what I wanted to happen! They were just supposed to go into a coma!”

His eye flashed once before he turned and stepped out of the doorway, his heavy feet squishing and crunching the mess with each step.

She whined and followed, careful to avoid stepping in anything with more texture than a puddle of indistinct juices.

David gave one last flurry of sword strikes at the mass before turning and bolting out of the room. He quickly caught up to Niala, picking her up over his shoulder, and kept running.

“Leviathan!” He shouted. “No time to find the way out! Start smashing through walls! Straight line!” He triggered his Strong Body as high as he could.

His knee bent a bit lower than it should have. Niala immediately glanced at his face, squinting. He wasn't showing any pain, but their link faintly smelled of concern coming from his side.

Smelled?

Ahead, Leviathan's body began glowing as David's imbuement leaked into his aspect. The sea serpent charged down the corridor like a freight railcar, roaring along the way. His head met the first wall.

The wall bowed to the superior force and exploded outward.

Behind them, tendrils of white flesh reached out toward the mess and speared into it, drinking it away.

David kept running. He hadn't wanted to worry anyone, but even as he and Jordo had kept trying to bisect and burn away the flesh, it had been gaining in speed and motion.

He was pretty sure it wasn't because of their actions.

Rather, they had been slowing it down, and now, nobody was holding it back.

He hoped the prisoners really were out of the temple.