Annabelle was doing her best. She really was! Her eyes just didn't want to listen and kept closing!

Mr. Ducharme would be annoyed again that she wasn't paying attention! He'd tell her parents, and they'd sit her down and have a discussion about why the history of the Wardenfels was important, and she'd be soooo boooored!

She looked at the wall clock and groaned under her breath. Still a quarter bell to go!

But after that, she was getting her mathematics! Those were fun! And so easy! Ms. Blotts had really funny expressions whenever she solved equations that were supposed to be too advanced for her.

She didn't know why; they didn't seem that difficult. In fact, they felt kind of simple and familiar, like something she'd done all her life.

She blinked.

That was a strange expression. Why did it sound like something an old person would say? Well, no matter. Right now, she had to fight her eyes. Later, she'd get to do easy maths, and then her day was done, and she could go out and play!

But not too much, or else she'd get her clothes really dirty and mother would be annoyed.

Why, though? She wasn't even the one who cleaned her dresses!

Huh, it sounded as if someone was calling her name?

Oh, klisma! Someone was!

Her eyes flung open on Mr. Ducharme's irate face. She tried showing him a really innocent smile, like little big sister Angeline had shown her.

She'd said the trick was to not give up, so she kept making her eyes as big and round as she could and looking sorry and-

Mr. Ducharmes sighed and turned back toward the blackboard.

It really works!

The math class had been as fun as usual! By the end, Ms. Blotts said that she'd get the linear algebra out, that it should give her pause for once!

She was funny! Annabelle didn't know what any of the things Ms. Blotts was showing her were called! She just... recognized the equations when she saw them.

Anyway, it was playtime! Her usual maid, Tiffany, was accompanying her today. She liked Tiffany. She was young and short, well, still taller than her, but really short by normal adult standards! And she was always scared and stressed, which was really funny. Really, Annabelle couldn't help laughing, but she didn't mean anything bad!

Who panics when a large centipede crawls up your leg, anyway? Not her! Tiffany did, though.

She almost wanted to go find one just to see her freak out again, but she knew that wasn't nice, so she wouldn't.

Hmm... well, Tiffany had been really nice, and she'd gotten a few extra honey cakes from the kitchen just for her, so maybe she should do something relaxing today, as a thank you?

Yes, that was a good idea! Little big sister said that good deeds had to be paid back! And little brother had said that showing respect begat respect. That probably meant that she'd get respect back. Begat was a weird word.

So, today for play time before dinner, she would... go play with the frogs in the small pond in Father and Mother's not-so-secret garden!

Making sure Tiffany was following, she made her way out of the mansion and toward the woods. It wasn't a real forest since it was walled off as part of her family's estate, but it was still pretty big. Humming and skipping, she picked up a proper-looking stick along the way to poke the frogs with.

The trip only took ten minutes, but that was enough for Tiffany to breathe hard. Really, her maid ought to get more endurance! Annabelle wasn't even winded, and she'd been hopping all the way!

Well, that was fine. She looked over her shoulder at the maid. “Tiffany, I'm going to go say hi to the frogs in the ponds. You can catch your breath!”

The maid started to say something, but Annabelle had already skipped off, and she was by the pond before she knew it.

She spotted her first target: a big, fat blurbel. No, wait, that's one of the other words. A big, fat toad! Yeah!

Waving the stick around, she watched as the amphibian turned to face the movement. Sometimes, if she did it right, the frogs would try to eat the end of her stick. She wasn't sure if it was because they got annoyed or if they thought it was food. Either way, it was funny to watch.

She softly hummed a song that made her feel a bit sad. It was an old song, one that she had always known, except not, and she couldn't remember the words, but she knew it was about lost things that you still carried in your heart, but not with your hands.

It was silly to hum a song that made her sad, but when things were quiet, like this, she couldn't help herself.

When there was space in her head, the sadness bubbled up. Sometimes, it was enough to make her cry. Usually, it was just a quiet sort of sadness. The kind that had been with you for a long time and was almost like an old friend that you had learned to appreciate.

She wasn't sure why she liked feeling sad like that, but it filled a hole, and that made her feel... more, so it was nice to feel sad now and then.

Tiffany finally caught up to her, though she stayed back, breathing hard for a while until she caught her breath, and the silence of the glade reasserted itself.

The toad finally had enough and jumped away into the reeds. She waved it goodbye and scanned the pond, spotting another friend a few steps over. A small green froggy this time, with cute, large black eyes.

She splashed the water with the stick, catching Mr. Green's attention. That was the froggy's name, Mr. Green.

Mr. Green... Mr. Gren. No, Mr. Gerren, yes, that was it. She scrunched her nose. Mr. Gerren was important, but why?

She tried to remember, but as always with these strange thoughts, the more she tried, the more the memories disappeared, like trying to squeeze a fish. Sighing, she let it go. Maybe it would come back, maybe not.

In the time right after she'd woken up, those memories annoyed her a lot. She wanted to know what they were, where they came from, and why she was having them. It made her angry!

But now she was better. She'd learned to just let them go. It didn't matter. She was certain she'd remember something, someday...

No, that wasn't right. She remembered; she just couldn't see those memories.

Pushing the thought aside, she kept playing with the frogs for a while, but eventually they were all gone, so instead she started looking under the rocks, and she found a bunch of cool bugs. She picked up the best ones and showed them to Tiffany, who blanched a bit, but she kept saying they were very cool, so she must have liked them at least a little.

Dinner time arrived too soon, as usual, and Tiffany urged her to get back to the mansion. She said goodbye to the frogs in the pond on her way out and made her way back at a sedate pace, slow enough that her maid wasn't too out of breath.

She was brought to a dressing room, where Tiffany used brushes to straighten and dust off her dress, then had her wash her hands and face, and finally brought her to the dining room.

Everybody else was already sitting at one end of the way-too-long table, and their heads turned her way. She nodded at father and mother, smirked at little brother, and beamed a full smile at little big sister Angeline, who winked at her and nodded to the empty chair next to her.

Angeline was amazing! She was so happy that she was living with them now. Little brother had made the best decision of his life when he accepted to marry her. She was full of secrets and tips that made life easier!

Her little legs crossed the distance as fast as decorum allowed. Father might be more lenient since she'd woken up, but he still insisted that she was a lady and should act proper.

She jumped onto the chair next to Angeline and shared a grin with her.

The rest of the dinner went great, until father asked why she was falling asleep in her family history lessons.

The family retired to the parlour after dinner to hold their usual daily discussions. This used to be the second most boring part of the day for Annabelle.

With Angeline here now, it was the most fun one! Mother, Father and little brother would talk about the latest missives, rumours, their ongoing plans and all those things that the grownups found really interesting.

Little big sister participated, of course. In fact, as time progressed, she was becoming the central point of focus, and Annabelle found it funny that nobody, except Angeline, was noticing it!

When she'd asked little big sister about it, she'd looked surprised at first, but then she'd knelt and told her she was a very smart girl, and to please keep it a secret.

Annabelle thought it was very funny, and she was looking forward to the day the rest of her family noticed. Until then, Angeline spent half her time in the daily meetings asking her questions. Things like, if such and such family didn't like each other, what were they most likely to do? After that, she'd ask her why she thought so, and whenever she gave good answers, little big sister would slip her a small cookie or candy.

She was pretty sure her parents knew, but they hadn't stopped it yet, so it must have been OK!

Angeline was the best little big sister! And the way she kept making little brother blow his eyes out of his orbits was hilarious! Just last week, little big sister had remarked that she hoped her children would be as smart and cute as Annabelle. Isaac had choked for a good thirty seconds!

So funny!

As the family discussed, bantered, strategized, and relaxed, evening turned to night, and soon it was time for bed.

Annabelle didn't know how to feel about sleep. She did like her bed, but every time she woke up, she felt weird, like she was forgetting something...

Well, no matter. Angeline said that sleep is when you become smart, so it couldn't be bad. And her plushies were very soft and huggable... Tonight, she'd sleep with Lord Frogensfield! The frog prince! And she'd tuck Princess Henrietta in the bookshelf, looking away, so she wouldn't know her fiancé was sleeping with another woman!

Not that Annabelle would try to steal Henrietta's future husband! It's just that he was very huggable, and the princess didn't understand that because she got jealous super fast!

Totally not Annabelle's fault!

She opened her eyes, blinking the confusion away.

Ah, she'd fallen asleep.

She rubbed her eyes with her tiny hands, then sat up from the spongy, cloud-like ground. Like everything else in this side of the world, it was a ghostly teal. She looked around, observing the faint luminous outlines of the room where her body was resting, and sighed.

Just like every night, she woke up here, and just like every morning, she'd forget when she woke up there.

She had no idea what here was, though. She'd stopped trying to figure it out a while ago. Eventually, her other self- or were they the same person? Impossible to tell... the daytime version of her mind might learn what this place is, and then she'd know.

She considered just lying there for the rest of the night. She'd done that a lot, but it got so boring.

Grunting, she got to her feet, out the door of her room, down the hallway, and to the mansion's front entrance. A tiny light floated away from a wall, in the shape of a mouse at first, but soon just a glowing teal ball that floated away.

It, like all the other lights she had seen in this place, all floated toward the same place.

To where the small thread attached to her led. She opened the front door and stepped forward, following the line that was part of her.

She approached her destination with an ever-increasing number of lights around her, turning into a small mob by the time she got there, to the hole.

Over its edge, the lights tumbled, forming a luminescent waterfall, falling down into a golden gyroscope the size of the world, which ground the lights between its concentric circles.

The lights were turned to liquid, sluicing down the wheels and into an infinite pool of teal far below.

She walked up to the edge, found a rock, and sat on it, leaning forward to rest her head on her hand. She observed the mysterious machine for a while before getting bored and tugging on the thread linking her to it.

When she'd done that the first time, she'd been terrified, but now...

The gyroscope sped up slightly, its rings seeming to re-align toward her, as if it had noticed her presence. Maybe it had. She couldn't tell; it didn't speak or anything.

Or, at least, it couldn't speak with words. Tonight, she wanted to try something new, because what else could she do?

Grabbing hold of the thread, she closed her eyes and thought really hard about the frogs. She pictured them, tried to remember their smell, the way they moved, how their bodies moved... And then she tried bundling everything together into a single idea and pushed it out.

She figured, if the giant wheels couldn't speak, maybe they could receive feelings or ideas? Angeline had said that words were just one way to communicate, after all, and that there were dozens of other options.

So she concentrated, long and hard, for as long as she could.

Until she began feeling drowsy, a sign that she was waking up. She stood up and gave a smiling wave at the spinning machine, mentally thanking it for its time and company.

And then she ceased to be.

Annabelle woke up to Tiffany screaming.

She winced and put her hands over her ears, slowly sitting up and looking through her sleep-encrusted slits to figure out what was going on.

That's when she spotted a frog on her bed.

No, wait, two.. .three- Wow, there were a ton of frogs on her bed!

A wide smile split her little face.

Awesome!