With a start, Nathan realized he was figuring out how difficult it would be to kill Henrish. It hadn’t been intentional, just a natural part of evaluating the Questor. His conclusion was that unless the man had some unexpected abilities, it wouldn’t be very challenging. The man didn’t carry himself with the lethal grace of an experienced fighter, and he didn’t have the mana pool of a mage. Nathan would disable his items and he'd be effectively helpless.

The soldiers stood to his left and right like bodyguards. They were both big, the orc and the human difficult to distinguish except by the shade of exposed skin. They bore little in the way of magic but were armored in heavy forged metal. They carried swords at their hips, but their primary armament appeared to be heavy crossbows with metal limbs and a quiver of solid metal bolts for ammunition. The weapons were equipped with a crank-and-pulley system to allow for rapid reloading. They were also brutally functional, unadorned but with brutal pull weight. The two merchants were also large, dressed in heavy leather outfits to ward off the ocean chill. They looked ready to dive into heavy labor.

The Grace of the Mists drifted to a stop against the dock, and the gangplank touched delicately down on the dock. Eolinne appeared next to Nathan and spoke in flowery words. “I am Eolinne, and the winds have made me captain of the Grace of the Mists. I represent Sarya in these dealings and in delivering these adventurers to you.” She waved a hand to the Heirs, and Nathan stepped forward.

“I am Nathan Lark, and these are my teammates. I killed Badud on my own, and we just killed Badud, Ogarius, Sussu, and Amoh in Esebus.” He paused expectantly.

The presumed Questor looked up, like he was reading an invisible notification. “Verified truth. I am Henrish, and I’m glad to welcome you to Helmaris. Follow me if it matches your desire, and we will speak of Questor matters. Eolinne, these quartermasters are eager to speak with you, to hear of the broader world and opportunities for trade.”

She dipped in an elegant curtsey. “I would welcome the harmony of discussion.” She turned to Nathan and dipped her head. “I bid you sweet song and success in your quest. I will remain here until I receive other commands.”

Henrish’s lips thinned, but he didn’t object, just watching the Heirs as they said quick goodbyes to Eolinne and left the ship behind to follow him deeper into the city.

“It’s you, then,” Henrish said as soon as they left the docks. He shot Nathan a surveying glance, seeming unimpressed. “All of the elders believe you’re a catalyst of change.”

Nathan couldn’t do anything but shrug. “That’s the goal.”

Henrish harrumphed at that and gestured them onto a broad elevator platform that headed upwards.

Permanent Talent 1: Arcane Nullfield 9

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 7

Permanent Talent 3: Airwalking 9

Class: End of Magic level 995

Bottomless Stamina: 100500/100500

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 763

Limitless Focus: 7630/7730

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Tranquility 5

Inspiration 8

Impulse 6

Mystical Discernment 8

Forewarning 6

Arcane Insight 10

Evasion 3

Mental Vault 8

Veracity 3

Whiplash 1

Visibility Control 7

High-tier Disguise 9

High-tier Battle Cry 4

Aura Control 8
