Having reunited with her best friend, beloved sister, and rational, able-bodied husband, Mila should have been over the moon with delight and satisfaction, but the more she learned about the battle of the Central Citadel, the more she felt like she was fast falling behind along the Martial Path.

Hardly surprising considering her decision to pursue so many different goals, dreaming of one day becoming a peerless duellist, unrivalled tactician, and brilliant Divine Blacksmith. Mama always said that in order to reach the pinnacle of the Martial Path, one must treat it like a marathon rather than a sprint. There was no race to the top, for each and every individual must progress at their own pace, but having stood at the forefront of her peers for her entire life, Mila could not help but be displeased at having been overtaken from behind.

This wasn’t the first time either. For years, Rain’s Heaven-defying progress along the Martial Path had frustrated her to no end, but at least she could console herself with the fact that he was an outlier, a freak of nature blessed by the Mother Above with talent above and beyond what mortals could even dream of. Now however, every time Mila blinked it seemed like someone had surpassed her. First there was Li-Li’s condensation of Aura, then Yan’s mastery of her Blessing of Wind, and Mila had been genuinely happy for them both, but now things were getting out of hand. Her useless junior Martial Brother Fung was being lauded as some tormented genius, a man talented in the ways of war who abhorred all the death and suffering. Not exactly the most flattering image, but Mila heard how Fung had matched Mitsue Hideo in single combat not through sheer strength of arm, but through overwhelming finesse and devilish cunning. To hear Yan tell it, Fung knew he was no match for the traitor in direct conflict, so he used feints and skilled maneuvers to lure Hideo into leaving openings to be exploited. It was clear Fung had come up with these ‘soft’ methods to use against Mila, and she was all but certain she had no way to counter him, not if done correctly.

Then there was Yan, whose modest retelling of her own contributions paled in comparison to the grand tales being shared all throughout the Citadel, ones which painted her as the second coming of the Sanguine Tempest. Were it not for the Runic Cannons, Yan’s capacity for massed slaughter would only be rivalled by her grandfather himself, personally killing untold hundreds of Defiled and Chosen with her devastating windstorms while commanding ten-thousand troops to hold the most contested choke-point in the Bulwark. A far more worthy successor to Mama’s achievements than Mila herself, and it shamed her to admit her seething jealousy for her beloved sister-wife.

There were other youths whose accomplishments were worthy of praise, like the tales of Tam Taewoong’s endless stamina as he fought day and night without rest, or Shuai Jiao’s Disciple Yong-Jin whose contributions were too many to name, and of course Rain’s own staggering achievements which were almost too fanciful to believe, all of which left Mila in a dour mood. Not to mention how the Enemy talents were proving themselves to be no less of a threat, first with Gen, then Hideo, and now the Confessor’s Disciple Yuanyin, leaving Mila feeling as if she’d been long since left behind in the wake of her betters.

The grim ambience of the Central Citadel wasn’t helping either, hardly the mood one expected after snatching victory from the jaws of defeat, but at least she understood the logic behind the general dissatisfaction of the common soldier. Here sat the greatest army the Empire had ever gathered, one comprised of Warriors from North, South, and Central all coming together as one to defend their homes and drive the Enemy back from their borders, but at the end of the day, the vast majority of them proved superfluous in the face of Rain’s Runic Cannons. Martial Warriors were by and large a haughty bunch, and even the lowliest of them took pride in their strength and abilities, so to be outdone by bronze tubes and iron spheres was more than a little disheartening. Given the effectiveness of crossbows, catapults, and now cannons, it brought into question the validity of the Martial Dao, for what reason was there to pursue this long and arduous Path if one could simply take up a Runic Cannon and be many times more effective?

A silly thing to quibble over when life and death were on the line, but Mila could not help but sympathize with those Warriors who were likely wondering if their chosen profession might soon be made redundant. The Martial Path was one of struggle and conflict, so how was one supposed to progress without encountering personal adversity? What was the point of pursuing strength if a lifetime of effort was unable to match up to the ingenuity of man?

That being said, rationally, she knew there was something wrong with this mindset as cannons were simply a more effective version of a bow, and not without flaw. For one, they were heavy as sin and unwieldy to boot, requiring a significant amount of Chi to fire and a muscular frame to withstand the recoil. According to the Tyrant, the average Martial Warrior might manage a dozen shots before draining themselves dry, while older, more experienced ones could manage two to three times as many. Not too few, yet not too many either, and anyone would find it difficult to carry that many cannonballs while Cloud-Stepping into position for a proper shot. There were other concerns, such as overheating the bronze barrels and damaging the Runic Inscriptions, or firing before the ammunition was properly seated and causing a blow-back that could injure the user, but compared to the time required to learn how to fire a proper longbow, the amount of training to use a Runic Cannon was almost negligible.

Given how Rain was the one who came up with the idea in the first place, Mila should rightly be celebrating her husband’s achievements and giving thanks to the Heavens above, for now they had a new and powerful weapon to wield against the Defiled. Try as she might however, she was unable to shake this bitter malaise and take pride in the Imperial victory for reasons already stated and many more she could not put word to. The outer provinces had paid a steep price for victory here in the Central Citadel, one paid in both coin and blood, and Mila was not alone in wondering if the next butcher’s bill might bankrupt them of both.

Even the animals were affected by the sombre mood, all huddled up in a corner of their borrowed courtyard and unwilling to come out and play. Try as she might, Mila could not entice the rabbits to hop about or the bears to amble and chortle in glee, while the wildcats and laughing birds remained perched out of reach in trees and on rooftops. Not without reason, for Mila’s beloved idiot had returned with yet another trio of pets, one of which was the massive tiger Rakshasa who terrified everyone to no end. Rain even had the gall to state that he had no intention of keeping these animals for his own, claiming he would happily bid them all a fond farewell if the Abbot ever saw fit to bring them away. Hmph. Only a fool would take him at his word, especially after seeing him interact with the formidable and adorable Spiritual Beasts, though in his defence, they were a fascinating bunch to be sure.

Kukku was a known quantity, a silly silkie chicken with a quirky, cowardly personality and a darling, dumb expression, but the oversized rooster was currently Concealed somewhere in the courtyard, though where, Mila could not say. Next, there was the tiger himself, the source of the other animals’ discontent, sprawled out in the grass with a slack, sorrowful expression as he lay his head atop his massive paws and mournfully stared at the manor gates as if he could see past them. Then again, it was possible he could, provided he had mastered some form of Scrying to aid him on the hunt, though from what Mila could gather, the tiger would not be hunting anything or anyone any time soon. A ferocious, man-eating beast, Rakshasa’s favoured meal was a freshly killed Defiled, though he was not above eating dead carrion so long as it was convenient. Alas, unfortunately for him, the Divine Turtle Pong Pong had chosen him as his mount, and though the powerful turtle was nowhere to be seen, Mila assumed he was Concealed somewhere in Rakshasa’s fur given the tiger’s pitifully subdued demeanour. Despite knowing of his murderous nature, Mila pitied the poor, conquered beast, a beautiful and majestic creature of orange, black, and white, one larger than even the biggest of warhorses and twice as fast to boot. Even laying prone as it was, the enormous tiger was a vision of grace and power, an unmistakable apex predator in the prime of health. Unlike the wildcats, whose large paws and broad heads often seemed too large for their lanky bodies, Rakshasa was a perfectly proportioned feline beast, his sleek, muscular frame clearly visible beneath his short but thick striped fur, which sweet Ping Ping did so love to rub her face in, much to the tiger’s distress.

Last but not least was Mila’s favourite addition to the menagerie, a portly, roly-poly panda by the name of Tai Shan. Seated in the centre of the courtyard, the black and white bandit beast reclined in the shadow of a tree while feasting on a stack of tasty bamboo. Stripping the bark away with delicate care to expose the soft pulp underneath, the panda clutched his bamboo stalk and chewed away with obvious delight while taking in the surroundings. There was something hypnotic about the way the bear ate, his eyes darting about in cheery curiosity as he calmly and methodically ate, his chubby cheeks perpetually in motion while working his way through his sizable meal. Every now and then, he broke off a section with his teeth and dropped it for Guai-Guai to eat, causing Mila’s heart to surge with glee every time she saw it. Unlike his much larger cousin, Guai-Guai was wholly terrified of Rakshasa and not even his love of Ping Ping could overcome his fear, so the chubby red panda sought solace in Tai Shan’s company instead, sitting pressed up against the panda’s leg with a similar, adorable posture. Every now and then, Ping Ping ambled over to try and entice Guai-Guai to play, but Rakshasa’s mere presence was enough to terrify Guai Guai to no end, and poor Ping Ping always returned to the tiger’s side alone and unaccompanied.

If Lin-Lin, Li-Li, or even Yan were here, they would undoubtedly come up with some way to lift the mood in the courtyard, doling out treats and toys aplenty to entice the animals to play, but everything Mila tried fell flat or made things so much worse. Forcibly bringing a rabbit over to Rakshasa almost ended in tragedy when the tiger mistook her actions for delivering a snack, and throwing Baloo across the courtyard resulted in a similar fiasco. The tiger’s appetite was a match for fat Mafu’s, a ravenous, gluttonous beast whose hunger could not be sated, not even after devouring the entire barrel of dried fish Rain left for his breakfast. Something would have to be done to tame the murderous creature, but Mila was at a loss on where to begin.

Unfortunately, there was little else for Mila to do here in the Central Citadel. Her retinue had long since settled into their temporary lodgings, with the quins bedded down for a long rest after five strenuous days of exacting travel. Mama was busy in meetings with Rain, Luo-Luo, and the other high-ranking officials of the Empire, while Papa was firing up a borrowed forge to craft whatever the people might need. Yan, Lin-Lin, and Li-Li were all resting after their ordeals, leaving only Mila to watch the house in their absence. Since the courtyard atmosphere was not conducive to Martial Training, she could either sit in silence and wallow in her misery or work towards a solution to Rakshasa’s intimidating presence, so Mila set to work on promoting harmony with Rain’s menagerie.

Which in the end amounted to her watching the tiger closely while petting his soft, silken fur in an effort to get him to relax his vigil, but after hours of quiet whispers, tender stroking, and muted attempts to entice him to play, Rakshasa had yet to lower his guard in her presence. “Listen you stupid, overgrown striped cat,” she said, keeping her tone as light and cheery as could be, “Stop looking at the rabbits like they’re your next meal, or I’ll turn you into a bedroom rug and use the rest to forge Li-Li a new sabre.”

Grumbling in response to her threat, the tiger huffed and turned his head away without allowing her out of his sight. Guarded and insecure, that was Rakshasa in a nutshell, a powerful beast who treated everything and everyone like a possible meal or threat. Unlike the wildcats, tigers were solitary creatures, and Rakshasa more solitary than most, as one of the monks let slip to Lin-Lin that the former Wisdom responsible for raising him had gone out of his way to capture a tiger cub and bring him away to the Arid Wastes. An unsocialized, murderous, man-eating carnivore is what this was, and Rain wanted to turn him into a half-tonne lap-cat.

“I see you two are getting along swimmingly.” As if summoned by the mere thought of him, Rain appeared in the courtyard without having used the gates, a habit Mila had yet to grow accustomed to. “Poor Rakky. It’s okay. I won’t let mean Mila bully you too too much. Your bones would make a terrible sabre anyways, too heavy and unwieldy for Li-Li.”

