There was no point in telling Rain however, as knowing him, Mila’s warning would go in one ear and out the other. Talented though he might be, there were times when she found his stubborn attitude and atypical pride frustrating to no end, unable to learn a simple lesson unless accompanied by unnecessary pain and suffering.

Shirtless beneath the afternoon sun, Gerel made for a formidable sight as he stood in the centre of their empty courtyard turned sparring ground, and Mila struggled to not swallow and lick her lips in imitation of Yuzhen beside her. That would be unbecoming of the Legate’s wife, no matter how fetching Gerel might be, with his long, luscious locks, fine, chiselled features, and full, muscular frame. Mila would never admit it out loud, but Rain and Gerel shared many similarities beyond their matching eye colour, especially now that her husband’s gaunt frame and hollowed cheeks had finally filled out.

There also had other similar features, with an identical slant to their eyes and angle of nose, as well as a matching jawline and general physique, both broad of shoulder and slim of waist. The two could be cousins, or perhaps even brothers, though Mila still found Rain more handsome and appealing. It was mostly due to the softness of his eyes combined with his gentle, delicate temperament and wider ears that made him that much more affable, whereas Gerel’s coarser, narrower features lent a sharp, foreboding air to his cold and joyless expressions. It wasn’t her place to criticize, but she had no idea what Yuzhen saw in Gerel aside from his good looks, for he was a glacial and joyless man, with a head only for duty and bloodshed. Rain had all of that and more, a warm and affectionate man who went to great lengths to ensure Mila, Yan, and Lin-Lin knew they were loved.

...Then again, much like Gerel, Rain could also be cold and unyielding to outsiders when he chose to, as evidenced by his stubborn unwillingness to accept Luo-Luo into his life. All the more fool him, but he would succumb eventually, even if Mila had to personally drag them both into the marital bed herself.

...

But not for a few months yet... maybe a year even. With only two wives, Mila was already feeling starved for affection, and Lin-Lin would be joining them soon enough, so Luo-Luo would just have to wait a little longer until Mila had her fair share of Rain’s attention.

While she was busy justifying her plans to monopolize her husband for as long as possible, Rain was limbering up for his sparring match against Gerel and doing a fine job of antagonizing the man. “I remember watching you spar with Dad at the end of every winter,” he said, stretching his arms overhead with a series of audible cracks. “Always good fun after a boring season cooped up indoors. Honestly surprised you kept challenging him year after year, but I admired your perseverance.” With an insolent grin, Rain added, “Please give some face and don’t beat me as badly as Dad beat you. I’ve run into a few issues with Healing that I have yet to resolve, so I’d really rather not have to mend any broken bones.”

“No broken bones. Understood.” Holding his longsword in a fencer’s stance, Gerel’s lips twitched in the ghost of a smile, gone so quickly it might as well have been imagined. “Ready?”

Still swinging his arms and yet to take a stance, Rain nodded and responded, “Rea – ”

The flat of Gerel’s blade smacked home against Rain’s cheek, leaving a red welt that would soon turn into a bruise. “In a battle between Peak Experts,” Gerel began, retrieving his sword beneath Rain’s venomous gaze, “The first to react is typically first to lose. We move at such speeds that you cannot take time to think. You must have your moves planned out beforehand, or you will find yourself on the back-foot and firmly disadvantaged. You’ve done well killing foes with the element of surprise, but you have yet to familiarize yourself with your strength and speed, which means you are easy pickings without Concealment.” Drawing back to his starting position, he took up the same stance and asked, “Ready?”

This time, Rain was not so cavalier in answering, a lesson he had learned before and would undoubtedly learn again in the future. There was a marked difference between Rain’s skills in a spar and his skills during a life and death match, the latter being far, far more impressive than the former. It was a matter of tension and focus, or rather a lack thereof during sparring, and nothing Mila, Yan, Zian, or countless others tried could make Rain take their sparring sessions seriously. Now, Gerel had apparently done the impossible as Mila’s goofy and beloved husband faded away to reveal the deadly Warrior hiding underneath. In retrospect, it was a miracle no one ever noticed his split personalities, for the change was truly startling to behold, but much as he liked to believe these troubles were far behind him, Mila could tell he had yet to wholly resolve his internal struggle. Part of him wanted to be Falling Rain, benevolent philanthropist and playboy slacker, but another darker part of him wanted to be Falling Rain, hero and Warrior, an ambition he to this day continued to wholeheartedly deny. To hear him tell it, he’d been forced onto the Martial Path solely to survive, despite having so many other Paths left available to him, not to mention multiple people telling him he had no need to pursue strength unless he truly desired it.

A fool is what he was, but he was Mila’s beloved fool, so she would do everything she could to support him in his foolish endeavours, and ensure he would make it out alive to live a long and happy life at her side.

It was clear bringing him to Gerel was the right move, as Rain launched his attack the moment he acknowledged he was ready. The following exchange was so fast Mila could barely keep track of their movements, an accomplishment made all the more impressive by the fact that neither man was using Chi. Unpleasant as it was to be left so far behind on the Martial Path, she swelled with pride at seeing her beloved husband exert his skills to full effect, able to trade blows with a veritable genius of a generation more than fifteen years his senior. It was uncanny how evenly matched the two of them were, with Rain using his two weapons to make up for his shorter reach while giving as good as he got, or so Mila believed until Gerel’s smile broke through his frosty exterior and he kicked it up another notch. The lightning fast exchange ended in a flash as Rain found Gerel’s sword at his throat, but after a moment to contemplate what just took place, he nodded and begrudgingly stepped away. “Again,” he said, sounding only mildly petulant instead of utterly incensed, as he undoubtedly was, likely believing he should have seen through Gerel’s movements and responded in a more appropriate manner to defeat his obviously superior foe.

“In a moment,” Gerel replied, lowering his sword to catch his breath. “Tell me about your battle against Goujian. How did you defeat him?”

Though pink with exertion, Rain’s cheeks turned absolutely scarlet as he shrank back and muttered, “Well... Um... I cheated.”

“...I see.” Eyes sparkling with unvoiced laughter, Gerel Sent something to Rain which resulted in a general Aura of embarrassment emanating from Mila’s husband, but he nodded and sighed before Sending something back in rejoinder. After a brief but silent conversation, they resumed their spar, and for the next two hours, they fought in stoic silence until Rain’s silk shirt was drenched in sweat and he was forced to discard it.

So entranced by the sight, Mila didn’t even begrudge Yuzhen for her murmur of appreciation, but Gerel caught it and was visibly displeased, much to his wife’s obvious delight. An odd pair, the two of them, but they made it work, and Mila graciously pretended not to notice their heated expressions as they rushed Rain and her out the door. Not for the first time today, she lamented her inability to control her strength and wished there was something that could be done about it, but then Rain saw fit to add oil to the near-unquenchable flames. Fanning his borrowed robes which were far too loose for his slender frame, he leaned in close to Mila and Sent, “You know, I could really go for a nice, hot relaxing bath right about now, something to wash away all the sweat and grime.” Flashing his oh so charming grin, he Sent, “Care to join me?”

Just as she was struggling to find the will to reject his invitation on account of his complications with Healing, Rain wagged his eyebrows and spoke out loud. “You know, this is neither here nor there, but I have yet to test out my newfangled refined physique. I wonder how tough and resilient I’ve become now that I have a Spiritual He –”

The last of his sentence turned into a yelp as Mila yanked him along behind her, walking as quickly as she could without running in a desperate bid to get him home and into a bath before she bashed him over the head and took him in public out of pure, unmitigated frustration.

In retrospect, perhaps being left behind on the Martial Path wasn’t so bad after all...

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2
