Despite his kind words and sweet tone, Rain refrained from petting the tiger, or even looking at the beast directly. In fact, Mila’s beloved seemed to make an effort not to even glance at the tiger at all, presenting the beast with his side while he spoke which, oddly enough, seemed to reassure Rakshasa that he meant no harm. That being said, Mila had no more eyes for the beast, not while her beloved husband was devouring her with his sensual gaze, his hunger melting away her petulant pique even before his Aura of love and amusement washed over her like a warm, intimate embrace. The next thing she knew, she was wrapped up in his arms and lifted off her feet, laughing uncontrollably as he twirled her about in the air, so effortlessly she imagined this was how Lin-Lin felt all the time. Culminating their hug with a flourish, he hefted her into a princess carry with only a minor grunt of exertion, a far cry from his strained efforts to carry her earlier on in their relationship. “You shouldn’t be so forceful with Rakky,” her idiot beloved said, his mind still fixated on the stupid cat as he sat down with her cradled in his lap instead of bringing her away to somewhere private and secluded where they could make up for lost time. “He’s a shy one, he is, cold and temperamental on the outside, but a big old softie once he warms up to you.”

Uttering a soft grunt of disinterest, Mila stomped down the flames of passion even as she took in her beloved husband’s scent, so fresh and clean unlike the ashy, oily air of the smoke-covered Citadel. How he managed to remain untouched by the thick clouds of acrid smoke was a mystery indeed, but Mila cared not for the facts as she basked in his warm and comforting embrace, one which seemed to lift the cloak of gloom fastened firmly about her shoulders. Rain’s mere presence alone was enough to bring cheer back to the dreary courtyard, his pets hopping, flapping, and ambling over to greet him in a lively and excited fashion. Poor Rakky tensed up in the company of so many strangers, but Rain deposited a pouch full of fish in front of the tiger’s nose, and the beast accepted the offering with only minimal grumbling as he ate without getting up and ignored the bunnies too stupid to know not to sniff at his meal. Oh this majestic hunter would soon be ruined by Rain’s over-indulgence, but seeing how Mila herself was intoxicated by his captivating gaze, she could hardly blame the poor beast for succumbing to her husband’s undeniable charms.

Running a hand through her hair and down her freckled cheek, Rain closed his eyes and touched his nose to hers with obvious restraint. Mila would love nothing more than to do away with all inhibitions, but not here in the courtyard where the guards were watching and any fool could Scry upon them with ease, and especially not while all the animals were clambering about. These furry little devils simply had no sense of propriety or personal space, with Banjo jostling with Aurie over who could press their face closest to Rain’s and Mila’s both, interrupting what should have been an intimate and erotically charged moment with their goofy antics. Breaking away from her husband’s attentions to give the pets a kiss, she rubbed Banjo’s cheeks and used his big head to fend off Rain’s amorous intentions. “Hmph,” she snorted, ignoring his widening grin as he took in her feigned scowl with an Aura of aggressive adoration, the same feeling Mila got when seeing something so cute she wanted to hug it until it popped. “You think it’s so easy to win my forgiveness? You’ve still much to answer for, leaving me to worry and fret while you were sick and comatose.”

“And I promise to spend a lifetime making up for my failings, beloved wife of mine.”

Silver-tongued devil. His sweet words were accompanied by an Aura of genuine misery however, and she regretted ever bringing the matter up. Leaning for a quick kiss, she broke it off before too long and forced out a scowl to ask, “What are you doing back here anyways? Don’t you have a war effort to lead? Do try and earn your keep as Legate of the outer provinces instead of foisting all your responsibilities over to poor Luo-Luo.”

“I would love to,” he replied, chuckling at her stubborn, steadfast refusal to melt in his arms and loving her all the more for it. “But I’m afraid I’m not qualified for the job. In fact, I went ahead and made Luo-Luo my official Secretary of Office, authorizing her to speak with my voice as Legate. Cut out the middleman as it were, freeing me up to come have lunch with my feisty and ferocious wife.” A surge of envy welled up inside Mila’s chest, angry she couldn’t help him like Luo-Luo or even Yan could, making her little more than a burden to be safeguarded and protected. Even Luo-Luo had risked life and limb on the battlefield now, while Mila’s contributions to the war effort were laughably light.

The talented and domineering Sumila of the People, a supposed rising dragon of her generation relegated to the role of trophy wife, one which paled in comparison to his second wife and concubine both. How pathetic.

Gently lifting her chin so she could look him in the eyes, Rain’s outpouring of love and support set Mila’s eyes to tearing with joy. “Now, now,” he admonished, shaking his head in mock reproach. “Don’t be jealous. Also, self-deprecation is my field of expertise, and I’ll thank you not to encroach upon my territory.”

Unable to stop the smile from spreading across her face, Mila pinched his cheeks and pulled him close for another quick kiss. Anything more and she might not be able to resist any longer, but resist she would have to considering her crafted restraints were still back home in the Northern Citadel. How long until they could return there? Mother in Heaven, it could be weeks, if not months before he was free enough to leave, what with the Central Citadel’s current state of disarray. Not for the first time, she envied Yan for her lack of hardships in her love life with their husband, their greatest impediment being a need to lay down a dry sheet before joining as man and wife. In contrast, Mila needed specialized steel strong enough to withstand her involuntary convulsions, lest she accidentally snap her husband’s spine whilst lost in the throes of passion...

“You’re incorrigible,” she said, but her words came out as barely more than a heated gasp. It’d been so long since she felt his loving caress, but now was not the time to indulge in her lust. “Avoiding your responsibilities just to share a meal with me? Now if you make a grand mess of things, I expect I’ll be blamed for the downfall of the outer provinces, an Empire-destroying beauty who will go down in history as the temptress who brought their hero low.”

“Don’t you worry about a thing.” Stealing another kiss while her guard was down, Rain uttered a small sigh of self-restraint before coming to his feet, still carrying her in his arms and only stumbling a little beneath her weight. It was then she noticed his bandages, covering wounds which he had yet to Heal for reasons still unclear even to himself. Something about a refined physique and increased effort, but Lin-Lin’s cursory explanation left much to be desired. “The outer provinces are in safe hands,” he said, ignoring her silent demand for answers, “So why don’t we sit down together and you can tell me all your grievances which I have to answer for while we eat?”

Lunch was a simple meal of noodles and dried jerky, soaked and softened just long enough to almost be palatable, alongside a dish of steamed vegetables. Nothing fancy, not for the Legate of the outer provinces, and that was one of the many reasons Mila loved him so, so arrogant at times, yet still humble when it counted. While they ate, he asked her about her experiences while he was comatose, and she answered as best she could, given how little of note actually took place. A few clashes in the open fields followed by long days in the forge and long nights of Martial training, a mundane and monotonous existence which few cared to interrupt. Despite her lofty public status as the Legate’s ‘first’ wife, the political factions of the Empire had long since learned to steer clear of Mila, given her tendency to threaten and castigate anyone who dared to bother her. Those seeking to make political connections went to Luo-Luo for the best results, while others hoping to toady up and gain Rain’s favour sought out Yan to flatter and cajole, who by and large did a fine job of toeing the line and making sure never to commit to any promises or take on any obligations.

In contrast, Mila’s actions might have made Rain even more enemies than he already had, but he merely laughed and waved her concerns aside stating, “Happy wife, happy existence. If they upset you, then they are no friends of mine.”

Their conversation soon turned to their most shared topic of discussion, that of the Martial Path, and though Mila noted he was avoiding any and all talk of his own personal experiences whilst comatose, she knew he was merely working up the courage to do so. As such, she vented her frustrations regarding her lack of significant progress while Rain pursed his lips and tried not to laugh. Caught out by her glare, he soon explained, “Until recently, you were the most formidable duellist under twenty-five, and now you are firmly ensconced at number two. Your husband might have finally surpassed you, but I would hardly call your talents lacking, beloved.” Knowing she wanted more than his consolation, he fed the bears and wildcats a few table-scraps before addressing the issue at hand. “You know I would love nothing more than to help you beloved, but not only am I unsure how much I can share without affecting your Path, the truth of the matter is, I don’t even understand a quarter of what I can do, and I’ve no idea how the rest of it is done. Take Cloud-Stepping for example. All I do is think about going over there, and I move my feet and it happens. If I ever stop and think about how I’m Cloud-Stepping, then the whole thing just falls apart, which goes to show just how lacking my comprehension really is.” Sighing as he leaned in for comforting support, he added, “It’s Guiding all over again. I’m just accidentally failing my way towards success.”

“Well maybe you should stop sneaking away to have your idle wife, and put that time to better use sparring and training instead.” Contrary to what she was saying, Mila snuggled in close to rest her head on his shoulder, wishing he could spend all his time with her instead. They’d been married for over a year now, but it felt like they’d only spent a handful of weeks together, though that was hardly true. Still, he had an obligation to the Empire and it would be an affront against the Mother above to let his Heaven-blessed talents go to waste, so Mila had a responsibility to ensure he progressed as far along his Path as he could. “Go find an idle Peak Expert you trust and exchange a few hundred moves, then do it again until you drop. Practice long enough and the mysteries will reveal themselves eventually, so quit lazing about and go lose some weight. Maybe try sparring with Gerel to start, as you should be most familiar with his style.”

“I have put on a few kilograms, haven’t I?” Beaming proudly as he pinched his non-existent belly fat, Rain’s beautiful eyes brightened with a mischievous glint as an idea came to him in the moment. “My head still hurts something fierce from using too much Chi, but I can spar without using any, I suppose. Alright, let’s go find Marshal Yuzhen and ask if we can borrow her boy-toy for a bit. It’ll be nice to see how I measure up against the Demon Reaper, and maybe I can settle some long-standing accounts while we’re at it.”

Shaking her head in quiet disapproval at his competitive nature and worried she might have baited him into pushing himself too hard, Mila followed her husband out of the manor with a trail of pets and Death Corps Guards behind them, the bears, wildcats, rabbits, and laughing birds all happy to come along for the jaunt. The Abbot’s trio of pets remained behind, as did Ping Ping and Guai Guai, while Princess, Blackjack, Noodle, and Mama Bun who were off with Li-Li, Lin-Lin, and Luo-Luo respectively. Finding Yuzhen was easy enough, even though Rain never once stopped to ask anyone where she was, and it wasn’t until they found the silver-haired half-fox waiting to greet them outside her own borrowed manor that Mila realized Rain had contacted Yuzhen through Sending. Being the block-headed fool that he was, he didn’t realize a personal visit from the Legate would obligate Yuzhen to drop everything to accommodate him, and he even tried to send her off so he wouldn’t interfere with her duties, but if she were to leave him alone in her own manor, it would be seen as a grievous loss of face for one or both of them. It would either be seen as Rain banishing Yuzhen from her own manor or Yuzhen not giving Rain face by leaving during a personal visit, a subtlety which was lost on Mila’s talented but idiotic husband.

Thankfully, Yuzhen was well-versed in handling such idiots in a diplomatic manner and confessed to a burning desire to see how Rain fared against her husband Gerel, while outright stating she would keep anything she witnessed to herself. Not that Rain even thought about concealing his abilities from anyone who cared to watch, though from the relaxed manner in which he approached this spar, Mila feared he wasn’t taking it as seriously as he should. While he somehow managed to defeat the Bloody Confessor and escape death at Bai Qi’s hands, battles between Peak Experts were always a dangerous prospect and overconfidence would be his undoing.

