All of the happy emotions the fighters were feeling from the Doppel Rens were starting to wear on their nerves. They couldn't use those emotions to predict attacks or to even guess where the next attack was going to come from. They could usually tell when an opponent saw an opening in their defenses and the brief emotional burst let the Pervarians react in kind. With the Doppel Rens being overly happy all the time, the normal advantage the Pervarians had in fights was completely negated.

“How much longer are you going to let this go on?” Teepo asked in the voice only Ren could hear.

Until Doppel Ren 1 gets a hit on Kenkoth. Ren thought to Teepo and Artemis as he watched Kenkoth fight. Which should be... right about... now.

They all looked at the first fight and saw Kenkoth make a mid-air twist and lunge, and his sword went right through Doppel Ren 1's chest as he landed.

“HA! I got...” Kenkoth's happy face faded as Doppel Ren 1's Displaced image faded and a wooden sword laid against the back of his neck.

“That's one for me.” Dopple Ren 1 said.

Kenkoth turned his head to stare at him without otherwise moving. “That was a...”

“...legitimate fighting technique.” Doppel Ren 1 said, then lifted the wooden sword and broke it. All the other Doppel Rens carefully stepped back from their fights and broke their own swords. They dropped to the floor from their various positions on the walls and ceilings and then the magical barrier around the fighters faded. Everyone was surprised when the duels ended so abruptly, especially the fighters.

“Hey, I didn't get the chance to...” Meccis tried to complain.

“Shut up, Meccis.” One of the other fighters said. “You can't complain that he hasn't shown us that he knows how to fight.”

“It's just swordplay.” Meccis said under his breath.

“I don't think you'll ever be happy unless you win, will you?” Doppel Ren 10 said and laughed. Meccis didn't say anything in response and the fighter next to him had to laugh at that.

“Since none of my countrymen managed to land a single hit on you during these duels, including myself, I must admit you can fight... if pressed.” Kenkoth said and made a motion with his hand, then all of his fighters and himself, bowed deeply to their opponents for winning the duels.

Ren received 240,000 respect and his mouth dropped open at the obscene total. That's 20,000 Respect for each duel, or double the default for refusing!

Teepo chittered in delight at Ren's shock. “You're more surprised than the audience is!”

Ren looked around and felt that Teepo was right.

“Is... is it over?” Princess Diana asked and looked at the Ren closest to her. “What happened?”

“The fight was only until one of the wooden swords was broken.” Doppel Ren 1 said. “I broke mine, so the duel is over.”

“That seems very anticlimactic.” Diana said.

“Ren, that's your cue!” Teepo said.

Right! Ren thought and stored each Doppel Ren in reverse order, starting with number 12. People gasped when the first disappeared, then again as each one disappeared from their sight. Ren left the first one for a few moments, however. He had felt the Pervarians want to approach him and waited until they did.

“Were the other ones real?” Diana asked.

Doppel Ren nodded. “We are quite real, Princess Diana.” He said and punched the table she sat behind and left a huge dent in it... then he disappeared when Ren stored him.

“Wh-what?” Diana looked around, confused. “What just happened?”

Ren activated all of his Auras, except for the bad ones like Ultimate Terror, Hatred, and Submission, then stopped blocking his presence. All the Pervarians and King Alamast looked up at him and Artemis. Ren unfurled his large leathery bat-like wings, then he and Artemis floated down to the floor and landed in front of Princess Diana. No one spoke at the display, not even the Pervarians.

“King Alamast.” Ren said as he let his wings fade and bowed slightly to him. “Lady Eleanor.” He said and bowed to her, then looked at Diana. “Princess Diana.”

“R-Ren...” Diana started to speak, then caught her breath at the omission of his title. “King Ren. I...”

“So that was all fake?” Meccis interrupted.

Ren chuckled and took out all 12 Doppel Rens at once and arrayed them around the Pervarians. The Doppel Rens immediately took out wooden swords, knocked away the ones the Pervarians still held loosely in their hands, then the Pervarians stopped moving when the tips of the wooden swords were pressed into their necks.

“Like the first Doppel Ren said to the Princess, they are quite real.” Ren said, then the Doppel Rens all stored their swords and Ren stored all of the Doppelgangers at once.

“That... that...” Diana shook her head. “Ren, what the hell is going on!”

“I'm sorry for the confusion, Diana.” Ren said, and felt strong feelings of distaste from all the Pervarians.

“Well, now we know.” Teepo said.

That was a great idea, Teepo. Ren thought.

“Thanks.” Teepo said.

“Just tell me what's going on.” Diana said in a more reasonable tone.

“When I left, I made a blanket statement that I had assumed was based on fact.” Ren said. “I inadvertently used Meccis as the template for how to behave around people that I didn't know from a culture I am unfamiliar with.” He explained. “That is not how I want to act. Threatening people I just met to a duel, based on my own perceived insult, is not how you properly greet new people or endear yourself to them.”

“Ren, that's only a reason.” Diana said. “What just happened?”

“I wanted to give them a demonstration of my fighting prowess.”

“But... it wasn't you.”

“They are Doppelgangers, Diana.” Ren said, and he felt the Pervarians react to that information.

“What does that mean?” Diana asked.

“He imbued them with his fighting knowledge.” Kenkoth said and Ren felt his understanding as well as his surprise. “They would react and move as if he was doing it himself.”

“Is that even possible?” Diana asked. “I've never heard of it before.”

“It takes years of training to master the technique, and even then, the Mana needed to maintain the link is extraordinary for one copy to exist.” Kenkoth said. “None of my current retinue can do it.”

Ren held up his hands and showed his wrists with the Mana Boost bracelets. “I still needed these, even with my Mana maxed.” He said. “It even drained my Mana Pool, and that's triple my max.”

No one said anything for nearly a full minute, and Ren could feel that they were all kind of shell-shocked from all the surprises he had unleashed on them.

“Say, who wants to see baby pictures of my newborn son?” Ren asked to distract them, and he felt several women in the audience react and giggle. He smiled and walked over to the middle of the room and put a box on the floor, then felt Diana's recognition.

“That's the Automatic Image maker.”

“You're close.” Ren said and activated it, then 4 large displays appeared above it in a square. “Actually, it's a multiple display box that receives images from the Automatic Image Maker.” He said and loaded the first image.

“Aww!” A woman in the audience said as Renardos' face appeared and Ren felt their emotions and their need to cuddle him. Ren grinned and showed the next image, and the representatives from the Pervaria Kingdom resumed their seats. Ren showed the next picture, then the next, and everyone watched the displays with interest, even the Pervarians.
