It was hard to describe, but it was as if Jake’s entire being was being tested and compared. No actual energy was drained or consumed, but something definitely happened as Jake passed through the barrier with the Warrior in tow. It was also immediately clear that the Warrior noticed something had happened as she froze and just stood there, staring for several seconds.

“Did it work?” the Shaman asked with anticipation.

The Warrior remained frozen before slowly nodding and speaking for the first time. “It did...”

Jake felt an incredible wave of relief as he quickly wanted to try again, going with the lowest-leveled Arachnec Noble this time around. A part of him wanted to just bring all the Venusians through first, but for the sake of fairness, he went with an undead spider next.

“Allow me to test again,” Jake said as he didn’t actually physically touch the Lord, but merely wrapped it in his aura. “Okay, try to pass through with me now.”

He hoped that physical contact wasn’t a requirement, and fortunately, as the Lord passed through, Jake once more felt the same kind of pull. The first time, he’d been surprised, but now he could focus more on exactly what was happening.

It didn’t take him long to reach a conclusion about what was happening either.

My power is weighed against theirs... so if I want to bring some through, the system must deem me stronger than them, Jake thought, feeling incredibly relieved at that realization.

Same as the Venusians, the Arachnec also froze right after passing through the barrier, and Jake was pretty damn sure they both got a system message or something after passing through.

A few seconds later, the Lord also gave confirmation that it worked, and Jake proceeded to successfully help the other eight also get through the barrier. What’s more, he got a bit bold and tried to bring them all through at once, learning in the process that the entire weighing concept was the same no matter how many he brought. It was entirely an individual comparison, and Jake had been deemed stronger than all the B-grades, even the Shaman, who was likely the strongest of this group.

With all eight through, Jake gave them a smile after waiting for them to process whatever system message they had received.

“Welcome to the multiverse,” Jake said as the Shaman said something he hadn’t expected.

“Ninety-third universe... Forerunner of the New World...”
