“I have no idea what a Riftcaster is, so this is all very enlightening to me.”

“I basically summon pure elemental rifts and supercharge the battlefield for my magic-infused weapons and armors.” He added, “And my magic, too, but not much. [Flare Bolt], and stuff. I prefer getting into melee and, uh, slicing and crushing. So your rings have been really, really, good for me. Thank you, sir.”

Supercharging the battlefield, eh? Erick was intrigued, but he needed to know more.

“They’ve been great for me too,” Uluthar said. “We usually have to step down to the lower level threats to buy the supplies necessary to fight the bigger stuff.”

Dargogh held up his hand. The silver band shone dully in the ambient light of the Guildhouse. He said, “These solve a lot of problems. We can fight the really dangerous monsters every week, instead of every month.”

Erick asked, “Are you a Scion of Balance?”

Uluthar looked a bit concerned.

But Dargogh instantly said, “Yes.”

“My daughter is a Scion of Balance, too. It’s pretty good. I bet those rings are rather good for you.” Erick asked, “So rifts? Are they just [Prime Area] attuned to… What?”

Dargogh said, “[Prime Area] done up with a mutated [Force Platform] and the various Mana Alters. It creates a helper that follows you around and constantly soaks the area with elemental influence, or, your influence. You know. You can make a version that won’t follow you around if you use [Force Wall], instead. And then you just… do what you do. But at twice the power, or more. For me, that involves strength of arms. Uh. [Conjure Weapon]… And stuff.”

Erick felt like someone showed him the sunrise for the first time. He said, “I’m going to have to share that with my daughter. I hope you don’t mind. It sounds amazing.”

Dargogh smiled wide, chuckling for a moment. And then he shut down his face and his laughter. He bowed a little, then said, “I will be glad if my technique could help you and yours as much as your rings have helped us. Thank you, sir.”

Uluthar bowed a little, too, as he said, “Thank you, sir.”

“Thanks for coming. It’s nice to meet those who I’m helping, and who are helping others.”

Mog nodded. The two men turned and walked away. Erick briefly watched them go, then turned his attention back to Mog, who was smirking.

Erick said, “Thank you, Mog. That was very nice.” He glanced over, across the mostly empty fourth floor, to see the two men blip away; one blue, the other cyan. He turned back to Mog, keeping his voice quiet as he leaned in to ask, “But what the heck does 5 star actually mean? Old wyrms, right? I think I’ve killed a few of those, haven’t I? I’ve lost track of that star system.”

Mog just laughed. “Don’t worry about it. You’re ten-star, and that’s as high as it gets.” She glanced over to Kiri, standing behind Erick, next to Poi, and said, “I’ve given all of your monster killing experience to your apprentice, these days.”

“That’s fine.” Erick turned to Kiri. “I didn’t know about rifts.”

Kiri claimed, “I didn’t either!” She added, “Seems useful, though.”

Mog said, “There’s lots of useful magic in here. If you came in and got to know some people, maybe there could be some exchanging of ideas.”

Erick turned back to Mog. “I like that idea. Do you know anyone that knows about [Treeshape] and such?”

“One of the best.” Mog looked out the window, toward the city.

The Adventurer’s Guildhouse was situated in a [Ward] like space, where the inside felt like a comfortable forest glade and the outside was exposed to the vagaries of the desert environment. The anchor for this effect were four corner trees, each of them with trunks a hundred meters tall and ten meters wide. The canopies of those four trees joined together high above the Guildhouse, in a mesh of housing and pathways and branches, for those who liked to live in that sort of environment. That ‘tree district’, as Erick had heard it called, fully covered the entirety of the Guildhouse and its many smaller buildings, while extending shadows out into much of the rest of the Adventuring District. Erick had thought that those shadows would have been a problem, but residents and wardlights kept those boughs bright and occupied at all times.

Mog thumbed toward the tree outside the window. “I can put you in touch with my Druid?”

Erick said, “Of course! Yes. Perfect.”

- - - -

Mog brought Erick to a decently sized greenhouse made of glass and wood at the northern edge of Guild property, to the side of one of the massive trees. The glass structure occupied a space maybe an acre wide, and the doors were open, but there were no obvious plants inside. There was a nearly naked green-feathered harpy though, toiling at the ground, at piles of dirt. Mog stopped just outside of the building, and so did Erick. Poi and Kiri hung back.

There was a [Ward] across the greenhouse, and from the gently layered yellow gasses that coiled and sifted through the air, Erick guessed it was either a [Scent Ward], or some other sort of noxious fume [Ward]. The harpy inside didn’t seem to care about the gasses, or maybe she had some sort of [Personal Ward] on that blocked out the yellow. Whatever the case, Erick was glad Mog had stopped outside of the greenhouse.

Mog called to the person inside, “Hey! Caerilda!”

The harpy inside turned, lifting her face. Her feathers covered her whole body, but as she moved, Erick saw that they weren’t just green. She was almost a green macaw, but with rainbows for the undersides and tips of her feathers; drab and well suited for hiding in a forest, until she wanted to be seen. When she saw Mog, she held her expression neutral, but when she saw Erick, she frowned, heavily.

Caerilda snarled, “I’m working!”

“I brought a visitor,” Mog said.

“I see who you brought!” Caerilda said, “I don’t truck with no worldshapers.”

Erick had been briefed on how this meeting would go, and who Caerilda was, as a person. So if he wanted anything out of this meeting, he would have to get pushy. Erick had almost backed out when that was explained to him, but Mog insisted he try, especially after she heard what Erick wanted to talk to Caerilda about.

Erick said, “I’m making a tree [Familiar]. I want to raise her right.”

Caerilda’s rainbow eyes went wide, seeming to bore into Erick’s own.

Erick patted Ophiel on the head, on his shoulder, eliciting a bright violin whistle, as he said, “I’ve done alright with Ophiel, but making a second one will be much harder.” He had no idea how much more difficult a second [Familiar] would be, but Erick felt like it was a safe set of words to spout.

Caerilda frowned. She huffed. She stomped toward Erick, scattering heavy yellow fog with her chicken-like legs, as she said, “We’re doing this rapid fire, and then I’m getting back to work. My trees require the best fertilizer possible, and your glowing rain don’t do nearly enough.” She got to the edge of the warded space, just inside of the doors of her greenhouse, and said, “But it does a lot, and that’s the only reason I’m doing this, too. Consider that debt paid.”

“Do you want some personalized platinum rain?” Erick offered, “I had no idea these trees liked it.”

Caerilda stood a bit taller. “Yes!” She said, “I do!"

Mog said, “No.” She looked down at Caerilda, saying, “No bargains. No more rain. This is not an opportunity for you to gouge him, Caerilda. You’re paid to take care of the barrier trees, but if you want to foist that job off to Erick, I could pay him, instead.”

“Bah! Mog! Fine.” Caerilda said, “We’re not doing that, then. I’ll continue to take my rain from the tunnels like everyone else.” She turned to Erick, “Tell me what you want, archmage.”

“Spell combinations. What to watch out for. What to expect. I want a defensive position [Familiar]; is that a good idea? How common are tree-based [Familiar]s? Also, I noticed a spell called [Tree of Light]. Is that a good one?”

Caerilda listened, then began rattling off, “[Watershape] and [Grow] for [Treeshape]. Nothing else is good enough. You must focus on the full life of a tree and ignore the end, unless you want [Life Cycle]. That one’s not a good spell to use to make a [Familiar], unless you like your [Familiar] dying all the time.

“Tree [Familiar]s start small and need time to live, but they get big and powerful, and almost always condense a soul after a few years, thereafter becoming not-your-[Familiar]. This happens very fast if you make one at tier 4. So raise ‘em right, or don’t even try. You will be creating a being with a soul, accept it, and move on. Trees don’t really care about us though, so don’t go giving them your morals; you’ll fuck it all up.

“Trees are better than most people though, so as long as you do right by your tree, your tree will do right by you, even after it achieves sentience.

“A defensive position is the best option for a good tree [Familiar]. Find a good spot and protect it, and don’t ever move your tree. They hate that. And if you accidentally imbue the idea of movement into your [Familiar], you’ll create an Ent, instantly. They’re thinking creatures that will kill most people on sight, though they are not monsters, and a goodly known Druid might even find shelter with such beings.

“Tree [Familiar]s are extremely common in the forests north of the Wyrmridge or anywhere else there’s natural forests. A properly made arbor is only considered a true arbor when a goodly raised and well treated [Familiar] thrives long enough to become its own existence, and freely gives its protection to those around it.

“And [Tree of Light] is a decent spell to have around here, but it makes your unmoving [Familiar] a target for Shades and such, but you’re already an archmage, so go ahead and do it that way if you want. But if you use it to make your [Familiar], you’re gonna make a tier 4 spell. Guaranteed to make a sapient lifeform, for sure. So unless you want that, make something smaller.” Caerilda fluffed her green wings out a bit, revealing a riot of color as she disturbed the yellow air. She asked, “That good enough for you?”

It was a lot more than Erick had known, but still not a full telling. It was good enough for experimenting, though. He asked, “What if I wanted to make it all at tier 2. Combining [Watershape], [Grow], [Lightshape], [Conjure Force Elemental], [Telepathy], and [Scry], all at once?”

Caerilda got a stern expression, then said, “If you weren’t an archmage, I’d laugh at you for chasing a dream, but you are the archmage that brings the rains, and that just pisses me off because you figured out what no one else had before. If you manage to create this tier 2 tree [Familiar], you will have created a [Familiar] that would take twenty years to become a real being, giving you time to raise them right, without worry, and if you manage to do that, you’ll have created an arbor worthy to build a true city around. One the size of Spur! Or maybe one that can defend Spur long after you’re gone.” She declared, “And that’s enough free answers! I’ve given you more than I should ever give a non-Druid. I demand a set of those rings you’ve been making in recompense for my assistance.”

Before Mog’s grumble could turn into a hearty ‘No,’ Erick said, “If Mog thinks it’s a good idea, then I see no problems.”

Caerilda said, “Good! I demand them by this time tomorrow—”

Mog said, “I already gave her a pair, Erick. Twice. One set of bands, and then one set of jewels. She ruined both sets. Melted them.”

“Huh?” Erick asked, “What? Melting! How?!”

Caerilda said, “I experiment with a lot of toxic stuff. Trees love it. Your rings and clothes and such, not so much. Doesn’t matter. I made a mistake. Give me another set and I’ll take care of them this time. I know what I did wrong.”

Erick paused for a second, then said, “Sure. That’s fine? Whatever? I’ll get you some rings. I have to deliver a new lot for Mog soon, too. Thanks for the assistance, Caerilda.”

“Yeah yeah. Whatever. You can probably handle your own experiments going out of control, and that includes an unruly tree.” She added, “Just don’t come crying to me if it thinks you treated it wrong and starts to disobey. Just kill it, tear apart the spell, and try again. Ain’t nothing to be done for an unruly plant besides start over.”

“That seems… cruel.”

“That’s true. It’s cruel. No doubt about it.” Caerilda shrugged. “Forests are cruel places. Survival is hard out there.” She said, “Most you can hope to do is make a [Familiar] strong enough to stand up to the cruelty to protect what needs protecting, without becoming a horror for those who follow.”

- - - -

Poi, Kiri, and Erick blipped into the front foyer of the house.

Kiri instantly said, “Rifts sound useful. Tree [Familiar]s seem problematic.”

“I was thinking the exact same thing. I’ll think more on the tree. But the rifts..” Erick said, “Instead of mutated platform and wall spells, how about using [Conjure Force Elemental] and [Force Wave].” He instantly added, “But that would make them tier 3 creatures...” He reconsidered, “Maybe… I won’t be doing that.”

“That’s probably why that guy doesn’t do them with [Conjure Force Elemental].” Kiri said, “The platform and wall way seems much more difficult because you have to tear at the spells a little— Ah. He just takes the spells understanding that they’re meant to block off an area, and turns that into a disintegrating and expanding… ‘rift’, I guess?”

“Sounds promising. And likely.”

“Layered, helpful magic is one way to fight,” Kiri said, almost dismissively. “I guess he managed to make it work for him, though?”

Erick gave her a questioning look.

Kiri said, “It clogs up the battlefield. I bet when he fights it is very, very flashy.” She added, “The first guy’s idea about using an Elemental Body to affect an outcome in a spell seems like the best thing I learned today.”

Erick smiled. “I have just the way to test that out, too!”

- - - -

In an unimportant part of the Crystal Forest, where the sun beat down hard on orange sands, zero [Scry] eyes hung in the air, and the northern winds blew to the south, causing agave and mimics to tinkle and chime, Erick, Poi, and Kiri, blipped into the air, on a hovering stone platform. Erick stepped to the edge, while the other two stood back.

