***

Ali stood beside the large murky lake in the underground forest cavern, trying to drown a Kobold while Malika looked on, occasionally offering her opinion. Initially, Ali had been excited about Eliyen’s request and the opportunity to make a difference. She would explore a new dungeon and unlock the secrets of mana-purified water, helping her friends overcome the debilitating effects of the Death Wight’s life drain and at the same time make important potions much more widely available.

However, learning that she would have to tackle the dungeon by herself, and then trying – and failing – to answer some of Malika’s very practical questions about how she intended to approach the job had drastically eroded her confidence.

Volle’s Dungeon – as it was known – was apparently an aquatic dungeon. A series of caves, mostly submerged in water, infested with slime and ooze monsters. Eliyen had secured a crude hand-drawn map of the dungeon itself, which supposedly cost a hefty fifty silver if purchased in Volle. It seemed that the entire town’s economy had been structured around extracting the most money from the dungeon in every way possible – and gouging visitors on simple amenities and information was obviously fair game.

It’s like the worst kind of tourist town. Only the ‘attraction’ is a dungeon.

It hadn’t really dawned on Ali that her monsters would need to breathe underwater until Malika had pointed at the three Underwater Breathing potions Eliyen had provided and asked her how she planned on fighting. Which brought her ultimately to the shore of her lake and her quest to drown her Kobolds.

“Six minutes,” Calen said, somehow able to gauge time nearly exactly.

Ali retrieved the distressed Kobold from the water before it actually died. Six minutes seemed quite impressive for the bedraggled and drenched Kobold, and Ali was quite certain that with her lower vitality, she wouldn’t have lasted even half that long. But six minutes was woefully inadequate for traversing an underwater series of caverns with potential monster fights along the way.

“Thank you,” she told the Kobold. Even though the summoned creature would have clearly followed her request to the death, the discomfort and sense of drowning she felt through her connection with the monster made her feel terrible about her tests.

“I’m sorry, Ancient Mistress. This one is not strong enough.” The Kobold turned away, coughing up dirty water before looking down at his feet dejectedly. What made her feel infinitely worse about the drownings was the way the Kobold seemed depressed that she wouldn’t let him actually die to satisfy her request – as if he hadn’t been able to try hard enough and was letting her down.

“What else you got?” Malika asked.

“The only other minions I have are slimes,” Ali answered, wondering if there was some way she could find some underwater monsters to learn on short notice. Of all her potential minions, the sleek and powerful Poison Wyverns had lasted the longest, but ten minutes underwater was still woefully inadequate for this mission. And Malika had pointed out that their primary breath attack – poison spray – would probably be significantly less effective underwater too.

Ali pursed her lips and quickly paged through her Grimoire finding the imprint for her oozes. She had only two options, and she was certain the Toxic Slime was way too low level for this job, regardless of whether it could survive underwater or not. She gathered her mana and chose the variant for the Luminous Slime and began to summon her next victim.

There was a soft popping noise as the monster appeared, followed by a wet splat as it hit the mossy ground, its roundish body wobbling as it glowed. Slimes were nasty and gross monsters, amorphous blobs of moist or damp jelly-like substances that could self-animate in ways that sometimes made her stomach lurch. But compared to the Toxic Slimes, this Luminous Slime was much more to Ali’s taste. She wouldn’t go as far as calling it beautiful, but the light its semi-transparent body gave off was gentle and soothing. Seen from a distance, maybe with a substantial squint, it looked like a pleasant, happy glowing yellow squishy ball a little larger than herself.

Ali sent her will to the creature, taking care to keep her instructions clear and simple. Slimes, she had found, were her least intelligent minions, and seemed unable to follow anything but the simplest of directions. But they did seem useful in their own way. While she had had to monitor them closely during the twin Wight battle, they had proved to be remarkably resilient, and entirely immune to being pinned down and trapped by the bone prisons.

She visualized it entering the water and sitting at the bottom, and the creature responded immediately, stretching various pseudopod ‘legs’ in seemingly random directions to help propel, drag, slither, or pour itself across the ground and along the bottom of the water in the bizarre whole-body locomotion unique to slime monsters.

Oozed, she decided. It was the descriptive word for the way the slime was moving that seemed most appropriate. It oozed its way across the ground.

Ali watched as it simply sat there lighting up the murky lake from within. She felt no distress coming through her connection to the creature. Occasionally, she sent minor adjustments just to check if it was still able to respond.

“I think we have a winner,” Malika observed.

“I don’t think it needs to breathe at all,” Ali agreed. Indeed, even the way it had oozed along the lake floor had seemed indistinguishable from its movement above water – as if the monster was entirely indifferent to the environment in which it found itself. Ali sent it a command, and it released its incandescent spray of light motes. The entire lake shone with the intensity of the attack, but through the depth of murky water, it failed to blind Ali.

“Slimes are generally blind, aren’t they?” Calen asked, looking up from his seat where he was studying his notes.

“I think so,” Ali answered. Her slimes had never seemed bothered by the intense spray of lights they could emit, so it was plausible they were perceiving the world in an entirely different way.

“Perhaps don’t rely on that attack, then,” he finished. “It might not work if everything you’re fighting is another slime.”

“So, I have only one minion, and I can’t use its primary attack.” This entire operation was looking less and less feasible the more she thought about it. “I wish I could bring my Kobolds.” She had certainly gotten used to her versatile minions and having an answer for every occasion right there in her Grimoire was something she had begun to take for granted. Now, when she couldn’t bring them, she suddenly realized how much of her power was directly related to having a good selection of minions.

“Why don’t you bring some?” Calen asked. For some reason, he seemed to be fidgeting more than usual, as if he were trying to suppress a nervous energy, but she simply chalked it up to him being shy about sharing his ideas.

“They can’t breathe underwater.” She couldn’t figure out what he was getting at. He was exceptionally smart, but the problem was really obvious, and he seemed to be ignoring it.

“You can’t breathe underwater either,” he said, and suddenly Ali understood what he was getting at. “Let’s go talk to Morwynne Fizzlebang at the potion store. Maybe she has a few more underwater breathing potions you can buy. They will probably work on Kobolds or Goblins if you tell them to drink it.”

“Oh… that’s smart.” Ali hadn’t considered the obvious solution, but it made sense. Her humanoid monsters were smart enough to use potions. It would be prohibitively expensive for sure, but for the added safety of bringing an Acolyte of Azryet to heal her, or a Storm Shaman, she was certainly willing to make the sacrifice. It would make an enormous difference. However, I should test firing Lightning Bolts underwater.

“You’re also ignoring one of your biggest advantages,” he continued, still fidgeting with the pages of his notebook. “Your Grimoire. You’ll be fighting in a dungeon with monsters that are adapted to the local conditions. As long as you can kill some monsters, you can learn them, and then you should have access to minions that can survive and fight underwater.”

Oh, now there’s a great idea! Strategy is like learning your first runes, then you just link them together in ways that work… she smiled as new ideas began to simmer in her mind.

Malika patted Calen’s head. “See how happy you made her? Good boy!”

He screwed up his face into a hilarious grimace. “Really?”

***

Ali sat on a patch of springy moss, paging through her books, looking for any small inspiration she might have missed that could help her with her upcoming quest. The delicious-smelling aroma of Mato’s cooking, a richly spiced tamarind stew, filled the Grove once more. Idly, she found herself wondering where he sourced all his ingredients. Never a slouch in cooking to start with, he was really starting to experiment these days and the results made her nose tingle and her mouth water. Come on, Ali, focus. Spice pods won’t slay monsters.

She glanced up when she felt Calen approaching.

“Um…” he began, shifting a little awkwardly.

He’s blushing? There was a flush of red coloring the normally pale skin of his face.

“Ali… I… I didn’t really get a chance to say thank you for saving me. When I fell,” he said, stumbling over his words.

Wow, he’s really nervous, she thought. So cute. She smiled up at him in a way that would hopefully reassure his anxiety and said, “You’re welcome. I know you would have done the same for me.” She still remembered the horror and dread as she had watched him topple from the inner ring of the ruined city. She couldn’t imagine what life might be like right now if her desperate plummet to save him had failed.

“I got you something,” he said, the words almost tripping over each other as he blurted them out.

Oh? She watched curiously as he pulled out an enchanted leather bag she hadn’t seen before and set it on the ground a generous distance away from where she sat before pulsing a little of his mana into it the same way she used her ring’s storage enchantment. Suddenly, there were three enormous objects, covered with soil and dirt, and from her vantage point looking up at them, she couldn’t immediately tell what they were.

“I hope they’re ok,” he said, none of his awkwardness having eased. In fact, he seemed even more worried, if that was possible.

Wracked with curiosity now, she summoned her barrier disk and levitated into the air above the giant structures until she could get a clearer view.

Cherry trees! Lying sideways on the ground, she had been looking directly at the dirt and roots of the uprooted trees, but from the air, they were clearly cherry trees filled with beautiful pink blossoms.

She flew over to Calen and hugged him. “I love them! Thank you.” She could feel his blush intensifying, so she let him go and instead deconstructed the three trees he had brought.

Variant: Cherry Tree added to Imprint: Tree.

Immediately, she created one off to the side, next to the lake, surreptitiously noting that Calen was now smiling happily. The tree she created was smaller than the oaks or maples she was used to planting, but it was still tall and filled with beautiful deep pink blossoms.

“That is stunning,” Malika said admiring the tree.

It’s beautiful, Ali thought, thoroughly enjoying the unexpected and thoughtful gift.

“Good job!” Mato said, slapping Calen on the back and making him stagger. “It only took almost dying to get you to buy a girl flowers.”

The poor Half-elf turned every color of the sunset as Mato and Malika hooted in tandem.

“Hey! It was a very thoughtful gift!” Ali protested, picking up a clump of moss and throwing it at Mato, hitting him on the chest.

Everyone started laughing, even Calen joined in as Mato’s joke seemed to finally dissolve his anxiety and nervousness.
