But Shiv wasn’t quite so human at his foundations, either. Daughter wasn’t the only monster wearing human flesh here. As coherent thought fled his mind, Shiv defaulted to violence. Daughter fought her way toward him, a mangled giantess warring against Cripple’s incandescent tides. Shiv darted through the blast with ease, untouched by fire and force. He came for Daughter, infusing both Vitae and Shapeless Tides into his left arm. Daughter snarled. She tried to strike him, but Cripple’s mana collapsed down upon her and began dragging her under the incandescent mana. She tried to push through crashing waves with her arms, but Daughter was but an insect fighting the falling waves of the ocean. Reality could sustain her presence here no longer, and she was beginning to sink like stone. “CRIPPLE! HOW COULD YOU LET HIM DO THIS! HOW COULD YOU LET HIM BREAK YOU—YOU BIG, STUPID—”

Her following words turned into a wretched scream as Shiv drove his fist into her skull. His Vitae allowed him to strike at her spirit, while his Shapeless Tides granted him the might he needed to tear at god-flesh. A gasp followed. Daughter’s rage turned to a whimper of true pain as Shiv shredded her insides with a burst of fragmenting vectors.

Even with Legendary Physicality, mutilating the soul of a god was like trying to crush a diamond. Daughter’s Magical Resistance was staggering and abnormal. Rather than lining her outsides, it clenched down on him like pointed teeth when he intruded into her being. But just as Shiv had a hard time gouging her soul, her unnatural inner mana met his Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides and was stopped dead.

A clash followed as Daughter cried out in absolute horror. Whatever Cripple did, it seemed to be ripping her out of this reality. But Shiv wouldn’t let her go—not when he had a golden opportunity to give her a proper souvenir.

“I hope you enjoyed the taste of me earlier, because here comes the motherfucking consequence,” Shiv growled. Icon of the Paindrinker activated. The Deathless wrenched hard against Daughter, and something inside her came apart.

The false goddess wailed, but in the undercurrent of its monstrous voice, a faint sob followed.

Psycho-Cartography: She’s a monster, but there’s a reason why she still acts like a child… She is one mentally. Those screams are not the screams of an adult.

“Okay! Okay! Let me go! I’m sorry! Let me go! I don’t want to play with you anymore! I don’t want to!” Daughter stopped her struggles and pulled her head away from Shiv. He tried to hold onto her, but he didn’t have enough tides. A fist-sized hole was left in her face. Daughter shrieked as she ripped her head free from his grasp. As she plunged beneath the waves of incandescence, Shiv could hear her crying and screaming, more child than beast. “Mama! Mama! He hurt me! He hurt me! Mam—”

The incandescence stilled. Shiv couldn’t hear Daughter anymore. Yet, the last thing to fade was a chain constructed from the substance of the Daughter’s tar and Shiv’s Vitae.

Shiv had wounded an Ascendant. What’s more, he had earned her fear. The latter sent a rush of delicious power flowing through his being—but it just kept building. He gained more than mere levels for the feat of traumatizing an Ascendant.

Shape of Monstrosity 112 > 119

Feat Gained: Dread-Tainted (Legendary) - The Pathbearer has left a divine being scarred with terror. Gods have fled your presence. You are now a source of absolute fear. Allows the Pathbearer to lace their skills with the divine entity’s lingering terror.

Something snaked under Shiv’s flesh and wriggled into his soul. It didn’t feel uncomfortable. In fact, it was like a new muscle tightening inside him. From deep inside, he could hear Daughter’s sobbing cries of horror and the mark of cold dread he left upon her soul.

Despite the rush of power entering him, Shiv didn’t feel proud. Frankly, he was disturbed by the end. The incandescent waves unleashed by Cripple began to fade, but the Deathless found himself lingering upon an endless canvas of absolute brilliance. No more force washed around him, but he wasn't where he'd been a moment ago.

“You shouldn’t have done that,” Cripple said quietly. The Ascendant’s voice echoed from the core Shiv still held in his left hand. “The destruction of my Avatar was enough to banish her. You didn’t need to harm her further. She will remember this. And her mother will not forgive this.”

A snort escaped the Deathless, but the voice of Daughter continued to resound in the back of his mind. “I didn’t start this fight. You made your choices, I’m just responding.”

Cripple let out a low sigh. It sounded like it wanted to say something, but kept its words in check. Shiv kind of wished that Cripple would have said something, because now he had to deal with his own thoughts, and he really didn’t want to.

That was… Well, that was something. She's a monster, but her voice at the end sounded like a child. I don’t… I really don’t know if I feel good about that.

Psycho-Cartography: You shouldn’t. I don’t think she is entirely sane. Whatever her mother did to her, it twisted her. We might have just injured a child and a monster—both in the same body.

Shiv grimaced. He didn’t entirely regret wounding Daughter, but something about injuring someone with the mind of a child left him feeling ill.

Psycho-Cartography: Again, it should. But we need to face the discomfort and make the best choice that we can. There are going to be more situations like this. The System doesn’t care what happens to people across Integration. Children can struggle too. Children can be monsters. The only way we can avoid harming her is if we were far stronger, but Daughter is an Ascendant. And without Cripple, the outcome of this encounter might have been uglier than we can accept.

Psycho-Cartography 63 > 65

“So, where the hells am I right now?” Shiv asked. He tried flying around the space, but found himself completely trapped within this blank expanse of divine mana. The Orichalcum cage was gone. The crawlspace was gone. Everything was gone but him and Cripple.

“We are within a Divine Domain,” Cripple said. “The thresholds of Integration here are so solid that nothing can break through. Not other gods. Not the Outside.”

The Deathless looked around at the curling flecks of incandescence that characterized the surrounding space. “You don’t do much decorating, do you?”

“Deathless, do you think I would bring you into my domain proper or simply a vacant portion? There is a limit to my trust.”
