“You know, your capacity for leveling is highly unusual. I thought it would take at least another few years before you out leveled me, yet here you are, having already done the impossible. I suppose centuries spent inside a dusty old library didn’t do me as much good I thought it did. Regardless-“

He turned towards me with a glowing smile, “I’m proud of you.”

Fortunately for me, my helmet was on. Otherwise Torix would’ve seen me blush. I shook out my own embarrassment, “Thanks Torix. That means a lot.”

Torix faced forwards again, “As it should. I don’t give out compliments lightly. I don’t give out gifts lightly either, but I believe you’re ready for one when we get back. It should be a key component of your future progress.”

“What is it?”

Torix rubbed his hands together, “You’ll see when we get back.”

Within minutes, we reached back into Torix’s base of operations. The tunnels, wires, and runic inscriptions had slowly but surely turned this suburban home into an evil lair. As we paced inside, Torix announced,

“While you were gone, I went about creating your new gift. I was planning on giving it you as a means of furthering your runic studies. They seem to be the focal point of your current interests. Instead of trying to refocus your learning on necromancy, letting you traverse further into the runic arts would do you more good. It is by far your most advanced magic after all.”

I shook my head, “Not quite.”

Torix opened the door, turning to me, “What do you mean?”

I walked up to a nearby tree, just big enough for your average guy to wrap his arms around it. I set up my telekinetic augments, firing my ascendant mana, and drove my fist into the nearby tree all at once. Before my fist landed, a gravitational vortex snapped right were my fist was headed. As my hand impacted the vortex, my hand blew backwards like firing a cannon. The impact shot through the telekinetic augment, firing a bullet of kinetic energy at the tree.

The tree blew up. The entire trunk evaporated, splinters and sawdust floating through the air. The tree fell towards the house, but I grabbed it with telekinesis. Using a gravity warp for assistance, I pulled the tree sideways. As it fell to the ground, Torix froze in place.

I turned to him,

"It's called Volatile Carnage."
