Ailendamus’ army was larger by far than the thousand some [Knights], mainly [Summer Knights], and the mixed group of Pheislant’s soldiers contributed by noble houses. The retinue and personal retainers of some of the Order of Seasons’ members, like House Kallinad’s [Soldiers] who had come because Talia was riding with them.
When they had heard the Order of Seasons and the Summer’s Champion were marching on them, Ailendamus’ army had halted and moved back. Choosing their battlefield.
Rabbiteater knew all this, being with Greysten, the Summer’s Champion most of the day. He heard the condemnation by Pheislant’s ruler, the outrage of Knight-Commander Calirn, Ailendamus’ threats of war with Pheislant which might very well come to pass if Greysten did not turn around right now—
None of it mattered. The Summer’s Champion had made his choice. Like a Goblin, he would not gainsay his oath. There was only right and wrong, and so summer rode to war. That was very Goblin-like to Rabbiteater, but there were differences.
Such as this: they sang as they rode. The Summer’s Champion had received word that the army had formed up in the pass ahead. He had Spring Knights scouting them, but he made no speeches, even though Wistram wanted an interview. He just began humming—then, as if it were the most natural thing in the world, he burst into song and the other [Summer Knights] picked it up.
 
“I rode down summer highways,
Following the spring.
Autumn chased close after, 
In dappled leaves falling 
Telling me what the future brings.
 
Summer is fading, the fire leaves
The sky, but I? I rode after sunlight
Until winter passed me by.
 
Are those Dragon wings I hear beating
Or the drumming of my heart?
If winter comes around me,
If the world seems too dark.
Ride with me down summer highways
And let us light summer’s spark.”
 
Rabbiteater listened, blinking behind his visor. From Greysten to Dame Voost, the best swordswoman, to Dame Chise to Talia, they all sang. Loudly as Greysten, with all the poor pitch-control as Voost, quietly or melancholic or…
Goblins didn’t sing. They had to be quiet. These [Knights]? They rode with Pheislant’s [Soldiers], armor shining under the sky. Smiling and laughing.
A brotherhood, or sisterhood. Or…family. A tribe of Humans. Rabbiteater had never found the like.
He started as Greysten nudged him. The Summer’s Champion had taken off his helmet. He was still singing, and, as the [Knight-Errant] glanced at him, he realized some of the other [Summer Knights] were doing the same.
Tentatively, more embarrassed and awkward than any other time among them, Rabbiteater tried to join in. His voice was lost among the others, but part of it. Yet Greysten and those around him laughed. So the Goblin sang and remembered an inn where an [Innkeeper] sang now and then.
A glorious memory. A painful one. Yet here, among them, Rabbiteater remembered only the good parts. Let him think of loss and sadness later.
For now: let it be summer.
 
—-
 
That was how the Order of Seasons travelled. They sang and rode and laughed or traded jokes and stories. When they camped, they jested and relaxed as if they were on the little outing Greysten had tricked Calirn with, not an impending battle.
Only the Spring Knights showed nerves, yet amidst the good-natured Summer Knights, even they relaxed a bit. The few Autumn Knights were more reserved, but joined in the good-natured nights before they slept and rode again, travelling to Pheislant’s northern border.
When they finally neared the place where Ailendamus’ army was camped, the eyes of the world were upon them. Only then did Rabbiteater think to bring up the impending battle.
“They’ve holed up in the Stone Giant’s pass, Summer’s Champion. Looks like they have at least twenty of their Lance-bow artillery. A number of [Mages]—all at the back.”
“Their disposition?”
Greysten had slowed as a panting Ser Markus returned; he had been one of the Spring Knights scouting ahead. The man drank a gulp from his flask and shook his head.
“We couldn’t approach for fear they’d open up, but it looked like all infantry.”
“Which means they have the horse hidden somewhere. Stone Giant’s pass…I don’t recall any secret tunnels.”
The Summer’s Champion glanced at the distant pass between two hills. Rabbiteater eyed it too, with a [Warrior]’s eye. A nice place to hold off a force like the mobile Order of Seasons. Especially if they had those fabled Lance-bows. ‘Greatbows’, they were called; oversized bows that loosed enchanted arrows that were indeed comparable to lances rather than normal arrows.
One could kill an armored [Knight] in a single shot. Not to mention the thirty-thousand [Soldiers] compared to the seven thousand of Pheislant’s [Soldiers]. True, a thousand were [Knights], but numbers were numbers.
“I see. Well, that settles it.”
Greysten had a small gathering around him. Dame Voost, Ser Zulv, and many of the older [Summer Knights]; his friends and regular company. Rabbiteater was included in that number too, and the other [Knights] were nodding as if it were obvious what had to be done.
“Summer’s Champion, I saw ranks of pikes and what looked like earthworks in front of Ailendamus’ army. They’ve been preparing for us.”
Ser Markus looked ready for the fight, but understandably wary. Greysten just nodded again, rubbing at his orange hair. He grinned.
“That is accounted for, Ser Markus. Get some rest. Order of Seasons! Men and women of Pheislant! We ride on Ailendamus’ army now! Make your preparations! Officers, to me!”
He roared and a cheer met his words. Rabbiteater glanced around, but the other [Knights] were breaking up, checking on their fellows, or their weapons. He leaned over.
“Wait. What was the strategy?”
They’d not mentioned it to him. Perhaps it was obvious. Greysten blinked as he looked towards some of Pheislant’s military officers.
“Oh, that. I plan on charging straight at Ailendamus’ army. We’ll do something with the Season of Spring and the [Soldiers]. I hope you’ll join me in the vanguard!”
He clapped Rabbiteater on the shoulder, beaming. The Goblin blinked at the Summer’s Champion. He glanced around. Hesitated. Then shrugged.
“Sounds good.”
 
—-
 
Charge the enemy. Ser Markus’ eager expression faded a bit when he heard the battle plan. Not least because if he heard it…
“It will be a glorious battle! I have command of the center spear. Dame Voost, my left. Ser Zulv? The right. I plan on taking the Season of Summer straight down the pass. I will, of course, need Pheislant’s support.”
“A-absolutely, Summer’s Champion?”
One of the [Commanders] of Pheislant’s forces tried to keep up with Greysten. He expressed his hesitation in that single sentence. Greysten heard it—and ignored it.
“Don’t worry, man. I don’t plan on making your [Soldiers] join us! The Season of Summer will be joined by our Autumn Knights—to counter the spellcasters. However, I plan on keeping Spring back. Ailendamus had several thousand horse. They’re most likely hiding around the hill. There, or there…they’ll want to take us from the rear. You’ll hold them off.”
The Summer’s Champion gestured to the sides of the pass. The [Commander] nodded.
“How many to reserve, Summer’s Champion?”
“All of you. I appoint Ser Thornst as leader of the Spring. Ser Thornst? Keep them off our back.”
“Yes, Summer’s Champion!”
“But sir! That would mean you intend to assault Ailendamus’ entire entrenched force with only the Season of Summer?”
The Pheislant [Commander] looked ahead, and the three ‘spears’ of [Summer Knights] each moved ahead of the rest of the forces. Greysten nodded.
“Exactly! I’m glad we’re on the same page. Alright then, move o—”
“Begging your pardon, Summer’s Champion, but isn’t that tactic foolhardy?”
Ser Markus burst into the conversation. Rabbiteater glanced up from trying to cram a bar of rations through the slits in his visor. The young Spring Knight flushed as Greysten and some of the other officers turned to him, but he had to speak his mind.
“Ser Markus. Go on. You have reservations?”
Merry amusement danced in Greysten’s eyes. Markus glanced at Rabbiteater; the Goblin hadn’t said a word, but surely he saw this was madness!
“Ailendamus has their Greatbows and pikes, Summer’s Champion! They’ve dug into the pass; surely we should consider another approach?”
Greysten considered it as some of the older [Knights] laughed. They didn’t seem worried either. Ser Markus had never fought with the Season of Summer before. He’d heard they were direct, but this?
“You idiot, Markus.”
Some of his fellow Spring Knights wanted to drag the oblivious, if good-natured [Knight] away. If he’d known larger strategy, or studied battles before, he wouldn’t have embarrassed himself like this. Dame Meisa covered her face, already knowing what Greysten would say.
“In my experience, there are few enemies in the world who can’t be defeated by charging straight at them. All you need are more lances!”
Greysten laughed. He slapped Ser Markus on the shoulder so hard that Markus’ horse nearly sat down. Then he raised a hand.
“Enough deliberation! Ser Solstice, join me! To war! Let’s humble Ailendamus!”
 
—-
 
“They can’t be serious.”
The prevailing attitude was that the Summer’s Champion was an idiot. Of course, that was in general. In this particular instance, many people hearing the battle plan considered that Ser Greysten was also suicidal.
The scrying spell of Ailendamus’ forces kept fuzzing if it got too close. Someone in the army was blocking the spell, perhaps to keep the element of surprise on Ailendamus’ side.
However, what Ryoka could see was bad. She was no [Strategist], but she recognized classic formations.
Like pikes. Long poles of wood, longer than lances, that you let people run into? The enemy [General] had lined the entire pass with them. Multiple ranks of them. There wasn’t a way for the [Knights] to circle. The Greatbows were mounted in the back, to shoot over the heads of the infantry. Same with the [Archers] and [Mages]; they’d pepper a force trying to push through the front lines.
Just to make it worse, the ground had also been prepared; a huge slope had been dug out, such that you would charge into a little pit and then into the pikes, and then into oblivion.
“Noass, be honest with me. Is this a stupid plan?”
Drassi’s first reaction was to state what most people were thinking as she stared at the projection of the battle in miniature on the commentator’s table. She gingerly picked up a little figurine of a horse and ran it down the pass into the little pike-figurines; a war projection screen.
“Er—it’s certainly unconventional, Drassi. But perhaps the Summer’s Champion has some ulterior strategy we haven’t seen?”
“The plan had better be smarter than this Summer-guy looks. Ancestors, I thought they only did this sort of thing in stories.”
Charge the enemy head-on. It was the move of a fool. Or…the tactics of [Knights], the traditions of a bygone era. Ailendamus’ army looked, well, modern to Ryoka. They had artillery, a rarity among Human nations, in the Lance-bows. They had [Mages], an adaptive army.
The Order of Seasons had [Knights] and one tactic. They were coming down the pass.
Singing.
“Please tell me they’re not serious?”
Ryoka looked at Tyrion. She had spotted Rabbiteater in the front. She assumed it was him. A Goblin wearing armor. He was holding a lance with the others; in the scrying spell, she could see the Summer’s Champion handing him something.
“He is. He knows what he is doing. I have never met the Summer’s Champion personally, but I have known the Order of Seasons and he is well-regarded as a sound leader and fighter by his fellows.”
Tyrion Veltras sat with that uncanny interest, looking alight as he surveyed the battle. Even…happy. Ryoka glanced at him, and then at Hethon and Sammial, looking just as excited.
People were going to die. She felt a sick feeling in her stomach, but she turned to face Tyrion.
“So—this isn’t a bad move? Because it looks like it’s bad to me. I’m not a [Knight]…what do you think the odds are?”
Tyrion Veltras glanced at Ryoka and realized they weren’t seeing the same thing. The [Lord] tapped a finger on the table.
“In my opinion…the [General] of Ailendamus’ forces has underestimated the Order of Seasons. It could go poorly; how they manage to close the gap in their first charge will dictate the battle. The Lance-bows are a considerable threat.”
“B—so you’re betting on the Order of Seasons?”
Tyrion raised his brows.
“Yes.”
Ryoka turned back to the scrying orb. She peered at the projection, rubbed her eyes. She…clearly wasn’t a [Strategist].
 
—-
 
It began to rain as the Order of Seasons deployed into Stone Giant’s pass. Roughly nine hundred [Summer Knights] formed three spears along the narrow pass, each one led by a single [Knight].
Rabbiteater was right behind the Summer’s Champion. Greysten had handed him an amulet before the battle began.
“As you are the only [Knight] not of the summer who will engage the enemy with us, Rabbiteater, you must wear this. Good thing I remembered!”
“Good thing I reminded you. Ser Solstice, valor upon your sword!”
Dame Voost trotted past them to take the left, saluting the Goblin. Bemused, Rabbiteater put the amulet on, tying it around his neck.
Behind him, Ser Thornst had the two hundred or so Spring Knights spread out, waiting to intercept a rearwards attack. Pheislant’s infantry and horse were waiting with them, divided up and hanging back.
It was a small army that entered the pass. Greysten hummed the same melody as he stared ahead.
The ground was broken up before the pikes. Behind them, the Greatbows gleamed. The army of Ailendamus had sensibly not formed a huge mass that could be prey to mass-attack spells. They were in ranks, each one ready to rotate out. All the [Archers] and [Mages] were at the back.
 
—-
 
“They must be fools. The era of [Knight] Orders routing an enemy alone ended millennia ago.”
The Ailendamus [General] stared at the [Knights] through the enchanted spyglass. They had entered the pass alone, just as Greysten had claimed.
He had been monitoring the scrying spell, receiving intelligence via two hastily-attached [Infiltrators] in Pheislant’s ranks. The earthworks, this chosen position…it all felt like overkill now. Looking upon the Summer Champion’s strategy, the experienced [Strategists] and [General] couldn’t help but sneer.
“Sir. The palace wants to know if you have any reservations before the battle.”
One of the man’s subordinates whispered. General Vexil frowned.
“His Majesty?”
