Lord Tyrion Veltras. Like before, they skimmed across the landscape. He was pushing his horse, but he could speed up. Ryoka looked down.
The only people who could keep up with each other locked gazes. She had never been this fast. But him? When he galloped, he left everyone behind. What must it feel like to chase someone? To stare up and…
She looked away. Began to fly higher. Tyrion called out to her.
Was there a chance?
If there wasn’t, still don’t go. Because you are needed. My sons smile around you.
Don’t go.
There was no way she could have heard him, flying hundreds of feet higher. No way—but the wind blew his voice to her. Ryoka Griffin wavered.
What about Mrsha, though? What about Erin? She looked north, to the coast, still invisible from where she flew. Beyond it lay the place where fate had told her she could find a way to save Erin. She couldn’t tarry here. No matter how much she saw in Hethon and Sammial. Why had the fae dropped her back where she started, rather than on Terandria?
Perhaps because they wanted her to meet Tyrion? A [Lord] with an army.
She looked down at him. She wanted to believe he was an honorable man. One who had done terrible things, but someone she could trust. More than Magnolia. She couldn’t fly alone. Something was coming. Something was back.
Even so, this, of all things, Ryoka Griffin ran from. She would rather fight for her life than…
The Wind Runner began to leave the [Lord] behind. Flying up. Away.
 
—-
 
Below her, the busybodies were crying out. Shouting encouragement. Swey tore at his mustache.
“No! She’s getting away! Do you think he’ll chase her until she lands?”
“Maybe he should!”
Buscrei nodded at the idea, but Pellmia shook his head. He knew Tyrion. The man wouldn’t press his suit—he was stubborn, but not unchivalrous. He turned to his wife and daughter.
“No, we went too far! Damn, damn and rot! She’ll avoid the north like the plague itself for months! She’s leaving! We can’t go all the way to Liscor! Even Tyrion would take days to get there.”
“Weeks regularly. Far too long.”
An annoyed voice agreed. Betta shook her head.
“There was a chance! I’m sure of it! I’d bet my class on it! Father, can’t you use a Skill? Knock yourself out! Maybe you’ll get another Skill!”
She raised the basket and her father shielded his head. They all looked up. Ryoka was just a speck in the sky, now. Desinee sighed, wistfully.
“That’s it. We’ll never catch her. Not the Wind Runner.”
“Unacceptable. She can’t just fly off. I don’t have time for this.”
Pellmia’s head turned.
“Who is saying that? It’s her decision after all…”
He trailed off. He’d thought it was one of the other [Lords]. One of the other people here. But the voice continued.
“You won’t escape me. Not you, [Thief]!”
Everyone looked around. Sammial rubbed at his ears. He frowned. Then—stared up.
“What’s that?”
The gathered nobility looked up and cried out. High overhead, the sky opened. The Wind Runner, a speck in the air, twisted—
A bolt of lightning cracked down, glowing red and hit her. Keireen screamed. Lord Pellmia shouted in horror.
 
—-
 
“—not escape. You are hunted, [Thief]! I know your name—”
Ryoka Griffin felt one of her protective rings explode. She didn’t hear the rest as the voice screamed at her. She was falling, falling through hot air as her shredded wingsuit shrieked with the wind trying to buoy her up. The impact had torn the cloth—she was falling—
Damned busybodies.
The Wind Runner saw the ground spiraling towards her as she activated a failsafe. The Scroll of Featherfalling glowed—and she slowed, drifting towards the ground. She was dizzy—wounded. The red lightning had sapped something.
Was it fate? She felt the gap in the sky closing, swearing vengeance.
Yet, as Ryoka drifted to the ground, parts of her clothing on fire, half-fainting, she saw him. Speeding towards her, shield and lance raised, looking for the enemy.
Ryoka Griffin was laughing as Tyrion Veltras caught her. He looked down at her, serious. The Wind Runner stared up at him.
“I might be in a bit of trouble.”
Then she passed out.
