“No, General. It comes from the palace…not his Majesty’s personal seal.”
“I’m too busy to answer, then. Inform them all precautions have been taken. Why is the palace nervous?”
The [Mage] checked the seal.
“It comes from Duke Rhisveri, General. He…would like to know if you have a contingency plan should the Order of Seasons pass your pikes.”
General Vexil’s head turned. He glowered at the [Mage] as if the unfortunate man were doing the questioning.
“I plan on killing at least a third before they pass the first line of pikes. Lance-arrows strike me, look at them! The fools are going to charge us—”
“They are [Knights], sir. The Order of Seasons is one of the most accomplished [Knight]-Orders in Terandria.”
One of the [Strategists] pointed out cautiously. General Vexil was known to be overconfident in his own right. However, the [General] had made all the correct moves…aside from contemplating retreat or defeat.
“Aura weapons. I’m aware. The Season of Summer is fire, correct? They’ll resist our [Pyromancers], more’s the pity. However, we have enough generalist [Mages] to counter their full power. [High Mage]! Put a dampener on their spirits.”
The singing [Knights] were riding closer, nearly within Greatbow range. They slowed as one of the [Mages] activated yet another counter to their powers. General Vexil snorted and told his [Mage] to disregard the Duke’s complaints until after the battle.
He smiled and looked up as it began to rain.
 
—-
 
At first it drizzled. Then it became a downpour. The [Summer Knights] formed up as an unnatural storm began to roll in.
“Summer’s Champion! Weather magic! Do you want us to fight it?”
One of the Autumn Knights attached to his spear rode up to them. There were only about thirty, and a third had been placed at the front of each spear, right behind Greysten, for reasons that Rabbiteater didn’t get. The Goblin had been told he was the only other [Knight] who’d be fighting?
Well, Greysten hadn’t said otherwise, and Rabbiteater wasn’t in charge, so the Goblin sat back and listened as Greysten snapped orders. Unlike Markus, Rabbiteater knew better than to question the [Raid Leader] or Chieftain right before the fight.
“It’s just rain. This [General] hasn’t done his research!”
The Summer’s Champion laughed as he put on his helmet. His voice grew louder despite the muffling armor.
“Now we come to it. Knights of the Autumn, I thank you for joining me! Spring, and Fall join Summer!”
The other [Knights] cheered the small group of Autumn. It was the Order of Seasons’ practice to mix their seasons, Rabbiteater had been told. But only two or three seasons; rarely all four.
If Spring led, Winter and Summer might join it. Or…Winter could call upon Fall. However, one Season always led and was ‘supported’ by the others. The worst scenario was having Winter and Summer in equal numbers; their auras and natures clashed.
This was summer. Greysten rode forwards and bellowed across the pass.
“Forces of Ailendamus! Your trespass on Pheislant’s borders and war of aggression upon the Dawn Concordat will not stand! Not while honor and valor remain in Terandria! I am the Summer’s Champion! I offer you one chance to turn back and forswear your war—or else Summer shall advance! What say you?”
His voice rang out across the close, rocky walls. Ailendamus’ forces jeered—then went silent. A voice called back.
“General Vexil declines your request, Summer’s Champion! He warns you that in the name of His Majesty, Itorin II; Ailendamus will offer no quarter nor mercy! It does not sit so well with General Vexil to spill so much Human blood needlessly!”
Some of the [Summer Knights] snorted. Greysten’s head tilted back to stare at the [General], just visible in the back of his army on a horse of his own. He bellowed back.
“He should not have brought his army, then! Brace yourselves for our charge!”
He rode back to his spear, shaking his head. Ailendamus’ horns began to warble, a threatening, if curious sound. Not the blaring scream Rabbiteater expected.
“Knights of the Summer! There is nothing more that need be said! You know why we are here! The enemy has refused to relent! So, ride with me! Until the last of their [Soldiers] breaks and runs! Summer fades!”
“Summer fades!”
The cheer from nearly a thousand throats was a curious one. There was no time to process it. Rabbiteater’s heart beat harder behind his armor. He rode forwards, among a sea of red and gold.
Ahead of him, the darker colors of Autumn formed up, and the Summer’s Champion began to move forwards. He raised his arm, signaling the [Knights] rather than needing to shout.
Walk. The Order of Seasons advanced at a slow pace. Then—a trot.
There was an invisible line in the ground where the Greatbows would begin to open up. Rabbiteater stared at the twenty-some weapons. They would shoot through [Knights]. Unless they were stopped. He trusted Greysten had a plan.
Charge. That was the plan. However, Ser Markus’ fears, Ryoka’s fears…Rabbiteater didn’t share them. He had looked at Greysten. There was something there.
“Trot!”
One of the [Knights] barked, repeating the order conveyed through Greysten’s gesture. Rabbiteater urged his horse forwards faster.
His armor was plain metal, but it shone with a [Champion]’s Skills. A cloak of red liquid draped itself around him. A lance was in Rabbiteater’s grip, still raised overhead; an axe and sword on either side. The amulet draped around his neck.
He had lost Erin’s Skill. It had faded before he’d even reached the Order of Season’s keep. Rabbiteater wished it had lasted forever. His hand reached down and touched the axe. The cloak.
His brothers were with him. He was among friends. That was enough.
“Canter!”
The Order of Seasons crossed into the maximum firing range of the Greatbows. General Vexil bellowed.
“Take aim!”
The Summer’s Champion saw the Greatbows drawing back. He shouted an order of his own.
“Knights of the Autumn, with me! Forwards!”
They sped up, ahead of the cantering [Summer Knights]. Thirty [Autumn Knights] and the Summer’s Champion. Incomprehensible to General Vexil. He raised a hand as the Order of Seasons began to gallop.
They were still far away. The Greatbows had a range of nearly two thousand feet maximum—further than an unenchanted ballista. General Vexil estimated three volleys could be loosed, but he raised his hand as he barked orders.
“Four—six bows. Aim at the Summer’s Champion. [Piercing Shots]. The rest, aim for the center of each spear-formation. Hold on my mark…”
He waited. Seeing the [Knights] advancing. Timing it, trading distance for accuracy…General Vexil bared his teeth.
“Now! [Pinpoint Volley]! Loose!”
The bows drew back and the huge arrows loosed from each bow with a sound like thunder. They sped across the ground, boosted by both the [Greatbow Archers]’ Skills and General Vexil’s Skill.
 
—-
 
Better bows than even her tribe owned. Rags’ mouth was open. The bowl of spicy noodles and runny egg was sitting in front of her; a fork with a bit suspended halfway to her mouth.
She was watching a nation fighting with the same tactics she would employ. Whether they won or lost—it was a lesson. Rags’ Thunderbows were like crossbow-versions of Ailendamus’ Lance-bows, but weaker, without enchanted munitions.
It seemed to her the [Knights] were dead if you took the battle on paper as it was. However, Rags was a Goblin. Every instinct told her that if they were taking this fight, they thought they could win, and thus Ailendamus was in trouble. There was no strategic understanding behind this; just psychology.
Which was why she would have made such a damn good student. Niers sighed as he munched on a single popcorn kernel, which was pretty much enough for one viewing.
On cue, he saw the Order of Seasons activate their Skills before the lance-arrows reached them. Niers snorted.
“Who’s the idiot who didn’t get that [General] to retreat?”
Rags’ head swung around and Niers ducked, cursing, as she narrowed her eyes. She couldn’t see him. Even with her heat-vision—Niers ducked behind the ice cube and the Goblin turned back to the scrying orb.
 
—-
 
Here it came. Rabbiteater saw the bows draw back and saw the Summer’s Champion, riding ahead, raise his shield and bellow. What was he going to do? Shield them all like that Named Adventurer?
No. Rabbiteater saw the [Knights of Autumn] raise their own shields. And…wands?
Half of them weren’t even carrying swords! They lifted small staves or wands, even a book, carrying smaller shields in their off-hands. Ahead of the Season of Summer, they rode forwards. Greysten howled.
“[The Sprouting Shields of the Forest]!”
Rabbiteater’s head snapped up as the Summer’s Champion used one of the combination Skills of the Order of Seasons. Ahead of him, he saw each Knight of the Autumn burst into a colorful…shield?
A hovering barrier appeared around all thirty galloping [Knights]. Aura and magic. The first lance-arrows connected with the glowing barriers and—exploded.
 
—-
 
“General! No contact!”
General Vexil cursed as he saw the same thing through his spyglass. He snapped.
“[Instantaneous Reload]! Volley! What is that—?”
The second wave of lance-arrows loosed so fast he saw the blur of the glowing bolts and the explosion once again made the galloping Knights of Autumn vanish. Only when they reappeared did Vexil finally see the curious…barriers they were wielding.
“Those lance-arrows should have pierced straight through a magical barrier!”
He snapped at his lead [Strategist]. They didn’t look right, either. Magical barriers were shimmering walls or physical manifestations like stone. These? These looked like—like—
Mushrooms. Each [Autumn Knight] was racing forwards with a shroom-shaped shield around them. Powered by their auras as well as magical force.
The second volley burst on them and Vexil saw three shields waver; collapse. Instantly, the Knights of the Autumn fell back, racing away, through the lines of their Summer brethren. The Summer’s Champion was using them as expendable shields to cover his advance!
“Reload! I want those barriers gone! [Archers]! Prepare to volley! [Mages]—lightning bolts!”
Vexil snarled. He saw his [High Mage] looking worried. If those barriers could block lance-arrows—
However, the Summer’s Champion had already lost three. He was galloping ahead of the barriers, presenting himself as a target. A lance-arrow flew and he shouted a Skill—blocked the oversized bolt and galloped out of the cloud of smoke and ash. He shook out his shield-arm, dropping back behind the Knights of the Autumn for a second.
Now, Ailendamus’ army was fully in range, and all bows and Greatbows and [Mages] opened up.
 
—-
 
“Shields up! [Great Shield]! [Strike my Shield]!”
A [Knight] bellowed as the Summer Knights came into range. Eight more [Autumn Knights] fell back, two nearly falling from their horses as they blocked a third volley of the lance-arrows. They were spent, but they were blocking the most deadly attacks.
The arrows and spells were no less potent, though. Rabbiteater’s shield was firmly overhead. He felt an arrow strike his armor; lodge there.
A piercing attack of some kind. If it hadn’t been for the distance and his [Champion]-enhanced gear—Rabbiteater heard a cry.
One of the Summer Knights fell from the saddle across from him. Someone else slowed, healing potion in hand. Other [Knights] took wounds and ripped potions from their satchels, tending to wounds.
However, the rest never slowed. The arrows fell again. Rabbiteater could see the first rank of pikes now, the faces of the [Soldiers] who had lost their confidence as the thousand-some [Summer Knights] streamed towards them.
Behind them, Ser Thornst had spotted Ailendamus’ cavalry bursting from their hiding places, sweeping in to cut the Summer Knights down from behind. The Knights of the Spring charged, with Pheislant’s forces right behind.
The Knights of Summer were going to hit Ailendamus’ lines. The pikes were bracing up. Rabbiteater lifted his lance, readying himself. What was going to happen next? He stared at the glittering line of steel waiting for him to run himself onto it. He couldn’t slow down. Hundreds of [Knights] were at his back.
“Now! Voost, Zulv! Charge!”
The Summer’s Champion raced forwards ahead of the Autumn Knights blocking the final shots from the Greatbows. The leaders of their spears joined him. Greysten galloped into the trench dug to slow them down and raced up it, straight towards the [Pikemen] in front of him.
Dame Voost, Ser Zulv, and Greysten charged alone into the first ranks of pikes. The Summer’s Champion just lowered his shield and his armored warhorse hit the metal tips. Rabbiteater and General Vexil watched as the thick pikes snapped, unable to pierce his armor.
The Summer’s Champion crashed into the ranks of terrified Humans, swinging his axe with one hand, shield raised. His weapon was coated in his aura, burning, cutting down [Soldiers] around him as his horse left a trail of fire. A living ball of fire laid about with a roar.
To his left, Dame Voost saw the drop. Instead of descending like Greysten, she stood up in the stirrups of her galloping horse’s saddle and leapt. 
Rabbiteater looked up and his jaw opened beneath his helmet, despite everything. He saw a trail of fire. Wings?
Dame Voost landed in a burst of flames, passing over the first rank of pikes in a leap, burning wings sprouting from her back. Her sword was already drawn. She parried a startled [Captain]’s sword, beheaded the man and slashed around her, forcing the [Soldiers] back. The Season of Summer’s champion of the blades whirled, slashing down her foes as fast as the Summer’s Champion rampaging in the first ranks.
Ser Zulv was last. He neither leapt nor trusted in his armor to save him from impalement; he slowed as he came upon his rank of pikes and whirled his sword.
“[Sundering Scythe]!”
He slashed the pikes, severing the tips, and charged forwards into the [Soldiers]. They bunched up, pushing at him with shields, aiming more spears, weapons at him. Ser Zulv raised his sword and cried out.
“[Company: Rallying Teleport]!”
Behind him, Rabbiteater saw two dozen [Knights] pop out of the air and appear next to Zulv. They hit the [Soldiers] unawares, and the band of [Knights] began to carve in, swords flashing as Zulv aimed them towards the Summer’s Champion, who himself was heading towards Voost, sowing chaos in the first ranks.
 
—-
 
