Vexil hesitated. He had been about to say ‘I surrender’. However, he’d reconsidered.
Surrender? He would be dead even if he were ransomed. This was a disaster. He had to at least return with some of his army! He’d take what he could, sneak into Gaiil-Drome and burn the damn forest down with a small band if he had to. Then he might survive.
He just had to escape the [Knight]. Vexil crept through the mist, away from where he’d been standing. They were both waiting. Listening for any motion.
Both had enchanted weapons it seemed. Whoever struck first might win, and Vexil was a [General].
[Flurry Strikes] followed by [Lance Thrust]. His last two close-combat Skills. It should kill that [Knight] and then all Vexil had to do was run—or play dead. Either way…
A sound in the mist made him whirl. There! The [Knight] had stepped on something. Vexil lunged.
“[Flurry Strikes]!”
He had found Rabbiteater. The sword lanced forwards, striking, hitting home. Hitting—
This wasn’t right. It didn’t feel like a body or armor. It felt like he was striking—
The steam cleared. Vexil saw the crimson cloak shift. His sword cut through the Cloak of Plenty harmlessly.
Rabbiteater lowered the cloak he’d lifted on one arm to fool the Human’s depth-perception. He saw the man step back. Rabbiteater swung Headscatcher’s axe. The glowing jade projection slashed through the air.
Vexil saw what he thought was a crimson glow through the visor of the helmet. But why—?
 
—-
 
Ser Markus was badly wounded on his left leg. He wanted to heal it, but the tip of the enemy [Knight]’s lance had been poisoned. At least one of the Autumn Knights had neutralized it.
The Season of Spring hadn’t fought in the pass for obvious reasons, and Ser Markus had been roundly berated by his fellow Spring Knights for not realizing the obvious tactic of combining heat-auras. Winter Knights did the same thing in bulk too.
He’d feel awfully embarrassed about it later, and probably hear jokes about it all year. Right now though, Ser Markus was riding into Stone Giant’s pass, despite the pain in his leg.
“Talia! Talia!”
He found her first, tending to Chise, who was also wounded. More Summer Knights had fallen than Markus would have liked; well, one was too many.
However, Ailendamus’ army was well and truly in flight. Talia looked up.
“Markus, you’re injured. Are the others okay?”
“No one died. We outnumbered their ambush group. Where’s Ser Solstice?”
Markus panted. Talia looked sharply at him, but Markus was worried. Rabbiteater had been in the vanguard. Had he…?
“He’s over there. That fool.”
She jerked her head. Markus turned. What did that mean? He rode forwards, through the clearing steam and found Rabbiteater.
Greysten carefully inspected General Vexil—or what was left of him. It was really hard to tell. Rabbiteater had hit the enemy [General] in the head with his enchanted axe.
“So you didn’t know it was the Ailendamus [General]?”
He looked at Rabbiteater. The Goblin shrugged. Dame Voost looked amused; Ser Zulv was somewhat appalled.
Mainly because Rabbiteater had taken Vexil’s armor and his sword. And his horse. And boots. He was trying all of them on. Ser Markus stared as the Goblin grunted.
“Didn’t know. Thought a [General] would be smarter.”
“Ser Solstice? You killed the enemy [General]…?”
Markus stared, swaying a bit. Rabbiteater looked up and sprang to his feet.
“Markus. Your leg. Here.”
He offered a healing potion, but Markus ignored it. Rabbiteater looked up at the Spring Knight as Markus gave him a wide, slightly unhinged grin.
“How?”
“He was a [General]. Not Ailendamus’ best. Ser Solstice is as fine a warrior as any.”
Voost remarked. Rabbiteater shrugged with his characteristic modesty.
“No. Would have been harder. He was stupid. See?”
He pointed. Markus stared at the remains of the [General]’s head and hesitated. How…?
Rabbiteater explained as he shook his head.
“No helmet. Stupid, stupid.”
 
—-
 
The first battle between the Order of Seasons and Ailendamus was an overwhelming victory. Vexil’s fault was not knowing the full-capabilities of a [Knight] charge.
Ailendamus would send another army. A better army. If there was one difference between an empire of its size and a smaller kingdom—it could afford to lose multiple armies. Not to mention tailor each one for a purpose.
Nevertheless, the Dawn Concordat celebrated the Order of Seasons, welcoming help at last. That was the news. The fact that an unknown [Knight] had slain the enemy [General] was a footnote, but it was a note. Most put it down to a foreign [Knight] joining the Order of Seasons.
Mrsha waved two little flags she’d written Rabbiteater’s name on wildly and cheered, again, silently. She danced around Rags.
Rabbiteater’s amazing! Rabbiteater’s awesome! I want to be a [Knight]!
Mrsha the Squire planned on bragging about it to Ekirra and Visma. She knew Rabbiteater! She would have run down to Liscor to find her friends, but Ekirra was still mad at her. Even though it was his fault!
She’d gotten in big trouble with Selys and Ishkr about that. However, that was yesterday-Mrsha’s problems.
Stinky Rags didn’t even want to talk with Mrsha, though. She was just whispering with Ulvama and Calescent. The [Chef] slurped some of his spicy-noodle with egg that was so tasty.
“Rabbiteater did good. Lots of [Knights]. Think he can get us armor?”
“Hm. Too far. Let him do what he wants. I’m more worried about [Knights]. Looks like Thunderbows are too weak. I need to revisit the plan, then.”
Ulvama just snorted.
“Don’t fight [Knights] on flat ground. Fight in tunnels and collapse roof on them.”
“Sometimes you have to fight them flat.”
Rags sighed. She rubbed at her head, frowning as she considered the battle and how she would have done it. Those [Summer Knights] were too much like the Rose Knights for her liking. Although…a bit less high-quality gear if some had gone down to arrows and whatnot. Less defense, more dangerous aura-abilities. She hadn’t thought to make Goblinhome flame-proof.
“Chieftain Rags, I have fought Izril [Knights]. Even Terandrian [Knights]. More importantly, I, Ulvama, can help you remember when Chieftains fought [Knights]. If I am your [Shaman].”
Ulvama smiled sweetly. Rags glanced at her. The [Shaman] was still trying to get a promise to come back with Rags. The Goblin Chieftain shrugged.
“Taganchiel can do the same. I can do it by myself as well.”
Ulvama’s smile turned into a scowl instantly.
“Taganchiel is chief shaman? That idiot?”
“Mhm. I will tell him you said hello.”
“Chieftain…”
Ulvama tried again, but she kept brushing away Mrsha. The little Gnoll saw the [Shaman] round on her.
“What, what?”
Mrsha held up a card. Ulvama stared at it.
 
Can you pwease enchant my fur with armor?
 
Mrsha had added a little heart at the end too. Ulvama stared at her.
“You want armor-markings?”
Mrsha the Knight nodded. With her [Fur of the Fortress] Skill, she’d be the strongest kid on the playground! She was sure they’d all seen this and they were probably getting weapons for a proper skirmish. Ulvama checked the note. Mrsha gave the [Shaman] a winsome look.
“No. I’m busy.”
Ulvama chopped Mrsha on the forehead. The Gnoll girl howled silently and kicked Ulvama in the shins. The Goblin promptly kicked back. Mrsha hopped on one leg and held her forehead, debated punching Ulvama—and remembered the Goblin didn’t stop retaliating like other adults did. You hit her, she hit back.
Dispirited, Mrsha slunk away. Stinky Ulvama. She headed for the door instead. Two Brothers followed her, and Mrsha sauntered up to the door. Liska was on-duty.
 
Liscor, please and thank you!
 
Liska eyed the note. The Gnoll was chewing on something. She slowly, carefully, reached for another bit of some kind of gum-bark from Baleros that Palt had given her. Popped another square into her mouth.
“Nope.”
Mrsha’s face fell. Liska glanced at her.
“You’re in trouble for poisoning people. Shoo. Ishkr’ll be mad if I let you out.”
Mrsha raised her paws in outrage! She couldn’t be grounded! She had enacted justice yesterday! Okay, Ekirra hadn’t forgiven her and she was in trouble because he’d cried, but he had been mean first! And the [Knights] had been—been—
She was trying to write all this down on paper since Liska didn’t know Mrsha-signs, but the Gnoll wouldn’t even read it!
“I’m not letting you out. Go away.”
Mrsha the Indignant raised a punching fist. Liska saw it. She raised a kicking foot.
“I’m not letting you hit me. I’ll kick you. Go away.”
The little Gnoll stared at Liska. She slunk away, but not before pointing two furry fingers at her eyes and then at Liska. A clear threat. The Gnoll saw Mrsha slink behind a door, stare balefully at her, then shut it hard.
“What a little spoiled brat.”
Liska muttered. Mrsha yanked the door open and made a rude gesture. Liska made one right back.
 
—-
 
Mrsha the Vengeful would make Liska pay. She was already formulating a way to get more of Calescent’s spice. Spicy ice cream! Spicy gum! Wait, spicy gum sounded sort of nice.
No one could stop Mrsha! She wanted to prevail on her agent, Niers, but he was still observing Rags. Mrsha stomped about, angry, plotting vengeance. A little Gnoll girl without proper parents.
Wanderer had seen it all before. At least she didn’t look underfed. However, she was certainly going wild. No parents. But then…they’d been killed, hadn’t they?
The Gnoll thoughtfully slipped away. It was easier to stare through a window than anything. Although hard enough; the Goblins had good eyes, the Antinium on the roof had nearly spotted him three times, and he wasn’t going to even risk going inside.
Not with those hatted Humans. Still, he wasn’t Wanderer for nothing. He sighed as he returned to the city.
Gnoll child with white fur loses her tribe. Lost, with uncaring Gnolls or…hostile ones. There was just one thing he couldn’t figure out.
“Excuse me. It’s me again.”
When he returned to the inn where he was staying, Wanderer approached the counter. The Gnoll [Innkeeper] gave him a friendly look. Pawful of Cotton wasn’t a high-class inn. It was cheap though, and Gnoll-centric. It certainly wasn’t The Wandering Inn.
“Oh, hello. Etrh, right?”
Wanderer smiled.
“That’s me. I just had one more question about the inn—I tried to get in, but it’s closed.”
“The Wandering Inn? Terrible business.”
The Gnoll’s face fell. Wanderer nodded.
“About the…damned murderers. Hectval.”
The [Innkeeper] pursed his lips to spit, eyed his clean counter, and thought better of it.
“What about them? If you’re asking about the murderers, they’re dead. Torn to pieces by the Goblin. Good; I just wish he’d sliced them up before.”
The other Gnoll nodded. His brown fur was as innocuous as could be. Dyed, of course, and then scented with the road and normal smells. He leaned on the counter, frowning.
“Yes, yes. You said. Can you tell me—are you sure it was Drakes who did it? There wasn’t one Gnoll?”
The [Innkeeper] gave Wanderer a blank look.
“One of us? Why would there be? No, it was Drakes.”
“Hrr. Well, thank you.”
Wanderer left it at that. He had no proof of course. But the pieces were there. A Gnoll child picked up by a kind Human [Innkeeper]. Then…some Tribe heard about it and ‘took care’ of the cursed child. Only, they got the Human instead.
They’d come back. Or if it really hadn’t been more than a Drake city…they’d come. Wanderer shook his head. Even with all the guardians, that was no place for a child to grow up alone. Just…how did you get to her? He sighed.
Coinpurse was going to owe him big for making this much work for him.
 
—-
 
Mrsha the Not-A-Spoiled-Brat stole Kevin’s laptop. The young man protested, yawning.
“Hey. I need that. What do you mean, it’s ‘your turn’?”
The little Gnoll held up a card. It was her turn! She got a turn, and Numbtongue did. They’d worked it out back when Numbtongue and her had fought over it. Mrsha got a turn, Numbtongue got a turn, and everyone else got a turn.
Since Numbtongue was sad, Mrsha got to use it for two thirds of the time and Kevin, as a ‘everyone else’, could use it for one third of the time.
The [Mechanic]’s lips moved as he tried to work out her impeccable logic. In the end, he shrugged.
“Fine. But let me save my data first. You can use it, but don’t delete anything, understand?”
Mrsha nodded impatiently. Then she took the computer. She wanted to watch the crime movie again. For notes. Mrsha was going to rule this filthy city if she had to stand on the burned tongues of her enemies to do it!
She began watching a movie in the Garden of Sanctuary, but then realized…no one was here. The beavers were sleeping.
Mrsha the Crime Boss looked around. It…wasn’t bad that this was the case, but suddenly she wanted to watch in the common room. She knew she was supposed to keep the laptop secret, but she wanted Ulvama to watch with her. Or Kevin. Or Niers. Or…
Anyone.
Mrsha padded into the common room. She looked around, and then carried the laptop over to Ulvama. She tugged at the [Shaman]’s arm.
“What? Watch? No. I’m busy.”
Ulvama was in deep discussion with Rags and Calescent. Rags frowned at the strange object in Mrsha’s hand, but Ulvama didn’t seem to care. Mrsha stomped her feet and punched Ulvama’s leg—then ran off to a far table to watch by herself.
Stupid Ulvama! Stupid, stinking Ulvama with her big butt and stupid face! Now she couldn’t even watch the movie and have fun. Mrsha looked around the quiet inn. She missed Temile. She missed the [Actors] and Menolit and everyone. She…
Sniffed.
She missed Lyonette. She’d promised to come back by now. Ryoka had promised. Everyone lied. Adults all lied and the world was sin and crime and…they all left.
The door opened and closed. Mrsha didn’t look up; she’d put her head on the table. She heard Liska’s voice.
“No killing Goblins. Okay, I said it. You kill Goblins, you die. You can look around for a while, but we’re not open.”
“Dead gods.”
There were some hushed voices. The Goblins looked up. Mrsha raised her head, pulling down the laptop’s screen. She heard a flurry of voices.
“—leave it. Or do you want to cause an incident? Where…? Ah.”
She saw four people standing in the doorway, taking in the inn. Mrsha’s eyes went round. She saw four Humans. Humans wearing golden armor.
[Knights]. Ser Dalimont and the other three Thronebearers spotted Mrsha at the same time as she saw them.
There they were. Suddenly, here! Thanks to Liska! How had they found her?
“There truly only is one white Gnoll child in the city. How strange. Well done, Ser Dalimont.”
