If you had never heard of her before, well, that was hardly surprising. She was famous, but so were all her siblings by virtue of being born. She was important—but hardly the first son or daughter in her line.
In a world where the King of Destruction existed, her fame was very small by comparison. Her importance next to nothing as she did not rule her nation. She was not the most beloved [Princess] of Calanfer; nor, in this moment, even the most important.
The 6th and second-youngest [Princess] was needed in the dark hours of the war with Ailendamus. Unmarried, and whilst not said overtly, the only virginal, eligible [Princess] for marriage that Calanfer had to offer.
That mattered in Terandria. Calanfer’s [Princesses] were a type of wealth the Eternal Throne of Calanfer used. Marriages could give classes; at the very least they conferred status and connections with Calanfer. The appeal was more than just immediate as well. If a [Baron] or a [Lord] married a [Princess], their children became royalty, and had the potential, however faint, to succeed the throne.
Thus, Lyonette du Marquin was one of the last bargaining chips, as the 7th Princess was far too young, being only thirteen, for anything but an arranged marriage—and if Ailendamus were to triumph in the interim, all arranged events would be off.
Thus, Calanfer needed to marry a [Princess] off for immediate military gains if such a thing could be arranged. Hence, their unmarried [Princesses] were important.
Lyonette, that was. Not her.
Many had never heard of her outside of Terandria, or the closest kingdoms in the south. Yet, of all the [Princesses], even the eldest, 1st Princess, Shardele du Marquin, who was married to one of the highest-ranking [Dukes] of Calanfer, or the 3rd Princess Aielef, who had married into Kaliv’s own extended royal family to affirm ties between the Dawn Concordat—a practice they had honored for countless generations—arguably the most famous of all was the 4th Princess of Calanfer.
Not because she was the highest-leveled, the closest to the throne, most radiant, or most beloved. It was a reputation besides all that.
They called her Seraphel the Cursed behind her back. Seraphel du Marquin, the 4th [Princess] of Calanfer.
Seraphel the Widow. So named because she had been married three times. Each time—the marriage had ended in death.
…Not always the husband. The first had been to a boy, who broke the engagement; it was just his fiancée who died in the attempted elopement afterwards. But you know how people talked. The second had been to an old man in his seventies who had died in bed. Completely natural causes.
The third husband of Seraphel du Marquin though—had died rather quickly after marriage. The mere fact that Seraphel had not stayed in any one relationship for more than four years at most, and the deaths of two out of three had given her the name.
Seraphel the Cursed. Not exactly a name that was helpful for future engagements. Nor—bluntly speaking—was her value as high as before. She was old—which was to say, she was nearly thirty years old instead of being younger. Of course, that was only in terms of marriageability. Of course…that was what a [Princess] was generally good for.
So, then. If you had heard of her, Seraphel would be ‘that’ princess, the one from Calanfer who killed her husbands by ill fortune. Unmarried once more after the Noelictus incident; perhaps they’d find a husband willing to take the risk abroad, poor girl. Still a [Princess], though. She’d have a fine, pampered life if it weren’t for the war.
That was what they would say, and assume, because they had heard of her nickname and the barest, dubiously-confirmed ‘facts’, that they knew her.
 
—-
 
So, when the 1st, 3rd, and 4th [Princesses] of Calanfer attended the ball, Seraphel attracted the most looks of all. There were the usual titters of interest, the looks towards her as people recognized her name.
Not that it was necessarily easy to tell the [Princesses] apart if you had never seen them. Each one had red hair. The fiery red to deep crimson, marks of royal blood in Terandrian royalty.
“Announcing Princess Shardele, Princess Aielef, and Princess Seraphel du Marquin of Calanfer!”
The eldest was Shardele, and only in her mid-thirties at that. Each [Princess] had been born roughly two to four years apart, and Shardele, the named successor over her younger brother, the 1st Prince, had been set up to inherit the throne. She had married one of Calanfer’s most powerful [Dukes], and her image as the reliable, intelligent daughter of his Majesty Reclis du Marquin, was firmly in the mind of Calanfer’s people. If any had been at this gathering of the nobility and foreign royalty, they certainly would have flocked to her.
Of course, that was due to the fine work of the [Bards], Thronebearers, and other elements of Calanfer’s propaganda arm who sung her praises. Shardele was…fine. She knew the games and the steps, but in all likelihood, if Reclis keeled over tomorrow, it was her Majesty who would take over. Calanfer’s [Queen] was as sharp as her husband, and Shardele might get to either ruler’s deftness or their actual levels—in twenty years.
“Don’t worry about the whispers, Seraphel. They do talk so.”
The 1st Princess turned to the 4th, with a beatific smile on her face, as if she was addressing one of her enamored subjects. Since it was her sister, it just reminded Seraphel there were whisperers.
Of course, Shardele had meant to say it for anyone listening in. She was aware of her reputation and she was a dutiful daughter in that she rigorously maintained it. Naturally, being an avid consumer of Dreamleaf had to help in that regard. She was most certainly blissfully in the clouds even now for this wonderful…ly tedious gathering.
“Yes, quite. The things they say when we are at war. Half the nations represented here are holding back when they know we are fighting a common enemy. Let’s remind them of that.”
Aielef’s voice was more snappish and awake. Obviously, because Kaliv was being slowly overtaken by Ailendamus and she was in the most danger. She spoke well, and you’d never know to look at her fiery orange hair that it was, in fact, dyed.
Aielef was blonde and unfortunately, a bit purple. Quite attractive in its own way, but it would never do for a [Princess] of Calanfer not to be red-haired. She dyed it.
She also spoke of the need for other kingdoms to take up arms with the Dawn Concordat, quite happily omitting the fact that her husband was fighting—and her two children were both in Kaliv. Then again, this was a diplomatic tour Aielef was on, and they occupied one of Kaliv’s strongholds.
The somewhat uncharitable facts about the two [Princesses] were probably not being thought by anyone else in the room. Shardele and Aielef were more like exotic birds, and their peers among royalty and other nobility were keen on meeting the [Princesses], entertaining their pleas for support for the Dawn Concordat, and perhaps Seraphel for a marriage to a cousin as a favor.
They didn’t know the older two like Seraphel did, but the 4th Princess of Calanfer had grown up with her siblings for a while before they’d begun to be married off, and they did like to visit ‘home’, the capital and Eternal Throne of Calanfer.
Siblings knew all of their family’s faults. Shardele sighed and Seraphel nudged her slightly as they glided across the floor, each one the image of grace and decorum and Calanfer’s famed etiquette.
“Breath tonic, Shardele. You smell like dreamleaf. Were you smoking it by the bushel?”
The 1st Princess didn’t even glance at Seraphel as her younger sister whispered it. She took a small vial and sipped before tucking it away; it could have been any number of things, or, as some would rightly assume for the wrong reasons, a breath freshener.
“I resent that, Seraphel. We haven’t seen each other in nearly a year and a half, and we are at war. I try to be kind, and this is my thanks?”
The 4th [Princess] rolled her eyes, but subtly. And Shardele wondered why her children, Calanfer’s heirs, slept so much and had such vivid dreams all their lives. Well, it beat the times she’d ‘experimented’ with stronger substances.
Aielef met the host of the ball with all smiles.
“Your Highness. You do us a great honor in welcoming us at this hour. Calanfer thanks you, and his Majesty sends regrets that he could not attend himself. Alas, the duties of war are most pressing.”
She bowed slightly, and the oldest [Prince] of Nadel bowed back, smiling.
Nadel, the small nation known for the Lord of the Dance more than its [King]. Prince…Seraphel’s brows crossed and a Skill plucked the name from memory…Ruis was fifty years old. One son; third in line to the throne and unlikely to inherit. Considered highly loyal; he had no apparent ambitions. Often he helped with royal affairs by orchestrating and overseeing these kinds of events as the royal diplomat of the family.
Facts dredged from their encyclopedic knowledge, each [Princess] smiled. They could have recited the names of every member of Nadel’s royal family up to the third generation removed in a heartbeat. When they bowed, it was in the unisex gesture of Nadel, with the slight flourish of the body that the Lord of the Dance had stylistically added by virtue of everyone copying him.
“Princess Aielef, Princesses Shardele and Seraphel, you are welcome in Nadel. Of course, we understand his Majesty’s pressing concerns and we hope that your visit will prove fruitful for the Dawn Concordat, our old friends. Please, enjoy yourselves and I hope to speak later, if we may?”
All three [Princesses] nodded. The polite speech that Prince Ruis delivered at reasonable volume was meant to be heard by many. It might have seemed like sweet nothings and it was—a bit.
However, if you could translate it, you could pick up on some clues.
‘Our old friends’. The Dawn Concordat had been enemies to Nadel as well as friend. Fair-weather friends was a better word for it, but it meant Nadel wasn’t blind to Ailendamus’ threat. However, Ruis didn’t even suggest an alliance, merely expressed hopes of a ‘fruitful visit’. In other words, Nadel was willing to help—not overtly.
Seraphel could have told anyone that before hearing the speech, but she breathed politics so the mental decryption was second-nature to her.
This was the 4th gathering she’d attended, in and out of the Dawn Concordat’s borders. What she and the other [Princesses] were doing—all six of the ones in Terandria, even her teenage sister, the 7th Princess, Ellet—was fundraising. Seeking support.
Calanfer was good at diplomacy. So these three [Princesses] had gone from place to place, speaking of Ailendamus’ unconscionable aggression, assuring people the war was not lost—but if they saw fit to contribute money or arms? Reminding them that they might be next.
They got little in the way of outright support. Even here, people were afraid to openly shout their loathing of Ailendamus and the Dawn Concordat wasn’t beloved universally. Nevertheless, with a bit of charm Skills, actual charm, and the exigency of the war, this gathering might net…
Three [Princesses], and Nadel’s not poor with trade, but no noble here is worth that much and they might be reluctant to open their coffers. If the crown chips in nothing, we might come away with…two thousand gold coins? Eight thousand would be the most we could expect.
Seraphel did some mental calculations. That seemed reasonable. How many [Mercenaries] did that buy? How many artifacts? How long could that feed an army? Well, that implied buying food…if a siege occurred, no amount of gold would help.
She would know. She let Shardele step forwards and smile sweetly at Ruis. All three knew what to do.
“I would be delighted if you would introduce me, your Highness?”
He was already nodding, having expected that. Shardele would meet with the most powerful first, as the face of Calanfer. Aielef looked around, already seeking a [General] or militant [Lord] or [Lady] that would care to talk with someone from Kaliv.
Which left Seraphel to take the busybodies and people interested in gossiping. The 4th Princess kept a smile on her face. That was easy.
 
—-
 
…In truth, it was about as bad as Lyonette du Marquin expected. Family never changed. Or did they?
She had, but to look at it, not one of her elder sisters had. The [Princess] sat, glumly resting her chin in her hands.
“It seems the [Princesses] of Calanfer have elected not to follow one another, but have come in at once. Quite a humble gesture—no doubt a personable one, given Nadel’s proximity to the Dawn Concordat.”
The speaker in the background was half-whispering, offering a kind of hushed commentary meant to be solemn as the view of the ball slowly rotated about. There was also an element of impreciseness to the commentary, and the scene faded for a bit.
Lyonette frowned and shook the scrying orb a bit. Mivifa had told her it worked, and somehow, the magical connection cleared. Lyonette wasn’t sure why slapping an enchanted glass orb helped, but Saliss had ‘fixed’ it twice by doing just that.
The commentator was visible in the bottom left of the screen; not a Drake for once, but a very formally-dressed woman. Human. After all, this wasn’t on Wistram News Network—or even Wistram’s other offshoot channels.
It was called Terandrian Graces, one of the channels devoted to 24/7 coverage of all things political. The reason the connection was so spotty was that it had just been established and since Wistram wasn’t hosting it, reception was weak even in a major city. Also—it might not be the most-viewed channel.
Certainly not compared to the sports-channel. Wistram Sports was showing a game between Pallass and Invrisil, and Lyonette might have been watching that—but Wistram was struggling to keep up with the demand from Izril, who were tuning in to watch the first species vs species game.
This was more interesting to Lyonette, anyways. This was home. When she’d seen that they were going to broadcast a bit of Nadel’s ball, and that three [Princesses] of Calanfer were attending, she’d begged to have the scrying orb.
Saliss had let her have it—only because he and Xif were gathering with some Pallassians to watch their city win. Well, much luck to them. Lyonette happened to know Joseph had been teaching the Invrisil team longer than Pallass’, so the Drakes might be in trouble.
Anyway, she was watching the ball and calling it for the disaster it was—although only a [Princess] would be able to tell, or a Calanfer [Socialite]. She would have happily told anyone listening—but not even Wilovan or Ratici could sit in the room and listen without starting to nod off.
