Lord Belchaus Meron was walking towards their group, Prince Ruis by his side. The Lord of the Dance was politely fending off people; he was on a mission. The [Prince] needed to meet his guests from another world, but not here, obviously.
He was looking at Lord Pulcre, trying to figure out how long it would take to wrest him away; a frightfully long time. Maybe even forty minutes; he’d have to introduce himself to Princess Seraphel, and if she or one of the other two asked for a dance or…
“I was at Ovela.”
Princess Seraphel saw the Lord of the Dance approaching and wondered why. So too did the scrying mirror, recording the minor event no one really cared about except Terandrian politicians. She didn’t see that, or she might have minded her tongue.
They thought they knew Seraphel the Cursed. Two husbands dead; a poor, if not terribly unique tale. There was a lot of story that wasn’t covered in that, though.
The 4th Princess of Calanfer raised her head. She regarded the empty glass and glanced up. Her shoulders rose slightly. The almost-perfectly concealed look of tedium in her eyes vanished. Such that you realized she had been hiding it a moment ago. She nodded to herself, eyes flickering backwards in time.
“To say it simply, Lord Pulcre—I saw many astonishing things during my time in Noelictus. I suffered heartbreak, yes. However, I was privileged to have met my friend, S—Cara. You may know her as the Singer of Terandria. I survived an army of the undead raised by a rogue [Necromancer]. And I saw an army of the dead rise to battle Ailendamus.”
The listeners looked around. They blinked at Seraphel. An army of…?
The 4th Princess didn’t realize how interesting she was becoming. She met Pulcre’s eyes. As Lord Bel stopped, interested.
 
—-
 
Lyonette blinked. Seraphel had met the Singer of Terandria? But Ryoka and Erin had both said that she was an Earther…she leaned forwards, frowning.
Seraphel looked different. Not as angry as Lyonette remembered her. And she had been—hard to be around for a long time. Indifferent or snappish. But then—she had been married at Lyonette’s age to her first husband, and Lyonette had only really remembered her like that.
Tired.
The 4th Princess did not seem so, here. She shook her head.
“Ailendamus has encroached on other kingdom’s lands before. I am sure you and I could name a dozen times before today, before Noelictus, Lord Pulcre. Their aggression is a fact. What is not a fact is that the ‘glorious empire’ of Ailendamus always wins. I saw one of their great [Barons] break at Ovela. At cost! However, I saw one of Ailendamus’ grand armies smashed to pieces and flee screaming back across the border. I should imagine that if the war with the Dawn Concordat drags on, I will see that scene repeated a few more times.”
Lyonette’s jaw dropped. That was not a politic response! Seraphel—oh no, she was riled up again.
Shardele and Aielef both snapped around, having heard or sensed Seraphel’s unguarded comments. Both began to drift over, even Shardele realizing this could be…a problem.
Depending on what was said. However, the nobility of Nadel and other foreign visitors liked Seraphel’s comments. This Lord Pulcre smiled faintly.
“You do not mince words, your Highness.”
 
—-
 
Seraphel shrugged slightly, embarrassed. She saw Aielef glowering at her and approaching as fast as was seemly. For all her criticism of her sisters, look at her now.
However, it was too late to play innocent. Especially because—Seraphel turned.
“Lord Belchaus Meron.”
“Your Highness.”
He bowed gracefully, with that delightful twist of grace and showmanship. The Lord of the Dance put a smile on Seraphel’s lips that was entirely genuine; who couldn’t love the famous Lord of the Dance?
“Are you here to discuss the war, my lord?”
The Lord of the Dance hesitated. He had Prince Ruis with him, and he glanced over Seraphel’s shoulder before replying.
“In fact, Princess Seraphel, I had hoped to borrow Pulcre—but I find your topic fascinating. I had heard about the Ovela-incident. That you were there, I didn’t know. I suppose Pulcre might, though.”
He half-smiled at the man. Seraphel turned around and blinked at Lord Pulcre. He gave her a rueful look and she put it together.
Ah. [Spymaster].
No wonder she didn’t know his name before then. He was probably newly-titled. Seraphel realized she was now at the center of attention.
“Did I hear you say that you know the Singer of Terandria, personally, your Highness? Have you attended one of her concerts? My daughter has been begging for me to send her across the continent to see just one!”
A [Lady] remarked. Seraphel raised her brows.
“I never attended a concert. I knew Cara before she rose to such fame. Yes, she was at the Ovela incident at the same time I was.”
She had just as few reasons to love Ailendamus—but Seraphel didn’t say that out loud. Cara was not a [Princess] in a kingdom with all their power behind her. Although…she might be safer than Seraphel at the moment.
“So what would you say of Ailendamus, then, Princess Seraphel? Its war capabilities compared to the Dawn Concordat, then?”
Pulcre glanced at Seraphel. Prince Ruis forced a laugh, perhaps realizing this was being broadcast and it might reflect poorly on Nadel…but it was too late.
“Come now, Pulcre. Princess Seraphel isn’t a [Strategist] or [General].”
“Nor a [War Princess]. I’m afraid I can’t speak on military levels or formations, Lord Pulcre.”
“Impressions, then.”
He pressed her, ignoring the [Prince]. Lord Bel was glancing between the two. He focused on Seraphel. The 4th Princess saw Shardele approaching. She wavered—but as Lyonette had observed, the words were begging to be said.
There were things Ailendamus had done that Seraphel could not prove. Terrible deeds she suspected them of. Blind accusations would only hurt Calanfer, though. So she did not speak of Afiele, though she had been there, too. Seraphel’s eyes flickered, but it only took her a moment to reply.
“Ailendamus has quite a lot of land for an empire. Vast armies. Its leaders seem competent, and they have magic, fine steel, and a certain resolve in their [Soldiers]. I have seen better.”
Her audience waited. The [Princess] accepted a second glass of honey-flavored water. She sipped at it, and they realized she had made her statement.
Someone laughed before catching themselves. Lord Belchaus hid a smile. Prince Ruis had already hid his behind a cough. Pulcre didn’t bother.
“Then, your appraisal of the war?”
“We can only support our brave [Soldiers] and [Knights] as best we can. Seraphel, you certainly are making a stir! But perhaps we should allow the Lord of the Dance his due attention?”
Shardele swept in, interrupting Seraphel. The 4th Princess saw eyes swing back to the Lord of the Dance. For a second, they’d forgotten he was there.
Lord Bel looked at Seraphel, disappointment flickering in his gaze. He was too canny to let it show and bowed to Shardele at once.
“Of course, your Highness. Talk of war becomes tiresome, although I find Princess Seraphel’s account fascinating. Many [Historians] and [Strategists] make much of Ailendamus’ invincibility in war.”
“War is not a single battle.”
Pulcre observed softly. Seraphel’s smile was like cut glass.
“Indeed not, Lord Pulcre. After all, it occurs to me that someone else has witnessed an army of Ailendamus routing quite recently. Lord Belchaus, didn’t you take an [Admiral] and an entire fleet hostage?”
A ripple of amusement ran through the listeners. Lord Bel saw Prince Ruis wince, but he gave Seraphel an embarrassed bow.
“Merely a skirmish, Princess Seraphel.”
The 4th Princess’ brows rose.
“If an entire fleet was a ‘skirmish’, perhaps Nadel would care to make a battle of it and wipe out Ailendamus’ entire sea force in one go? I should wager on Nadel if the Lord of the Dance were on one side, even with all of Ailendamus’ fleets on the other.”
Shardele looked around, but there was no way to stomp on her younger sister’s foot without everyone noticing unless they were right next to each other and the dresses hid it. She was forced to stand and smile as Seraphel continued. Save for Prince Ruis and Shardele, no one else was inclined to stop her.
 
—-
 
Lyonette was smiling. It was as improper as could be, of course. Their father and mother were probably having a fit.
And it was classic Seraphel. Classic…but with a twist. Normal Seraphel would insult you, but Seraphel of today? There was something else.
The 6th Princess realized what it was, when her older sister calmly ignored Shardele’s hints. She approached the scrying mirror, and looked into it. Lyonette felt like Seraphel was looking at her—for a second. Then, the [Princess] seemed to be looking for something else.
“This…television was not present when Ovela was attacked. Or before that—if it had, catastrophe might have been averted. It is here, though. So, I…would like to say that if you see this, people of Ovela. Friends of Afiele, Cara. Calanfer remembers our friends. To you, and to the Twins of Ovela. To the Kingdom of Shade. It was not long I stayed with you, but I remember it fondly, despite it all.”
She lifted her glass slightly. Behind her, Lord Bel swept a glass from a serving tray. Pulcre, Prince Ruis, and the others, copied the gesture instinctively. They didn’t know what they were toasting.
The [Princess] did. So did they. The Kingdom of Shade’s viewers began tuning into the broadcast. They had heard of her too.
…Which meant that Lyonette’s already spotty reception took that moment to turn off. She stared into the blank scrying orb.
Never more than before had she wanted to return home. She wanted to know what Seraphel had seen. She wanted to help.
Her home was in danger. She had not always loved it the same way she loved The Wandering Inn, but it was home.
They were still her family, for as much as she hated and loved them. Lyonette closed her eyes. There Seraphel was.
 
—-
 
The 4th Princess touched her eyes for a second after turning away from the scrying mirror. They were actually misty.
Of course, Aielef thought she was just playing it up. She hissed at Seraphel as the three [Princesses] stepped back with their escort.
“You had to make more work for us? There was no cause to start an incident! Mother will be furious!”
“I thought you wanted to remind them of the war?”
Seraphel saw Aielef glowering, but both composed themselves, mindful of the distant watchers.
Lord Belchaus was glancing at Seraphel, having put off his concerns for a moment to linger in the ball. Perhaps that was worth all the backlash this would provoke—it might be in her father’s eyes. The Lord of the Dance was a powerful ally on land or sea.
Regardless, Seraphel still felt washed-up. If Cara was here…if she was in Ovela, it would be war. Here? She was just doing a [Princess]’ duties. In a sense, she had mattered more in Noelictus. Today, she had broken from protocol to hurl a javelin at Ailendamus.
…A javelin made of words, for all that. As sharp as they could be, words could not turn back those armies. Words could persuade, open coffers, and perhaps they might earn money for Calanfer that was needed. In the end, though—Seraphel felt helpless, and she had felt it before. She had not even crossed into Kaliv to see the fighting. Before, that would have struck her as right and proper.
Today, it felt cowardly. That was the 4th [Princess] of Calanfer, Seraphel du Marquin. She looked at Lord Bel and gently rubbed one side of her neck. With more enthusiasm than her sisters, she prepared herself to go back and actually plead for aid in this polite setting while the war dragged on.
Then the Order of Seasons arrived.
 
—-
 
Lyonette slapped the scrying orb a fourth time and the image flickered back. But it wasn’t Seraphel.
“This is live coverage!”
Drassi screamed at Lyonette. Lyonette nearly screamed back. Drassi slapped the desk with her claws.
“Pay. Attention! This is an emergency broadcast from Wistram regarding Terandria! I don’t care if you’re not on Terandria or you don’t care—my friend is down there, so listen up! The Order of Seasons of Pheislant is about to intercept an Ailendamus army!”
Noass was nodding rapidly, holding up a map showing the army trying to flank Gaiil-Drome by way of Pheislant.
“For now the coastal nation of Pheislant seemed unwilling to confront Ailendamus despite the trespasses, but it seems the ‘Summer’s Champion’ of the Order of Seasons, one of the leaders of this [Knight]-order, has declared a crusade! Can they do that? Well, I suppose so, but the questions remains: is it war for Pheislant?”
He looked quite pleased with himself for sneaking that reference in. Drassi ignored him.
“We have a scrying spell—yes, there it is! These are [Summer Knights] and a smaller infantry and mounted force—but mainly [Knights]. I’m told there are over a thousand [Knights] from the Order of Seasons. Six times that in Pheislant’s forces of non-[Knights]…but they’re attacking an army of nearly thirty thousand!”
Noass nodded.
“A flanking force. Smaller than a conventional army, Drassi. They have a good complement of their Greatbows, capable of firing Ailendamus’ famed lance-arrows, though. As well—a number of high-level [Mages]. Er, [Strategists] suggested they might be attempting to set fire to the forests; something Ailendamus has denied.”
She shot him a glare.
“Yes, I get that. I’m no [Tactician] either so correct me if I’m wrong Noass, but attacking a force…five or six times your size sounds stupid.”
“It…could be strategic? [Knights] aren’t a hugely Izrilian tradition, so we’re actually contacting a Terandrian [Strategist] to weigh in on the discussion. Hello? Can we connect to…”
Lyonette tuned Noass out. She stared down at the scrying orb and the central image. Her lips moved as she searched the riding column and found him at the front.
“Rabbiteater?”
 
—-
 
Much to his bemusement, no, chagrin, Lord Pellmia Quellae woke up and realized he had gained the [Matchmaker] class.
He actually had to send a [Message] to his wife to ask if that was a real class, and got the much-amused response that ‘yes it was’, and ‘what had he done’?
Pellmia reflected that rather than doing anything, he had prevented the Wind Runner’s immediate flight from this continent. Perhaps that alone wasn’t enough to earn an entire class, but then again…it hadn’t been a small feat.
Six times that night, Ryoka had tried to excuse herself in a permanent sort of way. Lord Tyrion had not helped, especially because he’d kept trying to discuss courting her, in front of his sons and everyone else no less.
