The lone female [Knight] nodded to him. Ser Dalimont sighed, rubbing at still slightly-puffy lips. Mrsha shrank in her seat.
Boring competence! Her mortal enemy! Mrsha’s pulse accelerated, like the [Rogue] whose misdeeds had finally caught up to her.
It might be a terrible reckoning. Ekirra had been mildly burned and he’d still had a terrible day. The Thronebearers had been carried out on stretchers.
They were right here, too. Nowhere to hide…Mrsha’s eyes slunk sideways towards the nearest wall. She’d run for it! Numbtongue was asleep, but she could door-port into his room. All she had to do was…
“Excuse me, young Gnoll Miss! Yes, you! I should like to have a word with you.”
One of the Thronebearers strode across the room. The Goblins turned back. Ulvama sharply. She saw one of the Sers—not Dalimont—bearing down on Mrsha.
Liska had already gone back to the door, blissfully ignorant of what she’d caused. However, the rest of the inn’s protectors were more aware of the danger of armored Humans asking about white Gnolls.
Rags was allergic to non-Goblins in armor to begin with. She reached for her bag of holding and the crossbow, eying the four [Knights]. Three Goblins versus four [Knights] wasn’t a matchup she wanted to take after today’s broadcast, but…she eyed the curiously cold patch on the beams.
Maybe she wouldn’t have to.
 
—-
 
Niers Astoragon realized he’d been made at the same time as he yanked his shortsword out of cover. Damn! He was all for pranks, which was why he’d helped Mrsha, but depending on how this went, he might have to get involved.
If only to stop four Thronebearers from getting murdered in this inn!
The danger this time was not things going south for Mrsha. Rather, to Niers, it was three skilled Hobs on one side—and four Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings leaning out of their hallway position. They looked grim and if one of those ponced [Knights] so much as raised a hand, they’d be kissing armor-piercing daggers through their backs. Assuming they survived that, there was a mentally unstable Goblin with a crystal sword, an Antinium [Hunter] on the roof, and angry Beavers.
Mrsha saw the angry [Knight] coming and bolted from her seat for the nearest wall. Mrsha the Evasive leapt from her chair—
“Not so fast! [A Necessary Discussion]!”
—And froze. The foreign Thronebearer had grabbed her! With a Skill she’d never heard of! He halted as the other three [Knights] walked forwards. Only Ser Dalimont glanced around uneasily. The other two called out.
“Don’t be too extreme, Ser Lormel.”
“Extreme? I should like a word myself.”
The female [Knight]’s brows were thunderous. Mrsha quaked, unable to move. Help me, Ulvama! Help me, Crimshaw!
Help me, Erin?
Her panic-stricken look made the [Shaman] raise her staff. Her eyes and tattoos began to glow ominously. Ser Dalimont reached for the shield at his side.
“Ser Lormel, perhaps you should halt one second—”
Too late. The Thronebearer loomed over Mrsha. His golden armor was resplendently luminous, polished and buffed. He looked like a shining figure out of stories—only slightly marred by lips that looked like a duck’s bill.
“So, here is the perpetrator of yesterday’s incident. A restaurant’s reputation in ruins! Four Thronebearers of Eternal Calanfer, poisoned! I have some words for you, young lady.”
Ser Lormel leaned down. The Brothers tightened their grips on their crossbow triggers. Niers opened his mouth to shout a word and Ulvama swung her staff up. Mrsha closed her eyes, covering her head as Lormel’s hand flashed down.
 
“So this is my fate. I’ve washed my paws in blood, and it’s time to dance the hempen jig at last. Do I have any regrets? Only that I didn’t get away with it.”
–Mrsha the [Gang Boss]
 
—-
 
An armored finger poked Mrsha gently in the forehead.
“Very bad girl. One does not pour spice into other people’s food. I should like to tell you, young lady, that we all had to visit the [Healer]’s because of you. Most unpleasant. I would like a word with your parents, and I would like you to consider the consequences of your actions.”
Ser Lormel waved a finger in front of Mrsha’s bewildered face, his expression stern and angry. Then he glanced at the other two Thronebearers.
“I say, was that too harsh?”
The female [Knight] frowned, still wrathful.
“Stern words, Ser Lormel, but leave it to her parents to decide a proper punishment. So long as it is appropriately done. What is the saying? ‘Spare the rod, spoil the child?’”
The other [Knight] turned to her.
“I believe, Dame Ushar, that the phrase is ‘if they don’t spare the rod, break their fingers. Spoil the child.’ A rather crude proverb other [Knight] orders employ.”
“Quite so, Ser Sest. Thank you for reminding me. So then, I should like to have a word with this young one’s guardians! Where is that Drake? I assume she’s a [Caretaker] of some sort?”
Dame Ushar folded her arms and looked around the inn imperiously. Ser Lormel frowned at Mrsha. He saw her wide eyes and terrified expression and immediately knelt.
“I seem to have gone too far. I’m not angry, child. Not more than needs be. However, that prank could have hurt someone of less robust nature than the Thronebearers of Calanfer! Which is what we are. Let us promise not to do so again and we shall say no more of it.”
He smiled and held out his hand. Mrsha stared at it and the [Knight] trying to reassure her.
Behind them, the Goblins had gone still. Ulvama had choked on magical fire—in a literal sense—and was now hiccupping it out bit by bit.
The Brothers were all staring at the unexpected turn of events. One of them still had a finger on the crossbow’s trigger. He accidentally squeezed too hard—Crimshaw’s hand blurred and yanked the bolt out before the thunk became fatal.
The Thronebearers all looked up, and took in the room again. They eyed the Goblins warily and Dame Ushar stepped back.
“…Goblins and not a soul in sight. Fellow Thronebearers, do you suppose this child has been neglected? Ser Dalimont, what did you say you heard about this inn, again?”
“That the owner was dead. And that someone like our target was spotted here.”
Ser Dalimont, the [Knight] of Princess Seraphel, turned and looked down at Mrsha. He regarded her as she peered up at him. Ser Lormel rose.
“Perhaps we should do something about it.”
Mrsha saw half the room glance up. Oblivious, Ser Lormel went on.
“Inform the Watch Captain. That is the protocol, isn’t it? No, a [Guardsman]—Drakes do love their Watch. Not a [Knight] in all the south to beseech to make sure this little one has a guardian! I say, is the caretaker of this establishment here? An employee? Hello?”
He called out, raising his voice. Mrsha stared up at him.
Inform the Watch Captain? Why, that was the most ridiculous, most normal thing to do she’d ever heard of! Ser Sest bent down, anger forgotten. He spoke, his lips still clearly red and enflamed.
“Young child. What is your name? I am Ser Sest of the Thronebearers of Calanfer. That is a Terandrian Kingdom. We are [Knights]. Are your parents not around? Are you in any danger?”
He glanced significantly at the Goblins and lowered his voice to a whisper only between them.
“Simply nod if you need help, and upon our honor, we shall ensure you are kept safe. We are [Knights]—I do not know if you know of our class, but we would never abandon someone in need.”
“A child in need. Politick demands certain sacrifices, Ser Sest, especially from home.”
Dame Ushar corrected him. The Thronebearers waited as Mrsha stared up at them, horrified. Ser Sest began to look bemused at a lack of any response.
Oh no. Oh no. Mrsha felt a terrible pain in her stomach. A falling sensation. A sickness. She looked up at the concerned Thronebearers, who she had spiced nearly to death, now peering at Ishkr as he hurried downstairs, a mop in one hand, concerned about…her?
Oh no. They were decent people.
“I’m so sorry—er—”
Ishkr did a double-take as he saw the [Knights]. Ser Lormel strode over at once and performed an elegant bow.
“Ser Lormel of the Thronebearers of Calanfer. Are you this young child’s father, sir? We would like to have a few words, if we may.”
“Don’t forget to ask about the whereabouts of our target.”
Dame Ushar whispered. Ser Lormel nodded and Ishkr stared at him, then Mrsha, not sure where to start.
“Me? Her father…? Er, no, I—”
A loud sniff interrupted everyone. Ser Sest reached for his belt pouch hurriedly. Mrsha sniffed again, and began to cry.
“There, there. We aren’t angry. Here, dry your tears. Ser Lormel, you were far too harsh on the girl.”
Ser Sest offered her a scented handkerchief, which only made it worse. They didn’t understand. They thought Mrsha was scared—or in danger! The Thronebearers protectively closed around her, eying Ishkr more balefully as the Gnoll tried to explain.
“It occurs to me that Gnoll or not, she doesn’t have any clothes, Ser Dalimont. We should at least ensure a Senior Guard is aware of this, shouldn’t we?”
Dame Ushar conferred with Dalimont. He held up a placating hand.
“Gnoll children run around without for a while. Let’s not jump to conclusions.”
That, at least, was sensible. The other three Thronebearers weren’t evil stupidity incarnate. They were nice…but still sort of stupid. Mrsha couldn’t stop crying. She felt bad. She had done…a bad thing.
She didn’t want to be mean anymore.
 
—-
 
Ishkr finally got the [Knights] to calm down with an abbreviated version of the truth. They ended up sitting around the table, still concerned for Mrsha’s wellbeing.
“A child should not be alone at any time, Mister Ishkr. It is not our place to lecture, but the Thronebearers of Calanfer are by way of being a [Knight]-Order that practices law, social graces, and non-martial skills as well as combat. A dedicated [Carer] would be required in Calanfer; it does not simply do to let one run around, even in the same establishment. Especially an inn. Who is the parent?”
He remembered The Wandering Inn had lost its owner and continued in a whisper, although Mrsha heard everything.
“If they are ah, deceased—”
“No, no. She’s left me in charge. It’s—my fault. I should have kept a better eye on her.”
“Is there no [Carer] one can employ? If it is a matter of funding…”
The Thronebearers were consulting their funds. Mrsha was trying to shake her head as Ushar kept asking her questions.
“So you are fed, cared for, and want for nothing? Are you sure, little Miss? We must leave on our pressing quest, and if you need but anything…”
They had been told Mrsha wasn’t able to talk, so all three politely waited as she scribbled furiously on the table. Mrsha had almost forgotten why they were here, and she was trying to signal Ishkr not to talk about Lyonette! The Gnoll was so flustered though, he didn’t see her. Mrsha hurriedly handed the notecard to Dame Ushar and the woman read.
 
To the Thronebearers of Calanfer: 
I, Mrsha, would like to most sincerely apologize for my flagrant actions and immodest conduct. I prostrate myself before you for my untoward actions and can only, once again and repeatedly, ask for your forgiveness. 
It is true that my state of affairs is not ideal, but it is far from degrading. I want for little, and but for my own careless actions, I am normally accompanied by sufficient guardianship, although my parent is not, at this moment, present. I apologize once again and would like to make amends by offering you a refreshment or cake product…
 
It had taken her a while to write so much. Ser Dalimont had risen to speak to the Goblins, albeit at a wary remove, and Dame Ushar and Ser Sest were still stuck on ‘maybe Mrsha is abandoned’ mentally. Even Ser Lormel seemed happy enough not to ask Lyonette’s name, merely inquire about Mrsha’s health.
But Mrsha had made one huge mistake. They were Thronebearers, not the Order of Seasons. On the battlefield, you could hand the [Summer Knights] the victory every time. However, on the dance floor or when reciting law?
“I say, what extraordinary penmanship! I haven’t seen such grace in half the [Scribes] of the Mage’s Guild we have passed by on this continent!”
Ser Sest remarked. Dame Ushar blinked at the cursive writing, the laborious use of language. She eyed the neat spacing on the card, and style. Slowly, she turned in her seat.
“Ser Dalimont?”
The Thronebearer looked over his shoulder. Dame Ushar rose, and Mrsha looked up as the Thronebearer’s eyes lit up.
“Lyonette has been here. This is letter-writing only someone from Calanfer would employ. Excuse me, Mister Ishkr. Do you know a red-haired young woman?”
“Carmine—”
Ser Sest nudged Ser Lormel. Dame Ushar ignored them and went on.
“A red-haired young woman, who might go by the name…Lyonette? Lyonette du Marquin?”
Mrsha froze. Ishkr glanced at her, then the Thronebearers.
“Lyonette? Yes, of course. She’s Mrsha’s mother—that is to say, she’s raising Mrsha and running the inn. However, she’s in Oteslia on business—Mrsha!”
The flying kick was too late. The Thronebearers turned into golden statues. They stared at Mrsha, at Ishkr. Ulvama sat back down and reached for some of the cold noodles in one of the bowls. She began to eat, frowning.
She had no idea what was going on.
 
—-
 
There was some delight to be had in trivial misunderstandings. Little dramas were more satisfying than larger ones with actual strife.
Much fun could be had about rather a lot of nothing. And if you were bored, you had all the time in the world to devote to…nothing. Or rather, fun plots and schemes.
Perhaps that was how, as Ryoka Griffin found herself riding north to visit Lord Pellmia’s estates, she found herself the target of countless—busybodies.
Lady Buscrei had ridden day and night on the most urgent of business: securing gliders for her family. Lord Swey was slower, not having any movement Skills, but she was told he was enroute.
“Keireen!”
She greeted the [Lady] of House Quellae and the daughter, Betta Quellae, and was promptly ushered into the parlor. House Quellae was a rather pleasant place to visit, being home to one of the largest orchards in all of northern Izril.
Thus, local [Lords] and [Ladies] often came to pick the produce by hand—or at least, House Veltras’ scions enjoyed that. Keireen Quellae and her daughter were gracious hosts, and Lord Pellmia was no less skilled.
Of course, there was always one bad apple in a metaphor, and that would be his somewhat arrogant boy. He made an appearance, but didn’t linger. Just as well Buscrei hadn’t brought her sons, or it might be another not-so-casual duel in the sparring grounds.
“Buscrei, you alarm me. Did you ride the entire way here pell-mell like that?”
