Then he’d wanted to formally notify all of House Veltras as this was a matter of authority given Tyrion’s position as the family head…
Nightmare after nightmare. Pellmia had literally told Ullim to drag his [Lord] off, and tasked Jericha with slowing down Ryoka Griffin’s understandable skittishness.
Honestly, it seemed to Lord Pellmia as he thought about his Level 3 [Matchmaker] class that the very fate of the world, the invisible order that bestowed classes, the Cycle of Growth as defined in the Book of Levels, was itself acknowledging the challenge that was Lord Tyrion and romance in the same room.
He didn’t mind the class, or he’d have refused it, obviously. It wasn’t a particularly [Lord]-ly class, but Pellmia was in his advanced years and it tickled his fancy. The [Lord of Orchards] also thought he could add to his family’s own notes on the class, having it himself. So he rationalized accepting the class and decided he’d throw a small celebration if all went well on his return home.
However, he had cause to appreciate and use one of the Skills he’d gained within fifteen minutes of waking up. Which was breakfast, and the most uncomfortable one Pellmia had shared in a long time.
There sat Ryoka Griffin, exactly opposite Tyrion, not meeting his gaze, fidgeting, as Sammial poked her in the side, much amused by all this, Hethon stared at Ryoka and his father, Jericha hovered, Ullim hurried around serving Pellmia and the others…
And Lord Tyrion kept making it worse.
“Good morning, Miss Griffin.”
He greeted her cordially enough. Ryoka hesitated.
“Good morning, Lord Veltras.”
If there was an invisible perception of closeness—not a Skill that Pellmia had, just his intuition—it had widened overnight. Of course it had. Getting to one knee in front of an audience, in a setting that public with no lead up? In front of his sons? Pellmia had written a [Message] spell to his wife with that lastest development and she hadn’t responded back yet, which was probably from sheer horror.
Had Tyrion done that with Salva? Dead gods. Then again, Salva had never been entirely conventional herself. A conventional woman would have run.
Ryoka smiled at Tyrion like a woman with the noose around her neck. He nodded to her, cool as one of the cucumbers being served onto his plate. Sammial promptly wanted to dump his onto Ryoka’s.
“Sammial, eat your food.”
“I don’t want t—”
Sammial caught his father’s eye and went silent. Pellmia watched as he slyly tried to drop one off the side of the table when Tyrion turned to accept a dish from Ullim. A gust of wind promptly flipped it right back onto his plate.
The young [Lord] stared up at Ryoka and she smiled for the first time that day. Pellmia laughed too and all was well. Right up until Tyrion looked at Ryoka.
“Would you care to go for a ride after breakfast, Ryoka? There are a number of scenic routes, and I used to ride with Salv—”
Lord Pellmia choked on his mouthful of breakfast. Ryoka hadn’t quite cottoned on, but the second Tyrion finished the sentence she’d probably abandon breakfast, leap on her glider and fly into the sun or back where she’d come from.
Tyrion never got to finish it because his mouth closed. Ryoka rubbed at her ear, genuinely mystified.
“I—didn’t quite catch that. A ride?”
Pellmia saw Tyrion glance at him. The [Matchmaker] swallowed, then breathed, and thanked his new class.
[Avert Disaster (Verbal)]. It appeared Ryoka had missed the damning heart of Tyrion’s offer too, perhaps due to the Skill. Now, how could Pellmia…?
He’d stayed up all damn night trying to figure out how to explain to Tyrion—politely—how wrong his approach was. Then he’d tried to figure out how to hammer it into the man’s head, politeness be damned. Pellmia went on instinct before Tyrion could try again. The [Lord] leaned over and murmured very quietly on the pretense of asking for the butter.
“I fear you’re too far in the lines, Lord Veltras. You can’t press the attack with Level 11 [Squires] on pikes.”
The [Lord] glanced at Pellmia. The Level 4 [Matchmaker]—he’d find out when he went to sleep—glanced at him significantly. Tyrion absorbed this, and then something lit up in his eyes.
“Ah. Not [Lancers]? Truly?”
“[Squires] with sticks versus enchanted Drake pikes. In…full plate armor. Oldbloods. Circle and be circumspect. Take my word for it.”
Pellmia had no expectation of it actually working, but for some reason Tyrion actually nodded. Dead gods, the man was just all formations and tactics.
“What if we all took a ride later this day?”
He floated the idea and Ullim glanced at Pellmia, deeply surprised. Hethon and Sammial looked interested. Ryoka squirmed.
“I uh—I might have to pass. I need to go back to Liscor. I’ve been putting it off, but…”
Damn. Focus on one too much and the other runs. Pellmia bit his lip. He murmured his only other Skill gained by his new class.
“…Push].”
It didn’t work. He felt no sense of it activating, nor did Ryoka stop trying to explain about a ‘Mrsha’ to a bemused Tyrion.
“We could arrange her to visit House Veltras. If you must go, you must go. However, if you would give me a day to…”
He clearly didn’t actually know what he wanted Ryoka to do in a day, but he was working on it. Lord Pellmia sighed. Ryoka Griffin. He knew so little about her. Perhaps, though—
“Miss Griffin. Would you care to remain just a day longer? Just a day—so we might discuss ah, compensation to your guests? At the Summer Solstice?”
Ryoka’s head snapped up.
“What? The—the guests? What about them?”
Pellmia gave her a genial smile.
“I did recall that you made a pact with them. Free alcohol and ah, corn? My orchards do include some vineyards. Would it be appropriate to leave out some wine?”
“I—that’s not in the pact, but they—they might like that. I don’t know that I have to…can they even get over here…?”
Very interesting. Pellmia watched Jericha write something down covertly. He had no idea what Ryoka meant, but he had thought often about those wondrous folk. He pleated his napkin thoughtfully.
“Would it not be acceptable to try? As an experiment?”
“Try? And see if they come? I never thought of…”
Ryoka’s eyes grew round and Pellmia himself felt a stir at the idea. He snapped his fingers.
“Goodwill is never a poor thing to obtain. I myself make gifts of fine vintages or juices to friends. Would they find a barrel of wine—or apple juice acceptable? It is the time for fine apples…assuming you could stay? I might invite all of House Veltras to my orchards, frankly. The boys could climb some trees, and it’s a splendid time for a day or two.”
Hethon and Sammial looked up and Pellmia smiled at them. Tyrion raised his brows.
“That would be quite pleasant.”
“I—er—”
Ryoka squirmed, but the thought of her fae friends convinced her. She looked at Pellmia, abashed.
“I do owe them a huge debt. I wouldn’t be bothering you, Lord Pellmia? I can pay of course and run a delivery…”
“I consider it a gift between friends, Miss Griffin. Think nothing of it. In fact, why not bring back some fresh produce for your little Gnoll friend? You can grow some of the seeds anywhere in Izril.”
“She might really like that.”
Ryoka murmured, envisioning adding some fine fruits to a certain Garden. Pellmia sat back, feeling as if he’d scored a solid lance-hit. The Level 5 [Matchmaker] steepled his fingers. Now, to figure out a way to give Tyrion an angle—well, that was what his wife and daughters were for. If they didn’t get the class…
However, as providence would have it, that was when the Order of Seasons arrived. Ryoka Griffin turned in her seat as a [Soldier] of some kind entered the room.
“Lord Veltras! I—forgive me, sire. I had no idea you were breakfasting.”
The man was abashed. He looked like a [Captain] with more white than brown in his hair—but Pellmia identified him as one of the [Weapon Instructors] that Tyrion employed.
Not a regular [Soldier] or he’d never dare to do this. Tyrion raised his brows, a bit annoyed, but the man had some leeway.
“What is it? An emergency?”
“Not—exactly. But you should see this, lad—Lord Veltras!”
Ah, an old trainer. He was waving a little scrying orb around with the battle going on. Ryoka sat up as she heard Drassi’s commentary. But what got Lord Tyrion was the battle.
“The Order of Seasons is sending their [Knights] against Ailendamus?”
“Exactly! It’s the Season of Summer and they’re in lance-formation. They’re going to try to break them down! Begging your pardon, Ullim, but I thought Lord Veltras would—”
Tyrion was half out of his chair. He looked as interested as he ever did, and Lord Pellmia recalled.
If there was an avid jousting fan in Izril, it was Tyrion. He liked tourneys and so on as much as Sammial liked watching the new football games. Ryoka was blinking at the unexpected interest.
“You—do you know about the Order of Seasons, Lord Tyrion?”
She was interested for some reason as well. Lord Pellmia had no idea about Rabbiteater, or that Ryoka recalled where the Goblin was supposed to be. Yet the coincidence was something.
Tyrion was nodding. He visibly hesitated, reminded of Ryoka and his sons, and glanced at the [Weapons Instructor].
“We can…of course continue breakfast, Miss Griffin. Of course. Forgive my rudeness. I have some passing acquaintance with the Order of Seasons. Master Verdeem, I will have to review it later. Please find a way to save a copy.”
The man nodded, but Pellmia had never seen Tyrion so reluctant to sit down and eat. Still—what a sense of decorum. Ryoka hesitated too.
Pellmia saw the opening and took his chance. He raised his finger, invoked his Skill.
The words spilled out of his mouth on auto. Exactly what he would have said if he had time to compose it.
“Tyrion, Miss Griffin, I say we should hardly wait on protocol here. We are familiar with each other—and I confess, I’ve had more than one breakfast around a scrying orb. Why don’t we watch this fascinating event? Tyrion, you’re an expert on mounted combat. Miss Griffin, do you have friends in the Order of Seasons? Ailendamus?”
“Sort of—did they say one thousand [Knights] versus thirty thousand [Soldiers]?”
“Indeed. Shall we watch?”
Tyrion and Ryoka looked at each other. They wavered—then Lord Tyrion turned to Jericha.
“A larger scrying orb. Call Master Verdeem back. We shall breakfast while watching. It’s far from hopeless, Ryoka. If I understand that the Summer’s Champion is leading the charge…I might say the odds are reversed depending on what Ailendamus has brought. I need to see both forces first.”
The [Lord] looked hesitant as a space was cleared on the dinner table, but his desire to watch the battle overwhelmed his sense of propriety. His sons looking delighted didn’t hurt either, or Ryoka. Pellmia sighed as Ryoka glanced at Tyrion.
Treant apples, it worked! He saw the Skill activate. Perhaps Ullim helped, but somehow, suddenly, they were all sitting together as a scrying mirror was set up. Almost by coincidence, Ryoka sat on Tyrion’s left with Hethon and Sammial crowding her in, Pellmia on Tyrion’s right. She froze—but Tyrion was talking animatedly.
“The Order of Seasons, you see, are aura-experts. A fine group of [Knights] proficient in a number of weapon styles, although they tend to favor the traditional lance as well as weapon-and-shield combinations. Standard, but highly effective. The Season of Summer is their most numerous and high-leveled martial season.”
“There are four seasons, right? I—oh no. That’s my friend.”
Ryoka glanced at the [Knight] riding in front. Pellmia was half-distracted by Tyrion and half by Ryoka’s remarks. Tyrion leaned in, frowning.
“…Not a member of the Order of Seasons. He rides with the Summer’s Champion.”
“Is—is that good? The odds are high…”
Tyrion raised his brows.
“The Summer’s Champion is always Level 40 or higher. Rest assured, Miss Griffin, that the Order of Seasons’ grandmasters are not poor fighters. Your friend is safer in front with the Summer’s Champion than in the back of the vanguard. Hethon, Sammial, observe. You see the way they’re riding? They’ve formed a Trilance vanguard; they’re certainly planning on a lance-charge…”
It was so strange hearing Tyrion talk with such detail and passion about anything. But then—this was his forte. Ryoka’s edginess around him noticeably turned to actual attention as she realized he’d forgotten about courting her. He was pointing out the formation, the way the [Knights] were sitting, the backup lances in their bags of holding to his sons, who also seemed bemused and delighted by their suddenly-talkative father.
In the meantime, they were sitting together. Talking. Oho. Ohohohoho.
Lord Pellmia rubbed his hands together and reached for a cucumber slice. The Level 6 [Matchmaker] felt his Skill working. Just a bit! However, the sight of Ryoka leaning over and listening to Tyrion, asking questions as he pointed out details and explained the [Knight] Order—how could you dream of that after last night?
‘I understand you may have reservations about a relationship, Ryoka. Please address me with any complaints about my character or actions and I will happily discuss them now. I would like to hear any salient points you have.’
Pellmia shuddered. After lines like that had been etched into Ryoka’s—not to mention Pellmia’s—very soul? This was a miracle.
No, this was a Skill. He hadn’t been able to activate it randomly, but it seemed that if he had an opportunity…
[Romantic Push]. The [Lord] sat back, smiling. Then his face fell.
Giant oranges, if Ryoka and Tyrion do come to my home, I’ll have to do this all day. Can our hearts take it? 
His wife and daughter might actually expire if Tyrion came out with another line as bad as the rest. However, Pellmia put that aside. For now, he just sat with Tyrion and Ryoka, occasionally interjecting, kicking Tyrion, smiling desperately.
…Counter-leveling.
 
—-
 
The Order of Seasons rode to war, and the Goblin rode with them. He had nothing better to do.
…No, he truly had nothing better to do. What else was there to do in life, other than to follow friends to battle and watch their backs? Nothing.
The Season of Summer understood a Redfang Goblin’s mind. They were alike in many respects. That was how they’d come to this.
War. A crusade against Ailendamus! They trotted down one of Pheislant’s wide highways, towards the army that had dared to cross Pheislant’s borders and attack the Dawn Concordat from the side.
