The [Hunting Lady] brushed off Keireen’s dismay at her somewhat disheveled state.
“Bah. I got out of the swamps before I woke up. Otter-dog sled. Then I rode here as fast as could be. Be grateful I didn’t take half the family, but I can’t just drop in unannounced.”
“Any time! Pellmia loves guests. But I don’t think you’re here just for fruit? You’ll take some back, of course.”
“Naturally. And I brought purified water for those picky damned trees of yours. Enough of that. What do you think about Tyrion and the Wind Runner?”
Keireen’s eyes lit up. Betta, returning with snacks and tea, broke in.
“She’s on her way here! Father managed to persuade her to come with Lord Tyrion and his sons! He’s become a [Matchmaker].”
“Of all things, at his age.”
The [Lady] sighed, but her eyes were dancing. Buscrei grinned.
“He’s got to have the right class to hunt quarry, and there’s a Phoenix on the wing if I ever saw one. I’m surprised she hasn’t flown for the hills!”
“Especially after what Tyrion said. Did you hear how he asked to court her? Asked? He knelt down in front of everyone, [Soldiers], his sons, and—I have Pellmia’s transcript, word-for-word. And some of the other things he said in public! Pellmia says it’s been burned into his soul.”
“I’ll get it!”
Betta hurried off and returned with the piece of parchment. She handed it to Buscrei and the [Hunting Lady] laughed so hard she nearly passed out.
“It’s not funny!”
Betta protested while trying not to smile. She looked at her mother.
“If any boy said that to me—even one I liked—I’d hide in the pantry every time I saw them! Does Lord Tyrion have no tact at all?”
She was dismayed, because she’d met Tyrion and while he was stiff as an ironwood tree, she’d rather been enamored by one of the famed heads of the Five Families. More than one young woman in the region liked him.
“He’s always been like that. I think he took a bad hit to the head one time when he was young and it knocked everything but tilting and strategy out of his head. My, my. Can I get a copy of this? Everyone in the family needs to see this. Hah! We’ll frame it in our lodge.”
Buscrei cackled, then turned serious. Keireen had gone off to fetch another guest who had arrived and had been resting from the sudden travel.
“Just so I’m certain, we are on the same side here? Ryoka and Tyrion sounds like an entertaining match. Oswen’s all for it. Especially if we get a Courier in the family. That’s good blood.”
“We are on the same side. We would rather like to see a union as well—if it can be arranged.”
The second guest emerged. Lady Desinee El. Buscrei’s eyes shot into her hair and she rose to her feet.
“How did the House of El get wind of this?”
“We are interested in the Wind Runner as well. If she stays in the north…Lady Buscrei Oswen. Do you have a plan?”
Four [Ladies] conferred in the parlor, but that would soon be two [Lords] and four [Ladies] when Swey and another [Lord] arrived. Of course, that was the most passionate endorsers of this relationship.
“There’s opposition, you know. I ran into old Lord Aghonst, who was practically frothing at the mouth to put a bee in Tyrion’s ear about marrying a commoner.”
“Damn. That dried up piece of leather? Is he on his way?”
“Might be. But he’ll be delayed—I cut his horses loose in the stables and had two of my people run them off.”
The [Lord] and [Climber] smiled smugly. The others in the now-crowded parlor nodded. Already, the lines were being drawn. An anti-relationship faction was no doubt gathering in their own way.
It would depend on who had the best organization, the best strategy. It was also hugely fun. Keireen clapped her hands, drawing everyone’s attention.
“Miss Griffin and Lord Tyrion are ostensibly here to collect some of our finest fruits and tour the place. Something to do with a debt to friends? We’re giving her—or them, Pellmia was unclear—some wine. You all happen to be here for the harvest. My plan is, on first meeting, to organize a little fruit-gathering expedition. In pairs. A competition. Tyrion and Ryoka will be one pair, naturally, and I know Tyrion will compete.”
“So will this Wind Runner. According to my notes, she’s competitive too. I do want to meet her in person.”
Betta had somehow acquired a facts-sheet on the Courier, and was passing copies around. Lord Swey waved a half-eaten peach at the people here.
“That’s fine for an opener, but what if she runs? She pulled a fast one and left my family when she visited.”
“She can’t do that. Simplest solution? Get her to show the glider and someone crashes it. Or—termites. Is there a [Druid] around? We can do the same for the wind suit.”
“I’ll spill something on her clothes and we can have them washed. We’ll need a rotation of places they visit of course; we can’t stretch out one place more than a few days. And it gives us time to set up! The House of El will certainly contribute. Deilan himself would host you all, just to look at her Kaalblade!”
Desinee clapped her hands together. Buscrei rubbed at her chin.
“Speaking of which, isn’t Ryoka taking sword-lessons from Tyrion? We can do something with that.”
“Is she?”
Plotting intensified.
 
—-
 
Ryoka Griffin felt distinctly unwell. The ride to Lord Pellmia’s lands was fast—everything was fast when you had Lord Tyrion’s Skills boosting your speed. Even with Sammial and Hethon riding more clumsily, and Ryoka was included in the untrained category, they could cover ground faster than most [Riders].
She felt eyes on her the entire way here, and stuck close to Hethon and Sammial. They, at least, were somewhat neutral parties.
It had begun. A terrible suspicion fell upon Ryoka. How else did you explain Ullim just happening to make sure Ryoka sat next to Tyrion at their lunch, or Pellmia engaging her and Tyrion in talk, such that Ryoka couldn’t slip away to contemplate downing an invisibility potion and fleeing?
Lord Tyrion’s proposal—to date—still burned in Ryoka’s head. She winced every time she remembered. Worse, she could already see its effects.
“Was that Lord Aghonst I thought I saw coming up the road?”
Tyrion turned his head, bemused. He was willing to slow the fast-moving group heading north, but Jericha shook her head.
“Lord Aghonst seemed quite—tired, Lord Veltras. I directed him to the keep to rest.”
Where he would be expecting Tyrion, but hopefully be delayed long enough by Ullim to fail to catch up before they arrived. Jericha sighed, but she had cast her lot in with one side.
“We’re nearly at the outskirts of the orchards. I think it might be cherries—I’m told they’re ready to drop! Hethon, Sammial, are you fond of that fruit?”
“Yes!”
Both boys chorused happily, although Sammial was frowning. He was trying to copy the [Summer Knights] and set fire to a pinecone he’d picked up. Ryoka didn’t know which was more alarming. The idea of Sammial with a fire-aura—or the fact that the air seemed a tad bit warmer around him.
It was probably her imagination. Ryoka felt hot and cold. Clammy. This? This was a nightmare.
In a nutshell, Lord Tyrion had asked to court—date her. And he was…well, older. He had kids! He was Lord Tyrion of House Veltras, one of the most influential [Lords] in the world. And he had knelt down in front of everyone and—
Thwack. Hethon jumped as Ryoka slapped her head to knock the memory out. No good. The problem was…
How did she get out of this? Just run away? Pellmia had stopped her, and she owed Tyrion for the army, and the fae…but this?
She tried to think of it objectively. In a vacuum, in a complete void where there were no outside factors…the problem was, Tyrion would have had a chance. He was certainly attractive to her in a few ways.
However, he was a father. He had kids, and he was a [Lord] with all that entailed. Ryoka was also Ryoka and her ability to handle this was about on par with her ability to make friends or form meaningful relationships that didn’t involve life-or-death scenarios now and then.
She knew his reputation. He had sieged Liscor! He was a father and she’d already met Relc. She knew all of this—she just wished she didn’t actually like him. Despite everything, Ryoka didn’t hate Tyrion, who rode about like the wind and carried debts and…
“Just not this.”
Hethon glanced at Ryoka. She looked distinctly unwell. The Wind Runner was hiding behind him from Lord Pellmia, who kept trying to move her over to Tyrion.
“Ah, there’s my family. And look! We have guests! They’ve come out to meet us? What a surprise.”
Lord Pellmia beamed and Ryoka Griffin looked up. She took one look at Lord Swey, Lady Buscrei, Lady Desinee, Pellmia’s wife and daughter and the baskets they carried for cherry-picking and turned white. She saw them smile at her and Tyrion.
“Ryoka! We just met. What a coincidence that you should be here when we are. Tyrion, you rogue.”
Buscrei grinned at Tyrion, who nodded to her stiffly, uncomprehendingly.
“I didn’t expect to see you here, Buscrei. I heard you were in Oswen when Miss Griffin last visited…days ago.”
He glanced at her. Ryoka bared her teeth at Buscrei. The [Hunting Lady] winked.
“I just had to come up north for the produce and deliver some of the purified water. Ryoka, it is good to see you.”
“Miss Griffin. We’re all out picking cherries and we just heard Tyrion and company would be coming by for a visit. Why don’t you join us in harvesting, then we can all settle in. We could even make a game of it!”
Swey beamed around—Desinee nudged him. Introductions first! He was being too forwards. Ryoka Griffin looked around at the sly looks, the knowing glances and…snapped.
Hethon Veltras was impressed. He actually saw Ryoka snap, and understood why you used that expression. She twitched so hard her horse froze up, wondering if its rider had died.
“I’m Desinee, Lord Pellmia, I do hope I’m not imposing? I just happened to be in the area and—”
“Excuse me.”
Ryoka’s strangled voice interrupted Lord Pellmia and Desinee El. She slid from her horse and looked around.
The first-wave of the relationship conspiracy glanced at Ryoka, worried. She had a sickly look on her face. Tyrion glanced at Ryoka.
“You seem unwell. Are you motion-sick, Ryoka?”
“No. Thank you, Lord Tyrion. I’m just—”
Ryoka looked around. Keireen smiled innocently at her. Buscrei, Swey—the Wind Runner inhaled. She was not an idiot.
“I’m sorry. I just—I think I haven’t been direct enough.”
Pellmia’s face fell. He tried to activate his [Avert Disaster] Skill, but it wouldn’t work or it was on recharge! He signaled the others, but Ryoka was determined. She had to do it now!
“Miss Ryoka, why don’t you lie down and—”
Swey spoke hurriedly, but Ryoka spoke over him, looking at Tyrion.
“I never responded to you, Lord Tyrion. And I see it’s caused misunderstandings. You asked to court me yesterday.”
She wanted to explode. This? This was as bad as him kneeling in front of her while everyone watched. There were more people watching this time, actually. But while Ryoka Griffin walked in hell—it had to be done.
Lord Tyrion faced her, nodding.
“If you have an answer…”
“I do.”
Ryoka Griffin inhaled, managed not to puke, which was the last thing she needed, and spoke, fixing her gaze on him to avoid the looks from everyone else.
“Lord Tyrion. I appreciate your…offer to court me. But I have to refuse.”
“Noo! No! We have to stop her! There’s a chance! You can’t get the [Matchmaker] class if there wasn’t anything there! Do something, father!”
Betta shriek-whispered into Pellmia’s ear. The [Lord] was looking around. He made a hand-sign to Swey. Get a horse to kick you! That was a good distraction. Swey mouthed.
“What? What are you pointing at the horse for?”
Ryoka ignored the whispers. She went on, sweating as she stared at Tyrion. Blink, damn you! Do you know how hard it is to meet your gaze?
“I—can’t accept your offer to court me for a number of reasons. I’m flattered, but—I don’t want to marry anyone. Or date! You’re a [Lord], and I’m a Courier. And—yeah.”
She stopped. Everyone waited, but Ryoka was done. She stepped back.
“I’m really sorry, but my answer is no.”
Pellmia exhaled like he’d been stabbed. Buscrei groaned. Tyrion? He just nodded.
“I see. Is there no way I can change your mind?”
“It’s not that I’m not flattered! I just—can’t.”
Ryoka was backing up, and the wind was growing. Tyrion trotted forwards a bit.
“I did not offer marriage, Miss Griffin. I simply would like to know if you are amenable—”
“—I have things to do, I’m so sorry if I’ve led anyone to a misunderstanding by being silent.”
Ryoka saw Hethon and Sammial look askance. Lord Tyrion glanced at them.
“Ryoka. Would you not stay? My feelings aside, my sons do seem to enjoy your company.”
The Wind Runner hesitated. They gave her pleading nods. She bit her lip.
“It’s just—”
“Miss Ryoka, you must stay. What about the gifts to your friends? Fruits as souvenirs for Liscor?”
Pellmia broke in desperately. Tyrion looked at her.
“Is there no chance?”
Hell. Ryoka Griffin was shaking her head. She just opened her arms and the wind caught the windsuit.
“Look, I’m sorry, but this? This is insane. I have to go. I’ll talk to you all later. A month later or something, okay? We can talk then. Just don’t…don’t.”
She looked at Desinee. The [Lady] was opening her mouth to say something. Ryoka had nothing. She just jumped.
“Ryoka! Wait! Don’t leave!”
Sammial shouted, and his plea was the one thing that made the Wind Runner look down. However—she caught the air and was up in a second.
“We pushed too hard!”
Keireen cried out, dismayed. Foiled! Weeks, perhaps months of fun ruined! Lord Pellmia was shaking his head, sighing, as Betta remonstrated with him. They turned to Tyrion, wondering how he’d take it—
The [Lord] was gone. Everyone looked around and saw a shape, faster than an arrow, speeding after Ryoka. Lord Pellmia’s jaw dropped. Buscrei began to cackle with laughter.
“I forgot! He’s as stubborn as stone too!”
 
—-
 
He was following her! Ryoka did a double-take as the wind screamed around her. She flew, away from Pellmia’s orchards and colorful trees, straight as the crow flies.
Nevertheless, the zig-zagging figure kept up. He called to her, and somehow she heard him over the roar of the wind.
“Ryoka! Ryoka, halt, please!”
“Stop following me!”
She flew higher, but Lord Tyrion followed her. He was too fast!
It was insane. Even in the air, Ryoka was going fast. On land? Only Magnolia’s carriage could have kept up with her, or maybe the Unmarked Coach. Or…
