The two Gentlemen Callers were here, though. Casually standing watch, or amusing themselves while keeping ‘an eye out’.
She wasn’t going anywhere without them anymore, and the two had agreed to escort her from now on after hearing about the stabbing attempt. Lyonette felt at her stomach.
Idiot. Looking at the images from home reminded her of how risky it had been. True—it was a ball and she’d thought she’d be safe in Oteslia! Hah!
No proper [Princess] of Calanfer went about without at least four [Knights] at all times. She could see some of the Thronebearers, fulfilling their duties in both bodyguard and diplomat roles. That was what they were good at.
“Not so much fighting. And I wonder if they can deal with poison if Mrsha managed to poison four of them. Dead gods, what are they doing in Liscor?”
Lyonette was stressed out. It was not an unusual occurrence, but there was a lot to stress about recently. This? This wasn’t helping.
“Disastrous. They didn’t come out all three at once because it was a ‘humble gesture’. They did it because Shardele can’t be bothered to do introductions properly if she’s Palt-ed up on Dreamleaf. She certainly is.”
You could tell by the way Shardele smiled. If you didn’t know her, you’d think she was simply extremely genial; she was in imagination-land and only halfway there was the actual reason.
As for Aielef, well. She was striding about, so clearly anxious that even the commentator was picking up on it. She should have greeted the [Prince] far longer and more effusively, but she hadn’t rehearsed a proper speech.
Normally, their mother, the [Queen], would have taken both to task if she’d caught a whiff of this, much less seen Calanfer’s royalty being anything less than stellar on a scrying orb. However, she had to be busy with actual war, so the [Princesses] were acting subpar…in the one time when impressing someone would actually matter!
As for Seraphel—Lyonette shook her head. Her older sister might be the biggest disaster yet. She’d conducted herself with grace, certainly, and hadn’t made a big mistake yet—but it was Seraphel.
Seraphel the Cursed was what other people called her. Lyonette and her family knew Seraphel by a different nickname. Seraphel the Sharptongued. If you annoyed her, she stabbed you—with words.
She looked well, at least. Lyonette had heard Seraphel had been in Noelictus when she’d run away, and it had ended badly. Another husband dead? She didn’t know the details, but everything was the same as it always was.
Her sisters were not perfect. They could pretend to be, but…the 6th Princess of Calanfer sighed as she thought of home, and saw all the little, familiar flaws.
Then the circling coverage zoomed in and she listened to the politics of home. Her sisters, with all their faults and petty tricks, like swapping makeup with itching powder over someone stealing dress designs. Fighting for attention or favor…
Shardele gazed up at the decorated ceiling of Nadel’s ballroom as Prince Ruis introduced her. Her smile took one of the dignitaries from the cold north off-guard.
“What beautiful sights.”
“Indeed, your Highness?”
The man gave the ceiling a supercilious look—then realized she was referring to the stained glass ceiling. A glass dome allowed the light to filter in a wonderful set of colors.
The clouds had parted, and Shardele clasped her hands together. Almost like a certain Worker, praying. Her gaze was even like his. A kind of…genuine awe. Both childlike in innocence and older; the knowledge of how expensive each huge pane of tinted glass was to produce, the effort of creating the effect.
Then she directed her attention at the man wearing light clothing; even here he clearly found it hot, being used to the frozen landscape of his home.
“I do apologize, Diplomat Marseth. I was simply taken for a moment by the beauty of such colors. Chartreuse; such a wonderful display. It reminds me of the Eternal Throne. Have you ever had a chance to gaze upon it?”
The [Diplomat] sketched a bow, unsure if Shardele was making some kind of complex political reference.
“I have not had the honor, Princess Shardele. Perhaps, circumstances allowing, after the war, I should be so honored. It is one of Terandria’s wonders.”
The 1st Princess nodded dreamily.
“It is. I have visited many kingdoms, and still, I could gaze upon the Eternal Throne for hours. Prince Ruis, your [Architect] captures the light with great skill.”
He nodded, taken somewhat aback by the compliment.
“You humble her, Shardele. This is a new installation, as you have so keenly noticed—I take it as a great compliment, to compare it to the Eternal Throne.”
“Then, the throne itself shines? I have heard it said that Calanfer’s capital is one of the most beautiful, from the very streets to the throne room itself.”
The [Diplomat] commented neutrally, and a slight note of disbelief was in his voice. Yet Shardele just nodded. She closed her eyes.
“Every citizen of Calanfer tries to visit at least once, Diplomat Marseth, your Highness. I cannot describe it, but it is all the stories say it is. To gaze up at it is to see wondrous colors, the like of which can only be found in dreams. Ah—but perhaps I could show you.”
With that, the [Princess] opened her clasped hands. Prince Ruis and the [Diplomat] blinked. For, in Shardele’s hands was…
Light. A wondrous, magical glow. For a second, all those around her saw a vision. An image of a throne, in a room so vast the ceiling could have been a second starry night sky.
Lyonette’s heart jumped. She saw the throne room for a moment. The light that shone from Shardele’s hands eclipsed Nadel’s stained glass windows entirely for a moment.
Colors you only saw while dreaming. The guests murmured in wonder. Shardele smiled, and they recalled the name the Thronebearers and Calanfer’s people knew her as. Unlike Seraphel—they called her Shardele the Radiant.
What they didn’t know was that this Skill was not the power of a [Princess]; the conjuration of memory and dream and the might of Calanfer, but the Skill of a [Dreamer].
[Vision of a Dream].
The effect was still enough to make Shardele shine. Her smile, her fascination with color and beauty—all spoke to a [Princess] who had grown up among wonders, and many saw the vision and longed to see Calanfer’s Eternal Throne. They didn’t realize the Dreamleaf factor.
Only a few people had ever seen through Shardele in moments without having heard of her habit—among them the Bedtime Queen of Desonis, who could recognize a peer in the field, albeit one who had to use crutches to sleep properly.
Not bad, in short. Shardele had failed to make a proper entrance, but she was still using her Skills to impress. Every [Princess] of Calanfer knew the importance of attracting attention, albeit without needing to. Lyonette had shown it off in Oteslia’s ball.
At the same time as Shardele was performing her opening trick, Aielef had stepped back to talk to her escort. A few [Ladies] who’d drifted over towards her recoiled with gasps of excitement or fear—then tentatively moved forwards.
“Is that a…pet, your Highness?”
One of Nadel’s [Ladies] ventured. Aielef smiled graciously as a feral…cat? No, a beaked animal with wings and fur—a Griffin twined around her arms, making a strange purring-grumbling sound.
“Do excuse me, ladies. I am rearing an infant Griffin; one must do their part. My adopted kingdom of Kaliv does raise them, and I have learned to do so as well. It is newly-born, you see. Please, be wary of its beak; but this child will enjoy some petting. Carefully.”
The baby Griffin blinked sleepily at the fascinated nobility, many of whom came over to admire one of Kaliv’s famous creatures.
It wasn’t a subtle gesture; showing off a baby Griffin was in keeping with Aielef’s style, though. Charm them with a pet. Lyonette wondered if she actually raised the Griffin or just kept one around for moments like this.
Well, if it wasn’t biting her, she had to have at least some ability to charm it. Aielef broke the ice that way, drawing the nobility into the idea of owning such a lovely creature, and thus Kaliv’s war.
That was Aielef the Fierce. Again, her image as the [Princess] who had gone to Kaliv was not reality—except in how she was spoken of. Lyonette watched more critically than any of the guests.
Both did well. They were mothers and experienced diplomats themselves, even if they were clearly only going through the motions. They could have done better—but their reputations and value were established.
More so than ‘Seraphel the Dutiful’, which was all the [Troubadours] could come up with after the second marriage. Lyonette saw her sister greeting a smaller group with less flair; she had no pet animals nor an odd class to lean on. The 6th Princess felt sympathy for Seraphel.
If she was there—Lyonette had never been called on as much for these sorts of duties, being too young at the time. Now, though? The [Worldly Princess] thought she could do quite well. Better than Seraphel—perhaps better than the older [Princesses] too.
 
—-
 
It was just as well Lyonette wasn’t here. Of all the [Princesses], Shardele and Aielef weren’t Seraphel’s first two choices to impress foreign nobility and wring money from their pockets.
She’d take…Ellet for her cuteness and honest effort that made people fawn over her, and maybe Vernoue, the 5th Princess, since she was the only one who’d ever taken her magical training further. Seraphel for dignity, Vernoue to chat up the [Mages], and Ellet to be attractive.
Lowest on the list would be the 3rd Prince, her bratty, youngest brother who fancied himself a [Warrior], although that was just a boy’s arrogance. Straight below him, dead last, was Lyonette du Marquin. She’d strut in here, refuse to acknowledge Prince Ruis’ seniority and call someone a ‘peon’ before the first hour was up.
Well, she learned it from Aielef. However, the 3rd Princess was smart enough to not say peon in public. Time would improve Lyonette, as would the war, maybe.
If Dalimont can even find her. If she’s not dead, having annoyed the first…[Bar Drunk] she met.
Seraphel could well imagine Lyonette doing just that. [Princesses] did not interact with the common folk unguarded often, and Lyonette? Seraphel pictured the 6th Princess of Calanfer lying dead in a bar-stabbing somewhere.
She missed what someone else was saying. Seraphel blinked and smiled.
“I must apologize, Lord Pulcre. My mind was elsewhere. You were saying?”
The [Lord] smiled, a tad unconvincingly. He was one of the first people to drift over, to meet the semi-famous cursed [Princess]. Seraphel was expecting polite condolences, or questions on how she thought the war was going.
Seraphel hated that question. How do you think the war is going? We’re losing. We’re slowing Ailendamus from rolling on over us, not winning. I can put it as politely as you want, but you and I both know it.
However, she was a [Princess] so she didn’t put it like that. Seraphel didn’t get that question, however.
“I understand you have seen Ailendamus aggression before, Princess Seraphel. Some…unpleasantness over the border in Noelictus?”
Seraphel’s brows rose. Well now. Lord Pulcre wasn’t as unpleasant as his name indicated. And he’d done his research. Some of the other nobility looked interested.
“I did indeed witness battle with Ailendamus—among other events, Lord Pulcre. A terrible affair at Ovela. The death of my husband…I should not like to go into details, you understand.”
He nodded sympathetically, and Seraphel saw a susurration as the star of the hour, the reason this ball had so many people, the Lord of the Dance swept in. He had just returned from a visit abroad—to Desonis?—but he always drew a crowd of admirers and people wanting to see him.
Oddly, he looked less willing to be the life of the ballroom this time and glanced around, spotting the [Prince]. Seraphel smiled at Pulcre, noting all this out of the corner of her eye.
“I would not like to press you at all, your Highness, and I regret bringing up such a recent loss. I only wondered if you had an impression of Ailendamus’ strength from the clash?”
A nuanced question, and the shorter [Lord] had sharp eyes as he glanced at Seraphel. He could have asked Aielef—Seraphel blinked at him. Unguarded, she remembered.
She remembered a young woman, singing in a banquet hall. The Kingdom of Shade, Noelictus, where the sunlight never properly shone down.
A gloomy land. However, one with beauty and a strength of character in its people. Seraphel had been there when the most astonishing events occurred. It had begun with an attack—but looking back, it had truly begun to become strange when she had met the strange young woman.
The young woman who sang strange songs. Who would later become known as the Singer of Terandria.
Cara.
Without thinking, Seraphel hesitated. Her throat moved, but it was suddenly dry. She coughed into one hand.
“Excuse me.”
She looked around and someone was offering her a glass of refined, purified water. Seraphel sipped gratefully. The Thronebearer had anticipated the need and been carrying snacks and food at the ready.
“Dame Neranthei, my protector.”
She gestured to the female Lightholder, a member of the Thronebearers, albeit in a more specialized role than her previous primary bodyguard, Ser Dalimont.
He had been there too. The nobles looked at the [Knight]. A [Lady] peered through her spectacles.
“Are you the [Knight] in the Singer’s music video?”
“I am, Lords and Ladies.”
Neranthei blushed a bit, but bowed, much to the delight of the others. They wanted to ask her questions, but recalled Seraphel was there. Now impatient, they waited for her reply so they could meet the real star of the ball, which was Neranthei.
What did she say? Seraphel met Lord Pulcre’s eyes again and hesitated. He was a short man, with a goatee. Nothing too odd about him; Seraphel would have taken him for a minor coastal lord judging by the faint weathering of skin and the fact that he didn’t appear on her list of important names.
She added him now. Because…he knew what he was asking. Or if not, he had good intuition. A hundred polite non-answers rose to Seraphel’s mind. A [Princess]’ obfuscation tactics.
But…oh, Eternal steps. She couldn’t help it. Seraphel sighed, took an un-princess-like gulp of the water and spoke.
“I was at Noelictus. At Ovela, where Ailendamus made an incursion into Noelictus’ lands. I should not like to speak too long about that time…it is near to my heart and painful to recollect. But yes, Lord Pulcre. I was there.”
