Since Akanai had not deigned to receive him and he wasn’t overly familiar with anyone else from the Bekhai, he kept quiet and followed the boy back to their accommodations. Min Gyu and Yan were given spare rooms in the Medical Saint’s villa, though regrettably, the Saint himself wasn’t present as he was off doing personal research. Since their arrival was unexpected, the Gams were offered private rooms in a nearby barracks, a princely offer considering the cramped conditions in the Citadel which the Eccentric gracefully accepted, or at least with what passed for grace when dealing with him. In light of their long travels, Rain arranged for a casual, private dinner instead of making a big fuss and spectacle of it all, which was very much to Min Gyu’s liking. Though still not entirely sure Yan should go through with the marriage, he looked forward to meeting the parents who raised a child like Falling Rain, if only out of morbid curiosity.

To his disappointment, Baatar and Sarnai were perfectly respectable Martial Warriors, though the steely woman impressed him by setting Eccentric Gam on his best behaviour with little more than a glare. She even somehow had convinced the surly bastard to bathe, groom, and dress nicely, and Min Gyu took great delight making fun of the half-fox’s ‘fetching’ outfit. Akanai was as unpleasant as always and refused to divulge anything about Rain’s chances for recovery or the need for so much protection, but her husband was a friendly and delightful man to chat with, full of tall tales and amusing anecdotes which were made all the more entertaining when delivered in his charming drawl. What impressed Min Gyu the most was Charok’s humble demeanour, a Martial Warrior to match Kyung who happily cooked and served dishes alongside Eun and the servants, an even-tempered young man who raised two darling, goat-horned grandchildren, so precious and well-mannered Min Gyu couldn’t help but pinch their cheeks and happily dote on them. By the end of the night, he had his fill of delicious food, quality wine, and agreeable company before swaggering back to his room in a pleasant mood, and only belatedly noticed Yan hadn’t returned with him.

Off to canoodle with her beloved he supposed, though she would have to be careful not to break him...

Feeling guilty for making light of Rain’s condition, he bade Da’in and the delightful Mei Lin goodnight while telling himself that the veiled guard standing outside the half-hare’s door wasn’t an insult to his honour. Stepping into his room, he sat down while Kyung ran off to fetch a basin of water and idly considered if he should move here. Though still a citizen of Central, it’s not like he had much keeping him at the other Citadel, since he had no duties to speak of whatsoever. Once the new year celebrations were over and done with, Yan would head back to the front lines, and even though Da’in made an effort to stop by every now and then, most of the time Min Gyu sat around twiddling his thumbs and making excuses not to meet with ‘old friends’ or ‘admirers’.

“You’re losing your touch, old friend.” Stepping out of the shadows and giving Min Gyu a fright, Jun Bao smirked and took at seat at the tea table. “Had I been after your life, then your head would’ve rolled.”

“Unlikely.” A second voice chimed in, one neither men recognized and emanating from within the room. Bolting to his feet, Min Gyu drew his weapon and stood back to back with his old friend, but even his trick with Wind Chi failed to uncover the hidden intruder. “The Medical Saint’s manor is not a barroom hangout. Be quick about your meeting, or take it elsewhere.”

Muttering apologies and offering assurances as they saluted empty air, Jun Bao gestured for Min Gyu to follow and they made their way out into the night and onto the rooftop of a nearby warehouse. Still worried about the Medical Saint’s unseen protector, Jun Bao didn’t even bother putting up a sound barrier and Sent, “Mother in Heaven, the Bekhai surprise me yet again. The strongest of the Medical Saint’s guards is off with him, so I thought it a simple matter to sneak past the rest.”

Disproportionately pleased even though it had nothing to do with him, Min Gyu held his head up and Sent, “Seems like you would’ve been better off pledging yourself to the Bekhai than the Imperial Legate.”

“Careful there.” Eyes hard and tone grim, Jun Bao’s heated response to the light-hearted joke betrayed his nerves, no doubt still searching for the hidden Bekhai guardian. “That’s why I’m here in fact, to give you a warning: if you wish to survive the coming weeks, distance yourself from the Bekhai. There’s a manor on the south side of the lake for you and your company. I suggest you move out in the morning.”

“...Why? Who could threaten the Bekhai here?”

“You never did have a mind for politics.” Biting his lip, Jun Bao shook his head and sighed. “I cannot say much, but the Bekhai have angered someone they should have left well alone, and my Patron cannot protect them. He delayed their enemies as best he could to give the Bekhai time to prepare, but regardless of how much strength they gather, I fear their end is nigh. Direct confrontation is a weapon of last resort in the Imperial Clan, and the Bekhai are worse than novices in other areas. Leave in the morning, or seal your fate alongside them. This is all I can do, old friend.” Ignoring all of Min Gyu’s Sendings, Jun Bao stepped off the roof and left him standing in the chill of night with a heavy decision upon his hands. Choose life and watch the Bekhai succumb to their doom, or join them in their inevitable downfall?

Damn it. It wasn’t even his decision to make. Yan would never abandon her beloved or her people, and Min Gyu would never abandon her. No matter. His life would end soon regardless of what he did, so giving up ten years to give Yan a whole lifetime was a small price to pay.

For him at least. Should they come with ill-intent, then the Imperial Clan would pay dearly indeed, for standing against them was the Hero of the Hoplesh Rebellion, the Sanguine Tempest Du Min Gyu.

Chapter Meme
