In fact, according to Da’in, her father was merely a nameless, good-for-nothing fifth son of the Ryo family before their marriage, and all his subsequent achievements were thanks to her mother’s efforts. Had his childhood love run away with him, then perhaps he would’ve become like Dae Jung, a man so utterly under his wife’s thumb he probably need to ask for permission to shit, so now Min Gyu offered daily prayers to the Mother in thanks for helping him escape a life of fearsome oppression. Regardless of how he felt, if this were true, then Jeong Hyo-Lynn was far more deserving of the title, ‘Great Teacher’, for Ryo Dae Jung went from a twenty-year-old wastrel to a Peak Expert before turning forty, a formidable achievement which few living could match, including Min Gyu himself.

As luck would have it, he met one of those illustrious few a few kilometres away from the Northern Citadel, leading a squadron of Marshal Yuzhen’s personal guards. The most recent warrior raised to the status of Peak Expert of the Empire, Gerel of the Bekhai wasn’t much to look at even in his striking silver armour. They’d met once before, but Min Gyu had little impression of the bald, amber-eyed man aside from his surly nature and hungry eyes. It wasn’t fame or fortune that one was after, Gerel was a man hungry for challenge, and in their first and only meeting, the young man yearned to see how he would match up against the famed Du Min Gyu. Though Kyung had marked Gerel as formidable, Min Gyu had previously ignored the Bekhai warrior’s unspoken challenge and treated it as the ignorant ambition youth, but now, at thirty-three years young, Gerel truly had the qualifications.

And judging by his gaze as he offered to escort them to the citadel, one still hungry for a challenge. Perhaps Min Gyu would even oblige and take revenge for Kyung’s rude treatment at the bald bastard’s hands...

New waves overtaking the old was no surprise, but he was once again shocked by the depths of talent hidden within the Bekhai ranks. Rain and Yan were one thing, but to learn the surly half-red-panda girl Sumila possessed enough talent to surpass both was outrageous to the extreme, not to mention the leaps and bounds taken by the slave-girl Li Song, who was now strong enough to match Yan, and the almost unheard of achievements of Dastan and Sahb, two slaves from Sanshu who Developed their Domains at twenty four. What humbled Min Gyu the most however was Tong Da Fung’s improvements, a boy he’d dismissed out of hand as an indecisive silk-pants who would never amount to much, but instead had blossomed into a fine warrior beneath Akanai’s tutelage and dealt a heavy blow to Min Gyu’s pride.

There were also the established young Experts of the Bekhai, like Alsantset, Vichear, Tenjin, and Tursinai. One or two could be considered luck, but for the Bekhai to nurture so many young talents proved the effectiveness of their teachings, which meant Yan’s name might have risen even higher if he hadn’t snatched her away. Great Teacher, Pei. What Great Teacher? Which student of his was even half as promising as Gerel of the Bekhai? Even Charok, the unranked brother of Falling Rain, was strong enough to match Kyung, who to date could be considered Min Gyu’s star pupil, so what right did he have to be proud?

Mother in Heaven, if that hateful woman Akanai were to make a snide comment regarding Yan’s progress...

“You look like you ate a shit-bun for breakfast and only figured it out now.” Intruding on his thoughts the same way he intruded in the carriage, Eccentric Gam was as blunt and vulgar as always. “Bet I know why too.”

Though he should have learned to leave the half-fox be, Min Gyu couldn’t help but say, “Oh? Pray tell.”

“You’re worried about the runt.” Nodding sagely as if he knew everything, Gam said, “You’re looking at it all wrong though.”

Aggravating as always, Gam stopped speaking and stared until Min Gyu grit his teeth and played along with the farce. “Wrong, but how so? Is there a way of looking at young Rain’s situation which makes it better?”

“You see a strong warrior turned cripple and think ‘What a shame’. Me? I see a strong warrior stomped down by the Mother Herself and think, ‘Well shit. That boy’s going places’. See the difference?” Rolling his eyes, Min Gyu pointedly turned to stare out the window and end the conversation, but Gam was not so easily dissuaded. “Now, I’m no Mother-Loving prayer pusher, and I won’t offer platitudes like ‘She never gives more than you can handle’ or crap like that, but the boy survived a planned attempt on his life which even accounted for Mama and two other Divinities, so he’s either the toughest bastard alive or the luckiest. Probably both, I’d wager.”

This was news to Min Gyu. “Planned? I heard his Core shattered during an impromptu duel, when his foe partially Demonized?” A disturbing feat, but one which had yet to be replicated, so there was no great need to panic.

With a thunderous snort, Gam slapped his chest and said, “I was there, or did you forget?” Min Gyu most certainly had, but he refused to say so, and after a long, silent standoff, Gam continued, “Saw most of the kerfuffle first hand and heard the rest from Mama. It was all planned from start to finish. Defiled lost the cavalry battle, but that wasn’t enough to force them back. They didn’t run, they made an orderly retreat, regrouped, then came back to kill Falling Rain. Brought enough Defiled powerhouses to keep the Divinities out of play, and more Demons and Peak Experts than they needed to keep anyone weaker from interfering, then took their sweet time destroying Rain’s Spiritual Weapons before taking his life.” Shrugging, he added, “Would’ve worked too if the Bekhai didn’t show up when they did. I’ll say this, I’d almost pity that Emissary Gen if the boy’s parents ever get their hands on him. Fierce, them Bekhai.”

“...But why? Talented though Rain might be, he’s not worth so much effort.”

“Defiled seemed to think he was.” Clicking his tongue, Gam put up a sound barrier to keep Wu Gam from listening in and said, “Mama’s got a guess she wouldn’t share, but I bet it’s got something to do with what rattled her a week prior, same day the boy got back from Patrol. She wouldn’t say what got her all shook up, but she kept me and Little Five close for most of the night and was ready to bolt at the drop of a pin.” Shrugging again, he fell silent for a long moment before continuing, his voice heavy and expression maudlin. “Whatever the reason, at least Rain’s still breathing. Not the worst outcome in the world when a soldier marches off to war, hm? Besides, he might be happier as a normal person instead of a Martial Warrior. Ain’t the worst fate in the world.”

Though he tried to hold his tongue, Min Gyu couldn’t contain his surprise. “Really? That’s how you feel? You, the Peak Expert who keeps throwing himself into near-suicidal situations?”

“I don’t do what I do because I want to die,” Gam growled, almost sounding like a petulant child who’d been wronged. “I put myself in tough situations to challenge myself and grow. Lure the Enemy Experts out to me so I don’t gotta go running to them, get it? It’s tiresome standing around with nothing to do, and I ain’t fast as I used to be.” Shaking his head, he looked down and lamented, “Shame about Jukai. Kid poked his nose in where it don’t belong. Should’ve left me to handle Goujian. I wouldn’t have died, I don’t think, and even if I did it would’ve left a proper opening to exploit. He lost his life to keep my old hide intact, hardly a worthwhile trade.”

Touched by the rare moment of weakness, Min Gyu softened his voice and said, “That ‘kid’ was near sixty years old and a Peak Expert himself.”

“Pei. Sixty years is but a babe. Even you at a hundred and ten barely count as more in this grand-daddy’s eyes.” Almost as an afterthought, Gam clarified, “No insult intended, just stating the facts. I lived a long life, longer than I’ve any right to. Only made it this far because I’m the worst of the bunch, too weak and too stupid to even try to take the next step. The others were more talented than I, but in the end, they still failed, and I can’t bear to watch Little Five go through the same.”

Ah. So that’s what happened to Gams one through four. Or two through four, Min Gyu wasn’t quite sure if the Eccentric counted as the first, but this wasn’t the time to broach the subject. Though burning with questions, he held his tongue and simply patted Gam on the arm before leaving him alone with his thoughts, while Min Gyu ruminated on his own. Contrary to what it might sound like, Peak Expert was not the end of the Martial Path, but merely a new beginning. From there, one needed to step off the Peak and soar into the Heavens, or plummet down to their doom below, which was all Min Gyu knew of it. He’d always believed this was merely a flowery metaphor, but considering Gam had lost his siblings and Disciples to the mysterious next step, perhaps it was time Min Gyu rethought his stance. Not that it mattered, the Path to Divinity was a carefully guarded Imperial secret, and while others before might have stumbled across the answer on their own, he had no such delusions of grandeur for himself. He’d long since come to terms with the limits of his talents, and while he couldn’t deny he coveted their secrets, the Imperial Clan never saw fit to offer him terms of service.

Not that he blamed them. Until recently, he’d been little more than a drug-addled has been of undeserving renown. No matter. Ten years. Mother in Heaven willing, he had a decade to raise Yan to the Peak so she could stand on her own, but even if he failed, at least he could die knowing the Bekhai looked after their own.

It was near dusk when they finally passed through the gates of the Northern Citadel, where he found a delegation of Bekhai waiting to receive him, though not the small, intimate group he’d hoped for. Rain was there, looking much healthier than the rumours painted him, though still sickly and weak. Standing with help from a four-legged cane, a device which could’ve saved Min Gyu much pain in previous decades, Rain wore a bright smile which turned into a pained wince as Yan ran into his arms. A good sign, all things considering. If the boy could still feel pain, it meant he wasn’t overly reliant on sedatives or tranquilizers to get him through the day. A good start, but seeing the rest of the boy’s wives there soured Min Gyu’s mood. Mei Lin, Sumila, Li Song, and Zheng Luo, Yan greeted her future sister-wives in this specific order, which was different from the order they stood in. Marital friction cropping up before the marriage ceremony was never a good sign, but what else could one expect from a man with five wives, and three of them talented Martial Warriors, no less?

Disgruntled though he might be, Min Gyu swallowed his grievances to greet the boy cordially, and even took the time to say hello to the boy’s coterie of pets. The wildcats and bears were too skittish to approach, and the Guardian Turtle paid him no mind, but little quin Kishi ran up squeaking up a storm, eager to play and cuddle with her old friend. Yan warned him against naming the quins before they were fully grown, but he couldn’t help himself with this particular darling. Kishi was the smallest and gentlest of Zabu and Shana’s brood who often came crying to him for more food, so he’d spent many a long night worrying she’d be rejected by her parents or go to sleep hungry, but from the looks of things, the little pup was growing up well and as cheerful as ever, her tail lashing from side to side as she ran circles around Min Gyu’s legs and tried to snatch his cane away to play.

A good thing he didn’t need it to stand anymore, but he still kept it in hand out of habit.

As for the rest of the delegation, one could tell from a glance they weren’t here to welcome Min Gyu and Yan, but to ensure Rain’s safety. It seemed ridiculous to bring not only a full detachment of Death Corps, including at least one Peak Expert judging by the strength of his Domain probing Min Gyu and Gam for threat, but also a cadre of hidden Bekhai guardians lurking in the shadows, whom he found using the same trick he’d used to uncover the Wraiths in Shilin. Although Concealment kept Warriors out of sight, he sent a light breeze of Wind Chi through the surroundings and tracked its movements around hidden obstructions, and in doing so discovered no less than twenty hidden defenders stationed in tight formation around the area.

A bit overboard considering the Northern Citadel was essentially in Bekhai hands, but from what he knew of her, Akanai was not someone who acted without reason. If she believed Rain needed this much protection, then the situation must be more dire than Min Gyu imagined.

