As a young man, Du Min Gyu had not been considered a peerless talent or prominent genius. In fact, his name didn’t become known among the populace until well into middle-age, for he spent the prime years of his youth as a solitary wanderer, moving from one city to the next ostensibly in search of fame and fortune, but really just being a puffed-up little shit. Even now, his cheeks burned with shame when he thought about how he ran away from home because his father refused to let him marry his childhood sweetheart. Worse, when he asked her to leave with him, she revealed her true colours and laughed in his face, because it was young master Du she wanted to marry, not some silly romantic of a vagabond.

Heartbroken and too embarrassed to return home, Min Gyu left Yantai to ‘broaden his horizons’, but in truth, he merely wandered about without aim or purpose. Five years later, he incidentally saved the life of a travelling young noble and took grave injury in the process, an event which earned him the gratitude of the boy’s family. Though his skills were lacking, they sponsored Min Gyu to become a Third-Grade Warrant Officer as a reward, only to use their influence a few months later to send him away to war. It turned out that his benefactors didn’t like how well he’d been getting along with their daughter, because in their eyes, Vagabond Du was good enough to befriend, but not good enough to marry into their family.

A laughable stance for a third-rate merchant family whose net worth was ten times less than what Min Gyu left behind.

Considering he had no deep affection for their daughter and found her infatuation bothersome, Min Gyu had been understandably resentful over being strong-armed into war. Though he enjoyed playing with weapons and the occasional spar, warfare and bloodshed was a foreign concept to a merchant’s son, and seeing how he was already twenty-five years old and lacking both Aura and Natal Palace, he counted himself as no great talent. His knees shook and chest grew tight in the hours leading up to his first battle, and though it only lasted a mere twenty-eight minutes, he came out a changed man. In the following days, he fought, he killed, and he survived to the war’s end, playing an insignificant role in putting down an insignificant uprising, but when all was said and done, the fire in his chest had been ignited and his broken heart mended once more.

For he had a new love now, and her name was War.

From there, he travelled across the Empire and took part in every conflict, rebellion, and outbreak he could find, slowly but surely gathering valuable experience, valiant comrades, and loyal subordinates, but limited fame. Over the next five years, he Condensed his Aura during the Battle of Five Pagodas, Formed his Natal Palace after the Black Scarf Rebellion, and Awakened to the Blessing of Wind while standing on the summit of Wutai Mountain. Even then, he still couldn’t be considered an outstanding talent, but then eight years later during the Defiled uprising of Shilin, he uncovered twelve Concealed Wraiths in camp to save the Commander’s life and went on to slay three Demons in battle. Due to his exemplary performance, Du Min Gyu finally rose to the heights he’d long dreamt of, promoted from Third-Grade to First-Grade Warrant Officer and given the title of Sanguine Tempest, for wherever he passed, the winds blew red with the blood of his enemies.

His journey had been a tumultuous one, a foolish, love-sick silk-pants who left home, only to single-handedly slaughter a hundred turncoat Experts and turn defeat into victory at the Hoplesh Rebellion more than thirty years later. For this, he was promoted yet again and became a rare Exarch of the Empire, a Peak Expert whose name was spoken across the Empire. Only then did he reconnect with his family, and for a time, life was good.

Then he fought the Butcher of KunLun and plummeted from lofty heights, a crippled warrior whose only value was his uncanny talent to take mediocre Martial Warriors and turn them into passable Elites. Almost fifty years later, Du Min Gyu was hale and healthy as ever and looking forward to the next chapter in his saga, but none could deny he had weathered harsh winds and heavy rains to make it to a hundred and ten years of age. Despite all these trials and tribulations however, nothing he experienced in his first century of life prepared him for celebrating the new year with his granddaughter and god-daughter.

Though physically fit as a man half his age, he ran himself ragged during the first five days of the new year, with not a moment to spare as Yan and Da’in dragged him from one event to the next. An intimate breakfast with Marshal Yo, followed by Shuai Jiao’s hosted luncheon, topped off with a private dinner at the Ryo family household, and all this on the day before new years. Min Gyu’s schedule only grew more hectic from there, but he’d never been one for social events, so the visits, banquets, and gatherings took a heavy toll on his mental stamina. He would’ve much preferred to curl up at home and read a book, or go over the Forms with Yan and Da’in, but alas, his aged star was once again on the rise and his presence in high demand. Da’in’s events required he be on his best behaviour, for they included hypocrites and sycophants from the highest echelons of nobility which made them mentally taxing affairs, but Yan’s affairs were emotionally taxing as she used her recent celebrity in an unconventional manner, to bring attention to the wounded, crippled, or fallen soldiers who otherwise went ignored.

Though initially averse to the idea of listening to sad tales and comforting forlorn soldiers, all it took was one visit to remind him that these men and women were still soldiers in spirit. Their genuine delight and gratitude over a few simple words from ‘the great’ Du Min Gyu was a touching and humbling experience, for it reminded him how dark his days had been when he sat in their place, a plight which lasted for long decades after his run in with the Butcher of KunLun. It’d been so disheartening when his close friends and allies stopped visiting, perhaps deeming him no longer worthy of friendship or because they couldn’t stand to see him fallen so low. Regardless of their reasons, those dark times were when he needed their support the most, and while he eventually emerged from his trials and tribulations unscathed, not everyone could be so lucky.

So what if it broke his heart to see so many former soldiers in distress? His discomfort meant nothing compared to what they themselves were currently going through, so if a kind word and firm handshake could raise their spirits, then by the Mother, he would visit the hospices every day and use whatever means necessary to see that these heroic young men and women got the treatment they deserved.

Despite his newfound empathy, Min Gyu didn’t know how long he could keep this up, because he knew all too well how easily one could fall from grace, not to mention the sleepless nights spent agonizing over what to do about the wounded soldiers. Luckily, his ties to the Ryo family and all it entailed meant he had plenty of leeway when it came to his irritable demeanour, while the only person of note Yan insisted he meet with was Eccentric Gam, and he treated the peculiar half-fox the same way he treated the crippled, only Gam’s deficiency was mental rather than physical. A shame Wu Gam was so attached to his rude and contentious Mentor, because the young man was a seed worth nurturing, not to mention a more palatable connection to the lovely Mother Gam.

Even with all his connections, Min Gyu had yet to open a dialogue with the lovely and powerful Divinity, or even uncover her true name, but considering the curious nature of Ancestral Beasts, it was possible she didn’t have one because she felt names unnecessary. Not a far stretch seeing how she labelled her children by number, but truly a shame, for it implied Mother Gam was an Ancestral Beast who had yet to wholly overcome her primal heritage and adapt to newer circumstances. Considering Eccentric Gam was over four-hundred years old, this meant she was either slow to learn or simply refused to, and Min Gyu guessed it was the latter. Talent and bloodline alone could not account for her ability to raise her children into powerful warriors, which suggested Mother Gam’s rejection of social constraints was intentional, rather than instinctive.

How unfortunate, but fitting in a way, for a wild meadow was beautiful because of its untamed and uncultivated nature, an alluring garden left free to grow unchecked and untainted by human tampering...

At any rate, Min Gyu was too old to be mooning over a woman like a love-struck boy, so if it were up to him, he would’ve sent the Gams a small gift and a personal letter as befitting their superficial relationship, but after months spent fighting side by side on the front lines, Yan treated Wu Gam as a comrade in arms, though the young half-fox was still smitten with her. Thankfully, there was no risk of becoming in-laws with the insufferable Eccentric, for Yan treated Wu Gam like a little brother to safeguard, and he behaved as such despite being the older of the two, a naive, straightforward man who knew little of the world at large and understood even less. Yet another reason Min Gyu itched to steal the boy away from his outlandish Mentor, but despite his subtle and not-so-subtle overtures, neither Mentor nor Disciple cared to entertain the idea.

He even swallowed his pride and offered to co-Mentor the boy, if only to teach him table manners and civility, but even this was met with derision. “Hmph,” Eccentric Gam had replied, his lip curled in an aggravating sneer. “What’s he gonna learn from you? How to curtsy and suck cock? Maybe you could teach him to bat his eyes, flutter his ears, and strike a cutesy little pose too, so his human masters find him all the prettier.”

Luckily, Yan’s uncontrolled laughter defused the situation else things could have turned ugly, but between her indecent suggestions regarding Wu Gam’s clothes and posture, not to mention the young half-fox’s red-faced embarrassment, they were soon all laughing together again. That was the last time Min Gyu offered to Mentor Wu Gam, though he found that the young man was amenable to his teachings, if only to get in Yan’s good graces, so he took full advantage of the poor boy’s infatuation to keep him from becoming a second (or fifth) Eccentric Gam. He even went as far as inviting young Gam along with them on their trip to the Northern Citadel, though regrettably, the thick-skinned older Gam took this to mean the invitation extended to him too. To make matters worse, Da’in and Yan learned of this beforehand and arranged a carriage for themselves along with Seoyoon and Tong Da Fung, leaving Min Gyu to suffer the Eccentric’s grating attitude, slovenly habits, and off-putting odour for five, long, torturous days.

Had he known this beforehand, he would’ve thrown young Gam out the door the first time Yan brought him home for a meal.

Putting yet another of Eccentric Gam’s long rants out of mind, Min Gyu studied the quiet, straightforward Wu Gam in secret. Given Rain’s damaged condition, he’d be lying if he said he hadn’t considered trying to pair the half-fox with Yan over the past four months, but he knew his granddaughter was steadfast in her love of the fallen young hero. Such were the ways of young love, and who knew if she would come to regret this in ten or twenty years, but he could only let Yan make this mistake and be there to support her through the difficult times. Love was strange and unfathomable, but she was strong with many centuries of life yet, so he hoped for the best and made no effort to break off her engagement, no matter how many prospective offers crossed his desk.

Hmph. Even crippled, Rain was still better than most of these dregs seeking to fish in troubled waters, worthless toads hoping to taste swan’s flesh...

In contrast, despite making it known he was looking for a suitable husband for Da’in, he had yet to even hear rumours of interest much less receive a proposal. Why, he couldn’t say, because she was a charming and considerate beauty who also happened to be a phenomenally talented Martial Warrior of noble birth. In what way was she lacking? Believing the young men of Central were overly intimidated by her prowess, he’d tried hinting at the parents and grandparents of young men he deemed a suitable match, but instead discovered that bringing up his god-daughter’s marriage was a surefire way to end conversations as the affected parties couldn’t get away fast enough. What Da’in had done to deserve such a response, no one would say, but considering the effectiveness, he used this ploy often to get away from would-be sycophants who otherwise bored him to tears.

No matter. The Empire was large, and if the young men of Central were too cowardly to court Da’in, then perhaps there was a promising young man in the North who could match the thorny rose of the Ryo family. Da’in’s father, Dae Jung, didn’t seem overly concerned regarding either of his daughters’ marriages and was happy to let them choose their partners on their own, perhaps taking a cue from his wife, Jeong Hyo-Lynn, who allegedly eloped with Dae Jung after her father rejected Dae Jung’s proposal. All parties involved denied the rumours, but seeing how Madam Hyo-Lynn ran the Ryo family household with an iron fist and ordered Central’s Sword King Dae Jung about like a common manservant, Min Gyu wouldn’t put it past the formidable woman to throw away the face of two prominent, feuding families for the sake of love.

