“Seriously?” Steve interrupted. “You can gain stamina from being hit. That’s so broken!”

“You’d never need stamina again. You’d be able to fight for days on end.” Nix added.

I nodded. “Yet, as insane as that is, I’m not going with that one. I already have enough stamina to fight for hours on end.”

Option two:

Level 25 evolution:

You may choose a single effect from among the following. Any shield you wield from here on out will be temporarily imbued with a medium-force application of said effect, for as long as you wield it. Available effects:

“I picked the repelling option.”

“Obviously.” Haddock nodded.

“Why’s that obvious? Oh, wait. Because your quirk improves passive damage?” Nix slapped her forehead.

“That’s part of it.” I paused. “This should be right. Deflect is… kind of a weird talent, right? It isn’t powerful on its own. Instead, it amplifies the momentum and force I’m creating.”

“That’s absolute gibberish to me.” Nix frowned. “How are you creating momentum?”

“I’m not a physics honors student. I don’t have the bloody words for this. But… okay. Somebody attacks me with a sword. I angle my shield to make the sword blow skitter off. That’s the force that Deflect increases.”

Steve nodded slowly. “Shield deflects force. Deflect talent amplifies the force. I hear what you’re saying.”

We looked at Nix, who was still frowning.

I reached into my Personal Universe and extracted my chipped and bent swordbreaker, tossing it to Steve. “A demonstration should explain it – and prove if we’re right or not!”

“I.” Steve said theatrically, swordbreaker held reversed in a raised fist. “Am now going to stab the shield, like any dastardly enemy would.”

A moment later, we all stood, frozen. Steve held up a hand, patting his ear to check for damage.

Nix looked from me, to Steve, and to the swordbreaker, now well and truly broken. The haft lay on the ground, but the tip of the blade was buried solidly inside the clay wall. She gave a nervous giggle, pointing at first the scooped-out section in the floor, then the hole in the wall. “I’m glad we haven’t paid any security deposits, because we wouldn’t be getting them back!”

The effect had been beyond belief. My Deflect talent, by itself, when maxed, improved any force by a massive three hundred and seventy five percent. The new repelling effect by itself was less exact, but maybe doubled any incoming force. In combination… they were a menace. I couldn’t wait to use it on a wave of nasty Kadren!
