“The Wardrobe Change spell would have been fully System powered and run. That means it would never have been exhausted like a true spell impression, but it wouldn’t be available to you in locations without a System. As for the bonus you chose, the enchantment equivalent to one and a half points in Speed and one and a half in Agility gradually broke down while you were on Moon Thegund. The remnants were scoured from you, and it was replaced during your most recent affixation with a similarly effective but more powerful enchantment that is suitable for higher amounts of chaos exposure.” It paused. “Make of that what you will.”


For a moment, there was silence while Alden considered everything.


He was calmer. The Earth System’s sudden willingness to be honest about a subject that had been a growing sore point over the past months was probably a manipulation perfectly timed to make him calmer. But knowing that didn’t stop him from being grateful for the relief.


You’re such a bastard, he thought. Such an awful, powerful, unstoppable, cruelly competent, probably necessary bastard.


The System didn’t answer. It just sat there, waiting for him to come to terms with his own helplessness.


“Why is it two?” he asked finally. “Is it really one level on the skill and one level of free authority growth?”


If he forced himself to think about it, if he forced himself to measure in a way he’d been avoiding, that didn’t sound impossible. He’d gained a lot of insight into Bearer since coming back to Earth. So much of it was just understanding better, but some of it was real growth. And he’d had less time to practice with his free authority, but he’d gone from nearly nothing to being able to cast a brand new spell.


“The growth of your skill-bound authority hasn’t kept pace with the growth of your free authority, but it is closer than it might be. You have been using your skill extensively ever since you recovered the desire to.”


“My free authority is still so little in comparison…”


“As of right now, it’s slightly less than thirteen percent as large as the amount that has been bound into your affixation,” said the System. “I could have called it a level at ten or twenty percent instead, but this is a nice time. I recommend that you affix it.”


“I refuse.”


“You are so very overinformed, Alden,” said the System. “I wonder if the wizard responsible might not really have wanted to watch a world burn. But if you open the rewards list, you will find I haven’t held much back. There are even spell impressions available to you that aren’t customarily offered to Rabbits. I am aware you consider the standard options anemic.”


“No.”


A creaking sound made Alden look around. The door had opened.


He stood. He didn’t know what weird sense of dignity or manners kept him from running again, but he walked toward it like he wasn’t utterly desperate to go.


“You’ve made your decision about how you prefer to be informed in the future,” said the thing at the desk. “It would be ideal if you could state it aloud.”


Alden stopped in the doorway. He didn’t turn to meet its nonexistent gaze.


“Be as kind to me as you can,” he said finally.


He stepped into the white hallway.


A second later, the door shut behind him and he woke up in his bed.


Heart racing, sheets soaked with sweat, light in his eyes from the System window announcing officially and undeniably that he’d gained two levels since that early September day when he’d woken up in the woods.


[Congratulations! You’ve grown—]


He swiped it away and half-climbed, half-fell out of his bed onto the floor.


He couldn’t think through mental commands. He didn’t want to ask the System for something with his mouth, not even an online calculator. Caught between fear and a desperate need to know, he grabbed a marker from his desk and did scatterbrained math on the wing of a paper plane.


Thirteen percent was such a huge number. Thirteen percent mattered so much more than whatever the System arbitrarily chose for levels. Because when the free authority was exactly the same amount as the bound…


They’re both growing. But the free grows faster.


For a terrifying moment he tried exponents, and then he stopped because that wasn’t right. He thought it had accelerated toward the end last time but it wasn’t like it had doubled and doubled again.


Sometimes I’m pushing forward faster, sometimes slower. It feels like…I think…


He stared at the numbers he’d just written without really understanding them. Why do math when his progress could change based on so many maybes? Why bother when there was such a lot of guessing involved?


Why…?


Why does it look like I only have around a year?


He’d gone from what felt like almost nothing to thirteen percent since the beginning of September. Today was November 10th. It was just before five AM.


Maybe I was actually growing really fast right after the affixation? I couldn’t cast, but I was like a storm then.


What if that was wrong? What if it was slower because of that?


What if I don’t even have a year?


The marker clattered against the desk.


Alden barely made it to the toilet before he threw up.


*******


“You sick?” asked a voice from behind him.


Alden closed his eyes and clung to the porcelain. “I’m fine,” he said, without turning around. “Probably something I ate.”


Of course it’s him.


Lexi got up early every morning to go for a run. He wasn’t the very last person Alden would like to have watching him dry heave in his underwear, but the guy was really low on the list.


“You need the toilet?”


“No,” said Lexi. “I can piss in one of the sinks.”


He shut the door.


I think that’s the nicest thing he’s ever said to me.


Alden almost wanted to laugh. That was good. If he could still laugh at himself, then the System really had chosen the right morning to ruin.


He flushed and sat on the cold tile, trying to find all the spots of humor in the situation. He was the first person in his class to level since school had started! And he’d done a double. That speech about not agonizing over slow leveling didn’t apply to him.


Take that, Instructor Klein! The Rabbit has talent.


He was also probably the first human who’d ever vomited from fear upon receiving a level up as opposed to celebrating it, so that reduced his coolness by quite a lot.


But the System sent me hot chocolate. I bet it’s never bought anyone else a manipulative hot chocolate.


He briefly amused himself by imagining what Lute’s reaction would be if he casually mentioned over breakfast that the mystery drink was his leveling present from the Contract.


Maybe it sends everyone little presents, and we all just keep it to ourselves so we don’t hurt each other’s feelings. I bet that’s the real secret to being a successful Avowed manager.


Yeah. He was fine. Fine enough.


This wasn’t what he’d hoped for, but a year-ish amount of time was still long enough that he could pretend it was a problem for another day. He’d get used to having it hanging over him, right? Like that old wives tale about how frogs in pots could be brought to a boil without trying to leap out if you did it slowly.


I think that story is supposed to be a warning. I don’t think I’m supposed to want to trick myself into being the clueless frog.


He pulled up his profiles. The fake hadn’t changed. The real one…


*


Name: Samuel Alden Thorn


Preferred Name: Alden


Class: Rabbit


Rank: B   Overall Level: 10 ✶


Commendation: Exceptional Bravery in the Absence of Obligation



Awarded by Fourth General Loh Alis-art’h



Skills: Let Me Take Your Luggage, B (Level 9)



Skill Type: item preservation (total)


isolation and preservation of enchantment (end results vary)



Spell Impressions: The Haunting Sphere, D


Trait: Azure Rabbit



Trait Type: movement, limited to element — ground



Enhancements:


Sympathy for Magic +4, Agility + 3, Dexterity +2.5, Speed + 2.5, Stamina +1.75, Strength + 1.5, Proprioception + 1.5, Appeal + 1, Visual Processing + 1, Processing +1.75 (in progress)


Recommendations and Merits:


Social Recommendation (LeafSong University, Artona III)


Emergency Response Merit (LeafSong University, Artona III)


*


So that’s how it works then.


He’d thought it would be. His bound authority’s growth was being represented with the skill level boost from 8 to 9. And in his overall level number change from 9 to 10.


The free authority growth wouldn’t be represented until it was bound into something. There was no point in Earth counting it as a part of an Avowed’s overall power, since it was unusable for everyone but Alden.


He assumed the fake profile would update on its own at a later date…or maybe they were waiting for him to ask for an adjustment. He didn’t want it to change right now.


I need to learn a non-auriad spell first. Maybe two.


In a few months, when the school started to get antsy about his progress, the level on the fake could get a bump and the spells could be passed off as his reward. Or possibly the ability to preserve an additional item could be, since he hadn’t revealed it to anyone yet.


It’s going to be a little stressful to fake spell impressions if they’re more complicated than Light Candle.


Spell impressions were robo-casting, and if you paid attention to the people doing them for long enough, they started to look and sound like robo-casting. Konstantin’s dolphin chant involved the exact same noises being delivered in the exact same way. And when Alden cast Haunting Sphere, his fingers moved with a very particular rhythm and no deviations from form unless he tried to screw it up or something hit his hand mid cast.


It was hard to judge what his regular casting looked like to an outsider, but he knew it wouldn’t be identical every time.


Guess I’ll figure it out.


It would be fine. He would be fine. He’d known the levels were coming. He wanted his free authority to grow. He just had a hard time wrapping his head around the price and the pace.


He pushed himself up and went to brush his teeth.


******


He’d been curled up on the sofa for fifteen minutes, watching Kibby videos on his tablet, when Lexi came back.


That was a quick jog.


He pretended not to notice his fellow early riser had returned.


Kibby produced several hours of content for every video batch. For some reason, she’d decided to give him a lesson in ultra-formal table manners this time. She was in Instructor Kivb-ee mode, and she was in the travel dome’s dining room, explaining the significance of all the different ways place settings could be arranged.


He’d turned off translations so that he could pick up all the new words on his own. This was educational. And it was his version of Saturday morning cartoons to help him put his head back on straight. Snide remarks from his prickliest roommate were unwelcome.


No, he thought, as he caught Lexi approaching out of the corner of his eye. See the headphones I’m wearing. See me not looking your way. You were nice about the puking, and now we’re both minding our own business, aren’t we?


“Hey.”


Or not.


Alden looked up with his most non-confrontational smile plastered on his face. Lexi held out his hand. A thimble-sized gray cylinder with a dark red cap lay on his palm. “For your stomach.”


He got me medicine?


Alden pulled off his headphones and took the cylinder. He did recognize it as a medical something. He’d seen pictures of them but hadn’t taken enough of an interest to figure out exactly what they were.


The few tiny logograms on the side were translating as “pause unruly stomach.”


“An injector,” said Lexi. “I told the dispensary it was for me. It’s just an anti-emetic and we’re about the same size, so it’s fine.”


“Thanks.”


Lexi watched him turn it over in his hand a couple more times. “You don’t know how to use it.”


“I can look it up.”


“You press the cap to your abdomen and say the word for ‘pierce’ in Artonan. It burns a little. Lasts for hours.”


Alden wasn’t nauseous anymore, but he knew an olive branch when he saw one.


He lifted his t-shirt an inch and pressed the injector to his skin. “Pierce.”


There was a pinch and a burning sensation, and a few seconds later, he realized his guts hadn’t been completely back to normal because he did feel slightly better.


“They are so good at drugs,” he noted, pulling the empty cylinder away from his skin and examining it.


“I’ve heard that those cost a few hundred argold in other places.” Lexi sat down in the armchair across from Alden.


“Do I owe you money?”


“No. It was free. They don’t even ask what you need these ones for unless you’ve been requesting them frequently. My mother used six a day when she was pregnant with Irina.”


“It was cool of you to pick it up for me. Sorry if you had to cut your run short to do it.”


Lexi looked toward the window. The sun hadn’t risen yet, but there were a couple of lights on in the girl’s dormitory. “I don’t hate you or anything.”


I’ll take it. “I don’t hate you either.”


“Freaking out about your Artonan friend wasn’t even about you. Or your friend. I’ve just got a lot on my mind lately. You being unbelievably strange and oblivious in yet another way just set me off.”


“Are you sure you don’t hate me?” Alden asked. “Because those aren’t things people would usually say in the middle of apologizing.”


Lexi turned to face him again. “I wasn’t taking you seriously enough when you complained about me springing Lute on you.”


“I was being a hypocrite. You were right.”


