“Yes,” Lexi said. “But I really did think you were just whining about me hiding social dynamics from you. I thought it was a stupid thing for you to complain about at all. I thought, ‘Why the fuck can’t he figure out the social dynamics for himself? How hard can it be?’”


Alden frowned. “I’m not suffering that much. I would have figured out the potion injector on my own in a few minutes.”


Lexi rolled his eyes. “It’s not about the potion injector. Or about you constantly doing the recycling wrong. Or the fact that you don’t know when to give up your bus seat.”


“I’m doing the recycling wrong?”


“When you tell people you’re on the phone with your wizard friend, they’re going to think you mean a dozen different things before it ever occurs to them that you might really mean you have a friend who is a wizard. And having a friend who is a wizard is uncommon enough on its own. If I had an Artonan friend, I wouldn’t tell you about it unless you and I were close. I wouldn’t give my new roommate a casual warning when I was on the phone with a wizard. I’d just let them spy.”


“You want me not to tell you when I’m on a video call with him?”


“Of course I want you to tell me every time an alien is watching me through the System. Now that I know, I’ll go crazy wondering. But…I think what I’m trying to say is you didn’t owe us the warning in the first place. And if I were you, I wouldn’t give that one to people in the future.”


“That seems dishonest.”


“Say you’re on a phone call with your elderly aunt or something. Let everyone know they need to be polite. You don’t have to be forthcoming about…”


“About what?”


“I don’t know!” Lexi said in a frustrated voice. “It’s not like I’ve actually thought through this particular Anesidora social dynamic before. It doesn’t apply to me. But you don’t have to be completely open about something that you know is going to make you look so different from everyone else. If I thought you were telling me you had an Artonan friend to brag or make yourself seem more important, I would understand you and I wouldn’t say anything. But you almost never talk about your time on the Triplanets or whatever you did there. I’ve heard you mention it twice, and it was trivial stuff. And Kon specifically told me that you wanted it to be no big deal…just…I’m telling you the wizard friend might come across as a bigger deal to most people than whatever your space horror story is.”


They wouldn’t feel that way if they’d had their own space horror stories, thought Alden.


“I see what you’re saying. But other Avowed do have Artonan friends. Like Big Snake.”


Lexi stared a him. “He’s one of the most popular superheroes in the world. He gets summoned to the Triplanets all the time, and he owned magic wolves. When he says, ‘my wizard friend’ it feels like part of a certain kind of package. It’s the same with Lute’s grandmother. Or with a few Avowed who stop by the island twice a year and walk around fully inked and refusing to speak Earth languages, dropping ten thousand argold tips on everyone they meet.


“If they say something like that, people kind of know what they mean and how to take it. You’re not those guys. When you say it, who knows what everyone will come up with?”


Alden rather wondered what Lexi had come up with. Had Alden been stuck in the Big Snake, Velra, or Barely Human Anymore category? Somewhere totally different?


He felt a fleeting temptation to give his roommate a ten thousand argold tip on the spot, just to see what happened. He squashed it.


“Got it. Thank you for explaining. I’ll tell you guys when my friend calls. I’ll tell everyone else he’s my ancient aunt.”


Lexi stood. “I’m sorry I called you globie like it was some kind of a slur.”


“I’ve been wondering if it is a slur actually,” said Alden. “Some people say it fondly, like your brother and Astrid. Sometimes it sounds much nastier.”


“It’s strange to suddenly meet a bunch of people our age who’ve just come from the other side.” He shrugged. “Even for me. And I’m not an idiot like half of them are.”


“The other side?”


“You’ve all lived different lives in different places. Like movie characters.”


I feel like the people here are the movie characters sometimes. I guess that’s a mutual thing.


“And most of you still seem to think Anesidora is just your address,” Lexi continued. “Like we do when we’re younger kids.”


“How else would we think of it?”


“It’s not like I’ve got it all figured out. Or like anyone ever puts it into words that don’t sound horrible.” He cast another thoughtful look toward the window. “But a lot of us understand by the time we’re old enough to be selected…the rest of the globe might as well be another planet. It’s a planet that’s a little easier to get to than the others, and the people there look like us. But no matter how much an Avowed loves it, it’s never going to love us back.”


Alden felt like he’d just taken a small, unexpected slap. “Do you really feel like that?”


Lexi nodded. “My parents were born there. They have families there. They love their old cultures, and they still can’t fit back in when they go for visits. Sometimes you sound like them when you talk about Chicago, but with none of the nostalgic distance. And you don’t even do it that much. Some of the other globies do it a lot more. Maricel and Finlay and the glowing guy…”


“Søren,” said Alden.


“He’s unmemorable for a human lightbulb. Him too. Some Anesidorans can’t get enough of hearing about life on the rest of Earth. Others feel jealous that you’ve seen things they haven’t. We’ve got third gens and even a couple of pure fourths in our class. No close relatives in any other country, so they’ll never get visitation visas like you all do. They feel however they feel about that, so the word ‘globie’ sounds thrilled coming out of some mouths and angry coming out of others.”


He shoved his hands into the pockets of his jogging pants. “And then there are the people like me who are just surprised to be reminded some Avowed do hate it here even though this is the place that actually wants us.”


Alden hadn’t ever thought of it in quite that way. “I don’t hate it here at all. I’m pretty happy. Annoyed I can’t go see my family and friends for Christmas, but I like living here so far.”


“I know. I didn’t mean you.”


Is Lexi a tiny bit patriotic? I did not see that one coming for some reason.


“What kind of superhero do you want to be?” Alden asked suddenly.


Lexi scowled. “Are you interviewing me now just because I talked to you for a few minutes?”


“No. Yes? I just realized I didn’t know. And if you don’t really want off the island—”


“I didn’t say I hated the concept of traveling,” he said in annoyance. “Anyway, there are all kinds of different jobs I could do after graduating.”


I know, thought Alden, trying to smile placatingly. That’s why I was asking.


“He wants to be Avowed event security,” said a voice.


They both looked over to see Haoyu coming down the hall with a terrible case of bedhead. He yawned. “You two are up so early on a Saturday. And talking about careers? Hardcore.”


“I’m going to head home to see my family in a few minutes,” said Lexi. “They’re back. I’d have gone last night, but Kon went the second classes were over yesterday. I figured he’d be overwhelming enough on his own. He’ll want to fool around here with everyone on campus today.”


“Say hi to your parents for me. Mom and I are meeting up this afternoon, too. I’ll tell Alden about your dream job.”


“No,” said Lexi.


“Why? It’s such a good one.” Haoyu yawned again.


Lexi turned back to Alden.


“When Anesidoran entertainers and athletes travel on Earth, they have at least one qualified security person with them,” he said quickly. “Sometimes more. They need people who can detect threats and deal with emergencies in large venues. The places they’re visiting usually provide their own security, too, but the High Council decided several years ago to require specially trained Avowed for all groups over a certain size. I’d like to do that.”


He raised his eyebrows at Haoyu as if to say, Look. I communicated myself. Are you happy?


“That is a good job,” said Alden.


It also suited Lexi a lot better than a position where he’d be on camera all the time.


“Do you want to travel with your parents when they’re touring? And keep an eye out for them?”


“There are other traveling groups, too,” Lexi said stiffly.


“He totally wants to protect his parents and the ballet company,” said Haoyu. “Which is lovely. So I don’t see why he’s acting like it’s embarrassing.”


Lexi muttered something under his breath.


“Actually, though,” said Haoyu, “if anything goes wrong at a large event like that, the security hero only takes care of the other Avowed until they’ve all emergency teleported out. Mostly they’re on hand to protect the guests who came to the event. It’s a political nightmare for a group of Avowed to get ET’d out of a disaster where regular humans are getting injured. The security person is a visible reminder that the performers are performers. People who’ve gone somewhere to sing or dance shouldn’t have to throw themselves on grenades for their audience members…but there are really unfair expectations.”


“They think every Avowed should be willing to die for them because that’s what we’re for.”


“Lexi, it’s six o’clock in the morning,” Haoyu said plaintively.


Lexi stared at him.


“It’s too early for you to be mad.”


“I can be mad whenever I—”


“No,” said Haoyu. “I just decided. You’re not allowed to be mad before eight. Nine on Saturdays.”


Lexi’s brows drew together.


Haoyu nodded at him.


“I was sick, and Lexi brought me medicine,” said Alden, feeling the need to defend him a little. “He confessed he didn’t hate me. And I will be learning about how to do the recycling right away.”


“Were you doing it wrong?”


“I guess so. There are a lot more options than I’m used to. What’s the gray bin for?”


“Metal stuff,” said Haoyu.


“No!” Lexi gaped at him. “It’s for things that could possibly have magical residue on them. Like that!”


He pointed at the injector in Alden’s hand.


“Really? The one at home said something about Wrights, and it was gray, so I figured they wanted metal…I don’t think I ever asked anyone.” His eyes widened. “Oh no. I’ve been doing the recycling wrong since I was three.”


*
