Hardly surprising he knew, as Luo-Luo had not been circumspect when announcing the news, but Yuzhen was unsure why it mattered. Regardless of her parentage, Luo-Luo was still an Imperial Servant, which meant she had no power of her own or ties to her family. Evidently, Rang Min knew more than he was letting on, but Yuzhen’s pride would not let her ask or even admit ignorance to the fact. Instead, she glowered and waited for him to get to the point, only to remember the lesson he just taught her regarding the value of patience.

Infuriating man. Why couldn’t Rang Min be greedy and incompetent like all the other merchants and nobles she dealt with? How did he come to the right answer so quickly? No, perhaps she was looking at this the wrong way. Perhaps he already knew about the attempt on Rain’s life, because he was the one who procured those tracking matrices, and was now trying to pin the blame on the Imperial Clan instead...

Rolling his eyes as if he could read her thoughts, Rang Min sat back in his chair, crossed his leg, and folded his hands over his knee. A year ago, she would have thought him arrogant, but now that Gerel had crossed over into the realm of Peak Expert, she saw Rang Min’s actions for what they were; a self-imposed handicap. He knew there were two Concealed Peak Experts in the room, and by presenting his neck, crossing his legs, and interlacing his fingers, he was offering his opponents the advantage. It might not seem like much, but when it came to Peak Experts, even a small advantage could spell the difference between victory and defeat.

“I had no part in the attempt on the Legate’s life,” he said, his caution reserved solely for the Imperial Clan, and in his eyes, Rain was most certainly not a member. “I can swear an Oath upon this, if needed. The Legate is a creature of habit. He walks the same routes, shops at the same stores, even orders the same dishes at the select few restaurants he cares to frequent. Were I to order his death, my assassins would have no need for a tracking matrix in order to find him. This much, you should know.”

Unsurprising that Rang Min had done his research, and not at all reassuring that he would admit it. “So then why haven’t you tried to have him killed?”

“Because,” he replied, his lips pursing in muted anger, “After the debacle during the contests, I consulted the Clan histories and learned that the denizens of the Saints Tribulations Mountains are not to be trifled with.”

“...Yet you still pushed for trial by duel.” The answer came to her even before the question left her lips. “Because if Rain and his comrades had died there, then you could have offered up Zian and the other young talents who took part as a sacrifice to appease the People.”

Offering a half-hearted shrug, he neither confirmed nor denied her accusation, and it terrified Yuzhen to no end that this man could be so callous as to plot against children and young talents. And for what? So that his untalented son could shine that much brighter once there was no one around to overshadow him? What sort of future would the Society have then? From where Yuzhen sat, Rang Min’s actions made no sense, but then again, perhaps he was arrogant and deluded enough to truly believe his fool of son was a dragon among men.

Abandoning this line of thought, Yuzhen decided to proceed as if she believed Rang Min for now. “You still have yet to answer my question.”

Offering a half-hearted shrug, he Sent, “I am uncertain of the exact details, as the Oath required to learn the skill is exceedingly thorough. Even now, more than fifty years after the fact, we still have yet to learn how the tracking matrices are made, only the ingredients required, none of which are extraordinary in any way. As for how they work, we know even less, only that they are akin to Runic Inscription, only in the absence of runes and inscriptions.” Smirking in response to her incredulous stare, he continued, “Such is the way my Grandfather described them to me. They are an alternate method of harnessing Heavenly Energy, one the Imperial Clan keeps secret for a very obvious reason, one you will understand once you consider how the tracking matrices find their target.”

With blood. Why was this an issue?

As she opened her mouth to give voice to her question, the world slowed to a crawl as matters came to a head. Rang Min’s eyes widened in alarm as Nian Zu and Gerel revealed themselves, but neither one was the cause of his concern. All three Peak Experts shifted before her eyes, each of them no longer where she first spotted them, and only then did she notice the bodies staining her office carpets.

“Wraiths in the Citadel!” Nian Zu shouted, his Chi-enhanced voice booming across the Citadel as he fought off another unseen assailant. “All stations on alert! Wraiths in the Citadel!”

And then the room devolved into chaos as the three Peak Experts fought for their lives, and Yuzhen could do naught but watch and pray.

Chapter Meme
