Then came the truly unbelievable parts, regarding Rain’s brief disappearance and Akanai’s discovery of the battle-site, which she described with painstaking detail. It turned out Yuzhen had vastly underestimated Falling Rain’s skills, as not only was he now in possession of an unbelievably large Domain, he’d also uncovered the secret behind the Mountain Collapsing Stomp before falling into his coma and could use it in battle. Then there was the shocking matter of his Spiritual Weapon, the short-sword he wore upon his hip or kept affixed to his shield until both were destroyed alongside his transforming glaive during his near-disastrous duel against Gen in Sinuji. Somehow, he’d reforged the sword, and while there was still no sign of the other two weapons, if he could fix one, then the others were sure to follow. Although Uncle Nian Zu and Gerel responded to this news with smiles and good cheer, Yuzhen’s body trembled with terror as she considered the dire implications.

“His weapon,” she began, interrupting because she had to know. “Did he explain how...? Could it be...?”

Yuzhen couldn’t even bring herself to finish the question, but Akanai understood well enough. “I asked, and he answered, but we both might as well have saved ourselves the breath. ‘Oneness. Me. Sword. Same’, is what he said, but what that means is open to debate.”

“One with the Sword?” Gerel offered. Baatar nodded in agreement, but Akanai was not so quick to concur, nor was Uncle Nian Zu.

“Hmm...” While stroking his clean shaven chin, Uncle Nian Zu looked nothing like Yuzhen’s old man, but she could see the similarity in their habits. It was in the tilt of their heads, their preferences for tea, the way their eyes glinted when sharing a private joke, there was so much of her old man in Uncle Nian Zu. This gruff, impatient, Warrior loved her old man, this much was clear, and Yuzhen was a fool for not seeing it sooner. “Perhaps that is what Rain was trying to say, but it explains nothing. Becoming One with the Weapon is to attune yourself to the weapon so that it might tell you how to best wield it, but to go from this to creating a sword out of nothing, why this is unheard of except...” Frowning as he finally struck upon the core issue at hand, Uncle Nian Zu caught himself before voicing his thoughts, though anyone with eyes could see he was disturbed.

As well he should be, because prior to this, the only instances of spontaneous weapon creation had been carried out by newborn Demons, and now Falling Rain might well have replicated this feat, one which until now had been wholly unique to the Father’s foul minions.

Gerel caught on shortly after, and Akanai nodded in resigned concession. “Yes. This was my concern as well, the possibility that the boy’s newfangled strength stems from... a less than ideal source.” For good reason too, as Uncle Nian Zu was the only person present who didn’t know Rain had once almost turned Defiled, since the stupid boy had admitted as much to Yuzhen and Gerel after the battle for Sanshu. Worse, demonstrating Purity was no longer enough to prove the absence of the Father’s foul touch, a truth the Empire had yet to wholly accept, if only because it was too unsettling to even consider. Could Rain have finally succumbed to the Father’s lies? Before, Yuzhen would have said such a thing was impossible as Rain was too stubborn to surrender, but what if he were trapped within his mind and unable to control his body these last three months? A drowning man will clutch at straw, so who knew if Falling Rain was still the same person after so many months of imprisonment and isolation? Or worse, what if he wasn’t in his right mind anymore? What if his injuries had somehow rendered him a half-wit, one unable to resist the Father’s tainted temptations any longer? Even if all these worries were for naught and Falling Rain was still the Blessed Son of Heaven, his worldly enemies would no doubt use this line of thinking against him. Bai Qi, the Mataram Clan, and even Mitsue Hideo had turned against the Empire, and more were defecting to the Enemy with each passing day, so now no one was above suspicion, not even Falling Rain himself.

“Ridiculous.” There were some couples whose thoughts were utterly in tune with one another, but evidently, Yuzhen and her husband were not one of them. Arms crossed as he snorted with utter disdain, Gerel drew himself up to full height and glowered at Akanai with the full force of his fury. “You of all people should know him better than that. The boy is not Defiled, and to believe otherwise is the height of foolishness.”

“Is it?” A hint of forlorn hope slipped into Akanai’s voice, as if she also wanted to believe, but couldn’t. “No one is without anger and hatred, and no one beyond reproach. Our foe is ancient and cunning indeed, and as clever and stubborn as the boy is, I fear he is sorely outmatched.”

Somehow, Yuzhen knew Akanai was not talking about the Father, but rather the Uniter, the mysterious leader who gathered the Defiled tribes under his banner and planned a successful, multi-pronged attack on the Empire. Truly a formidable foe, and Rain was certainly outmatched, but why would Akanai feel the need to pit them against one another? And how did she know he was ancient? Was their foe a long-lived half-beast? Or maybe he was a true Divinity, one set on challenging his Imperial counterparts through proxy. There was so much Yuzhen didn’t understand, and from a glance, she could tell Gerel and Uncle Nian Zu had failed to even pick up on the subtle slip, so they were of no use, but Akanai caught on quickly and chose her words more carefully. “I have yet to speak of the most disturbing news,” she said, pretending not to notice Yuzhen’s studied gaze while rummaging through her pouch. “This morning, after my son left to return to his duties, the boy showed me this.”

A sharp gasp slipped out from Yuzhen’s lips as Akanai revealed the blood token, for there was no mistaking it for anything else. “This was attuned to Rain’s blood?”

“It still is,” Baatar growled, bristling with wrath and violence. “He only brought the one, so there is at least one more out there in the hands of his would-be killers.”

Something clicked in Yuzhen’s brain and she finally understood Akanai’s desire for caution. “You said he came under attack from Wraiths,” she said, her horror mounting as she considered the dire implications. “Or individuals disguised as Wraiths.”

“Yes, and the boy believes it to be the latter, as do I.” Though lacking Baatar’s guttural tones and animalistic fury, Akanai’s tone sent a chill down Yuzhen’s spine, for it contained an unspoken promise of bloodshed and vengeance. “I have come to you to ask if it is possible to uncover who commissioned this tracking device, so that we might repay their kindness in similar coin.”

“You think it was Rang Min.” There was no need to question it, as even Uncle Nian Zu picked up on Akanai’s subtext, likely due to the heated glower directed Yuzhen’s way. “I can question him,” she said, biting her lip in thought, “But if he is responsible, we risk showing our hand and scaring him off.”

“If he flees, then his guilt is assured,” Akanai pointed out, smiling as if she would prefer it that way. Perhaps she did, for then she would have a quarry to hunt, but Rang Min would not be so easily spooked.

Since there was nothing else to discuss, Yuzhen excused herself to go work, only to stop and raise an eyebrow at Uncle Nian Zu as he moved to follow. Answering her unasked question with a shrug, he said, “If you mean to question Rang Min, then I will be at your side. The man is a snake, and your talented husband no match for him yet.” Aside from a grimace, Gerel did nothing to correct him, so Yuzhen accepted these words as truth. The strength of Peak Experts varied wildly depending on the individual, making it all but impossible to compare them, as evidenced by the slew of debates which took place every night in bar-room taverns and social wine clubs all across the Empire. At those levels, most battles ended in the blink of an eye, for while Peak Experts were exceedingly effective at dealing death to their foes, they were still human, with all of a human’s frail vulnerabilities. Considering the speeds they were capable of achieving, even blinking offered too much of an advantage for an enemy, as it was more than enough time for Gerel to kill a man thrice.

It was one of those matters Yuzhen understood on a basic level, but never really comprehended until Gerel demonstrated it for her by cleaving an apple with his sword while she watched from the side. All she saw was a blur of motion, so fast she thought she must have imagined it until the apple came apart in four neat pieces, a sight which truly hammered home the vast disparity between them. If she was unable to catch sight of his movements, how was she to judge if he was faster than another Peak Expert? It was impossible, like a blind man trying to describe colours to a cow, so she simply took things in stride and called Situ Rang Min to a meeting in her office.

Although Uncle Nian Zu and Gerel were both lurking in Concealment, the former Situ Clan Patriarch had no trouble spotting them both as he walked in. His eyes lingered on their positions for a little longer than necessary, which was done on purpose to let Yuzhen know that he’d seen through her tricks and was not amused. In truth, she’d suspected Rang Min coveted her office and was planning to kill her and seize it, but thus far, he’d made no move to go against her. Far from it, in fact, as he was on his best behaviour and her most effective Lieutenant Marshal, which meant he either wanted to win her trust or he was clever enough to cover his tracks. Though she still had some reservations about taking him into her employ, he had more than proven his worth in his short time under her. Not only did he solve the issue of Society Adherents pilfering her supply lines, he also uncovered a smuggling network meant to evade the Legate’s luxury tax, tracked down a notorious bandit group through the fence who sold their ill-gotten gains, and identified three spies within her own household, one of which she herself had overlooked.

Of course, this was far from enough to win her over, as Rang Min had inadvertently caused the first problem and she suspected he had a hand in the other three as well. Unfortunately, she had yet to prove it, which meant there was little hope he would give anything away here and now if he was responsible for the tracking matrices.

Alas, all that would have been lost on Akanai, so Yuzhen did not even try to be subtle. “Tell me everything you know regarding tracking matrices. How they are made, who can make them, and who can commission them.”

“Hm.” Not one to even feign humility, Rang Min made no effort to answer immediately, and instead took a seat without asking. The man even had the audacity to glance about the table, as if searching for the teapot that should have been there. Granted, offering tea and snacks would have been the courteous thing to do, and she would have done so for any of her other Lieutenant Marshals, but Rang Min was a special case, someone who made her feel wholly outmatched and out of her depth. Eschewing common courtesy had seemed prudent at first, to show she was in no mood for his games, but now she realized it was a childish tantrum, and his disapproving stare seemed to say he expected better of her.

Maddening. This man was a fugitive from the Society, and if she had not taken him in, then he and his entire family would be dead and buried. How dare he... expect common courtesy...

Suppressing a sigh, she sent for a servant to bring tea and snacks for her ‘esteemed’ guest. Though he showed no outward sign of satisfaction, she wanted to drive her fist in his face when he touched his lips to his cup before placing it back down without drinking. A message, telling her that this was an empty courtesy, but one he expected nonetheless. “Your father taught you better than this,” he said, his voice neither loud nor soft, but powerful and compelling. “Haste makes waste. You were impatient, and worse, you showed it. Since I know you are impatient, I can then use this against you. You understand?”

Yuzhen’s frosty smile came easily as she imagined Uncle Nian Zu and Gerel pummelling Rang Min to a pulp, she said nothing and let the silence continue. Cracking a half-smile of his own, he nodded ever so slightly in approval. “Of course,” he continued, intentionally ceding the victory to her in this game of wits, if only to rob her of true victory, “I would also be impatient, were I in your shoes. Quite the predicament, if I do say so myself, one I do not envy you for.”

More power games, pretending he knew why she wanted to know about tracking matrices, but Yuzhen would not be fooled. “And what, pray tell, is my predicament?”

“The puppet Legate is no longer of any use,” Rang Min Sent, smiling as he touched his teacup to his lips once again, “And the Imperial Clan seeks to remove him.” Though Yuzhen was certain she gave nothing away, Rang Min added, “Hardly unexpected, of course. Shen ZhenWu had this outcome in mind before even arriving in Central. Why else would he bring so valuable an Imperial Servant, a first generation noble no less?”

