“Ha! When you’re Tier 25, I'll remind you about this, and you can see for yourself. I look forward to watching you fail a few thousand times.” Baxter grinned off into the distance.

“Still, no one has recreated a natural treasure in how many millions of years?” Melinda wasn’t sure if she should be proud of the milestones that she would hopefully, absolutely accomplish one day, or if she was just embarrassed for all the slackers that came before her.

She liked the idea of inventing something new. Something that would change things for the better. There was something thrilling about the thought of it.

***

A week later, the Queendom launched a massive campaign against the Kingdom without warning, causing a rush of attention. They were moving in on a Kingdom city. Early speculation implied that the city would fall easily and quickly. The city was under-defended, and The Princess had clearly found a chink in the Kingdom’s armor. After an easy conquest, she’d have a staging point to march on a key location further into Kingdom territory.

That’s not what ended up happening. Instead, there was a mass mobilization of millions of Queendom troops to the ‘quick’ city siege that was supposed to have ended days ago. Even the Pathers were mobilized in force. They arrived to find thousands upon thousands of tents surrounding a battered city of stone. She and her team joined the western gate, where all of the Pathers were being funneled.

It was a madhouse.

The ground was churned into mud except where earth mages had created paths. It still left everyone trekking through ankle-deep muck to get nearly anywhere except the chow hall. The sanitary situation was equally bad, with latrines being dug out and then too quickly filled by the multitudes crammed into the encirclement around the city. Showers were nonexistent, and the rare Pathers with [Cleanse] were charging a premium to use the skill. Her and her team made due with the refilling canteens and using damp cloths to approximate a facsimile of cleanliness.

Melinda loathed every minute.

Things couldn’t be worse. Or so she thought, until seeing the situation inside the city itself. The once majestic walls were being pounded into rubble when they first arrived. But things suddenly escalated after the Kingdom trapped and eliminated a number of their elite Tier 7 fighters using a trick with the city’s shield.

Everyone in the vassal state’s military was out for blood after that. Over the course of a few hours, the artillery tactics went from a gentle bombardment to maintain valuable infrastructure to a brutal salt-the-earth campaign. The nearby forest was logged flat to construct even more trebuchets and new housing for yet another wave of new troops. The Pathers were in a weird situation, as the normal army was either unwilling or unable to order them to attack. From what Melinda gathered, it had something to do with the new war rules that prevented Pathers from being sent on suicide missions. Whatever the reason, they mostly sat around until the Queendom’s losses built up, and they started offering lucrative rewards to join the assault.

Having done nothing for the last few days, most Pathers eagerly volunteered, filling out a full seven regiments for the attack. Part of her wanted to suggest that her team sit this one out, but if they wanted to get stronger, they needed to make the best of the opportunities that the war provided.

They needed this experience, no matter how much she dreaded it. So when the time came, they went to their assigned positions and joined the siege.

It was everything she’d feared and more.

Standing in the formation with her team around her, she could only think how haphazard and uncoordinated they all looked compared to the standardization of the Queendom regulars. Those battalions were full formations of shield-bearers or archers, with the random mage or two to round them out. The menagerie of two hundred Pathers they’d been assigned to was more akin to a very well armed mob. The man next to her seemed less confident by the minute, with eyes nervously drifting down to the whip in his hand. She didn't blame him, you couldn't block much with a whip.

The orders came down to advance, and she was bumped from behind before she started moving on her own. A tightness in her stomach grew as they approached the city walls.

They hadn’t looked very imposing when viewed from the safety of camp, behind the lines of battering siege engines. As their formation marched closer, the walls seemed to grow until they towered over them. The smell of blood permeated the air, and the churned, cratered earth below their feet began shifting to ominous hues of black and dark red.

The source of the dark red was obvious from the smell alone. They walked on the blood of the fallen, and Melinda was glad that they didn’t have to walk over bodies. The origin of the black coloration was made clear when a mana cannon flared to life and shot fiery death towards them.

The attack blazed into their formation and seven people instantly vanished. Where they were standing had become a blackened crater.

Melinda reached out and grabbed Mathew and Kyle in front of her. Their shield and massive sword were raised, but a flat piece of metal wouldn’t do anything against such a strong blast. No one here could stand up to a hit like that.

A ballista bolt flashed forwards and impaled the whip wielder. There was nothing he could have done to survive it, even with a different weapon. It was horrifying. The man was left gaping at the massive bolt lodged through his lower torso. The army likely didn’t whisk him away immediately because the wound wasn’t instantaneously fatal, and he was so lucky to be standing within 10 feet of a healer, her. Melinda could have helped, and should have helped, but she was too terrified of leaving the safety of her team. She met his desperate, pleading eyes as he finally looked up from the wound.

Before she could finish second guessing herself, the man was gone. At least it was out of her hands now. Her relief only lasted a split-second, as more attacks rained down on them. Luck, more than anything else, was keeping her friends alive.

It sure wasn't anything that she did. All she could do was hide in their shadows and question the decisions that brought her here.

The situation only worsened as arrows started to rain down upon them, with a smattering of other skills mixed in. Screams and cries for a healer were drowned out by the beating of her heart echoing inside her head.

Yet one unwelcome sound rang louder than everything else.

“Charge!!!”

Melinda took off in a gallop with everyone else. Getting through the latest rain of death was a harrowing experience. Yet it was only an appetizer for having to fight their way into the breach in the wall. Death hailed down from above as they struggled their way to the front. There, they found a crudely made stone wall with Kingdom defenders viciously hacking and slashing at anything that dared approach them.

Mathew and Kyle attempted to attack the people reaching over the berm with their respective weapons. Kyle’s oversized sword was actually effective, and they were able clear the area long enough for Vinnie to bore a new breach in the wall. A new breach forming seemed to signal a rush from both sides, attackers and defenders alike. The Queendom was forced back within moments. With Tara and Sam assisting from the rear, Melinda kept her team healed from the numerous small wounds, despite them being on the back foot. Once evicted from the breach, they were pressed left by the crush of bodies in the mad melee.

Tara was the first to realize that the Kingdom had blitzed them because they’d been doing something right. A quick AI message put everyone on the same page. They kept creating holes in the fortification, only to be rebuffed by a tide of Kingdom soldiers. But every time they were driven back, they still left another breach behind for the Kingdom's exhausted earth mages to deal with.

Their team was hardly alone in that feat. Holes were opened then closed in quick succession, as the defenders learned that they weren't the normal fighters they had been fighting up until that point. What the Pathers lacked in uniformity, they made up for in individual power.

A chubby Tier 6 man next to them single-handedly broke through the Kingdom’s barrier while wielding a short spear with an oversized blade. He hacked his way through bodies with the weapon. Melinda’s team didn't need orders to help him. His literal size and presence created an unusually large breach, and they needed to jump on the opportunity.

They weren't the only ones with the idea. A massive tortoise with a purple-haired woman at his side slid right in with them. Lightning flashed from the tortoise's shell and zapped three forward-rushing defenders with an ear-splitting crack.

A ballista bolt stuck out of the tortoise’s shell, so Melinda steeled herself and raced over shouting, “Healer! Hold the lighting!”

The last thing she needed was sustaining a preventable friendly-fire injury to waste her mana healing.

The woman turned and met Melinda with maroon eyes as she leaned over to better grab hold of the bolt, not needing the plan to be spelled out. As the woman yanked out the projectile, Melinda sent a [Ranged Heal] into the shell, letting it eat up the larger mana cost. She knew nothing about tortoise biology, and couldn't waste the time figuring it out with a [Directed Heal]. That was the main strength of indirected healing. You didn't need in-depth knowledge to cast the spell; it was completely automated. Which was also why they had hard boundaries that they couldn’t push. At least, that was the common perception. With her Talent, Melinda was able to cast and forget the spell, watching as flesh and shell knitted themselves back in moments.

Leaving the laughing turtle that sounded more like rocks grinding as he thanked her, she returned to her team.

The chubby man was littered with wounds as more and more defenders gathered to overwhelm him. Through her Concept, she could see the shadow of death closing in around him just a tiny bit more. She cast a second healing spell and grinned as the defenders cried out when they saw their work being undone.

Her celebration was premature, as an arrow sprouted from her neck. Melinda calmed down, she was used to healing injuries, and when it was herself, it was no different.

Before she started to heal herself, she messaged her team that they needed to cover her, and she started to pull back with them. It wasn't worth dying for a closing breach in the fortifications.

With a quick jerk, Melinda broke the fletching off and pulled the arrow through, immediately casting [Directed Heal]. She quickly stitched up the small hole going through her flesh. They were about to push forward again when a retreat order came through their AI. When she looked behind them, there was a distinct lack of people in the reserve. Where the multiple two hundred man formations went was a question she didn't dwell on. She was just once again grateful that they didn't have to see the corpses of the fallen.

The turtle, woman, and chubby man were running next to them. Running back through the attacks from the archers and siege engine was far more nerve wracking on the way out. It didn't help that the muddy ground was again churned up by their boots on the initial charge, and once more by the many boots that had walked the path since.

Still not believing their luck, Melinda had to pat herself down and check for wounds. She couldn’t fathom that they had made it out with mostly scratches. They had been sitting down for only a moment when screams started to ring out.

As she tried to stand, Melinda nearly collapsed as her legs refused to hold her weight. But a steadying hand from the woman whose name she still didn't know gave her enough support to pull herself up. They looked to their rear, and in between their position at the west gate and the south gate, thousands of Kingdom fighters and Pathers were rushing into the camp, killing or destroying what they could.

They could already see that the attackers were turning and running before the Queendom had time to mass a proper defense.

Melinda plopped back down, nonplussed by the mud that seeped through her clothes. She was just too tired to care.

She had nearly nodded off when the turtle, in a voice like grinding granite, said, “Xander thanks you for the heal back there. That bolt was mighty uncomfortable.”

The woman leaning on Xander’s shell wiggled her fingers in the air. “Lena.”

“Teddy.” the short spear wielder nodded from where he had fallen a step away from them.

Sam looked slightly green, so Melinda scooted over until she was able to wrap an arm around the woman. Kyle and Mathew were both on their backs, puffing heaving breaths up in the air.

Everyone was exhausted. And they fell into a stupor quickly.

***

The next days were a blur to Melinda. They repeatedly charged into the breach, and she was repeatedly surprised when they made it back out. She wished it was from them growing stronger, but she knew that it was mostly luck. Even then, Sam and Kyle were forced to stay outside, as they were both on the edge of the healing cooldown. Any more damage would count as a death. Mathew was close to the line as well, but he wasn’t in quite as much danger. They decided that it was better to have the two of them stay out of the further fighting, instead of risking their points.

When a mana cannon aimed at someone, they died. That was all there was to it. But if they so much as took an arrow, they would be out.

