During their fourth big attack, they actually managed to create a permanent beachhead past the walls, and Queendom soldiers streamed through in an unending tide. Everyone there celebrated taking the city, but Melinda couldn't help but stare out into the landscape of rubble.

She was sure that there wasn’t a single stone remaining in its original position from before the siege. It was like standing in a worse version of the city she grew up in. The rest of her team were just happy that they were alive, and joined in the cheering as they watched scores of Queendom regulars stream by. However, it was a sobering realization that they were capable of doing such damage on their own.

Once the Kingdom defenders were pushed back into a corner of the city, Melinda had some downtime to walk around and heal a few people. The Queendom wasn't able to force her away from her team healing role, but she was being provided the mana, and hated to see people in pain.

While recharging her mana, she joined a fascinating conversation with a worn-out healer about someone she was pretty sure she knew.

“I'm just glad to be off the east gate. It was a fucking slaughter over there, a wet, icy hellhole. No matter how much we pushed, we were always a step behind the other sections of the wall.” The young man was so tired, his hand was shaking like a leaf in a hurricane as he brought up a canteen to his lips.

A second healer, an absurdly pretty woman with silver eyes, said, “That's bullshit. We all had a tough time. Your side was just lazy.”

“Fuck you, Jen. We worked twice as hard, took more casualties, and got maybe half the fucking results, and that’s probably being generous. It's all their general’s fault. We started called him “Ateleos”. You couldn't batter him down. You couldn’t get past him. The crazy bastard stood in the way of everything we attacked him with. Everything. Nothing ever phased him.”

“Starting rumors to excuse your incompetence? If your section sucked, just own it. No need to make shit up. And I doubt that he's anywhere near Ateleos levels of power. Ateleos fought for decades, not a week.”

Melinda interjected, “This general… “Ateleos”? Was he covered in ghostly blue armor? Wields a longsword? Tall and imposing?”

The healer man sat up, “Yeah! You saw him too, didn’t you?” He glanced down at her armor and answered his own question. “No wait, you couldn't have been posted there. You’re on The Path, and they kept your teams apart from us. But yeah, he stands there, just like Ateleos was said to. Someone jokingly called him that on the first day, and since he never went down, the name spread.”

Melinda hoped Matt hadn't exposed too much of his secret, so she tried to tread carefully. “We were at the same PlayPen.”

Now even Jen looked interested, but the man asked first, “How is he such a monster? Do you know? He's fucking unkillable. I have quite a few friends who died facing him, even more that died running from him. Which, by the way, was the smart thing to do. They said nothing that anyone did could hurt him. Even Earl Benedict’s sons, the Twin Swords, couldn’t break through his armor, and their entire gimmick is destroying armor.”

It sounded like they didn’t know much, but the man hadn't mentioned the other defenders lasting so much longer than expected. She knew that Matt had revealed his Concept to his team, but she was hoping that was all he had revealed.

“He’s always been strong. Whooped my entire team of five even as a solo fighter with a cultivation handicap. I’m not exaggerating, it wasn’t even close, and he wasn’t even trying. And we’re not pushovers either.”

“I'd believe it. He never stopped or took a break. We kept waiting for him to. Every attack, he was there to meet us, and he just never went down. A wall for us to break on. There’s no holding him down. So we thought we’d just overwhelm him. Durability doesn’t matter if you can’t move, right? Well it turns out, he can punch through anything short of Tier 8 armor. And when I say punch, I mean with just his hands, not that longsword he wields. ”

Jen rolled those pretty eyes. “It can’t be that bad. There is only so much any single person could do.”

Melinda‘s lips quirked at that. If Matt was only relying on his Concept, then he was actually sandbagging, and was probably doing more than she could imagine. She doubted that the Queendom would have ever broken the city’s shields if Matt had been using his Talent to power them.

“Shut up! You don't know half of it. It wasn't just him. There was ‘The Blood Beast’, that reformed from the blood of our fighters every time someone destroyed it. If you bled, you were just feeding the Beast. How can you fight without bleeding Jen? ‘The Winter Rose’, who created an ice garden from the corpses of our fallen. “The Tribulation”, who struck us down with lighting as if cast from Leon himself. And “The Swarm”, who controlled insects and sent them upon us like a plague, eating us from the inside out. You weren’t there, so shut up.”

“OK, jeez. Calm down, I get it. You had it rough. They were probably just Pathers. They aren’t harbingers of the apocalypse.” Jen put her hands up trying to appease the hysterical healer.

Based on what she’d heard so far, it wasn’t just Matt getting attention. It didn't seem like Matt’s secret was out, so she let the conversation continue, but it was interesting to hear the misconceptions about his team and the other Pathers around him. She doubted that her team would ever get cool titles from the Kingdom fighters.

Later that morning, a long series of explosions rocked their gatehouse, and they heard a report about a man with ghostly armor riding a mana cannon amongst the retreating group of defenders.

Melinda met the eyes of her team, and they shook their heads. They weren't dumb enough to try and attack the man using a mana cannon with unlimited ammo.

They were happy to sit this one out and join the ongoing fight they could hear outside their gate.
