At the same time, he had to admit there was a cruel, cold logic to the thought. If he were a repressive dictator, and he had the ability to remove people’s cores and only hand out cores to loyal, law-abiding citizens, what could be better? A rebellion? Ha! That was a joke. At best, the rebels would be mortals. Outside forces, regathering their strength for an attack inside the Empire’s borders? What strength? Anyone who spoke against the Empire, thought against the Empire, lifted a finger against the Empire—hell, jaywalked against the Empire, threw away their hope of ever obtaining magehood in the same instant. Horrifying, but logical all the same.

The ability to freely extract and replace cores. The Empress is a foe far beyond my power, Rhys realized, touching his own core. He could do nothing against that. Hell, even Bast had no power in front of a force like that. He glanced at his friend, and his desire to keep him well out of the Empress’s striking distance redoubled.

Blithely unaware of Rhys and Bast’s horror, Laurent smiled and tapped his solar plexus, behind which the core sat. “This is already the third core I’ve had in my life. Incredible, isn’t it?”

“Y-yeah, incredible,” Rhys agreed. “What happens to the people without cores?”

“Oh, nothing. Many mortals are born without them. They simply remain mortals until they prove themselves worthy of a core.”

Rhys furrowed his brows. Is that true? He’d been in a trashy body, and it had still had a core. He made a note to check it in the library, but remained highly suspicious of Laurent’s fact. Sure, maybe people could live without a core, but he didn’t think anyone was born without a core. “What about your path?”

Laurent beamed. “We all walk the Empress’s noble path. We seek after her own insights, and strive to gain greater understanding of her driving power.”

Rhys’s brows shot up. He exchanged a look with Bast, terrified. An entire country of core manipulators? The Alliance was already dead and gone. Clearing his throat, he clarified, “You mean, you can all handle cores? Every single mage in the Empire?”

“What? Of course not. No, only the Empress has that power. That’s a secret art she keeps for herself. And thank goodness, too. Can you imagine what a rogue core manipulator might do? We’re fortunate it’s our good and benevolent Empress who is the only one who can handle cores.”

“Truly,” Rhys said, for the first time agreeing wholeheartedly with Laurent’s sentiment. Another look shot between him and Bast; this time, of relief. When he thought about it, though, it made more sense. After all, one core manipulator gone rogue, stealing cores they didn’t ‘deserve’ and empowering themselves, and the whole control scheme was gone. Better to consolidate that power into one person, or so a dictator would think.

After a moment, he nodded at Laurent. “Then you don’t grow your own core or expand your own core at all?”

“Well, it’s not possible to be a mage without doing that,” Laurent said, agreeing with Rhys’s lived experience. “But, well, it’s not your own core, you understand? All cores belong to the Empress. When the core advances, we hand it back to the Empress over keeping it for ourselves. In rare cases, the mage who advanced the core will be allowed to keep the advanced core, but that’s only in rare cases. It involves all kinds of paperwork, vouchers, special allowances… it’s rare. If the Empire isn’t at active war, and the mage isn’t actively involved in vital research, it’s almost unheard of. After all, there’s always a backlog of mages at the next rank who’ve been cleared to receive the next tier of core, but haven’t gotten a core yet. More mages eligible to rank up than there are cores to go around.”

“Right, right, of course,” Rhys agreed.

“The Empress says it prevents the tyranny of luck. That this way, only the deserving become mages, instead of those who by happenstance, have some talent. Talent is blind to morality, righteousness, and loyalty, but our Empress can fairly judge them all, and ensure the worthy are given magehood.”

Rhys nodded. It was a good idea in theory, but it broke down in practice. If the Empress really did pick only good-hearted people to become mages, then it prevented people like Cynog from gaining power. But how perfectly did the Empress really pick her mages? How closely did she inspect each person she gave a core to? How important was loyalty, over righteousness and morality?

For that matter, would he or Bast qualify as righteous or moral enough to receive cores? They were nothing. In his case, trash talent. In Bast’s case, the son of a whore. Would the Empress smile upon their shitty little orphanage and hand them cores? Or would she prefer to hand them to existing mage families, and those with money and power?

In a region that lived and died by a meritocracy, sure, the tyranny of chance was eliminated; but so was the chance for those who traditionally lacked power to gain power. Instead, those in power would hand power to their own, and never again would power filtter down to the little guys, to give those like Rhys and Bast the chance to become something—anything.

There would always be a tyranny of something. In Rhys’s opinion, better the tyranny of chance than the tyranny of one single mage.

Laurent noticed his expression and frowned. “You don’t agree?”

“Ah, well… Rhys shrugged. “I just thought that Ba…etsy and I wouldn’t get cores, in your Empire.”

“Why not?” Laurent asked, shocked. A horrified look passed over his face as a thousand immoral and unrighteous crimes ran through his head.

“Well, we’re…” Rhys glanced at Bast. “Orphans.”

“No, no! Anyone can get a core, as long as they commit to military service, and are good of heart. Birth has nothing to do with it,” Laurent assured them.

“Nothing?” Bast asked, a challenge in his voice.

Laurent grimaced. “Well, there’s always the nobility, but… it isn’t as if there isn’t nobility in the Alliance, right?”

“Right, right,” Rhys agreed easily. The Empire had nobility? Ha. The meritocracy didn’t even pass a basic glance. Sure, sure, it was a meritocratic nobility, suuure.

All this time, too, he’d been putting aside the ‘loyalty’ part that Laurent kept repeating. That was its own problem. Any dictator who demanded absolute loyalty had the stink, to Rhys’s nose. The stench of pure evil. Honestly, any person who demanded absolute loyalty had that stink, let alone a ruler. Loyalty was something offered, not something commanded.

He nodded at Laurent. As long as he was here, he might as well get his money’s worth of knowledge. “So, those cores, how do techniques work? Skills?”

Laurent babbled on and on about the way a given core worked versus a natural core, until at last, he drew to a halt at the docks. Gesturing at the giant white ship, he smiled tentatively at Rhys. “Would you like to see the ship?”

“Would I,” Rhys said, his eyes shining with earnest interest. Since the first time he’d seen one of those huge multiple-mast flying ships, he’d wanted to get inside one. Who didn’t want to explore a huge ship, let alone a huge flying ship? And not some boring modern container ship, but a historic ship at that. The only problem was, his little school barely owned a skiff, let alone a three-master, or this giant galleon, but now Laurent had invited him on board the biggest flying ship he’d ever seen. His childhood dreams were all coming true right now.

Bast nudged him. He nodded back. Yeah, I know. I’ll keep my eyes open and take care. Still, this was his chance to be on a huge flying magical ship. He couldn’t turn that down.

A knowing chuckle from his friend was his only answer. They stepped forward, past the point of no return.
