“Violence is hardly uncommon, even unprovoked violence upon the helpless, and it was not without consequence,” Xin said softly.

Ling Qi glanced her way. She would trust the spirit’s word on that. Yet, she found herself remembering things that she had forgotten. She remembered her mother and the owner talking, and other girls contributing coppers to a growing pouch. She never had seen that girl again, which had seemed sinister, but…

“Do you know what happened to the girl?”

“She recovered on the back of communal funds,” Xin began.

“She purchased an apprenticeship with a seamstress using the restitution paid from the guard’s fine,” the Dreaming Moon continued absently.

“Never got her smile back though,” the Grinning Moon said flippantly. “If ya know what I mean.”

It didn't make things better, but it surprised her all the same. She had become so inured to the idea that the people who went in could do as they liked that the idea that one had suffered even mild punishment surprised her.

Ling Qi frowned, focusing her senses once more. A twinkling light blinked into existence before her eyes and began to drift across the street. She would not - could not - make herself step across that threshold, but she didn’t need to any longer, did she?

Remembering the lessons of the Argent Mirror art, she forced herself to remain dispassionate as she looked inside. What she saw fit the general shape of her memories. On the first floor was the common area where a tired older woman played competently on a guzheng. Most of the tables and booths were empty, but here and there were customers, men being served drinks and fawned over by younger girls, smiling empty smiles and laughing empty laughs.

But when she looked at the customers, she saw that they were just as empty as the girls. Sad, lonely, exhausted, worn down by one thing or another, seeking fulfillment in people who had none to give. It was a sickening sort of parody. A few even deluded themselves into thinking that the girls felt something genuine for them. That is, something other than a low level of fear anyway. She couldn’t, even in her forced dispassion, feel real sympathy.

In the end, the customers were the ones who held all the power, and the girls simply had to play to their wants. It wasn’t as if her memories lied. Even at this slow time of day, there were some who could see their own power and reveled in it. She knew without looking, just from the ambient qi, that she would find nothing different on the second or third floors where the workers lived and rooms were rented out for more intimate services. It was all just emptiness and exploitation in different trappings.

It still made her skin crawl. She still hated it and what happened inside. But the special horror it had once held seemed a little washed out now. If she compared it to the things she had seen in the streets, could she really say that it was uniquely horrible? In the end, it was the powerful enforcing their will on the weak, just like everywhere else. The men who got away with hurting were the ones rich or connected enough to make enforcing the rules unprofitable.

Somehow that bothered her in a way it hadn’t before.

It was funny in a twisted sort of way that the cultivator had been the one who actually got punished. She wasn’t sure what to think of that. Leaving that aside, running away really had been a sideways step, hadn’t it? Whether in a fancy brothel or a dark alley, she had to debase herself to survive. Virtue and vice were luxuries to be considered when she had a full belly and a warm blanket.

She certainly had that now. She would not allow herself to feel shame about her mother nor the people she had hired any longer, no matter the sneering she got for it. They were people who her mother considered important. And in the end, they were people who had picked the poison they were willing to swallow in the name of survival, just like her.

She thought back to what Cai Renxiang had said when she had first told her of the decision to hire them. She could see the truth in the girl’s words. To her, it may be a gross, unpleasant job, but there was no inherent shame in it.

“Okay,” Ling Qi said. “I’m sorry for side tracking us. I’ve seen enough.”

“Time is hardly an issue,” Xin said in amusement.

“In the end, this is your journey,” the Dreaming Moon said.

“Still, I think this has been enough walking. Feeling up for a run?” the Grinning Moon asked, leaping down from the awning where she had been lounging.

Ling Qi raised her eyebrows in consternation, no longer interested in the sad tableau across the street. The memories that clung to this place remained and she could not say that they were behind her, but the location itself was almost incidental. “I guess? I know I’m not really physically present, but if I go rushing through the streets, won’t people notice?”

The spirit’s ever-present grin just widened.
