Erin saw a stir among the adventurers. It was Nailren who nodded and replied.
“Pallass is selling the recollection. It is an expensive thing. A playback of events. Apparently Wistram has created many minor magical artifacts that replay the battle in its entirety. They call them…what was the word? Movies, yes? We paid to see the battle. The price was dear, but worthwhile, yes?”
“Movies?”
Erin’s jaw dropped. Pisces glanced at her face, and his eyes narrowed. The other team of Humans looked envious.
“You saw it? I heard it was a hell of a fight! Of course, some adventurers lived it. Real badasses helped hold the line I heard! Took down a moth as tall as the walls of the city themselves!”
At her words, some of the aforementioned badass adventurers turned red. Earlia glanced at them. Her eyes widened.
“Five Houses! Look, you lot!”
She pointed straight at Moore. The half-Giant blinked. Earlia’s jaw dropped. Her eyes found Seborn and then swung to Jelaqua as she identified the Selphid. She got to her feet in amazement.
“You must be the Halfseekers! And are you the Silver Swords?”
She’d spotted Ylawes, Falene, and Dawil as well. The adventurers nodded or bowed or, in Moore’s case, waved a gigantic hand. Earlia’s team exclaimed and all stood up. They wanted to shake hands, but a loud sound interrupted them.
“There’s another famous team here as well, you know.”
Revi and Typhenous looked disgruntled at not being identified. The Stitch-Woman folded her arms, and Earlia’s team of Humans exchanged looks. The young woman stared at Revi and Typhenous and then looked at Halrac. His answering scowl made her eyes flicker.
“Halrac the Grim? Griffon Hunt?”
They nodded, and Earlia’s team was star-struck all over again. One of them exclaimed as they turned to shake hands.
“I heard you were a team of four!”
“We were.”
And like that, the good mood in the inn went out. Erin looked at Halrac sadly and guiltily and then clapped her hands. Everyone turned towards her.
“Alright, let’s get this sorted so I’m not confused! We have Goblins! Yes! We have Mrsha! Wave, Mrsha. She’s cute. I’m Erin! This is Lyonette! And we have six adventuring teams in here so far! Griffon Hunt! The Halfseekers! The Silver Swords! The Horns of Hammerad! The Pride of Kelia and…”
Erin looked expectantly at Earlia. The adventurer stood up.
“Sorry you all! Should have done that sooner. We’re Gemhammer! A Silver-rank team from the north! The name’s Earlia—I’m the Captain.”
“And we are a Silver-rank team from the south. I failed to mention that. I am Nailren, leader of my team.”
Nailren spoke, bowing slightly. The new adventurers looked around, surprised.
“Three Gold-rank teams here? That’s a sight you wouldn’t see that often in Invrisil! Sorry we didn’t recognize you. It’s just that the Halfseekers are a lot more noticeable.”
Earlia turned towards Griffon Hunt, all of whom shrugged moodily. Nailren looked at the other teams and bowed slightly to Jelaqua.
“The Halfseekers are known in the south of Izril as well. We were impressed by the battling of all three of your teams. Truly courageous. Sir Halrac’s defeat of the giant moth by himself was astounding, as was the Silver Swords’ prowess. But the Horns of Hammerad also astounded, truly.”
At that, Earlia glanced towards the Horns, who were sitting back, slightly overshadowed by their illustrious colleagues. She offered them an apologetic smile.
“Horns of Hammerad? I’m afraid we haven’t even heard of your team. We’re from far up north, past Invrisil. We’ve been on the road for the last month, ever since we heard about the dungeon!”
“They were part of the fighting against the moths. One of them actually cast the weather spell that ended the battle.”
“You did? Incredible! We heard about that! Are you a [Weather Mage]?”
Earlia looked at Pisces and then Ceria. Both demurred, and then Earlia spotted Ksmvr.
“An Antinium?”
“I am Ksmvr. Hello.”
Erin looked around desperately. There was no end to the explanations! She looked at Lyonette and pointed.
“Break out the whiskey, Lyonette. I think we need a few drinks so everyone can get to know one another.”
That idea was received well by all parties, except by the newcomers, strangely enough. Earlia raised a hand.
“Oh, not for us. We can’t drink now.”
“Neither we.”
Nailren nodded. He was looking out the window at the pouring rain and sniffing. He coughed politely and looked to Erin.
“As much as we would delight in talking, we cannot drink or eat overlong. We are bound for the dungeon as quickly as possible. And we would greatly appreciate directions.”
“Same here.”
Earlia nodded and shifted her grip on her warhammer. The other adventurers stared at them. Revi was the first to speak up.
“Are you serious?”
 
——
 
“A Gold-rank dungeon. When was the last time one of those has been discovered? A century ago? Two?”
Earlia shook her head wonderingly. She hadn’t heard the latest news about the dungeon, that Tekshia had proclaimed it suitable for teams of Gold-rank or higher. Neither had The Pride of Kelia. They sat at their tables as Ylawes, Jelaqua, and Revi delivered the bad news in turns. Earlia shook her head.
“I can see why, though. Isn’t the dungeon underwater at the moment? It’d be a hell of a thing for a Bronze-rank team to enter. And the moths that came out—that’s Gold-rank for sure.”
“Exactly. So sorry that the Adventurer’s Guild hasn’t spread the word. But that’s the way it is. You can probably find some work dealing with the fish or something, but I’m afraid you’ve come all this way for nothing.”
Revi gave both teams a sweet, fake smile of regret. Earlia eyed her and looked at Nailren. The Silver-rank Gnoll Captain was looking at his team. He bowed his head, his ears twitching slightly.
“A danger indeed. We have heard rumors about the dungeon. Treasure obtained, monster hordes…it is a threat worthy of the rank.”
“Yeah.”
Earlia sighed. Then she slapped her knees and stood up.
“Alright, let’s go in. Nailren, want to cooperate until we get into the dungeon? Word is it’s a labyrinth, so we can split up easily.”
The Gnoll grinned as he stood with his team.
“You read my mind, yes? We can at least hire a boat together. Shall we?”
They strode for the doors. The Gold-rank teams scrambled to stop them.
“Wait, wait! Didn’t you hear? This is a Gold-rank dungeon!”
Revi looked outraged. Earlia stared at her and then frowned.
“So?”
“So? So it’s dangerous, you moronic—”
Revi was muffled by Ylawes as he moved to block her. The [Knight] smiled apologetically.
“I’m sorry, Miss Earlia, but the dungeon is truly dangerous. A Silver-rank team should not enter it. Even we Gold-rank teams hesitate to venture further in unwary. The Halfseekers have been cooperating with Griffon Hunt to enter via one entrance for two months, and they have still encountered many, many setbacks. It would not be right for us to let another team enter when so many have perished or unleashed horrors by mistake.”
Earlia heard Ylawes out, nodding and looking concerned. Then she shrugged.
“Thanks, but we didn’t come this way to turn back now. Gold-rank or not, we’re entering this dungeon.”
She tried to brush past Ylawes. He moved to block her. Earlia frowned and put a hand on her warhammer’s hilt.
“Hey. Stop joking around here.”
“We’re not.”
Jelaqua answered for the others. She folded her arms, her tail curling up around one leg.
“I know you came all this way, but you kids are in over your heads. We can’t let you enter the dungeon. And the Adventurer’s Guild and the city will back us.”
“Really?”
The Human and Gnoll adventurers looked at each other. Earlia stood straighter to confer with Nailren.
“Might be best to head in right now if the Adventurer’s Guild and the city’s going to cause a fuss.”
“Are you insane?”
Revi burst out. Earlia gave her an impatient look.
“Maybe? Move aside, Gold-ranks. We’re going in. My team and I did not ride for a month straight just to turn back now.”
“What about caution for your lives?”
Ylawes folded his arms. Earlia snorted.
“Caution is for Gold-rank teams, old man. We’ll never succeed if we hide and run from every challenge. Or have you forgotten what makes us adventurers?”
She jabbed a thumb at her chest.
“We know the dungeon’s above our pay grade. But that doesn’t mean we can’t handle it with luck and Skill. We’ll go in, get our measure of the place, and go out. We might get killed, we might not. But if we don’t try, who’ll conquer it? You lot? No thanks. There’s treasure down there, and we mean to have it.”
“Exactly. We have come for the dungeon. It is wrong of you to try and stop us. If it is death we seek, let us find it and fight it with tooth and claw.”
Nailren growled, and his team growled with him. The Gold-rank adventurers looked at each other uncertainly. Earlia tried to step around Ylawes and this time ran straight into Dawil.
“Hold on, Human. You may not know this, but the last group of adventurers set off the attack on Liscor.”
The others looked at him askance, but Dawil went on, never taking his eyes off of Earlia.
“They had no idea what they were doing, bumbling about. How’ll you lot account for the dead if you screw up?”
He looked up challengingly at Earlia, and Erin held her breath. But the young woman didn’t so much as blink. She bent down and grinned toothily at Dawil.
“We’ll figure that out when it happens, Dwarf. But if we were good at planning ahead, we wouldn’t be adventurers.”
Her team laughed at that and cheered, lifting their weapons. Earlia looked around and raised her voice.
“We’re going in. Danger or not. We’re adventurers. Not Gold-rank. Not yet. And we’re not running from a challenge.”
Nailren nodded. His ears slowly flattened, and he drew his bow.
“It is perhaps best we met you so we could say it to your faces first, no? We will not abide by your rules. We will enter ourselves. And if you would stop us, then try.”
The Silver-rank adventurers raised their weapons. The Gold-rank ones, the ones blocking the way, put a hand on theirs but looked uneasy about a fight. Earlia looked around and called out.
“You! Horns of Hammerad! Are you with us?”
The Horns of Hammerad jumped. Ceria looked at the Humans and Gnolls.
“Who? Us?”
“That’s right! We’re going in. Are you being held back by these Gold-rank teams too? Join us! We could fight down there together or join forces for reconnaissance!”
Ceria looked uncertainly at her team. Erin saw her hesitate, bite a lip. The [Innkeeper] watched as Ceria looked at the two Silver-rank teams, shining with confidence and bravado, and hesitated. Ceria’s heart pounded. Her hands, flesh and skeletal, shook. Her mouth went dry.
Terror. Skinner dragged himself down the hallways, the armor of flesh on his body gaping at her. The undead charged forwards as Skinner’s red eyes shone at her. Ceria saw Gerial stride forwards, saw the hand descend. Calruz’s scream etched itself in her ears. The coffin’s stone lid was hard as she pressed her hands against it, trying not to scream.
“I—”
“We’re not letting you through. Any of you.”
Ylawes drew his sword and grabbed his shield. Earlia unslung her warhammer. The adventurers in the inn braced. Erin saw Moore glance at Jelaqua, who nodded slightly, and Falene stood up, grasping her staff. She saw Revi raise a wand and be yanked backwards by Halrac who said something to Typhenous. But all of that was a blur because Erin was running forwards. She leapt in front of Ylawes and Earlia.
“Stop!”
Her shout echoed in the inn, and the pressure that went with it stayed all hands. Every eye fixed on Erin as she stood in front of the adventurers. She turned around slowly, and the pressure that had gripped everyone but Mrsha, Lyonette, and Apista faded.
“Wait one second. Put away your weapons. Listen.”
She looked at Earlia and Nailren. The two adventurer Captains stared at her with wide eyes. Erin took a deep breath.
“Look. You’ve just got here, so let me lay this on you. Liscor is flooded. To get anywhere, you need my magic door or a boat. And there are two entrances to the dungeon. One through the main entrance which is aboveground. But there’s tons of magical traps. It’s not been cleared yet. The other way’s through the underwater rift, which is what you’re suggesting. You’d need a boat to get out there, and you’d need to hold your breath just to sink all the way down. There are evil fish in the water. And if you get into the dungeon itself, the odds are you will be ambushed in the first five seconds.”
Earlia glanced at her team. She shook her head impatiently.
“Thanks Miss Innkeeper, but you can’t—”
“Wait.”
Erin’s command halted Earlia’s tongue. The [Innkeeper] took a deep breath and went on.
“The ambushers are Raskghar, the distant ancestors of Gnolls. They’re big, really strong, but can’t level. They can see in the dark and use poison-tipped arrows to shoot you from afar when you enter. That’s how a lot of teams have gotten killed or maybe captured.”
Nailren snarled softly.
“We know the Raskghar. It is one of the reasons why we came. To do battle against our ancient, traitorous brethren. They do not scare us.”
“Yeah? Well, watch out for them when you enter. Get a shield. And maybe try my patented, special magic food. Lyonette?”
Erin turned. Lyonette nearly tripped as she ran forwards with a bowl of what looked like blackened rocks mixed with limes. Erin offered it to Earlia and Nailren, who sniffed it dubiously.
“Free sample. Try it. It tastes awful.”
“Why would we want to try that?”
“Because it makes you stronger? Or how about my scale soup? I have another one that makes you warm even if you’re naked in the snow. I have magic food. It won’t last forever, but it’ll even the odds.”
Earlia hesitated and looked at Nailren. She lowered her warhammer a bit.
“That’s…useful. Are you telling us you’ll sell us the food?”
“And I’ll get you a boat and escort. I know where the dungeon is.”
“What? Erin, you can’t be serious!”
Jelaqua was outraged. The Selphid strode forwards.
“You’re planning on letting this lot enter?”
“Absolutely. And I’m going to need a copy of that map. Which I will buy from you and which other people can buy from me. If you need potions, Octavia can get you extras. And I’d get more because Raskghar are the least of your worries down there! There’s Flesh Worms, undead, giant metal armor dudes, this thing that collects heads—Selys will write up a list.”
“I will?”
Erin ignored Selys. She locked gazes with Earlia and Nailren, looking from face to face.
