Again, Ylawes reached for his belt pouch, but Erin stopped him. She chewed her lip and threw a quick glance up the stairs. No one was coming down yet.
“Alright, but this is secret.”
“You want me to leave?”
“Not that secret, Selys. It’s just—okay, here’s why. Ylawes, I know Calruz might be alive in the dungeon. Even though the odds are like a thousand to one.”
“Quite. The idea of someone surviving down there is remote. But there is a possibility, which makes it imperative to act now. I cannot understand why the Horns hesitate.”
Erin toyed with the empty platter.
“Maybe because of the past. If I told you that Ceria casts [Silence] on her and Yvlon’s room every night, would you understand?”
“Not in the slightest. Why would that be all important?”
Ylawes looked mystified. Erin sighed. Again, she looked towards the empty stairs and then lowered her voice.
“It’s because Ceria wakes up screaming every other night. And Yvlon too. Pisces tells me they did it while they were exploring Albez, too.”
“Screaming? Why—”
“Because of the dungeons, Ylawes.”
The [Knight] paused. His furrowed brows unknitted, and he sat back. He closed his eyes.
“Of course.”
Selys looked at the two Humans and then stroked Mrsha’s head. She shook her own sadly.
“Nightmares about the crypt?”
Erin nodded.
“They still remember it. Obviously. Both of them lost their entire team—Yvlon was in charge. And they fought Skinner, and Ceria was trapped for days inside a coffin with nothing to eat. I think Olesm has nightmares too, but he doesn’t talk about them.”
“I can’t imagine he would. Even the best adventurers have to deal with trauma. We’re told to prescribe sleeping potions and get them to good [Healers], but most never go.”
Selys looked sadly at her claws. Lines appeared around Ylawes’ eyes as he grimaced.
“I should have recalled. Yvlon didn’t talk long about it, but of course—of course she remembers. And fears going into the dungeon again.”
He shook his head bitterly.
“If that’s the case, I should go in with my team and tell her—“
“No.”
Erin cut him off forcefully. Ylawes stared at her. She frowned, vexed.
“Haven’t you been listening? The worst thing you could do is bring that up. Leave them be, Ylawes. Let them enter the dungeon when they’re ready. It won’t be long.”
“But if they fear it—”
“Ceria won’t abandon Calruz. She’s going to enter the dungeon.”
“And if she waits longer?”
Erin shrugged.
“Then the Halfseekers or Griffon Hunt will get in there. They’ve been untrapping the dungeon’s entrance for nearly a month now. Either way, someone will find Calruz if he’s alive. But telling them not to enter, telling them you’ll handle it? Don’t do that. How would you react if someone said that to you?”
Ylawes was silent. Caught, perhaps, with the novel idea of introspection. At last he raised his head.
“I see. Thank you for your advice, Miss Solstice. The best course would be to handle matters…differently.”
She eyed him.
“Planning on entering the dungeon without telling Yvlon?”
The golden-haired adventurer jumped. Erin sighed again. He really was easy to read. Like an open book with big letters and pictures.
“I won’t stop you. If Calruz is alive, someone has to save him. Just promise me—”
She broke off as she heard a creak from the stairs. Everyone looked up as Ksmvr marched down the stairs.
“We are arriving at breakfast approximately two minutes later than average, Captain Ceria.”
“Thanks, Ksmvr.”
A dark brown Antinium descended the stairs, followed by a bleary half-Elf, a yawning [Necromancer], and a woman with gold hair and bright metal armor. Behind them, Moore edged down behind the pale-scaled Jelaqua, and Seborn appeared at the foot of the stairs, scratching at the crustacean half of his face with his claw. The Horns of Hammerad were up, as were the Halfseekers. Jelaqua sniffed the air happily and wagged her tail.
“Hey, what’s that smell? Isn’t it great to have a working nose? Well, nose holes. Hey, if it isn’t Ylawes.”
“Brother.”
Yvlon nodded cautiously at Ylawes. Erin shot him a quick glance, but the [Knight] only smiled.
“Good morning, Yv. I was just stopping for the morning. Erin treated me to her latest creation. I won’t be stopping long.”
A look of relief flashed by Yvlon’s face, and Erin mentally raised Ylawes’ subtlety score a few points in her mind. She hurried towards the kitchen as the adventurers took seats nearby and saw the door open. Lyonette stumbled into the inn, drenched. Mrsha ran over to her, and Erin saw a bee take wing. The young woman was holding several bulky bags filled with food and supplies.
“Lyonette! Good timing! Need a towel?”
The [Barmaid] already had one, courtesy of the towel rack and Mrsha. She wiped her face, smiling happily. And then the front door opened and the Redfang Goblins, wet, sweaty and bruised, trooped in. They paused when they saw the crowd. Erin made a face. Her inn had a habit of getting busy real fast. She counted heads.
“Alright, who wants fish flakes and who wants omelettes? Hands?”
Everyone looked at her. They exchanged glances. Jelaqua leaned forwards, excitedly.
“What’s a fish flake?”
 
——
 
The rest of the Silver Swords and Griffon Hunt appeared for breakfast not ten minutes later. They trooped into the inn. Neither team of Gold-rank adventurers was wet—the three [Mages], Revi, Typhenous, and Falene had seen to that. They were just in time to try Erin’s new fish flake snack and get some regular food of their own. The inn was noisy with conversation as the adventurers began a strategy meeting for the umpteenth time. Selys listened with one earhole as she sat in front of the Redfang Goblins.
“So. I’m, uh, a [Receptionist] for the Adventurer’s Guild in Liscor. Erin asked me to talk to you. Well, my grandmother did. She’s the [Guildmistress], and we—we need to make a few things clear.”
She was trying not to babble. But Selys had somehow forgotten how scary five Hobs could be, especially when they were sitting right in front of her. She wished Erin was here. Or Mrsha. But Erin was busy cooking and the traitorous Gnoll had left to go play tag with Apista, which mainly involved her leaping from table to table as the bee flew away. Selys cleared her throat again.
“Erin proposed this, not me. But I agreed to it. The thing is, you’re Goblins.”
The Goblins stared at Selys. They exchanged glances as if this was news. Selys went on.
“And you’re…good fighters. In fact, you went into the dungeon. And came back with treasure. That’s phenomenal. Really. So—and Erin proposed this—we thought you’d be able to earn the city money. And yourselves money. Fighting monsters. As adventurers. We’re going to make you a Bronze-rank team.”
The Redfang Warriors’ jaws dropped. Selys, who had been nervously expecting their reaction, blinked in gratified surprise. The Hobgoblins stared at her, and one of them—Numbtongue?—croaked.
“Us? Adventurers?”
“That’s right. We’ll grant you the rank and let you turn in bounties. Uh, by proxy. But you’ll be paid for certified monster kills and turning in useful parts—you could even do a request. If anyone agrees to work with you, that is.”
The Redfang Goblins exchanged glances. They looked dumbstruck. Adventurers. It seemed to matter greatly to them for reasons Selys didn’t understand.
“Does this sound like something you’d want?”
Instantly, all five Goblins nodded energetically. Erin, who’d been hurrying to their table with a plate of fish flakes, beamed.
“Did they say yes? Selys, you should have waited! Congrats, guys! I thought it would be a cool thing to do!”
The Goblins stared at her and then at Selys. The Drake nodded, feeling less nervous than before.
“It is good, Erin. They’ll be able to earn money and they’ll be sanctioned—even if I doubt Watch Captain Zevara would ever open the gates for them. But they can still earn money. They just have to know the rules. There are things adventurers have to do. For instance, there is a yearly fee as well as an entrance fee which Erin paid on your behalf—”
The Goblins shifted their attention to Erin. She smiled at them as she sat. The Goblins looked back at the [Receptionist] sitting across from her. Adventurers? Like Garen Redfang? They were agog. They listened with rapt attention as Selys went over their obligations, many of which Erin had never known about.
Adventurers were bound by more than just a varied interest in treasure. There were many small rules that varied between Adventurer’s Guilds, but a few common ones united adventurers universally. They were subject to the Guild’s authority, and while that usually depended on the [Guildmaster] for enforcement, it also depended on the city they worked from.
“In times of crisis, any city with an Adventurer’s Guild can demand for you to aid in its defense. You can refuse, but you stand to lose your rank and even be expelled from the Guild, especially if your reasons for refusing are bad. Generally if the request is reasonable and you don’t believe you’ll be in mortal peril, you’re required to lend your assistance. And the city is also required to compensate you for your time and effort.”
“Like with the moths, right?”
“That’s a good example, Erin. Also, a city collects a fee on any artifacts recovered within its jurisdiction. As does the Adventurer’s Guild. I think that’s why Grandmother agreed to making you adventurers, really. Next time you recover treasure or anything from the dungeon, you’ll have to pay a small tax on that to the guild.”
The Goblins exchanged a glance. One of them looked worriedly towards a table. There were three mages sitting around it. Typhenous, Pisces, and Falene. All three were inspecting the artifacts the Redfang Warriors had recovered.
A white bundle of cloth. A bell made of two types of metal. And a necklace with a glowing symbol etched on the black stone. All three mages were taking extreme care not to touch any of the artifacts directly, and that went double for the bell. Selys noticed their anxious looks.
“Don’t worry. Those don’t count. But if you get items next time—did I mention you could earn money through bounties?”
The glowing red eyes swung back towards her. Selys nodded carefully.
“There’s bounties on all kinds of monsters. Sometimes because they’re a nuisance—you can earn money by turning in dead Quillfish, although it’s not much.”
“Just give them to me and I’ll make food. That’s more profitable.”
“Right. But there’s stuff that’s worth a lot more! Shield Spider shells for instance. An unbroken shell is worth a lot, so the Guild will pay you for any you recover. You can earn money from killing the new Raskghar—the city’s put a bounty on them—killing Lurkersnatch Fish, turning in enchanted armor which is good for melting down, and so on. There’s all kinds of stuff you can earn money from collecting! Even low-level monsters can be worth a lot. There are slime cores, Dropbat teeth, Corusdeer horns—”
“Goblin’s ears.”
Numbtongue spoke softly. Selys gulped. Erin sat up.
“That’s right. Only no one’s attacking you. It would be a crime to attack another Bronze-rank team. Isn’t that right, Selys?”
The Drake nodded.
“They would have to identify themselves. But yes, it is illegal to attack an adventurer. So…”
She looked at the Hobgoblins. They stared at each other and made a few gestures she couldn’t explain. Then they stood up. Selys scooted her chair back as the Hobgoblins looked at her. Headscratcher spoke.
“We do it. We be adven—”
He stumbled over the word. He was a lot less fluent than Numbtongue.
“Adventurers.”
The word was almost reverential. Selys nodded and saw some heads staring her way. Revi shook her head slowly.
“So much for standards.”
Erin glared at her. The Stitch-Woman didn’t so much as blink. The Redfang Goblins stared at her and then seemed to put her out of their minds. They looked at each other and patted each other on the shoulders. Then their heads turned as Pisces pushed his chair back from the table. He looked around importantly.
“I am positive that the necklace is cursed.”
All the side conversations in the inn went quiet. Ceria looked up as she chewed on her second plate of fish flakes, extra spicy.
“You sure, Pisces?”
“Positive. The enchantment is simply too suspicious. The intent of casting, the gripping spell that would keep it from being removed—I can categorically state that it is cursed.”
“What an astute observation. Which I had made ten minutes ago.”
Falene smiled cattily at Pisces. He flushed and narrowed his eyes.
“You brought up the speculation. I am making a definitive statement.”
“I note the difference. The real question is, are the other two cursed? Or do they exude harmful effects?”
“That is uncertain. And I am getting a headache trying to puzzle it out. Neither artifact is straightforward—the cloth is certainly not spelled as a simple protective garb, if it is clothing at all.”
Typhenous rubbed at his eyes, frowning into his white beard. Pisces looked around, annoyed.
“Well, we have identified one of the possible dangers. It is entirely likely the other two are beneficial—the dungeon makers would have had to hide their treasures somewhere.”
“Assuming they didn’t make everything cursed.”
Revi muttered under her breath. Jelaqua nodded.
“Identifying the scary artifacts is good, kids, but even if you’re fairly certain the other ones aren’t trapped, who’s going to test them out? Any volunteers? I can replace my body and I wouldn’t do it if you paid me. This needs a real [Enchanter].”
All eyes swung towards the Redfang Goblins. They stared at the artifacts. Rabbiteater picked at his nose. Instantly, all eyes swung away in disgust. Erin sighed. It looked like there would be more trouble still. She wondered if she should see about making food in preparation for tonight—there would be a crowd from Liscor for the play! Then she glanced over her shoulder and swore.
“Damnit—Lyonette! When did we last check the door?”
“Oh no!”
Lyonette rushed over to the magic doorway. She checked it—the bright green mana stone told her it was attuned to Celum. The [Builders] still hadn’t finished the bridge to Liscor, so the only means of getting to the city was via the doorway. But that meant that if they didn’t check it, no one could get through via Celum or Liscor.
