There were about two hundred varieties of fish in the waters outside of her inn. Erin had been told at least a quarter of them were objectionable in some way, so she stared hard at the dead Quillfish’s insides.
“It doesn’t look poisonous. And my [Dangersense] isn’t going off. My [Advanced Cooking] says I can cook it—what do you think, Mrsha?”
She held up the Gnoll and let Mrsha eagerly sniff the fish, which had been carefully descaled and dequilled by Erin. She’d been wearing gloves. Now the fish was in fillet form. Mrsha sniffed it a few seconds longer and then gave Erin the nod.
Having passed three of her tests, Erin decided the Quillfish was safe to eat. So she cut the fillet into smaller pieces and found a lemon. She squeezed it, rubbed it into the fillet, and then found flour and put a pan on the stove. The fire was already going, and Erin had put enough fuel in the stove to last her a while.
“Pass me an egg, Mrsha?”
Erin mixed the flour up with a bit of dried breadcrumbs and a tiny bit of powdery cheese. Then she pressed the fillets into the mixture. She took the egg Mrsha handed her, cracked it into a bowl, added some water, and then dipped the fillet in the egg before returning it to the flour. Soon she had a coating on each fillet and her pan was hot.
“Oil—thanks, Mrsha. Stay back from the pan, you might get hit by oil spatters!”
The [Innkeeper] ushered Mrsha back as the Gnoll greedily watched her place the first fillet on the pan. The fish pieces browned quickly, and soon, Erin had many little fried pieces of fish. They were mostly circular and looked sort of like potato chips. They were meant to be bite-sized, and the result pleased Erin. She absently smacked Mrsha’s paw as the Gnoll reached for one.
“Not yet. It needs the finishing touch.”
So saying, Erin reached for a dark brown bottle of sauce filled with little seeds and dried spices. Erin tasted a bit. Her eyebrows shot up in approval.
“Mm. Gnolls make good sauces. This one’s spicy. Want some, Mrsha?”
She fed the Gnoll a spoonful of the spicy fish sauce, watching Mrsha lick her chops, and then poured it over the fish pieces. Lightly—she could always add more. Erin thought for a moment and then found her mayonnaise. The condiment was hard to make, but she felt it had a place here.
“Chives? Where are…oh, there they are.”
Erin found a bunch of fresh chives sitting out in the open, ignoring all health codes or refrigeration standards. She checked them carefully before she began chopping them up.
“It’s not that they get bad, but now some of my veggies start growing! And bugs still love eating them. You tell me if you see any of them crawling in here, okay, Mrsha?”
The Gnoll nodded and snatched her paw back from the fish flakes as Erin turned her head. She watched as Erin mixed the chives into the yellow mayonnaise, her tail beating impatiently. When Erin added the bowl of chived mayonnaise to her plate, Mrsha gave her a look that said quite clearly that she would die without food in the next moment.
“Fine. Here. You may have one piece.”
Erin let Mrsha carefully select the biggest flake and dip it in the mayonnaise. The two sauces mixed as Mrsha chewed the flake carefully. The Gnoll closed her eyes as she chewed, and Erin waited. Mrsha’s tail started beating faster, and a smile appeared on her face. Erin smiled too.
“That’s a good endorsement.”
With that, she took the food out of the kitchen and into the common room. Mrsha jumped off the kitchen counter to follow her.
“Experimental fish flakes are ready! Anyone want a bite? On the house!”
She approached two of her early-morning guests. They were sitting apart from each other, but both looked up at Erin’s voice. Selys, tail swishing idly, and Ylawes, sitting with perfect posture in his seat.
“What’s that, Miss Solstice?”
“Breaded fish…flakes. Fresh from outside! They look like flakes. It’s a snack. Or dinner if I find a bigger fish to cut up. Want a try?”
Erin offered the plate to him. Ylawes hesitated, and she wondered if breaded fish were not a thing he’d ever tried before. But Selys clearly had, and Mrsha’s leaping up on the table to peer greedily at the platter convinced him. He took a piece and bit into it. Erin watched him chew and swallow before the [Knight] smiled at her.
“Ah. That is delicious. May I?”
“Sure. Selys, you want in on this?”
“Sure. Hey Mrsha, do you want to eat with me?”
Selys smiled at Mrsha as the Gnoll realized she’d get a helping too. They began eating at Ylawes’ table. The [Knight] glanced sideways at Selys and then helped himself to another fish flake.
“Did you say this was freshly caught?”
“Yup. Bird shot it this morning. He says there aren’t enough birds, so he practices on the fish when he’s bored.”
“He can’t swim. How did he fetch them?”
“Oh, I had one of the Goblins go pick it up. Actually, this fish isn’t the one I got. A bunch of Quillfish were nibbling at the one Bird shot, so Headscratcher grabbed them all. With his bare hands.”
“Ah, the Goblins.”
Ylawes paused in eating. He looked around, but the Goblins weren’t here. Neither were most of Erin’s guests. It was a bit too early for that; both he and Selys had arrived at the early morning shift, before Erin’s usual crowd showed up. The Goblins were, in fact, busy sparring outside of Erin’s inn. If she listened, she could sometimes hear a thud when one of them hit another particularly hard.
As for her adventurers, neither the Halfseekers nor the Horns of Hammerad liked getting up early. Back when Griffon Hunt had been around they would come down early, but the other teams liked sleeping in.
You got to know your guests. Erin knew she had about thirty minutes before the adventurers would come down, so she settled down at the table. She bit into her fish flake and smiled as the hot oil and spices made her mouth water.
“Yum. Spicy, though. Hey, try dipping it in the mayonnaise, Selys.”
“Mm. This is good too. But I like spices.”
“Drakes love spices. But I’ve gotta think about my Gnoll and Human customers. You want a drink, Ylawes?”
The armored man had gotten a hot pepper seed and was flushing slightly. He nodded.
“I would be grateful.”
Erin found a tankard and filled it with milk behind the bar. She passed it to him, and Ylawes drank quickly. Selys looked around.
“No Lyonette today? Is she still having…issues?”
Erin smiled.
“The opposite, actually. She’s doing well. I sent her into Liscor to do shopping while we wait to test her Skill again.”
“Oh? She got a new Skill?”
“Yeah. Would you believe it? She leveled again. She won’t tell me what level she is now, but get this—she got a rare Skill! [Flawless Attempt]!”
Ylawes looked up with interest as he dipped a fish flake in mayonnaise. Mrsha looked up as well, her mouth stuffed. Selys frowned.
“That is rare. I’ve never heard of that variation before. I’ve heard of the flawless line of Skills of course—[Flawless Strike], [Flawless Dodge], uh—”
“[Flawless Defence]. That’s a [Knight] or [Warrior]’s Skill.”
Selys nodded gratefully at Ylawes.
“Exactly. They’re good Skills. You can perform a perfect attack once every few hours. But attempt? What does that do?”
“We’re not sure. Lyonette says it’s not like the others. She can’t do things perfectly, but she does it…to the best of her abilities? She made Mrsha an omelette with it this morning.”
Both Drake and Human immediately glanced sideways at Mrsha. She looked up, her face smeared with sauce. Erin handed her a napkin which Mrsha ignored. The Gnoll started licking her fur instead.
“Doesn’t sound too impressive.”
“You’d think so, but this was a great omelette. One of the best! It wasn’t perfect, but it was close! I think that’s what the Skill does. Anything Lyonette can do she does at her best. But we have to wait for it to recharge or something.”
“Right. You can’t use active Skills right away. There’s always a cool down. But that’s a nice Skill.”
Erin grinned.
“Isn’t it? We’ve been brainstorming how to use it best. The thing is, Lyonette doesn’t need to use it for most things. I can cook and I have [Advanced Cooking], so there’s really no point in her using it there. I was sort of hoping she’d use it to play chess with me.”
“Of course you would.”
Selys rolled her eyes. Ylawes chewed his actual breakfast, a half-finished omelette, and took another sip from his cup. Erin shrugged.
“What? She said it would be interesting, and my magic chessboard’s been inactive recently. Besides, new opponents are always fun. I hardly get to play as much with all the plays going on every day.”
“I heard about that. A bunch of Drakes I know are talking about visiting tonight. Something about you putting on a new play?”
“Right. We put on the Triumph of Liscor and Othello, but now the Players of Celum want to really draw in an audience so they’re going to put on Juliet and Romeo for our audience tonight. I think it’ll be a hit!”
“I haven’t seen that one. I think. I saw the one with the angry Human who kills his [King].”
“Hamlet. Or maybe you’re thinking of Macbeth? There’s a lot of killing of [Kings] in Shakespeare’s stuff.”
“Well, I’ll watch the one tonight if I have time. But I’m really here just to talk to your Goblins. It’s my day off but Grandmother insisted, so here I am.”
Selys twitched her tail as she reached for a fish flake and discovered only crumbs. Ylawes brushed at his clean-shaven face with his handkerchief and glanced at Erin.
“Have they been causing trouble? Your, ah, security?”
Erin glanced at him.
“Not a problem. Why?”
The [Knight] glanced at Mrsha and then cleared his throat.
“No reason in particular. Forgive me, Miss Solstice. As an adventurer, I worry. Hobgoblins are a far cry from regular Goblins, and ordinary Goblins are dangerous enough. I can’t help but feel as though the ones in your inn are similar to a group I met in Esthelm. Those were dangerous fighters. Although, they were honorable in their own way.”
He broke off, musing to himself. Erin paused as Selys rubbed Mrsha’s tummy. The Gnoll was happily stuffed and content to let the Drake comb through her fur with one claw.
“Well, you can listen to Selys lecture them about becoming adventurers.”
Ylawes nearly spat his drink out.
“Becoming—are you serious?”
“Mhm. Selys got her grandmother to approve the paperwork. They’ll be a Bronze-rank team. They won’t go into Liscor, obviously, but this way they can earn money killing monsters.”
The [Knight] stared at Erin, aghast. He shifted his gaze to Selys, and the Drake gave him a nod and a rueful grin.
“You are serious. Silver and steel. Miss Solstice, I must protest. Goblins are not—”
“Adventurer material? Funny, I bet people say the same thing about Antinium. And guess who’s on your sister’s team?”
Erin sat back at the table as Ylawes frowned. She glanced at her stairs. Yvlon was probably still upstairs. She always came down with her hair combed and her armor on. That was dedication.
“You’re here to see Yvlon, right?”
Ylawes frowned, caught off-guard by the change in conversation. He hesitated and then nodded.
“I’d like to talk with her, yes. I can’t help but feel she’s been avoiding me of late.”
“Gee, I wonder why.”
Erin rolled her eyes. Ylawes frowned.
“Is she?”
For a second, Erin wished she had a mug to polish. That was a very [Innkeepery] thing to do, she felt. She shrugged as she poked Mrsha’s stomach and made the Gnoll giggle silently.
“She’s your sister. You tell me.”
“Would that I could. But I’ve never been able to understand my sister’s mind. I would be grateful if you could advise me.”
Erin paused, frowning.
“I’m just an [Innkeeper]. I shouldn’t have to tell you. Although I could give you psychiatric help. The doctor is in!”
She grinned, struck by a nostalgic thought. Ylawes just looked blank.
“Pysc—what?”
“Advice. For five copper coins.”
Erin didn’t really expect Ylawes to bite. She was just teasing him and indulging herself. But when the [Knight] reached for his belt pouch and produced the coins, Erin had to find a mug to shake them in. Selys and Ylawes watched, although the Drake knew enough to know Erin was just being weird.
“Alright, I’ve had enough fun. You want advice, Ylawes? When your sister comes down the stairs, don’t ask her to come back to your home or tell her your family misses her. In fact, don’t tell her what to do. Just say hi and have a nice chat.”
“I wasn’t going to—”
Ylawes broke off, and Erin nodded knowingly.
“See? That’s honesty. Which is good! You were going to ask her if she wanted to return home, weren’t you? She’d hate that. That’s why she doesn’t want to talk to you. That and she resents you being here.”
“She resents me being here? Why?”
This time both Selys and Erin sighed as one. Mrsha copied them happily. Ylawes looked at them, confused. Erin looked at him, exasperated and amused.
“Why do you think? You’re her big older brother, coming to tell her what to do and ‘protect’ her when she’s a grown woman! Plus, you’re the thing she wants to be. A [Knight], a Gold-rank adventurer…all the things she failed to become. I just bet she always got compared to you growing up, didn’t she?”
“She did. I never gave it any thought. But how could you know that?”
Ylawes looked stunned, which greatly pleased Erin. She gave him her most mysterious smile.
“Let’s just say I had a feeling. Do you trust me now?”
The [Knight] had to nod. Selys gave Erin an admiring look.
“You’re pretty good at this advice thing, Erin. Is it because of your class? Or a Skill?”
“Nah. I mean, maybe it is, but this kind of story was really common back in my—uh, country. In any…country, I bet. But you’re right, I am good at this! Hey, maybe I should open up a side business!”
“Before you do that—”
Ylawes coughed, and all three females turned their gaze back to him. Mrsha, Selys, and Erin—three races, alike in their exasperation for a brother’s lack of understanding. Well, maybe not Mrsha. She was just pretending. But she was having fun, which was the key. Ylawes stroked his chin, frowning.
“You say Yvlon’s trying to get out of my…shadow. But then why did she agree to let me help her explore the dungeon? And why hasn’t her team entered the dungeon yet? I know they’re prepared. But every time I ask Miss Springwalker, I get only evasive answers. That was why I came to talk to them today, actually.”
Erin’s smiled faded a bit. She took a deep breath.
“Hoo boy. Um…that’s a different reason altogether.”
“Would you explain it? My teammates are growing tired of waiting. As am I.”
