Normally they had Ishkr or Drassi or one of the new helpers change the door every ten minutes. It was a royal pain, but they’d gotten a system working. Unfortunately, the help only arrived at lunchtime, and until then, Erin and Lyonette had left people hanging. Lyonette fumbled with the little bowl beside the door.
“We’re late for our daily check in with Pallass!”
“Don’t worry. Venim just gives us a list of people going through, and it’s normally no one. He’ll just be mad is all, but I bet a [Guardsman] will have it if we ask—”
Erin broke off as Lyonette put the yellow mana stone on the door and opened it. She heard the voices.
“—do you think we must wait? Should we perhaps keep one of us here while the others—”
The door opened, bringing in sunshine, a cool breeze without a trace of rain, and an open street. Erin saw through the doorway to Pallass a group of furry people, armed with bows and light leather and hide armor, clustered in front of the doorway. They looked up and gaped as the door opened.
“By the tribes!”
“At last!”
One of them exclaimed. They stepped forwards as Lyonette backed up. Erin stared as the Gnolls clustered in front of the doorway.
“Oh wow.”
“Greetings! Are you in charge of the doorway? We are requesting entrance to Liscor. We have paid for transport, yes? The [Mage] will—what is the phrase? Supply the door with mana?”
A Gnoll with light grey fur called cautiously to Lyonette. She looked at Erin for instructions. Erin hesitated.
“Uh—sure! Come on in! Yeah! Just…step through!”
Cautiously, the Gnolls did. They came through in single-file, looking around, sniffing the air. Not just one or two of them. Not just three or four. Nine armed Gnolls came through, their pelts in every color from the light grey of their leader to a Gnoll with russet red fur and dark black stripes across his chest and ears. They all had bows of differing styles—Erin identified some as composite bows from her crash-course in bows from Krshia, while other Gnolls had different versions. They also carried shortswords, clubs, and in one case, a nasty looking barbed spear. When all the Gnolls were through, Erin saw a Drake [Mage] step back.
“Everyone through?”
“Yes. Thank you.”
The Drake nodded abruptly and walked away. Lyonette hesitated by the door and then closed it. Erin stared at the Gnolls.
“Uh.”
They regarded her with curious brown eyes. Even the shortest of them was taller than Erin by a good bit. They were lean and muscled, and as they looked at the other silent adventurers, Erin got a definite sense that they weren’t here for a social visit. She knew from the way they stayed together, even the way they deferred to the grey Gnoll. These were adventurers.
And they clearly recognized the others. Some of the nine Gnolls pointed surreptitiously at Halrac, and another looked straight at Ylawes.
“That is him, yes? The one who fell?”
The other adventurers exchanged glances as the Gnolls looked around as if they were spectators at some kind of show. Erin still had a lot of questions, but she put on her best smile.
“Hi there!”
All the Gnolls immediately looked at her. Erin waved at Lyonette covertly, and the young woman started.
“Sorry about the delay. Really sorry. We were a bit busy and, uh, forgot to check the door. Welcome to my inn! My name is Erin Solstice. I’m the [Innkeeper]. Can I get you something to drink? Something to eat? Where are you all from? You’re adventurers, aren’t you?”
The Gnoll in charge blinked down at Erin. He looked younger than some of his companions, but Erin guessed he was around her age. Younger? He bared his teeth and then seemed to realize that wasn’t socially polite in Human culture. He changed his smile to a more restrained, toothless one.
“Greetings, Miss Solstice. I am Nailren of the Fletchsing Tribe. We are adventurers. I am leader of my team—The Pride of Kelia. We thank you for your hospitality and allowing us use of your door.”
“Oh! It’s no problem. Sorry again for waiting. Wow, you’re a Gnollish adventurer team? I’ve never met an all-Gnoll team before!”
Nailren grinned proudly.
“No? Ah, it is not common in Liscor I suppose. But Gnoll adventurers are a common sight further south. We came north to tackle Liscor’s dungeon. We would be grateful to speak of it to you, yes? And to reach Liscor. We understand this inn is not part of the city and it is raining. Is there a route or boat we may hire?”
“Boat? We have something better! A magic door! But hold on—before you go to the Adventurer’s Guild, why not stay for breakfast? Er—brunch?”
Erin tried to usher the Gnolls to a seat. They looked at Nailren, and one of them, a female Gnoll with yellowish fur and a feather behind one ear, muttered.
“Look at the teams, Nailren! And this inn was the one in the moving pictures, yes?”
“Yes. That is, we would be honored to stay. Please, may we put our gear somewhere for a moment? We are armed for travel. I would not want to offend.”
“Oh no, I’m not offended! Please put them anywhere! Uh—how about that wall? Don’t mind the bee. That’s Apista. Lyonette, let’s get some drinks for our guests! Everyone else, move back!”
Shooing the other adventurers back, Erin scrambled to get food and drinks ready. Gnolls! They sat after putting their gear away. The other adventurers hadn’t yet spoken, but as Erin and Lyonette rushed into the kitchen, Jelaqua moved forwards.
“Adventurers from the south? Good to meet you. My name’s Jelaqua Ivirith! I lead the Halfseekers—don’t mind the smell. It’s a new dead body I’m using.”
She grinned at them, showing her teeth. One of the Gnolls sniffed her and audibly murmured.
“Selphid.”
Nailren didn’t miss a beat. He stood up and shook Jelaqua’s clawed hand, baring his teeth in a welcoming Gnoll smile.
“I am honored to meet a Gold-rank adventurer! And one of recent fame! May I ask who else is gathered here?”
The Gnolls in his team murmured agreement, looking at the other teams appreciatively. The adventurers preened a bit at that and began coming forwards to introduce themselves. As the ice broke, the mood instantly warmed, and Erin saw them standing around the table, asking exactly how far the Gnolls had travelled, what their team specialized in, and so on. She saw Mrsha pad forwards, her tail wagging as she stood up on two legs to see the new Gnoll team.
For a second, the Gnolls didn’t see her, but one sniffed and looked down. His gaze focused on Mrsha, and his eyes widened. The Gnoll leapt up from the table with a shout.
“White fur!”
The other Gnolls looked around. They stood up instantly, staring at Mrsha. She fell onto all fours, and her ears and tail went down. Instantly, she ran backwards and hid behind Moore. Erin stopped, hands filled with her plate full of fish flakes. Nailren was growling at the Gnoll who’d shouted.
“Hush, Bekr! It is a child!”
“But the fur—”
Nailren turned, saw Erin staring and reached back to cuff his teammate on the shoulder.
“Shush!”
“That’s Mrsha.”
Erin put the plate carefully on the table. She saw some of the Gnolls sniff as the scent of the hot fish flakes reached their noses, but they didn’t take their eyes off of Mrsha. Erin folded her arms.
“She’s a survivor of the Stone Spears tribe. They were attacked by the Goblin Lord. She lives here. Is that a problem?”
“No.”
Nailren replied instantly and authoritatively, although some of his teammates seemed less than sure. He glanced around, growled quietly, and they all sat down. Nailren lowered his head to Erin.
“My deepest apologies Miss Solstice. We are not as…traditional as our tribes. We do not bear hostility or fear towards those with white fur, but it is a surprise.”
“I understand. But Mrsha is friendly. Isn’t that right, Mrsha?”
Erin tried to coax Mrsha out from behind Moore’s back, but the Gnoll child was scared now and refused to budge. Nailren looked at his companions and then growled something softly. Erin had no idea what he said, but he seemed to repeat himself after a second.
Another Gnoll, the female with the feather and yellow fur, echoed the growl, and Mrsha slowly came out from behind Moore. She approached slowly as everyone watched, and her tail wagged a bit. She stood up and waved a paw at them. Nailren looked confused. He glanced at Erin, and she realized the second miscommunication.
“Mrsha can’t speak.”
“Ah.”
That second piece of information did its round across the Gnoll faces. Nailren looked at his companions and shook his head.
“Forgiveness. Again. We are glad to see a Gnoll child, especially after travelling the Drake cities. Please ignore our rudeness.”
He glanced at the others and then quite obviously changed the subject.
“Is this Deki paste that I smell? On fried fish, it seems? But what are the yellow-white things? And why do the fishes smell of flour and bread?”
Erin smiled, relieved, as Lyonette gathered Mrsha into her arms and Moore sat back so the Gnoll could watch with him.
“These are fish flakes! Here—try some.”
Crisis averted, the Gnolls sat, and the other adventurers found themselves hungry for a snack after breakfast. Erin rushed back into the kitchen and paused.
“Oh damn, I forgot. Lyonette? Check if anyone’s in Celum. Octavia might be starving to death. Again!”
The [Barmaid] put down Mrsha and stood up. Eager to help, Mrsha raced to the door and removed the yellow stone herself. As the others watched, she put another mana stone on the door and swung it open. Instantly, Erin heard another voice, a woman’s, speaking loudly and with great irritation.
“For the last time, Miss [Alchemist], we are not buying one of your potions. We already bought something out of courtesy. No, we don’t need another healing potion. Or a stamina potion. Or a mana potion. We have plenty! Please take that bottle away before I shove it up—”
There were more people standing in Octavia’s shop. A woman was arguing with the Stitch-Girl, poking her finger at Octavia, who was giving her a desperate smile and holding a glowing yellow potion. The adventurer was flanked by five teammates, all Human, and as they turned, they stared.
“Dead gods!”
One of them exclaimed. Erin saw the woman arguing with Octavia shift, and the weapon on her back, a sledgehammer of all things, caught the light. Her companions were decked out with other fighting gear including ropes slung across shoulders, crossbows, swords, and even a net! They were adventurers too. And they stared into Erin’s inn.
“It really is a magic doorway! Look at that, Earlia!”
“I see that! Hallo there! Is this inn open?”
Earlia, the woman with the sledgehammer, called at Mrsha, who was the one she could see. Mrsha immediately ran for it and hid behind Moore again. Erin hurried into view.
“Hello! Hello! We’re in! Come on through! Anyone want food? I’m Erin!”
The adventurers stared at her, and then Earlia grinned.
“Alright then! Pile on through, you lot!”
They hurried into the inn with a bit too much eagerness. Erin saw Octavia sigh and peered at her suspiciously. The [Alchemist] waved and then the door closed. Suddenly, the inn was full of people! Erin saw the adventurers gaping at the huge space behind her and was acutely grateful for her [Grand Theatre] Skill.
“Sit anywhere you like! Put your stuff anywhere you like! Hi, I’m Erin. This is my inn. I’m terribly sorry for the delay—you’re the second band of adventurers who’ve come through this morning! These are all other adventurers—want food?”
“Dead gods, what a lot of teams! Is this some kind of inn that caters to adventurers?”
Earlia stared around at the other teams. She shifted her warhammer and then caught sight of one of the Redfang Goblins standing at the back of the inn. She immediately changed grips.
“Hobs!”
Her teammates instantly grabbed for their weapons. Erin waved her hands frantically.
“Wait, wait, wait!”
She needn’t have shouted. As soon as Earlia had exclaimed, she was shouting at her teammates.
“Hold! Hold, damn it all! They’re not attacking!”
She’d made the obvious conclusion that if the Hobs were in the inn with the adventurers, they couldn’t exactly be rogue monsters. Still, half of her teammates refused to put down their weapons. Erin saw some of the Gnolls shifting uneasily too. She waved her hands for everyone’s attention.
“Excuse me! We have an important rule in this inn! Please read that!”
She pointed to the sign she’d put on the wall right by the doorway. The adventurers read it.
“No killing Goblins?”
They exchanged incredulous looks, but Earlia nodded as if she’d expected it. She whistled softly as she glanced at Erin and then looked around the giant common room.
“So the rumors are true after all.”
“Rumors?”
The adventurer nodded. She stowed her warhammer against a wall and held out a hand. Erin shook it, feeling her rough calluses. Earlia gave her a cocksure grin.
“Sorry about that, Miss. Yes, the rumors! I didn’t believe it myself—thought we’d have to travel for another four days to get to Liscor! But we heard all manner of talk the closer we got to Celum. People say there’s a crazy inn just outside of Liscor with Hobgoblin security and a magic doorway. They say the inn’s guarded by Hobs and Hollowstone Deceivers, and that the innkeeper can melt folks with her eyes!”
“They do?”
Erin was flattered. Earlia laughed.
“Not just that! We heard for a fact that the inn’s got more than a few tricks up its sleeve. This place fought off hundreds of moths during the Face-Eater Moth attack on Liscor! It’s famous! Uh, what’s the name of it?”
“The Wandering Inn!”
She didn’t know whether to be indignant or happy. Erin propped her hands on her hips.
“And I’m Erin! Erin Solstice! I told you that. Do people talk about me?”
Rumors had already spread about the attack on Liscor? That made sense—Wistram had broadcast the images of the battle across the world. But to Erin’s great disappointment, Earlia bit her lip.
“Uh—no. We heard there’s a crazy Human living here—that you?”
“That’s me! They don’t even mention my name? What about me during the battle? What about the city?”
The adventurers were seated now, and Lyonette was running from the kitchen to the common room. They were out of fish flakes, so she brought out Erin’s other snacky foods. Earlia grabbed some bread and soft cheese and bit into it as she spoke, talking around her mouthful.
“Not much, honestly! Everyone’s talking about the battle for Liscor, but only how intense it was. We heard all about it as we were headed this way. Second-hand. Apparently there are recordings, but no one had a scrying orb to show us, so we got it out of a [Mage] who’d seen most of it.”
“Recordings of the battle?”
