“It’ll all be here tomorrow. Information, transport, everything. You can find an inn in Liscor or Celum. I’ll keep my door open. Find an inn, get settled, and if you need to, talk with the Adventurer’s Guild. But regardless, come back here, and I’ll help you get into the dungeon.”
“Erin!”
She spun and glared at Jelaqua.
“What?”
Jelaqua looked furious. She pointed at the Silver-ranked adventurers.
“You’re going to get those kids killed! This is insane, even for you. If you let them go in—”
“If I don’t, they’ll find another way. Or are you planning on beating them up and locking them up?”
Erin challenged the Selphid. Jelaqua opened her mouth furiously and tried to come up with a response.
“We—”
She hesitated and looked at Ylawes and Halrac uncertainly. The [Knight] was scrubbing a hand through his hair, looking frustrated. Halrac folded his arms.
“Erin’s right.”
“Halrac! You too?”
The [Scout] nodded. Erin gave him a grateful look. She turned and faced the others.
“You can’t stop Silver-ranked teams from going in. That’s what being an adventurer is all about, right? However, I can help. This inn will be more than a place for people to rest. If adventurers are going into the dungeon, I’ll try and make sure they come back out.”
“You are insane.”
Revi poked a finger at Erin. She glared back.
“Oh yeah? You do something then! Go ahead and stop them. I’ll try and stitch you back together once the fight is over, but no promises! I’m bad with needles.”
The Stitch-Girl looked around helplessly, mouth open in outrage. But Erin knew she was right. Both The Pride of Kelia and Gemhammer were ready to fight. And they were right, in a way. Erin didn’t quite look at the Horns of Hammerad.
“Playing it safe is all very well, but if they want to enter the dungeon responsibly, that’s their call. All I can do is help. That’s why I’m an [Innkeeper], not an adventurer. With that said—”
She swung back to both teams and looked at them.
“Tomorrow. You don’t rush this. You get some sleep, figure out where you’re sleeping, and come back when you’re ready. You can try going now, but I guarantee you that my magic stuff and maps and so on will help. Got it?”
Earlia and Nailren looked at her. It was the Human who lowered her sledgehammer first.
“You’re as crazy as they say. I like you! We’ll do it your way, Miss Erin. You wouldn’t happen to have any rooms for us, would you?”
Erin gave her a wide, relieved smile.
“Sorry. My Hobgoblins took all but two. I have a basement open if you can’t find any inns in Liscor, though. But I’m sure Celum has space.”
 
——
 
Later, Erin found herself carefully writing on a piece of parchment with a quill and ink. It wasn’t easy. She had cramped handwriting, and she had trouble getting it to look good, since it was meant to be read from afar. At last she gave up, had a smart idea, and went to get Lyonette.
“Why don’t you do it with your [Flawless Attempt]?”
That made everything incredibly easy. Erin watched with envy as Lyonette wrote huge words on the parchment, even managing to add a rough sketch in charcoal. When it was done, Erin plastered the parchment to the wall of her inn by the magic doorway. She paused.
“We might need a bulletin board. This works for now, though.”
Lyonette went to stand by her. She looked up and read the words she’d so carefully inscribed on the parchment.
 
Wanted. Information on the sightings of the Minotaur known as Calruz. He has one arm, possibly wields a battleaxe, and is bad-tempered sometimes. Credible information provided under [Detect Truth] spell will be rewarded with 50 gold coins.
 
“Do you think it’ll work?”
“If adventurers are going down into the dungeon? Why not? This way they’ll all keep an eye out, even if they’re not actively looking. And I’m going to make sure they all come through my inn before they enter.”
Erin folded her arms and frowned with determination. Her ears still rang from her shouting match with Revi. But she knew she was right. The dungeon was a threat. It had to be entered. And adventurers would keep going in. And if they were going to go in, they might as well go in prepared.
The Gold-rank teams were smart. They were cautious. They planned ahead. But they were also sort of elitist. They wanted to keep the map, the information about the dungeon, and the right to enter to themselves. Erin understood that, but she knew it wasn’t practical. And if something wasn’t practical, what was the point? She nodded at Lyonette.
“Think the bridge is ready?”
“I think so. The Gnoll in charge told me it was nearly done.”
“Good! Then let’s check it out.”
Erin left the inn and stepped out into the rain. Still raining? Yup. Her cozy, well-lit inn was at odds with the downpour outside. Erin thought she might get more business if she let people from Liscor go to Celum or Pallass for a holiday in the sun. She stared down her hill to where the water met the land.
There was a bridge there. It was simple, made of wooden planks tied onto rope with two rope handrails. The bridge sat on the water, and it stretched to a tall pole jutting out of the water. A hill, or the top of one. The [Builders] had anchored the bridge there and stretched it to another hill. Thus, the bridge zigzagged from the top of hill to hill until it reached the city.
“Weird. But they said it’s good, right?”
“It should be.”
Lyonette watched as Erin walked down the hill, slipping a bit with all the wetness, and reached the bridge. As Erin stepped onto the first plank, she saw it sink into the water. Instantly, cold water filled the bottom of her indoor slippers.
“Gah! Cold!”
Still, Erin didn’t pull back. She took another step, further onto the bridge, letting it hold her weight. The bridge sunk a tiny bit as she stepped onto the wooden boards, but it was remarkably stable. Erin wiggled her toes and smiled.
“It’s so cool! It’s underwater but not! This is great!”
“It’s also dangerous.”
Lyonette observed as she stared across the bridge as it networked from hill to hill and then finally reached Liscor’s walls. From there, one had to climb a ladder up to the battlements. She frowned at the rain-thrashed waters.
“Anything could still pop out. If you’re an Antinium or unprepared for a fight, it could be risky. I won’t let Mrsha go on the bridge, and I think I’d prefer to use the magic door too.”
Erin nodded.
“Definitely. But this is a way for other people to get here. Look! I think we already have visitors!”
She pointed. In the distance, Drakes were headed across the bridge. Drakes and Gnolls and a few Humans. Lots of them. Dozens already, and Erin suspected there would be more to come. Behind her, she could hear the inn humming with life. The Players of Celum had already set up, and they were getting ready for The Triumph of Liscor performed by their second-string cast, before they put on Juliet and Romeo for the first time in her inn for Liscor’s crowd.
“Lyonette, I feel like we’re actually successful, don’t you?”
“If your inn becomes a hub for adventurers on top of a place where plays happen every night, I don’t see how it wouldn’t be.”
Lyonette smiled at Erin. The [Innkeeper] grinned back. She looked speculatively back at the inn and shivered as the rain drenched her.
“Think it’ll work?”
“What, the plan with the adventurers?”
“No. Yes. I mean, the plan to get them to overcome their fear.”
There was a reason Ylawes had stopped objecting. Erin sighed as she looked back up to the inn. Lyonette shook her head.
“I don’t know, Erin. They’ve been through so much. Do they have to do it? Wouldn’t it be kinder to let them—”
“What? Stay here? Keep talking about doing it and never go in? Calruz might be alive, Lyonette. If this is anything like a story—he is. It might be dangerous. They might die.”
Erin gulped as her throat suddenly closed. The thought of her friends dying made her want to cry. But she didn’t. She wiped rain out of her eyes instead and took a deep breath.
“But that’s what makes them adventurers.”
 
——
 
The Drake stood on the balcony, dressed in rich, elegant clothing fit for a noblewoman. She looked down and spoke, her chin raised, her manner refined.
“If they do see thee they will murder thee.”
Below her, concealed in the bushes, a Human man looked up. His clothes were no less fine, but the colors muted. He had snuck here uninvited, and his life was in as much jeopardy as she said. But he responded with brash confidence.
“Alack, there lies more peril in thine eye than twenty of their swords. Look thou but sweet, and I am proof against their enmity.”
His words made the Drake smile unwillingly. She opened a fan to conceal her expression and replied. Pisces didn’t have to hear her to know what she’d said. He’d watched Juliet and Romeo performed countless times in Celum. Wesle and Jasi had refined their craft since then, and they embodied the [Lord] and [Lady] they were supposed to be.
“A fine performance, wouldn’t you say?”
He glanced sideways at the others sitting at his table. Ceria looked up moodily from her beef casserole. She hadn’t set into it yet, which was uncharacteristic of the half-Elf; by her side, Yvlon’s plate was equally untouched. Ksmvr was shoveling down his food like there was no tomorrow.
“What? The play? There’s certainly enough people for it.”
She glanced around the room. Erin’s [Grand Theatre] Skill afforded her a room three times as big as a normal inn, already large. It was nearly packed by Drakes, Gnolls, and Humans. Celum’s theater-loving crowd had filled some seats, but Liscor’s citizenry had finally heard of the wonders of the stage, and they had come to see what all the fuss was about. So far, they hadn’t been disappointed.
“A standing ovation for The Triumph of Liscor. Subpar writing, an unctuous display of patriotism—from Humans to Drakes, I note—only redeemed by the star of the cast. Me. What would be the appropriate response to a true work of art? Wild orgies in the streets?”
Yvlon snorted and then glared. Pisces smiled, pleased at himself. Ceria grinned unwillingly and then looked morose again. Ksmvr looked up.
“What are—”
“Later, Ksmvr.”
The Horns of Hammerad sat as they looked around the room. The Wandering Inn had risen fast, hadn’t it? From an empty house, it was now a full one and populated by movers and shakers and dancers as it were. Wall Lord Ilvriss was there, sitting with a group of Drakes. So were three Gold-rank teams, and now, three Silver-rank ones as well. The Pride of Kelia and Gemhammer had come back to eat and see the play, and they were entranced. Ceria couldn’t take her eyes off them for different reasons. She played with her fork, spreading her cheese around the plate listlessly.
“Do you think they’re right, Pisces?”
He looked at her, distracted by the play.
“Hm? Ah, well, they are certainly forthright.”
“Confident to the point of suicide, perhaps.”
Yvlon frowned, looking at the Human team. She touched her arm unconsciously, and Ceria glanced at her.
“Yeah. Yeah. The Gold-rankers certainly seem to think so. It’s just that they’re…well, they’re our level, aren’t they? Silver-rank. And they’re good too, according to what Selys managed to dig up on them.”
“Good isn’t enough for this dungeon.”
The armored [Wounded Warrior] spoke through tight lips. Ceria hesitated.
“Maybe. But they’re still willing to risk it. And here we are. We haven’t gone into the dungeon. It’s been a long time since Pisces told us that Calruz might be alive. So are we—I mean, am I—a coward?”
She choked on the words. Pisces looked up. Ksmvr stopped noshing, and Yvlon turned.
“Ceria—”
“I’m the team leader. I was part of Calruz’s team! He was my leader. I should be telling us to go in now, but every time I want to, I freeze up. I know we have to move. I know, but—”
Ceria gestured at her hands. Pisces saw her skeletal hand, holding her fork. It was shaking so badly she could barely hold on. She tried to hold her hand with her other one, but they were both shaking. Ceria shook her head, tears springing to her eyes.
“I’m a coward! I shouldn’t be Captain. But I—I know what’s down there. I know. Things like Skinner. Maybe worse. I’m afraid, but I can’t back down! And you all need a leader! I shouldn’t be a Captain. I—”
“It’s my fault too.”
Yvlon grabbed Ceria’s arm. The half-Elf looked at her. Yvlon looked pained.
“I’m afraid too. I haven’t said anything. I agreed with you—because I lost too much too. I should have asked if we wanted to go in, really wanted to risk our lives. But I was afraid of looking cowardly. I was afraid of disappointing my brother. It’s not just you, Ceria. It’s…I’m scared.”
“I know. It’s not fair to ask you to go in. Not for Calruz. Not when we could die. When it’s so likely.”
Ceria looked at Yvlon, then at Pisces. He met her gaze and then fiddled with his utensils. Ksmvr looked around.
“But you are our Captain, Captain Springwalker. How else should we move if not by your will?”
“Oh, Ksmvr. I can’t ask you to die for me. And this—I’m not worthy to do it.”
The half-Elf closed her eyes. She sat still as the play went on in the background. Pisces was still for a while, his eyes flicking to the play behind Ceria, and then he sighed.
“And yet, we follow you.”
Ceria looked up. Pisces pushed his plate back and looked at her, looked at Yvlon.
“You are afraid. You fear for our lives, rightly so. You have declined to enter the dungeon. Of course I was aware of this.”
“I was not.”
Ksmvr raised a hand. Everyone looked at him. Pisces cleared his throat.
“Friend Ksmvr. Now you are aware. By her own admission, Ceria calls herself a coward. Unfit for duty. Does that change your opinion of her? Of your position in the group?”
The Antinium cocked his head, thinking. He shook it.
“Never. If Captain Ceria and Yvlon fear to enter, command me. I will go in alone and find this Minotaur. I am part of the team. If my Captain fears, I will be fearless. If there is death, I will fight it.”
He looked around proudly and saw the pain in Ceria and Yvlon’s eyes. Ksmvr hesitated.
“What? You gave me purpose. You gave me a place. How could I offer you anything less?”
“Ksmvr.”
Ceria closed her eyes, and Yvlon reached out to grab his hand. Pisces sniffed.
“Well spoken. For my part, I do not intend to die. But neither do I intend to leave this group. I have waited. The other teams prepare. Ceria, Yvlon. If you fear to enter the dungeon, say so. I will not think twice at walking away. But if you do not—”
Pisces’ eyes glittered.
“Then say so and we will follow you into that hell.”
“Even if we die?”
