“He left this dimension," the Thresholder said, cutting Shiv off. And it was then that Shiv realized the Thresholder saw everything. The Deathless frowned. He left context once more and stayed there for a bit longer this time. While the other prisoners flinched and looked around confused, the Thresholder continued staring at Shiv.

Can they see me? A faint violet glow lit the inner gulf of the Thresholder's being, and Shiv knew that was divination mana. He wasn't sure if the Thresholder was aware of him, or if they were simply guided by the magical senses lining their insides. So he called out to them. “Can you hear me?”

The Thresholder shuddered. They turned their head slightly, as if someone who’d heard a whisper in the woods rather than a voice calling out nearby.

Okay, kind of weird, but useful to know. Still can't exactly hear me, but you can feel me nearby. Shiv wasn't sure how he felt about that. He already disliked the fact that the Ascendants could use Divination to track him when he was out of context. The last thing he needed was someone else that could counter his Unique Skill. And if the Thresholder could do so, that meant that Udraal might be able to compromise Shiv's Outside Context Problem, if they ever met. It's one godsdamn problem after another.

Shiv grumbled to himself as he emerged from his soul once more. He halted time only to discover every single Legendary prisoner before him also had a Chronomancy skill. His surprise was deepened as he realized half of them had a Chronomancy skill not too different from his. Rather than forming a temporal shell over their bodies, some had strange animal-like forms made from solid gold, while others projected a small sphere that further expanded outward like a layered onion or a temporal fortress.

All of them immediately noticed Shiv.

“So. With this skill, I can—”

Only one struck with deliberate violence.

The elf with the golden shadow came for Shiv again. He didn't know if it was her natural instincts that drove her to default to violence. But considering her Reflexes, she had more than ample time to decide otherwise. The golden shadow ripped free from her person, and Shiv watched as the elf's human base form remained still, a statue bound to the outpaced present. The golden shadow was anything but a statue. It was lightning across time. It was death riding from the future back to the past, seeking to reap a spoil of souls with its bladed arms.

As it drove its wicked scythe-like limbs against Shiv's torso, he felt a chunk of his temporal shell get slashed free. The slice was so deep and true that Shiv lost three seconds immediately, and before it could cut again, he seized the bladed limb and held it tight.

Inertial Overdrive 133 > 134

His overflow vectors crashed against its plunging blade, and a splash of gold erupted out from the back of the shadow as Shiv's Shapeless Tides repelled the offending mana. The golden shadow looked upon Shiv and flinched back in surprise. That proved to be a mistake as he drove his head into its chin. Rather than the golden shadow suffering any harm, the elf's jaw jerked aside.

The shadow tried to rip itself free, but Shiv held on tight to its bladed arm. Just then, its other hand thinned into a rapier, and it plunged, delivering another stab toward Shiv's throat. The shadow was far too fast for the Deathless to react, but his Shapeless Tides were circulating through his body.

Another chip of Chronomancy was cleaved free from Shiv's person, yet the golden shadow's blade was knocked aside, wrenched off course by a surging vector of force and countermagic. It tried to attack again, but Shiv stole the momentum and threw himself against its body.

Instead of trying to overpower it entirely, Shiv went along with its force, pulling it in close before wrapping his arms under its body. His Legendary Skill Fusion wasn't just something born of Physicality and Magical Resistance, it included Grappling as well. Grappling taught Shiv about leverage, about joints, and about centers of gravity. The golden shadow might have been a manifestation of Chronomancy, but it was still humanoid, and Shiv was quite good at wrestling humanoids.

He wrenched his foe along their midriff, pulling the shadow off the ground, and as it tried to fight the momentum, he suddenly spiked it down the other way, slamming the shadow against the ground. A resounding impact shook the room, and Shiv sprawled atop the shadow's back. Its arms lashed out, but he drove tide after tide into its body, pinning it in place, while circulating other vectors of force along its limbs. He fought to control it at first. The shadow resisted him, kicking and lashing, yet it had no ability to fight off the ground.

Its ability to resist was further worsened as Shiv drove a knee into its midsection. Once more, the shadow didn't take any damage, but the elf folded slightly, curling over her left ribs.

Shiv stole this opportunity to concentrate every single Overflow Tide he had into the shadow's right arm, and then he inverted half those tides. Fifty percent of the vectors went in one direction, fifty percent went in another. The shadow's arm didn't have joints per se, but it was still mostly solid, and solids had rules. When you bent a solid too much, it would either fold or break, and the golden shadow gave a resounding shriek before the first cracks lined the time-mana forming its body. Shiv let out a growl of effort as he circulated more tides through himself. Every time he got close to being exhausted, a new burst of force flooded his very bones and urged him to fight on.

But then a spearing pain burst from his back, and he looked down to see a golden blade protruding from his chest. He blinked, and as he turned behind, something took him across the top of his head. Death came, and only thereafter did he discover why.

Outside Context Problem 92 > 94

Inertial Overdrive 134 > 137

Strider of the Unbending Path 155 > 158

His Vitae emerged from his body as he found his skull split at a 45 degree angle. But that was secondary to the fact that there were thirty other golden shadows that had manifested into existence from out of nowhere. They came right at his body. The shadow he was trying to disable rose just then as well, and they started hacking at Shiv's corpse. In a frenzied instant, there was little left of his body beside blood and giblets.

Shiv was glad that his Voidmantid armor was bound to him. If it stayed connected to his corpse, it would have been utterly mangled as well. Just then, a fourth shadow came for Shiv. Right as his temporal shell was about to break, he almost flung himself back in time, but remembered what happened back at Gate Piety in the last moment. He'd tried to revert time when dead before, and all it did was rip his Vitae wide open. He needed to resurrect fully and be in a stable state before he could use his temporal anchor.

The Deathless growled. He launched himself forward and drove his Vitae against the nearest golden shadow. It parried his Vitae and slit the tendrils he unleashed upon down the middle. Shiv tried to concentrate on both his shapeless tides and his Pillar of Orichalcum. But he couldn't. He decided to focus on his Legendary Skill instead.

It proved to be a good choice, as another few hundred golden shadows suddenly exploded out from the thirty. In a moment, Shiv was drowned by a swarm of attackers. Blades fell from all directions. A few shadows simply burst into being, as if they had existed then all that time. Only the faintness of Chronomancy warned of their coming. The attacks were overwhelming. By all means, Shiv should have been cut down. But where his Reflexes were lacking, his Shapeless Tides prevailed.

He channeled vectors across his entire body, Overflow Tides gliding over his Vitae. His innate tides were directed outward. Blows that should have cleaved clean through his Vitae-forged form were driven back. Chronomantic blades bounced off of him after leaving shallow gaps like axe heads recoiling from plate armor. Other strikes were dragged off course. His frictionless vector skill activated over and over, causing golden blades to crash against one another. A few times, the golden scab shadows skewered their other selves as well, and through the messy tangle of limbs and shifting bodies, Shiv noticed that the elf was bleeding, her body dotted with small wounds and shallow cuts.

The shadows halted their onslaught, trying to figure out why they were the ones hurt instead of Shiv, and that was their final mistake. He reached out using his Vitae and curled a branching limb around one of the golden shadows, and he pulled, tearing at the life force inside of them. Then Shiv linked his being with Integration itself.
