All the wizard did was lay a hand on Thomas's forearm. His touch was like crawling centipedes sliding down his throat and clogging his windpipe, biting maggots just under his skin. Thomas's nose filled with the smell of rotting flesh and burned hair. The man hadn't even touched his skin, but Thomas still wanted to rip his own arm off just to get away from him.

He let out a short scream of surprised revulsion, then the man's corrupt presence fell over him like a suffocating blanket and that... that was somehow worse. His muscles locked just like when he was taking in Wellspring mana, only this was wrong. So wrong. He couldn't move but he could feel, and all he could do was let out a guttural, tortured groan.

As if from a distance, he heard Zach shout, "Tab, I'm getting it! Just—just stop!"

Then the wizard holding Thomas in thrall screamed as a sword plunged into his chest.

Jo flickered into view. The Blood Thirst sword pulsed green poison mana and she withdrew it, aiming to stab the man again.

With a gesture, the wizard flickered back to his mistress. But that released Thomas, who reeled back. If not for Zach and Jo's presence, he would have run straight back for the dungeon again. He'd rather fight the monsters all over again, naked, than have that wizard near him.

He could feel his own healing mana surging up from his core, cushioning him from what he had just experienced, but it didn't feel like enough.

Tabitha laughed and cackled some arcane sounding bullshit into the winds. Dark clouds started to gather. Human hands plunged downward, reaching for them. Thomas didn't think they were going for a handshake.

Slinging Thomas' backpack over his shoulder, Zach darted forward, grabbed Thomas and Jo... and suddenly they were ripped away in a burst of fire and darkness.

The next few split seconds were hard to describe, partially because Thomas couldn't see a thing. He just got an impression of rapid movement.

Then he, Zach, and Jo were standing in a nearly empty parking lot next to Thomas's car. They were back in Reno.

"W-what? What?" Thomas stuttered, though even he wasn't sure if he was reacting to what the wizard had done to him, or how they had gotten here, or just his life in general.

He'd half expected Zach to go teleporting around the coven like a fiery volcano demon of vengeance, not a full escape with all of them in tow.

Oh right, he had been low on mana to begin with, hadn't he?

"Who was that girl?" Jo demanded, looking around wildly. "Where are we?"

Zach didn't answer. There was a thousand-yard stare in his eyes that immediately set off red alerts in Thomas's brain.

Reaching out, Zach grabbed the top of the car as if to steady himself, then his legs buckled under him. Thomas managed to grab him just before he fell into unconsciousness.
