Even though Tabitha was on her deathbed, I had to use my entire body to pin her to the ground as I carried out my risky procedure. It probably felt like I was injecting acid into her veins; combine that with the pain she was already feeling, and it's no wonder she was trying to throw me off.

I started at her shoulder, where the bone fragments were the biggest. Again, I need to use my skeletal system as a cheat sheet, but with the added difficulty of piecing dozens of bone fragments together. The only reason I knew which pieces went where was because I was pulling a page from my crafting book and treating the bones as if they were ingots I needed to link together.

Like metal, Tabitha’s bones had a natural structure to them, and because I was used to looking at microscopic structures and knew what to look for, I was better able to match them to where they should go.

I wish I could take my time, but again, I was on the clock. It had only been a few minutes since we fell down here, and I have had to solve one problem after another. I might have been able to reduce the amount of pain Tabitha was experiencing if I had more time to work, but I had to forgo that to finish before her armor activated.

My weird surgery takes me an agonizing three minutes from start to finish. But, in that time, I was able to organize and connect all of Tabitha’s bone fragments. I also tried to stitch up her muscles and ligaments to the best of my ability, but by the time I reached that point, my mana was hovering around 10%.

If I didn’t have Tabitha’s mana potion, there was no way I would’ve been able to pull off what I did. I wanted to collapse but needed to administer the healing potion first.

I don’t know at what point it happened, I was too engrossed in controlling my mana, but Tabitha passed out due to the excruciating amount of pain, so this time, it was much easier to force her to drink the second potion than it was the first. I just needed to tilt her head back and pore the potion directly into her mouth, and she swallowed it unconsciously.

And after that, I finally collapsed backward onto my ass and sighed deeply. So much happened in such a short time, leaving me both physically and mentally drained.

My Health was hovering around 40% from the poison, but that was nothing compared to my low mana. Plus, using all my skills to break into the ruins stressed my stamina, so I was tired in almost every conceivable way.

Oh well, since Tabitha’s armor didn’t activate, I’m guessing I succeeded in saving her life. It was still a coin toss if her arms could heal properly, but I did everything I could. I had no idea when she would wake up, but until then, I’ll watch over her. And when she finally comes to, whether her arms work or not, we'll devise a way to get out of here together.

Or die trying.
