Matt just hoped that Ra’thala was as affable as he seemed and would be willing to share some more of the details of skill creation. Even if it didn’t become popular, it could be useful for those who lacked the funds but wanted to have access to skills both mundane and combat-oriented. And that was reason enough to have his guild look into this method of skill creation more.

Manny brought them back around to the original topic and gestured at the skill shards. “This is an [AI] skill shard. Once absorbed, it will give you the ability to link into our information networks where you can get answers to most questions as they come up. It is also just useful as it allows or assists most of daily life and its many conveniences. You don’t need it but few choose that route and it is a gift freely given.”

“I will accept them then. Thank you.”

“The other shards are skills that are meant to supplement the [AI] skill to boost its capabilities. They are also gifts but you should learn more about our methods of using skills before deciding on whether or not you wish to use them. If nothing else, they can act as seed money if you choose to sell them.”

Manny’s eyes hardened as he said in a more formal tone, “Now, as for something slightly less pleasant. The choice of your new home. As per long standing treaties, anyone who ascends into this Realm is given the option to move to another Great Power that more aligns with their beliefs. I can tell you about the Empire but I am unable to let you wander around unless you wish to remain here.”

Matt felt Ra’thala stiffen, but it was only for a moment before he relaxed once more.

From there, Matt and everyone else listened as Manny gave short but factual rundowns about the various Great Powers and their cultures.

In the end Ra’thala said, “I see nothing egregiously wrong with you and your people, Emperor Emmanuel. I shall take your offer of citizenship and settle down. I think it will be nice to be in such a vibrant world. You and your people have so many cultivators. It's refreshing to see from what I was used to, and I like the idea that everyone is given the opportunity to cultivate. In my Realm, it is only for those who awaken naturally or like me take the shameful route of killing a monster when unawakened.”

Manny genuinely looked like he wanted to pry into that but stood. “If that is the case, and you are amicable to the idea, my head librarian Ciceron is immensely interested in hearing what you have to say. I, however, must sadly return to my work. Once you are settled in, I will follow back up for a few more conversations that can only really happen once we both have a better understanding of each other's cultures.”

Ciceron was already waiting as they filed out of Manny’s office, but one of the Imperial staff arrived and interrupted him with a courteous bow. “The Emperor has assigned me to guide you while you are at the Capital until you have settled in or otherwise dismiss me. Before you are taken away by the head librarian, I can show you a room where you can refresh yourself.”

Ra’thala took up the offer but didn’t linger long. When he came out, his stone clothes had been replaced with comfortable baggy clothes tied tight at the ankles and wrists that Matt was sure the aide had had created on the spot for him via a high-Tier tailor.

From there, Ciceron led them to the library where they listened to Ra’thala tell his life stories in great detail.

Ra’thala had struck a deal with Manny that anything he shared would be paid for and anything that ended up being useful to the Empire would be bought for at an appropriate price.

Matt got the impression Ra’thala didn’t quite believe Manny would pay for his life's story, but he seemed willing to share nonetheless and Ciceron was eager to absorb it all.

And all of them found it fascinating; even Allie who could hardly sit still, only vanished a few times to top them off with snacks as they listened to Ra’thala tell his story and explain things about his world.

Matt knew he had suffered some as a child, but he was also self-aware enough to know that his life was still better than others. Ra’thala’s life on the other hand seemed like one of pain and hardship for the vast majority of it. Being forced to fight for a Tier 4 in wars of conquest, becoming a cultivator through what he felt was a shameful method, and then being talented enough to reach the peak of Tier 4 through hard work and dedication on a planet Matt suspected was only Tier 4 or 5 itself. None of that could have been easy and they were only getting the highlights of his adventures.

Ciceron speculated that at least part of Ra’thala’s advancement speed was thanks to his cultivation method which, after a little examination, seemed built around the idea of cultivating uncompacted ambient essence. It neither required monster essence or even seemed to particularly want it if Ra’thala’s comment on those who tried to cultivate using monster essence crippling themselves wasn’t due to an unrelated reason.

If Ciceron’s speculation was correct, the reason Ra’thala wasn’t crippled by his less dense cores was because of how his cultivation moved essence around in the complicated eddies they saw in his cores.

In an amusing turn of events, Ra’thala seemed downright aghast at how ‘unrefined’ and ‘simple’ their cultivation methods were when Susanne, Aster, and Allie dropped their veils long enough from him to inspect their cores. The new ascender not quite believing that they all followed the Path.

“What are the advantages of his method, doc?”

To answer Allie’s question, Ciceron spent a few seconds at Tier 40 speeds going over information but once he dropped back down to Tier 26 levels he said, “Our Realm probably used something similar, but as our new friend Ra’thala explained, it has issues. If it is similar, which is a big if, this style of cultivation method can be difficult to advance and any imperfections in the early stages can lead to being wholly unable to progress into the later ones. It also comes with significant difficulty in breaking through Tiers as a baseline, whereas our method might be simple but it's been refined enough where there aren’t any additional requirements than gathering a volume of essence and squeezing it down. Based on previous research, the eddies and complexities of this style of cultivation method is to make up for the weaker essence and lesser amount used. Look at his cores. The volume of his cores is the same but he has used roughly twenty percent less essence to get what I’d speculate is a similar amount of power to someone of a similar Tier who uses our cultivation methods. It's truly fascinating to see the differences that result in similar outcomes, and fills in a lot of questions we have had about such methods and their use in the past.”

Ra’thala looked very interested at that comment and asked, “Is there anything in your histories about using monster essence to advance with a method like mine, Master Librarian? Or even anything about advancing past my current Realm?”

Ciceron shook his head. “Nope. We in fact only have two complete methods that used to be used. A few dozen fragmented methods, but from everything we know, which let me reiterate that these methods have not been used for close to a billion years, they all needed ambient essence to function. They were all closely guarded secrets as well, but the current means of cultivation utilizing monster essence took precedence simply because of the ease by which one could achieve near-perfect compression. It has some limits, certainly, but they are ones that are easy enough to work around.”

Ra’thala looked awkward even as he looked eager. “I am new here, so I don’t have anything in the way of value, but can I trade my services to access these information tomes? Even if they don’t follow the path of the stars, they might prove useful guides for my next stage of advancement.”

Matt was going to offer to pay for the books, but Ciceron beat him to it. “I’ll be honest with you Ra’thala, my Domain revolves around gathering knowledge, so if you share what you feel comfortable with sharing to me, I’ll make anything not highly classified in the library open to you.”

Ra’thala looked around at the tomes before nodding decisively. “I’ll take you up on that deal.”

Matt leaned forward, gathering Ra’thala’s attention before they could get distracted. “I’d also like to offer something similar. You don’t have to decide now and honestly you should gather more information before deciding but I run a charity guild. I—”

Seeing Ra’thala mouthing the something he expected was the magical translation of charity guild while looking extremely confused, he spent a few moments explaining the purpose behind the guild and the reason for its existence.

“I really like the skill form you showed us earlier. I personally am not a master of such things, but I can afford to gather the masters and see if they can take what your people did and share something with our people. Some might not feel it's useful and prefer to stick with simple items until they can afford skill shards, but some people might really like a skill they can create for free so long as we can mitigate most risks. I can pay you handsomely for such knowledge, but I believe that there is value in researching this method. Your own experiences would be very helpful in that, and I would pay for that separately and generously.”

Ra’thala mulled that over before saying, “I will keep that offer in mind. Thank you. I can say that I don’t mind sharing things that aren’t directly related to my own skills. In my wanderings, I have seen and memorized many cultivation methods. For posterity's sake, I’m willing to share all of them. Maybe they aren’t as good, but I am a stranger to a strange Realm and it would make me happy to know that a bit of my Realm lives on here if nothing else. And at that point, the skill’s creation methods would be known. But unless there is something I learn that changes my mind, I have no reason to reject your offer. I wouldn’t dare to call myself an expert, but I’m fairly good at creating skills. Self-made ones at that. A few that I shared even got popular and were widely adopted.”

Aster elbowed Matt out of the way, sending a phoenix Liz squawking, as she said, “Is your Talent about skill creation?”

Ra’thala shook his head. “My manifestation, what you call a Talent, isn’t related to skill modification or creation, it would have been helpful if it was, but I was not so blessed. I believe that my —”

Ciceron held up a hand, silencing Ra’thala even as Zack and Matt were about to do the same.

“Ra’thala, as a stranger to these lands I realized that you might not have a way to quantify your Talent. Now, that is a limitation which we can rectify in a moment, but it's considered taboo to share one's Talent. Friends—” he nodded to them, “good friends mind you, might share it, but I know of spouses who haven't revealed the whole truths about their Talents to each other. I’d recommend keeping that private or at most sharing a general idea of what it is.”

Ra’thala nodded solemnly even as Aster apologized. “Sorry. I got excited. I wasn’t trying to pry. At our level, sharing stuff about your Talent is more common, but even then…”

Ra’thala just shrugged. “I take no offense, as it wasn’t a secret in my home. What one knew about it was often shared. That said, I will take your advice on this, Master Librarian. Maybe if we become friends, I will share.”

That led to a detour where they brought Ra’thala to a Talent scanner and he took a few minutes to inspect the thing.

He seemed impressed by the complexity of the enchantments and ogled the way the system prevented anyone else from seeing the readouts. Aster even demonstrated it for him twice, trying to remove her metaphorical foot from her mouth.

That then led to them showing Ra’thala an awakening machine.

That seemed to truly shock him. “I wish I could send this information to my home. My taking essence from a monster was considered a shameful secret I had told no one. Something like this, that can awaken many with just a single monster? Amazing.”

Liz asked her own question. “It's considered a right to awaken in the Empire. Even just low-level cultivation is so useful for anyone. You mentioned your family, did any of them become cultivators? Which let me applaud your people, inspirations are rare here. Matt, Zack, and Ciceron are the only ones present to have had one.”

Ra’thala smiled lightly as he shook his head. “Sadly, no. By the time Warlord O’dchigin was slain in battle, my parents had already passed away. A famine combined with a long winter were too much for them. As for my younger brother, he survived but it had been almost a decade since I had been taken away to join the army and he hardly knew me. Combined with me becoming a cultivator, there was too much distance between us for much. After I saw to his needs and ensured he and his offspring would be taken care of, I started my own adventures, eventually leaving my world on a Sky Bridge.”

Ciceron was the only one who didn’t look surprised as Zack asked the question they were all thinking, “How did these Sky Bridges work? They seem similar to our tethers and associated teleporters.”

That information meant a trip to a teleporter, where Ra’thala inspected it before saying, “These are beyond me. I know little about how Sky Bridges work, though I can certainly predict when they will appear given some time to set up some divinations.”

