“First, have your rogue try to stab me with its dagger,” Malika instructed.

The rogue attacked, aiming to stab Malika in the stomach. Ali idly noted that she no longer worried if the rogue would be successful. I guess I’m getting used to Malika being able to heal. Malika blocked the strike with her left arm and immediately counter-punched, knocking the rogue backward. It was so quick Ali almost didn’t see what had happened. Curiously, she felt her body trying to react to the punch the Kobold had just taken. Is that my skill?

Malika healed the rogue and then demonstrated the move much slower so that Ali could follow it.

“Now make him do it,” Malika instructed.

“Ok,” Ali said and walked the rogue through the technique at the same slow speed. It was quite tricky to control the rogue mentally with her intent. At least the rogue seemed unbothered by this somewhat clumsy method of teaching Ali using his body. Malika corrected the way Ali was having the rogue move by referencing the stances she had taught in the drill sequence earlier. Ali was forced to concentrate. It was one thing to give her creatures verbal or mental commands, it was quite another to convey the totality of a physical action with any sort of precision. Once Malika was happy with her form, she began punching the rogue, increasing her speed progressively, and slowly incorporating more and more variation in attack direction. Ali felt the beginnings of the same sensation as earlier, almost as if she could physically feel what the Kobold was experiencing. The weight of her arm during the block, the force of the impact channeled down into the ground using an efficient stance, and the power buildup in the muscles of the entire kinetic chain for the retaliatory strike.

Suddenly, Ali realized that her skill was based on all her perception abilities, not just vision, as she had assumed. I think the skill is connecting my proprioception to the Kobold somehow. The idea was both remarkable and fascinating.

Suddenly, her chime sounded, startling her out of her focus.

Martial Insight has reached level 8.

“I got it! My skill leveled up.” Ali was both excited and amazed that it had actually worked. Without fighting anything dangerous, she had advanced one of her skills through nothing more than focused training.

“Awesome.” Malika grinned. “Now summon a new rogue and see if it knows the technique without you telling it.”

Oh, that’s what she meant. Ali finally realized what Malika had understood about her skill. Knowing that it would work, Ali nonetheless summoned another rogue and had it spar with Malika, noticing that, even without her doing anything, it was able to execute the new technique flawlessly on its first try.

Ali sat beside Malika as they took a break. The import of their experiment was clear to Ali now. “I have to personally learn how to fight in the style of each of my minions.” The prospect was daunting. The training exercise they had just completed had been rather thorough. If Ali had a dagger in her hands right now, she was certain she could execute the block and counterstrike maneuver her rogue had just learned. However, she had neither the strength nor the skills to make it effective.

“Yes, it seems that way,” Malika said with a smile. “Don’t worry so much, it will be fun. I can teach you, and I’m sure Calen will help if you want to have archers. Same with Mato for anything big and muscly.” Mato’s snort from over by the campfire was heard by everyone.

“Isn’t it a bit much?” Ali had been glad she had minions to fight for her, so she didn’t have to learn how – but now, she had to confront the task of learning how to fight like every single one of them.

“I think this is a very powerful skill,” Calen suggested from where he had been watching. “Leveraging your accumulated experience across every creature you summon is incredibly strong. You can train without getting physically tired while learning with multiple creatures simultaneously. That block and retaliate sequence Malika just taught you will probably immediately work for your warrior Kobolds too. You can also learn from books. Combat and fighting techniques are one of the most researched subjects. There are books for every style – even if some are complete rubbish, of course. You’d have to weed those out.”

“Maybe it will help if you approach it like learning a language. The words are your punches and kicks, sentences are your techniques and combinations, and the story or conversation is the overall fight. I think it’s a good analogy,” Malika said.

I didn’t think of books. Ali found it somewhat ironic that she had to be reminded some books could teach you skills. Also, the way Calen and Malika explained it, she no longer felt that her skill was stupid. It would be hard work, but she could see the potential now. And it’s a good excuse to go back to the bookstore!
