That was to be a pivotal moment in the Empire's future. A massive set of ripples flooded out from that singular point, and would solidify and exacerbate many things already set in motion, while washing away others. No matter what happened, he needed to be ready by then. He could have either already acted or act immediately thereafter, but that was a point he could barely see beyond.

Emmanuel eventually gave up on finding a third leverage point after spending six more fruitless years searching. Instead, he decided to trust in what worked and invest in the people around him hoping one of them might surprise him.

He already owed Aster for enabling the first fulcrum by turning over Tessa, a Clans spy she picked up in the breach instead of killing the body hopper outright. Helping Aster develop her bloodline and spirit space wasn’t as simple as piling resources on her, but they had some things that would help in the vault. And if he was already tapping into those resources, he saw no reason to hold back.

After all, unless he managed to change something, anything he held onto would only see it fatten the winners of the true war as they fed on the Empire's corpse.

No, it was better to use them. There were items all of his Ascenders could use or eventually grow into, but they were only seven, and far from enough to swallow the efforts of his forebears.

No, it was better to spread the resources wider. To create more chaos.

He’d release the Tyrannical Stygian Ursine bloodline to the Knightly Orders, using it to bolster or outright create a more loyal element in that faction. Titan’s Torch would shortly reach the critical point and have a few minor successes in more specific aura types. Riding that wave would help the orders recover.

It would be an open ploy, but that was part of its strengths. The orders would never pass up the opportunity to get their hands on the bloodline. It wouldn’t repair the generations of hate between sides, but he hoped to use it to prevent the poison from spreading further.

That thought brought a smile to Emmanuel's face. It slotted into his second fulcrum and he decided to expand the idea. Not because he thought it would create uncertainty in the future. No, he was betting on their eventual victory.

He might not be able to see it, but if he consumed without replenishing, he would only have a husk of a Great Power on the other side of even a victorious True War.

As for the resources?

At worst, his most powerful and trusted people would grow stronger. If he was lucky, he’d help someone invent some new Realm changing power, like Aura or Tier 0 skills, and completely reshuffle the board. He’d also settle for a single additional source of chaos, even a minor one, but he was desperate. Anything would be an improvement over what he foresaw if he couldn’t change something.

Emmanuel only needed to spread seeds he thought might take root and not cry over the ones that didn’t. The downside was that they only had a few thousand years before the future became the present, then past. He worried that wasn’t enough time.

But what did he have to lose? He could see the future and there was a reason he’d already bet the Farm. He might as well bet the vault as well.

The minute Emmanuel exited the rift, he started casting stones, not even bothering to watch the splashes.

***

Megan stalked down the rubble filled hall, even as the Warriors beneath her straightened from whatever they were doing into regulation perfect salutes. Not a single one let the wounds they’d suffered in the battle to uproot the spies show, but she expected nothing less. They were the best of the Warriors, who all understood what and who they worked for.

They may have never expected to see her when they joined the Internal Stability Agency, but today wasn’t a normal day, and this wasn't a normal incursion. Despite its attempt to appear as such.

At least, she suspected it wasn’t. It was too close to secrets no other Great Power should have access too. That, combined with one of her agents who discovered a hint of something out of the ordinary, had earned everyone here a personal visit.

Megan had her suspicions, but didn’t let her underlings see any of that as she slowly walked through the former base. She found her target standing at rigid attention, waiting for her outside the room in question.

Dale Yanla was missing an eye, leaving his implants clearly visible, but his voice was clear and unbothered as he described the scene that caught his attention and brought her here.

“So, they were trying to destroy this body? Even at the cost of seven lives? And preventing such nearly killed you?”

He confirmed, and she reached out with one of her tentacles. As it approached the man, she split off a single wire, unwinding it from the sinuous limb and allowing it to form an adapter at the end.

She connected to Dale, and reviewed all that his implants had experienced, parsing it through her superior cultivation. Then, she disconnected and turned away from the man.

“Understood. Whether or not this was actually something, your instincts were correct. They were suspicious. Well done. Stand by in case I have more questions.”

She saw him try to control the biological responses to learning his life wasn’t forfeit for bringing her to his mission, but she didn’t acknowledge it.

Instead, she pulled herself closer to the ceiling, her tentacles connecting to every data ports she could find and extending into the guts of the building itself, as she hunted and eliminated all escaping enemies. Likewise, she connected to the Federation’s Informational Network, seeking to find a potential candidate for this particular scene.

She found her answer in the bone marrow. There was a slight solidification she identified as a side effect of Tessa Bluesand’s possession. A Clans spy with a fairly consistent form of bodily self-destruction that normally prevented easy discovery, Megan never expected her local operatives would have caught less subtle clues but they had.

Megan felt her lip curl at the thought of the dwarves nosing around in the Federation. Again. The same filthy interlopers who were standing in the Federation’s rightful place atop the Realm.

Megan smiled as she caressed the lifeless hand.

Poor little Tessa. Killed by a Slayer during the Rasdale breach only to die on her very next mission in the Federation.

Megan regretted not having arrived earlier, but knew it was futile. If she had been there, she could have prevented the woman's spirit from returning to her original body. That was a… pity, but she fought back the inferior instincts that would have seen her tentacles crackle with lightning.

Raising the hand to her nose, she took a deep sniff, searching for anything else amiss. The body was thoroughly destroyed, having been shoved into an industrial thrasher, but she wasn’t trying to identify the body’s physical appearance. There were far too many ways to change that. She was only looking for any sign of outside interference.

Their spies had verified Tessa died in the breach, and that was more than enough time for her spirit to recover enough to take over someone new. This body was unmistakably freshly dead. She could still feel the lingering traces of Tessa’s spirit left after having inhabited the body. They were slightly different from the original body’s, and even gave her something of a time frame.

Tessa had only inhabited the body for five, maybe ten, years.

A few miles away, a Leader was in the midst of assessing the evidence some of the Community was presenting to them. She briefly manifested a [Clone] near them, and after a brief allowance for them adjusting to her presence, gave her orders. “Go and check the latest updates we have on Tessa Bluesand. Passive observation only. I don’t want to trigger any Clans protocols by nosing around. Her handlers surely know of her latest death, but I don’t want them to know we identified her. Do you understand?”

“Yes ma'am!”

“Dismissed.”

The man blurred as he activated every spell at his disposable, moving to fulfill her task as fast as physically possible. Those left behind looked jealous, but she was in no mood to reignite the slaughter. At least not today.

While she had eliminated those rats she could find, scurrying away as due their station, she was confident that there were those adequately trained to evade the sorts of scrutiny she was most equipped to provide. And every moment that her underlings were not fulfilling their duties was another moment in which traitors and cowards could seek to preserve their miserable lives.

If they couldn’t flush out her targets, they were better off being repurposed.

She kept altering her perceived timescale, as she would not assume her targets were of a particular level of power, and behavior that appeared standard when she viewed them with her full might may reveal itself to be traitorous when observed over time.

A spy, two corridors down, had a nerve give out. Literally. When he felt her attention he confirmed everything by seeking to flee, but Megan wouldn’t allow that. Between two of his blinks, she had retrieved him and held him within her grasp. He was such a pathetic little specimen who tried to end his own life. As though she hadn’t grasped his cultivation core in a weave of impenetrable tendrils to prevent him from detonating it. As if she hadn’t siphoned the poison sequestered in his bones.

Some lingering hint of savagery, which no amount of procedures had managed to remove, compelled her to watch him squirm under her gaze.

He was defiant, but she hardly needed his cooperation.

A singular wire, unfolded from her tentacle, pierced his brainstem and unravelled all the more, integrating within his nervous system and connecting her directly to his biological memories. That once again required her to wait for the mere Tier 17’s thoughts to process that usurpation as she riffled through his recent experiences.

Naturally, nothing pertaining to Tessa was to be found.

Instead of dispelling her suspicions, that fact only reinforced them. It wouldn’t be the first time the Clans had used Tessa as a deep cover agent inside one of their own operations.

Thrice more, she flushed out lingering spies from the local’s, and she captured each of them within her embrace. But once she possessed four, she left a [Clone] to continue overseeing the operation, while she herself swam into Chaotic Space, then landing into one of the Great Mother’s hidden Workshops.

It was supremely satisfying, to have caught a rat’s nest so close to the laboratory she had been performing her work within. Worrying as well, to have a rebel cell so close to one of their Grand Workshops, yet it was oh so very convenient that new test subjects would donate themselves to the cause so graciously.

Vermin of all sorts ought to make themselves useful.

She would still need to report this to Virgil for both retaliation and a warning that the other Great Powers might not be as blind to their off the grid activities as they’d believed. She would need to up her peoples’ patrols, but they may need to clean out some of the known spies and reset the other Great Powers’ efforts.

No matter how many times they cleaned the rats out, new ones would scurry in, but it was their duty to remain ever vigilant against such threats. And there was no greater purpose than duty.

Megan’s gaze turned to their Grand Workshop. If they succeeded, they’d be able to create perfect citizens en masse.

Then it would be time to repay new and old enmities alike.

***

Matt hadn’t expected that only five hundred years after getting his augment and [AI], he'd voluntarily sign up for more work. Especially not sacrificing his scant free time while they were delving to advance to Tier 35 before the treaty with the Republic, Sects, and Federation expired.

While the other seven Great Powers were expanding outward, the Empire was limited by the treaties they’d agreed to after the last war. Manny had proven unwilling to sit around and squander their lead, and had decided to start by improving the nigh uncountable low Tier worlds he and his predecessor had gathered.

Teams unseen by most civilians moved through each duchy’s low Tier star systems and ensured the outlying celestial bodies had developed essence cores and were cycling properly, as well as make sure the inhabited planet's infrastructure was up to date. It was expensive, as Matt knew, having helped pay for the initiative, but it was worth it. Their efforts would help ensure that when the systems eventually reached the double digit Tiers, those outer planets could be used as training worlds, expanding the Empire's available rifts a thousand-fold.

Matt and his fellow Ascenders were only required to provide some logistical and bureaucratic support in their role as Dukes, something their seneschals could take care of easily enough, but Matt decided to do it himself. He always had a soft spot for these kinds of projects. Which was why after they handled their and their friends' duchies, he’d inserted himself deeper into the guts of the implementation. It was really good training that covered the skills he didn’t get to normally use in combat.

In fact, he could have completely rebuilt a lightly populated sub-Tier 4 world in a single month of grueling work, but that wasn’t what he wanted to do. He did it once to see if he actually could, but that taught him exactly how much he didn’t like it.

He took another path. In fact, he took a page out of Icliz’s book, despite how much that made him feel like a hypocrite. As a Tier 30, his Domain was large enough to cover a planet, letting him fuel local efforts. And as they advanced in Tier, his range only rose, which made that part of his job that much easier. That in turn let him focus on more interesting projects.

