Chapter 501

Emmanuel wasn’t sure how he felt as he watched Matthew return to the Empire. Once more, the child had obliterated all of his carefully arrayed plans without a single warning. However, where Matt’s Talent offered both positives and negatives in what felt like equal measure, learning of his Ascender’s liquid mana stones passively generating their own mana had only one result: Chaos.

The instant he’d felt a piece of his spirit snap in the Corporations, he’d known he wouldn’t like what he learned, but even his worst nightmares had still managed to underestimate the havoc Matt could cause. He wasn’t proud of what that fragment of himself’s initial reaction to learning such information had been. After putting his composure back together, he’d immediately started exploring the possible futures that were only now likely, or even possible at all, because of this new factor.

Emmanuel hated everything he found.

A person who created appreciable amounts of mana with a singular Talent was a prize to be captured and held. Icliz proved that better than any future sight could.

That was why Emmanuel had put in a lot of effort to ensure that possibility was as unlikely as possible. Now?

He didn’t know if that had been the right call. Even if he’d seen this future back before he’d encouraged Matt to stay on the Path and improve himself, he’d have never considered it anything but one in an infinitesimally small chance. Mana creating mana should have been impossible, yet here they stood.

A large portion of his plans had revolved around his ability to copy Matt’s Talent. Not only because it let them produce theoretically twice as much mana, but if Matt’s Talent wasn’t unique, it became far less valuable.

It would have been a long shot, but his future sight indicated there was a chance of it working. Any such opportunities had vanished in a puff of smoke with Matt’s latest revelations.

A person who created mana on a Realm-wide scale whose very mana could produce more mana? All of Emmanuel’s carefully crafted plans had been decimated by the revelation.

After learning the news, he’d immediately retreated into his private rift instance, abandoning his active plans. He spent six stolen months inside a Tier 47 rift using a Tier 25 Talent that multiplied his mana regeneration ten times over Matt’s current regeneration. Generating that much mana with two separate Talents made his spirit burn, but it was manageable. There was no other option if he wanted to look through as many potential futures as possible.

He needed to find a path through both the random and inevitable events that didn’t lead them to disaster. As he searched, the best futures for the Empire were pyrrhic victories, with the rest of the Realm in a state worse than the Shattering.

Emmanuel found that unacceptable.

He spent another unplanned nine months trying to study the future, but all he had to show for it was a spirit pushed to its limit from using three straining Talent sets at the same time. The helplessness threatened to overwhelm him, but he refused to let his willpower crumble in the face of adversity.

So what if every future he could see was filled with endless dead ends? Most Tier 50s never had future sight and they hadn’t led their Great Powers into ruin. Overreliance on such a Talent was more likely to turn into a self fulfilling prophecy than save him.

He had to repeat the mantra thousands of times before he managed to drag himself out of that mindset and into something slightly more stable. Thankfully, he already knew the solution to such a predicament. He’d hated his father for beating that particular lesson into him as a young man, but he was grateful for it now.

Emmanuel tried to feel like a child as he remembered his father playing chess with him at Tier 6. He’d thought himself a fully realized adult on The Path at the time, and beyond such drop-ins, but his father had been waiting for him in his room when he’d returned from a delve with a chess set already laid out.

At the time he’d hated his father’s nonchalance in claiming Emmanuel had been the one to initiate the meeting when he’d complained in their previous check in. Path rules couldn’t stop someone from talking to their parents for occasional advice, though they were supposed to be monitored but no one was going to monitor the Emperor when he wanted privacy. Not that his father had ever tried to help him while he was on the Path, but at Tier 6 he’d still been afraid of any such assistance.

Looking back, he still couldn’t believe how much his Father had been able to accomplish. Despite having access to even more Talents than his father or anyone else, Emmanuel had never felt as in control as Georgios had managed to portray.

As a kid, he liked to complain that his father had no stress because he’d already seen his entire rule before he became the Emperor, and was just acting everything he saw out. Having access to that very same power, he now knew how foolish that was, and why his father had never bothered to correct him even once.

Logically, he understood a lot of that impression had been a carefully constructed show. He’d spent more than enough time on the other side as a Tier 50 to learn that, but even so, he never understood how his father always seemed to have time to pop in and teach him a life lesson right when he needed them.

At the time, Emmanuel had been struggling to clear a Tier 7 centaur rift. He kept falling afoul of the monster’s hunting hounds, and with his third retreat fresh in his mind, he was questioning his whole fight for independence. The few Talents he'd been able to collect on his own hadn’t been strong enough to carry him through the rift, and he’d hit a wall.

Or so he’d thought.

He’d begrudgingly played chess with his father until he was only three moves away from a loss when his father raised a hand and stopped his next move.

Even in his memory, Georgios’ voice was firm, though not without its own brand of warmth. “What do you do when your only moves lead to inevitable loss?”

Emmanuel remembered how irritated he’d been fondly, now that so much time had passed.

He’d been so moody as a child despite insisting he wasn’t. “I don’t know? Cheat? Flip the board?”

He’d been trying to bait out a reprimand and a way to make his father leave, but he’d fallen into Georgios’ hands with his comment better than any genuine response would have.

Georgios hadn’t smiled, but even the Tier 6 Emmanuel had seen his pleasure. “It depends on the context. Here, either might be possible, though both are difficult. I would notice any cheating if you moved one of the pieces during the match, but you might have been able to get away with changing an element earlier in the game if you’d been preparing for your loss. However, now that you only have three pieces, that’s a much harder sleight of hand to manage. Flipping the board, on the other hand, ruins the game for everyone. Sometimes that can be an advantage, but you’d better be able to pick up the pieces and survive the retaliation. That’s easier said than done when you are already in a losing position.”

“Then what do I do!?” Emmanuel had been impatient and simply wanted an easy answer.

Georgios had never given them. Emmanuel hated it then, but missed it now. “As I said at the beginning. It depends on the context. What is your goal?”

The rest of the conversation had turned into a lesson on how not to over fixate on a small goal to the detriment of the larger mission. Emmanuel hadn't actually learned that lesson, no he’d managed to misinterpret it into a reminder of lateral thinking.

Instead of moving onto another rift and advancing his Tier and coming back, he'd been inspired to reassess his ‘useless’ Talents, which itself led him to Gil Licau’s Talent, and using its ‘you may freely change the way you smell’ effect to confuse the centaur’s hunting dogs, giving him enough breathing room to win.

In retrospect, that was a lesson to both of them, but Emmanuel’s takeaway was entirely different this time.

If he couldn't see a way forward in the current situation, he needed to use what he had to create new variables while he had time. Each variable would be a stone he’d toss into the lake of destiny, hoping to make as large a splash as he could. He didn’t need to have a plan to create chaos.

That simplified things.

Emmanuel stopped searching for futures where the Empire succeeded. Instead he searched the near futures for events that had the largest impacts in the weave of fate. If he couldn’t control the future, he’d muddle and tangle it.

That didn’t only mean creating new wars, though he knew his actions would undoubtedly lead to such a result. But that was inevitable in the cycles of Great Powers and something he’d long come to terms with. At this point, the only thing he could do was to use the upcoming conflicts to improve the Empire’s standing before the inevitable true war.

He might not see a path forward now, but he first needed to choose which stones to throw.

So much of the causality stemmed from Matt, Emmanuel started with him.

He was very familiar with Matt.

Emmanuel had watched the boy grow into a man, and he was proud of who Matt had turned into.

Tapping into his bloodline, he transformed into Matt and looked down to the mirror he’d transformed almost a single percent of the Tier 47 rift instance into. The enormous dowsing rod didn’t reflect the false sky of the rift, but the interconnected worlds that represented settled space as they traveled through chaotic space.

Better connected to his subject, Emmanuel spent another year searching the current near futures as he tried to get a better feel for the general trend of the Realm.

The first thing he noticed was how the Great Powers surged with vitality.

Aura alone would have changed the Realm with all the knock-on effects it had generated, but the addition of freely available Tier 0 skills had accelerated the process to a rate even he found hard to believe.

In every future Emmanuel saw, the Great Powers expanded rapidly. They collected worlds as the Empire had been doing for the last immortal generation, not caring if the worlds were only Tier 2 or 3. The particular hows often varied depending on what felt like arbitrary things, but he skimmed through the futures, searching for anything odd or strange.

He didn’t find it. Instead, he saw that the other Great Powers intended to take what the Empire had learned through first hand experience and apply the most refined methods for their own Great Powers.

Emmanuel didn’t actually mind. That eventuality only made it easier for his father’s Talent to follow the lines of their future. That let him search for things he could leverage into larger changes in areas he shouldn’t have had any purchase to scan. He frequently couldn’t see what the changes would bring. Sometimes, he couldn’t even see what the changes were. But as he flicked through all manner of Talent combinations to augment what he’d gotten from his father, sometimes he could tell that a ripple might just happen.

Fleeting glimpses of major changes. Things that could alter the entire boardstate. Changes that might, just maybe, give them a path forward.

There was one particularly vexing ripple that he just barely caught a glimpse of. He had no idea what it was, concretely. He had no idea what it might do. Technically, it would help an enemy more than him - though what something that could happen in Clan space would strongly benefit the Republic he couldn’t tell - but that ripple still caused those all-important changes in the otherwise implacable walls of the future.

And it was easier to exacerbate change than to start it.

Though, now that he was looking for ways to instigate that ripple, it was hardly simple. Very few of the tools available to him offered a straightforward path to that resolution. Through that, he could see the number of particular circumstances which would need to occur. Ripples that needed to create ripples, each of which was already unlikely.

And all together?

Practically impossible.

Emmanuel tried to find an easy line through, before he moved on after a few fruitless minutes. He’d found the pivot point and that was his current goal, so he continued looking forward. In almost all of the futures he saw, the Realm actually experienced at least two thousand years of peace. In fact, the longer the peace, the harsher the initial immortal population wars would be.

Thanks to aura potions and the availability of the free skills, survival rates across the lower tiers would spike in every Great Power. With no final bottleneck at Tier 14, the Realm would see an unprecedented surge in low Tier immortals.

That wouldn’t hold true for higher Tiers. It couldn’t.

The Realm would find its own new equilibrium sooner or later. It—

Right there.

Once more, Emmanuel had almost missed it.

That was another angle that had the potential to cause ripples. Not at the same intensity as his previous find, but it was the best he’d found, so he’d take it. They would desperately need the economic uplift that large scale internal construction could provide to get them through the upcoming economic downturn and he’d be able to cover two bases at the same time.

Emmanuel didn’t bother investigating about the particulars of how to implement that plan. Two sources of chaos weren't enough. Three weren't really enough either, but he’d accept it as a starting point. He’d seen with his future sight that so long as he managed to create that many separate sources of confusion, the chaos could compound off each other and expand.

However, he was also on a deadline.

His firstborn.

