Matt found it gratifying to see entire towns and cities refurbished over the course of a week or two, ushered along by the locals' own efforts. The results may have been visually simple most of the time, but they and the people inspired him.

The spiritual strain that came from empowering so many people at the same time burned like liquid fire, but he didn’t mind all that much. Something difficult but possible only meant it was a new method to train between delves.

To avoid overstepping the residents, he concentrated his attention on a wholly new but singular thing. He made a lot of cities in those first years as the program worked through the plethora of Tier 2 and Tier 3 worlds.

His first few were simple, square, and boring, but they were learning experiences. The only thing they hadn’t been was small, but he quickly realized that was the wrong direction to go. As much as he didn’t want to make a small city for the uber wealthy to buy up the moment he left, he didn’t like the idea of creating something so soulless as a perpetually empty city even more.

Learning from that, he scaled down to large towns or small cities that were only meant to house ten to twenty thousand people. With the decrease in size, he was able to increase the attention he gave to every detail, and that was where he found success.

Matt began making each settlement with a training goal in mind. One city he created in three singular, discrete steps that each took a week of preparation. He summoned, formed, and then enchanted the entire city just to see if he could do it.

He could.

Not that Matt stopped there. He made the next settlement from the ground up, completing every step at the same time. He pushed his abilities in a new direction as he tried to find the limits of himself, his augment, and his [AI]. Any time he did, he worked on training it away during the next project until he was satisfied.

When any task inevitable became too easy, he upped the ante with himself. When that wasn’t enough, he brought Luna in to help. He was glad he did too. Her suggestions were always fantastic.

His next city he designed in a way that the expected traffic patterns would move the ambient mana around in the same pattern as a cleaning formation. It wouldn’t keep the streets spotless, but it would reduce the volcanic ash that built up in that particular city from its leaky mountainous overlord, without having to dedicate additional expenses.

Although looking at the place after he was done…the city’s layout was a little bit convoluted. The streets would be a mess to navigate, the zoning was by necessity all over the place, and the less said about the sewer system the better. No one asked him, but he considered the resulting view worth the minor inconvenience of living on an active volcano in a strangely built city.

Fire cultivators would love the location.

It took two thousand years, but once the Empire had gone through the low Tier worlds that needed assistance, Matt found that the projects got a lot more interesting. He knew his constant interruptions between delves could be annoying, but he repaid any such inconvenience with his Concept. After all, if they wanted him to stop, they only needed to ask, and they never did.

While low Tier worlds needed habitability and safety, Tier 6 to Tier 13 worlds had different requirements and needs. Most of the efforts were directed to preparing for the ever expanding demand for aura rather than the people directly. He spent a lot of time assisting the construction of space stations in such systems to help support off-world delving efforts.

Portals to outer systems would have been faster but they were far more expensive. After the third time he created and then immediately decommissioned an in-system teleportation node that was simply too expensive to use in anything but emergencies, he started looking to use his liquid mana stones, but they made terrible batteries. The second they were tapped for mana they wanted to self-destruct.

Between projects, he tried to fiddle with the idea, but even with his improved mana control and his [AI], he struggled to get started. Let alone make advancements.

His hard work was rewarded midway through Tier 33, when he finally completed fully activating his Stage 2 Power and empowering his Talent. The surge of power had been exhilarating and he’d reveled in the satisfaction of his success. It signified that he’d managed to boost every portion of himself and was ready to start searching for the elusive Stage 3.

Not that he was in a rush to claw for more power when he could barely use his newest ability. If he’d let it, boosting his Talent would have drained his entire willpower pool dry in an instant. In exchange, for that brief period of time he’d be able to generate as much mana as if he’d been a Tier higher which he considered worth it. His willpower pool was hardly static and would expand as he pushed himself.

Feeling confident, he immediately tried creating the third stage, but he ran into the same problem everyone else did. He didn’t know what it was, and no one who had one would speak of it, leaving him to scramble along in the dark.

***

Susanne panted as her Tier 34 greatsword trembled. Its tip made a small tight figure eight over and over. The first was due to her exhaustion, she’d been fighting the conjured opponent for over a week straight by this point, but the second was entirely intentional.

With every movement of her blade, the futures she saw changed.

Her opponent chose that moment to thrust their own greatsword forward in an uncommitted probe.

Deflecting, she stepped to the side, already having seen the horizontal slash they wanted to make if she was still trying to redirect their thrust's unexpectedly strong momentum when they retracted. She couldn’t see them, or anything except her greatsword, but that was all she needed to read the fight.

If she’d been fresh the vision would have been clear, but a week into this spar her eye hardly functioned. She ignored that tidbit, she was determined to extract every ounce of training from her opponent before she fell. She’d exchanged two thousand years of merits for the fight, and she wanted to get her money's worth. She could have bought one of the Tier 38 skills with her merits, or saved for one of the Tier 44’s that had been quietly made available.

Susanne had to. As things stood, she felt stuck in place, unprepared to advance to Tier 35 with everyone else. If she advanced early, she’d only hamper her own future, but she felt like she’d already pushed herself to her limits and found no more easily available growth.

Liz was working on her Aspect, Aster her bloodline, and Allie had been pushing both her Aspect and her teleportation in tandem, given how interconnected they were. Matt at least had the good graces to also be stuck at his third stage Power, but he had made progress with his talismans, which meant he had advanced while she remained stagnant.

While… Zack was growing. On her good days she wanted to say they were growing together, but in recent years she’d found herself pushing far beyond exhaustion to project even the semblance of keeping up. She was considering spending immortality with someone she couldn’t match, and that made her feel inadequate more than anything else ever could.

It made her feel like a hanger-on in her own life.

Susanne crushed that last thought as she thrust, then leapt backward, trying to create distance as her opponent split into three. Each of the copy’s swords flashed out, ready to punish any unchecked aggression, but she was already gone.

Instead of matching them clone for clone, a futile effort she’d learned the hard way she couldn’t win, she kept her vision on her sword. Through bleary eyes, she watched her opponent’s possible moves and reacted accordingly. Her next deflection turned into an angled downward slash, aiming at one of the copies’ shoulder blades.

Her enemy slid to the side on a small wave of stone as the two copies dissipated in a gust of wind. The lone figure circled around her, gaining speed with each rotation until they were a blur, limiting her movement. She stepped forward, trying to intercept her enemy as they circled her, but they kept their distance, never letting her get within blade range.

Susanne didn’t let herself grow frustrated with this new annoyance, despite her flagging strength. She focused on her Power, hoping it might have a solution. From a single word to an entire page, she’d slowly grown her Power every step until she’d finally caught up with Matt a thousand years ago.

Since then, she’d been working on the same things with no appreciable progress. Her Aspect, of which she had both her Anchor, her sword with half of its blade broken, and her Truth. Her Power, future sight, and swordsmanship were no easier tasks, and their refinement served to get her closer to her true overarching goal.

She wasn’t only searching for how to advance to Tier 35, she already knew that she could take that step with a single unit of essence. Susanne wanted to advance as a proper Tier 35 elite, and a shoddy foundation would only see her weaker than her older contemporaries.

That would only end in her death on some battlefield she hadn’t really been prepared for.

As her sword moved to block another viper-like strike, she struggled to keep her exhausted body upright and she let her mind go on autopilot, trying to delay the inevitable.

When things got complicated, she only needed to stick to the basics. Hold onto what she knew.

Susanne felt the world start to focus as the fight itself started to blur. Or maybe that was the opposite? She wasn’t sure. She could still feel every blow, every ripple, every feint, and thrust but they felt distant, as if they were happening to someone else. At the same time, she was more aware of the world, of the Realm, than she’d ever been before in her life, but she couldn’t focus on anything except herself and her sword. Anytime she tried, everything slipped and she followed that feeling.

When it came down to it, that was what all she truly had. Susanne herself. Even her sword was herself by being her Concept. It had been there from the beginning. Just the two of them in a large and unfriendly world.

Susanne nearly stumbled as she realized that wasn’t actually true, her opponent's blade almost taking off her head. Her dodge cost her a portion of her cheek and ear but she ignored the new wound.

Her life hadn’t only been the two of them. She’d had her writing. It was a part of her like her fingers and toes. She’d dabbled in writing when she got her Talent to apply to her blade, but in retrospect, that felt… like the first step rather than the final one she’d treated it as.

At the same time, she didn’t need a streamer to follow her greatsword's passage through the air, no matter how sharp it was. She needed more. She didn’t need to only write words but… spells?

When she tried to follow that idea, she felt the world tremble. The question was important, but that was the wrong answer. She wasn’t sure what, why, or how, but something about the fight spoke to her battle sense in a way that spoke to her Talent.

Balanced on a knife’s edge, she understood that if she couldn’t correct her misunderstanding, she’d fall backwards into the darkness of her previous self. On the other side, if she could understand whatever her intuition was trying to tell her, the world would open up.

As her mind raced, her greatsword never stopped moving, trying to delay her defeat. In that desperate dance, she found it. It was in the way her opponent moved. While she had never been able to identify her opponent since the fighting had started, only now she realized why that was true as the darkness seemed to recede slightly.

Her opponent was everyone she’d ever fought and would fight. The actual truth of the situation didn’t matter. If she could beat them, she’d be able to defeat anyone, past or future.

Susanne only needed… to move faster. If she wanted to catch up, she needed a similar amount of speed to match and then dominate their speed. She needed strength to match strength.

She needed…

Susanne slashed out twice more before she was forced to duck low under a wide sweeping slash. Instead of retreating, she used the opening to thrust into her opponent's stomach, trying to catch them off guard or force them backwards to create distance and buy herself a moment of time.

Her opponent deflected her first attempt, but she reacted according to her instincts rather than her conscious mind.

Using the tip of her sword, she wrote a saga in her swing. A story of this very battle, of this very attack. Or she tried. With each stroke of her brush, she came to better understand both the story she was writing and the book that contained it.

Susanne was both subject and author with her sword in hand. The narrative was hers to carve into the Realm itself, so long as she was strong enough to impose her will. Her Intent throbbed as millennia of effort crystallized into a new ability.

Susanne slashed out at the probing attack aiming for her head, but she didn’t use any of the clean and precise moves she’d practiced all of her life. Her strike was shaky, with a pattern that left far too many openings to be practical. In any other fight except her current one, the move would have caused her death.

At this moment?

Now her attack, as disjointed as it was, perfectly countered her opponent and their oppressive strikes. She instinctively knew she hadn’t become omnipotent, she was only writing the story of their fight. If her opponent could break out through brute force or find a flaw she hadn’t accounted for, they could escape her control, but they’d need to do so while dealing with her.

