“Yes, I meant tonight.” Ren said and motioned to the front door. “I'll stop in before I stay the night with the maids.”

The water elementals jumped and rolled over each other, then the smaller one stood on the other's shoulders and opened the door. Railyse laughed as she took Ren's arm, and he led her outside and to the large cart.

“Before you freak out.” Ren said to the water elementals in the Sea Dweller's language of bubbles and gurgles. “That's Zetaya, a fire elemental.”

The two water elementals froze stiff at the sight of the 6 foot tall fire elemental.

“You have nothing to fear.” Ren gurgled at them. “You'll be safe inside the cart, and Zetaya rides with me on Princess.”

The two water elementals moved slowly towards the cart, and kept their head stubs pointed right at Zetaya. Ren felt their wariness, and thought about telling them that Zetaya was just as wary of them. He didn't, because having a healthy respect for those that can hurt you would only help them in the long run.

Ren opened the cart and looked inside. “I just have a quick side trip to do.”

“It's a good thing we only moved a little bit.” Elerlyth said. “How long is the side trip going to take?”

“It's already half over.” Ren said and helped Railyse into the back of the cart, then passed in the two water elementals.

“We're in Aurora?” Elerlyth asked, surprised.

“It took longer to talk to Railyse than to get here.” Ren said and looked at the water being. “You might want to use your ability to keep the water elemental's shapes stable.” He said. “Princess runs really fast now.”

Railyse nodded, and Ren closed the cart. He heard some loud bubbles and gurgles, and opened it again.

“Sorry, I forgot you can't see in full darkness.” Ren said and enchanted a steel square with a few Illumination runes and stuck it on the inside of the cart. He activated it, then shut and locked the cart. Zetaya climbed onto his back, and Ren climbed onto Princess.

Princess trotted up into the sky and turned around, then ran back to the county and came in for a landing next to the 300 foot long by 300 foot wide by 100 foot deep pool Ren had made for Railyse and the water elementals. He jumped off of Princess on the side away from the pool, and Zetaya climbed off of him. He went to the cart and opened it, and saw the surprise on Railyse's face.

“I'm glad you warned me.” Railyse said. “They would have been puddles.”

She passed the two water elementals out, and Ren put them on the ground on the inside of the dividing wall he had constructed, and turned around so he could help Railyse climb out. He could feel the surprise that the water elementals felt at the sheer size of the pool, and then he felt Railyse's surprise match their own when she climbed out of the cart and saw it for herself.

“Ren! This is amazing!” Railyse said and peered into the depths. “So much detail.” She said and looked at him. “It's like a reef back home!”

Ren nodded. “That's what I was going for.”

“I don't see any currents or churning water, though.”

“That's because I needed your input about it.” Ren said. “With the way the bottom is structured, I didn't want to wreck everything by putting in a cross-current that would churn up the dirt, or make a swirling vortex, or something.”

Railyse smiled and touched his cheek. “That was very considerate of you.”

The two water elementals bubbled at him, then jumped into the water to explore their new home.

“I've placed Anti-water runes all along the thin shelf near the top to stop any overflow.” Ren said. “I'm pretty sure that the water elementals can't get in there; but, you should warn them of the danger anyways.”

“I will.” Railyse said. “When do you want to set up the currents?”

“I'll do them tonight before my donation.” Ren said. “Until then, let me know if there's anything you want to change or add.”

“I think everything is perfect.” Railyse said, and kissed him. “Thank you, Ren.”

“You're welcome.” Ren said and licked his lips. “Thank you for the blessing.”

“It's the least I can do for such a great gift.” Railyse said and walked out over the water. “Until tonight.”

“See you then.” Ren said, and she slowly sank into the water.

“Okay, that was cool and classy.” Elerlyth said when Railyse had gone completely underwater, and Ren turned to see her and Etheria's heads were poked up out of the cart and had watched the whole thing. “It was like she was on an elevator or something.”

Ren chuckled. “Yeah, it was neat.” He said. “Let's get to the next High Elf city and see who we can save.”

“You mean kill, don't you?” Elerlyth said.

“Nope.” Ren said. “I'm going there to save as many of the ghouls as I can.”

“That sounds so wrong.” Elerlyth said and chuckled.

“If dooooing it is wroooong...” Ren sang. “...then I don't waaaanna be riiiiight.”

“If loving you is wrong, you mean.” Elerlyth corrected.

“Loving me isn't wrong.” Ren said and grinned. “You should know that by now.”

“I walked right into that one.” Elerlyth said and rolled her eyes. “Close this thing and let's get going.”

“You got it.” Ren said, closed and locked it, then went to Zetaya. The fire elemental climbed up on his back and he climbed up onto Princess and sat in the saddle. “Let's go.”

“Yes, My Lord.” Princess said and trotted up into the air, then poured on the speed.
