“What was it that you used on me?”

“Ah. It worked. Surprising.”

“You have wounded me. Truly. What was that? Tell me. Or I will ask you in a more direct manner, son of Silence.”

“A dead God of Peace. A fragment of it, anyway. Your antithesis."

“I have eaten and claimed Gods of Peace. That felt like no god.”

“Not our kind, anyway. Far, far beyond the reach of the System and Integration, there are wonders aplenty, Rider.”

“So you say. Do that again.”

“No. You’ll end up breaking it this time. I know how you work. I understand your actual Domains. All of them. You can’t play me for a simpleton like the other little mortals. And besides, I have further need of this thing. There is a world I need to pacify—speaking of which, that’s why I’m here. Because I know how you are, and would like to pre-empt my offense with an apology.”

“Oh. Clever little thing. Always so clever. Tell me. Try to make this insult up to me. And if you can, then I will see you rewarded twice over. Few manage to actually harm me, and fewer are capable enough to pre-emptively earn my non-retaliation.”

“Hunura’s Rest. The world of saints, gods, and blessed pilgrims. How would you like them all to fall? How would you like to bestow all those wonderful, noble, pacifistic lives with an orc skill and see your realm expanded?”

“And you have the ability to do this?”

“Oh, yes! And with the same thing I tested on you, no less.”

“The other gods—”

“Won’t be able to stop this. No more than you can. Not even reality can stop its own substitution, after all…”

—The Challenger and Udraal Thann

362

Split [III]

The Challenger let Adam thrash and scream in his hand, and Shiv saw upon the orc god's face a look of feral satisfaction. Though the Challenger played at being affable, he was at his root a creature that indulged in violent delights. To inflict pain upon Adam pleased him, and the emotions that swelled inside the Challenger were so much that Shiv almost drowned in their proximity.

Roland's arrows came at a greater intensity, but there was just nothing the Town Lord could do. What hope had he when his only means of fighting off someone was violence? How did you protect your child from the literal incarnation of your own strength and brutality?

These questions tortured Shiv's mind. He didn't know. He didn't have an answer. He couldn't imagine a solution. But even if things were hopeless, he wasn't the kind to give up. He started draining from the Challenger, sucking away the orc god's vitality. But there was an entire dimension's worth of lifeforce he had to leech before the Challenger suffered the slightest bit of enervation.

As Shiv drank away, Adam screamed on, and the Challenger let this be the way of things for a few seconds longer, at least until he grew bored. Then, tapping a single finger to Adam's head, he silenced the tortures that came from an overwhelming Awareness skill evolution. At once, Adam stopped crying out. Adam went silent, and the Challenger clenched the Haunting Omniscience that burdened the Paragon so.

“Hush, hush now, little Arrow. No more pain. Let us speak as god and god-to-be, potentially. If you survive long enough, there is much to speak about as well. You have offended me. You have struck against me. You have taken something from me, seemingly unwittingly, but still the act remains, justifiable ignorance or not. Though I am a magnanimous and reasonable monster, I am a monster still, and I demand you repay me in the worth of what I have given one of mine unto you.”

Adam shook and coughed as he regained his bearings. When his eyes settled and his focus took hold, he found himself staring up at the Challenger's gleeful face. Adam's own expression folded the other way. He went pale, and pure terror bled out from his every pore. But being terrified was nothing new for Adam. Every time he went into battle, there was always the stench of fear that spilled from him. And that was part of his strength. He was courage: the will to face dread, rather than be consumed by it.

And though he knew how precarious his situation was, he faced the Challenger rather than succumb to silence. “You could have done that from the start, you massive, massive asshole.”

Adam's vitriol made the Challenger throw his head back and guffaw. At the same time, Roland cried out, "Adam! Adam! Are you all right? What has he done to you?”

“I have returned him his sanity and held the worst of his Awareness at bay. What a hefty skill. Quite the evolution. I see your adventures in the Fairwoods have been rather rewarding.” The Challenger winked at the eldritch egg leftover from Longinus. “And you have purged my Divinity from within the same way—”

Through it all, Roland never stopped firing his arrows. The blasts kept coming and—Shiv saw past the Challenger and noticed how Roland's insides were inflamed. Shiv could still sense the Town Lord's core, his and everyone else's, and they were all festering with unbridled rage. It was like he was raw with blind anger—and Shiv felt the same. Uva too. None of us is thinking. His godsdamned Domain or whatever is driving people to keep attacking. Him just being here feels like an orc skill is crawling back into me.

The Challenger wasn’t just war incarnate; he was also a magnet for violence and aggression. "And the only reason we have noticed at all…" the Harbinger whispered weakly, "is that something of me still remains."

And Shiv was infinitely thankful for that.

A buzzing crown formed around Adam's head, diluting the natural light that emerged from his nascent Divinity—a circlet bestowed by the Challenger, empowered with Psychomancy, but sculpted from a string of maggots and dead flies melted together through flame and infectious rot. Adam twisted and turned, tried to dislodge the wretched icon forming around his forehead, but though his Divinity burned true, it was but a dim ember before the Challenger.

Just like with the Composer, as such with the Starhawk, there was no question who was the greater god.

“There, there. Now you are spared the miseries of your premature Legendary Skill. Now we can speak as god and godling.” The Challenger cocked his head, and it felt like the entirety of the Tutorial bent to fulfill his design. Courtney squealed as a portion of her was folded and broken. The Starhawk and everyone on the other side of the obliterated quarters were flung in the direction of the Challenger and further stained by his presence. It wasn’t just Adam who suffered the indignity of being wreathed in maggots and flies. The same circlet formed over Uva, and Shiv, and everyone who dared attempt violence.

"For violence is the Challenger," the Harbinger wheezed, comprehending what Shiv almost missed. "And how could someone defeat a concept by feeding it? By performing it? You cannot slay an ocean by filling it with more water…"

A chorus of screams rose; each took on a feral quality. Uva’s howls were unlike her: uncontrolled, animalistic, with no hint of intellect behind her colorful eyes. Jessica, Valor, and Can Hu all came back to life as a twisted weave of decay spilled over them. The maggots bit them, injecting power into their bodies and souls. Each of them combusted with the flame of divine mana—a befouled flame that reeked of war and death.

Worst of all was the Starhawk—for few others could express the calamity that was the Challenger’s power. Instead of seeing his brow seized by a single concentric thread, an entire crown was forged for the only other true god present. Perhaps not an equal god, but a god nonetheless. It weighed upon the Starhawk as if he was carrying the burden of a mountain upon his neck, and Roland fared no better. He was driven down to both knees, blood in his body spilling out in tumbling tides. He should have bled out in a moment, but he didn't—he just kept bleeding, kept firing, his power flared brighter, arrows came faster, becoming a constant stream.

But while Roland’s wrathful onslaught became unending, though he seemed barred from the embrace of death, his eyes turned that horrid orcish yellow, and his words no longer held any coherent sense. The only things Shiv could make out anymore were him crying for Adam to be released. And the Starhawk couldn’t save him, for the same elemental fervor had him.

“Carrion feeder!” the Ascendant snarled. “Fiend! Butcher! Slayer! I will strike you down for the Republic! I will strike you down for that which is just!” Growths erupted out from the Starhawk’s missing arms, but they were lengths of rippling muscle, gangrenous tissue festooned with shrapnel and weaponry. A new halberd was born of his infectious flesh—a massive polearm shaped from war itself. It was not of material make, but rather a collection of dying worlds fused along a narrow length and contained of all the devastation they suffered. Looking upon it threatened to unravel what remained of Shiv’s regained sanity, and with a desperate flex of his will, he tore himself away.

But that left him with another torment: Uva howled and bit at the Challenger in the throes of madness. There was little left of her personality. Her flesh became one with her feral mind, and both shifted into a mess of twisting fractals. Before, when she indulged in her Eldritch Physiology, she became an amalgam of the Hatchling and a Fingerling. Now, the spider she always yearned to be took hold—and no semblance of the Umbral she was remained. Her limbs lashed out and tore at the fabric between worlds. Not deep enough to rupture the vitality, but gaps were made between the Outside and the world that was to cause another flood of madness to spill in.

“Shut.”

The spill barely lasted a trickle as the Challenger’s command compelled the System to close itself. Only a single feathered tongue slipped through before the wounds Uva made were clamped shut. She lashed at the Challenger in a frenzy, her threads whipping her corruptive mana into his divinity. Such bade the Challenger to smirk. He caught one such thread of corruption with his mouth and slurped it up entirely before smacking his lips. “Ah. You are compromising my attunements and concepts. It consumes me slowly, like a cancer. And I can do little but tear those strips away. It is not being boiled by the endless warring worlds resting inside me. It is only spreading. What a delectable little plague. A Unique Skill as well.” He turned and regarded one of the few who weren’t affected by his rageful aura. “I see why you chose this one, Hymn.”

“Right, yes,” Hymn called out from behind his eldritch barricade. “I do beg for your mercy, Challenger, so is there any chance you might be able to spare that one? I have need of her for the future. I promise a great deal more bloodshed will come with her continued survival—but if you make her into an orc, all that potential could be lost—”

“Oh, this I know. This I have no intention of doing.” The Challenger looked down at the spider-shaped Uva, who hissed and lashed at him, much like Roland. Much like everyone else who was tearing into the Challenger in a brutal attempt to cut him down. And he was only growing brighter. All attempts to strike him down were tantamount to worship. “Do not worry, Hymn. I like the Seeker just the way she is.”

His voice turned positively grandfatherly, and his eyes twinkled like distant fires flickering out as he regarded Shiv. “I see why you crave her. And why she you. Romance. Many accuse me of being unable to understand love. How wrong. I am a romantic god as well, for how many worlds have been burned for love? How many families slaughtered over elopements or to avenge a beloved father or child? Without love, it is hard to hate so deeply. Something must be had for the pain of loss to exist.”

Shiv caught the hidden threat in the Challenger’s voice. “If you do anything to her—”

“Something inevitably will happen to her. And likely sooner than something will happen to you. Until then, she will deliver seas of blood and destruction unto me. And you two might even be happy for a time. But when that inevitable end comes for her…” The Challenger let out a euphoric sigh. “Think of how it will twist you. Think of the wretchedness that will take you. Think of the endless ocean of hate you will become. How many worlds will you give me. Just how much will you worship me when that time comes, Deathless?”

Shiv refused to answer that question—but it was the potential truth he refused to acknowl—

A scream tore out from him and the Harbinger. Both of them broke in ways they couldn’t afford. They would have unraveled and faded from existence altogether in that very instant if a higher power wasn't keeping them together for his amusement.

"We cannot deny! We must face! We must face!" the Harbinger screamed in delirium.

Shiv remained incapable of forming words. His mind was hollow for a second—and then everything that constituted his personality was slammed back together as the Challenger reforged him. A second shout of pain left Shiv, but the orc god kept working.

“Hm. Your soul is in ruins, and I most decidedly did not strike you. But your denial… your mind and emotions and body… All that connected. Oh. You have it. You evolved it. I had such faith in you, Insul, and you feed the flames of my investment each and every time. Harbinger. A restricted skill coveted by saboteurs, traitors, heart-healers, and diplomats alike. Yet, so few of them ever even achieve the dream of possessing it. Because they are so flawed—and bound to be more flawed. Not you, though. So much promise. Udraal always impresses as much as he offends…”

