And then the Challenger started piecing Shiv back together. He felt the god’s aura seize him—and slowly slide each broken skill back together, fragment by fragment, heedless of pain. The process was as much a mending as it was excruciating torture. He would have regenerated after a time, but forcing all his inner wounds back together was like turning him into a vessel of pure agony.

And, just as fast as the Challenger restored Shiv’s mind, he broke it at a whim. Shiv didn’t even manage to scream before he was drowned in a sea of his own torment.

Then, one after another, his skills started coming back, and his skill levels came crashing in.

Harbinger of Tripartite Ruin 255 > 281

***

“Shiv!” Adam cried out, but his friend was completely slack. He'd heard Shiv scream many times before. But never did he see him crumble like a puppet. It was like the life inside him went out. And Uva was in no better condition. Her personhood seemed gone—she was but an animal now. Mad, like a weaver afflicted with the First Blood’s plague.

The others fared no better. Jessica was a blur of ever-moving slashes. Valor struck and stabbed—appearing and vanishing randomly—in a visual smear of spell and steel. Can Hu was firing constantly, its body changing into a substance Adam couldn’t recognize, but at its feet were mounds of brass from all the ammunition being expended. Worst of all was Adam’s father. The man was consumed. Roland was a warrior, but he was always a master of himself. He felt strongly for his town and people, but he never betrayed himself.

Not like this.

While trapped in the depths of his Haunting Omniscience, Adam was distant but present at the same time; he was still battered by sensations that never stopped coming. It was like he was pinned beneath a collapsed building, but the weight just kept building, and rather than rubble, it was just more information he had to process—more and more and more…

Then, he was pulled out of his unconsciousness. There, he had at least a slight measure of peace. The quiet was his shield, and thoughtlessness spared him the extremes of mental damage. When the Challenger ripped him out from that protective suffocation, it all slammed down on him. The rubble that buried him became a flood that poured into him. His consciousness threatened to tear. For a moment, it did, but the Challenger forced him back together—and even healed him.

The orc god’s influence was like a dam crashing down in place of the oncoming tsunamis. The Haunting Omniscience wasn’t halted, but diverted and held at bay. Where the Culturist struggled to bear the skill for over-long, the Challenger took on Adam’s burdens like it was a pebble. Perhaps even less.

And now the Challenger was looking upon him with intense focus, as everyone else was consumed by savagery. Adam had seen something like that in Isabella’s eyes, but now that it was the Challenger who was studying him with that expression, Adam felt a wild desire to be anywhere else in existence but here. Well, almost anywhere else. Broken… felling Moon. We just escaped the damned Fairwoods. Always out of the fire, and into an even worse fire.

“Well, little Godling, it seems like it is only just for now.” The Challenger’s lips curved up so deliberately that Adam was sure the orc had practiced the expression untold thousands of times. At least. “Of the Insul’s preferred kindred, you were the one I cared about the least. Something about you felt too… soft. Fragility offends me. Especially when the fragility possesses such potential. You and your father enrage me so much.” The Challenger turned to glare at the Starhawk, who was currently trying to jam his war-shaped halberd through the back of the Challenger’s head while his upper arms were firing arrows that burst like dying stars. But every attack splashed into the Challenger, merging with him as if it had always been a part of him. “Your martial potential is a gift. A gift wrapped in a vulnerable ego. Betrayed by an unwillingness to give yourself to what you are completely. And so you pull in two directions. So you tear.”

“I would say I’m sorry that I’m not psychotic enough for you, but…” Adam shrugged, trying to keep his nerve intact. “I’m not quite sure I want to be half as ugly as you. Inside or out.”

The Challenger nodded. “Small defiance. I like it. But that is not why you now have my interest. No. It’s this.” He angled his face and showed the spreading blisters lining his flesh. Where Adam’s glow graced the Challenger, a searing ensued. “Yours is a weak Divinity. I have faced many gods. I have eaten many gods. I have broken many gods. Across countless dimensions and worlds, I have studied and learned and shattered faiths from within. I have devoured every follower of rival Gods of War and boiled them inside me until all that remained was me. But you are different. You burn me. And it hurts.”

Adam grimaced. “Clearly doesn’t burn you enough if you’re still holding me like I’m a kitten.”

“Contrarily, it is the only reason why I bother with you at all. Do you know how many Domains come second to War? I would argue all, but the System clearly disagrees. So what is it? What do you have within you that offends that which lurks inside me?”

Adam looked at the Challenger—and gazed deep. Beyond the Avatar, there was so much else about the orc that made Adam recoil. The armor he wore, the stenches he reeked of, and the very way he twisted people—the world around him—to feed that eternal apocalypse he represented.

But there was one thing the Challenger was without. “You say you’re all aspects of war, but where is the Heroism?”

The Challenger imbibed Adam’s words and hummed. “Heroism. Is that what you are the Godling of?”

“You haven’t answered my question,” Adam spat.

“Nor am I compelled to… Or I wasn’t. I do possess virtuous Domains: Revenge, Atonement, Grief, Unity. I am even a God of Hope. But have always considered Heroism such a slight thing. Why should I have it when I already have Justice and Honor, when I already have so many others adjacent and more meaningful? What need do I have for such a desperate little niche? Hopeless, impotent fools giving their lives away, fighting battles they could never win feed me better than most as well. For the lives they give and the desperation in their struggles will fuel the fires of war.”

“Well, this impotent fool is giving you a sunburn right now,” Adam sneered. “And frankly, between us, I suspect you would be the greater fool.”

“Oh, and how is that? Do I not have you at my mercy? Do I not have all your mentors and comrades enslaved?”

“I said 'greater fool,' not 'bigger idiot.'”

The Challenger inclined his head. “That you did. Please elaborate. Do so at my volition.”

Adam sucked in a desperate breath and tried to keep the thing hammering within his chest from bursting. “Before something happens, before a thing can become true, there has to be a will, there has to be a want. Even if something seems hopeless, that doesn't mean it shouldn't be done. Most often, things are hopeless because too many people are weak. Weak in virtue. You claim to be war, but there is humanity in war. There are those who die selflessly in war. You are not war, Challenger. You are bloodshed and cruelty and destruction, but there is more to war than you have exhibited.” Adam's lips pulled back in an expression of pure disdain. “I think you are a liar, Challenger. I think you are a deceiver, not only of me, but of yourself. You clearly have some virtue, some honor, if you haven't crushed us immediately for offending you. So I can't call you a coward, but I do think that you despise weakness—and you think heroism to be a vulnerability, don't you? Is that why you never claimed my Domain?”

“I would agree, except no Domain of Heroism has burned me before. You are something else. You have proven yourself to be something special. It was a good little speech, though. Quite respectable. But I have a simple rebuttal: Even with the will to do it, it is not done if you do not succeed. To fail, to ruin, that is not Heroism; that is just a tragedy. More often than not, heroes feed not their own Domain but those of Grief, Sorrow, Defeat, Hopelessness, Despair, and above all, me in my wholeness. No, no, I think you do not understand yourself yet. I think you are such a newborn Godling that you don't fully comprehend what you possess, and it hasn't gotten a chance to flourish. And so it must. For I want to see what becomes of you, O Godling that has burned me when the Starhawk could not.”

“You used me as a shield!” Adam cried aloud. “If you didn't use me to block that shot—”

“Evasion would have been necessary. For there is a great deal just about a father's urge to protect his boy, and that I wouldn't have been able to ignore. That was purer than war. If only for a moment, but then the Starhawk, stained with so much bloodshed, and your father, bearing the same grime, were claimed. And they folded unto my will. Once more, justice rendered tragedy beneath war. But you are not the same. Why won't my rage sink into you? Why won't my Curses and Blessings touch you? Why do they just peel around you, evaporate upon you? What have the Fairwoods made of you, little Arrow?”

Even if Adam had an answer, he wouldn't give it to the Challenger. But then he saw the dark, glowy building on the orc’s face, and his pulse sped up even more. “No matter. I think we will have the rest of eternity to figure such a thing out. Before, I thought you the first of my Insul’s companions to fall. Now, I suspect this might become a most illustrious rivalry. And so let me give you an incentive to hate, to betray your own Domain. You've taken one of my most promising and vexing sons from me. Perhaps not of your own accord or awareness, but you have purged my influence from him. Now, I can push my power into this soul once more to make him a proper orc, filled with the primacy of my Domains. But in truth, I've grown tired of his petulant complaining and incessant struggles. I am weary of him as he is of me. If he wishes to experience life as one of you, you uninitiated, you weak and whimpering mortals, so be it! Let him have his delight, and I will have mine.”

“What do you want?” Adam failed to keep a quaver out of his voice. “And why don't you just take? You said we were all at your mercy. If that's so, then why don't you just take from us?”

“Because that won't be enough to scar your soul and have you betray your own faith. You took one of my orcs from me, Adam Arrow, and so I demand something back from you.”

The Challenger's voice dropped lower, but the cruelty in his eyes shone bright. “I want you to choose your mother, your father, your beloved Isabella, or anyone from your town to invest with an Orcish Skill. Choose, and I will handle the rest. I will not inflict any more injury on you and the others. I will even see you all empowered. But first, you must choose. Of this, you have no choice. Choose, choose, choose! Choose who you condemn for your act of Heroism! Who do you trade in exchange for the Culturist? Who do you give unto the altar of war, in mutilation of your Heroism?”

“None,” Adam seethed through clenched teeth. “I choose no one.” His divine aura burned brighter, and for a moment, he pushed back against the Challenger—even managed to drown the room in his glory. For a moment—a hopeful moment—the fighting stopped. Valor halted mid-stab. Jessica did the same. A series of clinks sounded from Can Hu as the Penitent found itself firing toward no effect. Even the Starhawk and Roland sobered.

“A-Adam,” Uva called out, sounding more drunk and wild. “What—”

But then the Challenger crushed hope. He exerted his will once more, and Adam felt his power driven back—felt the orc god clamp his Divinity around Adam. His bones fractured under the strain, and a choked cry was squeezed out from him. But the Challenger clenched no tighter. He wanted Adam to know his strength and taste the hopeless struggle, but he didn’t want him to die. “Choose. You cannot defy me on this. No more than I can kill anyone here. For war to butcher his finest practitioners is his form of self-mutilation.”

“I refuse!” Adam cried out. “You can’t make—”

“Your father, then.” The Challenger sighed, sounding disappointed. “I suppose it will be pleasing to take something from the Starhawk. And Sister Mettabon has already served as an Avatar. She can reclaim that position. No great loss.”

A pit of absolute horror opened up inside Adam. “I—no, please—”

“Heroes shouldn’t beg. No more words. Choose. Do it now.” And the Challenger lifted Adam high so he could better see his father’s face, twisted by bloodlust. The man was all but unrecognizable. “Not so far off from my grasp, anyway. Him. Or someone else. Your mother could use my power. And that girl in the bed. The one you were set to wed. She will perish soon from Sullain’s wicked little sickness. But I can change her fate. You simply need to decide on her behalf. CHOOSE.”
