Her bow was practically alive, the string a vine, and the wood bending on its own to release arrows in between her manual shots. It was almost as if the bow mimicked her movements in an even faster fashion, making her shoot twice as many arrows, even if these echoed ones were weaker.

Moreover, these arrows came at Jake like the wind, curving, twisting, and more than a little difficult to keep up with. Not to say Jake couldn’t keep up, the problem was that he didn’t get many chances to retaliate without risking being struck.

His decision to fight on a barren moon had definitely come back to bite him in the ass. Under usual circumstances, there would have been environmental obstacles he could use to defend himself and obscure his opponent’s vision while relying on his own sphere and pulses to keep track of the other party, but that wasn’t an option with his current choice of battlefield.

All he could do was keep up and try to read the pattern of his opponent’s attack to hopefully find more openings... which was when he noticed something else unsettling:

She was getting faster.

The wind energy seemed to grow in intensity, the arrows growing faster. Meanwhile, the bow she wielded took in more and more energy. Jake was forced into summoning barriers to deflect the incoming arrows, but found them unable to block the attacks fully.

Jake felt like he was caught in the middle of a storm with arrows raining down on him from all sides, curved and manipulated by the wind as his opponent just kept getting faster and stronger with every passing moment.

It was to the level where Jake began to question if his opponent wasn’t actually using a boosting skill... which was when he heard a voice in his head.

“I think I forgot to tell you... She recently had an impressive epiphany, and in a surprising turn of events, her first-ever mythical skill turned out to be her archery one!” Artemis said in an amused voice.

That explanation certainly helped clarify things as Jake was sent stumbling back, an arrow sticking out of the side of his shoulder as he failed to dodge in time, with more than a dozen additional arrows already headed straight for him with ever-increasing momentum.

Truly, the setup for an ideal learning environment.
