My ears twitched slightly as I looked around at all of the guards, though considering how I had seen Rin Zaoh move before, I couldn’t imagine all of them were really needed.

Lily padded along beside me, tail wagging as she took in the massive room with wide-eyed curiosity, and our group finally found a good spot to wait.

But we didn’t have to wait long before another set of doors on the far side of the throne room opened.

A hush rippled through the hall as two more guards stepped through first, armored in even more elegant armor, their helms crested with green plumes that trailed down their backs. They moved to either side of the walkway and planted their spears against the floor in perfect unison.

There was a slight murmuring around us, though everyone was careful not to be too loud. It seemed the emperor was finally arriving. I moved left and right to try to see better, thankful for my human legs giving me a little more height, even in this child’s body, but Lily and Grick couldn’t see a thing. The Fox just stood there with folded arms and a raised brow, then she muttered, “What the hell?”

I raised a brow at her. What exactly was she reacting to?

I leaned a little to the side, then took a few steps to peek between some of the legs in front of me. Then I saw it.

A turtle.

Not a small one, either. I’d have as much trouble climbing on top of it as I had with the chairs in Rin’s office. Its shell was painted deep green and gold, and tiny charms and strips of embroidered cloth had been fastened along the edges that swayed with each of its slow steps.

Was it the emperor's pet? Is this just how he makes an entrance? But then I noticed something else on top of the turtle that sent my head spinning.

There was a frog, about big enough to sit inside two open palms, with a tiny golden crown on top of its head. I leaned, trying to see through the door the turtle and frog duo had come from, expecting to see someone else… Where the hell was the emperor?

It wasn’t until the turtle made it to Rin Zaoh that I understood.

“Your Majesty,” she said, bowing before the frog.

“Ribbit,” the frog answered.

She then held out her hands, and the frog jumped onto them. She carried him to the throne and set him down, then stood at attention alongside the throne. Her red eyes were as stoic as ever.

My mouth fell open. Was this a joke? Were all of these people in on it?

I looked around and saw a few people scratching their heads, but others only smirked knowingly. The Fox seemed as surprised as me, though she held a hand over her mouth to suppress a chuckle.

One of the guards cleared his throat as he unraveled a scroll and read. “On the matter of the irrigation dispute between the eastern rice terraces, Farmer Taro, please approach the throne.”

Part of me still didn’t believe what I was seeing until a dark-skinned man stepped free from the crowd and walked up to the throne, dropping to a knee just shy of the platform. “Your Majesty, the eastern terraces have been taking more than their share of the river, and our paddies are drying. I beg you to intervene.”

“Ribbit.”

There was no denying it… My future was in the hands of a freaking frog…
