I slow down after about twenty minutes of sprinting. Not because I don’t feel like running faster, but I know I’ve got a long way to go.
So I reduce my pace from record-breaking speed to a sustainable jog. A bit faster than normal, but I can’t help it.
I’ve got the music.
Currently, I’m running to the not-so-fast-paced song, “Heathens” by twenty one pilots. I love it. And the movie it was written for—Suicide Squad—I really wanted to watch it, even though I thought it might not be as insanely horrific as I hoped. PG-13? Really?
Great concept, though. It came out just a month before I came to this world. I always meant to see it, but I kept putting it off. Guess I’ll never see it now.
Hm. Thinking of home or the world I came from hurts a bit. But it’s more like a thorn that I’ve pulled out of my foot* a while ago. It still hurts, but the place I’ve come to makes up for it. In some ways. In other ways, it’s just as crap, but at least—
 
*More than once. Painful, and way worse than stepping on glass. Actually, barefoot runners rarely step on glass. Everyone thinks we do, but if you were running around barefoot, would you step on glass? Seriously. Think about it. It’s not hard to spot most of the time.
 
Yeah—At least the view is great.
An open landscape of rolling hills and an open dirt road stretches out before my eyes, punctuated only rarely by inconveniences like rocks or, in the distance, small buildings. It’s the most glorious sight for a runner. I can see wavy stalks of flowering plants in one field, bright and colorful. I’m assuming they’re there for harvest.
Even the occasional animals sometimes delight, like the little rabbit with faintly purple fur that sprints out, sees me coming, and then blinks out of existence. Did it teleport? I look up, and a bird that glows flashes across the air, almost as if it’s laughing at me for being so slow.
A Creona Flashbird—rare and prized around these parts. And up, higher and higher, lies my destination, that mountain range that ascends into the sky. Epic and wonderful and free of people.
Actually, the geography reminds me a lot of Mongolia. I used to stare at pictures of the endless grasslands there and dream of running by myself for days. But this place, this makes Mongolia look like a cramped hipster coffee shop in the middle of a city.
This world is big. And even that word is too small to encompass the land around me. Endless is probably a better word for the scale of this planet. Even the sky is larger, or at least that’s how it feels. But how would gravity work if that’s the case?
Magic. Probably. Anyways, I’m not thinking about this again. Focus, Ryoka. Think about your job.
Hm. Let’s see. I’ve ditched Fals and the rest of the jackasses that call themselves Runners. That’s a good first step. Now, Celum is a ways away from the High Passes. Only two cities are actually in the High Passes, Esthelm and Liscor, although they’re in the safe route with roads and far fewer monsters, not the untamed wilds.
In any case, I can relax. I’m running at a quick pace, but it’ll take a few hours to get there. So I relax and let my mind wander.
 
——
 
Run. Run and eat. Run and stop to pee. Run and slow to a walk for a while. Normally, I’d be busy thinking all this time, but instead, I just listen to music. It’s been so long every song is fresh and amazing to listen to.
In between that, I do stop the music to concentrate. As a Runner, it’s important to be aware of my surroundings. And a few things have been bothering me.
Firstly, I know the local landscape. Around here—around most of the northern part of this continent, the geography alternates between relatively flat land and the mountainous passes that lead to the southern continent. True, there are heavily forested regions further northwest, and from what I’ve heard, several large rivers that create a transportation network that makes Runners slightly obsolete. But that’s north, and I haven’t travelled that far.
Those Five Families I heard about are largely in the north—Magnolia’s the one too far south. Five houses of influential people doesn’t sound fun—but they have gigantic pastures of land I want to see. That forest? Apparently it was one of the last ‘great forests’ of the world, the Vale Forest. Sounds like fun—if not for my feet.
In the same way, I haven’t gone past Liscor to the south. That’s where the landscape gets nasty apparently. What people call the Blood Fields separates the north from the south, a kind of battleground that changed the very ecosystem. No wonder Humans don’t go down there. But it is home to the largest plains in the entire world where Gnolls live…
Where I’m running—the plains north of the High Passes—is one of the better parts to be in this region. The only threats around here are Goblins and a few weaker examples of monsters. But the closer I get to the High Passes, the more likely I am to run into something nasty. Exactly what monsters live in the mountains I don’t know, but they make the ones living in the Human lands look cute by comparison.
That’s the first problem. The second is that there are a bunch of fireflies following me.
Fireflies. Or—animated sparks of light? That’s the closest thing I can think of to describe them. It’s like—well, it’s like some kind of magic maybe? These…symbols keep flashing around my head, and I swear I can hear something whenever I look at these flashes of color that are whirling around my head. They keep trying to get a lock on me, but whenever they do, I speed up and lose them.
It’s probably some kind of curse. I don’t know if Persua has enough money to hire a [Mage] or if it’s possible to call down lightning on me, but I’m not dealing with whatever it is.
Keep running. I just wish whoever’s casting the spell would give up. It’s getting annoying. But I can turn up the music, and the garbled speech tunes out. Okay, what else?
I’ve got the details of the open request memorized and written down, for all the good that does me. It’s a request to deliver a package, but what the package might be or who’s requesting it isn’t clear. That’s the uncertainty of an open request and the reason why few Runners want to accept them. But the pay’s extraordinary, so that’s enough.
With open requests, I go to the location marked and I’ll receive my pay in advance. The sender tells me where to go, and we can negotiate a second fee, or I tow the delivery back to the Runner’s Guild where someone else can finish the job.
It’s not the greatest system, but it works when dealing with areas where identity and safety can’t be assured. Apparently, all deliveries used to work more or less like this, but the new system in the Runner’s Guild is safer for Runners.
I could be walking into a trap. Please don’t let me be walking into a trap.
Anyways, I’m looking for a cave down the main road* of the High Passes. It will be marked by a yellow banner of some kind.
 
*I use the word road only in the loosest sense. Rather than a road, you could call it the only vaguely flat terrain that winds through the mountains and through stone passes and the network of caves.
 
That’s all I have to go on, and I’m only a few miles away from the High Passes. Now I can see the mountains looming ahead of me, rust-colored rock towering in the sky. And they are huge. I can look up and not even sense a mountain getting smaller before it disappears into the foggy, clouded sky overhead.
A mountain taller than Everest? Perhaps not, but it’s probably close. And that’s just one mountain of the countless ones here. Together, they form an impenetrable barricade, save for the small gap that winds through the passes.
Well, a small gap here is a road about as wide as two football fields placed side by side. And again, if it’s a road, it’s the most crap road in the world. This one has boulders scattered throughout it taller than fully grown oak trees. But it is semi-flat, and that’s enough.
I really hope I don’t cut my feet on the rocks. I should be fine; my calluses are really tough, but—
Something flashes past my face and hits the grass. Instinctively, I duck, and that’s when I see them. A horde of little green men, except these ones ain’t aliens.
“Shit.”
I guess listening to loud music really isn’t a good idea when you’re supposed to be watching out for trouble. That’s probably why I never noticed the group of Goblins until they were right on top of me.
They spread out around me, a mob of Goblins. Not too many, at least by their standards, but a lot. I can’t spare time to count. Twenty—thirty of them? Some have bows, like the one who just shot at me, but most are carrying weapons. Rusted swords, daggers, and even a buckler or two. But they’re unarmored, ragged.
They could dice me up in seconds. And they’ve got me flanked this time.
This is bad. But I raise my hands and make fists. I haven’t needed to fight before, but it’s not because I couldn’t. And today, I’m at the top of my game.
The Goblins grin. They only see a Human female, alone, separated, and unarmed. Not a threat. That’s fine by me. I see a bunch of guys who I can hit as hard as I want and who have way less muscle and reach than a normal group of thugs. And I know kung fu*.
 
*I do not know kung fu. I practice a version of Muay Thai geared towards MMA, although I didn’t do any actual mixed martial arts. Damn overprotective parents.
 
Widen my stance, tilt my body forwards and down, hands up and loosely clasped into fists. I put more weight on my front leg. I bounce up and down, ready to move at a moment’s notice.
I’ve been in fights. Not many; definitely not the kind of straight up bloodbaths you hear about in inner cities, but I’ve had to defend myself more than once. More than that, after my first fight, my parents had me learn martial arts to defend myself. I studied how to fight.
The Goblins are still spreading out around me, waiting for one of them to make the first move. Maybe they can tell I’m not like a normal girl because I’m not screaming or trying to run. Instead, I dodge back and forth, keeping my distance, trying not to let them get my back.
One of the rules of fighting a group is never to let them surround you. Lead them on in a line if you can. Second, never let an opportunity to attack slip by. Be sure you know when they’re about to come at you.
And striking first is good. So as the first Goblin decides it’s time to get the ball rolling and darts forward with a shrill cry, I step forwards.
Step in, rotate hips, and put all that motion into a punch. I catch the Goblin in the head right as he charges. It’s a satisfyingly solid punch, and I feel it go right through the bugger.
He folds up. No confused blink, no comedic pratfall. The Goblin just falls down and doesn’t get up. That’s what a proper punch does.
The other Goblins blink in consternation. That shouldn’t have happened. But they’re fighters. They look cute in an evil sort of way, but they’re all killers. Probably even normal street thugs aren’t as vicious as these guys. So when they see the first guy go down, seven come at me at once.
I back up. And then I turn and punch. Not to really hit a target, but to get the other Goblins behind me to back up. They were about to rush me, but they flinch away, and I dash past them. Okay, now my back’s safe. So I turn and let the others come at me.
A line. They’re doing the stupid tactic of rushing me without doing it all together. So I jump forwards, punch once, twice. Two Goblins fold up, and I hop back, letting them trip up their friends.
A Goblin leaps over his friends, and in the air I hit him in the stomach. He starts throwing up even as he lands. Another comes around the side, and this time, he’s smart enough to start swinging before he gets to me. I wait. Swing, swing…
As his knife goes too far left, I step in and hit him. I’ve got a longer reach if I extend, way longer than his short arms. Another unconscious Goblin.
The last three Goblins slow, but one of them is dumber than the rest. He keeps coming, and I decide to get fancy. Instead of punching, I back up and then do a roundhouse kick.
Muay Thai is a martial art that emphasizes really strong kicks. And one of their famous kicks is the roundhouse. Naturally, it was one of my favorite moves to practice.
The Goblin lets me set it up. He’s watching my hands, so he never sees my leg flash up. I can kick nearly as fast as I punch, and I catch him right across the head. Short as Goblins are, my kicks are more head level than at their side or chest like normal Humans.
My foot connects with his head, and I feel his flesh squish. And then I feel something give way and hear a crack. The Goblin tumbles, flies, and rolls to a stop in the grass. He doesn’t move. And my heart stops.
The other Goblins look down at their fallen friend and up at me. I know I should be watching to see if they’ll rush me, but my eyes are fixed on the Goblin. I—I didn’t mean to hit him that hard. Not in the head.
He’s too still. The fallen Goblin doesn’t even twitch. He—he’s—
He’s dead. I killed him. I’ve never killed another creature before. I’ve hunted for fun, but I don’t shoot animals. Even in fights, I only broke bones. I don’t kill.
But he’s dead. And it was so quick, too.
I stare down at the Goblin and then see a black shape speeding at my head. I duck, and the arrow misses my cheek by a few inches. The Goblin archer lowers his bow and shouts something at his friends.
I—what do I do? The Goblins are moving again, trying to surround me. They don’t want to get close this time, but the archers are all pulling out their short, stubby arrows.
I need to run or fight. I’ll—I’ll blitz the Goblin archers, hit them, and then run for it. I start weaving and dodging left and right, giving them less of a target. I just killed—
The archer in the back, the one who shot twice at me, is their leader. I need to hit him and maybe the Goblins will give up on me. He’s got a few Goblins in front of him, but if I rush the group…
The Goblin pulls an arrow and sights at me. My body tenses—
And the Goblin archer’s head disappears. Not disappears in a cute way like he ducked down or he fell over. No. The entire neck and skin pulls away as a massive jaw closes over his head and rips his head clean off.
“Holy—”
The Goblins turn. One screams, raises his sword, and a claw cuts his stomach open. I back up. The Goblins back up. The gigantic wolf casually grabs another Goblin, bites down, shakes him around, and tosses him to one side like confetti.
A wolf. A huge, giant wolf. Not the kind from my world; a proper, Big Bad Wolf of the plains, nearly as big as I am. Bigger. He’s got more mass.
