The rocky slope behind me is already filled with wolves and goats tearing each other to shreds. And the worst thing is that the wolves are losing. The goats came out of the cliffs in a horde and started eating the wolves, ripping them apart and fighting over the scraps.
I ran uphill to get away from the ones chasing me, but instead, I just ran into worse trouble. For the Gargoyles, it’s like I just offered myself up on a plate and brought a lot of hors d’oeuvres.
The Gargoyle that just tore apart the goat tosses the pieces up. Its curved beak-mouth snaps, and it crunches horribly. The goats swerve and immediately retreat, but the other Gargoyles lumber forward. Half of them leap down towards the goats and wolves now in full retreat. The other half go after me.
I run on. I haven’t stopped running, but I find some more juice and tell my legs to go even faster. I don’t know how they’re doing it.
I feel sick. It’s like my body is shutting down, but at the same time, it’s like someone’s hitting me with a taser*. Even though I want to sit down and throw up, I’m running as fast as I ever have. It’s like I can’t run out of energy, and I need every drop.
 
*Never been tased. Run!
 
A huge Gargoyle unfolds in front of me. It looks vaguely like a bird crossed with an ogre, a hulking giant beast with skin that looks like stone but slides around like flesh. It opens its mouth, and I see a dark opening before something shoots out.
I feel something spin me around and then stumble forwards. My hand goes up, and I feel at my shoulder. Sliced flesh. Deep slice. The Gargoyle fires again, and I stumble sideways. The stone fragments it spits miss me and eviscerate the wolf behind me.
The hell was that? It’s like a shotgun! And the sound the Gargoyles are making—a roaring warble that makes rocks tumble down. I can feel it in my bones.
I can’t fight. I don’t even think of trying. Muay Thai doesn’t have any moves that teach you how to dodge bullets or break stone.
So I run. I was born to run. I was born to fly.
The nest of Gargoyles is high up. It’s a relatively open area, looking down on the high pass. Fifty—sixty feet below? It’s not a straight drop—more like a sharp incline. Normally, I’d descend with the utmost caution, but the Gargoyles lumber towards me, fast. So I dash towards the edge even as a Gargoyle charges me.
My feet leave the ground as I leap. I jump over the Gargoyle’s lashing stone tail and touch down on a rocky outcropping. Even as my feet find purchase, I look and move. Another jump, and now I’m aiming right for the rocky slope.
Stone cracks and deceptive crevices leap up at me as I fall in slow motion. The slope is a maze of places to twist or break my ankles. But I can see every fault in the rock face. My foot hits the edge of the cliff, and then I plunge down, sprinting down even as several rocky monsters lumber after me, spitting stone shards.
Left foot, stone spot. Right foot avoids the fragile green moss. I’m leaning forwards as I run down. Right, left, jump, pivot—
I lose my balance and slam against a rock. I’m tumbling down, but I correct my footing and push off. I’m in the air for five seconds and then land and transfer the force of my fall into descending.
Fast. So fast. The slope is blurring beneath me, and I can see the open pass below. I’m going too fast to stop. So I twist—
 
——
 
The almost vertical slope leading up to the Gargoyles’ lair crumbled away in the wake of Ryoka’s descent. Small stones bounced wildly down the uneven landscape, dislodging larger boulders and causing a minor earthquake. But even the avalanche was too slow to catch her.
Ryoka’s feet were a blur as she sped downwards, on a collision course with the ground. She was moving too fast. Even if she tried, the strain of taking all her momentum aimed downwards and transitioning to the flat ground might break her leg. So instead, she threw herself into a roll.
Ryoka hit the flat ground and tumbled fifteen feet before she landed on her back. She stared up at the cloudy sky, winded. But in another second, she was up and running. She was being chased.
The stony, half-avian, half-hulking forms of the Gargoyles launched themselves off the cliff. They did not fear breaking any body parts. One smashed into the ground behind Ryoka, making the earth shake around her. She ran on as the Gargoyle surged upwards and chased after her.
Her body was electric. She felt like she was dying of the flu, yet more alive than she’d ever been. Ryoka was bleeding from her torn up feet, her bitten arm, and the places where the Gargoyle’s shrapnel fire had cut her flesh. Her clothes were torn, and she was bruised from countless impacts.
The ground shook as more Gargoyles launched themselves off the cliff and hit the earth like bombs. They couldn’t really fly, heavy as they were—but they could angle their descent. Ryoka ran on as stone monsters twice as tall as she was landed around her.
Birds shrieked in the sky, except they weren’t birds. Razorbeaks, the prehistoric avians with leathery wings and beaks full of teeth, swarmed down out of the sky. They dove down, seizing carcasses and entrails from the fighting monsters. Others dove at Ryoka, biting, tearing at her. She flailed at them as she ran on.
Death was everywhere. Ryoka felt it in every bite, every scratch. She was bleeding from a dozen wounds, and she felt like she was dying with every step. And she was confused. She was afraid—terrified out of her mind, and in pain. So why? Why—
Why was she smiling?
This was it. This was the end, and it was a stupid, pointless, and painful end. It was all her fault, and yet—there was a relief there.
At last. She felt like…
She was bleeding. She was leaving an actual trail of blood like movies. The young woman laughed, but coughed and stumbled again. Her feet didn’t hurt.
You idiot. This was all her fault. Just because she was so stubborn—at least someone was taking her to account. She kept stumbling forwards, just to spite the monsters. Spite was all she ran on. Not love of her family, not hope for anything in particular. Not family, not friends.
Garia was going to be sad. Ceria had done so much for…
—She got up. She thought she’d broken her nose, but the angry Gargoyle made her stand. She kept running as another piece of stone embedded itself in the ground. 
She had no friends nor purpose. Just forwards. One more step—
A wild grin covered Ryoka’s face, twisting away into a grimace as she dodged left, a flicker of surprise as she saw the small, ragged piece of yellow cloth waving at the entrance of a massive cave. Her eyes were alight with life, and as she ran into the cavernous entrance that a Boeing-747 could easily taxi into with plenty of space to spare—
She was smiling. The Gargoyles turned and fled, the Razorbeaks peeled away, screaming in distress, and the remaining wolves and goats fled for their homes. Ryoka stumbled into the cave.
 
——
 
The Runner staggered into the cave, bleeding, injured, and sick.
Ryoka stumbled forwards and found the rough ground had suddenly changed. She was suddenly walking along…marble? Maybe not marble, but some smooth, glossy stone had replaced the dark rocky ground. She left footprints in blood as she walked forwards, almost numb to the competing agonies in her body.
The monsters were gone. They’d stopped chasing Ryoka all of a sudden. She could barely process that, though. She was staring around. Around and up.
The cavern she’d entered had appeared large to begin with. But as Ryoka walked further into it, it was clear that rather than calling this place a cave, it was more as if someone had hollowed out the inside of the mountain. She walked into a massive auditorium filled with…stuff.
That was the word for it. Stuff. Huge, carved pillars flanked Ryoka as she walked further in. They gave way to tapestries hung from the walls, important-looking people and epic landscapes. Rows of bookshelves suddenly appeared on her left, and then tables and countless pedestals holding things that glowed with magic and mysterious light. A huge table as long as a bus sat piled with pieces of paper and bubbling liquids. An alchemy lab, sitting next to a mirror that didn’t show Ryoka’s reflection as she passed, only a shimmering mist of strange colors.
Armor and arms stood against another far wall, an armory among armories. Swords and maces shared places with plate armor and weapons Ryoka didn’t even have a name for. The cavernous room was filled with wealth. It was a treasury of everything and anything expensive.
And standing in the middle of all of it was a man. Not just a man, though. Ryoka stumbled towards him.
Her mind—
Was failing. She felt herself losing blood, but she had to keep moving. If she stopped, she’d collapse. Ryoka squinted. It was so far to walk, but she kept going.
…
Who was he? Ryoka squinted. She felt like she was far away and close at the same time, so she lurched forwards. She saw—
(A massive Dragon sat in the cave, staring down at Ryoka. His brilliant yellow and gold scales glinted in the half light as he raised a claw—)
“What?”
Ryoka blinked. Her head—she staggered towards the man in regal clothing, clutching at her side. He was an old man, one with a veritable mane of silver-gray hair. But for all that, he was tall—taller than she was even. And his clothing looked like it was the most expensive stuff she’d ever seen, on par with Lady Magnolia’s attire.
But his face caught Ryoka. He was lined like an elderly statesman, but his features could have been used as a template for sculptures. He looked like the most handsome old guy she’d ever seen, and she was not attracted to older men. But she was to him.
He looked like an archetype of humanity, only one aged well into his sixties or seventies. He was magnificent—
(He was a Dragon. Yet his illusions showed only the man, and the Dragon’s head rose with the simulacrum’s, wary and alarmed.)
The figure had been resting on a reclining couch long enough to accommodate even his long frame. Eyes, sleeping. The head rose—(and so did the Dragon’s, eyes fluttering awake with alarm and fear. Then anger.)
Ryoka blinked. She was lying on the ground. She picked herself up and saw the blood. It dripped onto the expensive stone. She couldn’t feel much, but she saw the man walking towards her.
She wavered on her feet. The occupant of the cave looked at her: a bleeding, dying Human. In a state of shock, even as he seemed to wake from a long nap.
“Who dares—who are you?”
His voice echoed through that grand chamber, furious and startled, then surprised as he took in the blood trailing behind her. The holes in her flesh. The man looked up, and the young woman smiled at him, fearless and dying and…young. Like many such people her age.
She grinned at him and raised her hand. Ryoka held out the bit of parchment in a bloodstained grip.
“Delivery.”
Then she fell to the ground, unconscious. The elderly man looked down at the unconscious Ryoka Griffin and blinked a few times. How surprising.
—Upon closer inspection, his ears were pointed upwards. If Ryoka had been in any state to inspect anything, that was. The ‘man’ sighed and muttered a few words that were loud and quiet at the same time. Ryoka’s bleeding stopped. He flicked his fingers, and the trail of blood she’d brought in slowly flowed together into a crimson orb that floated towards him.
He caught it and tossed it on Ryoka’s body. The blood flowed towards her and into her. She stirred and sighed. He sighed too.
“Humans.”
It was probably best to let the magic work. She was suffering from mana poisoning, which was far more difficult to cure than mere blood loss. Meanwhile, he could investigate this strange Human on his own. His spells weren’t showing her level or class for some reason.
The occupant of the cave turned and strode away. He made it five steps before he tripped over a goblet and fell on his face. Quickly, he got up and made sure the Human was still asleep. The elderly man scowled, kicked the golden chalice, and winced as it crashed into something in the distance and shattered it. He scowled at nothing in particular.
“Rot.”
