The wolf sniffs and eyes me. The Goblins are already running, but he’s not interested in them. He’s looking straight at me.
Calm down*. It’s not the same as a Dire Wolf from George R. R. Martin’s books. Those things are big as horses, right? This one’s—this one’s only twice as big as a normal wolf. Only twice.
 
*Calm down! Don’t panic! Holy gods, it’s huge!
 
It has rust-red fur. Why the hell—is it because of the blood? It paws the ground, sniffs again, and then slowly begins to circle me. It’s so big, and unlike the Goblins, I can see muscles rippling under its fur.
No time to run or even think. I raise my hands again. Wolves can outrun Humans, just like bears. And running makes me prey. I need to get it to back down or leave.
“Bring it.”
Trouble is, this wolf isn’t like normal ones. Wolves from my world don’t hunt Humans in general. But this one just ate a Goblin’s head. So maybe the ones here have a taste for humanoids.
It sniffs at me again. And then the wolf lowers its head. Oh shit. It’s gonna—
I barely see the wolf move. It launches at me, and I throw myself sideways. The wolf lands, turns, and I run forwards and punch it in the head.
No thinking. Just action. I’ve practiced these moves enough that my body overrides my panicked brain. Punch, punch, step back. The wolf snaps at me and I twist. My leg flashes up and sideways and catches the wolf in the wide of the head. A solid strike.
Roundhouse kick. I once watched a documentary about the power behind Muay Thai kicks. Getting hit by one by a world champion is like being hit by a car at 35 MPH. Well, I’m not the world champion, but the giant wolf still blinks and shakes its head. It wobbles on its paws, and I step forwards.
Another kick that’s illegal in MMA is hitting your opponent with your knee when he’s down. That’s a lethal move. Actually, all of Muay Thai moves are meant to kill, but knees and elbows are really nasty. I was taught a hundred times not to hit anyone in the head with a knee unless I wanted to kill them.
I just hope my teacher wasn’t exaggerating. I run forwards and knee the damn dog as hard as I can in the face. I heard something crunch. It feels like my knee.
The wolf blinks, backs up a few steps, and then snarls.
—Ah.
It’s funny. Back in my world, I thought I was pretty hot stuff. Certainly, I’ve never lost a fight with the other stupid kids my age. And I was talented.
I practiced in an actual contact gym, and I got good enough that my instructor said I might have a future in the ring…until my parents vetoed that idea. At that level, I could teach martial arts myself if I didn’t want to be sexually harassed and laughed at all day long. Reaching that level at my age is extremely rare*, and I know how to fight.
I’ve been in street fights, or at least, school fights and being jumped while running. There’s a difference between knowing martial arts and having a black belt at a McDojo**.
 
*Having a personal gym and near-perfect memory helps, though. Also, parents who let you practice martial arts as much as you want if it keeps you out of trouble.
 
**McDojo. Great term. It describes every cafeteria and gym for kids who just want to show off rather than learn actual techniques. I kicked a black-belt ‘expert’ once and broke two of his ribs. Good times.
 
I know how to fight. And even if I’m not nearly as good as someone who walks in and out of brawls or has trained longer, I’d put money on me beating most of the adventurers below Gold-rank. Because they’re Human, or humanoid. And martial arts don’t exist in this world, at least as far as I know.
But martial arts from Earth weren’t designed to fight monsters.
The wolf I just roundhouse kicked and kneed in the face gets up and shakes itself like nothing happened. Then it looks at me and growls. Its nose looks wet, but I don’t think I hurt it much. In fact, I think I just pissed it off.
It advances fast. I punch, but the wolf snaps at my hand, and I nearly lose it. It dashes around me, and I spin to keep up. It’s so damn quick!
The wolf snaps at my leg, and I back up, kicking. But it’s too fast, and the fur on the wolf is like armor. It rushes me again, and this time, I can feel its hot breath on my front as I leap back.
Muay Thai was never meant to fight a creature that fights with its teeth. I try to get my distance, but the wolf advances.
Fuck. It’s not gonna let me get away. And I don’t know what to do. If I were faster, I’d try to poke its damn eyes out. But the wolf is dodging left and right.
I try to punch the wolf, but again, the fur takes all the force away. And then the wolf twists its head and closes its fangs over—
Aaaaaaah!
Fireworks. I hammer at the wolf’s face and then mash one of its eyes. It lets go then and howls in agony. I do too.
My arm! It bit down for only a second, but I think it cracked the bone! I stagger away from the wolf, and mercifully, it doesn’t follow. It’s shaking its head, and I can feel something wet on my fingers. I think I destroyed its eye, but I have to get away.
I start running. From a standing start to a sprint, I’m running. Behind me, I can hear the wolf howling. In agony? No—this sounds worse.
It sounds like a call to the pack.
Just as I think that, I hear more howls, this time in the distance. But they start getting louder, so I run on. My arm is bleeding freely, but I run on. No time to stop.
Glancing over my shoulder. I can see the wolf following, but only to keep me in its sight. It wants to gather the pack. And here they come. Blurring shapes race over a hill, fast, fast.
My arm! I can’t—the wolf tore away a huge chunk of flesh. I need a potion.
They’re in my pack, strapped to the outside for easy reach. I grab one, pop the cork, and down it, choking on the liquid. Then I hurl the bottle at the nearest wolf, making it dodge away.
The foul liquid goes down, and I wait for relief as I sprint desperately for the High Passes. The landscape changes beneath my feet. Suddenly, I’m running across what feels closer to clay, and the soil and even rocks turn a dark orange-red. And the mountains are right in front of me.
The wolves follow, howling even as more of them race out of the plains. They’re coming.
I’m never going to lose them on the open ground. I hear a growl and run left as a wolf jumps. It hits the ground, and I scramble up the rocky ground. Up the slope. Aren’t wolves supposed to have a harder time climbing or something?
It works. The wolf packs slows, and I can see them having a harder time scrambling up the rocks. But they are coming. And they’re still howling, making my blood run cold.
Gotta run. Must keep moving. I scramble up the incline, cutting my legs and hands against the jagged surface. And I feel sick? Why? My arm still burns. It should—it should be healing.
Up. I see a ledge and leap for it. It’s high, but I grab the edge and hoist myself up. The wolves charge, but they’re too late. I’m above them, safe for the moment.
On the ledge, I back away from the wolf pack and lean against the rock face, breathing heavily. I feel sick. Sick, tired, and the adrenaline in my veins is making me shake. And I’m still bleeding? Why?
Another potion. I fumble at my pack, pull out the bottle of red liquid, and down it in one go. I wait for relief. Nothing.
Confused and sick as I am, I down another potion before I realize something is seriously wrong, and at that point—
I throw up. Something is—the potion I drank is burning in my veins. What the hell? It’s not a healing potion. What is—
Something hops down from the rocks above me. I shout, hurl the potion bottle, and nearly slip in my own vomit. The goat stares reproachfully at me and bahs loudly even as the wolves keep howling and snarling below.
“A goat?”
A goddamn goat. It scared the crap out of me. But it doesn’t appear frightened of me or the wolves. In fact, it takes one look at the wolf pack trying to make its way up to where I am and bahs again, loudly.
The goat has two wide eyes on either side of its head. It looks stupid—or insane, and this one has to be brain-damaged because the snarling wolves and I are both bigger than it is. It’s clearly wild and has ragged fur, oddly damaged. It looks like it’s survived mauling before, but this is the day it dies. Because it, like me, is stupid.
…Or is it just me? Because that first bah suddenly gets an answer.
More bahs. This time, they’re all around me. I look up and see goats lining the cliffs and rocks on the High Passes. They hop up and down the cliff faces easily, making for me and the pack. What the hell? Are they not afraid of the wolves? But now the wolves are backing away from me and snarling at the goats.
Why—
The goat near me bahs again, loudly. In fact, it sounds more like a scream at this point. A scream, and now it gets real close. Suddenly, I have a really bad feeling. I back up, and the goat advances.
The goat opens its mouth, and I see its teeth. Goats should not have pointy teeth. And its mouth is unnaturally wide. The goat’s jaw dislocates, and I see a gaping maw coming my way. It’s running and shrieking like a demented monster. It screams, and I scream and run, and the Carn Wolves are running away. I try to follow, but they’re all around me and—
 
——
 
“The High Passes.”
Lady Magnolia breathed the words as she stared at the man standing in her foyer. He was—well, knowing what he did, Magnolia would have expected the man to be wearing pure black clothing and armed to the teeth, but then, he wouldn’t be very inconspicuous, would he? [Assassins] were supposed to be stealthy.
But this man was so ordinary looking he was forgettable. Magnolia was sure it was some sort of Skill, just as she was sure that she was not happy with the current situation.
“Please explain to me, Assassin Theofore, how it is that Ryoka Griffin was able to not only evade you and the others of your group, but that she is now, as I understand it, alone in the High Passes being chased by a group of Carn Wolves?”
The [Assassin] named Theofore clearly did not like being addressed by his name, but he was also wise enough not to take issue with Magnolia using it. He spread his gloved hands out and bowed his head.
“My associates and I were fully prepared to guard Ryoka Griffin against attacks within the city and even outside of it. But we were unprepared for her to accept a request to the High Passes, let alone move so quickly.”
“I did warn you she was quick. And the wolf pack?”
“We were unable to do more than slay a few of the wolves gathering before they noticed our scent. And our group was not equipped for combat against monsters, milady. We assumed this would be a protection mission against other Humans and armed accordingly. We were forced to retreat, and for our failure, you will be fully reimbursed. But the Guild cannot take further responsibility for this, Lady Magnolia.”
Lady Magnolia pursed her lips, but the [Assassin] was right. No one could have predicted—
Well, actually she could have predicted this if she’d known about the unmarked request beforehand. Magnolia knew Ryoka’s personality well, both from experience and her Skill. It was a slight oversight that cost her now and cost Ryoka—possibly her life.
She studied the [Assassin] and tapped her lips, glancing towards the window where the mountains loomed in the distance.
“If I were to pull strings and send several teams of adventurers to the High Passes, would they get there in time?”
“Perhaps to collect what remains of her corpse, Lady Magnolia. But even that is likely to have been devoured by now.”
Again, Magnolia had to suppress her vexation. Well, vexation was one word for it. She was considerably more than vexed, but a [Lady] took care to hide her emotions. Still, she had to give vent to it.
“I was assured of the highest quality in hiring your guild. I believe I made it quite clear how important Ryoka’s life was?”
The [Assassin] was not in a good spot. Technically, he was a veteran of his Guild and perfectly able to take most lives with a single flick of his concealed blades. But he was standing in front of a woman who was definitely able to take any life she wanted, including his. Perhaps not directly, but the [Maid] standing behind Lady Magnolia was setting off all of Theofore’s warning bells. He eyed her warily as he chose the best words to respond with.
“Had we known the Runner would venture into an area like the High Passes, we would have charged ten times the cost and sent our best agents. And even then, we would not have guaranteed her safety. Practically speaking, we would have attempted to subdue Ryoka Griffin long before she entered that area. Countless monsters abound there, Lady Reinhart. The wolves would be just another type of prey, there.”
“Really? And here I was about to order you to go into the High Passes with your associates and get her out. Although your presence here means, even with my carriage, you’ll be too late. Still, I may well order it after all.”
Magnolia brightened at that. Theofore—hesitated.
Send them into the High Passes? He knew they were just Ranks, lowly members of the Guild, but she couldn’t do that! That was a death sentence.
But she was Magnolia Reinhart, and the Guild…he began to sweat as Magnolia tapped her lips.
What Theofore didn’t know was that she was only making an idle threat. Magnolia…her eyes flickered to Ressa’s face, reflected from one of the polished doorknobs, and the [Maid] grimaced.
It was him. It had to be. Ryoka had a chance, however slim, and the [Assassins] could not be deployed. She sighed, and the [Assassin]’s sweat turned into imminent dehydration as Magnolia looked at him.
“Is there any hope these other monsters would devour the wolves and leave Ryoka alive?”
“Doubtful, Lady. They would try to kill anything that disturbed them. And it is likely that even if Ryoka outran the wolves, she would not be able to evade the most prevalent type of monster in the High Passes.”
“And which would those be?”
“Gargoyles.”
 
——
 
Gargoyles!
I think I’m screaming. I’m definitely running, but I can barely feel my feet getting cut on the rocks between my nausea and the terror electrifying my body.
The nearest oddly shaped stone unfurls its massive stone wings and seizes the first goat trying to rip me to shreds. The goat tries to break free, bleating in panic, but the Gargoyle just reaches up and pulls the goat apart. Blood rains down around me as more of the deceptively innocuous rocks spring to life around me.
I’ve just run straight into a nest of Gargoyles. That would normally be terrible by itself if it weren’t for the pack of wolves and goats trying to eat me.
