Shiv felt an intense heat within each of those protective panels, and he recognized them from his earlier skirmishes. Longinus could summon bulwarks shaped from the purity of his emotions, and since he was a God of Hunger as well, the sensations and feelings he gorged himself upon were nigh unbreakable, even when struck by someone who possessed the strength to crush a world between their hands.

Heavenly arrows of azure glory greeted dense shields shaped from divine hunger. The resulting clash was blinding, overwhelming. From every arrow Adam fired, there came a ghostly effigy of himself, an afterimage that continued firing in the Paragon's stead, but otherwise remained intangible, untouched by all harm. For a scant second, Longinus vanished in a colossal detonation of incandescence, but Shiv could still track the god. Could still see his emotional core growing ever larger as every centimeter of its space was filled by absolute, unrelenting fury—with even more was spilling over into the world.

"This is our doing; his skill transformation is unstable, but it shouldn't be. I think it's meant to amplify his emotions, letting him possess an absolute power of exploration where the world moves for him rather than the other way around. But our skirmishing left him cracked and broken earlier. We are not the only ones with a wrist slit—his Avatar and Divinity are both too damaged to sustain this power for long."

Shiv quickly understood why the Harbinger had made this guess. The enkindled flames that fueled Longinus' heart were combusting violently, breaking free from his body, even dealing damage to his form. Ruptures opened across his flesh, and vents were created where divine skin was unblemished.

And the blackest flames that divorced themselves from Longinus formed mocking manifestations of the god. A mirror unicorn forged of midnight hatred and born of the Harbinger draped itself over Longinus, bit down upon his neck, and inflicted upon him an unneeded indecision.

“Keep going! Keep going!” Longinus’ two voices howled, twin edges, one anguished, the other furious, each at war with the other. “I will fill your corpses with—KILL ME! Kill me now—RAND! HOW DARE YOU?!”

Longinus lashed his head to the left, then right. His horn projected a vacuum tunnel high up in the air, cleaving an impossibly clean gouge through the smog-choked clouds above and rising further to split dimensions and erase the inner walls of Princess Plum Blossom's keep.

Nothing made of matter withstood the Wanderer's wrath. Everything anchored to physical space ceased to be, a clean gap carved open for as far as the eye could see. From all the levels kilometers above, Shiv could see other pocket spaces torn asunder, casting down a rain of people from other kitchens, chefs tumbling out from the open wound left in their floor—the Boiling Toad’s spatial ceiling.

Longinus tried to lower his head to catch Shiv in his vacuum tunnel, but his enkindled clone drove itself upon him, knocking him off course once more, and painting another apocalyptic slash above. Recovered of mind and heart, Shiv activated Legion of Self once more and joined in on the barrage of attacks. His mana hydra erupted out from him and unleashed a tidal wave of lacerations and plague-infused attacks that were certain to detonate as crimson explosions against Longinus's godly Magical Resistance. His meager Pyromancy and Hydromancy were unleashed in tandem as well—every little bit to add to the chaos, if only to piss Longinus off more.

At the same time, he spewed forth a barrage of spells and resurrected two more bodies, both to serve as decoys. They were left in place while he cast his Severed Shadow one second into the future and right behind where Longinus currently was with his Harbinger. For his Severed Shadow, the world vanished into a dilatory path of surging gold. For his two other bodies, however, the present flowed as normal; neither of them was guarded by the attuned mana of his new Legendary Skill. Another drawback to account for.

His physical bodies were cast forth as sacrifices. Shiv didn't care if Longinus destroyed them and accepted the skill damage that was certain to follow. When the Wanderer regained his bearings, he would attack, and there would be nothing Shiv could do to stop him. When Longinus strode, the System helped him move. The System was not Shiv's ally.

The Wanderer's mind and emotions were a maelstrom of madness. He was not his own master. He just wanted something to run through and break, and Shiv would give that to him—offer both physical bodies as poison satisfaction. And while Longinus savaged the obvious targets, Shiv would descend upon him once more from his blind side—leave the cracked god more broken than ever before.

"He is less himself with every blow we land," the Harbinger encouraged. "One strike after another: strike and then move, strike and then move, strike and then move. Never stay in the same instance of time; always give him something else to hit."

And as Shiv's Severed Shadow transitioned into the future, something else surprised him. Uva was carried within him. As such, she was caught in his lag, so her threads and Fractals briefly came to a halt without a governing soul to guide them. But her cartoonish serpents continued to assail Longinus, and though his blows left them tumbling, discombobulated, and deformed, none of these new, Fae-like serpents were destroyed. That realization paled in comparison to the fact that Adam was still firing his arrows from inside Shiv’s soul even while they were moving across time.

“Wait, holy shit! How are you doing that, Adam?” Shiv's words echoed inside, and the Paragon laughed as if he wasn't affected by time at all.

“I can't rightly say,” Adam replied. Every time he fired a Shard of Exalted Flame, he manifested over Shiv's shoulder in a form constructed from azure incandescence. His bow was an arc of star-stuff, and his arrows burned pure and bright, cleaved across the expanse of time, each shot loosed as if he was still in the present, not being carried toward the future.

Longinus then surpassed Shiv's expectations once more. First, his indestructible amber aegis intercepted every single arrow fired at him, even the ones unleashed by Adam's ghostly effigies. Beneath the constant barrage of Heroism in the projectiles, none of the Wanderer's protective panels suffered even the slightest hint of a scratch. But where the Ascendant was awesome in flesh and magic, he betrayed himself through action, his mind ground in pure emotion, rendering him more beast than man, more monster than individual.

It suddenly struck Shiv how fitting it was that the Wanderer had turned into a unicorn. But with the way he's acting, maybe a bull would be a better fit.

And like a bull, Longinus charged once more. Shiv knew what to expect this time, but knowing what to expect meant nothing when your Reflexes were outmatched so severely. Longinus wasn't even a blur. He simply appeared inside one of Shiv's resurrected bodies. The wound that he made was immense, and that version of Shiv died in an instant.

Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides 538 > 540

Pillar of Orichalcum 404 > 408

Inertial Overdrive 318 > 322

Harbinger of Tripartite Ruin 216 > 218

However, though the Wanderer moved faster than light, his arrival unstoppable, like a long-foretold destiny, he had a weakness in his current form as well. He could only occupy one point in reality. As he cut down one of Shiv's bodies, the other moved to grapple with him, locking arms around the unicorn's throat to drag him down and hold him in place with all the strength Shiv could spare.

But the Deathless wasn't done yet.

The Garden of Wounds and Broken Things bloomed within his flesh for the first time. As soon as his Severed Shadow arrived back in the present, the change took shape within Shiv's physical body. It was like his biology became a seed for something. Yet his flesh didn't change immediately, not like it had Backstage.

Rather, there was a buildup inside it, a burgeoning of vines and veins and architectures that awaited their release.

And that came when Longinus blinked away from Shiv's grasp. Reality spirited the Wanderer past the threshold of Shiv's grasp before returning him again, like existence driving a dagger down upon Shiv's mortal form. Shiv splattered. His remaining physical body was rendered a smear of viscera and tumbling limbs amidst the rain of bodies and crumbling architecture falling from the shattered dimensional barriers in the sky, but he did not die. Instead, a feeling of flourishing vitality swept through him as his mangled corpse became the epicenter of growth.

Shiv transformed. His body, once merely humanoid, exploded outward as chains of lacerations, cuts, bruises, contusions, and ruptured organs sprawled out from his blood, from his existing injuries. They were followed by landslides of concrete and stone, of collapsing buildings and falling skyscrapers. All that and more slammed into Longinus, and though the Wanderer's godly form suffered no damage, he was gripped by confusion.

And that momentary distraction proved painful.

Shiv's Severed Shadow emerged from its temporal leap. Once more in the present, he seized the moment and channeled every overflow vector he had left, and flung himself like a Legendary missile. He slammed down on the Wanderer's back and delivered a brutal elbow to his neck. If the act was purely physical, he would have achieved nothing. But as he struck, his Harbinger struck with him, and so a sound of shattering glass followed his attack. The shattering was a cascade, like every single window pane falling out of a high-rise, one after another.

As Shiv's physical body came apart and spawned a garden of destruction, Longinus broke. Blackened flames bled out from its cracking body as its emotions oozed out in messy splatters like intestines might escape a disemboweled stomach. The two unravelings happened in sync, and as Shiv's new Unique Skill began to blossom, he drove another hook into Longinus’s skull and implanted a declaration that burrowed deep to the god's very core.

“Nothing is yours. Not your body. Not your slaves. Not your kitchen. Not your fate. You are owned. And you're not even a slave. You are Evanescia's pet, at best a tool to be used, spent for her amusement and my actualization. The Great One's power was truly wasted on you. What kind of god ends up as a side character in someone else's story?”

Accompanying the scathing insult delivered through Shiv's blow was another shard of azure brilliance. This was fired at point-blank range, and it struck with such force it flung Shiv off the Wanderer’s body. Georges once again distended from the underside of Longinus’ divine shell. Shiv flung his Severed Shadow two seconds into the future—and high up into the air to break contact, but just as his Harbinger flared bright, a salvo of Cryo-Chronomantic spikes slammed Longinus. While the tarnished icicles shattered against his Magical Resistance, they exploded out and formed a dense cocoon of halted time and nonsense space around Longinus—whereupon Uva added her pre-existing stalagmites to the mix.

The Wanderer was buried. His voice shattered into an incoherent chorus. He sobbed, he wailed, he raged, he cursed. And yet, through all the godly screams, he admitted that mortal he once had been, for that faint presence which wrestled against the rest of him, that mantle the fiery black steed made manifest through the Harbinger laughed! Laughed with relief! Laughed because his final rest was close at hand, and he might not need to die a monstrous parody of the hero he'd been.

“So long,” Longinus’s long-silenced conscience sang out. “I’ve been trapped for so long. I've dreamed of this moment for so long. Set me free. Let me ride the eternal fields. Set me free for good. Take me to a life where I never descended, where I stayed with the dragons—or on the farm back home…”

But the rest of himself wasn't done.

The Wanderer was finished with insults, beyond vulgarity, and freed of sanity. The madness of his rage fully took hold, and Longinus flung his shadow aside, bit down on its throat, and drank in deep. He swallowed and digested his rage as his horn grew curved and transparent. Instead of becoming brighter, it became a portal to all the places Longinus had visited, of the many dimensions he'd passed through, of the countless breathtaking vistas he'd witnessed. All that represented the crystallization of his power and identity: a roamer of distances great and vast, his spirit and body implacable, unbound from the limitations of time and space!

A stolen piece of the Great One’s boundless power, the Wanderer was meant to soar, to ride down his enemies, to surpass the horizon and everything beyond. And this highest desire transcended mere emotion to become an existential law.

But as Longinus underwent an active evolution, a titanic shadow rose behind him. A shadow that Shiv commanded. The Deathless marveled as his body took shape, but it wasn't just his body. It was the collective destruction inherited from all his battles.

A crown of concrete formed his skull. His eyes were hollow, and the insides spilled blood as rivers. His spine was constructed from segments of broken skyscrapers. The tower he'd broken earlier was part of that alloy. Its shape, still glass, still shattered, yet a part of this greater whole. An exoskeleton was formed over him, a literal one made from broken bones. The substance that filled his insides was woven into shape by threads of injuries, by chains of slashes and open gashes that once caused bodies to weep their inner red. And from behind Shiv sprouted a mess of whips. They extended out in a sprawling cape made from uncountable ropes of interconnected mutilations.

