The higher an enemy's Tier, the more essential information on their capabilities is. Such is why Shadows, Scouts, and Diviners will always be among the most essential Pathbearers on your team, even if they aren't the most durable, magically gifted, or physically imposing.

At baseline, a Master-Tier Martial Pathbearer will have well over sixty Skills, ranging from Weapon Proficiency to Support and Survival Skills. That makes them immensely hard to predict.

Ideally, you want to know absolutely everything about who you're dealing with and what they can do, and slightly less ideally, you want to know at least a little. As I said, this is what Shadows and Diviners and the like are for.

But in the scenario where those fail, there's really only one good way to find out what your enemy can do: bait them out and throw someone expendable at them. If you're lucky, this will be a summoned dimensional or an enemy of your enemy. If you're unlucky, this will be you.

Yes, you, Adept Jenkins. I have heard how you address the Non-Vanguards—Luggage Attendants, you called them? And a few other titles I don’t care to repeat.

Well. Today, you will learn what command calls us Vanguards, including Master-Tiers like me:

The Meat. We are the Meat. And the Meat is to be spent, abused, used, and learned from.

—Captain Harry Irons, TacStrat 101, Phoenix Academy

352

Three Upon One [II]

The fact that Longinus still had more bullshit to pull out of his divine ass wasn't a surprise. What was a surprise was just how bullshit that bullshit was.

Shiv saw the attack coming, as did Adam and Uva. All of them reacted. They anticipated Longinus' charge and surrounded him in a messy spiral of Aberrant Fractals. He didn't have a good counter against the geometries, which made sense considering he was the Wanderer, not the Traveler; a God of Exploration rather than Navigation. Part of exploration was about getting lost, after all.

At the same time, the Fractals served as a medium for all their magics. Uva's puppeteer strings shot free from the constellations, and then came bolts of Cryo-Chronomancy. Glaciers of tarnished gold erupted all around Shiv. Beyond the cage of temporally frozen spikes, she also wove a dense bundle of Psychomancy, with each thread stitching itself in place. Her strings were so fine and translucent that if not for the faint shimmer offered by their mana, one wouldn't notice them at all. Longinus would have to fling himself upon her magic to reach Shiv—consign himself to play as a fly to the Seeker’s spider.

If that wasn't enough, Adam could fire his Shards of Exalted Flame through her Fractals as well, each capable of striking the foundation of Longinus’ existence.

And at the heart of this hastily constructed fortress was the Deathless himself, supercharged by Heroism, empowered beyond the limitations of time, a weapon capable of breaking mind, body, and heart. Even a deity operating at the peak of the Legendary threshold should have struggled to break through their impromptu fortress, according to the war games Adam ran in his mind.

But the annoying thing about gods and powerful Pathbearers was how they always had a way to defy the conventional rules of reality and warfare.

Longinus transformed. He thrust his lance into his own head, and his five-meter-tall, incandescent body shifted from that of a centaur into a pure steed, a unicorn of all things. His divine weapon fused with his soul as much as his body, and it grew greater, longer, nearly the length of his entire body prior.

With every stamp of his blazing hoofs, the fabric of spatial reality tore and ruptured, spilling flickers of Dimensionality that breached that gap. A horde of lesser unicorns followed from a place beyond places, riding out to form a vortex. Yet Longinus wasn't done. As he finished rearing back, he strode forward, but rather than him moving, it was like the very substance of time and space folded. If the world were a canvas lying atop a table, then Longinus was a knife rammed through both while the canvas was pushed forward, dragged toward a single anchor point of stability.

The rules of reality shifted on a level Shiv simply couldn't comprehend as Longinus tore through time and through space, arriving in a blurring instant as the System itself seemed to deliver his target to him, rather than the other way around.

The Wanderer passed through all of the team's defenses without engaging with them at all, and when he arrived, he did so with his spiraling horn already lodged through Shiv's chest.

Shiv broke in two parts and along three aspects. His Harbinger was run through first, and an explosion of pain went off behind Shiv's skull as his Legendary mana fields were eviscerated entirely. But the pain of the mana strain paled in comparison to the punishment dealt upon his mind, heart, flesh, and soul.

The Harbinger burst and bled. Vitae and true blood both seeped out from the cracks parting his body, for what was the Harbinger but a perfected version of Shiv existing in the inevitable future? All coherence was banished from Shiv's brain, and the dam built around his heart ruptured, causing his anger to flow forth in a near-uncontrollable tide. Worst of all, however, was the skill damage. Shiv felt a piece of himself fracture and a central pillar of his being crack.

Longinus breathed something, his voice ravenous with satisfaction and hateful glee, but Shiv didn't hear him, was too focused on the notification that appeared in his vision.

Skill Damaged: Return to Sender (Master)

The agony was immense. The damage ran deep. But, for all intents and purposes, things could have been much, much worse. For how deep Longinus drove his lance into Shiv, the wound he inflicted was muted. The Wanderer’s horn should have shattered Shiv. In all other outcomes, it would have, striking the still fragile Harbinger. But there was a greater will holding Shiv together, an equally divine will, sourced in Heroism and fueled by virtue.

“Shiv!” Adam called out, using all he had to press back against Longinus. An ejection of azure radiance erupted from Shiv and splashed against the Ascendant impaling him. The Paragon pushed, but despite all he'd gained, he wasn't a full god, and so he was as if a child driving himself against the leg of a titan. He wasn't alone. Threads of Psychomancy spewed free from Shiv’s mind and wrapped around Longinus, prying and trying to twist his horn. Shiv himself clutched the horn piercing through his chest and spent every tide he had to tear himself free. Three Pathbearers fought in tandem within one body. With that action of unity, three were synchronized as one, and they became greater than the sum of their parts.

“The fuck is—” Longinus’ words turned into an aggravated howl as he was besieged from all angles. Though his new evolution allowed him to move in defiance of time and space, pulling the very tapestry of existence to reposition himself, it didn't prevent him from being attacked. So utterly focused on his newest victim, he failed to realize one thing: just because he managed to skip past all the defenses arrayed against him didn't mean they were useless. In fact, when one moved themselves inside a fortress, then the metaphorical walls and turrets became an encirclement instead.

Fiery arrows erupted free from Aberrant Fractals that spawned cones of time-halting cold as well as puppeteer strings, and all fell and tore into the Wanderer like a rainstorm made from rabid snakes. Every blow Adam inflicted sent a reverberation through Longinus’ being—caused him to misalign from Georges. The mana frequencies between god and Avatar were disrupted, and the two became as if clashing vibrations. “FUCKING QUIT THAT—”

But under Longinus’ roar came a smaller voice, a determined voice, and for the briefest of seconds, the Ascendant named Wanderer was usurped by a foreign will. Georges was pushed free from the incandescent aura that comprised Longinus’ godly shape. The chef was battered and bleeding, confused and disoriented. But he was trying to push forward—trying to slip out. “Keep going! Fucking kill me if you can! I’m ready! I don’t want to be like this anymore! Roland—I know you! I believe in you! Do it!”

Seeing his mentor so close to escape gave Shiv pause. The Deathless stopped struggling to free himself and instead reached out, desperate to pull Georges free. He tried to cast himself across time using the broken Harbinger, but his chest tore even more when he tried. Longinus’ horn didn’t just shred his being, but also pinned him in place existentially. It was like reality had been given an edict to keep Shiv in position so long as he was stuck on that horn. “Godsdammit!” Shiv snarled. “Georges—”

"Shiv! Focus! We cannot reach him!" The Harbinger bled like an open vein, yet it was rapidly closing, cauterized by Adam's resplendent Heroism. But in this matter, it was Shiv who was more damaged. The horn had pierced someplace deep, and it was hard for Shiv to master his thoughts. He was lost within himself, his mind behind his emotions. Black flames flickered around the Harbinger in representation of Shiv's discord. But once more, the Harbinger made its Legendary state known. Even before its Delve, a Legendary Skill was Legendary indeed. The Harbinger grasped the enkindled flames leaking out from itself and tore them asunder. The fires representing Shiv's emotions were shredded like paper, and the anguish that followed was brutal.

But it lasted only an instant before numbness followed—a crushing anhedonia enforced by the Harbinger upon Shiv. The skill grew weaker; its golden resplendence and Psychomantic translucence lessened. Unable to draw from his rage as a source, his mind took precedent once more. His thoughts overcame the banished fires, and now the Deathless was sobered. His hands clamped down around the horn once more, and he pushed back.

Instead of trying to break Longinus' horn, he directed his Shapeless Tides backward and wrenched himself free in a final rush of acceleration.

Trails of Vitae and golden fragments spilled through the air. An ache coursed through Shiv—a feeling of hollow pointlessness behind every struggle he endured. He didn't see a way out. He didn't see a path to victory beyond Longinus. There was the Usurper-Narrator, the Ascendants, Veronica, the Tarrasque, Udraal, and after that, what was there to look forward to? An Incursion, more battles, more strife. He had resolved to break free from the System's whims of violence, but it had so easily drawn him back in.

It's all fucking—

The foreign darkness drowning his thoughts was siphoned away from him. For a second time, someone modified Shiv's emotions and drew what was his ruin into her power. A glow of wondrous colors began blossoming around Shiv's head. Petals expanded around Uva's strings, making it seem like an Outsider flower was opening up behind Shiv. He felt her gaze widen behind his. He felt her open a channel directly to the Outside, to the Dreamtaker's realm, where something was slowly stirring, waking after a long, enforced slumber.

But above that, he felt his rage return; a torrential downpour of emotions followed as his heart reignited.

Concurrently, twin rivers made of flowing feathers and shifting colors spilled out from his eyes and crashed into the Wanderer, drenching the Ascendant in a colorful coating of chaos that served as the spawning pool for the Dreamtaker’s offspring. Feathered tongues and kaleidoscopic serpents tore into the Wanderer. They harassed and covered his face, but they all evaporated in puffs of mana when he flexed his fields of divine mana.

All except one.

A single feathered serpent was squished flat. Literally. Its body was compressed until it was two-dimensional, and there came a comical sound effect that projected an attached “OUCH!” text-bubble out from its injured form—and directly into Longinus’s head. The text bubble bounced Longinus back, and the flattened feathered snake threw itself at the Wanderer with a rising yodel as a battle cry.

And it didn’t charge alone, for the Dreamtaker’s colors shifted, creating more instances of that strange serpent that reminded Shiv of the Winter Court’s Red Riding Wolves.

The Dreamtaker is entering a state of pre-hibernation.

The Dreamtaker has been inspired.

The Dreamtaker has obtained a (Narrative) Skill.

The Dreamtaker has reached an imminent evolution.

What? Shiv’s mind went blank. That explained some things, but it also caught him by complete surprise as well. He wasn’t alone; even as Uva kept her focus on the battle, her insides were reeling. The Outsider God had been slumbering since the Eldest infiltrated Uva’s soul. What had prompted this?

“Sorry, I was too focused on the fight.” Uva's quick apology paled in comparison to the potency of her power. She tore away his self-inflicted trauma. She absorbed his mental wounds, and they became her power. All this while Adam mended both their souls, bathing them in an invigorating glow of Heroism that sent their levels skyrocketing, that bade Shiv's damaged skill to start reconstructing itself in seconds rather than hours.

And just in time. Shiv wasn't the only one to restore himself. The moment he recovered, Longinus did as well. His eyes were like twin stars shattering with every beat of his divine heart, going supernova, and somehow, the lance that became his horn shone even brighter. A vacuum shroud formed around Longinus. The ceaseless attacks unleashed by Uva passed through him, emerging from the sides of his body as if he were an open door. However, he couldn't dodge Adam's arrows so easily, so he formed protective shields of amber brightness, and they danced around him in a swirling aegis.

