He dove, landing in a roll on the rough stone as the lava passed over him.  A few loose droplets landed on his cuirass and helmet, but they lacked the thermal mass to do more than melt small dents into his armor.  As he leapt to his feet, he considered his options.

Magma Fissure was right out.  The thing looked like it considered burning magma a nice bath.  For similar reasons, Firebolt made no sense either.  Blood Bolt seemed like the perfect choice, but Edmund hadn’t yet had a chance to charge the dread gauntlet up, and he couldn’t very well imagine getting close enough to drain the burning chameleomander.  As far as ranged attacks went, that left his most versatile option.

Black smoke swept from the air towards Edmund’s wrist as he summoned his Smoke Lash.  Before the chameleomander could launch another attack, Edmund swung, cracking his whip through the air for the creature’s eye.

The spell never struck.

As the lash grew close, the veritable firestorm in the air around the salamander burned the smoke away, the spell too ethereal, too lacking in density to survive the heat.  Edmund cursed.  He’d have to get in close.

The beast spat another glob of lava at him, but Edmund sidestepped with ease, catching stray droplets on his shield this time.  At least, he reasoned, its ranged attack was slow.

Grasping his spear and gritting his teeth for what was to come, Edmund brought his shield back between him and the chameleomander and charged.

The air seemed to thicken around him as he approached, scorching first at his eyes and his lungs as he drew near.  Still he moved.  He inhaled sharply, ignoring the pain of the hot air through his throat, and held it in.  He blinked tears from his eyes before they too gave out, forcing his eyelids shut.  He’d finish his advance in the dark.

The creature hissed once more, and Edmund darted right as the attack came.  Lava splashed from the ground onto his left leg and boot, but the blackbone held up admirably.  With its major protection against fire, Edmund’s lower half remained the only unburnt part of him.  Still he pressed on.

He kept his shield up, guarding less against physical threat than the radiating heat.  He ducked his head behind it, protecting as much of his vulnerable upper body as he could.  His right hand, exposed by its need to grip his spear, took the brunt of the assault.  His mithril bracer protected his arm, and his two pieces of The Crimson Hand shielded his middle and ring fingers, but the rest slowly cooked.

Flesh blistered and bubbled as he drew in.  Agony radiated up his arm, but it’d been some time since Edmund had let a bit of pain stop him.

The beast hissed once more, but Edmund never gave it a chance to complete its attack.  He plunged his spear towards where he’d tracked the beast by the sizzle of its footsteps, and felt the familiar resistance of flesh meet his weapon.  With a sharp grunt, Edmund activated Rend.

The chameleomander collapsed.  Edmund backpedaled, distancing himself from the oppressive heat until he hit the wall.  He exhaled sharply.  He took a breath.  With a pained groan, he forced his eyes open.

The beast lay still on the path’s edge, a gash cleaving halfway through its side.  Edmund counted the seconds before the dungeon reclaimed its corpse, and the heat finally faded.

Edmund collapsed against the wall, sliding along it until he sat on the rough stone ground.  He dropped his spear with a clatter, freeing his burnt hand from its contact with the chitin.  He breathed, allowing the agony of his injuries to wash over him until his mind grew accustomed to it.  It was only once he’d accepted the pain and his Perseverance had begun its work that Edmund looked down and discovered the true cost of his victory.

His spiderleg spear was no more.

The only piece of his equipment to actually come into contact with the chameleomander, roughly half of its eight-foot length had melted away as he’d struck.  All that remained was a short cane with a rounded end.  Edmund sighed.

That spear had seen him through more fights than he could count, an essential part of his arsenal since he’d found it on the fourth floor.  He knew he’d lose the weapon eventually, either to its failure or because he’d simply outgrown it.  Truth be told, he was impressed he’d managed to hold on to the spear as long as he had.  Already Edmund looked forward to what new weapon he’d find to replace it.

He just had to finish this floor.

The thought gave Edmund some pause, as the issue of dealing with further chameleomanders grew prevalent in his mind.  None of his spells quite worked, and while Scorpion’s Sting or his fragments of The Crimson Hand could certainly deal lethal damage, both required he step even further into the deadly heat.  Edmund didn’t think his hand would survive reaching out and touching one of the beasts.

That left him with two options.  The exit already sat open, and for the moment, no monsters stood between him and it.  If he was quick enough, he could probably run past those that remained before they could block him off, but that would require a reckless pace and forfeit any real chance at finding a secret on this floor.

His second option was to find a way to deal with them before they became a problem.

That first chameleomander had to have come from somewhere.  If Edmund could figure out where its compatriots lurked, he could better plan for their attack.  He cast his gaze across the chasm before him, peering through the smoke for anything out of place.  He found nothing at first, the dull light and the already-lumpy nature of the stone in which they camouflaged themselves the perfect setting for an ambush predator.

The smoke gave them away.

The black cloud wafted up from the bubbling lava below, spinning and roiling through the air in familiar patterns.  Edmund knew it well.

Until, at five spots on the underside of the pathway, its motion changed, shifted, ever so slightly, from its natural course.  It seemed to quicken, speed and straighten its path towards the sky, as if driven upward by some invisible gust of wind.

Or, perhaps, as if by an additional source of hot air.

As Edmund squinted he managed to make out their forms, the way their tails curved in and their four-toed feet clung to the underside of the walkway.  He noted they didn’t melt the stone, apparently cooling themselves to prevent exactly that.  Molten rock, as it turned out, didn’t have enough tensile strength to hold up a giant salamander.

Edmund saw his opening.

Leaving his half-melted spear behind, he crept forward along the path, using a windstep to vault over one of the unsupported sections.  He stopped the moment he got into range of his target, afraid to draw closer for fear of alerting the thing.

He struck with two spells at once.

The vast majority of his mana went towards a single Magma Fissure that cut a line perpendicular to the pathway.  The rest went to a Smoke Lash that flew through the air for the chameleomander’s back right foot.

The fissure opened up above it, and while its magma failed to scorch the extremophile, the very act of splitting the stone open robbed it of its contact with the rock.  Its front two feet peeled off, swinging it back in a great arc as only its rear legs clung to its perch.  Edmund’s Smoke Lash struck at the base of its fall, separating yet another foot from the path’s underside.  The weight of the thing plus the force of its fall more than overpowered its remaining point of contact.

The beast plummeted.

Edmund pushed forward, unsure how long a thirty-foot drop into a pool of lava would actually slow the thing.  He vaulted over two more segments of path he’d judged too thin to trust, keeping a careful eye on the lava below as he moved.  It didn’t stir.  Either the fall had injured the thing, or it simply judged Edmund not worth the effort of climbing back up.

He paused some thirty paces from the next chameleomander to regain his focus, allowing his mana to regenerate before repeating the process.

Hours passed as he slowly and inexorably traversed the volcano’s rim, the cost of his Magma Fissure forcing regular breaks to recover.  He spent his time wisely, searching the wall and floor unceasingly for mechanisms or passages or simply a method by which to climb up and out of the volcano.  The more he searched the more certain he grew there were none to find, that secrets the floor held lay not above, but below.

Six hours and roughly two thirds of the way to the exit, the first of the fallen salamanders emerged from the lava below.  Edmund watched with bated breath as it climbed back up the wall, only to stop at its previous perch.  It made no move to climb atop the pathway, no attempt to chase Edmund down.  Edmund considered that good news.  He didn’t have to fight the thing, though he would have to drop it again if he wanted to retrace his steps.

Happy he didn’t have a horde of angry salamanders at his back, he pressed onward, clearing the final two monsters from his way before leaping over the last bit of unstable pathway to reach the exit.  A familiar chime echoed through the air.

Edmund went straight for the loot chest on the floor, noting how its metallic red color differed from any he’d seen before.  Liam sure seemed fond of using metals Edmund had never heard of.

Inside, a ring of rough black stone sat atop a small pile of silver coins.  Suppressing his disappointment at not finding a replacement spear, Edmund read its description in the smoke.

Swelter Ring

Generates a heat aura around the wearer and provides major protection against radiative heat.

Edmund slipped the swelter ring —sweltering?  Was this Liam’s idea of a joke?—onto his left middle finger next to his barkskin ring.  At once he felt its effects, not its heat but the way it made the air shimmer around him and the updraft it created.  Thrax, the breeze from the moving air cooled him down if anything.

Protected as he was, Edmund had no idea what kind of damage the swelter ring could deal, but standing where he did, that didn’t matter.  The protection did.

He could fight the chameleomanders on even footing now, able to approach without cooking alive.  It was less useful now that he’d cleared the floor, but at least he could get some useful training out them.  That was assuming the ring offered the same protection to his gear.  Edmund didn’t want to engage another salamander only for his helmet to melt off his face.

Putting such thoughts aside for the time being, Edmund sat back against the wall and brought up his constellation.  He had two viable options before him, two remaining tier three Aspects to combine with War.  Focus was already extremely powerful, if narrow, than the slightly higher resonance Philosopher.  Truth be told, as far as Edmund could tell, The Philosopher didn’t actually do anything, though Liam had promised it’d become incredibly strong once he leveled it up.

It made for an interesting conundrum.  Was it better to level up his weak Aspect in the hope it would begin to do something, or should he invest in the Aspect he already knew to be powerful.  Edmund figured that he’d only be getting a single level-up’s worth of power regardless of how strong the Aspect already was.  Since both had silver resonance, they should’ve theoretically grown by the same amount.  It stood to reason that with The Philosopher at silver plus, it’d even grow slightly more, and that was ignoring what Liam had said about the Aspect’s potential.

Either way, he could always make the other combination on the next floor.  Curious to see what would happen, Edmund selected War and The Philosopher and formed their confluence.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Tactician - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 1 - Deal double damage when executing a pre-crafted battle plan.

Edmund blinked.  He knew as well as anyone how quickly battle plans fell apart, but they did work sometimes, and double damage certainly incentivized careful planning.  Incredibly happy with his decision, Edmund reviewed the lower tier Aspects that’d leveled up.

At level five, War had improved from a limited increase to a lesser one, while Madness, Elements, and The Recluse remained unchanged.  Solitude’s constitution bonus gained the greater adjective, one Edmund was particularly relieved to see.  He’d never begrudge more survivability.

Last but certainly not least, at level two, The Philosopher changed entirely.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Philosopher - Silver+ Resonance

Level 2 - Question the concept of truth.

Edmund let out a sigh.  The Aspect’s new description remained as confusing and meaningless as its old one, though he supposed the wording seemed somewhat more specific.  He wondered how many times he’d have to level it up before it actually did anything.  At least the absurd power level of The Tactician made up for the current uselessness of The Philosopher.

As Edmund dismissed his constellation and blinked his eyes open, a flash of motion drew his gaze from across the volcano.  He watched in shock as a bright blue form on four legs emerged from the floor’s entrance.

The azure fox looked different.  The demonic horns on its head had grown longer, now mirrored by two rows of inch-long mini-horns that ran down its back.  As usual, blood caked the fur of its snout.  Its teeth had similarly grown, its canines longer and its other teeth sharper and serrated.  This fox was an omnivore no more.  Its maw was built for flesh alone.

Edmund watched as it darted down the path towards the first chameleomander, wondering what it would do once the monster crept up behind it.  The fox didn’t let it.

Edmund’s jaw dropped as the azure fox leapt from the path and ran on thin air for eight consecutive steps before it reached the still-hanging chameleomander.  Seemingly untouched by the heat, its jaws rent the lizard’s throat from its neck.  Before the dead beast could even fall from its perch, the fox jumped off it, using one final windstep to return to the walkway.

The fox didn’t even stop to watch its prey plummet before it darted on, racing along the pathway with unnatural speed.  It walked unhindered over the thin sections of path, far too light on its feet for such a trap to ever bother it.  One by one it eliminated the salamanders, blazing through the sixteenth floor with signs of neither difficulty nor danger.  It paused but once, when it reached the home of the final chamelomander, the only one that still remained where Edmund had knocked it.

It was only then that the azure fox met Edmund’s gaze.

He stood and placed himself between it and the exit, turning his back to the darkness between levels to face the fox’s challenge.

