It snarled as it approached, the hair on its back raising on end.  Edmund made careful note of the beast’s increasingly demonic appearance, wondering just how deeply its pact with Xe’orinoth the Fury had affected it.  It certainly hadn’t greeted him with hostility before.

He raised his shield but kept his sword in its sheath, hoping that the fact he’d once saved the fox’s life might spare him a fight.

The fox leapt, and Edmund reached for the hilt of his sword as he braced himself for impact, but at the last moment the beast again stepped on empty air and changed its trajectory, passing under Edmund’s shield to collide with his abdomen.

The tip of its left horn passed just under the base of his cuirass, penetrating just far enough to draw a thin trail of blood along his hip.  Before Edmund could recover, the momentum of the collision forced him to backpedal once, then twice, before he finally lost his balance and tumbled over.

The last thing he remembered was the fox’s blessing washing through him from the cut in his hip, upgrading his all important sigil, before the azure fox tackled Edmund into the darkness.

Edmund Montgomery Ahab, The Crimson Hand

Aspects Unlocked: 17

Tier 1 Aspect: War - Gray+ Resonance

Level 5 - Provides a lesser increase to all damage dealt.  Provides a lesser decrease to all damage taken.

Tier 1 Aspect: Elements - Gray Resonance

Level 7 - Provides access to the Firebolt spell.

Tier 1 Aspect: Solitude - Red Resonance

Level 8 - Provides a greater increase to constitution while fighting alone.

Tier 1 Aspect: Perseverance - Gray Resonance

Level 8 - Gain health regeneration.

Tier 1 Aspect: Madness - Prismatic Resonance

Level 12 - See beyond reality.  Touch the unreal.  Shape your world.

Tier 2 Aspect: Fervor (Madness and War) - Gold+ Resonance

Level 1 - Empowers the effects of Madness and War for each consecutive second spent in battle.

Tier 2 Aspect: Sorcery (Madness and Elements) - Gold Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Smoke Lash spell.

Tier 2 Aspect: Obsession (Madness and Perseverance) - Gold Resonance

Level 2 - Gain strength and agility for each consecutive day spent pursuing your obsession.  Gain mana for each consecutive month spent pursuing your obsession.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Recluse (Madness and Solitude) - Gold Resonance

Level 3 - Empower the effects of Madness while alone.  Lessen the effects of Madness while accompanied.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Island (Solitude and Perseverance) - Gray Resonance

Level 5 - Grants resistance to over-time effects while in groups of two or fewer.

Tier 3 Aspect: Focus (Elements and Obsession) - Silver Resonance

Level 1 - Doubles spell damage when attacking a single target.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Philosopher (Elements and The Recluse) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 2 - Question the concept of truth.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Rift (Madness and The Island) - Gold Resonance

Level 4 - Provides access to the Rend active ability.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Tactician (War and The Philosopher) - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 1 - Deal double damage when executing a pre-crafted battle plan.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Fissure (Elements and The Rift) - Silver Resonance

Level 2 - Provides access to the Magma Fissure spell.

Tier 4 Aspect: Rebellion (War and The Rift) - Gold+ Resonance

Level 1 - Grants resistance to mind controlling effects.  Deal bonus damage to enemies above your level.

Tier 5 Aspect: The Breach (War and The Fissure) - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Break Through active ability.

Delver’s Mark of the Challenger

Empowers nearby dungeon monsters.  Significantly increases the value of loot chests you open.  Slightly increases the resonance of Aspects you unlock.

The Crimson Hand

Grants minor resistance to piercing damage.  Bestows ownership of the Dread Gauntlet of Kor’Ilinesh.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Azure Journeyman

The fourth step on the Path of the Azure Fox.  Increases agility.  Grants two windsteps.  Increases positional awareness.

Trailblazer bonus: Sharpens hearing.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Rootmother

Non-intelligent Strethian lifeforms will treat you as an ally.  Gain the ability to draw water and nutrients from fertile soil.

Trailblazer bonus: draw water and nutrients from all soil.

Cloudkith Sigil

Cloud-based lifeforms will treat you as an ally.  Gain enhanced perception through vision-reducing effects.
