Surprise and awe flowed out to Ren, and he didn't absorb any of it. He assumed it was because he had confronted them about what had happened and hadn't backed down; but, it didn't really matter at this point. He walked out of the house and down the driveway, and climbed up onto Princess' saddle to wait.

It took about 10 minutes before Clint and the others came out of the house to go to the club, and he saw Ren was still there. Since he wasn't on Clint's property, he couldn't get angry about him still being there. He walked right over to Ren and looked up at him.

“Ah'm not ridin' witcha.”

“I don't expect you to.” Ren said. “I was waiting for the dancers so I can get them to the club on time.”

“If'n yer goin', ah'm not goin'.”

“Don't be an idiot.” Ren said, and Clint balled his hands into fists. “I'm not going to the club. I'm going home to people that want to have me around.” He said. “That just happens to be down the road from the club.”

Clint frowned at Ren's logic, then stepped back out of the way. Ren looked back at the carts and saw that the dancers had climbed into the first cart, and they had Jennifer with them.

“Hold on!” Ren said and looked down at Princess. “Go easy for the first time riders, please.”

Princess huffed and trotted up into the air, and there were a couple squeals of delight as they saw Artemis flying beside Ren, one woman let out a short scream, and quite a few shouts rang out to go faster. Princess heard this and poured on the speed at a respectable rate.

“Wooo-hooooo!” A guy shouted. “It's better than a roller coaster!”

A few other people joined him in shouting and waving their hands in the air to increase the thrill ride. Ren felt their enjoyment, and this time let his ability absorb some of it. They arrived at the county 10 minutes later, and Princess slowed down and came in for a landing 2 minutes after that, right in front of the club in the parking lot.

“That was great!” The same guy said as he hopped out of the cart and almost jumped around. His adrenaline was pumping pretty hard after the ride. “Where can I get one of these things?”

“You can't.” Ren said as he and Artemis unhooked the two horse and carts from Princess. “Princess is one of a kind.”

“Then how much...”

“I don't sell my friends.” Ren said and he and Artemis tied the horses to the available posts. He was tempted to help the ladies climb out of the carts, but he didn't want to feel the rejection that was sure to follow.

“Have fun tonight.” Ren said and he walked down the road with Artemis and Princess on either side on him. Princess went into her house and Artemis said she was going into the warehouse to spend time with the other familiars. Ren said goodnight and went into the Main House and up the stairs.
