The arrows of light, moving so fast they resembled pulsed beams, pierced clean through the barrier magic, detonating within, and filling the protective containment with a roiling explosion of death and light magic that shredded the respawn formation instantly. But as the painfully luminous radiance of his explosions faded, the formations restarted.

“Again!” she shouted. But Calen really didn’t need her guidance, already firing another round, his focus complete. One of the formations exploded as a blast of soul magic pierced the barrier, and then another as one of the guild mages burned right through the transparent barrier with a searing beam of pure light.

Then, Ali witnessed a virtuoso feat of pure brilliance. Seth raised his black, obsidian rod and cast Curse Proliferation on Calen, and when the half-elf drew back his bowstring, he had created one extra arrow, anticipating Seth’s next move without a word passing between them. The black, twisted formation of a death magic curse appeared upon a passing Theuronic Shard, and Calen unleashed his instant arrows in perfect concert.

Five beams pierced the four boss clones, with the last one scoring a bullseye upon the small glittering swarm-elemental right as it passed through the center of the tanking formation. Upon the instant of striking, a dark cloud of twisted death magic erupted as curses animated under the power of the proliferation, seeming to take a life of their own. Death’s Grasp, Agony, Vampiric Hex, Mana Tap, Life Tap, and several other curses all spread across each of the clones, ignoring the barriers.

“Smuggled all the curses in,” Seth said, his excitement making his normally quiet voice carry clearly. The respawn magic had no chance now, with every damage curse they could muster interrupting the delicate spell on every pulse.

“Good work,” Lyeneru called over, her arrows flying ceaselessly into the fray.

Ali finally began to relax only after her berserkers shattered the first barrier with their ground-shaking strikes, and still the raid hadn’t allowed even a single respawn to complete.

“The barrier is down on Havok’s target,” Lyeneru announced. “Kill that one next.”

A flare of domain mana alerted her to the summoning a few moments before the purple glowing cloud took to the air, bearing yet another novel form of swarm-elemental.

I’m going to have so many presents for Gage when we get back, Ali thought. Her trees immediately filled the sky with bolts of rot magic, but something did not feel quite right. She puzzled over it for a few moments.

“Is this swarm smaller than the last one?” she asked.

Calen’s eyes flicked over to her briefly and then scanned the flying swarm. “Yes, about twenty percent smaller…”

Oh, she thought as they both had simultaneous realizations. One fewer clone. One less clone using domain skills meant one-fifth fewer monsters spawned. In her defense, they had been consistently using that magic simultaneously, and she simply hadn’t noticed that it had been five separate skills. Also, Seth’s brilliant maneuver had refreshed all the Interrupted Casting curses, which would again lower the boss’s damage output.

The Arcane Blasts ripped through the melee once more, again only four this time. And then sixteen Arcane Ray beams sliced through the raid instead of the normal twenty. This is a lot easier, she thought. Presumably Mana Short would come slower, too – or be less powerful. And maybe one fewer Disrupt…

Ali spent most of her energy coordinating her trees and her archers as they destroyed the flying swarm while she summoned barriers rapidly to block the bombardment of strange spherical arcane resonation bombs that this swarm dropped. The cost per barrier was unreasonable, but she was growing far more comfortable with relying on the treants to supply her with mana.

“If it gets easier as they die, shouldn’t we spend our expensive recharges now?” Ali asked. This comment got the immediate attention of both Lyeneru and Calen.

“After the next Mana Short,” Lyeneru answered.

“Should be soon,” Calen said.

Ali nodded, but neither of them was looking at her anymore, so she focused on the domain mana, waiting for the signal, using a large chunk of her attention to manage her barriers, her demons’ curse placements, and the timing of attacks.

But the Mana Short did not materialize through several cycles of summoning, arcane blasts, and the devastating beams. Perhaps they’d gotten lucky and Interrupted Casting had prevented it, but finally, she saw it.

“Mana Short!”

Ali downed her mana potion hastily as the aura vibrated with energy. Mana vanished into the powerful elementals, instantly filling them to capacity, and the dense barrier spheres popped into place, freeing all four elementals to cast their clone respawn.

“Compost now,” Ali ordered, and her trees radiated hunger and excitement, growing their dark roots with disturbing speed to devour the wealth of corpses. Making an executive choice, she directed the mana restoration to prioritize her ice mages and herself with enough to cast, relying on her blood shamans to heal the raid for a moment while the other healers were dry.

“Ice bolts,” she instructed, readying her Dismantle and directing the mana battery trees to refuel the healers. All three trolls failed to cast their Ice Bolt skill as the aura magic vibrated discordantly.

“Frost Nova,” she said, directing her will to a single mage.

“Yes, Seeker,” he answered, drawing from his small remaining pool of mana, but the aura vibrated yet again, disrupting his magic.

Four, she thought, a grin coming to her face, and she unleashed her Dismantle.

Golden darts shot across the gap, shredding the purple shield protecting Havok’s clone as her magic fried the very structure of the barrier.

Got you.

“Bloodlust!” Lyeneru said, calmly.

Perfect, Ali thought, letting Joraa take care of the potent blood magic spell this time. Gara was their usual go-to for the buff, but Joraa was at a higher level. While Bloodlust was a skill she had first introduced to the guild, it had rapidly come to be their codeword for the raid to go all out, regardless of what spells or potions they might have. While there were exceptions, most magic bonuses stacked together and were almost always worth using simultaneously. If someone made her berserkers faster, she should make them stronger so that they could get more uses out of their power.

Across the entire raid, potions were downed, talismans shredded, and long recharge skills cast. Blood magic swirled around the melee; crowns of grim power that made their eyes shine red and increased their power immensely. Calen ignited like a sun, burning his Righteous Fury to spread light-affinity damage enhancements to all attackers in the raid. Teagan boosted the mages and healers as the pattern rippled out across the entire group – a chaotic explosion of colorful magic power.

“Keep composting, and feed me,” she told her treant, and then she dumped her mana into Empowered Summoner, dramatically boosting the nature damage of her Sylvans and treants and granting more arcane and nature on hit to all her minions. She channeled her mana relentlessly, burning deep into her mana pool, even to the point of taking the Mana Insufficiency damage. But her treant gamely kept her alive, its healing power skyrocketing under the influence of the power she gifted it.

The raid’s ridiculous power faded after a short thirty seconds, but in that time, they had wiped out eighty percent of the Galdrone Tetrad’s life. And with the onslaught of ice and blood from her powerful berserkers, and the still considerable damage from the rest of the guild, the second clone shattered, collapsing to the ground in a pile of shards that slowly faded to darkness.

Another twenty percent easier. Right, mop up time. Keep sharp, Ali. Now’s not the time to miss anything.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
