Ali sat perched high up on a creaking branch broader than her entire body as the Malevolent Lirasian Oak slowly lumbered closer and closer to the melee brawl. From her clear vantage point, she studied the magic of the domain and the shifting elementals relentlessly, using every perception skill at her disposal, not simply content to rely on their plan – after all, who knew what surprises the boss had in store for them?

Mana flared, and five Arcane Blasts ripped through the tanks, causing the healers to scramble for cover amidst their precipitous drops in health.

“Not close enough,” she thought, urging the ponderous Treant onward.

Mana surged again, domain mana this time, and a flight of Theuronic Shards darkened the skies, flickering with purple energy like lightning in a heavy cloud. A storm of arcane bolts rained down upon them, a storm so dense that the ground was constantly lit by an unhealthy purple glow.

“Fire,” she commanded.

“Fire,” Lyeneru said, inadvertently putting words to her mental voice.

A soft swishing noise filled the branches as dark, blackened bolts of rot shot upward and outward from the Ancient Treant, filling the sky with an inverted rain of magic. Hundreds of rot bolts soared from each of her trees. Then, the air was filled with crackling sparks and insidious whispers as her archers raised their various bows to the sky, filling it with arrows of nature, death, and lightning.

“Seth?” she called.

“On it,” he said, pointing the Rod of Curse Proliferation at her treant and casting. The instant the rot bolts struck, a veritable bouquet of curses blossomed across the skies, proliferating through the flight of elementals like a windstorm through a field of cherry blossoms.

Bursts of death and lightning ripped through the cloud, accompanied by the much more varied magic of the raid, and moments later, shattered elemental shards began falling from the sky like fading purple hailstones.

A sudden detonation of arcane mana yanked her attention to the tank group, and to her immense surprise, she found one of the Galdrone Tetrads teleporting onto one of her blood shamans, flinging Mato into the air like Calen flipping a coin.

“It can teleport!” she shouted, attracting the attention of Lyeneru, their raid leader.

“Archers and mages, pull back to maximum range,” she commanded immediately, speaking clearly with the aid of a skill that carried her voice over the chaotic din.

A surge of dark and twisted nature magic pulsed within her treant, and the Blood Shaman, being beaten into the ground by the champion boss, flickered with a synchronous flare of the same mana, and suddenly her health reached full.

“You can stop here,” she told the immense oak. Close enough to heal the tanks was a perfect range, even if it meant her trees couldn’t shoot the bosses due to the minimum range limit on the Rot Bolt skill. But their purpose in this fight was to clear the skies and heal – the rest of the raid could take care of the boss.

Mana flared like a lighthouse wheeling to point in her direction. “Beams!” Ali shouted, but the devastating Arcane Beam attack was so quick to cast that the purple beams were already raking the raid by the time she had finished the word. She summoned her barrier reflexively but still dodged back behind the trunk as two of the beams seared across the Treant, burning bark, wood, and severing branches right through her barrier spell.

It reacted by healing itself, sprouting fresh bark over the wounded wood, and regrowing the lost branches in seconds with the grating creaks of wood stretching and twisting. What it missed with its potent healing spell was rapidly taken care of by the continuous aura of plant restoration it projected from itself and into the nearby Sylvans.

Such a robust choice for this fight, she decided, absently patting the branch beside her.

Again, the domain mana flickered and pulsed in the formation of summoning, and this time, the ground crawled as thousands of glowing, purple, spider-like elementals erupted from the center of the mana surge and spilled outward, a living swarm that covered the corrupted ground like a writhing carpet.

While this summon was new, her treants and archers simply redirected their attacks downward, raking across the swarm with a wave of retaliatory magic, arrows, and a sudden surge of roots that erupted from the ground to tangle and crush.

This is going well, she thought, but she didn’t let her guard down. If the timing went like it had the last time, the Mana Short should be coming any moment now. Calen, it seemed, had exactly the same thought, turning and catching her eyes briefly.

She studied the mana flows carefully, watching for any changes while she allowed her minions to take care of the swarm.

There!

“Mana Short!” she shouted at the first sign of the vast domain magic formation rippling through the boss and outward into the surroundings. Before it hit, she reached into her storage ring, manifesting a mana potion in her hand, and she downed it, an action echoed across the entire raid.

The potion ticked only once before the vast arcane spell ripped through the raid, stripping them of every last shred of free mana. All that precious mana flowed away, sucked out of the adventurers to be drawn spiraling down the drain of hungry elementals, feeding their insatiable appetite for mana.

The potion ticked again, and then Mana Insufficiency punished her for having too little mana remaining, sharp needles of arcane pain that tore at her health and her mana. Across the entire raid, everyone took damage from the devastating aura, but her blood shamans needed no mana, and the crimson ribbons of Blood Siphon flickered across the raid, healing everything except her plant monsters.

This had better work, she thought, sending her will to each of the treants. Fortunately, Compost was a stamina-based skill; otherwise, this entire plan would have died before it had even hatched. Black roots erupted throughout the corrupted earth, twisting and stabbing hungrily, searching for food. And they found it. Already littered with hundreds of elemental corpses, the ground writhed as the roots fed, draining the corpses and turning the remains into mulch. Mana surged through her as the treants began sharing their bounty, and simultaneously, the rot-bolt storm rekindled.

Ali held her breath for a few seconds longer, but once the treants had restored enough mana for their rot bolts, they filled up in seconds, leeching mana across the entire swarm of hostile elementals. And to her intense relief, their mana transfer was nearly as efficient as Malika’s Second Wind, rippling out across the raid’s mana users, a cascade of vital energy that rapidly stemmed the oppressive, even crushing damage of Mana Insufficiency. She breathed out a deep sigh and summoned several barriers, placing them around the melee to protect them from Arcane Blasts and suck up any additional mana she might siphon from their spells.

Right. Disaster averted… what’s next?

Calen didn’t even need to ask; he could see Ali’s visible sigh of relief. That and the obvious sign of all the healers and mages resuming their spells told him that the treant mana battery combination had worked. It hadn’t affected him in the slightest. A single mundane bolt with only stamina-based enhancements had restored enough mana for him to fire a full volley, and against the sheer number of spawns, he had filled his mana pool with a single explosive blast as his leech enchantments procced on hundreds of hits.

Against these elementals, he didn’t even have to worry about Death’s Grasp summoning zombies from the corpses of the dead. Although with Seth in the group, he likely wouldn’t have needed to care.

He scanned the battlefield, firing unceasingly, until his eyes caught sight of one of the short, squat arcane magic stumps – pylons, Ali had called them – beginning to glitter with an infusion of mana. Immediately, he released two decoys, activating Eclipse and switching bows to the nature-affinity Scourge.

A shimmering form materialized above the arcane pylon, shrouded in ominously translucent black, tattered robes that rippled and swayed upon an unfelt breeze. He aimed, charging Power Shot, and waited. Two seconds later, a pair of synchronized mana-filled daggers struck from shifting shadows, sinking deep into the incorporeal body of the Banshee. The power of the Ambush strikes from the suddenly revealed Assassins was obvious from the chilling scream and the shimmering ectoplasmic spray suddenly gushing into the air.

“Fuck, that wasn’t enough to kill it?” Devan cursed.

Calen released his arrow, enchanting light damage and explosive shot, his most potent combination, paired with Power Shot and Ambush.

His arrow struck with its fullest, most devastating force at precisely the same instant three other Pathfinder arrows landed, and the Banshee imploded inward on itself as their combined magic ripped it to shreds. With a mournful wail, it vanished, leaving only ribbons of a drifting glow to float away on the breeze.

You have gained Onslaught.

Instantly, Calen unleashed his most powerful Power Shot into the skies, virtually emptying his stamina. His volley tore great swathes of the summoned monsters out of the sky in a rippling cascade of explosions, and then, with a tiny infusion of mana, he switched to his Howling Hellfire bow, refilling the stamina he had used to fuel Power Shot, and then swapped back to Death’s Grasp and resumed his assault.

Ok, time to get serious.

Malika had no mana, but she didn’t care. The monster of glowing purple and gleaming, polished surfaces had no stamina.

Now, that had gotten her seriously worried.

It wasn’t that the elemental was out of stamina, she could tell; it literally had none. Not a shred of stamina energy flickered through its being, only life and mana. Without the benefit of her mana regeneration, she had been hoping to supplement her stamina by weaving in a few stamina-draining punches every so often, but the first use of her skill had utterly failed against this elemental.

Now, however, it remained mostly a curiosity for her. How can a monster even function without stamina? She could steal mana from it whenever she wanted, but the trees kept feeding her so much, she preferred to simply turn it all into more damage and continuous healing.

She dodged a whirling sphere of arcane energy and then dodged the follow-up Arcane Blast, tapping Sabri with a quick heal from beyond arm’s length to top her up as she unleashed another flurry of punches and kicks.

“Five percent,” Malika called out. As she spoke, the monster surrounded itself with a dense shield of arcane mana, but it was far from impenetrable, at least to her. She unleashed the basic version of the second form, her fists smacking into the seamless sphere of magic while her Soul Strike burst right through with barely visible bolts of soft blue-white energy to savage the monster within. She pulsed another area heal, channeled through herself and outward to cover the berserkers, but she had been careful to time it to allow them to land their rage-empowered strikes first before restoring their health to marginally safer levels. Managing their rage with her healing had gotten far more reliable the moment she learned to see health.

She punched it again, and this time, the barrier shattered under the combined onslaught of the entire raid. A huge, berserker-powered, rune-covered ice-axe struck the surface of a cube, and with a crack loud enough to jolt her entire body, a fracture line appeared deep inside the crystalline structure. Like a flaw or inclusion in a gem. She drew back her fist, pouring an obscene amount of excess stamina into her attack. Her fist – her entire arm – shimmered and nine simultaneous afterimages punched, each landing precisely along the sudden crack, each delivering a deadly payload of soul magic damage. Pain so strong her endurance failed to fully mitigate it blossomed through her fist and up along the bones in her arm at the sheer power of her stamina-overloaded strike. Each of nine punches released a similarly overloaded Soul Strike, further enhanced by the soul vulnerability of her stacked Soul Mark curse. Blue light detonated within, and the crack spread, a sudden webbing of fracture lines, marring the previously pristine surface of the elemental. And then, it shattered, falling to the ground with a musical tinkling, like the shards of a broken vase.

Four more to go, she thought, absently healing her shattered and bleeding arm before shaking it out. Ouch. How did Master Rezan do it?

Four dense, glittering barriers of arcane magic popped into existence, shielding the remaining clones while mana surged within. Ali screamed in the distance, but she already knew what her Fae friend was saying. Malika unleashed a kick, powered with Soul Strike, that flashed through the barrier and the glowing oversized cubes orbiting within, interrupting one of the attempts to respawn the fallen clone. Immediately, the spell restarted, and she knew that the real battle was just beginning.

“Disrupt the respawn!” Ali screamed, urgency driving the intensity in her mental voice. The frostweave-clad troll ice mages, wielders of their Spectral Ice and piercing frost, turned their ice bolts upon the four remaining Galdrone Tetrads sequestered behind their glittering, impenetrable spherical barriers. The magic formation of the Clone respawn spell grew rapidly, assembled safely under their heavy defensive magic. Ali was unable to disrupt the powerful domain magic, but she could do something about the barriers themselves.

But as she summoned her arcane formation to dismantle a barrier, a discordant resonance pulsed through the aura around her.

Your Arcane Insight has been Disrupted.Your Arcane Insight has gained +34 seconds Recharge.

It had taken an exorbitant amount of mana to even cast her spell, and to her dismay, she could only watch as it was all wrenched right out of her grasp to float away, borne upon the resonance that defeated her magic. Similar disruption notifications chimed in the awareness of each of her three troll ice mages.

“Fuck! I’m disrupted!” she shouted.

“I got you covered, Ali,” Calen said, his calm voice somehow quieting her anxiety. With uncanny haste, his focus shifted, and a fan of shining arrows appeared, instantly stretching into long lines of pure light as they pierced the barriers faster than she could even track.

Instantaneous arrows? But Ali recalled Calen mentioning an advancement like that. She had just not noticed it before.

