A few seconds later, the last of the stingers emerged from the wurm’s maw and the first basher appeared—elite insects that served as the beast’s personal guard. Unlike the rest of its army, which was specialized toward engaging and subduing prey, these massive insects were built to take a beating and tasked to keep anything dangerous from approaching their host.

The bashers were enormous bugs whose appearance was pure nightmare fuel. Their dark purple carapaces dripped with goo from where they’d been feeding on the wurm. Their heads featured powerful jaws that looked strong enough to bite Nick in half, and that wasn’t even their most powerful weapon. Their long, spike-covered tails had dense balls of chitin on the end, which could be swung hard enough to break every bone in his body if he took a direct hit.

Size Up let him know that each of the bashers was stronger than the yellow demon he’d battled earlier, and the units assigned to deal with them would have one hell of a fight on their hands.

They were also surprisingly agile for their size. Nick watched with interest as the bashers spread out in front of the wurm, knocking missiles out of the air that were headed its way. A team of elite warriors was running out to meet them, and as soon as they were fully engaged, it would be time for him to take on the Capital Boss with Team Earth’s heavy hitters at his side.

By now, fighting had broken out across every corner of the canyon floor as well as the rim above. The support team, which consisted of everyone who was capable of using auras and other enhancement magic, had been standing in the rear of the canyon to prevent this crucial component of the army from being overrun. But now they started making their way over to the biggest hill halfway up the incline, where their powers could reach the whole army at once.

Nick’s heart raced as he watched the support unit—Kenji and Liz among them—slip past the slicers and stingers under the cover of Blend into the Background. Shaun helped ensure their safety by firing a line of Smoke Arrows across their route.

The dense clouds would seem opaque to the beasts but were transparent to the archer’s allies and wouldn’t impair them at all. Once his smokescreen was down, Shaun let loose with Electric Arrows, driving stray slicers out of the support team’s path so they didn’t reveal their presence enroute.

Nick let out a sigh of relief when they reached their assigned position, where they would remain under heavy guard for the rest of the fight. By now, the warriors fighting the bashers had surrounded the bulky bugs, and an arrow appeared beneath his feet pointing toward the Armada Wurm.

At last, it was time for the kill team to join the battle. He prayed they could take the boss out before anyone got seriously hurt, but he knew deep in his bones the wurm wasn’t going down so easily.
