“These stones are incredibly valuable. Where did you—it doesn’t matter.” He grumbled to himself for a moment, speaking unintelligably. “If the stone had enough energy within it, and was affixed somewhere around the hilt, then yes, maybe. It’d likely last for a long time, and a buyer would associate the stone as being the conduit. They wouldn’t try to pour their own energy into it. I doubt it’d even occur to them to try.”

“So if I enchanted another sword for you like this, and brought you another stone filled with Spirit Mana…”

Boar man nodded; Boar man stood. “Yes…” he grinned at the notion. “I think I’d pay you quite handsomely for such a prize. Those stones are worth fifteen gold alone, and that’s without the mana they contain. A high-quality steel weapon with an enchantment like this might fetch a hundred gold or more. At the very least, I’d charge eighty.”

Markus smiled. Money making scheme acquired.

Now he needed to find more Essence Stones. He only had the two right now, and while he almost wanted to ask to have one affixed to his glaive, being able to eat a stone as he did earlier had saved his skin. He didn’t really want to be down to just one stone, and that meant not trying to sell the ones he had either.

That made this the second piece of the puzzle. If he could find a way to acquire Essence Stones, even ones of lower quality, he could use them to make good money.

“How long will it take to craft my new glaive?” Markus asked once they’d walked back into the smithy.

“You’ll have it before your next fight. An evening at most.”

“You work fast,” Markus said, not knowing if it were entirely true. He knew very little about forging, but creating a high-quality weapon in less than a day sounded insane.

“There’s a reason I outfit every master in this arena,” he laughed, an iota of pride creeping through.

“Master?” Markus repeated.

“The highest rank of gladiator in Sun City. Master gladiators rarely fight each other, as their names are so valuable, but when they do, half the kingdom comes to watch.”

Huh. Interesting that it wasn’t all just slaves and kidnappees here. So there were career fighters too? Perhaps with sponsors?

“If these ‘master gladiators’ or whatever are so legendary, then why bother with making weaklings fight monsters? Is that not boring by comparison?”

Boar man shrugged. “It keeps the stadiums full. Is it ideal? No. But someone has to provide what the people want.”

Markus frowned. “So you just think it’s okay then? Drathok wants to make a few bucks, so fuck it, let’s enslave people?”

“Drathok keeps us safe,” the blacksmith grunted. He pointed a finger outside. “Some of them like to act like he’s terrible, but as far as demons go, he could definitely be worse.”

Sure. Tell that to the guy he kidnapped from across worlds.

Markus finished up the conversation and left as quickly as he could. He didn’t need to hear someone sticking up for that piece of shit—it made his blood boil. He understood that this world was different, that the way things worked here was completely at odds with everything he knew, but it didn’t matter. People that enslave people and make them fight to the death for profit are not good people. At all. Ever.

Ah, fuck this. Markus needed to go punch something.

…no, he didn’t. He needed to chill. Cool his fucking head. Half the issues he ran into down here were because he couldn’t keep himself well-enough in check. He needed to be calm and collected if he was gonna make it through this, not letting his emotions get the better of him.

And he needed to think more. If he was really planning to go against Drathok and escape this place, he needed to be using his brain. That fight versus the goblins was stupid. He’d almost forgotten his Essence Stones until the last moment. If they hadn’t have spilled out of his pocket when he fell, there was a good chance he just died there.

Sure, the situation had sucked, and he wasn’t gonna blame himself too hard for what happened with the imp, but prepared for it or not, it’d happened, and he could’ve done more to get out of that situation unscathed, rather than brushing so close to death.

He still hadn’t gotten over how close he’d come to dying. The thought filled his brain as he walked back to his cell, the scenes he passed so distant in the face of his recent morbidity.

He found his way back without too much issue. To his credit, Markus only had to travel a path once or twice to map it out pretty reliably in his head, a skill he’d picked up from work back home. Hopefully, such a skill would prove valuable in figuring this place out, but he might have to start drawing a map to be safe. He had no clue just how far this dungeon spanned.

And when he’d walked back past the smithy, he’d seen that beyond everything, there was a lower level, something he’d peeked briefly when he’d been sat in the dining room with Drathok. He had no idea where the stone path down led, all he knew was that it glowed a bright red and looked foreboding as all hell.

He wasn’t sure if he wanted to find out. He was almost sure he’d have to eventually.

Markus had no clue when he’d get called up for his next fight, but he assumed he had at least a day to kill from what the blacksmith had said. Maybe fights only ran until a certain time per day. Maybe the arena closed on weekends. Were weekends a thing here?

Either way, it was enough time to allocate his unspent points, maybe do some skill training, do a little scouting…

Well, that was assuming he didn’t have someone waiting for him the second he got back to his cell.

Well, not someone, in this case, but someones.

Not only was there a girl sat on his bed, her hair a flowy silver, waiting for his return, but there was also a fiery hellhound on her lap, whom she seemed perfectly content to stroke as if the flames weren’t there at all.

“Hey,” she said to him, plain and simple as day.

Markus had been about to turn around and leave, not a lick of energy or patience in his system to deal with another god right now, but the way she said it gave him pause.

So casual. So nonchalant.

The word hung in the air for a few moments, both of them staring at one another, neither of them speaking.

“...hey,” Markus replied.

“Hurry up, okay?” she insisted, beckoning for him to enter. “I’m not supposed to be here.”

Well, that did it. Curiosity was fully piqued.

Without another moment’s hesitation, Markus walked into his cell.
