Malika, the Armored Drakes, Bone Warriors, Abyssal Stalkers, and Blood Shamans all accelerated as the powerful magic took hold. Ali sliced with her barrier shards, keeping an eye on her dismantle recharge, but it seemed that Kir’vella was unable or unwilling to use her curses in this form, sticking to a powerful, stunning sonic attack that caused the air to shimmer in front of her, and the continuous drain beams.

The air beside her glittered golden, and a flying book appeared with a popping noise, a small rubber ball held between its covers.

“Clarence?”

The book flew down and dropped the ball on the ground, making it roll along the grass to bump up against Ali’s foot, and then he backed away and riffled his pages expectantly.

“What…. No, Clarence… I can’t play ball with you. I’m busy!” Ali turned away, feeling a pang of guilt about ignoring the book, but, honestly, what was he thinking?

With the amount of healing and regeneration Kir’vella was using, Ali went all out, instructing her Hellfire Imps to get into the center and fire their fireballs point-blank, using every enhancement they could to get more damage. She was hitting her own minions, and Malika too, but she simply relied on her Blood Shamans’ totems, their vampiric hex, and Blood Siphon to keep everyone who wasn’t immune to fire alive. There was a sense of urgency to her attacks; she was not certain they could out-damage Kir’vella’s incredible regeneration in this form once the potent combination of Bloodlust and Righteous Fury dropped.

It was going to be close; she could tell. She was not nearly as precise with Scent of Blood as she had been with Healer’s Sight, but Kir’vella was definitely getting low. Unfortunately, their remaining Bloodlust duration was almost up.

Something moved by her feet, and she glanced down to find Clarence dumping a severed Blood Ghoul arm beside her and then backing up expectantly again.

“Seriously? Not now, Clarence!”

Suddenly, a fireball exploded, and both dragon-fire breaths synchronized, ripping through the remaining roots Mato was using to pin Kir’vella to the ground, and she catapulted herself into the air.

No! Ali desperately summoned her largest barrier right above the flying bat, catching her before she was able to get too far, at precisely the same time as Malika’s athletic form blurred through the air, chasing down Kir’vella’s retreating Bat Form, while new vines and brambles exploded from the ground, reaching upward.

Three fireballs lofted into the barrier, detonating around Kir’vella, amplified by the dome of Ali’s barrier magic above her, while Calen’s powerful stream of arrows slammed into the midst of the fiery explosion. With a final, despairing screech, the bat transformed back to a troll and crashed to the ground with a hard thump, returned to the embrace of Mato’s thorns and roots.

Your group has defeated Kir’vella [Empress of Bats] – Troll – level 87 (Soul).

Ali breathed a sigh of relief and sank to the ground, watching as some of her minions ran around cleaning up the pests Kir’vella had summoned with her jars. It may be overkill, but it was satisfying to watch dragon fire obliterating the annoying scorpions and spiders.

An eager bobbing and riffling dragged her attention back to Clarence who was still waiting for her to play.

“We really need to work on your sense of timing,” she chided.

He flipped his cover open impatiently and then shut it with a firm click.

“Fine,” she said, reaching out to grab the ball. There was no way she was going to touch that nasty, severed ghoul arm. Wherever did he even get that? What is going on here?

Ali cast about, but there were no Blood Ghoul corpses running low on arms in sight. She drew her arm back and lobbed the ball across the clearing, and, despite the circumstances, she couldn’t help but smile as Clarence tore off after it with exuberant enthusiasm.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
