And this sweet, silly, affectionate dog? He was everything to me, in my past life. I loved him like other people love their own children, and I could never forget him, not if I lived through a million lifetimes. I have other pets now too, and I love them as well, but a lot of my dissatisfaction with my floofs stems from the fact that none of them could ever be as loyal as this dog here.

Which is why I can trust him to guard my Throne in my absence.

Sliding off of the chair, I kneel and turn around to face my dog, his happy yips and tippy taps just exuding joy and contentment. “Hey buddy,” I say, and his ears perk up like he understands my words, even though I know he’s only responding to the sound of my voice. “What do you think about those guys out there?” As I direct his attention towards the Spectres, the transformation is astonishing to behold, for my sweet, sleepy pupper curls his lips and growls at the invading Spectres. A single bark rings out and echoes throughout the Natal Palace, and the Spectres’ all cease to exist, mass Cleansed in an instant without the need for rain or water cannons. Knowing the risks they entailed, my dog wanted the Spectres gone, and it happened, Visualization and Intent made manifest in an instant. Along the way, he also repaired the windows and dispersed the storm clouds, but he left the water park in place, for reasons that soon become obvious.

Eyes wide and tail wagging, he looks up at me with expectant eyes. “Play?” he asks, not in so many words or emotions, but it is the same question he asks each and every day.

And only a monster would refuse such a good boy. “C’mon Buddy,” I say, straightening up and gesturing for him to follow as I settle on his new name. I don’t remember his old one, but it wouldn’t suit him regardless, because this isn’t my dog, merely a recreation of him using the imprint he left on my soul, the same way I now suspect that Guai Guai isn’t exactly Guan Suo reborn, but rather the living incarnation of the imprint he left on Ping Ping’s soul. Buddy is a fine name for my Natal Guardian though, and he’s the best of boys, one with good instincts who will always be loving and loyal to a fault, a sweet, obedient, playful companion here to guard me from all threats, even if those threats stem from myself.

So I lost out on Spectre knowledge and shortcuts. Not the worst thing in the world, especially if Buddy thinks they’re bad juju. Then again, he also thinks squirrels are the devil, so I’m not entirely sure if he made the right move, but regardless, I’m better off with my dog than without him. Grinning as I watch him sniff and explore our surroundings, I feel my worries melting away like frost beneath the morning sun. I haven’t solved my problems yet, and I still have yet to determine where I will proceed from here, but all that can wait until after I take my dog for a walk and show him our new home.

This is my new life, Buddy. You’re gonna love it here.

Chapter Meme
