No, that’s not right. We all must forge our own paths, a constant that holds true in this life and my last. I just never realized it until now, or rather, I never cared to see the truth sitting before my eyes. There’s playing it safe, and then there’s never taking a single risk ever, which is where I sat on the scale of risk-aversion. I still hate taking risks, which is why I’m so adamantly hands off in all my endeavours, because then I can’t be blamed if things fail horrifically. I’m just the idea man, right? Not my fault if my ideas fall through, since you were the one who took it and ran.

But with the collective wisdom of all these Spectres, I will possess the combined experiences of countless humans who came before me, albeit in fractured form of course. I could use this to my advantage, but not if I Cleanse all the Spectres away, because then, they’ll lose what makes them Spectres, the driving emotion behind their existence, and fade away into...

Pure Heavenly Energy, which is what I get after Cleansing Spectres.

Holy. Shit. When we seek Balance, the Energy of the Heavens is drawn to the excess emotion, which I already knew, but what if we’ve been doing it wrong all along? We create a Core to store Heavenly Energy, but what if we’re supposed to just keep feeding the Heavenly Energy directly to our Soul? It explains why Pong Pong and Zhen Shi’s Souls are so frigging massive, and why mine is huge now too, but I dunno. It sort of makes sense, except not entirely, but mostly because I don’t know enough about souls or Heavenly Energy to argue for or against my random brain fart theory.

I do know one thing. I need to think before I act, which means it’s time to take a step back.

Opening my eyes which I don’t remember closing, I gaze upon the monitors arranged before me, only now understanding where I went wrong. Initially, I came up with the idea of using a computer and cell phone to help distance myself from reality. So long as things were happening behind a screen, then I could console myself with believing that it wasn’t real, which gave me enough leeway to process everything without being overwhelmed by emotion. The computer and cellphone allowed me to interact with the world without being a part of it, but here in my Natal Palace, that is all but impossible. This place exists within my soul, and thus is affected by all my innermost desires and subject to my whimsical nature, so it’s time I took a good look at myself.

Turning about in my office chair, I take in my surroundings and calmly analyze what is happening. The cracks in the glass are not there because of the weight of Spectres pressed against them, but because I am tempted to let them in. What can they do to me, the Devourer, the Predator, the Chosen Son of Heaven? More whispered lies they tell me in order to sway my decision, but despite knowing they do not have my best interests in mind and the power their Cleansed remnants represent, the Spectres themselves represent the tempting prospect of knowledge, something I desperately need and am hard pressed to turn down because of my fear of the unknown and innate hubris. The Spectres drive the Defiled mad, but I have thus far remained untouched and unaffected, or at least not so affected as to lose myself to their murderous desires.

So what’s the harm in exploring all of my options? Heavenly Energy is great and all, but I have no idea how to use it. It’s not like the Spectres are going anywhere, which means I can always Cleanse them away later, so why can’t I experiment a little and see what knowledge they have to offer?

The Spectres outside my windows are no longer feral and unhinged, but forlorn and desperate to escape their inevitable annihilation. “Let us in,” they wail, tens of thousands of voices speaking as one, not in words but in emotions that are so coherent my mind automatically translates the message. “We will serve you, empower you, raise you to the heights you so desperately yearn for, give you the strength you need to never be afraid again.”

A lie, but their statements are not entirely false, because I know they hold vast amounts of knowledge and experiences that could help me along my Path. The glass fractures and splinters beneath the weight of my wavering indecision, and I turn my mind to wondering what the possible fallout might be. What happens when I accept the Spectres as my own, rather than Cleanse them away with the waters of my Natal Lake? Well, considering I’ve already invited them in for tea, I suppose the next logical step would be turning full-blown Defiled. What does that entail though? What is it that makes Defiled different from the Tainted, those who’ve merely attracted the Spectres’ attentions but have yet to succumb to their whispers and accept them?

Well, I don’t know the entire answer yet, but I do know this: I can cleanse the Tainted no matter how many Spectres they’ve attracted, but once you go full-Defiled, I can’t just Devour and Cleanse the bad away. That always struck me as strange, my inability to Cleanse the Defiled, but as I sit here and ponder the mysteries laid out before me, I’m able to finally piece together a few clues that I’ve uncovered along the way. I always thought it strange that there was a hard line in the sand, one that differentiated Tainted and Defiled. Some tainted harbour more Spectres than most Defiled, who don’t hold onto their Spectres so much as house them, yet I was unable to Cleanse the Defiled no matter what I tried. Ambient Spectres were easily Devoured, but any Spectres hiding within the Defiled were completely off limits, which I assumed was due to the innate Domain all living creatures possess that hinders the effect Chi has on their physical bodies.

Because Chi is just Heavenly Energy wrapped in Soul, and souls are inviolable. They don’t mix, not like that at least.

The problem with Spectres though is they’re slivers of other souls, and somehow, Defilement allows them to affix themselves to their host’s soul. That’s why I can Cleanse tea-drinking Spectres who are just visiting someone’s Natal Palace, but can’t touch Spectres that have been invited in. It’s all a matter of perspective, only the perspective in question is not mine, but rather the host in question. The Tainted are still wrestling with the Spectres and their whispers, while the Defiled have wholly accepted them, therefore making the Spectres part and parcel of their very identity. In short, I cannot Devour Spectres accepted by the Defiled because those particular Spectres have grafted themselves to their host’s soul, and in doing so, have become ‘whole’ once again.

Which is what I would need to do in order to make use of these Spectres here.

Ew. No thanks. Hard pass. Even if I can make use of what they know, I already have enough voices in my head, thank you very much. I don’t need to add more crazy into the mix, not when my current crazy is already more than I can handle.

That being said, even though I’ve seemingly come to a decision, the cracks continue to spread across my giant windows, obscuring my view of outside. This means I am not yet wholly convinced, because a part of me still wants to make use of the Spectres, because as much as I love science and logic and loathe the unknown, I am also a degenerate gambler who loves betting on the long shot. Why wouldn’t I? It’s worked for me so far. I wouldn’t even be here if it weren’t for a million different unlikely scenarios coming out in my favour, so why shouldn’t I push my luck a little further? Just think of the payout. How many secrets can they reveal to me? How far along the Martial Path can they guide me? Power is power, regardless of how I obtain it, and so long as I don’t go full Demon and lose myself, then this could be the solution I so desperately need to my current situation.

This is why I cannot be trusted. I’m too erratic and impulsive when it comes to spur of the moment decisions, because otherwise, I end up overthinking things and doing nothing instead. It’s a terrible habit, but nothing I can fix now, because I need to make a decision before it is made for me. I want these Spectres Cleansed, but the temptation for easy answers is too strong for me to resist. I created Baledagh to foist all these bad decisions onto, have someone who could take all the blame yet also knew all my secrets and never judged me for keeping them. It’s strange, I always saw Baledagh as this body’s original personality, the soul most suited for this world and the person I desperately wished I could be, one unsullied by my confusing, nonsensical memories of my past life and knew how to do what was needed to be done in order to survive. I could talk to him without fear of revealing my true self, because he already knew it, even if he didn’t understand.

In the end, I was only fooling myself, but I can’t deny that Baledagh’s presence helped, even though it ended up harming me more in the end.

What I need is a system like Zhen Shi had, where he parked his Soul to occupy his Throne with a keystone to help contain and control the Spectres. I assume my Soul would have to always be present to keep stray Spectres from seizing control, which I think is how Demonization works, though I should note that I think everyone else parks their soul on their Thrones 24/7, because that’s usually where I’ve found them. The problem is, Zhen Shi’s Soul seemed distracted at times, so I’m guessing he had to focus on his Natal Palace to affect it. This means I would probably have to find Balance in order to do anything Soul related, which just seems like a huge hassle I could do without, especially considering I want to start farming Spectres. A Natal Soul would be much better suited for the job, as it would act as a buffer to Defilement and Demonization, as well as free up my real Soul for various other activities. So many activities and things I’d need a Soul to do, like...

I dunno. Stuff. Things. It just feels right, okay? Why can I never just trust my gut?

This brings us back to the Baledagh dilemma, as I cannot trust a Natal Soul anymore, because when we get right down to it, I can’t trust myself, which means I can’t trust another version of myself, no matter how many fail safes I put in place. Fruit of the poisoned tree, as it were, tainted by affiliation with me, which means if I do want to make use of the Spectres, then I need a better solution.

...What if I went in an entirely different direction? I need a Natal Soul that is loyal, protective, kinda stupid, and wholly devoted to my well being, one to occupy my Throne and keep me safe from Spectres’ lies.

And I think I have the perfect candidate for the job.

A head pokes out from underneath my arm as my best friend emerges on my chair behind me, his big, brown, soulful eyes brimming with love and excitement. Tears spill down my cheeks as I gaze upon his familiar face, drawn from memories of a life I’d long since forgotten, but still exist in my soul because he became a part of my very identity. This is the exception to the rule of inviolable souls, because they do mix when you love someone so much that they become a part of you. That’s how souls work, I know this the same way I know up from down and forward from back, a gut feeling that just feels right. The phrase ‘I am a part of all that I have met’ comes to mind, which to me says that I am nothing without the people I’ve met and experiences I’ve encountered, a blank slate upon which life paints itself upon, a life lived in the company of others.

And this guy, my best friend, left more of a mark on me than most, a mark that transcends time and space, because true love knows no bounds.

“Who’s a good boy?” I ask, touching my forehead to his and laughing as he slobbers all over my face. “You are! Yes you are.”

My dog responds with more kisses and uncontrollable tail wagging as he comes out from behind my back, where he used to always curl up for a nap even though he was almost too big to fit. I remember pushing through the pain of numbed legs just so I wouldn’t disturb his nap, and his warm, comforting presence pressed up against me every night as I slept. I don’t remember his name, but I could never forget his big, floppy ears or his beautiful brown eyes, and his adorable little underbite that sometimes catches the edge of his jowls and makes him look so fierce and silly. This dog was spoiled as could be, with all the toys and treats my meagre wallet could afford, and despite throwing money away on beds and cushions he’d never use, I could never bring myself to blame him.

Because he’s my dog, my best friend, and I love him so, to the point where he is still a part of who I am, even after transmigrating to another life.

...

Does this also mean I loved memes to the point where it became a part of who I am? Man, I must’ve been a real loser in my past life...

Despite all the joy and happiness that stems from reuniting with my dog, I realize this is not the soul of my dog here with me in my Natal Palace. No, this is the part of his soul that he left with me, just as we all leave our marks on the people in our lives. I used to hate the taste of fish, but then Charok took the time to make a dish I enjoyed, and now I love so many different seafood dishes, even though I used to hate all seafood. I thought flying kites was boring, but then I started taking Lin-Lin and the twins out to play, and seeing them happy was enough for me to love kites too. Alsantset taught me the Forms, while Dad and Akanai helped me master them, so even though I love being lazy and doing nothing, every time I Demonstrate the Forms, I remember all the effort they went to just to help me improve, and it fills me with warmth and satisfaction.

