“Possibly,” Rain replied, getting to his feet as she sat up. “Company, for sure.” He moved to face the entrance. “Unless I’m very wrong, I think Illuminator Legruz is coming to say hello, riding some sort of monster. I don’t have an ID lock, but that’s the most reasonable scenario. Mora and her guards are chasing him straight toward us, and they brought the fledglings.”

“What?” Ameliah asked as she rose to join him, summoning her bow. “You’re sure they’re coming here?”

“Unless they took a wrong turn. Our runes are on, so it’s probably a tracking skill.”

What is this guy’s build? Is he a crafter or not?

“How long do we have?” Ameliah asked, dismissing her bow again.

“At the speed they were going, about a minute,” Rain replied, realizing he was still holding the conjured arrow. He tossed it into the lake, dismissing the codex window. “They just left range of the anchor. Mora’s group has sped up and just took the same turn. Either they’re tracking us too, or they’re tracking Legruz.”

“If it’s Legruz you’re sensing,” Ameliah said. “Why would he follow us?”

Rain searched the inside of his cheek with his tongue but didn’t find the answer. “Impulsiveness?” he guessed. “Mora did say he was a trial.”

“You don’t think Detection’s wrong, do you? Counter-Divination?”

Rain shrugged. “It doesn’t feel like it’s being messed with. No matter the criteria I pick, the signals are clear, and they’re following the tunnels perfectly. A Mentalist could probably make me hallucinate something that detailed, but not through Grannybrain’s shell. Can you think of any other way to fool Detection so completely?”

Ameliah shook her head.

“Twenty seconds,” Rain said, picking up the lead pair directly and estimating their speed. Mora and the others were now in the dead zone. She wouldn’t have brought the fledglings if she was chasing a fugitive or something, but he still felt himself tensing up.

Occam said it was the Illuminator. Murphy said they were about to be in a fight for their lives.

Just before the twenty elapsed, light exploded from the cave entrance. Curtains of violet and blue came first, vibrant auroras slithering like ribbons into the chamber and chasing the walls to surround them. Next came showers of sparks—blue again—exploding in random clusters like silent fireworks. One cluster detonated practically in his face and sent his heart leaping into his throat, but the sparks only flared when they came into contact with Radiance. In addition to making a great nightlight, the inverted Offensive Aura gave him some token Light resistance, but this hadn’t been an attack to be resisted.

It was showboating.

“Hello, hello, hello!” a male voice cried out in Zeelada, swarms of blazing stars whizzing through the room and detonating in riots of color, but Rain’s eyes went to the enormous monster that had just surged out of the tunnel, heralded by the muffled thudding of dozens of padded feet.

It was...a cattipede.

That wasn’t the system’s name for it, but Rain’s, decided in the spur of the moment. You couldn’t see health bars or title cards for other people’s tamed monsters outside of a lair. The creature had sleek white fur and a snaky body the length and breadth of a fallen oak tree. It reminded him of a certain luck dragon, except Falkor hadn’t had nearly so many legs. The monster’s head was assuredly more catlike, too, with triangular ears, inquisitive feline eyes, and an adorably pink boop.

Movement from the cattipede’s back tore Rain’s eyes away from its majesty, and he beheld quite possibly the most flamboyant individual he’d ever seen.

Illuminator Legruz—for there could be no doubt at this point—wore a bedazzled white and blue jacket, open at the chest to reveal a shirt so puffy and white that Rain momentarily thought the man was smuggling a sheep. He stood upon the cattipede’s saddle, posing in a perfect ‘Y’. Tassels dangling from the arms of his jacket dripped glowing blue droplets—reminding Rain of those LED strings meant to evoke icicles. His hair was blue, too, styled in luxurious waves. As much as one might expect jewelry, however, he wore none, not that it was needed. His pale skin seemed to sparkle like freshly fallen snow.

In contrast to all that ostentatiousness, the man’s soul was nothing special. It had the liquid luster that marked him as silver, and its strength was nothing to sneeze at, but he and Ameliah were stronger. Legruz was a crafter—despite the cattipede he was linked to, the unknown Tracking skill he’d used to find them, and whatever else. Rain could just tell.

A second passed. Then two. The man kept up his pose as lights swirled around him, looking at the ceiling as if waiting for something.

The cattipede licked its lips, bored.

Unsure if he was expected to clap, Rain glanced at Ameliah, then cleared his throat. “Greetings of the light?”

“May it shine eternal!” Legruz hooted, his soul radiating pure elation as he hopped down to land with poise that was ruined by his rapid rush forward. Coming to a stop with his face uncomfortably close to Rain’s chest, the Illuminator closed his eyes and inhaled deeply before straightening and laying the back of a hand to his forehead with a satisfied sigh. “That’s the stuff.”

Did...he just...sniff me?

“Excuse you,” Ameliah said, stepping forward protectively. “Who are you, and what do you want?”

“No, no, no!” the man snapped—literally, he’d snapped his fingers with each word. “I know who I am. The question is: who are you? You are a mystery, I say! A most delicious mystery! When I learned I had missed you, my very heart shattered, and it was all I could do to gather my sleepy wards and convince that dreadful woman to let them accompany me! Your presence is so clean! I’ve never felt such order as that which wafts from you. It is as cool and pure and simply—“ He choked, stricken, now laying his other hand to his forehead. “Where the Volcano is heat and motion, you are an unending torrent, yet smooth as...as... Words fail. And you! That spell you are using to link yourself to him! Beauty and strength! I must create!”

Of course he can see Unity. Drat. No point turning it off now.

The colors—which had toned down slightly—flared back to vibrancy as the man raised his hands. Seeming to draw threads of light from his tassels, he began weaving them into an image. He drew a stream, then a waterfall, plunging into a perfect reproduction of the lake behind them. So fantastic and utterly ridiculous was the show that Rain actually missed Mora and Bryz as they entered the chamber. The Entente leader’s voice shook him out of it.

“Hello again, Mouse, Tiger,” Mora said, looking worn as she negotiated her way around the cattipede. She stopped by its head, reaching up to rub behind its ear, which it seemed to appreciate. “Sorry about this. I tried to stop him, but—”

“Oh gods,” Genn panted, stumbling out of the tunnel with his sister riding piggyback. “Why...is everyone...so fast?”

“Why are you so slow?” said one of the bearded Entente officers as the two of them entered. Never having learned their names, Rain temporarily dubbed them Leftbeard and Rightbeard. They both bore the same tower shields they’d held previously, but were now further burdened by a fledgling apiece. Remezzo and Letraue were promptly set down beside Bryz, all of them looking uncomfortable. They’d been carried the whole way, clearly, leaving them windswept, but unwinded.

“Stamina,” Genn gasped pleadingly, motioning to Ameliah, who responded with Energy Well, excluding everyone else with her borrowed copy of IFF. The difference did not go unnoticed, judging from the curious looks of the other fledglings. They all looked down, clearly wondering why they weren’t affected. Nor did the base action go unnoticed by the Illuminator.

“Magnificent!” Legruz screamed, abandoning his artwork—which was shockingly good for how little time he’d been working on it. Dancing on his toes with excitement, he rushed over to Ameliah, and it was Rain’s turn to feel protective as she was subjected to the sniff. “A flawless cast!” he exclaimed as Rain interposed himself. The Illuminator backed off easily enough, now struggling to remain standing as he alternated hands to the forehead. “Smooth, smooth, smooth!”

“Really, I am sorry,” Mora said with a tired sigh. “Legruz, one of these days, I’m just going to let you go out on your own. Getting yourself mauled might actually be what it takes for you to wise up. My job would be a lot easier if something chewed your legs off.”

“You worry too much,” Legruz said, waving a hand dismissively. “We saw nary a monster on the way, and I have Pitterpatter to protect me.”

‘Pitterpatter?’ Rain mouthed as the cattipede stretched lustrously, the motion traveling along its body like a wave. All the fledglings stepped back except for Nim, who was inching closer, fingers extended toward that luxurious fur.

“And why do you think there weren’t any monsters, huh?” Mora demanded, marching up to Legruz and pointing at Rain and Ameliah without looking at them. “If they hadn’t cleared the way, you and your cat would be Kin food.”

“Pfft, Kin,” Legruz said, waving a hand again. “Pitterpatter would not be bothered by such disgusting and feeble things.”

Mora sighed, muttering to herself. “Talking to you is useless.” Straightening back up, she turned to face Rain and Ameliah. “Good work, you two. I wasn’t expecting you to be so fast about it, let alone so thorough. I’ll pay you in a minute.”

Rain glanced at Legruz, wondering if it was okay for him to know about the secret quest, but Mora just sighed.

“Don’t worry about him,” she said. “I doubt he even heard a word I said. In fact, he doesn’t pay attention to a damn thing if it doesn’t interest him, and it looks like that’s you today. Again, I’m sorry.”

“It’s fine,” Ameliah said, dancing around Rain to keep him between her and the overexcited Illuminator.

“You must tell me your secrets!” Legruz demanded.

“We must do no such thing,” Rain said. “I’d be willing to share a few things, maybe, if you tell us how you did that.” He gestured toward the unfinished artwork, hanging forgotten in the air but no less vibrant for being neglected.

“How dare you!?” Legruz shouted, but his sudden affront wasn’t from touchiness over Illuminator secrets—or related to Rain’s words at all, apparently. He whirled on the cattipede, jabbing at it with a finger. “You take that back!”

The cattipede released a deep, unrepentant meow.

Legruz huffed even louder, perhaps perceiving some grievous insult, then proceeded to get into an argument with the elongated catbeast. Nim wisely vacated the area.

“Where’s yours, anyway?” Leftbeard asked.

“Huh?” Rain asked. “I’m sorry?”

“Your pet slime,” Leftbeard clarified, inclining his head toward Ameliah. “Or hers. The one that was on her shoulder before.”

“Oh, he’s around,” Rain said, checking inside his soul. In the face of this ridiculousness, he supposed it didn’t really matter if anyone realized Dozer could pop in and out of existence. “He’ll come out once he’s done sulking.”

That got him a curious look, but there was no time for follow-up before Legruz was striding back toward them, beaming with his arms wide open. “Pitterpatter and I have decided! You will come back with us to Threecore!”

“No,” Mora said flatly before Rain or Ameliah could reply. “They have business in the depths that doesn’t involve babysitting a crazy person. You have apprentices to train.”

“Dystees grant us shelter,” said Rightbeard.

Rain made a placating gesture. “As I said, we’ll be happy to tell you some things if you tell us some things. Maybe over a meal.” He jerked a thumb over his shoulder. “There’s a big fish thing in there that we were planning on eating. After that, though, we really do need to be going.”

“Oh, poo!” Legruz declared, stomping a foot. He glanced back at Pitterpatter, then his grin returned. “Very well! We accept your offer of frontier sustenance, and then we shall come with you to wherever it is that you go! Now, to begin, I have just a few questions.”

“Damn it, at least wait for the fish,” Mora growled, moving toward Legruz and trying to herd him away without touching him. Of the two of them, Mora felt stronger despite being bronze. The way she was acting like he was poisonous likely meant she wasn’t allowed to use force. Politics again.

“Any ideas?” Rain asked, turning to Ameliah.

Unfortunately, there was no help to be found there. “So, how do you find the taste of your own cooking?” she asked, struggling to contain her amusement. “Just a few questions. Ha!”
