Ren adapted Teepo's design for it; and added 8 large spring coils. The wheels each took a coil, then he put the other 4 coils into the 'engine'. With gears set up to give lots of power and torque, Ren changed the key mechanism that was used for winding it up, into a pedal and gear system instead. He added small spring coils for each attachment that needed to turn or rotate, then tied them all together. When you used the pedals, it turned the gears, which turned other gears, that coiled the springs in the 'engine', then those coils coiled the coils for the wheels and the attachments. It wouldn't take long to get them all tight and full of potential energy; then with the push of a button, the farm machine would go.

Ren added levers to control the left and right side wheels, just like a tank. To go right, you slow the right side and increase the speed of the left; to go left, you did the opposite and slowed the left side and increased the speed of the right.

With the plans finalized, Ren got to work. The first delivery that morning was a huge shipment of ore, so Ren had lots of ore to work with. He used some of what was in the smelter already to make the frame of the vehicle, then filled the smelter with ore again. While he waited for it to simmer, he made parts of the farm vehicle out of wood; like the sides, seat, and anything else that didn't have to be metal. For several hours, Ren made large molds for the big gears that would be needed, and he filled them. Axles, braces, brakes, tips of the levers, hinges, and everything else that was needed to be made.

The first one always took the longest to make, because you had to make the tools you needed to make the pieces to make the machine. Once the tools were done, however; all you needed to do after that, was use them. The hardest part was making the large spring coils. It took a lot of steel to make them, and then they had to be folded over several times. When he had finished the last one 2 hours later, he sat down and sighed.

“I really, really hope this works.” Ren said as he took a break for the first time that day. He waited several minutes, and thought about the best way to assemble it; then decided that an 'inside to out' policy was the best. He started on the inside and assembled the engine first, then worked his way out. The last things he added were the wheels and the attachments. The barge arrived at the side of the ship with the last of the cement bags and ore that were to be delivered. The hold was nearly full, and the deck hands unloaded the barge quickly.

“There you are, Tee-one.” Ren said as he stored the last of the molds. “I have two more tasks for you.”

“I can't store the farm vehicle.” Tee-one said. “It'll have to be brought to the farm out in the open.”

“Just cover it in cloth.” Ren said. “Everyone will wonder what it is, but they won't actually know.”

“Good idea.” Tee-one said.

Ren took out the scroll that Lara had given him a while ago. “I could never deliver this myself to House Lodur mines after they changed the mine foreman; but, I couldn't trust anyone else with it either.”

“I'll deliver it right after the tractor.” Tee-one said. “I can't believe you haven't read it.”

Ren smiled. “It's not for me to look at.”

“I should be back just before supper.” Tee-one said and left on the barge again. Ren waved to him and went back up to the top deck and to his cabin, to start preparing the food for supper.
