"We're not going to be allowed to actually compete as a support team," Cale clarified.

"I am aware. I pity them all the more for it," Graystalk said, smirking slightly. "I have witnessed many of those tournaments, and it is remarkable how often the support teams make all the difference."

"That much confidence in us, huh?" Cale laughed. "You know I lost some of my mana control in my last trip. I might not get to show off as much as you think."

"My condolences, but... I doubt that."

Cale glanced up at him in surprise. He'd been expecting more of a reaction, but Graystalk had barely twitched beyond a slight tilt of his head. "You do, do you?"

"I was once known as the Mage Killer, if you recall Ms. Whiteleaf's outburst in our first class," Graystalk said mildly. "I have, I am proud to say, a rather apt intuition when it comes to understanding the capabilities of my fellow mages.

"In your time on Utelia, you have earned a great deal of control over your magic—more than any you have had previously," Graystalk continued. "And you are an exceptionally effective spellcaster utilizing the magics you have been denied for so long. But that is hardly where your true expertise lies, is it?"

"Been paying attention, have you?" Cale grinned. "I'm flattered."

"Very much so," Graystalk agreed without missing a beat. "And so it is obvious to me—and so it should be to any mage that has been paying attention—that you are at your most dangerous when you are cornered. When the only option that remains to you is for you to use that overwhelming power at your disposal to achieve the outcome you desire.

"You have, no doubt, a great deal of secrets you have kept from us simply because you have never had any need to use them. The Gift has given you a flexibility you lack anywhere else. Yet this is not a power you have had before. You use it now because it is novel, to train and understand a new form of magic.

"But to my understanding, in every other life, you have fought without this. To take this tool from you takes joy from you, I am certain, but with the Gift you are fighting with a blade having trained with your fists against blades for a thousand lifetimes. Taking that blade away from you again, however temporarily... I suspect it would only make you more of a danger. And perhaps annoy you."

Cale didn't answer for a long moment, then finally laughed, shaking his head. "We have not hung out enough for you to read me that well," he said, smirking. "I mean, I love magic, so I'm upset about it, but you're right overall. I'd still have to do some testing to adjust. Which I've been putting off, I admit, until you so helpfully reminded me that I'm incredibly dangerous either way."

He paused again, this time thoughtfully, then raised a brow at Graystalk. "We have some time before the class. Or the delve, as it were. I was planning to use it to do that testing. Want to join me?"

"As long as you do not destroy the academy, I would be delighted," Graystalk said. "I admit, I have been rather curious as to exactly how much mana you have and the degree of magic you have access to. Akkau has not shared the details of your adventures."

"He knows I like to show off," Cale said cheerfully, though he was pretty sure the real reason was that thinking about it gave Akkau a headache. He began to stride off, leading the way, and felt Graystalk fall into step beside him

Cale took the opportunity to feel quietly for the professor's mana core. He was hesitant to make any promises, given the nature of curses... but part of the nature of a curse was that they could be broken.

Graystalk was right. Cale was very, very good at coming up with options, even when he shouldn't have had any. And it was that, more than even his mana, that made him truly dangerous.

Especially to something as simple as a curse.
