"You've done a lot for us, Spear, so I'm willing to turn a blind eye when you walk off or talk down to me and my guildsmen...But remember who you're speaking with when you chat to me next time. Understood?"

Spear remained planted in place. He gasped, "Yes...Yes, Harbinger. Of course."

I released him, and Spear fumbled forward. I stared him down before letting the cleaved space-time snap back together. Once he was gone, I took a breath before turning to everybody,

"I might've gone too far there, but I couldn't help myself. That guy had some serious nerve. Anyways, thanks for saying all that, guys. It means a lot."

Althea ran up and gave me a hug, my armor bending around her grasp, so she didn't hurt herself. Torix stepped forward with his hands clutched under his cape,

"It is the least we may do when Spear presents such bleak propositions. They were rather ghastly requests, weren't they? To sacrifice ourselves for Schema simply because he gave you a chance to succeed...I believe the interest on that debt is rather steep in their eyes."

I shook my head, "Yeah, and I can't just throw this all away. I worked too hard for it."

Torix stared at me with his eyes flaring white, "If anyone knows how difficult this guild was to create, it would be all of us."

Kessiah raised a palm, "Heh, except me."

Torix glared at her, "Know that you're speaking only your opinion, not ours. You've toiled endlessly to redeem your concession against Yawm. The matter is settled for all of us."

Kessiah's face wrinkled from guilt, "I...Thanks. I wanted to say sorry for that. I never did, not really. At least it doesn't feel like I did. I can't remember, actually, but it doesn't matter. You all really needed me to step up, and I didn't. I threw everything on all of you."

I waved my hands, "Now that's just unfair to yourself. I was mad at the time, but an eldritch literally wore your skin. I can't imagine what that must've been like. Wanting to run and get away from all of that was a totally normal reaction. Any one of us might've done the same."

Kessiah peered off, "But that doesn't change the fact you guys really needed me then. I'm so sorry for letting you guys down."

Kessiah's eyes watered while she squeezed a hand into a fist. Torix paced up and put a hand on her shoulder, "Your drive to heal our injured members has done us a world of good. You've faced the Hybrids bravely as well, never running in terror against them, even if you wished to. That is more than enough of an apology. I'd wager we all agree there?"

The lich turned to us, and Althea and I nodded.

I added, "Hell yeah."

Althea followed, "Of course."

Torix pulled his hand down, "So take that guilt and perhaps grant it to someone who needs it, such as Lehesion."

Kessiah smiled, giving the old sorcerer a hug. Torix pulled back ever so slightly from surprise before returning the gesture. Torix murmured, "You know, you've grown so much. As a previous master, I'm proud."

Kessiah pulled back, "So have you. Literally."

Torix stood a solid two feet over her because I made his new body huge. Kessiah nudged him, "We used to fight like cats and dogs. It's amazing what war will do for you, huh?"

"Indeed, though there's plenty we still disagree on."

"Tell me about it."

I grinned, "Well, the war's over for a bit, so we have room to argue. The best time for that? A feast."

Everyone turned to me as I raised my hands, "I think that it's time we celebrate."

Krog rumbled in the back, "I can agree to that. I wonder if Blegara has any boneless fish we may feast on. I love the way cartilage snaps in my jaw."

I frowned, "Huh...Gross."

Amara hissed, "I agree. It grinds and pops in such a satisfying way."

Althea waved a hand, "Blegh, I'm gonna be sick."

I waved a hand, "Come on, let's head out. I don't think I can handle any more sentimentality at once...or cartilage talk."

We took a few steps before my shoulders relaxed. There was a warmth among our group as Torix receded his sound barrier from us and the packages. By the time we finished our talk, the remnants already stashed all the cargo away, so I lifted it all up by raising my finger. They condensed into organized bundles. Chrona murmured, "It must've been torture watching those beings move it all so slowly."

I grimaced, "Yeah, a little."

One of those remnants walked up, the talkative one who could speak before. I took a second to recall his name, and the shorthand of it stuck out to me. Phalanth gave me a bow, "We do apologize for any inconvenience while giving you this care package. There's nothing you've found missing?"

I stared at what looked like an ancient library of books, a prominent tech shop of rare gadgets, a lab's worth of biosamples and studies, and some stuff that I couldn't identify but our guild deemed safe,

"This should be enough for now. I'll send you guys a message if you're missing anything."

The remnant gave me a bow before staring up at me,

"Do forgive me, but may I ask which planet you came from? I'm quite curious about it."

I raised an eyebrow, "Does it matter?"

"It most certainly does. Many other diplomats, Elysians, and I have wondered for ages which ancient, space-faring species you've derived from. I believed it was from a race that exists outside of Schema-owned space. Others scoffed at the idea, but I think I'm right on the matter. I went so far as to make a bet on it."

"What makes you think I'm from beyond Schema-owned space?"

"You also seem to be an illegal entity based on your method of battle and your bodily composition. Even the eldritch fear you, so you're obviously something dangerous and volatile. It only makes sense that you gained enough power outside Schema's system that once within, Schema tolerated you."

It always astonished me how people could connect the dots for something and end up with a totally different picture, one far from reality. That being said, this misunderstanding only helped me, so I gave him a broad smile,

"Wow. You guessed it. I'm impressed."

Phalanth swung a hand with a snap of his fingers, "Hah, I knew it. Thank you for letting me know. I'd love to share the profits with you, but you seem more than well off. Now, may our next meeting be this fruitful and peaceful, Harbinger."

With a curt nod, I agreed while he walked off. Behind me, Krog, Chrona, Hod, and Amara chatted about the feast's specifics while Kessiah, Althea, and Torix spoke about how we'd impress the albony. As Phalanth took a step onto his landing pad, he paused. I wouldn't have customarily cared, but the remnants spike in blood pressure omened something immense.

I walked over, Other Hod having heard the spike in heart rate with me. I stopped the remnant from collapsing with a gravity well before he gawked at me with empty eyes. I snapped my fingers in front of his face and yelled, "Hey, you ok?"

He stared at an invisible screen before his breathing turned rapid. He muttered, "This can't be happening."

Torix stepped up beside us, "Has he been driven mad?"

The remnant stared down, unable to accept whatever horror he'd seen. Placing a hand on his shoulder, I locked eyes with him, "What's going on?"

He struggled to lift his arm, his hands trembling as he interacted with his status. After a few seconds, his interface popped up in my own vision, the outline red like an Overseer's screen. Leaning over, I watched a video without audio on it.

An enormous, reddish blob molded over a sphere. Understanding more of what I saw, it was actually two massive objects, the detail of their collision exceeding something smaller. Plumes of light erupted from the orb's surface as vast, magical reactions took place. Teeth and jaws gurgled on the smaller sphere, its grotesque form ever-shifting.

My stomach dropped while my eyes widened at the sight. Torix leaned to me,

"Are you well?"

I took a deep breath. I stated,

"One of Elysium's worlds...It's being swallowed by a Spatial Fortress."
