Spear stood tall, "Many look down on the Sentinels and Overseers like we are Schema's dogs, but we know what we've done. We've helped usher in an era of prosperity despite the overwhelming threat of the eldritch. We had the decision to sacrifice our individual wants for something more, something greater."

He banged his chest, "We were not unwilling tools. We decided to become a part of something grander than ourselves. You're taking the opposite path. By choosing to serve yourself instead of others, you do a great disservice to your guild and its potential."

At this point, it felt like I was talking to a wall. I talked anyway,

"But I have to choose between helping Schema or my guild. That includes the gialgathens. That's why I fought Elysium to begin with. It was to save those guys. And even then, you're not thinking of what we have to give up to continue serving Schema like this. I can't establish my guild. I'm stuck between constant raids and the looming threat of mass murder from Lehesion."

I waved a hand in frustration, "We haven't even been given a quest or the like to offset the losses we get from fighting like this. No protection from any classers either."

Spear's hands lowered, "What? There's been no quest granted?"

"No, there hasn't been."

Spear peered at Amara, "She tampers with the system. It's not beyond expectations that Elysium has done the same. According to the files I've read, Tohtella gave you a quest when she was a Speaker. She also planted spyware in your system data. She may have also done more than that."

I narrowed my brow, "You're telling me she had time to mess with something that integral to Schema's system in seconds? Yeah, unlikely."

"But it is the only explanation for no quest."

"Ok, then is there any way for me to get checked out by an Overseer or something?"

Spear shook his head, "No. We don't wish for the transference of viral programs from normal classers to Schema's elite. You'll need to remedy the situation yourself."

I scoffed, "Yeah, that's about what I expected out of Schema at this point."

Spear sighed, "Your grievances aren't entirely unwarranted, but listen to me. Schema is managing a galactic war where they've employed tactics he would never imagine using. Schema is learning to combat their methods as we speak, but he needs more time. We can't expect perfection from him. Like us, Schema is doing what it can for societal good. We must help him uphold the society he created."

I tilted my head, "I don't see that expectation being thrown at other guilds. The Empire and my legion are pretty much the only guilds I've seen fighting this war. In fact, the Empire only joined because they were attacked."

Spear took a step back at that, "I...That is correct, mostly. But other guilds shouldn't be expected to offer the same support, given how yours joined Schema's system in the first place. You incurred more debt for yourself based on both your abilities and your induction. Your numerous illegal actions since then also garner further debts that you must repay."

I narrowed my eyes, "Debts, huh? You know, I was thrust into a dungeon without a tutorial. I wasn't shuttled into Schema's system smoothly. Baldag-Ruhl summoned me there to use my soul as his armor. I robbed Baldag of that resource to survive, but it was Alfred Worm who saved me then, not Schema."

I stood over Spear like a mountain, "Since then, every time I'm allowed to live, it's called a gift. If I go by your logic, I'll be his willing servant for the rest of eternity. I'm not going to do that for being given a chance to survive, especially when, after all this time, Schema hasn't spoken a word to me. I've had two brief meetings with him. Outside of my happenstance meetings with the Overseer, I know nothing about the AI or this war. The only way to talk to Schema is to use my Sovereign privileges."

Spear snapped, "Then use them. They were given to you for just this cause."

I rolled my eyes, "I have to burn through my yearly meeting just to get an update from Schema?" I gestured at the remnant's ship, "I just talked to them, and they mentioned not telling me where the Elysium planets are. You know, if I take a moment and think about it, why the hell don't I already know? Why hasn't Schema sent me a force of Sentinels and Overseers to inform me, let me fight where needed. You know, maybe talk to me?"

"Schema cannot speak to everyone at all times."

Torix's eyes flared, "I would beg to differ, based on those files you keep referencing. If they're that extensive, Schema's eyes and ears are everywhere. Logic dictates that if he's listening to us at all times, he may speak to us as well. If he so chose."

Spear neared exasperation as he tossed his hands aside, "Perhaps communications were split. Elysium could be tampering with your messaging systems and your status alike."

I crossed my arms, "And if that's the case, I know it's up to me to fix everything on my own. If I'm such an important piece of his fighting force, then why the hell isn't Schema trying to utilize me better? Where's my support?"

Spear looked around, searching for an answer, "Schema, he is consumed in a galactic war against both Elysium and the eldritch...He is doing all that he can, and you're just one part of this complicated puzzle he deals with each day. He cannot manage every piece of that puzzle at once."

My left eye twitched, "But when I forgive him for forgetting us, I lose people. Every day members of my guild die because Schema won't put in time or effort for my guild. Why should we reciprocate what we aren't being given in turn?"

Spear looked down before staring back up, "He...That...It is because you're essential to his cause. You're the only member of Schema's system who can fight Lehesion who has chosen to do so. That-"

I snapped my fingers, "And there it is. I knew it. Others could fight Lehesion but haven't. Why? They wouldn't be given what they're due for fighting Elysium. That's where I'm at. I'm entrenched in a grueling conflict. In fact, ever since this system started, I've never had more than a few months of rest. Every other time, I've been consumed with war and death. The worst part is, it's just an expectation that I continue fighting...Forever."

Spear stared at me, his voice cracking as he fidgeted, "And you were gifted to have that potential for battle. Others would kill for it. I know that I would."

I shook my head, "But it's like I am a machine born to kill, and that's all I'll ever be. Schema's groomed me for it. I know that, but I want to do more than that. Look at my golems and my guild. Building those up helps Schema too."

The Sentinel continued, his confidence in Schema's protection absolute, "You are asked to battle because that is all you're good for. You're a backwater savage who's been given a gift that others may use better than you can."

It had been a long time since someone called me backwater or a savage. The glares at Spear grew hostile around me, including mine. Kessiah snarled, "What the hell is that supposed to mean?"

Spear dragged his hand down his helmet. He spoke with an acidic edge,

"I've been helping you all up till now because you served a higher purpose. Now you serve this oaf, and all he's ever done is destroy."

His words hit me like stubbing my toe. Spear shook his hands, "At least allow someone with a sense of direction to guide that destruction. I say Schema should be that force, for he has built more than any other. Perhaps he could make this abomination more useful than merely a mass murderer."

His words stung more than I expected them to. He could be right. As good as my guild was, I'd fought far better than I'd ever built anything. It's something I already understood about myself. I came from nothing. My entire family splintered all over the place, never staying in one place.

How my father acted was shameful, and it wasn't like his grandfather was any better. Those were pretty much the only fundamental influences on my early life outside of my mom, and by now, I could hardly remember her face. Without her, my father went wild. He made sure I understood just how little of a difference I'd make to anyone in life.

He and his 'friends' tried to convince me I was nothing, but they were wrong. I ended up being pretty gifted as a fighter, even before the system came around. I wanted to become a pro boxer, and I held my self-worth in that. Now, I oozed that same fighting potential, magnified by many infinities. It gave me confidence.

Yet, sometimes, that destructive potential did leave me wondering if I could do anything else. My talent in runes and the golems helped, but in the end, I was a breathing cataclysm. Giess and Springfield splintered under my touch, and on Blegara, I tried with all my might to do something different. Staring around, the barren wastes stretched for miles in all directions. This carnage left me numb as I lifted a hand to speak to Spear, but I shrunk back.

What he said shouldn't be wounding me like this, yet it did. I took a sharp breath, not expecting his words to affect me. They threw me off, making me feel weak, something rare these days. Before I could get myself together, a ringing burst filled my ears, making me peer up.

Althea shot a harpoon beside Spear's foot.

The sand and rock caved away from the spear, splitting with ease from the lance's frictionless descent. I found Althea furious. She glared at Spear like a beautiful reaper as she fumed, "Don't talk to him like that. Don't ever talk to him like that. He's done more for us than Schema ever has. More than he ever will."

Her words took the venom out of Spear's message in an instant. My eyes burned as Althea took a step forward. She kept glaring as she smoldered her words like they were hot coals,

"You don't know Daniel. You haven't seen him struggle. I have. I know what he's done and what he's had to do. He's fought till his body was more bone than flesh. He's taken on all of us and never left anyone behind, at the very least no more than he had to. I wouldn't be anything more than a pawn for Yawm without him or worse. Much worse."

Althea tilted her head at Kessiah, "Ask Kessiah, and she'll say the same. She never would've become a healer without Daniel's influence. Even Torix needed his help. Daniel brought our professor out of his shell and made Torix dream of making a university. None of us could've ever imagined doing any of this without him. He's been like a rock to each of us, something we can all rely on."

Althea scorned, "So don't you talk to him like that. Ever. If you do, I'll kill you, exiling or not."

I blinked, my eyes watering a bit from her outburst. It was sudden and startling, like a firework of warmth exploding in my hand - at first frightening, but by the end, a welcome surprise. Amara joined in, hissing,

"I'm more than willing to pull you back into the system, she-wolf. I wish to learn what Sentinel meat tastes like."

Other Hod flared, "We will never be offered the same treatment regardless. Perhaps we should become what he thinks of us."

Amara's hairs sliced stone, "Perhaps so."

I appreciated them both, but I wasn't about to forget everything Spear did for us. I gave them a smile, "Hey."

They turned to me, and Althea muttered, "You want me to take him out? I've had bounties before. It's whatever."

I shook my head, "Even if he's a zealot, he did a lot for us. Please, stop pointing that at him." I frowned at Amara, "And quit drooling."

Althea frowned but did as I asked, and Amara wiped her mouth. Spear gave our whole party a slow nod, "Then this is it. I can no longer support this guild which acts in service of only itself."

I shrugged, "You're in denial about what you're asking and why you're asking it. I'm not going to run to my and my guild's death for Schema."

Spear waved a dimensional slicer before cleaving through space. On the other side, a metal background showed along with other Sentinels, each of them meditating. Spear chided, "Keep your reasonings to yourself. I don't need to hear them anymore."

Before he stepped out, I reached out a hand, "Before you leave, I want you to tell Schema or the Overseer something."

"What could you possibly need to tell them now?"

"I want them both to know I still want to help. I just need a few things."

"Ah, so you'd like some treasure that exceeds this so that you may switch sides and reap benefits from both? How very classy of you."

"I don't need anything like that. I need Schema to open some communication line with me. That or his personalized AI's, maybe the Overseer. We were fighting a war together, yet I was given no information from him."

Spear spit back, "Why would you deserve it?"

I furrowed my brow at him, disappointed in how he acted when cornered,

"Come on, I sent him hundreds of terminals before this revolution started. I gave every log of information my assassins and spies gained to the Overseer. I made every attempt possible to start a dialogue. None of that was ever returned in any way."

Spear reached up a hand, but he didn't know what to say. I turned a hand to him, "I don't like Elysium, but I'm not about to kill my guild, the only family I've got, just to help Schema. If Schema helps me out, offers some security, and tells me what's going on, I'll jump right back to his side. That's all I'm asking for. I want to be an ally instead of some tool."

Spear took a pause, his mind dwelling on something. He gave me a nod, "Yes...I can tell the Overseer all of that. You are owed that much, given your previous service."

As he stepped out, I grabbed him in a gravity well. I walked over and held the dimensional tear open with my shoulder and foot. I leaned over Spear and placed a hand on his shoulder. I squeezed, his already cracked armor groaning under stress. As fresh splits formed in the graphene, his bones felt soft in my hand,

