His dimensional slicer revved into action, cackling in the air like a tortured banshee. I lifted a hand, and his arm caught in a gravity well. A crack ebbed from underneath the armor, Spear's bones breaking before I eased the depth of the gravity's drag. A few of the soldiers from my legion stared on while I frowned at Spear,

"Look, that's a bad idea. Don't turn this talk into a conflict."

Spear turned to his arm, stunned at the magic's might. He nodded, his boiling outrage turning to simmering anger. I waved a hand over to Kessiah, "Hey, can you help him out?"

Kessiah sighed before hobbling over a few trunks of gear. She reached the Sentinel and chided, "Come on, we all know what happens when you fight the big guy. Don't be a dumbass."

Spear glared at our healer with seething anger bordering hatred, but I stared him down. He understood what would happen if he tried hurting Kessiah right now. Either way, our healer stayed unconcerned, pulling blood as usual. Kessiah's composure under the Sentinel's pressure impressed me, but Kessiah healed our wounded on battlefields littered with Hybrids. Given her position, courage was an inevitable outcome.

So as her blood shifted through a needle prick in Spear's arm, the Sentinel's anger faded. His bones snapped back in place, with Kessiah bracing it in the right direction. Once recuperated, Spear settled down. In the meantime, Torix cast his silencing magic along with the fogging aura, making sure the merchandise was covered as well.

Several of our normal guildsmen were included in that covering, but I didn't mind. It wasn't as if I would change what I was about to say, and most of my guildsmen would be happy to hear it either way. Thinking of all this, I turned a palm to Spear,

"Now, you think I betrayed Schema. Why?"

Spear sparked back into his anger, but it lacked its previous physical edge, "You've chosen to cease attacks on Schema's greatest enemy after all he's done for you. It's unmitigated treason. You've defied him and his will. You've abandoned his cause."

I raised a hand, "Now wait one minute, it isn't like I joined Elysium all of a sudden. I'm just choosing to focus elsewhere, for now."

Spear raised a fist, "And when you decide to stay your hand, you're leaving many of our enemies alive. Those enemies will kill Schema's soldiers. You are choosing to put those deaths on our hands."

I shook my head, "No, I'm not. You can't just throw responsibilities on me. That's exactly what Elysium tried to do, and I shut them down just like I'm shutting this down right now."

I pointed at Spear, "I'm not Schema's personal bodyguard, and I sure as hell am not paid like it. Torix mentioned it before, but we're not getting compensated like others have for past conflicts. That's despite this being a much bigger war."

Spear raised a hand, "If we speak of appropriate compensation, then let us delve into it fully. I've researched your history, Harbinger. You were a monster when you left BloodHollow, yet Schema let you live. According to the documentation, you were reinstated into the system despite a direct culling order. Schema allowed you to continue on, using his system to amass power."

I winced at being called a monster, but I let Spear continue uninterrupted.

"And Schema spared you despite you showing symptoms of mana devolution. You'd have degenerated into an absolute aberration if you never fully controlled your energies. It was even worse after your armor manifested ascendant mana, the worst kind for your case. Schema let you overcome that by giving you time and opportunities you never deserved."

I crossed my arms, and I still let him speak his piece while keeping my mind measured.

"Time and time again, you have accepted Schema's benefits and perks. Without them, you'd have died against Yawm and many others. Schema kept you alive so that this day and at this time, you would return the favor. With his help, you evolved into this - a being worthy of fear and recognition."

He pointed his finger at me, "It is time you repay that debt in full. Cancel this truce. Use this technology against our enemy."

I raised a finger, ready to respond, but Kessiah spoke out before I could, "Pshh, you think Schema is why Daniel's alive? Why any of us are alive?"

Spear glared at her, "Yes. I know that is the truth."

Other Hod scoffed, "Oh, is that the case with Amara and I as well, or are you simply neglecting to consider us?"

Spear waved a hand, "You two are still volatile. Would either of you be so docile if not for Daniel's rewards and posturing? I'm doubtful. There's even footage of Amara devouring people on Gypsum. Such slip-ups are forgiven in times of war, but what about times of peace? What will the consequences be then?"

Amara hissed, "I have learned that to be treated as more than a beast, I must act as more than a beast. I would not eat and kill unless it was necessary."

Spear crossed his arms, "You lie. Other eldritch have said the same before peeling their listener's skin off and wearing it. Like all of them, it is only a matter of time before your self-control snaps."

Other Hod leaned forward, his umbral flames ushering forth, but I put a hand in front of him. Other Hod sighed, and he leaned up from his lunging position. Spear put two fingertips against the side of his helmet, "My point still stands. Schema is why you all were allowed to live, outside of these eldritch."

Kessiah's eyes turned sharp like daggers, "So when we were trapped on Earth with Yawm, was that Schema keeping us alive too? He was over ten thousand levels above us, with ancient runes all over his skin. We didn't stand a chance in hell of beating him." Kessiah pointed a thumb at Torix and me,

"You see those two? Without them, we'd all be dead. They pulled us through with sheer dumb luck and a lot of spilled blood. I sure as hell didn't help either. Now tell me, where does that fit into your whole, 'Schema saved us,' propaganda?"

Torix coughed into a hand behind us, "It is also worthy of mentioning that we weren't allowed to leave, even illegally. That's a rather unusual circumstance, even for a quarantine. I was caught quite off guard by it."

Kessiah nodded, "Exactly. We were all unknowns until Giess, too, so we weren't protected by Schema the whole time. We could've been killed at any moment, and Althea nearly was. She still has nightmares about being blown up by a plasma grenade."

I let out a sharp breath of anger as Althea murmured, "Kessiah, you don't have to bring that up."

I was angry for two reasons. One, I was mad at myself because Althea shouldn't feel the need to hide that. Second, I hated that dead assassin. Either way, I hoped our hot-headed healer would continue. I wasn't disappointed. A vein pressed up on Kessiah's neck while her voice rose,

"This asshole needs to hear all of this. I spent my entire life running until I came here. Now, I can finally live somewhere where I'm not hunted down like a dog with a gold collar wrapped around my neck. That's thanks to him."

She pointed at me, and a light smile traced my lips, "Thanks."

Kessiah stared at me, blushing a bit, "Look, this is more about me wanting to set the record straight, ok? I hate it when people talk bullshit."

Spear turned to all of us, "There were no misdeeds done on Schema's part. You were forced to grow and prosper."

Torix tilted his head, "Then think of this as an opportunity to allow Schema to grow and prosper. We wish to treat our allies well, and this is an opportunity for Schema to learn the same strategies from us."

Spear raised a hand, "The difference is that Schema gave you all the power and means to overcome your obstacles. This deal you've made only weakens Schema, which he never did to any of you."

Amara hissed, "Daniel was exiled while fighting Yawm. I granted him access back into the system until after Daniel defeated the big, annoying plant. He'd of otherwise perished."

Spear took a step back, not knowing that fact. Oh yeah, Schema's extensive files seemed to have omitted a few key details. Regardless, Spear kept on talking,

"I'm certain Schema simply did what he had to do in those circumstances. And even then, you all succeeded. You've been granted an agency that few have ever received. This-" He gestured to the cargo with disgust, "Is how you repay him? By accepting a bribe from his enemy? Or worse, you relinquish yourself to extorsion."

I kept calm, pointing at all of it, "This isn't a bribe or extortion. Elysium wanted us to stop attacking them, so we agreed as long as they gave us supplies in turn. It's a deal, and I still intend on helping Schema on the sidelines. I'll be killing Plazia-Ruhl and getting the ahcorous on the Empire's side. That's still plenty of helping; it's just not all-out bloodshed."

Spear seethed, "You may justify it as you like, but accepting this is proof of your cowardice. You're unwilling to take on the price of repayment."

I crossed my arms, "Coward, huh? You didn't join us in the fight against Lehesion. Where were you?"

"I...I was training the golems."

His heart thumped his chest as his blood pressure rose. He lied. I shook my head in disgust, "I know one of your comrades died in battle, but that's no excuse to avoid the fight. You could apply your words to yourself more than me."

Spear's nerves mounted as he pointed at me, "If I am a coward, then let me be judged as such. That changes nothing of what you've done."

"Here's the difference - I fought long and hard before I gave in. You never even entered the fray. Who are you to judge me? No one."

Spear stared at his hands, "I am not judging you. I am exposing what you are. These tasks, killing Plazia and expanding your guild, are well below your potential. You could do so much more if you so chose."

I scoffed, "And so could you. Obviously."

Spear squeezed a fist until his hand shook, "No...I could not. That is what frustrates me when I look at you. You've been given a gift, a might that is monstrous. By choosing to serve yourself, you've become beholden to a selfish ideal. You devolve from a paragon of Schema to a creature of convenience. There is shame in that. There is a loss of potential, and the galaxy is worse off for it."

I threw my hand up, "Everyone could serve the galaxy better, even Schema. Serving the galaxy doesn't warm our beds or feed the hungry. To survive, we all have our own priorities. Personally, I want to be able to help out those close to me without being shoved into an endless war. A war, mind you, that I'm tired of. I don't want to battle for eternity. I'm ready to sit back for a while, build myself and my guild up."

Spear pointed at me, "It will be difficult to build your guild up without Schema's assistance. You and those that follow you could be exiled for this. You all should be, given this ensemble of eldritch, half breeds, and monsters you call your elite."

Krog growled, "Yes, and each of us could trounce you in combat without your petty little spears. Fight me with your own fangs and claws, and we shall see how strong you really are." Krog turned to Chrona and sputtered, "If the coward would even show up to a bout."

They laughed before Spear put an outstretched hand on his chest, "Don't think I don't know where I stand. I know of my limits. I have lived out those limits for centuries, and they haunt me. Your kind is the opposite of mine. You live in lavish potential, coasting off talent. I fought for decades before being given my Sentinel class. Now I must watch a guild lower themselves to selfish desire despite their ability to do great good for this world and many others."

From that, I learned a lot about Spear. He wasn't a remnant from a pre-Schema era. He was a newer remnant that joined the Sentinel's ranks after a significant achievement. I noted that as Krog rumbled,

"So we must sacrifice ourselves to live for this AI? An AI who gave my kind nothing but air and death. Our entire species was culled because your Schema refused to handle its own dissenters."

Spear stated, "Apathy. Laziness. Disappointment. The gialgathens are all this and more. Your kind sowed their own deaths with your inaction."

Krog and Chrona's eyes both widened before Krog rumbled like a storm, "You speak further, and I will kill you."

Spear scoffed, "Perhaps we should fight in one of your sunspots where your kind spends hours napping during the day? Or maybe you'll have an espen servant show up in your place?"

Krog stepped forward, and I let him vent his anger. Spear pushed him too hard, and he'd pay the price. Spear revved his slicer while simmering, "Fighting me won't bring back your kin. They are tools for an enemy you're choosing to no longer fight. They are tools you're deciding you won't save because you wish to 'rebuild.' Pathetic."

Krog peered away, his breaths turning short and sharp. Those words cut deep like a glass piercing a hand. Kessiah walked over and put a hand on Krog's wing. At her touch, Krog calmed down some. I turned to Spear, "I wouldn't have expected you to talk like that Spear. I'm disappointed you'd demand the gialgathens, a species that's experienced so much pain, fight in this war for you."

Spear took a breath, managing his emotions before raising a hand, "I may have spoken sharper words than I intended. You're right. The gialgathens should be allowed to rebuild, but you are different, Harbinger. That is why Schema and I are asking more from you. You were given many gifts, perks, and a class, but even more importantly, you were given a purpose."

He raised his hands, squeezing his fingertips together, "You can fight to improve our galaxy, to prevent further tragedies like those that befell the gialgathens. In doing so, you enact an absolute, moral good. There is immense pride that may be taken in that. I am an example."

