“Well, the Lord of the Hunt was an image of Artemis,” Jake explained. “And, well, during the Challenge Dungeon, her image and I kind of got close after it had its full memories restored.”

“Oh?” Meira asked, looking genuinely curious.

Jake decided not to try to hide anything as he went on a bit of a rant.

“A recording of this interaction between the Lord of the Hunt and me made its way back to Artemis, and I saw the real her at Nevermore before going back, though we didn’t have any time to talk. When I went to the Pantheon of Life, the two of us finally had a proper sit-down to talk about everything, and part of the reason I wanted to go there in the first place was to talk to her. The Malefic Viper had even given me a treasure that allowed her to reach Godqueen. Anyway, we talked and now we’re kind of... together. As in, officially together, and part of the explanation for that declaration of friendship is because of that. I would say it’s pretty serious and not just a fling, so out of respect to her, I need to clean up certain parts of my personal life. Okay, she did say she would give some leeway, but I don’t really want to do that, as it feels wrong, especially because it sounds like she isn’t interested in making use of this leeway herself. Things are definitely still a bit complicated, but one thing’s for sure, I’m not gonna commit to that one relationship and not have any other ones...”

Admittedly, Jake should perhaps have rehearsed what he planned on saying a little instead of just vomiting everything out, but once he got started, he felt like he had to finish his rant. He at least managed not to be outright presumptuous and “reject” Meira, though he felt like he made his stance pretty clear.

Jake felt pretty damn nervous as he looked at Meira for a reaction. Her face was neutral for a few moments as she digested Jake’s slightly incoherent ramblings before she surprised Jake.

Meira smiled as she looked straight at him and spoke in a tone that sounded genuine: “Congratulations, you two sound like a good match.”
