Driven by adrenaline and his trait, he jumped way too hard. He almost hit the glass ceiling of the greenhouse.

In the air, he had a fraction of a second to see that it was the flyer that was blazing with light, and then the flyer was gone. Up and out, like a bullet racing for the stars. Alden was so blind in the sudden darkness that when he hit the ground and rolled he had almost no sense of where the Brute with the weapon was.

He got onto his feet as fast as he could and re-preserved the poncho. The tape that had connected the messenger bag to it had come free at some point, and the bag was swinging against his side now, no longer entrusted or preserved.

I can’t see. Gotta get Zeridee and get away. Where’s the…?

His pulse was so high he could feel it throbbing in his head.

As he managed to regain enough vision to make out shapes, he saw a figure kneeling on the concrete.

He crouched, prepared to take another hit on his poncho. He waited.

And then he realized the figure was smaller than the Brute had been.

His eyes adjusted some more.

“Zeridee? Are you…?”

The Brute was on the floor beside her. He wasn’t moving. It looked like she had stabbed him through the temple with his own weapon.

“I’m sorry,” she said in Artonan, her voice faint. “I’m sorry. They were going to hurt you. I had to send the flyer. You should run.”

“Entrust yourself to me,” Alden insisted, forcing himself to talk gently. He was using Artonan just to be sure she could understand him. “Zeridee, please.”

She’d slumped onto the floor beside the dead Brute. Alden knelt beside her now, left hand pressed to the bloody spot on the right side of her chest, right hand pressed to the second bloody spot on her abdomen.

Does this help? Does this even help? The wounds go through and through.

The Brute had stabbed her at least twice. And there was a massive gash on the side of her head. Alden was having a hard time imagining any kind of first aid other than getting her preserved as soon as possible.

He pressed harder, and she made a choking noise.

“Entrust yourself to me,” he repeated in the calm voice.

Her blood was hot and slick.

“Don’t be afraid,” she said. “This man isn’t dead.”

It was the second time she’d said that.

Only one of her eyes was focused on Alden’s face. The other was drifting around aimlessly.

She’s really confused from the head injury.

“Entrust yourself to me.”

“He is only sleeping,” Zeridee whispered. “That other man is only sleeping, too.”

No. She’s confused, but not in the way I think.

The Artonan woman was trying to give him loving lies. Like he was a child.

“I believe you,” said Alden. He didn’t spare a single glance for the Brute lying a few inches away with a metal spike shoved through his skull. “You helped the bad men go to sleep. I’m not scared. Can I pick you up?”

“I’m sorry I had to give the other man your escape flyer. You have to leave the house now.”

“That’s all right. We’ll leave together.”

“He will not die of blood loss before he reaches the Amazon. It didn’t hurt him much when his arm was ————— by the flyer’s —————.”

She meant it hadn’t hurt the babbler much when the ship’s hood had closed on his arm, severing it almost to the shoulder. It was the one with the magical equipment on it, and it was lying on the pavement nearby.

Alden assumed the one-armed man who was now blasting toward South America in an escape flyer that didn’t belong to him had been sticking the limb out of the vessel, about to fire the thing he had called a stunner at Alden’s back.

If it can take out high ranks it might have burst through my poncho. Or tired me out enough that the Brute’s next strike did. And then we’d both be dead.

Zeridee must have managed to give the vehicle some kind of “go” command through her eye rings.

“Ah,” he said, “so one of my teleportation site guesses was right. We were going to go the Amazon together. That would’ve been fun.”

Zeridee took a breath.

Does it seem like more of a struggle than her last one? Am I imagining that?

Both of her eyes met his briefly before the left one wandered off again.

“You go to a ———— now,” she said. “Hurry.”

He assumed that was a synonym for shelter that he hadn’t learned yet.

Is she having a good moment?

He stared hard into her focused eye.

“Zeridee, I will run faster if you are alive. My skill and trait will only work if you come with me. Can I carry you?”

She blinked the eye.

“I will run faster if I carry you,” he said slowly.

He thought it might be true. But probably not. He would run faster at the outset for sure if he was using his skill, but he wasn’t actually sure whether or not he would lose entrustment if his entruster died. And he would also tire faster carrying her weight.

Loving lies can go both ways.

“I will be much faster if you let me carry you,” he said. “Can I carry you?”

“Yes,” she said.

That’s an agreement! He stopped pressing his hands to her wounds and reached for her braid.

“Is there medicine that will help you in the house? Is there something like my special medicine bag there? One for Artonans?”

“This man is just sleeping.”

“I believe you. Is there medicine for Artonans in the house? Will any of the medicine in my bag help you?”

“Yes. In the ———. Upstairs.”

In the roof? The underroof? Is that a word for attic? Is searching for it the right move?

He pulled the braid forward over her face. Her hair was thick, and soft where it wasn’t damp with blood. He tucked the purple tuft at the end into the waistband of her pants, then lifted the braid at the middle to make…well, it was a great carrying strap.

If everyone came equipped with their own personal ropes, my life would be much easier.

“Thank you, Zeridee. You saved our lives. You’re amazing. Everything’s going to be all right.”

**********************
