Sometime after the fifth painstakingly detailed account of my infidelity, comprehension hits me like a jolt of lightning. Mila is jealous and feeling ignored. Who wouldn't be upset by their betrothed ogling everyone but themselves? Gingerly opening my arms, I move slowly towards her in a hug, her arms still crossed. “Mila, you are a lovely woman, beautiful, strong, and confident. You are my friend, my betrothed, and I have treated you poorly. There are no shortage of men who find you attractive, you could have whoever you so wish.” The poor bastard wouldn't dare refuse, because if you don't beat him into a pulp, your parents will. “I apologize for being so disrespectful to you, and will attempt to keep my future indiscretions to a minimum.”

Her tiny snort is muted by my embrace, her face pressed into my shoulder. Letting her go, she seems smug and satisfied by my apology, half-smiling at me. “Tell me about these 'feelings of interest' you have, genuine or not.”

Smiling softly, I sit down with Mila to talk to her about my confused emotions, and she quietly listens, a sympathetic ear for me to vent. Lin listens, but she dismisses my worries too easily, confident I will solve my problems without difficulty, but Mila is helpful, offering no advice, but understanding the issue. She's a good friend, and whoever does marry her might not be so unlucky after all.

Then again, Akanai and Husolt are a terrifying pair, not to mention Mila herself.

Okay, I'll take her future husband under my wing and teach him all my tricks to keep her from killing him.

...

And how to heal. That will probably be more helpful.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Cresting yet another hill as I run along the hard dirt road, I curse the person who designed this stupid, winding path. Is it too much to ask for level roads? Up and down and up again, it's like I'm running on a constant slope, my calves heavy and lungs burning, the day not even half-way through. Ten fucking days of marathon running, I'm not sure how far it was, but I'll be damned if I ever run a day in my life again. If past experiences have taught me anything, I'm going to try to hurl soon, never actually throwing up but wishing I could.

Running is fucking torture. It's all about willpower, but I've run (hah) dry. Moving off the path, I lean up against a thin tree, dry heaving as the bile rise up in my throat, my heartbeat thundering in my chest. When the pangs subside, I reach for my water skin and drink sparingly, unsure if there will be more before nightfall. I could get more, only requiring me to catch up to the water carts, a feat beyond my meagre abilities. Kill me now, strike me down, cruel world. I've survived slavers and arrogant nobles, carnugators and terror birds, Defiled and Demons, but it is marathon fucking running which has worn away my will to survive.

“Drink more boy, then come ride with me.” Taduk's rickshaw waits behind me, his look of concern filling me with warmth, and despite how desperately I want to take up his offer, I grudgingly shake my head.

“She said... for me... to run...”

“Yes, yes, but we are almost at the Bridge, and you cannot arrive before our adversaries sweating and exhausted. Up now, I've spoken to Akanai.”

It takes a direct message from Akanai to persuade me onto the vehicle, carefully settling down next to Lin as she dabs at my face with a clean rag, wiping away my sweat and grime. It doesn't take long for me to zone out, unable to fall asleep despite of my much-needed late-night talk with Mila. She's a sweet kid, which is the problem with our betrothal: She's a kid. Adorable and lovely as Lin, I care about them both but I'm not really comfortable looking at them in a sexual way. I may not act like the most mature person around, but I still feel like I'm older than them, by a large, unknown margin.

Yan is different, more mature and grounded, and I was attracted to her before my run in with Vivek 'Big Whitey' Daatei, which helps, but it's still weirdly uncomfortable when I consider it. I am looking forward to seeing her again, our two month separation having left me with mixed opinions about her permanent departure. Lin is like my little sister, sweet and loving, while Mila is my rival and coach. Yan is my friend, someone I could hang out with but didn't demand my attentions. I like that, because it's like being alone, which I need, except with someone else there, which I don't hate.

I care about all three of them, but do I love them? I don't know, but thankfully, I have a few years to figure it out. Or we all die in the next few days in blood and fire, but that would make things too easy for me, so I'd say I'm pretty safe. At some point, I'll need to make a decision, but I'm gonna leave it for future Rain to deal with. Fuck that guy, he's never done anything for me.

Stopping for lunch by a stream, I bathe and change clothes following Akanai's orders. Dressed in full Sentinel leathers, helmet and all, my sword is clipped to my belt and a quin lent out for me to ride. Appearances must be kept, I guess.  After lunch, I join Alsantset, Huu, Mila and Lin to ride at the front with Akanai,  the other Sentinels arranging themselves in neat rows as we trot slowly in formation, cresting one last hill to view the Walls, massive and ugly as I remember them.

“Say nothing at all unless I give you explicit permission, understood?” Akanai's icy glare draws down on me and I nod as quickly as I can, the picture of innocence. I'll make silence my standard operating procedure from now on, mouth shut, ears open, eyes ... can't look down, can't stare, so I'm left with... look up by elimination, I guess? I should wear a veil to cover my face, but it might violate some social norm.

Moving at our relaxed pace, we reach the gate in little more than an hour, where the Iron Banner greets us, Baatar, Yan, and Ghurda waiting with a small unit of soldiers. My heart skips a beat as we approach the leader, my mouth drying out as I study her. A beautiful woman in her mid twenties, standing at average height, her aloof, almost indifferent demeanour speaks of someone used to dealing with authority figures, wholly unconcerned by the army before her. Ornate black and silver armor hides her figure save for her pale, slender limbs, her cold, blue eyes studying us from beneath her open-faced helmet. As we draw near, our gazes lock for a brief second and her icy stare sends shivers down my spine.

Twitching from side to side, her fluffy, white-furred tail pokes out from behind as she bows ever so slightly to Akanai, displaying an immaculate ponytail of platinum blonde hair flowing out of the back of her helmet, her long fox ears poking out the top, black-trimmed and delicate. “Lieutenant General Akanai? This servant is named Yuzhen, attendant to Marshal Shing Du Yi.” Soft spoken yet decisive and resolute, her melodic voice continues on as I struggle to listen to her words, but all I can do is revel in the sweet timbre of her voice, staring intently at her delicate features and glistening, pink lips.

I just met her, and this is crazy, but I think I'm in love.

Chapter Meme
