Rhys looked up. The first boy, the one he’d kicked in the shins a lot, ran toward him, leading a yet older, more muscular boy. This one wasn’t properly a boy, but a young man in his early twenties. He had the lithe muscle of a practiced martial artist, and the weathered face of someone who lived rough. Correspondingly, his short robes had no sleeves and were frayed at the hems, and his trousers dirt-stained and threadbare, ripped open at the knees. His hair was a tangled mess, barely held back with a sweat-stained bandana around his forehead.

Rhys tensed. The young man’s aura was at least Tier 2, and if his instincts were right, it was higher than Tarais’. He was a real threat. He raised his fists, watching the boy approach with wary eyes.

The young man looked at Rhys and scoffed. Turning to the hopping boy, he shook his head. “That runt is what beat you and Honeg so badly? If I were you, I’d be hiding under the bed and pretending nothing had ever happened, not running to my seniors.”

He had an unusually high tenor voice, Rhys noted, but maybe he looked older than he actually was. Like how some mages looked younger than they were.

The hopping boy shook his head. “He was bullying us, Ev! You have to show him that Cynog’s students aren’t so easily put down!”

“Haaa, who was bullying who? Your memory is so short, you might as well be a goldfish,” Rhys accused the boy.

Ev snorted. He nodded at Rhys. “Is it true? Were you bullying them?”

“Hardly.”

“He did! He badmouthed Cynog!” the goldfish boy insisted.

“Did you badmouth Cynog?” Ev asked.

“Only for picking such shitty students,” Rhys replied.

Ev laughed aloud at that one. He shook his head. “I mean, you ain’t wrong. But… you know how it is. I can’t have someone out here badmouthing my juniors.”

“That’s alright. Come.” Rhys gestured for Ev to attack. With Trash Intent and Trash Body active, he really did feel like he was bullying these weak Tier 1s. Ev might be a bit above what his current state could handle, but he was curious to find out just how large the gap was between him and a martial Tier 2, fighting seriously.

Besides, he hadn’t used all his tricks yet.

“Oh? That’s bold, kid. You do know I’m a Tier over you?”

Rhys watched him. He waited.

Ev laughed. He stepped forward. “Got it. Well, you did ask for it.”

Ev’s body blurred. Motion flashed toward Rhys’ temple, and then he was flying through the air, cartwheeling head-over-heels, but sideways. Searing pain bit through his skull. He blinked, struggling to push back the black dots in his vision.

Before he landed, Ev appeared again. A fist slammed into his stomach. He vomited, tasting blood, and flew backward.

He couldn’t do it. Couldn’t see Ev, let alone land a blow on him. He’d overestimated himself. No, he’d forgotten—at his core, he was trash. With two techniques synergizing, he could fight people at his own level, but that was all. Fighting over his Tier was a dream, with only this many buffs stacked on him.

But that was fine. He had more buffs to stack!

Reaching into his core, he grabbed some impurities and started rubbing them together. Luckily, he’d just refilled, thanks to that ancient toxic trash pit. By now, he was used to friction-igniting impurities. Before he finished flying backwards, the impurities lit with a whoosh. Black smoke billowed from his body as power poured through it.

Rhys kicked, steadying himself in midair. He slammed his feet down, dragging himself to a halt. Ev instantly flashed in, arm already drawn back to punch, but now, he could see the man move. He blocked Ev’s punch with his forearm and returned one of his own. His knuckles landed smack on the man’s jaw.

Ev staggered back. He paused, then lifted his hand and touched his jaw, a little surprised. “Wow. I actually felt something.”

“More where that came from,” Rhys returned.

“Oh… I recognize you now. You’re that runt Cynog was tutoring! I can see why Cynog likes you,” Ev replied. Grinning madly, he flashed in.

Fists flew at Rhys from all directions. He desperately blocked, barely fending Ev off. Instantly, he was transported back to sparring with Bast. Ev was just as strong—no, stronger. But now, Rhys could keep his blows from connecting consistently, unlike with Bast, where he’d miss a few and pick up a few bruises for his trouble.

It wasn’t that Ev was weaker. Instead, with all his buffs active, Rhys was just strong enough, now, to fend him off.

“Damn, no wonder. You’re strong. But all that mana you’re putting out… you can’t keep that up forever, can you?” Ev asked. He hopped back. “If I wait, you lose.”

Then I won’t let you wait. Rhys chased after Ev and punched. Ev stepped back, turning his shoulder. Rhys gave chase, but Ev evenly backed away, hands in his pockets, ducking left and right. He whistled, boredom on his face.

Rhys bared his teeth. Jumping forward with all his face, he lashed out at Ev’s hips with a high kick, hoping to knock him off balance.

He saw Ev’s teeth shine white, bared in a predatory grin, a second before Ev caught his leg. He tried to yank it free, but Ev had it in a stranglehold. Ev twisted it slightly, and pain shot up his knee. Rhys froze, focusing only on balancing. Ev could break his leg right now, and there was nothing he could do about it. If the man did that, the fight was over.

Instead, Ev tugged, gently putting Rhys off-balance. “I can tell you’ve been sparring with Cynog, too. He goes too easy on you newbies.”

He grinned and shoved Rhys’ leg hard, throwing off Rhys’ balance entirely. “But I won’t.”

Rhys staggered, trying to regain his balance, but before he could, Ev was on top of him. He shoved Rhys to the ground and hammered at his face. Rhys blocked with his arms as best he could, and this time, he held nothing back. Blow Mitigation worked as hard as it could, fending off some of Ev’s blows, but there was only so much the skill could do. Before long, his vision darkened. Spots appeared in his vision.

No. I refuse. Rhys twisted, tearing his robes to break Ev’s hold. His bones creaked a bit, joints screaming, but in his Trash Body-Trash Intent state, that was easy enough to ignore. Face-down, he crawled out from under Ev at top speed, hammering a kick backward at the man’s crotch on the way out.

Ev took the hit with a bare grunt. Rhys’ foot landed on a lump of fat and bone, not delicate genitalia.

Ev looked down. Rhys stared up.

“You’re a—”

A grin split Ev’s face. “Damn straight I am.”

Her fist slammed into his face, and his vision went black.
