Then… there was silence. Eppie realised something. A mistake. A very big mistake. Valorie didn't know that Lim was their ally.She didn’t know that the Five Families, or at least two of them, were in open revolt. To Valorie, Lim wasn’t an ally or a friend. He was William’s indebted guard dog, a man whom William trusted with all his heart.

Oh… God help us… Eppie groaned internally. What a blunder. What… a blunder.“...William’s house isn’t easy to get into,” Lim continued after a ten-second pause. “The area they’re set up in has private security. It’s a gated community, with cameras on every corner, in the trees and the bushes. We won’t even be allowed inside the housing area, much less his house.”

“Yeah, there’s a lot of security.”

Wait… are you not going to question… Valorie? Eppie wished they were in the room together, so she could look at their faces. Val, are you not going to question Lim?

“So you’re saying we can’t just break in?” Eppie asked.

“Even if you did, how are you going to avoid the alarms? The police will come. Besides, there’s a man there, Jiang—I think. He’s Chen-ye’s old driver, semi-retired. He’s ex-PLA special forces,” Lim said.

“Jiang has access to firearms,” Valorie interjected. “The regular security only has sprays and tasers, but… I’ve also seen one or two of them with pistols.”

Could this body survive a gunshot? Eppie’s thoughts strayed a little too far before she pulled herself back. “Lim, could your dad…”

“No…” Lim said firmly. “Chen-ye’s compound is accessible twice a year: the Autumn Festival and Chinese New Year. That’s it.”

“What if we dressed up as…” Eppie grasped for straws. “Utility workers?”

The suggestion was too absurd to even be answered.

Eppie slumped in the back of the taxi, painfully aware that the Taxi driver was looking pretty alarmed.

“We’re doing a play…” she told him, her [Charisma] and [Comeliness] doing the heavy lifting.

The man… was convinced. For no reason. It really was terrifying how pretty privilege worked.

“I’ll do it,” Valorie said suddenly.

“Huh?” Eppie bolted upright. “Do what?”

“I’ll go and get Garfield,” her voice came across the speaker loud and clear, and a little fatalistic.

“Val—” Eppie heard herself reaching for the no, already assembling every reason it was the wrong ask, the cruel ask, the ask that would undo a father's public hug in front of a Met crowd—that Val should not be going back into the fox’s den.

“You said he was with you, right? Even if he left ten minutes ago, it will take almost an hour to get home from the pier in traffic,” Val said, already moving. In the background, they could hear the sound of a car starting up. “I'm still at LAPA. Fifteen minutes, tops. I know the house code. I know Jiang. I'm going.”

“Jesus, Val…” Eppie felt her bitterness dissolve like a climate-change glacier.

“Then I’ll give him a call,” Lim announced his part. “I suddenly feel like sparring, and I am going to insist that he comes to the Association.”

“Thanks, Wang-ge.” Valorie’s accent was measured, natural.

“Take care, San-je,” Lim’s Cantonese was impeccable. “And... thanks.”

Eppie knew the words she wanted to say, but the sheer selfishness of what she was asking made her swallow them. Her belly hurt. As expected, the indigestion of guilt and self-loathing was the worst.
