“Now!” He said and jumped, then equipped his shield mid-air. Ren and the dogs shared the momentum of the cart; so when they jumped away, they were going just as fast as it was. Princess rammed the giant's shin at the same time that Riley and Stacy hit the giant's arms, one on each. Ren's jump took him a little too high, however. He had intended to hit the giant in the chest to knock the wind out of him; but, he had forgotten that his new boots doubled his jump, and he hit the giant in the face with the shield.

The combination was devastating to the giant. With his balance knocked away by Princess' impact on his lower leg, the dogs weight on his arms, and Ren's massive hit to his face, he was completely caught off-guard. Thanks to Ren's Skull Cracker ability that grants a 20% chance to stun with a hit to the head, the giant was unconscious before he fell backwards to land on the ground. Ren and the dogs held on until he hit the ground, and hopped off in case he started to swing. Ren took out the Wand of Entanglement and shot the giant a bunch of times, and covered him in webs. It would only last 10 minutes, but that would give them time to think of what to do.

“Is everyone all right?” Ren asked, and Princess trotted over.

“No, I'm not all right!” Croggart said from the back of the cart. Ren had only released him a couple of hours before, and now he was livid. “I said I didn't want any more adventure for a while! What the hell was that just now?!?”

“He was going to kill Rubella.” Ren said.

“So what?” Croggart said. “She's a giant. Let them deal with her.”

Ren pointed to Rubella, and Croggart saw her sit up. She held Groggot gently in her arms.

“NO!” Croggart hollered and ran over to them.

“I'm fine!” Groggot said, and looked at Rubella. “Thanks to Rubella.”

“What?”

“If she hadn't protected me with her body, or held me close and rolled out of the cart when it flipped, I'd be dead.” Groggot said, and stroked the side of her face. “Thank you.”

Rubella blushed. “You're welcome.”

“Aaahhhhh!” The giant Ren had secured yelled. “Kill it! Before it spreads!”

“Kill what?” Ren said.

“That!” The giant said and nodded towards Rubella.

“You mean Rubella? The one we helped and brought back to her people?” Ren asked him.

“Wh-what?”

“She's not running around and screaming, is she?”

The armored giant looked from Ren to Rubella, and back again.

“Hi.” Rubella said. “You really shouldn't attack before asking questions.”

“What... what...”

The ground shook and Teepo chittered in laughter.

What is it, Teepo? Ren thought.

“You're going to laugh at this.” Teepo said. “Turn around.”

Ren turned around and discovered Teepo was right. He started laughing and everyone looked at him.

“What's so funny?” Groggot asked as Rubella put him down and stood up.

“That.” Ren said between guffaws, and the group looked and saw several dozen more giants. They wore full plate armor, and each face they could see looked angry as they ran closer. Ren took out the giant gold-colored automated Ballista from inventory.

“This is going to be fun.” Ren said sarcastically, and prepared to fire.
