Ren helped himself to her, and after a minute, Lisa stuffed the towel into her mouth to stop herself from screaming in pleasure. After a while she couldn't stand anymore, and started to slide into the water. Ren used his arms to prop her up, and her feet came up out of the water. Lisa bit down on the towel and growled while Ren kept returning the favor that she did for him.

When he thought she'd taken as much as she could before she'd start to complain that he was going too far, he eased her down into the water and sat back. Lisa turned to look at him with her eyes wild, and the towel still stuffed into her mouth.

“I can't kiss you with the towel in the way.” Ren said, and Lisa shook her head when he tried to take it from her. She eased close to him and straddled his lap. “Lisa?”

Lisa ran her hands through his hair, then put both hands into the churning water.

“Oh, Lisa.” Ren whispered while Lisa took control. He saw her wince as she settled lower into the water, and he hugged her close. It took a while for them to finish their fun in the water, and when it was time, Lisa did her holding breath technique to catch everything so it wouldn't dirty the water. They sat in the Jacuzzi afterwards, both of them tired and happy.

“I think we should all go inside.” Stella said. “It's almost time for supper.”

“That's a good idea.” Ren said. “I think I'm starting to get water-logged.”

Lisa chuckled and reached for the towel to wrap around herself. “I call dibs on the shower first.”

“It's cold water.” Denise warned her. “Just do a quick rinse.”

“There's 6 bathrooms with full showers inside.” Ren said. “You can pick one of them to use.”

Lisa nodded and did a quick rinse, followed by Stella, Ren, and Denise. Stella went to the kitchen to start supper, and Denise took Ren in the wheelchair up to his room, with Lisa close behind.

“Do you want to get a shower first?” Ren asked Lisa, and she shook her head. “Second?” He asked, and she shook her head again. “You want to share it at the same time?”

Lisa nodded, and Ren smiled.

“Denise? Can you stand by the shower in case I need help?”

“Of course.” Denise said. “That's my job.”

“Thanks.” Ren said and stood up. “After you.” He said to Lisa, and she went into the bathroom. She stepped into the shower with her bathing suit on, and Ren did, too. Denise stood with her back to the shower, so she wouldn't see anything and it gave them at least the illusion of privacy.

“You don't have to do this, Lis-” Ren tried to say, then Lisa kissed him.

“I've never taken a shower with anyone but myself.” Lisa said. “What do I do?”

Ren smiled. “The same thing you always do, except there's extra hands to help and extra parts to wash.”

Lisa looked at him with wide eyes as he lathered up his hands, and he scrubbed up his own chest. She had to turn around to take off her bikini, because she was still embarrassed about being completely naked around other people. When she turned back, she saw that Ren faced away from her and she liked him that much more for that simple gesture. She lathered up her hands, and gently touched his back. She liked the feel of the soap on his skin, so she gently scrubbed his back.

“Thanks.” Ren said. “Can I do your back?”

“Y-yes.” Lisa said and turned around. Ren glanced at her, lathered up his hands, and scrubbed her back. He did her arms and legs as well, and Lisa stood still while he did it.

“There's only your front left to do.” Ren said, and Lisa didn't say anything; but, after a moment, she lifted her arms out of the way. He slid off his shorts so they wouldn't get covered in soap and lathered his hands up again, then rubbed her belly from behind. He moved his hands up to scrub her chest, and Lisa took in a sharp breath. Ren wasn't stupid enough to try and play with her at this point, since she said she only wanted a shower. He finished with her chest, then lathered up his hands again. He scrubbed her waist, and then moved his hands down her front, and she stopped him with her hands before he reached her intimate part.

“You're not thinking anything sexual, are you?” Lisa asked softly.

“You can check if you want.” Ren said and stepped to the right slightly.

Lisa glanced down at him and saw that he wasn't ready.

“You said you wanted a shower, so all I'm doing is cleaning you.” He said. “If you want it to become...”

“No.” Lisa said, and let his hands go. Ren scrubbed her there, and Lisa bit her lip so that she wouldn't react to having someone else touch her there. Even though the touch wasn't sexual, it was still a sensitive spot to be touched. Ren finished scrubbing her, scrubbed himself, and then they rinsed themselves. They got out of the shower and dried off, and went into the bedroom to get changed.

“You can stay in the bathroom to get changed if you want.” Ren said to Lisa.

“That's okay.” Lisa said. “You... you've been... well, you didn't... I mean...”

“I know what you mean.” Ren said.

“You treated me with respect.” Lisa finally got out. “I shouldn't hide... not after... that is, we...”

Ren took her into a hug. “It's okay if you're not comfortable having someone see you nude.” He said. “I don't let just anyone see me, either.”

“You don't?” Lisa asked, surprised. “But... you've been...”

Ren chuckled. “Yeah, I've had sex a lot, but that doesn't mean I want to walk around naked in front of everyone.”

Lisa took in a deep breath, and nodded. “Then... I think I will change in the bathroom.”

Ren smiled and let her out of the hug. Lisa picked up her backpack and went into the bathroom. Denise helped Ren get dressed, and he was ready by the time Lisa came out in a slightly baggy shirt and an old pair of jeans.

“I was thinking...” Lisa said. “I... um... I should...”

“Your mom must be pretty worried by now.” Ren said and smiled. “I don't think another half an hour will make that much of a difference.”

Lisa chuckled. “Then, I think I'll stay for supper.”

“That would be great.” Ren said.

Lisa stayed for supper, and they ate in the large dining room downstairs. After that, Lisa really had to go. Stella did the same thing that she did the last time, and gave Lisa the money to take a taxi home, and to come back. Lisa thanked her for everything, especially for the swimsuits, and Stella gave her a hug.

“Well see you again soon, I hope.” Stella said. “Take care, okay?”

Lisa nodded, waved to Denise and kissed Ren goodbye, then left when the taxi arrived.

“Well, this day was just the best!” Ren said, and looked at Stella and Denise. “I really need to thank the both of you for everything you did today.”

“You're welcome.” Stella said. “I'm glad you had fun.”

“Me, too.” Ren said. “But... I think it's time I went back into the game.”

“Are you sure you're okay with that?” Denise asked.

“I'm sure they've figured out a way to stop it from happening again by now.” Ren said. “Don't worry, I'll be fine.”

“If anything else happens, you make sure to tell us, okay?” Stella said. “Anything at all.”

Ren nodded. “If anything else happens, you'll be the second to know.” He said. “Or third. Hold on, it's fourth.”

Stella laughed. “Just tell us, Ren.”

Ren grinned and got into bed. “I will.”

Denise handed him the VR headset.

“I'll probably be staying in the game tonight.” Ren said, then remembered something. “I almost forgot to take care of business.” He put the headset down and grabbed a foil packet. He was in and out of the bathroom a minute later, and got back on the bed. “Bye, Denise.” He said. “I'll see you in the morning, Stella.”

“Goodnight, little stud.” Stella said.

“Flow Login Start.”

********
