Magical communication was very tricky. [Message] spells were common, true, but actual real-time conferences were extremely difficult to organize. And while Wistram could devise any number of complex spells to facilitate conversations, everyone else had to get inventive.
The way Ilvriss spoke to the other Lords and Ladies of the Wall in his city of Salazsar was by using a scrying orb. It gave him a view of their conference room while they did the same to him. Both orbs were extremely expensive and, it had to be said, annoying to use. Ilvriss already had a headache as he stared into the small orb and saw a distorted, fish-eye view of a room full of Drake nobility staring back at him.
“I can’t speak to Shivertail’s thoughts. You know he came north pursuing information about the Goblin Lord. And he was delayed in Liscor due to the Antinium…situation.”
“Ah yes. Was his departure related to that, do you think?”
Ilvriss paused before he replied. Another issue was that the use of two scrying spells meant that their conversations were completely public if anyone wanted to listen in. Ilvriss kept his replies as devoid of confidential information as possible.
“Our findings with the Antinium were unusual and troubling…but not unduly so. Whatever threat they might pose, it’s clear that General Shivertail thought the Goblin Lord was a far more important threat.”
“I see. But then why would he ally with Humans? And with her of all people?”
“I don’t know. But it seems futile to speculate. These are the facts, Wall Lord Menoss. What we should be focusing on is what will happen next.”
Ilvriss gritted his teeth and kept his tail from lashing. Zel Shivertail’s alliance with Lady Magnolia wasn’t an issue solely important to the Drakes in Salazsar of course. No doubt every Walled City was in a panic right now. And for good reason!
“He really went over to Magnolia Reinhart’s side? This isn’t some—some ruse of hers, is it?”
“All indications are that it is not. Zel Shivertail has decided to ally himself with Humans. He has defected, Wall Lady Rizzia.”
There was a pause from the other end. Ilvriss subtly adjusted the orb and a few Drake faces swam into focus. One spoke up, looking worried.
“He can’t do that. Shivertail’s always been an agitator, but this? We must have him back.”
“Have him back? That traitor?”
“Well, he is a [General]. He’s one of ours, he can’t just—”
“He’s not ours. He’s part of the Trisstral Alliance. I wonder what those cities think of this. If they authorized his departure, they’ll have another thing coming—”
The other Drakes were arguing amongst themselves. Ilvriss ground his teeth together. They were missing the point! He slapped a claw on the table and there was a sudden silence.
“Lords and Ladies, please! Forget about the reasons. Instead of thinking of Zel Shivertail’s actions as a matter of dissent, look at it another way. The highest-level Drake [General] in the entire world has just gone over to the Humans’ side.”
The room—both rooms—fell silent. Ilvriss stared around at the suddenly grey faces and nodded.
“Zel Shivertail has never gotten himself involved in politics. He’s a career soldier and one of the reasons why we can afford to fight amongst ourselves. If he starts leading Human armies or worse, participates in battles on their side—”
“He wouldn’t do that.”
“Wouldn’t he? Why not? He has nothing to lose here! We’ve refused to hear him more times than I can count. What’s stopping him from joining with Humans who will give him an army and backing? Face the facts! We have just lost our best [General]! We shouldn’t be arguing over the politics, but looking to our safety!”
Ilvriss’ words caused a hush. Olesm held his breath, thinking of all the ramifications. True, no one [General] was influential enough to define the Drake cities or weaken them too much in their absence, but on the other hand…if the Antinium attacked or another nation invaded, it was widely assumed Zel Shivertail would be the first to lead Drake armies in defense. More than that, he was a symbol. People felt reassured—he had beaten the Antinium in two wars after all! If he was gone…
Ilvriss was speaking. Olesm wrenched himself back into listening mode. The Wall Lord was the voice of reason today, which was surprising. Had he really changed that much from his time at Erin’s inn?
“Well if anyone could do it, it would be Erin.”
Olesm mumbled to himself and got a jab from Zevara for speaking. Ilvriss went on.
“I suggest we first contact the other Walled Cities to hear their reaction. And then we reach out to General Shivertail. Otherwise he may decide to stay in the north after he’s finished crushing the Goblin Lord.”
There was a pause as the nobles in Salazsar considered his words and then one of the Wall Lords closest to the orb spoke.
“We shall reach out to the other cities and attempt to begin a larger discussion. Wall Lord Ilvriss, please hold.”
“I will do so.”
The orb went dark and Ilvriss sighed. There was an audible exhalation of breath around the room and Ilvriss looked at Liscor’s city council. They were [Merchants] and low-level officials, and they looked, to Olesm, like they were going to be sick. Discussions of this level were several grades above them. However, Ilvriss seemed to regard Olesm and Zevara as worthy sources of input. He turned to them.
“Shivertail’s absence is panicking my people. No doubt it will cause trouble elsewhere, but the question is how much damage it will do abroad. Thoughts?”
“No one’s going to invade Izril just because Zel Shivertail is gone. We’re most at risk of trouble coming from the Humans. However, we might be pressured by foreign powers. We need a united front.”
Zevara replied first and Olesm nodded. Ilvriss nodded absently as well and Olesm dared ask the question that was probably bubbling at the top of everyone’s minds.
“Do you know why General Shivertail would work with the Humans, Wall Lord?”
Ilvriss blinked, looked up, and shrugged.
“Why not? That idiot has talked for years about the need for an army to fight the Antinium, for a united front with the Humans. It shouldn’t surprise you that he’d do this.”
“But the Humans—he’ll be called a traitor! And he’s a hero! I just can’t see why…”
Olesm trailed off. Ilvriss looked at the young [Tactician] and shook his head.
“A hero. I forget I’m in Liscor. The facts aren’t so straightforward, young Swifttail. True, Zel Shivertail is a hero of the Antinium Wars. No one denies that. But as to his influence among our people…he’s been the target of a number of smear campaigns among the Walled Cities over the years. He’s been called a rabble-rouser, a traitor for opposing the war with the Humans, and more. Not in Liscor; your city would probably hang anyone who spoke a word against him. But he’s been a target for years by politicians.”
“But that’s just—”
Olesm broke off before he said something that could get him in trouble. Ilvriss smiled bitterly, sensing what Olesm was going to say.
“It’s funny. After all these years, he may be more popular among Humans than he is among Drakes. And now, having lost him, every city in the south is looking over their tails nervously.”
He shook his head and looked back towards the orb. He muttered under his breath, loud enough for Olesm and Zevara to hear.
“What a mess. Periss was right. We can’t keep doing this.”
“Sorry, sir?”
“Nothing.”
Ilvriss looked up, and he was all business again. He nodded to the orb.
“Shivertail’s out of touch for now. I doubt he’ll respond to any [Message] spells at the moment…what we can do is work on things from our own end. Getting idiots to do what we want is a good start. Fear and paranoia move politics far faster than anything else, Swifttail. Give them a few more minutes to stew before you open the communication spell again.”
“Yes sir.”
Olesm busied himself with laying out maps on the table, just in case. Ilvriss sighed, reached for a goblet full of wine, and stopped himself at the last moment. He looked around, found a cup full of water and picked it up. He stared gloomily into it and then turned as the orb flickered into life. He bared his teeth as Olesm backed away from the orb.
“Time to get to work, Swifttail. There’s no room for error or weakness here. The world is watching.”
And indeed, the world was paying attention. Although how each group reacted was a separate matter entirely.
 
—-
 
In Rhir, the news of Zel Shivertail’s alliance with Lady Magnolia hit the court of the Blighted King just past lunch. Most of the diners were in the banquet hall and received the news from the [Herald] with polite amazement or frowns. But a group of Drake [Soldiers] sitting at a table reacted explosively to the news.
“He did what?”
One of the Drake [Commanders] leapt up from his table, ignoring the eyes on him. He roared in outrage as the trembling [Herald] repeated the announcement.
“That traitor! He’d ally with Humans? And for what? To stop a Goblin Lord? Let the Humans take care of it! That tailless, backstabbing—”
“Shut up you newt!”
A fist smacked the first Drake in the face as another Drake rose. He knocked the first Drake down with a punch and raised his voice.
“General Shivertail’s a hero! If the Tidebreaker’s a traitor then your entire damned Walled City is full of backstabbing worms! Zel Shivertail is doing what he’s always done—protecting our home!”
“Protecting it by siding with the Humans!”
“Yes! Yes! This is what I’ve been saying all along! We need to fight together! The Humans aren’t a threat! If we work together, we can eradicate the Antinium. And a Goblin Lord? Ancestors, does anyone want another Goblin King? Huh? No! Shivertail’s working with Magnolia Reinhart—”
“That traitorous Human can’t be trusted!”
“Better her than the infighting idiots of your city!”
“You take that back!”
“Make me! I’m with the Tidebreaker all the way! He’s got my support!”
The Drake spun and grabbed one of the banners at his table that marked his delegation. He started shouting as he got up on the table and began waving the banner.
“Shivertail! Shivertail! Izril, the greatest continent in the world!”
The rest of the diners in the room stared at the Drake. At the same table Cirille covered her face with her claws.
Across the room, Richard and most of the Humans who’d been summoned to this world sat at a table with some of Rhir’s nobility. They were confused, but the Rhir nobles around them were mainly contemptuous. One [Lord] shook his head as the Drakes shouted across the banquet hall.
“Drakes. They’re so noisy.”
“Izril!”
The Drakes argued and fought until they were ejected from the banquet hall. They were all commanders and over two thirds supported Zel Shivertail. As for the rest of Rhir, the news wasn’t as important. Drakes? Humans? They were on another continent. If it meant more aid to Rhir, all the better. Otherwise, it mattered little. On Baleros, however, the opinion was sharply different. At least, for one Fraerling.
 
—-
 
“Play it again.”
Niers Astoragon was still in his night clothes, but the messenger had dragged both him and Foliana out of their beds. He scrubbed at his face, willing the fatigue to vanish as he listened to the recording of Zel speaking.
“Dead gods. And this is going out across the world? It will upset the entire balance in Izril. What is that Reinhart woman thinking?”
“Mm. Probably that this is a good idea. Tidebreaker vs Goblins. Bad for Goblin Lord. Good for her.”
Foliana perched on a couch, staring at the image of Zel Shivertail. Niers stared too.
“The Tidebreaker. A [General] like that allied with someone with the Reinhart fortune behind her…that’s a dangerous combination.”
“Only if they do bad things.”
“That’s practically a given, isn’t it? Magnolia Reinhart isn’t known for mercy. But Zel Shivertail agreed to help her? Maybe that means he—”
Niers broke off. He stared around. They were in his room and he was sitting on his desk. Unbidden, his eyes went to the gold-encrusted letter that Magnolia had sent him. Foliana noticed the look.
“Magnolia Reinhart sends me letters every month. Mm. Yesterday she sent me a letter and a muffin.”
The Fraerling [Strategist] looked up sharply.
“You didn’t eat it, did you?”
“Mm…”
“Foliana! There are more spells and poisons than we can test for—”
“It had blueberries in it. And lots of sugar. And she sends you letters too.”
“Yes, and I don’t eat my letters!”
“So? You read them. Which is worse?”
Niers choked but couldn’t reply. He stared at the letter and listened to Zel speaking in silence.
“Defending home, huh? Doing the right thing. I’d never expect to hear someone allied with Magnolia Reinhart saying that—no, I suppose that’s exactly what she’d say. Only I believe it, coming from him.”
“Reinhart defends her home. Did it in the last Antinium War.”
“Yes, but that was—she’s not the same as him.”
“No. But they both fight for their home. You did, too.”
Foliana turned vaguely accusing eyes to Niers and he looked away.
“Curiosity. That was all, Foliana.”
“Mm. Well, maybe he was curious.”
“Who?”
Foliana pointed at the tiny Drake standing in the magical crystal on the table.
“Him. Maybe he was curious.”
Niers fell silent. He didn’t see Foliana leaving, but he knew she was gone after a while. The Titan sat on his table, replaying the image of Zel speaking again and again, late into the night.
 
—-
 
On Chandrar, various individuals took note of the politics in Izril, but only a few were in any position to care. One, the Emperor of the Sands, considered that the move was unfortunate for his nation since it had the potential to strengthen Izril.
The other, the King of Destruction, was mainly confused.
“Who?”
“The Tidebreaker, my King.”
Orthenon spoke in front of Flos’ throne. The King of Destruction frowned.
“Tidebreaker? The title seems vaguely familiar, but I cannot place it. This Tidebreaker is a Drake [General]?”
“Yes, a famous one. You may not recognize him because he rose to prominence after your slumber, my liege. He defeated the Antinium during two wars and fought the Goblin King and the Necromancer himself. He is considered to be the highest-level [General] the Drakes possess.”
“Interesting.”
Flos’ eyes lit up and a smile crossed his face.
“He sounds fascinating. I suppose this alliance bodes well for Izril, does it?”
Orthenon paused.
