Lishu raised an eyebrow at her boldness, and the conviction in her voice. At this rate she certainly would be. The girl then put away some of the records and stood. “Master Lishu, please excuse Ri Zu, it is once more time for her to return to work.”

Lishu nodded.

“Keep working hard, girl,” he said.

“'Work hard?'” Ri Zu asked, curiously. “This is not hard. It is simply how Ri Zu’s Master taught her… and the lessons Ri Zu learned from Sister Pi Pa. Ri Zu is always serious about cleaning and service. Many hands make light work.”

Lishu snorted. Her Master and ‘Pi Pa’ sounded amusing. He returned to his own duties. He completed his paperwork, did his rounds, and meditated. When he came out of meditation, there was a pot of fresh tea waiting for him. He checked the tea Ri Zu had given him for poison, as was his nature, and as always it came up untampered with. It had a pleasant aroma, and to his surprise contained a mundane mushroom that gave it a pleasing, earthy taste.

…she certainly was considerate, Hong Ri Zu.

When he returned to his office he was met with and rejected another transfer request. It wouldn’t do to promise her to another when he could claim her himself.

His good mood failed, however, when there was a commotion outside his medical pavilion.

“I called my Senior Brother, you bitch! You’ve humiliated me for the last time!” Examiner Jipeng shouted.

Lishu snarled. Coming into his domain was completely beyond the pale. He went to his window to teach the little shit a lesson… but it appeared he didn’t need to.

“What business do you gentlemen have with a member of our Medical Pavilion?” Yuanzi asked, his eyes narrow.

“None of your business—”Jipeng began to demand, when Yuanzi’s intent, in the Third Stage of the Spiritual Realm, slammed into them.

“Have you perhaps come to aid Ri Zu then? Will you serve us tea? Will you fill out our paperwork? Will you hang little pleasant smelling sachets in our offices that soothe our minds, and aid our meditation?” The examiner and his Senior Brother paused, sweating. “Or are you perhaps here to try and take our very helpful little sister away from us?”

Each question was posed with a smile as Yuanzi and the rest of the medics stepped forwards, murder in their eyes.

Jipeng had no satisfactory answer.

Lishu pulled his chair to the window and grabbed his tea, enjoying the show his disciples had decided to grant him.
