In the beginning, Hocnihai only wanted to protect what was his. Events unfurled, and that want turned darker. Hocnihai needed to turn back the incani menace, to reflect their sins upon them, and in that singular journey, he achieved [Reflection] after his fifth try. It was easy to redirect spells back at their caster. All magic was based on Force, after all. Hocnihai did not have the best defenses in the world, but he had enough to bring the fight to the enemy. He stayed in the back, and while he mostly protected the other vulnerable casters, he also cast [Reflection] when necessary, sending fireballs, lightning, and ice spikes, all back at the enemy incani lines.

Erick took a break for dinner, then went right back to reading.

The incani incursion struck south from the forests, and from the northern shores of the Republic. The Kingdoms had gained a foothold, and exploited that land grab for all it was worth, killing villages and towns, while harrying the roads between the more distant cities. [Reflection] was not enough. Hocnihai needed [Melee Reflection], for the daggers and the swords and the spears were getting to him. He had almost died twice already.

[Melee Reflection] was not like its spell counterpart, for there was something very different between reflecting Force-derived objects, versus physical objects and other people.

Hocnihai’s breakthrough with [Melee Reflection] came after years of study, when he finally managed to construct a particularly complicated diagram joining the natures of [Reflection] and [Strike]. A Mana-based skill and a Health-based skill made for a very difficult combination. After his breakthrough, Hocnihai waded into battles without worry. He was an unstoppable Warder on a mission: to end the Incani menace forever, for they had taken his brother, mother, and father, and he would take everything from them.

Erick set the book down, and looked at the book for [Prismatic Ward]. He almost picked it up, but it was late. Too late to read more about how one man had fallen to the darkness inside himself, and decided to reflect that darkness back on any who would chose to fight him. Obviously, Hocnihai eventually switched sides, but that was a story for another day.

So Erick went to bed.

When he woke up, he started in on the second book.

[Prismatic Ward] needed considerably more math to understand than [Reflection], and left almost no room for any commentary. How could it, when seven spells were involved, all at once? Entire sections of the journal detailed how each piece of Shaping magic had to be stripped down to their barest, purest essentials, and then locked together, all at once in some difficult, complicated—

Kiri said, “Erick? We’re going to be late.” She added, “If you want to go to Spatial Magic again, that is. That stuff was dense. Culture and Law seemed okay, though.” She lamented, “Enchanting was a drag. That guy just taught from the book, exactly how my old enchanting professor taught. That was a disappointment.”

Erick set down Hocnihai’s [Prismatic Ward] book, and said, “I barely understand this anyway. Let’s go to class.”
