After abandoning her mortal shell to become one with her beloved, Eri-Hime did everything she could to support Big Brother Hideo.

Although it didn’t look like she was helping by leaving him to be tortured within their Natal Palace, there was nothing she could do to free him because his confinement was voluntary. She loved him more than life itself and would never do anything to harm him, but so burdened by remorse over his grievous sin, Big Brother Hideo refused to accept her forgiveness and instead put himself through a rigorous, self-inflicted regimen of pain and suffering, all because he believed it was what he deserved. Were he willing and in the right state of mind, he could end his suffering with but a thought, for he was master of his domain within his Natal Palace, but he closed his heart and mind to her anguished pleas and shouted advice. Too honourable and virtuous to ever forgive himself for his most heinous of crimes, he rejected love and forgiveness and used her twisted image to inflict all manner of horrors upon himself, suffering as she suffered in a desperate bid to atone for what he’d done.

What a foolish man she loved, seeing lies and deceptions where there were none. In Eri-Hime’s eyes, the past no longer mattered, because through some miracle of the Heavens, they were together now like she’d always dreamed of, and that was all that mattered. The nerve of him for refusing to believe his precious Eri-Hime and trying to forsake her as a Demon. Was he truly so eager to be rid of her, or was he simply too broken by what he’d done? Either way, it mattered not. Eri-Hime had rejected the warm embrace of the Mother to come back to his side, and even though he refused to accept her love, she would work hard and persevere until he came to appreciate everything she’d done for him. For them.

Silly Big Brother Hideo... When he eventually came to his senses, he would understand and succumb to her love, two becoming one as they united in body, mind, and soul.

Her poor, poor man... He spent his entire life trying to be the best person, the best Martial Warrior he could be, but a single mistake threatened to ruin everything he’d worked for and Eri-Hime would not allow it. The world only saw Mitsue Hideo, favoured son of a prominent family and Disciple to a powerful man, but they never saw the hardships he suffered along the way. They didn’t know how he spent his childhood hiding in his room and desperately training to become a Martial Warrior to win the respect of his extended family. They didn’t know about how he’d often go to bed crying because he missed his absent father, a man who was always too busy with work to see him to the point where Big Brother Hideo wondered if his father even loved him. They didn’t know about the lonely years he spent neglected at his Mentor’s side, training under the supervision of whatever soldier or officer Juichi could spare and rarely ever meeting the man in person except to be berated for his failings. Even in his moment of crowning achievement, when Big Brother Hideo finally mastered the Mountain Collapsing Stomp and confidently displayed it for his Mentor to see, the old fogey didn’t smile or commend him for his staggering accomplishment, but instead sighed and lamented about Big Brother’s ‘limited foresight’.

“Each must forge their own path to the Martial Peak,” Juichi had said, shaking his head in stern discontent. “If you spend your life following in my footsteps, where will you go once you’ve caught up?”

That didn’t stop the crotchety old man from sharing the news of his Disciple’s achievement with the Empire at large so he could bask in the undeserved praise of his lessers. Given recent revelations regarding his father and family, Big Brother Hideo was furious with his Grand-Uncle, though he didn’t dare admit it to himself. Eri-Hime understood why he couldn’t hate his beloved hero and Mentor, but even though the stupid old man was a powerful Warrior, he was also a terrible father, teacher, and family figurehead, a worn, old fool who obviously knew nothing about how to raise a son or train a Warrior. Meanwhile, Uncle Hiroshi would’ve been a renowned Hero of the Empire in his own right if he’d made his accomplishments public, but he picked the Mitsue family over personal fame and kept his name off the Empire’s Roll of Experts and Peak Experts alike. This wasn’t done to spare his cousins’ pride, but because the renowned Mitsue Juichi would lose face if it became known that his sons all failed to excel despite his doting love and patient guidance, yet his neglected nephew became an Expert at twenty two and Peak Expert at forty seven while playing lackey and steward to his disappointing progeny. Worse, people would whisper about Hiroshi’s true parentage and wonder if this nephew-turned-Patriarch was in fact Juichi’s illegitimate son, an insult to both men and their families.

Of course, Big Brother Hideo only put the pieces together after Uncle Hiroshi blew up at Uncle Watanabe and it sat poorly with him now that he knew the truth, but he refused to let himself feel the rage bubbling within. Eri-Hime just knew it wasn’t right because the Voice of the Heavens told them as much, so she embraced rage in his stead.

The Heavens often spoke to them after her passing, and though she was curious why the Heavens sounded like an old man instead of a beautiful woman, she passed these lessons on to Big Brother Hideo, who refused to heed them. She didn’t care about credit or glory, so long as he grew strong enough to break free of the Mitsue family once and for all. Honestly, he would be so much better off without them, including his disappointment of a father. Big Brother Hideo suffered much because of stupid Hiroshi’s decisions, the old man doing nothing to shield his son from his bully cousins. Even if they weren’t privy to the whole truth, children learned much from watching their parents, and the other Mitsue scions could no doubt see the jealousy and contempt their parents had for Uncle Hiroshi, which they themselves translated into antipathy for Big Brother Hideo. Oh how his cousins mocked and bullied him as a child, teasing him as the ‘Heroic Guardian’ who was supposed to save everyone. Time and time again, those bullies set him up for failure, throwing his toys into the river or tying him up out in the forest and telling him ‘a hero would rise to the challenge and overcome all obstacles, no matter the odds’. They were jealous is what they were, jealous that Big Brother Hideo was the little Patriarch instead of them, but it was only because they didn’t deserve the title. Being the sons of wastrels, Big Brother Hideo’s cousins were no better than their parents, two generations descended from a Living Legend without a single current or prospective Peak Expert amongst them, it was truly a disgrace.

With the family already in such decline while Mitsue Juichi still lived, their elimination was only a matter of time and Eri-Hime was merely speeding things along. Big Brother Hideo would be fine without the family name and never have to know the truth. This was what a dutiful wife should do, support her husband from the side without hope of fame or renown, so while her hubby worked through his guilt and anguish, Eri-Hime kept the house together in a manner of speaking. She followed the advice and instructions left by the Voice of Heaven, words Big Brother Hideo refused to acknowledge. “Patience,” they cautioned her, “for deliverance will soon be at hand. Walk the razor’s edge and embrace true Balance, then strength and vengeance will soon be yours.”

Truth be told, Eri-Hime was hardly competent in the ways of the Martial Path and didn’t truly understand all of Heaven’s instructions, having Formed her Core late in life and made no further progress since. The last time she Demonstrated the Forms for Big Brother Hideo to see, he’d feigned delight and lied about how impressed he was with her talent, even though she’d hadn’t even memorized all the movements, much less mastered them to any degree of competence. Back then, she hadn’t cared about being a Martial Warrior, and when her father chided her for her poor performance, she boldly grabbed Big Brother Hideo’s arm and declared that her future husband would become the strongest Martial Warrior in existence, so there was no need for her to be strong, an outburst she now regretted. She hadn’t known how much pressure Big Brother Hideo had been under at the time, only days away from challenging Ryo Geom-Chi so he could seize the older warrior’s ranking in the Hwarang before the swordsman turned twenty-five and retired. Big Brother Hideo ended up losing the bout, then lost again a few days later to Tam Taewoong, who was the same age as Ryo Geom-Chi and of similar strength. These two successive defeats were why no one accepted him as the undisputed Number One Talent in Central during the months leading up to the First Imperial Grand Conference, and his disgraceful loss to Dastan Zhandos only sealed Big Brother Hideo’s fate as a ‘second-rate Talent’ in the eyes of the public.

This was all Falling Rain’s fault. Sending a slave out to humiliate him during the Grand Conference had been an intentional slight, and then he paraded the beautiful Zheng Luo in front of anyone who would look, a woman who should have belonged to Big Brother Hideo. Then, the savage runt childishly risked his sanity and the sanity of his soldiers on a sixty day tour of the front lines, all for what? Just to drive his rivals like Big Brother Hideo to desperation in their efforts to catch up? Cruel is what it was, cruel and savage, actions which lead to their current woes. With all this said, who was there to blame except Falling Rain?

Though her heart ached to see her beloved suffer so, Eri-Hime did her best to keep his spirits up and popped into their Natal Palace often to report her achievements. She was eating all of her meals and more, gorging on anything and everything the jailers would bring them, then turning it into muscle by Demonstrating the Forms inside the windowless room Uncle Hiroshi kept them in. She told him everything she learned through Scrying, Listening, Sending with Uncle Watanabe, and heeding the Voice of Heaven to make sure everything was in place. She kept him appraised of Falling Rain’s coming and goings, of his meetings with Officers, Healers, and monks alike, but she left out his shameless acts of snuggling with the charming Mei Lin and the beautiful Zheng Luo, not to mention his adorable animals whom Eri-Hime would’ve loved.

Did love. So cute. With their... soft looking fur, and... so many of them too...

Desperate for a reply, she told him about the long, boring hours she spent in quiet meditation, ruminating on Insights and puzzling out the secrets of the Martial Path, secrets the Voice of Heaven casually revealed with painstaking care unlike the brief and vague pointers Juichi offered. Filial as ever, her pointed disdain made Big Brother Hideo break away from his perpetual self-torture to defend his deficient Mentor. “Detailed explanations can do more harm than good, as they are based on the perception of the speaker,” he said, looking unaffected despite half his bowels hanging out of his belly. As well he should, because the pain wasn’t real until he made it so. “An adult and a child both approach the same donkey, but their perception of the beast will differ greatly. To the child, the donkey is a massive, hulking steed to ride upon, but to most adults, it is a middling beast to walk alongside. Both are correct, but the adult’s truth is not suitable for the child, nor is the child’s truth suitable for the adult.”

Though delighted at finally reaching him, Eri-Hime didn’t agree with Big Brother Hideo’s explanation, so she tried to argue the fact and keep him talking. “This is different. This is the Heavens guiding me, guiding us along the Martial Path, so how can its explanation do us harm? It makes perfect sense, and I even learned how to Scry and Listen at the same time thanks to the Voice of Heaven. One skill is used to transmit light, the other sound, but the two are more similar than one might think, because light and sound both travel through waves. The difference is that light can move through a vacuum, while sound requires a medium to move through. Therefore, if you want to Scry and Listen at the same time, it’s as simple as reconnecting to the portion of Domain you severed to Scry with in the first place, and using that as a connection to Listen with.”

Big Brother Hideo had given her a look, one she saw often when he was teaching her calligraphy. “Knowing and understanding are two different things. Even though you know why it works and can now use both skills freely, can you truly claim to understand the information you just regurgitated? What does it mean for sound and light to travel in waves? Why does sound require a medium to move through, yet light can go without? How does reconnecting with the severed portion of Domain give you the skills necessary to Listen through it? Why must it be severed in the first place? If you believe you’ve mastered these skills, then you are fooling yourself.” Giving her a pointed look, he added, “Or better to say I am fooling myself.”

Eri-Hime didn’t have an answer for Big Brother Hideo, because she was just a young maiden and novice to the Martial Path, so he simply went right back to his torment without another word. Wounded by his dismissive attitude, she looked at her bodiless counterpart floating through the air as it inflicted all manner of anguish and misery on her beloved, and...

