And what? How did she feel? Sad? Hurt? Upset? Angry? What would Eri-Hime do or say if she saw this happening before her eyes? Scream in horror? Cry in frustration? What -

“The scouts report the Defiled army will arrive before nightfall.” Uncle Watanabe’s Sending interrupted his... her musings, and Eri-Hime brought her mind back to reality. “Are you certain this plan of yours will work?”

“Trust me, uncle,” Eri-Hime replied, stifling a giggle at the sound of herself Sending with Big Brother Hideo’s voice. Yes, this was more her style, cheerful and light-hearted with a bubbly and impish personality. “This day next year will be the anniversary of Falling Rain’s demise.” There was no way out for the savage runt, for the Heavens had ordained it.

“You tell me to trust you, but it’s difficult when you won’t share any details...”

It was a good thing they were conversing through Sending, else Eri-Hime’s face would’ve given away her disdain for the whiny, good-for-nothing waste of air. “Better you not know, so you can swear an Oath and plead ignorance.” A shame the Justicars wouldn’t ask him to plead incompetence as well, but such was life. As the son of one of Central’s three Colonel Generals, it would take more than mere inadequacy to remove Watanabe from office, even if the Empire would be better off for it.

The Empire would be better off without all of the Mitsues. Every last one of them.

“It’s just... I’ve sent word to the reinforcements urging them to hurry, but all I’ve received in reply is acknowledgement and platitudes. Of the three forces converging around us, not a single one has claimed they will arrive before the Defiled do, and even with their support, we will be grossly outnumbered, so I fear Sinuji’s doom is all but assured.”

Three reinforcing forces? And converging around the fort instead of rushing to get behind its walls? The warrior leading these reinforcements was a bold and confident commander indeed, positioning his troops to surround the Defiled rather than bolster Sinuji’s defences. A daring move in light of circumstances, and one Hideo didn’t approve of. This Defiled force was unlike any before, not just in size, but diversity as well, with the skirmishing Southern Defiled taking the field for the first time alongside sizable mounted contingents from north and west. What’s more, the Chosen who appeared the last time Emissary Gen marched on Sinuji were back in full force, their hundred-and-fifty thousand heavily armoured soldiers more than capable of taking the fort by themselves.

...If Eri-Hime knew all this from her discussions with Watanabe, then the reinforcing commander knew it too, so why was he so confident in victory? What did he know that Eri-Hime and the Defiled didn’t?

Realizing she’d been quiet too long, Eri-Hime shook her head and Sent, “Sorry about the delay, some fool was bothering me.” Her lie hardly sounded convincing, but it was plausible enough to not be questioned. “Everything will be fine Uncle. Even if the walls are overrun, you’ll have plenty of time to make your escape if it comes to that, but it won’t. The Enemy might be a million strong, but only so many Defiled can assault the walls at once. Besides, you’ve been hard at work reinforcing the defences and bolstering morale these past few days, so the soldiers are ready and willing to fight and die for you. You’ve nothing to worry about. You defend the fort and leave your dear nephew to deal with Falling Rain.”

“You won’t... you won’t do anything to endanger the family, will you?”

Only now, after many days of plotting, did Watanabe think of the family’s well being instead of his own. “Of course not Uncle,” Eri-Hime lied, this time much more smoothly. “I’d never do anything to harm the family, you know this.”

“Yes, yes, an exemplary Mitsue son, one we are all proud of.” Watanabe’s praise lacked any and all authenticity, but before Eri-Hime could pretend not to notice and reply, he Sent, “Boy, be straight with your uncle now. Why does your father have you locked up in your room?”

Was he too beginning to suspect Big Brother Hideo of turning Defiled? No, most certainly not. If he did, Watanabe would’ve long since cut contact out of cowardice and begun taking steps to save himself and his family. Having long since come up with a story and having had no chance to tell it, Eri-Hime replied, “Father found out I intended to take matters into my own hands and kill Dastan Zhandos myself. Rain is off-limits due to the Legate’s backing, but who will make a fuss about a mere slave? Alas, Father thinks it best we not meddle in the affairs of Eastern Nobles. You know how he worries, like a fussy old woman he is. No stomach for risk.”

“Ah. Right. Of course.” Tinged with palpable relief, Watanabe’s next statement set Eri-Hime’s temper afire. “Problem is, I can’t convince him to let you come out and join the battle. He’s adamant you stay in your room, says you’re close to a pivotal breakthrough and can’t be disturbed.”

Only a fool like Watanabe would buy such an uninspired excuse, but Eri-Hime didn’t have the time to correct him. “You need to convince him. I must be on the walls. To see him die with my own eyes,” she clarified, worried he might think his nephew unhinged enough to personally act.

“But he won’t allow it.”

“Then command it. Who holds rank in Sinuji, you or him? Father is a civilian and cannot act against you, not in public. You called a meeting with your Officers to inform them of the Defiled arrival, correct? While going over defensive deployments, let slip that I will be leading a sizable contingent of Mitsue family soldiers on the outer wall. Father won’t be happy, but you can say you wanted to make a show of your dedication to defending Sinuji. The soldiers won’t worry about you leaving them to die, not with your beloved nephew in the thick of things.”

“Yes... Yes, that would work. I’ll call the meeting now.” A pause, and then, “...You’ll smooth things over with your father, won’t you?”

Coward. One minuscule show of force and Watanabe was quivering in his boots at the thought of a second. How this lanky old goat shared any blood with Big Brother Hideo was a complete mystery to all, but alas, he was still family. “Yes Uncle. I’ll tell Father I begged you to do this and accept all responsibility.” Not that it would matter. Whatever might come, at least Falling Rain would be dead and gone, and Dastan Zhandos dead with him.

Then Big Brother Hideo could let go of his obsession and focus on things that mattered, like ousting his horrid snake of a father and becoming Patriarch of the family.

Finally free of the cowardly fool, Eri-Hime stretched Big Brother Hideo’s Domain once more and guided it towards Falling Rain’s camp. Putting her beloved’s harsh words regarding her lacking comprehension out of her mind, she simultaneously Scryed and Listened in on the scrawny, crippled runt, eager to see the exact moment he learned his doom was upon him. It was so novel a skill, for she still saw the room she sat in, with the four, boring cots and two wary guards, but she also saw Falling Rain sitting in his camp at the same time. Currently, he was amusing himself by tossing a knotted rope for his ungainly bears to chase, their tongues lolling out and spittle flying in all directions as they ran down their prey and fought for ownership over the coveted toy. The wildcats watched with marked disinterest as they lazed about in the dirt, while the rabbits hopped about the Guardian Turtle and kept her company with their antics. Strange how none of the animals were eating one another, especially the tiny Cloud Chaser Hare perched atop the Guardian Turtle’s head, The long-eared beasts were known to be a prolific predator of feather and fur alike, but the specifics of tribal animal husbandry were of no help to Big Brother Hideo, and therefore of no interest to Eri-Hime.

...Even though she loved animals of all kinds and begged for a pet to call her own for years and years, but her father wouldn’t allow it. Said only peasants kept animals for company, because they were filthy, disgusting creatures. Once, she tried to rescue an injured bird and sought out Hideo for help, bawling her little heart out as she clutched the tiny creature to her bosom and begged him to find a Healer to save it.

And he... He tried to let her down easily and tell her no Healer would ever bother learning to Heal a beast, much less a bird, but she wouldn’t hear it. It was the only time she’d ever been mad at Hideo, or at least as far as he could remember...

Minutes trickled by slowly while Eri-Hime waited for the good news, doing her best to focus on what she was seeing and hearing instead of the turbulent thoughts tumbling around her mind. When Falling Rain’s striking half-tiger sister returned from the officer’s meeting, Eri-Hime’s expectations reached an all time high, but she was sorely disappointed by the savage runt’s reaction to the staggering news. “I see,” he said, nodding his head and looking west with a gleam in his eye. “And he’s with them? You’re certain?” There was a brief pause while his sister answered through Sending, followed by, “Good. Good. Kuang Biao, if you would be so kind as to inform Dastan and summon your chosen Death Corps. It won’t be long before we’re called upon to defend the wall, so it would be best if they all went to the latrines now, rather than later.”

Word of impending action spread through Sinuji like wildfire and the fort came alive with activity as soldiers kept themselves busy so as not to fixate on the battle to come. Falling Rain’s camp was no different, and as much as she hated to say it, the runt handled his people well. “No Wang Bao,” he said, gently admonishing a noble-born soldier who asked to join him on the wall. “I won’t bring you with me, and you don’t want to be there either. It’s tireless, thankless work fighting on the wall, and you’re needed to keep your black-hearted cutthroats from putting a quarrel in my back.”

“They’ll do well enough on their own, boss,” Wang Bao replied, his voice heavy with emotion. “My second, he’s a fish-fucking Corsair who’d gut his mother for a silver, but he’ll keep my boys from aiming too low, I guarantee you that. Let me fight by your side, repay you for everything you’ve done for me.” Visibly discomforted, Wang Bao lowered his head and whispered, “I ain’t ever dreamed about leadin’ no respectable life, but now I’m an honest to goodness soldier. It don’t feel real. Ever since I signed up with ye, it’s the damnedest thing, but kids and their mothers keep smilin’ and wavin when I go walkin’ by, thankin’ me fer me service and what not. Don’t seem like much, but it’s everything, and I got you to thank fer it.”

“Your accent’s slipping, soldier,” Rain replied with a grin, patting the sentimental soldier on the arm. “And I didn’t do shit. Everything you have, everything you’ve come by, is due to your own efforts, and don’t you ever forget it.”

After dismissing Wang Bao, a trio of soldiers stepped up to speak with Rain, a pair of half-dogs trailing a half-rat. Father had warned Hideo against crossing any half-rats, half-bulls, half-wolves, and half-red-pandas in Rain’s retinue, but he hadn’t explained why, so Hideo was curious to know what was so special about this one. “Hey boss,” the half-rat said, a pinched, shifty fellow who made Eri-Hime want to check her coinpurse just to make sure it was still there. “I wanted to throw me name in the hat, ye know, to join ye on the wall. That’s what ol’ Wang was here fer right? Sign me up right after.”

“Me too Jor.”

“Yea Ral, I got it, but ye could speak fer yerself ye know.” Rolling his eyes at Rain, Jor added, “Him too. And her, I suppose.”

The other half-dog, a stocky, buxom woman with an earthy appeal, snapped, “I don’t need ye to speak fer me.” Nodding at Rain, she continued, “But yea. Me too. Been a while since I dipped me staff in blood, if ye know what I mean.”

“Ugh. No. Shoo.” Raising his voice, Rain addressed all the soldiers lingering about, no doubt also there to volunteer their services. “No one will be joining me on the wall, not besides Dastan’s people and my allotted Death Corps guards.” Turning to his gorgeous, glowering, half-cat paramour, Rain sighed and said, “And you, Song, if you so please. But no one else.” Holding his hands up to stymie the tide of refusals, he continued to speak over the hubbub. “I appreciate – I appreciate the offer and thank you for your dedication, but the decision is not mine to make. We all have to follow orders, so you follow yours. I’ve been pestering our commander to get your bows and crossbows onto the second or third wall, and I believe he might actually allow it since we’ll need every advantage we can get against the coming horde. Ready yourselves, and so long as the commander is willing, then I’ll be counting on all of you to guard my back and buy me enough time to retreat. An hour or so should be enough to get me from one wall to the next.” Contrary to Eri-Hime’s expectations, the soldiers took Rain’s self-deprecating comment in good humour, chuckling along with their crippled commander. “Don’t worry,” Rain concluded, dismissing the crowd with a wave of his hands. “There’s plenty of Defiled out there to kill, so I’m sure you’ll all get a chance. Not tonight though, because I don’t plan on letting any of them past me.”

