The second joke wasn’t as well received as the first, but Eri-Hime had to admit Rain had a... unique style of command and a close rapport with his soldiers. As soon as Watanabe’s orders arrived, Rain, Dastan, and his Death Corps guards shuffled off to the outer wall while the rest of his retinue set out to their posts, some on the second wall, others on the third, and a small group manning the newly built platforms which towered over all three walls, ones made specifically so his twelve, compact, counterweight catapults would have a clear line of fire to rain death upon the Defiled.

No one could argue that Rain wasn’t an effective commander, not even Hideo himself, but that wasn’t the issue here. Rain had to die because... because his slave humiliated Hideo, and... and this insult could not stand. Not even with a million-strong horde of Defiled knocking on Sinuji’s gates.

...

...Right?

It was at this moment, Uncle Hiroshi burst into the room and slammed the door shut behind him. “Did you have anything to do with this?” he asked, his face dark with anger and worry. “Don’t lie to me boy, my idiot cousin doesn’t have the spine to scheme against me.”

“Yes father.” Immediately confessing to the crime caught Uncle Hiroshi off guard, and Eri-Hime used this chance to hammer her point home. “The Defiled are coming, and I will not sit idle while soldiers of the Empire fight and die.” Locking eyes with Uncle Hiroshi, she summoned the faintest hint of tears and whispered, “Give me this chance to redeem myself, father. I need it.”

For long seconds, Uncle Hiroshi stood silent, and Eri-Hime worried she’d overplayed her hand, but her fears were for naught. With a long sigh, Uncle Hiroshi gently patted his son’s cheek and said, “Promise me one thing.”

“Anything, Father. I’ll swear an Oath if need be.” No Oath under Heaven would constrain them, but Uncle Hiroshi didn’t know this.

“Promise you will return alive.”

Taken aback by the request, Eri-Hime merely nodded in mute shock, but before she could say anything else, Uncle Hiroshi was gone, rushing out of the room to prepare Big Brother Hideo’s things. What had that all been about?

Then there was no time to think as her armour and weapons arrived, and soon enough, she stood on the outer walls with her troops next to Falling Rain’s, though Eri-Hime kept her distance from the runt and made sure to stay out of sight of his protectors. At her request, Big Brother Hideo even put his self-inflicted torment on hold to come out and fight, and as their two minds joined as one, she finally understood why Uncle Hiroshi made her promise to come back alive. He worried his son had come out to die, and his fears were not unfounded, for Big Brother Hideo yearned for the sweet relief of death. Killing himself would’ve been far too shameful, but a glorious death in battle would mean an end to his guilt and self-loathing.

The Enemy arrived with little warning or fanfare, the forwards scouts bursting out of the dead winter grass atop their ferocious lizard mounts. Garos, they were called, furred, reptilian beasts with gnashing fangs and caustic flesh which hailed from the permafrost north of the Empire’s borders. Big Brother Hideo had never faced a garo before, but he’d made ample preparations when it became clear he eventually would, poring over descriptions and battle reports to envision how he’d face one. Not without a powerful warhorse beneath him and a sturdy steel lance in hand he’d concluded, and it still held true, for the garos were both mount and weapon which made them a formidable foe to defeat on foot. There were only a few at first, stopping well out of catapult range from the walls to taunt and sneer at the Imperial soldiers, but as the sun sank into the horizon, more and more riders appeared. A hundred, a thousand, then ten-thousand and more, it was hard to keep an exact count with the red-orange sun shining in their eyes and casting dancing shadows across the plains, but it soon became apparent that there were more mounted riders than there were soldiers in Sinuji.

And these were merely the scouts. There would be more riding with the army proper, heavy cavalry to guard their flanks and rear if the reports were to be believed, moving like a true Imperial Army except never before had the Imperials brought a million soldiers on the march, not all at once. Defending a static position with proper supply lines in place, sure, but taking the fight away from home to raze and conquer? This was a first, and the Defiled Commander made this staggering accomplishment seem as easy as turning a hand.

When darkness finally fell, their eyes adjusted to the dark and they got their first true look at the Defiled Horde in all its glory. For a moment, Eri-Hime wasn’t entirely sure what she was looking at, but then the pieces fell into place and she recognized those oh-so-familiar sights, only thrown off by the staggering magnitudes to which they’d been taken. Defiled outlines dotted the horizon as far as the eye could see, closing in on Sinuji like a massive, sprawling predator slinking in for the kill. Stop them at the outer wall? It would be a miracle if this behemoth even slowed down while reducing Sinuji to fine dust in their passing. Even the Citadel would fall to such an overwhelming force, and with one million warriors in total, the Defiled marching at the back might not even notice if battle broke out at the front, not with how quickly the thirty thousand soldiers of Sinuji would fall should it come to blows.

It made all of her careful planning seem utterly useless. Falling Rain would die tonight, with or without her efforts.

An eternity passed in an instant, and before Eri-Hime knew it, they’d been standing on the battlements for over three hours watching the approaching horde. The soldiers around her were silent as a tomb, equally dismayed by what lay before their eyes and already resolved to flee for their lives. The same, suffocating silence saturated every section of the outermost wall, all except for one, well-lit area where the soldiers were seated on the ground around a blazing brazier. Having long since lost his canes, Falling Rain sat upon his metallic walker, a furred cloak wrapped around his shoulders while he grinned like a fool and chatted with his soldiers and guards alike. Behind him were some of Watanabe's men, fools one and all who’d been chosen as a sacrifice if the Legate should need someone to blame for Falling Rain’s death, though it seemed like none would live long enough to face Imperial wrath. Scattered in between the soldiers and slaves were various piles of water skins, medical supplies, resting areas, and more things neither Eri-Hime nor Big Brother Hideo recognized, but would undoubtedly be trampled and destroyed by the unstoppable force gathering before Sinuji’s walls.

More time passed, years condensed into minutes it felt, but all too soon and without warning, the Enemy army roared as one, a thunderous, deafening challenge which set even the bravest of soldiers to trembling. The roar echoed into the vast stillness of night, and when it came to an abrupt end, Eri-Hime worried Big Brother Hideo had gone deaf, but it was only an illusion. Standing atop an open platform being carried by twelve, pitch-black Demons, the Emissary Gen made his entrance in true, overbearing fashion. “I am Gen, Emissary of Earth’s Fire, here with an all-conquering army to...”

While the Emissary went on about the glory of the Enemy, Eri-Hime glanced over at Rain to see his expression, only to find a giant, shit-eating grin plastered across his face. Since his lips were moving, she cast her Domain over to Listen and heard, “...can’t believe this bastard still loves long-winded speeches. Guess there’s more Gen in there than I thought. Whatever, I’ve heard his crap too many times already. They’re all here?” A Khishig at his side nodded, a strapping young Expert bristling with enough knives to arm an entire retinue, and Rain’s grin grew even wider. “Great. Tenjin, if you would please do us the honour of shutting Gen up?”

“Gladly.”

For long seconds, the knife-laden Khishig did nothing except stare at his empty hands, but then a luminescent glow came to life and soared out into the night. Wings flapping upon a nonexistent breeze, a bird of flames fluttered into the air and circled around the Khishig’s head once before shooting out towards the Enemy Horde. So lifelike as it soared through the air, the sight drew Eri-Hime’s breath away, and they stood transfixed as its soft light broke through the darkness to glow in the night, a single candle’s warmth on a vast, foreboding battlefield.

The Bekhai hidden depths were truly unfathomable, but even with how skilled this young Fire-Blessed Expert was, this intricate fire-bird wasn’t enough to kill Gen, much less the million other Defiled on the field. Evidently, the Emissary thought the same, and even laughed as the bird slowly approached him. “Pitiful fools, you think this is enough to kill me? I -”

The bird plummeted to the earth, and the world erupted into flame and thunder.

The fields of Sinuji came to life in a blazing hot conflagration, one which soared into the Heavens and seared itself into Hideo’s eyes, as if a sun had descended in the darkness of night to consume the Central Plains.

With Emissary Gen and his million strong army of Defiled standing right in the middle of it all.

Mother in Heaven...

Chapter Meme
