Leaning in to nuzzling both my wives at once, I sigh and add, “I also have a whole lot to work through, both mentally and emotionally, but I’ve learned my lesson well this time. I’m sorry for making you worry, and I promise you this: whatever tomorrow might bring, we will face it together, for I will never run away from you or my loved ones ever again.”

“You better not,” Yan replies, gently headbutting me while Mila bites my cheek. “Else I’ll chase you down to the end of the earth and drag you back myself, assuming Mila doesn’t beat me to it.”

“Better if we chained him to us now,” Mila adds, half-joking and half serious, “So you remember that we’re here for you no matter what.”

“Mercy beloved, your husband begs your forgiveness.”

After reassuring them both for some time, we head out to wake Lin-Lin and help her get ready for the day. Seeing her sleepy expression break into a cherubic smile is a balm for the soul, and I take the time to brush her hair just like I used to. Leaning back to study me with her big, brown eyes, my lovely wifey asks, “Hubby, you’re feeling better now, ya?” At my nod, she beams with charming delight before scowling in adorable pique. “Good, because I have a bone to pick with you, mister. For the last little while, I noticed that whenever you played with Blackjack, you’d toss him into the air and frown every time he came back down. You were trying to Impart Cloud-Stepping, weren’t you? Not fair hubby, how come you didn’t try teaching me instead?” So taken aback by her unexpected interrogation, I resist the urge to break out into nervous laughter, but thankfully, she doesn’t expect an answer. Leaning back with a huff, she flashes an adorable grimace and huffs, “It’s not funny hubby. If Blackjack learns how to Cloud-Step before I do, I’m gonna be mad, ya?”

“My most humble apologies, sweet wifey. I’ll work hard and figure out Impartation so we can go Cloud-Stepping through the skies together.”

“Hubby really treats me best. Love you.”

“Love you more.” All sugar and smiles once more, Lin-Lin hums a happy little tune and lets me get back to brushing her hair, when it occurs to me there is another matter I have yet to address. “So... about our marriage...”

Cutting me off without giving me a chance to speak, Lin-Lin says, “I already asked Luo-Luo, and she says it’s best to wait a bit until things settle down, but we shouldn’t wait too long since most of the guests we’d invite are already here. She’s gonna organize everything, so you just need to show up, okay?” Reverse headbutting my shoulder, my sweet wifey shoots me a glare and dares me to say something stupid, but I am wise enough to abandon my efforts. If she really wants to marry me, it doesn’t matter what I say, because her answer will always be yes. I think even if I told her the whole truth about who I am, she wouldn’t care, but I’m not sure about everyone else. They love me too, but Lin-Lin will forgive me for anything I do, even lying to her about who I am for so many years.

She’s not one to concern herself with the nitty gritty details like that. All she cares about is how I treat her, and that’s all the reason she needs to love me. She’s a lot like the floofs in that regard, her love contingent on my actions alone, rather than my character or achievements. Even if I was an incompetent, cowardly, good for nothing failure, Lin-Lin would still be my sweet wifey, because as she so loves to point out, I treat her the best.

Kissing her cheek as I squeeze her tight, I hold her in my arms and share just how much I love and adore her through Aura and action. Going on a hunch, I tap into my passion and reflect on my experiences of Cloud-Stepping through the skies, sharing with her the emotions I felt while carrying her on our journey to the Arid Wastes and back. Despite the fears and concerns I had to face, Lin-Lin’s sense of adventure and unmitigated delight were a treat to behold, her lighthearted gaiety and unconstrained joie de vivre just two of the many reasons why I love her so.

True to her Cloud Chaser Hare heritage, my sweet wifey is wholly suited for running through the skies, a free spirit unbound by custom or convention who marches to the beat of her own drum. Though some might think her simple and naive, her straightforward nature and guileless exterior conceals her resourceful intelligence well, a brilliant mind unburdened by doubt and indecision like my own. Guided by her unerring intuition, Lin-Lin floats through life doing whatever she pleases, and her charming nature ensures that everyone who meets her wants nothing more than to help her find joy and success through every step of her journey.

Though my efforts to Impart Cloud-Stepping to Lin-Lin bears no fruit, I intend to keep trying until we can soar through the skies side by side, perhaps even with Mila and Yan if I’m feeling greedy, which I most certainly always am.

The next few days pass in relative peace as I settle into the routine of running the outer provinces, acclimating to my newfangled strength, and trying to figure out Impartation. There are a thousand and one things to oversee which have nothing to do with the coming counter-offensive, matters of business, politics, and general civility which I refuse to leave unchallenged. During my convalescence, Shuai Jiao took command and did a commendable job holding things together, but I cannot help but resent him for how he handled certain matters. Since withdrawing from the second line, the Enemy has been aggressively targeting our Elites and Peak Experts with non-stop Wraith attacks, and while casualties seem remarkably low, I can’t help but notice a pattern when looking into the surviving families. While the majority of Peak Experts are backed by powerful clans or factions, there are still a significant number of first-generation powerhouses like the Ryo Family, and flagging households propped up by a single Peak Expert, like the Ru or Ishin Families. Having lost their pillar of support, these households are now facing significant pressure from their provincial rivals, and their plight is what led me to look into the matter further.

What I found was that when looking at Peak Experts alone, the bulk of the causalities were Warriors who fit into one of the two aforementioned categories. Being the suspicious soul that I am, I first suspected foul play was involved, but after looking into it, I discovered that matters were even worse than I feared. It wasn’t intentional treason that led the Wraiths to prey on these isolated talents, but rather the ingrained competitive nature of Imperial factions that led to their demise. Instead of banding together to protect against Wraith attacks, the households scattered apart to defend themselves, which is what led to the demise of so many isolated Peak Experts. A wholly avoidable scenario, but one Shuai Jiao paid no mind to, because such is life. The strong thrive, and the weak die, that is the political mindset of not only Central, but the outer provinces as a whole, though I would be lying if I didn’t say things were worse here in the heart of the Empire. Now, not only are the Ryo and Ishin families struggling beneath the machinations of their political rivals, the Ru family has been all but scattered to the winds, a former mercantile power ripped apart and devoured like a stag brought down by wolves.

Hardly a just reward for Ru Minsu’s life of service, one which culminated in a valiant death during the withdrawal from Castle JiangHu, to say nothing of Ishin Shigen and Ryo Dae Jung.

That is merely the fate of one family, and as I dug further into things, I found many stories just like it. While I’ve been focused on fighting a war for survival, the families and factions of the Empire are playing games of politics and power, something I knew all along but never really paid too much mind to, at least not when it didn’t involve me personally. Now, seeing the pressure being put on the Ryo and Ishin families, I cannot help but wonder why any Peak Expert would care enough to risk their lives for the Empire if this is the reward for their efforts, to have everything they’ve worked for stolen away the moment their lives are lost.

Worst of all, since taking charge, Shuai Jiao has not only tacitly approved of such despicable tactics targeting the families of fallen heroes, he’s even used them to his own personal advantage. Mitsue Juichi’s withdrawal benefited him the most, and now he stands to gain even more in the wake of Ryo Dae Jung’s death, for now he has all of Central rallying to his cause. There are other signs to be wary of, like Luo-Luo’s inability to uncover the culprit behind a number of economical attacks, such as the real-estate takeover which has now fallen flat due to Liu Xuande’s plan to excavate a massive harbour instead of rebuilding the Citadel as it was. I cannot help but suspect Shuai Jiao’s influence in these sordid matters, leading me to wonder if this ‘honourable’ and ‘righteous’ Commander General is more of a snake than he lets on.

More things to be wary of and problems I have no solutions for, but being the master delegator that I am, I set Luo-Luo and Liu Xuande to task, and even enlist MuYang to take a closer look at our esteemed Commander General. It’s not that I suspect he might betray the Empire, but I believe that if given the chance, he would gladly order my death if it wouldn’t adversely affect the outer provinces too too much. Shen ZhenWu was grooming Shuai Jiao’s Disciple Yong-Jin as my replacement, and I can’t imagine that would’ve happened without the Commander General’s approval, meaning our priorities are not as aligned as I would like.

Unfortunately, there isn’t too much I can do just yet except proceed with care and watch my back. On the plus side, the Brotherhood’s assistance is much appreciated as they improve and streamline how the Districts are managed, as well as providing a much needed service with Spiritual guidance. Though I am not a religious man by any measure, I always found it odd that the Empire was so lax in their devotion to the Mother above, lacking any temples or traditions related to religion outside of personal piety and devotion. From the Abbot’s memories, I now know there was a time when the Brotherhood gave sermons to the public, and I also know that interference from the Imperial Clan is probably why they stopped. That being said, I can always feign ignorance in the Abbot’s absence, so while I never officially asked the monks to start up their sermons again, a few words with Monk Happy is all it takes to convince him that the world would benefit if the Brotherhood was more active with their efforts.

After five days of meetings and discussions with friends and comrades while keeping myself occupied with busywork, my headache finally subsides, at which point Dad and Akanai take a personal interest in my sparring matches. Thus far, I’d mostly been sparring with Gerel, though I also traded blows with Kyung, Da’in, Ishin Ken-Shibu, Tam Taewoong and several other stand out talents, mostly for political theatre. Having fought without using too much Chi for so many days, I’ve been itching to try out my big moves again outside of my Natal Palace, but my Mentor and Grand-Mentor have different plans, and instead force me to continue sparring in the same manner so that I can ‘shore up my shaky foundations’. According to Dad, I have all the necessary tools to call myself a Peak Expert, but I lack the knowledge and experience needed to use said tools to their full potential. It’s like I inherited a restaurant with a fully stocked kitchen and I have no idea how to cook, but rather than sit down to teach me the family recipes, Dad and Akanai believe I’ll learn more from trial and error at the school of hard knocks. Though I am less than pleased, I trust them to know best and suffer a string of grievous defeats at their merciless hands, while also meeting with trusted friends and loyal soldiers to try and figure out Impartation, alongside my nocturnal efforts with Mila and Yan in pursuit of the same goal. Though I have yet to succeed again, I cannot give up, for this skill might well be the key to defeating the Enemy. If I can figure out how to replicate my success with the Stormguard and go on to raise commoners to Domain Capable Peak Experts in a short time frame, then I could gather an army to match anything the Enemy can throw at me.

Even in sleep, I do not rest, and instead train with Ping Ping, Pong Pong, Mama Bun, and Buddy every night in my Natal Palace, after an appropriate amount of playing of course. I love seeing them all get along, especially Buddy who is having a grand old time with all his new friends, and watching them run and play is a balm for the soul and a sight for sore eyes.

Two weeks later, Dad finds me late at night, fully armoured and ready for battle. “It is time,” he says, and I suppress the urge to sigh now that my relatively peaceful days have come to an end. The full out offensive isn’t planned until a few months from now and still has a lot of kinks to work out, but there’s a lot we need to do before then. Mostly, I need to gain influence to sway more factions to my cause and set myself up as a true contender against Shuai Jiao before I can truly unite the outer provinces, but in order to do so, I need to prove myself strong enough to stand above him and the other Colonel Generals and Marshals, so it’s time to pull out all the stops and show the world what I can really do.

