“Impartation of Heavenly Energy...”

Despite having heard the term before, I have no idea what it’s supposed to mean or why Monk Happy seems so dumbfounded by his own statement. All I really know is that one of the Healers called it a myth when someone else brought the matter up, way back in Sinuji during a discussion that was supposed to be about helping Heal my shattered Core and somehow deviated to the topic of Spiritual Beast husbandry. How this relates to Mila’s laser beams and my newfangled ability to share my thoughts and perceptions is still a mystery, so I sit and wait for Monk Happy to gather his thoughts and put them into words I’ll understand.

My beloved wife’s spectacular light show brought all manner of concerned guests to our doorstep, for good reason considering they thought I might be under attack. Touched as I was by all their concern, dismissing guests is not as easy as waving a hand and saying, “Nah, don’t worry about it.” Face must be given, and invited or not, it would be rude to send guests away without offering refreshment, an offer which must be accepted even if only to wet one’s lips, because again, face. Many cups of tea and several toilet trips later, I finally had the opportunity to sit down with Mila and the rest of my family to recount everything that happened between us, minus the sordid details of course. Then again, given the fact that we were hanging out in the tiny bathroom together for so long, it doesn’t take a genius to piece together what we were doing in there, which in turn led to what might well have been the most mortifying conversation I have ever had with my parents and in-laws about communal areas and general hygiene.

To be fair, they have a point, but for the first time ever, I regret asking my parents and in-laws to live with me. I like having family close, but neighbours is close enough, so I’ll have to get working on buying more land and building separate manors for everyone to live in. Throughout the entire awkward discussion, Yan’s competitive nature most certainly doesn’t help, nor does Lin-Lin’s constant giggles. Then I am forced to go over the events once more after asking Monk Happy to weigh in on the experience, only to receive a vague statement which doesn’t really mean much after a good hour of marinating in shame and embarrassment.

“The Impartation of Heavenly Energy,” Monk Happy begins, stroking his ample, beardless chin as he studies me from across the dining room table, “Is a term for the theoretical process through which one person shares their experience of the Dao with another. Not with words, diagrams, or any other form of physical communication, but through a process similar to Insight, only originating from another living being rather than the Heavens.” Holding up a hand to forestall any questions, Monk Happy continues, “This is only a theoretical ability, mind you, one posited by multiple different scholars over the course of history, but has never been proven theoretically feasible, much less empirically possible.” Done covering his bases, the smiling monk still seems positively upbeat and overjoyed, for no reason in particular than to have a captive audience listening to what he has to say, though Lin-Lin seems ready to fall asleep beside me, despite having only just woken up from a day-long nap. While not quite snuggled down in my embrace, Mila is also showing signs of fatigue, her shoulders slumped and head nodding every now and then as she tries to stay awake, but Monk Happy is in no rush to explain. “You have all experienced Insight, Inspirations, or Awakenings first hand, so you already know that such a concept of sharing information is already possible. The Mother, the Heavens, or Heavenly Energy itself imparts upon you the knowledge required to utilize Chi in some manner, whether it be to execute a Martial Skill, forge a Spiritual Weapon, or what have you, but have you ever stopped to wonder how this knowledge is passed on?”

“Yea, and I’ve heard plenty of possibilities too.” Shrugging ever so slightly so as not to disturb Lin-Lin or Mila, I tick off the half-baked theories I’ve come across thus far. “Some believe it to be simply what happens when one comprehends the Dao, the information put together by one’s own perception in a moment of enlightenment. Others claim Insights are knowledge from past lives returning home to roost, while the most prevailing theory is as you said, that the Mother Herself offers us guidance from above, in preparation for trials and tribulations to come.”

“All possibilities, yes, but the monk was asking in a more... technical sense rather than opening the floor to theological debate.”

No one ever wants to argue religion with me, and I really wish they would. Then again, maybe I’m the asshole for trying to disprove their beliefs just because I lack faith. Rather than offer some vague tidbit I might’ve read or heard some time ago, I take a moment to stop and think about Monk Happy’s question. How does Insight really work? In my personal experience, not all that well considering I’m rarely ever able to quantify the Insights I’ve received, so I might be the wrong person to ask. “I think,” I begin, stressing that I am not even remotely certain of anything at all, “That an Insight is a form of personal understanding based on available facts and information, but in a way the individual involved has yet to wholly realize and perceive.” Wishing I had a better way to explain it, I struggle to put my thoughts into words, because Insight has always been this enigmatic, unknowable concept to explain how I do the things I do without knowing how. “It’s like... learning from experience, in the way some quin handlers can tell when an animal is pregnant, or an old farmer can wake up, sniff the air, and know rain clouds are just over the horizon. If asked to describe how they know, it’s generally difficult to explain, because they are working on intuition and recognizing clues that their conscious mind has yet to realize, but the information is still there, just difficult to put into words because even they themselves are not aware of the myriad of details they perceive at any given moment. Only with Insight, we get to skip over the experience part and just glean the needed information without really wholly understanding how we arrive at the result.”

“So you believe Insights merely a matter of the mind alone? That this ability to skip over personal experience is the work of the unconscious mind working with information that is readily available to all, yet only perceived by a select few after a personal revelation?”

...Well you can make anything sound stupid if you try hard enough. “I suppose there could be more to it, I just... don’t really know how to quantify it.”

“Then answer me this, Junior Brother.” Pleased to have elicited an admission of ignorance from yours truly, Monk Happy asks, “What is a soul?”

The answer comes to me in the form of what I now believe was an earlier Insight, one which came to me just moments before I brought Buddy back into my life. “I believe the soul is a vessel in which we carry all our emotions and experiences. Memories will come and go, but the soul remains eternal, the very core of our existence and the spark which sets sentient life apart from non-sentient beings.”

Eyes wide with delight, Monk Happy claps his hands and laughs as everyone else looks at me like I’ve sprouted a second head. “Well put, Junior Brother, well put indeed. And what is sentience?” Without giving anyone time to reply, Monk Happy answers his own question. “Why, the ability to experience emotions, of course, thereby reinforcing the idea that the soul is a vessel of emotion. Though life is temporary, the soul is eternal, with each life experienced adding to the sum of the whole, leading many to believe that the soul is the key to comprehending the Dao, and emotion pivotal to this process. Knowledge and understanding most certainly have their place when it comes to Insight, and can certainly help matters along, but some truths are unknowable and can only be experienced by oneself, for it requires a unique perspective and therefore a unique soul to wholly comprehend. Hence the term ‘cultivate’, or otherwise read as ‘nurture truth’, with the truths being made plain through the Dao itself.” Mom, Dad, and Akanai have nothing to add, though Grandpa Du mutters something about how ‘study truth’ also fits, but the etymology and philosophy is largely lost on me, so Monk Happy continues, “In short, Insight is a matter of the Soul perceiving the Heavenly Dao and translating that information into something the mind and body can understand, whereas Impartation of Heavenly Energy would be using one’s Soul to share one’s own unique perception so that others might benefit as well.”

I understand the words being said, but how it applies to anything even remotely relevant escapes me entirely, because as Gerel once told me, I lack faith. Thus, the fact that most people believe the Mother is personally whispering secrets into the ears of Martial Warriors the world round just seems kinda ridiculous to me, as if the universe doesn’t have anything better to do than teach mortals kung fu. Seeing and feeling my skepticism due to my inability to control my facial expressions and Aura both, Monk Happy just barely manages to keep from rolling his eyes and moves on to a more convincing argument. “If this much is not enough to convince you of the mechanism behind Insight, then perhaps you should reflect upon what you have personally experienced with regards to your more atypical steps along your Path, and then you will understand why this monk and many others believe the soul is pivotal to the process of Insight, which can be shared using Heavenly Energy as the medium.”

It takes a moment to understand what he’s tiptoeing around, namely my brush with near-Defilement, the relevance of which is lost upon me until I cycle back to the topic of discussion, only to feel stupid for not realizing it sooner. Monk Happy is talking about Spectres, and how they’re fragments of souls capable of delivering Insight to their hosts, and thus supporting his statement that the soul is the key to comprehending the Dao. Now that I think about it, it doesn’t even seem that far-fetched. I personally experienced how a soul is capable of processing information on a scale beyond what the human mind is capable of, when I somehow separated from my mortal shell and touched upon some form of limited omniscience during the withdrawal from Castle JiangHu.

So when you look at it that way, then it makes sense that this information can be shared.

The events of that fateful day bring to mind another fact that I’d almost since forgotten. “Er... I think I understand, and more than that, I believe you’re right, that this is what happened with Mila and myself. I also think this isn’t the first time I’ve err... Imparted anything, though I think this was the first time I did so... directly?” I haven’t had time to explain everything that happened during that particular withdrawal, so I quickly go over my experience of the event, though quickly is a matter of perspective. Between questions and clarifications, it takes the better part of three hours to go over what happened on that fateful day and how I spent the weeks thereafter sequestered away in my Natal Palace. I tell them about how I helped Rustram Develop his Domain and Heal Sai Chou, only to be ambushed inside my Natal Palace by Zhen Shi and tricked into leaving. I tell them all about how he tortured and tormented me for what felt like lifetimes without end as I toiled and suffered in the mines once more. Though I try my best to stick to the facts and avoid getting into the nitty, gritty details, I cannot help but recount how I gave in to his demands and severed my own fingers to avoid further pain, because this was pivotal to my understanding of what comes next.

It’s not easy to bare my soul, even to my family and loved ones, but I finally share with them the embarassing reason for my latest coma. The depths of my shame and despair knows no bounds, for this was a secret which until now, only the Abbot was privy to, though I know Yan had picked up on my lingering presence, and I cannot bear to look anyone in the eyes for fear of what I might see hidden behind them. It helps that the animals all sense my melancholy and gather round to comfort me, with Ping Ping pressing against my leg and Mama Bun nuzzling in my embrace while the bears, wildcats, rabbits, and laughing birds gather in close around me. I love animals so freaking much, I wish I had more arms to hug them, and it warms my heart to see my family step up and accept the floofy snuggles in my place, with not a single lap left empty as people and animals alike seek comfort from one another while I regale them with tales of my weakness and stupidity.

