Clearing my throat with a sip of long-cold tea, I succinctly summarize in full. “So yea. Quick recap, I stepped into the Uniter’s waiting trap, then tried very hard to sever all emotions for fear of being hurt again, and while hiding like a coward, I somehow stumbled across some form of limited omniscience which I then used to help guide countless Martial Warriors on the battlefield with help from my severed Natal Souls. Truth be told, the whole experience is kinda muddled and I can’t really remember who I helped or how, or really anything besides the fact that I did it, so it’s not all that useful right now.” I’m guessing I had something to do with the Stormguard, the widespread mastery of Panacea, and the Defiled tribesmen making their way to the Brotherhood, but while I know I probably helped others along, the details escape me. Somewhere along the way, I just... forgot what I did, the memories lost the same way I lost my limited omniscience. My brain was too smooth to store all the information contained in my thick, girthy soul, which is infuriating to the extreme. I know I did something amazing, I just have no idea how to go about doing it again with consistent success.

Trying to get past the topic of my stupidity and cowardice and how I hid away for many months because I was too afraid to live or die, I conclude, “So I guess I’ve already, you know... done the whole Impartation thing before, I just never had a name for it.”

My efforts to quickly change the subject fall flat as no one utters a peep, the silence deafening as everyone else struggles to find the words to speak. We all know that nothing they say will ever ease the sting of my admission, so everyone is keeping quiet so their disappointment doesn’t show through. Loving and supportive as always, Lin-Lin eases her way onto my lap and snuggles into my chest while Mila wraps her arms around mine and clutches my hand ever so tightly. Moving to take up my wifey’s vacated chair, Yan silently rests her head on my shoulder and gently strokes the back of my neck, their love and support causing my tears to spill out, so I closed my eyes and weep as quietly as I can. These are not tears of joy befitting the love of my wives, but rather tears of gratitude to know that they still love me even though I’m such a huge fuck up.

“You are a fool.” Cutting through the silence with her customary, matter-of-fact manner, Song drums her fingers against the table in a rare show of agitation, but if ever there were a time, it would be now. I spent weeks in a coma and worried everyone half to death, so I can’t blame her for being angry once they learned I was hiding away in a dark room and avoiding everyone like a scared child. Snarling to ward away my Aura, Song fixes me with a glare of uncharacteristic fury as her gaze captures my attention and refuses to let me look away. “To hear you tell it, you would accept blame for the sun not rising in the west, as if you had any control over it. You fought and faltered, but failure is not the end. Stop blaming yourself for matters outside of your control. You faced a foe too strong to defeat, but you survived. Take pride in that, because to do otherwise would be to look down on everyone else in this room.” Pointing at Akanai, Song explains, “Mama fought Bai Qi to a standstill, but was unable to kill him. Should she feel ashamed? No, she should be proud of her achievements, for her foe was formidable, as was yours. Were you a rabbit, you would be ashamed for being unable to defeat the wolf, which is just foolish and of no help to anyone. You fought, you survived, and you continue to fight. Take pride in that, if nothing else.”

“Indeed.” Having remained silent until now, I glance at Dad in reflex at the sound of his voice, and his dour disappointment is a blow I won’t soon recover from. “This is a lesson I did not teach you because I believed you already learned it well, but this is my mistake, as your father and Mentor. Listen carefully son; no Path is easily tread, for there will always be trials and tribulations abound. Failure is inevitable, but so long as you draw breath, it need not be the end, merely a new beginning. It matters not how often you stumble and fall. All that matters is that you survive to pick yourself up and continue forward, putting one foot in front of the other. So long as you never give up, you will continue to make progress, and you, my son, do not know the meaning of surrender.”

Though what they say makes sense, I cannot bring myself to feel any differently about my failures, and I think everyone else sees it too. Sensing that we all need time to mull things over, Monk Happy suggests we take a break for the night, an escape I am more than happy to take. Still upset and indignant, Song nonetheless comes over to pat my head with a scowl, offering her support despite her frustration and showing me that she’s not angry, just annoyed. Luo-Luo offers a silent commiseration, her confusion coming off her in waves that are palpable even without an Aura to direct it, no doubt wondering how someone as fucked up as me could have even a tenth of the accomplishments I’ve attained. Mom, Alsantset, Akanai, Husolt, Grandpa Du, and Taduk all offer their own commiserations, but they are blinded by love alongside everyone else and cannot see beyond my failings.

This pity party is a bit much even for me, but I can’t help it, because this is the first time I’m really coming to terms with my failures, and even retiring to bed for the night with Mila and Yan at my sides is not enough to lift me from my misery. All of my mistakes shape my perspective and count as steps along my Path, but that doesn’t make it any less embarrassing when I slip and face plant into dog shit. I was so close to greatness, but arrived there through fear and self-loathing combined with an overwhelming desire to escape and the determination to do so no matter the cost. There was so much I could’ve done with my power, yet what did I really accomplish? Nothing in the grand scheme of things, save for guiding a few errant Defiled into the arms of the Brotherhood and causing pain to the people I love most. There is no need for Zhen Shi to manipulate my emotions, because this is how I truly feel, but things aren’t the same as before. Rather than be overcome with the desire to run and hide, I want nothing more than to be better and rise above this mess that I’ve grown into and become the person I aspire to be, the Legate Falling Rain who others believe I already am.

Which I like to think is a step in the right direction, even if it is a step I should have taken long ago.

Hours pass as I lie in bed and reflect on my past actions, wondering just how I got where I am, and after some heavy introspection, I believe I finally know why I ‘seek the Dao’, as the Abbot put it, or why I seek strength despite my desire for peace and tranquility. I’ve always struggled to come up with an answer, because I thought I didn’t have one, but I knew the real answer all along and just treated it like a joke. To be fair, ‘because magic is awesome’ is hardly a serious answer to why I wanna be strong, but when you get right down to it, that is the sole reason I am so fixated on the Dao. The Martial Path is cool and all, but I have always wanted to be more than just a powerful warrior. I wanted to be a hand-waving, spell-chanting, circle-drawing, fire-throwing, dragon summoning wizard, to wield magic beyond what others can comprehend. I wanted this new life to be magical, because it was new and exciting, something I lacked in my previous life and wanted to obtain in order to cure all that ails me. Surely a sorcerer supreme would have confidence and charisma in spades, lacking the debilitating anxiety I experience every time I approach a stranger for conversation. Surely a powerful wizard would having nothing to fear, an almighty, mysterious master of the mystic arts who few would care to challenge.

In short, I sought the Dao because I wanted to be someone else, someone besides a reincarnated man dealing with PTSD and the rigours of adapting to a new, difficult life. I wanted to be Baledagh, Warrior of the People, unburdened by the memories of my past life and free to pursue the peak of the Martial Path, all because I could not master my fear and allowed myself to be driven by it, just like Charok and so many others have pointed out. I am still largely driven by fear, but unlike before, I believe I can now embrace it and accept it for what it is, rather than be consumed and controlled by it like before. A bold claim for a guy who just ordered a preliminary strike against the Enemy for fear of the war spiralling out of control, but again, if the Colonel Generals can’t come up with a workable plan, then I will try a different approach. I am not confident of winning a defensive war with the resources we have, because we have already lost many powerful Martial Warriors and will lose more as time goes on, Warriors we cannot replace without decades of training and effort. In contrast, Zhen Shi’s forces are quickly growing by the day, and not only does he have Demons to rely on, his half-Demonic Warriors are a force to be reckoned with.

Eventually, my worries give way before sheer exhaustion and I fall asleep in the snuggled embrace of my wives and floofs, the sweet peace of blissful oblivion a balm for my mind and soul.

The next morning, I wake to sweet Mila shaking me none too gently and saying something about lunch while Yan watches from the side with a smirk. My throbbing migraine has yet to subside, which is a little off putting to say the least, compounded by the distinct absence of floofs nestled in my embrace. Probably because it’s almost lunch time and the animals are outside playing in the courtyard, which means I’ve been sleeping for at least ten to twelve hours depending on what time I finally fell asleep. That’s a good sign at least, since it means I’m catching up on much needed rest instead of tossing and turning all night before giving up and doing something else. After determining there’s nothing physically wrong with me besides the headache and muscle pains, my sweet wives help me get dressed before wrapping me in their warm embrace. “Are you alright?” Mila asks, knowing I’m not, but affording me the opportunity to open up rather than forcing me to face the harsh truth, and I appreciate her effort to approach this with a gentle touch.

No doubt she’s been coached by Yan, who chimes in with, “You can talk to us about anything, you know that right?”

Anything except my deepest, darkest secret which would fill her with disgust and revulsion, for I am not the youthful, childhood friend she thinks I am but rather a body-snatching reincarnator who took advantage of three naive, wide-eyed girls and convinced them to marry me through lies and deception.

Since my Aura is undoubtedly giving away how I feel, there’s no point lying, and I shouldn’t since they’re concerned for my well-being and just want to know how I’m doing. Holding them both close for comfort and support, I push down my guilt and lock it away inside, because I would rather deal with it for a lifetime than risk losing even one of these wonderful women, much less all of them alongside the rest of my family. It’s not fair to them even in the slightest, but I will take this secret to the grave and spend the rest of my life trying to make up for my sins.

“I’m... not great,” I admit, and even this tiny bit of honesty pains me. “I’m aching all over, more tired than ever, and have a headache that feels like there’s an invisible elephant stomping away at the back of my head. I’m also scared, terrified even, because no matter what I do, I cannot see a future in which the outer provinces hold the western border against the Enemy, not as things stand now. I will fight to the bitter end and do everything I can to stave off defeat, but I fear this lull might well represent the last chance we have to turn things around before the Enemy overwhelms us through sheer weight of numbers.”

I can tell that even though they are concerned, neither Yan nor Mila are convinced my doom and gloom is credible, steadfast in their belief of the Imperial Army. They trust their military commanders to hold the Western Wall, or if not, that we will take up the good fight and drive the Defiled threat back, especially now with my Runic Cannons to turn the tide. Alas, those weapons of war are not easy to create, and the Tyrant is the only person who can make them, so I doubt we’ll have more than fifteen cannons in total when the time comes for our counter attack. Even if we don’t push out, I fear those cannons are not enough to turn the tides of battle, not once the Enemy musters another army or two to equal the one we just sent packing. Honestly, I have no idea where everyone’s confidence stems from, because from my point of view, it feels as if the outer provinces are doomed to fall. It’s possible their endless optimism stems from their confidence in an Empire that has withstood the test of time and prevailed against everything the Enemy has thrown at them thus far, or perhaps due to confidence in their own personal skills as well as the skills of their superiors. Then again, maybe it’s just faith in the Mother Above, for She always leaves a path to survival, but as Gerel pointed out long ago, I am a man sorely lacking in faith.

What I do not lack however, is stubborn determination, possessed of a will so resolute I refused to die even when I was too afraid to live, which is something I guess.

