Sarya Pamaris rushed to unlock her inner sanctum. Unfortunately, when the vault was built she’d decided that security trumped convenience. That meant it took a minimum of five minutes to enter the ultra-secure area where she kept the most powerful instruments of her role. She spent that time cursing her own paranoia and remembering commissioning the security.

She’d been in Yrosa more than two thousand years ago when she’d run into a vault she couldn’t break into. Once the city plunged into chaos, Sarya had made sure to track down the family of enchanters that had built it. Then she’d enticed them to move to Keihona and work for her. That had been lucky for them, since Yrosa had fallen to the Ending of Fire shortly afterwards, while Keihona stood strong.

When they’d asked how many security measures she wanted for this vault, she’d answered “All of them.” After all, it was a vault built to keep out Questors, and that was like containing a supernova. But they’d taken her meaning, and there was only so fast she could disable dozens of security measures, no matter how urgent a message she’d gotten.

Currently, the only piece of information she had was that she’d received a communication marked with the highest level of priority. That kind of message could only be sent by another Questor, and it meant something big and time-sensitive was happening. She tapped her fingers against the vault door impatiently as the foot-thick mithril rolled aside ponderously.

Sarya finally bustled into the small room, walking around the wide copper basin that took up the center of the space and going to the enchanted screens that occupied a desk set against the wall. It was the nexus of her grid, the center of communication with other Questors. If a hostile Questor got access to it, they could learn the details of dozens of plots and schemes.

Lights blinked at her from other devices that Sarya used to communicate with her vassals and spies, but those weren’t her focus. Mortals often thought their news was the highest of priorities, but it rarely qualified. Yes, the secret alliances of hostile countries was important, but not as important as information on the Endings.

There were a few messages from other Questors. But the one that had summoned her was from Ushia Mur, the Questor who’d delved farthest into prognostication. She was a priceless resource, even if she delighted in being cryptic. The message was simple.

Look in on Giantsrest. Then check for messages from Badud. :)

She frowned at the smiley face. It wasn’t out of character for Ushia, but the orcish woman knew it would irk Sarya. The seer had also left out any actual information, but the presence of the smiley face at least meant that the news was good, or at least funny.

The slight woman sighed and spun around to activate the giant scrying bowl. It was a genuine artifact of Kalis, capable of showing any location on Davrar. The only way to block it was to hide somewhere the user of the bowl didn’t know about. Once it had booted up, she gave it a target. “Giantsrest from fifteen thousand feet directly overhead.”

The bowl resolved into a crystal-clear image of the city in question. Or rather, what was left of it. The center of the city was devastated, with buildings knocked over and clear evidence of battles through the streets. The Academy itself was little more than a faintly glowing pile of rubble, and Sarya gaped at the utter destruction of what had once been a stronghold of her enemies.

She panned her viewpoint around to try to understand what had happened. There were giant golems in the streets, some broken by magic and others still rampaging. Mages fought them, and mages died, occasionally destroying one of the golems as they went. People fled the city, most headed towards the satellite cities of Giantsrest.

They lost control of the Grave of All Giants. How? Sussu enchanted it, and she’s the best on Davrar. Badud is supposed to be there now, dealing with… what was it called? Gemore, that’s right. Brox went to counter him as per the pact, but then he lost. As usual. His report was strangely optimistic, but didn’t elaborate. I need to lecture him again on writing proper accounts.

Sarya grimaced again as she thought about Gemore. It was Brox’s territory, but she’d long ago resigned it to be little more than a speedbump for the ambitions of Giantsrest and the Questors who controlled it. Brox covered a vast territory, but he didn’t build for the future. If she or Ushia or Garna had been able to step up, they could have driven Giantsrest off the continent and established it as a stronghold. But it would have taken centuries of care and attention, and they all had other commitments.

Though Ushia’s been shaping Agmon from a distance, to prevent Giantsrest from dominating the continent.

She didn’t see the enemy Questor or any signs of his magic, and turned back to her communication tablets to get the rest of the story. As promised by Ushia, there was a series of messages from Badud. He wanted to start the Ending of History and ban Questors from the continent that Giantsrest occupied. She shot a look towards the scrying mirror. Had occupied. With the Academy gone and their capitol devastated, they’d be gone in fifty years.

Sarya was dismissive of the request. With Brox dead, Badud must have lost to a mortal, and now he wanted to bring the Endings a thousand years early to take revenge on whoever had beaten him. That wasn’t what the Endings were for. She wasn’t about to let him use Davrar to unleash his frustration on the heroes that had managed to kill a Questor without one of their own. She made some notes to send agents to find out who had pulled that off, and make them an offer.

Then she saw Badud’s latest message, with what he was offering in return.

Complete cessation of his grid’s activities across three continents of our choice? And a guarantee that he personally won’t act against our interests for fifteen hundred years.

Her eyebrows shot into her hairline. With minimal investment they would be able to tilt the balance of power on three battlefields, establishing new centers of power or crushing those of their enemies. Badud was one of the most combat-capable Questors around, with enough magical might to win duels and crush armies. This deal would reshape the strategic map, all in return for giving up one region with minimal investment.

She almost rejected the offer outright, because it was too good to be true. Then she reconsidered.

He’s being emotional. Whatever happened has him acting irrationally. We need to take this before he calms down and retracts the deal.

Sarya reached for the tablet again, drafting a message to ask Ushia if she was willing to abandon Agmon. The orcish empire had been their true plan to check Giantsrest, though the other Questor had barely begun to guide their culture and traditions thus far. But the orcish seer disliked changing plans once they’d been made. Before Sarya had finished drafting her message, she received a note from the woman in question.

Take the deal. It’s worth it. Then follow your instincts.

Sarya blinked at the message. If Ushia was paying this much attention, that meant there was even more going on than she expected. She sent a quick acceptance to Badud, then checked which of her trusted agents was close to Litcliff. She needed to get people into Gemore.
