“Back of the line!”
Selys, Beza, and six other pairs of hands dragged Olesm back. Relc was shoving with Palt. Erin laughed.
“Keep back! All of you! I’m going up to my room for one second! I’ll deal with you one by one!”
She headed for the stairs. Relc shouted at Erin’s back.
“If it explodes, just scream!”
Erin laughed, but she eyed the package a second time. She felt…well, she headed up the stairs.
Her room was new. Lyonette had made the bed, but Erin had already turned it a bit messy. Erin’s room…didn’t have much. Her clothes had been folded and put into a dresser—what ones Lyonette had salvaged from the inn. She had a few other possessions in the room as well.
Her belt pouches. A knife that had been sent through the magic door this morning by Lorent of all people. The [Sharpener] had identified the blade. A toothbrush in its stand. A few books Selys had gifted Erin. Oh, and…
A chess board. Erin hadn’t noticed it as she slept, but there it was. The pieces glowed, ghostly colors in the morning’s light. Erin stared at them thoughtfully.
Palt had noticed the board when he’d visited Erin’s inn. He’d asked how much the board would cost and then gave her an estimate when she hadn’t known. And it was just a feeling…
Erin looked at the second package. It was bulky, more ovoid with that packaged phenomenon. But it was vaguely…square. And she had a feeling, as strong as instinct. As strong as memory.
Slowly, Erin reached for Pelt’s knife. She sawed at the bindings, then stared at the knife. The packaging was just plain, dark brown wrapping paper tied with string tightly. Or so she thought. But she couldn’t cut the wrapping. Even with Pelt’s knife. Erin frowned.
“Hm.”
She reached for the strings. It was easy—all you had to do was pull and the strings came apart. For her. It was a complex little bow, which was probably why no other Runner had gotten the package open for a look. That and their Runner’s code.
Probably. Erin pulled at the brown wrapping. It came away, layer by layer. It was bulkier than the package. It didn’t need so many layers. But the original shape…
“Aha.”
Erin knew. She saw the rectangular board before she completely unveiled it. But she knew, she knew. And when she saw the perfectly round, white and black stones, she knew she was right.
The Go board sat in front of Erin, on the table in her room, next to the chess board and a comfortable chair. It was magical. One look and Erin knew it was a twin to the chess board.
The Go stones were black and white. But they had that translucent, ghostly quality. They were real—Erin could feel them—but they were a mirror. They were sticking to the board, despite having been carried around by runners all the way to Liscor. That must be a new feature; whoever had commissioned the board must have been tired of little Gnolls hurling the game pieces everywhere.
The stones were lined up around the edges of the board. Normally, they’d be in little pots, and Erin saw two had been included. She tossed them in now. White and black, two colors, ready to play.
A Go board. Enchanted. Erin looked at it. She’d known it was that, but…who had sent it? Fals hadn’t known. Palt, for all he was an [Illusionist], hadn’t seen through the wrapping. Mrsha hadn’t smelled anything.
But it was here. A game board just like the one Erin had been sent, so long ago. Erin remembered the excitement, the mystery over finding it. This time…she just stared.
“Who…what am I supposed to do with you?”
She knew the answer. Play me. The board called to her. So did the chess board, which was rearranged to the last move of the game. Erin had stopped playing after the Creler attack. The chess board had been recovered from the rubble, but she had left her mysterious opponent, who was as good as she was, alone.
She’d never asked. She’d wondered, but Erin had simply loved playing the game. Enough to not wonder who it was. Well, and she hadn’t known how to look without causing a fuss.
If it had arrived two weeks and a few days ago, Erin might have been delighted and played a few games right then and there if she’d had time. Surely, she’d have unwrapped it downstairs with all to see. But today, Erin stared at the board.
“Who are you? What happens next?”
Outside of her inn, she was certain, people were moving. They were thinking of what they’d seen. And they’d seen her. Even if she wasn’t aware of it yet, part of Erin was. The world had moved during the Wyvern attack. And events were starting to include her. That Human. Erin Solstice. Palt was only the start.
“I just wanted a vacation. I wanted it to be simple.”
Erin Solstice eyed the Go board. So much was going to happen. She couldn’t play the same game like she had last year. She looked at the chess board and shook her head.
Here was the thing. Erin wasn’t a good Go player. She was…good. Probably better than most people in her world. Because she practiced and knew the game. But she wasn’t one of the best at it. And she was at chess. That was the truth of it.
But Go was different. Some people said it was more complex, and Erin was willing to admit it was in some ways. She liked chess more, but Erin liked strategy games on the board, like this.
All you had to do was place a stone. Black stones went first in Go, unlike chess. And when Erin put down a stone, usually in the corners, she’d wait for the opponent to place a stone. Her goal was to take as much territory—the squares on the board—as possible. Her opponent would try to box her in, and thus take her stones.
It was a game about territory, about control. Just like chess. Or Shogi. Or any other game Erin knew. Control, pieces on the board—each game was different and the same.
“Erin! I’m bored! I want pasta!”
Relc shouted up at Erin. She heard more voices from downstairs. Erin looked at the board.
The thing about Go—the thing about any game like this—was that two people had to play. You could play against yourself of course, but one person had to start. Then the other could lead. Whoever had sent her the board had waited. Waited for her to continue their game of chess, to place the stone on the Go board.
If Erin waited forever, neither game would continue. But you couldn’t do that. There were rules. Time limit, etiquette towards other players…and if she waited too long here, Relc would storm up the stairs.
You had to move. You had to keep moving, even if you didn’t know what was the right thing to do. Erin felt the world moving, felt the invisible pieces landing around her. She was just a pawn on someone else’s board, the grand board of the world. She couldn’t see the hand that moved her. Or where she was pushing herself.
But right now she had a choice. Erin squatted by the board. It was summer. She listened to Relc shouting for pasta. Looked out the window at the Floodplains, listened to the far-off sounds of events taking shape, people making plans—and she made her move.
Erin Solstice slowly picked up a piece and put it on the go board. The black stone glittered in the sun, magical and ghostly. Erin Solstice looked at it. She nodded.
“4-4 . Classic.”
The upper left corner of the board had a single black stone. Waiting for another player to move. Somewhere, Erin’s opponent would surely see it in time and play their move. Erin knew that. And they’d play a great game, probably.
“Probably.”
Erin Solstice looked at the black stones in her bowl. And slowly, carefully, she picked up a second stone. She looked at it, and then she broke the rules.
A second black stone joined the first. It was even on the intersections on the lines! Erin Solstice placed the second black stone, standing in defiance of the rules of the game, and nodded. She picked up another stone. And then another.
It took the young woman only a minute to finish her placement. The black stones clicked onto the board as she placed them delicately, trying to remember how to hold them just right. There was an art to it. She wasn’t good at Go, and right now she’d have been expelled from any match in history.
She was placing stones. Black ones, without waiting for her opponent. The white stones didn’t even stir in their bowl as Erin finished placing hers. She studied the board, and then stood.
“I’m coming, Relc! Stop screaming!”
She shouted back down as she opened the door to her room. Erin hurried down the stairs, and rejoined her inn. She shouted, catching up with friends, asking questions—and forgot about the new board sitting in her room. Just for a moment.
She’d come back. And the stones placed on the board, in defiance of the game, were also waiting for her opponent. Erin Solstice had cheated. She hadn’t placed one, or two, but almost all of them. They didn’t stay on the lines. Instead, they spelled out something. A message. Waiting. And in time, someone saw it. A little message, written on a tiny Go board.
 
who r u?
 
And the world changed.
