Zail shook his head. He stared intently at the scrying orb. The Wall Lord shuddered as an image appeared. Ilvriss only saw Bird. But Zail recoiled from the orb. He pointed at it.
“I saw that thing, Ilvriss. You were in Liscor. Were they—there?”
“Yes. The Antinium.”
Ilvriss’ eyes glinted.
Zail paused.
“What madness possesses those idiots? Now, one stands on the walls. Even for Pallass.”
“It may be a sign the Antinium are changing.”
Ilvriss spoke casually. He wasn’t lying. Zail had a ring on his finger that commanded a [Truth] spell. No, a more powerful version of it. He hadn’t twisted it, but you never knew how the spell worked. Zail twitched.
“Something has to be done. Another one. We killed the other. The Slayer. And the others. What was the name of the one?”
“Devrkr. Devrkr the Glowing.”
“Yes. I saw it die. We had to kill it again and again. It kept coming back. But it died. The last time it died.”
Zail whispered. His clawed hand was gripping his sword. He stared up at Ilvriss.
“Three of them. Now four.”
“Bird the Hunter. He may not be a Centenium, father.”
“Don’t believe that. Don’t underestimate them!”
The Wall Lord snapped at his son. Now he was turning the ring. Ilvriss bowed his head.
“I would never. Father, I have a plan. I’m going to meet with the Holders of the Wall and present it. I wanted to outline it to you first.”
Wall Lord Zail stared at his son. He glanced at the papers Ilvriss handed to him.
“Show me.”
Ilvriss waited as Zail rifled through the papers. The Wall Lord blinked, his faded eyes tracing lines of Ilvriss’ neat handwriting, magically copied exactly.
“This—”
“That’s part of it. I’d like to expand the scope, though. Do I have permission to withdraw some of the heirlooms from Salazsar’s treasuries?”
Not just the Gemscale armories. The greatest of the Walled City’s treasures were even more heavily guarded. Zail recoiled.
“Withdraw…”
He hesitated, staring at the orb, Ilvriss’ proposals.
“You want to do this?”
“What would you have me do besides this? I will manage the heirlooms myself. And I plan on using money from the mining operations to fund all of it. As well as ask for a joint contribution.”
“Yes. But artifacts—”
Ilvriss’ father hesitated. But his eyes went back to the scrying orb. Bird’s form didn’t magically reappear, but it didn’t matter. Zail shuddered. He saw a nightmare. And Ilvriss felt guilty for using Bird. But—
“Go. I’ll get the key. Go—tell the others.”
Zail whispered, staring at the scrying orb. A memory. Ilvriss looked at his father, his sword half-drawn from his sheath. The younger [Lord] paused, then he bowed and left.
 
——
 
The thing about Erin. Ilvriss walked into the room where the other Holders of the Wall stood. Each bloodline had sent one representative, at least. The Holders of the Wall had a place to meet, in the ancient stone where the Walled City had first been hollowed out of the mountain. It was ancient, and glorious, and normally Ilvriss entered the place with reverence.
Not today. That was the Ilvriss of old. The new one was a stranger to these halls. But he walked with a purpose.
The thing about Erin Solstice that Ilvriss had learned was how to manage her. You had to react to Erin. You never knew where she could jump. She made mockeries of plans. Even by accident, she found herself at the heart of conflict. She didn’t start it, but she shaped it.
The thing about her was that you couldn’t wave your claws and scream in surprise or demand answers. You had to strike. She presented an opening, and Ilvriss reached for it.
“Ilvriss!”
Someone called out to Ilvriss in the rows of seats. He saw his sister, Navine Gemscale, glaring at him. Osthia must have kept her from meeting Ilvriss, because the younger Gemscale was furious. And suspicious. She was historically at odds with Ilvriss; the two had never seen eye-to-eye. The Gemscale family of four was split down the middle.
Zail Gemscale and his son were different from Helessia Gemscale and her daughter, Navine. They disagreed on topics like war, politics, the way Salazsar and Drakes should change. On Humans above all.
Well, until recently. Ilvriss nodded to Navine, but sat opposite her. The Holders of the Wall murmured as Navine glared; some came over, talking to Ilvriss as he readied himself. They were already debating, although no one had claimed the floor yet.
“Ilvriss. You saw what happened yesterday? What a disaster.”
Wall Lord Brilm, a continual drinker and fascinated collector of what was new and trending, was the first to approach Ilvriss. He was shaken—as shaken as many of the other Holders of the Wall.
They had seen Antinium only a few times, during the wars. And the sight of one inside a Walled City had rattled them. Ilvriss nodded to Brilm.
“A disaster. The Wyvern attack should not have reached Pallass. It was only luck that they repelled the attack so well. But if they hadn’t had Grimalkin of Pallass or Saliss of Lights—”
“They still blundered. Ancestors, an Antinium in their city! That magic door—how did they not protect against it? If I were them and I had to have that thing, I’d have it outside the city under lock and key!”
“No doubt Pallass will take precautions. It was only one Antinium, though.”
“Only one! Did you hear what it said? It threatened war.”
“I heard. And I have a plan I intend to lay before all present, Brilm. Can I count on you for support?”
The more portly Drake’s eyes widened.
“A plan? Of course you have one. About time someone does! I was talking with the others and no one’s got a decent—Manus is sending orders, as always. But we have to have our own response. I’ll back it. Just give me a signal.”
“Votes are enough. Here. I’ll pass you a copy—”
The papers Ilvriss had labored over changed hands. Brilm hurried away, waving some of his friends over as he paged through Ilvriss’ documents. The Wall Lord nodded, seeing Navine glaring at him.
“That is some stare your sister’s giving you, Ilvriss.”
A voice came from the Wall Lord’s left. Wall Lord Tasilt, another old friend and the odd one out—metaphorically speaking, since the room was filled with only Drakes—walked over. But he was different, even more so than Navine and her allies. He’d married a Gnoll, and Ilvriss had once considered that the height of difference.
What fool, he. Now, oh, now, he looked at his old friend a lot more favorably than Brilm. He always had, Ilvriss supposed. Tasilt had ideas. Brilm had trends. What had impeded Ilvriss before was prejudice.
Past time to start making the right choices. Ilvriss nodded to Tasilt.
“Navine’s suspicious. Rightly so. I have a plan to put before everyone.”
“Well, it occurs to me we should have had them years ago, but I’ll listen.”
Tasilt nodded cautiously. He didn’t offer Ilvriss a vote. The Wall Lord nodded.
“Take a look at this. And before you say anything, I’m going to distribute it to everyone and I’d like your input. It’s not set in stone. The concept, yes. The execution?”
He let Tasilt take the document. The other Drake read quickly. He was well-liked among the public of Salazsar. Less so in this august gathering. But no one would deny that Tasilt hadn’t done well with his ventures. Some failed, some went spectacularly well. Now, the Drake eyed Ilvriss’ proposal.
“Well…that’s something. But is it just lip-service, or will it actually change things, Ilvriss? One more group won’t do much. And if this is just designed to one-up the other Walled Cities…”
He looked at Ilvriss meaningfully. The Wall Lord almost smiled.
“Not at all. I mean every word.”
“In that case, you’re planning on starting the Third Antinium War. If not now, then in a few years.”
“No.”
“Then what am I reading?”
Tasilt glanced sharply at Ilvriss, looking him up and down. Ilvriss took a breath.
“You’re reading the only chance we have of creating a unified force between all the Walled Cities. Because that was what won us the last war, Tasilt. The last two wars. We lost Zel Shivertail. And he was the only Drake who could do it alone. This? This is attempting to replace what one Drake was.”
The other Wall Lord’s brows rose. He stared at the papers. Then he nodded, slowly.
“Let’s get a drink together later. My place. Assuming you can pass it.”
“In this room?”
Ilvriss looked around at the worried Drakes. Tasilt paused. He almost smiled.
“I’ll introduce you to my family. You’d be surprised how much they’ve changed.”
He walked off to his seat, and to confer with some others. Ilvriss waited, talking to others, distributing the papers around. Navine had a hold of one, he saw, and she stared at Ilvriss’ words and then glared up at him. But before she could make her way over to himm, the Holders of the Wall heard a voice.
“It’s time. Is every representative here?”
An old Drake, Wall Lady Calistoca, took the center of the room. She looked around. The Wall Lords and Ladies present slowly turned, and sat. This was how they ruled, the leadership of Salazsar. They presented their rings. Copper and brass, disguised, turned to gold. The rings glowed. Ilvriss lifted his claw, but his ring was missing. He saw Navine and some of the others looking at him sharply, but the golden magic that worked only in this room still illuminated him.
No one could stand in this room whose heart did not belong to Salazsar. The glow faded, and the Holders of the Wall spoke. They needed no solemn vows, or oaths of fealty. Their presence alone was enough.
“Complacency.”
The word was an echo of Ilvriss’ thoughts. He stared as Calistoca, oldest of those gathered, hissed across the room. The Drakes here could speak at will, but they let each other speak by turns. She opened with that word.
“The Walled Cities have known peace! But today we saw an Antinium on the walls of Pallass. One, but it named itself. It called itself—Bird the Hunter.”
“We saw a Human too. Aiding it.”
A Wall Lord to Ilvriss’ left spoke up. The room was divided into camps. Ilvriss, traditionalist, a supporter of Salazsar’s superiority and conflict with Humans, and any number of other stances—in the past—was directly opposite Navine. Brilm was closer to the middle. Tasilt sat more on Navine’s side. She and some of the others glared at the Wall Lord who’d spoken.
“We saw a Human, which is part of what we’re discussing. Who was that?”
“Never mind the Wyverns, eh?”
Brilm joked. Some of his peers glared at him too. Voices sprang up, worried, thoughtful, agitated.
“What do we know about the battle?”
“Aside from what we saw, you mean? There’s no information about that Human—”
“Erin Solstice.”
“Weird name. No information about her, or that Antinium. Bird the Hunter.”
“A Prognugator? How has Liscor not informed us of it? What are they doing?”
“They’re all mad. I told you. The border city’s gone cracked, and this just proves it. We nearly went to war over them—it’s Pallass’ domain, but that city can’t even keep a hold over its walls—”
“What are the other Walled Cities saying?”
“Well, Manus is giving orders. They want a full investigation, Pallass to do wall drills—”
“Hah! Those were Frost Wyverns. I found a bestiary and heard the accounts. They blasted everything off the walls—they had less than a minute to react. That was just bad luck.”
“Well, it’s still idiotic and a disgrace. What about the Human? And the Antinium?”
“Manus wants more funds.”
“Do they? How incredible! I’d never have imagined it! I’m being sarcastic, by the way.”
“Well, someone has to do something. Fissival’s put forwards a proposal to increase our military spending across all the Walled Cities by another ten percent—”
“Which does what, exactly? We’re already stalemated with the Antinium. Let’s just fund Manus. They can hire a few [Geomancers] to cast [Earthquake] on the Hives. Something serious so they know we mean business this time.”
“You’ve read the reports. The spells don’t do as much damage anymore. And each time we do that, the Antinium always retaliate. Our border lines—”
“So hire six [Geomancers] all at once. If Manus wants to keep up the harassment, let’s fund them. Oteslia’s suggesting we go after the Wyverns—nothing about the Antinium.”
“They’re just afraid the Wyverns will go and eat their pegasuses and crops.”
“Pegasi. It’s plural.”
The conversations were pedantic, pointed, and quick. Sometimes they got off-track, but Ilvriss heard only worry, nothing concrete. The other Walled Cities were doing exactly what he’d predicted. Fissival was planning new war spells. Could use funding from other cities. Not naming Salazsar exactly!
Oteslia wanted to take down the Wyvern threat, and it was motioning for a hunting force from the other cities. Manus needed support for their secret operations—a strike against the Antinium, no doubt. Pallass—in between defending itself—was suggesting the Wyvern corpses could outfit a new regiment. Zeres wanted ships since the Antinium were obviously unable to defeat a naval force.
That was what the Walled Cities were saying. But Ilvriss was certain each city also had a group like this, which was planning. Looking for more private measures they could take. Even united, each Walled City wanted to have the advantage over the others. That was the problem with Drakes.
Ilvriss sighed. He listened as his peers argued. But then he heard a voice override a discussion about Wyvern armor versus normal leather.
“Why don’t we let someone who was at Liscor tell us what he thinks about the entire affair?”
Brilm winked unsubtly at Ilvriss and sat down. But it was an opening. Ilvriss stood and felt all eyes on him. Navine glared at her sibling.
“And why don’t you tell us what’s been passed around, Ilvriss? You clearly came here with a plan.”
Murmuring in the ranks.
“Plan? What plan?”
“He was there. What a cursed city.”
“What plan? Pass me that—”
Ilvriss raised his claws for silence. He indicated the stack of papers he had.
“I have indeed come here with a plan, Wall Lady Navine. And as I pass it to you, I’ll deliver my thoughts.”
He walked around the room, handing out the sheaves of paper. The Holders of the Wall read, relieved to be reading a laid-out plan, a document like the ones they reviewed in their jobs managing their business. Ilvriss took the center of the room.
“I have been to Liscor. And I’ve met that Human. And that Antinium. Not personally, but I have seen them.”
“And is it a Centenium, Ilvriss?”
The Wall Lord felt countless eyes on him. And truth spells, appraising him. He paused.
