In a way, Ilvriss felt bad for the Walled Cities. He knew they were already trying to put her in their square holes and they had no idea what kind of shape she actually was.
Neither did he, honestly. But he knew the Walled Cities. The Wall Lord of Salazsar sat in his office and guessed what they might do.
“First debate. Manus’ war councils, Pallass’ inner circles, Zeres’ admirals, Oteslia’s matriarch…Fissival’s idiots…”
Yes, he knew the Walled Cities. They were predictable, at least. Each city was assessing, convening their leadership. And that was, again, just the Walled Cities. Ilvriss guessed that the Humans and even other nations might be making plans off what they’d seen.
They had no idea. None at all. They thought they knew, and perhaps some in Pallass had learned what Erin Solstice was. But few others did. They had no idea about the hilarious, disastrous…
“Bird the Hunter.”
Ilvriss closed his eyes. The purple-scaled Drake sat back in his chair. It was already spreading. Bird the Hunter’s name was being etched into security briefings, [Strategist]’s notes. Who was this new Prognugator? As dangerous as Xrn the Small Queen, or Klbkch the Slayer? Wrymvr the Deathless? Surely so, for he had a name.
They’d be asking questions. About Erin, too. The Human who knew a Prognugator. Erin Solstice, who they’d finally connect with the small, but entertaining, incidents around Liscor. A girl who’d led a Goblin army. Employed Hobgoblins?
Erin Solstice, possible enemy of the Walled Cities. Erin Solstice, the enigmatic, mysterious force to be appraised. Erin Solstice, connected to the dangerous, unpredictable new Prognugator.
Bird the Hunter.
Ilvriss couldn’t take it anymore. He began to laugh, caught himself, slammed his head—lightly—onto his desk, and then let out a guffaw.
That was an appropriate response. Aside from weeping.
“Ilvriss? Wall Lord?”
Alrric, the [Administrator] of the Gemscale holdings and second to Ilvriss in the matters of his business, opened the office door. He stared down at Ilvriss. The Wall Lord was sitting in his chair. But the chair had fallen backwards onto the carpet of the office.
“Are you all right, Wall Lord?”
“Merely expressing my emotions towards the battle, Alrric.”
“Ah.”
The Gnoll watched as Ilvriss got up and pulled his chair up. He eyed Ilvriss oddly. It was rare to see Ilvriss Gemscale, the dignified, handsome, proud Wall Lord of Salazsar do anything that might embarrass himself, and thus, his city. But Ilvriss had changed since returning home.
Everyone knew it. Oh, he’d hosted parties and reentered Salazsar’s highest society, but the Wall Lord was changed to anyone who was familiar with him. Alrric, as someone who met with Ilvriss on a regular basis, saw it even more especially. But the Gnoll just nodded.
“A dramatic battle. And that—Antinium. Bird the Hunter.”
Straight-faced, Ilvriss stood behind his chair. He was going to have to say that without laughing.
“Exactly. It’s not a matter to take lightly. I’m going to be busy today, Alrric.”
“Anything in store for me?”
The Gnoll walked over to Ilvriss’ neat desk. The Wall Lord had a sheaf of papers, all magically transcribed. Ilvriss picked them up before Alrric could see the contents.
“The Holders of the Walls will be convening. All of them. Later today. I shall be joining them—but before that, I will be conferring with my family.”
“Obviously. I’ll manage things today.”
The Gnoll nodded. He was one of the most powerful Gnolls in Salazsar, as the [Administrator] behind the Gemscale holdings. But there was power and power. Ilvriss was a Wall Lord. He and his peers ruled Salazsar.
They had no Assembly of Crafts, no senate. Nor did they have a Dragonspeaker, or a matriarch like the other Walled Cities. They had never changed their rulership. Salazsar had been founded by the Wall Lords and the Wall Ladies and it was still theirs. Such was Salazsar. Tradition, gemstones, and pride.
“Is it war, Wall Lord?”
Again, Ilvriss nearly laughed. But he turned it into a bitter quirk of the lips.
“Do you think the Walled Cities are ready for it, Alrric?”
The question surprised the Gnoll. He peered at Ilvriss.
“I would have thought you’d have assured me the Walled Cities were ready to stamp out the Antinium threat, Wall Lord. And I’d have assumed so, before what I saw yesterday. What will you decide?”
“I have a plan. Which doesn’t involve war yet.”
Ilvriss indicated the sheaf of papers. He sighed.
“I can’t say more, yet. I’ll let you take charge, Alrric. But before that—we need to talk funding.”
“Ah.”
The Gnoll’s eyes sharpened. This at least, he knew quite well. The [Administrator] saw Ilvriss check his notes, and then find a paper and offer it to the Gnoll. Alrric read and his brows rose. Ilvriss nodded.
“Can you sequester the funds, Alrric? Without slowing operations or making it an obvious withdrawal?”
“I assume this isn’t a one-time cost?”
“It’s per month.”
“Of course.”
Alrric sighed. It was not an easy sum to manage. But it never was, in his position. He didn’t ask Ilvriss what it was for. He just did math. Ilvriss saw Alrric’s paws twitching, as if he was using the abacus. Ilvriss had one on his desk too. At last, Alrric nodded.
“I can do it. If you let me sell the rights to the opal shafts.”
“Sell them?”
Ilvriss’ brows shot together. The [Administrator] nodded.
“They’re tapped. It’s steady, but we’re not employing enough [Miners] to justify the teams working on this and the new seam. I say sell while it’s still worth something and use the funds to pay for investment in the new seam. We’ve already gotten truegold and magicore from the vein—it’s a safe risk.”
The Wall Lord tapped his claws on his desk. He was a [Lord], but it had to be said, Ilvriss wasn’t a purely war-based [Lord] like Tyrion Veltras. He could fight, and lead, and manage, but he was specialized towards one end: making money. And he did it well. Ilvriss chewed over Alrric’s words and nodded.
“Very well. You have control over the development. I’ll leave it to you. And the bonuses if we strike enough at year’s end. Full control. My claws are off the project.”
That surprised Alrric, the second time in as many minutes. The Gnoll’s brows shot up. He eyed Ilvriss.
They were familiar enough that sometimes Alrric dropped Ilvriss’ title, but they were still superior and subordinate. Ilvriss had understood that Alrric addressing him informally was part of the give and take. But he’d seldom referenced it openly. Today was different. Everything was.
“There was a time you’d never have let me manage your company, Wall Lord. Not with full control, even if you agreed with all my plans.”
Ilvriss nodded. That was absolutely true. He’d managed his company since he was barely Erin’s age—each Drake family had a portion of Salazsar’s economy that built their towers, teams of miners and others they employed that fed their fortunes. And while some Wall Lords and Ladies preferred to leave it to trusted individuals, Ilvriss had always, always been in charge.
But now, the Wall Lord just folded his claws behind his back, keeping the soft papers from wrinkling as he looked out his large glass windows.
“It was Tasilt who introduced me to you, wasn’t it, Alrric? Twelve years ago?”
“That’s correct.”
Alrric frowned. Wall Lord Tasilt, the renegade of the Wall Lords for marrying a Gnoll and employing unorthodox business practices, had indeed recommended Alrric. He had been an on-off-on-again friend with Ilvriss for that reason. Ilvriss regretted that now. The Wall Lord nodded absently.
“It took me over a year to agree, you know. Even though you were the best Gnoll for the job. But Tasilt had to talk me into it. He was right that a non-Drake [Administrator] was better than a Drake. If I hadn’t listened to him, taken a ‘chance’ after the corruption scandal—I wouldn’t have been able to leave the Gemscale holdings to you when it mattered most.”
The Gnoll standing across Ilvriss’ desk was blinking hard. He peered at Ilvriss, wondering if the Wall Lord had taken ill. Or simply leave of his senses. Ilvriss turned.
“Call on me if you need to use one of my Skills. Otherwise—you’re in charge. My family doesn’t need me to explain or justify your authority. I have to go, Alrric. The Holders of the Wall are meeting and I have to convince my family first.”
He strode towards the door. Alrric stopped him. The Gnoll looked Ilvriss up and down and came out with it.
“Wall Lord, are you well?”
Ilvriss grinned mirthlessly. He felt like he could read Alrric like a book, at least in this moment. The Gnoll stared at him. The Drake just turned his head and shook it, meeting Alrric’s stare.
“I’ve learned to look harder at people in different ways, Alrric. You have my trust. And certainly, certainly I’d like to earn yours, sometime. It occurs to me you’ve never once told me about your family. Or your past outside of your previous jobs.”
The Gnoll blinked. He replied automatically.
“It never came up, Wall Lord.”
Ilvriss glanced at Alrric’s face thoughtfully. And now he was on the back claw. Paw. Foot. Whatever. He shook his head again.
“No. I doubt it ever would have. We will have to talk, Alrric. I wonder how many suggestions you had that you’d never have run by me a month ago.”
He put his claws on the door. Alrric, staring at Ilvriss, looked at the desk and then at the Drake. He called out as Ilvriss flung his office door open.
“What happened to you in Liscor, Ilvriss? When you left?”
Everyone knew something. But Ilvriss hadn’t told anyone directly. Everyone ‘knew’, but it had never come from the Wall Lord’s mouth himself. Now, the Drake [Lord] turned. He looked at Alrric.
“I saw my love die, and then watched the Tidebreaker die hundreds of miles from the nearest Drake army. I met an idiot, and I quit drinking.”
Then he turned away. Ilvriss shut the door quietly. Alrric stared at it, and then looked around the office. He blinked.
“That would about do it, yes.”
The Gnoll looked at Ilvriss’ desk. He walked around it, and stared at the seat. Then, slowly, he pulled out the chair and got to work.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss strode across the spires and upper walkways of Salazsar. Power climbed, at least in the City of Gems. He could look down and stare into his city, built into the side of a mountain. Salazsar, the lone Walled City that kept building itself, year by year, century by century, was vast. Sprawling. Magnificent.
And also—complacent. Ilvriss saw it in the grand towers, decorated and beautiful. In the anxiety of the people who called out to him. In his family, his fellow Holders of the Wall. The Drake saw it in his city and he disliked it.
Complacency. How had he not seen it before? He had been blind, but now Ilvriss felt like he was staring at a different world. It wasn’t just Erin Solstice that had changed his perception, either. She was just a catalyst. For the rest—no—Ilvriss wouldn’t have been able to see what he needed to become if he hadn’t seen the very icon of it, been lectured by him, himself.
Zel Shivertail. The hero of the Antinium Wars. The Tidebreaker.
“Grimalkin of Pallass is bigger than Shivertail. But he is a poor copy. If Shivertail stood on those walls?”
Ilvriss tried to imagine that scene. It would be similar. But—
“If he had stood on those walls, that Antinium would have never gotten away with his bluff.”
The Wall Lord shook his head. He could almost see it. That damned Drake’s back. But Zel was dead. Slain.
Dead. But not forgotten. Never forgotten. His shadow loomed over Ilvriss, a reminder. And a word came to Ilvriss’ lips that he would never speak, not even as he walked in his secure home.
Az’kerash. The Necromancer.
Ilvriss had one enemy. Only one. The Antinium, the Humans, all took a back seat to the Necromancer. But Ilvriss’ foe was elusive. His reach might be anywhere. Ilvriss trusted so few—
“Wall Lord.”
“Ah, Captain Shieldscale.”
One of them saluted Ilvriss now. Osthia Blackwing, disguised as the blue-scaled Captain Shieldscale, fell into step with the Wall Lord. She had been promoted to the head of his private armed forces. Ilvriss knew people were already speculating about her relationship with him, or the other reasons he might have employed her.
Let them talk. Right now, Ilvriss was focused. He nodded to Osthia and murmured.
“Is my father in his quarters? I need to speak with him, and then get to the meeting with the Holders of the Wall.”
“He is. About yesterday. That Antinium—”
Osthia was vibrating with tension. And how not? It was her city that had been attacked. But she didn’t know Erin. She didn’t know—Bird. Ilvriss put a claw on her shoulder.
“I’ll meet with you later, Captain. For now—I’m putting the plan into action.”
He brandished the papers. Osthia’s eyes widened.
“Now? But I thought—”
“This is the perfect excuse. The perfect moment. If you see my sister coming for me—stall her. I don’t want her getting wind of what I have planned until the meeting.”
Osthia nodded. She slipped away as Ilvriss walked through his mansion. His people greeted him, anxious to know more, but Ilvriss had no time. He had a schedule, and a plan.
The first part of his plan sat in a chair in his quarters, near a fire. Zail Gemscale, Ilvriss’ father, looked up sharply as Ilvriss entered the room.
“Father.”
“Ilvriss. You saw?”
Zail was staring at a scrying orb. Ilvriss saw a wyvern soaring through the skies and for a moment his heart skipped. Were they attacking again?
No. it was a replay. One being broadcast from Wistram. Ilvriss relaxed. He didn’t trust the scrying orb—the [Wardmistress] who’d inspected Ilvriss’ mansion had told him point-blank that they were weak points. Even so, this conversation was fine to share even if there was a watcher. That was the point.
“Father, the battle’s over. You can relax.”
“Relax? After seeing a Walled City nearly fall to Wyverns? Those fools can’t even hold their walls.”
Zail sneered, but his scales were paler than usual, despite the fire’s heat. Wall Lord Zail was pale, and his claws shook a bit. He was also wearing his sword in its scabbard, Ilvriss saw. Zail had fought in wars before, and the dent along one side of his head was proof of his sacrifices for Salazsar. He had even commanded during the two Antinium Wars, but his health was gone.
Even so. Ilvriss stooped, peering at the orb.
“I heard it was a failure of the [Strategist] on the walls. There was a survivor. He claimed the [Cage of Pallass] spell wasn’t used—that the Wyverns launched an incredibly fast attack.”
“Fools.”
