“No. I very much doubt it is. But consider what we saw. We saw an Antinium claiming to be a Prognugator. Whether he is or not, I again doubt. But what we saw, to me at least, is terrifying. Anyone else with a military background surely agrees.”
He looked at some of the [Lords] and [Ladies] who’d graduated from Manus, or fought. All of them, including Calistoca, nodded slowly.
“How so? It was one Antinium.”
Navine glared down at Ilvriss. He raised one brow.
“One Antinium? Yes. But one who was not Centenium, or else we would have met him in the First Antinium War or the Second, and who was clearly a new addition to Liscor’s Hive. The city is aware of…Bird the Hunter. But they haven’t classified him as a Prognugator until now. Think about what that means. A Worker who can use a bow.”
“They can all use bows. We’ve seen the Hives in battle. Their Workers can use bows, the same as any idiot with arms and legs.”
One of the Wall Lords snapped at Ilvriss. Calistoca glared.
“Can they shoot a Wyvern’s eye out from hundreds of feet away? What young Ilvriss is saying is that this one’s good. It has levels.”
The room fell silent. Ilvriss nodded.
“We’re prepared for a third war. We’ve taken countermeasures. But we’ve trusted in the Antinium’s weaknesses. Inability to swim. Lack of flying Antinium.”
“Except for the damned ones with wings. They’re changing.”
“But they can’t fly, Brilm. Manus’ reports put them at huge leaps, but we were convinced that our Oldbloods would be able to dominate the skies from range, excluding artifacts, conflicts with Xrn, or Wrymvr, or some of the Twisted Antinium. Until now.”
Tasilt pointed out. He looked at Ilvriss, who nodded back.
“Exactly. With some difficulty, we could hold the skies. But consider this Antinium. He is a dedicated anti-air specialist. Capable of bringing down Wyverns with what appears to be an unenchanted bow. You know what that means.”
“Levels.”
Someone muttered. The room fell silent, briefly.
“He’s just one. Prognugators can level. We all know that.”
“Yes, but what if the Antinium can make more? That’s the point, isn’t it? If they can make one Prognugator capable of defeating our fliers…”
What else have they got? Ilvriss saw the others looking at each other uneasily. Almost everyone had a copy of his proposal now. Now, it was time to take advantage of the fear. The uncertainty. This was Ilvriss’ plan.
“That’s what I see as well. Perhaps it is not immediate, but the threat is there. So I have a proposal before you all. I had it in mind before this incident, but it’s only convinced me that the time is now. With your support, I’d like to enact a project beyond whatever support the Walled Cities agree on as a whole.”
The Holders of the Wall murmured. They checked Ilvriss’ plan, looking at each other. Navine was shaking her head, arguing with those around her, but the others liked this.
“We have to have something. Manus will be cooking something up as well. All the other cities…”
“I was thinking of investigating that Human. Sending a few [Spies], but this—what am I reading, Ilvriss?”
Ilvriss smiled. He indicated the papers.
“I’m proposing funding. Not funding for our armies, but a contribution from each tower. Off the books and in secret. With it, I’ll put together a force. I’m planning on approaching other cities. Even other Walled Cities. Recruiting. Even from outside Izril.”
For a second the room fell silent. Then Navine shot to her feet. Her tail lashed as she glared at Ilvriss.
“Ridiculous! You want to put together this—this force of elites? We have elite soldiers! What do we need another one for?”
“Fighting the Antinium, obviously. Salazsar has powerful groups, Wall Lady Navine. But it does not have a superior force. I am not calling for the development of one single group of [Soldiers]. I am saying I want to steal every elite Drake, Gnoll, or other species I can find and put them into a single, cohesive group. And if the Antinium attack—we have seen that high-level elites do far better than any other force. Well, this will be superior even to Liscor’s vaunted army.”
“Don’t listen to him. This force won’t be just used against the Antinium. If it’s formed, I guarantee it’ll be used against Humans or anyone else ‘we’ decide is an enemy.”
Navine glared at Ilvriss. She looked triumphant, furious—Ilvriss knew she was thinking she’d found out his grand plans. And she was disgusted. This was another attempt for him to secure Salazsarian superiority. Or so she thought.
“Shouldn’t we have a force like that? It’s expensive. This is calling for—Ilvriss, why all the gold?”
“Gold buys everything we need, Wall Lord Khaiss. Arms, training, equipment—”
“It’s just a waste of gold. It’ll be another drain on our coffers…”
“Say that to Pallass. Did you or did you not see it being attacked? And that Antinium?”
“We can’t authorize this! If the other Walled Cities get wind of this—listen to me! Leaving this in Ilvriss’ discretion—”
“Not his alone. You can read, can’t you? It says joint command. But I like the sound of a secret project like this. And if there is a war…”
Ilvriss waited. He met Navine’s eyes as she glared at him. She looked down at the papers for a moment.
“And what do you call this grand proposal, Ilvriss?”
He told her. Navine blinked at him. And for a moment she faltered. The other Drakes stared at Ilvriss, but no one commented on it. Ilvriss nodded. Let them think about what it meant. The name had a deeper meaning.
“I believe it’s time for a vote. All in favor?”
The Holders debated. Hands rose and Ilvriss counted. Oh yes. It would pass. In this room, at this moment? The shaken Holders of the Wall would vote to give him some of what he wanted. Not all. And Navine would try and block him. She had her own plans. But Ilvriss would have his secret project, gathering an elite force that may or may not be used against all of Salazsar’s enemies…or just the Antinium.
He gave it a week, two on the outside before someone blabbed and all the Walled Cities heard about it. It would be an open secret; you couldn’t hide this. No doubt Az’kerash would hear of it too, somehow.
Well, here went brave Wall Lord Ilvriss, preparing to assail the Antinium. He’d go around, beating a war drum and coincidentally, visit other cities. Ilvriss had an excuse. It would be messy, and it would be political. But he’d have a reason to travel.
And that’s when his work, and Osthia’s, would really begin. Ilvriss nodded as the Holders of the Wall began to vote. He saw Navine scowling at him, Tasilt watching Ilvriss as he voted ‘yea’. One was his sister, the other a friend Ilvriss had grown to respect more and more after his trials at Liscor.
But could he trust any of them? Could he trust anyone? Az’kerash hung in the air, a shadow in the light. Ilvriss paused. He’d find the traitors. And build…
Not a shadow army. Nor a secret force. That was stupid. You couldn’t hide [Soldiers]. But you could hide a conspiracy. One of the people who knew the truth.
The motion passed. Ilvriss sighed as the Holders began to debate the terms of the plan, how much gold would go to him. Step one completed. All thanks to Erin Solstice. Ilvriss had a list he’d written down. It was so secret that only two Drakes in the world knew about it. It was a list he was going to check and double check until he had enough people to march on that forest and burn it and the Necromancer to the ground.
And all that stood in his way were the other Walled Cities, the Antinium, the Humans—and other Drakes who might be traitors or just well-intentioned. Ilvriss sighed again. But as he left the secret meeting, at least he had one thing.
Project Periss was underway.
 
——
 
The next day, Erin Solstice woke up late. She was hungry, groggy, and the entire world wanted a piece of her.
Well…actually…the inn was quiet. No one had popped over to scream at her. Erin felt that was very disturbing. People wanted to see her, of course. Relc was there. Selys, Krshia—but there was no Zevara here to twist off Erin’s head and arrest Bird.
“What’s wrong with the world?”
Erin wondered aloud as she had a porridge breakfast. Mrsha sniffed at her bowl and agreed. Not worth stealing. She shook her head sadly at Erin and turned away.
“I suppose you’re not in trouble, then. Good. Can you please avoid making the inn detonate before I finish building it? Oh, and I’m going to get the Players of Celum later. They still haven’t come by! I think they haven’t heard the inn’s open and I forgot to tell them, what with all the drama.”
Lyonette passed by. Erin saw Mrsha nearly fall off her chair as she giggled silently. Erin stuck out her tongue at Lyonette’s back.
“You’re just jealous that I have all the fun. Just you wait! I’ve got new Skills and I’m gonna try them out! [Garden of Sanctuary], for one! Activate!”
Erin raised her hands. The [Princess] whirled.
“Not in here! Are you cr—”
She shielded her face. Mrsha ducked. Everyone in the [Grand Theatre] ducked. Erin’s eyes widened.
“Oops! I—”
She looked around. Nothing happened. Erin pointed at the walls.
“Um. [Garden of Sanctuary]! Go!“
She stared at the wall. Nothing happened. A magical garden did not appear, or whatever Erin was supposed to get. She stood up.
“[Garden]? Over here? Maybe this room overrides—nope?”
She tried the private dining room Lyonette had built—and then the hallway. Then upstairs. Workers constructing the hallways stared at Erin as she waved her hands. Mrsha followed Erin and shook her head.
“I know it’s not working. Well—maybe I need an actual garden first?”
Erin scratched her head. She went downstairs. Lyonette raised one brow.
“And you have a Skill that doesn’t work. I’m so incredibly jealous.”
“Hey! Rude! I’m…fairly certain it’ll work if I figure it out! And I can use my other Skill! Oh yeah. I can make fire now. Magical fire. Wanna see?”
“No. If you burn down this inn—”
“I’ll show you somewhere else! Jeeze!”
Erin sighed. Mrsha grinned, and even Lyonette had to smile.
“Is it useful?”
“Well, I was gonna cook with it or something. But I haven’t gotten it completely down. And I want to see what’s new in Liscor! If I’m not under arrest—there’s so much to do!”
Erin smiled and looked around. She saw Palt trot over.
“Oh, hey Smokey.”
“Please don’t call me that. I’m not even smoking anything. Erin, it’s a delight to have you back.”
The [Illusionist] smiled at Erin. She half-smiled back. But she could see Montressa and Beza behind them. Then Erin looked at Palt, seriously.
“Did you…deliver Isceil’s remains?”
The Centaur nodded gravely.
“We brought it in range of Fissival’s teleportation network. They…took the body. The family didn’t wish to speak to us.”
“Oh. I’m—”
Erin looked at the three [Mages]. Palt forced a smile.
“It’s a topic we’ve been over, believe me. Erin, I do need to talk to you. Not urgently, but the Ullsinoi faction—”
“Uh oh. These are their demands, right?”
Erin sighed. She propped her hands on her hips. The [Illusionist] waved his hands.
“Nothing major! But the world saw your inn. It’s an ongoing negotiation, Miss Solstice. Give and take! We help you, you help us. Believe me, mutually beneficial arrangements are something the Elusive Lot understand. Not like some factions—”
“Palt, we can hear you badmouthing us.”
Beza shouted at Palt. The Centaur flapped a hand at her. Montressa and Beza wanted to speak to Erin too. She sighed.
“Okay, what have I gotten myself into?”
“Nothing much for now! Just—if I could have your permission to write a few…signs…outside your door? And we could discuss people with the proper signs coming to your inn? No questions asked?”
“I knew it! You want me to smuggle drugs!”
Erin shouted. Relc’s head turned. Palt winced.
“I’m not asking for that! It’s just discretion—”
“Which Erin will have and we can discuss. She upholds her commitments.”
Lyonette stomped on Erin’s foot. The [Innkeeper] hopped around.
“This isn’t fair! I just wanted to come back to my nice, peaceful inn! Why do I have to…”
“Delivery for Miss Erin Solstice!”
The young woman turned. Fals stood behind Erin, a package in his hands. The City Runner looked slightly put-upon. But this is how it had started. With a package. The City Runner had been delayed by drama, Wyverns, and an absent [Innkeeper]. But nothing—not even Palt jockeying for position—was going to stop him.
“What’s this?”
“A delivery for you, Miss Erin. It came by City Runner, and I’ve been waiting to get it to you. I just need a seal, so I can confirm I got it to you. It’s slightly heavy.”
“Oh. Well—do I have a seal?”
“Here.”
Lyonette passed Erin one. She handed it to Fals. He grinned, relieved.
“Thank you. I just have to give it to you so I can swear it was delivered to you by truth spell!”
He handed the package to Erin. She took it.
“It is heavy! And square!”
She stared at the wrapped package. Something…flickered in her memory. Not like fire, but this was a familiar scene. She stared at Fals.
“Did you…who is it from?”
“Don’t know. But it came here through me, from the north. No idea who it is, but I’m fairly certain no one’s unwrapped it. They do that sometimes. Thanks. I’m going to head back to Celum. I’d love to chat, but you have a line. Can I drop by tomorrow?”
“Oh, sure—”
Erin saw there was indeed a line of people. Wanting to speak to her, to catch up, and so on. Fals grinned at Erin.
“It’s good to see you back, Miss Solstice.”
“Hey.”
Erin reached out and grabbed Fals’ arm. She smiled at him.
“You too. Don’t be a stranger!”
“And tell the Players that the inn’s open, please!”
Lyonette followed Fals out the doors and into the hallway. Erin turned to the package. Palt was eying it too, curiously. He glanced up at Erin.
“Anyone you know?”
“Maybe…”
Erin blinked at the package. It was heavy. And—she looked at it and remembered something similar. It was even wrapped the same way. Speculatively, Erin looked around the inn. Mrsha got up on two legs to sniff at the package, but she clearly detected nothing from the inside.
“Hey Lyonette. Where’s my chess board?”
“In your room. Mrsha kept swatting the pieces off it.”
“Oh, you—”
Erin saw Mrsha roll under a table. She turned.
“I’m just going to open this in my room. Be right back!”
“Aw! I want to see!”
Relc complained. He jostled Beza out of the way—the Minotauress tried to shove him back, but she missed. Olesm entered the inn.
“Is Erin here? Oh, Erin—I’m so glad you’re back. I wanted to say—”
