He looked around. The Antinium were already marching out the door, silently. Erin saw the two strange Antinium leaving too. They weren’t the only ones. Zevara started.
“I’ve never seen Klbkch—is that his idea of discipline? Ancestors.”
Then it hit her. Her eyes widened.
“Ancestors. Ancestors. I have to get back to Liscor. The other cities must be in an uproar. I—”
She stared at the door. Then at the [Innkeeper] again. Erin checked Bird, kneeling to inspect his head.
“Are you okay, Bird?”
“I am all better.”
Erin looked up at the Watch Captain.
“It wasn’t my fault. I think. Well, maybe Bird was. But—”
She tried lamely to explain. Zevara just shook her head.
“Tell me later. Miss Solstice, keep the—keep Bird out of Pallass. I need to—Sergeant Relc, on me!”
“Yeah.”
Relc murmured, staring out the door Klbkch had left from. He went over to the magic door and set it to Liscor, pulled it open. That made some of the others move as well. Lism hurried out of the crowd. Erin stared at him as he brushed past her. The Drake’s head turned and he snapped.
“The Council needs to convene at once. The other cities will need our input. Watch Captain, Olesm, we’re meeting at once. Let’s go!”
“Elirr.”
Krshia appeared with the other Gnoll. Both nodded to Erin. Krshia half-smiled.
“Erin. We must talk later—”
They vanished through the door. More Gnolls and Drakes hurried after them, some to shout about what they’d seen. The inn was depopulating fast. Some people stayed, wanting to talk to Erin, but she focused—
[Crowd Control]. And [Inn’s Aura]. They stayed back, murmuring amongst themselves, even as familiar faces appeared. A Hobgoblin pushed towards Erin. The little Gnoll cub was still there. Mrsha had hidden behind Erin. Now, Lyonette swept her up.
A bee floated past Erin. She looked at them, and then at Bird. He was crouched, eating his Wyvern wing. Erin looked at her family in this other world. Lyonette was wide-eyed, holding Mrsha. It was Numbtongue who eyed the door by which Klbkch had left. Then he looked at Erin. The Hobgoblin was the least surprised out of anyone in the room by the previous moments. He shrugged and then grinned.
“Wyverns. Lots of Wyverns. Hard to beat, even for Redfangs. Cold ones are even harder. It was a nice fight.”
He held out a hand. Erin took it. The Hobgoblin [Bard] effortlessly pulled her up. Now, Mrsha squirmed and waved her paws. Erin went over to her.
“Oh, Mrsha.”
She gave the little Gnoll a huge hug, squeezing her tight. Erin felt someone else hug her. Lyonette. Numbtongue was inspecting Bird’s head. Erin’s lips quirked.
“It’s never quiet with me around, is it? Sorry.”
The [Princess] almost laughed.
“For what? I was so worried. We all were. What was that with Klbkch? He was—Pawn said he’s not like we know him in the Hive. But I never thought—”
She caught herself. And so did Erin. The [Innkeeper] looked at the others. And she realized this was the moment. Erin let go. She stood in her inn, and inhaled. Her inn.
It was strange and unfamiliar. But home. And she saw faces she knew. Erin smiled as Bird stood up. She held that breath for a moment, then breathed out. There was a way to do it, after all.
“Hey Lyonette. Numbtongue. Mrsha. I’m back.”
They looked at her. And then Lyonette smiled.
“Hi. Did you have a good holiday, Erin?”
The young woman hesitated. She looked around her inn and shrugged. It was a Goblin’s shrug, which meant everything. Numbtongue grinned. Mrsha wagged her tail. Erin Solstice scratched the back of her head.
“Eh, it was okay. Sort of boring. Right up until the end.”
 
——
 
After all was said and done, Erin found herself eating a sandwich. Grilled cheese. With a bit of ham in the middle with the cheese. A nice, sharp cheese too. Erin hadn’t realized she’d needed food, but Lyonette had learned from her.
Food was a comfort thing. And Erin hadn’t eaten since…this morning. Between Pelt and prison and Wyvern attacks, she’d missed out on food—even in Tails and Scales! Erin’s breakfast of grilled fish was a long way away, and Erin found herself scarfing down the food.
“Here. A drink. Good job, Mrsha!”
Mrsha brought over the glass of goat’s milk, not spilling a drop. Erin drank gratefully. People were still in her inn—she noticed a familiar trio of [Mages], a Human, a Centaur, and a Minotauress, as well as her staff, a number of guests, and a few unfamiliar new ones, but no one was coming over.
They all were willing to gossip or debate the incident in Pallass, and Erin was keeping them away, whether they knew it or not. It was Numbtongue, Mrsha, Drassi, Ishkr, and Bird and Apista who could get close. And Lyonette, of course. The [Princess] had brought out the sandwich after heating it up and she was directing the staff flawlessly.
“Lykr, before the tables are cleared up, check for coins. Anyone who hasn’t paid—make a list! You have [Server’s Memory]—you do the list, everyone else clear only the tables Lykr’s done with! I need Ississi in the kitchen for dishes…”
“Who’s Ississi?”
Erin looked around vaguely. She saw a Drake with cream-colored scales trotting into the kitchen. Erin blinked at her.
“Do I know her?”
“She’s a [Dishwasher Cleaner]. Specific class, I know. But she’s good at her job. I hired her and she can clear the inn’s dirty dishes faster than anyone else. And clean the floors almost as well.”
Erin blinked. She saw Lykr, the Gnoll with striped black and chestnut fur walking over to the tables.
“And him? Do I know him? I do, right?”
“Yup. Lykr gained a new Skill.”
Lyonette nodded. Erin knew all of the staff’s names, but no one as well as Drassi and Ishkr. And Drassi hurried back through the double doors leading to the trapped-out hallway at that very moment.
“Lyonette! Erin! Okay, word on the street is that Pallass sent an all-clear. Which is putting most of Liscor in a panic because they didn’t have scrying orbs! Word’s spreading—it’s chaos! I have to get out there and share what happened!”
“Later. Anything else from Pallass, Drassi? What about us? Bird?”
The [Gossip] came over to the table as Lyonette shook her head. The [Gossip] shrugged.
“The Watch House is full of [Guards], but all they told me is that Zevara’s sending [Messages] like crazy and the Council is too. They’re trying to make sense of it all, but Zevara isn’t sending [Guards] to arrest anyone. She said that’s the last thing they need, apparently.”
“So no one’s in trouble?”
Erin looked at Lyonette and the others anxiously. Numbtongue shrugged, watching Beza, Montressa, and Palt out of the corner of his eye. He strummed idly on his guitar. Drassi shrugged helplessly.
“I don’t think so. No one’s screaming for it, as far as I can tell, and I went to the Mage’s Guild. I mean—Bird did help out during the battle. And threatened war. But the other cities might be blaming Liscor. Or the Hive.”
Lyonette nodded slowly.
“No one’s going to arrest anyone. I think. If I know the way the other cities are thinking—they won’t try to arrest you or Bird through Liscor, Erin. They were spooked by the thought of the Third Antinium War. They’ll assess. If they do move, we have a few days.”
“And what if the Council or Zevara decides to arrest everyone in the inn?”
That came from Ishkr. The Gnoll looked uncharacteristically worried. His fur was still standing up on end. Everyone at their table turned to stare at the Antinium sitting by himself at another table.
Bird was recovered from Klbkch’s attack. In fact, he was still happily trying to eat the extraordinarily tough Wyvern wing. And winning. Lyonette exhaled slowly.
“If they’re coming, it’s not for a few hours, I bet. And what will they say? It was Bird who went through. Erin didn’t order him to. I think it’ll be a reprimand.”
“And if it’s not?”
Erin remembered Lism was on the Council. But she was also thinking about Klbkch. He had been—she felt a nudge and looked over. Numbtongue grinned down at her. The Hobgoblin nodded at the doors leading to the entryway.
“Let them. We can fight. Antinium built a nice hallway. Full of traps.”
Erin blinked. She turned back to Lyonette.
“Yeah, what is that about? What are those—slits in the wall? And the holes in the ceiling? And the hollow space under the floorboards?”
“You noticed those?”
Lyonette started. She looked at Erin and shook her head.
“Of course you did. It’s your inn. That’s a trapdoor Belgrade installed. I had him design parts of the inn. He went overboard with the entryway. Those are arrow slits, murder holes—the walls are three times as thick, so I doubt even Moore could smash through, and the two sliding doors are equally tough. If we think there’s an attack or any chance of one, we can close the side doors and someone will have to come down the hallway.”
“And the trap door?”
“I told Belgrade not to make one, but he seems to think you’re the Queen and that there’s no need for an escape route if there are enough traps. He wanted to engineer part of the inn to collapse if need be, and he wanted to fill the pit with blades. Or water. He also wanted a hallway eight times as long—”
“Good idea. Also—more potions. Octavia made them. Very nice.”
Numbtongue was nodding. Lyonette sighed.
“Numbtongue’s also hidden potions and other things Octavia’s made all over the inn. And he wants crossbows.”
“Very nice. For shooting. Everyone gets one. Point and click!”
The Hobgoblin grinned. Erin stared at him. She felt it. Her inn was a fortress now.
“The walls are twice as thick as they used to be everywhere else!”
“And the foundations are made of stone. The inn’s only partly finished; it took the Antinium a long time to do it, but it will have multiple floors—and a postern door, I don’t care what Belgrade says—we can make it lock from the inside.”
“A what door?”
“Secret door.”
Numbtongue nodded. Mrsha nodded too. The Gnoll cub was happily waving her wand, sitting next to Erin. The [Innkeeper] eyed Lyonette.
“How did we pay—”
“Liscor paid us for the inn. We got money from the Creler attack, you have money saved up, even with taxes—but I’m counting on some good business to finish funding the inn. I’ve even got plans for other wings, but we’re finishing up the guest rooms first. I’m hoping we can have more Gold-rank teams here.”
Erin slowly gulped down her milk. Her mind was spinning. Lyonette looked at her.
“Now, tell us about the battle.”
“What? Oh—that was—I stayed out of the fighting. I didn’t expect Bird to be there. And it wasn’t my fault! I think. But I stayed out of trouble. Completely.”
“We saw you.”
Lyonette stared at the young woman. Erin faltered.
“Oh?”
“Saw the fighting. Nice flaming things. And knife.”
The [Bard] nodded at Erin. The [Innkeeper] slapped a hand to her forehead.
“Aw. I lost the knife Pelt gave me. I’m gonna have to see if someone found it.”
“Erin.”
The [Princess] and the [Innkeeper] traded looks. Erin paused and sighed.
“Well, I had to do something. And I was safe. Rufelt and Lasica were the insane ones, believe it or not. Did you know? I think Lasica’s pregnant—”
“What?”
Lyonette stared at Erin. But then she shook her head.
“But Erin. What do we do now? About…”
She nodded covertly. Everyone turned their heads to look at Bird. Erin’s stomach fell.
“I don’t know. It wasn’t that…”
She couldn’t even finish the lie. Mrsha looked up worriedly at Erin. The young woman hugged her with one arm.
“It’ll be alright. Olesm and the Council and Zevara—we’ll deal with whatever happens. We can explain.”
“Or not. But that’s not what I’m talking about, Erin. It’s not the consequences for us. It’s about him.”
“Oh. But—”
 
——
 
Bird was happy. He sat in his chair, eating the wing of the big bird. He kept thinking that if it was the right wing, maybe he’d grow them too. He’d seen the Flying Antinium. Pivr. So Bird knew it was possible.
He was happy. He had been hit! But healed. Klbkch was very angry, but Bird was not dead. So that was a win. The Worker was wondering about all the big birds in Pallass. He’d wanted to pick them up somehow, but they’d told him to go, and so had Erin. But maybe, tonight, when no one was looking…
The [Hunter] looked up as Lyonette and Erin walked over. They were looking grave, but Bird was happy. He waved three of his hands at them. It was nice to have hands again.
“Bird.”
“That is me. Hello. I am glad you are done with your break, Miss Erin. And I shot many big birds. Did you see me?”
The shorter of the two young women hesitated. Lyonette was a bit taller than Erin, for all she was two years younger. Erin shot a quick look at Lyonette and then nodded slowly.
“Yes, we did. Bird—are you hurt?”
She indicated Bird’s head. The Worker felt at it.
“My head is not hurting much. And I stopped bleeding. See? It is not bad at all.”
Erin had even wiped away the blood. The [Innkeeper] nodded, relieved. She glanced at Lyonette. The [Princess] nudged her. They gave each other a look that Bird ignored—he was trying to figure out how to bite off more of the Wyvern’s wing. Erin sighed.
“Bird, we need to talk. Um. Let’s go to your room, okay?”
“Yes, Erin.”
Bird stood up obediently. He began to trundle over to the stairs. The newly-built inn had two stairwells on opposite ends that would lead up to the second floor. Right now, only a third of the second floor was done, though, so one stairwell was blocked off. Erin stopped Bird.
“You have to leave the…wing, Bird.”
The Worker started. He looked down at the half-eaten Wyvern wing.
“But it is mine. I must imbibe nutrients.”
“Just leave it, Bird. We need to talk.”
Lyonette’s voice was more severe. Bird knew that tone. It was the tone she used when he climbed up on the roof without a railing, or brought in birds he’d left outside to get squishy and full of worms. Bird hesitated.
“But it is my wing.”
“Bird—please put it down and come upstairs.”
“But—”
“Now, Bird.”
The Antinium stopped. He looked at Lyonette. Slowly, gently, he put the wing on the table and patted it with his two other hands. He turned and went up the stairs. The two young women followed him.
Bird had a room. It was not the same room as his old one. But it was nice. Bigger. And Lyonette had helped him make his Fortress of Fluff again. It was a small cave of pillows and blankets Bird could sit in. The Antinium Workers could not sleep on their backs due to the rounded shell—maybe Soldiers could, since they were built differently, but Bird was used to sit-sleeping. Only now, instead of packed dirt, he had softness.
