“Is it war?”
Three words. An Antinium standing on a dead Wyvern. In the City of Invention. If you were writing a newspaper headline, you wouldn’t even need to think. But this was no report, a story to be written after the fact with all the little details.
It was happening live. Now. Bird stood, staring interestedly down at the rows of arrows aimed at him, the Drake [Mages] aiming wands and staves—even one of the ballistae on the walls had been swung around to cover him.
Not to mention Grimalkin, Chaldion, General Duln, and Saliss of Lights. The Antinium was surrounded, with no possibility of escape or victory.
And yet—he was Antinium. And the Hives waited. And the Walled Cities waited. Because if you bluffed well enough, the lie became the truth.
The Third Antinium War. Erin Solstice was frozen in place. She didn’t know what to do. Tackle Bird? Shout he was lying? Start throwing sad fire at people until everyone started crying?
Every idea ended with something going terribly wrong. This was not a minor incident. This was—it could be the third war to sweep Izril, the one that would plunge Liscor, the continent, everything Erin knew, into a conflict that wouldn’t end with a single desperate battle against Wyverns or other monsters. Or even countless thousands of Goblin deaths.
“Is it war? Tell me, please. I am getting tired of waiting.”
Bird’s cheerful voice would be hilarious if it weren’t so terrifying. Erin looked around. Everyone was frozen, but Noass and Sir Relz were still broadcasting the image of Bird. All eyes were on the actors of the scene.
Grimalkin, Chaldion, and Duln for Pallass. Bird for the Antinium. And…Erin. But aside from Bird, everyone was still, weighing the consequences. For the first time in her life, Erin was paralyzed. It was like playing chess blind and without knowing where any of the pieces were. And checkmate? Oh, that was just war.
All eyes slowly turned from Erin to Grimalkin, and then to General Duln. And then, almost naturally, to Chaldion. Because the Drake [Strategist] was the only one moving. His eyes were narrowed and he was glancing at Erin, at Bird, around the city. Assessing. Analyzing. But unlike Erin, he seemed to see a path.
Perhaps not to victory, but a route nevertheless. The world held its breath. At this moment, when the stakes were so high, where could you go from here? What would happen next? Because standing still forever wasn’t an option.
Bird was getting bored. And his cheerful innocence might provoke a stray arrow. Or more.
So Chaldion moved. The [Grand Strategist] turned, smoothly, and Erin felt her heart jerk in her chest. Every head snapped towards Chaldion. The Drake’s clawed hand rose, moving, pointing—
At Noass and Sir Relz. Chaldion spoke.
“Restrain those two. Confiscate the scrying mirror and break the scrying spell. [Mages], cast anti-divination wards. Now.”
Erin blinked. Noass and Sir Relz, the two [Commentators] who’d broadcast the battle blinked. The [Soldiers] and Watch, on a razor’s edge of anticipation, paused for only a second at the unexpected order, and then rushed at the two Drakes.
“Wait! You can’t do this! The world deserves to kn—”
Noass was tackled by three Drakes and a Gnoll. Sir Relz fought, and the aforementioned world saw a sea of faces grabbing for the mirror he held. The other Drake tried to shout.
“This isn’t right! We deserve freedom! Freedom of the, uh—”
They weren’t quite there. Part of them knew the tune, but not the words. The two Drakes disappeared—the viewers got an earful of shouting, scrabbling, swearing—and then the sight of a Gnoll staring directly into the mirror.
The projection vanished. And everyone was left to wonder ‘what happened next?’. Many waited, tense, demanding a [Message] spell from Pallass, seeking someone who knew. They experienced uncertainty, and for the first time cursed a world in which information wasn’t instantaneous and readily available. After all, this was a world in which Couriers and Runners still delivered information by foot.
In the end, what the world got wasn’t a confirmation of war or anything else. It was simply a broadcasted message, written thusly from Pallass itself, to go along with the myriad of reports by people who had seen or allegedly seen the entire thing:
 
Antinium repatriated to Liscor without incident under Pallassian authority. Restoration and damage assessments of Pallass underway. The Walled City stands.
 
It wasn’t quite as bold as brass. And it wasn’t as clear as anyone wanted. One thing was certain: the war was off. The echoes of that moment kept bouncing around the world hours, even a day afterwards.
And coincidentally, almost as a byproduct of it all—
Erin Solstice came home.
 
——
 
“Move, move, move! Get through that door now! Make sure it’s charged, [Mages]!”
“Stop yelling! Stop yelling! And stop poking me!”
The Wandering Inn’s doorway was full of bodies. Then, shouting. And then a young woman came hurtling through the door. Erin Solstice found herself stumbling out of Pallass and into an unfamiliar hallway. She turned and saw Olesm nearly fly through after her. Relc came after, prodded by a sea of spears. And then Bird.
The Antinium wasn’t being poked, but the [Soldiers] were cajoling him to move as they bellowed threats, orders, and pointed. The Antinium walked through the door and Erin saw he was carrying a wing.
Or—part of one. The Antinium was trying to gnaw at the meaty portion of the wing he’d somehow managed to sever from a Wyvern. He also appeared to be largely unconcerned as he walked into the inn.
“Thank you. May I have more of the big birds later? Please and th—”
The door slammed shut. Erin Solstice stared at the door, and then around. Relc, Olesm, Bird—the adventurers from Pallass hadn’t been included, but all four of Liscor’s residents had been herded into the door at incredible speed. Per Chaldion’s order.
“Wow.”
That was all Erin said. Her knees were still weak. She looked around. This was—a hallway? It felt funky to her. Off, somehow. Why were there little narrow windows in the walls? And what was up with—she felt the holes in the ceiling. And someone had made a hollow space under the floorboards, there!
What was up with this place? But also—Erin felt a sudden, incredible connection. Because it was new to her, but she had felt it being built.
It was her inn. And she was back home. Relc stared at Erin, and then Bird. Olesm got up from where he’d been thrown.
“Ancestors. We’re alive. It was nearly—I think I saw the Third Antinium Wars–and my entire life–flash before my eyes. I—I’ve played a bit too much chess. I should have been studying.”
“There’s no such thing.”
Erin muttered. She looked at Relc. The Drake was blinking.
“Um. Hey. You.”
“Hey, Relc. You came through the door?”
“Well, you know. I love a good fight. That giant Wyvern was tough, though. Even my [Relc Punch] didn’t work on it. But hey, maybe I’ll level—”
Erin heard a sound. And when one of the hidden side doors slid open, she was surprised and not. But the little white figure that tackled Erin in the stomach was a surprise.
“Oof!”
Erin fell over, winded. And not in a laughing, great-to-see-you, happy way. Mrsha had gotten heavier and stronger than Erin remembered! And she’d done a perfect flying head butt to Erin’s stomach.
“M—M—I can’t breathe.”
“Mrsha! No, come back here! It might be—”
Lyonette appeared in the doorway. Erin saw the other side door opening. Then the one down the hallway. People flooded into the entryway. Familiar faces. Krshia, Zevara, Pawn, Montressa—so many, all shouting at once! And Mrsha was hugging Erin and licking her face anxiously. Erin was still trying to breathe.
“Sergeant Relc! Report! What the hell happened?”
“Erin! We were watching, but then the image vanished! Is it—”
Zevara and Selys. Relc was shouting, trying to lift Mrsha as she clung to Erin.
“Bird! You were not supposed to go through! Why did you leave? Erin? Where is Erin?”
“Erin? There she is. Back off her! Everyone—Mrsha, stop hugging her. She cannot breathe, yes—”
Pawn and Krshia. Erin struggled to lift Mrsha. She was bigger! And hugging Erin, which was great. Strangling her, which was not. She felt Olesm tugging at her until someone bowled him over.
“It was you. I knew it! Every time! Even in Pallass! Well, this is enough. There will be laws—”
“Excuse me. Excuse me. I have to talk with Erin. Erin, it is great to see you—”
Lism and Palt. Jostling each other to shout at Erin. And they were just six of the voices amid the shouting. Erin looked around, wide-eyed. And then she heard a shout.
“Everyone, be silent!”
Lyonette put her foot down and the inn paused. It wasn’t just her words. But Erin felt the familiar tingling in the air. She looked at Lyonette. The [Princess]’s aura hit everyone in the inn, silencing all but a few voices.
Such as Relc.
“So there I was, right? I punched that bastard in the side, but he’s tough. Anyways, I was pretty sure I drove him off all by myself. I got three Wyverns—with a bit of help—”
“Sergeant Relc, shut up!”
Watch Captain Zevara barked. And Erin felt the same authority radiating from her. The young woman’s jaw dropped, but it was unmistakable. Lyonette and Zevara traded glances, but they were in synchronization, not opposition.
Faced with two presences demanding silence, the entire inn went still. Erin could move, but only because it was her inn. Experimentally, she pushed. She felt like she could beat both pressures on her and the room, if she really tried. But this was her place. And no one else could, surely.
Not even Relc. He looked around, blinked, and fell silent. Erin looked around. Everyone stared at her now. Erin Solstice opened her mouth.
“Um—so…I can exp—”
A figure pushed through the crowd. Erin spotted a single Antinium moving, ignoring the dual authorities of Zevara and Lyonette. Erin saw Klbkch, pushing past two very odd Antinium…Soldiers? He shoved aside a Minotauress, walked past the other Antinium.
Senior Guardsman Klbkch walked straight up to Bird. The Antinium was shaking. He looked at Erin. Then at Bird.
“Bird.”
His voice—freed Bird. Or maybe Lyonette and Zevara did. The [Bird Hunter] stopped chewing on his bit of Wyvern.
“Hello, Klbkch.”
“You went into Pallass.”
Erin blinked at Klbkch. She looked at Bird. Everyone did. The Antinium who had nearly started the Third Antinium War nodded absently.
“Yes. That was fun. Yay. But I left all the big birds in Pallass. May I go back and get them later? They will be very nice and squishy soon. And I found Miss Erin. I—”
Erin barely saw Klbkch’s arm move. The Antinium’s right hand blurred and then he struck Bird with a downwards blow across the head. Erin saw Bird’s head jerk downwards and she heard a crack. The Worker’s carapace along the top of his head had broken from the impact.
“Bird!”
The shout came from more than one voice. Erin saw Bird stumble and drop his Wyvern wing. He reached for it.
“Ow. Revalantor Klbkch, why did you—”
“Be. Silent.”
Klbkch struck Bird again. Erin saw Bird cover his head with all four arms and crouch. Klbkch’s voice was thunderous.
“You are a fool. And you have disobeyed orders. You will not do so again.”
He raised his hand. Shock left Erin.
“Klbkch!”
Erin swung at Klbkch. He stopped striking at Bird and leaned back, effortlessly dodging Erin’s fist. She swung again and he knocked away her arm without even looking at her. He raised a fist as Bird shrank down—
And Relc smacked Klbkch. Erin saw a blur, saw Klbkch stumble and whirl. The two Senior Guardsmen stared at each other.
“Whoops. Sorry. I meant to hit you harder.”
Relc made a fist. Klbkch stared at him.
“Stay out of this, Relc. I am disciplining this—this krxsching, worthless thing for nearly starting a war.”
He turned and raised a first. This time Erin grabbed for Klbkch’s wrist. She missed. He was fast in his new body. Faster than she’d ever remembered. Klbkch stared at Erin.
“Get out of the way, Erin.”
“No. Stop hitting Bird!”
“He nearly started a war.”
“I just wanted to shoot the big birds.”
“Guardsman Klbkch, stand down!”
Zevara barked, but Klbkch ignored her. He was staring at Bird. Shaking with wrath. Erin saw Ishkr and Beza both standing behind Klbkch reaching for the Antinium and clearly deciding not to.
“Revalantor Klbkch!”
Pawn and the other Antinium surged forwards. They tried to block Bird, but they too stayed back from Klbkch. Yellow Splatters walked in front of him. The other Antinium were tense. But Klbkch had one hand on his swords.
“Move. This is an order.”
“Revalantor—”
Erin saw the two strange Antinium watching Klbkch, Pawn, Belgrade, Yellow Splatters, and the other disobedient Antinium. Klbkch looked straight past them. At Bird. Erin hadn’t seen that look in his eyes. And she remembered.
They called him Klbkch the Slayer. It was that Antinium who was here now. Not Senior Guardsman Klbkch, or Revalantor Klbkch.
Erin put out her arms, shielding Bird from Klbkch’s wrath. She saw Relc raise a fist—and hesitate as Klbkch looked at him. The Antinium’s hands were hovering over his hilts and Klbkch looked angrier than Erin had ever seen him.
“I know that! But hitting Bird is not the answer! Stop it or so help me, Klbkch, I will make you regret it!”
Erin clenched her fists. Klbkch hesitated. He stared at Erin for a long minute, and then whirled. He stalked past Relc, and the crowd parted before him instantly. He stopped at the door to Erin’s inn. Not the magical one. Klbkch looked over his shoulder. Straight at Erin and Bird.
“Antinium. Return to the Hive. Without Bird. If he enters Pallass again, I will kill him.”
Wordlessly, Erin Solstice stared at Klbkch. Her oldest customer turned. The door opened and slammed shut. She looked at Bird as he rocked back and forth, covering his head. A trail of green blood ran from the spots where Klbkch had hit him.
It was like that, she remembered. Surprise. A normal day, where you expected everything to go one way. And then—in a moment—everything changed.
And nothing was quite the same ever again.
 
——
 
It took a minute after Klbkch had left for the babble to start up again. But when it did, it was intent. The moment of Klbkch’s rage had focused everyone.
“I can’t believe he did that.”
Erin went to Bird. She fumbled for a healing potion.
“Here. Erin, we must leave. Yellow Splatters, form up the Antinium.”
Pawn spoke to Erin, handing out a bottle. She took it, realizing he was not surprised. Pawn opened his hands and nearly reached for Bird for some reason.
“[Minor—]. No. Use the potion, Erin.”
