There were two doors in the security room, both of which had closed when Grimalkin had entered for the questioning. Now, the door in front of him opened. If he’d answered incorrectly or if the [Lieutenant] had any suspicion, Grimalkin was sure the magical traps would have activated. They did not, and he walked through.
“I’ll escort you, Magus. Command is hearing from the other witnesses, so there may be a delay. Can we offer you refreshments in any way?”
“If you have anything to eat, I’ll take it.”
Grimalkin nodded as the [Lieutenant] marched smartly with him through the inner, secret halls of Pallass. He was familiar with this place. They headed left.
“Certainly. I’ll send someone. Just in here, Magus. I’m sure you’re familiar with the proceedings?”
“Of course.”
“Then I’ll have refreshments sent shortly. And—may I shake your claw, sir? It was an inspiring feat that I witnessed. I wish I could have been in the fighting, but our orders were to hold—”
The [Lieutenant] held out a clawed hand. Grimalkin shook it firmly.
“Duty is duty, [Lieutenant]. The walls stand.”
“The walls stand.”
The Drake saluted and made his way off. Grimalkin entered the waiting room and found he wasn’t alone. A green-feathered Garuda sat in a comfortable chair. A door led into another room, but Grimalkin heard nothing from the soundproofed meeting area. He took a chair opposite Bevussa and nodded to her.
“Captain Slenderscale, isn’t it? The Wings of Pallass?”
“Bevussa. And it’s only ‘member’ of the Wings of Pallass, not Captain. Outside of here, at any rate. Magus Grimalkin.”
Bevussa bowed slightly to Grimalkin. He nodded.
“Good morning to you. I heard the Wings were among the first to repel the Wyverns. Did you take casualties, Captain?”
“None. We got torn up, but we healed most of it. I lost some feathers and one of my adventurers—Kin—has a torn wing. But it’ll heal. We were lucky. I leveled from the fighting.”
“Congratulations. I did not, but I feel like I’ve advanced at least halfway towards the next level.”
The Garuda nodded. The two stared at each other for a moment and then both glanced at the sealed door. Bevussa shifted her talons.
“Magus? Refreshments. And for you, Adventurer. It’s an honor, sir—”
One of the [Soldiers] appeared with a tray of food. Grimalkin accepted it, and shook the other Drake’s hand. So did Bevussa. She eyed Grimalkin as he inspected the tray. Fruits, Gnollish dumplings—Grimalkin forgot the name—he selected some hard-boiled eggs and chewed one down without even bothering to add salt or pepper from the bowl.
It looked like they’d grabbed whatever they could. Grimalkin hoped he wasn’t eating someone’s lunch, but he had to keep eating to grow muscle. And bags of holding were not allowed in Pallass’ inner sanctum. Bevussa indicated the tray.
“You don’t mind if I…?”
“Help yourself.”
She selected some fruits and began peeling an orange. Fresh, probably from Oteslia.
“So you were called to testify, Magus? I shouldn’t be surprised. Sorry. I’m just a little nervous. I’ve never been here.”
She indicated the rooms of stone. Grimalkin recalled that Garuda were naturally claustrophobic, which probably didn’t help Bevussa at this moment.
“Would you like a calming spell?”
“Oh, no—I’m fine. Plus, it would probably set off half a dozen alarms, wouldn’t it?”
“We are being monitored. But I can cast magic if need be. You needn’t worry, Captain Bevussa. This is just questioning. Not an arraignment.”
“A—of course. It’s just…”
Bevussa nodded towards the door. Grimalkin nodded. He knew what lay beyond. Not specifically, but he could guess.
While the Assembly of Crafts debated, another body of leadership in Pallass was also thinking over what they’d just witnessed. Of course, Pallass was a democracy. But it was also a Drake city. And that meant the military weighed in on decisions that were a threat to Pallass’ safety.
The door opened suddenly. Bevussa started. Grimalkin heard a flurry of voices. Then someone marched out. Grimalkin acknowledged him.
“Keldrass.”
The Drake paused, seeing Grimalkin. The [Sinew Magus] looked past him into the room. He saw a group of conferring people.
Some of the more influential [Senators], three of Pallass’ [Generals], Chaldion and two other [Strategists], the [Lead Engineer] responsible for the elevator system in Pallass, three Watch Captains—and a few more faces Grimalkin and Bevussa recognized.
Names. This group made up a…not higher command than the Assembly, but a group of people who would decide what needed to be done. Along with, or parallel to, whatever the Assembly of Crafts came up with.
“Magus.”
Keldrass saluted Grimalkin reflexively. Grimalkin stood up, but the door closed just as quickly as a Garuda walked out.
“Captain Keldrass, thank you for your time. Magus, Adventurer, I apologize, but you’ll have to wait for the command to organize their thoughts.”
“By all means.”
Grimalkin paused to shake Keldrass’ clawed hand. Bevussa looked like she wanted to ask questions, but the Gold-rank Captain was escorted from the room before they could talk. That left Bevussa and Grimalkin.
“We may be here a while. As much as an hour for you.”
“Really?”
Grimalkin nodded. He wished he’d brought a book. But he might as well work out after eating. Squats. Now would be the perfect time for some weights, but he’d never have gotten them through the checkpoint. Grimalkin sighed.
“How long have you been here, Captain?”
“Oh—since dawn.”
That explained why she was so restless. Grimalkin shook his head.
“My apologies.”
“I get the necessity. What’s going on outside?”
Grimalkin shrugged.
“Cleanup. The Assembly hasn’t stopped debating since yesterday. They’ve only taken a recess to help clean up the city, distribute aid—take care of their districts.”
“Of course. Did they say how many…?”
“They’re still counting. The estimates are at around five thousand six hundred, but they haven’t climbed for a few hours.”
“Ancestors.”
Bevussa closed her eyes. Grimalkin nodded. It could have been worse. A thousand Wyverns? It could have been far worse, but it was bad enough. The largest chunk of that number had died in the first attack. Mostly civilians who’d been hit by the freezing Frost Wyvern’s breath.
“There will be a formal gathering later today. I believe Command will recess even if they’re not finished.”
“Of course.”
The Garuda nodded a few times. She fell silent. Grimalkin sensed she was about to ask something. He contented himself with two bananas. Oteslia must be growing more. They were native to Baleros, but he thought they were quite good fruits. Diet menu. With his new apprentices, he should rework—he wondered if Erin Solstice knew anything that would help.
Then again, with the way she made her food, perhaps not. He’d ask. Speaking of which—Bevussa glanced at the door again.
“Can I ask what I’ll be expected to share, Magus?”
“Of course. You’ll speak under truth spell, of course. It’s just a formality. But you can be sure the questions will revolve around your observations of Liscor. The Antinium. And of course…”
“Erin Solstice.”
The two fell silent. Grimalkin nodded. He swallowed, reaching for the dumplings.
“Command will appreciate detail, even if it’s speculation. Your personal thoughts are welcomed. Perhaps not by all of the [Senators], or those within, but Chaldion will be present. Don’t fear—this isn’t a military command structure.”
“I saw General Edellein in there. And General Duln.”
“Naturally. But they’re two voices. Don’t worry.”
Grimalkin understood Bevussa’s apprehension. General Edellein of the 4th Army had to be spitting fire—well, if he could. Already, people were asking why the walls had been taken, why the 1st Army had been so slow to react. General Duln had been blasted, but at least he’d been there. The 4th Army, which had failed to lure the weyr, was being mercilessly shredded by the Assembly of Crafts.
“Just speak your mind. Everything is to allow Command to make a more informed decision.”
“And they can’t fire me.”
Bevussa half-laughed. Grimalkin nodded. It would have been a concern if she were in the army. Gold-rank adventurers were more autonomous, but this was a Drake city. Even the adventurers reported to their leadership.
“That captain…I know Keldrass but I’m blanking on his team’s name, apologies. My mind’s overly taxed from yesterday’s battle.”
“Keldrass of the Flamewardens. He stayed at the inn too. You know him well?”
“I’m familiar with Keldrass. I believe I taught his unit when he was in the army.”
Grimalkin saw Bevussa shifting.
“Something wrong with his testimony?”
“What? Oh, no. It’s just—Keldrass is a [Soldier] at heart. I was in the army for less time. Just to get my wings in. But Keldrass—he says what he sees. And he hasn’t been in the inn as long.”
Grimalkin nodded. He began to understand a bit of Bevussa’s hesitation.
“When Command finishes deliberating—I’ll request permission to speak first. And I will begin with that.”
“Wait? You’ll ask?”
Bevussa stared at Grimalkin. Few people were aware of Grimalkin’s exact rank. But he worked with the army more closely than many imagined. The [Sinew Magus] nodded.
“It’s pertinent. And I have no doubt that while many questions will be about the Antinium, just as many will be about her.”
“Erin Solstice.”
Again, the name lingered. If Grimalkin had said her name before, no one in Pallass would have cared. Today, it was one of a handful of names being repeated.
“What will you tell them?”
Grimalkin looked at Bevussa. The Garuda hesitated. She opened and closed her beak, and then collected her thoughts.
“I know Bird. I’ve met him. Actually, I’ve chatted with him a lot. He’s…obsessed with birds. He gets me to tell him stories. And when he figured out he could pay for my drinks, he was completely willing to pay for my team’s drinks forever just for a single story about flying monsters. He doesn’t…manage money. And Erin’s had him in her watchtower forever.”
Grimalkin nodded.
“I had the same impression, honestly. I hadn’t met him more than a few times, but…I am familiar with Miss Solstice’s inn.”
Bevussa nodded.
“It’s her inn. And Bird’s—I don’t know how I’m going to say it. But I have to, right?”
Grimalkin remembered one conversation with Bird. He paused. Hummed thoughtfully.
“That’s my intent too. Temper whatever radical thoughts are out there. Tell the truth. Whatever the other Walled Cities may think—the world may think—”
“Yeah.”
The two looked at each other. How were they going to say it? It was hilarious, ridiculous. Bird wasn’t a new form of Prognugator, or a Centenium. He was just an employee at an inn and Erin Solstice…
“What a disaster. How can I tell them?”
Bevussa put her head in her talons. Grimalkin was nodding, but he caught himself. He remembered Bird’s line.
“I am as simple as I choose to be. I am a Bird and I am free to be me.”
And then he thought of Erin. It was ludicrous, how it had all played out. Even so…his claws drummed on the armrest of his chair as he picked up another morsel.
“Honestly, I cannot say that it’s entirely coincidence.”
Bevussa looked up sharply. Grimalkin nodded his head at the door.
“When I think of her, I can’t imagine she’s duplicitous. But there are layers I do not know about Erin Solstice. And the Antinium—when I testify, I will explain as much as I can. But I cannot swear that it is not all part of a larger viewpoint I’m unaware of. No doubt that’s why Chaldion is taking it so seriously.”
“Neither can I. And I mean—I didn’t think it would come to this. But it’s her. How do I explain her, even if you can make sense of Bird and the Antinium?”
“Erin Solstice.”
It was going to be hard. Both adventurer and [Mage] nodded. Bevussa sighed.
“I’d like to say she’s just—Erin. But then—she’s Erin. I wish I knew more, honestly. I knew she was—but I thought she was just weird. You know?”
“I think after today, we’ll all be regretting not looking into her sooner, Captain Bevussa. The only question is—what each city does about it. Pallass is ideally placed. But now all the cities know about her.”
Grimalkin’s exhausted mind was thinking of all that might transpire from today’s events. He shook his head. He’d ask Command. Weigh in as hard as he could, and Grimalkin could exert some weight. Even so, today he was a witness, and he was no [General].
What a mess. Bevussa’s feathered head turned as she looked towards the door.
“About Erin. Do you think—I know she was here for the Wyvern attack, but that was an accident this time. Probably. She’s done so much—and I wasn’t even around for a lot of it. But how much will the Assembly or…anyone look into her?”
Grimalkin considered it. Whatever would be done, he was going to caution prudence. No radical moves. But of a certainty, he was going to move Erin up on his priority list. He suspected he wouldn’t be the only one. But carefully. Very carefully…
“Erin Solstice is odd. An enigma in many ways. But you are correct, Captain. She isn’t as important as the Antinium Hive in Liscor, or even many individuals or organizations the Walled Cities have to deal with. She knows many people, and that is her worth. That’s the power of an [Innkeeper].”
“Right. She didn’t slay any Wyverns herself, this battle. But she employs Bird.”
“She’s part of a puzzle. A keystone. A useful ally, or an unpredictable force multiplier for good or ill.”
He paused.
“Even then, her power isn’t everything. She can sway events, not change them by herself. Erin Solstice is not Saliss of Lights. Saliss could break an army of Antinium by himself. Like Zel Shivertail, he makes up the Walled Cities as much as the walls do themselves. He is irreplaceable.”
The door opened. Grimalkin saw someone waving at Bevussa. She stood up uncertainly, and Grimalkin walked towards the door. Say his part. The [Sinew Magus]’s thoughts came together and he turned his head as the inner circle of Pallass’ leadership looked at him. He spoke to Bevussa.
“Erin Solstice is not Saliss of Lights. But she might be one day. The only question is—whose?”
Then Grimalkin turned and walked forwards.
 
——
 
The best laid plans of Drakes and Gnolls…had nothing in them that accounted for Erin Solstice. They had no idea who she was, what she could do. She was a wildcard in a game whose players had no idea you could cheat like that.
