The Hobgoblin grinned. He pulled the chair over to the door and wedged it under the handle. Then he sat down. Bird sat too. Numbtongue gave him the wing. Bird stared at it, and then at Numbtongue.
“You are a good Goblin.”
“Redfang.”
Numbtongue tapped his chest. Bird tapped it too, gently. Numbtongue laughed. He held out a fist to bump. Bird hesitated. Then bumped fists as the Hobgoblin grinned and produced two cups to drink from.
“I like you very much, Numbtongue.”
The Hobgoblin grinned and laughed. And the two of them found they were friends.
 
——
 
Below, Erin Solstice didn’t notice the wing vanishing. Her head was spinning. Now that Bird was…reprimanded, she found other people coming over to her. Her Skill had ended, and they wanted to talk to her.
She wanted to talk to them! Erin saw familiar faces. No Horns. No Ceria or Pisces or Yvlon or Ksmvr—that hurt. But she had seen them off, two weeks ago. And there were so many people she did know.
And so much to say! Erin found herself telling people about her new Skill—and Pelt—the parts that wouldn’t embarrass the Dwarf—and the attack—in between hearing what had happened in Liscor.
“Wait. The new city’s being built? Humans? More Humans than just me? Where? You’re living in Liscor! No way!”
Erin’s jaw dropped as a family from Esthelm introduced themselves. They were staring at her just like she was at them. Wide-eyed. And Selys was telling Erin she was buying land?
It was too much to take in, honestly. Erin felt like she was swimming through the faces and voices. She didn’t even realize how late it was until Lyonette’s voice cut through the chatter.
“Thank you, everyone! But Erin’s too tired for more! Thank you! You can all come back tomorrow! We’ll be open bright and early!”
Everyone protested. But Erin saw Lyonette herd them towards the door. She was still using her aura. When had she learned that? Erin found Mrsha pushing a cup of water into her hands. She drank. Lyonette appeared next to Erin.
“They’ll want a piece of you later. I bet the Council and Zevara and everyone else in Pallass is trying to figure out what to do, but they’re probably still weighing their options. For now—the second floor has a few rooms done. Yours was first. Here. Let’s show you. Mrsha?”
She helped Erin up. Mrsha tried to take Erin’s other side, but she was too short. So instead, she raced up the steps and opened the first door. Erin blinked at the lovely room as Drassi took Erin’s other arm. She didn’t even realize she was lying in bed for a moment.
“Hey! I’m totally awake!”
Erin called out, but it was dark. Moonlight from two moons and the stars was the only illumination in the room. Erin looked around. Where had everyone gone?
She was so tired. The [Innkeeper] blinked. She looked around. Well, maybe they were all tired. The young woman yawned. That pillow was suctioning her head right back down. She stared up at the ceiling. A new ceiling. A new inn. New worries.
But even so, Erin smiled. At least she was back. She was back. And that was alright. The rest could come tomorrow.
“What a day. What—”
Erin passed out before her head hit the pillow.
 
——
 
Pallass watched the Antinium leave. And the Human. The streets still rang with the shock. An Antinium! But they were expelled, the 1st Army herding the Liscorians through the door. For a moment, they were gone, out of sight. If not out of mind.
And then—it was over. After the trials, the tribulations, and not least, the Antinium, it had ended. And while the world was left to speculate over the news, the people of Pallass who weren’t the movers or shakers or leaders or anyone of importance found themselves doing something else entirely besides worrying.
Evening bled into the night. Exhausted [Soldiers] slept. And indeed, even into the darkness people were scrambling to help [Healers], to repair the worst damage. And find the wounded. It was the work of necessity that pushed other concerns to the side. Searching through the rubble of a buried house. Listening for a baby’s cries.
Heartbreaking work. And boring work. They could mix. Burning bodies. Searching for loved ones. Counting the dead. And it was familiar to Erin, but new to many of Pallass.
Yet it was the next day that brought surprises. And Pallass’ citizens, some who had had very little sleep, others who had worked through the night, rose and found themselves at work a second day.
They were doing what all people who endured disaster inevitably did. After the mourning—no, amidst it—and between the emergencies and blaming, there was just…cleanup.
Cleaning. It wasn’t something people thought about. But there were large chunks of masonry on the streets. Blood on the walls. Scorch marks to be removed, oh, and yes.
Wyvern corpses. Hundreds of them. Some had been hauled into warehouses filled with runes of preservation, but moving the Wyverns had been a low priority yesterday. Now, it was rising on the list.
The Wyverns stank. They were rotting—some of them—and bugs were attracted to the decomposing flesh. Ironically, the Wyverns struck by lightning or killed in non-obvious ways were in the best of shape; their bodies hadn’t begun to rot nearly as much as those cut apart.
Even so, Wyverns. Pallass saw every [Butcher], [Tanner], [Hideworker], [Armorer], [Hunter], [Trapper] and specialist in hides at work in the early morning. They were trying to remove Wyvern hides before they rotted, or salvage meat from the corpses. After all, Wyverns were money. And Pallass was the City of Invention.
Cleaning, corpse disposal—and repairs. [Engineers] and [Builders] surveyed damaged streets and houses. And it had to be said, as the Wyverns were dissected, more people saw opportunity in the monster’s corpses. Teeth could be used for arrowheads. Wyvern leather—aside from protection—might be a trendy accessory. A reminder, a mark of pride.
There was work for [Healers], tending to the wounded. Countless potential for [Laborers] who were sorely needed to help dispose of the bodies. Even for [Gravediggers]. A surplus of jobs in fact. If it weren’t for the fact that people had died, this might have been a good day for Pallass.
People were dead, though. And many who walked the city had elected to tie a bit of red to some part of their body. Around their head as a sweatband, or an arm, or some other body part. Garuda, Dullahan, Drake, or Gnoll. A bit of red to show that they had lost someone, or known someone who had died in the fighting. Or that they had simply been injured.
Red, for blood. Blood for Pallass.
 
——
 
Of course, it wasn’t all grieving. And the changes to Pallass were more than just a sudden surge in the economy in certain sectors. Yesterday, Pallass—no, the world—no, Pallass, and thus, the world, had witnessed the drama of the Wyvern attack. They had seen legends. And heroes.
And if that was an exaggeration, you could go to Rhir. People did not forget, at least not so soon.
So the next day, Grimalkin, the Fist Mage of Pallass, opened the door to his mansion. He was covered in poultices and bandages and he looked like…if Erin had seen him, she’d have called him a mummy. Grimalkin just felt like a wounded [Soldier]. He hurt all over. The [Healers] had managed to save some of his body that had been frostbitten, but the outer layer of his scales had just peeled off like dead skin.
It was just as well his vitals weren’t affected. Nevertheless—part of Grimalkin’s body had sloughed off when he pulled at the frostbitten sections. Removing it had hurt, but Grimalkin had cut it away. No sense in delaying recovery, and now he was trying to regrow as much of his lost scales and tissue as possible.
Not just tissue either. The Sinew Magus even looked thinner as he stopped in the doorway to his home. He’d used up his muscle during the fight with the Wyvern Lord. Instead of looking like the most muscular body-builder from Erin’s world, he now looked…
Well, he was still huge. But a bit less wide. And he had a surprise waiting for him. Grimalkin blinked at the line of people outside of his door. It stretched out of sight, around a corner. He watched the group of Garuda at the front of the line, and the pair of Gnolls, all pushing to be first.
“What is this about?”
The excited Garuda—a Garuda Erin would have recognized—waved his talons at Grimalkin.
“We’re here to sign up!”
“Sign up?”
Grimalkin was a bit slow today. Not only did he hurt, he had to regain all of his lost muscle, so he’d eaten a massive breakfast and he’d been determined to work out for hours today with the finest potion supplements to aid in his recovery. He stared at the Garuda, and then past them. Gnolls, Drakes—Dullahans—young and old. Mostly young, though.
“Yes! You teach apprentices, right?”
“I do. But why—”
“We saw you fighting!”
Weki pushed past Assaln excitedly. Everyone in line nodded. Grimalkin blinked.
“You mean, the Greater Wyvern? That was an embarrassing display—”
“Not that! I mean, part of that! But we saw you! You were first on the walls! You punched through a Wyvern and tore out its heart!”
The people behind Weki were nodding. All of them looked hopefully Grimalkin. They knew him of course. The Muscle Mage of Pallass. Grimalkin the Fist. The [Sinew Magus]. How many times had he done his demonstration? Or tried to get new apprentices? It usually only got Grimalkin a handful of students at any time. But today—
“You threw a Wyvern! And you battled that huge one! Even General Duln couldn’t keep up! Can all of your students do that!? Can you teach us to do that?”
The two excited Garuda stared up at Grimalkin. He looked at them. And finally, the surprise faded. Grimalkin looked at the lines, the line of students. Excited civilians, not military students. Just…people who wanted to learn. He drew himself up slowly.
“Well, of course. My magical sinew theory will work on anyone! I’m accepting new students. Do you—all want to join?”
“Yes!”
The exclamation came from hundreds of throats. And more were hurrying into the queue upon seeing Grimalkin’s face. The [Sinew Magus] stared. They’d surely wash out in days. Especially the two Garuda in front. But even if you had a 1%…no, even 0.1% success rate—and Grimalkin was sure he could manage at least 10%—how many gems would he find?
The Drake’s mind began to race. For the first time beheld people motivated to seek him out. Who looked at him like…for the first time, Grimalkin began to think about setting limits on the numbers of his pupils, weeding out the best. The [Sinew Magus] smiled.
 
——
 
Others found the new day to be a trial. Or rather, one Drake in particular. Saliss of Lights stood outside the Watch House on the 4th floor. It was one of many, but he was standing outside of this one.
Naked. Bare to his scales. Oh, and he was dancing. The [Alchemist] and Named Adventurer shook his rear, and his tail waved about on the cobblestones.
“Dance to the beat of a new day! Come on, people! Watch Captain, get loose and free!”
He hopped up and did a sideways dance left. People stared at him. Saliss was standing in the street, or rather, dancing across it, and the Watch House was located at a busy intersection on the 4th. But even after Saliss started doing high-kicks, no one stopped him.
Ordinarily, someone would have shouted for the Drake to cover up, or thrown something, or demanded the Watch lock Saliss away. At the very least, the [Guards] would have herded Saliss somewhere less public with a long-handled pole. But today, the [Guards] on duty just observed Saliss with a kind of resigned sadness.
No one stopped the [Alchemist]. Even when he faced the Watch House and managed to invent twerking, or something close to it. None of the pedestrians shouted at the Named Adventurer either. Parents just covered their children’s eyes and hurried them along.
The hero of Pallass looked around after a few more minutes of dancing. He could see Watch Captain Qissa, who’d survived the battle, working in one window of the Watch House. She even met his eyes once. But she didn’t so much as react.
Saliss looked around. He struck a pose.
“How’re you doing today, sir?”
“Hello.”
A Dullahan walked right past Saliss with the same expression on his face. He even nodded his head at Saliss. The Drake paused. He looked around. It wasn’t exactly hero worship, but absolutely no one was giving him the stink-eye.
He threw up his claws.
“This sucks. I’m going back home. I’ve got to make hundreds of potions—can’t even get arrested—what’s the world coming to? Prison’s great for focusing, but no…”
He stomped off, leaving the Watch House. He didn’t even harass anyone on the way back to his home and workshop on the 9th floor. Watch Captain Qissa, staring after Saliss inside the Watch House, nearly dropped her mug of tea.
“That’s all it took?”
She shouted. But the Named Adventurer was gone.
 
——
 
Changes in the city were one thing. But the true causality of yesterday’s events coalesced in late morning. Not on Pallass’ streets, but on the 5th floor.
The Assembly of Crafts was based in the 5th, or at least, the senate where laws and reform and debates took place. They had a large, circular chamber where they debated, each [Senator] elected by their district.
It was a democratic system, the scorn of many other Drake cities and other nations. But it worked—even if it was far slower than regular monarchies or tyrannies. Yet, it was also stronger in other ways. You could not behead Pallass’ government in a single stroke.
Something up, something down. Grimalkin of Pallass strode down the 5th floor, towards the senate’s building. It was soundproofed, but citizens of Pallass could walk in and observe the arguments if they wished. Grimalkin passed by the [Guards] on duty, entered the building—
And turned left instead of heading towards the spectator’s seats or onto the senate floor. He was walking to another meeting room. He had been summoned, and he was certain he was not the only one.
Grimalkin passed through another layer of security. This time, a pair of [Soldiers] waved Grimalkin onwards. Into the private parts of the senate, reserved for the politicians and staff. And then—a third checkpoint.
“Name? And intent?”
“Grimalkin of Pallass. Summoned to testify.”
“Do you harbor any intent to harm or otherwise subvert those within?”
“No.”
The truth stone flashed and the Drake [Lieutenant] nodded. He lowered the stone, satisfied. Grimalkin saw the [Soldiers] relax, but only slightly. This group was the sharpest by far, and they were ready to take or stall even the [Sinew Magus]. Grimalkin saw the [Lieutenant] motion.
