Iordex swept a hand through the air, conjuring a map, alongside a compass rose. The map was even labeled. The Wall was a line on the west, stretching a thousand kilometers from mountains to the ocean, and dotted with settlements and cities. Aside from the Wall, the only other large structure on the map was a river, labeled on the map as ‘The Grace’, just under a thousand kilometers from the Wall. Erick had read about that river. The Grace was like the Mississippi; it was the lifeblood for the Kingdoms, a waterway that connected every city to each other, that provided a mostly-safe road through the great forests and toxic swamps and poison bogs that composed the majority of the Wasteland.

Erick briefly looked over the rest of the map, before focusing on a red rash-like structure next to the Wall. The red blemish was spread out over maybe five hundred kilometers. It had already surrounded a few settlements, too.

Oh. This was much worse than Erick thought. How had it gotten this bad?

So Erick asked, “How did it get this bad? How long has it been?”

Iordex sighed out, “Three days. Three very long days.” He said, “Mimics go crazy when they see green life. When they’ve been exposed to greenery for as long as they have been… it gets worse. Everything about them multiples. Their levels go up, sometimes double. They double in size. You get red ones every thousand mimics, instead of every ten thousand.” He gestured to the settlement deepest in the red, saying, “This town is gone. It was to be the centerpoint of a spearhead against the plague, but the mimics crashed through the walls.”

“They can do that? Get larger and break walls, I mean?”

“Not normally.”

“But surely, if it was your spearhead… then how were your powerful, hopefully flying mages, able to be killed by grounded monsters?”

Iordex frowned at the map. He remained silent.

Erick guessed, “Either you’re not sure, which is bad, or you do know, and you can’t say for fear of… something?”

Iordex asked, “Do you need assistance to get to the center of the infestation?”

He wasn’t going to answer that question, was he? No matter; Erick wasn’t on-site, anyway.

“No. I guess not.” Erick said, “One more question: How about putting up another wall; some small thing that would stop the mimics for now? Maybe twenty meters high? A double-sized mimic is still only fifteen meters tall, at the most, right? Does that not work, either?”

Iordex frowned. “I cannot answer that question, because I don’t know. That was the original tactic. It failed. Somehow.” He added, “We’re still trying to understand how it failed.” He continued, “We have records of this sort of mimic infestation occurring before, during the Fracturing Wars, but those records have not prepared us for the current crisis. Suffice it to say, that they were not able to stop them back then, but the Grace is twenty kilometers wide at its thinnest; that was enough to halt their advance. Hopefully, we don’t have to rely on that final fallback; it would mean a million homeless, if they could even get away before the mimics came.”

“I’ll head over there now.” Erick added, “But you need to make sure that there are no people in those lands. I’m going to be using a semi-sentient wave of [Withering] in addition to the Domain, and that one will travel erratically until it runs out of duration. If any people in the area of effect have intestinal rads, then they will be targeted by the spell.”

“We will not hold you responsible for such an event.”

“It’s not about being responsible!” Erick suddenly felt a chill. “I don’t want it to happen!”

“Your concern is admirable, but misplaced.” Iordex said, “These monsters have already killed thousands and will kill even more. Now please, dispense with these words and help.”

“… Okay.”

Iordex said nothing more, and Sirocco hadn’t said a single word during the whole exchange, so Erick blipped away; to work.

Somewhere in all of that, Erick wondered when he had started to mentally refer to Zago by her first name of ‘Sirocco’.

… It was before that meeting, after speaking to Silverite, somewhere in reading ‘The Foreigner Mage’. Sirocco had split loyalties, and that was fine. She was who she had to be in order to survive.

Erick would act the same.

And right now, the needs of everyone in this room were in accordance. Erick needed the Wasteland Kingdom to not have this great tragedy tear them apart. They needed to be whole, not only for their own sake, but for the good of the world. The Kingdoms would likely play a great part in the coming conflict with Ar’Kendrithyst and Candlepoint.

Erick briefly came back to himself, back in Spur, in the sunroom. The four-pointed Silver Star of Koyabez, pinned to his shirt, had felt weird. He looked down at his now. It was flickering tiny fragments of divine fire into the air. For the briefest of moments, Erick was worried, but then he relaxed. The pin felt good, somehow, like a warmth that was not a warmth, but more a feeling of contentment made into an etheric manifestation. He wasn’t exactly sure what it meant, but it seemed good.

- - - -

The Longshadow bog, according to Iordex’s map, was supposed to be right under Ophiel. It was supposed to be a place of tall trees and heavy moss and deceptively deep waters, where only the foolish sought to tread, and a wrong step would send you plummeting down into waiting schools of sharptooth, or to drown as the land closed up above you.

What it was right now, under the light of the moons and a few wide-angle spotlights Erick had trained on particularly active looking sections of land, and as far as he could see in every moonlit direction, was a land of mimics that were methodically, and crazily, ripping apart every tree, pulling up all the green moss that made the water look solid to walk upon, and devouring everything in sight. Fish went into crystal gullets. Branches went into crystal gullets. Particularly mossy rocks went into crystal gullets. Tree trunks and entire root systems, yanked from the ground in cooperative efforts, got devoured by schools of swarming, glittering crystal mimics.

As Erick watched, two fifteen meter tall ruby mimics crunched into the throng below, to attack a thirty meter tall, five-meter wide cypress-looking tree that the rest were unable to crunch. The reds, with crystalline spike arms, began gouging huge rents in the dense wood. It sounded like metal striking metal. It took the reds thirty seconds to tear down the tree. When they were done, they ate little of their kill; they moved on to the next major target and left the tree to their smaller brethren. Those smaller brethren gnawed on the dense wood like lions trying to eat an elephant.

… I hope Domain actually works against the larger ones.

This was the leading edge of the swarm. It stretched out all around the entire infestation, as a 20 kilometer thick band of way too many mimics. Further west, the bog was still intact, and animals were running and swimming away, trying to outpace the horde. To the east, where the mimics had been, there were still some stragglers, cleaning up the smaller bits of greenery that the frontline had forgotten. Erick had hoped that he would only need to really worry about killing the front line, but those stragglers were still such in number that they were five times as dense as the mimics surrounding Spur. Maybe more.

But what was most disturbing, was that every single mimic seemed to have an active part to play in ensuring the success of their attack. Blue and grey goo seeped from between their crystalline spike arms, forming smaller copies of themselves, that then went on to eat the green right alongside their parents.

This was an ecological disaster unlike any Erick had ever really understood. This was a never ending tide. This was the true form of the Crystal Plague.

… Time to work.

Five more Ophiel blipped in. Soon, all six Ophiel on scene were each riding their own [Teleporting Platform] imbued with a mostly full-strength [Prismatic Ward]. While Frontier was still taking their time clearing out their problems, Erick began organizing the Ophiel here in the Wasteland.

He had already done the math. Each Ophiel’s version of [Domain of the Withering Slime] only covered a single cubic kilometer of space, but flying over the land at twenty five meter height, and the fact that the spell only filled a 10 meter layer of land with itself, meant that a single cubic kilometer covered just under 100 square kilometers of land, and with no shaping, it wouldn’t move much past a circle centered on the casting Ophiel.

100 square kilometers might have sounded like a lot, but that distance would get taken up rather quickly by dips and hills and caves and monsters taller than ten meters and a whole slew of nuances in the lay of the land. Spur was roughly 12 kilometers in diameter, which was an area of about 120 square kilometers, but that didn’t take into account the heights and depths involved. If Erick were the one supplying multiple Domains to this land, his own modifiers would make math unnecessary, but this was Ophiel casting the spell, and therefore a plan was needed.

The roughly 500 kilometer by 400 kilometer space currently overrun by mimics translated into over 200,000 square kilometers of land, with great attention given to the leading edge, but no less than normal efforts necessary for the rest of the infestation. The leading edge was roughly 20 kilometers wide…

Erick put the math away for now. He knew what he had to do. He set his Ophiel five kilometers away from each other, well within the tolerances for the overlap of the spell, and 25 meters off of the ground, or close enough to there to not make much of a difference. He then stretched two lines of three Ophiel perpendicular to the leading edge, setting the one over the leading edge, in front of the leading edge. That would ensure that any mimics running ahead of the horde couldn’t get far.

After each Ophiel regenerated a little bit of mana, in the Restful air of their [Prismatic Ward]s, it was time.

At once, while the moons lit the sky and mimics ripped the land apart, each Ophiel became a tiny Saturn. Thick, killing air, spilled out into the night.

Mimics dried and died. Some instantly. Some taking longer than normal. Smaller red ones screamed and ran, while everyone died around them, but there was nowhere to run. They died, screaming, chittering, calling out into the night. It was a horrible sound, accented by the woosh of [Cleanse]s bursting out of the horde, disturbing the tsunami air that wrapped around them all.

The larger red ones just tanked the spell.

Erick had no idea how they did it. They just stood very still, and did nothing, while thick air tore at them, ripping out red water from their crystalline hides. But they didn’t seem to die. Or maybe it just took a while? Erick waited, not moving the Ophiel.

A minute passed. Too long. There were too many of these monsters, too much land to cover, to wait this long. Erick briefly lowered the nearest Ophiel into range of the nearest target, and cast, himself.

[Electrolysis Bomb].

As that Ophiel quickly retreated back to the sky, the large red mimic screamed out horrors as blood turned to protected air, and electricity flashed across fake crystal. After forty seconds, the second part of that spell triggered.

Hydrogen combined with oxygen in a conflagration that ignited the night briefly into day, and seemed to fill the world with noise. The nearest Ophiel’s [Prismatic Ward] cracked, and so did the [Teleporting Platform] under him, but neither broke; he was a hundred meters away by the time the spell triggered.

There was no smoke from the explosion. As soon as the fire passed, the area that had held the red monster was visible. The monster would have been visible, too, if it had survived. It did not survive. Red, tree-sized limbs, were broken and bleeding and scattered in every direction. The horde of bodies around the large red mimic was gone. A crater a meter deep quickly began to fill in with water from every side.

Erick briefly came back to himself to see the notification. He found it amid the rest, fast enough.

You have slain Grand Ruby Mimic A!

95% participation

+ 690,872,870,987,254 exp

“What level was that!” Erick checked his Status. “I almost leveled from one kill.”

Erick Flatt

Human, age 48

Level 65, Class: Particle Mage

Exp: 2,476,835,931,716,187/2,777,789,003,528,800

Class: 6/6

Points: 8

HP

2100/2100

29,700 per day

MP

6707/6900

29,700 per day

Strength

20

+50

[70]

Vitality

20

+50

[70]

Willpower

65

+50

[115]

Focus

65

+50

[115]

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Kiri looked up from her book. “What?”

Erick sent the box toward her. “Grand Ruby Mimic!” He glanced back to the battlefield, then came back, saying, “I’m looking at two more of them right now. Same size, too.”

Kiri smiled as she read the box, her eyes turning emerald green with an inner light. She dismissed the box, then turned to Erick, asking, “So… Uh. Can I…? Can I have a try?”

Erick was more than willing to let her, but, “My Domain doesn’t work that well, but there has to be more of a reason that they’re not killing these things.” Erick sent her a telepathic image of the location, and a brief idea of how to get there. “But if you want to try your hand with Sunny, go ahead.”

The Sunny on Kiri’s shoulders, all green and sparkling, blipped away in an emerald flash. Kiri was already viewing the world through her [Familiar]; Erick could tell by how she went still, and her eyes closed.

Erick transferred back to Ophiel.

He watched as Sunny spat fire at the second Grand Ruby Mimic, who was still tanking Ophiel’s Domain. That fire promptly rebounded against Sunny. And then Sunny was gone. Huh. Erick came back to himself. Kiri frowned as she summoned another Sunny.

“What was that?” Erick asked.

“That was my first attempt.” Kiri patted Sunny on the head, saying, “It was just a tier 4 fireball. It obviously wasn’t good enough against the mimic’s innate [Reflection]. The big ones must have a better version of the original ability.”

Kiri’s second attempt went much better.

Sunny popped holes in the mimic with a spell Kiri had never used before, that she called [Hermetic Bolts]. Those holes spilled out torrents of ruby blood. It didn’t seem to do much, but it did enough. In the end, she could damage them, but not enough to kill them; Erick got 75% Participation. Ophiel’s Domain actually did the deed.

