Erick sat on his couch in the sunroom, while the night sky twinkled outside, and the moons painted his dark garden in white, pink, and silver lights. He set down the small green book he had been reading; ‘The Foreigner Mage’. The book had been a farewell gift from Hocnihai, and he had read it before, but in light of recent events, the words in that small book had painted a more complete picture of Wasteland culture.

It wasn’t a kind depiction, but it had gone into detail about the dangerous people to stay away from in the Wasteland; the answer was ‘everyone in a position of authority everywhere, but especially those of the Magisterium’. There was more to it than that, but when Erick read a caveat, snuck in after all the horrors of the previous sections about blood magic and curses and the various ways there were to take down a mage, that caveat said that if you were an invited mage of the Magisterium, then all you really had to worry about was getting screwed over in a business deal. If that happened, then all the other warnings applied.

What the green book said was more or less what Erick had already heard.

Paired with Silverite’s words, Erick felt a lot better about dealing with the Wasteland, and about dealing with Zago. He smiled into a cup of coftea, glad that the people around him were basically good people in bad situations, as he thought about his wants and his goals.

Obviously, he wanted the Shades dead. That was the long term goal. If this Candlepoint business went the way everyone thought it was going to go, then the Shades would get pushed back to Ar’Kendrithyst, and that would be that.

But that wasn’t good enough for Erick.

Maybe he could get the Wasteland to work for a more permanent solution?

Silverite had been wrong about one thing: Erick was not some uneducated non-political person. He just had a point of view that was wildly different than everyone else’s, and he had yet to fully absorb all the new ideas in all the various new cultures and lands and people all around him. But he was learning!

If people expected him to be a bit of a kook, then he could work that—

Poi spoke from the side of the room. “Sir. Sorry to interrupt. Kal’Duresh is finished. Frontier wishes to host you while you work on them, next. Guildmaster Zago wants to know when you’ll be ready to go to the Magisterium.”

“I’m sorry I snapped earlier at you, Poi. I know you’re under some stress from being a Mind Mage, but I didn’t know how bad it actually was.”

Poi startled, his eyes going wide as his poise broke. He quickly found himself, and stood straight to say, “Thank you, but there is no need to apologize. We’re all under some uncommon stress, at the moment.”

“Even so: sorry.” Erick continued, “To answer the other concerns: I will not be [Withering] Frontier in person. Please inform them that too many things are happening all at once, and I… I’m busy? That’s sort of the truth.” He added, “But the truth is, is that I just found out that Frontier tried to kill Sirocco years ago, and that doesn’t sit well with me. I’m not going to the Magisterium, either. Please inform Sirocco that Ophiel will journey with her, when she is ready to depart.”

Poi said, “As you wish.” After a moment, Poi said, “Zago will be ready in five minutes. She will depart from the war room.” After another moment, he said, “Frontier accepts. They have already readied their city. You may send Ophiel whenever.”

Erick briefly reached out to the Ophiel over Kal’Duresh. With a command, of the six of them on site, four blipped over to Frontier; from the white, pearly mountain, far from the Shades, to a stone castle town, south of Ar’Kendrithyst, where every building had walls thick enough to stop a vast majority of destructive magics. Erick’s [Familiar]s began dropping minor oceans of thick air on the thick town. Notifications began to rain.

He sent the other two Ophiel blipping toward the Wall. Erick conjured the remaining four Ophiel, bringing his squad up to the full 10. They hung out in the sunroom for now, whistling to each other, excited to see new sights.

When Sirroco introduced Erick to the Magisterium, through Ophiel, he would send these over.

But while he waited for her to get ready, he asked Poi, “What’s with the Puppet Masters? I’ve read about them, but never killed any. I thought the Mind Mages took care of that?”

Poi frowned. He said, “I’ve already informed my people. I can’t… I can’t really tell you much, except that the problem is being solved as we speak.”

At that, Erick had a thought. Hours ago, he had seen an image of the faux Adventurer’s Guildhouse in Candlepoint. That image, along with many others taken from different parts of the shadeling town, were all on viewing screens he had seen before, in the war room. That experience, taken with the location map of Candlepoint he had also seen in the war room, was enough for a [Scry] to accurately land where he wanted.

[Scry].

Erick’s sight landed in a large, bright room, with white stone walls, and pillars, and nice wooden furniture. It looked like the foyer of an expensive hotel. People were there, but almost all of them were shadelings; behind the sign-up counter, or manning the rad turn-in area, or standing beside the Quest Board. Erick could tell they were shadelings mainly by their dark eyes. The other people in the room were incani, and humans, and orcols, and dragonkin. No wrought, though. The people talked with the shadelings; some of those people were guarded, with hands itching to fight, some were pleasant, maybe putting on a brave face, or maybe not.

Erick had [Scry]ed into the main lobby of Candlepoint’s Adventurer’s Guildhouse.

He half-expected the shadelings to turn and stare at the [Scry] eye, but none of them did. There were lots of [Scry] eyes all around Erick, anyway, so what was one more added to the cloud of eyes hovering above everyone?

They were all looking at more or less the same thing, too. The Quest Board. More than a few people down below were staring at the board, too. It was dense with writing, listing every single monster Erick had ever encountered, and a hundred more besides, on little stone bricks that could be moved around as needed. The bricks were organized by reward cost first, and alphabetically second, with the larger rewards at the top of the board. As Erick watched, and read, a shadeling to the side of the board moved a few bricks around, and added more.

There were no shadowolves or slimes on this list. It was filled with the names of every single major monster Erick had ever killed, and many, many more besides that. Wyrms; 1 chip. Umbral Leviathans, 2 chips. Those balloon-like Blood Cloud monsters he had Withered out of the sky that one time; 1 chip per twenty. The Devil Dog that Erick had to kill for Mog while he was at Oceanside; 3 chips. Puppet Masters and Minds were worth 4 chips and 2 chips, respectively. Unicorn was there, but no Ancient Unicorn, like the one Jane had killed. There were more than a few other ‘Ancients’ on the list, though. Ancient Stone Elemental. Ancient Rivergrieve, whatever that was. 5 chips. Toxic Hydras— Oh. There was the Desert Rose that never appeared like everyone thought it would. Maybe it was active right now? And it was worth 3 darkchips?

An archmage level threat was only worth three darkchips? Eh. Erick didn’t know about these numbers...

Whatever the case, Ramizi might like to know that his Rose was out there—

There it was. Converter Angel. 10 chips. Near the top of the board, between Ancient Rivergrieve, and Ballooning Spider Horde.

Erick came back to himself, sitting in the sunroom, shivering at the thought of a ballooning spider horde. And then his thoughts turned to the angel. He glanced at the night, outside the window. Maybe the angel really was out there? Maybe it was already mutating souls into nascent angels; into soldiers for Celes, and the Celestial Host? That’s what Converter Angels did, if he recalled correctly.

Poi said, “Guildmaster Zago is ready.”

Erick nodded. He sent an Ophiel blipping to the war room.

Sirocco immediately locked eyes on Ophiel, then softened to a controlled smile. She stood near the longtable, wearing immaculate, deeply purple mage robes hemmed in silver flourishes. Blue gems adorned her horns and her hands. Most of those gems had to be for show, because they were set in silver and cut to reflect brilliance, while two plain iron and silver sphere rings adorned her hands, and Erick’s rings did not play well with other enchantments.

Erick spoke through Ophiel, “I can make you better rings than whatever you have there. You might need them, going forward.”

Sirocco softened into a real smile for a split moment, her eyes joining in the emotion, briefly. Then she switched to all business. “I accept. But not right now. We are expected.”

Poi’s voice came to him, ‘Viscount Helix is demanding your attention.’

“Apologies, Sirocco. One second.” Erick then sent to Poi, ‘Patch him in.’

As Sirocco nodded, slightly perturbed, Poi did as requested. Erick quickly felt another presence enter his thoughts.

‘Archmage Flatt! We have prepared a small get together for you. Would you reconsider your absence? Could you come in person?’

‘Apologies, Viscount.’ Erick sent, ‘We are in a minor war already, and I cannot spare the time right now. I will take you up on that offer some other day. Please let Poi know when you want Ophiel to stop his spells.’

‘…Very well. I look forward to hosting you another day.’ The Viscount’s voice felt tainted with barely-there acid, as he sent, ‘Do be careful over there in the Wasteland. They’re slavers to their own kin, you know. They’d do the same to you, if you give them half the chance.’

‘I am well aware of the dangers. Thank you for looking out for me.’ He cut the connection, and returned his attention to Sirroco, speaking through Ophiel, “I’m ready. I have a fun spell that I’ve been itching to try, too.”

“I look forward to seeing it.” Sirocco gestured to an open space on the floor of the war room. A violet disk of light sprang into being. Ophiel followed her onto the disk, Erick keeping his form to a mere two meter height, but with thin wings; he was not much larger than a person. She asked, “Ready?”

“Ready.”

The world blipped violet once, and stars filled the sky. Another blip, and the night sky was gone.

A cathedral of silver and stone soared in all directions, with carved metal pillars, surrounding hollow glass cores, holding up the dazzling mosaics above. Silver fire flickered in long ribbons of light inside those glass pillars. There were no true shadows in this place of metal and magnificence.

Three people stood in the otherwise-empty room, maybe five meters from Sirocco’s landing spot.

Two of the people looked like guards, but really expensive and competent guards. They wore robes similar to Sirocco’s, but maybe a little less ornate, and with gold flourishes on the purple cloth, instead of silver. But the guy in the center wore robes made of purple and gold, in a fifty-fifty ratio, filled with stars and serpents, fire and air, magic and more; the center guy’s robes were a work of art. He was a man of average height and maybe a bit skinny, with a drawn face and thin horns. As he saw Ophiel, whatever kindness might have been on his face, vanished.

Sirocco stepped forward, off the platform, saying, “Magister Iordex. Good of you to meet us.”

“If you would call it as such!” Iordex said, building up steam. “I should have just sent my [Familiar], too… No.” He dispelled whatever anger washed over him, composing his stance and his words, to say, “No matter. We have work to do.”

Erick spoke through Ophiel, saying, “I’m here to help. This infestation needs to get gone, so we can focus on the more important problems.”

Iordex gave a dismissive nod, saying, “I agree.” He said, “Now display for me the spell you will be using, and give me a brief overview of how it works.”

If Iordex wanted to play that sort of game, Erick could, too.

He put a bit of disappointment in his voice, and said, “You don’t know what it says? What it does?” Erick added, “That seems in poor taste. Besides: I’ll be using a great many spells to do what needs to be done. It’s almost like you don’t trust me.” Erick certainly didn’t trust Iordex right now; that’s why he was there in Ophiel, instead of in person. To hopefully illustrate that point, Erick fluffed out Ophiel’s wings a little. He continued, “But if you’re just asking for information, that will cost you.”

Iordex’s stance solidified; he totally understood what Erick meant by fluffing out Ophiel’s wings. He narrowed his eyes, as he asked, “How much?”

“Unspecified favors to be returned at a later date.” Erick added, “In addition to the balance of debt you already owe, due to my open and honest lecture on Particle Magic with Archmage Hocnihai.” He continued, “In addition to the rads of the mimics I kill tonight.”

Iordex said, “We will not take on more ‘unspecified favors’, therefore we do not require the spell knowledge; use whatever magic you deem necessary. And if you want to collect all those rads, go ahead. When we take to the field to make sure that you got all of them, then we will collect what remains for ourselves.”

“Then you can do that, and send me half.” Erick said, “That will be the payment I require for tonight’s service. Outside of this agreement, I will leave up a [Cascade Imaging] for you, in the center of the infestation, tracked onto any mimics, so that you may easily collect the ones I miss.”

Iordex seemed to wrestle with that idea for a moment, but it was entirely possible that it was all a show, and he was ecstatic that Erick had bargained for that little. There was a risk in leaving [Cascade Imaging] up in the middle of not-friendly territory, but Erick had already displayed the spell way more than that when he was imaging the whole of the Crystal Forest for hunters, and for the Hand, and for Caradogh. The Magisterium had probably already gotten a great big eyeful of that particular spell.

… But this time they would know what Erick was searching for, and they could test various [Ward]s to see what blocked it?

… Maybe he had made a mistake, but the words had already been said.

Iordex said, “Agreed.”

Let the chips fall where they may. Erick asked, “Where is the center of the infestation?”

