The ‘food court’ of the tower was much as Erick remembered; a bunch of tables and chairs and lounging spaces, surrounded by business spaces and restaurants. And then there were the traps. Color bombs were inside every couch seat and hidden behind every door, just waiting for someone to walk though and get colored with indelible magical dye.

Ophiel instantly went about setting off one of every color for which he had a body, which meant that soon Erick had an Ophiel in every color, with a double in purple.

Rozeta disabled the traps where she sat down, and invited Erick to sit with her.

Rozeta served tea, and as Erick took a sip, she began, “I believe it would be a bad idea for you to try and circumvent the natural ascension to True Wizard that comes at this point in your life, either through a manaminer, or through other means. That sort of ‘manaminer-assist’-action would taint whatever final form you figured out. Furthermore, I believe that you asking the Well for assistance in this was not a good idea. Aside from the Well possibly granting you false information, and fucking up everything that you are from now until forever… Don’t go walking in the Dark, Erick— Or more to the point:

“Even in the Old Cosmology, Wizards were a minor manifestation of the Darkness, going their own way, not beholden to the Dark at all. By this action of you believing the Well and being transported by the Well, you threaten to make Wizards unanimous with the Dark yet again, which will not go well for anyone.”

“… Okay. Well. I understand that. So do you have any hints about True Wizardry that you haven’t already given me?”

Rozeta shrugged. “Not really. But since the Dark brought you here, he feels that something can be gained by you in this location… And yes. I know I just told you not to trust the Dark, but I highly doubt that when the Dark delivers you to me that it is trying to screw with you somehow, and by extension screw with all the rest of the world.”

“So there is something here, eh?”

Rozeta looked to Erick, and said, “There hasn’t been a True Wizard here on Veird since the Grand Translation put most everyone into bodies. Perhaps the problem lies in Particles itself? I don’t know. Perhaps you have to become a magical soul and nothing else, first. Perhaps lichdom is the proper path to Wizardry these days.

“I have told you this already, but back in the Old Cosmology, Wizards had to either purge themselves of everything that was not themselves or they had to permanently integrate everything that they were into their crystal form before they could ascend to True Wizard. This physical action was a magical action back then, since everything was made of mana.” Rozeta said, “So, like my father had once said…” It was tough for Rozeta to continue, but she did. “Perhaps the Script is the real problem, as my father suggests, because with the Script you’ve never had to truly wrestle with your innate mana production before. You have undeveloped mana veins because of that. And yet, Wizards used to ascend to Full Wizardry all the time, even without going through any of the proper steps at all. But there were steps for a lot of them, and you have never needed to go through those steps.

“On the other claw, mental hangups were always the largest stumbling block for every single Wizard… And that’s likely where you’re faltering. If you became a True Wizard, you’d have to either kill or instantiate Ophiel and Yggdrasil both, not to mention separate from the Script, and all that that would entail.”

Rozeta sipped her tea.

Erick sipped his tea, too. Yggdrasil would be easy to instantiate. All that would require is the removal of his seal, for any length of time at all. Doing that would probably allow Yggdrasil to plant his True Self, too. Or maybe removing the seal would allow Erick to do that; to fix that one pesky line in that blue box that said ‘The World Tree has yet to be planted.’.

Ophiel was going to naturally separate in a few months. Maybe 4. Erick could probably force that birth early if he wanted. The standard way to force that issue would be to use Time Magic, but Erick already knew that he could force Ophiel’s instantiation through some Wizardry, if he absolutely had to do that. Oddly enough, because how much Erick had screwed up [Onward], Wizardry might actually be the safer option than using Time Magic directly.

… But besides those personal issues, Erick was still not happy with the state of the world, either. So maybe he had some mental hangups about how becoming a True Wizard would separate him from everyone else in a very real way, and he didn’t want that separation yet.

But if he fixed everything, then he could safely separate?

Erick asked, “What sort of problems would you like to see gone from Veird, or solved?”

“I want the Forever War to end,” Rozeta said, without reservation, “Not sure how to stop those assholes from fighting all the time, though.”

Erick had a timeless moment of disbelief that Rozeta would actually go that direction, and then he smiled. “It would be pretty great if they stopped fighting.”

Rozeta stared at Erick without actually staring at all, as she said, “It would take a Wizard to invent a supreme reason for why they are fighting at all, and then help mediate how to stop the fight, either through the removal of that reason, or through some other way to stop the eternal hate.”

“… Oh.”

Rozeta nodded. She knew the seriousness of what she touched upon.

Erick had a thousand thoughts on that. From the ethics of causing such a deep change in how the universe worked to wondering if he could even do any sort of real change at all, to suddenly realizing that other Wizards had ‘won’ wars by simply putting themselves at the end points of those wars, as the victor. And Erick was a ‘truly strong’ Wizard. He could… Do a lot, if he wanted.

“… It would have to be…” Erick began, “It would have to be a deep enough reason for war so as not to fuck up all the rest of history, right?”

Rozeta skipped all subtlety and directly stated, “Make both Elements able to gain more of themselves when one triumphs over the other. That could be the base reason for their war. From there, we pivot away from killing to games of triumph, and debates, and anything else that is not outright war. There has been a war for so long that there is no other way to see ‘angels-versus-demons’ other than as a war. But it could change. It could be made better.”

Erick set down his tea. “I’m not sure if we should continue this, or if you’re even Rozeta at all.”

“I am Rozeta,” Rozeta said, “So ask the real question.”

“Why would you ever suggest such a thing? The pure chaos that it would create is unimaginable!”

“I know what I am asking for. I know the danger of it all. I know a lot more than you, Erick. And I know that you might not choose to do this, and thus I will have damaged our working relationship from now until forever. But this change doesn’t have to happen now, and it’s just one possible solution to the problem. Maybe you simply talk to them and end the Forever War that way. Maybe you make it so that when an angel harms a demon or the other way around that they actually harm themselves, which is another solution I have considered but I am less sure about. Either way, the Forever War needs to end before it can be allowed to spread past this world.

“It’s because of them and their war that my father is allowed to do this Sundering search in the first place; that you were dragged into this horror, and that you and Jane and now Poi are subject to making repros and all that that entails. The only reason that the angels and demons voted that way was because both of them saw the chance for them to use what was coming to create some ultimate weapons against the other. Nuclear, Establishment, Wizard-ways. They even want to start wielding Primal Lightning against each other.

“I have overlooked their war for the longest time, because I must remain neutral, but they threaten to disturb the very fabric of our reality, and thus they need to change.”

Erick’s breath was almost still in his lungs. This was real. Ah.

Rozeta said, “The Forever War needs to end, and the creation of a reason for the war to exist at all, and the subsequent annihilation of that reason, seems like a good way to erase that war from existence for good. Maybe you can even make a simple artifact that is the basis for the entire War in the first place; both sides are small enough that that trick might actually work, but it won’t work once we get past Veird.” She said, “The ending of the Forever War also has the side effect of disrupting their voting bloc and returning actual democracy to the Relevant Entities of the Script. That needs to happen.”

“… Okay. It’ll take me a while to come to terms with that… A while.”

Rozeta leaned back in her chair. “Understandable. I have been able to uphold neutrality for a long time, Erick, but this latest turn of events... It’s taken me time to come to grips with this turn of events as well. I didn’t even know how to bring it up with you last time we spoke, but since you’re here in the Core… I brought it up.”

Erick didn’t speak.

Rozeta offered, “We can move on to other topics.”

Erick breathed out, then moved on. “Got any suggestions on how to handle Jane and her repros? I am worried about all of them.”

Rozeta was a goddess after all. She had seen a lot, and knew a lot. Erick felt he might as well ask her such a question. But as soon as he asked, Rozeta got a strained look in her eyes—

Rozeta said, “Anything I say to you could theoretically be used by my own father against me, so I’m going to echo Poi’s words, and say that you’re just growing apart… But. Perhaps give her missions to complete? To prove her power to herself and to you?” Rozeta shook her head. “I don’t know, Erick. Ask any other god besides me about that topic, please. Personally, I’m afraid of my father gaining Jane as paladins, and that you won’t fight against them if he should drive all of them toward your destruction.”

Horrors on top of horrors.

Erick asked, “It’s not possible that I’m secretly and Paradoxically Melemizargo myself, right?”

Rozeta shook her head. “You’re not him. Paradox Wizards are confounding bastards at the best of times, but a Paradox Wizard could never become the Dark.”

“And yet, people have been calling me ‘Xoat’ for the longest time.”

“Now that—” Rozeta said, “Xoat and the Darkness are entirely two different things. But if you want to talk about how a Paradox Wizard could be Xoat? Well now that’s a much more reasonable conversation.”

“… I’m not sure if I like that comparison.”

The tension in the room eased as Rozeta gave a small grin. Then she nodded. “I understand your reluctance, but there’s nothing wrong with you being an incarnation of Xoat.”

Erick moved on, again. “So about the Well’s idea for me to find a Creation Wizard in the Dark?”

Rozeta shook her head. “A bad idea. You’d bring forth any number of my father’s claw-picked Wizards, and I cannot abide by that. We wouldn’t have a Destruction Wizard capable of matching them for power, either, and we absolutely do not want a Destruction Wizard on Veird at all.”

“Understandable, then.” Erick went right onto the next question, “So if Solomon gains enough personal mana creation… At what point does a normal person become a Wizard?”

“Ahhh… Now that’s a question.” Rozeta said, “There’s a qualitative difference between the mana production gained through the Trials of the Dark and the mana production of being a Wizard. Small Wizardries are happening all across Veird all the time now, primarily because dragons are living in the open here or in Fairie, but there’s an increasing section of the population that does Wizardry through their own natural mana production that they gained in Trials of the Dark. Mostly, people are just making magics easier than they used to be able to make magic; going from the Basic tiers of the Script paid for with 1 point, up to tier 5 and 6, just through pure desire and a basic magical education. The average level of spell creation used to be 2.7 before the dungeons. Now it’s 4.1.

“But becoming a Wizard through the mana gained from trials is completely unheard of. I haven’t seen anyone cross that divide, but it should be possible.” Rozeta said, “It would require some sort of ignition-event, though, to transform a conglomeration of Dark mana into personal mana.”

Erick scrunched his eyes. “So there’s a difference between Trial mana and personal mana?”

Rozeta shrugged. “There is no chemical or physical difference between a diamond grown with a spell and a diamond grown with natural forces, but the one grown by natural forces has a certain magical impression upon the world that the spell-created diamond does not possess. And yet, magical impressions can be manufactured. Just takes time and pressure.”

Erick thought about that for a moment. And then he tried to relax, and look around a little. “So I guess I ended up back here somehow… Want to talk about that past? I might be looking to get it back… or maybe Melemizargo wants his wife back?”

Rozeta smiled a little at the mention of Melemizargo getting his wife back. “That particular path is a doubtful one. My father was not a father like you are a father. Most dragons are not. Back in the Old Cosmology it was considered an honor and privilege to mate with the Dark. It was a privilege my mother won several times in the last 30,000 years, or something like that. The Dark is a completely absentee father, though, until events bring his children to his attention.”

Erick raised an eyebrow.

“Dragon culture is a lot different from what you’re used to, Erick, because Dragon Essence does not lend itself to normal ways of mortal life. Dragons in Fairie are perhaps the most normal of us all, making eggs and leaving them to hatch and grow and thrive on their own, or die in the process. When dragons inhabit the forms of the mortal races they’re a bit better about caring for offspring, but you know how that ends. All dragon fathers and mothers leave dragonkin children to die or thrive on their own, for their Dragon Essence and Will To Power drives the dragons onward, and if the child should prove strong enough, then the parents will see the child again eventually.

