- - - -

When the Janes left to go back to delving, Erick sent a dense telepathic packet to Poi and Solomon about what had happened with the Well. Erick had spoken of all of that at breakfast, but Erick had left out specifics that needed to be said. Poi already knew everything, of course, but Solomon did not, and he needed to know the full story.

It took Solomon a moment to digest the information therein, but not too long at all. When he was done, he opened his eyes, and nodded. “Wanna talk about the Janes now?”

“They were scared to hug me when I came back, but they all wanted to.”

Solomon gave a tiny, knowing smile. “Yeah. Same for me, but… When we were in the dungeons, one of them let slip that she was happy that she had sisters, and then she realized I overheard her and they all got embarrassed about that.”

That made Erick feel some kinda odd way that was hard to put into words. Happy, for sure, but also a bit melancholy. “It certainly did seem like they were happy to be around each other.” Erick said, “Honestly this whole thing is kinda hard to process.”

Solomon nodded, his expression turning serious, “I’m trying not to think about it too much, because all I can think of is that most of them are going to die. I’m probably going to die, too.”

“Not if I have anything to say about that,” Erick said. “And you have Time Magic, too, right?”

“I do,” Solomon said, “Though it appears a lot weaker than what I’m used to.”

Erick’s eyebrows rose. “How much weaker?”

“I can go 10 seconds in the past for 10,000 mana, but I can’t activate it again and again in rapid sequence to go back 100 seconds.” Solomon said, “I get a lot less bang for the buck than I used to.”

Erick frowned. “That is a concern.”

“Not much of one,” Solomon said.

Poi didn’t seem concerned about dying or the lack of absolute power that Erick was used to having.

As soon as Erick had that thought, Poi said, “I’m not concerned with dying; that is correct. I’ll live on even if this body perishes.”

“Well that’s weird, but okay.” Erick stood from the breakfast table, saying, “Let’s work on proper defenses, anyway.”

Solomon nodded.

Poi asked, “Where do we start?”

- - - -

Erick stood with Solomon and Poi in the mage tower, underneath the model of the solar system, where the sun was the dungeon core. That false sun glowed white and iridescent, bathing the room in a calm sort of light that glinted off of the [Crystal Stasis]’d dungeon master slimes, hanging out in the asteroid belt.

A message held in the air ahead.

- -

RULES:

1: Script Interface, minimal settings

2: Auto-Resurrection, unlimited lives

3: Maximum Life Support, slime generation set to maximum; PLAIN SLIMES ONLY

4: Sanctity of Space, golem enforcement of life form level; MAXIMUM LETHALITY

~ Exceptions: Fallopolis, slimes, Erick Flatt, Jane Flatt, Ophiel, Yggdrasil, + Accompaniment

5: Direct access to Darkness

Note: Rules Changes Locked for <07D:01H:39M>

- -

Erick was going to try and turn that timer down to 0, to unlock Rule changes in the dungeon.

Poi said, “You could put the core in a [Hasted Shelter] and make it count down fast on its own. No need for Wizardry at all.”

Erick paused in thought.

Solomon did too. And then Solomon answered, “Do the Wizardry, Erick.”

Erick said, “The [Hasted Shelter] idea is a good idea. It has merit. It’s a good way to visualize what I want to happen… But Solomon is right.”

Poi shrugged. “I just needed to say what both of you were thinking, to put it out there for discussion instead of left unsaid.”

Erick looked at Solomon, and Solomon looked at Erick.

“… Well, huh,” Solomon said.

“I’m only going to try to ‘add a switch’ to the timer,” Erick said, “And then if it works, we can add more switches in other places; try to make this a repeatable Wizardry.”

“That was always the hardest part; the repeatability,” Solomon said, “None of the Wizardry worked the same twice in a row.” And then he paused, adding, “Well… We can reliably copy spellwork through Wizardry; speaking to the mana instead of casting at all.”

Erick raised an eyebrow. “Have you tried that sort of Wizardry, yet?”

Solomon happily said, “It wasn’t working at the start of the dungeon delves, but after the second day I had 2,300 base mana production, and I was able to make tier 1 through 4 magic work through Wizardry alone.”

“Huh!” Erick asked, “What about mana costs?”

“About 25% costs, until tier 4, which was 110% costs. I have definitely lost that innate connection to the mana that I had as a Wizard, but with enough effort I believe I can get it back. I can figure out an ignition event, like Rozeta suggests is possible.” Solomon said, “The Janes were completely unable to replicate that spellwork trick, though.”

“… Huh. Well I guess I’ll be repeating those experiments, too. But first.” Erick looked up. “You’re sure there are no switches for you two to flip to make that timer go faster?”

“Correct.” “No switches.”

Erick focused.

He spoke.

“A small change to allow, in this dungeon of slime.

“A small switch installed now, an allowance of time.”

The air flickered.

Solomon and Poi both shuddered.

And then the sun-like core settled down…

Erick had a hard time understanding exactly when the core had been unsettled at all. Perhaps it was like noticing a sound only after the sound was gone? Or perhaps the addition of something new in the air that brought everything to a different sort of harmony?

Erick would be puzzled over that for a little while. Whatever it was, it had been Wizardry. Small Wizardry, for sure, but Wizardry all the same.

Solomon breathed in, then said, “Well… Okay. We have a timer switch, then.” And then he reached over to the still-visible black box, and touched the air near the timer. Over the ‘day’ category, Solomon touched a triangle above the number, and a day was added to the timer. Erick looked back through the past and saw that the timer had always had that switch above the numbers. And yet, in his memories, there had been no timer at all. And then Solomon pressed the switch below the day slot, and subtracted a day from the timer. It was the same deal with the ‘down’ switch; it wasn’t there, and then it was. As Solomon pressed the ‘down’ switch a few times, bringing the countdown to <00D:01H:39M>, he said what Erick was thinking, “I didn’t even see the down button before now. But… Yeah. It’s there. It was always there.”

Poi’s face was tense. “How much did that take out of you, Erick?”

“Not much at all,” Erick said. “… Four or five mana? Barely noticed it, and it’s already back.”

Solomon pressed the ‘down’ buttons on the rest of the timer, rapidly approaching 0, as he asked, “What do our first Rules look like?”

Solomon hit 0.

The entire screen shook, and then changed. A new black screen appeared. The largest part of that new screen was a blank area with a blinking white line on the left, reminiscent of the blinking line when one was writing on a computer. A much smaller part were all the numbers and words before that entry area.

- -

<22> new rules available for instantiation <today>.

<1,000,000> mana per new rule.

SPEAK NEW RULE HERE:

[_______________________]

Final upkeep cost of new rule is <estimate=~unknown>.

Accept new rule? Yes / No

- -

Erick said, “You know… It didn’t really hit me until just now, until seeing an entry area that uses natural language commands, that these cores are more Wizardry than natural magic. This whole dungeon space is Wizardry in the Dark, after all… And then again all natural magic is based on Wizardry.”

Solomon smirked. He said to Erick and Poi, “So I’m thinking ‘ability to designate absolutely-no-Script spaces with variable manasphere density’, to train for being cut from the Script, and also for making mana crystals.”

The box changed.

- -

<22> new rules available for instantiation <today>.

<1,920,000> mana for new rule.

<new rule uses 1.9 new rules>

SPEAK NEW RULE HERE:

[Creation of No-Script, variable-manasphere-density areas, at request of dungeon masters]

Final upkeep cost of new rule is <25,000/day per large-sized area created>.

Accept new rule? Yes / No

- -

Everyone looked at each other for a moment.

Erick decided, “Create the Rule.”

Nothing happened.

Solomon echoed, “Create the Rule.”

The dungeon core flickered overhead, bathing the area in a pulse of shadowy light that stretched out into the world, past the house, where that shadow light suddenly inundated the entire slime dungeon.

The Rule Change screen and the Rules screen both flickered, changing, followed by the dungeon status screen appearing, also changed.

- -

Rule Accepted.

<20> new rules available for instantiation <today>.

- -

- -

- -

RULES:

1: Script Interface, minimal settings

2: Auto-Resurrection, unlimited lives

3: Maximum Life Support, slime generation set to maximum; PLAIN SLIMES ONLY

4: Sanctity of Space, golem enforcement of life form level; MAXIMUM LETHALITY

~ Exceptions: Fallopolis, slimes, Erick Flatt, Jane Flatt, Ophiel, Yggdrasil, + Accompaniment

5: Direct access to Darkness

6: Creation of No-Script, variable-manasphere-density areas, at request of dungeon masters

~ Notification: mana escaping into the manasphere due to Script severing will be taken into the dungeon core through natural means. Beware rapid progression of any slimes or other beings should they be exposed to high levels of mana.

- -

Inflow: 1,750,000 per day

Outflow: 23,590,000 per day

Use: 197,500 per day

Masters: Solomon, Poi, <awaiting> x9

Bosses: Master Golem

- -

Erick read them all, and said, “Well then! That ‘notification’ on the Rule is kinda weird.”

“We can turn the roof of this mage tower into a… funnel, or something?” Solomon said, “Instead of letting it flow around all willy-nilly.”

Erick nodded. “I’ll probably raise a stone platform high above the first floor and put the no-Script area up there, and carve some stone channels so the extra mana flows down here to the core. The idea might need some adjustment if my severance from the Script is anything like it was beyond the Edge, but we can deal with that when the time comes.”

“All that is easily solvable without making another Rule change,” Solomon said.

“Looks like each Rule change costs maybe 1 million of the day’s excess mana production, too?”

“Looks like,” Solomon said. “Quilatalap always said it was different for every dungeon based on the solidity of the Rules being made.” Solomon looked to the air, focusing on something beyond Erick’s sight. “Feels like this dungeon is tuned toward very high parameters.”

Erick asked, “You think something is going on in the back-end? Some unseen Rules?”

“Well yes.” Solomon said, “I feel I could… lessen the exactitude of the Rules—”

“Nope,” Poi said, “I would prefer that each Rule does exactly what it says it does, with very little open to interpretation. That’s how you get rogue dungeons. If it takes a million mana to make a rule, and we can only have a max of 22 new rules per day, that is fine.”

Solomon looked to Poi, saying, “Are you sure that’s you saying that? And not the dungeon? Because I’m getting messages from the dungeon telling me to tell Erick not to lower that safety parameter at all.”

Poi frowned. “I know my mind, Solomon. In this case I agree with the core’s determination. I would prefer safety over Wizardry, even if Wizardry is the way this is all going to go. We leave the million-mana-new-Rule-cost alone.”

That was the first time Erick had seen either of them not act like normal people; that he had seen them speak as though they were extensions of the dungeon. They were not ‘normal’ people, though...

Erick brushed past all of that. They were Solomon and Poi, and it was what it was.

But Solomon had noticed Erick having those sorts of thoughts, since he did have all of Erick’s capabilities, while Poi ‘heard’ Erick have those thoughts more directly. Almost as fast as they had noticed Erick having a weird moment, they both had their own weird moments, due to Erick’s reflection upon them.

No one had any desire to tackle that topic now, or ever.

Poi said, “We leave the safety measures alone, even if they cost a lot.”

“I agree,” Solomon said.

“Let’s go make a testing area,” Erick said.

- - - -

A bit of [Stoneshape] and [Duplicate] soon had a large four-column spire of a platform raised into the air above the dungeon floor. Made of white stone, just like the dungeon, the new platform was located to the left of the hole that led to the house. It was about 50 meters wide, and circular-ish, and it was probably wholly inadequate for what was to come, but it would serve for now.

The slimes loved the new space.

Or rather, they were kinda angry at it. They swarmed the new pillars like rowdy kids, bunching up atop each other, trying to climb up the slick white stone. They soon gave up their ‘attack’, but they did prowl around the base of the building rather a lot.

Erick stood upon the edge, looking down at the dungeon floor. “I didn’t realize it at first, but they’re kinda violent for slimes.”

“They’re not that bad.” Solomon looked down at the slimes with him. “Normal slimes don’t attack others, but you normally never see slimes on their own in any sort of environment. They’re always a prey species. When it’s nothing but slimes, then slimes get aggressive.”

“I suppose this sort of aggression does happen in element-harvesting dungeons. Eh.” Erick turned away from the edge, to face the flat white platform ahead. It was mostly flat except for a ridge in the stone that drew a circle in the center of the platform, marking off a 30-meter diameter area. “I’m ready.”

Solomon nodded, then said to the air, “Emplace the void.”

A bubble that was not a bubble appeared in front of Erick, filling the platform up to the ridge in the white stone. The bubble was not solid, but it appeared that way due to the lensing of mana at the edges, looking like a layer of thick air.

The interior of that bubble was a complete, absolute void to Erick’s mana sense. Air and light still existed in that space, but the 0% manasphere density completely stopped Erick’s primary sense of the world. Erick stared at the space for a moment, expecting some sort of horror to climb out of it. But nothing happened. And yet...

“Gods above that’s freaky,” Solomon said, putting Erick’s own thoughts into words.

“It’s just like the 0% manasphere tests we did in the Glittering Depths,” Erick said, trying to get over his own trepidation.

