“Benevolence Dragons are a big change in that natural order, though. I see all of them raising clutches together… Which is kinda weird, actually. But they seem to be happy that way.” Rozeta shrugged. “Whatever comes next will probably form the basis of the rest of existence from now on, but back then things were not like they are now.

“In this land, I had what I would call a ‘normal’ dragon childhood.

“My tale of this Grand Wizard’s tower is barely unique, though, for there isn’t a god or otherwise who fell to Veird who didn’t come through this place at some point in their lives. This Grand Wizard’s Tower was practically the center of the universe, though back then such a statement would have sparked a thousand dissenting voices.

“I was born here, though, so it was my center for a long time.

“Liliandroza set a clutch of eggs sired by Melemizargo down upon the fourth island out there, the one that is half-buried in the ocean, and I was hatched in that clutch, whereupon I won the hatching battle. My brothers and sisters fled with superficial wounds, for the Wizards in their tower prevented me from killing the others, which I wasn’t thankful for until many years later, when one of my brothers…” Rozeta got a far-off look in her eyes, as she said, “He saved me and I saved him.”

A silence descended.

Erick asked, “Did he survive the Sundering?”

Rozeta’s pain was old, and so she easily said, “No, he did not. He was on the other side of the universe when that happened and I was on Veird already. This Grand Wizard’s Tower didn’t survive at all.” She waved a hand, indicating the tower. “This is all just a rebuilt memory.”

Erick nodded as he looked around. For a moment, Erick focused on the unfinished stone statue of ‘Xoat’, standing in the back of the food court, and at the empty base behind that statue. Melemizargo’s statue should have been there, on that empty pedestal, overlooking the statue of Xoat. But the representative of the Dark was gone from this place; removed by Rozeta, for his crimes.

Erick asked, “When did Melemizargo become a part of your life? Or how about your mother? If she lived here, too.”

“My father was not present at all for any part of my life until I came into my own power, when I began working with Koyabez on the manaminer of Veird. But before that, a thousand years before… I lived here in this Tower, and I knew my mother as a distant force of power, always in her garden and keeping the Tower secure.

“This Tower and the Wizards therein were much more my family for the first 250 years of my life…”

- - - -

They had moved up to the second floor an hour ago to have some pastries and coffee at ‘Koyabez’s Rest’ and to talk of history long gone, of material solutions to current-day problems, and about the differences between ‘safe’ Wizardry, and ‘big’ Wizardry.

Rozeta refilled her coffee and Erick’s, as she continued, “Solving the Forever War outright would be a Big, unsafe Wizardry, so yeah, I don’t want that. Not right now, anyway.”

“Well good!” Erick laughed a little. “Neither do I.”

Rozeta smiled, saying, “I would prefer a smaller solution, though I doubt it would work. Maybe you can use some combination of Wizardry and Benevolence to pluck out important demons and angels from the mess of them all to talk to them and to get them to agree to a permanent truce? Maybe.” She lost her smile. “I was really hoping that the inroads with your Gate Network between the Wasteland and Greensoil would have lasted, but then that asshole Darundi went and did some political gain.”

Erick sighed. “I had a lot of circumstantial evidence… Enough to convince me. But that really is what happened, eh.”

“I can talk to you about things that you already know, but as a goddess of neutrality, I won’t and can’t involve myself with mortal intrigue.” Rozeta said, “Honestly, Erick, you could make this world so much better if you had fewer morals, but if you did, then you wouldn’t be you, so going the slow way is better for everyone.”

Erick sipped his coffee, thinking.

Rozeta said, “Smaller Wizardries are good for that. A dungeon would be good for testing those small Wizardries, too. Removal of that timer to change the Rules. You might think of some sort of implementation of your own control over the dungeon, instead of needing to go through a dungeon master slime. You can try creating Dark Mirrors and Pathing Portals in your dungeon and linking it all with a Benevolent Gaze upon history… Just viewing history shouldn’t be a problem, and as a Paradox Wizard you should be able to do that. As none of that is allowed or possible via the dungeon, or the Script, or by Benevolence, all that would all require Wizardry in order to happen.”

“All good targets for Wizardry experiments, theeaaH—” Erick yawned. “—good targets then. Excuse me.”

Rozeta smiled softly. “You’ve been awake for about 4 days now. There’s a room in the palace on the other island for you, if you want.”

“That sounds like a wonderful idea…” Erick thought about the trip to the Surface, and then to Ascendant Mountain, and then to the house in the Dark where he should be sleeping right now. “… It’s gonna be damned hard to sleep in that dungeon.”

“Make the house into a safe space with Benevolence Wizardry.”

“… Ha!” Erick said, “I probably could, couldn’t I. Benevolence should be able to make a safe space… I think.”

Rozeta nodded. “You might not be able to simply burn away something like a Sun Wizard could, but Benevolence has utility. But, there is something else to consider. In creating a safe space around a dungeon core through act of Wizardry, you are going against the core; you will have put a safe space over an area overseen by the Dark, which will definitely cause unintended side effects, because the core being able to protect itself through absolute violence is sort of its base nature. That’s not even getting into other possible side effects, such as my father saying, ‘No’.”

“I could make a core with the base nature of making the world safe?”

“And then we get into a conversation about ‘what is safe’ which goes through a bunch of philosophy but eventually arrives at a ‘safe’ dungeon core being antithetical to the Darkness, and the real-world problem of the Dark then doing something unexpected to ‘fix’ the problem.”

“Ah. Yeah. Unintended Big Wizardry. I should have realized that before I said it.” Erick looked down at the coffee. “I think it stopped working.”

Rozeta stood. “I’ll let you get to bed, Erick. Sweet dreams.”

And then Rozeta stepped away, into the ether, vanishing in a golden flow.

“I suppose it’s time to clean up one more mess before I go,” Erick muttered to himself.

And then Erick looked over at Ophiel, and at the ten purpleberry pies that he had attempted to eat, and had instead gotten everywhere across the floor, and across a few tables and chairs. The distribution of crust and purple and lumps of berry were all very purposefully placed. It kinda looked like the cloud castle, with different purpleberry pie detritus on different levels of chairs and tables, forming the different buildings of the cloud castle. And then Ophiel noticed Erick looking.

Ophiels in four different colors suddenly flopped onto the mess and squawked, “My art! No touch!”

“Ophiel,” Erick began, “You have made a beautiful sculpture of the house, but we can’t leave art like this wherever we go. Please put the room back how you found it.”

Quietly, and defensively, Ophiel whistled, “nooooo.”

“Your art is fantastic, but it will only last a few days like this anyway. The berries are wet right now, but they’ll dry and darken. Then mold will come in and grow colors everywhere, while also being quite dirty.”

Ophiel hopped up, and cast some Preservation magic on the mess. “No dirty! Last forever!”

Erick stared for a moment, disbelief and surprise and a strange sense of pride all vying for prominence in his mind. And then came discipline. Erick said, “You’re not getting any more purpleberry pie from Quilatalap unless you clean up this one.”

Each Ophiel looked at each other, all of them sharing unsure guitar noises and unhappy flute sounds. And then, most reluctantly, Ophiel began cleaning up his mess.

Erick wordlessly thanked the gods for the small miracle of children sometimes listening.

- - -

As Erick fell into a bed fit for a king and softness surrounded him, Erick wordlessly thanked Rozeta for the hospitality, and the talk. He now had a solid plan going forward. He was absolutely not going to ‘Wizard-up’ a solution to the Forever War, but… He could do something good for everyone. A little here, a little there.

Maybe pluck out lost powers from the history of Veird, to bring them into the modern day?

As Erick almost fell asleep, he had another thought, though. All of this power he had, this capability to change this very world, went against his own idea that no one should have the power to change the world on their own whims.

Poi approved of Erick making changes, though; he had always said as much.

Rozeta and the gods were fine with Erick making changes, too.

… Still felt weird.

- - - -

Erick stepped out of the sky, Ascendant Mountain sprawled out in front of him, all its crystal spires glinting in the light of a fresh morning. Everything was palest blue, mostly white, and filled with shadows, with not a spot of red glows anywhere; nothing was on fire, so all was good.

Another lightstep took Erick directly to the entrance to the slime dungeon, among a copse of crystal-crusted trees. Nothing untoward out here. Another step took Erick through a dark portal, inside, to stand upon the white staircase. Nothing was on fire down here, either, and as multicolor Ophiel explored the multicolor space, Erick saw that nothing was wrong, though a lot of things were still uncomfortable.

But Jane seemed happy, and Poi and Solomon seemed okay…

This was fine.

Another lightstep took Erick directly to the house under the floor, where he entered the kitchen just in time to see Solomon flip a pancake, and call out that breakfast was ready. Six Janes sat at the table, instead of the 5 of yesterday, while Poi sat at the far end, all of them talking to each other, with three of the Janes asking about [Hive Mind], and the other three distinctly not wanting [Hive Mind]. Erick briefly wondered where the Jane#6 came from, but they must have used another one of the slimes in the mage tower, and yup, Erick counted them again, and another one had been used.

The second Erick appeared the Janes were up and demanding to know what had happened, and Erick was quite flustered by the experience of having 6 daughters all wanting to know if he really was okay. Only one of them gave him a hug, though; the other 5 stayed away, looking somewhat crushed that they weren’t the ones hugging Erick, and also that they didn’t feel they were allowed to hug him. Erick made a movement to hug them, too, but they winced, and backed away, and so Erick did not close that distance.

Instead of thinking about that, Erick rapidly went into a brief rundown of what had happened with the Well. As the Janes focused on work, too, the whole group came together in solidarity. Silently, and to himself, Erick wondered if he would be experiencing the same sort of ‘multi-child’ event with Ophiel, and maybe even Yggdrasil, when they were ‘born’. Yggdrasil would probably remain himself, but Ophiel… Looking upon all the differently colored and shaped Ophiel, Erick imagined that Ophiel would probably become a lot of different kids.

Erick was too busy talking about what had happened in the Core to give much more than a passing thought toward suddenly having 10 Ophiel, multiple Janes, and also Yggdrasil all as kids.

Before Erick knew it, he was out of the spotlight, breakfast was back on, and the conversation turned back to [Hive Mind].

“If it can’t be done with us, because we don’t know Mind Magic,” Jane asked, “Then how about an artifact of [Hive Mind]? Do the Mind Mages have those?”

“We can’t all be the same person anyway,” another Jane said, circling back to the main point against [Hive Mind]. “Us all being the same person defeats the entire purpose of making the squad of separate people.”

Jane nodded, then said, “But in the downtime? We could all come together—”

“Then what about transferring memetic threats that we don’t know we’re passing to each other?” said another Jane.

Poi had seen that point coming, so he said, “We have those artifacts, but they’re not perfect, and communicable memetic threats are very much a threat in this New Cosmology. I imagine they’re a threat in the Old Cosmology, too.”

Solomon skirted around the conversation to set before Erick a very large plate of pancakes, sausage, and eggs. He stage-whispered, “You didn’t miss much; just a bunch of arguing and monster killing.”

Erick happily took the plate of food, smiling as Jane after Jane derided Solomon for his lack of adventuring experience, which was primarily filled with complaints about how he wasn’t allowed to just blast everything away with absolute authority. ‘Just blasting’ was no way to learn what the dungeon was trying to teach you. There was some pushback from the other Janes, though.

“Quite frankly, Jane, Jane, Jane, and Jane,” Solomon said, smirking, “I think Jane and Jane have it right; I can blast shit apart if I want.”

Erick had an absolutely surreal moment.

It was yet another moment in a chain of such moments.

“Yes but you only get half-gains!” Jane said.

“And half-gains are better than none. And speed matters,” Another Jane said.

“Lyrical didn’t beat us in base regen due to being precise about anything,” Jane, original style, said.

“Well that’s true,” Jane said, reluctantly.

Erick was having trouble with the surreality of it all, but on the other hand, he was absolutely enthralled with the conversation, because it was like he was watching his daughter from a completely different angle. Primarily, the Janes spoke of what was done right in the dungeon, and what was done wrong, and they gave a whole bunch of specifics about this and that, but to Erick ‘blast it apart with light’ was a valid strategy. More than that, though, Erick was listening to his daughter talk to herself.

He was learning so much from all of these interactions.

But regarding the ‘proper way to do a dungeon’, Erick eventually found a moment to quip, “It’s like you used to say, Jane! If violence isn’t working, you aren’t using enough of it.”

All six Janes still groaned, and all six of them visibly thought about throwing something at Erick.

